They weren’t exactly friendly to her, either. They dragged her by her feet back towards their main force. When Rags tried to wiggle and check the bindings on her, one kicked her so hard her head rang.
“Captain, the Blighted Empire is signalling us. They wish for us to attack the Goblin tribe and come to the aid of Hero Triander.”
Voices. Rags lay on her side as Redscar was put down, a bit more softly, and she saw the fighting on the mountainside. It was distant, but that lurid red-green blade staff was unmistakable, as was that intense lightning. The Goblins were still fighting, but the Reinhart [Captain]’s response was short.
“Forward that to Lord Calidus if you haven’t already. Help him? Do what? Massacre those Goblins faster? He’s one of their damn [Heroes]. Tell them to send more [Soldiers] if they care so much. He’s on our border!”
“Do I send that back, sir, or…?”
The [Captain] was speaking with one of his [Mages]. Rags tried to listen as she studied Redscar. The [Blademaster] was baring his teeth, staring at the stumps of his shoulders.
He’d lost his arms. Even if they lived…Redscar’s face was blank. Confused, as if he couldn’t come to grips with what had happened. The [Captain] kept speaking.
“No. Let Lord Calidus play nice. Triander. Triander. Anyone know that name? He’s not one of their Exalted Heroes, is he?”
“No, sir.”
“Nasty enough. Dead gods, imagine a dozen of those coming at you. Or a hundred. And Jungle Tails is mad enough to want to fight them?”
The [Captain] was staring at the battle with real horror. For all his skill, he was…reassuring. A mortal man watching a monster. He rubbed at his face.
“—Let the King of Destruction. Poor bastard. Or Erribathe or Ailendamus. But they’ll come for us after that.”
“They could wipe out Erribathe for us, sir.”
One of the [Soldiers] spat and got a chorus of agreement. But the Reinhart [Captain] just stood there bleakly, shaking his head.
“We’re next. Lord Calidus is certain.”
Dead silence. Rags tried to roll over, but she couldn’t.
“Redscar.”
Was he dying? He didn’t look like he was dying, but the amount of blood he’d lost—the Goblin stared at the stumps of his arms. Then at Rags.
“Doesn’t hurt.”
“You’re in shock. Breathe. Just—breathe. We’ll get you new arms.”
The Goblin half-shook his head. The [Blademaster] stared at Rags with clear-eyes, and she realized he wasn’t confused.
“It doesn’t hurt. They cast a spell to stop me bleeding. But it doesn’t hurt, Chieftain. It did—until the [Hero] left.”
No pain? Rags’ eyes focused on Redscar’s burnt flesh, and her eyes narrowed. He whispered.
“My arms are gone.”
A spark of what might have been hope flared through Rags’ chest. She twisted her head slightly and focused on the battle as she tried to work her hands futilely against the bindings on her body.
The Goblin tribe was fighting the [Hero] and his soldiers. They had continued this entire time. How long? The fighting hadn’t been going on for more than a few minutes; it always felt longer than it was.
Eleven minutes? Sixteen? Not long at all.
Sixteen minutes against that [Hero]? Rags narrowed her eyes and realized the fighting was coming their way. The [Hero]…was moving back.
He kept killing Goblins. Every time he spun that showy twinblade staff, a Goblin died. The bolts of lightning came off his fingers every two minutes—ten free bolts of lightning, and his Skills ripped up everything around him in huge swathes of destruction. His class, whatever it was, was designed to kill large groups of enemies at once.
He’d behead a Goblin, and the smoldering corpse would fall, or he’d point his finger and obliterate a group of [Archers]. His [Soldiers] backing him up were also using enchanted munitions; each one had one of those insane crossbows, and they had enchanted swords—even some kind of deployable metal barrier.
The Goblins they were fighting had steel weapons or low-grade artifacts at best. Some of them were [Shamans] or [Mages], hurling magic, but it seemed like Tier 4 at best. More and more kept coming; but it was hundreds, not thousands. They should have been wiped out faster than they could even run outside to die.
—But every now and then, as the [Hero] lashed out in increasingly frustrated strikes, every other bolt of lightning, a Goblin lived. Impossibly.
Rags saw that staff spin, and a Goblin armed with what looked like nothing more than an iron sword blocked the blade. It sent the regular-sized Goblin crashing backwards, but the [Hero] had to reset himself, and she saw him visibly check his staff. He pointed a finger, and a trio of lightning bolts blew apart a group of [Mages].
Their barrier spells flared out, and they went crashing amidst the rocks. Dead.
Except for one, who pulled herself up and launched a spell at the [Hero] that splashed over his barrier spell. He snarled, raising a hand, and a group of Rhirian [Soldiers] rushed forwards, intent on hacking apart the front lines of Goblins falling back from the [Hero].
They passed under the shadow of a boulder, and the distant mountain seemed darker over there for a moment. The shadow covered them for a moment, and Rags squinted—
…The [Soldiers] didn’t emerge from the other side of that shadow. It took the [Hero] several seconds to notice. When he did, he swivelled and fired a bolt of lightning straight into the shadow.
The bolt flashed forwards, illuminating everything along the cliffs—and then vanished. No strike. No flare or thunder. Hero Triander wavered. Then his twinblade staff came up, and he cut something.
An arrow? He swerved, dodging something again. At this distance, Rags couldn’t see, but the Reinharts’ forces grew confused.
“Send word to the fortress. Tell them I need a full Flower of Contempt on me. The Goblins are putting up more of a fight than I thought.”
The [Captain] murmured, and Rags saw the [Hero] calling for more [Soldiers]. They appeared in pillars of light, rushing forwards in good formation. Excellent training.
Dying. 
“Someone there…has a nice sword.”
Redscar croaked. His eyes were on the battle too. Rags followed his gaze and saw a group of black figures collapsing. Gold-edged armor covered in blood. The [Hero] turned and cut down with a gigantic red blade.
This time—a Goblin parried it. The red wave of the Skill bounced away, collapsing part of the cliffs. Rags saw a Goblin walking towards the [Hero], blade in hand.
Then she saw those black shadows move. More [Soldiers] vanished as they writhed forwards. The Rhirians fell back, launching volleys of their bright crossbow bolts.
A pillar of white light shot down and engulfed part of their rear lines. When it vanished, a glassy crater remained. Triander whirled, and the first expression of uncertainty crossed his face. He jumped, a bolt of lightning setting himself two hundred feet back.
“GET ME MORE REINFORCEMENTS.”
He was howling at the air. But the wave of [Soldiers] was slowing. Rags understood; who wanted to send good [Soldiers] into a fight like that when they had a [Hero]? Triander spun his twinblade staff overhead—then clutched at his arm.
Something went right through his barriers, and an arrow appeared in his arm. He howled as he yanked it out, then he snapped. The [Hero] leapt up in a bolt of lightning as the [Soldiers] ran. He raised his weapon like a spear and shouted as he took aim at all the Goblins on the mountain.
“[Storm of a Thousand Bolts]! [Spear of the Lightning Giant]!”
Lightning obliterated sight. But the gigantic, pale arc of electromagnetic fury was still visible amidst the hail of death as it grew obscenely large.
A projectile to blow away part of the mountain itself.
When they saw that, the Reinhart soldiers ran. They didn’t ask for orders, they didn’t pick up their two Goblins prisoners—they just ran. They were all in danger. Rags tried to wiggle free, cursing at her bindings. Then she saw the bolt of lightning draw back, and the [Hero] threw it.
A Level 50 Skill burned a line across the Floodplains of Izril, and the battle that had been felt in the distant City of Charms came to its finale. The [Spear of the Lightning Giant] struck the Goblins on the mountain and vanished.
There was no explosion of light. No roar, nor the destruction of that part of the High Passes. The [Storm of a Thousand Bolts] raged down—but there were no impacts.
None.
There was only a Goblin.
When her vision cleared, Rags knew what she would see before she could actually view it. That distant light had emerged from the mountain. That strange, familiar, unfamiliar presence.
Bright. So…an ember, banked, but still so bright. Chieftain Rags gazed at the figure standing amidst her tribe, the Flooded Waters tribe, and beheld Rags of the future.
—If Rags hadn’t known who she was, she wouldn’t have known it was her older self. She wouldn’t have even been certain it was a Goblin.
She was no taller than a Hob. But she was longer-limbed. Paler of skin, like a Cave Goblin. Someone who hadn’t seen light in a long time. That was where her features changed from the Goblin varieties that Rags knew.
Her ears were huge, flopping down, similar to Goblin ears, but wider, and they were mirrored by her eyes. Even from a distance, her eyes were far too big. Still red, but they had developed distinct pupils. They shone brightly, seeming to illuminate whatever she looked at. Her head was still vaguely the same shape, but unlike a Hobgoblin’s, which mimicked the humanoid oval of Humans and other species, hers had become more like a regular Goblin’s: squat, wider than it was tall.
It was disconcerting to see that mismatch of the squatter Goblin’s features on a lanky body. Nor did this Rags have any hair. That was all that Chieftain Rags could make out from a distance. That—and that this Rags wore no armor, but some kind of robes.
They fluttered around her as she leaned on a staff. The bolts of lightning falling over her tribe vanished where they should have struck the ground.
Triander was stunned. He hovered in the air, and though Rags couldn’t see his face, she was sure how disconcerted his expression was. He visibly fell back in the air. It was the Rags of the future who crooked a finger at him. Inviting him to come.
She was smiling. Not a kindly smile. A Goblin’s grin. Full of promises. The two figures stared each other down until a voice broke the silence.
“—Lord Calidus’ orders. The Blighted Kingdom has met the price. All forces are to advance to support Rhir.”
Rags jerked around and saw the [Captain] had returned. He was advancing, and Reinhart [Soldiers] were everywhere. They strode past the two Goblins as Redscar sat up.
“Wow. You’re stupid.”
The [Captain] gave him a look as he passed by, and one of the [Soldiers] kicked at Redscar, but the Goblin dodged it. The [Captain] didn’t seem to disagree. The Reinharts were advancing on the Flooded Waters tribe from the flank, and Rags tried to get up, desperate. Instead, someone picked her up, and they began to carry her.
“Use the Goblin as a shield, [Captain]?”
“Take them with us.”
No, no. This was bad. Even if future Rags could match a [Hero] in combat, Rags bet she’d had to use a big Skill to defeat his capstone abilities. A second army of Reinharts would be bad no matter how many tricks her tribe had up their sleeve. Worse…Rhir didn’t seem to be ready to back down either.
The air was warping. Rags gazed up and spoke.
“…I don’t know words worse than aspat. Seamwalker kissing Creler eggs. How many [Heroes] does the Blighted Empire have?”
The [Captain] glanced down at her as three more figures warped into space above the battleground, and they exchanged expressions of mutual horror for a second before he offered her a grim smile.
“Fewer, after killing the Demon King. Too many.”
Four [Heroes] hung in the air, two male, two female. Rags heard voices, merry, from the other three. Triander was furious.
Four [Heroes]. She hung there, helpless. The Reinharts were cresting the hills nearest the cliffs, and Goblins were turning to meet them.
They looked fearless, but they were now flanked. The future Rags glanced towards the Reinharts, and shields snapped up as the Goblin Chieftain gazed their way.
“Prepare to counter spells! Begin battle prayers! Do not advance into that shadow!”
Battle what? Rags twisted as she was thrust forwards like a living shield. She saw several [Mages] preparing magic, though she couldn’t read what they were doing with the bindings on her wrists. Then she saw several men, all bald, wearing…cross-shaped amulets raise them upwards. They didn’t have staves or wands. One of them had a book, but not a spellbook, she thought. Another had a familiar object. A censer.
The hairs on the back of her neck began to stir as Rags beheld another vision of the future created by the Grand Design. One of the strange men faltered as he intoned something.
“Oh, lord who holds Izril in his almighty grasp…[General]. The Goblins have faith of their own. Great faith. Beyond—beyond our level. Not our conviction.”
He turned his head, addressing someone in the ranks. One of the men performed an odd gesture, a vertical swipe then a horizontal one.
“They shine with miracles. T-that [Chieftain]—”
“Hold steady. The [Heroes] of Rhir will lead the advance. Captain! Did Lord Calidus say anything else to you about the plan of attack? Pray, [Priests]!”
An aggressive snap from the leader of the Reinhart fort garrison. The [Captain] said nothing; he was pale-faced now. And the other men—the [Priests]—began to shake.
“It’s not just them. Oh gods of Izril. They’re coming. Lord General! The enemy is arriving!”
“Where? Liscor?”
“No! They’re walking towards us! Tell Lord Calidus—inform Rhir! The Painted Antinium are marching on us!”
The shout was hoarse with horror, and the reaction of the [Soldiers] was immediate. Their slow advance came to a halt, and hands around Rags clasped for amulets. They repeated that gesture, crossing themselves, and the nervous soldiery went white beneath their helmets.
“Fall back! Fall back and reform!”
The [General] shouted instantly. Rags swung from what she realized was a banner pole as the army pivoted, moving from a battle line to a more circular formation. Where? Where were the Antinium coming from?
Underground? But Rags didn’t see anything. The [Heroes] were turning, alerted by the [Priests]. Then Rags felt an odd lightness in her chest. As if sunlight was shining on her soul. She swore she felt a breeze on her skin, and the image of the sky was in her mind. The glorious sky. She gazed up, but that image in her chest was almost stronger than reality.
She smelled fresh grass, air, and rain.
Cinnamon?
