What a depressing future. Rianchi thought so too, clearly, and he tried to find more candy as the children inspected his bicycle without much novelty since they clearly knew what it was.
“Don’t worry about the bike, Chambersoot. I can get more parts in my world. Just not the same…this was a Kevin-made original. Enchanted by a master [Enchanter].”
Chambersoot glanced up.
“I can tell. It’s got no faith in it. Kevin bikes are only magic. You want to fix it now? We can do it, just not with magic. Looks like you need reinforcement on the wheel and a replacement gear. The metal’s…pretty good.”
He grudgingly nodded at the bike, and Rianchi sat up.
“You can fix it? Do you have an [Enchanter]?”
“Nope. We’ve got a pray-er.”
Chambersoot jerked a thumb at Roithe, and the young Goblin pursed her lips. She picked out the pieces of the broken gear and fit them together.
“One [Canticle of Mending] would fix this. It wouldn’t be hard to bless it either. Everyone is filled with faith after meeting you and seeing the Painted Antinium. Zammy, can you do the bike wheel?”
The [Goth] grumbled.
“Nightlady Gothica will get mad if I steal any shadowpaint.”
“She said she knows that other Goblin, Redscar, and she knew Rianchi. If you put it on, it’ll be tough as anything. The [Goths] can make shadow stuff. Like shadowsteel or nightmetal…they have a lot of stupid names.”
“Bleh. You’re just jealous.”
Zammy stuck out her tongue and pulled down her eye, then picked up the front wheel. Rianchi leapt to his feet.
“Wait! What will it do? Blessing? What that?”
He seemed somewhat nervous, as a bike lover did when people were proposing new modifications to Kevin’s work. But Chambersoot just patted him on the knee as he began putting the gears together.
“Don’t worry. It’s great. Even Rhir wants blessings, but no one in their stupid empire has enough faith. They keep trying to call their old guy, Othius, a God-King, but no one really believes. We have real faith.”
He gave Rianchi a beaming grin, and the [Cyclist] hesitated. Student Rags squatted next to him, helping the two Goblins put together the bicycle.
Within fifteen minutes, Zammy and Roithe had run off and come back. Zammy with a bicycle wheel that wasn’t the darkest metal in creation, but oddly non-reflective, seeming to soak in light. Every bit of it was drenched; she proudly showed it off and gave Rianchi a respectful look.
“Nightlady Gothica was in a really good mood. She said you could have all you needed.”
“And the gear’s fixed! Look!”
A glowing white gear shone in Roithe’s hands, so unnaturally luminescent it seemed like a magical artifact in of itself. She handed it to Rianchi, who nearly dropped it. He twirled it around in his hands.
“What does it—”
The whirring sound the gear made as it spun insanely fast around Rianchi’s finger made Rags stop reaching for it. The Goblin stood there, petrified, unwilling to touch the buzzing spokes of the gear until Chambersoot inserted a wrench into the gear and flicked it up. He caught it and grinned.
“Hey old guy Rianchi, you’ll have the fastest bicycle in any world when we put this in. Everyone likes stupid cars, anyways.”
That was how Chieftain Rags and the Goblin Lord Rags found them, finishing the bicycle. Student Rags hadn’t done much, just held things in place and listened to technical jargon being passed around, but when the younger Goblins saw the Goblin Lord and backed away, they melted into the Tribe of Dreams.
Chieftain Rags didn’t know them; she was here to save her tribe, save the High Passes, and save the future all at once. But Student Rags waved at Zammy, Chambersoot, and Roithe and got big smiles. And she remembered them.
Someone had to care about the little people. Like Rianchi, who was taller than her, but who held his assembled bike at his side. Neither Rags noticed the faint glow of one of the gears on the bicycle that got brighter the longer you focused on it, or the fact that the front wheel cast no shadow.
And someday, those little people will be the ones who matter. Student Rags touched Rianchi’s arm and grinned at him, and he gave her a big and hopeful smile.
—Right up until Chieftain Rags asked her question.
“Rianchi. Where’s Dyeda and Mrsha now? Where would they go if they saw us under attack? Would they have stayed to watch or come here? If so—where?”
When Rags asked the question, he turned pale. Rianchi licked his lips.
“U-um. Nowhere bad, Chieftain? Dyeda went to get help. From Mrsha, probably. Not bodyguards; they no good against lightning man. They probably looking for Adult Mrsha.”
“Our Mrsha is in your world? She is as desperate as Pawn, even if they don’t get along. She might—she is not subtle. She could tell him or do something drastic in either world.”
The Goblin Lord grew alarmed. Rags felt her own warning bells ringing in her head. She whirled and spoke.
“We’re heading back to Liscor. Now!”
“The tunnels are faster. This way! Someone find Gothica and tell her we need her now! [Tribe: Run For Your Lives].”
The Goblin Lord bellowed and pointed, and then they were running, the ground flashing under Rags as she sprinted. It wasn’t a certainty they’d run into Liscor or get in trouble, but if something could go bad—in The Wandering Inn?
With Mrsha? On her eighteenth birthday? It wasn’t as if anyone was certain what would happen today. That’s why they came. Because something might. Good or ill. After all, it was Mrsha’s coming-of-age. And to some kinds of people…some classes, that day mattered. And that was before counting another world. If people noticed what was going on—
Rags ran as fast as they could. All three of her. But of course, by the time she got to Liscor—
It was too late.
