Dyeda’s money pouch jingled as she revealed all gold. Student Rags’ jaw dropped. Had Chieftain Rags found a goldmine somewhere? Or looted enough people for every Goblin to be solvent? However, Chieftain Rags was just as confused until Dyeda explained.
“The inn has lots of gold. I took some to spend because we’re visiting.”
Both Ragses grabbed some of the gold she flashed around, and then Chieftain Rags glowered.
“Stop drawing attention to yourself! Library, now.”
A sulking Dyeda fell back as Rianchi patted her on the back. He was still wheeling his bike around, and they snapped at him to get rid of that too. Then they got two glowers.
 
——
 
Sometimes being with the Chieftain sucked. Rianchi and Dyeda had sort of understood Rags could be a pain from their trip north to the Kraken Eaters, but it hadn’t struck them until right now why Shineshield sometimes complained she was on bodyguard duty or why not all Redfangs clamored to be in Chieftain Rags’ personal aegis.
You had to admire her. Chieftain Rags and Student Rags were smart, talented, and so on, but they were also bossy. And in this case, unreasonably paranoid.
“It’s not that hard to get information! You just ask—but not like weird people!”
“How are we being weird? You’re the ones asking things like buffoons!”
Student Rags was at her most aggressive as she and Dyeda had a hissing argument in the street. Dyeda almost snapped back, and Rianchi had to pat her on the shoulders to calm her down.
“Calm, wifey.”
She almost bit his hand and then gave Rags a pointed glower.
“Being stupid is very normal. Everyone is stupid about something! Like tattoos! Everyone asks dumb questions. What you want to know?”
“Everything, in a logical manner that doesn’t showcase what we’re doing! What was that object in the inn? What are those materials? What is the history of the last ten years, what magical advancements have been made, who are the ruling powers—”
Dyeda’s eyes crossed slightly, and she shook her head.
“I can do first one. Hello! Excuse me~! I have such a silly question.”
She walked over to a stand on display and, to Student Rags’ visible horror, began buying a bunch of cookies from a Garuda, whose feathers were ruffling in a stiffer morning breeze than he had anticipated. But he put a smile on his face when she came by and pointed at a clear film clinging to the cookies. A bag, but transparent, see-through.
“How can I help you, Miss?”
“I’d like a bag of cookies, please. What flavor are these? And—this is so very silly. Can you tell me about that?”
“Uh? What? The bag?”
“Yes, what is it made of?”
The Garuda and several people window-browsing gave Dyeda exactly the look the two Ragses were afraid of. The [Shop Attendant] opened his beak.
“Uh, plastic, miss? Also, that’s a bunch of mint cookies. We have some local Amentus sweets, or if you’d like, we have a sweetberry red—those are our fruits. Chocolate, white chocolate, gold chocolate, gem flavors—”
He pointed them out as Dyeda laughed in genuine embarrassment.
“Right! Sorry, that’s not what I meant. I meant—well, what is plastic? Also, can I have…the chocolate chips and mints? Rianchi, come over here, do you want some more?”
She gave him a round-eyed look of innocence that made one of the Ragses start. Because this maneuver was…like Erin.
The [Attendant] was only too happy to chat, and he actually had to rub his head for a second.
“Plastic. I don’t actually…I want to say it’s just an alchemy product, you know? But these days, it’s not as if it comes from a shop; I think we get ours from one of the Terland Golem Factories up north.”
“They must make a lot if it’s cheap.”
“True, true. Though we do have a smaller production line here? I think. Hey, Cauzkitch, do we buy plastic from here or the north…?”
The Garuda called out, and an Antinium, the store owner, came out and answered the question.
“Ours is actually made in Liscor. We provide some of the reagents to the Terlands.”
“Really?”
That fascinated a few other people in line, and the Antinium nodded judiciously.
“Shield Spider glue. It’s one of the ways it is made. If you’re interested, Miss, I think Wistram sells the recipe. And there are Starter Alchemy Kits on sale.”
“Ooh! That’s a good present for a friend.”
“I’d do that if they like alchemy. Buying from a shop isn’t for amateurs. These days, everything’s in standard units, and only real [Alchemists] buy in bulk.”
The two Ragses were freaking out in the background as Dyeda thanked the duo for their information and gave the [Attendant] a small tip, which earned her a smile. Student Rags was whispering.
“Shield Spider glue makes this stuff? And what was that about [Alchemists]? They must have massive recipe sharing and created some kind of system so they’re using the same ingredients! If we could get the idiots in our worlds to do that…Dyeda, that was crazy! What if you asked something that wasn’t common knowledge?”
“Well, then, I’d pretend I was stupid. Easy.”
Dyeda smugly munched on a cookie. Her triumph didn’t last long. Redscar grabbed the entire chocolate chip cookie bag and began eating. He and both Ragses’ glowered at Dyeda.
“That’s not a reliable source of information. Leave this to the experts. We’re going to get information directly from a source without needing to talk. Follow us—and stop buying things!”
Rinachi reached for a cookie and got a slap on the wrist. He received a mint cookie from Dyeda, and they glared at the two Ragses and Redscar. Sometimes they got no credit at all.
 
——
 
The couple dragged their feet as they came to Shivertail Plaza and the source of so many answers:
The Portal Station.
It was a vast, modern building with glass and metal all around, and it led down into the ground. From there, apparently, you could teleport from city to city. One look at the stream of people heading in and out and both Ragses high-fived.
This was their goldmine of news. All you had to do was step onto some stairs and—
“Whoa, it moves!”
Dyeda did a happy dance as they found a magical escalator that bore you down. Student Rags covered her face, then peered at the smooth tiles and past that—what looked hauntingly familiar.
Doors. There were so many damn doors. The station split into different areas where people queued up to head to different cities. Student Rags saw Pallass, Invrisil, and a dozen other cities nearby. It seemed like Liscor connected to local cities—and a few of the big ones.
And there was a map. A glorious map of how the portal stations connected, and one look set Student Rags gasping. People flowed around her, heading towards the doors. You passed through several archways that were essentially empty door frames—but written with so much intricate rune magic they seemed to glow as one bright rectangle from a distance.
There were [Mages] there, too, wearing the symbol of Wistram, most seeming bored as could be as they watched people toss tickets into a bowl. There were kiosks where you could exchange coins for tickets, and Student Rags pointed them out to Chieftain Rags. And to Dyeda and Rianchi with triumph.
“See? We could travel anywhere we wanted. But look at this map! Dead gods…”
The first thing she saw was the north. The north was completely altered, not geologically, but the map-maker had still enforced borders. So there were little lines of influence around several parts of the map. House Veltras, for instance, held the area west of the Vale Forest north of the High Passes, but it no longer held two thirds of the western coast; more like less than half, and it had lost the entire Vale Forest and eastern sections of its holdings. Pallass controlled an oval-shaped region around it’s environs, much like in the past.
Erribathe held a jagged lightning bolt from First Landing halfway down to Invrisil. The Hivelands had only three Hives marked on the map and no teleportation spells. There were cities in the Great Plains on the eastern half—and a door marked ‘Plain’s Eye Camp’ that was connected to the portal line. Another section of the north was taken by Taimaguros, a third by Ailendamus on the eastern side—
House Reinhart was nowhere to be seen. House El was three tiny areas. House Terland had been pushed down into the middle-right of the north. House Wellfar was a group of colonies squished out by Ailendamus—
War. War and change. Terandria had come, it seemed, and while the Drake cities had mostly been spared the clear conflict on the map, Rags saw changes even there.
“Democratic Walled City of Salazsar?”
Chieftain Rags pointed at Salazsar, which had a miniscule radius of influence compared to the other Walled Cities. And Fissival had…moved? It had moved off the coastline, and while the name was the same, only a few of the portal doors connected to it. Less prominence? But it was the City of Incantations!
It was so fascinating to the two Chieftains they were taking notes, whispering, as a few of the bored [Mages] twirled wands or yawned. One of them tried twirling a staff and bonked a passerby on the head and was so embarrassed he stood up straight and cast a few spells, head circuiting the room.
And Rianchi and Dyeda were bored. They were shifting, mad at their Chieftains, and unlike Redscar, who was probably daydreaming about swords or practicing blade fighting in his head, they got antsy.
Also, they kept getting into trouble.
“Excuse me, sir. You’re going to have to put that bicycle away once you pass the checkpoint.”
Someone in uniform strode up, and Rianchi jumped and guiltily began to pull apart his bike as the Rags duo glared at him.
“Sorry. Sorry!”
The young man waved a hand. He was a Gnoll and didn’t have the same glow of magic around him, even though he had Wistram’s badge on.
“No worries, man. Whoa, does it fold up? That’s pretty sweet. What model is that?”
“Model? I don’t know. It’s from Solar Cycles.”
A warning look; Chieftain Rags was going to kick him if he messed this up, and she had steel-toed boots on. Rianchi wilted, but then got mad. He knew bikes! And the Gnoll got interested at once.
“Wait, is that really a Solar Cycles original? It’s nothing like their latest designs. I bike myself; where do you usually bike?”
“Uh—the High Passes. Kevin made this for me.”
“Get out. You know Kevin? The man himself? What does your bike do? Hold on—mine’s in my bag of holding.”
With a glance around for his boss, the Gnoll pulled out a bicycle that didn’t fold, but was very light and economical, a road bike. He and Rianchi began talking as the [Cyclist] explained.
“I go up and down lots of, uh, cliffs and rocks. Even into a cave one time. Not very fun. I rode off a cliff.”
“Dude. You’re one of those extreme [Cyclists], aren’t you? I heard the really good models could survive anything. Is it enchanted? All I have is an enchanted gear on mine for extra speed. It kicks in once I pass fifteen miles per hour.”
“Not before that?”
“No…mine’s to keep me in shape, you know? So there’s no point buying one of those all-magic ones that pedals for you.”
“Ooh. I respect that. Yah.”
And then they fist-bumped. Rianchi leaned forwards to whisper.
“Actually, this is my first time here. To Liscor. I know Kevin pretty well, though. I haven’t seen him in a long time. Ten years! He made this for me when he first made Solar Cycles.”
The Gnoll in uniform was close to tearing out his hair. He clutched at his head.
“Wait. Waitwaitwaitwait—this is an original? Hey, Rosht. Rosht! Look! This guy’s got an original cycle made by Kevin!”
His boss was coming over with an admonishing scowl, but the moment he heard that, he went from ‘get back to work’ to ‘this is a legitimate use of my time’. He had on the same uniform as the Kevin-admiring Gnoll—whose name was Yort—and Rosht was a middle-aged Human man who had sturdy legs. Good for cycling.
“Impossible. No offense, but no one’s got a Kevin original except in a national treasury.”
“I can prove it! Kevin put his name riiiight here. See?”
Rianchi pointed at a spot on the frame of the bike, and both men had to squat down and then confer. The Goblin smugly patted the handles.
“You could toss this off a cliff and it won’t break. Or hit it with a hammer! And it’s got fall resistance. From Hedault.”
He still got skepticism from Rosht until Yort noticed something.
“Wait, this metal’s not mass-produced. Look how his hasn’t got any seams from welding. Rosht, I think this is legit. Who made this bicycle?”
“Pelt the Hammer. Duh.”
They were sold. Dyeda smiled with affectionate non-understanding as the two got to talking deeper. Rianchi leaned over.
“So you two work in the Portal Station?”
“Oh yeah, don’t worry; we don’t have to do much, and we’ve got time.”
Yort assured him airly, and Rianchi gave him a perfect Goblin shrug.
“I don’t use it that much. Because I bike everywhere. My wife’s over there—we’re visiting Liscor for the first time.”
“Oh, then you have got to do some of the bike trails around here. They cut a few out. It’s up and down, which kills your legs, but it’s really good exercise. I could show you around? And if you’re cycling, Esthelm isn’t that far. You, uh, going to meet Kevin?”
“If he’s there. Is he still there? Also, who’s Lord Moore?”
“He’s one of the leaders of the city. Not the Council, but he’s one of the nobility. Actually, I think he and Kevin know each other. You can always see him about; he’s a half-Giant. One of the highest-level [Green Mages] on the continent!”
“Whoa. That very cool. So…cycling. I haven’t bought a new bike in ten years because mine is so nice. What changed? Dyeda, come over and say hi!”
He might die of being poked, but Rianchi would do it with his cyclist honor intact. Plus, his two new friends were all too happy to explain all kinds of things. Including gossip.
“No one’s got a Pelt-made cycle these days. I heard he hung up his hammer after the foundries in Dwarfhalls Rest started churning out metal. They mass-produce most of the metal; Pallass industrialized too, but slower. ”
Dyeda nodded, writing this down.
“And that inn outside the city. What’s that about? It’s the only building there.”
“Oh, that.”
Yort glanced at Rosht, and the man scratched his chin.
“That’s before both of us. I moved here nine years back…it’s got ties to the refounding of Liscor, I heard. And the Hectval war. You’d have to ask about that, but it’s touchy. One of the Councilmembers, Lyonette, lives there, I think.”
“Councilmember Lyonette. Interesting…”
