“Shorthilt’s waving at you and calling me names.”
The younger Numbtongue tried to wave back and smile. But he was truly shaken. He sat back, and again, the [Soulbard] felt guilty.
Why was he doing this? He ameliorated his tone, took a seat across from Numbtongue, and smiled, then pitched his voice low, conspiratorially.
“It’s not all bad. You get a girlfriend in the future.”
“Really? Me? Who?”
“Well—you get three.”
Numbtongue’s mouth opened in an ‘o’ of amazement. The older [Soulbard] glanced up at the inn and remembered—Octavia might not even have her shop here yet.
“Okay, listen. The first one’s a Stitch-girl. Octavia. Erin’s probably got that door open, right? Well, she’s running into trouble with Celum—you should check on her and help her out now. Bring Yellow Splatters. He’s a good guy. The second one is Garia Strongheart. You’ll meet her father first; he’s met Goblins, and he and his wife are great. Garia’s a City Runner, but she’s on track to become a Courier, and she wants to learn martial arts. You can do some ‘sparring’ with her.”
He waggled his eyebrows suggestively, and the younger [Bard] nodded, trying to memorize this. Then he realized what the older Numbtongue was suggesting and turned bright red.
“Who—who’s the third?”
“Salkis. Pallass. Black scales, good with knives.”
“Oooh. Wait, Stitch-girl, Human, Drake?”
“Drake.”
“Drakes like Goblins?”
Numbtongue’s voice was disbelieving and awed. The older Numbtongue grinned.
“They’re surprisingly open-minded, some of them. It’s all about how you act. Confidence matters. Salkis will find you a lot later. Don’t worry about them. Just be nice to the other two. Oh, and Octavia’s ticklish behind her ears and under her armpits. And Garia—”
This was fun. He enjoyed giving himself tips and imagining things going better. But then the young [Bard] surprised him.
“Why—why three? One good. Very nice. You mean one then two then three?”
“Oh, no. Three at the same time. Well, not in the same room, but you’re—I’m in a relationship with all three.”
Well, two now. Or is it one?
Numbtongue didn’t say that to himself. The younger Goblin gave him a look of shy disbelief and grinned again. But then he frowned.
“But why?”
Why? The older Goblin was confused. This was him from the past, right? He spread his clawed hands out.
“Why not? Are you crazy? Did any of that sound bad to you?”
“No…”
The younger [Bard] drew out the word slowly, but he was shaking his head.
“It just makes no sense. Why would I…want three girlfriends?”
“Sex, dumbass?”
“But if I like someone…”
The [Bard] hesitated. His eyes flicked sideways, and then the [Soulbard] saw it. His smile faded. He gazed up at the ceiling, and his voice became flat and cold.
“She won’t ever love you like that. None of the five of you. She’ll sail across the world to save Rabbiteater. But not us, Numbtongue. I tried.”
“Oh. Okay.”
The [Bard] bowed his head, and then he raised it with a smile. It was hurt, but relieved.
“But she still likes us, right?”
The [Sybarite Soulbard] sat there, his insides thrumming with the memory of that moment, the hurt, that image of Badarrow stepping past him and Valeterisa holding up her hand and saying she couldn’t teleport anyone more.
It came out of him in a kick, so fast and savage that it hit the [Bard] in the ribs and launched him across the basement. He rolled and tumbled with a coughing shout, then staggered up. His fists were raised, and he clutched at his ribs, eyes wide with confusion and anger. The [Soulbard] felt his blood thrumming, but his veins iced over with regret.
“Sorry.”
He raised his claws. He stood up and then unhooked a healing potion from his belt. He offered it to his younger self, and the other Numbtongue shook his head. The [Bard] sat down, feeling at his ribs, wincing, but staring at the older Numbtongue.
“I—I’m sorry. I don’t know why I did that. She does…like us. She does. I think. I don’t know anymore. I let her down. She was trying to save Rabbiteater, and I was too slow. Badarrow went instead of me. I should have gone. I was too slow again.”
Numbtongue put his head in his hands. If his counterpart had jumped up and taken that moment to slug him, he would have welcomed it. But the blow never came. Instead, after a moment, the young [Bard] cleared his throat.
“Why…no. Tell me why we’re dating three people, then. If you’re sorry.”
His eyes were challenging, and he was tensed. The older Numbtongue was ashamed. He folded his claws together, resting his arms on his knees, and tried to be honest.
It was…easier to ramble, so he did.
“Why? Well, first it was Octavia. She was in need of help, and no one noticed her. And we just—hung out. I’d make her food and check on her, because she’s silly, really. She doesn’t do anything. She just focuses on work. Which is good. I even drank potions for her—don’t drink the ones with spots in them. And yeah, of course I liked her. We liked her a lot. She’s beautiful. She doesn’t think so. Stitch-folk don’t see beauty like we do. But I…I did just like her, and I was too shy to say it until she began hinting back. I guess that’s how it happened.”
He’d forgotten that. The [Bard] leaned forwards, wrath mostly put aside, and the older [Soulbard] scratched at his chin, then felt at his goatee, as if forgetting it had existed.
“It wasn’t like I went after Garia the same way. It was the same thing. She wanted to learn how to fight. She’s strong as a Gargoyle, dedicated—she thinks she’s ugly and slow, but she’s not. She’s just not like her parents. And, well, it happened a lot faster the second time. But I talked to Octavia about it, and that’s when I had an—an open relationship. Because we weren’t officially dating either one.”
“And Salkis same way?”
“—No. She was different. She was interested in us from the start. That’s when it began to get weird with Octavia and Garia. I think they were jealous. But truly, it just sort of happened.”
When he put it like that, the older Numbtongue grew indignant again. That was right! He had always had open, honest intentions. Octavia had known about Garia from the beginning, and she was only choosing to get mad about Salkis now. Because she had a self-esteem problem—
“What’s Salkis’ problem?”
“Huh? What?”
“Salkis’ problem. Sounds like…sounds like we met people who didn’t like themselves much. What’s Salkis’ problem?”
The [Bard] was treating this tale of the future more academically than anything else because it was so mind-bogglingly abstract. The [Soulbard] hesitated, then laughed.
“Uh—everything? She thinks she’s a Gold-rank adventurer when she’s not. Oh, she can fight, but she’s not a team player, she doesn’t have their dedication, and—well, she’s too keen on easy fun. She is fun! And loyal. She’ll never bail out on a fight, but she starts them all the time. But she has a block the size of Pallass on her shoulder about the law. About her father. He’s terrible. But she hates her stepmother. Melika. Really nice, even if she’s just rich, and…Salkis hates everything, I think, sometimes.”
“Wow. Why do you like her?”
“Well, she’s hot—”
The younger Numbtongue raised his own foot to kick, and the [Soulbard] sighed.
“—Fine. I think she’s…interesting. She likes us. And she’s pretty lonely without anyone. She—neither Garia nor Octavia likes her. It’s fine. We’re doing fine. We’re doing fine. The rest of the world isn’t great. There’s an Old One, a Drake army after Goblinhome…we’re just there.”
“And you’re not going to help Goblinhome?”
The [Soulbard] shifted uncomfortably, finding it hard to meet his younger self’s eyes.
“Chieftain Rags has it under control. I’m just one Goblin. I don’t go there often, and…I’m not a Level 50 [Warrior]. I can’t stop armies.”
The young Numbtongue nodded, dubious, and then frowned.
“So…who do you actually like?”
“Excuse me?”
“Who do you want to have babies with? Octavia? Garia? Salkis?”
Another innocent question. The [Soulbard] blinked, then sat back and laughed.
“Babies? You mean—marry? Right, you’re still thinking as though—well, it’s only been a year, but that’s too short, especially for them. No one wants babies. If there was anyone…”
He trailed off and looked upstairs slowly. Then shook his head.
“—I don’t—Salkis? I’m hanging out with her. The other two are getting weird.”
“Weird how? Who?”
“Everyone in the inn is. They keep asking when we’re coming back. Why we’re going. It’s just Lyonette, Bird, Mrsha, and Nanette now—you don’t know Nanette, she’s a [Witch]—we don’t fit in the inn anymore. I think they don’t want us. Octavia’s just a jealous thief. She stole our cat. If you get together with her, try to make her a better Octavia, would you? Train her to be less selfish? And while you’re at it—”
The [Soulbard]’s head was bent down, and he was speaking towards his belly, mind whirling in circles as he tried to figure out why things were so unpleasant. How many things could he tell his younger self to change so people were less—terrible in the future? So he actually had a life he enjoyed?
The [Soulbard] was so fixated on the way things had gone wrong that he didn’t see the other Goblin get up. Which gave younger Numbtongue a full windup to punch his older self in the face as hard as he could.
Numbtongue didn’t go flying, but he did slam off the crate. He rolled up, and the younger Hob executed a jump-kick to his side.
“What the h—”
He scrambled away, then blocked a punch. The other Hob was fast, strong, and fit—but the [Soulbard] had a level difference. He knocked a fist aside, grabbed Numbtongue, and slammed him into a wall.
“What was that for?”
“You suck. I hate me.”
The [Bard] struggled, throwing jabs—the [Soulbard] headbutted him into the wall.
“Knock it off!”
A dazed young Numbtongue reeled, then headbutted older Numbtongue such that the [Soulbard] staggered back. But the older Numbtongue just dodged a kick. He raised a fist to end the right, and someone tapped him on the shoulder. He turned his head, and Headscratcher punched him.
As it turned out, the four Redfangs had not gone above. Or if they had, they’d come back to listen by the stairwell, as treacherous, untrustworthy Goblins did. Suddenly, all five Redfangs were in the basement.
“You idiots. I’m not—”
Numbtongue ate a kick from Rabbiteater. Badarrow tackled him and got tossed straight into Shorthilt. Numbtongue was twice their level! He whirled around, and Headscratcher gulped as Numbtongue caught one of his fists effortlessly—
His younger self jumped on his back and put him in a headlock until the older Goblin tore him loose and threw him to the floor. The [Soulbard] tried to stomp, but Rabbiteater seized one leg and tried to destabilize him. At the same time, Shorthilt ran up and punched Numbtongue in the side.
He had to get to a wall! Numbtongue was shouting in fury, but badly outnumbered by five angry Hobs working together. He whirled Shorthilt around, tossed him—turned his head.
“Brother, duck!”
The ghost of Shorthilt shouted, and Numbtongue ducked—straight into an uppercut by Badarrow. He reeled, lost his temper, and roared.
That was when Headscratcher kicked him in the balls with all the force of a [Berserker].
 
——
 
After a while, the commotion in the basement ended, and five bruised, sweaty, but triumphant Redfangs emerged, slapping each other on the back. They nudged a dispirited [Bard] as they trooped into the inn and left a well-kicked Goblin in the basement.
“What the heck happened to you guys?”
Erin glanced up from her conversation with Normen. In truth, the Redfang Five merely appeared like everyone else felt. Beaten up by this encounter with the future, uncertain, and not happy. For reply, Numbtongue just wiped his bleeding nose.
“The future sucks.”
On that, everyone could agree.
 
——
 
Events now spiraled towards strange conclusions. In one world, of the past and Brunkr, a weary Gnoll girl made ready to leave.
She would take nothing with her except a literal mountain of healing potions, which, she supposed, was a victory in its own right. But she was realizing that her dream might amount to nothing.
Yet she would try. She had a meeting to be kept in another world too, with Pyrite and Kevin and her Moore. But she was ignorant of what was happening elsewhere.
In The Wandering Inn, present time, Lyonette du Marquin had just met her daughter. Her aged daughter who was only too happy to reveal the truth of what was going on to the horrified [Princess]. But the truth had spread.
It was in The Wandering Inn at the Winter Solstice; ominous tidings of harsher, ‘real’ futures. And it was in the very future itself.
Ten years later…a frantic Dyeda and Mrsha raced into Liscor to beg for help. They never made it across the bridge. But simultaneously, a weary pair of Ragses finally found their older self face-to-face.
Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters Tribes looked like an alien-Goblin as she led her tribe back into the mountain. They were looting the dead before racing into the mountain caves they had emerged from.
Goblins. Hobs. Even Great Goblins—Fomirelin. All three variants of Goblins were present, and many had the pale-grey skin of Cave Goblins. It was a tribe to awe any mundane Goblin tribe, and powerful too; not one Goblin was unarmored, and they had steel weapons.
Yet for this era, it was small. Barely two thousand strong, and only half that had emerged from the mountain to do battle. Goblinhome was bigger, yet seeing the dead bodies being gathered up—Chieftain Rags could well understand why this tribe had stayed so small.
“I don’t understand. I thought you were coming here to Liscor. For Mrsha’s birthday? Are you not? You made Rhir retreat.”
Student Rags was speaking. Chieftain Rags had no idea what to say to this older Rags. She still wasn’t quite convinced this was herself. The sardonic smile she received was too…mellow. The older Rags brushed at her temple; she had scars all over her body, faint but visible.
“I promised to be there. My tribe will be nearby; there are tunnels under the Floodplains of Liscor that intersect with the dungeon. It is safer there. You will stay with me; bring that Goblin with the bicycle, and get Redscar to come with us. Quickly, now.”
She gestured, and Chieftain Rags turned to Redscar. He was flexing one arm as the other was reattached. Insanity; the [Blademaster]’s arm was literally being healed onto his body.
