Dyeda and Rianchi were trading glowers with the two Ragses. Someone brushed past the chattering group as Redscar pivoted, face blank with the ‘I am going to do you violence’ expression the two Hobs knew. But before he could come over and yank them out of the conversation, someone spoke.
“[Immaterial Room of Force].”
One of the [Mages], the one who’d hit someone with a staff, pointed at the trio, and a square of shimmering magic appeared and pushed pedestrians out of the way. Alarmed, people halted, and a quartet of the [Mages] running security in the Portal Station was suddenly there.
Facing the two Ragses and Redscar. Rianchi whirled as Dyeda’s eyes went wide with alarm, and one of the [Mages] clicked his fingers.
“Simple illusion magic. Dispel.”
He pointed, and one Goblin’s disguise vanished instantly. There was a cry of alarm—but Chieftain Rags and Redscar’s illusions held.
Her Skill. Student Rags went pale as the [Chieftain] shifted, wondering if they had a chance—no. The same [Mage] glanced at his fingers, then shrugged.
“Must be a Skill too. [Valeterisa’s Analysis Spectrum]!”
This time, the shimmer of magic made the air waver—and the Skill broke to pieces in the face of the spell. Then it was all three Goblins, drawing more shouts of panic from everyone nearby. One of the [Mages] raised his voice and staff authoritatively.
“Don’t panic! [Mass Calm]. We have everything under control. The Watch will take these Goblins into questioning. Goblins in Liscor. No one at the gates even bothered to check the illusions?”
He shook his head, tsking, and Rianchi was frozen. He waited for the [Mages] to turn and freeze him with a spell…and no one moved.
They were all locked onto the two Chieftains. Both Ragses stared at Rianchi, and then he heard Dyeda whisper.
“The ring!”
Their new w-Ring 4.0 or whatever they’d bought. Proof against appraisal spells and more. Whereas the top-grade product and Skill from their time were…
Redscar snarled as he drew his blades. The [Mages] eyed him warily, but didn’t move as he slashed at the air. Whatever barrier was keeping Student Rags from pushing out refused to let Redscar’s blade cut it.
“No need for alarm, everyone. Please keep moving.”
One of the [Mages] called out in a [Loud Voice] spell, then whispered to the others.
“Good thing we caught this before the [Archmage] got here. Imagine the fuss Wistram would put up.”
They all nodded as Rianchi hesitated. He had his bicycle—if he lifted it up and threw it, would he break their concentration? Before he could decide, Chieftain Rags acted. She lifted a finger and spoke.
“[Lightning Bolt].”
Her eyes glowed, and she aimed a bolt of lightning straight at the first [Mage] as Student Rags and Redscar took cover. Rianchi waited for the flash and—
Nothing. The [Mage] was impressed as a tiny bolt of lightning jumped out and hit the wall of the [Room of Force].
“You cast that under spell dampening? Wistram is going to want to have a word with you, Goblin. Where’d you come from? Which tribe?”
Rags bared her teeth silently in reply. One of the [Mages] glanced at the station entrance.
“We’d better wrap this up. No telling when the Archmage will arrive. Let’s paralyze them before the Watch gets here.”
The others nodded. They lifted their wands and staffs, and Redscar snarled. He set himself, abandoning his other blade, and put his hand on his beloved blade inherited from Garen. He turned away from the [Mages] and closed his eyes. He drew the sword, striking the air so fast Rianchi couldn’t see it—but it did nothing. There was a snort from one of the mages as Redscar shifted, two-handed.
Then the Goblin plunged the blade into the air, and it seemed to cloud and twist—and the world exploded. The [Room of Force] popped with…all the force of what had to be a Tier 4 spell or higher.
The blast knocked Dyeda and Rianchi flat. He landed hard on his bike—which hurt—but grabbed her as she fell across him with a scream. When he got up, his ears were ringing, people were screaming or fleeing, and the three Goblins were gone.
All four [Mages] were picking themselves up or shaking their heads. The Watch came pouring into the station, belatedly, as Rianchi groaned and felt at his back.
“Ow.”
His bike was okay; Rianchi was not. He had a few cuts in his back, nothing major, and Yort and Rosht checked on him and Dyeda.
“Dead gods! That was like a Demon attack! Are you okay? Look, we’ve gotta go—”
“I’m fine. Thank you!”
They ran to try and calm the situation down. Rianchi held Dyeda as she pretended to cower, and she peeked up at him and whispered. The Watch were everywhere, but Rianchi grabbed his bike and began pushing it back up the stairs. He waved at Yort, who motioned him ahead, and the Watch ignored him because a man in uniform had given Rianchi the okay.
And because no one could tell he was a Goblin…Rianchi held his breath as he got up the ramp. Then he was in the city with alarms going off around him. The stoplights had all turned blue—so the Watch could run this way, he realized, and he respectfully stood to one side as a group of Antinium charged past him.
“Goblins in the city! Three of them! Capture them if possible—Watch Captain Relc’s orders! One side! One side, please!”
“Good luck, officers!”
Dyeda waved at them as they passed. Then she and Rianchi eyed each other and decided to be elsewhere. Fast.
As for what happened to their Rags and Redscar? They could only guess.
 
——
 
They ran as the city came ablaze with danger. And it was terrible. They were ensorcelled; outmatched magically. Rags knew it.
The buildings began to grow the moment they left the station. The walls rose up. Each brick doubled in size, then kept swelling until she felt like an ant running between the concrete seam between the bricks. She knew she was actually running—somewhere—but she couldn’t see.
The charms were ringing by the hundreds. Furious, not like bells, but some of them screamed almost as if they had voices, like shattering glass. Those were the nice ones; some of them attacked.
“Aaaaah! Rags! Help!”
Student Rags fell as a ray of burning red flames raked across her back. A storefront’s charm had aimed and fired at her. Redscar reached down and yanked her onto one shoulder. Then he sprinted faster.
He was the reason they weren’t caught in the first second. The Goblin held one sword in his hand as he charged, scattering pedestrians—who looked like frightening, wavy shadows in Rags’ distorted vision—and when the charm turned and fired again, he cut the beam in half.
The other reason was Rags. Both of them. They were under the effects of her [Rapid Retreat]; the [Student] produced a wand and began to fire a barrage of [Light Arrow] spells at their pursuers. The Chieftain pointed.
“This way. Follow me!”
She dashed down a street despite the disorientating hostile magic on her. She even dodged around a group of [Guards] to their surprise; Redscar followed her unflinchingly, even as it looked like he was running at a wall.
[Aura of the Emissary]. Rags ignored the illusion spells assailing her senses and trusted to the auras of the people around her. She juked left as another group of what she assumed were the Watch ran at her, then maneuvered right.
[Erratic Maneuvering]. [Advanced Dangers—]
“Duck!”
Something passed overhead, and Redscar cut it in half. He was laughing, she realized. That maniac.
“I can see it. I can see it, Chieftain! Huh. There’s a lot of it.”
He swung his sword experimentally, and something hit him from the side and sent him sprawling. He couldn’t cut everything, it seemed.
Student Rags dragged Redscar up, swearing and holding her side. She shouted.
“We have to go! Rags—they’re boxing us in, not killing us!”
True. They should be dead if Liscor’s Watch was any good. Thank goodness for small mercies; Rags sensed a wall of people coming her way, all hostile. And from behind—Chieftain Rags snapped.
“Jetfire?”
“You read my mind. I’ve got Redscar. Give me a spell?”
Redscar pivoted, cutting something, and turned to them.
“You what?”
In reply, the [Chieftain] slapped the [Student]’s shoulder and shouted.
“[Ogre’s Strength]! [Apista’s Jetflame]!”
She jumped as Student Rags grabbed Redscar in both arms, grunted, and shouted.
“[Increased Carry Weight]!”
It wasn’t…substantially impressive, but worked. Green flames burst into being behind her, and she followed the other Rags. Up. Both of them went hurtling sideways towards where Rags saw the building rising into the sky—
The [Chieftain] hit a wall hard. She fell back, stunned, as the [Student] blasted vertically up the wall, screaming her name. Rags fell and hit something with her shoulder.
Window ledge? She heard a gasp, scrambled to her feet, and jumped again. This time, she cleared the roof. She shouted.
“[Featherfall]!”
Then she was over the top of the building, and the effect of the disorientating charms vanished. The world swam into focus, and she saw Student Rags leaping over the edge of the rooftop. She was floating down over the top of an apartment building of some kind. Behind her, the Watch was milling about, rushing down both streets to catch her.
But the street ahead was an empty alleyway. Chieftain Rags landed on the street below and searched around. Student Rags landed with her, and Redscar tumbled from her arms. The [Student] stared at the walls of Liscor in the distance and groaned.
“Oh cats. We’re so far from the walls.”
“Try to avoid drawing attention. Reactivate those illusions and the Watch will have to catch us. Our [Guise of Neutrality] is completely worthless, now. Redscar, hide your swords.”
Rags was panting. Sweat was covering her, and she could only think they were in it now. Goblins in Liscor—when they clearly weren’t welcome. What if they were put in prison? Executed?
I should have known our magic couldn’t hold up to ten years in the future. How did Rianchi and Dyeda…?
I should have bought a stupid ring!
No time for regrets. She speed-walked out of the alleyway they had landed in. Liscorians were standing around uncertainly in the street; a blue street light had halted traffic. Pedestrians were asking what was going on as the three Goblins headed for the wall.
A patrol of [Guards], three Antinium, three Gnolls, two Humans, and six Drakes, skidded to a halt. An Antinium planted a staff on the ground, and Rags saw they were wearing robes over their chainmail.
“[Illusion Purge]. There they are! [Lightrope Net]!”
She—for some reason, she had a figure similar to Bird—pointed, and Rags just had time to marvel. Antinium [Mages]. Wow.
Then she ran. Redscar kicked off the side of a carriage, blinked at the spectral horse pawing the ground, and then drew his sword.
He cut the magical net in half, and the Watch slowed as the Goblin held his sword at the ready. They began to spread out; Redscar bared his teeth, feinted a cut, then turned and ran for it.
They were going to make it! Chieftain Rags was running full-tilt, using her jetfire spell to leap dozens of feet, and Student Rags was jetting along as Redscar just…ran fast, a high-level [Warrior] sprinting with all the speed of a Goblin. They made it down one street and were turning towards what seemed to be the nearest wall when Chieftain Rags sensed something overhead. A voice spoke, loud enough to echo through a four-way intersection.
“Goblins pinpointed. [Street Lockdown].”
The invisible speaker overhead had a pleasant, crisp tone. A vaguely…familiar one.
Rags jumped—and had to blast backwards at the last moment.
Steel bars slammed down from above, and a cage of metal encircled the entire street. No civilians were harmed, but the metal shot down with enough force to shake the ground. They were thin, unevenly placed; unlike a traditional cell, there wasn’t even an illusion of squeezing through them. And—they were thick.
“One side!”
Redscar ran forwards and swung his sword.
[Crimson Whirls My Blade].
The Redfang sword cleaved through a dozen thin bars of steel in a moment. Redscar carried through his slash, came back around, and halted.
A sea of metal so dense he couldn’t see the other side was in front of him. He cursed and cut again. Student Rags was pulling at her hair.
“Oh no, oh hells—think. Through the sewers? Let’s crack the street—can we get out above? Let’s—take a hostage?”
She was panicking. The [Chieftain] searched around slowly. The Watch hadn’t followed them. Softly, her [Advanced Dangersense] began informing her of when and where she was going to regret ever coming through this door.
Up and then down. You are so dead. Wyvern Lord dead.
Thanks, [Advanced Dangersense]. Rags spoke.
“Redscar. Something’s coming.”
The [Blademaster] stopped hacking through the steel bars and grunted. His eyes narrowed as he gazed up.
“Huh.”
Then the titanic hand made of earth hit the intersection, and the earth quaked. Rags tried to keep her balance, but she fell to one knee. Redscar just jumped, both swords drawn, cleaving towards the figure who broke free of the earth with a grunt.
Student Rags’ eyes widened. She raised a hand in a wordless shout—and Redscar slashed.
His blades bounced off an arm covered in vines as grey as iron. Redscar wavered, peered up into a bearded face with grey streaks running through brown hair and green vines. Then he tried to stab a leg.
In response, the figure raised one foot and kicked him. He was so tall that Redscar barely came up to his stomach; he cast a shadow under the bright sun, and his body was covered in regal robes, now protected by thorny vines.
The counterblow came before the [Blademaster] could dance back. Redscar hit the metal bars behind Chieftain Rags and bent three on impact. The half-Giant bent down and pulled a sword from the armor of thorns covering his leg; it came free without effort. It hadn’t drawn blood. He held the sword in one hand as he studied Rags.
She hadn’t fired a spell. Her shortsword was drawn, but her eyes were wide. She didn’t think that she could have attacked even if she wanted to.
Moore the half-Giant planted a staff covered in vines in the ground and spoke.
“[Stone to Mud]. [Liquidfoot].”
He remained standing as both Ragses sank up to their waists in an instant. The half-Giant saw Redscar trying to leap again, snarling. He tapped the ground once more.
“[Mud to Stone].”
Redscar froze up to his chest; Chieftain Rags gasped for breath, suddenly unable to inflate her chest. She had to pant wildly, and Moore—Lord Moore of Liscor scratched at his beard as he stared at the blade in Redscar’s hand.
“I know this sword. Moore to Watch Commander Embria. I have the Goblins. I will handle them.”
The pleasant voice spoke from above with a hint of a sigh in it.
