“Who are you? Where do you come from? How…do you know my name?”
A trembling Gnoll asked the question, panting, his fur covered with blood, the certainty of death fading from his limbs. His name was Brunkr.
He was dead. In another world, he had died when Regrika Blackpaw murdered him for reasons that had never been clear. And his name had been forgotten by all those except the people who had known him. It had been invoked once for a famous group.
The Order of Solstice, the sweating [Knights] who stood in the aftermath of battle, adrenaline draining from their forms. They were all seasoned warriors; they were grimy, splashed with gore, but not shaking in the aftermath, not pale-faced or sick-at-heart.
That was what the [Princess] noticed, and the [Innkeeper]. Like adventurers, these…[Knights] with such a peculiar name for their order had seen battle before. It was in how calm they were and how fast they reset.
See the Drake sheathing one wand in a holster at his side, using the other to cast a cleansing spell to get blood off the half-Troll girl. The Human woman producing a cloth, cleaning her blade, and passing it to the Antinium.
An Antinium with a greatsword, a Soldier who spoke.
Oh yes. This truly was an unbelievable band. Fire still smoldered on their armor, but lightly. On the [Swashbuckler], Jewel, it was glints of pink flame that ran along her blade, illuminated her teeth as she grinned and punched the Antinium’s shoulder. A hint of grey flame in his eyes and on the tip of his wand as the Drake began walking around the room.
The scorched man with one eye still burned. Green flames ran over his armor, beautiful rather than hostile. They looked so unreal that a little Gnoll child reached out and touched them with a paw—before her mother snatched her back.
“Mrsha! Don’t! I’m so sorry—”
Lyonette, this world’s Lyonette, apologized for the girl, who clutched at her paw, but the [Knight] just shook his head. He’d put his helmet back on, but it made him seem oddly friendlier, as if being hatless was somehow the more unnatural state of being.
“It won’t hurt her. The flames of honor can’t hurt the innocent. Only those without it burn.”
He gestured to the steam and remains of what had been Nokha, now just an acid-pitted stain in the floorboards. Lyonette turned away, but Mrsha stared at the place in relief.
And so did the older girl, the one with the notecards, who was writing a reply to Brunkr. She stood with a golden sentinel at her side, a dignified woman with ash-dark hair, a proud nose, and impassive grey eyes that lingered on Lyonette, on Mrsha, and then on…
Erin Solstice.
The [Innkeeper] had arrived at a run, frying pan and acid jar in both hands, terrified for her family. Only to find these strangers had saved everyone. She was grateful, but perplexed by these seasoned warriors. She noted how they stared at her. Eyes lingering on her face, jerking away. It was clear they knew her. But for the life of her, she had never met…
“Um. Excuse me. Are you one of the Armored Antinium? Because I know Klbkch. Thank you for saving Lyonette, Mrsha, and Brunkr. Who—how’d you know what was going on?”
She addressed Antherr, who jerked slightly as he cleaned his blade. It was the only question Erin could think to say. He glanced at Mrsha, who was crafting a longer response for Brunkr.
“I am not Armored Antinium. I am one of the Free Antinium of Liscor. Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus.”
“Wha—no way! Pawn didn’t say Soldiers could speak—or mention you guys had armor! Are you some kind of new Antinium?”
Jewel elbowed Antherr, but since he was wearing armor, it didn’t work. Antherr hesitated, and his gaze stole to Mrsha. The girl gave him a slow shrug of her shoulders.
She had warned them this would hurt. Killing the Raskghar was the easy part. Now, Antherr met that familiar [Innkeeper]’s eyes. And he thought she was so young.
Younger than any Erin he had ever known. More innocent? Perhaps not too much, but there was some quality the Erin he knew had. Age, in so many ways. Knowledge of her death. The weight of lives on her.
This Erin Solstice had not been at the Battle of Liscor. She had yet to witness the glory of the Horns of Hammerad. She had no flame of her own. No garden. She was young; just as Soldiers of his Hive were young, for all they were close to his age and fully grown.
It was so odd that Antherr felt protective of her. In lieu of any other answer, he jerked his head at the Raskghar.
“Our information was of this attack. There are surely more. Do we join in the defense, Grandmaster? Jewel?”
He turned to them, and Erin remembered.
“Th-the walls! Olesm’s guarding them, and we heard the howl! They’re in the water! It’s a full moon!”
She waved her arms around, and Normen glanced swiftly at Mrsha, then replied.
“I do not believe they are a current threat. To my understanding, after this attack, they will retreat to the dungeon with whatever Gnolls they captured. More are below. If we were to render aid, it would be to rescue them and attack the camp to rescue Ceria. If she was captured?”
He was unclear on the timeline of events. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Wh—Ceria? Captured?”
She looked around in horror, and the older white Gnoll girl paused in writing on her card and swiftly scribbled in the air.
We can’t solve everything, Normen. I’m not sure if they got Ceria. The Redfangs can find her better than we can with the help of the Cave Goblins. Plus, Facestealer is down there.
“Hm. We could try to kill it.”
Normen’s face grew serious, and the rest of the Order of Solstice shifted. Durene frowned.
“Isn’t that the super-undead that you said nearly killed everyone before it was trapped? How…tough is it?”
“Tough enough to survive multiple Named-ranks going after it. Saliss, Colth, Guildmistress Mihaela…and all the Gold-rankers too.”
“Ooh.”
Erin’s head swivelled uncomprehendingly as Jewel replied. None of this made sense. Lyonette clearly recognized some of the names. She went wide-eyed and whispered.
“Mihaela Godfrey? I know her. The Courier of Izril! And I think I know those other two—”
“Who? What? I have no idea what’s going—aah!”
Erin was distracted by a flash of light and jumped; she lifted her frying pan to throw, and Vess raised his wand.
“Sorry. Just doing the rounds.”
“What r—oh.”
The Drake was standing over a Raskghar, one of the ones not fully obliterated by the fighting. He’d just fired a ray of light straight through its head. As Erin watched, he walked over to the next one and shot it through the head.
Finishing them off conclusively. Erin felt a chill run down her spine, especially when no one, not even the girl, reacted. The [Innkeeper] glanced at the Drake, then at the cowering Goblins. And the Hobgoblin who stood there.
“And who’re you? A [Knight]?”
She looked up at the bearded Goblin, and he recoiled from her. His face was pale, as if he’d seen a ghost. The little Goblins stared up at him in awe and fear, but the [Bard] just rasped.
“Don’t you know me?”
Erin gave him a curious look. Know him? His face was familiar, but he…she pointed at his goatee.
“No Goblin I’ve ever met has a beard, buddy. It’s…nice? Also, is that a guitar on your back? And what’s with the sword?”
She was getting curious again, and Numbtongue was lost for words. He gazed at Mrsha, who handed the first card to Brunkr. Lyonette and young Mrsha edged over to read. Erin began to head over too when she heard a sound.
A whining. Vess’ circuit of the inn hadn’t been pointless after all. One of the Raskghar had indeed been playing dead. It had tried to roll away; it was bleeding from a dozen cuts from Jewel’s blade, and the sluggish red blood oozing down its fur made it slip as it tried to get up.
Vess planted a foot on its back and aimed his wand at its head.
“Stop! It’s a prisoner, just like the Goblins!”
Erin called out. She was staring at the Cave Goblins, and Vess glanced at her.
“It’s a Raskghar.”
He said that as if it meant something. Erin knew the name—she saw the wand glow. Vess’ eyes had that grey fire in them. A harsh light. Painful and sharp, like a razor.
Mercy. The gaze of someone who had received it, given it, and who knew when none should be offered at all. He adjusted his aim for the Raskghar’s head as it tried to shake his foot.
“Stop!”
Her voice rose, shrill, and he wavered. He eyed Normen, and the [Knight] nodded fractionally. Erin’s eyes widened as the Raskghar whimpered. Her foot struck the floorboards, and she shouted.
“I said stop!”
The inn shook. Vess went stumbling backwards as if someone had kicked him in the chest. He fell across a table and tried to rise—it was as if a gigantic, invisible hand were pressing him flat.
The [Innkeeper]’s aura. Untrained, wild, but there. He lay there, gasping, as the Knights of Solstice whirled. Erin gazed at Normen, hazel eyes ablaze. Not with fire, but indignation.
“It wants to live. Can’t you see that? That Raskghar’s intelligent.”
“The Raskghar came to kidnap Gnolls, Er—Miss Solstice. They devour their hearts to gain intelligence. They are monstrous.”
Normen responded quietly. Erin shook her head.
“I don’t care. You can’t just kill them like that. In a fight—don’t touch it. Healing potion. Here—”
She approached the Raskghar, who was staring up at her. Brunkr growled.
“Erin! It’s dangerous!”
“Then get me something to tie the Raskghar up with. Zevara will be here with the Watch shortly. You—either help me or get back.”
She waved a threatening pan at Normen and Antherr. The Antinium Soldier was calm as he hefted his greatsword.
“We should kill it.”
“This is my inn. Haven’t you read the s—no killing monsters. Not even this one. Besides, it might be able to tell us things.”
The [Innkeeper] snapped, and when Antherr stepped forwards, she swung a pan at him. He caught it with one hand easily, and Erin tried to protect the Raskghar with her body. She was glaring at Normen, and he—hesitated.
This was a scene he had never witnessed, but it was familiar. He lowered the acid-covered mace in one hand. Held out an arm.
“Antherr.”
“It will kill little Mrsha. We are not her [Knights], Grandmaster. There is no honor in killing the defenseless. But there is less in letting people die.”
Antherr was furious, but Normen interrupted him.
“Antherr. Look at her.”
They both regarded the [Innkeeper], and Antherr’s sword lowered in his hands. Erin Solstice didn’t realize what was going on until she felt a curious light feeling on her arms. On her hair.
“Erin. You’re on fire! Quick, water—water—”
Lyonette pointed and panicked, but no one else moved. Normen’s armor reflected a pale light, and Erin’s head swivelled.
“Wait. What? I am? What—”
Only when Jewel fumbled a mirror out of her belt pouch did Erin see it. It must have been on Vess and leapt to her. Like a flame finding a fuel source—she saw grey flames burning over her arms. On her hair.
The fire of mercy had found someone else to burn upon. And it was utterly fitting it had come to her, for it had been from Erin that it had first originated. For Raskghar. 
Just as then, now. Antherr’s blade sheathed itself on his back, and he bowed his head. Then he stomped on the Raskghar’s leg as it tried to tense to run.
“So be it. The moment when two flames war with each other is not now.”
“W-what’s going on? It doesn’t hurt. Can I get it off?”
Erin was mildly panicking at being on fire, despite the [Knights] treating it like it was normal. For answer, Vess sat up.
“That’s mercy’s fire. It’s heavy, sometimes. Light, other times. It doesn’t burn you. It’s…your fire.”
“Wh—mine? Can I keep it? Does it get on things? Hey, it feels sorta sharp. Don’t touch this fire, Mrsha!”
The [Innkeeper] waved her arms around experimentally, gathering some onto her hand. She tried to smear it on a table, and then a bunch of [Guards] burst into the inn.
“Erin! Where’s—wha?”
Olesm and the Watch had appeared; Watch Captain Zevara saw Erin on fire and immediately tried to toss her water flask all over Erin. All of this, all of it—was just background noise to the quiet conversation going on between Mrsha and Brunkr. He was staring wide-eyed at the notecard she had written, then at her.
“Impossible.”
He gaped about the inn, and Dame Ushar spoke.
“Lady Mrsha. Do we pull back? We’ve set Erin Solstice aflame, and a Raskghar lives.”
The girl paused as Lyonette’s head turned towards her. Mrsha, the real Mrsha, nodded at herself and her mother and wrote.
So be it, Ushar. All of it. In this world, a Raskghar lives. May it change things for the better. Let her keep the fire. I will tell the Redfang Five about the dungeon and warn Zevara about Facestealer and the dungeon and Raskghar. That is all we can do. The person we came here for is Brunkr.
She paused—and her eyes flicked around the inn. They settled on Numbtongue with sympathy.
There are others whom it might be painful to meet. It is up to everyone if they wish to stay. I will explain. Can you help with the chaos? The Erin chaos? She’ll make it worse.
Ushar nodded. The Thronebearer focused, then stepped over to tap Ama on the shoulder.
“Miss Ama, I charge you and Vess with heading to Liscor. Ser Normen will stay here with Antherr and Jewel to explain matters. Durene will guard the prisoner Raskghar and Cave Goblins, just in case.”
She ignored Numbtongue on the virtues he wasn’t the most reliable and he appeared well and truly rattled. Normen glanced over as Ama began to heartily complain.
“You don’t give us orders! And I’m tired, and Silias could use some new bones. Raskghar bones…”
She pointed at her beloved cat, who was unnerving the [Guards], but Ushar was now in her element. The Thronebearer whispered to Normen and Ama.
“With your permission, Grandmaster?”
“Why send them into Liscor?”
Normen was curious. For answer, Ushar gestured to Ama’s hands and made a cupping gesture. The [Necromancer] held them out, and Ushar began to pour gold coins into them out of her bag of holding. The [Necromancer]’s eyes went round. Ushar pointedly indicated Brunkr, sipping a healing potion as he read Mrsha’s cards, Erin, who was doling out potions to the Goblins—even offering one to a surprised Durene, who refused, despite having a few scratches on her arms.
Because Durene didn’t have more than…one…emergency healing potion. Because in her time—
Ushar pointedly tapped the emergency potion on her flask.
“Buy every single healing potion you can and all the Eir Gel.”
Ama’s eyes went round. She hesitated, then threw a salute and stuffed the gold into her bag of holding. Normen’s brows rose, and he gave Ushar a respectful nod.
