—She was exactly like Rags remembered. One of them. The other had been averting her gaze, but now she was forced to look and see the Human.
She was still smiling. That was what the [Chieftain] noticed. A layer of frost still covered her—but her clothing was torn. Cut away; she bent to inspect the crossbow bolts and saw they’d been removed.
Erin looked worse. Someone must have tried to cure her. There was a kind of…degradation to her visible flesh. Like the inn. Not any noticeable…rotting…but a sense of slow entropy.
That was what the [Chieftain], who had seen this before, observed with the analytical part of her mind. She forced herself to look at this like a detective from the past. Because if she focused on the face…
“Rags. She’s still alive; she must be technically or we couldn’t get in here. I wonder if she’s slowly…passing away, though. Even frozen, even with a [Field of Preservation], do you think she can last here forever? Rags?”
She heard no response from the normally talkative [Student]. The [Chieftain] turned her head and saw Student Rags was on her knees.
“Oh. I—I—”
The other Goblin’s face was drained of blood. Her mouth was slightly open, and she just seemed shocked. Not sad. Not hurt. Just startled. She tried to get up, then nearly fell on her face. As if she couldn’t remember falling down. She put a hand on the bier, and then it leapt away. The [Chieftain] watched her until it clicked.
Oh. This Rags never had her Erin die. Even if she knew it was true—the [Student] was breathing hard. Hyperventilating.
“She really is…she really can die, can’t she? I knew she was Human. I know mine is…but I forgot. Yours died? I got it, but I didn’t…this really is the—the—the—”
She tried to stand without touching the bier. She had tears in her eyes. Student Rags clutched at her stomach. The Goblin was trying to play it cool and knew she was failing. She offered her counterpart a smile.
“I’m fine. Looks like I’m weaker than you. I—ha. Hahahaha. H—”
The other Rags took her by the shoulder and turned her away. Her touch was shockingly gentle.
“Don’t look.”
“No, I’m okay. I knew it happened. I can—”
The older Rags pushed her junior away, down the hill.
“Don’t look. You don’t have to. There’s nothing to win or lose. This is how it was. Yours is alive. Keep her that way.”
The [Student] began to protest. She glanced over her shoulder, then into the older [Chieftain]’s eyes. And then…the two of them saw the true difference between them. The younger Rags stood there. She gazed back—then turned and began running. She tripped halfway down the hill and went crashing downwards. There were shouts of alarm from Rianchi and Dyeda.
The [Student] never made a sound. She was crying.
The [Chieftain] stood there, then came back before the bier. She stood there a moment and whispered.
“Hello, Erin. You’re not my Erin. But I’m back again. I’m sorry. I don’t think I can help you. Maybe I can tell this world how it was done. But I didn’t come for you.”
Her claws traced patterns on the frosted stone. Rags bent her head over the bier.
“I swear I’ll help you in my world. I shall make that sign outside your inn true one day. Wish me luck.”
She turned away abruptly. The [Chieftain] hesitated—then bent down. She pulled something off her belt; she tossed down her left-handed gauntlet on the pile of objects. Then she picked up one of the amulets, the most powerful of the ones lying there. It shone with magic as she put it around her neck. She felt dizzy, like someone had kicked her in the chest with a jolt of energy, as she put it on.
Then Rags walked down the hill to join the others. She knew the rules about trying artifacts you didn’t know, but these had been meant for Erin. Besides, at that moment, she wouldn’t have cared if the amulet had turned her into a toad.
 
——
 
They were indeed in a different world. Rianchi kept rubbing at one eye, but he hadn’t gone above. Student Rags was sitting at a table, pale-faced, wiping her tears away. Rianchi didn’t want to cry today, and he hadn’t known Erin that well. So he had left the garden and stared out the windows.
“Weird.”
Dyeda gave Rianchi a warning look as she hovered around Student Rags with a glass of something. But he didn’t mean Student Rags.
“Hey, Sagra. Here. I found it in the kitchen. Nice drink.”
“What did you call me? Sagra? That’s pretty good. But we already have an Asgra.”
“How about…Studie? Sara? Sraggy?”
“Uh…we’ll work on it. But your Chieftain is definitely now ‘Crags’.”
Dyeda laughed, and Student Rags sipped from the drink and eyed the amber-colored liquid.
“Wait a second, this is weird. It’s all…is this good?”
“I thought so. Is weird, right? Tastes like fruit, but it’s all…sharp-y. On your tongue. I found it in the kitchen. There’s an enchanted box.”
“Show me?”
They got up and vanished. Rianchi kept staring out the windows as he heard exclamations—then they came out with more drinks and cups. Dyeda handed Rianchi one of the drinks, and it was cold. He sipped at it cautiously as she explained.
“There’s a weird…box in there. Full of food. And drinks!”
“That’s called a cupboard, dear.”
She poked him hard.
“No, a separate box-thing. Not part of the cupboards! It’s cool in there and super cold in the top part! Try the drink!”
“Eugh! What this?”
At first, Rianchi had the same reaction as Student Rags. The liquid stung his tongue. It didn’t hurt; he took another cautious sip, and Dyeda snapped her claws.
“It all…what that word for alchemical drinks?”
“Fizzy?”
“Yes, fizzy! Like the weird stuff we sometimes get. Little bubbly stuff in it. Very nice. I like it.”
“I don’t. Here.”
He handed it back to her, then gestured out the window as Redscar came downstairs.
“Chieftain’s on her way. Inn’s empty. Only a few rooms are used. Lyonette’s. Mrsha’s. A few guest rooms—all of them are made up and fresh.”
Student Rags nodded as she sipped from her cup.
“They’re expecting company. The larder’s stocked up. And they have a lot of weird food in there. Turns out I’m drinking ‘kombucha’. It’s all labeled.”
Redscar wrinkled up his nose, not impressed. He took a drink from Dyeda’s cup and spat it on the floor.
“Yuck. How weird?”
“Weirdly packaged, I mean. It’s covered in this…film. It’s not magical. Take a look. What are you staring at, Rianchi?”
“…Everything. Very strange, Chieftain—Student Rags. You, uh, looked out the window?”
Everyone turned to him as Chieftain Rags emerged from the door. They crowded to the window, and their first view of the Floodplains of Liscor didn’t disappoint. Dyeda’s mouth opened. Student Rags spat kombucha out of her mouth, and Redscar grunted. Chieftain Rags just sighed, almost happily.
“Ah.”
From The Wandering Inn, they could see the mountains. The familiar High Passes and the Floodplains of Izril, those rolling hills of grass, which in the summer were mostly green. Growing verdant under the bright, blue sky.
That was familiar. Everything else was not.
“Look! Look! That’s a city!”
“A city built into the mountains. Yes.”
Straight across from the inn, there was a city on the side of the mountain. It was small, but light was playing off the glass in the distance. Rianchi’s eyes were locked onto it, but he pointed places out to the other Goblins.
“See there? And there. Those are watchtowers, I think. Villages there. Big ones. That a town over there. And that—”
The [Chieftain] grunted softly.
“Looks like a castle or fort of some kind. That’s…north. Esthelm. And Liscor?”
They had to go to another window to see the city, and when they did, every Goblin craned their heads back. Dyeda whispered, suddenly nervous.
“…The city’s gotten closer. How, uh—how high are those walls?”
Student Rags did a quick calculation.
“They were thirty feet. So that’s…eighty. Dead gods. Wait. It’s not vertical either. That’s a…a talus wall? That’s crazy!”
Rianchi squinted, and he realized that Student Rags was right. The walls that literally kept The Wandering Inn in shade were actually slanted. Not so much that you could just run up the sides, but there was a definite gradient to them that made them even wider.
“Slanty walls? Why do that? I could ride up them with Thunderfur or the right [Riders].”
Redscar wasn’t impressed. Student Rags shook her head.
“I’ve heard they’re useful—they’re better against siege weapons, and it’s harder to sap them because of how they’re built. Also, a siege tower won’t work on them the same way. But Liscor doesn’t have that issue because no one sieges it!”
The other three Goblins exchanged glances, and the [Chieftain] replied.
“Not in your world. Looks like the times have changed. It’s enormous.”
She craned her head, and Rianchi guessed Liscor was easily twice, maybe three times the size it had used to be. Unlike the square box it had been before, it had expanded in every direction, abandoning the perfect geometric shape. The city seemed to pass to the right and left of the inn, and he wondered if it had actually curved around The Wandering Inn.
There was nothing for it but to see, but this one change had taken everyone’s breath away and left even the normally indefatigable Redscar wary.
This—really was another time. Student Rags had noticed Chieftain Rags’ new amulet.
“What—did you take that from her grave?”
“Yep.”
“You can’t do that.”
The [Student] reached for the amulet, and the [Chieftain] batted her hands away.
“She doesn’t need it. We’re going out there. Liscor first, then—well, we’ll see. Though I want to find Mrsha first. She’s probably in Liscor. We could check back later for her, right?”
“Are we safe just going to Liscor, Chieftain?”
Rianchi licked his lips, and Chieftain Rags tilted her head.
“Why not? Did Mrsha say otherwise?”
“She said I shouldn’t be here—yet. She said it’s her birthday, but she said it like—it was dangerous for me to be around.”
Rianchi licked his lips, and his [Chieftain] tapped her ring.
“So we keep illusions up. We could split it up. Someone waits here for Mrsha, the rest go out?”
She looked quizzically at Student Rags, who had regained some of her spark.
“You’re not stopping me. Let’s get out there. But what about our cover stories?”
“We’re travellers.”
“Right, but I think if I said I’m from Baleros and you’re my cousin, how do we explain Redscar, who’s a Gnoll? What if he’s an acquaintance we know—no, wait. He’s your lover—he’s my bodyguard, and Rianchi and Dyeda are both [Traders] who work with you in your business. Which is the monster parts trade. And you came here on business to—”
Even with illusions, you could tell the two Ragses apart based on who talked more. Chieftain Rags was scowling and opening her mouth to argue when everyone heard a sound at the door.
Knock knock.
It was faint, coming from the main door, but the inn was so quiet except for them they all went silent. There was a pause—then someone thrust the door open and called out.
A female voice, flustered and panting.
“Mrsha? I’m here! Sorry it took a second—portal traffic is hell today. Some bigshot’s coming, and they closed an entire lane for her. Mrsha? Are you here? Miss Lyonette? Hello? It’s me, Visma!”
 
——
 
A Drake entered the inn. She came in warily, even reverentially, with that solemnity of someone visiting a grave. Her scales were pearly-white green, speckled with darker patches, and she had on strange clothing.
It was like Student Rags: bright cloth with strong dyes that gave it that look that often set Earthers apart. However, Visma’s clothing was noticeably different; she had on what seemed like dress pants in dark blue, a formal button-up shirt in a lighter variant of the color, and a light jacket that was the same color as the rest of her clothing. It had bright yellow writing on the arm that read:
Pallass News Network, Channel 2.
There was even a logo underneath, though the object that was depicted was so foreign that none of the Goblins understood it. The young woman called cautiously into the inn as she walked forwards.
“Mrsha? Anyone here?”
Visma. Eighteen years old, her first day on the job. She’d polished and had cut her neck spines, her scales were buffed, and she was a bit stressed since she’d just had to run off from her job on this hairbrained…
Well. Mrsha had said she’d not be here, but Visma had expected someone. Lyonette must have been out, which wasn’t surprising, but were the mystery guests here? Visma swore she’d heard something—but the inn was empty.
“Wow. It’s really not changed.”
She hadn’t been here in…a few months. Mrsha usually visited her if she wasn’t religiously training. Visma searched around, shivering as she thought of the garden—she didn’t have the guts for that.
“I should pay my respects. Later. I wonder if there’s anything in the fridge?”
She wandered towards the kitchen, pausing to flick a light switch, then remembered the inn didn’t even have electricity. Crazy. Visma sighed and pulled something out.
“Let me see. Light. Light…aha!”
The Drake tapped a ring, and a glowing band of symbols appeared. She began to tap icons until she got the right one. The ring instantly produced an orb of [Light], and Visma glanced around. She noticed a half-empty cup of kombucha on the table.
“Huh. Well…”
She decided to get her own cup of something to drink, then settled back on a chair. Sighing, upset, but resolving not to bother Mrsha about it—this was a big day—Visma touched her ring again, then activated a spell. A little screen popped up, and Visma began watching an image of Drassi.
“—and in other news today, Jungle Tails has issued another ultimatum to the Empire of Rhir, raising tensions between the two world powers. We go live now to an interview with the Dragontouched, General Mazrim Xelchutec—apologies if I’m getting that wrong—where he commented on the possibility of coexistence with Rhir on the continent.”
Visma kept watching, sipping her drink and sighing every now and then, glancing around the inn as she scratched at the back of her head. What was she supposed to do now? Wait, she supposed.
Who was she waiting for?
 
——
 
Five Goblins crouched outside the inn, peeking at Visma through the windows. Chieftain Rags mouthed at the others as they used the sign language inherent to their species to mostly get their points across.
That’s Visma?
Who?
Visma!
No one had any idea who that was, except for Chieftain Rags, who had a vague recollection of the little, bratty hatchling running around with Ekirra and Mrsha. She knew it shouldn’t be a shock, but it was.
