“Lord Moore. Did you turn the streets to mud again?”
“…I’ll fix it.”
“Very well. Watch units, stand down. Lord Moore has apprehended the Goblins. Begin crowd control in sectors 3E, 3F, 4E, 4—”
The bars of metal didn’t vanish, but gaps began opening, letting the people trapped inside flee. Which they did, calling to Moore—
Lord Moore. Rags stared at him as the armor of vines undid itself sightly. She remembered a half-Giant, gentle as he was tall, a beard of dark brown hair, oft-distressed features, and soft-spoken words.
She saw a [Lord] in regal, nature-patterned cloth, a green cloak hanging from his shoulders, magic flaring off him with more authority than almost every spellcaster she’d ever met. His hair had turned partially to grey; it ran in streaks. But mostly?
He was taller. The old Moore had been nine feet tall. Still a giant man, but at least within spitting distance of humanity. This Moore looked two feet taller and bigger still. He truly dwarfed even Redscar twice again. When he bent down to address them, his voice was quiet and still loud.
“Goblins. Who gave you this sword?”
He addressed Redscar, who spat as he tried to wrench his sword and arm free of the stone. It was hopeless; both Ragses had given up trying to break free. The [Blademaster] hissed at Moore.
“Garen Redfang.”
Moore exhaled slowly, an expression of pain crossing his green eyes. He regarded the blade, as if it were some long-lost friend, then nodded.
“I thought so. You must be one of the last Redfangs, then. And you…huh.”
He took in both Ragses, eyes drawing together in faint confusion, but no recognition. Rags had wondered if someone would recognize her ten years later, but she had never known Moore well. And time…time changed people. Moore shook his head.
“[Mages]. What are you, scouts? What is Chieftain Rags thinking? You enter my city, armed with cheap illusion spells, and try to use a Portal Station? This is not the time. I know what day it is, but this? This was poorly done.”
He tossed the Redfang blade back to Redscar, and it clanged onto the ground. Both Ragses’ ears burned, and the [Student] spoke.
“We didn’t do anything wrong. We just wanted to look around the city. Is that a crime?”
“You are Goblins. Yes.”
Moore’s voice was level. He was neither surprised at being addressed nor embarrassed by the question. He leaned on his staff, tilting his head.
“Strange. Did Mrsha call…? That scamp. Is this her idea?”
The Goblins hesitated. Redscar spat. Both Ragses spoke at once.
“No.”
“Who?”
They glared at each other, and Moore tugged at his beard in a familiar gesture. He pulled at his top lip, groaning softly.
“First Selys refuses to certify her properly, now this. Argh. I don’t have time for this. I have to greet Ceria and winterproof the entire square. Alright.”
He tapped the ground, and the earth shifted. Instead of turning to mud a second time, Chieftain Rags felt herself rising—a stone column lifted her up and then spat her out. She stumbled as the stone let her go, and Redscar snatched up his blade.
Dead gods. She had never thought a simple spell like that could be so effective. Moore wasn’t even breathing hard. He raised his staff as Redscar faced him, blades drawn.
“Do not return to Liscor. Tell Chieftain Rags to hide her tribe. It is not safe for you here. And it is not within my authority. Liscor is one thing; the Watch is one thing. A [Hero] is present in this region. He is hunting you. If she does not know that, tell her. Now go.”
He planted his staff on the ground, and a tracery of lines erupted from where it tapped the earth. A spell circle? It manifested so fast around the Goblins that Chieftain Rags couldn’t even follow it.
This was spellcasting ten years from now? She looked up and breathed.
“Wait. I—have questions.”
“Ask your Chieftain.”
The half-Giant’s eyes weren’t hard or pitiless. Just—busy. Disinterested. Redscar strode towards him, furious, and Moore peered down at the [Blademaster].
“You remind me of Garen Redfang. Do you know that I used to be his comrade? I am Moore. One of the last two Halfseekers.”
Oh. He seemed so tired. Redscar’s dangerous cat-like walk slowed. He stopped and sheathed his other blade. He held the other horizontally.
“Yes. I know. I was there when he died. I know you, Moore of Raithland. Don’t you know me?”
His defiant glare made the half-Giant pause as he lifted his staff up.
“—Tell me, Redfang.”
“I am Redscar. Second to Garen Redfang! I carry his blade!”
Redscar shouted and held the blade high overhead, proud. Garen’s greatest warrior, his oldest son—when he said that, Moore’s brows drew together, and the first ominous feeling stole over the Goblins. The ground seemed to ripple unhappily.
“Do not lie to me. Redscar is dead. Do you bear his name?”
Chieftain Rags’ breath caught. Redscar peered into the half-Giant’s eyes and beheld his death in this world.
He bared his teeth in a grin without fear or remorse or even curiosity.
“No. I am him.”
Moore’s eyes widened. Student Rags slapped her forehead. The half-Giant’s staff came down, and it tapped the earth.
“—Strange. Run. You’ve attracted too much attention.”
That was all he said. Then light rose from the spell circle below, ensnaring all three Goblins, even Redscar, who tried to dodge.
They vanished.
 
——
 
In the aftermath of the strange encounter, three Goblins landed in the grass in the Floodplains of Liscor as far north as Moore could teleport them. They scrambled to their feet, glancing around and cursing as they realized how far he’d tossed them.
In Liscor, a half-Giant raised his staff with a sigh, stretching his lower back, and tapped the ground again. The messed up stone and brickwork began to reassemble itself more or less like how he hoped it had been. The metal bars surrounding the intersection began to fly up into the air as Watch Commander Embria lifted her Skill. And neither side knew what to make of the exchange.
Moore didn’t sense anything more of what became of the three Goblins as he released his limited [Quick Teleport] spell. He was not good at it; he hoped that was enough of a head-start.
This was a bad day for trouble. The half-Giant, one of Liscor’s nobility, stroked his beard.
Redscar, the Goblin had claimed his name was. Impossible. Redscar was dead. Of the Goblins that Moore knew had passed away, he was sure of that one. That was why Chieftain Rags had fled even further…
Has Mrsha been up to something? He didn’t know; he just hoped they were looking at Liscor. Because if there was any warning to be had—Moore exhaled.
The sky turned black overhead. A bolt of white lightning split the sky. Someone hit a roof three stories up. Moore raised his head and scowled.
“That is someone’s home. If you damage it, you will pay for it. [Hero] of the Empire or not. This is my city.”
A laughing voice called down from overhead. A man—he was younger than Moore by a dozen years, maybe—twirled a blade in his hand. A staff but with blades on both ends. They glowed with red and green light. Almost festive-looking, aside from how deadly they were.
“Oh, I’m so scared. Where did you send them?”
“Out of Liscor. Take your hunt out of here.”
Moore’s voice was flat. He stared up, and the man—the Human cocked his head in reply. He wasn’t used to being spoken to like that. He began to snap a reply, tensing himself, but then he hesitated. He sized Moore up and then shrugged.
“I have orders from the Crown of Rhir itself. Helping Goblins, especially the Flooded Waters tribe or whatever the hell it is, is a crime, you know.”
“Not in my city. Begone.”
The half-Giant’s eyes narrowed dangerously, and vines emerged from the street and covered his legs in that iconic armor. The [Hero] lifted his hands in mock fear. Then he raised the twinblade staff overhead. He pulled one arm back and threw it—it flew improbably fast and far, despite how it was shaped.
The sky turned black again. A bolt of lightning leapt from the roof—in the wrong direction, southwards, thankfully—and the man was gone.
Moore exhaled hard. He rubbed at his face, then spoke into an encrypted speaking spell.
“I got them out just in time, Embria. Tell the Council to stop worrying. That [Hero]’s in hot pursuit too. He’s not exactly the sharpest, though. If they’re lucky, they’ll reach Chieftain Rags before they’re scried. They’re not scry-proof. I think that idiot thought they were.”
A calm voice sounded in his ear.
“Well, thank goodness for that. I’ll pass the note on to the Council. And to Relc. He’s been fretting. You wouldn’t happen to have Mrsha in your estates, would you?”
“Me? No. Or else I’d have given her an earful about telling Goblins to enter Liscor. Even for her birthday.”
“Strange. She’s not in Liscor or the inn. Unless she’s hiding. I have a look-out notice with the Watch. They’ll call her out.”
“She’s probably upset. We’ll see her this evening. I’ll attend to the plaza now. Tell the Council to bundle warm. Ceria…doesn’t control her aura anymore.”
“I will relay it. Thank you, Lord Moore.”
He’d given up on telling her to just call him ‘Moore’. Relc did, but that was Relc. Disturbed more than he could explain, Moore began striding through Liscor, though he had to stop as the first people wanted to thank him for resolving the situation.
Redscar. Redscar. Moore’s memory flickered at him, and he touched a finger to his forehead. And that other Goblin. He whispered a spell, and then his eyes opened wide.
“[Recall Memory]. Impossible.”
He spun. It was beyond a near match. It was almost one-to-one, armor and all. At least, one of them. And the other had the same face. Moore whispered, heart pounding.
“—Rags?”
He sent Mrsha another [Encoded Message] as loud as he could muster. But she didn’t reply. And that bolt of lightning—Moore saw the sky darken in the distance again and it streaking westwards. He bit his lip. Then he sent a [Message] to the only person who he thought could help.
 
——
 
Rianchi and Dyeda raced back to The Wandering Inn and found no Rags or Redscar there. When they burst into the inn, Visma leapt to her feet. She stared in confusion at them.
“Who the heck are you—wait, I’m supposed to—”
They dropped the illusion spells, and she recoiled.
“Whoa—whoa! Goblins!”
She pointed at them, and Dyeda screamed.
“No killing! No killing us! The sign says!”
She pointed wildly over her shoulder. Visma’s jaw dropped, and then she threw up her hands.
“Mrsha, that idiot! You’re her mystery guests? This isn’t a good time! Rhir has a [Hero] hunting the area—for Chieftain Rags’ tribe! Did you see that bolt of lightning? Tell Chieftain Rags to lay low, would you?”
Dyeda and Rianchi exchanged a glance of mounting horror. They had no idea what that meant, but it sounded all bad. Rianchi pointed at Dyeda.
“We’re not—we’re looking for Chieftain Rags, but not that Chieftain Rags. Our Chieftain Rags!”
Visma’s eyes crossed a second. She rubbed at her earholes.
“Hold on. There are two? Is that news?”
“Three!”
Dyeda was too worried to keep what was going on secret. She looked around for Mrsha.
“Where’s Mrsha? Your Mrsha?”
“My…she said she was going somewhere important. To help Erin. But she’s not here or in Liscor, and she’s not answering [Message] spells. She must have turned her ring off again. Or out of service? She’s so anti-Wistram—I thought you knew where she was.”
“Us? How you know about us?”
Rianchi was confused; Visma was taking the appearance of two Goblins much more reasonably than everyone else. As far as he could tell, no one had been arrested; everyone had said Lord Moore had ‘dealt’ with the Goblins, but that didn’t mean kill. Some people had said he was sympathetic to the Goblins, but he didn’t want to fight with Rhir.
As in—Rhir. The Empire of Rhir, singular. The one on the news which also, apparently, had a colony in northern Baleros and one in Chandrar. And Terandria. And [Heroes].
Visma was rubbing at her forehead, confused.
“Okay, let me get this straight. Mrsha told me there might be people coming here. Strangers whom I was supposed to get to stay here and not do anything crazy. Which makes sense given that you’re Goblins. She said she was going to the same place as you.”
“The same place as…”
Rianchi turned so pale that Dyeda was afraid he’d fall over. He glanced around, then Dyeda felt her own eyes grow large in alarm.
“Wait. Didn’t you say the root moved a bit, Rianchi? What if—”
“Aaaaaaah!”
He began to run towards the hole leading back to the [Palace] and then realized Visma was still there. Rianchi began trying to push her out of the inn.
“You go! Go help find Chieftain Rags! We’ll be back soon! Just go outside!”
“Wait! Hey, what’s going on? Drassi wants me to report on why Goblins are running around Liscor if it’s not going to get you lot killed. Where is Mrsha? Lord Moore wants to know, and—hey! Stop pushing!”
The two Hobgoblins shoved her out the door and then shared a look of wordless fear. A [Hero] and potentially another Mrsha in the [Palace of Fates]? One from the future?
From a world with a dead Erin? They spoke at the same time.
“We go back. We have to tell one of the Mrshas!”
Dyeda pointed at the hole in the world. Rianchi shook his head. He was looking around. Staring…northwards.
“You go back. I think I sense Chieftain. Huh. Two Chieftains. That way. I go after her. I’m fast. I can make it. You tell our Mrsha and get the old one back! Got it?”
The [Tattooist] wavered. Once again, he was racing after Rags. One more time, and he’d done it already—
How many more times did you get lucky? She wavered, but if they were that far from the inn—Dyeda seized Rianchi and kissed him on the mouth. Then she turned.
“Go! And come back with Rags so I can hit her!”
“Got it!”
Rianchi pulled his bicycle out of his bag of holding. Dyeda ran for the door. She hauled herself through to the other side and fell, gasping in the [Palace of Fates]. Then she whirled.
On the other side of the door, she saw Rianchi burst out of The Wandering Inn on his bicycle, turning it north. Visma raced after him.
“Wh—stop! Are you crazy? Stop before you get killed, you idiot! Oh, Ancestor’s tits!”
The image flickered to a trio of Goblins. They were running—in what direction, Dyeda couldn’t tell. That was enough for her. Dyeda spun away from the door. She began running.
“Mrsha? Mrsha!”
She saw the girl was actually in the same hallway as her, barely four doors down. Mrsha, Roots Mrsha, all dressed up, was standing, staring into another door with her paws bunched up. When she saw Dyeda, she spun in alarm.
