Ghelid's blizzard came closer, the rumbling hum a promise of ruin.

"You have two allies that have likely employed methods with similar volatility, haven't you? Or can you say with certainty that neither Shalahora nor Plazia-Ruhl have employed questionable methods in the past?"

I took a breath.

"Shalahora hasn't. He's passed off his own pain to others, but it has never been in mass and without any reason. Plazia has certainly killed many living things, but he's never used prolonged bouts of torture."

The entity stopped walking.

"Shalahora has been the tool of an otherworldly entity. He has destroyed many planets, not just a singular region as I have. You gave that entity a chance on a whim, but you're unwilling to offer me the same grace?"

It simmered its words like boiling oil.

"As for the lord of insects, you've seen it use questionable methods against the Vagni. You have no guarantee that Plazia isn't waiting until you're vulnerable or until it gets what it wants. It could have many of your allies being surveilled at all moments to use against you, and you'd be none the wiser."

I scoffed.

"Shalahora was pulled into that situation. He chose to become the tool of the Old Ones after having to face the slow extinction of his entire race. You're still choosing to enact mass torture even after being exposed to my principles."

It sighed.

"I don't know if you'll let me survive yet. I want to live, and that isn't a sin."

I shook my head.

"You've done this for centuries. What is a few moments in comparison to that?"

It tilted its head, and the flows of mana from the eldritch below ceased.

"Happy now?"

"No. You compare your sins to Plazia, but he is different. I found him in a world with the ahcorus, and he coexisted with them for millennia without torturing them. He manipulated their politics at times, but that's nothing compared to this."

I spread my hands.

"You're telling me that despite having the ability to take the memories and thoughts from millions of eldritch, you've never even contemplated trying a different strategy?"

Ghelid sighed.

"And now you're willing to end my life off a few flimsy assumptions?"

I smiled.

"No. I'm analyzing your incentives. You're an incomplete entity. You're trying to buy yourself time to use some far-off tool, mobilize your forces, and amass your energy. This facade of peace isn't fooling anyone, and you're not the only one who can dissect the intent of someone using mind magic."

The creature let out a laugh that slowed time.

"Am I to believe that you've infiltrated my mind? I've yet to feel anything."

I shook my head, taking a step forward.

"I don't need to dissect your long-term memories to grasp what you are and what you want. You're a ball of spatial laws, and you have desires that manifest from those laws. One of those wishes is for all to be still for all time. That goal contradicts what I want, so we can't really coexist, can we?"

Its encompassing presence settled over us.

"And what makes you think that?"

I murmured.

"That smile from the mention of quiet."

A grin crossed over its elken face, the subtle line the only real distinguishing feature over its lineless body. It glowed brighter as it spoke.

"I can admit that the noise of other beings can be...Troublesome. Everything wishes to change and shifts in every way imaginable. Wouldn't the universe be more peaceful if it were all still? We would be much closer to the truth of what we really are, wouldn't we?"

My runes glowed with power, a might palpable and a fury contained.

"You're right. How about we start that great stillness off by making you still first?"

Its form shifted into the shape of Valgus.

"I see you're not one to listen to words."

I bent down.

"Deflection. Answer me."

It cracked its neck before snarling.

"Of course, I won't let you kill me. I have no guarantee that you'll enact the great stillness that would uplift all. You think I'm a fool who would give my own life and goals to a mere stranger?"

I jeered.

"Yet you demand that sacrifice from every living being aside from yourself."

It let out a long, haunting laugh. As it ceased, a quiet encompassed us both. It soaked deeper as the blizzard arrived in full force. Ice chunks struck the ground hard enough to leave craters in the ice. Splintering shards of cold bit into the air that howled out. The slowing of reality wasn't even from time manipulation. It operated on some separate principle.

Despite the overwhelming force, the shards shattered against me as Ghelid murmured throughout the storm. His voice expanded into a roar.

"And I will sacrifice everything. No death. No life. Never-changing yet always peaceful. Only...Stillness."

My armor grinned, mana falling from me in a crimson wave. It fought back the ice, my dimensional wake stretching over it like a cloud of smog in a clear sky. A wave of excitement rushed through me, melting the cold and hastening the states of matter near me. I spoke, my voice a thrumming violence in my wake.

"Then let's see stillness save you."
