When they went back to surfing Erick tried surfing as a dragon and made a grand fool of himself and also some mighty big splashes. The square-cube law or something like that was fucking up his ability to surf. Probably just needed a bigger board, but they were already making big splashes on the surface, and Yggdrasil’s fish were already huddled deep beneath his roots.

No need to go scaring the fish too much.

Eventually, Quilatalap got out a grill and started cooking burgers. Not long later he called them all in for dinner. Every Ophiel ate themselves half-sick, loving the taste of food and doctoring up their burgers with every different condiment they could possibly get their hands on, from normal things like mayo and ketchup, to odder things like purpleberry jam and sliced banana. Erick, in his larger, mostly-human but orcol-sized Apparent King self, smiled a lot, watching them enjoy their food. It was a fantastic meal, from a fantastic cook, and everything was fantastic. It was one of the best days Erick had ever had before...

The only thing it was missing was Jane, Solomon, Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Evan. So the day was missing a lot. But that was fine.

This was still great. Just some swimming with the boys.

Everything fractured after dinner, though, but in that way all good days ended. Some Ophiel wanted to sleep, and so they fell asleep on the ground or in Yggdrasil’s boughs or elsewhere, wherever they felt like sleeping. Only one made it back to the house. Others tried to stay awake for longer, but they failed and got grouchy in that failure. Others actually weren’t that tired at all, and they wanted to go exploring again.

Erick learned, in that moment, that when all the Ophiel were working together they could coordinate as a [Hive Mind] group, but once the object of their cooperation faded, they became as fractious as too many cooks in a kitchen. Four of them went to bed in the same bed, but then they fought and they refused to be in the same bed with each other, so Erick expanded the house as he had expected and planned for. Five of them recovered and went exploring through Benevolence, creeping out into the world through stone pathways through the glowing fog, or swimming down rivers connecting one gate space with another.

It was organized chaos, but Erick had made Ophiel promise not to leave Benevolence, and he had agreed, so there really was no stopping him from just having fun out there, and Erick didn’t want to stop him, either.

Yggdrasil had wanted to talk, anyway.

In the living room of the enlarged house, Yggdrasil was wearing fine House Benevolence clothes as he pulled Erick aside, looking professional and also worried, as he said, “When you get back to the real world I’d like you to meet someone— Not right now! Not until Ophiel is settled.”

Erick had been about to agree to visit Yggdrasil’s girlfriend right away, but Yggdrasil had cut that plan off at the legs. So Erick relegated himself to saying, “Okay, Yggdrasil. I’ll see her later. Maybe in a week or two?”

Yggdrasil was all nervous as he giggled a little bit, broke out in a small sweat, and nodded, saying, “Yeah! Sounds great—” In the distance, beyond the window of the house, Yggdrasil’s real body flickered a bit brighter, all of his moss-covered white bark shining bright for a moment, and then fading back to normal, his entire flaming green canopy also doing some odd discolorations. “See you later!”

And then he dispersed his avatar into so much broken mana.

Erick had helped him make that version of himself. He hoped that when he got his real [Avatar] spell, that he could make one as well as Erick had made. Yggdrasil probably could. He had probably been working on his own version for years, now; just waiting for the moment when it would truly be his spell to make and keep. Yggdrasil could barely wait for that day.

After seeing Ophiel’s protean self, Erick was now excited to see who Yggdrasil would become, instead of dreading every way in which things could go wrong.

Erick smiled.

Yggdrasil would be fine.

Ophiel was fine.

Erick crashed down on the couch in the living room, across from Quilatalap who was reading a book by the window. He smiled, saying, “Today was a good day. Thanks for being here, Quilatalap. Dinner was great, too.”

Quilatalap smiled softly. “Want to talk about that thing you’re not supposed to talk about? And your immunity? Perhaps about summoning him from the future?”

“… I suppose we have to get back to it sometime, right? But… How about tomorrow?”

Quilatalap nodded as he closed his book, asking, “Want to go to bed?”

Erick smiled and got off the couch, saying, “Yes.”

“Good. Keep the horns on, too.”

Erick chuckled. Soon enough they were in their main bedroom and Erick was snuggled up to Quilatalap, matching the orcol for size, but only because letting the dragon out a little did that. Erick was asleep within a minute.

- - - -

Erick woke to the smell of bacon cooking in the kitchen.

Quilatalap was out there, making breakfast, but there was only one Ophiel at the kitchen table. He looked the same as the others out there, but different. He had a little bit more of a red sheen to his iridescent-black hair than all the rest.

So that was number 10; the red one.

Erick would get to Ophiel-in-the kitchen soon enough. He checked on all the others out there inside Benevolence. One Ophiel hung out on Yggdrasil’s boughs talking to Yggdrasil’s orcol form about girlfriends and other topics. Two were in Kiri’s gate spaces far away from Erick’s, talking to Sunny who was really Kiri, and then rapidly talking to Kiri when Kiri showed up, wondering ‘Who the fuck are you— Oh! Ophiel!’. Erick smiled at that. Kiri would show up whenever she wanted in Benevolence… And speaking of which, there’s Teressa and Aisha talking with Ophiel on the edge of the platform, near the Benevolent Sky in the north. Poi stood a little bit away, but he was still part of the conversation. Looked like Poi was restraining his mental touch from Ophiel, too, which was good news about the Red Leviathan problem, but Erick didn’t see any Red Sparks anywhere anyways… Except for around the [Gate] that led to House Benevolence.

The Red tried to get in, but Red reality touched White reality almost like an uninvited person passing through a [Fairy House], or a disembodied soul trying to interact with the real world. The Red wasn’t successfully invading Benevolence at all, and those that almost looked to get inside were instead wrapped in white and allowed to go back into the real world.

Which was really quite nice to see. When did that start happening?

Erick got out of bed and put on some clothes while he checked on all of the rest of Benevolence, looking for all the other bodies of Ophiel. He was 95% sure that Ophiel was one person in multiple bodies, but that 5% was still uncertain, because Ophiel didn’t like being around himself unless he was focused on a singular problem. All the other Ophiels were far away; as far as they could get in Benevolence and still be inside this land. One was hanging out at the gate space of Nelboor, where Erick had planted Yggdrasil on the reality-side of things. Another Ophiel was deep down inside Veird, far to the south, at the gate space where Erick had planted Yggdrasil about 1500 kilometers below the south pole.

Ophiel was at the gate space in Benevolence where Yggdrasil sat in the real world at New Towry, at the far end of the Freelands, right before Archipelago Nergal.

Erick hummed as he checked the rest of Benevolence.

Mostly, there was nothing to see at all. Benevolence held a lot of small wildlife, most of it introduced here by Yggdrasil to take care of the flowers and the fruits and to form something of a peaceful ecosystem. There were bees, fishes, squirrels, birds, and not very many bugs at all. There were small spiders that mostly ate sap but that tried to eat every bug they could find when those bugs existed, which was pretty great. There were no people besides Kiri, Teressa, Aisha, and Poi, three of which were only here because Ophiel opened the way for them, and only because Kiri hadn’t gotten to that task first—

Erick watched as Ophiel opened a [Gate] somewhere far west of the gatespace at the Ar’Civ delta, at Quintlan, somewhere deep inside Death Throne and the undead Fractured Citadels. People rushed into that hole in the world, tumbling out of Elemental Death-filled streets, to fall, bleeding and heavily broken and practically dying, onto soft green grasses. Ophiel shut the [Gate] closed behind them, then stood over the dying adventurers and healed them a little, but not fully for some reason, happily announcing to them that they could stay as long as they wanted. If they wanted to leave all they had to do was jump off the edge of any surface and fall into the white of Benevolence.

Erick was fine with that action, actually, because those guys looked like they needed the help—

One of the freshly healed persons whipped a spell of Destruction and Fire at Ophiel and Ophiel exploded into body parts, scattering across the land.

Erick almost raged, but he calmed himself.

The adventurers were alone and panicking and Erick understood that but—

Erick calmed himself, because the Ophiel in the kitchen, with Quilatalap, suddenly split in two.

“Awww! Why’d they kill me?” The remade Ophiel complained, and then both of them asked Quilatalap at the same time, “Why’d they kill me!”

Quilatalap flipped a pancake, asking, “Who killed you?”

“Some adventurers he rescued from certain death in Death Throne,” Erick said, keeping his head cool as he walked into the conversation. He said to both Ophiel, “Please use your [Animadversion] when dealing with unknown people who freshly escaped death, and who were never sure of your intentions. You need to be more careful to take care of yourself… Though I am very glad to see you helping people, Ophiel. I am more glad that it appears you have suffered no lasting harm.” His soul looked the same as yesterday; ragged, like Erick’s. But he was healing. Erick was healing, too. Being inside Benevolence helped with that a lot. “Be sure to eat your soul balm palm, though. Okay?”

The remade Ophiel ran off, saying, “Okay, Dad!”

He had not summoned an [Animadversion] shield.

… Whatever.

The Ophiel eating breakfast stuffed a syrupy bite of pancake in his mouth, and spoke around his food, “hood ave use a hield; yef.”

“Don’t talk with your mouth full, Ophiel.”

Erick watched as every single Ophiel across the entirety of Benevolence, all 10 of them, rolled their eyes.

This made Kiri, Poi, Teressa, and Aisha, all a little weirded out, and in Aisha’s case, offended, because she had been asking about some smaller tangle in the new Benevolent Sky and Ophiel had told her about how it wasn’t a big deal and how ‘dad was taking care of it’, and he had rolled his eyes right as he said that.

Erick narrowed his eyes at Ophiel, and said, “I saw that miscommunication between you and Aisha. You’re going to be working together if you want to work at House Benevolence, so you shouldn’t let her get to thinking that you maligned her worries. Apologize to her and make yourself properly understood.”

“Bah! Dad… Do I have to apologize to her?”

“Either directly, or you can explain how you’re focused more on me and not so much on her, but that would show a weakness in your ability to multitask, which might be a fine misunderstanding to propagate for it’s always nicer for people to underestimate you, but actual misunderstandings between people should be kept to a minimum.” Erick said, “And Aisha is good people. She would see past your faux pas, and she already has, but you’re currently trying to interact with her as some sort of authority on the Benevolent Sky, so you’re harming your credibility.”

“… Oh. I did harm my credibility with her. Oh.” Ophiel stared off into the distance.

Erick watched as nearly 40 kilometers away, and in all the rest of Benevolence, every Ophiel focused more on his interaction with Aisha and Teressa, and to a lesser extent Kiri, off on another platform far from this main one.

The adventurers from Death Throne had already figured out where they were in the meantime. They were now thoroughly panicking at fucking up an interaction with the Apparent King. Served them right.

With a quick whip of power, Erick opened up a [Gate] in front of himself, into the real world, directly west of Spur. The desert extended in every direction except for the one clearly visible city right ahead, under the evening sun. With another cast of power, Erick opened up a [Gate] into Benevolence beyond that [Gate] leading to Spur, and whipped that [Gate] across the adventurers, dumping them out halfway across the world, directly onto the sands where the Farms of Spur used to be.

Two men and two women fell onto sands that were only a little black.

Erick allowed them a moment to see Erick, panic again, and then he shut all those [Gate]s.

Quilatalap slid a plate for Erick onto the table, smiling a little as he did so, before he went back to get his own plate, saying, “Ophiel is an enthusiastic young man with a whole lot of power and not the knowledge to use it, but he’s learning.”

“I am re-learning, Quilatalap,” Ophiel said. “So you wanna talk about the stuff we shouldn’t talk about now? And about how all of your ‘now’ is kinda my past? … I think.”

Erick sat down at the table. “Yes.”

Quilatalap was already seated and almost ready to start on his own breakfast, but he paused. He put down his fork.

“Okay!” announced Ophiel. “First thing to know is that Benevolence is now immune to Primal Lightning; that happened with my birth. Don’t let some simple immunity to a longstanding anti-memetic threat go to your head though, Dad, because Elemental Malevolence did not get created on accident; it was fully on purpose by a dragon named Nothanganathor, The Erased One, and he is still very much alive and hateful and still attacking Veird.

“Every day, Nothanganathor gorges on the death of Veird, over and over and over again. The God Pact escapes for… Reasons. I don’t know.

