Erick stared, his heart doing leaps in his chest as he almost told Ophiel to stop talking right now, but no Red Sparks crowded the moment. Even the Benevolent Sky seemed unchanged. Perhaps… Even clearer of Red Sparks than it had been before?

And that meant that they fell off the God Pact world—

Erick instinctively reached for his connection with Ophiel, to reach out into the world, but he felt a ragged hole in his soul instead. It was like punching a fist into an open wound. Erick mostly did not flinch as he rapidly reorganized his thoughts and his course of action.

He opened up a scattering of tiny [Gate]s to look out into the real world…

And everything was fine.

Erick breathed a sigh of relief. The world was there, and nothing was happening.

Ophiel watched him the whole time, saying nothing, waiting for him to be done. Quilatalap was suddenly concerned, too, but that concern passed when Erick’s own alert level dropped to nothing.

Erick could only guess why the Red Sparks hadn’t triggered—

“It’s because I’m not a vector for your infection anymore, Dad, and that makes you much, much harder for that other guy to see. You were already hard for him to see as Wizards often are, but now you’re practically lost in the aether of your own mana production,” Ophiel said, and then, as though the bomb he hadn’t dropped wasn’t already big enough, he dropped another, “And my memories are coming back even more. I’m rather sure I’m from the far future and you brought me back through some Establishment and Time Magics in order to…” Ophiel paused. “I’m not sure, actually. I’m sure it’ll come to me eventually! But that’s for later. We’re safe for now! Though Quilatalap probably can’t be told anything quite yet and he probably shouldn’t be allowed to leave Benevolence right now until we can make him immune, too. Now where is that pie! Is it at the house?

“I think I missed your cooking a lot, Quilatalap, which either means that you’re dead in the future, or we’re a family and this is like a homesickness-thing I am experiencing right now. At the very least, I have spent around 280 estimated years around you and Dad in [Hasted Shelter]s, so I still love you as a secondary father, even if you do not wish to be one— Oh! I need to see Solomon— Oh… He can’t come in yet. Maybe later… Anyway! I’m pretty sure that there was some backward-in-time propagation of my soul from the far future, [Return]-style, but I can’t quite remember everything… Eh! All that future-information will come to me eventually.

“Now where is that pie?!”

A moment passed.

“… Uh,” Erick said, rapidly coming to terms with the fact that his son was some sort of time-displaced person, and yet not quite that at all. But since the Sky was devoid of all Red Sparks, Erick rolled with it. They’d get to all that later. There were bigger problems to solve. Erick asked, “Where’s the pie, Quilatalap?”

Quilatalap looked from Erick to Ophiel, and then back to Erick, saying, “I believe the thing I love most about you is that I’m the ‘normal one’ in the relationship. It is a refreshing change.” And then he sternly looked at both of them, saying, “We’ll speak about this ‘immune’ thing later.”

Erick briefly panicked and then looked at the world through portals again.

They were safe… They were safe?

Erick closed the portals, asking Ophiel, “How?”

Ophiel shrugged. “I don’t know. Let’s get that pie— Oh! I know where you hid the pie!” And then he opened up a [Gate] to Quilatalap’s library in House Benevolence. “There it is!”

It was a perfectly made purpleberry pie with a golden, flaky crust and syrupy-purple vents, the entire edge crinkled with the heavy imprint of orcol fingers, which made sense since the whole thing was sized for an orcol, meaning it was practically as large as all of Ophiel’s entire new body. It sat on the kitchen counter of Quilatalap’s personal residence near the library, under a [Ward] of some sort.

Ophiel’s black wings shot out of his back and his eyebrows and a lot of the rest of him, shredding his shirt and his pants with what was either a high Strength, or the weakness of improperly-cast clothes, as he happily exclaimed, “PIE!”

He looked like how he used to look, but black, and with some pale human features under all those wings.

Ophiel reached through the [Gate] with a sudden ripping of magic, only to touch nothing at all. It was all an illusion. As the illusion dissolved it morphed into a sign that read, ‘No stealing, Ophiel.’

Ophiel was absolutely crushed.

He fell to the ground, a tumble of wings that turned back into a boy, bemoaning, “I have been betrayed.”

Quilatalap laughed loudly, saying, “The pie is past the first illusion.” To prove the point, he reached through the [Gate] with grey power, disrupting the illusion and bringing the real pie into [Benevolence]. “You’re going to wait until we can all sit down to have some together, though.”

Ophiel was right there for whatever Quilatalap wanted, saying, “Sir yes sir!”

Before Erick had the moment to think about Ophiel calling Quilatalap ‘sir’, Ophiel had already wrapped a hand around Erick’s arm, pulling him along with one hand as he grabbed Quilatalap's other hand with his other hand, pulling them both along to the house several tens of meters away, saying, “In the house! Time for pie!”

Erick happily allowed himself to be dragged along, savoring the moment. And then he glanced up at Quilatalap and saw Quilatalap looking strangely, wonderfully happy. That made everything better by at least a factor of 10.

They got to the house, Quilatalap divided the pie, and Ophiel tried devouring his slice of pie like he usually did (but not before complaining about not getting the whole thing to himself), but when the first bit of warm purple filling touched his tongue, he froze. His eyes went wide and the waterworks started. Great big happy tears fell as Ophiel ate his pie slowly, like a normal person, and yet savoring it like it was the best thing he had ever had, ever. Erick was content to watch for a long while, feeling… Quite good.

Saving the world was great and he would continue doing that, but there were reasons to save the world, and Erick had gained one more very good reason—

Ophiel looked left and right at the same time, and suddenly he was two people; one still sitting in his chair, the other flopping on the ground, wings suddenly appearing in surprise and ripping up his shirt again.

Perhaps clinically, Erick observed that this second Ophiel was clothed, which meant [Duplicate] had happened instinctively.

It was something to watch out for later, perhaps.

The two of them looked at each other, one of them with a blue iridescent sheen to their black coloring, the other slightly purple iridescent, like they were two crows of slightly different genetic predispositions. And then they moved a little, with the one on the floor standing up and his coloring turned black-iridescent-blue, while the original sitting down turned black-iridescent-purple, reversing their coloring.

Well that was going to get confusing.

Their souls were exactly the same, too, even according to Erick’s All-Seeing Eye. Both Ophiel looked like rainbow-black feathered beings mostly contained to the core… Which was shared between both of them, now. Somehow they had both gained a core, and both of their souls were the same.

Did Erick have two new sons now? Or was there something weirder happen—

They echoed each other, “Oh. That’s how that works.”

… Oh. They were the same person. For a brief moment, Erick was both glad and sad, for it would have been a wonderful difficulty to raise two boys, or however many they would become.

Probably 10.

So far, the Mortal Umbilicus seemed to have worked perfectly.

Erick asked, “How many of there are you going to be?”

Both Ophiel looked at Erick, saying, “Ten?”

Not a definite answer, then. That same-time response was kinda worrying, though.

“… Are you two [Hive Mind] connected right now?”

“I don’t think so,” echoed both of them. “Probably just… Something. [Telepathy] basic? I don’t know—”

“But I know I want pie,” said the first Ophiel, while the second looked over at the pie, saying, “Pie now; knowing later.”

And then they looked at each other. It was a confrontation without words or anything except a sudden, knowing look. Ophiel #1 was closer to the remaining purpleberry pie, and Ophiel #2 was suddenly very concerned with that fact—

Erick rapidly [Duplicate]ed Ophiel’s slice of pie, saying, “There! No problem at all!”

Both Ophiel looked at him. Then they fought over the original slice of pie while Quilatalap was laughing and Erick told himself that this was fine. Ophiel threw punches at Ophiel, and pie went everywhere. Quilatalap protected the pie remaining in the tin, so the boys fought over their slice even more.

The boys healed fast, and Erick eventually stopped the fight, but then another Ophiel appeared when Erick told the first two to clean up their mess or they weren’t getting another slice. This third Ophiel looked greener in his black iridescence than purple or blue, but then all three of them gained that third color to their black plumage and eyes and hair.

The first two went running to get away from dad, whooping and hollering as they rushed outside of the house to play under the Benevolent Sky.

The third one stayed to clean up the mess they had made.

Erick kept an eye on all of them with his normal mana sense, but since his range was infinite inside Benevolence Itself that wasn’t too difficult. Erick practically always enjoyed this level of observation of his surroundings in the real world, thanks to Ophiel and his expansive mana sense, but in a melancholy sort of way, Erick realized that time was over. Now, he would only be able to experience this phenomenon inside of Benevolence.

Soon enough, even Yggdrasil would be separating, though Erick almost never looked at the world through Yggdrasil’s eyes anyway so that part wasn’t changing too much. It just didn’t feel right invading his privacy like that—

Oh.

The Ophiel by the central lake had lingered for a moment, debating how to go swimming, exactly, causing an orange-tinted Ophiel to leap into the waters, diving deep, splashing a lot. Orange spread throughout the collective and the swimming Ophiel purposefully ripped his clothes apart and transformed his butt to gain a dragon’s paddling tail. He swam fast under the waters, and then leapt up and out.

He called out, “Dad! Come swimming!”

And then a different Ophiel, currently investigating a grove of soul balm palm trees, called out, “No! I want to play with trees and berries! Come make some yellow berries, dad!” He mumbled, “There should be yellow berries, right? Have I seen yellow berries before? … do bananas count?”

Another Ophiel playing on the jungle gyms called out, “I want to play flying!”

The Ophiel on the shore of the lake said, “You all are too focused on fun. We should work some.”

A bright teal-black Ophiel stepped out of the one by the shore, yelling at the other one, “We can’t do anything until red gets here so let’s go swimming.” And then shoved the other one into the water, laughing loud as he followed, ripping off his clothes midair and doing a great big cannonball splash.

A cyan Ophiel swam away from the first swimming Ophiel with a paddle-tail of his own, all striped in cyan and black, saying, “I’m going exploring waters. Fall off into the world somewhere, yes yes.”

And that’s when Erick moved fast, calling out to the entirety of Benevolence, “No escaping this land for now, please!”

A choral response came from all of them, “Come play with us!”

Erick rapidly grabbed Quilatalap’s arm, saying, “We’re going to play. Pick an activity.”

Quilatalap laughed and allowed himself to be dragged away. He chose swimming, and soon, to Erick’s chagrin, as he lounged in the waters of Benevolence, Ophiel began trying to outdo each other to either see how high of an unassisted high dive they could do, or they tried to swim out to Yggdrasil and bother him quite a lot with cries of ‘Look at what I can do!’. They got hurt here and there, but then Erick healed them, or they just ran away saying it wasn’t a bad injury at all.

They liked bothering Yggdrasil a lot.

Yggdrasil splashed them away, his great big tree roots doing a wave, like the entire world moving underfoot, but all this did was cause Ophiel to say ‘Again! Again!’ and to renew their calls for him to join them for a small swim. Eventually Yggdrasil relented and an orcol dropped out of the sky, splashing the waters away much more than his three-meter-tall body should have allowed.

Erick considered the surfboard.

An hour later, Erick was happy to announce that surfing with his sons was a lot of fun, especially when Yggdrasil easily controlled the entire mini-ocean around his floating body. Erick was absolutely sure that Ophiel took a few too many dives and sputtered up too much water, but Yggdrasil just shrugged.

Yggdrasil stood tall on his own surfboard, surfing next to his father, while all 9 Ophiel continually caught the next wave, managed to make it a few tens of meters, before they all rapidly faltered into the water, becoming tangles of wings and colors. Yggdrasil smiled at that, saying, “He’s young. He’ll learn.”

To which every Ophiel tried to reply, “I’m older than you!”

A few Ophiel ended up sucking down water because they tried to say that while they were underwater.

Yggdrasil yelled back, “Should be using gills anyway!”

Erick raised his eyebrows at Yggdrasil, silently saying, ‘Really?’

Yggdrasil just smiled wider. “I’m being 100% completely honest here. I’m not hampering their progress.”

“Not helping, either!” said the Ophiel that were currently above the water.

Quilatalap laughed to the side where he lounged on a conjured beach chair on one of Yggdrasil’s roots, high above the water, soaking up the warmth. He had swum for a little while but stopped once it became apparent that this was less about relaxation and more about the boys having fun exerting themselves.

And then three Ophiel peeled off, saying this was stupid! They wanted to go exploring more. To which Yggdrasil teased them about not being able to surf at all, and all of them came back.

Erick considered skiing.

Not too long later, Erick was his draconic self, with all his Ophiel and even Yggdrasil yelling out ‘Dragon Dad!’ as he towed them behind on skis like he was some sort of jet boat, swimming fast around Yggdrasil’s waters. Ophiel seemed better at skiing than he had been at surfing.

He even managed to figure out some coordinated skiing.

