“Speak his name outside of this space and you will draw his attention, so don’t do that, but you will be speaking his name eventually, so prepare for that. Benevolence was not created just to sit around and do nothing, after all. It was created to prevent all Sunderings, the Actual Sundering most of all, and, if the simple information Benevolence gathered and entrusted to others did not do enough to combat the big problems, then you enabled Benevolence to support itself to prevent those Sunderings; to devote more power to the cause. I’ll give you three guesses as to where that allowed power went and the first two don’t count!

“That power went to me, in case you have somehow lost the Sight to See, which you have not...

“… And I SUPPOSE that the power also went to Yggdrasil but he’s a doo-doo head for various reasons and not really real yet, so that’s that on that!

“Anyway! Benevolence is finally waking up, becoming able to protect against the original Sundering Source; the Dragon Who Could Not Ascend.” Ophiel said, “Also! You should hand off the Lightning Shield to Quilatalap to protect him and allow this conversation to not kill him later. You’re fully immune now, Dad, but if you share information with others, they are not immune, so don’t do that.

“You only got ONE PERSON you can make immune because there is only one Shield, and I didn’t want you to give it to anyone but Quilatalap, because you would have given it to Jane and that would have started a rift in that girl-plus-one-boy band, and we can’t have that. Plus there’s the fact that Quilatalap is not, and will never be immune, and if you don’t protect him, he will die, and that would have been simply awful, too. The most Quilatalap can do is protect himself and run but you can actually fight… somehow. Not sure… how...” Ophiel’s voice trailed off. He shrugged. “I think I had more of a speech than that but I kinda lost it there at the end. I’m sure it’ll come to me when it becomes relevant again, but whatever!”

Moments passed in silence.

Quilatalap stared hard and worried. Erick tried to be soft in his own stare, as he waited for more.

Nothing more came.

Ophiel went back to eating his food.

“… So that was a lot, Ophiel,” Erick eventually said.

“Mmm hmm!” Ophiel said, around another bite of pancake.

Quilatalap hummed like he wasn’t panicking, but he absolutely was panicking. Quilatalap did quiet panic rather well. Few things got to him, and he almost never raised his voice. Meeting Melemizargo in the flesh, the thought of his Pantheon-granted amnesty being taken away, and the battles with the Wizards of Anarchy and Blue, were among the only times Erick had ever seen him this worried. Perhaps this time took the cake, though, for Quilatalap Looked to Erick.

And then Quilatalap glared at the Shield on Erick’s arm.

“May I have that Shield, please? Since you no longer need it?” Quilatalap asked, in a rather serious sort of way that Erick didn’t want to dissect at the moment, or perhaps ever.

Erick handed over the Shield, trying his best to completely ignore how utterly serious Quilatalap was in that moment. The Shield left his arm like a spider crawling away in sparking fits that kinda hurt here. The floating thing soon disengaged and then floated onto Quilatalap’s arm, where it tested its new connection with a few white sparks—

Quilatalap breathed deep in temporary pain as Lightning lodged into his flesh and into his soul. And that was it. The Shield was his now. Quilatalap mentally moved the Shield to hover at his back.

And then Erick and Quilatalap both watched as a few faint Red Sparks zapped away under the Lightning’s touch—

“He’s been infected for a very, very long time,” Ophiel said, also watching the cleansing. He said to Quilatalap, “You’re gonna want to recast your phylacteries, Quilatalap. They’re infected, too. You’re not alone in your infection, though. All the orcols are not infected, but they are affected because of the ease at which Elemental Malevolence can trigger the Rage; Elemental Carnage. The two Elements are not the same, but Malevolence has been using Carnage for a long time to get what it wants. I think either the Red Leviathan hates elves a lot, or he was an elf, or… Okay. I lost the memory again… Oh! There was something about Carnage dragons being… I’m not sure.” Ophiel furrowed his brow, thinking.

“… So it’s called Elemental Malevolence, then,” Erick said, not sure how he felt about that.

“Yup! It was named first but you’re discovering it backwards. If that makes sense.” Ophiel waved his fork around, wishy-washy, saying, “I just got small information. Yggdrasil has big information.”

Erick squinted. “How is this happening?”

“I dun know,” Ophiel mumbled, looking ashamed.

Erick suddenly realized he was being way too hard on Ophiel. Erick softened. “The bad guy isn’t here and he won’t ever be here, and we’re safe for now, and I love you Ophiel. Thank you for coming into my life. I love you.”

Ophiel’s shoulders relaxed as if he had been holding up a huge weight and he had finally been allowed to let it go. Waterworks came next, and Ophiel rushed out of his chair and into Erick’s arms. Erick held him tight, and Ophiel spoke of how he knew he should have remembered more, but he just couldn’t.

Erick patted him, holding him strongly, saying, “It’s okay, Ophiel. You’ve done great. Now the grown-ups get to deal with this and you can stay here in Benevolence, safe and helpful to others outside of this space. I know Yggdrasil sometimes rescues people like you did today, and he does that well. I’m glad you’re doing the same.”

Ophiel bawled his eyes out for a while but he soon cried himself out, as all children do, and Erick set him into his bed, covered him up, and kissed his forehead.

Erick went back into the kitchen and looked to Quilatalap. “Most of that was new to me, but I’ve been wanting to tell you about what I did know for the past week. I fell off of this God Pact world twice, Quilatalap. Both times I met Primal Lightning. It’s right there, on the other side of this world, beyond the veil of possibility, constantly trying to eat us all. It’s what killed Debby, my daughter of the repros from Jane that you don’t remember; the Red took her from us completely, but Melemizargo was able to leave us with our memories and her soulless body. I’ve seen the Red kill Stratagold all the way down to their Vaults. I’ve seen it strip the oceans and the mountains away, killing Veird to get to me, as Sininindi stood on a spit of land holding it back and failing completely because all the world was dead already.”

Erick wanted to keep going, to really talk about it.

But he couldn’t. He was frightened of the Red Sparks turning back the clock again, or trying to kill him again.

But No Red Sparks invaded the world. No rollback occurred.

Quilatalap shuddered at the mention of that great evil, and at all the subsequent evils Erick divulged. Erick watched as the man went through a flashback and came out the other side of the moment looking haggard. Erick felt a deeper connection to Quilatalap in that moment than ever before.

With tired eyes, Quilatalap said, “That does sound like Primal Lightning.” The Lightning Shield flickered at Quilatalap’s back and The Archlich centered himself, before saying, “Talk to me, Erick.”

And Erick did.

- - - -

The first half hour was a shower of information, told quickly and covering broad topics, and then Erick went back to the beginning, at Quilatalap’s request, to start from the very first moment that Erick suspected there was an ‘anti-meme’. This led to talk of when they were just throwing out questions and spitballing answers, back at the slime dungeon. ‘Why does no one know what caused the Sundering?’, went straight into ‘well, if no one knows, then there must be a reason for that’, which led to the Mind Mage artifacts of mental protection and security, and how Debby put on one and only looked back a few times. Recognizing that the anti-meme was real only really came when Debby came to Erick in his office in the House to tell him that she was dropping out of the Sundering Search in order to find out something that she couldn’t talk about.

This led to Erick needing to explain Debby.

Quilatalap withheld his shock at there being a daughter of Erick’s that he did not know about.

“Do you want to talk about repro society a little, Erick?” Quilatalap said, “Because I kinda want to, now. Just as an aside before we get back to the big topic.” When Erick nodded, easily showing how he wanted to deal with less serious stuff for a moment, Quilatalap continued, “Good. I’m very glad you are making your family bigger with the repros. I’ve tried to do that with mine. I love seeing that for you, not only as a power base increase but as a social network of people who will truly understand you in a way that subordinates never can. Quil at the House Benevolence dungeon has become my brother, but that was more of an active decision of ours that took a while. I’m glad to see that you have naturally and also actively decided to name Solomon as a brother. Vanya and Soltic are probably more like friends to me, but I could see them being family eventually. Most of the repros I have made have become simple friends; people I can trust more than all others.” He added, “So I want your help to save them from this anti-meme. I want us to work on providing immunity to others. I want to end the threat of Primal Lightning forever, and rip apart the soul of the Red Leviathan that took everything from all of us.

“Every single person on Veird would want the same, if they could be allowed to know.”

He was being serious again, or maybe he never stopped. This time it was more hopeful and comforting than scary.

Erick smiled a little. “Of course I want to extend this immunity to others. It’s not a simple thing to do, though. Apparently we’re able to discuss this stuff here in Benevolence Itself, but that was not always the case. I should tell you about Oozy again, and about how that Lightning Shield actually came out of the Dark, and what happened afterward…”

When Erick was finished with his story, Quilatalap told him a completely different one.

“I remember you talking about how someone was turning back time back at the Breaking, and then you got the Shield and we left. You dropped me off at the slime dungeon, though, while you went on to do the ceremony with Sininindi. I wasn’t there for any of the things you saw. I never met with Tiza and I certainly never [Disintegrate]d her, though I cannot say that I never thought about doing exactly that now and then.”

Erick telepathically sent Quilatalap a packet, showing him annihilating Tiza.

Quilatalap breathed deeply as the imagery hit him and then he chuckled. “Ohh. That’s how I would do it, too. Kill and then bring her back, with her clothes disheveled. Sometimes I put their underwear on backwards, too.”

Erick laughed, even though it was bad to laugh over wielding that kind of power over people. Sometimes Erick just wanted to let loose, too.

Quilatalap smiled a little, then added, “Sorry to see that it started the Prophesied Storm.”

“Good news on that front! That Storm isn’t on the horizon anymore.”

Quilatalap smiled. “I saw that, too.” He glanced up, then looked back to Erick, saying, “We’ve probably got half an hour before they finish investigating the new Sky. Want to go meet them?”

“Not yet. They can come here.” Erick washed the air with Benevolence, erasing the conversation of the last hour, and then he continued to flow mana through the air, continually erasing their manasphere imprint, as Erick said, “I’d like to talk about cores, infinity, mana crystals that paradoxically exist along multiple grains, and whatever this New Cosmology mana-force-particle is or might be. The ‘reson’.”

Ophiel woke up in bed, calling out, “Don’t talk about that yet!”

“… Or not?” Erick said, furrowing his brow.

A few moments later a very sleepy Ophiel came out of his bedroom and went, wings wide and iridescent black, and arms open. “Hi, Daddy.”

Erick smiled and hugged his son, saying, “Hi, son. You didn’t sleep very long. Did you sleep well?”

Ophiel wrapped Erick in his wings, too. “Sleep is nice. I wasn’t tired though. Just mana exhausted.”

“You were? How so?”

“You used my future mana to pay for all my spellwork for the past many, many years.” Ophiel hugged him tighter, saying, “The Script gives some mana but it’s slow and my soul hurts. Stats are high but level is low. I have 10 Statuses, too, but I share my mana somehow, and Rozeta gave me a note about that oddity. Says she will have to have a talk with you later about that.”

Erick sighed a little. That explained… A lot. Erick hadn’t seen Ophiel using any casual magic at all, except in the barest of ways. Some ratty clothes creation here. Some species-Familiar-Form Perfected Polymorph there. Short flights. Swimming instead of flying around. Running and flapping wings and achieving temporary lift through pure force of Strength-adjusted wing power. This explained why he was falling down all the time when they were surfing yesterday. His soul was still tattered, too, and Erick saw now that all of those rough edges were not just from being violently born less than a day ago. If Rozeta had already given him a note about all that, then Ophiel’s soul was surely damaged more than it truly appeared.

It would heal, but it would take time. Being inside Benevolence would help, but the only real cure for a mana debt was to pay off that debt.

Erick apologized. “I’m sorry, Ophiel. You’re suffering from soul strain. I figured I was using your future mana for the last long time, but I didn’t truly know… And I couldn’t stop.”

“I know, Daddy. It’s fine. But I can’t help you like I used to, and that’s icky. Yggdrasil won’t suffer from this, but… I think I will. And for a loooooooooong time.” Ophiel looked up while still hugging tight, smiling as he said, “But [Gate] is cheap and I’ma gatemaster!”

Erick chuckled a little. “That’s great, Ophiel.”

“Only got 20 in Intelligence, though,” Ophiel mumbled against Erick’s side. “Most everything still costs too much.”

Ah. He had all of the New Stats, too. Erick hadn’t been sure about that, but yeah. That made sense.

Erick said, “Don’t go increasing Intelligence too much too fast. Paranoia is hard to come back from. And lean on your brother for help, both here in Benevolence and in the real world. I’m sure Yggdrasil will cast whatever you want.”

Ophiel pouted. “But he’ll be a butthead about it.”

