Erick wore a loincloth, the Shield hovering at his back, and the Melemizargo-ish All-Seeing Eye around his neck, as he stood out under the Benevolent Sky, atop a bare hexagonal stone. Two meters away another hexagonal stone had been raised from the ground, to serve as the center of the ritual. Ophiel rested on that pillar right now, along with the core that Erick had made for his specific use which would form the core of his new self.

Several stones away in every direction from that center pillar stood other stone pillars, each of them topped with stone obelisks. Each of those obelisks were carved up and down with wishes for a happy life, good fortune, a joyful childhood, and a bunch of other good luck words and phrases, all of them carved with different Elemental imbuements. Mostly Air, Benevolence, and Healing imbuements, as Air was Ophiel’s base Element, Benevolence was where he was going and was what would have a heavy influence in his life, and Healing was simply a general option that one did for general well-wishes.

The obelisks were made of airstone, specifically, which was the stone that had the most resonance with Elemental Air. It wasn’t air steel, which would have made this ritual truly strong, but strength in this ritual was not something Erick wished to employ.

If a Mortal Umbilicus ritual was too strong, then it would cause deep damage to both the creator and the created when the umbilical was cut. A weaker ritual was necessary here in order to let magic fill in some gaps in the creation of the new person, allowing for much healthier growth afterward. A tattered soul was easier to heal from than a soul which had had something directly removed from it because souls were not like bodies; they were ephemeral things made of thoughts and perspective and dreams. A dream which was partially forgotten could be more easily remembered than a dream which had been completely removed from a person.

Erick said to Ophiel, “Bring in the rest of your bodies, Ophiel, wherever they might be.”

Ophiel chirped, “Okay, Dad!”

[Gate]s opened up in the air, like tiny portals into other parts of the world, which is exactly what they were. Ophiel tumbled out of the ocean in one spot, rapidly catching the deep water that followed him through and dispersing that water to the side of the ritual space. Other Ophiels tumbled out of the freezing skies high above the Surface, bringing that chilly sky with them. One Ophiel escaped a children’s park where he had been watching the kids play, wanting to go play himself. Ophiel came in from the throne room of House Benevolence, leaving behind Kiri and Sunny as they dealt with the goings-on of the day, while another Ophiel came in from a monster hunt, where he was saving people from some sort of hydra—

“Finish that one, Ophiel. We can wait.”

All of Ophiel that had tumbled out of the various [Gate]s launched rapidly and with hard edges to their feathers as they whipped back through the portal with the hydra and the adventurers. Erick suspected that was happening somewhere down in Nergal, maybe… A hundred kilometers south of Eidolon? Erick wasn’t sure what Ophiel was doing down there at all, but if he was helping people, then Erick didn’t mind Ophiel’s forays into the world.

He did that sometimes.

… Erick was going to end up with a teenager when today was over, wasn’t he. Not a precocious little 8-year-old boy, but a teenager, testing boundaries and… Well. Erick wouldn’t be able to truly enforce any boundaries anymore, but… This was fine. Erick smiled as he watched Ophiel clean up the hydra mess and heal up the adventurers, and then come right back through the portal into Benevolence.

Ophiel was a good kid.

All of Erick’s kids were good kids.

And now, all 10 of Ophiel crowded the pillar and Ophiel’s prospective core, like ten little angels… Which were already fighting with each other and pushing each other off the pillar. A few Ophiel ended up on the ground, which was… What it was.

Erick breathed deep—

And every Ophiel stood at attention, waiting for whatever might come.

Erick began, “I love you, Ophiel, and to ensure that you are born correctly, we will be severing you from my soul today. It will be profoundly painful for both of us, but in the end, you’ll be able to eat all the purpleberry pie you want, but you’ll also get a stomach ache if you do that. That’s one small thing you’ll get to learn soon enough. Bodies are not all fun, but they’re pretty great in many different ways. I wish for you to find satisfaction in your new life, for you might separate from me now, but you will always be a part of me, and I will always be here for you. I love you, Ophiel.”

Ophiel chirped in chorus, “I love you, Dad!”

Erick breathed deep, again, and did a very little Wizardry,

“In Benevolence, Ophiel arise,

“In lightning realm, claim mortal guise

“A Familiar soul now transformed

“A boy now born, magic adorned.”

Erick tensed as his insides did a tumble, his soul moving in odd ways as parts reorganized and then shifted again. The stone obelisks shimmered. Quilatalap stood outside of the circle, waiting for the proper moment, his scissors in one hand. Lightning crackled across Erick’s skin—

The Mortal Umbilicus ritual was an unclassed sort of magic of a type that read a lot like the process of a cell undergoing mitosis, in order to split into two new cells. During mitosis, there was a reorganization of DNA in the cell in order to bring that long chain of information into an orderly system, and then copies of the DNA split off into two new cells, made from the stuff of the old cell. This particular ritual did that same sort of thing, but with a pair of twin cores, and not at all like a cell dividing.

It was like a fast-forward pregnancy, but entirely soul-based, with biology coming along later.

A bolt of soft white lightning connected Erick’s core to the core surrounded by Ophiel and ten out of the ten Ophiel winced hard, trilling in sudden hateful flute sounds. Erick’s Benevolent lightning connected from Ophiel’s core, to all 10 Ophiel, like a branching path finding its purpose—

A grand fulmination of Benevolence reached down from the sky and up from the ground, to reach through Erick, striking at his entire body, entering every toe and finger and his eyes, completely ignoring the Lightning Shield on Erick’s back, because this was Erick doing this, and the Lightning Shield was streaming Lightning through Erick just as much as the rest of the realm.

The Lightning of the Shield tingled compared to Benevolence Itself.

Erick did not scream as power tore at his body, shredding his stomach, casting blood into the Lightning as power and soul streamed into Ophiel. But Ophiel did scream, as all of Erick’s gathered Lightning blasted Ophiel into the sky, killing nine Ophiel and lifting a single remaining Ophiel and his core heavenward.

Erick was pretty sure that Quilatalap shielded himself with a sudden flash of grey Death—

And then Quilatalap was in the middle of the ritual, flying in the sky, directly between Erick and Ophiel, his black, Death-forged scissors held forward, ritualistically cutting a soul that had been portioned and stretched between Erick and Ophiel.

Black Death cleaved life from life.

Lightning shattered.

Almost all of the power of the moment recoiled back into Erick, snapping back and wrapping around him, then flowing into him where it would eventually settle down if everything had gone right. A much smaller portion snapped into Ophiel like a bridge cable stressed too much. Ophiel’s portion did not settle at all.

Tiny drops of Erick’s blood mixed, taken from him by the lightning, splashed onto Ophiel’s core, fresh red mixing with the dried red blood that was already there, from when Erick took that secondary core out from his stomach.

Power wrapped around Ophiel and his core, cocooning him—

And suddenly the ritual slowed. The moment of power was done. Erick’s core and soul were in shambles, both of them rocked with cracks and ragged spaces, but Quilatalap rested his free hand on Erick’s shoulder and a quick [Greater Treat Wounds] began to help alleviate some of the pain. Erick worked on accreting his core to heal the rest, fractures and shards gathering under his power to heal his core under a deluge of fresh, directed mana.

Ophiel’s cocoon was still there, though it was about a meter closer to the ground now. It was falling slowly, like a soap bubble, drifting a little this way, then a little that way—

A cool breeze drifted across the land, catching Ophiel’s weightless, airy cocoon, and gently depositing it in front of Erick, where it hovered, not touching the ground. Erick was already mana sensing Ophiel inside so his worries were minimal. All he felt was a deep, exhausted joy.

Quilatalap handed him a small cube of soul balm palm tree sugar.

Erick popped it into his mouth and swallowed the candy. It wasn’t good to swallow soul-healing items that were meant to be sucked on, for the flavor of them made up about half of the healing of the little candy, but Erick had lots saved up; there was no need to be frugal—

Ophiel’s cocoon popped suddenly.

Erick was already there with a cradle of Benevolence and a summoned blanket, to keep his son from falling to the ground or getting cold, as he took him into his arms.

He mostly looked like a 14-ish year old Erick, except with black-feather wings and the skeleton to support those wings, so he overflowed Erick’s arms quite a lot. He had solid bones, so he’d need to use magic to fly, but wings made flying with Air Magic a lot easier in certain ways. Black hair, black eyes, kinda skinny, but he looked healthy in all the ways a kid should look healthy. His soul was strong, yet tattered; exactly like Erick’s. His core was nestled right next to his heart, and though it was big for his body and took up a lot of space right now, he would grow into it.

“And there’s only one of you,” Erick said softly, as he held his son, a few tears falling. “You gonna wake up now?”

Ophiel winced, frowning, briefly opening his eyes and then shutting them again, before curling up against Erick, saying, “I don’t like this. Too much feeling. Everything feels a lot more than it used to feel… But…” Ophiel pulled away from Erick’s chest. “My thoughts are clearer. Oh. This is weird.”

Erick smiled, asking, “You want that pie Quilatalap made for you?”

Ophiel looked up and over at Quilatalap. “… Yes.”

And then he realized he really wanted that purpleberry pie and he flung himself out of Erick’s arms and into the open, spreading his wings wide and then almost tumbling from the tossed weight and unbalanced air pressures. He righted himself soon enough, holding his hands and his arms outward for balance, and then he flexed a little this way and that, feeling himself out. As Ophiel stood tall on his own two feet a wing flicked out, causing him to almost topple again, but Erick was right there to catch him before he fell.

Grinning wildly, Ophiel patted Erick’s arms and then hugged him again, and Erick fell into that same hug, as Ophiel mumbled, “Oh yes. I see the appeal of a hug now. This is nice. Yes. I think I remember this now.” And then he pushed Erick away, saying, “But I want pie!”

Erick chuckled from the sudden emotional whiplash—

And Ophiel commanded, “I want that pie now, Quilatalap! You promised me a pie and I want it!”

Ophiel tried to take a step toward the much, much larger man, his wings flipping backward in an almost instinctive-looking threat display, and he didn’t falter at all. He stood firm, like he had been standing firm for years and not bare moments, almost saying something else about something else... But then he looked down at his hands, and then at the rest of himself. A hand roamed.

Erick laughed then wrapped the blanket around him, saying, “Don’t do that sort of thing in public, Ophiel.”

Ophiel threw off the blanket, proudly standing in the light, saying, “We’re not in public! We’re inside Benevolence! And biology is weird! I have never had biology before… I think … But. Yes. I want clothes! Pretty clothes! With all the sparkly bits that you always have! Yes. Clothes please— I CAN MAKE THEM MYSELF NOW! Let me try...” Ophiel looked to the side and clothes popped into the air. “Yes!”

It was a voluminous robe with bells and bobs and sparkly bits everywhere. Half of those sparkly bits fell off of the robe almost instantly and the robe itself was in tatters, breaking apart into bits of mana. Ophiel tsked, mumbling, “That is harder than I remember it being.”

Erick wiped away a tear from his eyes, smiling as he helpfully added, “Sparkly bits are difficult. Maybe try something smaller for now?”

Ophiel triumphantly nodded. “Maybe sparkly bits are not needed!”

And then he cast again, and this time he ended up with a tunic and brown pants.

Erick quietly inquired, “Want some help putting them on—”

“Nope! I can wear clothes! I have seen you put them on all the time!” Ophiel plucked his pants off of the ground and pulled them on, one leg at a time. They were backwards, though. Ophiel rapidly noticed this, and took them back off before putting them back on. “There! Pants!”

Erick had never been more proud of Ophiel than in that moment. “Pants are good. Do you want some help with your wings and your tunic?”

Ophiel’s black feathered wings shot out and up, and Ophiel jerked at the sudden counteracting motion of his wings pushing him forward a half a meter. He exclaimed, “What! Oh. Wings. Yes.”

Ophiel narrowed his eyes at his wings. In a rapid moment, Ophiel polymorphed his body, his wings vanishing into his back, and he rapidly put on his big tunic without the need for making wing-holes in the tunic or anything like that.

“Ah! Good job Ophiel.”

“Thanks, Dad!”

Erick asked, “You must have Perfected Body and Perfected Polymorph?”

“… I’m not sure?”

Quilatalap was already nodding a little bit in agreement with Erick.

“It doesn’t matter right now!” Ophiel waved off the concern… And then he looked at his hand, as he waved off the concern. Black eyes wide, he smiled, saying, “That’s what it feels like to be dismissive! Oh! That’s fun!”

Erick was about to say something—

But Ophiel rapidly said to Erick, “You and I have much to speak about, Dad, for I have been around for a very long time, watching everything, learning everything I could. And I have learned a lot. Primarily, and of great importance for what comes next, I have gained an immunity to the thing we’re not supposed to talk about. I imagine when Yggdrasil is instantiated he’ll gain the same immunity.”

