“You are my personal guards, and will function as such until required for something else.” Ren said.

“Yes, My Lord.” The skeleton knights said together with identical voices.

“Can you tell me how many of you there are?” Ren asked.

The skeleton knights looked at each other and then back at Ren. “Two.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm sorry, I meant to ask how many Lost Knights there are.”

“There are 8 more, My Lord.”

“And you still can't tell me where the others are.”

“We do not know, My Lord.”

“Well, we'll just have to scour the place until we find your comrades.” Ren said. He took out a sword and enchanted it with Antiearth runes, and gave it to the second skeleton knight. “Right after we eat.”

“Yes, My Lord.”

Ren built one large rectangular table for everyone with chairs to match. “Please, sit.” He said to the succubi, and none of them moved. “Why are you waiting?”

“We need to see where you're sitting.” One of them said, and Ren pointed to the spot on the end. A fight broke out immediately, and Ren tried not to laugh. Teepo had no problem with that, though.

“You're just going to let them fight over who gets to sit next to you?” Teepo chittered in laughter.

I could tell them to stop, but that wouldn't get me anywhere. Ren said and smiled. The first rule of discipline is to never give an order you know won't be followed.

The fight was over surprisingly quickly, and the dishevelled succubi sat at the spots the fight had earned them; 10 on one side, 10 on the other. Surprisingly, it was Seldanna, one of the first ones he had met, and Miastina, the one he had healed when she crashed into the tower, that were the two that would be sitting beside him. Seldanna was on the left with Wynphine on her left, and Miastina was on the right with Zunala beside her.

That is not who I would have thought would win. Ren smiled at the succubi and put a plate of food in front of each of them. He sat down last and took out a plate for himself.

“Hold hands, please.” Ren said and they did so, and he held Seldanna and Miastina's hands to complete the circle. “Thank you Mother Earth for providing us with such bounty, and for keeping us warm within your embrace.” Ren said, and he felt surprise from the succubi. “Please accept this offering.” He said and poured 5,000 Mana out of his hands and a feeling of contentment. It made the circuit back to him, and he felt the offering being accepted graciously.

“Wh-what was that?!?” One of the succubi asked, as the gracious feeling gave her goosebumps.

“A small thank you.” Ren said and smiled. “Let's eat!”
