“Thanks…but I didn’t understand the first few times we talked that he was…I think he was waiting for someone to tell him they believed in him, Cly. I’m afraid everybody else in his life just wants him not to be a problem for them. For years, this smart, sweet little boy was starving for someone to expect something good from him. That’s what I think. His parents must have told him he could be good…but then…they… ”

“Hannah, Hannah, don’t!” Cly hopped off the balance toy and grabbed her friend in a hug. They both crashed to the ground below, clumsy but unharmed.

“Sorry. Really sorry. I’m just going to cry all of a sudden, I guess.”

“I see that! Stop. Or don’t stop. There’s a napkin in my bag.”

“Just let me be a mess. I’m fine. But Alden…I think his parents must have been good people who told him he should try hard to be a good person, too. His mother went through the training to work in a House of Healing, so she had to be so dedicated. And his father was a man who spent his time writing sermons. And those are the people who shaped him, and then they died, and he was hurt, and the new grown-ups in his life only ever asked him to work on not being hurt anymore, on not needing them…like him functioning was their maximum expectation.”

She took a breath. “Then he called me that day. I didn’t know what to do other than superhero smile through our first interactions, so of course he thinks I’m much cooler than I really am.”

“I hope so.” Cly forced the napkin she’d found into Hannah’s hand. “It’d be sad if he picked a role model he didn’t think was cool.”

“But what happens after the dream falls apart on him?”

Both women were quiet for a minute. Cly brushed sand off of her leggings.

“Honestly…I think you’ve handled this right. There’s so much broken with the kid’s situation that it can’t feel good to you. You’re not his family. He lives on the other side of the planet. There’s no way to fix it, and it’s not your place to do more than you already have.

“If you’re right about him looking up to Super Hannah because she’s the only person telling him she wants greatness from him…then he’s just taking something every kid needs from you. Don’t cut him off. Who cares if it’s not realistic, and he’s got a little case of hero worship? Childhood dreams usually change with a person, don’t they?”

Hannah sighed. “Yeah.”

“You’ve got this problem…I might have mentioned it to you a few million times…with taking too much responsibility for every single thing you touch. Alden Thorn is not going to base his whole life on the few hours you two spend together. He’s going to hold onto what you give him, maybe for a long time if you’re really the only person giving him anything worthwhile, but you won’t be the only influence on him forever. Eventually, he’s going to meet people he admires who aren’t you. Things we can’t imagine right now are going to happen to him. All of them good because if ever a person was due, he is.”

“That’s the truth,” said Hannah.

“What I’m telling you is that who he becomes isn’t on you or about you. He’s just standing on your shoulders for a while so that you can show him a view better than the one he’s getting at home. He’ll climb down when he’s done looking around. And then, one way or another, he’ll grow up.”

******

end clip

******

******

Getting an F-rank invited to all the best “hops” of the season wasn’t as easy as Alden had hoped.

Hinting didn’t work because the people asking him to stop by their soirees pretended not to hear the hints. And outright asking if the person handing him an envelope would give his dear, amazing paint-unchipper friend one, too, resulted in some very rabbitish escapes by old Avowed who were used to saying, “Not a chance!” in ways that almost sounded flattering.

“Okay,” said Emilija after the last one like that. <<No more. It’s too embarrassing for both of us. I don’t think most of them would even talk to me if I wasn’t standing right next to you.>>

They were sipping apple cider and eating curried carrot tartlets by a window styled to look like a huge porthole. Nautilus Needle’s famously visible helix shielding didn’t obscure the view, but it did give off an ethereal gleam every few seconds.

[Their parties must suck anyway if they’re just picking attendees based on rank,] he texted her.

<<They don’t suck,>> she replied. <<The place this one is being held in has a zero gravity room.>>

She reached over to tap the black envelope Alden had just received. <<I wanted to play in a zero gravity room even if I would be the least interesting person there because it’s a zero gravity room.>>

“Fair enough.”

<<But I don’t want to beg. That’s too much.>>

“Fair enough.”

Another invitation-bearer was approaching.

<<Give up on me,>> said Emilija. <<I’ll go get more cider.>>

She headed toward the cider table, where a man was demonstrating unusual ingredient prep skills.

The woman who caught Alden next had hair the color of milk, arranged to show off a contract tattoo that spilled down one side of her neck. She asked if he spoke Mandarin, and when he said no, they exchanged pleasantries in Artonan before she told him about the party she would be hosting next weekend. She had gotten one of the wizards at Matadero to agree to come and instruct her guests in the playing of an obscure board game.

“That sounds like it would be fun,” said Alden. “But to be honest, I’m not sure what my schedule is. You should give your invitation to someone who knows they can attend.”

“Keep it anyway,” she told him, pushing the envelope into his hands. “Come if you can. It would delight Poa-loo. And if you can’t make it, it’s only one seat.”

An idea flickered then. “If I can’t make it, can I give my invitation to a friend?” he asked. “A Rabbit friend. So it’s not wasted.”

“Of course!”

Half a minute after she left, he ran into a man handing out invitations to a private concert and had a very similar interaction.

All right…this could work.

“Emilija, these two are going to be for you,” he said when he rejoined her near the cider table. “They said I could give mine to you if I don’t have time to attend…and I have almost no free time.”

<<Really?>> she asked. <<They said it was fine to give your own away?>>

“They both did. And it wasn’t embarrassing at all. Easy-peasy.”

She looked curiously at the envelopes, her lips turning up slowly.

“This one is learning board games with a wizard named Poa-loo,” said Alden “Do you want to meet a wizard named Poa-loo?”

“Yes,” she said. <<I do.>>

Alden smiled at her. “Am I forgiven for stealing your turkey now?”

<<Not quite. But I might stop writing crazy bird insults on your Trime.>>

“Please don’t. They’re the only thing I actually enjoy seeing there. You should be my social media manager.”

<<You post nothing. What would I manage?>>

“All the people who comment on the fact that I post nothing. And my emails. I’ve got more than a thousand I still haven’t read.”

She laughed.

“If you think I’m kidding about the number, I’m not.”

<<Why do you have so many?>>

“I became an Avowed after being orphaned by an Avowed, and then I died. People were into it. And then I un-died. They were really into that.”

<<I would sort your inbox for you if you wanted me to.>>

“You would?”

She shrugged. <<It sounds interesting.>>

By the time Natalie arrived half an hour later, Alden had refined his method and found the best possible location for invitation collecting. It was a seat everyone wanted because it was right beside the most important Rabbit in a vast and elegant room full of important Rabbits. Not the High Councilor elected to represent their class—although she’d stopped by to say hello—but Neha, who’d left some wizard on Artona I unassisted tonight. She hadn’t missed this event once in the thirty-four years it had been running, and she was in the mood to watch tomorrow morning’s sunrise on Earth.

She had a fresh undercut and a custom enchanted headband that gave her rabbit ears made of light. They responded to her mood with motion. They were gold to match her wraparound shirt, and they’d twitched forward with interest when she’d spotted Alden.

She’d sent the girl beside her scooting away down the low leather built-in sofa that lined one of the walls of The Verne and patted the vacated seat. Alden had taken it, and he’d been there with Emilija ever since, growing his stack of envelopes.

The music was swingy. People were having a good time. Whenever a glass broke or a drink spilled, magic swept clean a floor that was mottled with light to make it look like they were all enjoying one another’s company underwater.

At Natalie’s entrance, Neha’s ears twitched forward again, and Natalie rushed over.

“Neha! I’ve missed you!”

“I’ve missed you, too,” said Neha. “And I’m afraid I have bad news for you.”

She swept a hand toward Alden, who lifted his pile of invitations from the space between him and Emilija, pretending to strain under their weight.“So…heavy…can’t hold them any longer.”

He gasped and dropped them onto his lap, slumping backward.

Emilija picked up a gray one and fanned him with it.

“I understand there was a private contest going on,” said Neha.

“How did you get so many so fast?!” Natalie exclaimed.

“Superior strategy,” said Alden. “And whenever I can’t attend one, my email organizer person shall go in my stead. Which means almost every single one of these is for…” He patted Emilija’s shoulder.

<<I am the email organizer person.>>

“It’s always satisfying to see young people leaving the Welcome with their first job lined up,” said Neha, ears wiggling with what Alden thought must be amusement.

Natalie was beaming like she was excited, but making sounds like she was distressed.

“Look at this one,” said Alden, holding up a red envelope. “This is where Emilija is having breakfast tomorrow.”

Natalie’s eyes latched onto the invitation. “The Holly Jolly Bunny Bruncheon! Where is the person with those?”

Neha pointed across the room, and Natalie took off. Not a single golden hair was out of place despite her hurry.

<<I’ll go get her some cider and carry her bag so she can work faster,>> said Emilija. <<Thanks, Alden.>>

He watched them go. Hadiza arrived a minute later and the trio mingled through the room like they’d been born for it.

“You know everyone is saving invites for the S-ranks, don’t you?” said Neha. “She’ll get just as many as you.”

“I know. But the competition was to see who could get the most for Emilija. And after meeting these people, I don’t think anyone is going to give her an extra invitation. So I win.”

“I hope you enjoy your free Cook of the Moment food.”

“I will.”

She studied him for a while. “You’re looking good.”

“It’s because Gus took me to Needle & Wheedle, and I gave them so much money.”

“I did notice that. The clothes are subtly excellent. But I meant you, the person inside them, who has earned those invitations after one hell of a year.”

“Oh, that guy,” said Alden. “I’m kind of punchy right now because I’m tired. But…I’m doing better.”

“Finding friends at hero school?” she asked.

“Yes,” Alden answered. “And in other places.”

******
