“Mahria does not wish to leave,” Halgrave countered, looking at Ameliah as he continued, giving her a tiny nod. “She trusts them, as do I, to a point.” He looked back at Velika. “As should you.”

After a long, angry silence, Velika’s eyes pivoted back to Ameliah’s. “We’re not done.” She released her, but not without an angry shove.

Clenching her jaw, Ameliah forced herself to remain silent as the fallen Citizen left.

Her view was blocked as Halgrave stepped in front of her, his feet still not touching the ice. “That is a bad habit of yours.”

“What is?” Ameliah asked, fighting the jittery tension Rain attributed to a chemical called adrenaline.

Halgrave snorted. “You know what I mean. I seem to recall you speaking to me like that, once or twice.”

“You deserved it,” Ameliah said flatly.

“Immaterial,” Halgrave said. “As they say in Xiugaaraa, you court death, except in that stupid language of theirs.”

Ameliah sighed, then inclined her head, acknowledging the point. “You’re probably right. I just can’t let her push us around, especially when she’s being so...” She stopped herself, making a strangling gesture with her fingers instead before dropping her arms with a sigh. “Thank you.”

Halgrave humphed. “It is in all of our best interests for her to remain calm. You should learn from your husband’s example. Bite your tongue and let the moron have her tiny victories.”

Ameliah smiled, though not at Halgrave’s advice. “My husband?”

“Rain,” Halgrave clarified. “Is he not? Mahria said the two of you are inseparable.”

Ameliah chuckled. “That’s true enough, but it’s complicated. He gets hung up on titles, and I...well. Yeah. Complicated.”

Halgrave snorted. “It does not seem complicated to me, but then, I am not one you should seek for marital advice.” He held up a hand. “Regardless, you have a larger problem to concern yourself with. Bringing the Watch here is dangerous. At best, you are only going to lose your ship.”

“Rain knows what he’s doing,” Ameliah said. “Temerity won’t be secret much longer, no matter what we do. Too many people know, and we’re not about to go around silencing them. Being upfront with the Watch is our best option for keeping it. If they ask questions we don’t want to answer, we’ll just say as much.”

“Right,” Halgrave said, clearly unconvinced. “To be clear, do not expect me to save you from this mess, politically or otherwise. Whether the Citizens try to take V from you or whether the Watch tries to take this ship, it is your problem. I do not care what happens as long as you keep my daughter out of it. Do we understand each other?”

Ameliah nodded curtly. “We do.”

“Good,” Halgrave said, adjusting his hammer against his shoulder. “Then, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to bed. I want to be well-rested for when this all blows up in your faces.”

He turned to depart, and Ameliah let him go, closing her eyes and exhaling slowly.

I need a vacation.

Loading the barge and crossing the harbor took longer than expected. By the time the eight rowers had managed to paddle the bulky vessel out to Temerity, the sun was already beginning to brighten the horizon. Rain, meanwhile, had passed beyond tired and into the realm of the living dead.

“Just bring it up to the side, Lord Rain?” Caneb, the owner of the barge, asked.

“Not a lord,” he said exhaustedly, though he perked up as he saw a flicker of movement. An armored form detached itself from the iceberg ahead, soaring toward them in a graceful arc. “Heads up. Nobody freak out.”

“What— Ah!” Caneb shouted, stumbling back as Ameliah dropped down beside him, her boots thudding heavily against the barge’s wooden planks. The rowers likewise reacted with curses and gasps of surprise.

“I said don’t freak out,” Rain said, but he was smiling as he stepped forward. He wrapped Ameliah in a hug, bathing himself in the comforting warmth of her soul. “Hi.”

“Hi,” Ameliah said, squeezing back. “Sorry, I landed a little harder than I intended.”

“It’s alright, my lady,” Caneb said. “You just startled us, is all.”

“Not a lady,” Ameliah said, making Rain grin.

He reluctantly released her after giving her another tiny squeeze, the air feeling just a bit colder as he stepped away. He gestured to the barge owner. “This is Caneb. He was kind enough to let us hire his barge despite the hour. Can you tell him where to...dock? Make land? Make ice? You know what I mean.”

Ameliah waved a hand. “Just pull alongside anywhere. Someone will throw you a rope.” She turned to look at Sana, the final occupant of the barge. The officer was standing beside Caneb in her woolly coat, cradling a sleeping Dozer in her arms and looking extremely awkward under Ameliah’s gaze.

Rain hurriedly stepped forward to introduce her. “Ameliah, this is Officer Sana.”

Sana bowed sharply. “It’s a pleasure to...uh...” She struggled, muttering something too low for Rain to hear, then straightened. “Sorry. It’s a pleasure to meet you. You have a very beautiful soul.”

Rain blinked. Right. Of course she can see.

“Do I?” Ameliah asked, amusement in her voice. She waved to someone over Rain’s head, and Rain looked to see Jamus wave back, sitting beside Carten in the metal rowboat tied behind them. It was cramped back there, thanks to the cage holding a very plump and very angry Fatbird.

“What’s that about?” Ameliah asked, returning her attention to Rain. “Dinner?”

Rain chuckled. “No, that’s for Ujesh. I felt bad that we still haven’t found him something, and the Guild was willing to sell it, so...” He shrugged. “Fin might be interested too, maybe. I wouldn’t want to morph into a rotund chicken, but I don’t judge. It’s not as strong as the red ones, but it should do for a start. Let them use their skills, at least.”

“I suppose,” Ameliah said. “Wasn’t it expensive, though?”

Rain gestured toward Dozer, still held in Sana’s arms. “Surprisingly, no, and apart from that, Dozer managed forty Tel today. On top of what I brought with me, I had enough for everything we needed.”

Ameliah fixed him with a flat look, plain despite her visor. “You let people see your money slime?”

“Not by choice,” Rain said. “I was haggling, and he just—” He raised his hands, spreading his fingers quickly and making a popping sound with his lips.

“Of course,” Ameliah said with a note of amusement. She looked again at Sana, still clutching the slime to her chest, then back to Rain. “You realize people are going to try to steal him from you now, don’t you?”

“I would never...” Sana began, sounding horrified.

“Not you, obviously,” Ameliah said. She gestured vaguely. “People. Guilders. Assholes.”

“Oh, right,” Sana said, sounding embarrassed as she squeezed Dozer like a stress pillow.

Rain cleared his throat. “How did the vote go?”

Ameliah shrugged. “It was close, but she can come aboard.” She fixed Sana with a cold stare. “Provided that she agrees to a few restrictions.” Her voice was surprisingly harsh as she continued. “You aren’t to speak to anyone other than me, Rain, and a few others you’ll meet in the morning. No questions until then, and no snooping. If you learn something you shouldn’t, you might have to stay with us for a long, long time.”

“Ameliah, come on!” Rain said. “You can’t just say that.”

“Custodian?” Sana asked, concern in her voice as she took a step closer to him.

“I have nothing against you, personally,” Ameliah said, though her tone remained hard. “Rain trusts you, and that’s enough for me, but Ascension can’t trust the Watch as a whole. Not with everything that we know. We’d like to, but we can’t. The restrictions are for your own protection as much as ours. Know that we mean you no harm, but we won’t let you take what’s ours.”

Sana swallowed heavily, then stepped forward. “True.” She glanced at Rain, then back at Ameliah. “Okay. I agree to the restrictions.”

“Thank you, Sana,” Rain said earnestly. “I really think this is the best way forward, given the urgency of the situation. We’re not forcing you, though. If you want to go back to shore, we won’t stop you.”

“I’m coming aboard,” Sana interrupted firmly, stepping forward. Her confidence was clearly a mask, though. If Dozer had had bones, they’d have been powder by now. As it was, the slime was still firmly asleep, nothing but tired contentedness flowing through the link.

“Good,” Ameliah said with a nod. She spread her arms wide, then beckoned. “Come on, then. I’ll take you both over.”

“Thank you,” Rain said, quickly moving to embrace Ameliah, her comforting warmth again pressing back the chill. “And thanks again for the ride, Caneb.”

“You’re welcome, my lord,” Caneb said. “For what you paid, you won’t hear me complaining.”

“Not a lord,” Rain said again. He could feel Ameliah’s laughter, and while he was still tired to the bone from sleep deprivation and constant stress, the complaints of his body hardly seemed important with her beside him.

“Coming?” Ameliah asked, beckoning to Sana, who had frozen in place.

Rain turned to better look at the officer, then raised an eyebrow. Is she...blushing?

“I, uh...” Sana stammered. “I wouldn’t want to come between... Your souls are so...and...I...um. I could just climb a rope, or...”

“What—” Rain began, but before he could properly phrase his question, an urgent voice called down from above.

“Rain!”

“What?” Rain called back, looking up at Samson, who was pointing out over the water. Following his finger, Rain saw the DKE frigate in the predawn light. It was moving despite the lack of wind, riding a gentle swell as it bore straight down upon them.

Filth.
