The battle for Pan Si Xing had been going on for the better part of an hour, but Song had yet to draw her new weapon.

There were valid reasons of course, chief of which was so she could keep an eye on Junior Martial Brother Fung to ensure he didn’t spend the entire campaign wallowing in self-pity, indulging in drink, or generally shirking his duties as he was so wont to do. Truth be told, Song wasn’t entirely sure why Mama took this silk-pants of a lecher as her Disciple, though she suspected it had something to do with Teacher Du turning him down only to snatch Yan away instead. Knowing Mama’s competitive nature, it was entirely possible she had intended to train Junior Martial Brother Fung into a Warrior to match or even surpass Yan as a way of showing Teacher Du she could nurture a young Talent too, but if so, then Mama made a poor choice of student.

At first glance, Junior Brother Fung seemed a promising prospect, a young talent blessed with the physique, intelligence, and general aptitude required to stand out from his peers. The issue lay in his work ethic, of which he had none whatsoever. If given the choice, he would spend his mornings in bed, his afternoons reading and writing poetry, and his evenings drinking in the company of women, then repeat it all the next day. The fact that he won the Society Contests after Sister Mila and the others were chased out was a testament to Fung’s natural genius, because Song doubted her Junior Martial Brother had ever willingly subjected himself to a full day’s worth of hard work.

Hence why Song was here watching over him, instead of fighting alongside her comrades in Rain’s retinue. Before the battle began, she already told him she and her many guards would only step in if he could no longer stand on his own, a decision she now regretted. Even though Fung had made something of a name for himself in recent years, she truly believed that most of his reputation was based on a carefully crafted facade, but he was doing better than expected. When he first arrived in Nan Ping for the Imperial Grand Conference, he made a big show of only accepting one random duel each day, then defeated his opponents so soundly that it made it seem as if he found fighting duels without reason beneath him. It helped that he fought Ryo Geom-Chi to a draw on his first day there, and later on, he proved his strength once again by fighting the traitor Mitsue Hideo and helping Da’in and Seoyoon rescue their brother from the Defiled clutches. All this meant that despite his aggravating personality, lackadaisical nature, and general laziness, Junior Martial Brother Fung actually rated quite highly in the eyes of the common people. Not quite at the forefront of the generation, but surely among the strongest of his peers, an assessment that more than anything showed why no one should ever trust public opinion.

The plain truth of the matter was that Fung lacked stamina. Not surprising for a man who spent his days lazing about and his nights indulging in lust, which was why he avoided long and drawn out fights until now. Hence Song’s decision to stand idly by while he fought again and again, not because she wasn’t concerned with his health, but because she hoped that this would be enough to show her Junior Martial Brother the error of his ways and convince him to work harder from here on out. Though he claimed to dislike war and fighting in general, she knew that if he truly didn’t want to be a part of the Western campaign, he would’ve found some way out long before Rain’s ships set sail in the first place. Say what you will about Song’s Junior Martial Brother, but if he set his mind to something, then not even Mama possessed the ability to sway him.

A characteristic he put to good use here, fighting in the streets of Pan Si Xing without complaint. It was a striking sight to behold, a young Warrior in silken robes driving back the Defiled alongside his soldiers. With spear in hand, he seemed all but unstoppable as he waded through the Enemy lines, clearing aside all who stood before him with a single sweep of his weapon. It would be more interesting if his enemies were more impressive however, because thus far, he’d only really come across chaff and fodder. With so much chaos breaking out all around the City, it was clear Bai Qi was still scrambling to regain control of his forces, especially the auxiliaries who behaved like traditional Defiled. Since the battle began, an endless stream of half-naked lunatics had come screaming down the streets, throwing themselves piecemeal upon the swords and spears of Fung’s retinue for no real reason other than to do battle. Their skills generally varied from passable to near non-existent, though there were a few standout Champions that Fung had to personally deal with, like the foe he was contending with now.

The Champion slipped aside from Fung’s thrust and blocked the ensuing strike before rushing forward to close the distance, only to come face to face with the butt of Fung’s spear. A simple, standard exchange that barely ruffled Song’s Junior Martial Brother’s robes, which somehow remained clean and spotless despite all the blood, sweat, sand, and ash swirling about. Yet another question Mama could not or would not answer, where Junior Martial Brother Fung got his Runic Robes from, because as far as Song knew, even Tyrant OuYang Yuhuan, the number one Runic Craftsman of the North, was unable to embed runes onto silk. Not that it mattered, for Song counted herself lucky to still fit into the Runic Breastplate Rain won off of Zian all those years back, and was hardly greedy for more. She was just curious about her strange Junior Martial Brother who was just so full of contradictions. A brilliant Martial genius who loathed war and conflict. A cad and lecher of a man who was also a poignant poet capable of lifting the hearts of anyone who heard his lyrical verses. A lazy, undisciplined silk-pants of a slacker, yet loyal and trustworthy to a fault, for he held many a secret that he could easily use to his advantage.

In short, Song was having difficulty deciding if she liked her Junior Martial Brother as a person.

Chest heaving and brow slick with sweat, Fung fell back from the fighting for the third time today and struggled to catch his breath. He lasted less than a handful of minutes this time, his body drained and stamina spent almost as soon as the battle was underway, but at least he wasn’t one to let pride blind himself to his limits. Seeing how quickly he emptied his water skin, Song refrained from pointing out he was supposed to conserve his water or chastising him for wasting the mouthful dribbling down his chin. Here in the West, water was more precious than gold and silver combined, but she handed him her water skin nonetheless because that was what a Senior Martial Sister was supposed to do. Luckily, the soldiers all had plenty of water since the mines had access to the aquifer underneath the city, though Song was curious how a reserve of water trapped underground could continue to supply a city for so many centuries. Truth be told, she wasn’t entirely sure how anyone survived here in the inhospitable Western Province, though she had heard tales of beautiful, verdant oases scattered about the desert and more tolerable living environments once you moved closer to the ocean coastline. Perhaps she would see more of the West someday as Rain’s crusade to retake the province unfolded, but the gruelling desert climate and conditions had thus far failed to win her over.

Even the bone-chilling cold of the North was better than the sweltering heat of the West, for Song couldn’t remember the last time she’d felt comfortable. Between the slick sweat, coarse sand, and blinding sun, she was exhausted from simply standing around doing nothing, so she sympathized wholeheartedly with her pitiful Junior Martial Brother who’d been fighting for some time now. “Would you like me to step in?” She asked through Sending, hoping to spare his pride in front of his soldiers, but he flashed her a look of such poignant disdain she wondered if he’d somehow misheard her. His contempt wasn’t enough to get him to speak however, as he simply shook his head and handed back her water skin, which she indicated he could keep it as she knew exactly where his mouth had been and would sooner share a bowl with Aurie. The manservant was quick to relieve his master of his burdens, and not for the first time, Song turned her mind to the third mystery surrounding her Junior Martial Brother. Why would someone as strong as Fu Zhu Li would be willing to lower himself to serve a mere silk-pants of a young Magistrate? Even Mama didn’t know, or if she did, she wouldn’t share, saying only that the half-weasel could be trusted to carry out his duties and keep his ward safe, no more, no less.

So very many questions, but in truth, Song really only wanted the answer to one. “Why do you favour the spear so much, when you are clearly superior with the sword?”

“I’ve already mastered the sword,” came Fung’s glib reply, and Song resisted the urge to smack the smug grin off his face. Mastered the sword, hmph. Even the Sword King Ryo Dae Jung would not have made such a claim, yet Fung dared joke about attaining mastery with his lacking skills? “The real answer?” Heaving a heavy sigh as if burdened by the weight of the world, he dabbed the sweat from his brow and said, “I enjoy the aesthetics. Everyone expects a handsome and refined gentleman and scholar such as myself to wield a one-handed longsword or jian, to the point where it feels too conformist to go into battle with sword in hand. The spear is a weapon for soldiers, and so long as I am fighting a war, then a soldier is what I am.”

Song only had to think about it for all of a second before replying, “You’re lying. You favour the spear in duels as well unless matched against a superior foe.”

“Can’t slip anything past you, Senior Martial Sister.” Flashing a devilish grin that she hadn’t seen from him in some months now, Fung said, “Truth is, I enjoy seeing the look on my opponent’s faces when I smack them in the face with my long, girthy polearm, since again, one would hardly expect a gentleman such as myself to possess so fearsome a weapon.”

There was more to Fung’s statement than the words themselves, some sort of wordplay Song was missing, which she only realized because Sister Tursinai knuckled Fung’s head in reproach. “Mind your tongue in front of your Senior Martial Sister,” the older woman huffed, only to quail before the glare of her stoic and intimidating Mentor, the half-gazelle Sentinel Yaruq. That wasn’t enough to still the plucky woman’s tongue however as she rubbed Fung’s forehead in unspoken apology. “You’ll have to answer to your Mentor if sweet Li-Li is led astray by your wicked ways.”

“There will come a day,” Yaruq began, and it was telling how Tursinai shot to attention alongside Tenjin beside her, “When you pay the price for your foolish antics. Perhaps it will be today, or seventy years from today, but that day will come to pass unless you correct your ways. When it does, only know that there is no cure for regret, but I fear this is a lesson you will not learn until you make the mistake yourself.”

“Sorry Mentor.”

Never before had Song seen the rambunctious, free-spirited woman so subdued, but Yaruq was not yet finished. “Do not apologize to me, child. Save them for the people who will die because you lack focus. Save them for the families of the comrades you left behind because you were too distracted to save them. You have so much talent child, but it has made you arrogant beyond belief, so I only hope the Heavens are kinder to you than they were to me.”

Cold and aloof as Yaruq might seem, Song knew the formidable woman was still mourning the death of her husband Khagati, who fell in Sinuji a little over a year ago. It felt like a lifetime had passed since Song stood guard over the sleeping Rain as the reinforcements arrived to relieve the fortress from the Enemy Army knocking at its gates. Though victory was theirs, it’d come at no small price, and Khagati was but one life among many lost in that fateful battle. Song couldn’t even imagine losing a friend of sixty or seventy years, much less a lover and husband, but it was clear Yaruq was still reeling from the loss. The poor woman reminded Song of Mama without all the warm and happy parts, a cold, unyielding authoritarian who demanded only the best and nothing less, but to big sister Tursinai, that clearly wasn’t the case. Sidling over to clasp her Mentor’s hand, she rested her head on the lithe, statuesque woman’s shoulder even as she was chided for ‘showing weakness’ and ‘lowering her guard in battle’, though Song noticed Yaruq made no move to pull away.

