Driving her sword clean through a Defiled calf in passing, she left her blade embedded in her foe’s flesh as she stepped past, then carved a path clean through their leg, hip, and torso as she executed an overhand slash at her next target. Oriole Raises the Winds, but executed in a manner she’d never practised before. A simple tap of the sabre was all she dealt, like snapping a folding fan shut for dramatic effect, her blade hacking a third of the way through her opponent’s skull before sliding out with ease, though she’d initially intended to cleave the Defiled in twain. She hadn’t because efficiency was the key here, a fact her body realized even if her mind had yet to catch on. Though she had stamina aplenty and could fight for much longer than Fung, there were far more Defiled than Imperials in Pan Si Xing even if you counted all the slaves, which was why she reined in her glee and switched to more restrained and deliberate attacks.

There was plenty of killing still yet to be done, and plenty of dying to boot.

The slaves. Oh how her heart ached with grief at the thought of those poor souls, and she wasn’t sure which ones to pity more; the ones who died fighting in hopes of freedom, or the ones who would survive only to learn the soldiers did not intend to escort them away to safety. The plan was to help the Imperial citizens escape, but once they were out of the city, they would have to survive on their own, for Brother Baatar’s army would need to make a quick departure if they hoped to evade pursuit and return to Meng Sha alive. Pan Si Xing was deep in Enemy territory, and even if Mama’s assault on Tian Zangli had gone perfectly to plan, she would still not be in any position to come support Brother Baatar, whose army lacked the manpower needed to scour Pan Si Xing clean of the Defiled invaders.

At least the slaves would die free. Not much of a consolation, but Song remembered how often she dreamed of doing just that all those years ago.

There was a rhythm to the fighting that Song soon fell into, one she didn’t even notice until the cadence had already taken root in her body and mind. The stomping boots, clashing weapons, yelling combatants, and whinnying horses, all of it came together in a way she could not describe. Battles were always chaos and anarchy, and this one even more so without formations to maintain or lines to stand in, yet there was an order to the disorder that Song could just barely perceive, a logical progression she didn’t so much follow as was drawn along by. Two Defiled approached from opposite directions, both having independently fixated on her as their target. The ‘correct’ choice would be to engage the closer one on her right, yet she moved to kill the foe on her left first. As she did, a horse barrelled through the empty space she’d just vacated, passing less than an arm’s length away as the rider dispatched her other foe while remaining wholly unaware of her presence. A pleasant surprise, but upon reflection, not actually a surprise. The horse’s head had blocked Song from the rider’s view, but she’d moved to avoid them even before she registered the sound of the hoof-beats behind her, a mystery she had no time to ponder the implications as she moved on to her next foe.

Once might be a coincidence, but then it happened immediately again as Song twirled to intercept a previously unseen Wraith emerging from Concealment. With its black dagger raised to plunge into her back, it was caught wholly unprepared as her sabre cleaved through its waist from hip to hip in a spray of foul blood. How she knew it was there, she couldn’t say, the same way she didn’t know how she knew she could no longer afford to conserve her strength. Moving to the rhythm of the flow, she pushed past the still standing legs of her bisected foe and dove forward into a roll. Steel hissed behind her as it cut through empty air, and she pivoted about as she landed to deliver a slash to the Wraith’s ankles. Pouncing over her toppling foe, she darted through two more Wraiths on either side who thought they were converging upon a helpless target, a notion she disabused them of as she brought her sabre back along the same course and carved through the ribs of the right Wraith, and the ribs of the left.

From start to finish, her movements made no logical sense whatsoever. She moved forward, then turned around to dive in the other direction before reversing her momentum once again, a confusing progression that left her foes unable to predict her next move, yet Song had done it so naturally it felt as if it were the only logical course of action in the world. What’s more, she had trouble discerning which Movements from which Forms she’d used in the process, because she simply did whatever felt right. This was it, the strength that came from mastery of the Forms Da’in had mentioned, the ability to dominate your foes through sheer skill alone. Her enhanced perception was still a mystery, but Song was not one to look a gift horse in the mouth as she whirled to meet her next foe. Putting the full weight and momentum of her body behind the attack, she delivered a diagonal slash to cleave her target from shoulder to hip -

Only to rebound off what felt like a solid mountain of steel.

Reeling to recover from the recoil, Song backpedalled away as her opponent came into focus. Dark pools of midnight oil stared out from behind a metallic mask of blackness, and Song marvelled at how the Half-Demon’s rage and fury could be so palpable despite its complete and utter lack of expression. The spear that blocked her sabre shifted, and Song twisted about, trusting her instincts more than her eyes to avoid a blow she could not track. The thrust drove the air from her lungs as it glanced off her Runic Armour, but she consoled herself with the knowledge that it would have pierced her throat if she hadn’t moved. Giving herself over to the momentum as she sailed through the air, her stomach dropped as she noticed her foe was still hot in pursuit, dashing forward spear first to finish the job. The Half-Demon still had yet to blink, which she found fiercely intimidating, but as the daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Song would not allow herself to back down.

As the Half-Demon drew close, she lashed out with her sabre in a wild attack aimed at knocking the spear aside, which it easily avoided by drawing its weapon back. This was only expected as she was still hurtling through the air and limited in speed and power, which was why her foot was already waiting in place when the Half-Demon tried to lower its spear again. The angle wasn’t quite right, but she pushed off the haft anyways, using it as a foothold to flip up and around in mid-air. Had she tried this without pushing off her foe, it would have caught up and killed her before she landed, but it was still a close call as things stood. Rather than attempting to match its strength or arrest its charge, Song landed lightly and immediately dropped into a crouch. Then, she turned her shoulder and bounced back onto her feet, twisting about as the Half-Demon crashed into her and using her shoulder to guide its body overhead. A shoulder throw, yet another unrecognizable Movement she’d never utilized in this manner, but it felt right in the moment and worked wonders as the Half-Demon sailed head over heels over her. The impact still left her shaken, bruised, and reeling in pain, but most importantly, it left her alive.

This was Domain. It had to be, or at least the beginnings of one. She sensed what was happening around her without having to see them, for she was intrinsically linked to the area around her. Rain called it Spiritual Sense, but Song believed this sensation was merely part and parcel of Domain. Then again, maybe Spiritual Sense was the next step up, extending that extra perception beyond one’s Domain, but regardless of the details, she knew she stood on the cusp of success. Staggering forward as the spear hammered home against her hip, she used the momentum to turn and face her foe while dodging yet another follow up in the process. The Half-Demon was already back on its feet and more furious than ever, but Song danced to the beat of her own music to stand firm before a flurry of blows. A sweep dodged, a thrust parried, a charge side-stepped altogether, she continued to avoid death by the skin of her teeth while bringing the Half-Demon about on a merry chase. In the moment, it felt like it lasted for an eternity, but in reality, it couldn’t have been more than a few seconds and a dozen exchanges, ones that left her mentally, physically, and emotionally exhausted.

Then, just as Song feared she could no longer keep this up, Yaruq’s nine-sectioned staff slammed down into the Half-Demon with a hollow ring and splattered it across the sands, its deformed, pulped remains a most welcome sight to be sure. “You did well to stay alive,” the half-gazelle said, so calm and collected despite her ragged, bloodstained leathers telling the tale of a rough and hard-won engagement. “With a few more years, perhaps it will be you guarding my foolish Disciple, rather than the other way around.”

“I still have a long way to go before catching up to Big Sister Tursinai.”

“This will not do.” Song was only being honest, but Yaruq responded with muted pique and indignity. “Big Sister Tursinai? Is that what the brat asked you to call her? No, no, no. As Baatar’s younger sister, it would be more appropriate for you to call me ‘Big Sister’, which means Tursinai only warrants ‘Little Niece’ at best.” Though delivered in an utterly genuine and deadpan manner, there was a glimmer in Yaruq’s eye that clued Song in to the joke, while simultaneously warning her against ever calling the formidable woman ‘Big Sister’. “Come,” Yaruq continued, gesturing Song over to her side. “The Enemy has placed great value on your head, more than I expected. Stay close, and they will not touch another hair on your head.”

Though gratified by her concern, Song hesitated briefly before replying, “I am close to a breakthrough, and so I would ask that you allow me to keep fighting.”

Tilting her head in wordless question, Yaruq’s lips quirked ever so slightly in a way that Song believed meant she was hiding a smile. “As you were then. I will step in only to save your life, and not a moment before.”

Which was exactly what Song wanted. Giving herself over to the rhythm of war, she set herself back upon her Path towards understanding Domain Development and felt herself drawing closer and closer with each passing step. Failure or success was not important any longer, because at the very least, she was making progress, which, by any measure, made today a good day.

Chapter Meme
