A touching moment on the battlefield, one that made Song miss Mama and Papa both. If everything had gone according to plan, they should have razed Tian Zangli to the ground last night and be well on their way to another target, but even though she knew how strong Mama was and been told Papa was not too far behind, no one was ever truly safe on the battlefield. Doubly so when their target was to lure out the fearsome half-Demon Mataram Patriarch, a man who killed the Sword King Ryo Dae Jung in single combat. What’s more, Papa had seemed out of sorts before they parted ways, so proactive about spending time together and maudlin when it came time to go, though she assumed it was because Sister Mila stole Papa’s glory and crafted Song’s new weapon herself. Normally, Papa would have been proud as a peacock to watch Sister Mila work, but he spent his days with Song trying to convince her to allow him to craft her a second Spiritual Weapon as well. She turned him down because she wasn’t confident she could bind a new weapon so quickly, much less two, but now she wondered if Papa had other reasons for wanting to craft her a weapon besides the obvious.

She would ask him when she saw him again, just to be sure. Perhaps she missed out on some father-daughter bonding experience that Papa wanted to share.

“Half-Demons to the south-east.” The statement set everyone’s head to turning towards where Yaruq was staring, her cold, piercing gaze promising pain and death aplenty. “Major Chu XinYue requires our assistance.”

Quickly patting Fung on the head, Song said, “Be careful little Junior Martial Brother. I will return as soon as possible.” In response, her Junior Martial Brother pouted while his manservant glowered, which Tursinai said was because Fung valued face, but he would still appreciate the gesture. Song had long since determined this to be one of Tursinai’s pranks, but even if it irked him, Song rather enjoyed patting Fung’s head since it made her feel like more of a Senior Martial Sister than anything else. Besides, he never tried to dodge and simply accepted the pat with poor grace, so it’s possible he truly appreciated the attention. Though unlearned in the ways of amorous affection, Song knew that Fung, like Yaruq, was mourning a lost love, even though the object of his desire still lived yet. While they had yet to formalize any arrangement beforehand, it was clear Fung had intended to take Ryo Seoyoon as his wife, but the frosty firebrand of a young girl was now engaged to Yong-Jin. Not a turn of events anyone expected, and Song was hurt and offended by how easily the Ryo’s betrayed them. She’d only just warmed up to little Seoyoon and it was difficult to dislike a Warrior as charming and talented as Da’in, but the Ryo family had chosen to side with Commander General Shuai Jiao and cut all ties with Rain’s allies in the process.

These were matters for the likes of Luo-Luo and Rain to worry about however, so Song turned her mind back to more pertinent matters, like surviving the coming clash. Doing her best not to move as Tusinai and Yaruq grabbed one arm each, Song fought to keep her eyes open as they Cloud-Stepped her over the buildings and off to another conflict, but the sand, smoke, and sun rendered her good as blind. Blinking to get the tears and detritus out of her eyes, she found firm ground beneath her feet once again and chaos all around her. Metal screeched and horses screamed as Major XinYue’s cavalry fended off their Half-Demon foes, but despite vastly outnumbering their Enemy, Song could see things were not going well for the Imperials. The Major himself was trading blows with one Half-Demon, driving his hammer again and again to smash his unholy foe, but mounted and stationary as he was, he lacked the raw strength to crush his foe. The same scene more or less repeated itself wherever a Half-Demon appeared, while crazed, reckless Defiled swarmed in from all sides. These ones wore the titular human-skin face-coverings favoured by the West’s historical adversaries, but to Song’s horror, she noted that they lacked the greyish, inhuman complexion that denoted them as outsiders to the Empire. Instead, these Defiled bore the beige, honeyed tones of Western citizens one and all, meaning they’d most likely been Defiled for less than three years in total.

Disheartening to see these once loyal citizens turn against the Mother’s light, but Song did not fault them for their weakness. They were only human, and it was the Warriors of the Empire who failed these poor souls, failed to shelter them from trials and tribulations they were in no way, shape, or form equipped to deal with. If Rain were awake, then perhaps some of them could be saved, but Song could offer them not salvation or absolution, only the cold comfort of a quick death and an end to all their suffering.

Condensing her Aura to emanate courage and determination in counter to any terror or despair the Half-Demons might throw out, Song took her stance and rested her hand upon her hilt. Even after binding her new Spiritual Weapon and practising with it for the better part of a week, the weapon always felt wrong in her hand at first. The new hilt was longer and wider than on her old weapon, a necessary change for the sake of balance, but an unfamiliar one that always threw her off. Only for the briefest of moments, less than the time it took to blink an eye, but a moment nonetheless, which could one day prove to be the difference between life and death. Then, everything fell into place as she drew her new sabre from its sheath, and it felt as if she’d been born with this weapon in hand, every bit a part of her as her fingers, knees, and toes. The blade sang as it cut through the air and cleaved her target through the neck, not far enough to decapitate the Defiled, but enough to kill him where he stood.

Tiger Swipes the Rushes, but a measured strike, for precision was key because her foe had his spear cocked and ready to plunge through the chest of an Imperial horseman. That’s why Song targeted him first, leaving herself open to the Defiled Warrior currently charging her from the left with a wild look in his eyes. Instead of following through with her strike, she loosened her grip on the weapon, slid her hand up to the haft, and reversed her momentum to strike at her charging foe with a wild, forehand strike. Bear’s Standing Fury, a move she would never have tried with her old sabre because it was too light to effectively bash with.

Not that this weapon was all that much heavier, weighing less than a half-kilogram more in total, but it was more a matter of leverage. Her old weapon was a slim, straight backed, curved bladed, single-edge saber that could not be considered long or short, a weapon forged by a master of his craft who focused on speed and agility above all else. Such was Teacher Du’s style, and he made up for his weapon’s lacking heft with his powerful physique and deadly Wind Blades. In contrast, Song compensated for the weapon’s lacking power with quick-draw and two-handed strikes, but overall, she was sorely limited in terms of raw, physical strength. Her new weapon had changed that, as it was heavier and denser with a longer, thicker hilt more suited for Song’s current physique, unlike her old hilt which had been made with a younger Li Song in mind. While she’d not grown much in size since, that wasn’t the same as not growing at all, not to mention how she was physically stronger now than ever before. Thanks to Sister Mila’s careful attention to detail, Song’s new weapon had taken everything into account to offer her the best speed, strength, and control possible.

At first glance, Song’s new sabre looked almost identical to her old one, with the most noticeable addition of a slight curve to the back edge in order to match the front. That suited her perfectly, for it was like seeing an old friend after many years apart. The greatest changes in her weapon were not visible to the eye however, the most significant one for her being the distribution of weight. Her new weapon was point heavy as opposed to hilt heavy, meaning its centre of balance was further from the pommel than one would expect. Most of the weight was in the hawk-billed point, an almost rounded tip that ended in a sharp, backwards hook like the upper beak of a bird of prey. This made it less than ideal for thrusting with pinpoint accuracy, but optimal at carving through flesh and steel since the curved tip offered less resistance than a pointed one. What’s more, by shifting the point of balance more to the tip of the sabre, this forced her to adjust her grip to sit further up the thicker hilt most of the time, which in turn enabled her to hit even harder than before while utilizing the same amount of strength.

Sister Mila mentioned all of this at one point or another, and it sounded nice and all, but the only thing Song really knew was that her new weapon offered her the ability to utilize more power without affecting her control. In fact, the longer hilt offered her even more control as it meant she could easily change up the angle and speed of her attacks by simply moving her hands higher or lower up on the grip. High on the grip offered her the most control, low, the most power, and with two hands, she possessed the best of both worlds and could utilize a near countless number of grip combinations to keep her opponents thinking.

Releasing her scabbard, Song took her new sabre in both hands and set off with the steely determination to explore her new limits and how far she could push them. Her weapon was one crafted with her skills in mind, a custom-made Spiritual Sabre meant for Song and Song alone, so how could she bear to not display its full potential? Moving to meet her next foe, she feinted an overhead slash and drew back for a thrust instead. Gripping the Turtle into Darting Fang, her thrust caught the Defiled clean through the heart and surprised even her, for he was dead before she retracted her blade and raised it to block an attack that would never come. In retrospect, she could have killed her foe with the forward slash after all, as the tribesman would not have been able to block it, but it was better to overestimate her foes than underestimate them. Withdrawing her sabre with a twirl and a flourish, she danced aside to avoid a riderless horse and cut down the Defiled who’d spooked the poor creature with an effortless Gliding Wing. Beautiful creatures, horses, but too anxious and fearful for her tastes, especially for a beast of battle. Give her a quin any day of the week, for Song would much rather have a mount that fought alongside her than fought against her while engaged with the Enemy, like many of the horses were doing here and now. Granted, the beasts had good reason to be spooked with all the blood, ashes, and Aura swirling about, not to mention how sweet Erdene wasn’t one for fighting, which was why Song left the quin in the mine shafts outside the city proper.

A decision she mildly regretted as she picked her way through her mounted allies on foot, as their towering figures blocked her lines of sight and made it difficult to see more than a few paces in any direction. It also didn’t help that she couldn’t stand shoulder to shoulder or back to back with any of her allies, which left her feeling open and vulnerable to say the least. The only thing she could do was keep moving to avoid getting bogged down and surrounded, for Yaruq, Tursinai, Tenjin, and the others were all busy fending off the Half-Demons. Formidable foes, these humans clad in Demonic armour, though their strength seemed to vary greatly just like any regular Demon. It wasn’t their raw strength that made them so dangerous though, but rather the combination of a human’s cunning and a Demon’s durability. Generally, a Demon way of thinking was more akin to a beast than an actual Warrior, so now these Half-Demons, like Song’s new sabre, enjoyed the best of both worlds and had proven themselves a force to be reckoned with even without their non-standard Auras.

Aside from countering their Emotional Aura however, Song had no place battling a Half-Demon, as she could barely hold her own against a regular Demon and stood no chance of winning even if she could. Domain Development continued to elude her, and none of Rain’s redacted notes that Mama shared had been of any use. Never one to give up without even trying, Song set her mind to exploring this next milestone even as she cut a swathe through the Defiled in the streets of Pan Si Xing. In Rain’s notes, he described a Martial Warrior’s Domain as an area of authority in which said Martial Warrior’s Chi would remain Chi instead of turning back into the Energy of the Heavens. That was the ‘what’, but there was little to be gleaned in the way of ‘how’, though for once, it wasn’t Rain’s fault. Mama had taken it upon herself to remove a large portion of Rain’s notes regarding Domain Development because he went about it in an atypical manner, which was less than helpful for anyone reading his notes, but this sort of sharing was new to them all and Mama was still adjusting.

