He was no different from the other Legends. His own vitality raged against reality. But it burned on a deeper level. It infused every bit of him, turning somewhere deep inside, somewhere beyond the reach of the System. His was a selfish soul—an enclosed soul. This outline that represented him, the faint silhouette that left distortions on the world, the only thing giving away his presence right now, was like a wrapping—a layering that prevented his vitality and soul-stuff from overlapping with Integration. Shiv could feel that separation, could feel a shroud protecting him. Only when he used his magic or tried to interact with something in the world, be it an object or person, would he truly manifest. With that, the blade that glinted at his core would grow brighter, and it would start tearing into the System's flesh. It would bleed the world of vitality. It would paint him, revealing his new scab-like shape while in his Severed Shadow form.

If he had to describe himself in detail, he was a near-transparent phantom that only held color and presence when painted by a trailing mist of blood. His Vitae was soft, calcifying only when he willed it to. At his chest, the vertical partition grew brighter and deeper when he drew on his powers. If he wanted to surface fully, he could. At any time, he could rise into reality. At any time, he could cleave deeper into the flesh of the world. He could cut his weight out from his sanctuary beyond context and rejoin everyone else.

At present, however, he kept to his silence for a moment longer and observed everyone. Right now, he thought himself a sheathed blade rather than a drawn one. He wasn't ripping through the System, through anyone's flesh, or anyone's soul.

But this wasn't his only form. He could still resurrect. He could still create a physical body for himself, something he was more used to using. Then he would be a two-in-one Pathbearer. He would have two vessels he could control, and things would become overwhelming. But he would still be himself. There was no separation between the bodies in his mind. It was just more of a burden to handle.

“Alright, you might not be getting anywhere with my Shadow, Valor, but maybe you should take a look at my physical body. The skill changed my material form too. I'm gonna start resurrecting now.”

“Wait,” Valor called out. “Do it in your unsheathed state. Solidify first. I wish to observe every part of the process in the clearest detail possible.”

That gave Shiv pause. “You sure?”

“Shit, kid, I was going to ask the same question,” Jessica added, tilting her head to glare up at the looming Pathbearer beside her. “You sure he won’t end up cutting our souls in half or something, lich?”

“Probably not,” Valor answered.

“Probably?” Jessica snapped.

Valor looked down and smiled slightly. “Hopefully?” he offered.

“That’s even worse than probably, you felling shit!” Jessica hissed.

“I have faith in Shiv. And if things go wrong, I’m sure he will feel bad. He is a kind boy. Somewhere. If he is not experiencing a euphoric battle rage or undergoing some other mental crisis. Those moments are more common than you might think.”

“You—”

Valor waved at Shiv, ignoring Jessica’s building outrage. “Shiv. You can proceed. I am ready.”

“What about me, asshole?” Jessica spat.

“You need not stay,” Valor replied. “If you wish to leave, no one will blame you.”

The Giantsbane went silent. She pointed a finger up in Valor’s face. “If anything goes wrong, I’m going to add your skull as an accessory to Rusty’s hilt.”

“The prospect of this aesthetic displeases me,” Rusty grumbled.

Ignoring Jessica and her sword, Shiv heeded his mentor’s command and readied himself. “Maybe it's best for you guys to keep your distance. I think I can control my cutting aura, but just in case...”

Valor and Jessica took a single step back, and then another. Then Jessica moved Rusty in front of her, holding the blade high and expanding it in width until it blocked both of them from Shiv’s sight.

“You may proceed, Pathbearer Shiv.”

Shiv thought he detected a hint of nervousness within Rusty's voice. And there, at the blade's core, he saw faint mist filling Rusty’s emotions. Shiv guessed the Legendary blade wasn't confident in his own ability to parry Shiv's new cutting aura.

He resolved to keep himself well under control, not only for the sake and sanctity of his new kitchen, but also for those around him. Before he started, he looked over his shoulder and called out, “Five, grab Candles and go hide behind Jessica. Don't want to rip you guys apart either.”

“Oh, now you show your concern for me,” Five said, his long and thin snout wrinkling as he stared at a wire extending from a broken claw, not even looking up at Shiv. “I would have greatly appreciated this while I was stuck on the pole.”

“Five,” Shiv grunted, his voice dropping low.

“Yes, imbecile,” the Aviary agent muttered, his breath light with sarcastic agreeableness. He theatrically cleared his throat. “Ahem. I, of course, meant to say whatever you say, Lord Deathless.”

Despite the complaining, Five did as Shiv asked. He slipped his hands into a pair of gloves he produced from his black robe and dragged Candles away by the neck, who started muttering about how the next time would be “brighter and burnier.” As they vanished behind Rusty as well, Shiv fully materialized, beginning his resurrection process.

Once more, Shiv tried to form a golem. Half of his vitality was sacrificed in an instant. The pale blade at his core flared bright, while the vital mana that hardened into scabs and became the plates of his spiritual body burned along the edges, creating a crimson corona. Everything around him was drowned in that vivacious, animated red. The blade that parted the center of Shiv grew brighter and whiter. This time, he realized it wasn't the vitality that his new body stepped free from, but rather than the blade itself. The blade was like a pathway. Not only an instrument to cut, but also a tunnel. A thing that carved an open chasm for something to emerge from his soul into the world beyond.

The resurrection came to an end as his new body stumbled free. Immediately, he felt the cold floor beneath his soles. A slight breeze ran along his skin like tracing fingertips, and there was a scent of death nearby: residue left over from the orc corpses. Shiv's sensory load was doubled. He found himself piloting two different bodies at once. And it proved a gargantuan task. Thankfully, he could decide which form he focused on. He moved his Severed Shadow back and allowed it to return to a sheathed, Revenant state. The redness of vitality faded, its solidified form turned vaporous, and then all color bled away. Finally, it was only an outline.

Without that faint shape of a transparent knife resting at his chest, without that faintest of glows, that glint of white, Shiv wouldn't even be able to tell that his Severed Shadow was waving right behind him.

Comparatively, his flesh-and-blood body remained as it was before, yet some of the changes were evident. His Shapeless Tides remained black and white, devoid of magical Resistance. He could still cultivate more overflow vectors, but the striped lines that circulated around him were barren of any as well. All his magical fields remained tethered to his Shadow. It was like he had one body dedicated to physical and unattuned skills, while another had been turned into an engine dedicated toward spellcasting and magic.

But that's not actually accurate, is it? Shiv thought to himself. He turned his physical body and had his Severed Shadow solidify once more. He faced himself, stared himself down from two varying perspectives. From his physical eyes, he beheld his Severed Shadow. It possessed every single skill he had, physical or not. It had Shapeless Tides dancing across its body too. It glinted red gold along its exterior, revealing its possession of the Pillar of Orichalcum. When his Severed Shadow was fully unsheathed, it was Shiv at the peak of his power. When he allowed it to fade and become a Revenant—

“Oh, shit!” Shiv cried out in realization. “I could use my magic while I was a Revenant. You can probably do the same thing when you go back to being a silhouette, huh?”

It struck Shiv then that he was talking to himself, literally. For anyone else, this would be a moment of psychosis. For him, it was just another day in his weird, skill-evolving life. The Severed Shadow pointed at Shiv with both hands. He pointed back.

“Nice knife, Deathless,” Shiv said aloud via his physical form. He was talking about the literal pale blade lodged within his Severed Shadow's chest.

Yours too, Deathless, his Severed Shadow replied telepathically. It, meanwhile, was pointing at the thing between his flesh and blood body's legs.

Both of his selves threw their heads back thereafter, sharing a laugh.

Comedy 8 > 10

Shiv faintly caught a series of utterances from Jessica. She was asking if he was insane or something. But Valor's voice came loud and clear, “No, this is just how he is. He is easily distracted at times. And forgetful. You will get used to him.”
