Nature knows what it means to lie. The art of deception flows in the blood, in the marrow, in every nerve fiber of its creatures. Civilization is no different. We are simply the conscious practitioners of nature’s finest ways, and you, our dear cuckoo, are to become the very epitomization of this grand deception.

We gave you a choice before. We asked you what kind of bird you wanted to be, an owl or a cuckoo. You chose the latter for a reason. You were driven back towards the dark, back into the embrace of your homeland, yet with an urge to slit its throat from the inside for what it did to you.

That hate compromises you for more delicate operations, but is a firm grounding. Good architecture for an imprint. A subconscious to guide your consciousness. It is with that grounding that we will guide you.

Once you are in your nest, we will send you your orders through subliminal messages. You will grow up with a fascination for surfacer news. You will do everything you can to secure and read papers published by Lost Avalon. You will notice the small mistakes there that no one else notices, but you will then forget about them by the time you're done with the paper. You will tell yourself that you are simply trying to understand your enemies, all of them, in service of your nation.

But then, in time, you will hatch.

You are a cuckoo bird, one born of civilization instead of nature.

You will not see your own betrayal coming, and neither will those who raise you.

—Designation Cuckoo

446

Cuckoo

Equipment Obtained: [Vestments of the Undying Cook]

Tier: Narrative/Master

Condition: Fine

Composition: Voidmantid Ceramic; Bloodroach Chitin; Deepcrawler Silk; Fleshdrinker Fungi; Bone Adamantine; Cabbage; Broccoli; Cream; Beef; Chicken; Turkey…(>+1000)

Enchantments > Compound Ocular Network; Antennal Resonance; Pheromonic Cipher; Master Regeneration; Magnified Vibrosense; Trauma Mantle; Myomeric Amplification; Mycelial Interface; Binding

Path:

Cook

Skills

To Me My Toads (Initiate) 88 > Heed Thy Toadfather (Adept)

This Fecund Flesh My Garden (Master) 44

Hungersense (Master) 34

Mealstrider (Initiate) 48

“You have got to be shitting me. You have absolutely got to be shitting me…” Shiv sighed the sigh of a weary man already overdrawn with political nonsense, now further faced with a deluge of spy, cloak and dagger bullshit. New Albion was always a salt upon the wound after the blow was struck. Politicians decided, but then the battle after the battle after the battle commenced, as the players and the shadows danced—and always stepped on each other's toes.

He leaned over his kilometer-long stove, savoring the sizzling sounds of the patties. Shiv could feel his burgers approaching the point of no return. If the scintillation bestowed upon them remained a few seconds more, they wouldn't be great food anymore, merely good, and he was almost willing to let that happen. These were supposed to be burgers, after all. Fast food options for fast people who had no appreciation of delicacies or flavor.

But just because someone else was a degenerate didn't mean he had to suffer the same taint.

“Commis on station. Take over.” With that command, his toads strode forth, spawning from a peripheral realm beyond anyone's notice. Rather than being cartoonishly careless caricatures of incompetence, their behaviors and physical attributes mirrored Shiv—at least a lesser version of him, less refined but still disciplined, as they were beholden to this place of culinary worship. He drilled that truth into them with repeated sessions and constant training. He let them rest rarely, only when they were truly ragged, their tongues lolling out of their mouths and their bodies still from stress. At all other times, there was a version of him in the kitchen, aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp, feeding, always working, always cooking, frying, salting, saucing, and more. There were his toads who watched and studied and slowly ground away those awkward edges that once defined them.

The toads were two meters shorter than Shiv, but they sported his musculature. The outline of powerful bodies bulging from the white fabric of their chef attire. None of them wore the hat, however; there was only one person who held that privilege, and it was the head chef of the Sky-Swallowing Carp, running the kitchen with the help of his toads, a few specialized volunteers, and an army of golems.

Flipping the beef patties wasn't a difficult act, but Shiv had something else occupying his mind. His patience was frayed, and a vision came to him of a momentary lapse in control: of a pan being flung so hard it blasted through the ceiling of his kitchen, piercing up into the restaurant itself and causing a mass casualty event as it ignited the air and boiled everyone beneath Heroic-Tier in Toughness. Shiv wasn't so sloppy anymore, but the thought still held weight.

Even before he gained Legendary Physicality, there were consequences. Collateral damage. Other people paying for his uncontrolled power. He still remembered their faces. He never wanted to forget them; the responsibility it instilled mattered.

And it was thanks to that same feeling of responsibility that he didn’t snarl and spit at the mirage lingering just behind him.

The Faceless Queen of New Albion was a ghost, undetected by Adam's Immolating Omniscience, unnoticed by everyone except for Shiv.

But she was present. She was here.

Of that, he was beyond certain. If this was a hallucination or a moment of madness, then that would have been detected by Uva. The brain and the mind were interconnected, and both expressed feedback when the other suffered externally affected experiences. The Faceless Queen was an illusion, an act of deception, perhaps, but not a falsehood unto herself. However, all the words she spoke and everything she did, most of them, were small bits of truth building to a grand tapestry of lies. The worst part of it was that Shiv was part of that tapestry now.

At times, he felt like a business partner, an unwilling one, but one that operated in tandem with her because, toward the end, it was for mutual benefit. Other times, he felt more like a pawn. She had him attend certain functions, take his Sky-Swallowing Carp across the Abyss to pick up specific people and drop them off here and there, and he listened. He listened because she never forced him to do any of these things. No, there was always a bargain, a give-and-take, an offering, just like there would be today. But with the news she brought and what she was undoubtedly about to ask, Shiv felt like telling her to piss right off, if only to spare himself the miseries of tradecraft for another day.

“Oh, come now, Deathless. It is not so bad. See things from my perspective like you always try to. If you had the opportunity, you would have done it too.”

He hated her whispers. He hated how melodic she sounded, how childlike she presented herself. He hated the way her body would shiver and change, how her tone and pitch would crackle, rise, drop, and shift. He hated her because he had no counter for her, even after two months of suffering her presence. Practically everyone else had an opening, a point of weakness he could place pressure upon and bend. A crack he could sink himself into and force wide, shattering them from within, both figuratively and literally.

The Faceless Queen’s heart, mind, and soul were as blank as her face. There was nothing for him to hold on to. She was as much an enigma to him now as the moment she first revealed herself to him during his negotiation with the Pale of the North.

And though she never showed it, a part of Shiv knew that she reveled in that dominance. Social superiority was control.

“And so she sinks her tendrils deeper into us. For the source of this hate comes from within ourselves,” the Harbinger mused.

“No,” Shiv shot back at her, shaking off his emotional malaise. “No, I wouldn't do that because, unlike you, unlike Veronica, the Ascendancy, and all the other bastards ruining this planet of ours, I don't use children as expendable munitions. I don't send them into miserable hell-holes as operatives or assets.”

“But you do hire them as cleaners, assistants, and servers for your kitchen,” the Faceless Queen replied. A pause, followed by a giggle. “Not anywhere near the same thing, of course, but ultimately it is your choice. You save them. You expend yourself on their behalf because you pity them and can't stand that clench in your heart when you see them die, and because you have a vision of a world you desire. You're the monster holding the other monsters at bay, but beneath these walls, surrounded by these walls, under the fleshly roof of a monster made for war, you're just a chef. This is a place where everyone can be happy. What a wonderful playground. What a beautiful illusion. You're as much a performer as anyone else, Deathless.”

He looked over his shoulder and directed a flat stare at her presence. But his Psychology and Rhetoric found no purchase in her soul or mind. She was ethereal, ghostly, a phantom in more ways than one. There was nothing he could anchor himself to. Comparatively, he was the stone, and she was the rain. Though he couldn't be broken so easily, ten thousand years of droplets hitting your face would change you just a little, just enough. Erosion could be inflicted through more means than just Necromancy.

And Shiv was beginning to feel weary.

With another sigh, he dragged a hand over his face, as if that could wipe his exhaustion away. “So, she was always one of your Cuckoos. You were always planning to subvert the First Blood from the inside.” If he wasn't so outraged about her request, he would have been impressed. The sheer amount of preparation and planning needed to embed one of yours in a hostile nation as a child and keep them as a viable sleeper agent while they rose to the upper echelons of a society were inconceivable to him. Clearly not for New Albion. There was always a way in. There was always another angle. Always another bird.

The Faceless Queen tutted like a master chastising a foolish student. “You should know by now, Deathless, nothing is planned. Not in that sense. Yes, there's architecture. There's order. There's a sort of theoretical consistency you'd like to see manifest in the world. But nothing's guaranteed. That's the course of living in a dynamic reality. All world models are wrong, but every now and again, there's just enough symmetry for you to take a chance. Every Cuckoo is a chance. Most of them don't get to hatch. Most of them are crushed, not even because the enemy noticed someone in their nest doesn't belong, but just because of the cruel happenings of the System: a plague here, a war there, a civil conflict inside, a sudden disaster from the outside. As time goes on, the many little eggs we bury crack, one after another. However, every one in a thousand eggs gets to grow until they're ready. And when they get ready to hatch, well, we want to capitalize on our investment, don't we? In that sense, we're not so different from the merchant rulers of High Harbor.”

And that led to the Faceless Queen's request.

They were to call Valor back from performing his imminent assassination. The entire reason behind his absence on the battlefield was to facilitate this murder, to slip into the enemy's rear guard and to kill any competent command personnel or Pathbearers that were going to join the invasion force. So long as the situation was led by Scorn or Belalu’s minions, then the outcome would almost certainly be in Gate Piety's favor, if only tactically.

With Corcusa present, an actual adversary was in place—and one didn't suffer capable, competent enemies like that.

There would always be a price to pay, even if you managed to beat them.

Shiv triggered his Snapshot as he rifled through his old memories. He always felt something off about Corcusa. Tulveg and Ekkihurst were no longer so embroiled in the First Blood's politics—and were always outcasts from vampire high society. The only one who knew anything about Corcusa was Angello, and only because they were both of the Ophereus Bloodline. He'd heard of her, but all he knew about the Legend of the Path of the Assassin was secondhand. Apparently, she was the personal assassin of Grandmother Ophereus, the Progenitor of the Bloodline, and almost no one knew what she looked like or why she'd been Embraced. The topic of her Embracement itself was a scandal, for Corcusa was an Umbral. A member of the very slave race bred many centuries ago by the First Blood itself to serve as blood bags, vessels of amusement rather than people, lower in status than even cattle.

With what Shiv knew about vampire culture, Embracing an Umbral into a Bloodline wasn't like freeing a slave. The First Blood’s notions of slavery were far different from that of the Compact of Babel. For the former, it was more so the equivalent of elevating one's favorite dog to sapience—perhaps doable, but very strange, and ultimately a humiliating, sacrilegious thing. One didn't give a dog a cape and crown in most cases without being regarded as an eccentric at best or a madwoman at worst. But Grandmother Ophereus was the single most charming woman in all the First Blood, according to Ekkihurst. Who would risk more than whispering behind her back without suffering the social consequences?

Nihilist: The strong do what they will. The weak suffer what they must. This is the one true rule under the System: with power, all things are permitted. Even cultural mythology and traditions can be defied by raw weight of individual power and influence.

