“But there is still a cost,” the Harbinger added. “For a warrior, this is acceptable, but Grandmother Ophereus is a Social Legend—and Social Legends draw power from creating, maintaining, and upholding traditions, norms, and societal charm. She performs this act in spite of its costs, not because of it.”

And all that led back to the present—where another Social Legend was in play. “Does this Grandmother have any clue about this?” Shiv asked. “Does she know that her chosen protégé is one of yours?”

“Of course not,” the Faceless Queen replied—she almost sounded offended by the idea. Almost. But ultimately not. She wasn’t the kind to truly judge; there was a shallowness to her depth that blunted the offense behind her words, no matter how callous. “I can claim this because we didn’t know she was even alive until just a few months ago either.”

“A few months…” Shiv trailed off. Memories poured through him.

“Entire Aviary cells seem to be fleeing Abyssal nation territories, trying to escape however they can. The Necrotechs managed to purge most of their hidden vermin, but the Elders of the First Blood—poor as my relationships with them have always been—have informed me that their own Aviary spies have openly fled and left nothing behind.”

The Composer’s words had never quite added up to Shiv, even after Theborn was conquered, and at some point the topic had slipped his mind entirely.

“This has something to do with whatever plot you were running between Passage, Valor’s arm, and the rogue Descenders, isn't it?” Shiv asked.

The Faceless Queen raised her finger and slowly painted a square frame in the air. “The bigger picture.” But she spoke no more of it. “She came into notice—and was partially activated when she hunted down one of our misplaced Ravens. And now, every time she goes to sleep, the Home Office receives some very interesting dreams from her end.”

Dreams? The word sparked inspiration within Shiv. Finally, he might have a way of intercepting something for New Albion and getting one over on the Faceless Queen. He needed to consult Uva and get some help from the Dreamtaker for this. Easier said than done for the latter, with her time so occupied by all her new worshipers.

“Oh, that’s a good idea, but I wouldn’t waste my time that way,” the Faceless Queen said.

Shiv stopped his eyes from narrowing. He was getting very good at intercepting his own facial expressions. “What?”

“The plan to use that subverted Ascendant of yours to spy on her dreams. She can do it, but the Cuckoo will be burned if that happens. Standard Psychomancy countermeasures—and I assure you, we’re quite good at detecting gods.”

Shiv waited to feel a pang of something from his Gardener of Doubt—some kind of lie. Nothing followed. Felling bullshit.

“If I make this pitch to the others,” Shiv began, his right eye twitching as one of his toads yelped when they barely caught a patty before it toppled off the stove, “if we consider this, I need you to tell me what the endgame is with her. What are you planning to use her for, because according to Valor’s last missive, she’s going to be making contact with the Challenger in short time, and he needs to hit her as soon as possible. We’re already dealing with enough as things are; the orcs joining in—”

“Will almost certainly lead to the collapse of your Gate and another, and perhaps final, mass slaughter of your people,” the Faceless Queen agreed. “The Challenger’s fast concluded a month ago, but he committed to another voluntary month of abstinence so he can truly relish the bloodshed to come—as have his most loyal and powerful offspring. Things are going to be quite dire for you indeed.”

“Not a great pitch, Queen,” Shiv deadpanned. “Makes me think I should jump over to Valor and go on as many suicide runs as it takes in Vulketh to put Corcusa down.” Then, he paused and thought about her words. She did this all the time: she spoke, but she left details out and made him assume—until the situation was automatically misrepresented in his mind. A second passed, and the weight of paranoia sank deeper into his bones. “Wait. Is it going to be dire because of her, or in spite of her?”

The Faceless Queen raised her hands and clapped. Something in the way her body changed in shape every time her hands came together made Shiv’s intestines shuffle inside him like a nest of restless snakes. “Bon, Deathless. Bon indeed. In spite of. You see, the Challenger has been watching and studying the conflict from the first day. What she assumes to be her method of highlighting the weakness of your Gate and cutting out her more unreliable comrades is worth nothing in truth, but little Maria herself? She’s worth everything to him.”

Instead of asking another question, Shiv’s mind began putting pieces of information together based on her words and reactions. “She’s worth…” The Faceless Queen was inscrutable in a great many ways, but utterly predictable in one. Everything she did was done for New Albion’s benefit. She was a beast of realpolitik, and New Albion held a market monopoly over a single resource above all.

Intelligence.

“That’s why she absolutely can’t die,” Shiv realized. “You might be willing to strike a bargain with me if her career trajectory is just upward among the Progenitors. The vampires are probably subverted to all hells by your birds anyway. But the Challenger? You probably don’t have anything on his end—orcs aren’t reliable assets, even if they’ll betray each other and their god on a dime; he probably sees through all his children's eyes or something. But he won’t see this coming—or at least it has the greatest chance of feeding you information straight from the Tutorial itself. The vampires are the lesser prize; Corcusa’s going for gold because the Challenger…” Shiv went over everything he knew about Corcusa, and his mouth fell open slightly. “You think the Challenger is going to work with her because he likes her.”

Even without an expression to read, Shiv could feel the Faceless Queen’s smile. “He is going to make her Vaketh-Bakal. Like you. Because despite everything, the great God of Strife is more a slave to the System’s perverse poetry than just about any other in Integration.”

Deductive Reasoning 49 > 54 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Gardener of Doubt 100 > 102 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Evolution: Deductive Reasoning (Initiate) > Shivers (Adept)

Skill Evolution: Gardener of Doubt (Adept) > Sower of Lies (Master)

Skill Fusion: Deductive Reasoning (Initiate) - Gardener of Doubt (Adept) > Dryad of Lies (Master)

A forest blossomed inside Shiv as two skills cracked and commingled. One, a skill driven to stalk truth from sense, subtext, word, and intuition. The other, a metasensory organ that felt lies like tactile pressure. Unseen vines branched out from Shiv as he brushed the Faceless Queen for the first time, and felt the denseness of her falsehoods.

Though she never lied to his face, she left so much out, and there was something about her that wasn’t real—that couldn’t be real. And that sense filled him with a direction and a hunger; made him know there was something misshapen in reality. If truth was the foundation of things, then this skill was a finger brushing upon the blemishes of reality—except the Faceless Queen wasn’t a blemish; she was a rupture, wallpaper torn haphazardly away to reveal a yawning void beneath.

She feels like the condensation of every lie in existence… A star collapsing into itself, always and forever. What even are you?

It was ever rare the thing for Shiv to feel like this about another.

“Do you even exist?” Shiv asked, his phrasing wrong and inadequate, failing to express the depth of his doubt.

“About as much as her,” the Faceless Queen answered. In the next moment, Shiv involuntarily took a step back as the blood froze in his veins. The Faceless Queen had developed a face. The smiling visage of Adam’s unborn sister flashed over her features for a quarter second before it vanished. “Very cozy nickname she picked for that skill of yours, I have to say. Backstage… Fitting.”

Continuity Error: What? How? How did she—

Shiv refused to say anything, but the growing horror and disbelief might as well have been painted on his face. The Faceless Queen gently patted Shiv’s lower back—for that was about as high as she could reach. “Solve your problem at hand first, Deathless. We’re not enemies. Not yet. And so, if such proves to be true, then we can make a deal. There is common ground.”

Dryad of Lies: TRUTH! ACCEPT! HER! OFFER! USE THE DARK TO HUNT THE DARK!

The skill’s voice thundered so loud and absolute that Shiv flinched and took another step back from the Queen out of instinct.

“Shiv,” the Harbinger said heavily. “I think we must consider the possibility of at least one of our skills being compromised.”

A lot more than one, Harbinger, he hissed. “She knows about the girl, about the Backstage—godsdammit, I fucking hate talking to her. She always does some shit like this. Keeps yanking me along.

Dryad of Lies: FOLLOW! THE! TUGS! SHE LEADS YOU TOWARD SWEETEST WATERS!

And of course you talk too. My head’s turning into more of a circus with every passing day.

“I’m willing to make a few formal offers with Gate Piety if you’re willing to do us this service in return,” the Faceless Queen continued. “There are other things you need to be concerned about. Like where the Necrotechs are hiding the last piece of Valor—and yes, it is no longer in the Moonlit Library. When the First Blood plans to march on Weave. Where the Challenger and the children of the Feathered Serpent are having talks—”

“What?” Shiv said, the last part catching him entirely by surprise. “Talks? But—”

Dryad of Lies: LIE!

The invisible vines spreading out from Shiv bit into the Faceless Queen and burrowed through her presence. Explosions of knowledge splashed through his mind, each one arriving in scattered pieces and drowning him in moments of vivid detail.

He caught sight of the Faceless Queen elsewhere—speaking to the Southern Gods and striking similar bargains with them, exposing weaknesses in the Republic; at the same time, she did the same with Anthony, to Veronica’s supposed ignorance, and then repeated the act with the Councilwoman herself. These moments were connected by a chain of deception; each one shared a series of characters—based beneath an overarching lie. The moment Shiv sensed a smaller limb, the skill pulled him up its branches.

And at the same time, Shiv felt his vines grow harder—absorbing the deception to thicken its figurative chloroplasts and armor his own untruths.

“Is there anyone you’re not in bed with?” Shiv rasped.

“Hm…” The Faceless Queen placed a finger against her chin and considered the question. “The French, when it comes to the weekend.”

For whatever odd reason, that wasn’t a lie at all.

“It's because of racism,” the Faceless Queen explained, as if hearing his thoughts—and perhaps she could. She shared that uncanny trait with Produveral.

“Racism,” Shiv repeated, unsure what else to add.

“Yes. From my side, in this case. One of the few traditions of old Albion I decided to keep.”

“What even are the French?” he asked.

She didn’t answer. Instead, she looked over his toads and sighed. “This would be so funny if they were actually frogs.”

“Huh?”

“Never mind. You’ll understand someday. But I see your Dryad of Lies skill has been developed.”

“Okay, I’m getting tired of this shit.” Shiv ground his teeth. “How are you doing this? How do you know what’s happening inside my soul?”

“Oh, I don’t. But someone else does.” She somehow winked without any eyes. “Anyway, is that a yes? Are you going to help me save one of my rare few grown-up Cuckoos?”

Shiv hated making promises to her, but on the other side of the conversation, Uva and Adam listened in while still at the legislative session—both of their minds utterly drenched in terrified disbelief.

Adam sighed. “Gods damn it all. Yes. Tell her yes.”

“We’ll play ball for now,” Shiv muttered.

“Oh, how lovely!” She waved at his face, as if greeting Adam directly, and sighed. “I’m glad you’re always so reliable and reasonable, Deathless. We’re going to do great things together—and it’s been some time since I’ve appeared publicly. I must admit, the idea of walking in the open sends a shiver up my spine.”

“Wait, you’re coming in person?” Shiv asked, narrowing his eyes.

The Faceless Queen clasped both hands behind her back. “A bargain of such importance can’t be left to lesser hearts and narrower minds. And besides, you’re going to be my way of getting back at Chandler for all those nasty messages she threatened to write me.” And with that, she giggled once more and took a step away. “Please inform Legend Valor about your decision posthaste. It would be very awkward and uncomfortable to see this agreement made null because the hand that holds the blade has already drawn blood.”

“Yeah, I—” But the Faceless Queen was already gone. Like she was never there.

“Farewell to you too, Queenie,” he whispered. A black mood washed over him like clouds breaking into a sodden downpour. Veronica was powerful, but she never did—

The Faceless Queen appeared again—and Shiv caught his flinch before it could ripple through his body. “Oh, but you should kill the Salamander. He’s not one of yours or even one of Yellowstone’s—the real Salamander's buried next to a creek in Kentuck. The one you have in your custody is one of mine that strayed a bit too far from orders. Children… How distasteful, am I right?”

