“Again, I really can’t thank you enough.” Ranthia subvocalized her gratitude while she gingerly accepted the zonked-out bunny from the [Healer].

“Oh, it was my pleasure. You should have seen the joyous jumps she made when she got those levels.” The elf kept her own response at the same volume, lest they disturbed the exhausted bunny. “Do you know when your next excursion will be?”

“I’d like to maybe do them every other day, if that’s alright with you.” Ranthia hadn’t even thought about it, but she still answered with the first whim that came to mind. It wasn’t like she was promising anything concrete.

“That would be fine, I’m pretty flexible. And even if something comes up, I can always get one of my kids to watch her. She’s adapting so quickly; I don’t think it’ll take long for her to be fine on her own.” The [Healer] answered.

Ranthia really wanted to ask her for her name again, but it felt rude—and she wasn’t completely confident that she’d absorb it from a single repetition. She’d somewhat hoped it would come up naturally, yet the name wasn’t even printed anywhere that Ranthia could see within the woman’s shop.

“Well, thank you again. I should probably get her to bed and grab dinner before the service ends.” Ranthia self-consciously bid her farewell. Honestly, it was later than she’d hoped; she hadn’t meant to spend nearly so much time in the Lodge. And she’d definitely drunk more than she had planned on—it was hard to keep her mind focused on the tasks she needed to complete before she could let herself succumb to her own fatigue.

But before anything, she needed to get Clover home.

It was one of those mornings where Ranthia woke up feeling good and optimistic, then within three minutes her reward for drinking so much set in. She was used to pain, yes, and she was able to shift into a fresh body shortly thereafter, but the headache still managed to suck much of the bliss she felt out of her heart and mind.

Ranthia’s mood was a touch fouler while she tended to her morning tasks. Clover’s sandbox was still pristine aside from the “see, this is the place for these” bunny waste she relocated to it. Her increasingly destroyed backpack had once again been befouled overnight. Realistically, she knew she probably needed to discard the soiled and ruined thing, but she was somewhat concerned about where Clover would go with it gone. The sandbox would be ideal, but such mundane faith and hope was in somewhat short supply that morning. Thus, Ranthia washed the backpack out and hung it back in place.

Clover turned out to be passed out in the broad bucket Ranthia kept in the bathroom, snoozing atop a pile of hay the bunny had managed to drop into said bucket. It was cute, admittedly.

The rabbit woke up partway through Ranthia’s morning exercises and did her very best to become an obstacle to Ranthia’s ongoing dance. Alas, she lacked the speed to truly get in the way—Ranthia was able to avoid stepping on a fragile bunny without stopping her dance. Morning exercise concluded, Ranthia spent some time praying to Xaoc, while Clover did her very best to make sure Ranthia knew that she was being very boring.

[*ding!* [Dedication to Xaoc] has reached level 108!]

That helped Ranthia’s mood—it’d been almost two weeks since the Skill last gave her a level. Also, her stomach was starting to finally demand sustenance. Ranthia looked around to see where Clover had wandered off to so—

“Agh! Clover! No!” Ranthia blurred into motion to halt the bunny that was ill-temperedly chewing on a chair.

“I know you want down, but wait until we find some rabbit toys, then I’ll let you pick something else out. Honestly, you already have so many things you can chew, but if it’ll save the furniture or my new backpack…” Ranthia carefully clutched her Bond to her chest as she wove her way through the chaotic disaster zone that was the Pink Pavillion.

Clover wasn’t in the mood to be carried and Ranthia was under no delusions about that, but she had spent more than half of the gems that Avyna had left for her already—she really didn’t want to discover what would happen if her Bond managed to inflict more damage on the shop than she could pay for. In Remus, she’d be bound in irons and sold as a slave to pay off the debt. And she was more than a bit alarmed that she’d yet to find any mention of what happened to those in hopeless debt in elven society.

When laws weren’t clearly delineated in the books, it was usually because polite society preferred to pretend that they had no idea what truly happened.

Ranthia tried to refocus her mind away from darker thoughts as she quested through the midden heap that had delusions of being a coherent shop. She swore it felt like things got moved around each time she came in, even if it was beyond unlikely that the chronically drowsy owner was putting in that much effort to fuck with people.

At last, Ranthia found at least some of what she sought. She grabbed one of each item off the shelf that she thought had potential and carefully balanced the stack on her not-entirely-free hand, before she backed into a slightly more open area and set Clover down. With her hands finally freed, she set the various chewable toys of wood and plant material down around the bunny.

Thank Xaoc for high dexterity.

“Okay Clover, which of these do you like?” Ranthia asked with semi-forced enthusiasm.

The bunny carefully sniffed each cube, ball, and other whimsical shapes. Then she promptly hopped away, her gaze locked onto an elaborate wooden statue that was half again Ranthia’s height.

“Noooo!” Ranthia hurriedly intercepted her dearest dynamo of devastation. She could see the price tag from where she was, and that absurd carving was almost eight times the funds Ranthia had left!

“I’m really sorry about having to bother you with this. You’re a lifesaver.” Ranthia left more of her increasingly precious gems on the snoring elf’s counter while she directed her gratitude to the deeply amused animal [Healer] standing to her side.

“She’s a lady that knows what she’s worth, but I think she’ll learn to settle for what you can provide.” The grinning elf answered.

“Even if I could afford that damn statue, I think Avyna would strangle me if she knew I spent so much on a chew toy.” Ranthia deadpanned her response.

“Maybe, but she isn’t here yet. And just think of how happy your dearest Clover would be.” The [Healer] was enjoying herself entirely too much.

The bunny chose that exact moment to fix Ranthia with a deep, yearning stare—with cuteness levels set to max. Ranthia could only groan beneath the might of the needful bun.

“Such a clever lady!” The [Healer] enthused.

“Stop encouraging her, or I’ll ask Xaoc to make sure you have an interesting day! I rescind my earlier gratitude!” Ranthia shouldered her brand-new backpack full of rabbit toys (and three blankets), before she turned to make her exit.

The [Healer] waved and made her own exit, sniggering at Ranthia’s expense the entire time.

Ranthia stowed her purchases (including stuffing her new backpack into a trunk to keep Clover from laying claim to it), then set out again with her Bond. Instead of trying to do anything big, Ranthia decided to just settle down in an open area to give Clover room to run around and play (and munch on fresh grass and dandelions). The area Ranthia chose was slightly wilder than some of the parks the elves typically lounged within, which gave them a bit more privacy and quite a few more options for Clover’s foraging efforts.

It was a nice way to spend the day. They were seldom bothered by more than an exchanged greeting with some elf or another on their way to go somewhere else. There were a few non-elves in the City of Arts: Ranthia had seen one elemental and heard tell of another, she’d noticed a gnoll painting in a park while she passed by, and there were bound to be other examples that she’d yet to lay eyes on. But at least 99% of the city’s occupants were—to the surprise of no one—elves.

Ranthia passed the time reading or daydreaming under the sun’s embrace, while her Bond enjoyed herself. Ranthia was a fairly kinetic woman by nature, but she’d learned to appreciate opportunities to relax and do absolutely nothing.

After an impromptu nap (Clover got drowsy and snuggly, things escalated), the sun was low in the sky. Ranthia and Clover abandoned their field and set out for a walk to pass time while they waited for dinner service to start. Not that she made it very far.

“Ranthia, hey!” Ranthia’s ears traced the call back to a booth on an adjacent road, where an elven woman wearing pink trousers and body paint was waving.

And Ranthia was more than a bit mortified to recognize the woman by her breasts instead of her face—she was the one with the brother that’d made the overly blunt attempt to hit on her the other day. Still, Ranthia adjusted her path to head toward the woman’s stall; they hadn’t really spoken much before (and she couldn’t remember ever giving her name to the woman), but she had helped answer Ranthia’s questions.

“Great timing! I just got word that the elf I was supposed to be painting cancelled on me—apparently his partner got them an appointment with a Rank 4 Masseuse. Which pre-empts little ol’ Rank 12 me, I guess. I’ll do you for free, if you want! And to be candid, it’s because I’m hoping to get some levels out of the novelty of painting a human for the first time.” The elf beamed a smile up at Ranthia from the low chair she was seated on, her Brilliance-touched eyes almost sparkling.

Ranthia wasn’t an idiot; the service on offer was obvious enough. The section of the street contained elves wearing varying amounts of body paint, many of which were hard at work working their brushes across the flesh of other elves in various states of undress.

Ranthia struggled with her indecision, but for whatever reason it felt like Clover’s stare was urging her to play canvas to the pretty elf’s art. With an unnecessarily forceful shrug, Ranthia unbuckled her belt and shucked her mistweave tunic and perched naked on the stool in front of the elf.

She would have worn her undergarments had she expected to bare herself, but elves were even freer with nudity—and sex—than Remus’ larger cities. Instead of being confined to necessity or the offerings of the night, it was a constant thing in the City of Arts. Which meant that Ranthia taking off her sole garment (aside from her sandals) in the middle of a crowd was no big deal. No matter what her traitorous blush suggested.

“Oh, nice, can I do a full body piece? I can do green for the base layer to match your pretty eye-hiding ribbon. Oooh, yes, a little gold paint for small accents—it’s less breathable than what I use for the base layers, so I’ll have to paint it very carefully. And then some subtle design work and a few touches with reflective pigments…!

“And don’t worry, I know what I’m doing. Your skin will breathe even easier than it does in your—wait, this is mistweave? Huh. Okay, your skin will breathe as easily as it does in your clothes. And sweat and all that other gross stuff, especially once I set it with my Skills. I’ve never had anyone’s skin react badly to the paint, but if I start seeing any puffiness or discoloration, I’ll remove it immediately with a Skill—it isn’t like I’ve worked on a human before.” The woman spoke at a frantic pace as she eyed Ranthia up and down with an uncomfortable intensity.

“Um, sure? I’ll defer to your judgment; you’re the expert here.” Ranthia gave her blanket consent. If nothing else, it promised to be a novel experience. And she could always shift to a fresh body if she needed to—not that she was going to be crass enough to say that to the [Artisan].

The elf nodded, set Ranthia’s clothing aside, and thoughtfully set out a cushion for Clover, before she went to work. A large pile of brushes appeared, some so finely tipped that only a few bristles could reach her skin, others far broader. Several jars were laid out, and even a few sponges—an excessively rare and expensive item in Remus.

The woman held a green-soaked sponge in one hand and wielded a brush with a subtly different shade with another as she got to work on Ranthia’s neck. But it wasn’t just her hands—Ranthia could feel the subtle sensation of the body paint being adjusted by the woman’s Skills (presumably her Ooze-aspected class). She worked her way down from there, keeping her touch delicate—especially when she worked on sensitive areas. Ranthia raised her arms when requested to provide access to the skin under them and was forced to adjust how she was seated multiple times.

Sooner than she expected, she had to stand, while the elf painted her butt (and other anatomy) with unerring professionalism. As the sun set, glowing crystals set in glass boxes were brought out by everyone in the area to provide illumination beyond what the magical flames in the streetlights offered, and progress continued at an impressive pace.

Roughly an hour later, the elf proudly announced that she was done. Which immediately drew a crowd of her idle peers as they studied Ranthia’s painted flesh with enough intensity that she was left squirming (as if she hadn’t already been flustered from the [Artisan]’s delicate touch).

“Exquisite detailing work. I’ll confess, I don’t think I can match that level of finesse. …I’d like to cede Rank 11 to Myntheria. It was only a matter of time, I suppose.” One of the men finally admitted, with a bitter expression on his face—and with determination burning throughout his words.

“Mm, I agree. No hard feelings, Darlantise. I hereby witness Myntheria as Rank 11 in Body Painting.” A different woman spoke up, her tone formal.

“Ee! Levels and a new Rank? You’re the best!” The [Artisan] excitedly leaned in and planted a wet kiss on Ranthia’s paint-covered cheek.

“Congratulations!” Ranthia was really hoping that the body paint would cover her blush.

“Oh, by the way, I never did ask—what rank did you end up getting for dancing? I need to know for my own bragging about my achievement!” The excited elf asked, one arm still around Ranthia’s shoulder.

How did she even know that?! …Okay, yes, Sunny had instantly pegged her as a dancer too, but she was the only person that Ranthia had actually told! It felt especially strange, given Ranthia still had no explanation for how the woman knew her name. The City of Arts wasn’t anywhere close to being a small enough city that gossip should travel so readily.

