The children complained at her, making up all kinds of excuses. It was the most fun I'd had in a while, so I appreciated the mental deload. I had a time limit on my horizon, so I flew up to Chrona,

"Hey, can we go and have that conversation? I've got a lot to do today."

Chrona did a backflip in the air before giving me a nod, "Of course. Excuse our playfulness. It's rare to have something so novel pass by. I had to take my chance to enjoy." She flapped her wings towards Rivaria, flying through the air,

"Come. I'll show you the way."

Ten minutes later, and we reached the highest level of Rivaria, ice sculptures all around us. Around Chrona, a dense mist formed over her skin. This stopped her skin from drying out and cracking, her amphibian nature showing. I shouted,

"Why do gialgathens live here when it's so dry and cold? I imagined you guys would love the ocean."

"It's a mixed story. Gialgathens developed the ability to fly in retaliation to the leviathans that float beneath the waves. While we do enjoy the ocean, the creatures there are far stronger than those on land. They prove less fruitful to domesticate as well. They cannot carry loads unless you strap it to them and command them from the start of the trip to the end of it."

Chrona dived down, reaching a cove at the mountain top. It looked like her house.

"Comparatively, the espens were far better labor and far more intelligent. They lack the tenacity to stay in environments such as this one for any length of time, however. That is why this city was created long ago, as a sanctuary for gialgathens of all cultures."

"I don't know if I buy that explanation. It sounds like whoever made this city did so to send a message to the espens. We're above, and you're below."

"It is as you say." Chrona landed in front of the thirty-foot cave entrance, "It's unfortunate that our ancestors looked down on the espens to such an extent. That mentality pervades even to today, Lehesion a sad example of the belief's reach. It's not a reflection of we who follow Emagrotha's way."

Steering the conversation away from philosophy, I pointed a the cave as I landed,

"This is your house?"

"Indeed it is. It once housed Emagrotha, and now I am the caretaker of this holy place."

My plan failed.

"I've taken the liberty to spruce it up to my preferences, however. It was her home, not a temple."

I sighed with relief, praying that lecturing wouldn't continue. As we stepped inside her home, we crossed an arc of ice, decorated in vibrant splashes of colored ice. They froze dyes with the water, pieces of the cavern a flower-filled field kind of vibe at times. For the most part, the cavern stuck with a bright cerulean that reminded me of a tropical ocean. The sculptures mirrored this simplicity, staying elegant and abstract.

"Emagrotha admired artwork for what it was - an expression of the artist. She supported the artwork seen throughout the city, something Lehesion disdained. The culture she curated lasts to this day, Rivaria being a center of the arts for all who come here."

I coughed into my hand, "Besides the espens."

She glared down at me for a moment. A second later, she sighed, "While what you say mars this place's legacy, you're right. Gialgathens have had a long history of belittling other races. Part of our ability to fly I believe. It's hard not to look down on those who cannot feel the wind across their face as they soar through the sky."

"I don't know. I always preferred the ground. I fly now mostly because of my weight. I'm too heavy, so I sink into the ground unless I disperse my mass as I walk. It's a pain in the ass, but I get used to it."

"So when you move, you're in a constant state of gravitational flux?"

"Essentially, yeah."

"You're precision is enviable. I cast my magic in vast waves, creating arenas where my abilities prosper. If I lack that field, then I can't create the same impact as I otherwise would."

I raised a hand, "So that's why you've won the tournament before. Your skillset is built for it."

"I could say the same of you. You're nigh invincible in combat, and your endurance is unmatched from any I've seen. Not once did you slow down or show signs of exhaustion."

I shrugged, "Eh, comes with my abilities."

We walked deeper into the cavern, reaching a narrower hallway past the entrance. After reaching a fork in the hallway, we arrived at a room cast in green light from an emerald fire. Along the back wall, the heads of massive creatures lined the wall, most of the aquatic in nature. Chrona gestured at them,

"Emagroth lived for the hunt."

I walked up to the green fire, but Chrona stopped me from touching it.

"That is everburn sap. It stays alight for centuries at a time. Getting it off the body requires amputation at best and death at worst."

I scoffed, "I'll be fine. Don't worry about me."

"Suit yourself," Chrona said while moving her tail from me. I lifted the sap from the container, wobbling the liquid fire in the air. Chrona eyed me, her heart rate rising as I toyed with the devastating gunk.

"Don't worry. I don't plan on throwing this on anybody anytime soon."

She let out a sigh of relief, "Good. Perhaps we could douse Thisbey in it."

I took a chunk of the burning sap and floated it into my dimensional storage, "You know what? I just might do that."

She let out a gruff laugh, "Record it with your glass bauble. I'd love to see that sight one day."

"You and me both."

I stood by the fire while Chrona walked over towards the other side of it. She tilted her head at me, "Though I enjoy the conversation, that should be plenty of chitchat for your tastes. What did you really mean by your being a realm?"

I looked up, thinking of how to frame it. I didn't want to admit who I was, though Chrona probably wouldn't know. It wasn't something I wanted her to tell other people about though. After a minute of thought, she murmured,

"So it's not something to be said lightly. I've gathered that much."

"Yeah. Hm...I'm not a normal thing I guess. It's like I can be here and at another dimension at the same time if that makes sense."

"It makes very little in the way of sense, but I've seen unusual entities before. Lehesion owned a direct gateway to Giess's mana. No matter the range, he could tap into the energy source. It gave him an unbelievable power. Your circumstances explain how you were able to avoid my abilities even when he could not."

I crossed my arms, "Yeah, I'm not quite at that level yet."

"You're closer than you think. You wield mana that far exceeds Emagrotha's or my own. It makes me ponder; did your abilities spawn from your dimensional duality?"

Her question made me ponder myself. I didn't fully understand the ramifications of my dimension-ness. That might be why I wielded gravity so well. Perhaps my understanding of it was innate since I became a fully formed dimension. Hell, maybe other laws of nature would apply the same to me in that regard.

Still, I couldn't be sure.

"Not quite. It definitely helps though. Its like I'm pulling mana from the other dimension."

"Then your potential even exceeds Lehesion in that regard, given that dimension is large enough...Perhaps you could teach me how you wield that pulling force?"

That didn't seem productive, and I was on a time limit. I scoffed, "Only if you teach me time dilation."

Chrona stood tall, "Then it's a deal."

I frowned for a second, processing what she said. My eyes widened as I comprehended what she had to say.

"Wait...really?"

She showed her teeth in a grin,

"Really."
