Venith’s head turned. He did not look grateful. There was fury in his eyes. Fury and dark hatred.
“And you never will.”
He kicked his mount in the sides and he rode out of the village without looking back. Flos watched him go as people shouted curses at Venith’s back. He somehow found Trey, trying to push towards him in the crowd. Flos sighed. And then he rolled his shoulder and stood tall. Because he was a King.
 
——
 
When they were outside of the village and riding towards the rest of the soldiers Venith had brought, he stopped and turned to his son. Calac had taken off his helm, and his face was pale as he rode next to his father. He was bruised on his right cheek and his armor had been dented in places by the villagers.
Venith didn’t waste time with words. He slapped his son across the face with one hand. It wasn’t a heavy blow, but with his gauntlets on it drew blood.
“You idiot.”
Calac’s face was red with embarrassment.
“Father, I could have—”
“You have disgraced yourself and your family’s name! Be silent!”
There was too much memory and guilt in his eyes. Venith turned away as he guided his horse towards his forces. A rank of cavalry waited for him, along with a cluster of armed foot soldiers and archers. But not his [Mage], nor the vast majority of his forces. They had stayed behind rather than take up arms against the man that had been their King.
His mood was black. Venith had no ears for the man who rode up alongside, asking for orders.
“Keep your forces back. Encircle the village, but do not attack, even if provoked.”
“What if he runs? The King?”
Calac flinched as Venith looked at him. For a second his father struggled with the urge to shout, but he controlled his temper. Barely.
“He will not run. Even if he is a shadow of what he was, that man would not run.”
“But what if he does?”
Too stubborn, and too insolent. Venith felt like he was staring at himself, twenty years ago. He scowled.
“If he does, I will run him down.”
“But if we attacked—”
That was too much. Venith shouted at his son, the first time he had done so in public.
“I will not slaughter my people! And if you draw your sword without my permission again, I will disown you. Is that understood?”
Calac’s face went white. He stood still and nodded. Venith turned away.
“We are not without honor, even if he is an oathbreaker. And if we attacked, we would be the ones feeding the crows.”
His soldiers stirred. The younger ones, those who hadn’t ever known the King of Destruction as more than a slumbering legend, looked incredulous. The older ones knew better.
“Don’t underestimate an army of villagers. Don’t underestimate him. He could cut you apart with ease, and he has the Skills to make any battle even. No. I’ll kill him myself.”
Venith turned. It wasn’t his son he looked at, but his oldest retainers. The ones who’d fought with him over two decades ago. They shifted. Some were uneasy. Others wavered. But some had the same anger that burned in Venith’s heart. They understood.
Venith dismounted from his horse.
“Alert me when the King of Destruction moves. It won’t be long.”
He drew his sword and inspected it. Venith knew it was undamaged; he’d sharpened the blade this very morning. And the same went for his shield. But he wanted to take no chances.
One of his men rode towards the village to keep watch on it. The burning torches made visibility hard, but Venith knew the King would not run. He wouldn’t. Even as weak as he was, he would not. And so he would come out, and Venith would make him pay for betrayal.
The man’s hands shook as he lifted his shield. He stared at the village, trying to summon more of the white-hot fury that had gripped him when he’d heard the words he’d despaired of hearing ever again. But there wasn’t any anger when he reached for it. Just a kind of emptiness—no, a lack of anything at all. He reached into his chest and felt nothing at all.
So it was with a kind of dread that Venith stood, waiting for his King. He stared at the village and remembered another sight, one far more bitter than the time they had first met.
How had it gone? A village and a King. Only the village that Venith saw in his head had no wall. It was dark, and the village was burning. He could still smell the smoke, taste the blood and fear in his mouth. His grip loosened on his sword.
Once.
 
——
 
The second time Venith met Flos, he was galloping away from his father’s castle as it burned in the distance. The village was filled with screams and armed soldiers striking down people—his people as he fled. They cried out for someone to save them, but Venith could not stop. Sixteen riders wearing black armor and the silver insignia of a set of scales on their arms were in hot pursuit of him.
They caught him at the bridge. Venith heard his mare scream as she stumbled. He tumbled to the ground and saw an arrow in her thigh. His faithful horse thrashed on the ground as Venith tried to get to his feet.
Too slow.
“Put down your sword, Venith Crusland. Accept your judgment.”
The leader of the pursuers was female, but her face was covered by a black veil. She, like the others, hid her face. They surrounded him, weapons raised. Venith reached for his shield, but he had dropped it. So he clasped both hands to his sword and told himself he would kill one of them before he died.
“Hold.”
The voice didn’t come from in front of Venith, but rather, behind. He turned warily, and saw his pursuers back away. Because they were outnumbered.
Flos had changed little in the year since Venith had tried to kill him. He was a tiny bit taller, that was all. But this time he was not alone. An army stood at his back. The army of Reim, just as Venith had heard.
For a second hope surged in his breast. But then Venith felt movement. He whipped around and felt something touch the skin at his neck.
A glaive’s tip cut into his throat. The woman who held it stared past him, at Flos.
“Withdraw your forces, King of Reim. This does not concern you.”
“Put up your blade. Now. I know that man. Why are you trying to kill him?”
It wasn’t a question that needed asking. Venith knew Flos must have known. The woman’s response was sharp and irritated as she raised her glaive away from Venith’s head. He felt at his throat and felt blood.
“We are the Black Judgment. The house of Crusland has failed to honor its debts and refused to pay its dues. We are administering justice.”
“You mean they refused to sell their people off as slaves. And now you’re killing all of them.”
“Oathbreakers shall be punished. Criminals shall be found. Traitors slain. You know we answer to no [Monarch]. Do not interfere.”
Flos was staring at Venith. His eyes flicked to the village. Venith could still hear screaming. The Black Judgment worked methodically, going from house to house. They did not have to hurry. They just had to ensure no one escaped.
“My lord. They have many soldiers here.”
A quiet, frightened voice came from one of the people standing next to Flos. He turned his head.
“How many, Gazi?”
“A thousand—perhaps a thousand five hundred. All armored. And six mages.”
Overkill for a small [Lord]’s house and his retainers. But that was how the Black Judgment worked. Anyone who broke the law and refused to honor their debts was punished, be it a [King] or a [Beggar]. Venith’s stomach twisted. Now that he looked, he saw the army that accompanied Flos was no true army. Their numbers lay in the hundreds, possibly not coming close to a thousand.
He stared dully at the woman—no, the person who’d spoken. She was not Human. He found himself staring at a being with a huge eye in the center of her head and four smaller ones around it. He only vaguely recognized her as a species from Baleros. A Gazer.
She was female, frightened, holding a sword that looked too big for her. Venith looked around. The rest of Flos’ ‘army’ looked the same. They weren’t the professional soldiers he’d expected, merely the sons and daughters of [Farmers] and [Shopkeepers]. Common peasantry.
He turned away in despair. His father had sent [Messages] for help in every direction. If Flos hadn’t come with an army three times larger, it meant he was only here to watch.
But the King was arguing with the half-Gazer now. He stared hard at the soldiers as he spoke to her.
“I like him, Gazi. And these aren’t soldiers that are being killed.”
Venith looked incredulously at Flos. The leader of the band of Black Judgment warriors was doing the same. Flos spurred his mount forwards until he was sitting and looking down at Venith.
“So this is why you came for my head. It is still not a good enough reason.”
There was no point to talking. Venith lowered his head, biting his lip until he tasted blood.
“Go on and leave. You can’t do anything here.”
“I could. This does not seem like justice to my eyes.”
Flos leaned forwards on his mount. He was staring at the burning village. The woman with the glaive spoke sharply.
“You have no right! This is the law and they have broken it!”
The King of Reim ignored her completely. He looked at Venith.
“I have no cause. A King must not declare war for no reason. But perhaps you have one. Is this just?”
He would have loved to say yes. He would have loved to deny the truth. But Venith’s hand clenched on his sword’s hilt until it cracked. He spoke slowly.
“My father borrowed too much and refused to sell his people. That is the truth. This is—justice.”
“I see. You are a poor liar.”
Flos didn’t move as Venith whirled on him. He was staring at the village. He pointed.
“Look, Venith Crusland. Over there. That girl.”
Venith did not want to look. But he did. He saw a child lying on the ground. She was dead. Dead, or soon to be dead. He looked down.
“What about her?”
“What is her name?”
“Don’t mock—”
A hand reached down and lifted Venith off the ground. Flos stared at Venith as his stallion groaned at the sudden increase in weight.
“What. Is. Her. Name?”
Venith turned to look. There was no way he could tell at a distance—
His breath caught. He saw a long braid, faintly blonde hair. He remembered the handful of flowers that she gathered every summer and handed out like they were treasures. He spoke her name.
“Merisa.”
The King dropped him. Venith landed on the ground with a thump. Flos nodded. He stared at the village, and then met the eyes of the order of Black Judgment.
“That’s all I needed to know.”
He rode back towards Gazi, and his army of amateur warriors. Venith lowered his head and raised his sword as the Black Judgment closed in. Then he heard Flos’ voice.
“Her name is Merisa!”
It was a shout. Like thunder, his voice echoed across the ground, cutting above the screaming and shouts. Venith saw Flos turn. Then the young King unsheathed his sword. Beside him, the half-Gazer raised her blade.
Flos pointed straight at the woman with the glaive. He uttered one word.
“Charge!”
His army roared and swept forwards. Venith heard thundering hooves, and then Flos leapt past him. He cut the first warrior of the Black Judgment down and then rode on. Shouting a child’s name.
That was the first time Venith had ever wept in public. He ran after the King of Reim on the day he declared war against the Black Judgment.
For a child.
For justice.
 
——
 
“Teres!”
Trey shouted her name amid the clamor around him. He heard someone shout his name, and then found her in the sea of people.
“Over here!”
She led him away, away from Flos, who was at the center of the throng of people. When they could talk without shouting, Trey hugged Teres. She hugged him back.
“How’d you know he was going to do that?”
“I didn’t. But when he didn’t ride off I got a bad feeling.”
“You threw a rock at him! What if he stabbed you?”
“He didn’t.”
Trey opened his mouth to protest that logic when he heard his name again.
“Teres. Trey!”
Someone’s voice boomed. The twins turned. Flos was striding towards them, the sea of people parting in biblical fashion. The King smiled as he stared at Teres.
“You have keen eyes, Teres. A shame you had no bow or wand. I will fix that another time. For now, follow me.”
He turned. The twins stared at each other and then followed Flos. He was walking towards the village gates. People were trying to stop him without actually holding him back. A man—the village headman, perhaps, was trying to talk to Flos.
“Don’t go alone, my King. We’ll follow you into battle! We might not have weapons, most of us, but we’ve a wall and three times their number. We’ll choke them on our blood and flesh if need be!”
“That would be the worst outcome. Far worse than my death. Venith is your [Lord], is he not?”
“Yes, but—”
“But nothing. He is a good [Lord], by all accounts. I remember Orthenon telling me he patrolled these lands. For twenty years he has kept you safe from monsters and brigands.”
“He is not you, my King. And he was once your vassal! Taking arms against his sword master is treason!”
“Perhaps. But I was the one who betrayed him first.”
Flos sighed. He did not look at the confused headman, but turned to the twins.
“I will duel Venith now. The sun should rise shortly—stand with your backs to it so you may have the best view.”
They gaped at him. Teres was the first to find her voice.
“Why?”
“He challenged me. That is how things are done in this land.”
“Not that! Why does he hate you? Was he your vassal?”
“Yes. And he bears a grudge.”
Flos strode out of the village, people streaming after him. He was adjusting his belt, tightening it. Trey stared at Flos. He wasn’t wearing armor.
“Why does he hate you?”
“For abandoning him? For leaving my kingdom to rot? For incompetence, failure, cowardice?”
The King of Destruction shook his head.
“I do not know. But I must answer him, Trey. I cannot run from my failure. And he has every right to hate me.”
“But he’s wearing armor! And you’ve only got a sword!”
“Yes. I rather wish I had something else.”
Instantly a hundred voices rose, offering Flos a shield, a helmet that might fit, a piece of armor. He waved the voices away.
“I have no need. And Venith will not wait. Besides, a sword is all I need.”
He unsheathed his sword, and Trey stared hopefully at the blade. But it did not glow, or sparkle. It was shiny, but that was only because moonlight shone on it.
Flos saw Trey’s expression and laughed.
“There is no enchantment on the blade, Trey. I believe I took this one from my armory. It is just steel. But it is my sword, so it is a King’s sword. That should be good enough, even for Venith.”
“But he’s got armor.”
Teres stared at Flos and then grabbed Trey’s arm.
“He’s not listening to me. Talk sense to him!”
