“But I could kill you. I swore an oath.”
Venith struggled to his feet, but fell back. He coughed and stared with hatred at Flos. Real, deep hatred. Trey could see that plainly, but he also saw how Venith’s eyes hadn’t left Flos’ face. They searched every inch of the King’s expression, as if looking for something.
“You betrayed us. You left us.”
Flos’ head bowed. He made no reply. Venith raised his voice. He shouted as the villagers fell silent, and his soldiers watched.
“You abandoned your kingdom! A King! Every army in the world came after us, cutting us down. I swore an oath to save my people, to protect them since you would not! I am bound to kill you or die trying.”
“A powerful oath.”
Flos nodded slowly. Venith bared his teeth.
“I have never broken my vows. You know that.”
“I do.”
“So.”
Venith struggled to lift a hand. He pointed to the blade in Flos’ hand.
“End it. Or we shall fight again. Again and again, until I am dead.”
Trey heard a choked sound from Calac. He was held tightly by two of Venith’s soldiers. Flos nodded.
“Your honor. Your vows. For your people you took them, and I know you are bound to fulfill them. However, I would say one thing to you, Venith Crusland.”
He raised the sword in his hands. Venith narrowed his eyes and gritted his teeth silently. Flos stared at Venith, and then tossed the sword at his feet.
“I do not care.”
Venith stared. Trey stared. Teres stared. The villagers and soldiers were statues. But Flos just smiled. And laughed. And then he shouted so everyone could hear.
“I am no petty tyrant, no fearful monarch! I am Flos, King of Destruction! My heart is large enough to suffer a thousand insults, but too small to accept the loss of one friend. I care not that you renounced your oath of service, Venith. I care not that you swore a vow against me. Join me, and we will fight together as before.”
He held a hand out to Venith. The man stared up at him, open-mouthed. Then he snarled and swiped at Flos’ hand.
“You bastard. You trampled over our dreams, abandoned us when we needed you most! And you dare to come back twenty years later, as if nothing has changed?”
“Yes.”
The man’s voice broke as he screamed at Flos, at his King.
“How dare you! How dare you—you trampled over us once. And now you come back as if nothing happened, spouting your same lies? How can you say the same thing again? You are a heartless tyrant, a fool!”
“That is what it means to be a King.”
Venith fell silent. Flos stared down at him.
“You are right. I cannot take back the past. I cannot undo my mistakes or erase my sins. And they are the gravest of this world. There is no one less deserving of a crown than I. And yet, I am your King. Your King, Venith. Just as you are my vassal.”
Flos moved slowly. He turned to face the crowd of people, the soldiers, the villagers, the twins. But when he spoke, it was only towards Venith.
“I care nothing for your oath. I care not that you raised your sword against me. I only care for you, Venith. I crave your company, more deeply than a lover, more urgently than a babe. I need you, Venith Crusland. Follow my back once more. Be my sword and shield and run with me one more time. One last time. We still have not reached the ends of the earth. But this time we shall.”
Venith stared up at Flos silently, eyes filled with an emotion Trey could not name. The King gazed down at him.
“My kingdom fell to dust because I was not ready before. But this time my dream is rekindled. And it is larger. This time it reaches beyond one continent. It encompasses the world. That is how far we will go. To the edge of the world and beyond. To the furthest nation, to the highest peak. Once, a young boy dreamed of making the world a better place. Now a grown man dreams of the same. The fire burns again in my chest, Venith. I see in my heart lands I have never laid eyes on, of oceans I have never crossed. And I know my enemies wait for me there, uncountable, and allies too. Waiting for the moment I dare to step forwards.”
He held his hand out, blood dripping between his fingers.
“The world waits for me. But I cannot face it alone. So I ask you once more. Renounce your oath. Take my hand or go. But know that you will always be mine. My sworn companion. My friend.”
All was hushed. Venith stared up at Flos’ bloodied hand. He stared at his King. And reached out.
 
——
 
“My King.”
Venith shook his King, grasped his hand. He stared into empty eyes, a vacant expression. Flos stared back, but there was nothing of him in there.
“It is over, Venith.”
“No!”
The man turned and glared at the one who had spoken. Gazi. She was standing next to the throne, eyes downcast, more defeated than he had ever known her. Standing to her right, a soldier, one of the Rustängmarder who would ferry orders to the rest of the company, stood at attention. He and Venith had heard the words from Flos’ mouth, but Venith couldn’t accept it.
“It’s not over!”
“It is. It is all over. I am finished.”
The words came slowly and at a distance from Flos’ mouth. He did not look at Venith. He sat slumped in the small chair, staring at the ground. But Venith refused to hear.
“We can still fight! Give me a command and I will lead your armies myself!”
“It’s not about armies.”
Flos didn’t raise his head. He stared down at his hands.
“She is dead, Venith. Queravia is dead. So is Tottenval.”
“What?”
Something cold lurched in Venith. He had known. But—
“We found his body today.”
Gazi spoke quietly. There were tears in her eyes. Venith couldn’t speak for a few moments. He felt his eyes sting, but he couldn’t stop.
“Even so. Even so—we have to continue. We owe it to them! You can’t just—”
His voice broke. It couldn’t be happening. It couldn’t all be over. The entire kingdom, gone. Not like this. Not—
“It is over, Venith. I am done. The King of Destruction is no more.”
“What about your people? What about your retainers, those who have sworn themselves to you?”
“I cannot be their King.”
Venith lost control. He struck Flos with all his might. The King’s head snapped back, but he didn’t look at Venith. He didn’t react to the blow. He just sat, staring ahead. Silent. That was worst of all.
It was more than Venith could stomach, more than he could bear to see. He would have struck his King once more, but someone caught his hand.
“Don’t do that again.”
Gazi stared at Venith, her grip a vice on his arm. Venith knew he could break her grip, but he saw the look in the half-Gazer’s eyes. And the Rustängmarder soldier was staring at him. They tolerated no treason in their ranks. Another blow and it might be Venith’s corpse lying on the ground.
After a moment, Gazi let go of Venith and he lowered his hand. He stared at his King. A shell. Just that. There was nothing left of his King here, just his appearance. Venith turned away.
“I will never accept it. I will not. I will wait! Until the day you come to your senses.”
Flos made no reply as Venith strode out of the room, slamming the door behind him. And he waited. He waited until it was too late to go back.
 
——
 
Venith took Flos’ hand. The King smiled. He pulled Venith up. The [Lord] stared at his King. Then he smiled.
And struck Flos in the face.
Trey cried out in shock. The King’s head reeled back. He took a step as the people around him surged forwards, howling in fury. But Flos’ hand held them back like a real thing.
“I have not forgotten the day you turned your back on me. My answer is no.”
Flos nodded slowly. The King stared at Venith, not angrily, but with deep disappointment.
“Very well. Go. But know this, Venith Crusland. For two decades you protected my subjects. You guarded them against bandits and monsters alike and kept them fed. You built them a wall, and took care of my people. For that I owe you a debt beyond measuring. And yet.”
He looked Venith in the eye.
“And yet, it was not enough. You gave them food, shelter, pride in honest work. But you could not give them hope. Your dream is still not grand enough. And that is why they will always be mine.”
He turned away, and Venith stumbled, as if his strings were cut. In a moment his son and another soldier were by his side. They propped Venith up. He stared at Flos and then turned without another word.
Flos turned away as well. He walked slowly back towards Trey and Teres. He paused to look at them and then reached out.
“I am tired, you two.”
That was all he said. Then he walked back into the village, head bowed.
 
——
 
Venith rode away from Manimar, feeling every inch of his body hurt. He could barely sit in his saddle, but he sat with back straight when he saw who was waiting ahead of him.
“Mares.”
His wife, [Lady] Maresar smiled and rode to meet Venith. She eyed her husband’s face, and then looked at her son. She frowned at him, which made Calac flinch. Then she looked at Venith and raised an eyebrow.
“Are you feeling better now? That’s twice you’ve struck your own King.”
“He is no longer my King.”
Venith gritted his teeth. His hands were still numb, and he couldn’t feel a distinct part of his face. Maresar only shook her head.
“I heard him shouting from the hill. He is your King. He claimed you, despite how you greeted him. And still you think he hasn’t returned?”
He couldn’t properly reply to that. Venith tried to flex his hand.
“I swore an oath.”
“So you did. But you swore one to him first, if I recall.”
“He abandoned—”
Maresar silenced Venith with another look.
“I didn’t come here to argue the same thing again. You are wounded, dear husband. You had better have a [Healer] see to your injuries.”
He nodded grudgingly. Venith hesitated.
“I am…glad you decided to come after all. Despite our differences.”
“Hm.”
She smiled at him. Venith reached out, and she brushed his hand away. He frowned.
“What is it?”
“I brought half of our retainers with us. Don’t worry; there are enough hands back at home to keep everything working. Until you decide to forgive your King, you’ll have to make do with that.”
He heard her, but he didn’t want to understand.
“Mares, what are you saying?”
“He’s my King too, Venith. You might have thought about that when you decided to challenge him. I’ll wait by his side, but not for too long. Hurry up and make peace with the past already.”
She rode past him. Venith reached out for her but missed. He called out as his wife rode past.
“Mares!”
She didn’t look back once. Venith stared at his wife’s back as she rode away from him. He stared at his King. He clenched his fist and turned away.
 
——
 
Trey saw the procession of soldiers approaching with the woman archer at their head. Flos had seen them too. But he didn’t appear alarmed. He smiled and stopped the woman bandaging his hand.
He walked towards the woman with open arms. Trey saw a woman, darker skinned, hair cropped short, a bow at her back. She was smiling and kicked her horse into a gallop. She leapt from the saddle and onto the ground before Flos.
And then she slapped him. The crack of flesh meeting flesh turned every head in range. Trey felt like he could feel his own cheek stinging as Maresar lowered her hand. Flos blinked at her. Then the woman, Lady Maresar, flung her arms around him and kissed his cheek.
“Ah, Maresar. I am overjoyed to see you haven’t changed.”
Flos laughed as he hugged her. Maresar embraced him tightly and then let go. She was actually taller than he was, although not nearly as heavy.
“That was for leaving us. And that was for coming back. I am delighted to see you, my lord.”
“And I you. But your husband hasn’t joined us.”
Maresar smiled a bit sadly.
“He still has not forgiven you. But you are my King. He will come back in time.”
“So I trust.”
Flos looked at the ranks of soldiers that spread out behind their [Lady]. Each man or woman slowly knelt.
“Those who would not march against you have come to fight for you.”
“I am honored.”
Flos turned to look at someone who came towards him, apart from the army.
“Gazi.”
Gazi the Omniscient smiled at her King. She had sheathed her sword, and was looking around at the people around her with all four eyes. Some had already recognized her, and the people calling her name sounded almost as exuberant as when they’d shouted for Flos.
“Lady Gazi!”
“Gazi the Omniscient has returned!”
“My lord.”
She stopped and bowed her head politely to Flos. He grinned at her.
“I should have known you would spot me going, even without your main eye.”
“Of course.”
“I suppose I should only be relieved that Orthenon and Mars didn’t notice and drag me back as well.”
Flos glanced towards the sky, where the sun was already rising. He grimaced.
“Then again, I’m sure they will have noticed by now. I don’t suppose you told them?”
“Orthenon would have found out soon enough. He’s coming with an army, by the way.”
Flos’ shoulders sagged.
“Really?”
Gazi only smiled and pointed south in reply.
 
——
 
Venith saw the army and the two riding at its head. He called an immediate halt to his men. They formed up, looking frightened.
Orthenon rode at the head of an army of mounted warriors. There were only around four hundred of them, all wearing mismatched armor, but they vastly outnumbered Venith’s force.
“Hold. They won’t attack.”
Or so Venith prayed. He spurred his horse towards Orthenon, wincing with every step his mount took.
“Lord Orthenon.”
He called out as the man approached. Orthenon did not immediately reply. He was holding a spear, two metal hafts sticking out just below the shaft. He rode fast and hard at Venith, and the man slowed. Venith’s hand grabbed his shield, as much out of reflex as conscious thought.
He wouldn’t—
Orthenon raised his spear. Venith’s arm moved up and he raised his shield overhead as his soldiers cried out.
The winged spear flashed down and crashed into Venith’s raised shield. The impact rang throughout Venith’s body and sent him tumbling off his saddle. Orthenon raised his spear and regarded the head, which had deformed from the impact. He tossed it to one side and Venith braced himself for the man to draw his sword. But Orthenon simply nodded calmly down at Venith as he lay on the ground.
“Lord Venith.”
He rode past the man as Venith struggled to his feet. Mars stared down at Venith and then rode past him without a word, sitting awkwardly on her mount. He was getting to his feet when she kicked him in the back.
 
——
 
