“Flos of Reim. I have come for your head.”
The young man lying on the ground looked up. He stared in vague surprise at the other young man on horseback. His eyes fixed first on Venith’s set face and clenched jaw. Only then did he focus on the sword in Venith’s left hand.
He sat up and yawned, but didn’t reply to Venith’s statement. He scratched the back of his head and shook loose some of the dirt that had gotten trapped there. Of all the things Venith had expected, this wasn’t it.
He drew his horse closer, cursing a bit as his mare seemed more interested in Flos’ stallion, which was placidly eating a few whippy plants to the left. Venith glared down at the king of Reim, Flos. He didn’t seem like much to Venith. He was bigger than the young man on horseback, but Venith had beaten grown men far larger.
“Did you hear me? I said—”
“I heard you.”
Flos looked up at Venith, not intimidated the least by the sword the other man held. The young king had a sword, Venith could see. But he didn’t reach for it.
“Well?”
“I’m thinking.”
That was all the young man with bright red-gold hair said. He stared at Venith, frowning as if the young man were a puzzle, rather than an enemy.
That was too much for Venith’s pride. He lifted his sword.
“Have you any last words before I cut you apart?”
“I’m rather wondering why you didn’t do it earlier, actually.”
“What?”
Flos sprang to his feet, so quickly Venith cursed and pulled his horse back. He rode backwards as the king mused to himself out loud.
“It’s strange. If you were another [Assassin], or a [Bounty Hunter] or [Mercenary], or any one of the people who’ve come to claim my head this month, you’d have tried to sneak up and stab me to death, or blast me with a spell at range. Or use an arrow. Or poison. But you didn’t. You rode up and told me you were going to kill me.”
“So? I’m a [Warrior]. Are you going to draw your sword or not?”
Venith didn’t know why he was replying when he should have been attacking. But Flos just grinned as if he knew.
“If I didn’t, would you cut me down? Unarmed?”
“Yes!”
“No, I don’t think you would. Else, you’d have ridden at me and not given me time to prepare.”
That was true. Venith knew he should have done that, and he flushed angrily. But Flos just smiled.
“So you’re coming to take my head? Why?”
“My reasons are my own. I’m challenging you, King of Reim. Are you a coward, or will you answer me with steel?”
Venith raised his voice and shouted down at the young man. Flos sighed. He reached for his side and drew his sword. Venith tensed.
“Well?”
Flos looked mystified.
“Well, what?”
“Get on your stallion.”
The young King looked over at where his stallion had gone to graze. He shook his head.
“I don’t feel like it. I’ll fight you on foot. It won’t make a difference either way.”
“What?”
Venith stared down at Flos. He felt unbalanced. The young king of Reim, the boy with eight thousand gold pieces on his head dead and twice that alive, grinned as he spread his arms.
“Shouldn’t you be glad? I’ve heard a mounted [Rider] can defeat three [Soldiers] of the same level.”
That was just a rumor. Venith had heard the same thing boasted of, but since he was no [Rider] he’d never want to try that. He stared down with narrowed eyes at Flos. He wasn’t what Venith had expected at all. He hadn’t tried to beg for his life, or flee for safety. Part of Venith couldn’t help but admire the King for his confidence.
But he was here to kill the young man. That made everything harder. After a second of furious internal debate, Venith swung himself off his horse. He set his mare running with a slap on her side as he grabbed the shield he always carried. It was flat along the top and curved downwards to a point at the bottom. A heater shield. This one didn’t have Venith’s heraldry on it. It, like his sword, was unmarked, so no one would know his identity when the deed was done.
Flos eyed Venith as the young man approached, keeping his shield up.
“You needn’t have done that.”
“Shut up. I’m better without my horse. Now, are you going to fight?”
Venith was angry without knowing why. He didn’t want to do this, but he had to. He wished he’d never spoken. But to his surprise, the young Flos just grinned.
“As you like. I am Flos of Reim! What’s your name?”
It was too late to go back. Venith shouted over the thundering of his heart.
“Venith Crusland! Prepare to die!”
He charged, ready to end it in a single thrust. But Flos raised his sword and Venith, forewarned, raised his shield. He felt something crash into his shield and staggered. He raised his sword, but Flos was already running past him. Venith spun, and heard a strange noise over the blood pumping in his veins. It was laughter. Flos was laughing—
Five minutes later, Venith lay on the ground. He couldn’t move. Part of the armor around his legs was damaged and unable to bend. And his right hand felt broken. He stared up at the blue, clear sky while he heard footsteps crunching in the dirt, coming towards him.
“I told you it wouldn’t make a difference.”
Venith closed his eyes. He refused to cry, or beg. He tried to speak and coughed.
“Finish me off already.”
“Why?”
Someone reached down and hauled Venith up. The young man found himself being carried to the slight incline where he’d first laid eyes on Flos. The young king dropped Venith there, and Venith stared up at him.
“If you plan on torturing me to find out where I come from—”
“Don’t be silly. I like you. And I don’t care where you come from. I just want to know why you came to kill me.”
Flos grinned down at Venith. He was barely sweating. Venith stared up at him.
“I needed the bounty on your head. That’s all.”
He felt ashamed for saying it. It wasn’t an honorable thing to do. But Venith was no [Knight]. He had duties. He was ready for Flos to scorn him, but the young king only laughed.
“That’s why you tried to kill me? Just for money? Then it’s no wonder you lost!”
That stung. Venith tried to rise and fell back.
“I had a chance! I waited until you were alone. If I’d attacked from behind—”
“You still would have lost. I can’t be killed by [Assassins], you see. I have a friend—well, a vassal, really. She would have killed you, but I told her to let you come closer.”
“A vassal?”
Venith looked around stupidly, but he hadn’t seen anyone when he’d approached Flos. The king just smiled.
“You might have beaten me, it’s true, but not with a bad reason like that.”
He laughed again. It was beginning to get on Venith’s nerves.
“What do you mean?”
The boy King stopped laughing and regarded Venith, suddenly serious.
“If your reason isn’t good enough, there’s no way you’d ever best me. I have a dream as large as all of Chandrar. If yours isn’t at least half as big, you’ll never be able to beat me.”
“What? That’s stupid.”
“It’s not. I’ll never die so long as I have my dream. That’s why I knew I could beat you.”
Flos stared down at the other young man. He offered Venith a hand again. After a moment of hesitation, Venith took it.
“You’re nothing like what I’ve heard.”
“Oh?”
“I heard you were a fool who accepted traitors and slaves into his kingdom. A rabble rouser with no respect for law or tradition.”
“That’s partly true. But it doesn’t matter.”
“Why not?”
Flos spread his arms wide, grinning broadly with a smile that was infectious.
“I am a King. If I cared what people thought, I’d really be a fool, wouldn’t I?”
Venith stared at him. He wasn’t like any [King] Venith had ever met, not that he’d had a chance to talk to any other one. He’d only glimpsed other monarchs from afar, usually on bended knee or while dining at a feast or banquet. But Flos was different.
“So if you won’t kill me, what will you do? My family…cannot afford to pay a ransom if that’s what you’re hoping.”
“I don’t want that either. I think I’ll just let you go.”
Flos turned and whistled as Venith gaped. One horse came running. Venith’s mare. Flos stared at his stallion and kicked at the dirt irritably. Then he smiled again as Venith staggered over to his mare.
“When you have a better reason for fighting, come find me again. That was fun.”
The other young man made no reply. He hauled himself up into the saddle, wincing. He wheeled his mare to stare at Flos. Then he shook his head.
“You aren’t worth my time.”
Venith spurred his mare and rode away as he heard the young man named Flos howl with laughter. At that moment, Venith hated that sound. But he would hear it for many more years and smile. Until the day the laughter stopped…
 
——
 
Laughter. It was fierce, loud, and unexpected. It made Trey jolt as he stared at Flos. The King of Destruction was laughing at the man who’d spoken. Venith Crusland.
It made everyone stare. The villagers, crowded protectively around their King, the mounted warriors, even the man with the sword. He wore a helmet with no visor, allowing Trey to see his face. Venith was an older man, around Flos’ age. He had dark hair, and a stern, set face. He held a shield on his right hand, and a drawn sword in his left. But Flos only laughed at him. He laughed and laughed, as if he’d heard a truly hilarious joke, not a threat against his life.
When he finished, there was silence. Flos wiped tears from his eyes, and then stared up at the mounted man, his smile fading. Venith Crusland hadn’t moved, and his eyes hadn’t shifted from Flos’ face.
“Memory is a strange thing, Venith. Do you have a better reason for seeking my life this time?”
The man on the warhorse stared down at Flos, cold emotions locked behind his eyes.
“Peace for my people. Vengeance, and retribution for an oathbreaker. And an end to your lies.”
Flos sighed. His shoulders slumped slightly, and he stared at Venith with disappointment. Disappointment, and something else. Regret, Trey thought. Or was it guilt?
“Oh? I had hoped to see you before now, Venith. I thought you would be the first to ride through my gates. I waited for you long, old friend.”
“You would have had to wait forever. I did not rejoice to hear you had awakened. And if you had the sense to stay clear of my lands, you would not have forced my hand.”
Venith raised his sword slightly. Flos stared at it.
“You are serious.”
“I do not forgive betrayal. And I swore an oath to take arms against you should you ever wake from your slumber.”
Now Venith rode forwards. He motioned slightly with his shield, and the other mounted soldiers spread out with him. They drew their weapons as well. But…hesitantly. Trey saw one armored warrior riding next to Venith fumble before raising a spear.
Venith didn’t seem to notice. The [Lord] stared at the mob of villagers surrounding Flos.
“Move aside.”
“No, my Lord Venith!”
A man moved to bar Venith’s way. He stared pleadingly up at the [Lord].
“Our King has returned, don’t you see? How could you raise your sword against him?”
Trey heard more voices raised in agreement around him. Venith stared as the villagers moved to protect their King, forming a living wall between him and Flos. His face twisted with fury.
“Silence! You are not his subjects. You are mine! I am your [Lord]! I have ruled you for twenty years!”
“But I am their [King].”
Flos strode forwards. The people around him parted unwillingly, but they did move. Flos stood at the head of the villagers, staring up at Venith without fear.
“Pull your warriors back, Venith. The people of Manimar are not tainted by my guilt.”
“Then send them away and face me yourself, coward.”
“No.”
Trey saw Venith blink incredulously. But Flos was calm as he went on.
“I will not let myself die here. But neither will I order my subjects to a slaughter. And neither will you. You are not that sort of man, Venith.”
“You do not know me.”
The [King] met the [Lord]’s eyes steadily.
“Yes. I do. You will not slaughter innocent people here. Pull your forces back and we will settle this in a duel, Venith.”
For a second, Trey thought Venith might order his men to attack. His face was red with fury, but he eventually growled a command. He wheeled his horse and the others did likewise.
All except for one. The rider holding the spear was staring at Flos. Trey had an uneasy feeling. He fought to get closer and realized Teres wasn’t at his side. Where had she gone?
Then his head turned as he heard her voice.
“Look out!”
Teres was standing near the edge of the crowd. She had something in her hands. She hurled it as the mounted rider kicked his horse forwards. She’d thrown a stone, but it was too late. The mounted warrior was shouting as he aimed his spear at Flos’ chest.
“Die, King of Destruction!”
He ducked the thrown rock and raised his spear to impale Flos. The King stared at the rider as he charged at him. He seemed to sigh.
The spear shot forwards as the rider thrust with it. But it stopped as Flos reached out and grabbed the shaft. He didn’t budge, and as the horse continued forwards the spear was locked between the two. The warrior slammed into his saddle and then tumbled off it as his mount’s forward momentum tried to carry him forwards and the spear held him back.
He tumbled off the horse and landed hard on the ground with a crash of armor. At once, the villagers were upon him. Enraged by the attack, they began kicking and stomping on him as he tried to get up.
“Calac!”
Someone shouted that name amid the roars of anger as the rest of the villagers streamed towards the downed warrior. Trey turned his head and saw Venith was riding back, sword in hand. The villagers scattered as he rode through them, striking with the flat of his sword and knocking men and women away.
He dismounted and reached for the fallen figure. At once, the villagers were around him. Venith turned, sword and shield ready, but it was Flos who strode forwards. He stopped the villagers from descending on the two warriors.
“Enough. Let him go.”
“But your Majesty—”
“Let him go. ”
Reluctantly, the people backed away. Flos stared down at Venith; the man was a head shorter than him. Then his eyes went to the warrior who’d tried to kill him. He was still helmeted, but Trey thought he was a younger man.
“Is that your son, Venith? I remember the name. Calac. You wrote to me the day he was born, and I drank to his health. I am happy he is grown, even if his manners are lacking.”
“He is my son. And a fool.”
For all his harsh words, Venith carefully carried his son to his horse. He helped Calac to mount as a second mounted soldier brought a second horse over to Venith. Flos called out to him as Venith put one foot in his stirrups.
“I have never seen his face.”
