“Honestly, I’m kinda surprised at how well things worked out.”

Cheeks smarting from smiling for too long, Sarnai shook her head in mock reproach and lectured her brilliant son. “This is not the sort of thing a confident young hero is supposed to admit. Better for you to keep quiet and behave as if you had planned it all out in advance.”

“No, that’s too cold and calculating, and not at all like me. No one would ever believe it.” Never one to accept credit even where it was due, Rain grinned and asked, “Besides, what’s more intimidating? Someone who makes intricate plans and carries them out to perfection, or someone so naturally talented they don’t need to plan at all?”

“The first one, child.” Rolling her eyes, Sarnai reached across the table and rapped his head lightly. “What sort of question is this? The first is a brilliant mastermind, and the other a lucky fool.”

“If given the option, I’d take luck over brains any day of the week, but alas, fortune is a fickle mistress.” Filling her porcelain teacup like a dutiful son, Rain deftly abandoned the topic to discuss some trivial matter with Zheng Luo. He’d always had a peculiar way of seeing things, this sweet son of hers, and delighted in bucking trends to approach things in whatever manner he deemed best. Perhaps this was the secret to his unprecedented Martial success, for it was common knowledge that each warrior must forge their own Path, and Rain’s approach seemed uniquely suited for the task.

Question everything, verify all answers, and above all else, trust your own instincts. A somewhat cynical and calculated world view in Sarnai’s opinion, but considering his traumatic childhood, she could hardly blame him for becoming suspicious and self-reliant.

Happy to sit back and let Rain and Zheng Luo enjoy themselves, Sarnai sipped her delicious herbal tea and surveyed the Peony Pavilion tea house once again, knowing their conversation was being relayed to anyone and everyone of importance within the Citadel. There were no private rooms in this three-storied dessert restaurant, a decision which was sure to see the lovely hardwood flooring stained with blood sooner rather than later, but perhaps things were different here in Central. Their Nobles did so love to preen and posture, but it was difficult to show off your latest dress or jewellery with everyone of worth hidden away in their own rooms, and thus the popularity of this ‘open concept’ dessert store. It’d become something of a statement to be seen eating here in one’s most fashionable finery, which meant the other diners around Sarnai had been drawn from the highest echelons of society and looked like a pack of painted fools in feathered frippery.

Who, as a whole, were making great efforts to not notice Rain and Zheng Luo while simultaneously paying attention to their every move in hopes of solving the mystery which was Falling Rain. Good luck to them, as Sarnai had known him for almost a decade now and still didn’t understand his mind. Alsantset and the twins were so much easier to deal with, sweet children who learned things step by step instead of all at once and only when absolutely necessary. Much as Sarnai loved her son, Rain was a jumbled patchwork of confusing contradictions. Loyal and loving as a hound, yet aloof and capricious as a cat, he was a terrified boy possessed of boundless courage, one not at all suited for the rigours of war and conflict yet so phenomenally talented it was as if he were born to tread the Martial Path. There were times when she wondered if he would be happier as anything besides a Warrior, but then she saw how hard he worked to regain what he’d lost in the wake of his shattered Core, and she didn’t know what to think anymore.

In the end, she defaulted to what she always did. Let Rain decide what he wanted in life, and she would simply do her best to support him, like she did here in Central. Games of politics being what they were, Sarnai ignored them and sipped her tea, her eyes glancing over every fop, dandy, hussy, and trollop without stopping to acknowledge them. A subtle insult, disregarding them in such egregious fashion, but if they expected her to simper and tacitly invite them over to introduce themselves and insult her son, then they were all in for a rude awakening. While they pretended to ignore her ignoring them, she scanned her surroundings for threats and tried Rain’s trick of comparing what she saw with her memory of their surroundings, which she’d spent a half-hour thoroughly memorizing from Concealment before leaving to pick up her son from the theatre. She found no discrepancies, which was upsetting because she knew there were Concealed Sentinels inside the restaurant, so either Rain’s method was flawed, a Mother-Blessed Talent, or Sarnai simply wasn’t observant enough to pick up on the minor differences.

How frustrating. Rain made it sound so simple, yet she couldn’t replicate his success even when she knew a Concealed Martial Warrior was standing right in the room...

The Legate’s note implied there would be danger here, and Ryo Da’in made great efforts to ensure Rain’s friends were otherwise occupied, so Sarnai expected the worst and intended to use this as a show of force to eradicate anyone and everyone who dared move against them. There were no less than sixty Peak Experts stationed in and around the Peony Pavilion tea house, and Sarnai ached for the chance to take up her spear and show the Empire that Falling Rain did not stand alone and the People were a formidable force to be reckoned with.

Not that her son needed coddling. No, he was doing fine on his own, and she could not be more proud. While putting the final touches on her preparations for their mother-son tea date, Sarnai received an urgent Sending from Naaran telling her to check in on the opera house, where Rain’s phenomenal (and frankly unbelievable) performance took her breath away. He looked so lively and heroic from behind the lens of her Scrying, but she worried for him so, and even with Naaran narrating the dialogue to her through Sending, she felt so lost and unsure of what to do next. Only MuYang’s many quiet assurances had kept her from rushing in to spirit her son away to safety, because so much could have gone wrong in that short exchange, with her frail, helpless boy standing on one side and a formidable young warrior of no small renown on the other. She could easily see some Imperial Noble ordering the sacrifice of the Ishin family in exchange for taking the contentious Falling Rain off the board, her poor son’s life lost with an errant swing of Ken-Shibu’s blade, and then their calamitous path would be set. Sarnai’s heart almost stopped multiple times during their brief dialogue, not only when Rain carelessly hoisted himself on stage and away from the safety of his Concealed guards, but also again when he requested the use of Ken-Shibu’s swords. The Ishin boy could have even Guided his weapons while they were in Rain’s hands to make him look the fool or worse, but he knew what he was doing. Ken-Shibu was either too enraged by Rain’s flippant attitude to Guide while also Lightening and Honing his weapons, or he simply didn’t think it was wise to try after the initial demonstration.

Or a multitude of other reasons she couldn’t fathom, for political dealings were akin to speaking another language in her eyes. Games is what they were, games to entertain Martial Warriors with too much time on their hands and no Defiled tribes to defend against.

Pleased as Sarnai was over her son’s stunning victory, she hated seeing him risk his life so often just to keep politically afloat. The Citadel would soon be abuzz with the news of his phenomenal Martial demonstration and how he copied Ken-Shibu’s dizzying movements with only a single glance, but few saw the toll it took on her poor boy. They only saw the valiant and dazzling young man who strode off stage after dealing a grievous blow to the Ishin boy’s reputation, but it was Sarnai who had to bite her tongue and stealthily push Rain up the stairs to his carriage, so exhausted after this gruelling bout of physical and mental exertion he could barely keep his head up. According to Healer Abjiya, who’d been Concealed and waiting inside the carriage at his explicit request, he’d pulled thirteen muscles in total across his arms, back, and calves during his short demonstration on stage, mostly thanks to Ishin Ken-Shibu varying the weight of his swords through Lightening.

The worst part? Sarnai hadn’t even noticed any sign of distress until he faltered at the carriage steps, for her son was far too well-practised at hiding his pain.

It all came to light once there was no one to see him save for Sarnai, Zheng Luo, and Abjiya. No one else saw Rain sink into his seat, his skin drawn, cheeks pale, and brow glistening with sweat, or watched him tremble from head to toe the entire twenty-minute ride from the opera theatre to tea house, staring at his bamboo flask the whole way over until the carriage came to a stop. Finally trusting his shaky hands enough to bring the flask to his lips, he emptied the entire thing in one go, desperately gulping it down as if it held liquid courage itself.

Then he closed his eyes, took a deep breath, and like magic, the nervous, anxious, exhausted young man was gone, and in his place was the calm, confident, and smiling warrior, Falling Rain. This was a part he played, Sarnai saw this now, and it was much like the Baledagh persona he supposedly relied upon for so many years as a teen. At least now the difference was less pronounced and he was more honest about his acting. Taking her eyes off the crowd, Sarnai watched her son smile and chat about his Laughing Bird with his beautiful concubine, showing the watching crowd and Concealed spies exactly what they expected to see from Imperial Consort Falling Rain and Imperial Servant Zheng Luo. Happy, carefree, filial, and in good health, this was what these people would say when asked how he appeared, which was exactly what he needed to keep the Imperial Legate from abandoning him.

Of course, this was assuming he hadn’t already been thrown to the wolves, which was questionable at best. The opera show had been nothing more than a thinly disguised attempt to assassinate Rain’s character, and he would never have been in that position if not for the Legate’s meddling. Inside the carriage, Zheng Luo had explained what she believed was supposed to happen, with Rain rattling off a detailed critique of the opera performance and proving he was still sound of mind, while other planted members of the audience did their best to disprove his points. So long as Rain put forth a few good points and counterpoints, Zheng Luo assumed Ryo Da’in would eventually step in to defend Rain’s honour and defeat Ishin Ken-Shibu soundly. Unfortunately, Sarnai couldn’t bring herself to trust the fox-eyed vixen, nor did she wholly agree with Zheng Luo’s optimistic conclusion, especially considering that Ken-Shibu tried to push for a duel against one of Rain’s friends at the end. The Legate most likely expected Rain to embarrass himself beyond all compare, at which point Fung, BoShui, or Zian would stand to defend his honour, but against Ken-Shibu, the outcome was a foregone conclusion.

Falling Rain humiliated, his allies defeated, a pawn sacrificed, and a rebellion averted. Multiple birds with one arrow, while the Legate’s archer, Ryo Da’in, sat and smiled from behind half-lidded eyes while her inaction revealed the truth of the matter to anyone with eyes.

Games within games, Pei. Still, had the Legate’s schemes come to fruition as Sarnai envisioned, it would not have been the worst outcome to be had. The Legate lost no face in sacrificing a pawn, and Rain could retire from the public eye in a mostly bloodless manner, albeit at the steep cost of face and reputation. Of course, there was a good chance the Legate would not have left things there, but Sarnai’s sweet boy ruined all these carefully laid plans by falling asleep only minutes after the lights went out, much to her amusement. He had such an infuriating way about him at times, and it was good to finally see it put to good use against his enemies.

Still, a small part of her wondered if they might have all been better served if her son hadn’t ‘lucked’ his way into an overwhelming victory at the opera house, but it was hard to believe the Legate would ever, under any circumstances, let Rain go home to live in peace. An investment had been made without turning profit, and Sarnai had yet to hear of an Imperial Noble who was gracious in defeat.

