Regardless of what might have been, there were still a number of pressing concerns to deal with, first and foremost whatever danger was supposed to strike here at the tea-house. Then there was the matter of rumours going around that Falling Rain had somehow faked the destruction of his Spiritual Weapons, though the reasons varied wildly. Some claimed it was out of cowardice, despite Rain holding the record for most consecutive days spent out on patrol and overall time spent on the front lines at the time of his injury. Others shouted about how he was shirking his Mother-blessed duties, even though there were thousands of entitled Martial Warriors who had yet to set foot beyond the Citadel walls. There were also whispers of Rain having arranged Mitsue Hideo’s death in Sinuji, supposedly out of jealousy even though Rain was ten times the man that entitled idiot of a Central brat would ever be, or that Rain was somehow in league with the Defiled Emissary Gen and therefore responsible for every death in Sinuji. No one cared that Rain helped lay the groundwork for the trap which killed three to five-hundred thousand Defiled on the fields of Sinuji, or that he’d proven himself time and time again whilst out patrolling the front lines, or that he selflessly provided the Empire with the means to make cheap paper, iron, fragrant soap, and a whole multitude of other innovative discoveries all for free. None of it mattered. The truth was an unwelcome guest in the minds of these unrepentant nitpickers, because the truth was that they only held Rain up to such impossible standards because they didn’t like seeing a ‘tribal savage’ surpass them. He wasn’t like them, and ergo, not what a hero should be, so he must not be a hero at all.

And all of this was before Rain’s Martial demonstration at the opera house. Sarnai had heard several groups whispering about Rain’s ‘fake injuries’ firsthand while shopping, and she could only imagine how those fools would see his actions at the opera house as proof of their unfounded suspicions. Hell, they might even accuse Rain of making disparaging remarks which were detrimental towards morale with regards to his closing statement, or twist his words to make it seem like he looked down on any warrior who had yet to face the Defiled on the field of battle, like his own ‘ally’, Ryo Da’in.

“Mom.” Startling her out of her thoughts, Rain placed his hand over Sarnai’s and squeezed it tight, his concerned gaze showing over a feigned smile. “Relax. Have fun. We’re here to enjoy ourselves, which is difficult to do with you scowling at everyone who looks in our general direction.”

“Sorry.” Cheeks colouring with embarrassment, she Sent, “All this waiting has me on edge. I almost wish the assassins would make their move so we can get this over and done with.”

“Don’t worry Mom.” Smiling wryly at her embarrassment, Rain gestured at the desserts in front of her, laid out so artistically on her plate. “I highly doubt we need to concern ourselves with assassins. Hidden daggers were a fine option while we were still on the road, sure, but here in the Citadel, everyone needs to keep up appearances, even if only for the sake of face.” Leaning in close, he whispered, “There are five Colonel Generals and three Marshals present in the Citadel, and if they can’t be trusted to keep the peace, how can they be trusted to work together and defend the provinces against the Defiled? It would only cause fear and unrest, a grave risk and steep price considering how bad I am at dying. No, whatever our foes are planning here, it won’t be so... direct.” Popping his last cube of almond jelly into his mouth, he waggled his eyebrows at her plate. “So eat your desserts before I steal them all away.”

“Incorrigible fool.” At least his appetite was still good, though Sarnai was mildly miffed he hadn’t shared his thoughts with her earlier. “You really think nothing will happen?” She Sent, trusting his judgment more than her own when it came to matters of politics. He proved himself in that opera house today, and Sarnai was not too proud to listen to her son’s advice.

“That’s not what I said Mom.” Patient and calm, he feigned another smile and added, “But don’t worry. Things are well in hand.” Gesturing at her plate for the third time, he stressed, “Finish your food, and then we can go.”

Oh Mother Above, he was waiting for her to finish so they could leave. Or at least that’s what she thought, before he turned around and ordered a single bowl of tofu pudding. The Legate’s note said it would be lacklustre, but it was still one of Sarnai’s favourite desserts, so she found it odd that Rain only ordered for himself, which was not at all like him. Still, she trusted him to navigate through these muddied political waters, so she obediently cleaned her plate and jealously watched him gulp down the single bowl of tofu pudding they brought him. She didn’t even bat an eye when he grossly overpaid to settle the bill sight unseen, tossing gold cards onto the table and pressing gold bars into the server’s hands like a drunken wastrel at a whorehouse.

A good thing they broke him of that habit early on, else who knows what sort of irresponsible rascal he might have grown into...

Linking his arm with hers, Rain led them out to their waiting carriage, which he promptly boarded without greeting Ping Ping or waiting for Roc to hop off of his perch. That was the first clue Sarnai spotted which indicated something was wrong, and as the door closed behind her and Zheng Luo, she spotted her second clue as Rain picked up a waiting chamber pot, clutched it to his chest, and proceeded to stick his fingers down his throat and vomit up everything he’d just eaten.

So surprised by his actions, Sarnai almost called for the carriage to stop, but MuYang’s warning arrived just in time to keep her from panicking. “Say nothing,” he Sent, playing the part of carriage driver today. “He knows what he’s doing. The carriage is guarded against sound and Scrying, so let us not spoil his efforts with hysterics.”

Though burning to know why her son was vomiting, Sarnai sat still and let Rain go about his work. “How’s it look,” he whispered a few minutes later, gratefully accepting a water skin from Abjiya while she checked his health, her hand resting on the back of Rain’s neck.

“Again,” the taciturn woman said, gesturing at the chamber pot. “Then finish the water before vomiting a third time.”

Audibly groaning at the command, Rain dutifully stuck his fingers down his throat once again and set himself to work, with Sarnai’s heart in pain the whole while. Oh how she yearned to wipe his brow, pat his back, stroke his hair, do something to help soothe his nerves, but physical contact with Rain might interfere with the Healer’s efforts. A long ten minutes later, Abjiya nodded and said, “This is acceptable for now, though the concoction you drank is still there. You should have nothing to worry about.”

This said, Sarnai couldn’t help but notice Abjiya continued monitoring Rain’s health...

“Good. That means its doing its job.” Accepting another water skin from Zheng Luo, he used this one to rinse his mouth and hands before sealing the chamber pot and putting it aside. “Also, if we ever have to do this again, please remind me to specify that I would like a new receptacle to vomit in, not just one that’s been washed. That was highly unpleasant.”

Unable to wait any longer, Sarnai wrung her hands and growled, “Explain.” Oh her poor, sweet boy. She had half a mind to turn this carriage around and burn that overpriced snack shop to the ground...

“Sorry I didn’t tell either of you in advance.” Even discomforted as he was, Rain still forced himself to smile. “I was worried you’d bring me away if I told you the food was probably poisoned.”

“Poisoned?” Sarnai scoffed even as Zheng Luo squeaked in fright. No courage in this one, but Rain had more than enough to make up for it. Hopefully their children would take the average and come out somewhat reasonable, neither craven and cowardly nor suicidally brave. “Impossible. Any poison strong enough to bring low a Martial Warrior would have overpowered the flavour of the food.”

“True, but I’m not entirely sure I still count as one.” Shrugging, Rain clarified, “Technically, anyone with a Core is considered a Martial Warrior, and there are plenty of people who barely qualify, but enjoy the same near immunity to poisons and diseases. The problem is, we don’t understand the mechanics behind Martial Warrior immunities. Is it metabolic, meaning our bodies are improved by Heavenly Energy to where it can break down poisons on its own? Or does the presence of Chi moving through our Core and Spiritual bodies cleanse away the impurities? If it’s the former, then poison shouldn’t affect me, but if it’s the latter, then I’m as vulnerable as your average farmer or fisherman, and considering how sick I was for the first few months after shattering my Core, I’m leaning towards the latter.”

These were the musings which made her boy’s Martial Path so unique. It was like asking why fish swam in water and birds flew through the air. That was simply the way of the world, but Rain’s boundless curiosity pushed him to learn more. “Then what could you possibly stand to gain from ingesting poison? Why would you take such a risk?” Oh Mother Above, please see him safely through this...

“He wants our enemies and allies alike to believe he is in perfect health.” It was clear by her tone that Zheng Luo had only just arrived at this conclusion, and she was almost as concerned as Sarnai. “But Lord Husband, you should refrain from doing this again. There are poisons that will merely inconvenience a Martial Warrior but are instantly fatal for commoners, so... so...”

“It’s okay.” All but glowing with pride, Rain puffed his chest and said, “I have good reasons for going through with this. First off, I was pretty sure they wouldn’t use any poison that would affect a Martial Warrior, just in case one of you two noticed something amiss and got me to a Healer. Secondly, I didn’t think they’d use a fast acting poison either, mostly because they wouldn’t want my death to be too obvious. If I die at the tea-house, then it would turn into this big, public affair which warrants a public inquiry and can turn into a scandal, and if I show symptoms while I’m still awake, then I can just go running to Teacher and all their hard work goes wasted. The smartest move is to use a slow acting poison, something that will take effect in the middle of the night when no one is watching, because then it just looks like I died in my sleep of some health complication or the other.”

“...So what now?” Zheng Luo asked, all teary and doe-eyed while she asked the question Sarnai dared not ask. “Will you... will you be alright?”

“Should be.” Eyeing Abjiya to see if she disagreed, Rain gave an almost imperceptible shrug and said, “Teacher helped brew this medicinal tea I remembered reading about, something to coat the lining of the stomach and inhibit digestion. Supposed to help settle gastrointestinal problems or something, but we all agreed it might buy me enough time to purge everything I ate before I digested any of it.”

“I am not able to tell if it worked yet,” Abjiya absently murmured, so focused on inspecting Rain’s health. “A clever trick and the theory is sound, but it is difficult to prove the absence of poison without going through every nook and cranny, especially if it is a subtle poison like what was used in Nan Ping. So far, he looks healthy though, no clots, arrhythmia, temperature spikes, or adverse reaction, but I will remain close by and check his health every half hour.”

Taking deep breaths to calm herself, Sarnai gripped her spear tight. “Good, good. So now we return to the manor, where Taduk will help you purge what remains of the poison.” Leaving her free to go hunt the perpetrator. The poisoner was probably long gone by now, or worse, dead and disposed of, but their absence would be noted, unless of course the rest of the staff was in on the plan too...

“Actually, no.” Sheepishly staring at his feet, Rain said, “I kinda, sorta, asked Teacher to err... go be publicly seen with Grandpa Du. And to not come home until late at night, or if possible, stay... somewhere else. Or else I wouldn’t have bothered with the tea and the puking. Also, we’re not going home, we’re meeting up with Lin-Lin, Song, and the twins to visit the Ryo household so Da’in can ‘introduce’ us to the Colonel General.”

“...Why?”

“To keep up the illusion.” Meeting her eyes, he sighed and sank back into his seat with a tired but genuine smile, which earned him a grunt and a frown from Abjiya who was still monitoring his health. “As you may have noticed, poison is hard to defend against and I can’t keep being this cautious forever, which means the best course of action is to trick everyone into believing that this plan worked, but the poison failed without Teacher’s intervention.”

“And thus making our enemy believe you still have the constitution of a Martial Warrior.” Furrowing her brow in her pouty-lipped fashion, Zheng Luo asked, “But Lord Husband, what if more than one of your foes uses poison against you?”

“Oh no worries, I’m sure the Legate will tell everyone all about it.” Seeing their puzzled glances, Rain blinked in surprise before breaking out in a grin. “Oh wow, you guys didn’t know? Would you look at that. Falling Rain, Superrrrrrr Genius!”

“Less gloating,” Sarnai growled, exasperated to the extreme. “And more explaining.”

