“Sorry. It’s not everyday I outwit my mother and my consort.” Faintly gesturing back towards the tea-house, he said, “All of that was the Legate’s ploy. He told us himself, in a roundabout fashion.” Taking on the air of an Imperial Noble, he menacingly intoned, “The tofu pudding. Is to die for. Wah-Ha-Ha-Ha!”

So that’s why he ordered a single serving of tofu pudding before leaving. She even watched him drink it down without blinking, while knowing full well it might kill him, oh her courageous, idiotic son. Rain was right not to share his suspicions, for Sarnai would have never let him go through with it...

Mother in Heaven, why must you torment this poor child so?

“Stop moving,” Abjiya barked, cutting short Rain’s maniacal laugh. “Hard enough to monitor your health in this bouncing death trap without you squirming about.”

“Sorry Abjiya.” Few people could put Rain in his place like so, and Sarnai favoured the stern Healer with an approving nod as he continued, “Anyways, the Legate will probably ‘find out’ that ‘his Seneschal’ tried to kill me with poison and failed, then go complaining to all his friends about how difficult his life is. ‘Oh, woe is me, it’s so hard to find good help these days’, or something to that effect, while making it clear that I am impervious to common poisons. I should probably thank him, since this’ll save me a lot of headaches in the future, though it seems weird to thank someone for poisoning my food.”

Though he made it all out to be some sort of joke, Sarnai knew he was putting on a brave face. Unable to take his hand for fear of interfering with Abjiya’s work, she leaned forward and sighed. “I’m sorry, son. Your old mother is useless in these matters and can do nothing to ease your burdens.” What a fool she’d been, guarding him against assassins in the middle of the Citadel itself. She should have sent her Peak Experts to watch the kitchen instead, or anticipated what Rain intended and convinced him to take a less dangerous route.

“There’s nothing to apologize for Mom. The People’s strength is the only reason I’m allowed to play these games to begin with.” Patting himself on the chest, he said, “I can still handle this much pressure, so don’t you worry about a thing. Besides there is something you can help me with.” Leaning a little forwards, he whispered, “Could you keep all this a secret from Major Binesi, and tell him my schedule is going to be packed these next few days? I promised him I’d stay safe in the manor, but if the Legate is going to throw me into the fray, I’d rather make my own plans and give myself reason to refuse. You can frame it as me trying to drum up support for Colonel General Nian Zu’s proposal, and maybe he won’t have me whipped for disobeying orders.”

“Of course, dear child.” As if she’d ever let that mule-headed fool lay finger on her son, much less take a lash to his hide. Frowning as she settled back in her seat, she asked, “What proposal are you helping the Colonel General with?”

“Oh, I didn’t tell you?”

As much as Sarnai loved her son, she had to admit, there were times when he was almost too infuriating to put up with, especially when he thought he had the upper hand. Ishin Ken-Shibu might be a sore loser, but poor winners were almost equally reviled, and Rain was nothing if not ungracious in victory.

Chapter Meme
