And then, somehow, there were two Red-Ferned Armed Sloths. One behind them, crashing into [Force Wall]s and breaking through them with great effort, while another descended from above; a long spider crawling down from the treetops, high, high above.

Stone lances rocketed forward. An Ophiel stepped into the way of one aimed for Jane. Jane sidestepped the attack. The attack struck Ophiel’s thorny shield.

The lance broke into shards as it also bounced backward with a small explosion of reflective power. Red stone shards sprayed into the eyes of the oncoming sloth. The sloth did not even flinch.

No more experiments!

Erick threw out more [Quick Wall]s, blocking the one from above. It worked, for a very generous definition of ‘worked’. The monster crashed through the panes of Force, but was stopped as the [Quick Wall]s piled up faster than the monster could break them.

The party raced away.

The two sloths roared, tiny and ineffectual and far behind them.

And then the sloths were gone. Suddenly. Without warning. The darkness of the Vision turned into normal darkness of the land under the canopy of the Forest. Tenebrae ran for twenty more seconds before he stopped.

None of them were out of breath, at all. A Rocky did throw several blinks of [Healing Word] at Tenebrae, though. Tenebrae stood taller, and then he sighed.

‘Are they invisible?’ Teressa openly wondered. ‘Should we keep running?’

‘Did we pass out of the side of the Vision?’ Jane guessed, ‘But we didn’t pass through the trees we went through to go inside? Are we just… somewhere in the Forest, now?’

Tenebrae breathed again, then sent, ‘They are not invisible. They’re the lesser guardians of the Vision so they’re stuck inside. We just raced toward the nearest edge and exited the Vision, and that edge is in a lot of places. So, yes; we are somewhere in the Forest. Probably not too far from where we started.’

A Rocky pointed in a direction.

Tenebrae nodded, then pointed in the same direction. ‘The Castle is thirty kilometers distant. The Vision will be on high-alert for the rest of the day. This day is sunk. We were found out too early to get very far. Disappointing, but not that bad. Anyone have any idea what could have set it off? I didn’t see anyone break any of my rules and we approached it in the correct manner… I can only conclude that it was Erick’s Worldly Path, but that feels wrong to me.’ He said, ‘Let us have this discussion inside the Castle.’

He blipped away, followed by his Rockys.

Erick turned on his [Lodestar], and enveloped his people. One step later, and he was above the canopy. A few more lightsteps, and they were back at the Castle. Palodia greeted them and then set to making more than just a sandwich for herself for her lunch. She didn’t expect them back till dinner.

Over a quick lunch, they discussed the failure of their first expedition.

Tenebrae said, “I saw [Quick Wall]s. What’s your mana cost for those? With your bonuses?”

“Three.”

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes. And then he relaxed, and hummed. “Three… Is rather low. The sudden hundred of them likely helped to cause the Vision to [Duplicate] the Sloth, but even the first one went directly for you…”

Erick asked, “Should I not have used those [Quick Wall]s?”

Tenebrae waved him off. “I was going to throw up some [Stone Wall]s if you hadn't done that. The run was fucked as soon as the Sloth went after us.”

Jane suggested, “Every Ophiel and me and my dad were all running a Greater Elemental Body? Could that have caused it?”

Tenebrae waved that away, too, saying, “That shouldn’t have done anything. The [Familiar]s were running it at 10 mana per second, but that’s fine. I’ve taken whole squads of Rockys in there, and they were all running [Greater Air Body] or otherwise. Forty Rockys! The Vision shouldn’t care about constant, low-level mana expenditure. It never has before.”

“Something has it spooked,” Teressa offered.

Tenebrae breathed in deep. “Ah…” And then he frowned. “Maybe. If it was spooked… Maybe.” He said, “The problem is that what we saw we should not have seen until a few hundred kilometers into the Vision, or if we killed some random roaming monster on the edge, and then continued to do so against every monster that we saw. Then we would have gotten a response like that, and not before. And then, the Vision copied the sloth right on top of us! Both of those were very large responses… Too large. I don’t believe that this was a Worldly Path problem, but it either is a Worldly Path problem, in which case this is doomed to failure, or something has the Green Labyrinth spooked, or… Something else.” He shrugged. “I expected failure right away, but not that sort of failure. We’ll try again tomorrow.” He rounded on Erick, his eyes narrowed, but his voice even, “You didn’t have a Domain running, did you?”

“Nope.” Erick asked him, “Did you?”

“I did not. Odd.” Tenebrae frowned. Then he shook his head. “Anyway! The Castle’s full defenses and obfuscation magics are active now that we’re done for the day, and we’re ten kilometers above the Forest. We shouldn’t be attacked, but if we are, we’ll be fine. Don’t [Teleport] away. You won’t be able to get back without the proper telepathic codes and I’m not giving you those. Just read a book, or something. Make some more magic.”

- - - -

Back in the room, Erick received a ping from Jane, which included Poi and Teressa in the group-think.

She asked, ‘Should we be worried about Tenebrae trying something? Or is this Worldly Path shenanigans?’

‘I don’t know about the second one,’ Erick said, ‘But if Tenebrae is trying something, I don’t think he’s even aware that he is trying something. As to what ‘things’ could be ‘tried’, I have no idea about those, either.’

‘Delay tactics.’ Teressa offered.

Jane frowned.

Erick reflected on that idea, then sent, ‘Okay. That’s plausible. What for, though?’ He added, ‘And besides that, I didn’t see any Vision-tripping magics come from him or from anyone else.’

Jane sent, ‘Could have had a Rocky come in when we were kilometers from the start point. That third Rocky could have alerted the Vision.’

‘While plausible, I won’t start second-guessing Tenebrae.’ Erick sent, ‘He’s been awful, but also informative. If the Rockys did that then they did it on their own.’

‘Okay…’ Jane sent, ‘I agree. So. Maybe it’s not Tenebrae at all. How much have you paid attention to the Rockys?’

Teressa sent, ‘They’re omnipresent, but otherwise compliant to Tenebrae. They wouldn’t do something without his consent, would they?’

A thought clicked.

‘Ah.’ Erick said, ‘I told Tenebrae that if he went with us, there was a high chance of him dying. A Rocky was there to hear that.’

Teressa and Jane paused as they digested that information.

‘Eh. Don’t worry about it.’ Erick sent, ‘If we get chased out again then we will have to change tactics. Other than that, Tenebrae believed himself when he said that the unexpected monsters were not because of the Worldly Path. So this is either a Worldly Path thing, or a Rocky thing. Or some outside force.’

‘Or just bad luck,’ Poi sent, deciding to join the conversation.

‘Or just bad luck,’ Erick agreed, then he asked, ‘Anyone able to talk to the Rockys? Aside from a few early talks, I think they’re avoiding me.’

‘I talked to a pair of them once, but they’re avoiding me, for sure,’ Jane sent.

Teressa sent, ‘And me.’

‘And me,’ Poi sent.

- - - -

Dinner was great. It was hamburgers with lettuce, onions, and the red tomatoes that Erick had made in response to the purple tomatoes in the marketplaces of Spur. Piles of thin-cut fried fries sat in a large basket in the center, while everyone had a strawberry milkshake. It was absolutely decadent. It reminded Erick of home in a way that he hadn’t known in a long time. The food truly was perfect.

Erick took his third bite of the burger, and had to stop to wipe away a small tear. Tenebrae watched him, silently, as Erick swallowed his food and said, “This is really good.”

Jane sipped her milkshake from a waxed paper straw. She had needed to wipe away several tears already.

Tenebrae nodded, but did not comment, though a smile did briefly appear behind the hidden cover of his white beard. He ate his hamburger with a knife and fork in the same way that Poi ate his, and though Erick wanted to call them out on their sacrilege, he did not.

Teressa ate her four burgers like they were sliders. Two bites! Gone.

Erick commented, “Even got the straws, too.”

Tenebrae said, “They use straws for cold drinks over in the Wasteland.”

“Ha! Yet another reason to visit that place,” Erick said, “So many places to see! It’s kinda nice. Did you ever go on the Worldly Path?”

“Tried it.” Tenebrae cut another bite of burger off, saying, “Didn’t care for it. I experienced a choice that wasn’t a choice at all, and I chose to abandon the Path.”

“How far did you get?”

“Several steps past the start, a few more toward the end.” Tenebrae said, “You’re only on your… What? Third step out of… how many?”

“At least a dozen.” He asked, “Do you think it would rile up the monsters if I sent an Ophiel into the Vision?”

“You can try. You won’t get far. Your connection to Ophiel will vanish after several kilometers.” Tenebrae seemed to struggle with something for a moment, then he said, “If you wish to enact your own series of experiments on the Vision, without damaging it, then you can do so. Don’t kill too many monsters. If you alert anything as big as that Armed Sloth then you will set us back another day. Whatever you feel like doing, I tell you now that the only way to actually proceed in there is to go in your own body and to be as stealthy as possible.”

Erick smiled. And then he went back to enjoying his hamburger.

- - - -

Seven Ophiel fell off of the side of the Castle, while the sun set in the west, bathing the Forest in menacing oranges, and the east was filled with darkness. The moons rose on the horizon, as Ophiel knifed through the sky, aiming for breaks in the Forest below. He did not lightstep, for there was no light to step upon; he just descended. The canopy proved no barrier. Ophiels slipped through leaves.

The sounds of the Forest echoed across the dangerous land, soaking into the leaves, giving credence to the idea that some hungry thing was around every corner. Monkeys howled. Birds squawked. Bugs buzzed. The canopy was as alive as things hunted in the darkening twilight.

Smaller things lived high in the trees, hoping that the larger things could not get them on the fragile branches. They died instead to other smaller things, like ants, spiders, and carnivorous birds.

Larger things hunted in the deeper canopy, feeding off of each other and whatever fell from above, or wandered too far into the dark.

Ophiel dodged grasping arms. Monsters or animals, Erick wasn’t quite sure, reached out to catch the glowing thing that passed beside their hiding holes. One grasping hand was too fast, but Ophiel was untouchable, liquid light. A roar of frustration followed the escaping Ophiel down through the tangled branches.

Ophiel passed straight through spider webs like falling rain, his glowing bodies catching on the dark eyes of the spiders of those webs. The spiders just watched Ophiel pass, not bothering to move because Ophiel had not disturbed their webs.

A cat, or a jaguar, or maybe it was a frog, leapt, and caught an Ophiel in its maw. Erick checked for a rad; the rad was there. This was a monster. That Ophiel burrowed through the frog-cat with a carving of [Force Shrapnel] made extra sharp. Ophiel left the scene of the attempted eating; a body remained behind for scavengers to find.

Erick had all of them switch to their infrared, invisible forms; he had not expected any trouble at all to get to this point, but maybe he should have.

And then Ophiel was past the canopy.

Ophiel spied larger monsters hanging on the sides of trees. Another spider. Another web.

Something moved far below, like the darkened space in sight that happened whenever Erick had seen a bright flash and experienced a temporary light blindness; the monster was both glowing, and the exact opposite. It moved away from Ophiel’s path; there was no bother.

Somewhat invisible, Ophiel descended to the Forest Floor.

Erick’s Perception and Intelligence, and several Ophiel floating around everywhere with eyes in every direction, helped him to find the path he had traveled earlier in the day.

Three minutes later, Ophiel came to the Twin Trees. Each Ophiel cast an [Animadversion] for themselves, which a few wore like hats, a few wore like a buckler either on their left or right side, and one wore like it was a platform to float upon. Each Ophiel was only as large as a hand; Erick thought they looked very cute. He almost asked if Jane wanted to see one, but she was busy with gridwork.

Erick focused on the mission.

One by one, Ophiels used their lightforms to give themselves a semblance of legs.

… The Ophiel with the ‘platform’ buckler turned his shield into a ‘backpack’ buckler.

And then they walked inside.

They walked, and walked, and wal—

Erick felt his connection grow faint. He had an Ophiel hoof it to the entrance, which was…

That way! Still directly behind them. They were only a kilometer in; they hadn’t gotten turned around too bad, yet. Once that Ophiel was back beside the Twins, the others moved forward. A second Ophiel was left behind after two kilometers in, creating a connecting bridge to the rest. That Ophiel hunkered down in the moss, holding his buckler over him and retreating to his smallest form, closing the [Animadversion] over himself like he was closing the hatch in a submarine.

Two more kilometers later, a third Ophiel did the same.

Erick constantly checked the direction and the flow of mana to ensure that his Ophiel were moving forward, all the time, and that to look backward was to truly gaze back toward the entrance.

Erick reached the end of his Ophiel. 14 kilometers in. That’s as far as he had gotten. He could have used the ones around him in the Castle, but that seemed like a mistake.

Back in the Labyrinth, and for every single Ophiel therein, nothing appeared out of the gloom. Nothing attacked. Erick had kept his Ophiel as small and as dim as possible. They peeked out from their hiding spots occasionally, seeing if they could see anything, but there was nothing in the Vision save for darkness and house-sized tree trunks, covered in moss.

Okay. Time for tests! Here’s the big one.

Erick had one of the forward-most Ophiel enact his [Lodestar].

