The next few days went by in a flurry. Negotiations with the town hall were completed, and plans and contracts were drafted up for the eventual construction of the new mining town at the Living Vault.

The expansion work on David and Niala's house was completed, and they celebrated with a small feast, inviting everyone to bask in their newer, bigger dining room.

Niala's personal library was moved downstairs to one of the new ground-floor rooms. A good portion of her books were actually stored in a cargo cloth, as she'd brought a lot of books back from the Radiant Archive, but a dedicated building for her books would have to wait.

Work on their compound continued; the small plaza was completely refurbished, its centrepiece now a small fountain with filtered water for public use, and a small public park had been laid out, taking up two of the lots they owned.

Another one of the lot received the foundations of a small guest house, and near the entrance to their compound, a medium-sized ambassadorial building was planned, complete with living quarters and a small barrack for its staff and Allwarden house guards.

On the lot right next to their current home, the compound's walls were rerouted to accommodate a warehouse, as close to the Weldtree as they could, so that the incoming shipments of old woman herbs could be carried over quickly and easily.

The remaining three plots would be cleared and turned into simple open spaces with a few trees and boulders for now.

All of this work would last well into late Autumn, probably early Winter, but with their house completed, they weren't in any rush.

Next came their staffing issues; they might have an embassy under construction, but they still had to fill it with clerks, scribes and maintenance staff. Thankfully, Cornelius and Jacob would be taking care of finding loyal and skilled officials to manage the entire thing, but that was it.

As before, when they needed something, they turned to the Free Courier network. A dozen postings went up, and that was it. Interviews would come later.

Except for one that they could do right now, along with a job offer.

Rinka lifted an eyebrow. “You want to offer me a job?”

David nodded. “If you want it, and if you haven't found something else you want to do.”

She gave him a sad smile. “You know I haven't. None of the libraries in the capital were looking for any commoner librarian. Eh, a four-thousand-year-old woman, common.” She snorted. “So, what kind of job? Just so you know, I'm terrible with people. The less I see, the better.”

Niala smiled. “We kind of noticed! So, we were thinking, since you like ordering things and making plans, what about a job as a personal assistant?”

Rinka tilted her head. “Assistant to do what?”

“Oh, things like keeping track of our schedule, handling payments, figuring out what needs our attention or not. And, before you say that you'd need to talk to people to do that last thing, you'd be working with Jordo. He can handle meeting with people face to face, but he said he wasn't comfortable with making decisions for us. He'd rather just bring everything to our attention and let us decide.” Niala listed and explained.

The magister thinned her lips as she tapped a finger on her knee. “And do you expect to have a lot of filtering to do?”

David shrugged. “To be honest, no. The governor that the crown will designate should handle most of the country's daily operations. Anything long-term will just get handed to us by the crown to make sure there aren't any elements that go against our provisions or that we want to challenge.” He leaned back. “We can re-adjust if it turns out to not be the case, but we're guessing you'll have plenty of time for personal projects of your own.”

Niala nodded with a smile. “Yes! And we'll give you a good salary, so you can pick up a hobby or two! Or if you have a project you want to propose, we can look into doing that, too! Is there anything that would interest you?” She added, tail swaying.

Rinka rubbed her chin. “Something that interests me... “ She snorted. “Nope. I'm just as bland now as I was back then. I really just like ordering things and learning stuff.”

David slowly nodded. “Right, so being a librarian really is your dream job...” He said, glancing at Niala.

His wife looked back at him, blinking and smiling.

“I guess, when we end up building a library for Niala, we'll offer you the head librarian job? Until then, does the job of an assistant interest you? You'd have plenty of time to read books.”

Rinka pushed her mana-glasses back up her nose. “As long as Jordo is the face of this operation, I'll take it, at least for now.”

David smiled. “Good, th-”

“WAIT!” She exclaimed, almost panicked.

David flinched back. “Wh-what?”

“Number 67. You have to take him in and keep him away from me! Non-negotiable!” She declared.

David and Niala looked at each other. She turned her eyes back to Rinka. “I... will take him in. He's actually very good with his hands, and he seems to enjoy sculpting things. I found a bunch of new sculptures lying around since we came back.”

Rinka shook her head. “I don't care. He's yours. Please make sure he stops coming into my room and looking at me while I sleep.”

She leaned forward. “It's really really really creepy.”

Niala's ears twitched. “I know, but-”

“Really creepy,” Rinka repeated, staring down the catkin.

They agreed to Rinka's demands, and her employment began. Her first task was, evidently, to officialize her own employment, which required her to come up with standardized forms, which required coming up with a filing system, which required coming up with a document identification system.

David and Niala saw the woman's brows creep up and her mouth curve into a widening smile as her brain began conceptualizing all of the red tape she was going to need, and the sheer joy at the prospect of creating it all.

She jumped to her feet, swore to her new employers that the Reign Ascendant would have the best, most complete, and efficient clerical system, and disappeared down the stairs.

They wouldn't see her again before a full week had passed.

Late in the evening, in the private confines of their living room, Niala lay slumped over David on the couch. He stroked her hair as she lazily nuzzled his neck.

He gave her head a light pat. “For now, I think we have everything settled.”

She hummed. “Yeah, we do, and thank the saints. Apart from our short honeymoon, I don't think we've stopped running after something since getting married.”

“Hmm. What now?”

She lifted herself up with her arms to bring her face up to his. “Now, we go back to our quiet and simple life. You, me, our shop, and what's for dinner.”

He blinked, and then smiled and put a smile on her lips. She pushed into it with a happy moan before lowering herself back on top of her favourite man-pillow. “I still have to go through all of the reign books on alchemy. I bet there are so many new recipes and techniques I can get out of those!”

“Even though Rinka said the reign had moved away from alchemy?”

Her ears twitched. “I know, but I took a quick look in some of the books, and they still had tons of interesting stuff! And! Rinka told me that molecular chemistry is kind of like a cousin to compound alchemy, so there's going to be a lot to learn from that, too!“

He smiled as he kept stroking her hair while her tail wagged.

She turned her head up to look at him. “What about you? Are you going to take courier postings again?”

He scrunched his mouth. “I don't think so. I looked at the board over the past few days, and it was pretty empty.”

She quirked a brow. “Nobody putting up lost cat notices anymore?”

“No, plenty of postings getting put up, but I guess all the construction and rumours have attracted a bunch of couriers, and they're taking up all the postings.” He sighed.

“Couldn't you... get there earlier?”

He chuckled. “They don't get posted overnight, I'd have to stick around until someone showed up with a posting. Besides, I think I'll just let those guys have them. I've been thinking... maybe I should retire.”

Her tail stopped swaying as she tensed up. She untangled herself from him and sat up on top of his belly, looking down at his face with concern. “Are you sure? You were super proud of being a courier when we met.”

He smiled at her, lifting a hand to ruffle her hair. “Thanks for caring, kitten, but it's fine. Being a courier kept me going through life at my lowest, and I'll always be grateful for what it gave me, but I don't need it anymore. Now, I have you, and a job that would have me on the road and away from here just doesn't sound all that appealing anymore.”

She couldn't help but mirror his smile, though it vanished soon after. “What are you going to do, though? It's fine if you just want to laze around! The shop makes all the money we need, and Isaac said we're going to have a lot of money soon, but...”

He lowered his hand to her neck. “But I'm not the kind to just lie around doing nothing.” He sighed. “I'm not sure. I want to continue training with Leandro, to be as strong as I can, so that nothing can ever threaten us. But, beyond that... I'm open to suggestions.”

She stared at him for a moment before sighing and lowering herself forward, resting on top of him. “It's a bit unfair. You have all that mana, and you can wield it so easily, and all you know what to do with it is to beat things up.”

“How is that unfair?”

She rubbed her face into his neck. “I don't know... It's like if you told me, with all my knowledge of brewing, all I could do was make beer.”

“That wouldn't be the end of the world. Your beer would be pretty legendary.”

She pinched him playfully. “Stop. I know it would, but it would be wasted potential, right? There has to be something you can do with your abilities that could reach out further than your fists. Isn't there something that needs a lot of mana and good mana control and isn't about fighting?”

He put a hand on her back as he stared up at the ceiling.

After a while, she spoke up. “What are you thinking about?”

He glanced at her. “Hmm? Just thinking that... there is. Nowadays, it's not really necessary, because the process was refined to use an external mana source, but there is an art that used to require very good mana reserves and control.”

Her ears wiggled as she rose to look him in the face. “What is it?”

“Enchanting.”

She tilted her head. “You mean, like, mana engraving? Making mana circuits on tools and weapons?”

He nodded. “Yes. In older times, enchanters had to rely on their own mana reserves. It's the main reason enchanted tools were much more rare back then.”

Her eyes lit up. “Because not a lot of people had enough mana to make full enchantments, right? And even less had both the reserve and the control?”

“Exactly. Over time, when mana hearts were invented to artificially refine mana, tools were created that could supply all the mana they needed, with adequate control, to form most enchantments. Now, we have enchanting factories, and being an enchanter is all about learning the diagrams and their interactions.”

She stared at him for a moment. “So you could do that all on your own... but if they can do all the enchanting in factories, would it be anything more than a hobby for you? I guess there's a market for artisan stuff...”

He scratched his temple. “Well... did you ever hear people talk about how the old enchanted tools are so much better than the newer stuff?”

She nodded. “Sure, but that's just because they spent more time and effort on the old tools than nowadays, right? The stuff that comes out of the Landretti Works is a lot better than the mass-produced tools. We can still make good enchantments, we just don't see a need for it, no?”

He smiled. “I'd bet that the Landretti Works employ natural enchanters. The more powerful families, including my own, all operate old-style enchanting workshops, where everything is done by hand. Enchanting tools make the process accessible to the masses, but they're also limited. Refined mana will never be as pure as natural mana, and the tools' mana control is good but not excellent. A natural enchant has the potential to be a lot better than a machined enchant. The mana burners that my brother Luke got you were probably made by natural enchanters.”

Her ears lop-sided. “So... do you want to try enchanting?”

He shrugged. “I don't know. You just made me think of it. It's not an easy process. I might have the reserve and the control, but people still spend years learning the diagrams and techniques. I have all of the tools, but none of the knowledge.”

She looked him straight in the eyes, her tail wagging. “But, you could try? If you're interested? Knowledge can be learned, and you have the head for it.”

He squinted at her. “I have the head for it? You, and everyone, keep saying I'm a dumb brute.”

“What? No! I never said that! You're a smart brute! A refined cudgel!”

“And exactly what kind of enchantment would a refined cudgel make, tell me?”

She smiled. “Brutally effective ones! You'd engrave the diagrams as if there was a battle between you and the material!”

He stared at her. “That's not how it works.”

She smiled and leaned forward, rubbing her face on his chest. “That's how you'll make it work, trumpet! I have faith in your brutality!”

He sighed and just let her do what she wanted.

But...

Enchanting?

He scrunched his lips.

Worth a try, at least...