“The spirits are attuning to it, taking its form. From there, they will better aid in your growth. Give us a little fire boy, go on.” Flexing his fingers, a flame burst into being with little effort, delighting Gen with the results. So easy and smooth, it was as easy as breathing. “Good flame, but...” Staring intently, Yo Ling put both hands on Gen’s spaulders, his mouth twisted in a small frown. “Somethings not quite right.” Apprehension filled him as he looked at the armour, unable to find a single flaw. Was it because it sat poorly on his scrawny frame? “Ah, I know what it is,” Yo Ling said with a smile. With a snap of his fingers, a third slave rushed in holding an elaborate helm, as fearsome and ornate as Yo Ling’s own. “You need to keep that head of yours protected. Hardy as we are, the brain is a delicate thing.”

Seizing it from the slave, Gen held it to light and studied it with quiet reverence. The mask’s eyes were slanted and fierce, its brow protruding and savage. A silvered metal plume sprouted from the back while its mouth sat open in a silent howl. “It’s wonderful,” he whispered, tearing his gaze away to look at Yo Ling and properly express his gratitude. “Thank you so much.”

“No need for thanks my boy, you’re family now.” The old man waved away Gen’s thanks and waved at the helm. “Come now, let’s see how it looks.” Placing it over his head, Gen found it fit perfectly as he peered through the eye slits. At first, his view seemed confined and narrow, but then his energies flowed into the helm and his vision broadened and settled, unobstructed as if the armour were fused into his flesh. With his claws, his skills, and now his armour, he was finally ready to meet his true destiny.

“Good good,” Yo Ling said, nodding in approval. “Fierce and powerful, a warrior born, you’ve learned how to yield to power without surrendering. Took me decades of practice and you picked it up in months, too impressive. So many secrets, you'll need to share them with me.” Gesturing at the plaza, he winked with his one good eye. “Some other time though, there's fun to be had. How about it Gen my boy? How would you like to lead the charge?”

Nodding eagerly, he glanced at each of the makeshift barricades, unsure which path to take. Hesitating a moment, he turned to Yo Ling for guidance. “Which one should I attack?”

“Ha, Gen my boy, isn’t the answer simple?” The old man’s eye narrowed as he pulled down his face-plate, his voice muted behind the thick metal. “Burn em all and let my Butchers sort through the rest.

Gen’s lips twisted in delight, his smile wide and visible behind his mask. Leaping from the gatehouse parapets, he dug his claws into the stone walls and slowed his fall, landing heavily on his feet. He’d forgotten about the extra weight, but it worked out regardless. On both hands, his fingers elongated and fused into twin blades, dragging across the paved ground with a shrill screech, his comrades giving way out of respect and fear. Soon, he arrived at the head of the troops, gazing out over the plaza unobstructed, so close he could taste their fear and apprehension.

Lifting a single blade in the air, he summoned the flame, his weapon glowing red-hot before igniting the air around it. From elevation, he launched a stream of blazing fire at the first barricade, savouring the screams of pain and panic, basking in the ensuing chaos. Without the armour, he’d never be able to throw the flames so far or have them burn so brightly. Truly a magnificent gift. Repeating his motions, he set all three barricades aflame, cackling as he did so, euphoric over this display of might. Chest heaving with exertion, he turned to the Butchers and found respect and jealousy reflected in their eyes, filling him with delight. “With me,” he shouted. “Charge!” The ramps and ropes lowered too slowly as the Butchers raised their voices in sounding the attack, and once again he slid down the stone wall, this time pushing off to a running start towards the closest barricade, well ahead of everyone else. Inside his armour, he needed no one at his side to bring this city to its knees.

Tonight, Sanshu would burn to the ground and tomorrow, he would celebrate in the blood and ashes of the dead and dying, showing truth about Balance to the survivors. This was only the first.

The first of many.

Chapter Meme
