“We owe it all to Great One’s benevolence, providing food and care through it all.” The leader spoke up and bowed again, while the others followed his example. “This lowly one hopes to repay Great One’s generosity with his life, bearing spear and shield at Great One’s side.” The other’s echoed the leader’s sentiments, their eyes burning with adoration as they gazed upon Rain.

And it was only right they should. Even after hearing what Rain did, Sarnai still had trouble believing it was true.

Hearing how these former slaves wanted to fight at Rain’s side filled her with a mix of pride and sorrow. These strangers treasured her son more than her own people did. It disgusted her to know none of the People’s Sentinels had joined his ranks, leaving the safety of their greatest talent in the hands of former cripples, bandits, and slaves. All her life, Sarnai had taken pride in being one of the People, but lately, she felt nothing but disappointment for them.

If only they knew about Falling Rain’s miracles, how he pioneered the healing technique their greatest warriors were learning, or how he formed his Natal Palace at the tender age of seventeen without anyone noticing, or that he bonded with a drop of Heavenly Water and used it to cleanse the Father’s Taint from countless victims, then they too would look at Rain with fervent zeal. Instead, this sweet, talented young man lived his life as an outcast to his own people all because they feared what might happen should the truth escape.

It wasn’t right.

She was too weak, that’s what this all boiled down to. If she and the People possessed enough strength to oppose the Emperor, then life would be so much simpler. Her family wouldn’t be travelling south to become imperial hostages and there’d be no need to hide Rain’s incredible accomplishments. They could release his healing technique for all to learn, as he’d first intended. Then, with the Heavenly Water at his beck and call, Rain could travel across the Empire and cleanse away the Father’s touch, making the world a safer place without fire or steel.

She was so proud of him. After all he’d been through, Rain never turned to hatred or despair, only wanting nothing more than to make the world a better place, yet the world itself worked against him.

Strength. That’s what she needed. If Mentor refused to give it her all to protect Rain, than Sarnai would step up and do so instead. She still had forty odd years of life in her yet, plenty of time to reach the pinnacle of strength. After Rain reluctantly accepted the former slaves into his retinue, she bade him goodnight with a tearful goodbye. Fixating on Mentor’s back, Sarnai Sent “Make sure he survives the coming turmoil. Even if you must leave everyone else behind, bring my son home.”

Mentor’s footsteps paused ever so slightly before nodding once. Reaching over to take her husband’s hand, she squeezed it with all her might. Given ten or twenty more years, Rain would play an integral part in the war against the Defiled, but this was too soon. Even with all his skill and talent, he was still little stronger than an ant, easily crushed underfoot, but such is life. There was no sending him home, those with great talents must endure great hardships. She could only pray for his safety, for the Empire faced the greatest threat it had ever known.

The Enemy was here and they would need every bit of fighting strength the Empire had to offer in order to survive.

Chapter Meme
