“Do you expect us to believe that?” He let out a bitter laugh, turning towards the crowd and gesturing up to Jessica. “This is the girl who shakes with a spear in her hands. She cries on the back of a Direwing, not to mention when she fell from one! If the Almighty meant to show us a sign, it was clear when he denied her the skies! Are we to trust our future to one nearly felled by gravity alone? HA!” Some chuckles spread through the crowd at his declaration.

Valrok muttered, “Can I kill this bastard now?”

Her aunt murmured back so only he could hear. “If you end this with violence, it will mean spears in your back, brother. They already know you are strong.”

Spears in the back? So that could actually work? quipped some detached part of Jessica in the back of her head.

The captain turned back toward the stage. “You take us for fools! Elva did not kill that monster, and even if she did, it would only be because one of you weakened it first!”

“We were in the skies when she felled the colossus,” her aunt shot back. “She and her Hell Hound took down the beast. If you don’t believe me, those with a high level in Analyze, check her stats… I see some of you already have.”

Jessica noticed certain masked tribe members suddenly getting crowded by their neighbors as they pointed towards Jessica and explained.

“It’s obviously a trick!” the captain insisted. “She goes from the weakest in her class to suddenly… this?”

“It’s no trick. What you are witnessing is the power of the Wyrmscar Legacy,” her aunt insisted, then her voice raised into a dramatic speech. “Do you have the memory of a Puffstork? Well I don’t, and I remember the day, years before my System integration, when Valrok returned with a young dragon. He was only fifteen years old at the time, yet I knew as well as most of you that we were witnessing a turn for our tribe. I knew that it was the blessing of the Almighty, and he had chosen my brother as our champion! Without Valrok, the Umarii scum would have claimed the Bloody Peaks—our home—years ago! It would have been our blood that poured down the mountainside, and our children who remained would not know the honor of the Bloody Peaks Tribe!”

A low growl of agreement rolled through the plateau. Even those who had been shouting before now stood straighter.

Her aunt pressed on, seizing the moment. “You did not know Valrok would become what he is today. You believed. You watched, you waited, and when he proved himself, you followed.” She stabbed a finger toward Jessica. “This is the same moment. The same turning. Mark my words—Elva Wyrmscar will be the champion of the next generation!”Jessica tensed, grimacing behind her mask as her aunt pointed, and every eye turned towards her at once. She was standing there, giant head held against her stomach, trying her best not to let her knees shake.

Uh… should I wave? Bow? Say something? Raise the fucking head while they cheer!? I am so not built for public speaking!

Iris, meanwhile, observed the crowd calmly with her steady gaze. “Jessica. Show strength.”

Easy for you to say! How do I even do… that…?

Her thoughts trailed off as Iris stood from her haunches and stepped forward, shifting one shoulder as a wing sprouted, then the other. She let both Aether Wings bloom to their full size as she looked over the crowed and the tribe began to gasp and point in wonder.

Okay! Guess I’m raising the head!

Jessica found a rigid plate of bark on its forehead to hook her fingers around, and then raised it into the air.

The murmuring gasps then rose into steady shouts and cheers. Warriors raising their spears and swords into the air while cheering the loudest.

“Ha! That is my daughter!” Valrok boasted proudly, stomping across the stage as he place and big hand on Jessica’s back. He towered over both Jessica and Iris, his sister remaining where she had stood with folded arms, her goofy grinning mask watching them. “Those who doubt the presence of a true warrior! See my daughter now—Elva Wyrmscar! The tamer of the Hell Hound and the future of our tribe!” His voice boomed over the mountains, rising above the ever-growing cheers.

Jessica’s grimace under her mask only widened. She wished she found a better grip on the head; her hand was getting tired, and it was heavy!

Is it okay to lower it now?

Then Valrok’s spear spun in his grip and he pointed it forward, casting its blade out over the crowd as its tip crackled with energy. “Let any who still doubt step forward!” he roared. “Let them test her steel and spirit before the eyes of the Bloody Peaks and the Almighty himself!”

For a heartbeat, there was silence.

Wait… what? Wh-WHAT!?

Then the plateau exploded.

Warriors surged toward the front, shoving and shouting over one another, spears and blades raised high. Some beat their fists against their chests, howling with excitement and battle-hunger. The crowd roared with cheers as anyone not aiming to take the challenge cleared to its edge to make room for an arena.

Ooooohhh…. Fuck…

Jessica let the head lower until she cradled it against her chest. She looked amongst the bloodthirsty tribesmen below, and then to her aunt for help.

Her aunt merely tilted her head and shrugged.

Read Next Chapter Now!
