Still, she felt her understanding growing simply by watching the activation of the runes with her magical perception skill and was soon rewarded with a notification chime.

Arcane Insight has reached level 6.Runic Script has reached level 8.

“What do you use all the mana for?” Ali asked while Malika finished paying their fee.

“Mostly to recharge the locus,” he answered, seeming to perk up a little at her interest. “We also have a recharge service for wands and similar items in the academy’s main hall which lets us make a little money to keep the rune circle staffed. If you have teleportation magic, feel free to memorize the locus, it will make your travel cheaper.”

“I don’t,” she answered, before thinking the better of her reply. “Uh, not yet.”

Ali knew the theory. From studying the circle, she had been able to deduce that this locus had range extension and some rudimentary support for circumventing suppression magic. Mages could use such constructs to boost their own teleportation magic to travel further or more accurately. It was far from the most elaborate locus she had seen, although seeing it activated with mana flows and reading the runic magic directly was quite a different experience than the dry textbooks she had studied previously.

Finally settled up, Ali followed her friends through the doorway between the two guards and suddenly stopped, her eyes assaulted by a riot of magic and mana. Stretching out ahead of her was a broad hallway with dark marble pillars, lit by floating orbs of light. On either side of the carpet that ran down the center were stalls, and every single one of them carried something magical.

“Come on,” Malika urged her, and she began to walk, but Ali simply stared at everything, barely even registering where she was going.

On the left was a table lined with elaborate wands, on the right a stall with creatures in small cages – alight with every kind of magical affinity. Artifacts, jewels, spell books, and scrolls lay on display upon velvet cloth. Vendors calmly tried to attract her attention with robes and displays of magical prowess as she gawped, dumbfounded.

“Don’t pay them any attention,” Malika bent down to whisper in her ear. “They’re showing off.”

What…

She glanced at Malika, feeling confused, but she felt the pull of Malika’s hand as she gently guided her forward and finally out of the door at the end, emerging into the sunlight of a main street.

Ali looked back longingly at the door they had just emerged from. Dal’mohra had had similar magical marketplaces, significantly larger. But she had never witnessed one with the perception she now had.

I want to go back in…

“Ali, they’re not worth it.”

“What?”

“Think about it for a second. The only people who can afford teleportation regularly are the wealthy, powerful, or well-to-do. Almost everyone who comes to Myrin’s Keep by teleportation uses that Locus. The Novaspark Academy of Magic remains profitable because their private market of extravagant magic is the first thing all the wealthy visitors see. Everything in there is designed to get your attention and close a deal at a sizeable markup. You don’t want to buy stuff in there, I can get you better deals on anything you need in five minutes.”

“Oh.” Ali took a deep breath and turned her back on the doorway. What Malika said made sense, but she wondered if she would need to be careful in the future. As much as she loved her new Arcane Insight, it would be problematic if she could be literally dazzled by something as simple as a merchant trying to sell fancy trinkets.

Perhaps I need to spend more points on wisdom to prevent that from happening again?

“What are we going to do?” Ali asked as she followed them down the street. The street, and the town in general, was quite a stark contrast to the extravagance she had just witnessed. Just several blocks from the academy, they passed a building that had been burnt to a husk, with rubble and the remnants of burnt furniture still visible inside.

Her domain withdrawal ached in the back of her mind, reminding her that she really needed to get back to her shrine and moss to recover. And she was also excited to try out her new tree imprint when she did get back.

“We should sell this stuff,” Mato said, hefting his pack.

“I want to let my mother know I’m ok,” Calen said quietly.

“We should report the Goblins to the garrison commander,” Malika added. “And we should keep well clear of Kieran Mori. Reporting his involvement might draw trouble down on our heads.”

Calen seemed to struggle with something for a bit and then he said, “Reporting the Goblins is the highest priority, we should do that first. I really think we should be honest about Mori’s influence if we want Commander Brand on our side.”

“I think you have a little too much faith in people doing the right thing,” Malika said, frowning.

He’s really sweet to worry about his mother’s feelings, Ali thought, quietly deciding that taking care of her withdrawal and her desire to experiment could wait for these more important tasks.
