He looks up and grunts, “Yeah?”

“How could you tell?” I ask vaguely out of curiosity; I don’t want to give myself away by accident.

He grunts again and points at my pack. “Your posture is too good for someone your age. You’re carrying everything like it doesn’t affect you in the slightest.”

My eyes widen as he points out the flaw in my disguise. I lean forward a bit and tense up my shoulders, “better?”

He looks me over once more before nodding and going back to his work.

Satisfied, I make my way over to the shop's front door.

“Be careful out there, sweety,” the lady offers me more well wishes as I’m about to open the door.

“The both of you as well,” I politely return.

"We've been here thirty years, and we'll be here for the next thirty as well," the old man shouts from his workstation.

I'm about to leave when I realize I haven't caught their names. "I'm Aaliyah. Can I have your names?" I ask respectfully.

"I'm Ella, and my husband is named Vincen."

“Thank you for all your help; I'll be sure to come back in the future.” I wave to the lovely older couple.

I needed that, I think to myself, as I hear the shop door close behind me. Even as the city falls apart, there are still some good people in it. I turn and look at the clothing store one last time and wish them the best of luck before continuing down Drey's street.

With my new armor donned, I confidently continue to make my way towards Mr. Grey’s branch.

The closer I get to my destination, the closer I get to the wealthier parts of the city. Unlike the shops closer to the walls that are boarding everything up, I pass by shops that are completely empty and others with signs of magic ready to be activated to defend their businesses.

The more affluent citizens are making it out of the city or holding up in their own forts while everyone else is left to panic.

I wonder how Silver Herd is handling everything?

The deeper I get into the city, the less I see signs of people panicking. And it's not until I see Silver Herd's Drey branch that I'm once again reminded how much of a panic the city is in.

Multiple people are entering and exiting the building carrying rolls of parchment, and I spot three carts being loaded with goods.

The double doors are held permanently open by two of the company's guards allowing people to enter and leave quickly. When I enter the main lobby, I notice almost everyone I see running around is wearing Silver Herds uniform.

People are dropping off pieces of parchment at the front desk, which the lady's behind are frantically sorting and handing off to others waiting nearby. Maybe coming unannounced might have been a bad idea.

While I'm considering how I should approach the front desk, a bubbly, excited voice sends shivers down my spine. "Aaliyah?"

I make eye contact with the head receptionist, and her eyes widen in surprise. She quickly waves me over. “What are you doing here, sweety? I would’ve heard if you were coming.”

I put on my merchant smile, ignoring the second thing she said and what it implies. “My village received word from the local nobility. I figured this is my best chance to meet with Mr. Grey, so I came here by myself. Though seeing how busy everybody is, I fear I might be inconveniencing you.”

"No, no," the head receptionist waves her hand in a dismissing gesture. "You could never inconvenience us. I'm sure Mr. Grey can make time to speak with you. Give me a moment," she grabs a small piece of parchment, and her hands bluer across its surface. She stamps the paper and hands it to a runner, “to Mr. Grey, priority,” all in under ten seconds.

The man nods and runs off.

I wish I could move over to the nearby chairs, but the receptionist reaches out and grasps my hands with her own. "So, you came all by yourself; it must have been difficult?"

"Not really, the run was uneventful," I try to pull my hands away, but this woman's tentacled grip doesn't relent.

"That's quite impressive," she leans closer to me, and her eyes feel like they're drilling into me.

I wish I could use my real strength to escape this woman, but that would just give me away. The last thing I need is this lady realizing how much I've improved since the last time I saw her.

“For you, head receptionist,” I’m finally released when the runner comes back with a reply from Mr. Grey.

The head receptionist only takes a second to read the paper before she stands up. "Just as I thought, he has time for you. Let me escort you up to his office.”

I’m about to decline and tell her I know the way, but she smoothly rounds the large desk and locks arms with me as Sandra would sometimes when I was smaller. The receptionist gives me a look that leaves no room for argument.

“So, how long did it take for you to get to Drey?”

“Not that long.”

"I heard you had an accident last time you returned home; anything exciting happen?"

“Nothing much.”

"Your skin looks brighter since I last saw you; what's your secret?"

"Staying clean."

The woman continues to try and pry information out of me as she leads me to Mr. Grey’s office. She even purposely walks slower to get more time with me. By this point, she isn’t even trying to hide her intentions.

"We should hang out after your meeting," the head receptionist offers as we come up to Mr. Grey's office.

“Sorry, but I plan to head back towards my village as soon as I finish talking with Mr. Grey.”

“That’s no fun,” she pouts.

“And aren’t you guys busy right now?” I ask as the doors in front of us open.

“It will be fine,” the head receptionist says in a monotone voice. With a look of utter certainty, she says, “Silver Herd will weather this storm and come out stronger.”

She releases my arm, and I take a step away from her.

“Have a productive meeting,” the head receptionist gives me a polite bow and turns back down the way we came.

“Aaliyah!” Before I can process what I was just told, I hear Mr. Grey call out my name from behind his office desk.

Without his room cluttered with metal samples, Mr. Grey’s office feels bigger than the last time I was here. He even has a pair of chairs placed in front of his desk, so I won’t have to sit on a crate this time.

Moving to take a seat, I spot Mr. Grey's bodyguard in the corner as usual. "Nice to see you again, Max," I give him a polite wave.

He returns my greeting, “always a pleasure, miss.”

As I take my seat, I see Mr. Grey leaning back with his cheeks puffed up with a sour expression. “You greet Max before me; you wound me, Aaliyah." He says in a joking manner that sounds forced.

"Don't worry; I'm sure you can afford a healing potion," I smirk back at him, wondering if the stress is getting to him?

He laughs and fixes his posture. "Not that I'm unhappy to see you so soon; I wasn't expecting you to visit Drey as things currently are." I watch Mr. Grey's mirthful appearance settle into something more business professional.

“Are we free to talk here?” I hesitantly ask.

Mr. Grey looks surprised for a moment before glancing at Max with a serious look. Max glances around outside Mr. Grey’s office before shutting and locking the doors.

“We should be fine,” Mr. Grey tells me.

I have to be careful about how I go about this. If Silver Herd remains faithful to Drey and Olebert, I can't mention how my village plans to handle the coming war. So, I start by asking something simple. "Is Kervin fine? He was around Teeburn when the fort fell, right?”

"You do not need to worry about him,” Mr. Grey reassures me. “He made his delivery before the fort fell, and our people put him and many other evacuees a day or so away from the city.”

That’s one thing off my chest. “What about Teeburn?”

A complicated look crosses Mr. Grey’s face, and I swear I see a hint of anger. “Fell to Scholl the minute they reached their gates.”

I swallow a lump in my throat. “Are they taking prisoners, or are they raiding?” If School’s goal is to loot our entire area, our village remaining neutral may be a moot point.

Mr. Grey looks to be thinking deeply about how he should answer my question. “You didn’t hear this from me.”

“Of course,” I nod in understanding.

“My informants tell me Scholl hasn’t killed a single citizen that has surrendered to their rule. In fact, they've made it a point to bend over backward, convincing everyone they will rule the city better than Olebert ever has." That's some good news; at least they probably won't pillage everything.

“Does that mean they’ve already started their march to Drey?” I ask, surprised.

“Half of Scholl’s forces marched out of Teeburn this morning.”

“Only two weeks then,” I mumble.

"Excuse me?!" Mr. Grey asks, flabbergasted. “How do you know that?”

“An educated guess,” I tell him.

“You never cease to amaze me,” Mr. Grey gives me a big smile, but it feels forced.

I want to keep the conversation moving, so I give a small smile at his compliment and ask my real question. "With time ticking away, how is Silver Herd planning on responding when Scholl reaches the city?"

"You're asking me a difficult question." Mr. Grey's expression is stone-cold as we stare at one another.

“It would mean a lot to me if you could answer.” I try to convey my feelings through my eyes.

Mr. Grey sighs, “how am I supposed to say no to that?” He starts tapping his fingers up against his desk. “If what we discuss gets out, the two of us could be in deep waters.”

“I understand.”

“All right, our branch plans to have most of our people evacuate the city with most of our resources and fall back to our headquarters. Our company has already been informed by the nobility that we are not to leave anything of value behind for Scholl.”

They are abandoning the city.

"However, a few of our merchants and staff will be 'caught up' when Scholl moves to take the city. Those who remain will continue business for their own safety. I don't suppose I need to clarify further, do I?"

I shake my head, no. I understand him completely. Silver Herd plans to try and walk the line between the two forces, just like our village plans to. "Does that mean I can place one last order, or have you already started moving everything?"

“Depends on what you need?” Mr. Grey asks, looking intrigued.

“I would like as much Kaglese as you can bring me before Scholl arrives.”

“You wish to continue making the arrows, then,” he immediately guesses my intentions.

“Well, you did say you could find other buyers, didn’t you?” I offer Mr. Grey a smirk.

Mr. Grey gives a hearty laugh, “I did say that.” He leans back into his chair, “moving goods like yours will be troublesome when Scholl arrives. But I’m sure I can manage something.”

Now it’s my turn to get serious. “I appreciate the help, and I want to continue doing business with you guys, but my village also has its own plans. After I get my last delivery, it would be best if we cut off contact for a few months.”

Mr. Grey goes silent and crosses his arms in front of himself. “I can understand why you would want that, but you have to understand we would be fronting you quite a bit of money.”

Even with what I made from the general's arrow, I know that will only cover my debt for the earlier suppliers and my amulet. And now I'm asking for more without giving a definite timeframe of when I'll pay them back.

“I’ll need insurance,” Mr. Grey informs me. “We’ll need a contract, a formal one between the two of us.”

"Between the two of us, not between Silver Herd and me?" I ask him. I was expecting a contract, but I figured it would be between Silver Herd as a company and me.

“The contract will be between us; I’ll be covering everything you need out of my pocket.” Mr. grey smiles, and I can clearly see the greed in his eyes. Was I just blind to it earlier?

“Why would you do that?” I give him a suspicious look, to which he reins in his merchant persona.

“Because I know a good investment when I see one. As a branch manager, it would not be easy to justify extending your credit with your terms, but as an investor… Your failures will be my failures, and your success will be my success."

I get caught up in his speech briefly, but when I feel Mental Resistance activate, I realize he's using a skill to influence my decision. Even with my skill activated, I still feel like accepting his proposal is a beautiful idea, meaning his skill is at a high level.

I allow myself to be caught up in his skill as to not draw suspicion to myself. With a smile, I inform him, “it means a lot to me that you would say that. If you’re willing to invest in my work that much, it would be rude to decline.”

Mr. Grey beams a smile at me, but now I distinctly see what lies behind his eyes. I thought it was all in my head the last time we did business, but I guess that was to soften me up the next time we meet. With Scholl coming, he's probably making his own moves.

Fine by me.

I'll let you think you have me by the ropes, but it's me who'll have the last laugh.

“Give me a moment to draw up a document.”

"Can I watch?" I feign excitement. "I've formed a contract with Kervin, but it wasn't an officially drafted one. I'm curious how it looks." It's actually thanks to the effects of Mr. Grey's skill that I can act so well. I feel genuinely good about working with him, while my skill helps me keep my wits about me.

"Uh, sure, just give me a moment." Mr. Grey gives me a smile that doesn't reach his eyes.

That’s right; show me everything. I wonder if I can get even more out of this lying fool?
