She slammed into the ground, fracturing the already frozen soil. She ground her teeth, feeling how much ending-berry power had been required to absorb the blow. Ok. I’m calling it. I can always put it back on, now that my active manipulation is up and running.

As Terry appeared on her shoulder, Tala brought middle finger and thumb together, and she began dumping power into reducing gravity’s effect on her. It took every void-channel she had and nearly a minute to reach a normal weight, or close enough to be irrelevant.

She was able to watch her hand and compare that to her sleeve as a way of matching the gravity ‘light’ from each, nearly perfectly.

Yeah… I should have released that ages ago… She hadn’t really considered how easily she could place the effect back on, if she wanted. I’m a bit foolish, sometimes…

She approached Mistress Odera, a literal spring in her step. Thankfully, she got used to her lightness before stopping beside the other woman. “Is there anything I can do to assist?”

“I don’t think at the moment, Mistress, but thank you for checking in.” Mistress Odera glanced to Terry. “Now, you, good avian, would you be willing to do a sweep of the surroundings? You can move faster than all but a horseman and will draw less attention than one of the mounted guards.”

Terry cocked his head, then glanced towards Tala.

Tala smiled at her friend. “If you want, might be nice to stretch your legs?” He’d been a bit lazier that day, not really leaving Tala’s side very often.

He bobbed and vanished.

In less than an hour, the camp was as secure as they could easily make it, and dinner was being served.

Tala and Rane sparred once again, to the delight of the others in the caravan.

Tala was having a bit more trouble, today, given her normal weight.

She was a bit faster on sideways and upward movements than before, but she couldn’t anchor against Rane’s blows as easily, and the result was that she was flung about much more often.

It was a stark lesson in humility, and plainly showed just how complacent she’d already become in accepting certain hits. I should probably practice with even less than normal gravity…but not today. In truth, she should wait until she could match Rane before pushing further, but she doubted she would have the patience. We’ll see.

After a particularly brutal bout, Tala was taking a break to drink deeply from her water incorporator when she felt something bump her shoulder.

Tala turned to see Terry, the size of a small horse, looking at her.

A silence had fallen over those watching. They seemed to be curious more than anything else, as they’d all seen the bird in his smaller form, and the guards knew he could get bigger. Many had even seen him at this size, over the last few days.

“What’s up, Terry?”

The bird bobbed to her, then tapped Flow with his nose and flicked his head towards where she and Rane had been sparring.

“You want me to fight some more?”

He bobbed, then shuffled that way.

Her eyes widened. “You want me to spar with you?”

He bobbed again, seeming much more excited.

Tala swallowed, though her mouth had been empty. “Well, I suppose it could be good practice…” What under the stars am I agreeing to?

Terry did a happy little shuffle, then appeared in the cleared area, crouched and ready.

“Well, alright then. Let’s see what we can do.”
