Then the stone-faced thing laughed. "Against the Storm King's minions, I endured. Against the Phoenix of the inner flame, I prevailed. Though my stone melted, and though I gained many scars, I grew until finally I grew thoughts. And thus I was, and I remain still."

As the stone-faced guardian finished his boast, Shiv focused his Farsight on a crack in the wall and saw something that caught his attention: chains of divine spellstuff slipping through. Their shapes were minute, like breadcrumbs dotting the space within the stone of the academy walls, but they were there. The power of the Ascendants lurked here as well. No getting away from the bastards, he thought to himself. Then he jolted as he remembered he was supposed to be a new student who came from a far-flung place with lesser wonders.

"Whoa!" Shiv said, exaggerating the awe he felt.

"Indeed, student. Whoa." The stone guardian let out another booming laugh just as Shiv and Irons passed underneath the gate. "Anyhow, welcome to Phoenix Academy. I will get to know you in time, young one, and perhaps you will learn to understand me as well. But that depends on whether you wish to have a conversation with this old protector." The stone face sighed. "Quite a lonesome existence being bound here."

"Ignore him," Irons said flatly. Despite this, the corner of the man's lip twitched, and there was almost a smile on his face. "If you humor him as I did, you will eventually learn he can manipulate you into doing his bidding."

"Slander! Slander and lies!" the stonewall grumbled.

"He has a taste for opals, onyxes, and other precious gems. He will offer to tell you secrets if you feed him, but his secrets are mostly meaningless pieces of trivia and gossip."

An exaggeratedly offended gasp came from behind them. "Foul! Disingenuousness! You offend me, Captain Irons! Do not listen to him, student. He simply seeks to keep my favor bound only to him."

The Captain shook his head as they came out on the other side of the gate. Just then, a large piece of ice slammed down on the ground. It impacted with the force of a falling boulder, and a wave of explosive shrapnel tore through the air.

A few pieces bounced off Shiv's body. Irons didn't react at all, and neither did most of the other students. Some of them were flung off their feet, but rather than being injured, their bodies came aglow with mana, and ripples of Dynamancy bled out from them. They whooped in glee as they spun weightlessly through the air.

That was when Shiv felt the collective chain of spells lining the sky above him like a mess of interlocking constellations, imposing its will upon the earth and the students. The massive chunks of hail weren't falling without control. They were imbued with it, and every single person struck went flying to an exaggerated extent.

A notification appeared before Shiv's eyes.

You are now within Phoenix Academy.

You are currently listed as an unknown guest.

Limited voting privileges and on-campus options assigned: Options unavailable
