And Fallopolis grinned like her desirous god, her eyes flickering even brighter white for a bare moment as her teeth seemed to gleam like Melemizargo’s. “I’m sure there are ways to make such an arrangement work, but whatever ‘Star Script’ we create can’t be allowed to control the mana like the current Script controls the mana.”

“Suitably cryptic, and I see where you’re going with that transition in the topic, but we’ll get to that later. For now, your words are not acknowledging the facts that I wish acknowledged with an undertaking as large as a Star Script. The problem all has to do with raw numbers.” Erick explained, “Veird is around 25,000 kilometers in diameter, while the size of the solar system back home was something like 9 billion kilometers diameter. Assuming that this solar system is anywhere close to that, this means that the mana in the Script fills up an area of around 8-to-the-12 cubic kilometers, while the volume of the solar system back home was 4-to-the-29 cubic kilometers. It’s truly difficult for most people to truly visualize such a difference, so I will simply say that the volume of Veird is way, way lower than a trillionth of the size of my home world’s solar system, and since a Script takes a minimum amount of mana to instantiate, we’d need trillions and trillions of worlds all working overtime to support the instantiation of a single Star Script, if we want to call it that… Which I think I do.”

Bright Smile’s eyes went wide as she listened to Erick.

Fallopolis sighed a little, possibly because she had run the calculations herself and had seen the work ahead of her. But she was also relieved to see Erick had seen what she had seen. “I doubt I will ever witness a Star Script myself. But someone will, because the work we do today will eventually lead us down that path; Melemizargo would have it no other way, and I suppose all the false gods out there will have similar ideas.”

“We could always start small with space ships, and then orbital platforms, and then eventually we could get a dyson sphere going,” Erick said, “Such a thing could eventually encircle the entire solar system at a radius of… some distance closer to the sun than Veird. It would be a good middle-step to making a Star Script.”

Bright Smile sipped her drink carefully, eyes still wide—

Quilatalap stepped up to the group, handing Erick a refill of his drink, asking, “So the shadows moved again. The Dark is here. Shall we start the Feast? Or… Ah. Doing something else, then.”

Fallopolis had glared at Quilatalap and the Archlich of Necromancy Itself went quiet.

And then the Shade of Civilization turned back to Erick, casually asking, “What is a dyson sphere? And how could this help with the Star Script feasibility problem?”

Erick sipped the drink Quilatalap had brought him while the large man sat down in the chair next to him. Quilatalap eyed Erick like he was worried something was happening. Erick just grinned a little, to show Quilatalap nothing was wrong, and then Erick lifted a hand and began conjuring a lightshow, illustrating his ideas as he spoke, “A dyson sphere is a theoretical construct of material around a star, at the radius of a planet’s orbit, like a shell. Through advanced control of physics and materials and spin and a whole bunch of stuff that is way, way beyond the scope of a simple explanation, such a shell provides a surface to capture the energy of the sun, as much as possible, while also providing a surface upon which people can live. Usually on the interior of the shell, facing the sun.

“The surface area of Veird is around 2-to-the-9 square kilometers, but the interior surface of a dyson sphere, at the distance my Earth was from my own sun, is about 2.8-to-the-17 square kilometers. More than a billion times the amount of territory, and that’s not including a possible interior of that platform, and the exterior, which, with magic, we can also inhabit.

“But dyson spheres require a lot of stuff that we simply do not have.

“Therefore: The precursor to a dyson shell is a dyson swarm, which is a lot easier to implement… theoretically. A dyson swarm is like taking a billion individual Surfaces-of-Veird, flattening them out, and putting them into a stable configuration around a star. Upon these surfaces we have people living and producing mana. Through that mana, we have [Gate]s connecting them to each other, and stabilizing each other so they don’t fall into the Star. With a whole bunch of other Script-level magics on each one of those surfaces, we would be able to ensure that life survives and thrives, and expands, in a way that is inline with the physics of this New Cosmology.

“It’s all exceedingly complicated, and these dyson swarms were simply ideas in popular culture back home; they were not real.

“In order to achieve any of this we’d need a lot more mana, along with hyper advanced materials that can survive the strain of space, the sizes of these objects, and all that stuff. This would not be easy, but some of the main concerns of feasibility back home are made moot due to mana. The Script has already solved all potential gravity, atmosphere, and habitation problems, so that’s a great deal of problems solved right there. Adamantium is a great metal, but something lighter is necessary, I think.

“But perhaps mana can solve this issue, too, since we’re going to be using mana to solve the issue of gravity anyway, so we can just ignore the weight of adamantium? Perhaps. Either way, [Duplicate] can make more of whatever miracle metal is necessary. [Duplicate] can solve atmosphere-existence problems, and water-existence problems, and all sorts of problems. Mana makes a dyson swarm possible. Mana will eventually make a full-sun-enclosure sphere possible, too, and then we can build more layers upon that surface, and deeper, too. Multiple shells around a single star, and since stars live for billions of years, this is a long term solution, too.

“But we’d still need a lot of innovation in a lot of different fields to make this sort of thing happen. The main problem, as I see it right now, is that if [Duplicate] has some sort of hidden feature which ‘uses up’ mana, but I am unaware if the spell works like that; I don’t think it does.”

Erick lowered his hands, leaving his wardlights hanging in the air for all to see.

There were a few reactions.

Quilatalap eyed it all and near-silently laughed, surprisingly joyful in a way Erick hadn’t ever seen before. He didn’t say anything, otherwise Erick would have asked his thoughts.

Bright Smile silently watched it all, and Erick saw the exact moment when she realized that something like this could actually be possible; it was when Erick switched to the dyson swarm model. A bunch of smaller parts that could all work on their own, allowing for incremental growth, was a lot more feasible than one massive construction that was only usable toward the end. And then she focused on Erick speaking of [Duplicate], and her eyes turned greedy.

Fallopolis grinned, suddenly even more sure of herself as she said, “That’s a fine idea to work toward.” She asked, “But why does the star matter? Why not build it anywhere else? We could have free-floating planes and planets and sunstones and moonstones like they used to have in the Old Cosmology.”

“… Oh? Well.” Erick said, “A sun can produce a lot of heat and light energy which is valuable for plant life and normal maintenance of a world through cycling biological processes, but back on Earth, the other major point of encircling a sun would be to harvest light energy and solar winds and transform all of that into electrical energy. I told you all about electricity before, right? Well this would be one grand way to get that electrical energy.”

Fallopolis said, “We have no way to transform solar energy into mana, but if we did we could make this work quite well.”

Quilatalap smiled. “I’m sure Erick could solve that in a few tens of years.”

“Your faith in me is astounding, Quilatalap,” Erick smiled, saying, “But I’m not even sure where to start. Electricity and physical movement and heat energy are just a portion of the ways energy works here in this universe, but the only way that mana exists is through life, and I am rather sure that… I feel it would be a bad idea to throw some inferno slimes at the sun and watch them multiply. Doubt they could even live in such an environment, anyway.”

“It would take extreme light slimes, not inferno slimes, but those are incredibly rare and you’d need some sort of radiance slime hybrid to even survive on that ball of fire up there.” Quilatalap said. “The Extreme Light alone would kill anything and burn away magic, anyway, and that’s not even discussing the matters of distance and pressure and the manaless nature of the sun.”

“So many problems! Zero solutions.” Erick shrugged. “But we can still inhabit the planets of this solar system, eventually. We can expand. But it will take time. Thousands of years, probably.”

The shadows of the House grumbled in annoyance, though it was more like a flickering than a grumble. Erick saw what he saw, though, and so did everyone else.

And then Bright Smile said, “I have never heard of this term ‘solar winds’, but couldn't [Cleanse] remove the problems of solar winds? [Cleanse] can turn matter into mana.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. He almost laughed in sudden hope—

Fallopolis instantly crushed Erick’s sudden hopes, though, saying, “[Cleanse] cannot do that to matter that is not inundated with mana first. The pure matter coming from the sun cannot be [Cleanse]d and turned into that which it never was. I am sure you have heard the part of the Sundering Story where the sun was briefly the Killing Sun in the beginning. The gods got around that problem through the sacrifice of the Goddess of Knowledge, allowing the Script to buffer away the Killing Winds and Light of the Sun.”

Bright Smile frowned a little, still thinking that her answer had been good.

Erick thought her answer had been fantastic, too, but he didn’t know what he didn’t know—

“We have a Wizard,” Bright Smile suggested. The veritable Dragon Empress of Ar’Cosmos looked to Erick, saying, “We have been meaning to remit her to your custody, if you desire this. We will not be held responsible for her actions, though. Right now she is mentally stable, but she could become anything after our seals are removed. Use her as you wish, and make this reality where sunlight makes mana possible. Make [Cleanse] work on matter coming from the Killing Sun.”

Erick had a lot of mixed feelings about that suggestion.

Absolutely no one was impressed with the idea, either. Even the shadows seemed miffed, again, though Erick was reading into those shadows quite a lot more than those shadows were actually giving him.

Bright Smile just waited.

Erick looked to Fallopolis and Quilatalap, saying, “I know why I don’t like the idea of making a Wizard do something like this, and it has nothing to do with trampling over this person’s inalienable rights as a living person, but why do you two find this idea less than useful?”

Quilatalap went first. “It’s a risk that should not be undertaken— Let me back up a bit. Well. Actually. You go ahead Fallopolis. I’ve got things to say about the dyson swarm, too. I’ll hold these thoughts for now.”

Fallopolis nodded, then began, “Contrary to all historical records, I, the Clergy, and the Dark, would vote against unleashing another Wizard upon Veird. We are in a time of rebuilding and understanding how to cohabit this world with everyone else, in a way that causes growth, but also in a way that doesn’t infringe upon the life that already exists. That is our official stance going forward from this day onward, and to attempt to use a Wizard to shorten the process by which we shall reach the stars is to hearken back to our old ways of destruction, when we attempted to show that this world is false. So, no; we shall not be dealing in Wizards or other possibly-destructive ways.

“Now, to cleave to that thought, it is in my opinion that Ar’Cosmos should still remit the Wizard to Erick, and Erick should [Reincarnation] and Empathy them, and purposefully choose how the Wizard will be going forward. Let him choose how the Wizard will influence our world, if at all.”

“… I accept this decree, but I will say that I am more interested in giving this person their freedom than controlling who they are. I also understand that controlling a Wizard is a priority for a large number of reasons, and that a Wizard cannot be allowed to remain free.” Erick said, “Maybe we’ll actually host a committee this time to determine the best way to make the Wizard do as we need, as I wanted to do for myself with Benevolence. That’s assuming the Wizard will even keep their Wizardness through the transformation, though.”

“They will retain that power through their transformation; this is not a concern,” Fallopolis said, without any further explanation, moving right on to ask, “So? You were saying, Quilatalap?”

Erick eyed Fallopolis. A Wizard would keep their Wizardness through a [Reincarnation]? Well… Sure, Erick supposed. If Erick picked the future that held that ‘Wizardness’ in it. He was pretty sure that he could strip that fundamental part away from a person if he wanted, just as he could strip the innate Mind Magic from those who were Mind Mages if he wanted.

Erick let that point drop, though.

For Quilatalap nodded, and said, “Fallopolis and Erick have said what needed to be said about the Wizard, so I have no more words there. But regarding the illustrations above our heads.” Quilatalap gestured at the lightsculptures above. “There is no need to build a dyson swarm, and possibly not until many thousands of years and normal population growth has happened. There’s not even truly a need to explore new worlds, beyond ensuring that if catastrophe should befall Veird that we have a backup.

