It was beautiful, really. Erick appreciated it, even though he didn’t appreciate how it had happened. But whatever.

Erick was already testing out the Time differential by having an Ophiel cast a simple [Cleanse], and then have him keep trying until he cast the spell again, to test how many seconds transpired here per Script Second out there—

Ah.

Erick looked to Fallopolis, unamused as he said, “20 seconds per Script Second, Fallopolis. This is a real Feast Barrier, exactly like the one at last year’s Feast.”

Fallopolis cheered loudly and happily. “I knew you had it in you! But we’ve only got half a night instead of a full night, like we should. Only 5 days!” And then she used the back of her hand to hide half of her mouth as she spoke in a loud stage whisper, clearly meant for everyone to hear, “It’s okay! You can do better next time and My God won’t have to help so much.”

“I planned for 3 days of food. We might not have enough for 5.”

“Pish posh obl-de-gosh!” Fallopolis said, “I’m sure we can get enough food for all of us! With all your talk of [Duplicate] I’m sure you already have an answer to our problems! Perhaps that wrought over there has [Duplicate]! You know they all have [Duplicate], right?”

Bright Smile, Volaro, and even Zolan whipped toward Aisha, wondering if she truly did have that magic. Quilatalap and Farix looked her way, too, but their looks were subdued. Aisha would have paled if she had blood. As she did not have blood, she just stood there, her iridescent silver body reflecting the myriad stars and lights all around.

Erick said, “Most wrought do not have [Duplicate], as far as I know.”

Fallopolis grinned, adding, “Then I suppose your own [Duplicate] will have to suffice.”

Bright Smile and Volaro whipped toward Erick. But Aisha did not, and neither did Quilatalap. And neither did Zolan, actually! Farix just grinned. Bright Smile and Volaro all saw Quilatalap’s and Aisha’s and Zolan’s reactions, and then they looked closer at Erick. And then it clicked for them.

Not only did Erick have [Duplicate], but Quilatalap and Aisha and all the Shades already knew that Erick had [Duplicate].

For Erick, finding out that Zolan knew that he had [Duplicate] was something of a revelation, too, for apparently someone had told him, or perhaps Erick wasn’t as crafty hiding that spell as he had thought he had been. Maybe Kirginatharp told him.

Whelp!

Secrets spilled out everywhere.

Fun.

Quilatalap spoke up, “I can copy some food, too.”

This third revelation of that spell was too much for one person.

Bright Smile shuddered and then waterfalled the rest of her drink, muttering, “Every person of power has that fucking spell but us.”

Erick said to Bright Smile, “This entire world runs on the controlled use of [Duplicate], so yes, that is true. You’ll probably get the spell eventually, if you prove yourself as a person of power and as capable of wielding that power properly. You don’t see me fucking up the economy through anything but services, right? No. [Duplicate] is for the critical functioning of Veird, only.”

Zolan had some sort of odd, silent approval happening to him as he heard Erick speak, while Volaro contemplated his existence and Aisha looked vindicated.

Bright Smile frowned, and then she gave a curt nod.

Fallopolis moved right along, declaring, “It’s time for the opening song, Erick! You’re up! Dragon form too, yes yes yes.”

The universe outside of the House seemed to shift. Darkness stepped forward from everywhere and nowhere, and the light dimmed, like at the start of a show.

Erick said, “I’m not doing this in dragon form.”

Fallopolis stressed, “Are you suuuuuure? You’re among friends here! What’s the worst that could happen!”

Erick studied the pretending-to-be-inebriated woman for a long moment. She was pushing for Erick to sing in his dragon form, yes, but why? Because she knew what his form looked like, obviously. But she was pushing too much. Erick was willing to go with the flow in order to facilitate an atmosphere of congeniality, but what she was asking for was beyond acceptable.

So Erick said, “Though I feel I might be appreciative of everyone’s contributions to this Feast, I also feel that I have planned this party reasonably well, and that this multi-day event is going to host more than enough intrigue that we don’t need to add that to the list.”

Fallopolis leaned back, grinning. Amused.

She said nothing else.

- - - -

Erick stood surrounded by flickering lightning at the top of House Benevolence. The crown of Node lines rose up, all around the exterior of the House, linking to the nebulae and the starscape overhead. After a moment of thought, and centering, Erick looked down at the glass roof of his throne room, where white and rainbow light played in ways light should not play at all, and shadows danced.

With a small voice, the Wizard asked the Darkness, “In English, or the translated version?”

The Darkness whispered back, “Translated and shifted to relevancy for the public; original English for me only.”

Erick raised his head. He would use his adjusted song, then. It wasn’t much different from the original, but it did have a few parts changed around. ‘Neon light’ had no real equivalent on Veird, what with neon being harsh lines of light inside glass tubes that spoke of dingy bars or high class gambling places and advertisements of all sorts, but people understood ‘wardlight’, and that phrase sort-of had the same connotation. ‘Cobblestone’ didn’t really work on Veird, either, for instead of ‘roads made of difficult-to-walk-upon stone, which constantly rattled everything that went over it’ and ‘old horse roads in old neighborhoods’, Veird simply had plain stone roads made with [Stoneshape]. But those were minor things compared to what it took to make the song sound good in a completely different language.

Erick had needed to take apart the whole thing and put it back together again, but, in the end, Simon and Garfunkel had created something that echoed all the way over here on Veird, in a way that was too relevant to call it anything but an act of Establishment Wizardry. The parts about ‘silence like a cancer grows’ and ‘a stab of light split the night’ and all that stuff about ‘prophets’, all had relevancy here on Veird.

The Silences of the Script.

The opening of Melemizargo’s eyes in the dark.

Wizards, making new magics, only to have them Silenced in Forgotten Campaigns.

And all of that wasn’t even touching upon the deep meaning in the very first line of the song; of what all that meant with Erick bringing [Reincarnation] to Veird, and people calling him Xoat, the First Wizard, and how the First Wizard had been taken apart by the Darkness in order to create the First Cosmology...

Erick had trained for this, working out his voice inside some [Fairy Stronghold]s and underneath some deep Privacys. He was ready. And so, with a thought, Erick stepped past the crown of light, to stand in the air, in the swirling Darkness.

“Hello Darkness my old friend, I’ve come to talk with you again…”

- - - -

Zolan’s entire body went cold as he listened to translated words and watched the nebulae starscape all around the House go completely Dark. The whole space turned black. Zolan was completely alone in the middle of nothing as he listened to a song speak of Silences.

He wished to unhear those words.

- - - -

Quilatalap’s eyes went wide. His breath stilled.

Ah, he thought.

This was bigger than I thought it was going to be.

He had heard all the stories about Xoat, of course. He had even joked once with Erick about those very same stories. But here Erick was, singing a song from Erick's own childhood that had too much relevancy to his situation.

… But then again…

Any song could be relevant to any situation, if the society creating those songs was advanced enough, and enough songs had been created. Perhaps Erick had simply picked at random this particular song to sing to Melemizargo back when he fell to Veird with his daughter, because it did neatly fit those initial circumstances. But from what Quilatalap had heard back when he was in Ar’Kendrithyst working at the Armory with the Shades, and then afterward…

Erick had only ever sung the first part of the song.

Based on what Quilatalap was seeing with the Darkness all around, that tracked.

For Erick rapidly arrived at new parts of the song, the Darkness focused, and Quilatalap truly began to reconsider all those rumors of Xoat…

- - - -

Aisha felt something shift inside of herself as she listened to her king sing. She was worried, but also frightened, and that was about the extent of her ability to discern her own emotions. Everything was too chaotic. Everything was too weird.

One thought centered Aisha rather well, though.

This was Wizardry of a different sort. Something solid. Something that had already happened, long ago. As Erick sang and Aisha watched all the mana all around, the mana listened, yes, but it did not trigger. It did not cascade into something new.

Nothing was building.

Nothing was growing.

She did not suspect that there would be any magic happening because of this; that had been her major concern when she foresaw Erick singing here, tonight. But now they were here, and the song was happening, and the mana was simply listening.

The Darkness was listening. Listening intently, for sure, but that was it.

Hopefully.

- - - -

Bright Smile watched as Erick hovered in the black sky and sang a well-practiced song of blasphemy, while Ophiel accompanied him with similarly well-practiced sounds of stringed instruments.

Yup, she decided.

She was not going to involve herself with him if she could help it. She was already too close to him, considering she was the head of a House of Ar’Cosmos, and they would absolutely be working together on something or other in the future. Probably a lot of things, actually.

Bright Smile had a lot of sudden thoughts in her head as she watched Erick sing.

Somewhere among the song, she wondered why Erick was so reluctant with his dragon form. It was a mystery that she didn’t care for, though, so she mentally marked it to revisit when new information became available. For now, she ignored that mystery in favor of listening to what was turning out to be a rather uncomfortable song.

Bright Smile would need to ask someone about this song. From looking around at the faces of Fallopolis and Farix, and the faces of all the other Shades, and even Fairy Moon, all of whom had returned to the party area when Erick began…

For them, this was amazing, but for Bright Smile, this song felt like a harbinger of doom.

Why would anyone ever call the Darkness a friend? Who would ever do such an idiotic thing?!

… Erick, apparently.

- - - -

Melemizargo watched.

The Dark listened.

A mess of emotions and memories and power flowed throughout the world, in the shadows below candles, between the light and the wax. On the other side of closed doors. Inside old potions left in the far back of storage rooms, where mana crystallized and creation changed over time. In the depths of caverns not seen by mortal eyes in an age. Upon the air flowing across dark roads, where fountains of light illuminated old pathways where commerce used to flow, but where there was now only shadow, and silence.

An ache born of desire began to grow inside the Darkness. A need for something unknowable, but which had not always been that way.

And then Erick stopped. Ophiels raised their own voices in an ending.

And then the song was over.

And Melemizargo felt…

Bereft.

- - - -

Erick finished. Ophiels sang out the final notes of the song.

And then came silence.

The sky remained dark.

The lights slowly came back on. The nebulae beyond the Feast Barrier returned, like clouds of glitter in the space far, far beyond the boundary of this party. Galaxies swirled into being. Stars glittered upon the deep. There was no clapping. There was no fanfare.

With a lightstep, Erick returned to the initial party area, where Volaro stood behind his alcohol bar and no one stood behind the drug bar. Zolan and Aisha stood together near Volaro. Fairy Moon stood beside Bright Smile, at the table where Erick had cast dyson swarm designs into the air.

Quilatalap grinned, happy as could be.

… All the Shades stood to the side of the gathering. Six of them kneeled to Erick, their eyes closed, though some, like Goldie, only took a single knee. Fallopolis did not kneel or lower her eyes at all. She simply breathed as she took in the sight of Erick, while wet lines of white light, like tears, rolled down from her bright gaze. Where those tears dried, was black soot. Where those tears fell, turned dark.

Fallopolis had too much emotion in her voice to hide it all, but she tried to be professional, saying, “A wonderful performance, Erick, though it might be for the best if that song is never sung again. It has done enough, for remembering is not always a good thing. Still, though… As Queen did last year when she hosted, you have opened the Feast well with your own song. Thank you.”

Erick nodded, then spoke to everyone, “The band will relocate into the atrium and so will the party, for the Cooks of House Benevolence have already prepared a real meal for us to enjoy. The format is food and music and light conversation for an hour or two, and then that is the end of the first day. Presentations start tomorrow.”

- - - -

Bright Smile had a lot of thoughts as she ate quite a fantastic meal inside the House, alongside Shades and a Wizard and a Necromancer.

As the night finished without any dangers of any kind, except for the political, Bright Smile lay in bed, pretending to sleep. Her own thoughts kept her awake more than the worry of Shades, though.

Upon hearing that Erick had had [Duplicate], she had created a few hastily constructed plans to grab that magic for herself, but that was simply her greed roaring at her, telling her to take what she could. But she was more than her instincts. She was a ruler. She would be an empress. Controlling her greed was important, and especially here at the Feast. She had not imagined that the Shades would dangle such a tempting target right in front of her so soon, but that was foolish on her part. Of course the Shades would do something like this.

But Erick had countered them rather well.

Erick had said himself: Bright Smile would gain this power if she proved—

Ugh. She couldn’t even complete that thought without rebelling against herself.

