‘Proved herself’ to ‘gain their favor’. Fuck them all. The wrought, the gods, Melemizargo, the Shades, and especially Oceanside. Maybe even Erick, too. Like what the fuck. What had that been! ‘You don’t see me fucking up the economy of Veird’. Cowshit. That’s literally all that that man —that Wizard— had ever done. Fucking up the economy would continue to be a major part of Erick’s actions going forward…

… But he hadn’t fucked up the economy through releasing gold and plunging the markets into turmoil.

Which he could have done.

All Erick actually used [Duplicate] for was to expand the options of the world. This Gate Network was only the largest part of that change…

What would Bright Smile do if she got [Duplicate]?

Technically, Ar’Cosmos already had [Duplicate]. Bright Smile almost wondered if Erick had forgotten that fact, but no. He probably didn’t. How much had he been told? Maybe not much. The problem with Ar’Cosmos’s [Duplicate] was that they had extracted that spell from Kirginatharp’s Book Binders several times over the last thousand years, and only a few extractions had worked, but even so, ‘worked’ was up for debate. One of those successful extractions had gone to Inferno Maw, but that was a national secret, and the head of House Death could only use that magic on one item every month, otherwise that [Duplicate] spellwork would break inside of his soul.

That’s how all the other [Duplicate]s of Ar’Cosmos had broken. Overuse. Stolen spellwork did not work for the secondary user as well as it should, which caused ‘overuse’ to be a problem in the first place. Normally, people could use their Script-given spells once every second, in the case of Instant magic, but stolen magic? Or. Well. Magic stolen through imperfect draconic Wizardry, anyway…

Dragon-stolen magic didn’t work very well.

But if Bright Smile got [Duplicate]… A real working copy, for herself…

Bright Smile had not smiled much since arriving here at the Feast. Not even for days prior, when she truly understood that, yes, she was going to be Fairy Moon’s plus-1. That truth of her failed namesake did not change upon hearing of the closeness of a real [Duplicate], for Bright Smile knew that if she got [Duplicate] she would make a bed of gold for herself and then crash an economy or three, just because she could...

Or, at least, that’s what she wanted to do. Perhaps if she truly got [Duplicate] then she could restrain that part of herself. She knew she could not stop herself from indulging a little… And perhaps that was the problem. Even if she kept her [Duplicate] uses to, as Erick had said, critical structural functioning of Veird, she would still try to indulge a little.

And yet…

Bright Smile thought about the use of platinum in the early Gate designs, and how, with this new information, that was clearly Erick using [Duplicate]… Maybe. Probably. He had gotten that metal from the wrought, though, so at least the wrought had used [Duplicate], which yes, of course they did. Someone had used [Duplicate] somewhere along the line to facilitate the creation of the Gate Network, and yet, Erick had still worked to make iron function as a magical item, eliminating that need for [Duplicate]. He had risen above that spell.

And then he had risen even further. He had originally planned for a runic web to take up the Gate District, to empower all his magics and all his Gates, so that he didn’t need to empower them all individually. He still used runic webs for the Gates themselves, which was probably never going to change. Bright Smile had trouble seeing how he could ever make a physical Gate without making a physical Gate, but he had made his Node Network to eliminate the need for the larger runic web.

And now that larger runic web supported all of the Greater Candlepoint Area.

Maybe he could even eliminate the need for a physical Gate, too?

Bright Smile had done a lot of innovation in her time as head of House Carnage. From revamping the guard system, to clearing out corruption in the Rotunda, to bringing in new book keeping and security measures everywhere. But if she had had [Duplicate], would she have bothered to ensure that money got spent where it should be spent? Would she have bothered with eliminating the excesses and drains of some of her captains?

… No.

Hmm.
