“But there’s already lots of world here, on Veird; a hundred Surface’s worth, beneath the Surface. This planet has room for a trillion people. And that’s not even counting possible spaces like inside Fairy, or inside Benevolence, which will also one day encompass all of Veird’s space. All we have to do is increase population, teach real magic, and trim the Script to hinder the outbreak of wars while simultaneously clearing out some long-standing monster infections. There is literally no need to go rushing off into space when we have so many problems we could be solving right here, at home.” He added, “And, if we ever do need more space, because we have the people and mana generation to support that need, then we can make a new layer of the Surface and expand the Script upward and outward. It’s not a ‘billion Surfaces’, but it’ll be more than enough for a long while.” He continued, “And we can do the same for all the other planets of this system, for while [Duplicate] does sequester a tiny bit of mana, as it transforms mana into matter, that sequestering is not a problem when compared to all the other issues that come with widespread [Duplicate].”

Huh!

Erick almost asked Quilatalap exactly how much mana actually got sequestered for every kind of application of [Duplicate], but that would come later.

For now, Erick grinned wide, saying, “Very good points, Quilatalap.” He chuckled a bit, saying, “All good points, and especially about decreasing the number of wars. I’ve been through at least 2 of them already, and I’ve only been on this planet for 2 years.”

Fallopolis asked everyone there, but mostly Erick, “What would you strip from the Script to prevent wars?” She rapidly added, as though it made perfect sense, “Because it is the unearned power of the Script that causes all these terrible inequalities that give rise to places like the Sovereign Cities, and the slave circles of Nergal, and quite a few other places which I am sure that Erick will be clearing out within a decade, if not sooner.”

Erick had known, going into tonight, that they would be having the Big Conversations. He had prepared for a few of them, but mostly he knew he would be winging it. The explanation of the dyson swarm was one of those semi-prepared things. Asking about how he would change the Script? That was also a prepared thing. But…

Erick decided to deflect that particular conversation again. “That’s a conversation that I’m not willing to speak on right now, for it will be simple, yet involved. Perhaps in a few days we can have a real and informed discussion upon that matter.”

Fallopolis smirked. “I also have quite a few words on this subject, so perhaps a taste of what is to come would be warranted. I will go first: Levels and Stats should not exist. Perhaps quantified Mana can remain, but that will change drastically. No one should have any basic spells at all, and no one will be able to buy a spell ‘point’, but you can still gain a few basic spells through Trials of the Dark. These spells will not be spells like [Mend] or [Cleanse]. They will be things more like the Elemental Body starter skills, or perhaps assistance in developing one’s aura. Everything else must be earned yourself, through aura control and true understanding of Shaping and Altering and using the Elements properly. As for the bans… Perhaps the Propagation Ban can remain, but the Infinitesimal and the Dimensional Ban will be removed, and every single Silenced mana and spell and otherwise will be un-boxed. There will be no condensation of any Element down to a single approved version; all the bands of the Script will be released… And I’ll stop there for now.”

Bright Smile looked to Fallopolis, and Erick could tell that her thoughts had turned to the Elemental Fae Band of Intent, and how Fallopolis wanted to release every single fae back into existence.

“… That’s a lot more comprehensive than what I wanted,” Erick said, “But then again I was going to suggest that there be almost no standardization at all, and that every Script be given to the new god of whatever worlds we make so that they can do with those Script as they desire. There would, of course, be some small standardization, if only to allow [Gate] to work the same between every world and for Benevolence to be able to do what it does, and to ensure a baseline level of niceness that comes from the current Script, like with [Cleanse] and Healing Magic and— Well. That’s a large conversation, so we can leave that be for now.”

Fallopolis smirked, and then she full-on smiled, grinning wide and laughing. “We’ve got soooOOOooO much to talk about, Wizard Flatt! So much different than last year, with all its combat and trials of strength, but who knows! We might get a trial of strength this year, too. Maybe even some combat!”

Erick chose to go with the flow, in an attempt to divert the flow to something calmer. “Perhaps some contained and somewhat safe trials, though I would prefer that we leave the warring to another place and time entirely.”

“Ahhh~! Fallopolis sighed, happy as could be. “I’m sure something can be done in that direction.” She stood up, casually. “And that’s enough talking for now! Let’s go do some hard drugs! Care to join me? Anyone? Have you ever tried darkweed, Erick? You should!”

Erick passed, though he did not give a specific excuse because his excuses would have filled half an hour of talking. Quilatalap, though, went for it, joining Fallopolis at the drug bar, where Farix, still wearing normal clothes, began laying out offerings for anyone to partake. Erick had no idea how he felt about that, so he chose to ignore his mixed feelings, mostly, because after all, Quilatalap had known Fallopolis for at least 400 or some odd years.

He knew what he was doing.

Erick was the youngster, here. Erick was the one that was stepping in the realm of giants, and trying to be a giant himself.

… Huh.

Aisha and Zolan remained by the alcohol bar with Volaro, the three of them in a deep telepathic discussion about something. Erick would have told them to cut that out and to speak openly, because it was highly rude to speak telepathically when at a party like this one. But Quilatalap and Fallopolis soon got to talking with Aisha and Zolan and Volaro anyway, with Farix interjecting as he wished and [Telepathy]s ending as soon as Fallopolis opened her mouth, so Erick didn’t need to get involved there.

Erick’s people knew how to act around Shades, so Erick had no idea why he was even concerned about that at all. He was simply generally worried, he supposed.

He was also sitting right beside Bright Smile, though, so he had a bunch of his own concerns to work through. They had sat in silence for about twenty minutes now, sipping their drinks as they watched Fairy Moon, Lapis, Goldie, and Queen expand the architecture of House Benevolence all in their own distinct ways. To the east, the south garden of the House was now filled with massive trees, courtesy of Treant, and those trees kept growing.

Everything had changed in the last hour of talking.

The base house was like a sheet cake two stories tall, with mountains in the center going up 500 meters, and with four towers on the corners of the sheet cake. It was white, completely. But now, upon the ‘sheet cake area’, where Erick sat with the initial party and all around the mountains in the center, the roof had transformed into a forest full of old-growth trees. Fairy Moon did that. When Fairy Moon first started casting those spells, the resulting trees had started off as person-high things, made of obvious illusions, but somewhere around meter 10 and 25 in some cases, those illusions had solidified into something real. All the new oak-adjacents, pine-likes, and not-exactly-willows, growing outside of the party area and all across the lower roofs of the house, were probably Fae Magic. The entire sheet cake part of House Benevolence held a forest, and the mountains in the center truly stood out by comparison.

Those ‘mountains’ had changed, too.

For Lapis and Queen had done a lot to those tapered, domed cylinder towers. Arches and pillars and balconies everywhere. Gold trim. Brilliant illumination and deep shadows and carvings of Melemizargo here and there, and people praying in giant relief sculptures, reaching toward suns and sources of power. A waterfall, a pond and a cascading draping of water, and then even more waterfalls. The four corner towers of the House had changed, too, with rotating columns of rainbow light that surrounded them, that slowly rotated around those towers, casting rainbow spotlights straight up into the sky, where that rainbow light struck the edge of the Privacy and vanished.

As Erick looked up at that Privacy, he saw nothing.

A void. Blacker than black.

A darkness held around House Benevolence, blocking out all sights beyond this space.

Somehow, the darkness had encroached all of the Gate District, to stop a few meters away from the edge of the House. Erick’s Nodes still held around the central tower of the House like a crown of glowing spiderwebs, to go up and out, but those lines of light reached a ring of Nodes higher up, near the edge of the black barrier, and then stopped. The Node network had been severed. The House was adrift in a sea of black.

The world beyond the House was still there, though.

Erick looked to Yggdrasil’s eye floating to the side, looking hazier than Erick thought it should look. He sent, ‘Are you still there, Yggdrasil?’

Like a distant child, yelling from two mountains over in an attempt to get his father’s attention, Yggdrasil called, ‘I’m here, father. I can’t hear you well. People are asking about you. The cooking people are concerned. Shadows have surrounded the building in Candlepoint.’

‘I see them through the [Gate] I left inside the House. I’ve already sent an Ophiel through the [Gate] to try and assuage them, for we knew something like this might happen—’

“Oh EriIIIiiiiiiIIIIiickK~!” Fallopolis called, her voice fluctuating wildly as she rested backward against the hard drug bar. A smear of blue dust marred her left cheek, as her white eyes glowed brightly. “It’s MIDNIGHT, and the Dark is here!! Exclamation point, exclamation point, exclamation point! Give us some time, my man! Let’s make this Feast Barrier REAL!”

Erick rapidly sent to Yggdrasil, ‘I’ll talk to you soon, okay? You be good now! I’ll be good, too. Love you!’

‘Love you! See you soon, father!’

Erick stood up, Ophiel flying away, getting into formation all around the House.

And then Erick had Ophiel begin casting [Node of the Renewing Undertow] all around the House, next to the black barrier surrounding the land like they were weaving a web of light.

Erick explained, “I’ll first fill this sphere of black with a nice Node Network of tiny stars, and constellations.”

Which is what he then did. Erick summoned full-mana Ophiels when they ran out of mana, and then he sent them flickering around the place, setting tiny shadowed stars into the sky, while Erick willed those stars to attach to their neighbors. Gradually, and then faster than Erick thought it would happen, night retreated, a woven sphere of light formed around the House, right in front of the utter darkness beyond. With a hundred lines of light, Erick attached that sphere of light to the lines coming off of the center of the House, creating a woven crown of brilliance as he temporarily repaired this part of the Node Network.

He also sent Ophiel through the [Gate] in the House, to the cooking building in Candlepoint, where he did the same sort of surrounding web. As soon as he did that the shadows around that cooking building solidified, fully shutting off the world beyond that space, too. With half of his attention, Erick spent a good minute talking to Atalle Slipstream and all the other gathered Cooks to assure them that everything was still going as planned. Everything was on schedule. Those words helped some of the people there, but most of them, like Atalle, were already perfectly fine; they were used to being around powerful people, and while the circumstances of tonight were some of the most dangerous they had ever faced, they had been in this general situation before. And anyway, fighters generally tried to spare the cooks; capturing them was much more likely.

With the Node Network reformed around the House, and the off-site kitchens, Erick began casting [Expandable Hasted Shelter]s along that outermost weave of connected Node spaces—

A few things happened all at once.

Mostly, the magic bucked out of Erick’s control.

A hundred Shelters, a mere fraction of the number needed to actually inundate the House with Hasted Time, began to expand in a way they should not have been able. Thick Time washed into the House’s area, rapidly accomplishing Erick’s goal of filling the space with a million manas worth of Time a lot sooner than he had planned.

Erick never got a chance to create the same sort of arrangement around the cooking station down in Candlepoint, and he didn’t need to. He had already placed a [Gate] between that cooking station and inside the House, but somehow, that [Gate] broke, and every single person whom Erick had organized to provide food for the Feast, along with all their assorted food stuffs, were suddenly blipped back into their restaurants inside the House itself.

Atalle Slipstream and her people were back at the Saucery. Donny and his people were back at the M Eatery. Lisa was back at her Dessert Counter, along with all the other Pastry Cooks that Lisa employed.

Erick had no idea what had actually happened, but he had a guess; all the Cooks had all been exposed to some sort of Spatial Magic that had moved them onto a different path in life, one where Erick had decided for them to all remain inside the House, as opposed to setting up a secondary location where they could be kept safe from most of the larger events of the Feast. All of the food was inside cold containers and all the cots and beds of the Cooks and all the special, fancy cutlery for the Feast, had been relocated to the House, as though the House had been the base of cooking operations this whole time.

Erick blamed Melemizargo for that adjustment.

The Dark Dragon of Magic also had something to do with the Darkness around the House and the Node light weave transforming, for sure.

All that space that Darkness had dominated had transformed into a fantasy night, made of blues and purples and nebulae and galaxies. The House looked like it floated among the stars, and all the universe lay outside, within sight, if not also within reach. It was a very good illusion. It had depth. Very artistic, too; all darkly rainbow, and prismatic shadow.

