Fairy Moon joined Queen and Goldie, and soon, parts of the House began to transform into gold and silver. Fountains came out of the otherwise flat roof underfoot, while paths and hills and artfully crafted trees popped up here and there.

All the while, Erick had Ophiel surround all of the Gate District with stretched out Privacys that would prevent people from [Scry]ing past those barriers. Instead of doubling up on that duty, Lapis decided to work with Farix to expand the mind altering substances available for use. And so, Lapis and Farix left. After only 20 seconds away, they came back with a second bar and set it beside Volaro’s bar, multiplying the counter space times over with a very full array of everything anyone could ever want to truly fuck themselves up. Fallopolis partook, and tried to get Erick to, but Erick explained how he would not be partaking of any of those items, as he needed to keep his mind clear to host the party, but they should all go ahead if they wished.

Most people were only drinking alcohol. Erick had a lemon-lime soda.

An hour after sunset, with most tasks either handled or being handled, Erick found himself sitting with Fallopolis and Bright Smile at a large table, under the stars, only twenty meters away from the band. The band had somehow expanded twice over when Erick wasn’t looking, but now he was looking, for the band was playing an excited bit of music that was on the verge of being something you would pay money to listen to, and not a simple distraction to fill the silences of awkward conversations.

Erick said, “The Feast is going well, so far. No one dead yet, which is an improvement over last year.”

Bright Smile remained silent, which was apparently her choice tonight. She would not speak unless spoken to directly, and no one had spoken too directly to her in the past hour. She still sat at the table with Erick and Fallopolis, though, silently drinking a fruity alcoholic drink as she listened, and watched. She did a lot of that; listening and watching.

Quilatalap was at the alcohol bar, getting another drink, and speaking to Farix and Zolan.

Aisha was speaking with Lapis at the hard drugs bar; a polite conversation filled with subtext that probably went five layers deep, at least, and which Erick had no basis to understand. Aisha pointed to a drug labeled ‘moonwhisker’ and Lapis spoke of some other drug not listed, called ‘moontwister’, which caused Aisha to narrow her eyes ever so slightly, and for Lapis to almost-grin. Erick had no clue what the fuck was happening there.

Fallopolis, though, had been eager to talk this whole time, since he was overseeing all the transformations of the House, and Fallopolis had opinions about everything. Now, though, the Shades were loose, and the fairy was having her way with the building, and so Erick had sat down, and Fallopolis had sat down with him.

“Remember last year! By this time you were killing Dorofiend!” Fallopolis cackled. “That guy deserved so much worse than you gave him!”

Erick wanted to change the subject away from killing, so he said, “I do try for expediency in action, Fallopolis, but I think someone else did some expedient action on me when I wasn’t looking this year. Where’d the other people in the band come from?”

Fallopolis lost 90% of her mirth as she looked to the band, and then she raised an eyebrow and looked to Erick. “What other band people?”

Erick scrunched his face as he gestured right to—

“… Huh.” Erick said, “There were 12 people playing, but now it’s back to 6.”

Fallopolis looked to Bright Smile. “A fae troupe, perhaps?”

Bright Smile said, “Ar’Cosmos overflows with Fae Magic these months; some of that probably got through.”

All of Fallopolis’s lost mirth returned in an instant as she declared, “A fae troupe! Been a while since I saw one of them!”

“Is that harmful for the band?” Erick asked, looking at the band.

There had been a slight interruption in the music when everyone looked their way, and when the ‘fae troupe’ vanished and the band seemed to come out of a half-daze. But they corrected themselves quickly, and now they were back to playing their cellos and violins and wind instruments like nothing had happened at all.

Bright Smile said, “The troupe might appear again if we pretend they don’t exist.”

“That’s probably going to be impossible for me,” Erick said, now fully on alert and trying to play it off as nothing happening at all. “What’s going on in Ar’Cosmos these days, anyway?”

Fallopolis chuckled a little as she eyed Erick, obviously thinking him too wound up. But she didn’t offer a smoke of her joint; Erick had already declined all of that rather solidly.

“Ar’Cosmos is going well.” Bright Smile casually said, “But apparently, I had a Benevolence marker upon my soul that had been there since you made that Element, and quite a few people tried to kill me because of that. I, of course, did not understand that this is why those assassins had tried what they tried until about two hours ago, right before we were getting ready to come here. Fairy Moon informed me of this circumstance because she was worried I might have made a spectacle of myself if I did not know, and also to inform me that the marker was gone as of 3 weeks ago. So other than that, and with the expansion troubles which you are already aware of and have taken care of, mostly, Ar’Cosmos has been doing rather well since your gift of those runic [Renew] rings.”

Fallopolis’s eyes went wide as she chuckled a little. “Oh! How interesting!”

Erick decided to tell Bright Smile something that would likely transform how she did things in the future. Perhaps it would work out better for everyone involved. So with a casual tone, Erick said, “I’m glad that it all worked out for you, but your marker is still there inside Benevolence itself as of a few hours ago. I’m pretty sure you’re going to be the empress of dragons if you keep it up, but I do hope you’re being noble in the true sense of that word.”

Bright Smile’s eyes went fractionally wider as her pupils dilated. She breathed in a little; too little to call it a ‘gasp’, but it was a definite reaction. And then she controlled everything about herself. “I will endeavor to live up to House Benevolence’s expectations.”

“Great!” Erick said, “I’m really thankful for all the dragons that you sent my way, by the way. They made taking over the Sovereign Cities quite a lot easier, alongside Kromolok and Kirginatharp and Quilatalap, of course.”

Bright Smile easily kept up with the flow of conversation, saying, “All the ones you Blessed were good choices. We look forward to linking up with Emprazala’s group once they establish themselves in the Cities and turn that whole Decaypool of humanity into something less detestable.”

“… I heard they were after your throne in Ar’Cosmos? You don’t hate them for what they tried to do to you?”

“Hate is a strong word. They fought with word and willpower, not claw and fang. I harbor them no ill will, but their removal has made consolidating power less strenuous than it would have been. Though now that you have emplaced them in the Cities, you will have a large problem removing them.” Bright Smile asked, “You are aware that they will attempt to wrest the Cities out of your control entirely, to make a nation under their own power?”

“Yes. I’m aware. It’ll also be a lot better than what came before so I’m not too concerned, and besides; that place needs actual defenders from the monsters now that the nobility is too weak to do the job.” Erick changed the subject. “Did you hear about that slavery trade in the Curios? I’ll probably tackle that next week, gods willing. Maybe do some real work down in Nergal, too, for I’ve barely ever been down there; Hardly know anything about the place.”

Bright Smile had nothing to say to that, so she went silent.

Fallopolis had been slyly grinning this whole time. Erick suspected she was fascinated with somehow becoming less than the center of attention. But at the talk of Nergal, and at changes, Fallopolis spoke, “I would have suspected that you would try something over in Quintlan next, dear Erick. What with the proximity between the Cities and that ooze-covered continent and your burgeoning connection to Frostflower.”

“If you’ve heard of some connection between the Cities and Quintlan, I’d hear what you know, but I did not see such while I was over there.”

“Nothing too current, I fear.” Fallopolis said, “A thousand years ago many people from before the Fall of Quintlan went across that narrow ocean to escape the nobles, and then finally to escape the oozes. They landed in the area that would become the Cities. Perhaps all the old families of the Cities are truly dead and gone and all their connections to their original homes are lost, but if you went looking in Charme, in particular, I’m sure you’d find some deep connections to Quintlan.”

“Maybe those connections are in all the books we plundered from the Blood Mage people.” Erick shrugged. “I haven’t read those books yet; Quilatalap hasn’t had a chance to organize them into the library.”

Fallopolis teased, “Your hoard grows, Dragon King.”

Erick laughed once. “I don’t have a hoard.”

“You do, though!” Fallopolis said, “Or perhaps you’re still trying to understand what your hoard is.”

Offhandedly, Erick said, “If I’m collecting anything its ‘allies’.”

Bright Smile’s eyebrows creased fractionally. Under her breath, Erick heard a ‘tsk’.

Fallopolis’s eyes went full wide, and then she cackled like a madwoman.

Erick understood some of their mirth, but probably not all of it. Still, though, he grinned a little. “It’s a hoard I’m happy with growing and which is hard to strategize around, with the possible bribing of gifts, so I’m rather glad it worked out this way.” He said to Bright Smile, “The books your people gave me about ‘what it means to be a dragon’ only partially went over the ‘call of the hoard’, though, so all of that still feels fake or culturally-born to me, rather than a matter of Dragon Essence itself.”

“The Call of the Hoard doesn’t feel like a real need until someone starts to threaten it,” Bright Smile said.

“… Oh.” Erick said, “That part wasn’t in the books.”

“The Call of the Hoard is an understanding of the self that is supposed to be passed down from parent to child, or as a part of the culture of growing up in Ar’Cosmos. Dragon-Essence-derived dragons usually only know of their Call well after they’ve started to acquire said hoard.” Bright Smile added, “That you are able to casually speak of having allies as your Hoard means that yes, it is rather hard to game around.”

Bright Smile spoke the word ‘Hoard’ with deeper meaning than Erick was willing to give that word, which was… whatever.

“Allies for a hoard bodes well for all the rest of us, for sure!” Smiling brightly and in a way that Bright Smile was unable to do right now, Fallopolis continued, “Theories as to the Dark’s hoard is a fun little question to pose to the young of our Clergy. Care to take a guess, Dragon King Erick?”

Moving right along with the conversation, Erick instantly said, “Either planets, or populations of people.”

“The right direction, but you missed the target!” Fallopolis looked to Bright Smile. “I’ll be floored if you don’t know this one, so don’t disappoint me, ‘Empress of Fairy’.”

The Shade’s tone had taken a hard edge when she named Bright Smile an empress. There was a lot going on there, in that naming. Fallopolis was not careless with her words after all; no matter what persona she might display to the world, all of her words had meaning.

And this was a test.

Erick realized it instantly.

Bright Smile recognized the test half a second after Erick. It was not a test she was fully willing to commit to, though, so she said, “I already know the answer, for the Hoard of the Dark is a story we are told at a young age. I learned that story from Redflame, as did many others, but I imagine you have a better grasp on the true meaning, and I admit I am interested to hear your take on that old tale.”

Fallopolis grinned, inclining her head a fraction as she took in Bright Smile’s non-answer. She found the empress’s response adequate, so she nodded; test over.

The Shade’s voice turned jovial again as she answered her own question, “It’s space itself!” Fallopolis laughed. “Territory of all types! From the worlds inside every Element, like the one inside Benevolence, to the very sky and land of the Surface, to the Underworld down below. To the moons, and to the stars! The Dark expanded, making territory for us all to live within, and we were privileged to do so… or at least that’s how it used to be in the Old Cosmology. But the Old Cosmology is dead and all we have is what we have right now, which is barely anything at all. But soon! Soon, eventually, the Darkness will regain His hoard of stars.”

Fallopolis gave no reverence to the phrase ‘hoard of stars’, so Erick suspected some sort of minor trick.

Or maybe not?

At Last Shadow’s Feast, Erick had cast a minor blessing between the both of them.

Blessing of Minor Truth, 60 seconds, Sound + Understanding + Acceptance, 100 mana per person

Every member of the accepting group can tell when the others purposefully lie or obfuscate the truth.

That blessing was still active right now, and had been active this whole time. As far as that blessing was telling Erick, everything Fallopolis had said was true. As far as he knew, Fallopolis could also tell whenever any of his own words had been untrue, though that had yet to happen. Perhaps he had couched his language some here and there, and Fallopolis had done the same, but an outright lie?

Not yet.

Though the blessing only actually triggered on a lie, while all the rest of the time it was dormant.

So who really knew if it was working? Not Erick.

Instead of being awed at the prospect of a ‘hoard of stars’, though, Erick got right down to brass tacks, asking, “Do you think we could put a mana miner on a star? Envelop a whole system of planets? Have like, a minor mana ocean around every star and planets floating in that ocean? Because from what I know of mana generation such a thing would be doomed to fail for any number of reasons.”

The shadows moved everywhere.

Bright Smile eyed the shadows, her breath hitching.

