287

******

By the middle of the second full week of term, Alden had settled in enough to start thinking of his schedule of classes and self-assigned practice hours as his routine until something big came up.

He expected that big something to be Stuart’s affixation and everything that would follow it. The looming event crossed his mind a dozen times or more a day, but he was trying to cultivate equanimity about it. He’d filled his time with spell practice, skill practice, and learning everything else he could think of that might help them on Goldbush. He was doing as much as he knew how to do. Stuart would take the next step, and Alden would be there, as he’d promised.

Equanimity is hard, though, he thought as he listened while Instructor Ash pointed out everything wrong with Judah Blake’s movement through traffic during the superhero’s famous capture of an unregistered high-rank speedster.

Watching the speedster made Alden think of how difficult it had been to get a shield in front of an inconveniently sensible Winston Heelfeather during a duel they’d had in Combat I yesterday. Struggling against Winston reminded him that a couple of the animals on the list of native species he’d been learning for Goldbush used speed to escape predators or catch prey. Some of those animals would demonize toward even more rapidity. Rapid demons made him wonder if he and Stuart could handle that kind of problem, which made him think about Stuart’s affixation. And from there, he started worrying that Ro-den or Stuart’s family were stressing him out right now and weakening him when he needed to be at his strongest.

I focus on my job. It’s all fine.

His job at the moment was simple enough—watching Instructor Ash knock on the smart board with a ring to emphasize his criticism of his fellow Avowed. “Look at the idiotic way Judah chose to land on the hood of this van. Half of you could have done it better. Torsten Klein must lose a week of his lifespan every time someone calls something like this a display of athleticism. During one of your upcoming course days, I’ll make sure to include a moving obstacle the same size as this van, traveling at the same speed. If any of you splatter yourself across it like an insect that met it by accident, your team might not run again this quarter.”

Some people laughed. Others paled.

Today’s class was Alden’s eighth with Instructor Ash, if he counted last Friday’s coursing day despite it having been a total failure. The lesson wasn’t on how much Judah Blake sucked at handling himself in traffic, despite the instructor spending longer on this video clip than on most of the others he’d shown. They were talking about approaches to grabbing on to objects, or other Avowed, in motion. Alden assumed it was a sign that courses with moving obstacles were coming up sooner rather than later.

That’s exciting…if we actually get to run.

Ash hadn’t said anything as rude as he had on the first day with that remark about Alden being the weakest member of the weakest team in class. But the man definitely wasn’t in the running for most likable teacher on campus.

“This one shows a hero most of you won’t be familiar with,” he was saying as he pulled up another video. This time it was of a teenager riding a bicycle along a wall that ran along the edge of a flat roof. “He’s been working for decades, but he hasn’t ever been considered very interesting by the media. I selected it because the hero’s about to snatch this champion of poor judgment from the air as he falls past the sixth floor window. He saves the fool, and the bicycle, with no harm to either. How would you do the same with your powers? Include the bicycle. We’ll pretend it was something actually worth saving.”

Hands went up more slowly than they would have for other instructors, but they did go up. Alden doodled a bicycle on his tablet while he worked out an answer of his own. He knew how the rescue in question had gone down in real life because it was one of Howl Hawk’s, and even if it wasn’t globally well-known, it was cool enough that it still got replays in Chicago during interviews with him. It had happened before Alden was born. Howl Hawk had burst through the window and shaped pillars of wind to save the falling teenager. The hero had hit the concrete first and caught the guy and his bicycle while smiling, like it was easy.

That shouldn’t have been easy for him if it was a surprise. Maybe it wasn’t surprising? He could have seen the guy goofing off on the roof and been heading up to talk to him. I don’t think I’ve ever heard details. Howl Hawk has kind of transitioned away from smiling since then.

Alden did have some ideas about how he’d like to save a falling person himself.

If I preserved someone who was falling off a building, then took them to a safe location and dropped them there instead, that would be neat.

He didn’t want to answer that way, though, since he’d have to get into details like whether or not the person falling needed to shout, “I entrust myself to you!”

While he was trying to come up with another way to do it, he saw Vandy’s hand go up. That was a normal sight, but it stole more than its usual share of his attention now. During the past couple of classes, he’d gotten the impression that Vandy was being disproportionately ignored. He was trying to figure out if he was right about that strange conclusion or not.

Ash should really call on her for this one, he thought as he watched the instructor nod at a second year Meister whose team sat near the front. Vandy’s a Sky Shaper. One day she’ll be able to do the rescue the same way Howl Hawk did. Maybe she could even pull it off right now.

And Vandy hadn’t been called on to speak today. Alden had been called on two of the three times he’d raised his own hand. He still braced himself for whatever was going to come out of the instructor’s mouth when he did it, but so far he’d gone largely unscathed.

To his relief, most of their classroom lessons with Ash had been educational.

They watched other superhumans move over and through obstacles—often superheroes at work, but also coursing teams at the high school and university levels. And they talked about the specifics of what talents those people were using and whether or not there were better ways for Avowed with those abilities to approach the type of challenge being shown. Watching footage and then talking about it reminded Alden of how Marion had structured the first Engaging with the Unexpected class, but the similarities ended there.

Ash, almost always drinking a coffee that he added multiple sugar packets to as the lesson progressed, wasn’t interested in hearing his students debate each other. And he didn’t care to examine the mindsets and emotional struggles of superheroes or superhero hopefuls. He only cared about how well they had used their magic and their bodies. And some other factors that Alden hadn’t quite managed to figure out.

If I understood what he looks for in other superhumans, maybe we’d be able to work it into our strategy for this week.

The instructor kept calling on people other than Vandy.

Why? He was definitely picking her more last week. Wouldn’t most teachers have called on her by now since she’s a great student and she puts her hand up every time?

Am I reading too much into it?

“That’s all,” Ash said abruptly after showing them the finale of the Howl Hawk video. “We’re done for the day.”

He wasn’t one of those instructors who tied a bow on the end of his lessons. And he didn’t do the ubiquitous, “Does anyone have any questions?” thing. He just quit and took off the minute class ended, usually before his students had a chance to start standing up from their desks.

“Strategies are due tomorrow,” Ash said as the smart board turned off.

A few hands shot toward the ceiling. They were much faster than they had been a minute ago.

“You already know everything you need to,” the instructor said, looking at the hands like they were a fence he was going to need to jump before he could escape. “Strategy evaluation day will be the same as last week.”

I hope it’s not exactly the same, thought Alden, slipping his tablet and stylus into his bag.

The desk to his front right creaked as Mehdi leaned forward in it, his hand waving like he had an urgent question. He wasn’t even the most zealous. That title went to another Agility Brute whose name Alden hadn’t yet learned. She was an S-rank with the same talent package Febri had. Alden thought she was either a first year in her third quarter or a second year in her first. He did know she was on an all-Brute team that had suffered the same fate as his own last week, which might have been why she practically fell out of her seat and threw an arm in front of Ash like she would die if he didn’t answer her question.

He met her eyes for a second. It was long enough that she took it as an invitation.

“If we didn’t get to run the course at all last week, does that mean we get a guaranteed run this week?” she blurted.

“Yeah!” said Jeffy from his seat beside Alden before their instructor could speak. “I bet that’s how it works!”

Alden turned to shoot a quelling look at the Aqua Brute and caught Lexi and Kon both doing the same.

“That’s not going to be how it works,” Ash said, ripping open the fourth sugar packet of the hour and sprinkling it into a cup of coffee that had to be nearly empty. “It works like I explained already. If your strategies are approved, you can run. If not, you’ll try again.”

“Oh,” said Jeffy.

The girl who’d asked the question made a much sadder noise.

Ash exhaled. “Seven Avowed combining their talents should be able to come up with ideas worth the floor. The last time I taught this class, every team ran at least once before the quarter ended. Goodbye.”

He exited the room before anyone else.

“We got a goodbye today!” Heloísa said, tossing her ponytail as she stood. “He’s warming up to us.”

“He doesn’t get warmer than this,” the only third year in the class told her, striding for the door. “Not in my experience. Good luck, newbies.”

“Here we go. Up, my teammates! On your feet. Meeting outside now.” Kon sprang out of his desk and started clapping Jeffy on the shoulder encouragingly.

“Now?” asked Ignacio.

“Now. Just for a second. Come on.”

“I have a class to get to,” said Lexi.

“A second.”

They were huddled up outside on the small lawn in front of the MPE building a minute later. Alden could see students streaming past on the walkway a few steps behind Kon, who stood across their group from him.

“So, you all heard what Instructor Ash just said. That man is absolutely willing to never let us on the floor if he doesn’t like our strategies. What are we going to do about it?”

Kon had his usual energy in his voice. Alden was paying more attention to his moods now, even though the two of them hadn’t said much of anything to each other about Kon’s future on the Sdyelis Branch or what Esh-erdi might have told him about it. They never seemed to end up alone together. Alden suspected that was somewhat intentional on Kon’s part, but Kon had also welcomed him onto this team, ensuring they’d see each other every single weekday, so he didn’t think it was anything to worry about.

“He said every team got to last time,” said Jeffy. His mohawk had been ombré blue instead of a solid shade since break.

“He said ‘at least once.’ And it wasn’t even a promise! I don’t want to be on the gym floor once for this class. I want to run courses with you guys every week.”

“We all want that, Kon,” said Lexi. “But we don’t know what he’s looking for.”

Alden had heard that other Coursing instructors divided the time evenly among the teams. Ash preferred his own approach. In class tomorrow, each of the seven teams would turn in brief descriptions or video of strategies they wanted to use to overcome the two obstacles they’d been told in advance would be a part of Friday’s course. It was the only homework they had.

Tomorrow, and every Thursday to come this term, the instructor would sit at his desk and evaluate those strategies while more clips he’d put together played at the front of the room. For the first half hour, students were allowed to quietly talk or text back and forth with their teammates. If something they saw on the videos or some flash of inspiration made them want to submit a different strategy, they could during that time. But for the last half of class, they had to wait for the instructor’s judgement.

Last Thursday, at the very end of the period, Alden had wondered if it was taking so long because Ash was writing a lot of comments on everyone’s strategies. Then, thirty seconds before class ended, the names of the five teams that were approved to run the following day had appeared on the board, and Ash had swept out of the classroom without explaining why their team and the all-Brute one had been denied.

His written commentary on their efforts was only four words long: “This is not enough.”

Alden had been more furious about that throwaway line than anything else. Getting nothing more than that back after they’d taken the time to meet as a team and work out ideas together made him want to find Rahul on the uni campus, borrow the Wright’s weapon, and launch Ash toward the nearest wall with it.

