While the five chosen teams ran, they had sat on the bleachers or stood around near the barriers, only occasionally watching the action because they were busy trying to put together last-minute revised strategies. Ash said he’d consider edits up until the final run, but every time they’d sent Ignacio to deliver their new plans—operating on Kon’s assurances that Ash liked Ignacio during Superlatives club meetings—they’d gotten a shake of the head.

“I could have beaten some of those teams he let run last week,” Mehdi declared.

“By yourself?” asked Haoyu.

“Maybe I was the problem last week.” Kon sighed. “I really wanted to use my skill like we did when we flew across the gym on the dog crate, so we kept trying to make me a part of one of the strategies. Let’s not list me in a major role for this week.”

“You were going to get us to the top of the floating island, though,” said Alden. The floating island obstacle was what it sounded like. It floated, so there was no way to climb it. They had to jump or fly up to it. Their current plan involved Ignacio’s knives and Kon’s ability to send those knives back to a previous location.

“It’s too impractical. Maybe that’s what makes it, ‘Not enough,’” said Kon.

Lexi scowled at the reminder. He’d appreciated getting Ash’s four-word response to last week’s work almost as much as Alden had.

“Let’s come up with something different to submit for the island,” Kon said. “Can you guys get together for a practice today? We’ll brainstorm. Try some things.”

They all agreed quickly.

Kon clapped his hands together. “How soon can we do it?”

“This was my only class today,” said Alden. “So whenever the rest of you want—”

<<How did you end up with only one class on Wednesdays?>> asked Ignacio.

“Technically, I do have a meeting with an independent study mentor every Wednesday, too, but half the time we’re just going to exchange emails instead.”

Last week, an advisor had called to ask what was up with his schedule. Alden had argued with her stubbornly and shamelessly until she gave in and agreed he could keep the classes he’d selected and add no others. Promising he could test out of a math class that he was definitely not able to test out of at present, and hinting that he needed his electives to be now and about aliens for important Rabbit reasons, had earned him a free pass until next quarter.

A couple of months from now, he might end up trying to cram an entire math course into his brain with the help of Olorn-art’h’s earring, but why worry about it before then?

“I’ll send you my basic schedule so that you have it,” he said to Kon. “We should have already done that since you’re our organizer guy.”

“I prefer Captain Kon to ‘organizer guy.’”

After they all went their separate ways, Alden sent Kon his class list. With the optional study halls removed, it looked like he wasn’t doing too much:

Monday

8:00 AM -10:00 AM — Accelerated Combat I (A/B Fitness) - meet at track

10:30 AM -11:30 AM — Coursing I — MPE 108

Tuesday

8:00 AM - 10:00 AM — Accelerated Combat I — MPE Gymnasium

10:30 AM -11:30 AM — Coursing I — MPE 108

Wednesday

9:00 AM - 9:30 AM — Meet with faculty mentor for Advanced Independent Study of Other Worlds

10:30 AM -11:30 AM — Coursing I — MPE 108

Thursday

8:00 AM - 10:00 AM — Accelerated Combat I — MPE Gymnasium

10:30 AM -11:30 AM — Coursing I — MPE 108

Friday

5:00 AM - 7:00 AM — Coursing I (runs) — MPE Gymnasium

8:00 AM - 12:00 PM — Storytelling in Artonan — Pacific Welcome House

3:00 PM - 4:15 PM — Engaging with the Unexpected II — Forthright 1207

The Friday situation was going to be a little rough, but he was done by noon four days a week. At least on paper. In practice, he was dedicating that time to spells and everything else he was doing that Celena North didn’t offer classes for.

His mentor for the independent study had seemed really excited that he was so passionate about her subject last week. He hoped that enthusiasm would translate to approval for the study he had proposed in his email to her this morning—Considerations for Humans Traveling to Worlds Corrupted By Survivable Levels of Chaos. He was studying that anyway, and he thought it would be satisfying to formalize some of it and get credit for it.

It’s all heroes or aliens. Good job, me.

Somewhere way back in his past, a younger version of himself would have been childishly delighted by a schedule like this one.

“Hey, Victor, you excellent orange dude,” he said as he strolled into his apartment and was greeted by the cat. “You want to come and help me study?”

Victor followed him back to his room, and Alden shut the door behind them. He slipped his leaf out from under the auriad on his arm and placed the end of it in a glass of water he’d left on the desk. Then he requested his books and growing supply of tools from System storage, enjoying the way the ingredient pouch felt in his hands.

Setting up the soundproof tent Stuart had given him involved dropping it on the floor and reaching out to gently tap the opening symbol with his authority. It sprang to life, becoming an opaque green half-dome that Alden thought would expand into a sphere if he could somehow open it in midair. It didn’t quite fit in his room, but when it encountered anything remotely heavy it just stopped expanding in that direction. He could enter or leave it through a panel on one side.

Finally, he took his learning cushion off his loft bed, where it now stayed most of the time. Victor had demonstrated destructive impulses toward the fake cushion and could never be allowed unsupervised access to the real one. Supervised access was fine, though. Alden took cushion, cat, magical supplies, earring, two cat toys, and an ordinary battery-powered lamp into the tent and sealed them all in together.

It was cozy to kneel on his cushion, petting his cat, and settling in for what he knew would be a long study session.

He started differently these days than he had before, selecting the nyip pod and a few other items from his ingredient pouch, spreading them out in front of him, and then closing his eyes. He pictured himself reaching toward someone else nearby whose location he wasn’t sure of. That wasn’t really what he was doing, but thinking that way made it easier to expand his sense of the space around him more evenly. Just a couple of arm lengths in every direction, he reached and then withdrew to his usual, quiet spot with a fresh awareness of the reality around him.

The objects that surrounded him—cushion, tent, clothes, more—couldn’t be identified as what they were except for the fact that he already knew. But they could be easily identified as something different from his own body, the nyip pod, and Victor.

He waited a while for the cat to stop brushing by him, so that he was sure he couldn’t tell through his sense of touch where his pet was. Then, he focused a little harder.

He’s in front of me now.

To my left.

In front of me again.

To my right.

How far?

He thought about that last question for as long as he needed to even though this learning partner had a tendency to ruin things by making himself vocally or physically obvious if Alden was slow.

If I reach my right hand out, down a little and back a little…my elbow will still be slightly bent when my hand touches the cat. That’s correct.

He did it, and his hand encountered soft fur exactly where he expected it to be.

“Good kitty,” he said, smiling and opening his eyes. “You feel like life.”

Victor pressed his head into Alden’s fingers and offered a rumbling purr.

******

******

Late that afternoon, Alden found himself in the same park down in F where the Christmas market had been held. He stood on the grass near a bandstand that was unoccupied except for the occasional curious kid peering through the decorative railing. His hands were wrapped around the heel and grass-stained toe of the object he’d been entrusted with—a shoe— and his eyes were on the nonagon floating up in the air to his left. It was higher than anyone on their team could jump under normal conditions.

He could hear five of his teammates discussing what he was about to do while Haoyu stood inside his own preserved sneaker, balancing his weight there and eyeing the nonagon, too. His face was pure eagerness despite being smeared with dirt from previous attempts.

“I’m not sure the shoes are working as well for us as T-shirt lifts were,” said Alden. “And I’m concerned about breaking everyone else’s ankles or something if we try this same trick with them. But you’re my entruster, so whenever you’re ready…”

Talking to the side of Haoyu’s leg was an unusual experience, especially while Alden held him so easily that it didn’t really feel like he was holding someone.

“Count to three, and throw me!”

“Double-handed, underhanded toss on three,” Alden confirmed, bending his knees. “I’ll try not to send you flipping this time, but no promises. One…two…THREE!”

He heaved the shoe upwards. Balancing during the toss and maneuvering once he was in the air was Haoyu’s job. Alden tried to throw the shoe in a way that didn’t make that impossible. Sending it up like he wanted it to travel in a clean, spin-free arc then land on the nonagon was the move they were going for.

Haoyu sailed into the sky with a whoop.

Jeffy yelled his approval.

“Too much!” Ignacio called.

Definitely too much! Alden pressed his finger to the appropriate symbol on the driving ring, and sent the nonagon down and forward at an angle, trying to intercept his falling roommate. It didn’t so much catch Haoyu as give him something to bounce off of. He hit the ground in a roll, and leaped back up, clapping his hands and laughing. “Yes! Again! Alden, what if you hold me, jump, and then throw me at the top of your jump?”

“I’m not even aiming you correctly as it is!” Alden looked over his shoulder at the rest of them. “I think this could be good on runs when we’re out of other options, but I don’t know about making it one of our strategies for this Friday. What do you all think?”

“Can I fly?” Ignacio asked.

“I could land better than Haoyu,” Mehdi said.

“If by better you mean ‘in more pieces,’” said Lexi.

“I can roll out of a fall that high fine. Do you want me to prove it to you?”

“No.”

“I’m sending you footage from my last duel to prove it to you.”

Ignacio was zipping up his jacket and heading over toward Alden. “I’ll do this.” He crossed his arms over his chest. “You do my jacket and throw?”

“Sure. This is good practice for me. But for the team?” He looked questioningly at Kon.

Kon looked from him to the nonagon and back. “Are we all fine to practice for at least another hour?”

Heads nodded.

“Apex! Let’s see if Alden can get better at throwing humans around!”

***
