He looked awful. Mrsha exclaimed as Octavia practically bowled Numbtongue over as she shot out of her shop.
“Master Saliss! How are you?”
“Hey. Whoo. Look, it’s a naked Drake. Someone’s ancestors, I’m tired. Is this supposed to be waking me up? It’s not working.”
The yellow-scaled Drake looked far less annoying than usual. Erin wavered as Saliss sat down.
“It’s supposed to. It’s caffeine.”
The Drake eyed the coffee.
“Not stamina-replenishing, then? Just caffeine? It was better in Oteslia. But I had more sleep in me then.”
He sat down in a chair, groaning, as Octavia fussed around him.
“Master Saliss, you should have called me in to help! How are you? I haven’t seen you in a week!”
Saliss opened one eye.
“Some things I can’t get you to do. You’re not high-enough level, and I’m not scraping you off the walls. I’m nearly done with enough battle potions, and I’m poor. Wait. Did you say a week?”
Octavia nodded. The Drake stared at the coffee.
“…I thought it was only two days. Yeah, this might not be work—”
He put his head back, groaning. Everyone stared at him, but the Drake just lay there, head tilted up at the ceiling. Only when they heard the rasping snore coming out of his mouth did they realize he’d passed out.
“Was he awake for seven days? Don’t you die if you stay up for five in a row?”
Erin looked aghast. Lyonette just hurried over and threw a blanket over Saliss. He actually dodged the blanket. Saliss’ eyes shot open, and he whirled out of the way.
“Damn you assassins—oh. Thanks.”
He lowered the vial, grabbed the blanket, wrapped himself up in it, and then hit the floor, already asleep again. Shriekblade stared down at Saliss. She crawled over the rafters and whispered down to Pisces.
“See? Named-rank. He knows about Roshal, too. They’ll stab you in your sleep.”
Ulvama kicked Saliss gently as he lay there. A Named-rank Drake, Numbtongue the [Bard]—who was at least Goblin Chieftain in level, if not authority—the [Innkeeper]. She folded her arms.
“Lots of power. None for me.”
She was a [Shaman of the Old Ways] thanks to that meddlesome little man. However, Ulvama was a practical Goblin who had served under Tremborag. She knew that power was a tribe, not any one Goblin.
She had watched Tremborag die alone. The [Innkeeper] had figured out the basics of power in making that [Knight]. If Rags was never going to take her back—Ulvama figured she might as well begin consolidating power here.
It would be tricky with non-Goblins, but she figured she could at least get things she wanted, if not create a tribe. Numbtongue gave her a look of deep suspicion.
“Don’t cause trouble.”
“You have Stitch-girl. Shut up, fool. Go practice kicking each other between legs with [Farmer]. I don’t have relationship problems.”
She looked around. What she really wanted was maybe a bicycle. But you had to choose who had the most power. She eyed Erin.
Numbtongue gave Ulvama a sidelong look and laughed in her face.
“No chance with anyone here! This isn’t Mountain City tribe.”
His derisive tone made Ulvama’s eyes narrow. She turned to Numbtongue and tugged at the Drake shirt she’d made Mrsha buy her that she’d adjusted, mostly by removing most of the upper section.
“I am an expert. Silly little Goblin. Anyone can be mine.”
…Which was exactly the reason why Rags was still not exactly welcoming her to Goblinhome. Numbtongue made a scoffing sound and turned away. The [Shaman]’s crimson eyes narrowed. She turned, put two fingers to her lips, and blew a kiss. Then she flicked a red, sparkling orb through the air.
It curved slightly across the room, and Kevin, talking excitedly with Joseph, yelped as it struck the back of his neck. He turned and felt a warm pair of lips on—Joseph blinked at Kevin’s neck.
“Whoa. Kevin, did she just—?”
Numbtongue just snorted in derision. That wasn’t high-level flirting. It was just magical flirting—he’d seen more poetic overtures in the Redfang tribe, like combing someone else’s Carn Wolf. Ulvama sneered at him.
“Easy is easy. Anyone. I know them.”
Kevin was, apparently, easy. Numbtongue raised his brows. This was a challenge? He thought—then grinned wickedly and pointed at the figure slowly hanging upside-down from a beam overhead. Shriekblade snatched one of Liska’s coffee mugs and scared the Gnoll so badly the rest of the tray went flying. Silveran bustled over. Oh dear, more cleaning? He might be here all day.
Ulvama laughed in Numbtongue’s face. She fished around in her belt pouches.
“Hmm. One second. Need silly Centaur’s leaves and other things.” 
Leaves? Dreamleaf? Then Numbtongue saw Ulvama pull out some distinctly powder-like stuff that made Octavia’s head snap around. The [Shaman] trotted over to Tessa, calling out.
“Scary adventurer girl. Want to have lots of mind-crazy things and—”
Oh no. Numbtongue dragged her back.
“Bad idea. Don’t do that.”
Ulvama hid the small pouch of powder as Tessa found yet another substance she enjoyed. She smirked at Numbtongue.
“Would work. See?”
She hid whatever it was so fast that Numbtongue suspected she hadn’t been serious. She was mocking him. His teeth bared furiously. Numbtongue looked around. What about…?
One of the [Knights]? Ser Solton, Dame Thuile, were all watching Normen. Ulvama scoffed.
“Takes time. Duh. Have to get behind armor. Under armor. Then—easy. Rich [Knight] is easiest. Likes money. All [Knights] are serious until armor comes off.”
Exasperated by her confidence, Numbtongue looked around. He felt like he was arguing the wrong thing—he didn’t like Ulvama’s surety that there was a way to push everyone’s button. Then he pointed down at Saliss.
“Aha!”
Ulvama peered down at the Drake, and her confident expression…flickered. She developed a huge frown and walked around the Drake. She nudged him with a toe—he twitched out of the way a few times—as Numbtongue smiled triumphantly at her.
Then Ulvama brightened up. She grabbed Mrsha’s notepad, tore off a piece, and stole a quill as the girl punched her leg. Ulvama’s eyes were triumphant as she wrote, then stuffed a bit of folded paper into Saliss’ mouth.
“There.”
The [Bard] gave her a disbelieving look as the [Shaman] walked off. Saliss woke up and spat out the piece of paper. He glanced at Ulvama, unfolded the paper, and his face didn’t change.
“No, I’m not selling you anything.”
He called out after Ulvama, and the Hob laughed. Saliss tucked the paper away and went back to sleep. Or at least, he closed his eyes. Numbtongue sneered at Ulvama, but she still claimed triumph.
After all, she’d written—
 
Want to come back later with me, pretty lady?
 
Which was a Relc-level line. And an Ulvama-level read. Saliss closed his eyes. There was just one problem. The one mistake Ulvama had made as an expert [Shaman] was this: she had read how to get to her target.
But now her target, Saliss, was seriously considering killing her.
 
——
 
The one person the [Shaman] was secretly glad that Numbtongue hadn’t pointed at was the young woman currently welcoming Jewel into her inn. Because if he had pointed at her, Ulvama would have obviously lied.
But, like a mountain climber staring at a glass wall, she would have had a really hard time finding even the beginning of a foothold. Everyone—in that reductive way Ulvama saw things like intimacy—could be gotten into. You got them mad, interested, and that was the first step.
Erin Solstice? Well. The [Shaman] would have had to really work out a plan. Nothing was impossible, though!
Except maybe Bird. But he was also a child, and a good one. He gave her all the eggs she wanted in exchange for stories about birds, made up and real.
Speaking of Bird, the Antinium was the first one to notice Erin’s big secret. Jewel was sitting in The Wandering Inn, drinking some coffee to sober up and not being pressured by Erin—just by Erin’s inn and everything else.
However, he was the only person not caught up in looking at Normen, watching Jewel’s colorful expression, or Ceria’s competition to find the most horrible food ever. By now, people like Menolit were challenging her, so she was spreading honey on some fermented sauerkraut. The smell was…
And yet, amidst all the chaos, Bird’s cheerful gaze fixed on Erin as she paused a second to stare at a tiny thing she took out of her pocket and hid in one hand. He peered at her—then walked over.
“Alright, alright! Stop bullying Jewel! Is that Wil? Man, is everyone gonna come in today? Welcome, welcome! Don’t step on Saliss.”
Everyone wanted a piece of the [Innkeeper], and Erin smiled to see the [Strategists] and Chaldion—and why not? She had just started a Knight Order. This was the day to talk to Erin, to see her wondrous moments in action.
It was just gonna make it really hard to explore the—Erin felt a hand tugging at her pocket. She whirled and shouted.
“Who the—Bird! No, no—”
Bird had something in his hand. He fled away from Erin, waving his hands as she tried to chase after him, cursing her weak legs.
“It is beautiful! I just want to see it!”
“Bird, give that back!”
No one else noticed, even Chaldion, assuming Bird was just being a silly Bird. But Erin’s eyes opened wide, because he had just seen and taken something out of her pocket.
The feathered key. Bird. Feathers. He ran upstairs.
“I just want to look at it! It is so beautiful. I have never seen something like it before.”
“What did Bird steal? Mrsha, go get it back, would you? Erin, we are being swamped here.”
Silveran had stopped cleaning to help serve tables. Lyonette barely noticed Erin’s look of alarm. The [Innkeeper] pointed up.
“Bird just stole—Mrsha, go get it back. Put it in my room and don’t take it out, alright?”
Mrsha nodded. She scampered upstairs and hesitated.
“Wait, what am I getting?”
Erin waved her hands. It might be dangerous letting Mrsha do it, but if she went upstairs, people would watch her, and she didn’t want Bird showing it to anyone.
“It’s…just a small key. It looks like a feather. And it looks—”
She was trying to describe the bright metal under the rust when Mrsha’s face turned confused. Lyonette stared at Erin.
“…Like a feather handle and a strange, magical key?”
“Yeah—huh? How’d you know—?”
Then Erin Solstice felt that prickle on the back of her neck. She turned her head to what Mrsha and Lyonette were staring at. A little key was lying on the table next to Erin.
Erin’s mouth opened. Accordingly—there was a wail from upstairs. Bird came running down, all four arms flailing.
“Erin! Erin, I have lost it! I was looking at it, and I did not want to make it disappear, but I did! I have the ability to make things vanish! This is not a lie, I promise!”
Erin grabbed the key as a few heads turned her way. Okay—this was a new level of crazy. Bird calmed down.
“Oh, you have the—”
Lyonette slapped a hand over his mouth, and Erin bit her lip. Oh no.
There was a problem with her clientele. And that was ever since Grimalkin, they had been growing increasingly wise to her methods and, sometimes, even her act. Post-Grimalkin guests were sharp.
So sharp, in fact, that Wil and Peki, who had both come in after Jewel, instantly, casually, turned. Wil began writing in a [Message] scroll, and Peki leapt out the door to find her teammates.
Chaldion’s eye gleamed as he removed it and inserted his [True Sight] one. Even Saliss’ head rose slightly. Erin Solstice cursed.
How many had seen the key? No, they hadn’t even seen it; Lyonette had been standing in the way of it, but it was Bird’s commentary. They were pressuring her timeline. But—Erin Solstice blew out her cheeks.
“Alright. That’s it. Employees, huddle in the kitchen! You too, Normen, Alcaz!”
Numbtongue looked around, and Bird, Lyonette, Mrsha, Octavia, even Ulvama, drifted in after Erin. Ishkr was already there with Liska—and Erin pointed.
“Oh no. Not guests!”
That included Gothica, a snooping Fierre, and a crowd of others. The Thronebearers blocked the doorway as Normen and Alcaz ducked in.
“Erin, what’s going on?”
The [Innkeeper] waited until Ser Dalimont raised a thumb and deployed a privacy Skill. Even then, she talked quietly, twisting her own ring.
“Alright. This is sort of related to Normen’s new class. Guess what? I leveled up too! Not to detract from your big moment, Normen, but—”
“You did? Erin! You’re so close to Level 50!”
Lyonette gasped, and Ulvama’s eyes bulged. Numbtongue’s jaw dropped, and Mrsha danced around in delight. Cake! This called for cake, dead gods damnit! Yet Erin wasn’t done.
“Yeah, but this was the weirdest level yet. Just listen—I didn’t get a Skill. I got something to do with the [Garden of Sanctuary]. I got…”
She showed them the Key of Reprieve, and everyone stared at it. Bird took the key.
“Ooh. So pretty.”
“Bird! This is all your fault! Don’t just take the key!”
The Antinium looked stunned at the accusation from Lyonette.
“I just wanted to look at it, Lyonette. It is not stealing if I give it back.”
Lyonette had cottoned onto the problem of the guests. She pulled at her hair in exasperation.
“Yes, but now Chaldion and the others will make a scene—although how bad would that be, Erin?”
“I dunno! I can’t open the Garden! I’m sure the key’s changed something. I was gonna investigate it, but I don’t want the others crimping our style.”
“So that’s why it’s not appearing. I thought Mrsha was just keeping it open somewhere.”
Octavia slapped her forehead. Erin nodded. She didn’t mind sharing the garden, but in truth—it was just so fun and wonderful that she didn’t want someone to ruin the experience by talking about ‘worldwide ramifications’ and essentially commodifying her new Skill. Like the [Strategists]. And it seemed like she had some agreement.
Bird still refused to give the key back—until it vanished. It just disappeared from his hand, and Erin blinked at it in hers.
“Whoa. See—that’s magic.”
“I just want to look at it!”
Bird pouted and snatched it back a third time. Lyonette covered her face.
“Bird, it’s not even a bird. It’s a key with a feather handle. Can’t you just…? I’ll get you another feather.”
“No, no, no! This key is special! Because I have never seen this feather before!”
Bird shook his head rapidly. The exasperated look on Lyonette’s face faded.
“Huh? Don’t be silly, Bird. It’s just a regular feather. Or an engraving.”
“You silly [Princess]. This is a fully-functional feather. I would know. I am Bird. I have never seen this…tapered end. It is actually shrunk—the pinion feather would be far larger. Perhaps even twice as long as the key? Yes, a wing-feather. One of the largest ones on a wing.”
