“I’d better get some iron. And a helmet. And some acid.”
She had to actually open the door to her room and go into the hallway, and Erin realized she’d need help getting the wheelchair down the stairs. Well, someone could help her down and pull it after—
Erin stopped as she emerged into the second floor hallway. Only with the door open did she smell the fishy, nasty odor of seawater and see the fish scales, the absolutely flooded hallway, and Liska, staring at everything with a mop and an expression of dismay on her face. Erin stared at the Gnoll.
“What happened here? Liska, did you do this?”
“No! It was Mrsha. Again. You’d better take the garden down—and better not go to the common room. Or the basement. All the water drained down there, and a bunch of Antinium came up to complain we flooded their Hive.”
Erin was trying to process a response when someone else woke up. Ulvama opened the door to her room. She took one look outside, peered at Erin, and snorted.
“More [Witch] magic. Stop summoning water! It wakes me up.”
She slammed the door.
It was another day in The Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
This was a grand day. A beautiful day.
Eight Antinium were wearing suits. Yes, suits, the kind of thing you might see at a funeral or wedding. They had been awkwardly tailored and adjusted at first—before an Antinium who knew how to sew had created a far more suitable version that captured ‘suit’ without having to cover the back shell or being uncomfortable or unfashionable.
Each suit was fairly cheap; cotton, nothing finer. Yet they had a lot of gentle style, like the two silver antennae painted on the chest over the image of a mop. A kind of crest.
The Workers all had a bucket and mop. They raised the mops overhead and did a little twirl.
That wasn’t part of the process. It was just style. In fact, it was so much style that Ser Sest was conscious that he hadn’t buffed his armor for a few days.
Silently, the Workers twirled about. Then they stepped past each other, and the audience’s jaws dropped. The Workers were waltzing. Moving around in a coordinated pattern, like two lines of dance partners interweaving. Only—their partners were the swirling mops and the buckets they swung around as they moved.
Terandrian waltz music. That was what this scene called for. The Hobgoblin had his guitar, but he couldn’t replicate the feeling of a full quartet of strings and some brass. To his credit—Numbtongue didn’t even try as the maestro of this moment, the Antinium with silver antennae, smiled.
Silveran was smiling. No, he was beaming. This was a wonderful day. Here he was, with his best team, cleaning the inn.
And it was a mess. Oh, how wonderful! There was water everywhere, it was salty and would dry horribly, and it was already threatening to bloat the floorboards, warping them. Time was of the essence.
The entire inn needed cleaning, deodorizing—the basement was flooded, and a lot of the stored goods had water damage.
All of it required professionals. Ishkr had taken one look at Liska mopping water down the stairs and made the call.
Silveran’s Cleaners were here, and they danced like the [Princess] had once shown them. In fact, some of the larger shops and places where they worked had requested that the Antinium do this.
It wasn’t always efficient, but eight Antinium swirling around the inn’s floor like waltzing [Cleaners]—well.
Even Erin Solstice was staring. Even for The Wandering Inn—
“Wow. Silveran is amazing. Did you know he could do this, Lyonette? Did Pawn teach him? Lyonet—”
The [Innkeeper] turned her head, and the [Princess]’ bulging eyes were her answer. Pawn beamed as he took her hand.
“Silveran is very profitable. His business, like Garry’s, is one of the ones the Free Queen has approved.”
Dame Ushar’s eyes darted to the Antinium, and Lyonette jerked. She patted Pawn’s hand and gave him a warning smile.
“Thank you, Pawn. I—it’s so elegant. Calanfer would have [Cleaners] doing this with the Eternal Throne if we’d thought of it!”
“By Marquin’s sword—I shall recommend it at once!”
Ser Sest shot to his feet, and the Thronebearers were distracted. Pawn sighed, but then turned to Mrsha.
“How did you conjure so much water, Mrsha? I can only do two cups. Although mine is drinkable.”
She glared at him. Mrsha was wrapped in towels and grumpy. She wrote on the only good paper she had left; Belavierr had ruined a lot of her writing supplies.
“The stupid Belavierr! She was in my dreams!”
“Do we need to take precautions against hexes or dreams?”
Lyonette was horrified. She turned, and the Horns looked up from watching the entire event. Ceria scratched at her chin.
“…That’s not something Wistram teaches. I doubt even Ullsinoi knows how. But then again, Belavierr is a legend. So yes. If Mrsha’s not dead—maybe just ‘yes’ in a general sense for all of us. What a way to start the day, eh? Alright. I’ll have two sausage hot dogs to start off with all the condiments. And then we’ll see how I feel.”
She turned to Ishkr, and Yvlon looked askance.
“Ceria, really?”
Even Ishkr hesitated.
“…All nine toppings, Miss Ceria?”
“Nine? I thought there were seven. Let’s see. Ketchup, mayonnaise, relish, fish paste sauce, acid flies, that’s five—pork shavings, and, uh—sour cream?”
“—And honey and mustard.”
“Oh, right. Yeah, put all nine on there. Let’s see what happens.”
Ceria rubbed her hands together as some of the other guests of the inn turned green despite themselves. Hexel broke off from inspecting the water damage.
“—It’s just as well we’re changing the inn, Erin. I have you for your ‘big plan meeting’ in two days, but I would have bumped it up if only to help you sort drainage. Happily, there’s an Antinium tunnel to their Hive which did all that. As for that breakfast, I think I need mine to go. I’ll eat with, oh, Councilmember Elirr since the inn is wet. May I see what you have? Before Miss Springwalker gets her food, or I’ll be regurgitating mine.”
“Of course, Hexel! Sorry.”
Erin waved at Ishkr, and Yvlon folded her arms.
“Ceria, there’s no way it’ll taste good.”
“Complementary flavors, Yvlon. Name one thing that doesn’t go well together.”
“Acid flies and honey?”
“Delicious. Honey goes well with everything.”
“Sour cream and fish paste?”
“Double sour.”
“But with the honey…?”
“Contrasting flavors. Pisces, you want in? Ksmvr—”
The Antinium [Skirmisher] opened and closed his mandibles, for once not leaping at the opportunity to show group cohesion.
“I—I will participate in this shared trauma, which I understand is a unifying force, Captain Ceria. Despite my clear reservations.”
Pisces instantly refused, but Kevin leaned over seriously to talk Ceria out of it.
“Ceria, you can’t do this.”
“Oh, come on, I’m paying for it, I like weird food—is it because it’s two? That’s a lot for my stomach. Tell you what, Pisces, Ksmvr, Yvlon, everyone takes one bite. Mrsha? You too? Excellent.”
Ceria rubbed her hands, but Kevin forestalled her.
“No. Listen—”
She turned to him, surprised by the look on the easygoing young man’s face. Kevin glowered.
“—you can’t have a hot dog without chili. Cheese! How are those not toppings? Baked beans too! Onions, avocado—wait, have we discovered those yet? Um. Coleslaw? Mac and cheese I’ve seen, too. Put all of them on, and I’ll have one too. Minus the flies.”
Ceria looked at him with delight, and Kevin raised a hand to high-five. Mrsha nodded excitedly, and Lyonette tried to remove her daughter from the equation.
“I don’t believe Mrsha needs to eat that. You two are welcome to your…food. But she—”
“She nearly drowned, Lyonette! She deserves a treat. You only live once.”
“Yes and I want her to survive breakfast!”
 
——
 
That was the kind of quality conversation you heard at The Wandering Inn. A Centaur shook his head as he trotted out of the inn.
He was still staying here. Mainly because Imani was—and that might soon change. Not that they’d sleep at Timbor’s inn, though the Drunken Gnoll was fairly nice.
No, they were thinking of a studio apartment over her kitchen. They had to build it first, but the Antinium had offered very lovely rates, and Hexel had said he’d do some personal designing and use two of his Skills if Imani gave him some exclusive dinners for a small company.
Everyone liked the best [Chef] in the city. It opened doors. To Palt, the veteran of Wistram’s secrets and politics, Liscor was easy-mode. He was Imani’s helper—and romantic paramour—which was how he liked to introduce himself, much to her chagrin.
But he was also the horseshoe behind Imani’s rising star. Namely, the horseshoe that played other, rival [Chefs] against each other. The ones looking to sabotage Imani or smear her name.
Palt was no amateur in the world of underhandedness. Culinary underhandedness, now? He’d had to call in a few favors, but Ullsinoi were full of rogues. Even their membership had a few cooking enthusiasts, and they’d taught him a few tricks for a few recipes.
For instance, one of them bore fruit as Palt did a daily check. He was in Barehoof Kitchens, the place he and Imani were running, when he halted a Street Runner doing deliveries with a bag of holding.
“Oho. Hold on. Your delivery’s been sabotaged.”
“What?”
The Drake girl looked alarmed and nervous. Palt was inspecting some of the basic cooking goods that Imani had ordered.
“Did you get this all from the same supplier? Or was it through the Merchant’s Guild?”
“I—I don’t know. Believe me, Mister Palt, I would never—”
“No, of course not.”
Palt had already checked the Street Runners. But he showed her what he’d found.
“This bag of flour? Someone’s mixed a bunch of salt and sugar into it.”
“How can you tell?”
The Centaur smiled knowingly.
“Diffusion spells. It’s calibrated to detect if there’s two materials mixed together. Handy for an [Illusionist] or someone doing quality-control. Interesting—I don’t think the Merchant’s Guild is behind this.”
“Why not?”
Palt indicated the bag.
“…Because it’s too much work. Normally, they just add some weight to the bag to claim they’re giving you more than they are. Enchanted sacks with [Leadweight], optical illusion spells—I even heard of a [Crooked Supplier] who had a teleportation spell wired into the basket so everything he poured out of it lost twenty percent in a hidden compartment. This? This is to foul Imani up, hopefully when she’s making something. She’d taste what she made, obviously, but maybe flour will be ‘out’ if she needs it. Interesting. Well, it’s not powdered glass. If it were—I’d have to get unpleasant.”
The Drake Street Runner was at a loss for words, but Palt’s ominous chuckle made her scales crawl. She had heard other [Cooks] she ran deliveries for muttering insults at Imani, who had managed to keep some of her recipes secret and eclipsed their own fame.
She hoped they didn’t escalate beyond pranks, because Palt, who was very genial and offered her some Dreamleaf for after work, was looking fairly dangerous.
“What—what should I do, Mister Palt?”
“Just one second. There’s some kind of worm or something in one of the produce. [Detect Life] is picking it up. Someone’s creative. How about this? I slip you two gold pieces and you swap this with another cook’s delivery.”
“Mister Palt! I couldn’t—”
“Four gold and I’ll show you how to change the Merchant Guild’s tags. And you find who could have messed with the delivery, and if we find who’s working for the competition, I’ll throw in twenty gold pieces.”
“—Let me run this back.”
The Centaur shook hands with the Drake, and she was just tucking the gold pieces away and heading out the door when Imani poked her head out the kitchen.
“Was that the delivery, Palt?”
“Yes, but she got a few things wrong, my dear! Oh, and you may wish to stay away from The Wandering Inn this morning unless you want to witness a crime against nature.”
Palt trotted over and gave Imani a kiss before relating the hot dog incident. Imani sighed.
“That’s Erin’s inn for you. Although, some fancy hot dogs would be fun to showcase. It’s the presentation—there’s this Japanese custom where you cut hot dogs into cute little octopi. They put them in their bento-boxes. As for poor Hexel—Palt, what are you thinking about?”
The Centaur had lifted a finger. He inserted a cigar into his mouth and puffed furiously.
“Lunch.”
“…Yes?”
Imani waited patiently, but Palt’s mind was working overdrive with sudden innovation. The Earthers weren’t the only ones who could do it.
“Hexel asked for a breakfast to-go, and we do that with our kitchen. Bags of holding make transport easier, but you know who never gets lunch even at our restaurants? Hexel again. He’s always too busy. He gets a burger from a stall or a snack. So…”
Imani’s eyes lit up.
“—We should corner the market on boxed lunches! Delivery as well!”
Palt hesitated.
“I was more thinking delivery. Your world does both?”
“Yes—but Palt! I can do boxed lunches for adventurers or people who have to leave the city. We can do in-city delivery.”
Imani began writing notes furiously as she took a pad of parchment out of her apron.
“What if I took an hour to work out a prototype bento-box? We need something good. It’s this stacking box which locks together—a bit of clever woodwork. But it needs to be lacquered or something beautiful, elegant. Not tacky. If we had chopsticks as a culture—we can pack wooden tableware, maybe?”
He pointed at her. This. This was why he’d fallen in love with her over, well, even Erin. The [Innkeeper] had graduated to food tasting good, but Imani understood a truth that made her a [Chef], not a mere [Cook] or [Innkeeper].
Presentation. Feed the eyes, then the mouth.
“I’ll see about woodworking. I may have to go to…Invrisil, I think. Woodworking, a deal with the Runner’s Guild…”
“Get me some of Wailant’s produce if you’re going via door, would you?”
Palt trotted out of Barehoof Kitchens, puffing happily. Yes, life was good.
 
——
 
The Centaur stopped by the Drunken Gnoll to let Timbor know that Imani needed a small bit of flour; their morning delivery was delayed. The [Innkeeper] didn’t curse—he just checked his own breakfast diners.
“I’ll run it over right now myself. We’ve got enough breakfast set in the preservation cupboard for a good amount of customers. I wish I had an entire preservation field, but your kitchen’s better.”
