A shimmering [Forcewall] was blocking the way. Behind it? A frozen wall of ice. He could vaguely see, behind that, a wall of bone. Chaldion pointed at it.
“Break it down.”
“It could be a trick, Grand Strategist.”
The Drake glared.
“She’s going into her garden. Break it down.”
 
——
 
Sometimes you just used a hammer or a wall when you needed time. Erin Solstice heard the first people pounding on the wall, but unless Saliss helped out, she counted only some burly [Bodyguards], Venaz, and Peki. Ceria’s ice spells could stop even the [Martial Artist].
Chaldion had, in fact, fallen for a classic fork maneuver in chess. Either he went up and maybe got teleported or he missed the real ploy—
Namely, Lyonette, Bird, Numbtongue, Ulvama, and the other employees emerging from upstairs rooms. Erin peered out her room’s window.
“Mrsha!”
“Let her in and shut the window!”
“But Normen—”
The [Knight] was running up the hill. He threw Mrsha up, and she landed on the roof and scampered up. Just in time—a [Spy] leapt up after her, slammed into the window a second after Erin closed it, and tried to open it.
Locked. And Bird’s door was closed. The second and third floors were now closed off, and Erin shouted.
“Break my windows and Shriekblade will poke you with her knives. Alright, guys. We’ve done it.”
She looked at her squad. Numbtongue, Mrsha, Ulvama, Octavia, Bird, Erin herself, Lyonette, Ishkr, Liska, Ser Dalimont, and Ser Sest. The others had sacrificed themselves for this.
“This is such a silly game, Erin.”
Lyonette looked exasperated as she checked to make sure Chaldion wasn’t breaking anything other than the magic walls. Erin shrugged.
“Eh, it’s funny. Now, um…did anyone find the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door?”
That was the plan while they all searched. Liska raised one paw.
“It wasn’t in the basement.”
“Damn. Kitchen? Outside?”
“I walked all the way around the inn, Miss Erin. No door.”
“Second floor? Third?”
“I looked from the roof, but nothing, Erin.”
“It’s in no one’s room—I couldn’t open some of them, but Erin, you can’t just call it?”
The young woman’s face fell.
“No. And I’ve been trying. All I have is this key.”
She waved it around, annoyed. The garden’s door should have been there!
Mrsha stared at the door and then eyed the thumping on the magical walls. They weren’t lasting long.
“The door’s the wrong one. Belavierr said the door had changed.”
“It did? I mean—I don’t have another door besides the portal one. Maybe I have to summon it? Come forth, the real door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]!”
Erin spoke grandly, pointing at the hallway wall. There was a shout, muffled by Ceria’s ice.
“She said the garden! Erin, let us in!”
“Ah, heck. How’d Relc run back so fast? Wait, how’d he get into the inn? Darn. I thought we’d find the door and—”
Erin was panicking slightly as everyone thought. If they had a Ryoka Griffin here, the expert in fae rules, Erin was sure they’d have figured it out.
And credit where credit was due…Ishkr peered at the unique key. Lyonette inspected it as she turned to Ser Dalimont.
“That key looks like it fits a very magical lock. I can’t imagine it would work unless it was magic. Maybe the motif—it looks sort of like plants. It needs something to do with plants? Garden? Plants?”
“Maybe. Or maybe you need a [Druid]? Mrsha, what if you—”
Click.
Everyone turned. Ishkr looked up and blinked. The key was sticking out of Erin’s door. He’d closed the door, inserted the key, and turned it in the lock.
There was no way Erin’s key should have fit that door. Especially given the size. Yet, as Erin’s eyes bulged, she saw the key was smaller in the lock than before.
“Ishkr?”
“I…wondered if it would fit any door. The garden’s door was always there. So if you had a key to no door—”
The sensible, logical [Head Waiter] gestured. Ulvama slapped her face.
“Duh. Everyone is stupid but Gnoll. Including me.”
“Ishkr! You genius!”
Erin reached for the handle as Ceria’s ice wall cracked and someone began kicking down the bone wall. She hesitated.
Then looked around.
Wait a second. This was really silly. Why was she making a game out of this? Erin supposed that she just didn’t want a crowd to invade whatever the garden was. She wanted something of the discovery, like when Mrsha had wandered into it the first time.
“But this is really silly, even for me. Maybe I’ve gotten a bit too pranky, guys.”
“No, Erin. The last thing we need is a bunch of scrying orbs. Just open the door.”
Lyonette looked exasperated. Erin looked at her, then blinked and nodded.
“You’re right. Alright, [Garden of Sanctuary]! You’d better have something impressive to show us or I’m gonna be mad!”
Venaz was putting his shoulder into the cracking bone wall with a Drake as Peki backed up for a flying kick. Erin stuck out her tongue at the glaring Drake. Then she put her hand on the doorknob as the key gleamed in the lock.
…And…froze.
“Erin? What are you doing?”
Lyonette spoke urgently as the Minotaur kicked the pieces of bone aside, snorting. Numbtongue prodded Erin—but then he stopped.
The [Innkeeper]’s face had frozen. Her eager smile stopped dead on her face. Because as Erin went to twist the doorknob, she heard something she hadn’t for a long while.
A…ringing. Like a bell. It was ringing in her head. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] let go of the doorknob. The sound stopped. The moment she put her hand on the door? It returned. A ringing in her head no one else could hear. Her heart began to thump again.
[Dangersense].
 
——
 
Jewel hadn’t been paying attention to the games at the inn. One look at the Titan of Baleros and she was ordering a second round.
She missed the commotion, ignored the noisy smashing of magical barriers on the second floor. Only when people began being ejected from the inn did she look up.
“Okay, everyone out. Sorry, game’s over. All spies, non-critical guests—out. Back it up! Mrsha, you’re going outside with the Thronebearers.”
No. Noooo! NOOOOOO!
A thrashing Gnoll girl holding a series of notecards flailed in Dame Ushar’s arms. Jewel raised her head as a [Princess] strode past her.
“Get her out of here. Tell Zevara, Dalimont, and if you so much as hear a sneeze—”
“You will be able to tell the Watch Captain yourself, Princess. You are coming with us.”
“Absolutely—let go of—Erin! Apista was in the garden! What happened to her?”
“We’re gonna find out.”
Erin Solstice reappeared, and Jewel’s own internal sense of danger spiked. The [Innkeeper] was back—and she had a knife and jar of acid in her hands. The Hobgoblin had a sword, and Erin was looking around the room.
“We could use you, Venaz. Chaldion, you in or out?”
“I would ask you to wait for a squad from Pallass.”
The [Strategist]’s eyes were glinting with excitement and wariness. Erin frowned at him.
“Are they better than Gold-ranks?”
He hesitated. The Horns of Hammerad were getting up, wary. But a Drake just pushed past both.
“How loud’s the alarm? Minor? A loud bell? Screaming?”
“Uh—uh—low ringing, Saliss.”
The Drake nodded.
“That’s okay, then. You’ve got me. Who else?”
Erin jerked a thumb over her shoulder.
“Normen, Alcaz, Numbtongue, me—”
“Absolutely not.”
Half her guests chorused. Erin glared about.
“It’s my garden! Okay, here’s the plan. Who goes in first?”
“Me.”
Saliss stretched. Chaldion snapped back.
“Absolutely not.”
“Ignore the old idiot. I go in—Horns on standby. Halfseekers here?”
“We could send in a decoy skeleton—”
“Ice elemental?”
Ceria suggested. Erin looked around, and her eyes fell on the [Swashbuckler] and her team.
“Jewel?”
So it was then that the Gold-rank adventurer found herself sobering up twice that morning. Normen, Alcaz, two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, the Horns of Hammerad, Numbtongue…Saliss walked down the line, completely naked.
“Alright. What an oversized crew to take on the garden. Where’s the door?”
Erin pointed to the key, still in the lock. Saliss eyed it. He produced a single, tiny vial that set off everyone’s [Dangersense] again.
“Got it. Give me five seconds. You open the door, keep it a crack open, and if I don’t say anything, send the expendable ones after me. Dungeon rules.”
“What about a minion—?”
Pisces gestured to a pile of bones. Saliss raised his brows.
“It’s the garden. I am playing it up a bit. Whatever’s in there probably isn’t the worst if Erin’s dangersense is just ringing. So, on three. Erin, I think you have to pull the door open.”
He was jiggling the handle, which would have really ruined the suspense if he’d gotten it open. Probably just as planned. Erin caught her breath. Now—she felt apprehensive as she reached for the doorknob.
“Erin, if you need backup—”
Niers Astoragon’s voice warred with Chaldion snapping from below.
“Adventurer Saliss, [First Forwards, First Out]!”
“Wonderful.”
Saliss rolled his eyes, but he hopped from foot to foot, a claw on the vial’s cork. Erin gulped. She grabbed the doorknob.
“Let’s just pull it open a tiny bit, Saliss.”
“Nah, throw it open. I leap in and you close it if I start screaming. Death or glory! For the Walled City of Inventions!”
“Stop that! Stop making me nervous! I’m gonna pee. Shriekblade? I forgot you were there!”
“…My [Dangersense] is going off too. Not from Saliss’ kill-vial.”
Tessa spoke quietly. She was staring at the door. The Gold-rank adventurers looked up. Jewel nearly swallowed her tongue. Ceria adjusted her circlet and narrowed her eyes.
“Something’s weird. Erin, I’m sensing—”
The [Innkeeper] turned and looked around uncertainly. Her hand twisted the knob slightly.
“Should I—?”
The door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] opened. Erin felt something kick her, and she went flying across the hallway. Something heavy, cold—wet—
Saliss of Lights and Tessa dodged. Tessa clung to the ceiling, and Saliss did a flying backflip, looked back, swore and laughed, and ran.
Ksmvr was tangled up trying to shield Pisces. Numbtongue stabbed his sword into the ground and didn’t move far, but all the others were knocked flying. Jewel looked up as a white wall of powder hit her.
For the second time that day, the inn’s hallways flooded as an avalanche of snow came pouring through the door. Erin Solstice tumbled down the stairs, screaming and slashing with her knife.
The guests on the bottom floor stared as a howling vortex of wind poured out of the door. Saliss whirled just in time to see Tessa drop. She stared through the garden’s door and then nodded.
Shriekblade drew her daggers as Saliss popped an ice-resistance potion. He saw the other Drake’s claw flash to her belt, draw a glowing dagger, and throw it. She said two words before she sprang through the doorway, more knives appearing in her hands.
“Snow Golems.”
 
——
 
Erin wondered if this was what it was like being dead and frozen. She flailed around in the snow until someone hauled her out.
Venaz kicked through the snow, looking disbelieving as people shouted.
“What is going on? Venaz, status report!”
The Titan was shouting as Chaldion spoke rapidly into a stone.
“Send them through now. I want ice-resistance gear and flame weapons. Where are the Flamewardens?”
Ice was packed into Erin’s ears. She had to dig it out and felt the horrible sensation of ice lodged deep into her canal. She spat out snow—she could have suffocated! A terrible way to die.
“What the hell was—”
“It’s snow!”
Jewel poked her head out of the snow, dazed. But a half-Elf exploded upwards, sweeping it away from her team.
“It’s not just snow! There’s a damn blizzard up there.”
“And Snow Golems! Get your asses in here!”
Saliss roared from above. Erin saw Yvlon charging up the stairs, arms morphing into spikes. The inn was in chaos, but somehow, Erin was relieved.
“It’s not Crelers! Wait, did he say snow? Apista’s in there!”
She struggled to get up, but Normen was hauling her back.
“Miss Solstice, it’s not safe—”
“You’re a [Knight]. This is my inn! Let’s get in there!”
She shouted at him. He hesitated, but the Horns were already up and the shouting was excited—not alarmed. Erin didn’t wait. She tried to climb up the stairs and found that climbing through chest-high snow was hard.
“One side. Peki, Merrik, on me!”
Venaz charged into the snowdrift, trying to unsheathe his greatsword in the tight hallway. Peki followed him with a warcry.
Both slammed into the snowdrift as the snow compacted into a wall. The Horns had swept it aside with Ceria’s magic, but more kept pouring through.
Merrik stared as Venaz flailed wildly, trying to bulldoze forwards. Then he and Peki backed up, spluttering. Calmly, the Dwarf turned.
“We’re gonna need flame spells. Or another [Cryomancer].”
Erin hopped anxiously from foot to foot. All she heard were muffled shouts from above. The Horns, Saliss, and Tessa were up there. Oh—and Numbtongue, who hadn’t been swept away.
“Flame spells! Flame—Bezale, Palt!”
The two Wistram [Mages] came forwards and began melting the snow into icewater. Erin realized she could conjure her own—but decided to let the two do the work.
Icewater and snow ran down onto the floor, and the flames were scorching the hallway.
It was going to need some buffing out. And more water damage. An Antinium with a bucket happily sloshed water out of the basement. Silveran might be here all week!
By now, the people outside were realizing that the situation was not Creler-critical. But Lyonette’s greatest fear as she clutched a struggling Mrsha was the same as the girl’s and, surprisingly, Niers’.
What about Apista?
 
——
 
Apista the bee had been feeling weird all day. Of course, she didn’t fly as much, so she put it down to ground sickness.
She was getting used to being a lot slower around places. Crawling, not flying. Of course…she was sad about it.
But the little white Mrsha girl was back, and the inn was alive, and so she considered it a worthwhile trade. After all, one did not simply fly into the Meeting of Tribes, sting the greatest Gnoll [Shaman] in the eye—and Belavierr—and pay no cost.
She had been napping a lot in the garden, because all the feet were now life-threatening hazards. So of all the inn’s guests, Apista was the first to notice no one was coming through the garden.
She had made a little nest with Bird’s help in the jungle section. He had made her an actual bird’s nest and added a lot of fluff from his pillows for her. Apista had been waiting for Mrsha to run in to go to breakfast with her.
