Erin’s mouth opened. Bird expertly showed the others the key.
“See how tiny the actual fibers of the feather are? It should be about this big.”
He gestured with his hands. And that was a big bird it came from. Erin hesitated.
“What—are you sure, Bird? It could just be art.”
“Most artists who are not [Bird Watchers] cannot draw birds well, Erin. This is anatomically correct. But why the diagonal edges? I don’t know what kind of bird this came from. It must be a super-bird. A…”
“…Harpy.”
The word dropped into the kitchen, and Normen and Alcaz turned. Numbtongue blinked and then looked at the speaker.
Ulvama was staring at the key. The [Shaman of the Old Ways] blinked, and the slightly clouded expression in her eyes vanished. Mrsha’s head snapped up, and Lyonette stopped protesting anything. Erin’s head slowly rose, and she recalled something.
When Eldavin had walked in the garden, hadn’t he said that it belonged to someone he knew? 
Sheta, an [Empress] of…
“Harpies. This is a harpy-key. Or feather. For a Legacy Skill. I have never seen a Skill with a key.”
Ulvama’s eyes gleamed as she looked at Erin. The young woman took a deep breath, and her heart was fluttering. Bird whispered.
“Harpies? Are we going to see Harpies today?”
Erin shook her head.
“I don’t know, Bird. But I need to find the garden, find out what’s going on—”
“And find the right door. Belavierr realized you found the key. That’s why she flooded my rooms. Erin, this is big. Super big.”
Mrsha held up a notecard solemnly, and Erin saw Lyonette’s face grow tight with worry. Everyone looked towards the door, and Normen cleared his throat.
“Begging your pardon, Miss Erin. Maybe we should distract the others while you do what’s needed? That seems like a knightly thing to do.”
He smiled. Erin looked at him and then waved a finger in front of his surprised face.
“Oh no. You’re employees of the inn! You, Alcaz, Ishkr, Liska—”
“Me?”
“And me?”
The two Gnolls were surprised, but Erin folded her arms. She glanced out towards the curious guests. So the [Innkeeper] sighed—then smiled.
“Here’s what we’re gonna do. We unlock the garden. We go in and find out what’s new. No one else. Maybe friends—but none of the nosy nosers. Think we can do it?”
Mrsha developed the biggest smile in existence. Numbtongue chortled, and Octavia grinned, pleased to be part of it all.
The game was afoot. Outside, the opponents looked at each other. Oh, so we’re competing, are we? 
Bring it on.
 
——
 
Oh, to be there. Not during the boring, exasperating parts. That was the trick. You had to be willing to put up with the disgusting hotdogs, the [Innkeeper] panicking to no point. The boring mundanity of it all.
For the moments when magic ran through the floorboards and crept up out of the tower to rain down like mystery and adventure. For the wonder.
When the [Innkeeper] turned to you with the glint of mischief and excitement in her eyes—that was when you were called forwards.
Some of them hadn’t even had the chance to experience it. The Titan of Baleros had only gotten to fight a war against a living legend.
Not once had he seen that smile. Erin Solstice’s look of mischief made his chest do funny things as she made shooing motions towards Venaz.
“Nothing’s going on, Venaz. Wait a second, is that a scrying orb?”
She looked into it, and the Titan froze—a second before Foliana put her face in the way.
“Mm. Thank you for the snacks.”
“Oh my gosh. It’s a giant squirrel!”
“It’s a short Human.”
Foliana threw up her hands lightly, copying Erin. The [Innkeeper] laughed in delight as Niers swore and tried to edge around her.
“Hello! Are you Three-Color Stalker? I mean, Foliana? You’re so beautiful.”
The Squirrel Beastkin smiled.
“I like you. You should work for me. We’re spying on you. Look, here’s Niers.”
She picked him up, and the Titan struggled wildly until he hung from his coat. Erin’s first true eye contact with Niers was sudden, undignified—and her eyes lit up.
“Hello! It’s you, isn’t it? Nice game yesterday. I loved that improvisation near the end. But ooh! You got me. I hate losing. Game tonight?”
His heart was thundering out of his chest. But at her casual words—Niers Astoragon felt himself being lowered onto Foliana’s paw. He looked at her and was reminded—this was also his chess opponent.
“I—good morning, Erin. It was about time I took a victory off you. A game tonight, indeed. What are you doing?”
Her eyes twinkled.
“Nonya.”
“Nonya?”
“Nonya business! Gottem. Relc, high-five!”
The Titan stared blankly as Foliana began to twitch and crack up silently next to him. Erin high-fived a Drake who spotted Foliana and then froze. The [Innkeeper] whirled away from the scrying orb.
“Alright, who else is spying on me? Nothing’s going on! Nothing at all! And if there was—what are you going to do about it?”
Go with her, obviously! The people in the inn were watching Erin like a hawk, but Ser Dalimont cut in front of Wil Kallinad smoothly, and no one could tell what was happening. Yet.
But the newly knighted Ser Normen was heading out of the back of the inn with Mrsha and a bundle of cloth, and Bird was hurrying up to his tower. By now, the [Spies] were treating this like a training exercise or a grand game.
 
——
 
“I don’t think our agents have had this much fun in Calanfer or Taimaguros.”
Earl Altestiel of Desonis was amazed. Kiish wasn’t even back yet, and the Sleeping Queen herself eagerly awaited the <Heroic Quest> that Erin had offered him. They were mobilizing a task force—and Erin just kept coming out with—
Well. He stared at her much the same way as the Titan, but also differently. The Earl could at least admit when a campaign had gone wrong. Or rather, he’d launched his attack and hadn’t even claimed a beachhead.
Even so, Erin-watching wasn’t just for romantic interests. If it had been, Altestiel didn’t think the man who sashayed across the room with a bowl of the new popped corn would be here.
The Lord of the Dance, Belchaus Meron, could not help but try the new ideas in footwork that he’d been hearing about. Obviously there were other elements, but he cared about the more individualistic dances of the modern century paired with whatever insights Earth had come up with.
Nothing for four legs or with people with tails or wings, but—well.
He’d leveled. Twice.
Nothing was scarier for his foes. Nothing was more astonishing for his allies. The Lord of the Dance was leveling.
“This is her?”
Like Niers, he stopped a second to take Erin Solstice in. Altestiel turned from his scrying mirror.
“This is Erin. What do you think?”
The Lord of the Dance saw Erin walking somewhat awkwardly around the inn.
“I can see she’s been injured. That looks like improper healing potions to me.”
“Potion of Regeneration on a frozen body?”
Lord Bel frowned and slid the popcorn bucket over between the two men.
“I suppose…does she have any galas-muscle? Nevermind, if she’s walking, then she’ll continue to heal naturally so long as she doesn’t continue applying potions. She looks mischievous. I would love to see how she dances.”
Altestiel rolled his eyes. A hammer saw the world in terms of nails. Similarly, the Lord of the Dance always asked that question.
“What do you think she’s—”
“Dead gods, what’s that?”
Belchaus had seen a merrily spinning Antinium whirling around with a mop in the background.. Altestiel saw him shoot to his feet.
“A dancing Antinium?”
“No, focus on Erin. She’s up to something—Bel. Lord Bel, I swear to Desonis—”
The two [Lords] fought over the scrying orb, shouting at their poor [Observer] to focus on Silveran, Silveran. A poor servant watched the two leaders of their nations squabbling like boys.
But that was the thing. Lord Bel looked at the inn and threw up his arms. He copied Silveran.
“He’s waltzing. A Calanfer—I should have gone with you! I want to go there!”
And that was it. They wanted to be there, even if they had never gone before. That was the magic.
Even Fetohep of Khelt, perhaps. Not to dance, but to just be there and speak to her in her land. Walk with her and see what happened next.
The Lord of the Dance, Altestiel, Niers Astoragon, Fetohep—and many more people watched The Wandering Inn. Warily, as friends or foes.
Longingly.
The difference was that some said nothing, just watched because they were rulers of a land and could not leave. Not now, no longer.
Others? Lehra Ruinstrider stood up in the rocking cart as Suxhel shielded her scrying orb.
“To Liscor! We’re missing all the excitement!”
She began to run ahead of her team on the wagons. For about ten minutes, until she got tired, flopped down, and crawled back into the wagon.
Some people were on their way. Others, like Niers, had missed his chance. Altestiel watched with a kind of longing nostalgia. Lord Bel stopped whirling about telling his subordinates to get on the scrying orb and came back into the room.
“Alright. It’s settled.”
“What’s settled?”
The Lord of the Dance gave Earl Altestiel a peculiar look.
“My vacation, obviously. We won’t be able to take your land-route, but I’ll get there faster. Hopefully to see something else as fine.”
He smiled as the Earl of the Rains spluttered.
“You can’t be so—casual?”
“Why not? I don’t intend to go a-courting.”
So said the greatest [Lord] of Nadel, who had swept many a person off their feet with that casual confidence, married or not. Before Altestiel could say anything else, the [Innkeeper] whirled on camera. The twinkle in her eyes was still there.
“Mrsha! Don’t drop the—oh no!”
 
——
 
Half the guests were outside the inn, wandering after Normen and Mrsha, who had that suspiciously bulging bundle. The Gnoll girl was urging him onwards, and she got in front of Normen such that he tripped.
The cloth bundle went tumbling to the ground, and Erin appeared in the doorway to her inn. She pointed and shouted.
“The Helm of Fire! Don’t let anyone grab it!”
The what? Everyone whirled to the glowing helmet. Jaws dropped as the flaming helmet—a bright pink flame—burned in Normen’s hands. Then he and Mrsha began running.
Inside the inn, Ceria Springwalker had two mugs in hand, and she was laughing herself sick. The regular guests of the inn, even the talented newcomers like Venaz, didn’t rise to the bait. They had seen Ser Dalimont’s helmet suddenly go missing and Ulvama head into Octavia’s shop with a brush. A bit of fire and hey, presto, distraction.
“Oho. You lot aren’t bad. Well, I guess you all get to stay.”
Erin Solstice smirked at the guests left in the inn. She walked over to the door and locked it from the inside. Ishkr was securing windows.
Mrsha and Normen were the distraction play. They would come back through one of the windows.
“So, Miss Solstice. Which is it? Quest, something to do with your garden, magical fire?”
Chaldion sat at one table. Erin eyed him.
“Nothing! Why don’t you all go back home. Nothing’s happening.”
“I believe I’ll sit.”
“Okay. Suit yourself. I’m going upstairs. Food and drink is downstairs. Anyone who wants to follow me can. At your peril.”
The [Innkeeper] skipped upstairs, whereupon Menolit, Relc, and a host of other guests hesitated. It was entirely conceivable she could pull one over on them and disappear up there. Sitting was Chaldion’s play—he refused to get up.
The Titan took the bait. He sent Wil upstairs with Relc and the others. They saw Erin heading into her room.
“Hey, private!”
“Aw, come on, Erin. Don’t leave me out of this! You need a Relc.”
“Oh no, buddy.”
Erin wasn’t going inside the garden, so everyone followed her through the door. Was it in her private room? Relc hurried through the door with Menolit. Erin’s room looked—different from what he remembered.
Bigger? No, just less furnished. He called out.
“Come on, Erin. I know you said family or employees or whatever, but I’m part of this inn!”
Which was true. He was just an unfortunate casualty. Some people like the Horns had every right to join in, but this was a game. Relc looked around as a dozen fools followed him through the door. Then someone shut it.
“Wait a moment. This isn’t Erin’s room.”
Relc realized something suddenly. There were no chess sets in here. He looked around. Then he saw someone snatch a glowing stone from the door. He looked up as Alcaz tipped his hat.
“I’m afraid we’re all out of luck, gentlemen.”
Relc’s jaw dropped as Alcaz flicked the mana stone into a bag of holding. Then—he looked around. They had gone through a door. The wrong door.
They were, in fact, in—
Timbor Parithad came upstairs and saw nearly a dozen people in one of his guest rooms. Wil bit his tongue as Merrik laughed in delight. This was as good as the games at Daquin! Relc raised his fists to the sky.
“Erin! Eriiiiiiin!”
 
——
 
Poor Alcaz. He’d be making his way into the inn if he could shake off an angry Relc. Erin smirked—and then Ishkr closed the portal door. He and Liska hauled it up and his sister grumbled.
“This thing is heavy. Do we have to drag it down to the portal room now? It took eight minutes to figure out how to get it out of those stupid clasps!”
“Liska…just lift your end higher.”
Ishkr growled. Erin waved at both of them.
“Sorry, guys. I appreciate it!”
The portal door was an old trick, but it required moving the door itself around, which was getting harder and harder these days. Still, in the name of annoying guests, no cost was too high. Erin peeked downstairs and saw Venaz and Peki hadn’t fallen for the trap.
Neither had Chaldion, Saliss, nor a number of the smartest guests. Altestiel’s agent was a Gnoll who hadn’t left, and Erin counted.
“…Twenty-three. Do you have two scrying orbs, Venaz?”
“Wil had one. I have another. Backups exist for a reason.”
Niers had the numbers to cover all bets. Chaldion, by contrast, had been so sure Erin was playing tricks that he hadn’t ordered any of his bodyguards after her. Erin saw him glancing her way. Her smile grew wider.
“Alright. Time to get serious.”
What did that mean? The guests hesitated as she headed back upstairs. Chaldion waited a minute as a few guests hesitated, wary of another portal-trap. Then he stood up.
“Saliss, what is she doing?”
“Making the world’s top [Strategists] look like complete idiots? I love this inn.”
The Drake was smirking from his table. Chaldion hesitated—then began to summit the stairs slowly. He looked up, cursed, and called out.
“[Forcewall].”
Venaz strode up the stairs—but not onto the second floor. He blinked.
