“… True.” Justine said, “Obviously. I… Yes. You’re right. But… There’s a problem with that thinking, and it is this: None of the prizes are kept in the city; they’re all [Teleport]ed in, on demand, by crafters in Ar’Kendrithyst. But I know several of the pieces of the spellwork to make those items, and I am not alone.” She said, “I would entreat the Mind Mages for mind wiping, but that wouldn’t matter. Some people would still attempt to capture us, to try and force out answers we do not have.” She looked hollowed for a second, as she said, “The original, fully knowledgeable shadelings… They were ritually sacrificed in the process of the Stat creation.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Even if you only have pieces of the puzzle, it would mean a larger hunt.”

“Yes,” Justine said, desperately.

Erick watched Justine; her eyes, the tilt of her head, her posture. Even with the truthstone on the table, he did not consider that small magical item as all-knowing. So he searched for the truths in her words that were actually lies, as he prepared a question that would mean life or death, or something in between for all shadelings; a hunted existence without peace or prosperity.

He asked, “Are those Stats all traps?”

Justine took a long moment to answer.

“What I am about to say does not apply for shadelings pulled from the Well, like I was. For those like I, and many others, we must first be allowed to regain our sapience, and then we must choose to give up everything we have gained through the Script, in order to return to our original race. Levels, extra Stats. All of it. Most will never survive this process. I did not survive this process. But I was brought back in order to facilitate a bridge to peace.” She said, “That said… If someone falls to the Shadeling Curse by imbibing more than one Stat, the safest way to rid themselves of their affliction it is to journey to Ar’Kendrithyst, to Melemizargo’s Heart, at the base of the Spire. There, the afflicted will have the opportunity to listen to the Shades of the Spire, to hear Melemizargo’s version of the events of the Sundering. From there, you leave as a person, or as a shadeling; your choice. But either way he wins.

“Either you choose to be a shadeling, and you contribute to his godhood with your very existence. Or, you have heard his history, and by its very nature, call into question everything you’ve ever heard about the gods, the Sundering, and the Script. The Mind Mages would call it a mundane memetic hazard. Melemizargo just calls it the truth.” She said, “So, yes. The Stats are traps. But they are not a trap for any individual person. Taken in their entirety, they are a trap for society as a whole, and the gods. Mostly, they are a way for Melemizargo to leverage his power against all who oppose him, if they choose to continue to deny him.”

“… Ah.”

Justine sat silently.

Erick had quite a few more questions, but he had heard quite a lot, today. So he picked the most prudent questions he could think to ask, “How do you make a Stat fruit, and how do you prevent the Shadeling Curse from taking hold?”

“The second is easier to answer than the first.” Justine said, “Separately, the Curse does not look like a curse, at all. It is only in aggregate that the Curse occurs. So if you only ever have one extra Stat unlocked, you will not be Cursed. You also won’t be Cursed if you already believe Melemizargo’s side of the story. In the second case, you can unlock as many new Stats as you can afford fruits.”

Erick sat up straight. So that meant the orcol of Archmage Syllea’s tribe, the one who had managed to eat both a Constitution and Dexterity fruit, was already a part of Melemizargo’s cult? Is that how that worked? Did Archmage Syllea know? Erick would need to contact her, later.

Justine continued, “But more than 20 fruits always leads to… uncontrolled monsterfication. It’s a rad-overload problem; too many potions, sort of thing.” She added, “And that thing that Silverite said about Melemizargo controlling the monsters? That wasn’t true. Monsters are still monsters, mostly. He is capable of appointing Ancients, though. Those monsters have specific controls against their lessers.” She said, “But about creating the fruits: The process involves precise applications of [Grow] along with the creation of souls with specific colors of magic. The deep and the shallow of it, is that it’s soul magic.”

“… Ah.” Erick decided, “That is enough for me.” He stood up. “I had hoped that this would be easy, but it looks like it’s only going to get harder for everyone. Especially for you.”

Justine stood up. “I want to help you in any way necessary, Erick. You’ve done so much for Candlepoint— The Shades don’t care about us as individuals, at all. But you did. I hope you still do. Please, if you wish to know more… I’m not sure where I’ll end up, but I’ll help you in any way I can.”

Erick looked at Justine. He nodded. He said, “Good luck, Justine. I’ll be seeing you around.”

A small happiness broke across Justine’s entire being, from her risen shoulders to her tiny smile, to her clasped hands. She bowed to Erick, just as deeply as she bowed to Silverite.

Erick left it at that.

- - - -

Erick walked into the kitchen, and smelled food already cooking. Meats and onions and vegetables, along with a hefty dose of that savory bluebell scent. Teressa was at the stove, flipping steaks on the grill.

She smiled as Erick walked past the corner, and said, “Welcome back, boss!” She noticed his white armor, saying, “I heard there was some trouble.”

“Oh my gods. I need a drink.”

“That bad, huh?”

“Actually...” Erick paused. He looked at Teressa. The last time there was talk of shadelings coming back from their Cursed state, she lost it; she Raged, and almost killed Poi. So Erick spoke softly, saying, “Teressa.”

The large muscular orcol woman on the other side of the grill, went on high alert. Her easy stirring of the vegetables instantly stopped. She set the spatula down. Shoulders relaxed, but ready. Emerald eyes focused on the grill top, then lifted up, to Erick. She breathed. She asked, “Yes?”

“Justine Erholme, the woman I meet every time Ophiel goes to Candlepoint. She’s in town, under guard by the North Gate. She’s not a shadeling anymore.” Erick ripped off the bandaid, saying, “She says that as soon as any shadeling is allowed their sapience back, they can voluntarily give up their power, and they might be able to survive the transformation back to being a person. It’s not a sure thing. She didn’t survive her transformation, either. But she’s here as a messenger for Koyabez, for peace. Level 0; I saw her Status. Parts of her story are true, at least.”

Teressa nodded along as Erick spoke. When he was done, she stayed silent for a moment, turning her eyes to the food on the grill. Then, she said, “Good to know.” She breathed deep. She said, “… Good to know. Thanks for telling me.” She jolted. She smiled in a sad expression, lifting her head as she said, “They weren’t allowed their sapience.”

She meant her own team, of course. Erick said, “It’s my understanding that most shadelings never are.”

Teressa rubbed her eyes with the back of her wrist, saying, “Yup. Candlepoint is an oddity.” She asked, “Any other world shattering events happen today, boss?”

“Just the one, I think.” He tried to lighten the mood, “Oh! I did manage to make [Teleport Other], though.”

Teressa smiled, though her heart was breaking, as she teased, “Do I have to cover up some missing persons reports?”

“What! No!” Erick said, “I made a magic tree and blipped it away.”

Teressa laughed.

Erick said, “It blipped into Candlepoint. And then it landed in the backyard. I’m not sure if Bulgan threw it that far, or if he had someone move it for him.” He asked, half disgusted, half morbidly curious, “Would you have really covered for me?”

“PhHH! No!” She chuckled, saying, “Silverite doesn’t run that kind of town, and we’re all better for it.”

“… Good.” Erick reached over into various parts of the kitchen with his [Greater Lightwalk], saying, “Dinner smells great, by the way. I meant to make it, but things sort of got out of hand.” With his connection to the items he wanted established, he blipped it all onto the kitchen table. A keg of beer appeared on the solid wood surface, along with a bottle of wine, some crackers, and some good, hard cheese. Mugs and cups came next, disappearing from their spots in the cupboards and reappearing by the keg and the bottle. Erick offered, “Snacks before dinner? Beer and wine?”

Teressa said, “Yes, sir! Make mine a double.”

Poi smiled, as he went to the crackers and cheese, saying, “That went well.”

Teressa chided him, perhaps too harshly, “Was there ever any doubt! You shouldn’t have to worry about a Rage.” She turned subdued, as she said, “I am ashamed that I ever… Sorry.”

Erick poured himself a glass of wine, for a change, and let the topic of Teressa’s Rage drop. The woman was obviously uncomfortable and deeply ashamed that she had an accident and almost killed Poi. If Erick were in her shoes, he would have run away and never come back. Teressa had almost succeeded in running away. Thankfully, that did not happen.

Erick poured her a mug of good gold beer, and set it next to Teressa, saying, “I’ve got to go talk to Archmage Syllea about her own shadeling problem—” He turned to Poi, “It’s still a problem, right?”

Poi said, “I’d have to check, but as far as I know, what you heard today, just now, was the first definitive information regarding the process by which the Shadeling Cursed can transform back into their original race. Syllea likely hasn’t heard more than you have.”

Erick said, “So yeah. I have to go talk to Archmage Syllea. Last I heard, she was the person most interested in undoing the Curse.” He added, “Some of her people took some Constitution and Dexterity fruits. Most of them turned shadeling, but one didn’t. The only reason he didn’t turn, was apparently due to already being a part of Melemizargo’s cult? Or something? I’m not quite sure on that.” He said to Teressa, “So that’s the plan. Want to go?”

Teressa emphatically said, “Yes.” She added more bluebell to the steaks, then flipped them. They were already crusted with savory flowers, almost like a bread coating. She said, “I haven’t been to Treehome in a… In a long time. It’s time to see some people, especially if you’re going there with that sort of news.”

“Good.” Erick said, “I’m glad.” He looked over at the steaks. “And those look done.”

Teressa smirked. “They can cook a little longer.”

It was well past dark by the time dinner was over. As everyone went their separate ways, Erick went to the library to read, and to wait for a response from a question he set out during dinner. That response came ten minutes before he was ready to call it quits, and tuck in for the night.

Silverite sent, ‘Come to my office, and we can talk.’

Poi walked into the room, and nodded. He was still dressed in his usual armor, and ready to go out on the town. Erick had dismissed his own conjured armor well before now, but he briefly considered putting it back on. He decided not to.

Erick got up, stretched, and sent, ‘Be right there.’

He took tiny control of the light next to Poi’s shoulder, and asked, “Ready?”

“Ready,” Poi said.

Ophiel squeaked on Erick’s shoulder. He was ready, too.

- - - -

Silverite’s office was the same as it had ever been. Lots of shelves on both sides, one half of the room full of books, exactly as one expected to see in the office of a judge, while the other shelves on the other side were laden with knickknacks of various kinds. Kendrithyst crystal shards on silver stands, stone globes, lots of tiny landscape paintings, and even small painted portraits of people Erick had never seen before save for here in these portraits in Silverite’s office.

The Mayor sat behind her desk, in her large chair. Her silver metal body was in its usual dragonkin shape, while her clothes were of Silverite’s usual light, airy style. Her countenance did not seem light and airy, though. She was harder than usual.

Erick had blipped in moments ago. He quickly oriented to the space, as the Mayor watched.

He said, “Hello, Silverite.”

Silverite, all hard edges, said, “Hello, Erick. Have a seat.”

Erick took a seat, while Poi stepped to the edge of the room, to silently watch.

Silverite ignored Poi, to focus on Erick. “The days ahead are going to get rather rough. Shades have always been power over substance; flash over forethought. Sometimes they’d throw you for a hard turn, but you could recover, because their plots always hinged on unhinged minds, and the truly crazy ones were always eaten by their more stable compatriots.” She said, “But that was before… Before Justine Erholme and her story, and Koyabez’s own proclamation to me. I will not share with you what is not mine to share, but I can say that the war I was expecting is not going to happen.” She paused, for a moment. She said, “For the sake of clarity, ask your question again, so that I know you truly did say those words.”

