During dinner, Erick had sent out a question to Silverite, and she had told him she needed time to think. Now, he repeated that question, saying, “I would like to know how to make Curses, so as to be able to lock Shades down in a fight. I’d also like to know of Soul Magic, in order to take the power of Candlepoint’s Stat fruits out of their hand, and maybe extract the Shadeling Curse from that fruit in order to create a product outside of Melemizargo’s control.”

Silverite glanced away, lamenting, “Curses and Soul Magic.” She looked to Erick. “It always comes down to Curses and Soul Magic, you know? Or maybe you don’t. One, is the denial of the soul. The other, is the bolstering of the soul. Since souls are a person’s connection to the Script, it always comes down to soul mutilation.” She said, “I have a request.”

Erick waited.

“Justine has been vetted by multiple Mind Mages, as well as my God. Take her into your home.”

Erick boggled for half a second. “Really? Uh. I’m not sure if I’m comfortable with that.”

“I’m not comfortable with anyone gaining necromantic powers, but here we are.” Silverite added, “But besides that, Justine is going to get murdered unless she is in a secured location. Strangely enough, your [Prismatic Ward]ed house is among the most secured locations in Spur. Just think about it. But don’t take too long. Her entrance into Spur was widely visible by many people. We’ve already had to stop one attempted kidnapping.”

Erick felt the blood rush from his face as his heart beat hard. “Shit.”

“She knows a lot, Erick. A lot more than what she’s said.”

“… Fine. I’ll… I’ll think about it.” Erick offered, “If she’s vetted by Koyabez, she can’t be all that ill-intentioned.”

Silverite looked like she had something to say, but she did not. Instead, she said, “She might not stay with you for long. She has her own journey ahead of her. She is planning on spreading her knowledge far and wide, and then hopefully coming back to Candlepoint to challenge Bulgan for control. She is expecting your help on that front, to at least pay for the Challenge, if nothing else.”

“About that… Could it be true that I could Challenge him, and he would back down?”

“Yes.” Silverite asked, “Do you want that? Control of Candlepoint?”

Erick’s answer was a foregone conclusion. He said, “Absolutely not.”

Silverite went silent; thinking.

Erick filled the silence, saying, “Did you hear? Melemizargo appeared to my daughter and offered her a paladinship, wanting her help to ‘clean house’?”

Silverite sat in her chair for a long, absolutely still moment. Then, she said, “I had not heard that.” She looked away, to the knickknacks on her shelves, saying, “We live in interesting times, and I hate it. Spur is full again. The nightlife is booming. Ar’Kendrithyst is as evil as it ever was, but if it weren’t for Candlepoint, they’d be plodding along with their own little intrigues as they normally do. Backstabbing each other while tempting invaders with treasure and gold, to assist them in their backstabbing. But now we have the Dark Dragon making plans that are more nefarious than ever before.” She exclaimed, “And cleaning house, too! How dreadful. How unlike him.” Her tone turned flippant, as she said, “Bulgan is set up to fall. He’s gotten no obvious help from inside the Dead City. According to all historical signs, he’s been abandoned. But we’re going off of a flawed history… I have no idea what is coming next.”

Silverite looked like a woman on the edge of falling apart. She had already laughed at Justine’s proclamations earlier, and then she stormed off. And now she was talking flippantly of Shades. She had never done that before. Erick felt a spike of worry in his gut.

Silverite noticed, and read him like a book. She said, “Oh! Don’t worry about me. I’m fine. It’s just! Every time it’s difficult, you know? This time more than most.”

“I don’t know, exactly, but I’ll take your word for it.”

Silverite smiled, and returned a little to her usual solid self. She did not speak. She obviously did not want to talk about what Erick came here to talk about, regarding necromancy, curses, and Soul Magic. So she went silent.

Erick changed topics, slightly, asking “Have you ever heard of Melemizargo’s Heart before?”

“If you’re thinking Melemizargo’s Heart, is a weakness, it is not. That name is more flash than substance; most people call it the Well.”

“Oh! That thing they pull people out of.” Erick said, “I had not made that connection, yet.”

“It goes by many names. ‘Melemizargo’s Heart’ is one of the more popular. It is not his actual heart, nor does it have any connection to him at all. We’ve— assorted people from Spur, Killzone, me personally, and a few others— We’ve destroyed the Well before, but it always comes back, because it is the end point of a vast magic; it is not the center that it appears to be.” Silverite sighed, then she said, “Since you’re getting into necromancy, I might as well tell you: The Well is a dark mirror that does some arcane thing to every person who has ever touched a shadow in the world…” Silverite paused. She said, “I don’t know if shadelings are real people, or not, but we have known a few important facts about them for a long time. One of the major facts is that every soul that does not go to a god, or to the End, has a chance of being reborn as a shadeling. Another great fact is that I hate necromancy and all of its assorted evils, and sticky questions.”

Erick was blown away. Shadelings were truly a ‘resurrection magic’ problem? Like with Messalina’s [Resurrection] magic? But… No. The Well sounded slightly different. Shadelings were dark reflections? But maybe there was something there as to why the resurrected, like Savral, had problems coming back from the end?

Did Messalina get her magic from Melemizargo?

Erick rapidly asked, “Did Messalina get her magic from Melemizargo?”

“No.” Silverite frowned. “She did not.” Silverite asked, “Do you really want to learn Soul Magic?”

Erick could not ignore the sticky implications Silverite just laid out there. Her reluctance to speak further of Messalina seemed wrong, too, somehow. But eventually, Erick brushed over it, knowing that he would pick the topic up at some other time. He said, “Yes. I want to know more about Soul Magic.”

“Why do you want to learn Soul Magic?”

Erick explained, “It always struck me as… Even if I got strong enough to kill a Shade, they could just run from the fight. It is wrong that Shades can run from a fight, when the people they fight had no choice. So I want to be able to Curse any potential Shade with a— I don’t know. A [Curse of Potential Collapse], so they could not run away. But I’ve also been informed that Shades could likely throw off curses, and that I have no idea what a curse actually is. So… That’s why I want to know about Curse and Soul Magic.” He added, “And now we’ve got Stat fruits that need to get made but stripped of their Shadeling Curse, so that Candlepoint can exist without being plundered and pillaged by the nations of the world as soon as the Shades aren’t there to protect them.”

“When the Shades aren’t there?” Silverite asked, “Why do you think they would abandon the city, even if Bulgan was defeated?”

“You misunderstand.” Erick, hard toned and white eyed, said, “The Shades all need to die, Silverite. That’s the goal. If the shadelings are truly just another people being mind and soul controlled, then they need to be freed, and their evil masters need to be put to the sword. Every. Last. One.”

Silverite regarded Erick for a long moment.

Erick stared back.

Silverite said, “Speak to Apogee about the curse you’re looking for. He managed to make one that affects all forms of Spatial Magic. And you’re right; it is useful against Shades. You’re also right about not being nearly strong enough to kill one, or even seriously threaten any of them. But that Curse would help.” She added, “And you don’t need to learn Soul Magic. It changes people when they’re able to toy with the inner workings of their own body; when they see ‘imperfections’ in others that ‘need’ to be ‘healed’. I’m not sure if you would be that kind of person, but it is unnecessary for what is to come. I advise you to not pursue this line of thought, for your own good.

“But besides that: I heard what Justine said to you, and I highly doubt that what Melemizargo pulled off with these new Stats is doable through mortal means. What has to happen, is those Stat Fruit trees need to be stolen from Ar’Kendrithyst, and then they need to be stripped of their Shadeling Curse by consummate professionals. They should not be remade, for the process likely involves the sundered souls of hundreds of individuals.”

“… Okay.” Erick nodded. “That works, too. How are we going to do that?”

“I gotta be honest with you, Erick.” Silverite said, “It likely won’t involve you, at all. You’re much better as a deterrent against widespread danger, than walking into the shadows. It takes a certain skill set to fight a Shade, and you are not there. We’ll get Killzone and the Army on tree relocation as soon as we get more information from Justine on possible areas.”

Erick frowned a little, as he said, “Ah.”
