The sky was dark with the promise of rain and oncoming night, as the sun set somewhere in the west, beyond the heavy clouds. Those clouds held the heavens in their grip, from horizon to horizon, except for one space: a bright, silver hole, right above, maybe a hundred meters across, lingering with silver light for but a moment longer. As the light dissipated, twilight purple sky showed through the hole in the clouds, before the clouds rushed in to fill the gap.

A white comet, that was not a comet at all, but quickly resolved into a person, fell toward the city below.

The guards, who were already on high alert, saw the package as it dropped. Mages looked to [Dispel] the possible attack, as that was their usual first response to such an event. Dark magic did nothing, though, for the package was revealed fully as a person, as they tumbled through the sky, waving their hands around, trying to catch the wind.

This person picked some pretty damn awful timing to experiment with [Gate] magic. Or maybe they were shoved through a [Gate] by someone else? Everyone knew the local Wayfarers were working with Archmage Flatt to figure out [Gate]. Was this, then, some failed attempt? Who was this woman, anyway?

Questions sounded in guardhouses across the city. Anyone know any underworld incani experimenting with [Gate]? No? Rounds of negative answers rounded the various guard stations, while people in charge decided the city’s response. People fell from the sky quite a lot, actually. The obvious [Gate] that had appeared was new, but rookies played around with [Teleport] way more than was healthy. Those sorts of daredevils were usually just tracked as best they could be tracked, saved from splatting if such a save was necessary, and then given hefty fines, later.

… But this woman wasn’t slowing down? She had no flight spells? Or other [Teleport] magic to arrest her fall?

A decision came down the line, only fifteen seconds after the event began: The unknown —and naked, apparently— woman was headed toward the Lake. Someone go out there and arrest her fall and arrest her, too. Take the drain shackles while you’re at it! She’s to be in cuffs and answering for her shenanigans, as soon as she can speak!

The well-oiled machine of Spur’s Guard, well used to fast happenings and quick decisions, sent a team. Five people appeared Lake-side in a flash of grey light, just in time for those of them with the appropriate sorts of spells to cast [Air Cushion] over the water, and for the woman to splash down. She fell from a great height, but even children could survive those sorts of falls, unaided. The woman was clearly not a child, but everyone spec’d into Strength, so some buoyant help was more than enough to stop her from splatting like an overripe melon.

… Oh. There’s blood. Uh.

Maybe she’s a stupid mage who only specialized in mana? Uh.

Oh holy shit! Lotta blood! That’s a broken arm! Someone was going to get a major talking to for not employing more than a simple [Air Cushion]!

The guards worked fast. The woman was bloody and hurt in multiple ways. A call was made and a healer [Teleport]ed in. The guards, well versed in this sort of thing, helped the healer set the woman’s bones, as [Treat Wounds] knitted flesh and healed organs.

She breathed! Her eyes fluttered open. Yup; red eyes. Underworld incani. One man paid another, as the terms of their bet demanded the exchange of gold, while others wrapped the woman in a roughspun cloth, and wiped away her blood and otherwise with a gentle [Cleanse].

Safe! For now. She’d get a hefty bill, but at least now she was alive to pay it. The people on duty quickly closed ranks. There was no body. She was safe. She needed to be taught a lesson in not falling from the sky, so they didn’t help her as much as they should have.

And now that she was on this side of dead, and not passing over any time soon, the guards slipped shackles over her thin wrists, piercing her flesh just enough to drain her of all her power. Another bet was won; the woman was a mage. See that blue light on the shackles? That’s how you know its predominantly draining mana—

The blue light stopped; it had drained her dry. Ah. A very weak mage, then.

The air blipped silver, resolving to Silverite in short order. Instantly, the guards looked around. Why was Silverite here? Oh shit. They were in trouble.

A few looked to the woman. Some of them already knew that there was an attack on the Flatt residence, so maybe this weak looking woman was related to that? A few realized that they were out of their depth. As Silverite silently looked to the guards, judging them, they almost panicked, but did not, for Silverite’s gaze had already passed on to the Underworld incani.

The white woman, laid out on the grass, opened her eyes. She looked up at Silverite. She winced.

Silverite stared down at the woman, asking, “Can you understand me, Justine Erholme?”

Justine sat up. “… Yes.”

“Good.” Silverite said, “You’ve been granted a reprieve from Death; a second chance. How will you use this opportunity?”

Justine, wrapped in burlap and steadying herself on the shore of Spur’s only proper lake in living memory, said, “Us shadelings are not your enemies. We are not tools of the Shades.”

Silverite stood there, on the shore of the Lake, staring down at the white woman. She said, “That’s what they said last time, too.”

Justine, with determined red eyes, turned to Silverite. “I know how to turn shadelings back into people. I can tell you how to grow Stat fruits. I can give you tactical information regarding every known Shade.” She said, “For there are at least ten Shades that need to die, for they would seek to overthrow every peaceful opportunity you could ever hope to achieve between civilization and the Clergy. The rest would be content to live in Kendrithyst, to keep their machinations to a minimum.”

“Slightly different. I’m willing to hear you out.” Silverite said, “I’m okay with killing ten of the worst Shades out there. Maybe your names will match mine.”

Justine stared at Silverite. “Bulgan needs to die, right now. Please help me save my people before he decides to run rampant over Candlepoint.”

Silverite lost her strong persona for a small moment, turning, ever briefly, into a woman beaten down by circumstance. Then she came back to the moment, and she was the Mayor again. She said, “Give me actionable intelligence.”

“I need to speak to Erick.”

“… You do, huh?”

- - - -

“She wants to speak with me?” Erick repeated Poi’s words, both disbelieving and understanding at the same time.

“You don’t have to.”

“… Yeah I do. And in person, too.” Erick summoned another Ophiel, and then another, as he said, “In a few minutes.”

Poi looked away for a moment, saying, “They’re moving her to a secured location right now; before the sun sets.”

Erick just nodded, and summoned another Ophiel. Five was enough, for now.

- - - -

The safehouse was an average sized apartment complex north of the Human District, a block from the North Gate. It reminded Erick of any of the other places exactly like it, anywhere else in the city, except this one was directly next to the silver-coated guardhouse, near the gate.

The building was a simple, two story complex made of orange stone, with a small garden hanging over the roof and bright lights on every corner, holding back the oncoming night. The style mirrored the silver guardhouse next door. The windows were smaller than normal, though, and the front doors were made of metal painted to look like stone, but no guards stood around outside; Erick had no doubt that they were inside, and in their proper positions to guard the captured shadeling.

Erick stood outside the safehouse, decked out in his layered fabric [Conjure Armor], with his hood pulled down and a pair of tiny Ophiels on his shoulders. Four more Ophiels fluttered around him. He did not walk here; he blipped in. Walking through the city, looking like he did now, would set off more than a few alarms in the populace. As it was, there were still some civilians around that saw him and quickly walked away. Not out of fear of him, thankfully. They actually gave Erick some very encouraging looks, but then they glanced at the sky and raced to get indoors.

A guard stepped out of the air at the front door to the house, turning off his [Invisible] spell. Erick didn’t know him, but he wore the normal silver armor common to his profession. Poi had already told Erick what to expect, so the [Invisible] guard was not a surprise. The man opened the door to the house, saying, “Welcome, Archmage.”

Erick walked forward, into the small apartment complex. Poi followed. There were more guards inside, but not too many. One of them guided Erick further in, down a staircase and underground to a hallway. Erick’s guide stopped at a closed door, at the end of the hall, before stepping off to the side, to a small station where someone could sit, and watch the door and the hall, which is what the man did right then.

This, then, was Erick’s destination. He paused, unsure of how to proceed. Voices sounded on the other side of the door; people were talking.

He opened the door. He stepped in, while Poi remained outside.

The room beyond was a simple affair, with nice lighting and nice furniture. In any other setting, Erick would have thought he had walked in on some old friends talking about their days, in the comfort of a familiar setting. There were couches and pillows, tea cups full of steaming pink tea, small cookies set out on a plate, and smaller plates holding half eaten refreshments.

But there was a sinister feeling in this room, brought on mostly by the charged anti-[Teleport] runes glowing in every corner of the space, and they were not the only runes in the room. Erick glanced around, mentally categorizing a dozen other anti-magic runes. Anti-[Blink]. Anti-shadowsomething; Erick wasn’t quite sure about that one, but it had the Ancient Script markings common to all shadow-centric runes. On the roof of the room, though, laid the most complicated stone rune Erick had ever seen; he thought it had been an architectural design at first glance, like some sort of ridged ceiling that blended in with the rest of the space, but it was not. It was a mishmash of a hundred smaller runes, and it was also uncharged. Stone could be made into runes? Or maybe there was a lightward illusion permanently painted onto the ceiling? Wouldn’t that interfere with the mana flow and—

Erick ignored the distraction.

Silverite sat on one of the couches, lightly looking at Erick.

Justine Erholme sat on another. Red eyes, she had. Bright red. Happy to see Erick, but also worried. And also a little sad. Erick felt a tug on his heart. So she had dispersed the Shadeling Curse? Obviously?

Justine and Silverite went silent, as Erick shut the door and stepped further into the room.

Erick asked, “How did you rid yourself of the Curse?”

Silverite joked, “So no greetings and cookies; straight to it.”

Justine, thrown for a loop for the briefest of moments, centered herself. She fully faced Erick, and said, “You must go to Melemizargo’s Heart in Kendrithyst— Ar’Kendrithyst… You must go with an honestly open heart and mind, hear his side of the story, then decide he is wrong. That is how you would rid yourself of any potential Curse; the same is not said for a born again shadeling.”

A green light flickered on the table between Silverite and Justine; Erick only now noticed the truthstone.

He turned back to Justine. “That is what you truly believe?”

“It is also the truth,” Justine said.

Erick turned to Silverite.

Silverite noticed. She said, “It’s news to me, too. We had just gotten past the pleasantries when you arrived. What we were discussing, then, was strategic information regarding the Shades that need to die in order for the rest to come to the table and lay down their arms versus the world.” She added, “And what would need to happen with Spur and otherwise, if such an event were to occur.”

“… Happen to Spur?” Erick shook his head, adding, “No no. Forget that.” He stared at Slilverite and Justine, demanding, “How could you possibly think that they’re honest actors? That this isn’t some ploy?”

“Of course it’s a ploy, Erick,” Silverite said, unabashedly. “But I can still get some good out of it.”

Justine whipped around to face Silverite. “I am not lying!”

“You are not lying.” Silverite said, “And even Koyabez vouches for you, for now. But you don’t know the Shades how I know them.”

Justine glared. “I was their prisoner for decades. Through multiple bodies. Through multiple tortures. In the Well and out, twisted into monstrous forms and left to die of starvation or forced to kill and eat others in order to survive. Changed into horrible things…” She spoke evenly, but it was easy to see she was holding back a lot. She said, “I know who they are, Mayor. You might have been around them for a long time, but I doubt that you have seen the same side of them that I have.”

Silverite did not dispute Justine’s claims.

Erick walked further into the room. He took a seat across from Justine and Silverite, while Ophiels fluttered around him, to hover through the room as they felt like hovering. He asked, “What year did you fall to the Shades, Justine?”

