Justine did not look at the Mayor, as she said, “In the Water Season of 1276, 160 years ago, my party and I were denied entry to the Dead City through Spur’s usual channels. So we hopped over the walls, as one does in such an event. We succeeded in our ingress. We went home, back to Irildizirad, under the Grey Peaks of Nelboor, unknowingly carrying Curses with us. My friends fell to the shadows inside their own homes, locked to the bed while rads coalesced around their hearts. The same thing happened to me, too, but it took longer.” She paused. She said, “My former friends opened the gates for the monsters, for the shadows. Then the attack started. The siege lasted a week, but Irildizirad was doomed from the start, for the enemy was already inside. I died somewhere in that. When I woke up, I was inside Ar’Kendrithyst.” She said, “Ever since then, off and on, months at a time, or years at a time, I was granted a modicum of my original sapience, because the Shades occasionally need helpers that are not mindless puppets. That is why my Status reads 98 years old.” She looked down at her hands, and said, “This is probably my hundredth body. I’m not sure.”

The truthstone remained green.

Silverite said, “Her history is being further vetted as we speak, Erick, but I can already tell you that Irildizirad’s fall in the summer of 1276 had always been blamed on shoddy patrols. Justine’s story is new information. I can also tell you that someone named Justine Erholme did apply for a permit from Spur, in that same year; that was easy to look up.” She turned to Justine, saying, “But let us return to the problem at hand. Candlepoint, and Bulgan, and why you needed to speak to Erick.” She gestured to Erick, saying, “There he is; go ahead and talk.”

Justine looked to Erick. She said, “If you were to pay a million darkchips to challenge Bulgan for control of Candlepoint, he would be forced to concede.” She rapidly added, “The city would be yours! You could run it however you wanted, or not at all. But it would be yours, and every single person in there would be safe from him.” She pleaded, “The only reason Candlepoint exists is as a bridge for Melemizargo to communicate with the rest of the world; a way for civilization to come to the Darkness and make up their own minds about what it all means, and how to move forward. We shadelings are caught in the middle between the Dark God and all the rest, but it does not need to be this way.”

Erick almost said ‘no’, instantly. But he refrained from that gut reaction. Instead, almost dismissively, he asked, “Why would Bulgan concede?”

Justine barreled past his dismissive tone, asking, “Do you know anything about the Cult of Melemizargo?”

“Not really.” Erick looked down at the green truthstone, adding, “I’ve stayed away from it, since it seems rather disingenuous cult. They kill people all the time, and—” Erick stopped, suddenly getting fed up. He said, “Understanding the opposition is good and right and important, but it’s rather difficult to care about whatever nonsense that cult spews, when the outcome is torture and harm for everyone they touch.”

Silverite nodded, almost imperceptibly, as she watched from the sidelines.

Justine said, “Then… You have to understand one thing about Melemizargo before I answer that question, of why Bulgan would concede. It’s a central tenet of the Clergy, and describes everything Melemizargo does.” She said, “To Him, you’re either unmolded clay, ready to be shaped and fired into something better than what came before, or you’re the fire.” Justine stared at Erick, saying, “You are the best fire he has seen since the Sundering. The invention of an entirely new school of magic has managed to burn away his own insanity, Erick. Because of that, he has declared you Untouchable—”

Silverite laughed; once and done. Erick glanced to the silver woman, but Justine kept talking.

Justine ignored the Mayor, continuing, “And because you are Untouchable, if you paid the million darkchip fee to Challenge Bulgan, he would be forced to leave Candlepoint and all the shadelings to you.”

Silverite chuckled, asking, “And then what?”

Justine, still very serious, said, “And then my city would be separate from Ar’Kendrithyst! There would be no need for all this danger and death!”

Silverite lost her mirth. “Do you truly believe that?”

Justine stopped.

She did not believe her own words; Erick could see it in her eyes. She was not that naive. But she was at her wit’s end. Her shoulders slumped, slightly, as she blinked long, casting a tear to the ground.

Whatever went through her mind, happened fast. She recovered some fundamental part of herself, and said, “Candlepoint will exist or die at the hands of the world. We cannot defend ourselves; for once we pick up the sword, that is all anyone would be able to see, and we are not strong enough to overcome all of civilization. We are not Shades. We should not be treated as such, either!”

Erick said nothing. Instead, he thought.

Justine watched. Silverite withheld further comment.

Eventually, Erick said, “I don’t think Veird is capable of nonviolent movements, but I think you’re positioned to try. You almost have the right mindset, but you…” He lost his steam for a brief moment. He turned to Silverite. “I am not sure what ‘success’ looks like, here. What are some concessions you would demand from Ar’Kendrithyst and Melemizargo, in order to make the world a better place?”

Silverite laughed for a moment, then rapidly said, “The death of all current Shades. Monsters no longer imbued with a hatred for all life. The end of Ancients. The end of his meddling in mortal affairs.”

“I feel like you listed off several impossibilities,” Erick said.

She laughed again, then said, “Since we’re [Wish]ing!”

“Why are you laughing?” Justine asked, unsure. “This is not a laughing matter.”

Silverite said, “When Melemizargo stops assaulting the Geodes, when his monsters stop killing, when the Ancients don’t organize the monsters, when the Shades are all dead or impossible to find or incapable and unwilling to affect the rest of the world, then I will believe that Melemizargo is actively trying to make amends for his actions. But here’s the slag in the sauce: The people of Veird will never forgive him, and they shouldn’t! But the only way for actual peace would be for all the anger of the world to go unanswered.” She said, “And that is impossible. You’d have an easier time convincing Melemizargo to abandon all that he is, than convincing the rest of the world to forgive.” She added, “But even the first step, that must be taken by him, is impossible! I’ve heard first hand accounts from dragons who survived the Sundering, and Melemizargo has never been any different. This doctrine of strength through tempering fire has never changed. His insanity has twisted his visions for civilization in sometimes strange directions, but it has always been through violence of action and thought that Melemizargo has made his will known, and felt.

“Look at Bulgan! Killing people who came to Candlepoint in the beginning was somewhat understandable, but then he went and opened up the Wall to the Kingdoms, sending mimics into that land, killing thousands and thousands of people who could not run away. Bulgan is still killing people who displease him. That is who Melemizargo is. He shoves you forward, Justine, asking for peace, propping up Candlepoint as a bridge to the world, while with his most powerful hands, kills whoever he feels like killing.”

Justine had no words to say against Silverite’s.

Erick said, “You cannot engage in meaningful discourse when time and time again, that discourse is turned against you, to tie your hands, while the opposition runs rampant, doing whatever they want to do without regard for you, or your needs.”

“Exactly,” Silverite said.

Justine said, “I can’t do anything about the overarching goals of getting Melemizargo to submit to civility, but I need Candlepoint to be saved from Bulgan. They are my people, and I cannot abandon them.”

“There is something to be said for smaller goals...” Erick decided, “You know Bulgan’s power and capability better than most. If I gave you a million darkchips, then could you kill him, and take over Candlepoint?”

Silverite raised her silverscale eyebrows. She looked to Justine.

Justine breathed deep, her red eyes going wide. And then she faltered. “I… I don’t think I could. Even if I still had the power I once possessed… But, I lost everything in the rebirth.” She popped a blue box into the air.

Justine Erholme

Incani, age 98

Level 0, Class: None

Exp: 17/100

Class: -/-

Points: 0

HP

110/110

130 per day

MP

190/190

190 per day

Strength

11

+0

[11]

Vitality

13

+0

[13]

Willpower

19

+0

[19]

Focus

19

+0

[19]

Erick looked at the Status, then looked to Justine. He asked, “What, exactly, happened to you, to cause all of this?”

Justine began reciting her story.

Not once, did the truthstone sitting between them shift pink, to indicate a half truth, or red, for a lie. When she was done talking of gods debating with the Darkness, and of Bulgan’s growing violence, she waited for someone else to speak.

When no one spoke, she said, “The citrus tree was nice. I’m sorry it didn’t get to live.”

“Me too,” Erick said, as a numbness spread through his body.

More silence.

Silverite spoke for the first time in twenty minutes, lamenting, “Truly we are in a time of turmoil.” She said, “The Darkness creates new Stats, to follow the first new magics in a millennia, and gods argue over the fates of us all? Ha! They argue! There are always harsh words before the worst tragedies happen.” In the moment, Silverite was not the friendly, silver woman that Erick had known in the less stressful moments of their interactions; she had become something tougher, something more like in those first moments of meeting, when Erick was in the stands of the courtroom, and she sat on the podium above; administering. “I am as hopeful of a peaceful resolution as anyone, but it appears that is impossible. Melemizargo has pulled this shit too many times for me to ever believe his word as true, because, as you say, his philosophy is Strength Above All, and that motto is truer for him and his than most will ever know. If you have the strength to enforce your wishes upon the world, then it is Good and right for you do do so— Nay! It is your solemn duty to wield your power against those who would encroach upon you and yours.” She looked to Erick, saying, “Untouchable! Do you know what this means?”

“No,” Erick said, the answer coming before he could even think to obfuscate his words.

“Good.” Silverite said, “Then I do not have to dispel a lie in order to imbue a truth; If a Shade ever calls you Untouchable, it means that they will look to harm you in every way they possibly can, without impinging upon your freedom, your mind, your person, or your soul. I was declared Untouchable for a time, 105 years ago. I sought to use this bounty to end the Shades, with a Great Conquest of Ar’Kendrithyst. That disaster ended in the Great Purge of Spur. I lost myself, and when I found myself again, everything was different, and nothing was how I wanted it to be.

“Untouchable! Ha!

“A blight upon Melemizargo! A blight upon them all!” Silverite launched to her feet. “I have other duties to attend.” She turned to Erick, saying, “Help or harm Miss Erholme at your own displeasure, but know that there are no good choices going forward. Let me know if you choose to confront Bulgan; I will need to prepare the Guard and the Army for a Shade attack on Spur.” She turned to Justine. “Bulgan needs to die, and Spur is willing to assist in this. In the following hours, you will be debriefed of all the information you know regarding Candlepoint. In return… We’ll figure it out.” She waved a hand, adding, “Answer Erick’s questions, first. You’ll answer ours after he’s through.”

Justine rose to her feet and bowed deeply, saying, “Thank you, Mayor Silverite. This is more than I could have hoped for.”

For the first time, the truthstone shifted pink. Everyone noticed.

Silverite gave one hearty, “Ha!” before walking away, opening the door to the room, then stepping out of sight, muttering, “Untouchable...”

Poi stepped into the room and took his position near the entrance, closing the door behind him.

Justine sat back down. Erick looked at her for a long moment. She waited for him.

Erick formed the full question in his mind, then he asked, “With regard to physical or magical might, and political power, what would it take for you to be able to challenge Bulgan and take control of Candlepoint from him, and then keep the shadelings from going out of control?”

Justine nodded once, then said, “To be able to challenge Bulgan, I would need [Shadowalk], [Lightwalk], and 70 more levels. Even then, I would be giving my life for the cause. To win would be a miracle, but even then Bulgan would likely survive, and he would go to ground in Ar’Kendrithyst. Removing him from Candlepoint would be enough, for now, but as for what would come afterward, I do not see Candlepoint as being able to solve any of our problems on our own.” She said, “Us shadelings would not go out of control; No. Silverite was right about what to expect from other nations. As soon as there’s no longer a Shade in charge, the rest of the world would descend upon that place and pluck it of all its treasures.”

“There’s an obvious solution to that: You don’t need treasures.”

