“I’m back, babe!” Ranthia called at the fabric flap once she arrived outside their tent.

Avyna had warned her not to come in until the bulk of the enchanting was done, so Ranthia didn’t want to just barge in. She had no idea why it was important to stay outside during the enchanting, but she wasn’t going to risk upsetting the woman she loved!

Though it left her a little unsure what to do when there was no response. She had no way of knowing if this meant the privacy ward was up or if Avyna was out or if something had gone wrong and Avyna needed help or—

Right, breathe. Gods and goddesses, a couple of days of stress was all it took for her to lose her head again.

Ranthia waited for a few more moments before she gently tugged on the nearby—and strangely soft—rope that hung from their tent. A soft, chiming melody rang out. And shortly thereafter Ranthia’s world lit up as the fabric parted and revealed a smiling Avyna.

“Welcome home, my love!” There was notable fatigue in Avyna’s words, but they were still some of the most beautiful words Ranthia had ever heard.

Ranthia really wasn’t sure what she was expecting when she set foot into their fully enchanted (okay, Avyna only confirmed the primary enchantments were done, whatever that meant) tent. It had been difficult to establish expectations with elven enchantments and Reman inscriptions feeling so different in scope.

But whatever her expectations were, Avyna had outdone them.

Outside the tent the sun was setting, but the walls and ceiling of their tent still glowed with morning’s light—complete with shadows of leaves moving in a soft breeze—instead of the setting sun. There wasn’t even any trace of the half-constructed tent that should have blocked the light from the east. The air was refreshingly cool and smelled ever-so-gently of wildflowers too.

Oh, and the tent was considerably larger than it should have been. It wasn’t quite a sprawling manor, but Ranthia was pretty sure at least three of Hexara’s old home could have fit in there!

Ranthia just kind of wandered around in mute shock for a bit while Avyna watched her with amusement. A curtain had been hung in the middle of their home to divide the area where their bed was to be unpacked from the more ‘public’ portion of their home that the dining table was destined for. The place still felt massive, even with the divider—especially with almost no furniture placed.

It wasn’t a tent. It was a home, one with walls of fabric, but a home nonetheless.

Their home.

Ranthia rushed over to embrace Avyna again as her emotions overwhelmed her a little.

“It’s perfect.” Ranthia promised the beautiful elf.

“Mmn, I do still wish that I had a better spatial enchantment, and I intentionally left the privacy ward… minimally complete. But it is a solid start.” Avyna explained before she silently communicated a request for a kiss.

Surprising no one, Ranthia was eager to reward her lover with a tender and emotional one while she held the slender elf firmly in her arms. Avyna had enough vitality that Ranthia’s strength wouldn’t hurt her, which made their embraces wonderfully tight and intimate.

But no single moment could last forever. Avyna finally pulled away as she tried to hide a small yawn.

“Want me to set up the bed for you?” Ranthia offered.

“By the spires, no! I have yet to be able to shower, my love, and I refuse to get our bed dirty so soon. We can try it tomorrow.” The elf looked thoughtful for a moment before she pulled away. “You may retrieve the comfy chairs though. I can curl up in a blanket for tonight. There are sheets of paper with a proposed layout for our furniture in the same crate.”

Ranthia followed Avyna’s directions to one of their crates and tried to ignore the mental discomfort required—the spatial boxes were still weird—to retrieve the white sheets, followed by the first armchair. Avyna, meanwhile, busied herself with going through boxes and crates until she found a blanket.

A short time later, Ranthia was happily humming to herself while she carried and set out the furniture that they had purchased. She was following the plan that Avyna had drawn up, but the elf still called out corrections from where she was curled up on her armchair, clad only in the blanket that she was firmly cocooned within. Avyna had been giving Ranthia detailed instructions about how to place and adjust things, but she was getting increasingly vague.

With luck, her lover would soon get some sleep. Sure, Ranthia was rather worn down too. She was risking a third (arguably a fourth, given how poorly she slept during her last night in Coalition City) sleepless night in a row. But honestly, she was loving every moment of labor as she transformed their surprisingly cavernous fabric housing from empty space into a cozy home. Every piece of furniture that she pulled out of one of the almost bottomless crates brought them one step closer.

Sure, some of her energy was just jittery nerves. She had already told Avyna that she loved her—as if that was any less of a step than making a home together and pledging to spend a mortal lifetime together. The physical labor was light enough and meaningful enough that it made it easier to grapple with her thoughts and the emotions that rampaged through her veins like stampeding beasts.

The thick—supposedly soundproofed—dividing curtain that ran through the center of their home was a bit of an obstacle as she moved back and forth. The cooking area, dining area, and some of the chairs went on one side of it while their bed—which proved to be a bit too bulky for Ranthia to handle alone—and much of the other cozier furniture went on the other. There was also a small section in their ‘private’ area curtained off for the hygiene facilities—including the bathtub Ranthia chose and the so-called shower that Avyna wanted.

Dawn was breaking over the horizon, but Ranthia was nearly done with her final task. The fact that it was the eighth ‘final task’ (“well, that didn’t take too long, one more can’t hurt”) was probably unimportant. Ranthia was cradling a large—and very full—barrel of water carefully in her arms back to the tent. It was her sixth trip and she was optimistic that this time their tent’s surprisingly vast reservoir would finally be filled—which would mean that Avyna could take that shower she wanted when she woke up!

“Oh, my love! Please tell me you just woke up and started doing that!” Avyna’s voice gasped.

Ranthia looked back to see her lover poking halfway out of the flap of their tent—just in time to watch the blanket slide right off the gorgeous elf’s lean frame.

Ranthia very, very nearly dropped the heavy, awkward barrel.

She already knew that Avyna—like most elves, supposedly—had zero hangups about nudity or being seen, but Ranthia still hurriedly freed an arm for as long as she dared and beckoned her lover back into the tent.

Ranthia trusted Avyna implicity. She didn’t trust a single other person on the base, and she preferred to avoid finding a need to stab anyone that she wasn’t supposed to.

After she finished emptying the barrel into the reservoir and resealed it, she carried the empty barrel back into the tent and set it down near the entrance. Immediately upon actually reentering her home, Ranthia eagerly embraced her delightfully naked girlfriend and offered her an affectionate kiss.

Avyna accepted, but she kept it brief before she switched to eyeing Ranthia with obvious irritation.

“You worked so hard to get the tent ready, I just wanted to do everything that I could to help.” Ranthia confessed.

Avyna huffed in response and shook her head.

“We could have done that together after you rested!” The elf rebutted before she unleashed a weapons-grade pout directly at Ranthia.

It was dangerously effective.

“I know, and I didn’t unpack any of the smaller items! I just wanted to get the big stuff out of the way! We can move anything that we need to. And then I figured you’ll probably want one of those shower things when you wake up, so I wanted to fill up the reservoir so you could.” Ranthia hurriedly explained.

Avyna continued to pout.

Ranthia squirmed guiltily.

“I’m not part of the team that’s trying to salvage anything they can from the trapped junk the shimagu abandoned, so I probably have the day off? We can still spend it together!” Ranthia tried, increasingly desperate to appease her girlfriend.

“You try too hard sometimes, my love,” Avyna sighed, “come on, off with that tunic. We are showering together, then after breakfast you are having a nap—even if I have to tie you into our bed!”

Ranthia wasn’t quite sure if she was physiologically capable of taking that as a threat.

Avyna cheated mercilessly. Ranthia had every intention of resisting the order to nap, but after breakfast Avyna gave her a shoulder rub that turned into a full-fledged massage. Ranthia went out like a snuffed spark before it finished. Ranthia had known since their first time together that Avyna’s fingers were dangerously magical, but she had sorely underestimated how that would translate into massaging prowess.

She woke up some time later, to the wonderful sensation of Avyna’s gentle lips peppering her exposed skin with kisses. It gave her ideas, but Avyna instead dragged her back to the table for a late lunch—hadn’t they just eaten breakfast?—before Ranthia had quite extended her consciousness back throughout her body.

Naturally, her girlfriend had been entirely correct—the nap helped significantly. Even her thoughts felt more collected. With a clearer head, she firmly decided that she didn’t regret telling Avyna that she loved her. It was true! Ranthia was a mature woman with two lives under her belt, and she was prepared to admit that she had fully fallen under the gorgeous elf’s spell. She wasn’t just falling in love—she was in love. A pure and intense form of love that she had never experienced before; a love that was clearly and undeniably superior to what she had ever felt for Hexara.

But it was still too early to say it, and she resolved to wait at least another month to repeat the words.

It was a solid compromise. She was ready and willing to admit her feelings—she could be mature!—but she could wait a bit longer to voice them. It was fine—wonderful even—that Avyna was ready, but Ranthia was no elf. She could set her own pace in life while enjoying that life alongside the woman she loved.

After they finished their light soup, they resumed work on adjusting furniture and unpacking the rest of their belongings. Clothing was put away, food and Avyna’s somewhat anemic remaining goods were rediscovered, Ranthia’s crates of spare gear were transferred to a massive (and enchanted, fancy) new wooden trunk, and little flourishes of décor and personality began to pop up around their home. By that point, they mostly operated separately, as they worked to add touches of their own individual personalities to their shared home.

Ranthia was struggling to get Pupius’ doll to sit upright. The ugly, poorly made thing was a bit too lopsidedly stuffed to sit upright and Ranthia was loathe to do anything to change what her father had fashioned—she was already struggling to accept that it was shedding (at a rather alarming rate) the brown hairs that had been trimmed off her younger self. Not only was the doll a bond to her past, but those hairs were a bond to the original body that she had lost! Yet the idea of messing with Pupius’ seams felt so wrong and…!

“Oh, my love, what is that hideous thing? Please do not tell me it is meant to look like you!” Avyna sounded highly offended by its existence and the presumed insult that it carried.

“No! …Or, at least, I don’t think so? One of my parents made this for me, but he died before he ever got to give it to me.” Ranthia smiled wistfully and tried to ignore how blurry her vision was becoming.

Her fathers meant everything to her. They were her true parents—unlike the woman that had given birth to her… or rather given birth to Amaranthia and then rejected her when she came into possession of the body. And she was ruining one of the few physical reminders she had of them!

“Oh… Perhaps the years have been unkind to it?” Avyna offered diplomatically.

“They have, but it was always badly made. I don’t think Pupius had ever sewn anything that wasn’t leather before he attempted the doll. Knowing him, he probably finished it before we had even parted ways and was too embarrassed to give it to me. He was always a softie in the weirdest ways.”

Ranthia wiped at her cheeks and eyes in an effort to banish her tears. She had better things to do than cry like a child over her memories. Avyna embraced her from behind and eyed the doll critically from around Ranthia’s shoulder.

“Perhaps preserving memories such as this would be better than displaying them?” Avyna suggested, her voice tinged with a thinly veiled note of hopefulness.

“What do you have in mind?” Ranthia asked.

“The safe box that our contract is stored in has an enchantment to preserve the document. It can preserve… the doll as well.” Avyna explained.

It was a tempting solution. It hurt to consign the doll to be unseen, but if it let her keep it as her immortal life continued…

“And what is that?” Avyna’s eyes moved to her next target.

“Mage-rock.” Ranthia answered, saluting the stone out of habit. Not that she could do it as rigidly as she preferred with Avyna embracing her.

“Mage… rock…” Avyna repeated in a tone that Ranthia could only pray wasn’t the elf realizing that she sorely needed to rethink the life she had chosen.

