In the end, Ranthia was convinced and Avyna retrieved the metal box that she stored their contract in from its hiding place—behind a false back in one of their food storage pantries. The box had already taken on the spicy aroma of the sausages that hung before it, but the inside was thankfully untainted. They gingerly stored each of Ranthia’s treasures within: the hideous doll, a human tooth, a cheap-looking necklace formed from segments of a dinosaur’s backplate on a simple leather cord, and two matching golden rings with tiny green gems that were not quite as fine as they had seemed to Ranthia so many years ago.

Ranthia’s cheeks colored slightly over the thought that she had been describing such mundane junk as her treasures, yet she still treated each with reverence. In the back of her mind, she was certain that Avyna was judging her, so she tried not to look. If Avyna owned any treasures, they were sure to be true wonders, but Ranthia hadn’t grown up with much that she still could carry forward.

Mage-rock had been consigned to their private area, on a shelf hung near her armor’s stand. There, she could honor mage-rock when she changed in and out of her armor each day. …Mage-rock had no eyes, so it wasn’t weird.

“I shall make you something that is keyed to the safe box.” Avyna assured her, before the box was carefully sealed and stored away back into its aromatic hiding place.

“Hold off on that for now, I’ll explain later but we’re so close to finishing our unpacking! It’ll bug me all night if we don’t finish.” Ranthia replied. She was looking forward to sharing her Skills with Avyna—and being rid of secrets at long last—but getting their home together felt far more pressing.

“…Are you saying you plan to sneak out of bed and finish if we fail to finish?” Avyna was giving her a flat look.

“Maaaybe.” Ranthia waggled her eyebrows challengingly.

“That is it, I am tying you into bed.” Avyna grumbled.

“You promise?” Ranthia asked, her tone salacious.

Avyna ignored her and resumed unpacking.

No rope was required that night. The two slept peacefully spooned together, both content with the task well done.

The next morning, Ranthia had a somewhat perfunctory meeting with Sentinels Bulwark and Deflection. Bulwark was about to depart with the wagons and the small team that was heading back to Coalition City (and Ranthia made sure to remind him to return the rented beasts). Deflection was planning to stay for a few more days—notably through the first moonless night—before Sentinel Aurora picked him up. There wasn’t much for them to discuss though.

The base commander was still engrossed with going through the junk collected from the abandoned shimagu base and had decided to have his people out there dig up what was almost certainly just waste disposal and old latrine pits. Ranthia kept her distance from the man lest she end up somehow involved in his increasingly poor decisions—everyone stuck carrying them out would sorely regret it if she did. The shimagu had plainly burnt or carried away anything of use—even by her desperate standards during her days at the Unbreakable Image—but the man was hungry for some sort of decisive advantage.

It was already fun to walk back from the meeting though. The base had by and large come together—thanks in large part to it being a tent city. Ranthia passed by a cursing [Analyst] and had to stifle her amusement—Ranthia knew the command tent would cause problems. As planned, there were eight tents that served as the day’s command tent and the pattern for use was to change every single week. It was the sort of planning-stage cleverness that promised to have at least one person on the command staff going to the wrong location pretty much every day.

Equally unsurprisingly, a name was already circulating. Giving the base a frightfully boring official designation—whatever it had been—was basically begging for anyone with a spark of imagination to give their home a better moniker. Already, the ‘unofficial’ name seemed to be on the lips of numerous men and women as they conversed. Remera. It was impressive how swiftly the name had been embraced—especially since Ranthia was pretty sure it was one of the washer women that had coined it. She had overheard the woman bouncing name ideas off of her friends before the convoy left Coalition City.

Gossip rings could spread information even faster than [Couriers].

As planned, Avyna had set up a simple market stand outside of their tent using their dining table and her remaining goods. Her lover had been confident that it was the perfect time to do so—“People are realizing they forgot to bring comfort foods, the base’s gardens have no harvests yet, and there is uncertainty about traders.”

Delightfully—and unsurprisingly—Avyna was exactly right. There was a small crowd in front of their tent as legionaries clamored and outright shouted bids to try to acquire some of the precious remaining alcohol and fresh fruit. …Minus the pears Ranthia had purchased at Coalition City prices before the meeting, of course (being all but married to the [Merchant] had its perks).

Arguably, Avyna didn’t have permission to sell alcohol at the base, which meant that it could be considered a contraband good. In practice, one of the base commander’s own advisors was screaming to try to outbid a dwarf over a small keg of spiced apple ale. Ranthia slowed her approach as she slipped through the crowds, thrilled for her lover to know that things were going so smoothly.

Besides, that apple ale smelled far better than it tasted.

Ranthia stole a quick kiss from Avyna once she reached the table. …And was immediately cursed at by some legionary who was irate about the interruption. Fortunately for him, Ranthia was aspiring to be more mature. She plucked her Sentinel badge out of her pouch and held it up… while she stole a second, longer kiss.

Okay, yes, she might have held her badge up with her middle finger too. But the crowd quieted down and waited patiently for them to finish.

“Have fun!” Ranthia called to her lover over the din of the crowd’s renewed shouts.

Ranthia hummed to herself in the cooking area chopping vegetables while she waited for the stewpot to get hot. A sausage and vegetable stew sounded like a hearty dinner to end their day with, but she was still trying to figure out what to do for lunch too. It was a bit early, but Avyna would probably be hungry after she was done outside.

Fortunately for her, Ranthia loved to cook for the woman that she had fallen for.

Once the stew was simmering, Ranthia fetched some eggs—of course their price had finally come down right as they were leaving—and started to fry them alongside thin cuts of pork belly. A second pan to lightly toast a couple of wedges of bread and melt one of the cheeses that she thought would pair well with the meal.

Ranthia plated the food as she concluded the tune she had been humming. After that she poured some wine to go with the food, which meant she was ready to see if Avyna was done yet!

The tent flaps opened and Avyna walked in, carrying their table—right, Ranthia knew she was forgetting something—only to set it down near the entrance as she all but skipped up to Ranthia.

“I have sold every last good! And my profits are greater than I had dared to dream!” Avyna enthused energetically as she seized Ranthia’s arms.

“That’s gre—!” Ranthia’s reply ended up cut off by the elf’s lips.

Clothes were shed as the women blindly sought their bed without breaking their intense kiss.

The cold eggs and pork belly weren’t very tasty by the time they were finally remembered. Not that either regretted their preference for one another.

Bright and early the next morning, Ranthia set out on patrol. She wanted to at least seem like she knew what she was doing at Remera before the base commander decided to recommend tasks for her. The chain of command was still a bit ambiguous, and she really didn’t want to put it to the test. In theory, she outranked the base commander as a Sentinel, but in practice, he was the absolute authority for the base. And the man had already proven himself to have a bit of an ego before they ever even got the base established.

Getting in and out of the base was a surprisingly involved process. It took an Earth [Mage] and a Gravity [Mage] working in concert to lift the heavy stone gate that served as the sole entrance to the base. Ranthia still wasn’t confident that she would ever get comfortable enough to actually walk under such a heavy object held aloft only by the magic power of two individuals whose combined level barely rivaled her own. Which was why she didn’t, instead she opted to throw an image to the opposite side and shift to it.

She preferred to think of it as being assassin proofed—it sounded better than paranoid. …Sort of.

There were no obvious new tracks—their base was both new and loud, in an area that already had limited numbers of animals—or other signs of shimagu. Admittedly, the legionaries were patrolling as well, and there were still groups moving to and from the abandoned shimagu base, which muddled things enough that Ranthia wasn’t willing to be definitive. But a patrol that didn’t end in battle or give her cause for alarm was a good thing. She couldn’t let herself fall back into the dark fear that she had carried at her former base—not when it was unneeded.

Avyna deserved more than that.

Ranthia made her way back to base—shifting past the gate once again—and waited for the two [Healers] that were on standby at the gate to check her over. Shimagu that could resist [Healers] existed—she had seen as much with the troll twin—but being resisted was still noticeable (thank Xaoc).

It still felt positively licentious that they had a full eight [Healers] over level 300—most of whom had at least one apprentice—stationed at Remera. At any given time, two primary [Healers] were on standby near the gate to check those coming back in. A couple were no doubt manning their medical tents—each on opposite sides of the base—while they supervised the apprentices and assistants that tended to the minor injuries that resulted as Remera finished coming together. The other four were on a rest cycle unless additional assistance was necessary.

Ranthia was pleased that one of the [Healers] that cleared her was her (secret) favorite. He was a dwarf with the bushiest mass of reddish-grey hair that she had ever seen. His hair and beard had practically merged together until the man resembled a shrubbery. He never even had to lay a hand on anyone. Instead, he had a stack of close-range auras that tended to everything—and Ranthia was increasingly convinced that the man had mastered sleeping on his feet with his eyes open, given how slow he was to respond when spoken to.

“I’m home, babe!” Ranthia called out as she entered their home.

Home. She was never going to get sick of that word. How long had it even been since she last had a home of her own? …Her rooms at the Sanctum (she was pretty sure that was the right name, at least) were probably the closest thing to a home that she’d had since she was a child, and she had given it up to enter the Ranger Academy.

That was kind of a depressing thought. Almost as bad as the lack of a response to her call! She found a note on the table that explained it.

Setting up for future plans. I shall return soon, my love.

Ranthia frowned. She needed to talk to her lover soon—she would be blinded that night, and she refused to let Avyna be surprised by her immortality and her curse like that. They needed to have a serious discussion while they could.

Their home was fully furnished. Soft rugs and carpets caressed her feet as she roamed the tent aimlessly. The tent’s walls glowed with midday lighting with shadows that suggested they were in a woodland. The glowing crystals that Avyna bought provided wondrous pops of color wholly unlike anything she had seen in Remus. The potted plants and flowers were in good health—completely thanks to Avyna—and they just added something to the décor of their home.

The place hadn’t just come together; it was a comfortable place of respite that reflected both of them. It was perfect.

…And speaking of sharing things with her lover, Ranthia sauntered over to her storage chest. A bit of play before they had to indulge in a serious—and incredibly intimate—conversation sounded wonderful. And Ranthia still had some mistweave pieces that [Sexy] was practically begging her to finally show off.

Ranthia got changed and lounged comfortably on their bed while she waited.

Avyna quite plainly approved of Ranthia’s choice when she arrived. Wordlessly, the elf signaled for a moment and retrieved the cloth bag that had left Ranthia overly curious. Not that curiosity even ranked among the emotions that raced through her while Avyna introduced her to her own purchases she had made in Coalition City.

Elves really did think of everything, didn’t they?
