So he sat me down and told me a story, the story of how he felt unworthy of being with Alsantset and how those feelings rendered him unable to find Balance. How he allowed himself to be guided by his fear, driven by it until he pushed everything else away. He hid his fear deep inside him until it consumed him from within, pushing him to the point of running out of the village half-cocked in the middle of the night to chase after a nightmare of his own devising. In doing so, he meant to show how fear, or any emotion really, doesn’t stop anyone from attaining the state of Balance. Being controlled by your emotions is what stops you, because then you have given into your emotion and in doing so, reject any and all aid the Heavens might render you.

And so in an effort to assuage my irrational fears, Charok swore an Oath to the Heavens stating that he would never allow anyone to take me away from the People, and if anyone should try, then they would rise up as one and wipe my enemies from existence. In doing so, he left an impression upon my soul, one nowhere near as real and complete as the one Buddy left, but one significant enough to materialize him here today in my time of need, with a little help from prayer and the Energy of the Heavens. Surprised as I am to discover this, after giving it a moment of thought, I feel like I shouldn’t be surprised at all, because like someone else said before, I am the combined effort of everyone I’ve ever met. Though I know myself as Falling Rain, the very essence of my being changes every time I meet someone new, because those experiences change me in turn for better or for worse. Charok’s presence here is proof of how he helped shape me to become the man I am now, one who has finally figured out the lesson he was trying to impart, to neither reject nor surrender to emotion, but embrace it and all it entails, a lesson which seems easy enough to understand, but difficult to truly accomplish. It’s been almost ten years since that fateful day, and I’ve finally managed to follow through, and in doing so, have found Balance, plain and simple.

A Balance I share with my loved ones as they appear in the Void to support me, or more accurately, the Natal Souls of my loved ones whom I’ve summoned here to aid me. Alsantset’s arrival is met with a smile from Charok which she returns in full strength, but even this impression left almost a decade ago knows better than to approach his wife while she’s working. Even though she just arrived, my ferocious sister is ready to rend and tear at the drop of a hat now that I’ve finally managed to pull my head out of my ass long enough to ask for her help, and she settles into a hunched stance with her spear in both hands, eagerly awaiting the start of battle. Appearing beside her, Dad takes a step forward to take up a similar stance, putting both of us behind him without blocking our avenues of attacks, emanating fierce pride and boundless joy at the prospect of fighting alongside us. Mom’s arrival is far more sedate as she reaches over to run her hand through my hair as expected, her radiant smile taking decades off her appearance before she moves to stand beside Dad.

Taddy swoops in almost unseen with Hua Lie at his side, both standing tall and ready to help shoulder the Heavens if they should fall. Despite being a thousand times weaker, Mila arrives in similar fashion without sparing me so much as a glance, her fetching freckled features scrunched up into an adorably fierce frown whilst brandishing her spear and shield in a protective yet aggressive fashion. In stark contrast, Yan offers me a sultry, pouty smile and a slow, suggestive bump of her hip before settling into a readied stance, so relaxed as she prepares for the fight of her life. Lin-Lin materializes on my back with her arms wrapped around my shoulders, and as testament to how much I love her, my first instinct to this unexpected intrusion of personal space is not to throw my unknown assailant head first into the ground, but rather to lean back and press my cheek against hers in a chaste show of love and affection. Luo-Luo is all smiles and sighs as she appears with her zither in hand to stand slightly behind us, and I position myself with Yan, Lin-Lin, and Mila so that Luo-Luo is beside us instead, because she is no unwanted concubine, but a partner among equals. As for Song, her arrival almost goes unnoticed because she’s busy quietly introducing herself to Buddy, though she spares me a bare fraction of a nod in greeting that speaks volumes to how she feels.

I count myself blessed to have so many people who love me, with still so many more to come, and I revel in the shared emotions emanating from one and all as they bare their love for me in full, love which I return in spades because I would be nothing without them.

This was the outcome I was aiming for when I put my hands together to pray, to call upon the Natal Souls of my allies to do battle against the Eternal Emperor here in his Natal Palace. Powerful though I might be, my time spent pursuing the Dao has been too short and too limited for me to overcome the Eternal Emperor, but with the combined efforts of various Natal Souls working in concert, victory is all but assured. That’s the answer that came to me in my moment of Insight, to join hands with my allies to overthrow the tyrant before me, but it took a little doing to accomplish. First, I figured that asking my allies and loved ones to risk their eternal souls in battle would be dangerous to the extreme, doubly so considering their bodies and minds were engaged in a literal battle of life and death on the fields of Shi Bei. So rather than ask them to show up in full spirit, because you never go full spirit, I had my Natal Souls become vessels for my allies to send back with a sliver of their Will and souls, ones carrying the culmination of their perspective of the Dao to help me do battle against the Eternal Emperor. It’s almost the reverse of what Zhen Shi did with Gen, in that he sent in a Natal Soul to take control, whereas I handed over a Natal Soul to surrender to my allies, one they then took over and sent back without affecting their ability to do battle in the real world.

The lessons learned from my brief battle with the souls of the dead tells me there will be a cost to this, but the cost of imbuing a sliver of Will into a pre-packaged Natal Soul should be negligible to most, even those close to the end of their natural lifespans. Hopefully this isn’t the straw that breaks the camel’s back, because I could never forgive myself if I accidentally convinced Grandpa Du to give up his few remaining years of life just to help me in a fight, any more than I could forgive myself if he took an arrow meant for me. That being said, whatever the cost they paid, I intend to pay back in full, since I should have more than enough Life Force or whatever to spare thanks to Pong Pong’s contributions and my own Ascension to True Divinity. I don’t need to live for millennia, because a single mortal’s lifetime is enough for me, so long as it is one spent in the company of my loved ones.

A sentiment I firmly believe in, and one I hold fast to in my heart as the floodgates open and Natal Souls begin pouring into the Void. Many are close friends who I treat as family like Fung, Zian, Huu, BoShui, Tenjin, Tursinai, and so many more. Others are actually family, such as Grandpa Du, Kyung, Gerel and Naaran, while still more are close allies who have won my trust, such as the Abbot, Nian Zu, Situ Jia Yang, Tam Taewoong, Seoyoon, Da’in, and Wu Gam. As for the rest, they are all Warriors I am proud to stand alongside, whether they be Death Corps Guards consigned to stand and watch from the sidelines, Royal Guardians who reluctantly heed orders to do the same, brave soldiers fighting in Shi Bei even now, or political enemies like Shuai Jiao and Yong-Jin whose consciences demands they lend their efforts to the fight, even if their actions indicate otherwise. Though there are at least a million Imperial soldiers still struggling to fend off the Enemy Half-Demons in reality, only tens of thousands of Natal Souls have answered my call, which honestly is tens of thousands more than I expected. I knew my family and loved ones would respond without hesitation, and maybe a few hundred Stormguards and Sentinels would take the leap of faith and follow soon after, but almost everyone my Natal Souls were able to contact have made it here to join me in this battle against the Eternal Emperor, an honour I am not sure I am worthy to bear.

Touched as I am by this overwhelming show of support, I fear there is no time for niceties. These Natal Souls are mere fractions of fractions, meagre slivers of Will being held together by little more than love and determination, meaning every emotion experienced will eat away at their limited existence, so time is at a premium here. Thankfully, in my newly acquired infinite wisdom, I made sure my Natal Souls passed along all the relevant information needed to clue everyone in to what’s going on, so there’s no need for me to give a second speech in hopes of tricking everyone into thinking the Eternal Emperor is actually Zhen Shi, rather than the other way around. A good thing Zhen Shi’s physical form looks exactly like the Eternal Emperor’s soul, to say nothing of how the current host and Emperor is clad in Imperial robes despite kneeling in chains next to the throne. The actual explanation would be too difficult to get into with any sort of brevity, but the people who responded to my call care not for the details. What’s more, unlike the first wave, these Natal Souls belong to people who are still alive, so there’s no need to share my Life Force with them to ensure they can reincarnate, as even if these Natal Souls are wholly expended, the real souls are still out there in reality, inhabiting their real bodies.

Then again, what separates a Natal Soul from a real soul? If you make a copy of the original indistinguishable in all ways, then what sets the two creations apart besides the time of their creation? A difficult question to answer that I would rank up there with the ship of Theseus and all that jazz, but right now, I have more pressing matters to attend to.

Because being the no-nonsense Warrior that she is, my Grand-Mentor’s Natal Soul kicks off the battle into high gear as soon as she arrives by launching a Ground-Shrinking Strike at the startled Eternal Emperor.

This is Akanai of the People, the Herald of the Storms, a peerless Warrior unlike any other and the first Demi-Human Divinity in history. Even more incredible is how I am able to perceive her attack, not just see it play out but also parse through the steps she went through to deliver it. Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon, that has been the full extent of my understanding of the Ground-Shrinking Strike up until just this very moment, which is the same as saying a Major League pitcher can wind up and throw a ball real fast. The information within the statement isn’t wrong, but it’s not exactly useful either, and I feel embarrassed for ever having tried to explain the Ground-Shrinking Strike using those exact words. There’s so much more to Akanai’s attack than the Movements of the Forms, so much more than I ever thought possible, for she is not focused solely on accelerating herself towards her opponent. That’s one half of the equation yes, eking out every last iota of speed and power her body has to spare, but at the same time, she’s also utilizing her Domain to pull on her opponent’s Domain and bring them both closer together. Given the limited strength of her Domain however, and the ‘inertia’ of her target, this generally leads to her opponent not budging an inch, but this subtle, metaphysical push-pull interaction is enough to drive her Ground-Shrinking Strike to speeds I could never previously hope to match, a metaphysical push-pull interaction to go along with the physical. Add in the scintillating Weapon Intent which appears to be a combination of Spear and Axe Intent even more formidable than my Sword Intent, and Akanai’s singular attack has done more damage to the Eternal Emperor’s soul than I and an army of the dead could manage.

All of which is made clear to me through her perspective of the Dao, one shared with me through the medium of emotion and Intent.

Maybe it’s because her Will is inhabiting a Natal Soul I prepared for her, but I can perceive almost everything she’s doing as if I were doing it myself. There are no thoughts or explanations to go with the sensation, just an awareness of the flow of Chi, the Intent behind it, and the emotions which empower it, like an echo ringing out into the Void. Amazing as it is to be given a glimpse into her mastery of the Dao firsthand, what’s more surprising is how damned proud she is of me, which given our history together shouldn’t be surprising, yet still is. She is my Grand-Mentor, my Grandmother, and my Mother-in-Law all at once. A triumvirate of roles one would not usually hold all at once for the same individual, but roles she wears with pride, alongside the responsibilities those roles entail. Though she’s never said it in so many words, her actions have all but screamed it, and she is pleased to have played a part in guiding me along my Path while eager to see where I will go next.

