Akanai’s perspective is not the only one revealed to me, as Husolt charges into battle after his beloved wife. Out in reality, he is no match for his newly Ascended Divinity of a wife, but here in the Void, emotion and Intent matters more than arbitrary milestones of the Martial Path, and Husolt has always been a man of emotion. With his staff in hand, he delivers a powerful, two-handed hammer strike to the Eternal Emperor’s soul. Still bent double from tanking Akanai’s Ground Shrinking Strike, he is in no state to defend as Husolt’s first strike slams him into the stone surface of his Manifested court which he himself maintains. Never one for courtesy or face, my grandfather slash Father-in-Law uses this to his full advantage by unleashing a flurry of furious blows, and I see within them a glimpse of his Dao in full effect. Like the blazing fury of a red-hot forge, his attacks radiate a half-formed Intent, one that is neither Creation nor Destruction, but of both, and neither at the same time. This is the Intent he uses when forging a new Spiritual Weapon, hammering away at steel to cleanse it of impurities and shape it into the form he envisions. Right now however, he can only see hatred and death. In his eyes, the Eternal Emperor is not some ancient, insurmountable monster out of history, but the man who dared slight his beloved wife, the villain who summoned her to Central to bestow upon her a title as reward for her heroics, yet left her wholly unprotected from the greed and envy of his subjects.

And hell hath no fury like a loving husband whose beloved wife was scorned, as Husolt has held firmly to this grudge for more than fifty years, and this cathartic release sees his Natal Soul rise to the heights of Divinity to match his wife.

The Eternal Emperor rebounds from these attacks in the blink of an eye and rips apart the husband-and-wife pair utilizing some Honed attack of Domain, Spirit, and more. Though their part in this battle is done, their actions have inspired the other Natal Souls into battle. This in turn triggers a deluge of information to flood through me as I am given a glimpse into thousands of individual Dao’s, a look at how every combatant perceives the power they wield and a chance to better understand the Dao as a whole. An intoxicating rush, for in the blink of an eye, so many mysteries are made clear to me, and the more I comprehend, the more easily I am able to put it all together to move myself further along my Path. Knowing how Mom delivers her shards of Domain and how Luo-Luo turns moving melodies into group buffs to everyone who hears them might not seem related, but put them together in the right orientation and timing and now I have a method to imbue a sound with my Domain to attack my foes through Sending. The little trick I played on Miss Rou’s guards, blaring a soundtrack to disorient them? If I were to use it again, those guards would be left dead and bleeding from their eyes, nose, ears, and mouth.

Nian Zu’s Shooting Star takes Amplified Resonation in the completely opposite direction as the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, as rather than increase the magnitude of forces, he compresses and contains them until there is power enough to literally vibrate physical matter apart, as he demonstrates by demolishing a solid chunk of the Emperor’s court in an attempt to bring him down. What would happen if I combine these two opposing rationales, increasing magnitude while compressing the results? Untold destruction as far as I can tell, but even here in the Void, I dare not try it, because there is no way I could control it.

Kuang Biao and the Death Corps Guards know nothing of the Forms, for those are a creation of the outer provinces, and instead train using a series of secret maneuvers and breathing exercises which help them strengthen their bodies, minds, and souls as well as purify their Chi. This explains the discrepancy between the Imperials and outer provinces, but there are advantages and disadvantages to both sides. For example, the Forms are loosely defined in order to guide the practitioner to become more familiar with themselves and seek out the best Forms for them, whereas the maneuvers practiced by the Death Corps are clear cut and precise, a rigid formula of perfection based on the body type of the creator. The former is a set of guidelines, the latter explicit rules, and while the Forms take longer to master, they have the potential to lead to the pinnacle of an individual’s Dao. In contrast, the Imperial method offers faster progress if and only if the individual’s body type matches well with the creators, but if not, then sooner or later, you’ll run into a glass ceiling and have to figure out the rest for yourself.

Mila’s Blessing of Sun borrows power from the actual sun itself, a feat replicated by Yan’s Blessing of Air through use of her fan, so why have I been trying to make water out of nothing? There was a time when I thought I could condense the water right out of the air, but I dismissed it as wrong, yet it wasn’t the method that was incorrect, merely the logic behind it. On the flip side, Yong-Jin utilizes his Blessing of Wood by mimicking Wood Chi with his own, without any borrowing involved, enhancing his Manifested Domain in the areas of durability, flexibility, and tensile strength. Shuai Jiao takes it even further by having his Wood Chi behave as Chi, forming a closed loop in which his Chi mimicks Wood Chi mimicking Chi, enabling his attacks to move beyond the physical realm and target the metaphysical as well. Where Yong-Jin can lock down joints with his Grasping Vines, Shuai Jiao’s also target the Spiritual System and interfere with the flow of the victim’s Chi, making it even more difficult to escape. Two different Paths to the pinnacle of Elemental Blessings, yet neither one is wrong or right, just different ways of going about the same general principle.

And all this is merely scratching the surface of my recent attainments, some of which would make defeating the Eternal Emperor a breeze.

There are no instant answers provided like with the limited omniscience of the Heavens, but a more intimate sense of comprehension based on my rapidly flourishing perspective of the Dao, one which makes this knowledge feel so much more like my own. That doesn’t necessarily mean I can retain it, or even explain it, the same way I can’t really explain how I track a ball flying through the sky and know where to run to so I can catch it, but I sure as hell am confident I can catch anything the Eternal Emperor might throw at me from here on in. The issue is, all the information feels too much like my own, except my Dao and perspective differs greatly from everything I am being shown. Like a man who spent his life in darkness, I am now being blinded by the sun, unable to find my way within this world of glaring light. The answers come too fast for me to keep up as I struggle to hold firm to my perspective beneath an avalanche of information threatening to wash me away where I stand. Had I not finished Refining my body, mind, and soul then gone on to affirm my Path, my Dao, and my sense of self, then I might well have been broken by this deluge of differing perspectives and Dao. Even after coming so far, I still feel myself coming apart at the seams as I lose myself in the rush of mysteries revealed to me en masse, unable to keep myself from drinking deeply of this enlightening nectar and plunder the secrets my allies have given over for my study.

Knowing without knowing, comprehending without understanding, this is where I stand upon my Path, but the knowledge provided is terrifying and vast. Frozen in indecision, I lose sight of the battle and the people who came to support me as I suffer a crisis of faith. Within these answers, I have uncovered a next step along the Path, only I am not sure if this is a step suitable for me. Defeating the Eternal Emperor, winning the siege in Shi Bei, dealing with the Supreme Families and their allies, all this and more seems so inconsequential as I deliberate whether to take this next step presented to me, one I must take now while I still can lest it be forever denied me again should I lose this ineffable state, but a step which could well be the end of me.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
