This Song wholeheartedly believed. There were no words exchanged, no pleasantries to feign, no courtesies to observe or body cues to remember. All it took was a brief moment of emotion to convey their respective intents, another moment to parse through them, and then Rain was off with whatever he’d needed from Song to go about his day. All he required was her trust, which he’d long since acquired, and then she sent him off with her best wishes to do whatever it was that needed to be done. The details were unimportant, nor was she worried regarding his ultimate fate, because despite matters having grown dire enough to come and ask for help, Rain was brimming with courage and determination both. If history was any indication, this meant that no matter the outcome, he will have given it his all, which was all anyone could ever ask. Victory or defeat lay in the hands of the Heavens now, and as the Mother’s Chosen Son, Song suspected Rain would emerge triumphant soon enough.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The left flank seemed in danger of folding, so Yan dispatched a Wind Blade to support them, a finger-length sliver of Honed Air that hammered clean through the leading Half-Demon’s unarmoured face.

As her target dropped like a sack of rice, the other Half-Demons faltered and eyed her from afar, unable to see where the invisible attack came from but fairly certain she was responsible for their comrade’s death and wholly unwilling to become her next target. A good thing too, because she didn’t have too many more Wind Blades left to give, not unless sweet lovable Lin-Lin came back with another refreshing top-up of Chi for Yan’s Core. The Enemy didn’t know that however, so their fear kept them mostly in line as she supported her soldiers to hold the wall against these powerful armoured invaders. Though seemingly an improvement from your bog-standard Defiled in every possible way, Yan found that these elite Half-Demons were far easier to manage than the crazed masses of Defiled or hordes of fearless Demons who came pouring in without end. The Half-Demons were still human yet, retaining control of enough of their minds to feel fear and dread which she exploited to no end. A good thing too, because if not for their human failings, they might well have overrun all of Shi Bei in the initial push, as only their unwillingness to die for this forsaken city of sand kept them from slaughtering the defenders to the last.

It was obvious at first glance to anyone with Officer’s training, that a proper commander could easily have guided the Enemy Half-Demons to victory. They only had to coordinate and break through in a handful of strategic and eye-catching areas to deal a deathblow to Imperial morale, and fleeing soldiers were much easier to kill than ones willing to fight. A good thing Bai Qi was dead and gone then, and his chosen second sorely lacking in terms of command. It was either the handsome Mao Jianghong with his icy aloofness, or the even more handsome exile who sired Rain. Now that she knew how good he could look, Yan was eager to head home and stuff her husband’s face until he grew fat, or at least filled out to match his sire’s strapping physique, or Gerel’s which she wouldn’t mind a taste of. Rain would hate that, jealous man that he was, and while Yan would never do anything untowards without his blessing, there was a devilish temptation glowing about Gerel now that she knew he was Rain’s brother by blood.

Seriously. Brothers. What woman could say no to that? Yan was even willing to let Rain have a dalliance with Yuzhen, if that’s what it would take, though Gerel would probably be equally as unwilling. Birds of a feather they were, which in retrospect made it all too obvious why they couldn’t stand the other’s presence for more than few minutes.

Offering her beloved husband’s disgruntled presence a teasing smirk as she noted his arrival, Yan inwardly fluttered her eyelashes in feigned innocence, knowing how much he loved her wilder side and how it ignited his competitive streak. Though having long since resigned to spending the next century as a one-man woman, she didn’t begrudge him for his limits, though she would be lying if she claimed she wasn’t envious of his harem and yearned to have one of her own to match. It was all in good nature, because she knew her husband well, and knew that he would never intentionally do anything to disappoint her. Any unintentional mistakes would be quickly corrected as well, and he would rather die than see them hurt, which was partially why Yan had been willing to marry him in the first place, a decision she would never regret, so long as she should still draw breath.

A blown kiss and a warm hug, that was the sentiment she reassured him with, before sending him off in the same breath. Whatever his trials and tribulations, there wasn’t much she could do to help besides whatever it was he just did, so he would have to overcome them on his own. There was no need to worry though, because she had every confidence in him, and so long as her soldiers held and the Enemy remained leaderless and without direction, then it was only a matter of time before the siege of Shi Bei was lifted.

Now wouldn’t that be a pleasant surprise, for Rain to come flying to the rescue only to realize that Yan and the others had already solved the issue at hand. Her beloved fool of a husband had enough on his plate, so she was determined to ease his burdens by winning the battle between mortal powers before he made his triumphant return.

Another Half-Demon was about to gain the upper hand, so Yan sent another finger-length Wind Blade his way with a flick of her finger, marveling at just how practiced she’d become. “Hold the line,” Yan bellowed, speaking to herself and her flagging soldiers at the same time. “Victory will soon be in our grasp!”

Mother in Heaven, she hoped that was true, because Yan had never been more exhausted.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The familiar presence made itself known in a manner so polite and understated that Kuang Biao almost overlooked its arrival, only to stagger back in sheer surprise when he recognized who it was. Burning with remorse and contrition, he offered his heartfelt regrets and apologies to the young Legate, for though Falling Rain had long since won Kuang Biao’s loyalty and respect, the Death Corps Guards moved at the Emperor’s orders. They’d been given no choice but to withdraw from Meng Sha and stand idly by while the heroes of the Empire fought against all odds here in Shi Bei, a decision which filled him with rage and grief, for he would have gladly fought and died alongside these vaunted heroes. Having borne witness to the entirety of the siege, his admiration for these provincial Warriors was second only to his contempt for the Supreme Families who even now treated the lives of their subjects like pieces upon the playing board.

There was no condemnation from Falling Rain however, not even a hint of displeasure, at least none directed towards Kuang Biao and his fellow Death Corps Guards. Instead, he was here to ask for help, and Kuang Biao gladly offered it, for if ever given a choice, he would serve Falling Rain over any Imperial Scion, even the Emperor himself. Gratitude and embarrassment were all he felt in response, and then the young Warrior’s presence was gone, but as Kuang Biao glanced around in bewildered confusion, he noted that he wasn’t the only one wearing a flustered expression in the crowd.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

My adorable doggo appears in the Void alongside me, the first living being to respond to my call, with plenty of happy yips and frantic wags to greet me. It doesn’t last for long however as he spots the Eternal Emperor across from us, and his hackles raise at the mere sight of our formidable foe even as he takes shelter behind my legs. Though sweet as can be and utterly useless in a real fight, my doggo utters a deep, guttural growl, one full of warning and caution without any real threat. Ineffective though he might be as a guard or hunting, Buddy’s mere presence alone is enough to wash away my fatigue and bring me my second wind, though I suppose that number should be higher if we take into account all of today’s trials and tribulations. Buddy is my emotional support dog in every sense of the word, a furry little bundle of endless joy and love that I brought with me from my past life into this one, a feat made possible by the fact that Rayne loved Buddy so much that an imprint of Buddy’s soul was left on his own. This Buddy is not the Buddy’s real soul, which probably reincarnated into another life by now, but a reflection of the real Buddy, a soul cast in the same mould as the original, with many of the same emotions and memories.

They say love is magical, and it’s corny as hell, but there’s no denying the truth.

A truth supported by the arrival of the second soul following the departure of the recently dead, someone I never expected to see. It’s not Lin-Lin, who trusts me implicitly without any doubts whatsoever and would have responded without question, which I know because if she didn’t she’d never would’ve been able to make her way into my Natal Palace before. Nor is it Mila, Yan, or Luo-Luo, who I love dearly but don’t expect to see here in the Void for a little while longer, because they’re strong, independent women who have become my lifelong partners in love, and as partners, deserve an explanation even if I don’t really have one to give. The new arrival isn’t Taddy, who loves me like a son and harbours no doubts in his heart, or Dad who wholeheartedly believes I am his son, genetics be damned. I honestly expected Alsantset would be the first to arrive after Buddy, because my older sister has always been the one looking out for me from day one, but it turns out, I was wrong.

Because my older brother has been keeping an even closer eye on me all this time, without me even knowing it.

Not Gerel, my brother by blood, who I’m not sure will even heed the call I sent out since he’s not exactly the trusting type, but Charok, my brother-in-law who has been right here with me from the very start.

“You seem surprised,” Charok begins, greeting me with a familiar grin as he takes his place beside me, neither leaning too closely nor standing too far away which shows just how well he knows me. Alsantset would throw an arm around my neck, which I don’t hate, but don’t always love it either, while Dad would feel compelled to pat me on the shoulder or head. Mom likes to run her fingers through my hair, which I enjoy because it shows how much she loves me, while Gerel is every bit as awkward as I am and would stare me down to prove that he’s not awkward at all. This isn’t to say I don’t love all the people I just listed or how they show their affection, but I also like my personal space, so while hugs and pats are fine every now and then, there is a very finite limit I am willing to accept before I’m forced to tolerate it instead.

Which Charok understands, hence his distant but not too distant greeting, and I love him all the more for it.

Throwing my arms around him in a hug, I cannot help but let out a joyous laugh. “I didn’t know you were close enough for my Natal Souls to reach.” Furrowing my brow in concern, a thought strikes me and I ask, “Were you captured by the Legate? Are Tali and Tate okay?”

“No and yes,” Charok replies, before furrowing his brow as well, which does nothing to ease my troubled concerns. “As far as I know.” Shrugging, he adds, “Or perhaps I should say as far as you know. I am not entirely sure, as I am not the Charok you left behind in the Citadel.”

And just like that, the answer comes to me, knowing without knowing before I even knew what I wanted to know. This isn’t Charok’s real soul, or even a Natal Soul, but rather a reflection of the imprint he left on my soul, the same manner in which Buddy was brought forth. While still processing this new information, my eyes are involuntarily drawn to Charok’s wrist, one gushing with enough blood to almost send me spiraling into a panic, but my brother by choice shoots me a calm, soothing smile which brings me back to the day he left this impression upon my soul, almost two years after I arrived at the village when I was still struggling to find Balance because of my fear. There we sat, around a little campfire which Charok just used to make a delicious lunch, when he stopped and asked me a single question which I have struggled to answer ever since.

“Why do you seek strength?”

I remember how I replied, with a joke about crushing my enemies and hearing the lamentations of their women, but he told me to go reflect on the question and come back with a serious answer. Of course, me being me, I did no reflecting at all and simply wasted some time wandering around before coming back to camp, at which point I tried to change the topic. Charok wasn’t having any of it though, and he asked me the question again, so I told him I wanted to be strong so I could defend myself, so I could fight back if anyone tried to hurt me. That was a lie too, and Charok knew it, and he needled me until I admitted the truth, that I pursue strength because I am driven towards it by fear, fear of losing control, losing my freedom, losing the people I love again.

