Though Rain’s injuries were grave, Dastan truly believed the Mother’s Chosen Son would recover given time, his confidence unwavering and loyalty absolute, but his trust and fealty were given by choice. Even a slave had this right, a choice to serve willingly or unwillingly, and though little would change in the end, it was still his choice. As such, it didn’t matter that his token had been destroyed and he would forever belong to Rain, but despite his indifference, deep down, he still yearned for freedom and independence, yearned for a day when people would see him as Dastan Zhandos, soldier and hero, instead of a nameless warrior slave in service to Falling Rain. Impossible as his dreams might be, he still had hope, and his Natal Soul embodied his hopes, for it dared to dream when he did not.

To destroy his Natal Soul would be to destroy all his hopes and dreams, and what was life without hope? Not a life worth living, no matter how one was treated.

It took many long nights of contemplation to reach this conclusion, and many more nights of introspection to come to terms with it. Though it might be the wrong choice, one which could lead him to a dead-end along the Martial Path, he was determined to see this through until he reached his limits. Each warrior must forge their own path, and if his was wrong, then he would correct it once it was clear he had no other options. Having made his decision, he continued training alongside his sweet mental son, treating it the same as he had before, him, but not him, the same person, but different, a separate version of himself. Not one he aspired to as BoShui did with his, but one he cherished and protected as a memory of happier, more carefree times.

Thus, when they joined as one, he did not feel lessened by his hopes and dreams, but inspired by them, bolstered by them, for he was no longer a slave soldier, but a slave and a warrior, one fighting for a cause he believed in. A minor difference, but one which made all the difference in the world, for this was a man Dastan was proud to be.

One with the Self and One with the World, Dastan roared in defiance of Heaven as he claimed his place beneath it, his Chi surging out into his Developing Domain to await his orders. The void made manifest, his Domain felt hazy and indistinct, but real as the sun on his skin and the air in his breath, his jurisdiction within the world to use his Chi as he saw fit. Using this to solidify Chi beneath his feet, he formed multiple platforms to hold his weight, and though they crumbled beneath him before he could leap off and truly Cloud-Step, when combined with Lightening, it was enough to slow his descent for a half-second. A paltry amount of time for the amount of Chi it took, but it was enough for Dastan as the Defiled Champion’s gajashia closed the distance between them. Shield still raised, Dastan readied for the creature’s head to appear beneath him and stomped on its beak, vaulting over his surprised foe before landing heavily behind him. The gajashia’s spine broke even as Dastan’s elbow smashed into the side of the Champion’s head, and before rider and mount crashed lifelessly to the ground, he had already moved on to his next foe.

Fist, knee, boot, or elbow, sheathed in his Domain, Dastan’s entire body became a weapon as he jumped from mount to mount, avoiding thrusting spears and snapping beaks with ease. The movements came naturally to him despite never having imagined himself in such a precarious situation, his body guided by the Mother herself as Insight after Insight flooded through his mind and unveiled new heights he’d never even considered. The lines between Internal and External had blurred now that he had a Domain, but that only made boundaries all the more crucial, for External Chi could be used for so much more than crudely mitigating impacts.

Internal Lightening was made possible by using Chi to push upwards against gravity, so why could it not be used Externally in the same manner? Supported by his Domain, his body grew light as a feather as he landed behind an ally, so softly the horse barely noticed his presence despite his heavy, armoured frame. Soaring high into the skies with his next jump, he was struck by Insight and reversed the direction of Lightening. Heavy as a mountain, he came crashing down on his foe and smashed rider and mount into a pulp, but the effort left him gasping for breath as his joints creaked and organs churned in protest.

Putting the idea aside for more tweaking, he applied the same line of External thinking to Reinforcement. Adhering to his body like a second layer of muscles, his Chi gave Dastan the physical strength of a man twice his size without accounting for Internal Reinforcement. Put together, his maximum strength soared to double what it used to be, and seeing how both cavalry forces were now locked in combat, he jumped to the ground to test his might. Releasing both versions of Lightening, he lowered his stance, raised his shield, and charged the closest gajashia head on. Expecting resistance, he almost tripped over his own feet as he slammed into the Defiled mount and broke its neck on impact, his forward momentum even pushing the massive creature back several steps before it collapsed.

This wasn’t even an Amplified blow, since he lacked the ability to use Chi through his shield and had yet to figure out the External equivalent. Small wonder Experts considered Domain Development as the last hurdle to reaching the Martial Peak, for without it, he couldn’t imagine how much time it would take to learn how to use each individual skill Externally.

Delighted by this latest development, Dastan infused his voice with Chi and hollered, “Victory or Death!”, and his cry was echoed by his allies. Hungry for battle, he sought out his next opponent with wild abandon and set to slaughtering as many Defiled as he could. As a slave, few cared to sing praises of him even though he Developed his Domain before most people his age even Formed their Natal Palaces, but Dastan cared nothing for honour or glory. Falling Rain was a man of miracles and would soon be back on his feet with a new or fixed Core, but until then, Dastan would fill the void he’d left behind.

Not BoShui, not Zian, not even Mila or Yan, for Dastan Zhandos was merely a slave, and any honour or glory he earned belonged to his Master. While he could hardly match up, he would do his best not to shame his friend and hold the Defiled back long enough for Falling Rain to make his full recovery and shock the Empire once more. It was only a matter of time, measured in years and not decades, or perhaps even months, for nothing was impossible for Falling Rain, Chosen Son of the Mother.

Nothing.

This, more than anything else, was why Dastan could never give up hope, for his Master, his friend, was a man who made the impossible, possible.

Chapter Meme
