And the sky was a river of thick, white air, trailing off to the south, to the downways hole near the southern pole. There were other holes in other places, and each of them held rivers of thick, white air, too.

Erick was probably a few thousand Weaver casts away from full saturation, or maybe another hour or two. It was hard to tell. Whatever the case, he said, “We’re getting close, Rozeta.”

Rozeta’s voice came to him, “We’re ready to increase the mana production of everything around you. Nirzir; you need to leave now. This increase will kill everything connected to the Script in that area. Erick will be fine.”

Nirzir and Erick had spoken about a lot as the both of them worked.

It had not been enough.

A lot had happened during Erick’s absence.

Nirzir gave Erick one final hug, then pulled away, saying, “We’ll talk about the Valkyries later. The entire world missed you. I missed you. Glad to have you back.”

Erick smiled softly. “I missed the entire world. I also missed you, Nirzir. Glad to be back.”

Nirzir sniffled once, and then she stepped away; vanishing like a fae, or a god, or just like a [Teleport] that wasn’t a [Teleport] at all.

Twenty minutes later, Erick achieved full-world saturation.

In his tests, when Erick was shooting stone pillars with Bolts, when he had 20 Weavers on 20 pillars, the Weavers did not need to reposition constantly to hit the pillars, so they were already on target to drop their payload wherever they were, so they sent streams of Bolts at those pillars.

That happened now, with city-wide [Benevolent Cleanse]s.

The air absolutely thrummed with Red Lightning that was only visible because it was being destroyed by cleansing Elemental Destruction; the true power behind [Cleanse]. All the world was Red with breaking Malevolence and then white with the remnants of Erick’s [Benevolent Cleanse]. It sounded like breaking magic. It felt like the breaking of a world, but softer. The clouds in the air were so thick that even Erick couldn’t see beyond them—

And then Rozeta and the Script took control of the ambient mana.

Tsunamis of clouds raced through the world, and all was simply breaking Red and probably a lot of people freaking out and also trying not to freak out. Rozeta’s messages were clear that this was a good thing happening.

If Erick were a normal person out there, would he believe her?

He’d probably try to go to sleep and ignore the Red breaking all around him.

Probably have PTSD about it, though.

Nothanganathor was a selfish bastard, for sure.

Erick just wanted people to have nice lives, and here Nothanganathor was taking those nice lives and twisting them into his own personal gain.

There were no people here in this dungeon city, though, and that was a good thing.

In the white dungeon city Erick had created and that Phagar had slipped through time to fill it with life, everything that was living, was dying. Erick watched as the fish in the waters began to grow mana crystals from their bodies, iridescent shards growing out of their gills. Eyes crusted over. And then the fish stopped moving as the water itself turned thick with mana, and then into mana crystal. The buildings crusted over with crystal. The little rads at the center of the cores of each slime were like seed crystals for mana crystal formation. Soon, the slimes were little colorful balls of crystal. The shadowolves hiding out in the dark spaces of the city were all crusting outward from the inside, their own rads killing them as it turned them into crystal. They didn’t have much time to panic before they were locked under solidity, like flies in white amber. Everything in the city shared the same fate, except for Erick, here at the center.

A sustained sort of injury knocked a few hundred points of damage against his Status. It was nothing he couldn’t handle.

Every single thing was still alive underneath that crystal, though, still feeding the magic here, at the center, still erupting the world in a continual splash of breaking Red and flowing white air.

Erick watched the entire procedure.

Time passed.

A lot of time passed.

Erick spent that time adjusting the maps, but mostly looking through tiny portals into the rest of the world, checking up on everything, and even talking with his family. Those portals had to remain small, though, or else the massive amount of mana in this space would kill anyone else, and even then the portals had to be shielded hard.

Cleaning the world took 26 real-hours. By then, all of the Malevolence on the map was gone; the blue targeting was no more. Even the little Malevolence that should have remained after being ‘balanced’ was gone; washed away by the Benevolence in the air that remained unbalanced and strong.

Cleaning the world took Erick 7 days, inside the [Hasted Shelter] of the dungeon city.

When it was over, Erick sat on a prominence of crystal that had grown out of the water’s edge and made a nice bench.

Within a city of white crystal, Erick looked up at the clear night sky, and the false stars of the false heavens. Erick’s own Weavers were still up there, still cascading their white glows, but without anything to target. They looked like pretty amazing stars to Erick.

And the city was ‘dead’ all around him.

It seemed he had made his own Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick breathed in the warm air, kept warm by the various enchantments in the air which all remained strong. He glanced to the brilliant [Kaleidoscopic Radiance]s within the crystals here and there, and at the absolute strength of the node networks hanging in the air. This place had survived well, for the power of the entire Script was focused upon this space, focused on keeping it together.

And then the Script switched, and normal operating procedure resumed.

Mana crystals were not allowed under the Script, and thus the land began to break under that Authority.

It was only fair, Erick said to himself, to see this land destroy itself as it had cast Destruction out into the rest of the world. [Cleanse] balanced mana, and though it didn’t do much against active spellwork, the absolute tsunamis of mana pouring through the land in the wake of the worldwide cleaning had broken most active spellwork out there.

Enough grains of sand thrown against a mountain would destroy that mountain.

Erick’s [Benevolence Cleanse] had ruined node networks and all defensive and even offensive spellwork the world over. Anything non-instant had been swept away under a white ocean. This, then, was what Margleknot was truly afraid of when he spoke of not using this power on that land up there. Would this action, taken up there, have broken all of the Spatial Magic that kept that place together? Yes, absolutely. How about all the individual magics that kept that place running, like air-to-land containment magics that held breathable atmosphere to the various lands, and otherwise? For sure.

As it was, the Gate Network was down, completely. Even some of the Gate Spaces out there were broken, for Nothanganathor had infiltrated those spaces with his Malevolence. Erick had gotten to talk with Kiri about all of that, but he would be spending more time with her as he spent some time at the House and got all of that back up and running.

This whole thing had been a disaster. Technically.

And yet...

The Core of Veird was running better than it ever had before, for Rozeta had done miracles, to hear her talk of it. She hadn’t left Erick completely alone during this time. She checked on him and told him what was happening out there, when Erick wasn’t talking to people through portals. She had put those manaminers Erick had given her to work.

Ten million ‘people’ were gone from this world for this reason or that reason, but mostly because the ‘Day of Clouds’ had evaporated them into clouds. Some of Nothanganathor’s tricks seemed to be face stealing, with Nothor Beasts living inside people, like demons.

A lot had happened.

Erick had caught most of it. The Mind Mages had caught a lot more, and yet, the Crossing was gone. Erick’s Day of Clouds had washed away even that magic which kept [Telepathy] running across the entire world. The Mind Mages had saved most everything they needed to save, but they’d be rebuilding the Crossing for years. Preliminary Crossing magics would be up and running in a few days, though.

Almost all magical items the entire world over were slagged.

All node networks outside of Erick’s crystal dungeon city were gone; they’d need to be rebuilt, too.

This place needed to be rebuilt as well.

Erick looked all around at his crystal dungeon city, at the animals and otherwise trapped in slowly-evaporating mana stones. The crystal kept them all alive until that crystal evaporated enough to expose flesh or bark or otherwise, and then those bodies also began to break like so much broken magic, evaporating right alongside the crystal. They were still alive when they began to disintegrate. Rozeta had told Erick that their mental capacities were all gone anyway, so it wasn’t nearly as horrific as it could have been.

Still seemed pretty horrific after hearing that, but in a different sort of way.

In an hour, the dungeon city would be completely gone—

Phagar stepped to Erick’s side. “That was the single greatest defensive action we’ve been able to take against the Red. All of Nothanganathor’s current influence seems gone. It’s great to have you back.”

Erick chuckled as his emotions did a 180. Yes, there had been destruction on a grand scale, but on the whole, this was a clear and total win. Stuff had been destroyed, but stuff was just stuff; they could rebuild.

“It’s great to be back.” Erick added, “I’m going to rebuild this dungeon city in preparation for the next time, and then, after some time of peace and setting the worlds to rights and the walls to strength, I want to talk to you about Paths and settling the way to good futures through Grand Fate Magics.”

Phagar nodded. “I’m already doing those Grand Fate Magics. You can watch, and we can discuss what you see. We’re going slow, though, and not doing much. Fate Magic is not like other magic at all.”

Erick’s eyebrows went up. “Oh. Then yes; let’s do that.” He added, “And we can talk about Solomon’s Genesis, and bringing people back from Erasure?”

Phagar gave a hard look, saying, “You should lower your hopes with regard to that solution, Erick.”

Erick hadn’t spoken with Solomon about his Elemental Genesis yet because the man had looked kinda sad whenever the topic went that way, and everyone else had moved on to other subjects because they all knew something Erick didn’t, so Phagar’s warning away from hope wasn’t unexpected.

But Erick smiled anyway, saying, “I like my hopes right where they are, for if current possibilities don't allow for perfect solutions then I will find better possibilities, and help others find those better possibilities, too.”

Phagar softened. “It’s great to have you back.”

Erick grinned.
