Rozeta was looking at the ‘Red firework’ and its trail of mana mist, and also at something else Beyond here and now. Her face was an absolute mask of something profound. Then she looked to Erick, and Erick knew he was looking at a Goddess. She intoned, “You’re opening up windows to armies of Beasts, Erick. Make more Weavers. Make them as big as you can. As many as you need. You’re killing the ones over there and their way into this world.” She breathed deep, her Sight moving back to Beyond. “This is the army we feared, Phagar. Right there on the other side and everywhere. And the [Benevolent Cleanse] is breaking them.”

Phagar was also looking Beyond. “The timetable that I spoke of earlier for the next Claw descent is moving up. It’s not in 2 more real-time hours. It’s in 20 minutes, our speedy-time, and in 1,200 locations. 1,200 would have been the end for Veird, but not with you here. Not with this. Deploy Erick’s [Cleanse] to our captains, Rozeta. To all the people. Erick. We need more of these Weavers. A lot. And then my Champion Nirzir is going to join you and help you going forward.”

Erick was not panicking; he was too solid for that. He was worried, though. Bigger Weavers meant briefly bigger holes into the Other Side. Erick asked, “Could something get through if I make the Weavers truly large?”

“Yes,” Rozeta said, “And then the Weaver would kill them here, and if not, then you will kill them here. Or the Blue Corps will.”

Erick had no objections to that. His fingers almost itched to kill something of Nothanganathor’s. But for now, Erick canceled the Weaver-combo magic in front of him and cast another [Spellsurge Weave]+[Benevolent Cleanse], and this time he didn’t restrict his Cleanse Magic’s size at all.

White mist did not coalesce into a flat map. This time, the mist floated in the air, forming a sphere of many layers; a half-formed map of Veird. And then a cascading Weaver took form high, high above the map, in the sky of the dungeon city.

It was a dot of white like a miniature sun hanging high above the dungeon rooftops; high above the [Terraforming] clouds.

The globe of Veird was barely formed at all, and yet it was already turning blue with recognized Malevolence—

The Weaver pulsed in the sky.

All of the entire dungeon city turned Red and then instantly white as thick white air filled the world, all around Erick. His Sight was clear because he did not see fully with his eyes, but to his mortal-shaped eyes everything was a cloud.

And then the entire dungeon city pulsed Red and then white again.

Rozeta threw her head back and laughed an echoing laugh in the clouds, and suddenly her mortal-shaped body was gone. Phagar excused himself for the coming war effort. Erick was alone, as Rozeta appeared in the clearing sky overhead. She was brilliant white and iridescent and kilometers long. Erick had no idea where she began or ended.

“More, Erick! Break him! Rip it all asunder!”

Erick obliged.

More Weavers went out.

Some of them even managed to get more than half a meter before pulsing again and again—

A tall, busty woman appeared on the edge of the lake, wearing purple robes in the Songli style. It took Erick a quick moment to recognize Nirzir. But those were Nirzir’s deep purple eyes, pale white skin and hair, and brilliant smile. She was 29 these days and still hitting on Erick occasionally, but it was 90% normal flirting that didn’t mean anything. Erick ignored the remaining 10%.

Nirzir called out through the Red-white flashes, “Helloooo, True Wizard!”

Erick smiled. “Come on over, Champion Nirzir.”

—Nirzir stepped to Erick’s side, grinning, moving without moving to get here, saying, “I heard you’re killing armies these days!”

“As much as I can, Little Nirzir.”

Nirzir scoffed in false-injury. “I gained at least 10 centimeters of height when I got my Championship! You’re just too damned tall!”

Erick continued to put more Weavers out into the world, asking Nirzir, “Can you read the future well as a Champion of Phagar? That’s what I always wondered when I gave that up; the exactitude of the nature of the time-telling of Phagar.”

Nirzir smiled softly and a tear fell. She rapidly opened her arms and rushed Erick with a hug, burying her head against his stomach, saying, “I see so much, but we’ll get to that soon. We have some moments.”

Erick put his arms around Nirzir’s back. “I missed you, too.”

Nirzir chuckled against Erick’s stomach. And then she breathed in, and pulled back. She rapidly pointed at the map and 1,450 bright purple dots appeared among the entirely-blue Image. “Malevolence is everywhere but those are the foreseen eruption points. How many Weavers do you have up and running right now?”

“Not enough.” Erick looked up at the fog all around, and at the strobe-light of Red-then-white that continued to happen. “This mist is too much— Rozeta! I don’t have the capability to use environmental mana yet, and neither can my Siphons or the Drains. Can you clear this up?”

Rozeta’s voice was all around, “I’m working on a solution larger than this space. Send out more Weavers, all across the world, and be ready to target Claws. Make more of these Weaver spells, too.” And then she said, “I am now increasing the Script-granted mana of everything in your area.”

Nirzir was studying the strobing air and also the Image in front of her, but then she jerked, and so did every living thing within the entire dungeon city.

High ahead, Erick saw the shadowy tendrils of [Undertow Star] and all of the shadows of the node network turn absolutely radiant in the center of each tendril, like they were pulling light out of people, through straws of gloom. The Image turned deeply intricate as Erick sent Weavers out all across the world—

Nirzir held up a light image. “This is a Claw. They’re coming out. Target them at those locations.”

Erick had heard that Claws were, well, claws. It was still weird to see Nirzir hold up a lightward shaped like a literal dragon claw made of Red Lightning.

Erick had the Weavers target those.

Rapidly, the strobe of Red and misty white all around Erick simply stopped. There was no Claw here, so the Weaver overhead moved on.

The cloud of white remained behind for a while, before it soaked into the ground and into Elsewhere.

The Weaver Image transformed, slowly and then surely, the complete-blue beginning to fade, to be replaced with blue dots. Erick, Nirzir, and the Image, were behind a deep layer of dilated time, but the world out there and the scanning capabilities of the Weaver were in normal, much slower time. It took a minute for the absolute blue of the entire Image to transform into a few blue pinpricks here and there, almost all of them at every single spot where Nirzir had indicated.

Nirzir said, “Looks like I was off a little!” She chuckled, trying not to be absolutely terrified as she recognized what the map meant— And then she paused as she looked upon Eralis, her home. “Uh.”

Erick was already sending out more and more Weavers to every single spot on the map, as he said, “There is no travel time between the Weaver being made and casting at the target, because I can create the Weavers at the target.” As Erick spoke, the map was already depopulating of blue dots. “See? The Claws are already evaporating. Eralis is safe.”

Nirzir watched as the blue dots near Eralis, deep inside the map under many layers, began to vanish.

More dots appeared all over the world, though.

Erick had Nirzir focus, asking, “Any Leviathans out there?”

Nirzir’s purple eyes shimmered with fractals as she gazed upon the map, her words coming easy, “No. Thank Phagar and all the gods. No leviathans. We think he needs a real image to make one of those, and there are no more leviathan-shaped images in the world that we know of.” She breathed out. “Can you make a second map for Nothor Beasts?”

“Yes,” Erick added, “And then a third map for just Malevolence.”

And that is what Erick did.

The three maps of Veird each showed different problems. The Claw map was sometimes populated here and there, but not really. Erick still kept up on those Weaver alterations as needed.

The Nothor Beast map was 90% blue.

The Malevolence Itself map was 100% blue.

An hour of dilated time passed quickly inside the dungeon city, with Erick and Nirzir working together to direct the Weavers, when they needed directing. Only ten minutes of time passed in the rest of the world. And in those ten minutes, the only thing that had really changed was that the number of Claws were decreasing and then rapidly increasing as more and more Claws came out of hiding. The Nothor Beasts were bad news, but the Claws did the real damage. That was the Map that Nirzir focused on the most. That was the map that Erick focused on, too, rapidly deploying Weavers wherever he saw a target pop up.

And the pouring of Malevolence into Veird continued unabated, only seeming to get stronger, and yet…

“And yet no one is dying?” Erick asked himself again, finding it hard to believe, as he gazed through portals to see a few battlefields.

A Claw stepped out of Elsewhere into the skies of Candlepoint and then was instantly obliterated by a [Benevolent Cleanse]. It screamed. It died. It accomplished nothing.

It didn’t look like an actual attack, though. More like Erick had unearthed a hidden enemy that had been sleeping and then he killed it before it had fully awoken.

“No one is dying,” Nirzir said, still slightly surprised at that. “The Blue Corps is out in force with Kiri making portals and Phagar is moving people around fast, too. Mostly, the Cleanses are doing the work. The problem doesn’t look to be getting better though… Why isn’t it getting better? You said something about side realities but… each Weaver is only targeting this reality, right? I know there’s something going on with infinity, but… We’re just working on the nearby infinity, right? It should be smaller than this?” Nirzir hoped, “Right?”

Erick had covered some of the world with Weavers, but not all; not by a long shot. He was still putting more and more out there. Even the Core had Weavers in it; that’s where Rozeta was working the most right now, fixing the many problems that Erick was unearthing there. She was having a grand time; like an engineer in the throes of figuring out why their code wasn’t working and then fixing it all with perfect solutions.

Erick said, “I’m guessing here, but… The Weavers are poking holes in Infinity and disturbing an army we did not know the true size of, Nirzir. It’s a big army.”

Nirzir steeled herself. “That’s what I was afraid of.”

“I’m casting more and more Weavers, but…” Erick asked the air, “Is the ambient mana fix up and running yet, Rozeta?”

Rozeta’s voice was everywhere, and she was happy, “I’m working on it! The absolute flow of mana to the core is way too large right now! I have to increase ten thousand systems to match and I have to get it right. Don’t worry about anything. People are just getting Red flashes and living in mist for a while. It’s fine! I already sent out blue boxes. Put out more Weavers!”

Erick was already putting out more Weavers. He had long since moved on from actual targets, and was now just working in a grid pattern, filling out every layer with more and more weavers, mostly on the Malevolence-clearing map, targeting ‘people under the effect of Malevolence, not already being targeted by another Weaver or pulse of [Benevolent Cleanse]’. That map was overfull of Weavers, but it needed even more—

“Ah ha!” Rozeta said, from elsewhere, “Got it!”

The mist of the world rapidly cleared, rising into the sky, revealing the land and the people and everything else. Clouds of white, thick air rose into the heavens, turning into streamers that then moseyed through the world on white rivers. Erick watched as the thick mana streamers that were common around the Core of Veird appeared in the sky.

Nirzir breathed a sigh of relief, saying, “Thank Rozeta for that; I can finally see this neat dungeon city.”

The world flashed Red with another pulse of Cleanse.

Nirzir added, “I could do without the Red pulses, though.”

Erick laughed. “It’ll get worse once I finally reach saturation.” He pointed up at the Weaver high overhead. “That thing is actually moving a meter around each time it flashes. When we reach saturation it won’t move at all and instead it will be a rapid [Benevolent Cleanse] that—” Erick raised his voice to the air, “—That will Drain this entire node network and also fill the world with ambient mana! Might take a while to reach that, though! It’s going to break the Script Second, too, and by a lot.”

Rozeta stepped to Erick’s side. “I now realize why you didn’t just put out ten million Weavers at once. I must admit I was a bit mad at you for not just filling the world with Weavers instantly. Thank you for that. I will be adjusting things. Will we know when saturation is reached?”

Phagar stepped back into the conversation. “Four or five hours from now.”

“It’ll be like a Red-and-white storm, I imagine; constant and unending and terribly destructive to all currently-cast magic.” Erick said, “I’m sure that Nothanganathor recognizes what is happening right now, but when the Cleansing really starts it’ll be a qualitative difference from what we’re seeing now.”

Rozeta breathed deep, and then she stepped away, her voice trailing after her, “I have work.”

Phagar nodded.

Erick cast more Weavers.

[Cleanse] didn’t work on spellwork, but when Erick made [Benevolent Cleanse] out of the original, he had surely made it to kill everything Malevolence-based, and Elemental Destruction was very good at destroying what it was targeted to destroy.

- - -

Erick reached something close to saturation on the Malevolence-clearing map four hours later.

All of the maps looked almost the same as they had been before, but none of the Claws were killing anyone, or even appearing anymore. The same went for the Nothor Beasts. Erick was exterminating them long before they appeared; cleansing away their connection to this land and almost all of their hidden physical forms, too.

The Weaver overhead wasn’t moving much at all before triggering another city-wide [Benevolent Cleanse]. In every direction other Weavers hung, flashing their [Benevolent Cleanse], filling the world with Red-then-white. The Weavers were bunching up on each other now, forming what Erick thought of as a slowly-filling-in Venn Diagram of the world.

