Erick turned on the [Terraforming] and strung the whole place with [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] before enveloping the whole thing in [Weather Ward]s and heat magics. Weather was crazy right now on Veird and there was no easy way to change all of that, though it was certainly possible once Rozeta managed to fix the major issues of the Script, so Erick simply made the place weather-proof.

As Erick worked, time passed for him but not for anyone else. [Terraforming] was a simple grey cloud with frozen white lightning therein. The node networks and the Draining magics of the [Undertow Star]s were still, their shadow tendrils not moving at all. [Grow] made plants that were simple green buds on churned loam; they would grow later. [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] made lights of many colors that did not move at all; not like they should, not like they would.

When Erick was done with the main thrust of the building, he turned back into a person and did some final touches; leveling a floor here, securing a wall of the new lake there, poking into the dungeons and seeing that one of them had some horrors inside so he eradicated that one. Normal stuff.

And then Erick stepped back, to stand with Rozeta and Phagar on a mountain further from where they had started.

Rozeta casually said, “You’re bigger than last time.”

Erick chuckled. “A bit.”

Phagar smiled, and then he waved his hand, and Time shifted, tiny fractals spreading out from the white walls of the new dungeon city.

Erick wondered about that presentation of godly power, and not for the first time.

Phagar, wearing Erick’s own face and body as he usually did, smiled, and said, “I wonder, Erick. Have I always had these fractals as a part of my godly presentation? Or is that something I had forgotten that came from this Fractal Cosmology? Am I a god from this Fractal Cosmology? I’m not sure anymore. Could be that fractals are simply neat, and present in multiple lands, coming from multiple influences to arrive at the same ideas.”

“That last one has some real merit,” Erick said, huffing a laugh.

The dungeon city transformed as Phagar spoke, the [Terraforming] rapidly unfreezing and then turning absolutely chaotic in its frenzy of life-bringing rain and lightning. The first greenery caused the next greenery to come in much faster. Life died and then grew back. Moss covered white buildings like a living carpet. Trees bloomed as rivers flowed and the lake filled in the center of the land.

And then the [Terraforming] truly took off, filling the entire sky of the dungeon city with rain.

Shadows of things moved in the racing time, mere afterimages of slimes and some small monsters running fast lives here and there. Trees grew to be a hundred years old in an instant and then they died to a hurricane cleaning up the land.

The hurricane was not a continual thing; the [Terraforming] fluctuated its power. It killed periodically, and then rested for an age, becoming a simple rain cloud filled with lightning sparks and shadow tendrils that hovered over the lake in the center of the space.

Rozeta sighed as she watched it all happen, like she was resting in a hot tub. “That’s so much Benevolence mana. It’s already clearing up problems in the Script, in the tangles of Wrongness caused by Malevolence. I don’t know what the exact difference is between your mana, Erick, and the mana of everyone else, because they’re near-qualitatively the same in several instances… Ophiel, for one. Yggdrasil for another. But your mana does very well against Malevolence. I think it might be that Reson Magic.”

In a commiserating sort of way, Erick said, “That shouldn’t be a question you have, Rozeta. You should know why things are the way they are. Phagar should know why his godly presentation looks like the magic I saw of the Fractal Fairy. But you’ve all been crushed down to Nothanganathor’s desires. He has cut away the option for you to know this stuff, for knowing the Red triggered the Red. You might have even cut out that knowledge from yourself. But we can fix that, eventually.”

Rozeta simply stared ahead, hoping.

Phagar continued to work fractal Time upon the land ahead of them, saying, “I’ve opened up all my memories that have been ‘open in case of emergency’. This conspiracy goes deep, Erick. There is hope, though.” He grinned, saying, “The overall plan of Nothanganathor’s relies on powers derived from countless small wizardries and meticulous planning, and all of our Foundations being laid upon beds of sand and shifting undercurrents. But you could open communications right to Margleknot, pulling possibility here to Veird, and if worse comes to worse, we can enact an Endtimes Plan and you can [Grand Reincarnation] everyone to new lives, in new parts of the universe.”

Erick felt a twitch of calm pleasure at that suggestion.

Even if Veird fell, and Erick and Melemizargo were trapped in the final power of Nothanganathor, the people could escape.

Erick said, “Let’s call that ‘Plan Omega’; the very last one.”

Rozeta said, “I would prefer to save Veird. This larger universe is something I wish to contend with after Nothanganathor loses, and with all of you with me.”

Phagar nodded. He pulled back his Time from the dungeon city.

The world beyond once again froze in time, due to the shared [Time Stop] of Erick, Rozeta, and Phagar.

The white land had changed into one of green and blue and flowers and mushrooms and brilliance and shadow.

Erick said to Rozeta, “I need the space released from the Script, so that the mana is fully usable, and not taken by the Script. I plan on helping Solomon and Destiny Ascend here, too.”

Rozeta flinched. “Do you have to request that?”

“I do,” Erick said, “Right now the system is probably only pulling out a tenth of what it should. For instance: I made almost 200 Benevolence dungeon towers on Margleknot. The mana coming from those was visible in the air as a white thickness, and my [Reson Gatherer]s started turning the excess into currency and true power. I see no excess here. I need all of the mana here to clean up Veird.”

Rozeta bargained, “Then how about I invert the Authority of the Script, and give every living thing here a lot more mana than they normally have, and thus the excess spills out and I can regather that, and you can use that vastly increased node network to send your [Benevolent Grand Cleanse] all across the rest of Veird.” Rozeta looked to Erick. “How about that?”

“… Huh. Well damn. Yes. I’ll take that option and also the area over the lake, free of the Script.” Erick said, “On the island I built there.”

Phagar smirked. “That island wasn’t for statues?”

Erick went, “Ha!”

Rozeta forced herself to say, “If you can promise me that you won’t blow up anything from here, then… I agree.”

“I will definitely be blowing things up from here, Rozeta.”

“Oh you know what I mean.” Rozeta looked to the right and up, took a moment, and then she turned back toward Erick. “Done.” She added, “Mostly. There’s a 10 meter sphere of space on that island that’s Script-free. That’s the maximum size I’ll allow. The Script-given mana of every living thing in the rest of the space and a kilometer beyond the walls is highly artificially boosted.”

“Thank you.” Erick said to Phagar, “Time dilation?”

“Of course,” Phagar said, as the land beyond began to move again, and rapidly. Not as fast as before, but still fast. Soon, the air began to fill with a thickness of mana. “Nothanganathor will be able to notice this space, now, if he is looking. Let’s go inside.”

Erick stepped forward, vanishing from the frozen-snow mountaintop far outside of the city to land on a bare island in the center—

Erick sighed in some kinda relief. The air in here was warm and humid and lovely. The lights of many Radiances filled the world with light, birds chirped in the trees, bugs buzzed in the grasses and wild places, and slimes troddled all over everywhere. The lake was clear of slimes, but there were plenty of fish in the lake, and even some monsters.

… There were monsters kinda everywhere, actually. Only small ones, and some stranger big ones. None that bothered to come out this far to the island in the center of the lake, for Erick had cordoned this place off with a [Force Wall] before he left, and the [Force Wall] remained strong due to the line of the node network that Erick had dropped down into this space.

The land was growing and plentiful, and though Erick had grown past such things as the need of air or warmth, air and warmth still felt good.

The Script being not-here felt kinda bad, though. It was an uneasy sort of feeling.

Phagar and Rozeta appeared next to him. Rozeta looked worried. Phagar looked ready for something bad to happen.

Erick said to them, “Here we go. The first real cast of this magic, and what will probably poke a great big hole in the dimensional fabric and call forth Nothanganathor. The spell might not even work past this space, though, what with the Script. But this is an act of Wizardry, so it might work anyway. This first cast is going to target—” Erick glanced around with his senses, and spotted some shadowolves out there in the depths of the dungeon city. Those things and the birds and the bugs must have gotten in from the dungeons. Erick said, “—All the shadowolves in this space.”

Phagar asked, “How about starting with targeting Malevolence in this small space under this [Force Wall] dome?”

“Sure. We can start there.”

Rozeta was calm, but worried.

Erick cast [Spellsurge Weave] and [Benevolent Cleanse] at the same time, marrying the spells together and targeting Malevolence here in this small space under the Force dome, to get everything started. Just one cast, though! He tied the spell off to the node network line up ahead, giving the magic all the mana it would ever need, a billion times over. Thick air rapidly misted out of the space and then flash-transformed into a map of the nearby area —a kilometer out— as a white Weaver cascaded light up above. The map turned iridescent—

Red Sparks suddenly crawled out of the map—

And the Weaver banished those Red Sparks with a flash of a [Benevolent Cleanse].

Red turned to thick air, becoming a sudden rush of a whole bunch of different types of mana and other powers that did not really exist on Veird, but which the Script would be able to clean up a lot easier than how it handled Malevolence. Erick categorized what he saw as Carnage and Vile and a few others… And he also saw twists of something that was hard on the eyes, which were invisible to his mana senses, and which he thought were spent resons, but which kinda looked… corruptive? Maybe? Maybe they were remnants of spent abilities that were not mana-based, turned to something Erick simply could not understand. There was a lot of that up on Margleknot, after all.

Erick hit the motes of weirdness with another [Benevolent Cleanse] and the weirdness remained, but it did spread out, like a stain diluting.

If it was corruption, then Benevolence might be good against it?

Erick hit it with a jolt of Benevolence lightning… Which did jack shit. Well okay then.

Not corruption—

Nothanganthor wouldn’t use corruption this early in the fight, anyway. He would be called a Corrupter and then dealt with by the Fae Council… Maybe.

So what could he be looking at?

Erick began, “Do you two know what—”

And then he looked at Rozeta, and knew several things at once.

Erick frowned. “The Script is still here and those are Banned elements, aren’t they. It’s the same thing I saw in the Vaults with those spaceships. It’s almost the same thing I see every time I look at a Mind Mage or see a person use Mental Magic; those tendrils of thought. Ah, dammit. Yup. That all makes sense now.”

Rozeta frowned. “I can’t actually make this space 100% Script free. It’s 99.9999% free. And yes, those are Banned Elements. Specifically Elemental Tyranny and Elemental Corruption and Contract and a whole bunch of other tiny things. Looks like some abilities from other power sources, too, which is very weird for me to see, Erick.

“Malevolence is its own thing, but your [Benevolent Cleanse] seems to smash it to whatever pieces it can smash it into. As for the Mind Mage stuff, yeah; those are resons, too, but those aren’t Banned. I tried Banning Mind Magic; it simply didn’t work, so I hid it behind the same obfuscation that the Banned stuff goes behind. We can talk about all that later, at length, if you want. You deserve to know everything.

“But for now!” She put away her frown, saying, “This is going to work.” She added, “Deploy it on a larger scale. Target Malevolence in the nearest kilometer.”

Erick put away his objections to an imperfect world and slightly-untrusting-allies (Because Rozeta probably knew things he did not know, and he trusted her anyway), and said, “Sure. This works at the speed of a Weaver, which is fast, but not instant. I can make it work larger than just the nearest kilometer. Here: just follow it.” And then he set the Weaver to find all Malevolence within the dungeon city and [Benevolent Cleanse] it away.

The entire Cleanse Map turned blue with targets.

Erick winced at that, saying, “Welp. It does Image here and also in a side reality, for it goes through a side reality to scan from here to there.”

The Weaver was already off, heading outward and rapidly splashing the world around it with a [Benevolent Cleanse], turning the air around itself into a thick white mist that rapidly dispersed. Strangely enough, the Weaver flew on a mere half-meter before it carved out another 10-meter-diameter sphere out of the air, turning all of that space briefly Red before it flashed over with white thickness. The Weaver went another half meter and did the same thing.

It kept going, showcasing Red in the air before turning that Red into a bunch of different manas, some of which were Banned.

It was kinda like a constantly flowing firework, actually.

Erick said, “So a few things.” Erick and company watched the firework lazily drift across the lake’s surface, heading into the water for some reason, and then back up and out for some other reason. “I think every Weaver is in a different side-reality of this slice of Infinity, so that space will need to be cleaned multiple times. And I think I restricted the size of my [Cleanse] too much.” Erick asked Rozeta, “Can I cast a full-sized [Benevolent Cleanse]? Is the Script handling this?”

