<<Why does the chauffeur not have a license? That was rhetorical. Don’t answer it. Fine. Fine. I’m registering you now. Alden Thorn. You’re only registered for the cookie. Special circumstances cookie license. Don’t go flying other things around. Come take your tests when the world is less crazy. Don’t drop the general. Do call in to report your flight paths if at all possible. Where are you going now?>>

“Celena North,” Alden said, holding back a wince. He hadn’t had time to think through important questions like, Where exactly do I park the extremely conspicuous flying device with the extremely conspicuous Artonan so that I become less conspicuous?

<<All right. Follow flight path instructions if your wizard doesn’t mind. If your wizard does mind, find a moment to call me back. My job’s gotten so much more interesting lately. Have a nice day.>>

She ended the call. A moment later, an overlay and miniature map appeared on Alden’s interface, and he spent a couple of minutes hovering and figuring out what he was allowed to do. Is it this strict on a normal day?

“You were about to ask me another question,” Esh-erdi reminded him. “Before you called The Nine-edged Son Whose Own Mother Forsakes Him a human pastry.”

“I’m sorry!”

“Don’t apologize to me.” Esh-erdi patted the nonagon between them.

He’s so messing with me. Alden thought while he apologized to their aircraft with as much sincerity as he could muster. How does this person have time to mess with me?

Before the call had come in, Alden had been trying to pin down what he should say about Esh-erdi and Lind-otta rescuing him, if that came up today at school. Normally, his plan would’ve been to let his salvation go completely unmentioned or brush over it for the sake of his sanity.

It had been on the spectacular side, after all, and he didn’t enjoy being a spectacle.

But as Alden started to form questions, he kept running into a wrinkle he hadn’t expected.

They saved my life. Isn’t coming up with ways to act like it was no big deal, just for my own comfort, kind of diminishing what they did?

Esh-erdi and Lind-otta didn’t need praise from one random teenager they’d plucked from the water, but the more Alden thought about it, the more he felt like an ass for even worrying about how much people were going to irritate him if they found out there was a story about Artonan generals to be had.

Esh-erdi would probably tell him to do whatever was best for himself if he asked about downplaying what had happened, but Alden didn’t think he should let himself be the kind of jerk who chose his own convenience over giving gratitude where it was deserved.

I was about to drown. It hurt. I was terrified. They pulled me out of it.

It was different than not telling people about the Quaternary’s help. If he even tried to explain how she’d assisted him, he’d be opening a giant can of worms. This was simpler. Everyone already knew the knights were around Anesidora and that they were using their magic to fix things.

Esh-erdi’s flying cookie was even recognizable. To traffic control at least.

The knights are strangely adept at not being filmed in the act of using their magic though.

Alden let the nonagon move forward again toward Apex, keeping it slow. He only had a short while to get to the assembly, so he was going to have to floor it soon. But he was reframing his thoughts and his question, and what he wanted to ask now was important.

Not just for the next few hours of his life. But in the longterm.

“Hn’tyon Esh-erdi…”

“You’re using the title.” He was still looking up at the sky. “Is the question such a serious one?”

They were approaching the ruin of Punta de La Luna. The boardwalk, the cottages, the ambassadorial mansion—they only existed in Alden’s memory now.

I could wait and ask Stuart when I go for a visit…but it would be better to ask Esh-erdi as well. Stuart might have a different perspective.

They were still out here over the water, away from drones. And Alden doubted anyone within miles of them had the combination of guts, talent, and knowledge they’d need to spy on Esh-erdi.

“I think asking you this might be rude, but I don’t know how to find out without taking the risk,” said Alden. “I apologize if it is.”

“I hope the question horrifies me since you’re apologizing for it before it’s even spoken.”

I don’t know. It might horrify you.

For another moment, he debated asking as delicately as possible versus just asking. He settled on the second, based on how he imagined it would make him feel if someone else was going to bring it up.

“It seems like the fact that a hn’tyon’s authority is bound into a skill is never mentioned,” said Alden, staring straight ahead. “Even on the Triplanets among the ordinary class. Maybe even among the wizard class? People don’t ever say it. I’m not sure what that means—if it’s a secret that’s being kept from some people or if it’s out of respect. I want to do what you prefer. When I tell people that you saved me, if someone asks me how Lind-otta stopped the water, should I just say she cast a spell, like everyone does on television? Is that what the two of you want?”

He couldn’t meet Esh-erdi’s eyes then. He was afraid that he would see something dangerous there—not anger, but any of the other hard emotions that might appear. Grief, pain, shame…understanding.

Only the long pause before Esh-erdi’s answer came told Alden that the question had surprised him.

“You ask why no one ever mentions the <<elder’s croak>>.” He spoke easily, with no trace of any of the reactions Alden had feared. “It is something of a secret on this world, though nobody means for it to be a perfectly kept one at this point in our peoples’ relationship with yours. It’s <<taboo>> in our culture for those who aren’t a hn’tyon themselves, or closely associated with us, to speak of it. To such a <<degree>> that many still swear themselves to the maintenance of <<the respectful silence>>, following the old traditions.

“Assuming things go as I imagine they will, you’ll find that around the time our nature becomes more widely understood here on Earth, the silence will be adopted as well.”

“Then I’m sorry for bringing it up.”

“There’s no need to be. You didn’t call me a pastry. And asking questions for the purpose of educating yourself wouldn’t be offensive to anyone worth worrying about. Some of us, including Lind-otta and I, consider Avowed to be a <<natural exemption>> from <<the respectful silence>>. Though not everyone feels that way, so I would walk carefully around others.”

So it wasn’t actually secret. Even on other worlds. But nobody had ever explained it to Kibby, and Alden had never gotten to hear about it while he was consuming Artonan media because it wasn’t talked about at all.

“Elder’s croak?” he asked. “I’m not sure the Contract is translating that correctly.”

“A <<fable>> often told to children and sometimes used to explain the respectful silence. I don’t have time to tell it now. But I’ll make sure you hear it.” Esh-erdi sat up. “I am a <<renowned storyteller>>. Do not let anyone tell it to you before me. The first time is the best.”

“All right,” said Alden.

Esh-erdi chortled to himself. “It’s been a few years. I must practice my croak! As for the rest of your question, telling everyone that we cast spells is probably the best option. It’s also not untrue from a certain perspective.”

“I’ll do that,” Alden said firmly.

“<<Majestic>> spells. <<Quiver-causing>> ones!”

“I can say that.”

“You’re very serious.” Esh-erdi’s smile fell a little. “I guess you’ve arrived at your conclusions from your interactions with the Quaternary. Or perhaps even more recently from me and Lind-otta. If you have more questions, you may ask them anytime.”

“Thank you. That’s nice of you.”

“I don’t think it is. We’re probably less similar to Avowed than you would assume. And it would be good for you to understand, since you are becoming friends with Stu-art’h.”

Alden directed the nonagon up higher, trying to unravel how Esh-erdi’s words made him feel.

Below him, the world where human Avowed lived lay in a shocking mix of ruin and glamor. Beside him, a Knight of the Mother Planet offered to explain what he was. Against Alden’s chest, hidden by the high neck of the school uniform, his auriad was soft, and on the flesh there, a tattoo he’d accepted from a wizard was fading away.

We’re probably less similar to Avowed than you would think.

They were flying over the area he’d been rescued from.

Does someone like me fit in anywhere? Will I ever? If I asked him—just threw caution to the winds and asked him outright—what would the answer be?

Would he even have one for me?

******
