Heeding the older warrior’s advice, Gen leaned back into Bei’s embrace and willed her to bring him away. That word again, Demon, so distasteful. A shame really, it only showed Jianghong’s distaste for his own allies. ‘Too much time spent among the sheep’ was Yo Ling’s description of Jianghong, and Gen agreed with the analysis. No matter, he would come around soon enough, and if he continued to refuse Bei the respect she deserved... well, Gen grew in power with each passing day. Idly dreaming of the future, he arrived next to Jianghong and cocked his head in question. “So what task do we have?”

“Major Yimu broke through the forces guarding our flanks and headed our way. They’ll arrive long before the Magistrate, and by Yo Ling’s orders, we must delay until the fat bastard arrives. Something about having a grand audience for the finale, the cryptic old bastard.”

At least Jianghong’s disrespect wasn’t solely aimed at Bei. “So where’s the fun part?”

“According to the survivors, Falling Rain led the assault, taking great lengths to inform them of his identity. Somehow the savage killed all six aura users before battle was joined and overwhelmed the remaining infantry. Hidden assassins perhaps?” Frowning, Jianghong glanced at Gen, shaking his head. “Though there’s bad blood between you, I’d recommend you refrain from challenging him. Even ignoring his guardians, I doubt you’re his match, not with his Aura. The survivors describe it as ‘soul-rending’, whatever that might mean, and his soldiers were calling him ‘unrivalled beneath heaven’. An arrogant little savage, but we’ll end him together. That skill you used against Lei Gong, can you repeat it?”

Instead of answering, Gen focused his attention and summoned the flames, creating a second bolt and unleashing it on a nearby building. The projectile smashed against the stone and exploded, leaving a blackened crater the size of a melon on its surface. “Hmm...” Jianghong muttered, inspecting the results, “not bad, but it takes too long to form. Five and a half seconds is too slow to use in close combat, but its more than enough to deal with the whelp from range. Hang back and hide yourself among my soldiers striking from the shadows. I’ll draw out Falling Rain’s guardians, that blasted chain-wielding woman and her knife-throwing companion. When you see a chance, strike with your attack and have your Demon do the same, focusing on the woman. With her taken care of, the rest will crumble. Understood?”

“Bei.”

Raising an eyebrow, Jianghong asked, “What?”

“Her name,” Gen said, keeping his tone cordial but confident, “is Bei. She is my wife, and a Transcendent, not so-”

For a brief, heart-stopping second, Gen’s mind filled with terror unlike ever before, Jianghong transforming from kindly older brother to unspeakable horror without moving a muscle. Bei’s soothing presence dispelled Jianghong’s Aura, but the experience lingered in Gen’s mind, his body quivering and mind blank, reeling from the mental assault. Pursing his lips, Jianghong closed his eyes and exhaled. “My apologies Gen. I let my anger get away from me. You were right to correct me, I’ve not shown your wife the respect she deserves.” Saluting Bei with a smile, Jianghong spoke like a charming noble, no sign of the monstrous existence from before. “You must forgive an old soldier’s habits, Transcendent Bei. Now come, both of you. There’s still work to be done, and whatever Yo Ling’s has planned, I pray it will be enough.”

Still trembling from head to toe, Gen reached out and took Bei’s hand as they followed, cursing his weakness. With every stride forward, he learned how far he still had yet to go. Shaking off the fear, he steeled his nerves. No matter. His talent was unparalleled, time his limiting factor. Given another year, Gen would be more than capable of crushing Rain beneath his boot, taking the arrogant savage’s title away from him.

Gen, Emissary of Flame, Unrivalled Beneath Heaven. Truly a magnificent name.

Chapter Meme
