“Chieftain Naumel, stop here. Loot the village if you want, but leave the Humans.”
“No. They always carry the best things with them.”
He called back, snarling as he saw his prey getting away. Naumel stepped forwards, and Rags pointed.
A line of frost raced down the street, and Goblins and Fomirelin halted as her Wyverns strafed the ground. Rags motioned, and her Redfangs spread out. The Kraken Eaters hesitated; they’d seen Redscar fight, and Rags was cutting off their routes of attack.
For all except Naumel. He strode forwards, eyes on Rags. He was so intent that he barely noticed the Wyvern overhead until he heard a warning. Then he looked up and jerked left—too slow.
Snapjaw missed her slash to his shoulder, but she still managed to kick him in the face as she leapt down. Despite the disparity in their heights, the kick sent him staggering back a step.
“What are you doing?”
The Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain felt at his split-open lip. Snapjaw rose, eyes gleaming. Her head was larger than normal, and her mouth was very big. She treated him to a smile with all her teeth, and he realized they were made of mithril and ivory.
“A Chieftain deserves a Chieftain to fight. Come on, Chieftain of Kraken Eaters.”
His eyes narrowed at the insult. Naumel accelerated into a punch so fast Rags barely saw it. Snapjaw reached out in a blur and caught his fist.
The ground cracked behind her, stone tiles flying up in a rain as she grunted. The Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain stared down at Snapjaw’s hand. Her arm was quivering—but she had caught the punch. Then she opened her mouth.
[Yawning Bite].
Rags hadn’t seen Snapjaw fighting with her own two eyes for a while. The sight of a Level 37 [Chieftain of the Maw]’s mouth opening and growing until it was big enough to snap across Naumel’s shoulder was a sight.
He jerked back, dodging the teeth that snapped together and losing a bit of skin across his shoulder and chest. Naumel’s second punch sent Snapjaw rolling across the ground; she’d taken the punch straight in her mouth.
Naumel shook his fist out, and Snapjaw rolled upright, mouth full of blood. She spat; he staggered and pulled a gleaming tooth out of his arm. A new tooth popped into place as Snapjaw got up.
“Chieftain! Leave to me. Rianchi and Dyeda—”
Rags spun, cursing as she realized she’d left those two out of her calculations. And like the civilians they were—they were not with her Redfangs!
“Taganchiel, hold them here!”
“[Shield Spider’s Nesting Ground]!”
The [Shaman] waved his staff, and webs and tiny spiders covered the street as the Kraken Eaters tried to advance while dodging the Wyverns still spitting frost breath. Naumel charged as Rags looked around and then strode down the street.
“[Body: Stored Energy]. [I Grew With Every Bite]. [Body: Metabolism 1000%].”
Snapjaw spat on her hands. Rubbed them together. Then caught the Kraken Eater’s fist again. She skidded down the street, then shoved him back as she grew three feet in height. She bit as he raised a fist, roaring—
 
——
 
Rags found Dyeda and Rianchi blocking a group of Kraken Eaters trying to get around the village and flank the Humans. They were the closest lot to the fleeing villagers; a steep cliff separated the village from attackers, and the Kraken Eaters had climbed up in secret.
Rags skidded to a stop, panting. Those idiots. They were still her Goblins. Neither one was a real fighter, but they were still Goblins. Brave idiots, in short.
“No killing! Chieftain says!”
“Not our Chieftain! You move!”
It looked like they’d been arguing for a minute. The Kraken Eaters were surrounding Dyeda, but her help with her needles had given her some kind of authority.
“Hey, maybe let our Chieftains talk—”
Rianchi smiled and tried to get between Dyeda and a very angry Hob, but the Hob shoved him so hard he went tumbling head over heels.
“You go away. Now.”
One waved an axe studded with teeth at Rianchi, and Rags saw Dyeda turn and meet her husband’s gaze. Rianchi got up—and then gave everyone a big smile and ran away.
He jogged past Rags, hidden in an alleyway, and ran down the cliffside. Leaving Dyeda behind—
The [Tattooist] was completely unmoved by Rianchi’s flight. She had one of her tattooing needles in her hand. When a Goblin tried to get past her, she stabbed him in the arm.
“No killing Humans. Or I’ll tattoo a butt on your face! You want to glow in the dark? Get back!”
Her needle had something on it. Rags thought it was poison, but it turned out it was luminescent ink.
…That was actually something of a threat. No Goblin wanted to have a glowing nipple in a life-or-death moment. They dodged as she stabbed at them, and one of the Hobs got tired of the standoff. She knocked the needle out of Dyeda’s hand, shook a drop of blood off her claws, and raised a very sharp sword.
“Humans? You be silent. Or we stab you. You are not-Goblin. Traitor.”
Ah. This was getting bad. Rags debated what to do as she hoped Dyeda would back off. Rags could do something…but she didn’t have non-killing ways of removing the Goblins around Dyeda.
And if they wanted any chance of Naumel to talk to them—Dyeda swallowed as the blade advanced towards her throat. She backed up towards the cliff, hands raised, glancing over her shoulder.
“Not all Humans bad. You not kill children. Or you…you’re monsters. Are you not-Goblins?”
Naumel had been slightly receptive to this argument when Rags had discussed it with him. Right now? The Kraken Eaters bristled. They advanced, completely forgetting about the Humans. One grabbed a dagger from his belt and thrust it at her.
“You the not-Goblin. You help or we kill you.”
“No.”
Rags had a [Fireball] in her hand, her shortsword in the other. She was groaning as Dyeda wavered at the edge of the cliff. The Kraken Eaters paused.
They didn’t want to kill her, but she was insulting the most integral part of their being. One jabbed a sword at her.
“Take back words.”
There must have been too much Gothica in Dyeda’s social circle recently. Or…Rags tensed, and then she saw Dyeda glance over her shoulder a final time, then give the Kraken Eaters a huge grin.
“Eat goat poop, you not-Goblins.”
They shouted in outrage—and Dyeda jumped backwards over the cliff edge. Rags saw half the Kraken Eaters lunge for her with outstretched arms. Was she crazy?
No. Not crazier than any other married person, which was some kind of crazy in Rags’ opinion.
What the Kraken Eaters had missed and what Rags had seen was the flicker of red moving towards the cliff. Rags eyes opened wide as Dyeda leapt—and she saw the silliest thing she’d seen since the last time she’d hung out with Erin.
Namely—a Hobgoblin riding a crimson mountain bike with a helmet on his head, accelerating with each second.
Rianchi, the [Gearhead Biker], was already going faster than a Carn Wolf at full sprint. As Dyeda jumped, he angled his mountain bike towards a small incline of dirt.
He wasn’t going to make it! Rags saw Dyeda peering back as she fell, grinning—and Rianchi was standing up on his bike pedals. She heard a faint voice, his shout—
“[Phantom Gears (+10)]. [Double Pedaling]—”
Even his Skills sounded stupid. Rags saw his bicycle accelerate as if someone had kicked it from behind. The Hobgoblin half-turned as he rose and his bicycle launched into the air. The Kraken Eaters gaped down at him open-mouthed. Rianchi’s arms came up—
He caught Dyeda, and then they landed. Rags saw Kevin’s bicycle, the enchanted bicycle, absorb the fall. Then Rianchi, still standing up, hit a rock, and he and Dyeda wiped out.
“Ah.”
The groaning Goblins hit the ground at far less fatal speeds than Dyeda’s crazy jump. The Kraken Eaters glanced at each other. Then they went swarming down the cliff, possibly to beat down both Goblins for their takes on Human survival. Mostly, Rags thought, to steal the bicycle.
They didn’t have a chance. Rianchi hopped on the back of the mountain bike, and Rags realized the longer seat was so Dyeda could cling precariously to his back.
“[Lightning Run]!”
A Hob ran at Rianchi, sword raised, bolts of lightning flashing from her feet. She jumped—and hit the ground as he took off.
A Fomirelin burst out the trees, lunging at the bicycle, and Rianchi was three dozen feet past the Great Goblin, who landed comically, arms unfolded. Every Goblin stopped running and saw the [Biker] just…leave.
He was racing through the trees, his bicycle keeping steady despite the bumps thanks to Hedault’s magical suspension. The wheels flashing so fast they seemed like silver discs, catching the light, as Dyeda blew kisses and flipped off the Kraken Eaters. Then the bicycle was turning, and Rags leaned on the wall of a house for a second. Watching the grinning pair of Goblins circle the Kraken Eater tribe and race past a horse, who stared at the bicycle with the dismayed understanding of a species realizing it had competition.
“I guess it looks sort of nice.”
Rags had to admit. Then she turned back towards the village. It was just a shame her specialty was war.
 
——
 
There was a hand around Snapjaw’s throat, and she couldn’t breathe. She was still trying to bite the hand, but Naumel ignored her teeth. He turned to Rags when she halted, checking her bag of holding as the Wyverns flew lower overhead. Icecube was shrieking in fear and anger, but Rags pointed, and he aborted his dive.
Naumel glared at her. His eyes were ablaze with fury; hers were calm.
“Let go of her.”
“Why should I? Give up or I’ll kill her.”
He spat back. Rags just drew her crossbow. She checked over her shoulder; the Humans were almost all out of the village, but they’d never get far with the Kraken Eaters behind them. She spoke to Naumel as he shook Snapjaw. Her voice was calm in a way Snapjaw sort of resented given that she was blacking out.
But the [Eater] had to grin, because Rags’ next words were—
“You won’t. Or you wouldn’t be a Goblin. You kill Humans and monsters.”
Naumel’s eyes narrowed. He tightened his grip a second, as if to prove Rags wrong, and the Hobgoblin added as she drew her sword.
“Let her go. And I’ll fight you like you want, Chieftain Naumel. Winner takes both tribes.”
He dropped Snapjaw, and the Goblin coughed as she landed. She twisted as the Kraken Eater Goblins saw the two Chieftains and cheered. Naumel raised a fist. He raised his arms into the air, like some kind of ancient prizefighter, to a roar of approval from his Goblins.
A symbol of strength; Rags stood in the street, taller than the average Goblin, but shorter than every other Hob, wearing armor made by Goblins, a miniature warlord as foreign to regular Goblin existence as Naumel. The Kraken Eater’s Chieftain lifted his fist higher, roaring a challenge.
Rags shot him in the throat. The quarrel lodged halfway through Naumel’s flesh, and he choked. He reached up, yanked it out, and Rags fired again.
[Rapid Reload]. [Dual Shot].
“Oh!”
She shot Naumel through the kneecap this time, then in the groin. The roar from the Chieftain was followed by a wild charge; he didn’t even stop to yank either bolt out. Rags flicked her fingers forwards.
“Now. [Flashbang].”
The air exploded with light and sound. Ryoka’s spell. Naumel, undeterred, leapt and punched the spot where Rags had been, but she had vanished.
Unlike last time, Rags pivoted sideways, running even as she cast the spell. She dove, rolled to her feet, and the Great Chieftain missed. Rags caught the corner of a building, swung around it as Naumel spun, his eyes scrunched up—and a Frost Wyvern blasted him with ice.
Icecube hovered there, exhaling the last of his breath as Naumel roared and fought his way clear of the ice. He swung his fists, caving in the wall of the house, but Rags had already sprinted away and reset herself.
Run, reposition. It reminded him of a [Soldier]; she was controlled, deliberate. And he couldn’t hit her. Why?
The Kraken Eater’s Chieftain was used to foes who faced him in battle. He sought out enemy champions and leaders and killed them. An enemy who ducked him wasn’t unheard of—but something else was throwing him off. Rags had seen Naumel fight. She had an idea of his reach and speed and kept well out of range, but more than that…
He glanced at the place he’d punched, and he still felt like Rags was there. It was as if there were a dozen small Goblins around him, telling him to turn and hit them instead of the Goblin he could see.
[Aura of the Emissary]. The Chieftain’s instincts had to be overridden by his conscious mind. Outraged, he bellowed at the Goblin.
“Fight me! Chieftain to Chieftain!”
That was how she fought. Rags appeared, this time with sword and crossbow aflame.
[Burning Blades]. Lightning danced down the blade of the shortsword Erin had given her. Naumel began to charge, and Rags pointed.
A bolt of lightning drew itself from the shortsword and crackled off her claws. It hit the Great Chieftain in the chest. Even Snapjaw blinked. She hadn’t known Rags could do that!
It still barely slowed the Chieftain down. He was running at her when the world went dark. Snapjaw hacked; her vision was suddenly black, and grit was in her mouth and eyes.
What the? Then she heard a furious, coughing roar and realized what had happened.
Rags and her duststorm technique. The other Wyvern Rider had dumped a metric ton of dirt and sand over them all. Now, Naumel was truly blinded. But Rags wasn’t.
[Sense Heat]—the Goblin must have maneuvered, because a [Fireball] emerged from a different spot in the dust cloud and hit the Great Chieftain with a roar. The blast ignited a lot of the dust around him, adding a dust explosion to the spell. Rags cast another [Fireball] as the dust turned to ash and smoke.
However—Naumel was just getting angrier, and Snapjaw saw a telltale flicker in the air where Rags’ [Fireballs] had come from. Oh no. She saw the burning flames of Rags’ weapons and tried to shout.
“Chieftain! Watch—”
Naumel hit Rags so hard it sounded like he destroyed an entire house. Some kind of leaping Skill—the ground quaked, and Snapjaw cried out in horror.
“Rags!”
Silence. A curse from Naumel—then a howl of agony and a familiar, chemical smell.
The wind blew; one of the Kraken Eater [Shamans] had conjured a breeze. When Snapjaw could see, she saw Naumel was tearing at his chest. Rags was stepping away from him, tossing an empty jar aside. A trail of green liquid fell from it.
Acid jar. Naumel was burnt and his entire chest and front were sizzling with steam. But how? Snapjaw would have sworn she’d seen him hit—
 
——
 
Rags grimaced as she stared at the remains of her crossbow. It had been badly damaged from Naumel’s first punch last week, and the [Repair] spells hadn’t worked fully. Even so…it hurt her.
