She hoped punching it had hurt Naumel. He’d spotted her [Burning Blades] spell in the cloud and done the obvious thing and assumed it was her. Instead, Rags had deactivated the spell on her sword and hung the crossbow up on a wall. A feint so she could hit him.
That punch had been scary as hell. If it had struck her, she’d be dead. But she’d just splashed him with an acid jar.
The Kraken Eaters were screaming insults and outrage. This was the worst Chieftain duel they’d seen. Rags tuned them out; she was watching Naumel.
That had to work. It had to…aw.
The steaming of his dissolving skin had slowed. As Rags watched, the erosion of Naumel’s flesh slowed…then reversed. His breath was ragged as he felt at his chest, panting, no longer confident. Agony made his voice raw as he swung towards her.
“[Emergency…Regeneration].”
“Aspat.”
That was a lot of her tricks. The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe stood there, sword in hand, as the Kraken Eaters focused on her. The Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters gulped air, visibly tired from his healing.
Unwilling to admit how much damage she’d done without a scratch on her. His eyes focused on Rags, then the last Humans running in the distance. She held her sword out to her side, and there they were.
Two Chieftains. Two Goblins of a very different kind trying to understand each other. He jerked his head.
“Give up. Not for them. Why for them? Why, why, why—”
His hands clenched together, and he lowered himself. A Skill burning through his body.
[The Kraken Dives]. His knees tensed.
Rags just placed a hand on her chest. She gave him a grin he didn’t understand, rueful, amused, regretful, but not for this.
“[Ogre’s Strength]. No killing Humans.”
She saluted Naumel, sword in hand, flashing with lightning that illuminated her grin. Rags held the sword out to her side, like she had seen a Drake [Swordmaster] once do. One of her claws shone with magic, and she waited for him. Fearlessly, as if she had seen this all before.
He leapt and tore a furrow down the street, sending the flagstones, dirt, and everything in front of him and his target into the air. A Skill to down a Battle Golem in a single hit. Earned from besting a Kraken.
He didn’t hit her. A backwash of flames and the faint kick of force made Naumel look up. He sighed and pivoted; she was in the air.
A [Fireball] spell had launched Rags up. She was cartwheeling, now, falling. She must have thought it was clever.
A falling Goblin couldn’t dodge. Naumel swung an arm back.
“[Racdelbear’s Claws].”
He cut towards her with his hands, massive claws shredding the air.
Rags grinned like a [Magician] with a bag of infinite tricks. Then she shot sideways, and Naumel missed.
“Huh?”
Green flames roared around Naumel’s hand. He saw Rags spinning, land with a twirl, and catch herself. She’d pushed herself out of the way with that spell. An arc of green fire spiraled around the Goblin, and she leapt again, dodging Naumel with a burst of speed.
Like [Flash Step], but…not the same. She landed again, scattering petals of green fire that licked across the street, and there was something graceful about it. Naumel had killed [Duelists] using [Flash Step] but this wasn’t the same. When she leapt, her entire body took off instead of the Skill moving her through the world. And she could almost fly.
What kind of spell was that?
The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe gave Naumel and the Kraken Eaters a bow. Then, as he ran at her, she jumped.
“[Apista’s Jetflame].”
She shot into the sky over his reaching claws. Naumel leapt, and Rags reached up; a hand caught hers, and Snapjaw hauled her onto Icecube’s back. The Frost Wyvern gave the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain a damn good kick, and then he was flying up, squawking because the Goblin was a lot more solid than Icecube had thought, and the Frost Wyvern was reconsidering his opinion that he could also take Naumel on in a 1 versus 1.
It didn’t matter. Naumel landed on his back and saw Rags in the air. She was clinging to the Frost Wyvern as the second one, loaded up with all her Goblins, from the Redfangs to Dyeda and Rianchi, all waved down at the Kraken Eaters.
They were flying off. The furious Kraken Eaters raced after them, hurling javelins and shooting arrows. While Rags had been fighting Naumel, the other Goblins had gotten on with Wyverndancer, and now they were running away.
“Come back! Cowards!”
Cazmaw roared, swinging his axe futilely. He had to dodge a [Fireball] that flashed down towards him, and then they were out of the range of even spells.
“Chieftain! You okay? Chieftain?”
Goblins were all around Naumel. He just lay there on his back, wounded, angry beyond reason—and without the satisfaction of having hit anything. He stared at Rags wordlessly until she was a speck, and even then…
Naumel only broke away after ten minutes. He heaved himself up slowly, and they all backed away from the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain. However, Naumel was still.
They understood each other now. A bit better. He turned and stared around the empty village. Then, at last, he spoke.
“Fituna.”
“Chieftain?”
Naumel chose his next words carefully. His eyes roamed the horizon.
“Where…are the High Passes?”
 
——
 
The euphoria lasted as long as her adrenaline did. Rags endured the backslaps and cheering of the other Goblins as she made sure they were okay, and she congratulated Rianchi and Dyeda especially. Then scolded them for being idiots.
They were all grinning, even Snapjaw, who kept coughing and refusing a healing potion despite her bruised throat. This was the Chieftain they wanted.
“We showed them, right, Chieftain? And my beautiful, fast Rianchi carried me away! No one could catch us when he’s on his bicycle.”
Dyeda hugged Rianchi, despite the scolding. Rags relented in her lecture for one second.
“Rianchi. Explain your Skills. What the heck is…[Phantom Gears]?”
She got [Double Pedaling]. It instantly upgraded Rianchi in her estimations, but she had no clue what the other Skill was until he showed her his bicycle, holding it across the Wyvern’s back.
“Is a very new, green Skill, Chieftain. Kevin liked it. See? I have six gears here because this is one of his special bicycles.”
He puffed out his chest, and Rags knew enough of bicycles to see the complex gears set up to accept different speeds. Then he used his Skill—and a second layer of gears appeared.
“[Phantom Gears]. See?”
“Ah.”
It allowed Rianchi to bypass what was natural and create settings beyond any normal bicycle for exceptionally hard or easy pedaling. Rags supposed it had a lot of utility; Rianchi had certainly sped up fast even from the speed he’d already been going. She sat back in her seat, sighing.
“Don’t do something stupid like that again unless I order you to. Write up your Skills, and I’ll think about how to use them.”
“Yes, Chieftain! Good job on beating stupid Naumel! Did you see his face?”
“Eh.”
Rags just sat there, tired and morose, and distinctly heard Wyverndancer telling the others:
“He not even important to her. She kick his gigantic butt and flies off. That our Chieftain. See? She always grumpy.”
Well, let them think that. Was Rags supposed to enjoy having humiliated Naumel? As far as she was concerned, she’d lost a potential ally, and for what? He wasn’t going to stop raiding Humans. It was an act of principle with no reward and a lot of risk. She’d nearly died…to prove a point at best.
Deeds without tangible benefit. Deeds that had to be done. Erin had taught her that. Rags just wished that, at some point, these deeds came with the power to protect people. But look at Erin. Her friends rallied towards her. She survived and fought and did her best only to wait for the next Solstice. Only for her garden to fill with statues.
Maybe Rags was a bit of a downer. But that, too, was Goblin.
 
——
 
Thus it was that a very tired Chieftain returned to her home in the High Passes four days later. She grumped off the landing pad as Goblins asked how the negotiations had gone. One glare was enough of an answer.
Rags vanished into her rooms, only asking Gothica what had happened at the inn. Since all answers were unsatisfactory or ludicrous—mountains of gold, playing poker with Fetohep?—Rags added it to her list.
She went to bed, but had one of those sort-of-sleeping things where she felt like she tossed and turned for hours. When she woke up in her silk sheets, it was late at night and she was hungry.
Rags scowled her way into a kitchen and came out with the largest bowl of spaghetti she could hold. Spaghetti, a bit of butter, some sausage, and nothing else; a culinary crime unless you knew why she liked it.
For a drink, she had blue juice, which she’d poured gin into. Another drinking sin. But Rags was tired. She hadn’t levelled up after fighting Naumel; not that she’d really expected to, but it would have been nice.
“Now what? I guess I have to bother that stupid, untalkative idiot. Or search for answers. Somehow.”
The High Passes were huge over Rags’ head, and she stared up at them, thinking she did know where some answers were.
“Like I have even a chance. I wanted allies. Someone I could trust. Someone—”
She was so upset that she completely missed the roof sentry’s hiss. Rags got two steps across the roof when something landed with a thump that shook the ground.
The Frost Wyvern Lord and Rags came nose-to-nose. He had lightning scorch marks all over his face. Rags halted as he folded one wing, wincing, and opened his mouth. She shifted her drink to her spaghetti hand, balancing the plate on her arm, and pointed a burning finger at him.
After a moment, the Wyvern Lord closed his mouth. Rags lowered her finger and waved the sentry Goblin down.
“Get me a vat of the whiskey no one likes. The Drake stuff.”
She sat on the edge of Goblinhome, eating spaghetti out of her bowl as the Wyvern Lord licked at his wing, making a whinging sound deep in his throat. Rags just stared out across the barren wasteland.
A long tongue tried to slurp some spaghetti. She slapped it down. There was a growl; after a moment, she held out her cup. She poured a small dram onto the tongue, and it recoiled. She heard a slurping sound, then it came back.
With a sigh, Rags dumped a plate’s worth of spaghetti on the tongue. She hated sharing, but it wasn’t like she could even eat all of what she’d gotten. Silently, she heard a gulping sound, and then, at some point, a few Goblins dragged something sloshing up. One handed her a cup as the lid was levered open.
Rags silently poured another cup of whiskey into her blue juice. She heard a loud, slurping sound, then a morose sigh.
“Yep.”
The Wyvern’s giant head lay next to Rags. She rubbed at her neck and stared into the distance, trying to imagine the far-off lands where Erin might be. She gazed up at the High Passes.
Someone tried to put a wing around her, and she slapped it down. Then she just sat there. Sighing and drinking.
