Rags felt bad about how she’d asked. Rianchi brightened up.
“Good! I guess your question is hard to say, Chieftain. Biking is lots of fun. I have Skills.”
For doing what? Rags gave Rianchi a polite, blank smile. She supposed it was just one of those things. Mrsha liked chasing a ball around; it was the defining trait Rags had observed about her when the two had been in the same place. Rags didn’t hold that against Mrsha. There was too much else to hold against Mrsha, that empty-headed ball of white fluff.
Anyways, she left empty-handed this time, but she’d already enticed a number of [Shamans] and [Witches] from Anazurhe’s tribe, and the magical masks she’d traded for in the past were very handy too. But Rags had some hopes for the Kraken Eaters. Of all the tribes in the north she had located, theirs was the only other power.
The problem was—Naumel was an even bigger pain in the posterior. And when she found his tribe again, the rifts between Flooded Waters and Kraken Eaters were only more apparent.
 
——
 
It was a thirteen-foot-tall Battle Golem. It had spikes on its armor and fought with two fists—again, spiked. The Golem threw a pattern of fast punches, one, two, three, four, and Naumel blocked with a bored expression on his face.
Rags, circling downwards from above, just stared at the battle winding down. That Terland force she’d seen coming after the Kraken Eaters a week back when she’d left? They had caught up with the Kraken Eaters after all, albeit nearly fifty miles south of where they’d been. Still along the coast, though bordering a treeline.
It would be fairer to say, however, that the Kraken Eaters had caught the Terlands. Even as Rags watched, one of the last functional Golems kept punching at Naumel, heavy, crushing swings in a boxing pattern that would have killed a regular Hob if enough punches connected.
However, the Fomirelin ignored the spiked fists gouging into his arms. He kept his guard up and seemed to be counting.
On the ninth blow, the Golem went for an uppercut and ate a full-body punch to the face. Naumel had moved before the uppercut came. The Golem swayed back, launching a jab that the Great Chieftain dodged with a headslip, then raised its arms in a guard.
Naumel kicked one leg hard enough to bend it, then stepped back. He brushed aside two punches, headbutted the Golem, and walked out of range of a desperate blast of red light from its eyes—a beam spell of some kind.
“Whoa. He’s memorized how it fights. He’s good, Chieftain.”
Snapjaw was watching Naumel as the Great Chieftain returned to punching the steel Golem in the face. Rags turned her head—her eyes were on the dead Terlands. The Golems were just scraps of metal being beheaded and salvaged for parts by the Kraken Eaters.
The Humans had actual blood to spill, and it had turned the sands crimson. Rags broke away from staring at a kneeling man as Naumel grabbed the Golem’s head with his hands and began to twist, ignoring the body blows from the desperate automaton.
“How good?”
One of the Redfangs licked her lips, not exactly nervously, but with a great deal of calculation.
“Might be…might be the best fistfighter in the entire Redfang tribe, Chieftain. Maybe Garen and Rabbiteater were better. But they not that big.”
Huh. Rags hated to admit it, but the Kraken Eaters had demolished what looked like a hundred-strong fighting force. And a fifth had been Golems of some kind. This was a group sent by the Five Families; they had every right to be overconfident, even outnumbered.
Could my tribe do this well? If we launched a surprise attack and had time…but she wouldn’t have wanted to fight those Battle Golems. Redscar could take one on, but regular Hobs would have been hurt badly.
Yet she counted at least twenty Battle Golems, each the size of a Fomirelin, lying on the sand. Naumel ripped the head off the last one and tossed it onto a pile as his Goblins cheered. The Golem kept swinging blindly—until one of the Goblins stabbed a spear into its Golem Heart and destroyed it. Then Naumel was waving at Rags, grinning, and she descended just in time to hear the survivor speak.
“I…am Lord Taulus of House Terland, Goblin. You have spilled the blood of Izril and destroyed the clockwork heart of Terlands. Ransom me and you will be rewarded.”
The [Lord] put on a brave face as Rags dismounted and strode over, at first. Blood was clotting down the side of his head, and he wore some kind of magical cloth armor; he did not seem ready for a battle.
He had not been. His calm façade broke with a flinch as Naumel walked over to him. The Great Chieftain squatted down and peered at the man. Naumel’s face was unreadable, even to Rags, and she wondered what the man saw.
Monster? He turned, and his eyes were confused at first, as if he thought he saw Humans…but then he clearly saw through Rags’ Skill. There was nothing to deceive here.
The man’s gaze flickered with curiosity when it met hers. He glanced up at Naumel again, like someone staring at a wild beast inches from his face.
Her he took a second look at. The difference was…Rags’ aura? Her difference in height? The [Lord] looked at Naumel like a looming mass of muscle, covered with blood, a flat face, crimson eyes narrowed to slits.
He looked at Rags like a person. Or at least, as if he might recognize one.
The [Lord] was thusly shocked when the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain spoke in a voice that was far more eloquent than Taulus could have imagined. Or Rags too, come to think of it, if she hadn’t heard him before.
“I am Chieftain Naumel, Human.”
“I—I will remember it.”
Lord Taulus glanced up cautiously, and Naumel shrugged. He turned to Rags and spoke to her.
“Doesn’t matter. I always want to know what they say.”
“Humans? When you’ve beaten them?”
Rags saw Taulus clenching his jaw and studying her Wyverns and Goblins and the Kraken Eaters. Trying to memorize all the details. Naumel glanced at wounded Goblins—and dead ones—being lined up on the beach as his [Healer] tended to them with potions and some kind of paste.
Rags pointed, and one of her Redfangs with a healing Skill trotted over. To her surprise, Dyeda did too. She and Rianchi had seen battle before, but they were pale-faced and unnerved. Rags regretted bringing them on this leg of the trip.
Naumel answered Rags’ question as he walked over to her. It seemed this wasn’t a Chieftain-to-Chieftain meeting, so he spoke in the common tongue, which both were more fluent in, ironically.
“Mm. They never beg like Goblins.”
Rags eyed Naumel suspiciously. She saw Cazmaw striding over, a new axe on his shoulder.
“Goblins don’t beg. They know.”
“Mm.”
The Great Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters nodded. Rags saw Cazmaw swing up his axe and winced as it came down with a wet sound.
The [Lord]’s body toppled over, and a Goblin began to remove his clothing and bag of holding.
 
——
 
How did Rags feel about visiting the Kraken Eaters now? Conflicted, truthfully. Seeing the dead Terlands being looted was unpleasant. It felt wrong. And yet Rags was well, well aware that the Terlands had gone after the Kraken Eaters.
…Because the Kraken Eaters had raided and attacked. To survive. Because they were Goblins.
It was that circle she had learned of when fighting against the Unseen Empire. It had no meaning to choose where you began. It was a terrible circle, and if you said, ‘well, this side is nastier than the other’, you’d have a point. But she was tired of it.
The Kraken Eaters weren’t. They were in a grand mood, and Rags watched them stacking up the Golem heads in a pyramid.
“Terlands don’t care about Human heads. Even their [Lords]. This makes them mad. Don’t worry; little bird is gone too. It tried to save that one. Peh. Next time, they’ll send the nasty Golems. If they’re smart.”
“Battle Golems aren’t nasty?”
To her surprise, Naumel laughed. He shook his head, then raised a hand.
“Those aren’t Battle Golems. They’re…eh. What do they call them? Small ones are called Servant Golems. Manservants with swords. Not that dangerous. These are Sentry-class Golems. Battle Golems are taller than me. Far harder to kill.”
His grin said he’d killed them, too. Rags had a vague memory of the Golems of Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion, and she’d heard stories from Snapjaw about how they’d fought the Goblin Lord.
“Do they get nastier?”
“Yeah. Big flying ones. Or ones with bright magic in their heads. Some toss arrows miles away; if you see those, you have to be careful how you approach. I want to kill one. Steal its weapons. Maybe get it fixed.”
“Fix it up and use it?”
The idea of the Kraken Eaters, who were ripping a Golem apart for crude armor, fixing a Golem was ludicrous. But Naumel just scratched his chest; his wounds were already healing.
“There are Humans who can. Some will take the Golems who can be fixed, later. I don’t need them. But a good Golem…some of those Humans have Goblins in their ‘tribe’. Those are the real not-Goblins. Even more than you. Even a Chieftain…well, he calls himself a ‘Chieftain’.”
Rags had heard of that, but Naumel must have met them. She saw a few Golems were being placed in a separate pile not marked for deconstruction.
So that was how Naumel got some of his resources. She saw his tribe was moving away from the bloody battlefield once they were done looting to celebrate and eat, but not striking camp.
“Do you need to move?”
“We move tomorrow, before dawn. Tonight, we feast. You join us, Chieftain Rags. Better guest this time?”
Rags shrugged.
“We’ll see.”
 
——
 
This time, she’d brought different gifts for Naumel, to suit his tastes. No weapons and no food. She presented a small pile of furs and clothing tailored for Fomirelin as well as a bunch of containers; water flasks, pouches, and even two bags of holding.
It went down very well with the Kraken Eaters, who began to fight over the gifts with no sense of order, but Naumel seemed displeased. Perhaps it was just coming down off the adrenaline high of battle.
“You don’t like them?”
“I like. Chieftain Rags is too clever. She does not fight. She gives bad gifts, then goes and gives great gifts. She thinks too much.”
“Every Chieftain tells me that.”
He did chuckle at that. Rags sat with Naumel, and he even offered her good food this time; albeit looted from the Terlands’ bags. She chewed on a fancy lasagna of all things, trying not to think of the dead [Lord]’s pulped head as she ate. Naumel watched as her tribe interacted with his.
The Redfangs knew how to celebrate a victory and were showing the Kraken Eaters sword dances. There was a bit of wariness between them, but this time, Snapjaw seemed to be moving front-and-center on the diplomacy front. She’d had a few words with Rags about Naumel’s personality, as if Rags hadn’t figured it out, and was currently having an eating match with one of the Fomirelin—which the Great Goblin was losing. Of her two regular Goblins, Rags could only see Rianchi, and he was being largely left alone.
Goblins were terrible gossips; somehow, his reputation as a ‘bad warrior’ had already been found out. Or maybe it was just Rianchi’s lack of scars or disinterest in the fighting. He was being relegated towards the bottom of the Kraken Eaters’ pecking order. He didn’t seem that unhappy about it and was gnawing on some bones. Of Dyeda, Rags couldn’t spot her.
“Why are you upset?”
Naumel broke the awkward silence without speaking in Goblin, surprising Rags. She glanced up; he was staring at her.
“You didn’t like me killing that Terland. You know they hunt Goblins. I asked other Goblins about your tribe. Yours is…they say yours is like a Goblin pretending to be a [Knight] amongst Humans. Strange things. Your tribe likes Humans. Why?”
He must not have seen Rabbiteater, then, from how Naumel’s face scrunched up. Rags replied honestly; this was clearly not a moment where they spoke formally as Chieftains, and the curiosity was good.
“A Human saved my life. She was kind and helped me and my tribe survive.”
“What did she want?”
“Nothing.”
“Hah!”
When Rags refused to laugh, Naumel bent over.
“Your tribe was killed by Tyrion Veltras. Very dangerous man. He has hunted us.”
“You survived?”
He checked his chest, then pointed to a huge, star-shaped scar on one shoulder.
“He got me there. He tries to kill us sometimes. Too smart to come near the water where he’ll die. So a Human helped you, once. All the others try to kill you.”
“They might not or might not come after us as hard if we avoid killing them. I’m not angry at you for killing the Terlands. I understand. I’m just not happy.”
To her surprise, Naumel accepted the statement after a moment’s thought and sat back. He seemed to ponder a reply, then offered—
“There are Drowned Folk I like. Even some Humans I like.”
“Good. Then you understand.”
She took a drink of water, and Naumel grunted.
“Yes. But why do you want to ally with my tribe? I don’t understand that.”
He really was a mystery. Rags frowned up at Naumel.
“You understand battle and war. An alliance means we could both survive an attack. If you were willing, your tribe and mine could share ideas, resources. Both of us improve and do better.”
“Hmm.”
He poked a finger in one ear, then studied the earwax glob. Naumel flicked it away, then gazed at Rags with a huge frown.
“Why?”
The question completely stumped Rags. She opened and closed her mouth.
“So…fewer Goblins die next time there’s an attack? So we can get stronger? Help other Goblins, other tribes, like Chieftain Anazurhe wishes to?”
Naumel snorted.
“Chieftain Anazurhe only helps herself.”
“True…”
“Say you are better than Anazurhe. Why? I don’t understand. Help other Goblins…”
“Don’t you think that’s worth doing? Protecting your tribe aside?”
She met his eyes firmly, trying to reach across the gap between them and show him her vision for the future. That city Reiss dreamed of. Then she saw Naumel’s eyes flicker with disinterest, and their disagreement became more than just philosophical. It was, Rags realized, a true disconnect between how they saw the world.
“Other Goblins? I don’t know them. Why do other Goblins need help?”
It was the most astounding question she had ever been asked. Rags sat there until the world of feelings stopped trying to force itself out her throat all at once.
“They…die. We have no cities. No homes. We are called monsters.”
Naumel’s gaze was impassive by firelight.
“So? Is life bad?”
“Life is short. I would rather have all my Goblins live longer! I would rather ally with people, like Velan did! I would like to know why he went mad.”
