Rags barked at Naumel, and the Great Chieftain laughed. He rose to his feet, striding over to a firepit to grab more food, and threw himself back down.
“Velan? The Goblin King? Now you sound like me. I like Velan. Too young to know him, but he was a great Goblin King. He loved war. People? He killed them all.”
His grin was huge and excited at the name of the Goblin King. And he was completely, utterly…Rags shook her head.
“He loved more species than me. He wanted peace for his tribe—until he became the Goblin King. What are you talking about?”
“Huh?”
Deadlock. Complete incomprehension on each face. It was so pronounced that their tribes began turning their way, as if sensing the way both Naumel’s and Rags’ minds were churning with confusion.
They could read each other’s body language. Dissembling was not a very Goblin trait, even for Rags, and both of them thought the other was barking mad. Until Rags realized what might be the reason.
“You…don’t you remember Velan’s memories? Don’t you dream through his eyes?”
Naumel’s gaze widened a bit, confirming Rags’ sudden intuition. He glanced at his [Shaman] and beckoned her, then frowned at Rags.
“I don’t dream of dead Goblins.”
“Every Chieftain does.”
“Not me.”
 
——
 
Naumel was the most selfish Goblin Chieftain that Rags had ever met, and she had met Tremborag and Garen. When his [Shaman], Fituna, was able to confirm Rags was speaking the truth, he wore the most perplexed expression ever.
“Velan was no monster. He wanted peace between species. So do I. Chieftain Naumel, there is always someone to fight. But I am tired of the circle of Humans killing Goblins killing Humans forever. If we can, I want our tribes to fight together. But I don’t want to kill Terlands or anyone in the north.”
“Strange. You are strange. Not-Goblin.”
“If I am not-Goblin, then Velan the Kind was the most not-Goblin of all.”
—And what could he say to that? Naumel glanced at Fituna, who gave Rags a look of deep respect. They could both look back equally far, and when the Fomirelin ducked her head, Naumel leapt to his feet.
“I will think about this. You leave me.”
He stomped off. Rags wondered what kind of events could have produced a Naumel. In many ways, he was more worldly than she had been until very recently; he knew the Five Families, had a working knowledge of Northern Izril, and was even familiar with groups like the Bloodfeast Raiders and various gangs his tribe had personally dealt with.
And yet he cared nothing for the New Lands, had barely even heard of the television or news, and knew nothing of Goblin history. He was, Rags realized, content. He liked his life.
…She could use that, if he’d fight with her. A deal might be likely after all. Because it seemed that Rags had once again lucked out with her company. The Kraken Eaters appreciated her gifts and mildly envied the tailored armor and trappings of civilization that her people were trying to show off. But they didn’t respect anyone’s class except Snapjaw’s, who was standing on the belly of a groaning Fomirelin to huge cheers.
What they envied, the Kraken Eaters, was, like Rags’ tribe…Dyeda. And not merely for the reasons you’d suspect.
 
——
 
“Chieftain! I’m helping! You have good talk with the scary, big other Chieftain? Goblins here like Tremborag’s best warriors. All fight, nothing else. They don’t like poor Rianchi.”
Dyeda made a face as she flourished her needles. She was giving a huge line of Goblins tattoos…or so it seemed. Rags saw Dyeda had inked a severed Kraken’s tentacle on a very pleased-looking Goblin’s arm, but unless she was a [Speed Inker], there was no way she could tend to practically a quarter of the tribe.
“Naumel is…odd. What are you doing? Are you being bothered?”
“Besides Goblins wanting to jump in my bed? They’re not Tremborag Goblins; they just say I can do better than Rianchi. Nope! I’m being super helpful. See? Next!”
The next Goblin who walked over was a Fomirelin, who offered a wounded knee to Dyeda. At first, Rags thought that the Fomirelin wanted a tattoo over the bloody cut too small for a healing potion with a bit of gauze wrapped around it. But she doubted that was how tattoos worked, and Dyeda quickly put paid to that idea.
“Okay. Hold still…[Antiseptic Jab]! You want a tattoo? No? Then don’t get dirt on it. Next!”
Rags blinked.
“Is that a Skill of yours?”
Dyeda winked as the next Goblin shuffled over. Rags backed up, and Dyeda hesitated, then chose a disposable needle. A very infected arm got multiple stabs, and she gave the Goblin instructions, which the Kraken Eater paid close attention to.
“I sometimes work with [Healers], Chieftain. This Skill…I got when Kevin made a big fuss about clean needles. After I kept boiling and heat treating mine. It’s a very useful Skill, hey?”
Very useful. Rags sat there, wondering just how much Kevin had changed things behind the scenes for her tribe. He’d been there often. Poisonbite with her skateboard, Fightipilota’s…everything. Dyeda, Rianchi…
She missed Kevin. Of all the Earthers, she knew him almost as well as she knew Erin. She wished she’d dragged him to Goblinhome like Poisonbite had wanted. Made him part of the tribe. Maybe then she would have known him almost well enough to realize how much she’d lost at the Solstice.
Rags clenched a fist until she heard Naumel stomping over. He was in line, and Dyeda had to actually stand on a rock to poke him all over the place, muttering about his thick skin, but the Great Chieftain was very complimentary.
“This needle makes disease go away?”
“It makes…bad little buggy things go away. Not disease.”
“Very good Skill. Very good. Chieftain Rags, if you have other Goblins like this—my tribe will fight with yours, maybe. Sickness is the worst thing for Kraken Eaters.”
There it was again. The duality of Naumel. The fight-hungry maniac could see how valuable Dyeda’s Skill was; the [Healer] seemed ready to abduct her on the spot. Rags smiled briefly, and Dyeda looked exceptionally pleased. Rags gave her a pat on the shoulder, then went to find Rianchi.
He was beaming in pride about his wife, as if he’d done something. Rags muttered to him; the Kraken Eaters were getting an early night of it, something else she didn’t expect. Redfangs would have been partying into the next day.
“You alright, Rianchi? We may stay here a few more days. They’re not harassing you, are they?”
She almost said bullying, but the thin Goblin assured her he was fine.
“They think I’m useless, Chieftain. Is great; no one even made me help clean up. I’ll go bike riding along the shore maybe if safe tomorrow.”
“Glad you’re having fun. Sorry about the battlefield.”
Rianchi’s eyes were calm as he glanced back at the place where seagulls were circling.
“Eh. I’ve seen lots of that, Chieftain. Dyeda is the one who’s upset. She has to smile.”
Rags twisted around and saw Dyeda continuing to poke Goblins with her needles.
“She’s upset?”
“Very, Chieftain. But she good at smiling. Mountain City. Yuck. We allying with these Raskghar-kissers?”
A few Goblins glanced over, but they didn’t get the insult. Rianchi kept smiling, and Rags patted him on the arm, realizing how much was left unsaid behind his faint smile.
“If we need their help.”
“Do we want their help, Chieftain?”
To that, Rags just jerked a thumb over her shoulder at the High Passes, which couldn’t even be seen from here.
“We can’t even chase off a Wyvern Lord, let alone survive a Solstice.”
Rianchi sighed and scratched his head.
“True, Chieftain.”
Rags bedded down for an uncomfortable night of thinking about allies at any cost. She might have tossed and turned, or harassed Fightipilota for an update on her side, when she sat up.
Goblins were on their feet all around her. Rags reached for her sword, and electricity crackled from the sheath—but the Goblins weren’t here to ambush her. Her gaze swept to the huge figure of Naumel, and she heard him laughing as he pointed.
Ah.
She should have known.
 
——
 
The Terland reprisal force hunting the Goblins was dead. That meant the Kraken Eaters didn’t have to worry about an ambush from another group unless there was a second adventurer team or something after them.
It also meant that all the local settlements would be off their guard. The Terlands were of the Five Families; you would assume they’d kill or drive off the Kraken Eaters.
So, before news of their demise spread—
That was when you attacked.
It was simple logic; elegant even, in its way. Naumel’s tribe hadn’t discussed it not because they were keeping it from the Flooded Waters tribe, but because they hadn’t even thought it was worth mentioning. They were, like Redfangs, so used to fighting it was like breathing.
The village they were after was big enough, coastal, with walls to keep out monsters. It even had a gate and sentries.
By the time Rags was in the air and over the city, the Kraken Eaters were halfway through the wall. Fomirelin were punching huge holes in it as Goblins scaled, claws digging into the wood logs with ease, and attacked the defenders on top.
Screaming. It always filled the air in moments like these. But what caught Rags’ eye was the simple beauty of the village set on a small ridgeline above the coast. The village was oblong, protected by wooden walls, and past the walls…her eyes honed in on log buildings, but lovely ones, drying racks of fire.
It smelled like salted salmon drying. And fear. A bell rang again and again, a beautiful chime instead of the gong it should have been. The center of the village was a rose; someone had placed pink stones amidst white for a place to dance and have fun.
Now, in a single moment, the village died as Goblins attacked. When Rags blinked, she saw a burning house. A blind [Emperor], face tense with wrath and hatred. She shook her head and focused on the fighting at the walls.
Barely a minute’s passed and they’re doomed. Rags didn’t need her [Strategist] class or Skills. The Kraken Eaters would wipe out this village and the militia in less than an hour.
The Flooded Waters Goblins were all looking at her. Rags was agonizing. Not about her decision, but about whether or not it would cost…
“Wyverndancer, drop us all off in the village! Right there. Keep airborne. Everyone else—stay together. Do not fight the Kraken Eaters if you can help it. Goblins should not die this day. Understand?”
She pointed at the gates where Naumel was breaking through himself. The other Goblins nodded; Rags saw the Wyvern dip a wing and put her helmet on her head. She reached for her crossbow; they’d barely repaired it and restrung it with some far weaker twine, but she remembered how her last encounter with Naumel had gone.
She swore she saw his head rise as the Wyverns banked overhead. And his presence seemed to fill the ground below her, an adrenaline-filled rush of hunger for battle…and a deep, abiding patience.
He knew.
 
——
 
The Wyverns dropped a dozen Goblins to the ground as Snapjaw and Wyverndancer flew overhead. The militia didn’t scream or panic as Goblins landed inside their village; they were beyond that now.
When death was coming through the gates, you ran or fought, and the other emotions were squeezed out of those moments of life and death. Rags saw nearly a hundred people in crude formation behind some hastily assembled spikes.
It wouldn’t do a thing. She did see a tripwire strung along the path towards the Humans, and one of her Redfangs whispered.
“Chieftain. In the houses.”
“I see them. [Rogues].”
More cunning defenses that Rags wasn’t sure if the majority of the villagers even knew about. It still didn’t matter; Naumel’s charge wouldn’t stop for a Tier 4 spell. Rags strode forwards a few paces as the gates cracked behind her.
“Your village is lost. Run!”
Fighting was very brave. It would give the other Humans time to escape. It might be the difference between salvation and defeat. In this case—it was the wrong choice.
The Humans didn’t move. But they did stare at her.
What did they see? A short Goblin wearing Wyvern armor, hand on her sword, evil crimson eyes glaring at them through her helmet? Another marauding monster? Or did they hear her oddly refined tones, not what they expected, a ‘posh’ accent?
Did they see a monster? Or a person?
[Aura of the Emissary]. Rags pulled it around her like a cloak and reached into her bag of holding for something.
“Run. I’ll stop them for a few minutes.”
There were a dozen arrows, concealed and visible, trained on her. Rags lifted something out of her bag of holding as Naumel burst through the gates. He broke into a run, roaring, and she pointed a finger.
“Snapjaw.”
Icecube dove and exhaled. Naumel froze midstep, hair, body engulfed in a whirling tempest of frost that made the Goblins behind the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain dive for cover. They shouted in alarm; their frozen statue of a Chieftain shivered for a single second, then he burst out of the icy prison, shedding ice like falling glass. He halted, baring his teeth.
“Chieftain Rags. Why this place? You don’t know it!”
He was furious. She hid an object with both her hands as the Great Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe called back.
“Neither do you. Why? Ask Velan the Kind.”
He would have leapt for her despite the second wave of Frost Wyvern breath that swept over him. He could not be stopped by that alone. He was perhaps the most dangerous Goblin she’d met in close-quarters combat, and he was a dozen feet from her. But Naumel didn’t leap. He tensed—then recoiled, stumbling back, shielding his face and running before he caught himself.
The Great Chieftain’s eyes flashed with fear, mortal [Terror]—until his mind realized what he was doing. Then he stared at the red gemstone Rags held aloft.
One of the first treasures she had ever received. An eye of gemstone, plucked from Skinner’s head. Sometimes, she used it to scare birds away from the Goblins’ fields.
Terror. The Kraken Eaters racing into the village halted. But not for long. A moment’s terror—and they were snarling. Fear only made Goblins fight harder, as Skinner had once learned. Of course, Rags knew that too.
It wasn’t for them. When she turned, she heard the first shriek of panic and saw the militia line collapsing. Some of the Humans held onto their wits; most saw the gem and fled in a panic.
That was what Rags wanted. The rest, realizing they had no hope of any cohesion, began to run too. She saw what might have been their leader staring at her; then a figure swung themself out of the second floor of one of the houses. Rags eyed the masked figure.
I guess [Assassins] have to live somewhere. She swore it nodded at her. Then Rags turned.
