The military might of nations was in how many children made it to adulthood, how well they ate, how much they were taught, and yes, also how many weapons they had. But what it meant to Rags was that the Flooded Waters tribe could not get stronger overnight. It might take generations to turn them into a stable power. Generations they did not have.
Otherwise, it was recruiting allies and levelling the survivors as well as she could. Especially since her high-level Goblins had a tendency to…die. Or join Erin.
Hence, before Rags could attend to her personal concerns, she had to keep meeting with the other Goblin tribes. An ally in a time of crisis was an asset—and Rags’ tribe had no allies. Yes, Erin liked them. But her inn could barely defend itself. The Knights of Solstice? Ten spoony [Knights] weren’t exactly Rags’ ideal allies.
“Thanks, Somo. Got the Wyverns loaded up? All the new gifts in place?”
“Yes, Chieftain. You want I come?”
Somo glanced at the Frost Wyverns, and both they and their riders shook their heads. Rags patted the disappointed Ogre on the arm.
“You’re too heavy, and we’re going too far. Plus, I have guests.”
Another sigh. Rags jerked her thumb over her shoulder.
“Keep an eye on the High Passes. Magnolia Reinhart’s still fighting down there.”
She’d entered the High Passes to try and clear it a week ago with an army of Antinium. A ludicrous idea to Rags, but she’d brought the Dragon with her, so maybe it was worth a shot? Somo nodded.
“What about Trolls?”
“They don’t bother us, we don’t bother them. See if you can spot why they keep coming out. Maybe it’s to watch the fighting. But tell Poisonbite not to start a fight.”
“Yes, boss.”
Trolls, Reinharts, oh my. Rags wished she could pawn the job of meeting the other tribes off on someone else. But Redscar was about as good at diplomacy as he was at not cutting things. Snapjaw might do, but she wasn’t the Chieftain, and Naumel and the others got touchy about that kind of thing.
Speaking of which, Snapjaw was calling to Rags’ guests. Rags groaned again. She was regretting her promise of last night. Here they came.
Rianchi and Dyeda looked excited about their honeymoon as they dashed up, beaming at Rags. Dyeda had a huge pack on her back. Rianchi—Rags narrowed her eyes.
“You have a bag of holding? You?”
She tried not to sound accusatory, but bags of holding were rare enough in Goblinhome that only her lieutenants and important Goblins got them. Rianchi was a [Gearhead Biker]. He shifted, his excited grin ameliorating a bit.
“I need it, Chieftain. For all kinds of little gears and metal. Plus, I have my bike!”
The one Kevin had gifted him? Rags sighed and tried not to roll her eyes.
“Huh. Okay. Get on the Wyvern.”
“Yay! We’re going on a honeymoon, Rianny!”
Dyeda high-fived him, and they hugged. Rags saw them jumping up and down, filled with what could only be described as newlywed’s bliss. She made a sound.
“Hrrrrgh.”
To her surprise, Somo poked her.
“Is very good wedding thing. You is nice, Chieftain.”
“I’m always nice.”
Rags informed Somo, then scowled when all the Goblins around her gave her the side-eye. She stomped towards the Wyverns.
 
——
 
Their flight north was mostly the same crew, except that they were down a Redscar and up another Frost Wyvern for security. Rags had six Redfang bodyguards, but she would have loved Redscar just in case. Fightipilota had insisted she had a ‘problem’, though, so Rags had sent Redscar south on a Wyvern as fast as she could with eight of her best Redfangs.
Snapjaw was good enough. She was the highest-level Goblin present. Add in Taganchiel and Rags was pretty sure she could take care of most threats with them backing her up. The other Goblins were solid, if as yet unremarkable.
The outliers were Rianchi and Dyeda. As non-combat, non-leader Goblins, this was their first time on wyvernback anywhere out of the High Passes. They spent a lot of time gasping over the side of the Wyvern they were on and pointing at all the things from above.
First-time fliers. Rags was grateful she’d chosen the other Wyvern with Snapjaw. She put her feet up and tried to sleep.
“Hey. Hey, Chieftain.”
Snapjaw just had to wake her up five minutes after Rags had begun snoozing. Rags opened one eye.
“What.”
Snapjaw passed her a [Message] scroll.
“Remember message from Lyonette? Big weird gambling night? You forgot to ask what it was all about.”
“Graaaaah!”
Rags had completely forgotten to ask! She’d turned the invitation down and with all this wedding prep, she hadn’t even taken the flight down to The Wandering Inn. First she’d been in the New Lands, then up north…she re-read the message Lyonette had sent weeks ago, in the winter.
 
—if you would be interested in attending? It may be a tad bit dangerous, but I have invited Laken, and the entire experience may prove enlightening about the inn’s current finances. And remove some obstreperous threats. If you can attend, please RSVP at once.
 
Only Lyonette would use ‘obstreperous’ in a [Message]. Rags quite approved, though. However—she saw her query about what the night was about still hadn’t gone answered. Which meant Lyonette was either ignoring her, unlikely, or it was too confidential even for the spell.
“Send word for Goblinhome. Tell Gothica to find out what it was and report back.”
She wished they had easier access to the inn, like via the doorway, but the few times Erin had tried it, Rags had found Drake spies trying to disguise themselves as Goblins or enter invisibly. Gothica would have to fly down and report back.
At least Snapjaw was a good second-in-command for remembering that. With a sigh, Rags put her feet back up, closed her eyes, then heard someone shout.
“Chieftain! Chieftain! Can Taganchiel take a mage-picture of us on Wyvernback? Please?”
“Hrrrrrrrrrrrrghngmph.”
 
——
 
Rags was not a grouch. She just didn’t see the point in Dyeda’s specially knit hat with cute ear-muffs made for the trip, or found joy in poking around each place they landed.
Rianchi and Dyeda insisted on waving at every Human they passed on the way north and chattering away with anyone they met, luxuriating in Rags’ disguise Skill. Rags tolerated that, but she did snap a tiny bit when she realized they were taking an hour-long break so Dyeda could work.
“This is a honeymoon. You’re a Goblin. What are you doing?”
She hissed at Dyeda as the Goblin finished inking a [Guard]’s arm with a snarling dog made out of flames. She was using one of the new needles Snapjaw had given her with a lot of expertise already. Dyeda beamed at Rags and showed her the silver coins.
“Yah, but is lots of fun, Chieftain. So what if I’m a Goblin? I tattoo real good.”
Rags was opening her mouth to point out that her Skill, [Tribe: Guise of Neutrality], would cease working if Dyeda made a hostile action. If she did, whomever she attacked would see her as a Goblin, though it didn’t reveal all the Goblins to everyone unless it was a full engagement.
However, one person was bad enough, and sticking a sharp needle into your arm might be a hostile action!
Rags was just about to relay this in somewhat nice terms when she heard a ringing sound. She paused, closed her eyes, and counted.
One, two, three, four, f—
“Hey, Chieftain! Maybe I go riding north instead of flying? Look at this!”
Rianchi was on his bike rolling across the road and waving at her—as every single person stared in envy at his shiny bicycle, painted, Rags had to note, bright red. Because Kevin had said ‘it’ll make it go faster’.
A mountain bicycle that few people had in any part of the world—which Rianchi was currently doing a wheelie on. That was a term for raising his entire body off the ground and balancing on the back wheel.
Why you did that was unknown to Rags. Showing off. She turned—and Rianchi gave her an innocent grin.
“You want to ride, Chieftain?”
 
——
 
They’re newly married, be nice. They’re on a honeymoon, be nice. They’re not warriors, be nice. 
Rags had never been more grateful to land and let Rianchi and Dyeda race off than when she stopped at the Molten Stone tribe. The inert volcano the Goblins lived in was, as always, highly unpleasant to descend towards. The lesser Goblin tribes nearly shot at the disguised Frost Wyverns too, until they remembered it was Rags.
But inside the volcano was perhaps the nicest tribe headquarters Rags had ever seen in her life; even Goblinhome didn’t have the magical acumen nor the relics of Goblin civilization that Anazurhe had.
She had come from the Isle of Goblins, and her Goblin was fluent and somewhat incomprehensible to Rags unless she made an effort; she was as odd a Goblin to Rags as they got.
“No alliance.”
Anazurhe said that while licking the gigantic chocolate ice cream cone that Rags had brought encased in ice from Goblinhome. Anything icy was a treat in the Molten Stone tribe, given the heat of the region, and Anazurhe’s Goblins had a sweet tooth.
Bribing Anazurhe was easy. No, wait, giving her gifts she liked was easy. Getting her to change her opinion with material gifts was nigh impossible.
All the local Goblin tribes around here were poor, living in the harsh, acrid area around the volcano. They paid tribute to the Molten Stone tribe, who gave them magic, and they acted as buffers between her tribe and adventurers or monsters.
A lot of Goblins had to be miserable to keep Anazurhe’s tiny tribe happy. But it was one of the reasons they’d endured so long.
Rags folded her arms as she sat in the cushy atrium that Anazurhe had that looked straight up the volcano’s mouth. The glass ceiling was being scrubbed clean by a Goblin getting rid of volcanic ash.
“Why not? Your tribe helps mine, mine helps yours. It’s only logical, and necessary if a foe like Tyrion Veltras appears.”
Anazurhe ostentatiously blew a ring out of her mouth as she puffed on some Dreamleaf Rags had gotten from Palt.
“Your tribe will be attacked or need help more than mine. My tribe has not been attacked by adventurers or armies since it was founded.”
“Things change. There’s a lot more magic around, and the entire world’s shifted. New Lands have appeared. People are going everywhere.”
“Pshaw. It is not…hm. It is simpler to speak like this, Chieftain Rags. Time is an ____. It flows around. If you refer to the magi of Wistram regaining their old forms of magic, so what? They are incurious of us, by and large. I would fear them if I were at the island, but sanctuary has endured much. Your tribe is at the heart of this change. Mine has no interest in the New Lands.”
Anazurhe switched over to Goblin, and Rags had to struggle to keep up, even with the lessons the Great Witch of the Molten Stone tribe sometimes condescended to give her.
“Time is a what? I don’t know that word.”
“An ‘urorouro.’”
Rags gave Anazurhe a blank look, and the [Witch] sighed.
“A…snake that eats its tail forever. In a circle. A forever pattern.”
“Ah. A circle.”
The [Witch] seemed incredibly displeased by this descriptor and shook her head.
“Not a—you understand. Molten Stone will not fight and die, Chieftain Rags. We gather our strength. When we emerge, it will be strong, without any hints of our presence.”
“You mean with your labyrinth Skill. The one that will let you train and expand in secret. How many decades have you tried to make it? How’s it going?”
Anazurhe glowered at Rags.
“It will activate soon. No alliance, little Chieftain. I will cast magic for you, in exchange for fair payment.”
“Great. More costs.”
Rags had reviewed Anazurhe’s pricing model, and as far as she was concerned, Anazurhe was barely worth the expenses unless Rags was desperate. However, there was another benefit to visiting the Molten Stone tribe. And that was recruiting Goblins other than Anazurhe. And in this regard, Dyeda and Rianchi quite helped.
 
——
 
Dyeda was an expert [Tattooist]…which meant she was one of dozens of experts in the Molten Stone tribe. She was learning from a [Witch] showing her delicate patterns on her hands, seeming very excited to learn from other Goblins in their cultural craft. From Anazurhe’s smirk as she and Rags walked out into her magically cooled fortress, she clearly seemed to think her tribe was the font of all real culture and knowledge.
That smile lasted right up until she saw a Goblin race past her, riding on a shiny red bicycle, pedaling with all his might. He reached such speed that he actually raced halfway up the wall. That was because the floor was rounded where it met the volcano’s wall; a natural ramp. Then the Goblin did a one hundred and ninety degree flip.
He crashed mid-rotation, and Rags winced, but the Goblin just got up, shouting gleefully, until a stampede of Goblins ran over to get their turn. Before they could, Anazurhe smacked her staff down, and the pow of magic made all the Goblins freeze.
“The bicycles have arrived? How dare you use them before me! And I ordered a purple one! Not red!”
She was furious! Right up until she saw Rags giving her a very wide smile. Rianchi came running over, and Rags pointed.
“That’s not yours, Chieftain Anazurhe. My tribe has sixteen bicycles. I could…lend a few to you next time I come by. Or have a word with Solar Cycles, but they’re backlogged for the next year.”
Especially with Kevin…Rags savored Anazurhe’s expression. Especially when the Chieftain realized the only way she’d get a turn on the bike was by asking Rianchi for permission.
Anazurhe huffed off, and Rags sauntered over to Rianchi, feeling like she’d scored a rare point on the [Witch].
“So you really are a bike…person. Is it fun doing it all the time?”
“Is very fun, Chieftain. Good for the legs. I ride all the time—or would if there were good places in Goblinhome. Here is very nice. Hey, who wants a turn? Don’t crash it this time!”
They watched as another Goblin began pedaling madly and ran over Anazurhe’s long robes. Rags turned to Rianchi.
She just didn’t get it. No, she got being a [Gearhead], actually. It was a variant of [Tinkerer], and building things was great. But…[Biker]?
“I am a [Chieftain]. Snapjaw is an [Eater], but also a [Chieftain] and a [Warrior]. How can you be…a biker?”
A class defined what you did in life. You had to make it a part of your personality. Rianchi ducked his head, grinning, but his posture became meeker all of a sudden.
“I…I’m a bad [Warrior], Chieftain. Always bad. Always knew I’d die. Then I saw Kevin with the bike. And I thought—that’s fun. So fun. All the fun I want. Making them, fixing them, riding around…lots more fun than fighting. Guess I’m a bad Goblin. Sorry.”
“That’s not what I meant. I…you do good work. Just curious.”
