Rags woke up to someone poking her in the face.
Goblins didn’t do locked doors. They were a communal society. And besides, some Goblins took any lock as a personal challenge to hone their skills.
“Chieftain. Chieftain. He back.”
It was Gothica. Most Goblins were scared of annoying Chieftain Rags, who was notoriously grumpy at times. They also lacked context for inn-type events or non-Goblin culture.
Gothica, as an expert on such things, was a natural intermediary. Plus, she liked being annoying.
“What.”
Rags threw a pillow at the [Goth], and it bounced off Gothica’s shade-shield. The Chieftain rolled out of her bed, then realized who ‘he’ was.
Him again. She just wanted sleep. She had to fly out today, and now he was back? Rags groaned.
“Get the Wyvernkiller.”
 
——
 
The Wyvernkiller was the gigantic ballista made out of Wyvern bones that an entire team of Hobs had to reload. Much had been said about Bird and her lovely ballista. She liked to brag about it these days.
Goblins laughed at Bird’s ballista. Wyvernkiller was twice the size, and Hobs had to hand-crank it and physically pull to move the string made of Wyvern sinew back. It was less technologically advanced than the Minotaurs’ engineering, but it could do exactly what it was named for and kill a lesser Wyvern with a single shot. Each bolt was made of Wyvern bones, and the sight of the massive weapon slowly rotating made even the Frost Wyverns duck.
The Flooded Waters Tribe’s secret weapon was mounted inside Goblinhome’s walls, which you’d think was a bad idea until you realized how many monsters could easily disable said ballista if it were on the battlements.
Rather, the Wyvernkiller was behind the first layer of traps, and sliding panels allowed Goblins on walkways to open small firing holes. Goblins were shouting numbers at each other for the quadrants that needed to be open, and Rags stomped past the Goblins on smaller Thunderbows, all aiming at the main gates.
It said something that most of the Goblins were yawning rather than looking tense. It was him.
It wasn’t the tenth time or even the thirtieth. Rags herself just peered out the gap exposing the too-early morning light and saw him.
The Wyvern Lord.
He was doing his thing. Ramming his head against a few of the hidden passageways where Goblins were firing crossbows at him, breathing frost at the front of Goblinhome, kicking at a few Carn Wolves circling him with their Redfang riders…
Alone, incidentally. His weyr wasn’t with him. A few Frost Wyverns were watching him from far outside the Goblins’ range, having learned long ago how dangerous the Goblins were. It reminded Rags of a few Goblins watching their buddy after he’d had so much to drink he was throwing up and trying to challenge the biggest Hob to a fight. She swore the Wyverns even had much the same resigned expressions on their faces.
“Hey. Hey, you. Get lost.”
Rags shouted as Taganchiel cast a spell to magnify her voice—and gave her a cup of coffee. The Wyvern Lord reacted to her voice and spat a shard of ice at the fortress. Goblins took cover, but his heart really wasn’t in it.
The first time he’d fought the Goblins, he’d nearly taken the fortress, and the Wyvernkiller had hit him twice before he’d left. The thirty…seventh time? He dodged out of the way of the Wyvernkiller’s first shot with a halfhearted roar.
“Get lost. We’re busy.”
The Wyvern Lord began stomping on one of the tunnels as Rags rubbed her face. Then he decided the smart thing to do was to poop on the tunnel he’d collapsed. He half-turned his head, and Rags held up a hand before the Wyvernkiller could fire again.
“Don’t. He just wants attention.”
An Ogre holding a club at the front gates was sighing, arms weary as he held the club up, ready to hit whatever came through. The only person not totally checked out was, in fact, the [Witch] Prixall.
Anazurhe’s daughter and the lead magic-user of Goblinhome had not dealt with the Wyvern Lord as much as the others. She was grasping her staff nervously, looking from Rags to Taganchiel, who was stirring some sugar into his coffee.
“That’s a Wyvern Lord. He could kill us all!”
“Yeah. But he’s done this before. And he’s smart. Go. Away. We don’t feel like fighting today. I have to fly north in an hour.”
The Wyvern Lord blasted the front of Goblinhome with more frost breath, then roared. Rags exchanged a look with Snapjaw. The Chieftain had redder eyes than normal; she’d been drinking a lot at the wedding.
“That bastard. I eat him this time.”
“Don’t bother, Snapjaw. Okay. I’m going to get mean. Get ready in case he charges.”
Everyone nodded. Prixall gave Rags a triply confused look—she’d passed regular confused long ago—and Rags cupped her hands to her mouth.
“No one here cares if the Lightning Dragon hates you. Or did more Wyverns leave your weyr? Killing us won’t bring them back. Shit somewhere else or we’ll get the Brass Dragon.”
A chorus of shouts and cheers rose around her. Goblins small and large began hurling trash out the gaps in the fortress wall. The Wyvern Lord jerked. His eyes narrowed, and he opened his mouth. Subzero vapors rose ominously as he charged up his breath attack.
“The Brass Dragon’s nicer looking than you are! And he’s super old! You don’t even have a chance! You don’t even have forelegs!”
The Wyvern Lord jerked. His head came up, and he staggered back like he’d been punched by one of the giant Rock Elementals. He fell onto his back and lay there, legs pawing at the sky.
Rags took a sip of her coffee. A pair of Wyverns flew down and tried to get their boss on his feet. He was staring at the sky. After a moment, Rags continued.
“You done?”
 
——
 
Respect was a weird thing. Sometimes, you got it for being strong or doing incredible things. For the Ogres and new Goblins from Anazurhe’s Molten Stone tribe—respect for Rags was from all the amenities of civilization she provided them. The fact that Goblins like Rabbiteater inspired them and that he had sprung from her tribe.
It was also because Rags could send a Wyvern Lord stumbling off with a few choice sentences, but Rags didn’t really think this counted.
The Wyvern Lord was too smart. He wasn’t a cunning monster; he was a person. And people…Rags could hurt people’s feelings. Or psyche them out.
The truth was that if the Wyvern Lord had ever wanted Goblinhome gone, he could probably have levelled it. Maybe not now with all their fancy protections and new defenses, but certainly when they had first clashed. But that battle had unnerved the Wyvern Lord; he wasn’t willing to go the distance.
Having [Aura of the Emissary] also helped. Rags suspected she tended to bridge the gap between species a bit more smoothly. For instance, Ogres were notoriously bad about respecting anyone shorter than they were.
Even the odd ones who’d joined her tribe sometimes had friction with the others. But Somo of the Tormek Al clan was a very good lieutenant.
“Chieftain. Is good trip.”
She had Rags’ breakfast ready and waited for Rags to take a bite before scarfing down her food. That was an Ogre thing; no one ate until the boss did. Rags stood there, wishing she could savor a hot continental breakfast.
She never thought she’d miss spices in her cereal, but with Calescent gone, the food was merely ‘good’, not ‘so flavorful my mouth might die’.
Calescent. Rags missed him. She knew she’d gotten attached because he was, like Pyrite, a big Goblin with a quick mind. But she couldn’t help but feel that sometimes Erin took the good members of her tribe.
Calescent, Badarrow, Ulvama, Rabbiteater…Rags sighed again. It was all part of her philosophy towards how to gain ‘power’. A nebulous word. She glanced at Somo and another Ogre staggering towards the banquet hall for breakfast.
Ogres. Physically imposing giants, nine or more feet tall. They were, in the Rags system of height, shorter than Moore and half-Giants, but larger than any other regular species, even Minotaurs. Ogres were imposing and huge, and ironically, only Fomirelin, the Great Goblins, eclipsed them for sheer body mass.
Their skin ranged from pink to dark-brown as far as Rags had experienced, much like Humanity, and they did resemble Humans in many ways—a comparison neither species appreciated. However, Ogres had huge bellies, thick arms, and proportionally smaller heads that were far less ‘necky’; Kevin had described them as reminding him of neanderthals, the offshoots of what Humans might have been from the dawn of their civilization.
Ogres ate meat predominantly and lived in clans; they were capable of casting magic and even aspired to it, but like Goblins, they were not recognized as a civilized people. Still, they had stories and tales of times when they had been prouder, living with Cyclopes and Giants in ages of bygone glory.
The ones in Goblinhome were odd for Ogres, much like Rags’ Goblins. Goblinhome was weird in general, Rags supposed.
The occasional new Goblin who arrived at the tribe, drawn by Rags’ presence or discovered by her scouts, would walk around in a kind of daze. Rags saw one of them now: a Chieftain of a forty-Goblin tribe, his mouth open, padding around barefoot in what seemed to him to be a palace of legends.
The walls and hallways were made of stone that were, to Rags, barely cut to a modicum of decency. They needed smoothing and more color and lighting; the Mountain City Goblins always wanted to upgrade Goblinhome to look like their former mountain. Redfangs thought it would get too fancy, and yet, they were all Flooded Waters Goblins now. What did that mean?
Well, Naumel would have been perplexed to see so many Goblins trooping to breakfast with a book under their arms or heading to the ‘television break rooms’, where you ate in silence while watching the news. Talking was not allowed.
Flooded Waters Goblins took after Rags. They were smart, but their personalities had evolved from their experiences as well. Redfangs, the Mountain City tribe, and even Pyrite’s Goldstone Goblins maintained their personalities despite Rags’ leadership, with their own markings and customs, but what defined Rags’ tribe was…change.
Improvements. In a way, Rianchi was emblematic of the tribe; even as he waited to board the Wyvern, the [Gearhead] was drawn to a bunch of Goblins fiddling with an open ‘window’ of Goblinhome. It was a slanted, narrow window, made so that Goblins could fire out of it in times of attack, yes. But it was also a window, and it had been damn cold in the winter. Goblins had stuffed it closed with pieces of wood and cloth.
Now, a small group of Goblins were fiddling with metal wire and pieces of metal. Rags watched, idly, as they argued over the best way to install a new kind of window. One of them was showing the others a complicated series of gears that would allow a Goblin to hand-crank the window up and down. The others opined it would be best if the slats of metal just opened and closed. But Rianchi pointed out the [Tinkerer] was right; the most airtight seal would be via compression of all the pieces, so the Goblins began assembling the window on the spot.
If they did it right, Rags suspected she’d find these windows all over the place soon. If not, the window would be dismantled after a week. That was what she often saw, from [Farmers] experimenting with different kinds of fertilizer to trying to build machines to do the ploughing work for them. Not laziness—okay, some laziness—but a kind of awareness among all of them.
It has to be better. We have to think of something better. Even the small Goblins skateboarding down the hallways could be seen tinkering with their boards, adding more wheels, trying to figure out a way to go faster. Rags’ tribe was, much like her, impatient. Desperate, in a sense. Trying to build upwards, for they knew what would someday come.
The window Goblins finished putting their window up and sighed. A few Goblins came over to try it out, and Rianchi hurried back to the other passengers and grinned at Dyeda, but a few Goblins just muttered to themselves. Rags, listening in, heard them not grousing as she’d expected, but sounding wistful.
“Is good window.”
“That is a good window. That’s proper grammar.”
“You eat my socks. I like Goblinspeak. Is good windows. Wish I had a home.”
“You have a nice room with four Goblins. I have sixteen.”
“Yah. I want house. With rolly windows and a bicycle and…”
“Maybe if we make Goblinhome bigger?”
“Four times as big and I only have my own room. Not a house.”
The two Goblins broke off when they glanced at Rags, and they changed topics to the news. She pretended she hadn’t heard. She got it. What they longed for as well as space.
Safe space. If they had the Floodplains of Liscor instead of the dangerous High Passes…what might they make? They had a fortress here. A safe one, so safe the other Goblins who came here were in awe.
But Rags desired that thing Reiss had died for. The vision that had captured her, the thing that would be a symbol, a sign. A city. She knew the other species would never allow it. Her tribe knew it, so they kept their voices wistful and never complained to her. Survival was hard enough.
Rags wished she could easily reassure her people they would be more powerful, but the truth was it was hard.
A tribe was not the same as a band of adventurers. The Horns of Hammerad were an excellent test case—Rags liked that phrase. Her talks with Kevin had really expanded her mind and understanding of things. Of course, she’d already had ideas, but his description of civilization from an Earth perspective made sense.
A band of adventurers got stronger by getting new relics, taking on new members, or levelling up. They were simple; they lived and died around a few members, like the Horns. Sure, they could recruit a Colth, but their main strengths were levels and gear.
Rags’ tribe was like a city or nation. Yes, levels mattered. Rags mattered. If they had a Relic, that would matter. But did Pallass survive because of one Relic? No. Pallass had industry. If it lost all its armies, the next generations would slowly rebuild them.
A Goblin tribe of Rags’ size needed…metallurgy. But not just that. Say Rags could make steel armor for every Goblin. How many Goblins did she have? How well fed were they? Did they have enough space?
Then you were calculating how many chickens you needed versus the amount of grain you could feasibly grow, and you realized that instead of fifteen more Redfangs, you needed a bunch of [Farmers]. Before you knew it, you were doing household budgets and realizing that every Goblin who didn’t have access to a needle and thread was a Goblin tearing up their clothing three times as fast as normal.
