Viv flew out, followed by the golems. It was very bright outside now that nothing was fighting the dragons for control over mana. All of the necrarchs had disappeared. Well, those that had survived the second golem delivery anyway. The sun shone on cracked, dull stone. Viv raised her eyes to a vortex of powerful energies treading dragonfire. The scar on her arm pulsed with phantom pain.

A massive dragon presided over the titanic ritual, his body as large as an airliner. Viv waved at him.

“Hey, Judgement! Hey! Heeeeeey!”

The golems arrayed themselves in a half circle. Viv kept waving. She didn’t really want to fly up, but also she didn’t really want to leave. It would be sort of annoying to lose the Master Core at this junction.

Others might have thought that it was too powerful a tool, that mankind wasn’t ready for it, and that it should remain buried. Fuck those people, Viv thought. What an absolute copout. Mankind was never going to be ready. Each generation had to go through years of education and learning just to not be total assholes. She was going to get the core and then use it and that was it.

The absolute monster that was Judgment flew down with lazy grace, with Arthur having to flap her wings to match his speed even though he wasn’t really trying. Shadows covered Viv and the golems.

The behemoth’s landing happened in silence. His massive claws rested on stone without breaking them. He had chosen to land underneath Viv, yet even with the steep incline, and even on his belly, his head still towered over Viv.

You have carried out our vengeance.

The foe is dead.

His eyes pierced through the many layers of stone.

And you found something most precious.

A chill of realization crawled up Viv’s spine. She had not tried to move the Master Core yet. If Judgment decided he wanted it… she didn’t like her chances,

Actually if he wanted to take it, there wasn’t much she could do. Her only path to keeping the stone was for Judgment to follow his own rules.

“This is a human-made, human-controlled resource,” she said, reminding him of his own decision not to interfere.

Not that it would do anything if he decided it was too precious for her to have it.

Judgment leaned forward, eyes narrowing, but to Viv’s familiar eyes, his was not an expression of annoyance. It was really weird to say but he almost seemed… resigned.

I know.

Keep it, and keep it well.

Hide it like the most precious of secrets.

If others learn of it, they will bring war to your people.

Find a way to safely harness the Master Core.

Because.

You will need it.

It was Viv’s turn to frown in confusion.

“What? Hmm, Judgment? Are you alright?”

He didn’t reply. After a while, he stood on his legs again. Wind buffeted Viv’s hair when he opened his wings.

The task is complete, by your hands. Well done.

Arthur landed nearby.

I helped! I helped!

Judgment huffed in amusement, or at least Viv hoped it was. The warm puff of air was enough to make her sweat.

You have done well, too.

May other dragons take heed of your decisiveness.

I know not where your strange path leads, in the end.

If anything, it shall be interesting.

Good luck, young one.

Until we meet again.

He took off, pushing Viv on her ass. He’d done it on purpose, the old fucker.

“He was joking when he said we would need it, right? Right? I’m sure he was joking.”

***

Three years later.

Dean Tallit inhaled the delicate nawa aroma from one of his two steaming cups. With a minute flex of magic, he opened the door to his balcony. It opened to a pleasant morning. Sunlight poured into the bathroom, while a gust of fresh air pushed the scent of nawa further towards his bed. A delicate alto groaned, and the covers shifted. Tallit drank the curve of tenured black mana professor Ashra’s waist, the dark skin familiar yet so very enticing. He smiled, knowing the scent of breakfast would prove too strong very soon. He was in no hurry.

He stepped onto the balcony and sat in his favorite chair. Helock lay before him in all its ageless glory, all the palaces, all the merchant houses, all the banks, power both mundane and sacred like toy buildings in front of him.

Sometimes it was nice to be the head of the continent’s best place of learning.

There was some agitation in the streets but he paid it no mind. If it were urgent, someone would have knocked on his door. Ashra stepped out a moment later. She was gloriously naked. No one could see her here, since even griffin riders were prohibited from flying overhead. She stretched in the way he liked. Her confidence made him want to stand and hold her against his chest.

She froze, eyes up. He followed her gaze. At first, he saw nothing, nothing that should be of concern anyway.

Then he realized the issue. There was a spot where there was indeed nothing, but there ought to be something. And that was wrong. Very, very wrong.

Helock’s largest floating island was missing.

“Who the fuck stole the Chalice?”
