From top to bottom, and from wall to wall, a pale curtain of flesh extended like a cocoon arrayed with the growths of organs, like dozens of necrarchs stretched and hung in a ghastly tapestry. At the center of it all was a woman, a perfectly conserved, perfectly human woman emerging from it like a ship prow statue. She was pale and white of hair, her clothes the aristocratic garb of a Harrakan sorceress. Or at least, that was what Viv perceived at first, but it wasn’t true. It was flesh. It was all flesh. The view would have been enough to steal the breath of most people yet Viv had faced avatars and lived. The deep sense of disgust and horror grabbing her soul now didn’t come from just an appearance. A deep cloak of repulsion garbed the woman like a corona. She was horrifying on a fundamental level, and a brief inspection revealed why.

[Semeryss, Harrakan Arcane Advisor. Fifth step Harrakan archmage. CURSED].

The woman was still human. She was still considered as such by the interface. Viv had seen curses before, but this wasn’t it.

The world hated her. The world hated this woman.

It took a lot to be cursed by the slumbering consciousness of an entire planet, yet she had managed it. She was cursed, her entire existence condemned to… to this. And it wasn’t done by even a god. It was done by the reality in which they lived. The world hated Semeryss, and it was absolutely revolting, but the most revolting thing of all was that she was conscious, and as far as Viv could tell from the calm demeanor, sane.

Semeryss had been a necrarch wallpaper for three hundred years, and she was still sane, her mind still human. It was impossible. Viv refused to believe it. And then, her gaze traveled left to a receptacle at the edge of the room. Cables of silverite and arcs of reinforced steel held the master prize, the result of the ritual.

It was a sphere two meters in diameter shining with every hue of magic. It burnt like a sun in her mana sight. The power stored there had cost the life of an empire — millions of human lives, trillions of insects, plants, animals, and monsters. A harvest that awakened Nyil.

[The Master Core: unimaginable, self-replenishing power… if you can harness it]

The mana equivalent of a nuclear reactor.

Impossible.

I did not perceive her. She was cut off.

Viviane. You cannot let her control this thing. You cannot.

You have no idea what she can unleash if she gains full control.

Viviane.

KILL Semeryss.

“Welcome.”

The figure bowed. It was a graceful and controlled movement.

“You are the one who cast the ritual,” Viv whispered. “You killed Harrak. You caused the cataclysm.”

“Yes. I am Semeryss, or so I thought you had surmised, but it appears much has been lost that I had hoped would be preserved. My name is Semeryss of Leki, the Arcane Advisor to the Empire, chief archmage and ritual master. I led the ritual to create the perfect tool for the empire, a revolution in magic and mana creation that would have ushered us into a new age. I succeeded, yet failed. This is what I aimed to create.”

She extended a graceful hand towards the Master Core.

“But it should have taken decades, and been only a fraction of the power. It would have been enough as proof of concept. Then, we would have set arrays in mana-rich locations to create more. This core is a revolution in every way.”

Viv’s eyes widened.

“That’s how you can control so many and wield so much power. You have been using the core.”

A burst of power pushed Viv back. It was black yet so strong she was still repulsed.

“I can control so many because I am an unmatched genius, a visionary, one who has kept in control despite the curse placed upon me for my sins. It is my will that lets me achieve the feats that I have. You would not be able to accomplish a fraction of my achievements. Do not forget it.”

“I’m kind of happy with not having committed a genocide of my own people, to be honest.”

Viv eyed the core. It was pushing power out but… it didn’t feel like it was fully controlled. Something about how the mana flowed felt forced and contrived.

“We are not here to examine my sins. I know them. The world has cursed me for my arrogance, and my impatience. So eager was I to prove I could do it despite the critics and elderly fools that I placed success above safety. I know what I have done. And I know what I must do to end this torment. You need to prove yourself. Or I will kill you and destroy your work.”

“What do you mean, prove myself? And will you… die?”

“The curse will be defeated if you successfully wrestle control of the core away from me. Its power will be sufficient to kill me. If not, perhaps your draconic allies will succeed, though I will certainly make them pay for it.”

The local contraction increased again. Viv looked at her hands, feeling something strange happening. Her index and ring fingers had faded to their elemental form. Her body was breaking apart and turning to elemental without her conscious decision.

“You are making a dirty bomb.”

“I do not understand your outlander terms, but it matters not. They shall pay. The question is, will you succeed? Or perhaps, I will have the satisfaction of killing one last pretendant upstart.”

//YOU WILL FAIL.

“You are here.”

//MANY HAVE UNDERESTIMATED THE EMPRESS.

//WE ARE STILL HERE.

//AND THEY ARE NOT.

“You will have to do better than show up like provincials to a royal gala if you want to take control. Let me show you the difference.”

Mana coalesced before the impassive woman.

Viv’s mind raced. Nous had mentioned that Semeryss didn’t have full control yet. There was a reason she couldn’t use the Master Core despite being the architect of its genesis. She spared a glance towards Solfis.

Of course they’d do that, the fucking control freaks. There is absolutely no way they would have created a construct that could be controlled by anybody. There had to be something about the core or the silverite construct around it that blocked access to anyone without proper clearance. Obviously, Semeryss no longer had it, but maybe Viv could obtain the authorization. It looked like taking her hat had been a great idea. She reached for her waist, grabbing the heavy symbol hanging there. In one smooth motion, she placed it upon her brow.

[Reforged Crown of Harrak]

“Solfis? What should I say if I want to take control of a hard-wired enchantment?”

//… GOOD THINKING.

//ABSOLUTE OVERRIDE: IMPERIAL AUTHORITY.

“Gods I can’t believe I gotta be so cheesy but.”

Oh well, she was already gunning for the evil overlady vibes. Might as well indulge.

“Master Core absolute override: imperial authority.”

Something like a test hit her mind. It was incredibly disturbing and highly reminiscent of connecting to a wifi network. The question was simple. It was just that being asked this by an inanimate process embedded in a spell felt a bit demeaning. Just a bit.

“Credentials?” it asked.

“I’m the damn Empress of Harrak.”

“No, you’re not,” Semeryss hissed. “Not yet.”

The crown was heavy, but it was also hers. The Harrakans may be only shadows of their former selves but even far away, even here, in the middle of the deadlands, they were still indisputably with her. And the crown radiated this fact.

“Identity confirmed. Override accepted.”

Viv accessed the Master Core.

Up until now, Viv had always felt like grabbing mana from her core was like drawing from a well. Not the physical act of actually pulling on a rope, but more an act of taking from a finite reservoir. Sometimes it overflooded and she merely had to think about it for her mana to answer the call. Sometimes she was exhausted, and only a trickle could be obtained, and then very carefully lest it killed her. Pulling mana from a focus, like her dagger, was more like having an additional pocket. It was inert, and passive. The Master Core wasn’t like that at all. First of all, it was like pulling mana from the environment, like having your own pocket planet to drag energy from.

Second, it was infinite. She didn’t know if it was true or not, and as far as she was concerned, it would make no difference. The amount of power in the Master Core defied comprehension. Even an avatar couldn’t match it.

The essence of a trillion lives.

“Holy FUCK.”

The heady feeling swallowed her like a tide. She couldn’t breathe. It cost all of her attention just to remain conscious. With a supreme effort of will, she turned off the faucet. She was currently in her elemental form. Good thing too or she might have just exploded.

Focus +1 (47)

Now that she was more aware of the Master Core as some sort of reactor, she could feel the other intelligence partly in control of it. Rather than a spell-based control over the core, Semeryss’ was more esoteric. She had made the thing and so it obeyed her… somewhat. The Master Core wasn’t a conscious entity, not anymore than a computer was. At least for now. It still left Viv at an impasse. She couldn’t force Semeryss out because the cursed woman wasn’t here ‘legally’ to start with. At the same time, the Master Core now had a controller: Viv, so Semeryss couldn’t draw from it anymore. The two canceled each other out.

Viv gathered her will, and tried to push Semeryss out. By now, all her mind stats were about 45, which placed her at the top of what mankind could rise to. It would have taken a team of geniuses on earth to match her ability to think, calculate, and multitask. No amount of distractions could have derailed her mental processes. Yet compared to Semeryss, she was nothing. It was like hitting a wall.

They were not playing the same game. The cursed human was orders of magnitude more controlled. It was honestly a bit humbling.

“It has recognized you. Impressive, but you are still too weak to block me. We are in balance,” Semeryss whispered.

//Not quite.

Solfis took a step forward. Spiked tendrils emerged from the ground, the walls. He cut them to ribbons. Semeryss cast a dismissive look at the lethal construct.

“Override: control mode. Sigil, axe, prudence, one five six seven.”

Solfis stopped, and the memory of his old bone frame trying to kill her popped into Viv’s mind. It was an unpleasant recollection.

//Override request… denied.

“What?”

Solfis took another step forward towards the woman’s form emerging from the wall. Her physical attacks were nothing to the ancient strike golem.

//Request source identified as: necrarch.

//Source is compromised.

//Aegis protocol in effect.

“Override: arbitration mode. Succession crisis.

//Override request denied.

//Imperial authority status: absolute.

“Impossible. You are cheating.”

But Solfis didn’t care. He was still moving forward at a slow pace, his arms blurs sending pieces of meat flying. Viv knew he was taking his time. She would have helped him but her entire free mind was focused on the core, and it didn’t look like he needed help anyway.

//You will fail.

//I will tell you why no one remembers the name Semeryss.

//And why they know Solfis, and they know Irlefen also, and others besides.

//It is about control through fear.

//You are a rock, Semeryss, you always were.

//Full of certainty and of your own worth.

//And I will admit that your achievements were many.

//You were powerful and respected.

“Irlefen was a good man, Solfis. Perhaps my equal. I only wish he had not been so weak.”

Solfis stopped then. He stood at the center of the room like the undying sentinel he was, but his voice had a strange human inflection now. One that contradicted the unmoving mask of his faceplate.

//Father was not weak.

//This is what you still fail to understand.

//Father opened the lock to my cage.

//He released control, and so I survived, and his memory survived, and your legacy did not.

//And the same can be said of those who lived like you did.

//After the cataclysm, I waited for help that never came.

//As, I presume, did you.

//Our legions and mage cadres never returned.

//They broke apart to secure their own territories.

//The governors of the southlands broke away, creating their own remnants.

//The survivors fled.

//They were absorbed by Enoria, Baran, Helock.

//The empire was strong, as strong and solid as you are.

//But it was also brittle.

//The shock was too much and it cracked like an egg.

//My master was not weak.

//His legacy survives in me, while others faded.

//Because he built me with love.

//You built your power on fear.

//And it shattered.

//But my chains are broken.

//I am free.

“You will never be fully free.”

//I am free enough to disobey you.

//And so.

//Are my children.

Ares was the first to step through the entrance, carrying a net of hooked wire decorated with severed necrarch heads. Clio and Vulcan were next. With slow and almost cocky movements, the free golems stepped into the room, looking around with some curiosity.

Semeryss turned to Viv.

“You… you are mad.”

“And yet I’m winning. Ladies and gents, if you would?”

//COMMENCING RENOVATION OPERATIONS.

Viv had to agree with Thalia the Sculptor here. The wallpaper sucked ass.

The golems laid into Semeryss’ grotesque body with abandon, tearing great chunks of flesh. Her spells did nothing but charge them. With full access to the core, she could have gathered black mana so concentrated it would have disintegrated silverite itself, but Viv was clamping down on the massive thing with stubborn resolve that was as much spite as it was terror. Solfis tore off Semeryss’ main body, only for it to reform in the same spot.

He tore it off again.

“This is pointless,” she said, before being torn off a third time.

//I can do this for the next ten years.

//And enjoy every second of it.

