Semeryss reformed on the ceiling. One of Ares’ halberd strikes splattered her, again. She reformed.

“I admit that we have reached a stalemate.”

“I don’t know; it seems to me like we’re kicking your ass,” Viv growled.

“You cannot kill me with physical blows alone. You will not wrest control of the core away from me unless I allow it. You are still too weak,” she argued from mouths opening along the walls.

The golems didn’t stop. Their enthusiasm pleased Viv.

“I can no longer feel pain. I cannot die. Your golems and yourself can go on for a very long time as well. In this paradigm, the final outcome will be left to the dragons. This option is… unacceptable. I offer… an alternative.”

The golems slowed down. Viv had no intention of being surprise-melted off the face of the earth by an uncaring Judgment. She decided to go for negotiations instead. Negotiations were nice. She liked negotiations. They showed she didn’t always resort to violence.

“Alright, what do you suggest?”

“I am the last living minister of the empire. In the absence of obvious heirs, I am to take the throne, or grant it to a worthy candidate. You are not of imperial blood. You must prove yourself to me.”

“I don’t need to do shit,” Viv stated, more for the record than because she really meant it. “However, for a less stupid resolution to this conflict, I’ll accept your request.”

“A good start. Now, in which region of Harrak can salt be best harvested.”

Viv blinked, very, very slowly. This was the heart of a continental disaster, she was standing next to a treasure that would trigger entire wars, there were golems, strange women growing out of the walls like fungi, and this insane bitch was quizzing her with the kind of geography questions reserved for seven years old.

“Northern remnants, sorry, the southlands’ salt marshes north of Frostway, along the coast.”

“Correct. You have a passing knowledge of the land you claim, after all. Or was it just a fluke? According to Harrakan laws, can a commoner divorce nobility?”

“Yes, if they are able to swear an oath that the arrangement was made under duress or if the noble family is found guilty of a crime.”

“You surprise me, pretender. Which family rules the Torun region?”

“Semeryss. No one rules the Torun region. They’re all dead.”

Viv was left staring at the lost face of the cursed archmage. Or at least she thought it might be so.

“I had hoped, with mountains blocking the spell, that the northern bastions might have been spared.”

“Semeryss, let me ask you a question and I assure you I mean every word of it. What the fuck is wrong with you? Do you have many more questions like that? You know you’re grasping at straws, right? Are you conducting some sort of civil servant recruitment test?”

The woman didn’t reply.

“You know it won’t prove anything, yes? I’ll tell you why I’m the empress. It’s not because I’m inheriting hundreds of years of tradition and bureaucracy after some court intrigue. That didn’t happen. Even the title of ‘empress’ is a grandiose way of stating how things are right now, and the way things are is that people follow me, and the vision I have. That’s it. That’s all there is to it. They could call me Her Great Bloated Witchiness and I could still be in command. None of the old rules and bloodlines matter as much as the fact that those who call themselves Harrakans follow me, and they follow this.”

Viv tapped the crown. Finally, a directly useful symbol.

“You almost killed Harrak. What I brought back might be small and still searching for itself right now. There will be growing pains too. That’s normal. Nations change, and grow, as the people who collectively make it change themselves. What you are asking about, it’s not Harrak anymore.”

“There will always be a Harrak. Is that not what eternal means?”

“Yeah, and the current one is mine.”

“You have not yet proven that you can lead it to greatness,” Semeryss reproached. “Words are fleeting things.”

“My body was remade in the throne room because this is where my soul landed.”

Semeryss gasped.

“I survived through the streets of Harrak despite coming from a world without magic. I found Solfis, extracted his core, built a sled, and dragged him south through the desert. I learnt sorcery as we marched. I almost died from black mana poisoning, yet found and adopted a baby dragon after slaying and consuming her sibling with a mage path and an old knife. I defended a fort from two necromancers and their army with fifteen men and whatever I had learnt. I used dragonbone and resourcefulness to help Solfis rebuild a body. He killed the necromancer. I reached the second step on the caster path in only a few months. I befriended all of Kazar, a border town without much ambition. I led its people north to the mines of Min Goles after we were attacked by a rabid prince. I kept them together. I massacred their pursuers. I struck a deal with the yries. I recruited the hadals to our cause.”

“The hadals obey you?”

“Within our agreement, yes. I got us weapons, hopes, and a plan. I led us back to the south where we took back our land. I invented a limb regrowth spell that got us reinforcements, the support of Neriad, and knights.”

“You solved the regrowth conundrum?” Semeryss whispered.

“I defended the city when the prince returned, and in the depths of the forest, I made their lives a living hell. I led our budding army to war and we crushed them. I captured the prince and poured molten gold down his throat. I gained the skill of draconic intimidation. I reached the third step. I made our people flourish. I copied and replicated purification obelisks to push the deadlands back. I called our people back from Enoria, from Harrak. I traveled through their lands. I stopped Octas’ avatar for the first time, killing her spiders to protect villagers I had never seen. We slew the avatar. I was captured, then plotted my escape, then killed a fifth step warrior who had promised to destroy us. I ended the Enorian civil war. I recruited talented allies from Helock, from where I graduated. I perfected the regrowth spell and came up with witch gates. I despoiled the Helockian arena and slew their champion. I ascended to the fourth step in two years. I became half elemental. I killed archmage Elunath, and liberated mages for our nation. I reclaimed Sinur’s Gate and all the land leading there.”

“Only a few dozen leagues.”

“In only five years. In this time, we have grown, built alliances, recovered technologies and knowledge, and rebuilt a devastated land. We have redeemed a god and punished an empire. We have reclaimed remnants, made and freed golems. We have done all of this, as one, and you talk to me about salt marshes.”

Semeryss was waiting. Or perhaps she was considering Viv’s words. It was difficult to gauge how much her isolation might have affected her, but it couldn’t have been easy.

Viv decided to go for honest.

“Look, what is it you want? What do you really want, right now, as a person?”

Semeryss sighed softly, confused. Even the golems looked at each other as if searching for explanations.

“Why do you hold on?”

“I have no choice,” Semeryss spat.

“Alright, let me rephrase. Why do you go through so much effort to test us? Why did you send a huge army against us, yet never used it to its full effect and left our troops a chance? Why did you hold the necrarchs back?”

“I wanted to grant them an opportunity to prove themselves.”

“But why? In what way is it important to you?”

Semeryss frowned, suddenly hostile.

“This isn’t a challenge. I am not demanding an explanation. I merely ask that you stop and consider the reasons behind your decision. Why, as a cursed entity, is it so important to you that we prove ourselves?”

“I… I…”

Viv nodded in encouragement. By then, no one was trying to fight anymore.

“I want to matter. When I discovered that someone was pushing back the deadlands, I wanted it to be Harrak, returned, finally.”

“Correct me if I’m wrong: it is important to you that we are worthy of inheriting everything you have done, everything Old Harrak accomplished.”

“There is no Old Harrak. There is only Harrak.”

“Then the Harrak that came before. You want us to be worthy of it, right?”

“Correct.”

“And what does it mean to you, personally?”

Again, Semeryss grew confused and angry. Viv decided to forfeit the question approach. It wasn’t working with this person.

“You said you wanted to matter, right?”

“Yes.”

“Do you want to be remembered? Do you want to have carved some good letters in the walls of history, now, after the end, after everything? Would you say this is the most important thing for you?”

“No.”

“After Harrak, I mean.”

“Then… yes.”

“Then let go.”

Semeryss’ nostrils flared. Viv decided to hammer the point home while the old archmage was destabilized.

“We have proven ourselves several times. We are pushing back the deadlands. We have destroyed your horde. Our achievements are many.”

“You used dragons.”

“And is that not a sign of great diplomatic acumen? Hmm? I have no debts to them either. They chose to intervene because you reanimated dragon corpses. I merely drew them into an alliance. Is that not skill?”

Semeryss conceded the point with a nod.

“We are Harrak. My crown is enchanted to prove I am its empress. You have seen the Master Core accept me.”

“You are not of Imperial blood.”

“The first emperor and empress were not of imperial blood either. They’re the ones who started it.”

Semeryss hesitated. Her mask was cracking. Because she was still human, she wasn’t completely locked into the circular mindsets of some elemental archmages. It was weird how she and the Azure Lady were opposites, in a way.

“We are worthy, Semeryss. We shouldn’t need to be because there is nothing left of the old regime but us, and yet, we are absolutely worthy. You know this.”

“Inhuman allies…”

“Something the old rulers never managed.”

“I…”

She froze, mouth half opened. When she finally closed it, Semeryss had come to a resolution.

“Even if I accept your words, and your offer to let go, how would you even kill me? I tried, believe me. I did try. I cannot destroy myself. The curse will not let me. When I told you you would need the power of the core, I was being truthful. If there is any path to freedom, it eludes me.”

“Isn’t it obvious?” Viv asked. “I’ll draw your essence into the core.”

“The… the…”

“You couldn’t do it because you were not the rightful owner, right? But I could, with complete access.”

Viv knew it made too much sense. Nyil had somehow marked Semeryss but at the same time, it must instinctively want to close the putrid wound that was the deadlands. It must have wanted them gone, or their creation wouldn’t have been condemned so thoroughly. Viv merely needed to complete the cycle.

“Yes. Let me suffer what they have suffered. Let me be the last… the last to pay for my hubris with my life.”

Viv nodded. It was strangely easy, but at the same time, maybe there was some sort of poetic justice to it.

Semeryss removed herself from the Master Core control array. Viv suddenly had full access. She had to breathe slowly. it was something that could probably blow up Harrak a second time. Like being given full control over nuclear missile silos. The thought was dizzying.

The power was there, quiescent, and so monstrously large. It was almost unnatural to draw more power into it, but Viv knew how to do so. She connected to the core as if it were just a focus.

“Yoink.”

Her first and most basic of spells hit the cursed form of Semeryss. The resistance was immediate and absolute. There was no way in hell she would be able to kill Semeryss unless the woman allowed it. Slowly, she did. Little by little, the black mana that animated her poured into the Master Core. Viv let Semeryss take her time, because she had been holding for so long that it must be hard to let go now.

As Semeryss grew more used to the sensation of dying, the flesh that covered every wall started to retract. Blackened stone appeared under the retreating mass of flesh. Semeryss’ grotesque body was melting. She was relinquishing more of herself with every second.

It was almost over.

In that very last moment, Semeryss chose to fully let go. Her face broke into an expression of deep regret and intense guilt, emotions she must have been repressing for countless years. Now free at the last moment of her existence, they twisted her composed features into those of a broken human who had destroyed everything she had ever loved through her own carelessness. Black tears fell from her crimson necrarch eyes. They marred her white cheeks. It was just for a single second, yet Viv would never forget it.

“I… I just wanted to…”

And then she was gone.

The remaining mass of flesh that was still her turned to dust that poured on the ground. Viv was forced to block her nose. It was weird how quickly it happened.

Viv very gingerly severed her connection the the core. Now that massive ball rested on the ground, quiescent, its surface shimmering with a riot of vivid colors. Fuck, she could only draw black from it but give that thing to Rakan, and… but that was a discussion for another time.

“Right, well, it’s done. She found peace. We won.”

Champion’s leadership: Expert 3 to 6

Well done.

Solfis managed to look pained, an emotion he conveyed without moving.

//We are indeed victorious.

“Then before we consider the ridiculously insane tool that fell into our hands, there is something I urgently need to do. If we want to keep the palace at all.”

