Kelley tore off the sheet of paper he was drawing on and tossed it to the side, then continued. “Everyone on The Path gets access to the market at Tier 10. Tier 5 for crafters on The Path. It’s how I knew you were a seeker. They always get access early, which gives us crafters a market to buy from and sell to.”

“Alright, look at this.” The enchanter held up a drawing of his swords with runes and formulas he only half understood, “If we made the suggestions I said earlier, we can either supercharge the runes to handle more mana by expanding them a little, or add something else. A fire enchantment is always popular.”

Matt thought that over. He’d avoid fire out of respect for his fox, who was still watching everything with bright eyes. But the idea didn’t really resonate with him either. He was already adding [Mana Charge] and [Mana Slash] to his weapon. He’d rather increase their efficiency and double down on what he was good at.

He could look to add another rune, and he had explored that option before. He still thought that expanding his sword was a lackluster ability, as the expansion was made from mana, not real metal. Adding an element to his attacks had its advantages, as it could enhance his overall damage output. If there was something that he wanted, it was a way to make things bleed more for Liz.

But that wasn’t a standard rune in any database he had seen.

“Can you give the blade a bleeding effect?”

Kelley paused in his drawing for a heartbeat before shaking his head. “Nope. I know of a rune for it, but it’s at least Tier 20, as that was the weapon I saw with it. None of the databases I own have a bleed rune in them either.”

“That’s what I expected. Can we make the two skills more efficient then?”

“Maybe. But that would mean putting a higher Tier skill on it, then crippling the skill. It will be better than the Tier 6 skill pattern, since it would technically still be a Tier 7 skill. That’s only possible because the weapon is already Tier 7, by the way. But sure, we can manage.”

“Let’s do that then.”

With that, Kelley showed Matt a page with a drawing of his blade, along with the runes and their approximate locations. He was messaged with a much more detailed version of the design that showed the runes interacting in three dimensions.

It was more complicated than anything he had done before by a mile.

“I don’t know if I can do that.”

Kelley looked surprised at that. “I thought you said you’ve enchanted before?”

“Yeah, a few things that my AI created, but nothing this complicated.”

“Can I see?”

Matt didn’t see why not, so he sent the man a recording of his few tests, including his weapons enchanted from the golems’ fortress.

“Huh. This is an interesting light rune. Tell me more about it?”

They went off on a tangent about how AIs tested and tried to create their own runes.

They became fully sidetracked once Kelley tried to quickly remake Matt's light rune.

“It's not very efficient, but it's very simple. It also produces a bit more light than the one we use.”

Matt's rune was lighting up the entire room in a blinding fashion. Even when Kelley threw a blanket over the rune, it still illuminated the surroundings.

Kelley was an amazingly knowledgeable person, but Aster quickly grew bored of his talk, so Matt let her out and told Liz he would be here a while. They had already blown over the hour the lesson was supposed to last, and had no sign of slowing.

He and Kelley talked about runes for another three hours, until they started testing Matt’s ability to enchant.

Matt didn’t think he was that bad, but Kelley nearly laughed him out of his shop when he saw Matt’s mana control. It was embarrassing, as he had been working on it during their breaks. But apparently, he was woefully behind what a normal crafter at Tier 6 would have.

It took five attempts on blanks for Kelley to allow him to try. The first two failed and destroyed the slab of metal, but the final three succeeded. The last two were even passable, according to Kelley.

Matt was nervous when he enchanted his blade, and botched the first attempt almost immediately. Unlike the standard items, it didn’t fall apart when its spirit was damaged. Instead, the blade refused to allow him to modify its spirit until he fed it a few thousand mana. It was like watching a crack in a wall expand, but in reverse. The crack slowly closed and smoothed out. It was as if it never happened.

In his second attempt, Matt finished the entire enchantment in a single go. It took nearly forty minutes, and almost 200,000 mana to enchant the blade. He half expected Kelley to say something about the absurd amount of mana directed into the blade, especially without tapping into the city's reserves. But the man pretended like nothing was amiss, which relieved Matt.

When the weapon was finished, he squashed the idea of testing the skills, and settled for testing the runes. When they held mana, to his and Kelley’s satisfaction, he sent some mana into the skills, but just enough to see that the mana flowed through the proper channels. He let it dissipate instead of releasing the skills.

Shaking the man’s hand, Matt asked, “What do I owe you for the enchantment work and help?”

Kelley looked slightly insulted when he waved Matt off. “Don’t worry about it. It was a fun distraction, and I learned something new with that light rune, which is worth way more. Let’s just call it that Tier 7 mana stone my nephew charged you. Don’t be a stranger, though. When you want to talk shop, swing by or message me.”

Matt smiled at the Tier 10 man. They had only known each other for a short time, but he felt as if he was friends with the man already.

It wasn’t hard to agree, and he hurried to find Liz.

To his dismay, she was across the city, and had just sat down for dinner with Aster.

Giving up on joining them and telling them to enjoy themselves, he grabbed food at a food cart, and went back to their room in the Seven Suns building.

Along the way, he was intercepted by Juni, who carried a bag with him. “Everyone is to wear Seven Sun colors apparently, so do you want a full suit made? Or get your armor colored?” Seeing Matt’s disinterest, he added, “We also have arm- or headbands.”

That made the choice easy, but Juni looked disappointed with Matt’s decision.

The gold and dark red armbands were simple enough, and seemed large enough to tie onto Aster’s armor as well. He wondered if he could get her to wear it as a headband, and laughed at the mental image.

If he played his cards right, he figured she might even go for it. A little flattery worked wonders. Besides, he really did think she would look cute in it.

He quickly changed before finding a training room to test out his new sword.

***

Matt stood with nearly four hundred other people in a field, across from an equal number of people from the Queendom.

They weren’t here of their own free will, but because they had been called here as the counter neared zero.

Matt was just happy he had enchanted his sword yesterday, and hadn’t decided to wait.

This was an assembly called by the Empire’s army, and Colonel Throne was addressing everyone while he hovered ten feet above the crowd.

“Today is the day that the Queendom’s main force is entering the planet, which nearly coincides with the first wave of Pathers. There will be five waves of Pathers joining us from across the Empire. It takes time to travel that distance, but we will have everyone here in the next three months. There will be about fifteen million Pathers joining us here over that time. But since the war is starting when the queendom breaks into real space, I want to cover a few things.”

Matt tried to listen to the man, but something was nagging him. There was a resonance with his Concept as the man stood there and hovered over everyone.

His musing was interrupted as the Tier 33 continued. “As this is intended for training and not actual bloodshed, my soldiers will be pulling people out of combat. We will be assisted by a second planetary level AI that will be linking with your own AIs. We will only be reacting to the information about whether or not you can survive any attack. If you wish to keep something hidden, feel free to restrict your AI. But don’t bitch to me when you get pulled out because of an attack you think you would have survived. I. Don’t. Care.”

There was a murmuring at that, and while the Colonel let the crowd buzz, he felt something at the man’s feet. It seemed close to his Concept, so he used his own to probe the area. It caused the Tier 33 to immediately glance at him. He was afraid he pissed the man off, but he got a grin instead. Suddenly, what the Colonel was actually doing became more clear to his spiritual senses.

The man was using his Concept to harden the air, so he floated. It felt like a standard ability that all Concepts could do, much like how monsters could lock down fighters in a rift, if they had general Concepts.

Matt flexed his own Concept, but instead of willing mana regeneration to those around him or repulsing objects, he willed the air to harden in front of him. He tapped it with a finger and felt a slight resistance, before what felt like a plane of glass broke, and his hand went through it.

He looked up to see the Colonel nod at him as he continued speaking. “This is a game meant to sharpen the weapons that you will become. To that end, you will earn points like in any real war. However, unlike in a real war, if you sacrifice all your accumulated war points, you will be able to buy back your ‘life’, and rejoin the fighting.”

Throne held up a hand and said, “You may choose to not rejoin the game, and cash out your points, but know this. If you’re dead, you can’t spend your points unless you cash out. However, you can spend your points as you wish while you’re alive. Yes, that means you can spend your points right before a big battle. The Empire even encourages that. That comes with a second caveat as well. If you have zero points, you can’t rejoin the fighting. You need to give up at least one point to rejoin. For those on The Path, note that you can choose to leave the side you have chosen for the cost of twenty thousand points. Good luck to those that choose that route.”

The man glanced to the sky. Following suit, the gathered crowd all witnessed ships ripping through space, as if they came from behind some hidden screen. Matt counted four different designs, but as he watched, hundreds, and then thousands of ships arced down to the clear area in front of the two buildings.

Right in front of their two groups.

“Those are our Pathers. Welcome them, try to recruit them, fight for your side for wealth and glory. Good luck.”

Like that, the man vanished.

Juni called out to everyone, “Alright. We have access to the ship's logs and have cross-checked them with the people arriving. We will highlight anyone who chose our side blue and anyone unchosen as green. Do your best to sway them to our side. The kingdom started with a number of contribution points to hand out, so anyone who brings someone over to one of the kingdom representatives will get one point. Anyone who directly recruits someone will be given ten points.”

He turned away and moved into the mass of oncoming people.

Matt just looked at Liz. “That looks like a pain. Want to skip this and go wait on the side?”

She didn’t even wait for him to finish, already disappearing into the crowd.
