He raised his sword above his head into a single-handed high guard from Sparrow. He pushed his other hand forward, defying the kata, which would have had him hold it out to the side. The ant clattered into view, rounding a bend in the chasm. The hair on Staavo’s neck rose as the monster’s aggression settled onto him. It was a sense familiar to any seasoned adventurer.

Staavo grinned. It made him feel alive.

The ant increased its pace, opening its grasping mandibles wide. He waited, motionless, hearing his companions shift behind him. The only thing to be worried about with Sepulcher Ants was the acid spit they used after being wounded. He wouldn’t give it the chance. He held on just a moment more, then acted.

Ice Bolt

With not even a wisp of frost for warning, the projectile flew straight between the ant’s pincers, striking for its sensitive insides. Chasing the shard of ice, Staavo whirled to the side, pivoting on his good foot as he followed the instinctive guidance of the kata. Simultaneously, he triggered the simplest skill in the Swordplay tree.

Slash

There was no fancy effect to show that the skill had done anything, but the depth of the gouge left in the ant’s neck was proof enough of its efficacy. Slash wasn’t complicated. It simply enhanced any slicing motion. Sparrow, of course, was full of them.

Light Cut

The weight vanished from Staavo’s blade in the midst of the followthrough, and the sword burst alive with an even glow. Whipping his arm back and twisting his hand to bring the edge around, he struck the ant again, cutting even deeper along the same line. One of its mandibles fell away, sheared off neatly by the blade. A durability enchantment didn’t boost damage, but it damn sure helped with keeping the edge razor-sharp.

The ant staggered, its movements sluggish as it tried to turn after him. Ice Affinity had once more proven its worth. Thanks to the passive boost, the ten mana he’d spent on Ice Bolt would have dealt around two hundred Cold damage, easily enough to overcome the resistance of a level four creature. Combined with the two brutal sword strikes, it was almost dead, barely two seconds into the fight.

Kicking off with his new foot, Staavo dashed forward in a lunge, plunging his blade deep into the giant ant’s compound eye. Unfortunately, the springy metal had launched him with more force than he’d expected. He overbalanced, crashing into the monster’s side as the system’s chime announced its death.

Your group has defeated a level four Sepulcher Ant.

Your contribution was ninety-nine percent.

You are capped. No experience is granted.

With agility born of long practice, he managed to ride the collapsing ant to the ground, rather than crumple into an undignified heap. Quickly, he pushed himself back to his feet, pulling away from the rapidly growing mess that he’d made of his opponent.

Damn foot, he thought to himself, not for anything even like the first time. His muscles trembled as he reset his stance, and he clenched his jaw, forcing them to obey. I hate being old.

Abruptly, there was a sound. Scratches. He cocked his head, listening hard.

“Wow, okay,” Lyn said. “Remind me not to piss off grandpa.”

Staavo let himself relax, seeing that Jamus was looking in the correct direction. He straightened to face Lyn, smiling. “What about me gave you the impression that I’d ever want kids?”

There was a purple-blue flash from behind him, then a sound like a melon falling from a great height. Staavo grinned as Lyn jumped in surprise. “Nice work, apprentice,” he said, looking over his shoulder. One Arcane Bolt had been all it took to finish the second ant, which had just come around the corner.

Staavo frowned, then coughed, removing a rag from his pouch. “Listen up, amateurs,” he said, using it to wipe the ant brains from his sword. “Ants are pack monsters, even more so than wolves or spiders. When you see one, always be ready for more.”

“I say let ‘em come,” Carten said, stomping toward the remains of the second ant. He clanged his shields together a few times in challenge, but nothing further rounded the bend.

Only two? Huh.

“We’re not here to fight ants, Carten,” Jamus said, laying a hand on Staavo’s shoulder. “Nor are we here to give lectures. Come along, everyone. Let’s get in formation and sweep through to the end. Once we have checked all of the torches, we can try Staavo’s plan.”

“What about this thing?” Mlem asked, nodding toward the nearer of the two ants. “Rule twenty-one.”

“You and your rules,” Lyn said, moving to take a position next to Carten. “No, we’re not stopping to loot the bodies. One, yuck, and two, the bounty is worth more.”

“Lyn is correct,” Jamus said. “If we fail to lure it out, we can salvage what we can on the way back.”

“Oh, very well,” Mlem said, moving into position.

Staavo took his position, and the group began worming their way through the winding chasm. The only other monsters they ran into were slimes, which Hanes and Tahir shot from a safe olfactory distance with their bows. Discipline quickly waned, this being not nearly dangerous enough to deter conversation.

“So, Staavo,” Hanes said after a particularly long bout of silence. “I know I don’t know you that well, but... If you don’t mind my asking, why did you take Ice Bolt?”

“Ain’t it obvious?” Staavo said, raising an eyebrow. “Can’t see the mountains when they’re right in front of your face, kid?”

“There’s no call to be rude,” Jamus said.

“Bah,” Staavo said. “Fine. I took it because I was an impatient dumbass.”

Jamus sighed. “He took it after losing his foot, Hanes.”

“Oh,” Hanes said, wincing and looking away. “Sorry.”

“Don’t be sorry,” Staavo said. “I don’t want your sympathy.”

“It’s always struck me as rather unfair that the system is so final when it comes to decisions,” Mlem said. “Respec accolades notwithstanding. Did you ever consider purchasing one?”

“Yup,” Staavo said. “Worked my way from Guild to Guild, saved up the money, packed my bags, and took a ship all the way to Mensis. Wasn’t until I got there that I realized I didn’t want a respec anymore.”

“Mensis?” Tahir asked.

“Port city,” Staavo said, waving a hand. “North side of Bellost. Not important.”

“Why did you decide you didn’t want one?” Lyn asked. “Rain says a focused build—”

“Rain says, huh?” Staavo interrupted. “Rain doesn’t know shit. He’s right, but he’s just repeating what I told him.” He jerked a thumb at his chest. “Yes, a focused build is stronger. If I’d waited to get used to fighting on one leg, I could have maybe stuck with Swordplay and done better. Who knows. What I know is that Ice Bolt was enough for me to see the world. At fifteen, I wanted to be a legend. When I lost my foot, that dream died, and it took me five years to find a new one. I realized that my level was already more than enough for what I really wanted. I traveled, I fought, made friends, lost them, made more, then lost them again. Then I retired before something could kill me. Now, I sit around studying the markings of birds and yelling at clouds. There, life story told. Any other questions?”

“How did you lose your foot?” Val asked.

Staavo snorted, looking at him. “Dunch.”

Everyone shuddered—including Jamus, who already knew the story.

“Gods, I hope I never meet—” Tahir began.

“Don’t finish that sentence,” Mlem said. “You know better than that.”

“Well, there’s the end,” Carten said abruptly, cutting off the conversation as he gestured with a shield. “Unless I missed a huge flamin’ dragon lizard thing somewhere, looks like it’s time fer the plan.”

Staavo heaved an exasperated sigh, glaring at him. “It isn’t a dragon. You can tell by how this isn’t Ter’karmark, Vestvall isn’t a smoldering pile of ash, and we’re not dead.”

Carten scoffed. “Not a dragon, dragon, obviously. Jamus, where’re we doin’ this thing?”

“Listen here, beef brain,” Staavo snapped before Jamus could respond. “Dragons are dragons. Anything that’s not a dragon isn’t. Maybe our Fire Eater is a lizard, and maybe it even shoots sparks out of its arse, but that doesn’t make it a dragon. You have no idea how much it bothers me when people like you ignore basic taxonomy.”

“I do now,” Carten said, grinning.

“Staavo,” Jamus sighed. “Not this again, please. As amusing as it was when you had this conversation with Rain, this isn’t the time for a reenactment.”

Staavo turned to him. “Jamus, if we do not correct the children, how will they know how stupid they are?”

“Oi,” Carten said.

Val sighed impatiently. “Carten, leave it. There’s no point. Can we just get on with the mission?”

Staavo snorted, nodding at the Osaran mage. “For once, I agree with the kid. We shouldn’t be screwing around like this.” He flicked his fingers toward Jamus and Carten. “Even with those two here to guard our dumb asses, this ain’t a pleasure stroll.”

“Finally, we’re all on the same page,” Jamus said. “Come on. We’ll try the lure near the mineshaft. The walls are nice and open there.”

The group retraced its steps silently, soon reaching the wide-open area where Ascension had first encountered the Crimson Swords. The chasm floor was mostly level, though it slanted toward one end. It would make for a good arena, should they actually manage to attract the beast. On one wall, a solid steel door sealed the entrance to the mineshaft. The old wooden one was lying flat on the ground nearby, smashed half to flinders.

Staavo pointed at it. “Look. Firewood.”

Jamus nodded. “Okay, Hanes, Val, go get the door and bring it over here. Staavo, the juice?”

Staavo nodded, reaching into a pouch. He pulled out a mid-sized potion bottle filled with a clear liquid. He tossed it to Lyn without warning, laughing as the noblewoman’s eyes widened. She dropped her staff and dove for it, but she fumbled the catch. The bottle fell to the stones with a heavy clunk.

“Damn it, Staavo,” Jamus swore. “What if that had broken?”

“It’s potion glass, Jamus,” Staavo said, still smiling. “I helped make it. Myth and Reason might be good at alchemistry, but they can’t blow glass to save their lives. I’d never walk around with something that flammable in my pocket if the bottle was gonna break easily.”

“Could have warned me, you ass,” Lyn said, bending to retrieve the bottle before it rolled away.

Staavo waved a hand. “Sorry, sorry. Another free lesson for you kids: always bring your own bottles when you’re visiting a chemist. Even if they say the glass is toughened, don’t trust their word. Test it by throwing the potion at the floor, right there in the shop, ha!”

“There,” Hanes said as he and Val arrived with the door, dropping it with a wooden thud. “Now what?”

Lyn pointed at the metal door blocking the mineshaft. “Let’s clear the tunnel, then everyone can hide in there while Val lights it.”

“Good idea,” Carten said. “Might be we find a good fight down there.”

Lyn set the bottle down, and the group followed Carten over to the entrance to the mineshaft. The fight Carten was hoping for didn’t happen. Upon undoing the chain and pulling open the metal door, they were greeted by the cheery light of a burning torch on the other side.

“Well,” Lyn said, lowering her staff. “That’s proof that it’s out here with us, anyway.”

“Damn it,” Carten said, clanging his shields together, the sound echoing down the tunnel.

“Okay, everyone inside,” Val said. “I’m going to go light the door. Anyone have a spark lighter?”

“Here,” Mlem said, reaching into a pocket and tossing Val a silvery object.

“Thanks,” Val said, snagging it out of the air. He walked over to the wooden door, then picked up the bottle and struggled with the metal clasp holding the cork in place. Once he had it free, he poured about half of the liquid out onto the door, then gave them the thumbs-up and vanished. “I’ll light it once you shut the door,” he said, the air shimmering slightly as he spoke. “I can’t stay invisible all day. I’ll yell if it comes, or if the fire goes out.”

“Make sure to stand back when you light it,” Staavo said, the pungent smell of the alchemical concoction reaching his nostrils. “Toss a rag or something. I don’t know how hot that shit’s gonna burn, but if it’s anything like Alchemist’s fire, losing your eyebrows would be the best you could hope for.”

“Duh,” Val said as Lyn hauled the door closed.

Silence fell, everyone holding their breath. About thirty seconds later, there was a whump of ignition, audible even through the door, followed immediately by a blood-curdling scream. It wasn’t, however, the noise of an idiot setting himself on fire. No human voice had made that noise, and further, it hadn’t come through the door. Whatever it was was right on top of them.

A cloud of darkness appeared, and the torch was snuffed out.

“Shit!” Carten yelled. There was a metallic clang, then another, and then Staavo felt claws digging into his shoulder, even through the leather armor. Before he could yell, the monster was gone, pushing off from him with considerable force. There was another metallic thunk as it struck the door, then a screeching of claws on metal as it began attacking the barrier.

Staavo clasped a hand to his shoulder, not feeling any blood. Hells. It must have followed us in when we opened the door. Stealthy? Fah. Try fucking invisible.

He stumbled back in the darkness and bumped into someone. Pushing them away, he carefully slid his sword free of its sheath, then activated Light Cut. He didn’t swing the blade, instead focusing on holding the skill at the ready for as long as possible. By the glow, he finally got a look at the menace that had been plaguing them.

Fire Eater – Level Thirteen

He barely even noticed the system-given name as the monster whirled, hissing at the light with rage filling its beady black eyes. It was small for a monster, about twice as large as a house cat, covered in sleek black fur rather than the scales he’d been expecting. Its body was long and low, and it had a rat-like face and a short, stubby tail. That was all he managed to see before his skill ended and the light winked out, but it was enough for him to recognize the creature.

Gods! A cat snake! They do exist!

“Ahhhhhh!” Lyn yelled, and there was the sound of wood striking metal amid the continued scratching of the fire-eater’s claws.

“Lyn, get back!” Jamus yelled. “Staavo! More light!”

