Staavo walked with confidence, following the packed-earth trail that ran along the edge of the crack. He was properly dressed for combat for the first time in longer than he cared to remember. His armor was made of Emouile leather, the material far tougher than cowhide but no less supple. The townsfolk were still busy tanning the hides of the monsters Ascension was providing them, but it was too soon for this armor to have come from one of those. It must have come from an Emouile they’d killed prior to Ascension’s arrival. In the end, it didn’t really matter. It wasn’t enchanted, but it was a definite step up from the gambeson he’d been using. Wearing that thing had made him feel like a padded target dummy.

He grinned, accelerating to a light jog. Perhaps it was all the exercise he’d been getting, but he hadn’t felt this good since he was a man twenty years younger. The familiar weight of his falchion tugged at his hip with each step. That was enchanted, though only with durability. The sword was almost as old as he was.

Jamus looked up at his approach, straightening from where he’d been leaning against one of the wooden lift anchors. “Hey now, what’s this I see?” he said, smiling. “Could it be that there’s a spring in your step?”

Staavo laughed, coming to a halt. He shifted to one leg, then began to hop, bouncing on the curved piece of Force Steel that had replaced his wooden prosthetic.

“Whatever could you be referring to, Jamus?”

His new foot wasn’t enchanted, but Tallheart had somehow forged the metal to be springier than any leaf spring while remaining strong enough to easily bear his weight. It was also significantly lighter than his old foot had been, as it hadn’t been shaped to resemble a real one or to fit inside a boot. It was a prosthetic meant for motion, not vanity.

Jamus snorted, watching him. “I’m glad you’re enjoying yourself, but if you bounce yourself off the edge, that’s your own fault.”

“Ha,” Staavo said, landing on both feet. He stumbled slightly but quickly recovered. “I feel like I can move again, Jamus. It might not be pretty, but damn if it doesn’t let me hop about like a lago in rut. I’m thinking I should just hack the other foot off to even myself out.”

“Hmm,” Jamus said, clearly skeptical. “I hope you thanked Tallheart for making it for you.”

“Of course I did,” Staavo snapped. “I was a jerk, he was a jerk, everybody was a jerk. We’re better now. Water down the river.”

“If you say so,” Jamus said, gesturing to the lift. “Now come on. They’re waiting for us down below.”

Climbing onto the wooden lift platform, Staavo moved to help Jamus with the ropes, the two awakened making quick work of lowering themselves to the chasm floor.

In the past week, this section of the crack had been fortified, much as the camp above. A tall earthen wall divided it from the rest of the chasm, and the lift descended into the sheltered area. The wall was staffed with defenders only on days when missions were planned in the crack, as was the case here. The remainder of their team was watching them from atop it, along with a handful of unawakened archers that would be remaining here to guard the lift. To reach them, Staavo and Jamus would have to thread their way through a sizable herd of Crystal Slimes, which were presently clogging up the chasm floor.

“Been meaning to ask, Jamus,” Staavo said as they walked through the passive creatures. “Are these for what I think they’re for?”

“The slimes?” Jamus asked, raising an eyebrow.

Staavo nodded. “I’ll miss Purify, sure enough, but I’d rather be damned to The Waste than take a bath in a slime.”

Jamus scoffed. “I don’t know about that. I’m sure Lix has worse tortures in his hell. You do have a point, though. Thinking of them eating the contents of chamber pots is bad enough.” He tapped his chin. “I do wonder, though. Would they enjoy living in them? They do like tight spaces, after all. Could you make a”—he grinned—”bottomless commode?”

Staavo groaned. “A pun? Really?”

“Nice one, Jamus!” Carten yelled, grinning down at them from atop the wall like the enormous bearded child that he was.

“I, for one, am glad that Ameliah has been converting all of these,” Jamus said to Staavo as he waved at Carten in greeting. “I have grown used to the cleanliness of the camp.” He clicked his tongue, coming to a stop. Their way was blocked by a lone Greater Crystal Slime sitting on the bottom of the stairs. “I do wish they were a bit smarter, though. Come on! Move, you thoughtless blob!”

“Mmmhmm,” Staavo agreed, only half listening. The sanitation problem was an engineering puzzle, to be sure.

If we had access to a river, we could build the facilities Rain described. Running water, toilets, showers... We could even heat the water with the smelter.

He shook his head as Jamus pushed at the slime, his hands sinking into it like it was an enormous pillow.

Bah. I’ve been wiping my own ass for over seventy years. I’ll survive.

Jamus sighed, straightening and planting his hands on his hips. “It’s ignoring me.” He snorted. “Every time I am confronted with one of these, I find myself even more astonished by how smart Dozer was. It is a real shame what happened. At this point, I’m not sure that Rain is going to be able to revive him. It’s over a week, and they’ll be leaving any day now.”

“Uh-huh,” Staavo said, not really caring.

“Jus’ push it harder!” Carten yelled down. “Give it a little kick!”

Staavo snorted, then moved to help Jamus. Together they managed to coax the barely-aware creature off the steps, though it took longer than it should have. Their way finally clear, they climbed to join the others.

In addition to Carten, their team for this mission included five other awakened: the flamboyant merchant, Mlem; Lyn Draves, the arena-fighting noblewoman; Tahir, the archer-turned-healer; Hanes, the actual archer; and Val, the Osaran fool who was supposedly the son of Lightbreaker.

What an odd bunch. Staavo chuckled to himself, ignoring the looks this got him. Reminds me of my glory days.

“Is everyone ready?” Jamus asked. “We still have ten minutes until we agreed to start, but I see no need to delay now that we are all here.”

“Yes, we’re ready,” Lyn said. “Let’s get this damn thing.”

“Getting a bit personal, eh?” Staavo asked, grinning at her.

“Depths, yes!” Lyn said, planting her staff hard on the top of the wall. “It’s mocking us.”

“Calm down, Lyn,” said Hanes. “We don’t even know if it’s actually a monster that’s taking the torches. It’s not like anyone’s been attacked.”

“It’s a monster, alright,” Staavo said. “Fire Eater. No doubt about it.”

“Oh?” Val asked, raising a skeptical eyebrow. “And you’ve fought one, have you?”

“No, but I know all the same,” Staavo replied, narrowing his eyes. “I’ve been around, kid. Sadiir, Fel Sadanis, Xiugaaraa, hells, all over Bellost and Ekrustia, both. Too many cities to name. I’ve been doing this since before any of you were crawling, so you should listen when I talk.”

Val snorted. “Kid, huh? Fine, old man. Glad to have you with us.” He grinned. “What changed, anyway? You’ve never seemed interested in missions before. Aren’t you supposed to be retired?”

“Maybe I got sick of watching children make a mess of the pie,” Staavo said, grinning back.

“As amusing as all of this banter is, don’t we have a job to do?” Mlem asked, gesturing over the edge of the wall.

“That’s right,” Lyn said. “Enough chit chat.”

“How are we doing this?” Hanes asked.

“Carten is in the front with Lyn,” Jamus said, straightening his hat. “Staavo and Mlem are both swordsmen, more or less, so they can watch the flanks. The rest of us will provide ranged support. The number one priority is to keep Tahir safe. Always protect the healer. That said, with both Carten and I here, I wouldn’t expect any difficulties.”

Hanes shook his head. “That’s not what I meant, though I agree with the formation. I want to know how we’re planning to lure it out.”

“I have a few ideas,” said Staavo, interrupting Jamus. “Firstly, I’ve got some magic juice, courtesy of our resident lunatics.”

“Could you be more specific?” Lyn said.

“Myth and Reason,” Staavo said with a grin.

“No, I got that,” Lyn said, shaking her head, “though it’s troubling that there could have been confusion on that part. I mean the magic juice. What’s it supposed to do?”

Staavo raised his hands, wiggling his fingers mysteriously. “It will burn with the primal essence of the true flame.”

“And that means…?” Mlem said, gesturing with an open hand.

Staavo snorted, lowering his hands. “Fuck-all. It’s just more of their mystical tripe. From the smell, it’s like the liquid used to make evertorches. I couldn’t get them to explain what makes it different, other than that it burns hotter.”

“Hopefully, it should attract the Fire Eater, regardless of how it was made,” Jamus said. “We’re authorized to go as far as the end of the second chasm, but I’d much prefer to lure it to us.”

“Second chasm doesn’t sound so bad, Jamus,” Carten said. “I could use a little fun in the dark!”

“And I could use a damn Fire Eater scale hat,” said Lyn.

Staavo snorted, then shook his head. “I’ve got another idea, too.” He nodded at Val. “Just might be a bit dangerous for the invisible kid over there.”

Val frowned. “If you mean having me lie in wait near a fire while the rest of you leave, I already thought of that. It’s why I’m here, and I’m fine with it as long as the rest of you don’t go far. I’m not getting any more of these today, thank you.” He gestured to the scars adorning his face. “We still don’t know what level it is.”

“Wha?” Carten gasped, staring at Val like he’d grown a second head. “Caution? From you? Are ya sick?”

“Oh, shut up,” Val said. “I’m not afraid of a little risk when there’s something to be gained. That doesn’t make me suicidal.”

Jamus nodded. “We’ll find a good spot to hide nearby when we try the fire liquid. We just need you to be our lookout. We still don’t know how it extinguishes the flames.”

Val shrugged. “Works for me.”

“Me too,” Lyn said. “Come on, let’s go.” Without waiting for confirmation, she walked to the edge and began descending one of the ropes hanging there.

Staavo quirked a smile. “Kids today. No patience.”

Jamus sighed, rubbing at his eyes.

“Float me down, Jamus,” Carten said.

“No, Carten, I’m not wasting the mana. You can use the ropes like everyone else. Or you could just jump. As long as you land on your head, you should remain undamaged.”

Staavo chuckled, moving to the edge as the pair continued to argue. He swung his legs over and lowered himself hand over hand until he reached the chasm floor. Old instincts drove him to adopt a combat stance, scanning the surroundings for danger. He relaxed after a moment, seeing nothing moving by the dim light of the sun from above. There were a few torches burning at the base of the wall, pushing back the shadows. Lyn had moved further away down the crack, and seeing this, Staavo hurried after her. Damn fool girl. You never go off on your own like that, even if everything looks safe. Always pairs of two unless you’ve got eyes in the back of your head or you’re a damn silverplate.

“It’s around,” Lyn said as he approached, removing her glove then reaching into a niche in the chasm wall. “The stone is still warm.”

Staavo came to a stop beside her, watching for danger and inspecting the niche with one eye. It had been hacked roughly into the stone, likely an attempt to protect a torch from the Fire Eater. Clearly, it hadn’t worked. Either the Fire Eater’s head was small enough to fit through the opening, or it was stealing the torches by some other means.

Staavo glanced back at the earthen fortifications, narrowing his eyes. The torches at the base weren’t protected like this one, yet they hadn’t been consumed. Neither had the ones atop it, near where the unawakened sentries were standing. “So, it doesn’t like people, eh?” he said, rubbing at his goatee.

“Hmm?” Lyn asked, looking at him.

“The Fire Eater, girl.” Staavo pointed. “It left those torches alone. Only thing that’s different is the people.”

The young noblewoman sighed. “It will get them eventually. It’s only a matter of time. Look away for one second, and”—she snapped her fingers—”gone. Just like that.”

“Has it ever left the chasm?” Mlem asked, approaching with the others. “We’ve lost a few torches in the camp.”

“No,” Lyn said. “Those were all mistakes. Some regular torches got mixed in with the evertorches in the storeroom. I had Reason check each one.”

“You’re really invested in this, aren’t you?” said Val.

Lyn snorted. “Rain says it’s my ‘white whale’, whatever that’s supposed to mean. Is he from the coast?”

“No idea,” said Tahir, shaking his head.

“Whatever,” Lyn said, shrugging. She pointed with her staff and began walking. “Let’s check the rest of them.”

“Slow down, Lyn,” Mlem said. “We should go in formation. There is no need to be reckless.”

“It’s safe enough at this time of day,” Lyn said, slowing. “I’ve come down here more times than the rest of you combined, and I’m not going to wander off like a moron. It will be fine so long as everyone stays in sight of each other. Now come on.”

“Who cleared it this morning, anyway?” Staavo asked. “Ameliah?”

“Rain, actually,” Jamus said.

“Oh?” Val asked. “He crawled out of his hole for something other than a council meeting and I missed it?”

“He did,” Mlem said, stroking his mustache. “He seems to be doing better these past few days. My gut says he’s making some progress on his soul at last. Apart from that, his strength is finally beginning to feel appropriate for his level.” He chuckled. “Those accolades have gone a long way. Obvious, given the value.”

Jamus looked like he wanted to say something, but before he could, a scraping sound made everyone freeze.

“Sepulcher Ant,” Lyn said, holding her staff at the ready. “Sounds like just one. Who wants it?”

“I’ve got this one,” Staavo said, drawing his sword and stepping forward, warily scanning the bend in front of them. No such thing as one ant. “Stay back and let me handle it. I need to test out my new foot.”

To his surprise, Jamus didn’t object. Everyone in Ascension knew what he was capable of by now, more or less, yet they still treated him like he was old and infirm.

Here we go.

