Wordlessly, Staavo obeyed, activating his skill again just in time to see the tip of Lyn’s staff slam heavily into the creature’s back. This didn’t seem to do much to it, other than to make it squeak in outrage as it continued its assault on the door. The light failed again, and before he could use Light Cut a third time, a blueish light filled the tunnel. It was faint, but enough to see by, coming from a glowing stone that Mlem was holding over his head.

“I’ve got it,” the merchant said.

“Carten, get up there!” Jamus said, the tunnel momentarily brightening as he launched an Arcane Bolt. He cursed as the magic swerved, drawn into the metal door.

“Damn! Fucking! Thing! Worthless! Fire! Eating! Rat!” Lyn had her staff in a two-handed grip and was jabbing at the Fire Eater with each word like she was spearfishing. Her strikes either missed or did nothing but shave off the tiniest slivers of health. The monster had some level of Force resistance, clearly, though not enough to save it from Carten. The big man muscled his way past Staavo, then slammed the edge of his shield viciously into the Fire Eater, making it squeak in pain.

“Ha!” he yelled, raising the shield again, but the Fire Eater moved like smoke. Literally. Staavo lost track of it as it dissipated in the dim light.

“Shit,” Hanes yelled. “Where did it go?”

“It’s on me!” Carten yelled. “Gah! Get off me neck!”

There was a clang of metal on metal, then a thud as Carten crashed into the door. It sprang open, falling off its hinges and flooding the tunnel with daylight. Carten stumbled out, almost flattening Val, who’d been hammering on the other side.

The Fire Eater keened with rage as it rushed for the blazing wooden door, moving as a shadowy blur. Upon reaching the flames, it exploded into a literal cloud of rolling smoke, which descended upon the burning wood, smothering it in darkness. Moments later, the cloud cleared, leaving the Fire Eater standing there alone. The flames were gone entirely, as was the door. The cat snake hopped about furtively, writhing through the air as it looked in every direction. Once it seemed satisfied that the fire was completely gone, its beady gaze returned to the party. It took a step back, then hissed, its fur puffing up in outrage.

“That’s the Fire Eater!?” Val said, incredulous.

“Dark Aspect!” Staavo snapped, pointing. “Stop staring and get your orb on it before it turns to smoke again!”

“Looks like a thin Darkmonk,” Val said, summoning his light and sending it whizzing toward the monster.

“I have no idea what that is,” Staavo said. He smiled as the Fire Eater hissed at the light, slashing at it with its claws ineffectually. Wisps of smoke formed around it, and its outrage became even louder as it failed to vanish. As I thought. He clapped Val on the back. “Keep that damn orb on it, whatever else you do.”

“Everyone out so I can block the tunnel!” Jamus commanded. “Don’t let it get away!”

“C’mere, rat!” Carten yelled, rushing at the Fire Eater. It dodged around him with contemptuous ease, Val’s Lunar Orb hot on the chase. The monster had much more difficulty avoiding Lyn, however. Her staff was a blur as she swept it in wide arcs, pushing the creature back. Purple-Blue light flashed as Jamus raised an Arcane Bulwark to block off the mineshaft.

“I’m using a Seeker Shot!” Hanes shouted. “Don’t move, Lyn!” There was a thwip of a bowstring, and the Fire Eater squeaked as an arrow punched into its side. The agile monster had attempted a dodge, but the skill-guided arrow had found it anyway. The hit did some damage, but the arrow didn’t break the monster’s skin.

Hanes’s arrow was followed by another, this one from Tahir. The healer didn’t have any archery skills, but he was still a good shot. This time when the monster dodged, it did so much more vigorously, leaping high into the air, likely anticipating another homing missile.

Staavo quirked a smile. Mistake. Ice Bolt.

The best time to strike an agile monster was when it was in mid-air and couldn’t dodge.

Apparently, the other mages agreed. Val’s Solar Ray struck first, followed swiftly by Staavo’s icy shard, and then by Jamus’s slow-moving Arcane Bolt. The three hits together took a nasty bite out of the Fire Eater’s health, though not as much as Staavo expected. Jamus’s hit, in particular, didn’t appear to have done much, despite how much more powerful it should have been.

“It’s Arcane resistant!” Staavo yelled out as the creature landed. He clicked his tongue, watching it dart away. Ice Bolt had done damage, but the slow didn’t seem to have had an effect.

“Shit!” Hanes swore, loosing another arrow as the cat snake charged him. His panicked shot missed, and he screamed as the monster’s needle-like teeth sank into his arm. He dropped his bow, then began punching the Fire Eater with his other hand. The monster ignored the feeble hits, keeping a bloody grip on the archer’s arm as it began shredding his gambeson with its claws.

Fortunately, Mlem was already on his way, and the merchant’s scimitar proved much more effective in dislodging the Fire Eater. His strike carved a bloody line into its hide, and it howled in agony as it released Hanes’s arm. It darted away, and Carten tried to stomp it as it ran past him. His armored boot missed with a heavy thump, followed by a curse. Meanwhile, Tahir had reached Hanes, grabbing the other man’s shredded arm to use Healing Word. That was good, but it did mean that both of their archers would be out of the fight for a little while.

“Watch out!” Jamus shouted, but his warning proved unnecessary. Val had already summoned a pane of light before the first word had left Jamus’s mouth. The translucent barrier stopped the Fire Eater’s lunge for his neck as if it were made of brick. There was a sizzling sound as the monster ricocheted away, and it took Staavo a moment to realize that it was its Dark-aspect blood reacting with the opposing element of the shield. He tracked it with his arm, then cursed as Carten got in the way just as he was about to launch his magic.

Dodging Carten yet again, the Fire Eater went for Lyn next. The noblewoman was ready, and she whipped her staff in a graceful arc, catching it in the ribs and sending it tumbling. It managed to regain its footing just in time to dodge another Arcane Bolt from Jamus, but Val nailed it with a Solar Ray moments later. The Light-aspect spell was instantaneous, and the Fire Eater clearly had no resistance, perhaps even a vulnerability. Its health was getting quite low now.

Wisps of black smoke formed around it again, and it screamed in frustration at the Lunar Orb, which was still chasing after it like an enormous firefly. Its magic thwarted, it scampered away by more physical means, slipping through Carten’s legs as it made for the narrower section of the crack to the north. Apparently, that last hit had been enough for it to decide that it was done with this fight.

“GODS DAMN IT!” Carten swore, spinning to charge after it. Staavo snorted, amused, launching another Ice Bolt. His amusement turned to shared annoyance as the Fire Eater swerved out of the way.

“Kill it before it gets away!” Lyn screamed, chasing after Carten. Amazingly, it looked like the armored turtle was the faster runner of the two. Staavo didn’t even bother trying to follow. New foot or not, he’d never be able to catch up.

With a sudden pop, Mlem appeared from nowhere, directly in the monster’s path. Staavo blinked. He’d clearly missed the flight of the Skipping Stone in the chaos.

The Fire Eater’s claws skittered across the stones as it tried to arrest its momentum, succeeding only to be immediately blindsided by a vicious Shield Bash.

“TAKE THAT, YA SHIT!” Carten bellowed triumphantly as the monster soared through the air. It struck the chasm wall with a wet thump, leaving a smear of dark blood as it began to fall. Staavo aimed quickly, loosing an Ice Bolt for where he predicted it would land. His magic struck true, the frozen shard punching deep into the injured creature before shattering. Lyn arrived moments later, bringing her staff down with both hands on the Fire Eater’s back. There was a crunch of breaking bone, and its health bar, already almost empty, flickered out of existence.

Your group has defeated a level thirteen Fire Eater.

Your contribution was eighteen percent.

You are capped. No experience is granted.

Lyn screamed in wordless triumph, and Staavo smiled, glancing at Hanes in time to see the archer relaxing the tension from his bow. There was blood on his sleeve and his armor was shredded, but there was no pain in his expression. Tahir was standing nearby, looking unconcerned, having reclaimed his bow as well. Staavo’s smile widened, and he rolled his neck as he slipped his sword back into its sheath.

Eh. Not bad. For a bunch of kids.
