ranches and leaves.Smalls was quiet for a second.“Not a bird,” he finally said.He needed to hurry up and test his invisibility cloak. He couldn’t miss his model in action!---Seth listened as Maestro talked through various mushrooms as he headed to the Boss room. The ominous door was closed and the glaring goblin riding a pig imagery... boar down on him.Hah, Seth amused himself greatly.“-Some good sights waiting for you. Third Floor is still needing some DIY fixing upping but Delta, sweet mother of us all, has a talent for making the ugly into weirdly wonderful,” he chortled. Seth liked Maestro.The loud soul was someone who expected nothing of Seth but gave Seth his all regardless.If there were ever a port to sail back to from time to time, then this Dungeon was shaping up to be it.“Now… you wanna test yourself or I can peek in and let Fran give you a pass. Mum doesn’t mind for now,” Maestro offered. Seth blinked.“I thought killing was frowned on here?” he asked. Maestro was quiet for a moment.“Sir Fran is a spirit of battle. His rebirth after death only makes him train harder. It would honor him more if you fought, but you are free to pass,” Maestro suggested.Seth smiled.“I would be nothing if not interested to see a boss of Delta. Does my surrender still work in there?” he mused. Maestro hummed an acknowledgement.“Dungeon wide, baby! Do not pass, do not collect 100 gold and go straight to the entrance,” he listed.Seth smiled. He knocked.The door slid open.Seth stared at the wide underground arena with its white sand and carved empty audience seats.From a large crack in the far wall something moved and Seth jumped a little as torches above him ignited, and then two more burst into flames followed by another two after that.This repeated until the large brazier above the crack was a raging bonfire. A large form slipped out of the crack and Seth had to admit.This Dungeon had style.And a bar!“Are you a challenger?” the well spoken goblin asked and Seth could see why this was Sir Fran. Not merely Fran the boss.“I am, if you would have me?” Seth bowed. Sir Fran nodded under his helm, then the large pig knelt its front two legs to match.“I could ask for no other honor but a duel between us,” Sir Fran said clearly.He lowered his lance.“I shall move in five seconds. Do be ready,” Fran said jovially as if this was something he hadn’t expected but was enjoying.“Then I shall move in six,” Seth fired back. The hearty laugh made Seth smile as well.“Don’t die human, I would like to buy you a drink afterwards,” Sir Fran called and his form blurred forward.Seth pushed his hand out and a wall of water rushed forward to meet the charge. The wave was split into two with no loss of speed from Sir Fran.Strong fellow.He used the water as a whip, pulling hard on a stalactite to swing out of the way of the charge and landed roughly to the side where he stomped his foot causing a pillar of water to erupt where Sir Fran was trying to turn. The big pig had durability and weight as he was barely lifted off the ground. He curled his hand and the boss was enclosed in a swirling bubble of water. They struggled to escape but it followed their struggles inch by inch.He was spending Mana now to make water, the dry arena working against him.The bubble exploded in a flash of orange and steam that rushed towards Seth as the sheer pressure of Sir Fran’s stab created a funnel. Focusing, he turned the boiling steam back into water by pushing it together so it only splashed on the sand and not Seth’s skin but the distraction let Sir Fran get close. He swung his lance. Seth raised one arm, ice spreading like scales to deflect the blow but he was still lifted clean off his feet and sent crashing across the arena.He bounced up and surged forward like a rocket as he caused a wave to carry him forward.He froze the water behind him creating a line across the arena that Fran would have to watch out for. He formed a water lance on his left arm and charged.Fran reared his pig back and rushed forward to meet his joust. Seth grinned as his own lance spun like a drill and the pressure at its point became deadly.He was surprised when Fran’s own lance exploded in orange light.They collided in an explosion of orange lights and steam. Seth crashed against the stands in a safe water bubble but his arm was bleeding from a long cut where Fran had pierced through his iced scales and lightly grazed him.That was going to sting once his adrenaline died down. But he gathered his shield into a single aqua blade and waited for the cloud of steam to fade.No way was he going to fall for that old trick. No body… no win. He was proven right as Fran calmly walked out of the cloud, his pig looking a little flash-fried from the steam as well as Sir Fran now having a tan but nothing serious was injured.“Hard for a first Level boss,” Seth said. Fran grinned.“I have levels of difficulty. You simply are nearing the hardest but you’ll have to come back in a few days for that. The harder you hit, the harder I hit back,” the goblin said, not sounding tired at all. “Hard? If you wanted it hard, my rather good looking goblin… you only had to ask!” Seth pointed his pressurized water sword. It was shaking in his grip from the sheer force. A bit of a Mana sink but it looked cool.Seth kinda wanted to look cool to Sir Fran.“Then let us duel!” Fran roared. Seth kicked it up a notch and from his Mana, water rushed forward until he was soon riding a half-horse, half-fish creature as it swam through the air. Seth dived bringing a waterfall down after him as the edge turned into sharp pricks of ice.Fran’s lance did that orange thing again and a wave of the first ice was cut away but it left Seth with an opening to use.Fran was strong but he lacked good area denial or counters.But Seth was a wizard. He had his own weaknesses like getting cocky or distracted by a pretty face or a strong jaw.He stabbed and Fran turned his head so his helm took the blow, the sawing of metal was loud and it made the recoil hard to control. Fran jumped and Seth tried, and failed, to redirect the blade upwards.Fran’s armored head smashed into Seth’s unprotected one.His water collapsed and he rolled to the floor as Fran landed back on his pig and charged again.Seth was cursing as he scrambled to dive out of the way. His nose was a mess and one eye had gone dark from Fran’s glancing blow. The goblin hadn’t even gotten a good enough swing into the motion!This goblin was monstrous.He stopped focusing and waves of water exploded in every direction, turning the arena into a swampy mess slowing Fran down in the muck.He reared up making his pig jump for the solid audience stands where he had stable ground again.Smart gob.Seth spun his body and, while most likely concussed, he wasn’t going to suffer magically from it. Seth’s power got stronger with less control.It was a pain.A waterspout formed, crashing into the ceiling as it sucked in falling rocks and balls of mud, turning the twister brown and filling it with projectiles. The air was howling and Seth was in the eye of this storm.He let his power flow and roared in return to Fran’s earlier one.Layers of the waterspout froze in rings of jagged ice as the Twister surged forward.Wipe it all away! Let his waters be the canvas washer of the world!His rings of ice were flung like disks and Fran was forced to do mighty leaps and charges around the stands to avoid being bisected.A large shadow appeared on one side, Seth readied a wave of freezing water and swept the pig t away noisily.But there was no Goblin.From high above, amid the slight gaps where the ceiling dipped and his twister failed to touch, Fran dived directly down the clear tunnel at Seth.Such cleverness… such power…Seth… loved it.He raised his hand,his whole arm turning to ice, becoming one with the element as the room was snapped frozen from the clear ice.Five seconds, that was all Seth could handle of this spell… this form.The twister froze and Fran’s own form was a frozen comet that was still aiming for Seth’s heart.Seth snapped his finger and shards of ice became a storm as his arm exploded.That was going to be a pain to grow back.He blinked as the goblin comet, now in pieces, raced past him but the goblin’s lance still sunk deep into Seth’s shoulder.He fell and the room went quiet.Seth stared up at the remarkably well washed ceiling.“Fine… it’s a draw… we’ll take turns buying rounds.” he called before passing out.---Delta sat in the ruined room, jaw dropped.She should do something but she wasn’t able to move. The scene was just…She wanted Fran’s autograph!Home team was epic and she wanted to fist pump! Even if seeing Fran in proud icy chunks was a little upsetting, his sheer bliss was infectious!“GO FRAN!” she cheered despite no one being left to hear her.“FERA! Get the gobs to drag Seth into the bar. We need water and mushroom soup! Gob! Go get Quiss!” she began to act.Fran’s new tiny core really did amazing things. It let him be adaptive to the Mana of the person who approaches his door. A Fran for everyone’s level of skill!The First floor boss wasn’t going to be a pushover to OP people.She was giddy and she felt like nothing could top that guest visit for some time!--Deo stared at the cave like entrance.“Team Heroic Holy Pot and Friends... HAVE COME TO ASK A FAVOUR!” he jumped and cheered. Kemy clapped politely.Vas just inhaled and he looked distantly down the stairs.“Empty… something is empty down there,” he whispered and followed his new friends down the stairs.Under his shirt… a gem briefly glowed as it took in the fresh orange Mana.
