“I’ll escort her back,” Isanella promised as she emerged from Fera’s kitchen a short while later. She looked a little more melancholic than before. Seth gave her a deep frown.“I could... “ oh what was the word?“Herd you back with my magic? I do not experience joy if you are harmed,” Seth said. The goblin shook her head at their exchange.It must truly be the oddest of experiences for a Dungeon to hear foreigners exchange words with each other. Isanella shook her head and held her lute tighter with a glint in her eyes.“We will...destroy all foes,” she said back in Seth’s own mother tongue. Her expertise in Seth’s language was oddly militaristic. She had words and phrases that often related to or involved battle in some manner.Seth was beginning to think Isanella had been near his people in a skirmish of some sort. Which was definitely odd since Isanella was a sweet house wife and a marvelous tea maker, but they all had pasts. Nina was twirling her new apron. She said something to the bartender who smirked.For someone who was basically being drafted into servitude, Nina didn’t seem that torn. Perhaps because the mushroom soup was simply that good of a treat, or maybe it was the offer of further rewards.Isanella waved goodbye and leaned down to plant a kiss on one of the singing mushrooms. She said something soft to it and it responded with a soft affectionate piano melody.Fera handed Nina a list of things that Seth thought could either be simple food items or parts of a dragon (his written understanding of the country wasn’t much better than his spoken one), but honestly Seth wasn’t sure which was worse in Durence.The town had a very Quiss-like manner of making simple things end up on fire.He waved them farewell and honestly was a little amused that he was about to have a much deeper conversation with the Dungeon born than the villagers he had been staying with.Seth really needed to knuckle down and learn the local tongue. He just needed a teacher... someone that wasn’t Mr Jones the knowledge Demon.Someone else.Anyone else.---“GRIM!” Deo called and Grimnoire closed his eyes and counted to five before he turned to see Deo and two weirdos with him. One was the Potter’s kid. Bass or something. The other was that priestess girl but...Grim opened his mouth and then closed it again.Her basic robe and hood was gone.The long flowing and glowing white robe she now donned was like a walking cloud. Her aura, hidden before, was being pushed to the surface and golden Mana of honesty soaked into the air around her. The robe was so thin and odd... that the tail end broke apart and reformed as rocks or twigs tried to snag on it. The sleeves were longer than the girl’s hands and yet when she went to hide her face, her hands simply fazed through the material as if it was “no hinderace.The material shimmered as if a hidden sun were glowing off the girl’s body. Dozens of intricate tiny symbols pulsed with her Mana and a glow settled over Deo and Vas. They grinned as if tickled. She looked like one strong gust would blow the outfit away but the sheer density of the costume gave off vibes of virtue and innocence.It was, to Grim, the ultimate balance between eye-catching and inspiring.The girl went pink at Grim’s staring and pulled her new hood up. The divine image was ruined by a childish pop up halo, that had been quickly sewn on at the last minute, that hovered over the girl’s head. “THE HALO WAS MY IDEA!” Deo calmly explained.“I should have guessed, Brawndo. How you convince masters of the art into doing childish things is a mystery,” he snipped. The boy’s bubble was annoyingly bright today.“I got a new bowtie,” Jazz...Lass... said and his cheery red bowtie looked rather nice if nothing else.Grim looked at Deo and waited.The boy pulled out a freshly carved flute.“CRAM MADE ME A FLUTE! I WANTED TO PLAY YOU A SONG BECAUSE YOU LOOKED DOWN!” he said and put the piece to his mouth, Oh no.The first clear note was like an arrow, it shot through Grim and he knew he was too late.Deo and singing was... fine if Grim was to be honest . Deo and instruments?A rather different story.Deo’s fingers flew over the flute as the melody warbled out into some epic stanza and he didn’t stop. For thirty seconds straight Deo made an endless tune as his fingers moved like a master over the wooden instrument. The wind was redirected, the birds gathered in awe, and deep in some hellish abyss a devil put his fiddle down in defeat. Kemy’s cloud dress was struggling to hold together and the potter boy was gaping in shock as Deo’s own hair was being flung about as the music reached the crescendo of this epic solo.Grim felt inspired, annoyed, awed, grumpy, and a little jealous. The worst thing was that Deo didn’t even know how annoyingly good he was at this.The boy could make music dance to his tune and never even knew about it.Deo beamed, huffing a little after turning his loud voice into a loud flute solo.“FEEL BETTER?” he asked. Grim jerkily nodded.“Ecstatic,” he said clearly. He made sure never to look away or mumble. The priestess spoke but she was not even in Deo’s sight. Usually the boy was good enough to constantly be checking his comrades’ faces in case they were talking but he seemed rather focused on Grim.The girl closed her eyes.“Holy mother of truth, give me strength and the courage to help this boy... please... let me help him. He means well and he does not deserve this fate,” she said clearly and Grim actually raised one brow.“Wow, lady, he’s deaf not hopeless. You could wait until he was out of the proverbial earshot before saying that,” he grunted and turned to leave.Deo called after him and he was pulled into a one-armed hug as Deo made a suddenly interesting decision.The Second floor... of Delta.Grim’s eyes glazed over at thoughts of success and loot.---Kemy was staring in absolute shock at the two boys.That boy had... understood her. She hadn’t meant to be heard hence why her prayer was in a deep lost tongue of the first folk who worshipped her Goddess. The last of the language hosted in her monastery for at least four generations of Truth Seekers.How did this boy… someone who had never left his village… know her language?---Seth was on a mission to explore the Dungeon. He planned to see what wonders this place might have. Even better, he could treat it as a nice trip since she was unwilling to kill Seth unless he stepped out line.Really, it was no different than walking on the Sovereign soil of another nation. Respect the laws or face punishment. The matter of who would win was a moot point. Seth would lose the nice guest status he had and that would be a shame.The first order of business was to see Isanella’s friend.He asked Fera who merely guided him to a hidden passage behind a wall which he thanked her for with a promise to clean her bar and a compliment on the amazing soup.“Don’t flirt with me, water boy. No discounts for return trips,” she grumbled but her ears did look a little bit perkier.Seth was charming, he knew it… the various men, women and others of the world knew it very well. If Seth had a bad side, it was that he fell in love too easily and broke too many hearts when he found he could never settle in one place for very long.He was a bit too much like the ocean like that.And like the ocean, he could ruin an entire city's existence. He had planned to very much do so. He sighed as he traversed the tunnel. Quiss chose one target, and he chose another.The city or the tree. Which was to blame?Did it matter? Both were going to be hurting when he and Quiss were done. For a tree who let a monster nest in its branches without care and the city who tried to wage war on it.Beta.Seth frowned harder.Why did it have to be so… childish.The town was no better. It would not even let Seth bury his master on their land due to ‘being on the tree’s side’. Her rites, her peace... her ways… were all denied because Seth had remained peaceful until it was too late. Not willing to use magic as a tool of power and fear like Quiss did.His friend screaming and trying to burn a tree that didn’t even care he was there. Then his master rose and Seth had to kill her for a second time.He paused and took a deep breath as he saw the tunnel was becoming covered in ice and sloshing water.He cooled down and whistled a tune his master had loved.Down the tunnel, came floating words and Seth nearly stumbled in shock.“The waves met the sun and a wonderful sight to my eyes. On this cliff I do stand, I cry in joy at their meeting. Come now... let the stars shine and let them become our saviors...” the words were even sung exactly like-“Tough song. Sorry, it slipped out. I meant no pain to your heart,” a giant demonic beast tipped his cap slightly. Seth stared at the giant mushroom demon monster whose roots spread up and out of sight. His large stone structure acted like a trial and a stage.The beast itself was of nightmares but his words were soft...“You are Isanella’s companion?” he asked. The mushroom bowed.“Aren’t I LUCKY! But seriously, between the two of you, you’re both going to make me drown in tears. Don’t you people have happy songs?” he said, half in exasperation and half in jest.Seth then saw sitting nearby on the top most step was that small creature, Missy.She waved and trilled a bird song. Maestro beamed.“She’s so talented!” he bragged. Seth opened his mouth.His heart still ached at the song and he closed his eyes before smiling.“Oh kind bard of epic size. Let me share some songs I learned from Queens and Barmaids alike!” he offered.De-stress… peaceful… kind…He had to remember who he was and what his Master had loved about him. Right as he did the unspeakable, she smiled as he wept.“Such an open heart... good boy,” she had smiled before the light faded.His heart was open and now he poured out every shred of joyful moments and slightly exciting ones.He sat near the two of them and used his powers to form a ring of ice crystals. They began to sound out clear notes as he made them vibrate at certain frequencies.Missy clapped and Maestro was even more excited.He joined in and Seth sang as the pain was soothed like ice over a wound… for the moment.---“We’ve got a support and a front liner. I’m a mid to close with simple tricks but I’m a glass, one hit wonder. Vas here has durability but he’s a gimmick character so it's best not to rely on him other than when he can step up. We’re lacking a mage to round up our weaknesses,” Grim said to Deo but flicking his eyes to the others to make sure they were paying attention.“Delta isn’t actually a combat Dungeon. Plenty of ways to get through it without killing a thing!” Kemy beamed.Grim looked up from his complicated map making and pieces on the board to stand in for them.Kemy fidgeted under his look but he leaned back and grumbled.“Fine… I guess we can just waltz in, sing some songs and get rewarded,” he huffed.Not a combat Dungeon… clearly the cloudy wool was not only pulled over her frame but her eyes as well!Delta was buffed to the max with epic monsters and unseen dangers. Sure, she might not use them but that could change with the mass arrival of adventurers. The Calcs…Oh boy… they would not hear ‘peaceful’. Those psychos would hear ‘easy’ and bum rush the Dungeon“WE COULD ASK DELTA TO PRETEND!” Deo suggested. Grim looked at him baffled for a moment before it clicked.“I suppose but the spirit of the thing would feel off. It would be like when we were kids and hitting each other and declaring that person was dead as the other would protest,” he said slowly… it wasn’t… a bad idea.If Delta could use blunt spears and pull punches… it was better than just taking a nifty tour.Love this novel? Read it on Royal Road to ensure the author gets credit.“Okay. Deo… go ask. You know her best. I’ll get Poppy. She’s a mage and Amanstar could be good. Two healers are better than one. That makes a party of six…” he said and eyed the map with new eyes.“Can I go back to my group?” Kemy asked. Grim didn’t even look up.“No. You’ve been drafted into Team…” he sighed loudly, “Team Heroic Holy Pot and friends,” he said this like chewing glass.Deo beamed and Vas tried to looked positive.“At least we have numbers! Delta would gain some good experience from this as well,” he offered.Delta was going to stomp them so hard that Grim was going to develop an orange butt next.Ah well, it beat wandering the town and watching new shops appear and odd people start moving as the Mana reached a new level.Someone even said they saw Madam Ghu at the pub. Now that was weird.---“Stop moving!” Smalls hissed as Cram, covered in branches and leaves, was used as a tower by Smalls while he peered through a spyglass at the gathering of Deo and his friends.The robe! Even as the user sat there looking ready to cry, she looked amazing!“When you said you were going to ride me outside, I wasn’t sure what I was expecting but this wasn’t the worst thing that sprung to mind,” Cram admitted as he chewed jerky. Smalls slapped the half-orc’s head a little.“Don’t be crass. There are innocent materials- I mean small animals around,” he said watching the group split off as Deo walked with Kemy and Vas in the general direction of the Dungeon.A Dungeon dive! Smalls nearly wanted to gush that his robe would see action so soon!“It’s a good thing I’m made of muscle or you would have crushed my neck with those bird legs of yours by now,” Cram calmly plucked Smalls of his shoulder. The man barely came up to his chin as he glared.“I have dancer legs!” he protested.“You have bird legs. I’ve seen them crush actual skulls when you get pissed. Besides, I like your legs,” Cram walked off as he denatured himself of b