This wasn’t the first island Zac had seen with such direct and powerful corruption, but it was the first one with a memory domain nearby. Zac had wanted to investigate the others too, but luck hadn’t been on his side. There were never any memory winds near the islands when he passed by, and entering a memory domain on a neighboring island hadn’t worked because space wasn’t aligned.

“Look how intense the corruption is. There has to be a stable pathway to the other side,” Esmeralda said. “It looks like we’ll finally be able to collect some bounties.”

“Go with the original plan?” Zac asked.

Esmeralda nodded and landed on his head as Zac steered his gondola straight for the memory domain. Their vision flickered as they passed through, and they suddenly found themselves sailing toward what could only be described as a pirate fortress. There was a distinct and intentional aesthetic going on.

There were plenty of palms obviously not native to the island’s somewhat chilly climate. To accommodate the tropical wildlife and the tribes of spotted turtles lazing in a nearby bay, the whole city was covered in a large heating formation. There were even two massive schooners moored at the harbors, and Zac could tell with a glance they were just decorations.

The cultivators walking the streets looked more like swashbuckling pirates than sect members. Less than one in four actually wore the sect’s disciple robes, and those who did appeared to be almost exclusively Servant Disciples. Zac hesitated a moment but ultimately chose not to change before disembarking.

“Oh? New comrade or raider?” a young man emitting a fierce, Peak D-grade aura called when Zac stepped onto an ill-kept pier.

In truth, the ragged appearance was another aesthetic choice. Zac could tell it was an incredibly detailed illusion, with extremely fortified stone tiles lying beneath. Most likely, the pier could effortlessly shrug off the slam of an Early Beast Emperor.

“Here to join the fun,” Zac said, showcasing the signet ring on his left hand.

“Not bad,” the pirate nodded. “Most look like they’ve been through a maelstrom when they reach this island. Still, you should get yourself some proper garments. You can’t go out exploring looking like that.”

“It’s on the top of my list,” Zac promised, deciding to just play along. He didn’t mind cosplaying a pirate if it led him to the doppelgangers. He already had the lifestyle down to a pat, if he could say so himself.

“Good. But first, head over to The Dusty Apple to get yourself settled,” the man said, pointing toward a tavern located just by the docks.

“Thank you,” Zac said and directly headed over.

On the way, no one stopped him to question his identity, though a few calculating looks indicated they had an idea who he was. It was no surprise. The batch of outsiders appearing was the talk of the town, and there was only one person walking around with a frog on his head. Ultimately, Zac decided to simply go as himself, or rather as Everit Draom. He was essentially using himself as bait, hoping his status could help draw some doppelgangers out of the woodwork.

“Welcome to the Dusty Apple. I’m Nathan,” a young man said behind the counter, also looking Zac up and down. “New arrival, I presume? Think I’ve heard about you.”

“I was told to come here and get things settled,” Zac said, nodding at the dozens of patrons caught up in animated discussions. Unfortunately, they all maintained privacy barriers to stop outsiders from listening in. “Is the guild headquarters always this bustling?”

“Hardly. The Explorer’s Cove is pretty empty most of the time. People are mostly out at sea, only stopping by to resupply and collect the latest information. Those who stay longer are generally in seclusion.”

“Then what’s going on?” Zac asked as he sat down at the bar.

“You’re lucky to join when you did. We’re closing up shop in two days because no one’s willing to man the bar. Not when Sevona’s Hunting Lodge is about to appear,” Nathan said with an excited expression.

“The what?” Zac asked.

“Right, you newcomers wouldn’t know,” Nathan said. “The Lodge is one of the six miracles of the Peregrine Isles. It’s been ages since it appeared last, so it’s bound to be teeming with opportunities. It’s the opportunity of the decade, maybe even the century!”

Zac could feel Esmeralda tremble with excitement atop his head. He wanted to remind her to keep her eyes on the prize. They were here to catch invaders. But then again, wasn’t a massive treasure hunt the perfect place for some doppelgangers to cause trouble? It seemed like there might be an opportunity to catch two birds with one stone.

Thank God they didn’t head back to Westharbor.
