In retrospect, maybe it was a little silly to consider that every race “wanted” to become enlightened in the first place. Being enlightened or a monster both had pros and cons, with the environment and other factors often determining which was best. Maybe if a group of Venusians left Venus for Earth, their descendants would one day become enlightened, but who knows? All Jake knew was that his view of the subject had been incredibly flawed from the get-go. Pretty silly coming from the Chosen of a Monster, but oh well.

The group of six flew for a solid two days before reaching their destination. On the way, they did encounter plenty of things, including a few dozen powerful B-grade monsters, but none of which the Shaman thought necessary to hunt down. Again, the Venusians only really cared about hunting down creatures that were a threat to their villages or members of enemy factions.

Which, fortunately, was exactly what they had been heading towards.

“There are a few races I would classify us as truly in conflict with,” the Shaman explained as they were coming up on what Jake hoped would be a prime hunting ground.

“Most races or factions try to remain neutral, such as the Nomads, but some are hostile by nature,” the Shaman continued. “Not necessarily due to hostile intent, but literally due to their natures requiring them to constantly seek new resources or claim new territory. Their existences are incompatible with that of others, making us enemies by necessity.”

Jake nodded along, hearing a story that was as old as time itself. That was also why most factions of the multiverse ended up as enemies. The Risen and Holy Church hated one another because the Risen couldn’t become members of the Holy Church due to how their souls worked, meaning that the bigger the Risen faction was, the fewer potential members the Holy Church had. Even the Endless Empire and Rigoria originally became enemies over resources, both having to consume insane amounts to keep expanding.

“What kind of creatures are in this faction?” Jake asked curiously.

“You’ll see soon,” the Shaman said. “And I will already warn you now to be careful. Many Venusians have fallen at their hands, leading to a fate worse than death.”

Hearing such a warning only made Jake more curious, and fortunately, he soon felt the first signs of these enemies. Ahead of them, a familiar kind of energy appeared on the horizon, a sense of death mingling with the toxic, corrosive atmosphere.

Undead.

Unsurprising, considering the kind of world he found himself in. Jake had no inherent dislike of the undead, seeing as one of his best buddies was a Risen. However, when he got closer and finally spotted the first undead...

Yeah, alright, Jake was on board; these fuckers had to be exterminated.
