Ren felt surprise from the succubi when he didn't correct Suniva's assumption, then they were amused that the little pixie thought Ren could please them all. A couple of them took in a sharp breath when they felt his confidence that he could satisfy them all.

“I think I've wasted enough time with my self-imposed nap.” Ren said. “Suniva? Rainie?”

“Okay.” Rainie said and pat him there. “We'll get off.”

Suniva's hair burned a little brighter at her comment; but, no one else noticed her embarrassment as Rainie carefully stood up and the two pixies jumped down. Ren sat up and saw several wet spots in different places on his armor bodysuit.

“When was the last time we drooled like that when we were asleep?” Shanna asked and pointed at the wet spots. Ren could see her hair was actually vines and leaves.

“When was the last time we slept that good?” Rainie asked, and he saw that her hair was made of waves of water.

“I'm going to miss it, even though it was only once.” Suniva said and looked at Ren longingly.

“The beds in your apartments are really comfortable.” Ren said. “Just think of me when you sleep in them.”

“We'll do that!” A pixie said, and Ren saw that her hair was a mix of mud and rocks. He was tempted to ask if she was an Earthkin of some kind; but, that would reveal that he could see through her illusions, and he was pretty sure Suniva didn't want them to know.

Ren leaned down and put his mouth by Suniva's ear. “You should just sleep normally.” He whispered. “The bed isn't fireproof.”

Suniva chuckled and kissed Ren's cheek. “I can't wait to see you again.” She said and pat the tip of his nose. “Come back soon, okay?”

“I'll do my best.” Ren said, then stood up. “Ladies, thank you for sharing a nap with me.”

“Ladies!” One of the pixies exclaimed. “He called us ladies!”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said when he felt her surprise. “Is there a better word to call you?”

“No, sir!” The pixie said and grinned. “Ladies is just fine with me!”

“And me.” Another of them said.

“Me!” One of them waved. “I'm a lady!”

Ren beamed a smile at them, and he felt how much they liked it.

“You joked with us, gave us a home and a pile of gold, didn't get mad after waking up with us sleeping on you, and then complimented us.” Shanna said. “You're the strangest Adventurer I've ever met.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and bowed to her. “I must go. If I'm lucky, I can get through the next level before I have to take care of Adventurer's business.”

All the succubi stood up as one and flew up into the air to hover above him.

“Be careful.” Rainie said. “There's several different caverns...” She took a breath and looked up at him. “Ren, take me with you.”

“I can't.” Ren said, and he felt how sad she was. “I'm not saying I wouldn't.”

“I can be useful!” Rainie said. “I can quench your thirst even in the driest desert!”

“It's not that.” Ren said and knelt to one knee. “I can't protect you like I'd want to.” He said. “I'll be constantly worrying if you'll be hurt, and I won't be able to fight as effectively.”

“You're saying I'll slow you down, even though I'm so small.” Rainie said.

“I'm saying I'd be putting your welfare above my own and if I got hurt because of you, you would never forgive yourself.”

“I... dammit, you're too smooth of a talker!” Rainie said and stomped her foot. “You make everything sound so reasonable!”

Ren chuckled. “It's a talent.”

“You still haven't lied.” Rainie said, and sighed. “All right. I'll stay here and be safe.”

“I hope so.” Ren said. “If I come back here and find out you tried to follow me and got hurt, or even killed... I'll be really mad at you.”

Rainie chuckled and climbed up onto his knee. “No, you wouldn't.” She said. “You'll be sad, and mad at yourself for not taking me with you.”

Ren nodded and she wiggled her finger in a 'come here' gesture. He leaned down and she hugged his chin and kissed his top lip again.

“I'll set up wards to make sure that if you show up anywhere on this level, an alarm will go off.”

“I'd expect nothing less.” Ren said and kissed the tip of his finger and touched her lips with it. “Goodbye, Rainie.”

“Goodbye, Ren.”

Rainie jumped down and Ren equipped his Travelling Clothes for a moment, then equipped the armor bodysuit and his armor. He gave her a wave and walked over to his Phantom Steed.

“Thanks for staying back out of the way.” Ren said to it and the two skeleton knights on their steeds. They nodded to him, and he climbed up onto the saddle. “Let's go.”

“BYE!” A chorus of pixies yelled and waved as Ren and his group left the cavern and flew up the tunnel to the safe zone. After a brief discussion with the succubi and Teepo, Ren decided that it would be best if he left now to take care of his Adventurer's business, took out his shop tower and the tower for the succubi to sleep in, then raised up the walls to protect everyone while he was gone. He went inside his tower and up the stairs, then laid down on the bed.

“Logout.”
