“Then forget about the cost. It was my decision to lend it to you—I’ll take it as a lesson on giving things away. Although whether it was a mistake or not…”
Val shrugged. Then he grinned.
“Today is full of surprises, huh?”
Pisces and Ceria gaped at Val, and you could have picked Olesm’s jaw off the floor, but Ryoka only smiled. She flexed her hand and stared past it. She smiled, with such genuine feeling that Erin was taken aback.
“Thank you. It was worth it.”
“Think nothing of it. We’ve got to look out for each other, right?”
A thousand gold coin’s worth of magic didn’t sound like ‘nothing’ to Erin, but Val just swept the few burnt pieces into a bag and put it in his belt pouch. And that was it. Debt forgiven. That was so awesome Erin didn’t have words for it.
Val was a stand-up guy. Erin smiled, ran into the kitchen, and came out with a steaming burger which she put in front of him.
“I can’t pay for that, but have another hamburger on the house.”
It had been meant for Ryoka, but the other girl was still staring at nothing, and Erin didn’t think she’d mind waiting a few more minutes. Val eyed the hamburger. He’d already eaten four, but his stomach rumbled. He smiled up at Erin.
“You are very kind. But ah, could I have some of that red stuff on it? What did you call it?”
“Ketchup. But that’s extra. Pay up.”
Val blinked at Erin. She grinned.
“Kidding!”
 
—-
 
Ryoka was still trying to get her head back together when Erin came back with her food. Absentmindedly, Ryoka raised the burger to her lips and bit.
Perhaps it was a testament to nostalgia, Erin’s improving skill at cooking, or Ryoka’s state of starvation, but that was what brought her back into reality. Yes. A well-made hamburger could erase even the wonder of meeting a dragon.
At least for ten seconds, which was roughly how long it took Ryoka to inhale the burger. Erin brought her another, and Ryoka repeated the trick.
“Are you sure you should eat so fast?”
Erin asked Ryoka, as the second hamburger became crumbs before her eyes. Ryoka just blinked at Erin, and the girl threw up her hands.
“Fine. But if you throw up, you get to clean it up. Toren’s still missing, and I’m not doing it.”
“That’s fine. Can I get two more? Three?”
It was so good to eat food from her world! But Ryoka did slow down as Erin brought the third hot hamburger out. She was just ravenous, both from her run and her memories.
Val sat next to her, munching on some french fries Erin had made. He dipped one in ketchup and eyed Ryoka.
He really wasn’t what she’d expected. And the charm he’d lost because of her—
“Thanks again.”
He shrugged.
“It happens. Better that I found out my charm can be overloaded than get into trouble down the road. Besides, the mage that gave it to me will give me a discount—she had better since she promised it wouldn’t ever break. A few deliveries and I’ll be able to buy it again.”
“Really? How much do you make per delivery?”
Val rolled his eyes towards the ceiling as he munched on a fry.
“Forty gold coins? It can go over a hundred or two hundred if the area’s dangerous or if I need to get there quick.”
“Forty—?”
Ceria choked on a piece of potato and Olesm thumped her on the back until she spat it out. Val looked amused.
“It’s not that much. The nobility has enough gold to throw around, and any Gold-rank adventurer or higher earns a hundred times that much if they get lucky in a dungeon.”
“Money’s different where you come from, I guess. Here, gold coins are worth a lot.”
Erin said that as she refilled both Runners’ glasses. Olesm nodded, but Val shrugged.
“There’s a different kind of currency among high-level classes. Once you get past Level 30, you become one of…a thousand on the continent? Something like that. Your skills become in such high demand that you’ll earn more money than anyone else. And of course anyone with a class that involves managing land or selling or buying goods earns thousands of gold coins each month.”
Ryoka had to shake her head, although the parallel to her world wasn’t that far off. Erin sighed wistfully at the thought of all that money and then took a seat at Val’s table, smiling at him.
“Well, I’m happy you came here. Unlike some people, you pay for your food and you also helped Ryoka. So anytime you want to come back here for a night or to eat food, I’ll be happy to serve you.”
Val looked regretful.
“I doubt you’ll see me in the near future. I don’t often get deliveries this far south.”
“Really? But you’re a Courier. Don’t you go everywhere?”
“To an extent. But my area’s usually around First Landing. This is far, even for me. In truth, I’m surprised I was called on to do this delivery. Normally there’s another Runner who makes the run around here, but apparently he was busy due to some problem with the undead in the area.”
“Another Courier?”
That was the first Ryoka had heard of this. She wondered if it were a Drake or a Gnoll. Val nodded, and gestured to the window facing Liscor with one thumb.
“He’s a Beastkin named Hawk. I’ve met him a few times. He’s fast enough to get to First Landing and back. I don’t know why he didn’t take it, but apparently there’s been some trouble with the undead around here so he couldn’t.”
Hawk? Ryoka didn’t know the name either, but Erin did. Her eyes widened.
“Oh, I met him just yesterday! He’s so cute!”
Ryoka blinked at Erin. Cute?
Val laughed loudly, and nodded a few times.
“Hah! He is, isn’t he? Just don’t say that to his face. Hawk is even better at fighting than I am, and he gets touchy when us humans make fun of him.”
“But he is. I mean, he also eats meat. Isn’t that weird?”
“Why? He’s not like an animal rabbit, and don’t Drakes eat lizards?”
Val and Erin glanced over at Olesm. The Drake was trying to teach Ceria how to play chess, but when he heard that he looked around, an uncharacteristic scowl on his face.
“We’re not lizards!”
“Sorry!”
Val raised a hand and turned back to his conversation with Erin.
“In truth, I’m surprised I was needed at all. This place has two people with a Courier’s speed. One’s Hawk, the other I know of only by reputation. You haven’t heard of him, have you? He’s known as the Gecko by some of the Couriers who’ve met him.”
“Gecko? Like a lizard?”
Olesm’s shoulders hunched. Erin threw a rolled up cloth napkin at his head and it bounced off.
“I’m not talking about Drakes!”
She looked at Val and Ryoka and shook her head.
“I’ve never heard of someone named Gecko either. Weird. There’s all these famous people in Liscor that I don’t know about.”
“Well, perhaps he—or she—is only famous to Runners. I suppose other people wouldn’t care as much.”
“Hm. Well, you know, Ryoka’s a really fast Runner. I bet you she could be a Courier too!”
Ryoka and Val looked at Erin, and Ryoka felt her cheeks heating up. She opened her mouth, but Val cut in.
“A Courier needs a lot of experience. Maybe someday, but right now I’d still call her one of the fastest City Runners I’ve ever met. Which is even more impressive since she doesn’t have any levels.”
“Well—I guess. But Ryoka’s good! Can you give her a hand? Like, I dunno, talk to people about giving her a test or something?”
Val rubbed at his chin thoughtfully and nodded.
“If you’d like to try becoming a Courier, I could try and get some Runners Guilds to give her some long-distance requests. Ryoka, what do you think?”
Val looked at Ryoka. She blinked at the table, slowly.
“Mm.”
Both Val and Erin looked at Ryoka and realized the girl was falling asleep right on top of her food. Ryoka’s head was so full of static she barely heard the two changing seats. The stamina potion had worn off, and all she wanted to do…was…sleep…
Ryoka’s head came down. Her face smushed into the burger and she sat up quick. What time was it?
The sun was still out, and Val was still in the inn. But he was standing by the door, talking to Erin.
“This is a nice place, and your food is unique. I’ll do some shopping around the city and come back here tonight. Unless you’re expecting a crowd?”
Erin made a face.
“I was, but it turns out everyone in the city’s making hamburgers but me. Come on over and I’ll have tons of good food, okay?”
“I wouldn’t mind more of those fried potato things. Even if you’re only serving hamburgers, I’ll be back.”
“I’m going to make Philly cheese steaks!”
“Why does everything you make have the word ‘cheese’ in it? Cheeseburgers, cheese steaks…I mean, cheese isn’t the main part of it, so why…?”
Olesm scratched at his spines. He looked around for support and found none.
Val opened the door as he gave Erin a salute with two fingers, and then recoiled. Several Frost Faeries were hanging outside the door, laughing. Val eyed them warily.
“I hate those things. They plague me on runs and I can’t lose them no matter how fast I go.”
 
“Hah! The slow manling thinks he can lose us? What a joke!”
 
Val ducked as a snowball sailed through the inn’s doorway and knocked all of the chess pieces off the board Olesm and Ceria were using. Amid the Drake’s anguished cry, he ducked out of the inn, running fast towards Liscor with the faeries in hot pursuit.
Erin propped her hands on her hips and shook her head as she stared out the window.
“We’ve got to do something about those faeries. They’re really mean. You won’t believe what they did to me earlier, Ryoka. Ryoka?”
Ryoka’s head was lolling, but she jerked upright and looked at Erin.
“What?”
“…Nevermind. You know, I’ve got a lot of beds upstairs if you want to sleep. We can talk later.”
“—No. No, I’ll stay awake until tonight.”
If she slept now, Ryoka would never get to sleep tonight, and she didn’t fancy staying up for 24 hours in a row just to fix the problem. She scowled, and pinched herself hard.
“I’ll be fine. What are you going to do?”
Erin shrugged and stared at the position of the sun in the sky.
“I was planning on opening the inn all day, but since no one’s coming…I guess I’ll buy more food for tonight. I want to stock up, and Selys wants to go to the bathhouse together. Want to come? You can meet Krshia and wash…everything…off.”
That sounded good to Ryoka. Not the going to Liscor or meeting the Gnoll part, but a hot bath would be bliss. She nodded.
“Okay.”
She was still exhausted as she and Erin walked into the city, leaving Olesm, Ceria, and Pisces to mind the inn. Erin said she had faith in Ceria to keep the other two out of trouble, and it looked like they were all going to play chess instead. It turned out that [Mages] liked the game almost as much as [Tacticians].
Stamina potions. Ryoka knew it was only that which had allowed her to reach Liscor so fast, but she was determined never to overuse one again. She felt like her body was lead, and every few seconds her eyes would start crossing and go blurry unless she concentrated.
Talking was even harder, but Ryoka was curious why Val had come to Erin from so far away.
“You sent out a chess puzzle?”
“Yeah. It wasn’t a super hard one, but pretty hard. I guess it interested whoever sent the puzzle in the first place, because they sent me this expensive chess board. Why? Is that a bad idea?”
Erin looked at Ryoka as the other girl walked along, frowning at her feet.
“It could be. Not a good idea to give away secrets. Could be a…bad thing.”
Ryoka was having trouble thinking. She’d tried to explain the value of indiscretion to Erin before, but Erin just wasn’t as leery of giving away secrets as Ryoka was. Probably a personality thing.
“If you’re too good…it might be a problem.”
“Really? Being good at chess is a bad thing?”
It might be, if the person sending the chess board ever came looking for Erin and uncovered secrets about her. That was Ryoka’s paranoia speaking, but it was still a possibility.
Then again, given the thousands of other things that could go wrong, maybe she shouldn’t worry.
Ryoka followed Erin mechanically into the city, ignoring the route they took until Erin paused. Ryoka sniffed. A familiar scent was in the air—that of roasting meat. She looked around.
Market Street was full of shopkeepers and pedestrians. But in the winter chill, a third group of seller had appeared, and that was the food vendor. But unlike days previous, they weren’t selling a variety of dishes to the cold and hungry public, but one, very familiar food product.
Hamburgers.
Every Gnoll and Drake on the street was selling them as they cooked the meat over braziers, exactly as Erin had done on the first day. They were all in competition, but it seemed the people on the street were still hungry enough to give everyone some business.
Each vendor had a queue, and a unique lure. Some had added different varieties of cheese to their cheeseburger; others had their own blend of spices, or different kinds of meat. One enterprising Drake had even created a quadruple-patty hamburger that Ryoka would dearly have loved to try.
The Gnolls and Drakes paused as they spotted Erin down the street. They didn’t quite meet Erin’s eyes, but neither did they stop flipping and selling burgers. Ryoka stared around and inhaled the scents of grilled meat. Damn it. She was getting hungry again.
“Well, now I know where all of my customers went.”
Erin scowled and kicked at some snow on the ground.
“Let’s go find Krshia.”
As Ryoka stumbled after Erin down the street, Erin glared at the food vendors.
“Hey, is there anything I can do to them for stealing my stuff? Can I claim copyright or plagiarism or something?”
“Enforce copyright? Not unless you’ve got an army. Or a really big hammer.”
Ryoka scowled at the spinning ground. She saw Erin was opening her mouth – probably to ask what kind of hammer – when the girl turned and smiled.
“Krshia!”
The large Gnoll smiled as she came out of her stall to greet Erin. She sniffed at Ryoka, and the girl tried not to scowl directly at her.
“It is good to see you this day, Erin Solstice. And I notice you have brought your friend.”
“Yeah! Ryoka just came in yesterday. Oh, and you’ll never guess what happened this morning, Krshia! I met this Runner named Blah and he blah blah blah…”
Ryoka tuned out Erin’s voice as she tried to stay upright. Coming here had been a mistake. All she wanted to do was bathe fast and fall asleep. But Erin would talk to her friend, and then Ryoka would probably have to sit in the bathhouse for hours, talking…
God. She couldn’t deal with this right now. Ryoka just wanted Erin to finish whatever she was doing, so she could go back and sleep.
Music. Music would help.
