Ryoka felt at her pocket. Her iPhone was still there, nice and safe in its case. She pulled it out and turned it on. She needed music. Something to keep her awake. Something with a beat.
She scrolled down the list of songs, frowning at the small letters. Ryoka had over ten thousand songs on her iPhone, and that was no joke. She had a 32 GB model, and since she’d also uninstalled almost every app besides a few essentials, her iPhone was just a glorified music player that could do magical conference calls.
Mind you, not all the songs were good, or even acceptable. Ryoka had far too many songs she’d downloaded in the indiscretions of youth and never bothered to delete. But finally she found one she liked. This one was a classic.
A heavy bass thumped in Ryoka’s ears with a steady drum beat. She waited, tapping one toe for Freddie Mercury. She grinned as the music swept her away.
“Ain’t no sound but the sound of his feet, machine guns ready to go.”
Another One Bites the Dust by Queen thundered in Ryoka’s ears as she turned the volume up to maximum and left it that way. She had no fear of annoying Erin as she talked with Krshia—one of the things Ryoka spent lots of money on was good headphones.
Freddie Mercury had a voice that spoke to Ryoka’s heart. She opened her eyes, smiling, and noticed something odd across the street. One of the Gnoll shoppers had stopped, and he was doing something odd. Ryoka frowned.
Was that Gnoll…bobbing his head? Yes. He was.
And over there. Krshia had stopped talking to Erin and she was tapping her foot. To the beat.
“Are you happy are you satisfied? How long can you stand the heat?”
Ryoka looked around. Every Gnoll in the street had suddenly stopped, to the bewilderment of the other Drakes and few humans. Yes. They were all nodding to the sound of the music.
Shit.
Ryoka stopped the song. Instantly, the other Gnolls looked around at her reproachfully.
Son of a…they could hear the music even from across the street. Of course. Ryoka wanted to slap herself. They were like dogs. Their hearing was far better than a human’s.
Krshia nudged Erin and pointed to Ryoka’s iPhone.
“Mm. Your friend, she has something very interesting, yes?”
Ryoka scowled, tucked the iPhone back in her pocket, and crossed her arms. She glared. Erin winced, and whispered to Krshia.
“She’s sort of grumpy because she’s tired.”
Ryoka heard that, and it only made her mood worse. Especially because it was true. She looked at Erin pointedly.
“Time to go?”
She said it like a question, but it wasn’t. Erin hesitated, but Krshia had already gathered her order. Apologizing, Erin left.
“Hey. What was wrong with that? Did they hear your music? Why’s that a bad thing?”
“Because they could realize that I have technology not from this world. And—and—”
Ryoka shook her head. Something about conspiracy theories and uncovering the truth? She needed to lie down.
“Let’s just go. You said there was a bathhouse?”
“This way. But uh, your iPhone—”
“I’ll leave it. With my clothes.”
“Right.”
 
—-
 
The bath did do wonders for Ryoka, enough so that she managed to apologize and even add a little to Erin and Selys’ gossip. Not much though; Ryoka just lay back in the warm waters and enjoyed being.
Unfortunately, due to some cosmic fate, it seemed that Erin’s mood was inversely proportional to Ryoka’s own. The instant they got back to her inn and found that no new guests had come by the entire day, the normally upbeat innkeeper lost her good cheer.
Erin stared around her empty inn and threw up her hands in disgust.
“Is every inn, pub, and tavern selling hamburgers tonight?”
Selys nodded as she shook snow off of a travelling cloak.
“Pretty much. Even Peslas is selling them in his inn.”
Erin slumped against a table and put her head down on the smooth wood surface. Ryoka exchanged glances with Selys. She felt she should say something encouraging, as a friend. Something helpful.
But what?
‘Shit happens. Get over it?’
‘At least it’s not raining?’
‘We all die some day, every one of us?’
…No. Ryoka decided not to say anything. Selys patted Erin on the shoulder, and looked around the inn for help.
Pisces just blinked at her, but Olesm piped up. With dreadful forced cheerfulness, he held up a chessboard.
“How about we all play some chess? I’m sure that will make us all feel much better. Ceria and Pisces really like the game as well!”
Ryoka volunteered to play, and Selys was stuck cheering people on since she had no real interest or skill at chess. As it transpired, she and Olesm were better players than the two mages, so both Ryoka and Olesm took on Erin.
Unfortunately, that turned out to be a mistake. Good as they were, even they weren’t close to a match for Erin. She beat them in brutal one-sided matches and then sulked at a table.
Ryoka gave up. She didn’t know how to cheer people up—she barely managed to stay happy herself most of the time. She pulled out her iPhone and stared at it. Then she threw caution to the wind and showed it to Pisces again.
“Can you cast [Repair] on this?”
The mage’s eyes flicked over Ryoka’s iPhone with unconcealed interest and avarice.
“I do know the spell. May I ask what’s wrong with this, ah, device?”
“It’s running out of…it needs mana, I guess you could say. Look, can you fix it?”
“If I do…would you permit me to inspect this object for a few minutes?”
“No. That won’t be possible.”
“Well, if that’s the case…”
Pisces shrugged as if there was nothing he could do. Ryoka ground her teeth, but then Erin spoke up.
“Do it. Or I’ll throw this at you.”
Erin didn’t raise her head, but she was holding a fork. Pisces hesitated. He was clearly thinking of Erin’s uncanny skill at throwing objects. He sniffed.
“Very well. [Repair].”
This time her iPhone didn’t change noticeably, but the screen flickered for just a second. When Ryoka looked again, the battery was at 100%. Perfect.
Ryoka flicked to her songs, but then she noticed Erin was staring at her phone. Right. Erin had told her that she’d left her phone back in her home when she was teleported here.
The look in Erin’s eyes was pure longing. She pointed hesitantly at the iPhone in Ryoka’s hands.
“Can I see it?”
Ryoka hesitated. Normally, her response to anyone touching her iPhone was to lay hands on them in an unfriendly way. She never lent it to anyone. But Erin—Erin was different.
Reluctantly, Ryoka handed the iPhone over.
“Here.”
She couldn’t even say ‘be careful with it’, because it could be repaired with a single spell. But it made Ryoka’s insides twist with embarrassment as she realized Erin was going through her songs.
“Oh my god. You’ve got Pokémon on here? That’s awesome!”
Her cheeks lit up. Ryoka was tempted to snatch the iPhone back, but it was too late. She gritted her teeth.
“It was a phase. I put lot of songs on there as a kid and a teen. I don’t listen to them anymore.”
That was a flat-out lie, but Ryoka would be dead and rotting before she admitted to listening to some of the songs she had on her iPhone. She’d gone through a lot of phases she wasn’t proud of.
“Oh man. This is just—”
At least Erin was happy. Ryoka saw her face light up, and realized she should have given Erin the iPhone a long time ago. She’d taken it for granted and listened to the music sometimes before she slept or as she ran, but Erin had nothing from their world. Ryoka took a seat as Erin closed her eyes and smiled.
Ceria eyed the earbuds in Erin’s ears with interest. They were sports gear, which meant they could stick in the ears even when Ryoka was running over rough terrain. They didn’t leak much sound, but Ryoka saw the half-Elf’s head tilt and her ears twitch ever so slightly.
“That’s so odd.”
Pisces was listening too. He had one finger touching his earlobe, and Ryoka saw a glowing blue aura around the tip of his finger and ear. She scowled, but both mages seemed to be having trouble listening to the faint audio that was making Erin smile.
Olesm and Selys looked at the mages and at Erin with clear interest, but they could hear nothing. Olesm prodded Erin gently.
“What is it? Can I hear?”
Erin looked startled, but then she nodded.
“Oh yeah, sure. This thing has speakers, right Ryoka?”
“That’s not a good—”
Ryoka trailed off and gave up. Ceria had already seen it once anyways. And besides…
“Sure. Yeah. Go ahead.”
Erin pulled the headphones out of the jack and the iPhone immediately began playing. Ryoka heard “Hey There Delilah” playing quietly in the silence.
The four guests in the inn froze. They each reacted differently.
Ceria’s eyes went wide as she heard the strange music she had listened to once before. Memory flashed in her eyes, and her eyes filled with tears and she took a seat. Ceria closed her eyes and remembered.
Olesm stared at the iPhone, mouth open, showing rows of sharp teeth. He listened with innocent wonder and his tail slowly began to wag to the sound of the gentle beat.
Selys blinked a few times, and then she took a seat, listening hard to the lyrics and closing her eyes.
Pisces—he stared out the window at the fading light in the sky without saying a word. He brushed at his eyes as the song ended.
And Erin and Ryoka listened and forgot for a moment they were in this world. Both girls felt pricking at their eyes. Erin wiped hers with her sleeve, and Ryoka just shook her head.
“Is there a way to make it louder? The volume’s maxed out, but…”
Erin trailed off as she clicked through the settings. Ryoka didn’t have a good solution besides buying a pair of speakers, but Pisces reached for the iPhone.
“A simple problem. Allow me.”
He tapped the metallic casing of the iPhone and whispered a spell.
“[Amplify Sound].”
Suddenly, the iPhone was loud enough to fill the entire room. Erin jumped, and then grinned as she stared down at the iPhone.
“Whoa. That’s so much better than speakers.”
Ryoka stared at her phone, suddenly very interested.
“How long does that spell last?”
It might be a terrible idea to play music while running in dangerous spots, but on the open road…Pisces raised one hand upwards and shrugged.
“I may be able to prolong the spell for several days with sufficient remuneration.”
“I can learn that spell in less than a day.”
Ceria frowned at Pisces and he scowled at her, but Erin still focused on the iPhone. She put a hand on her chin, and then slapped her forehead loud enough to make everyone look at her in concern.
Erin was suddenly excited. She halted the current song and held the iPhone out to Pisces.
“How loud can you make this?”
“How loud would you like it to be?”
“Really loud. Super loud! Loud enough to be heard even in the city.”
Pisces nodded, and frowned as he adjusted the spell, whispering words too quiet to hear. Ryoka eyed her friend.
“Erin. What are you doing?”
Erin turned and grinned at Ryoka.
“Getting customers!”
When she hit the play button on the iPhone, the sound that emerged nearly blew out everyone’s eardrums. Erin clapped her hands over her ears, but she was grinning wildly.
“Perfect! Now you all stay here and I’ll go get some business!”
She ran out of the inn. Ryoka followed her, and saw Erin climbing up to the roof. She shouted at Erin, but the other girl didn’t stop. Erin stood on top of the roof, and opened her mouth.
 
“Hey! It’s music time! Let’s start with a classic!”
 
Ryoka clapped her ears to her head. Erin’s voice was loud! It had to be a Skill—it sounded like Erin was shouting into a megaphone. But then Erin touched the iPhone and Ryoka realized what she was about to do.
The drumbeats that started blasting through the air sounded like air cannons going off. But in a second Ryoka heard the guitar playing chords she knew by heart. Erin took a deep breath, and then she starting singing at the exact same time Kid Rock did.
Ryoka gaped at the ceiling as Erin began singing, perfectly matching the lyrics to the music. The only difference was that Erin changed the lyrics from boy to ‘girl’ and man to—a really fast ‘woman’, which Ryoka entirely approved of. Erin sang along with the song, projecting her voice out across the open plains and towards Liscor.
The sound pulsed through the inn, so loud that Ryoka could feel bass in her bones. She couldn’t wipe the grin off her face, especially when she heard Erin try to sing along with the female chorus.
 
“Whooaaaoh? Wooaaaoh!”
 
Erin belted out the rest of the song until the last note. Ryoka expected her to stop, but Erin just switched to the next song. And then Ryoka heard something that made her blood chill.
No.
Thundering drums. The sounds of jungle wildlife. A cinematic orchestra, straight from the movie trailer Ryoka had ripped the song from.
No. She didn’t. But she did. Erin had the iPhone on shuffle. Ryoka started towards the door, but it was too late.
 
“This one’s from Tarzan! How did the lyrics go? Wait, I remember! Here goes!”
 
Ryoka listened in half-pain, half-amazement as Erin sang along with the song. How the hell did she remember the lyrics? But now Ryoka could practically see Tarzan on the screen in front of her.
As the song ended, Erin shouted down at Ryoka in a slightly-less loud voice.
“Oh hey, you’ve got tons of Disney songs on here!”
Ryoka covered her eyes with one hand. But she couldn’t stop grinning, even so. She remembered the songs right out of her childhood. Erin clicked through the songs, and then Ryoka heard a familiar drumbeat. Erin listened with a grin to the sounds of characters from Mulan falling down, and then her voice echoed off the city walls.
God. She even remembered the parts that weren’t part of the song.
It was amazing. Erin wasn’t a great singer, but she sang far better than Ryoka ever could. Ryoka had taken lessons from a professional along with a bevy of other lessons from tutors her parents hired, but she didn’t like singing. But even though Erin’s breathing was out of synch and she sometimes sang an entire octave off, the passion she put in her songs made up for all of it.
Ryoka stood in the kitchen as Erin sang a “I’ll Make a Man Out of You” from Mulan, and then ad-libbed to the wordless “Circle of Life” song from Lion King. And like the animals from Pride Rock, her words were the herald to a flood.
They came out of the city in ones and twos at first, and then the few became a stream which became a flood of people. Drakes, Gnolls, and humans too, following the sound of music.
