“You—you want her back, you’ve got to pay for her.”
I stare at him incredulously. He can’t be serious. But oh, yes, he is. He pauses again, but he holds onto Ivolethe tightly as he looks at me.
“We all know you’ve got a lot. Well—give it over. And then I’ll let her go. Otherwise—”
He squeezes a little harder and Ivolethe cries out. My blood boils, but Persua’s all smiles now.
“That’s right! Just hand over your belt pouches—and your potions—and we’ll call it even. Okay?”
Those greedy bastards. But the Runner’s eyes are serious, and Ivolethe is in pain. What should I do? If I give them Teriarch’s gold coins—but Ivolethe—
I stare at Persua. I stare at the Runner. I stare at Ivolethe, and come to a swift decision.
“Fuck it. [Flashbang]!”
The world and sound itself explode into confusion and chaos. I closed my eyes, but the sound wave still hits me like a physical thing. My ears ring and go silent; but I’m already charging into the Runner, body-checking him to the floor.
There’s no time for thought or anything else. I reach for his flailing hands. I have to get Ivolethe free. Get her loose. Grab his arms. Break his bones. Bite his fingers off. I punch him repeatedly as I search for the small blue shape among the dancing spots in my vision. Where is she?
Nowhere. Gone. She’s free! I see a blue shape flying towards the door, and then someone strikes me from behind.
Persua is on top of me, fingers clawing, biting, kicking. She’s like a wildcat, and some of her friends try to batter me as well. I roll over, and pull out one of Octavia’s potions.
The pepper potion would be better as a spray. But one good toss still gets it on a lot of faces and eyes, including Persua’s. I shield my face and feel the hot liquid stinging as it reacts with my skin, but the screams are worth it. I stumble up and see Persua stumbling away from me, shrieking as she rubs at her eyes.
Something in me snaps. Her little insults, her tripping me, my crushed leg—and Ivolethe—all explode outwards in a fist that catches her on the cheek and sends her to the ground. Persua tries to get up, but I kick her down and then mount her as she flails and begin to punch.
Punch her. Hurt her. My ears are ringing, but now I hear the roaring of blood, and all that I want in this or any other world is to bash her face in. I hit and hit and hit, until something drags me back. I struggle, fighting, but whoever’s holding me is too strong.
The rage hammering every inch of me subsides after a while, and I stop struggling. That’s when I hear and see and think again, and realize I’m being held by two strong arms.
“Garia?”
I look around and see my friend, her nose bleeding furiously, holding me back as Persua lies on the floor. People are still shouting in pain—I see Runners clutching at their eyes and more raising their voices, deafened. Two people are with Persua, and then I see the girl herself lying on the ground.
Her face is—I only now begin to feel the pain in my hands. My fingers hurt terribly, and I feel small lacerations and bruising on my skin. I see the echoes of their impressions on Persua’s face.
It’s already swollen. I can barely see her features, and there’s blood. A lot of blood. I broke her nose, even parts of her face. She’s crying, and shaking, and the [Receptionist] holding the healing potion barely knows where to start. But as the swelling reduces a tiny bit, one of her eyes swivels towards me. And I hear her voice.
“You.”
She struggles, but the two women hold her down. Persua’s face is filled with blood and snot and tears and who knows what else. But her voice is intact. It’s a trembling mess of emotions; not a shriek, but a warbling, piercing whisper.
“I’ll kill you.”
I’m near enough to Persua that I can feel her spitting as her malformed lips form the words. Her eyes fix on me, wild, and the words pour forth, hatred in each syllable. Tears run through the blood on her face, but she still stares at me.
“I’ll kill you. I swear it. I’ll have you raped and killed. You’ll die screaming.”
“Ryoka—”
Garia tries to pull me back, and the [Receptionists] try to force us apart. But Persua thrashes and I refuse to move. She screams.
“I’ll kill you! You’ll die horribly! There won’t be pieces left of you! I’ll kill you and everyone you love, you—”
The [Receptionist] tries to jam the potion in her mouth, but Persua just spits out a broken tooth with the potion as she continues shouting at me.
There’s a crazy look in her eyes. Garia holds me back as I stare at Persua. She continues speaking, half-sobbing, half-cursing. There’s nothing I can say to her, nothing to reply with. So I just kick her in the stomach and watch her puke before Garia pulls me away.
 
—-
 
Two hours later, I stand outside in the cold snow. I barely feel it, even though I haven’t had any of Erin’s soup. I feel the cold air blowing my clothes and don’t care.
“Ivolethe.”
The faerie hovers in the air next to me, looking uncharacteristically serious. I’m dressed up, and she’s naked. But I feel like the colder one. My heart is very cold. Very still.
I slowly sit down in the snow, and the faerie flies down next to me. The snow is wet—I don’t care. I don’t have anywhere to be, and I can’t stand. Not right now.
After a while, the faerie speaks.
 
“‘Twas an unexpected encounter, was it not?”
 
I look at her. Ivolethe looks back.
“What the hell am I supposed to say to that?”
 
“I am not sure. But did it end how you expected?”
 
I laugh, shortly.
“What do you think? I’m banned from that Runner’s Guild—maybe all of them right now. They might press charges, or make me pay for what’s left of the building.”
Shortly after I left, the other Frost Faeries appeared. They crashed an avalanche of snow into the building. If it hadn’t been deserted—as it was, it destroyed nearly everything inside. The last I saw, the building was so full of snow that people were having to chip away at the compacted ice.
“What a mess.”
The short version of what went down is that Persua went to the best local Healer around to get treated for the injuries the potion couldn’t fix. The Runners scattered, mostly thanks to the other Frost Faeries pelting them with shards of ice, freezing them, and so on. I think the Guild staff would have liked to hold me accountable, but when they saw the faeries literally destroy the entire Guild in one go, they had second thoughts. So did the Watch, which is how I found myself politely asked to leave the city now rather than be kicked out.
I probably could have stayed. But I didn’t want to be anywhere near Persua, not even in the same city. I still remember the look in her eyes.
It’s not over. I’ve never seen anyone look like that, but I know without a doubt that she meant every word she said to me. Part of me wishes I’d gone back and taken my knife and stabbed her right there and then. She’s never going to forget. But I’m not a murderer.
No matter how close I got back there.
“What a mess. What a horrible, terrible…”
The faerie looks up at me. I stare down at her. In a way, this is all her fault. Persua would have left me alone if I’d just walked on. But I can’t hate her for what she did. It’s what I’d do for Erin, the exact same.
“From now on, I’m not taking you inside ever again. Got it?”
She nods.
 
“That is fair.”
 
I shiver. Now I’m feeling the cold again, but I stay seated, cross-legged.
“I’m just glad you’re okay. If that Runner or Persua had tried—would they have killed you?”
Another nod.
 
“Better that you had let them. If she had slain me, her death would have followed before the next moon rose in the sky.”
 
Chill from within, chill without. I stare at Ivolethe.
“Who would have killed her? The other faeries?”
She shakes her tiny head.
 
“Not my sisters, no. There are others among the Winter Court who move in matters of death. And they are far more terrible than we.”
 
I don’t want to know. I don’t. Ivolethe’s face—I don’t want to know. Some things about the fae terrify me.
“It’s better that you didn’t die.”
 
“Perhaps. But that girl—she swore a dire oath against you. Such things can only be resolved in blood.”
 
“You’re probably right.”
I know she is. But I can’t think about that now. I can’t, or I’ll have to choose between killing her now or—
“She’ll be a Courier. And I won’t see her.”
 
“Bah. That one would give up all for vengeance. Her blades will find you no matter how far apart ye are.”
 
“I guess I’ve just got to outrun her, then. Although she’s faster than I am now.”
 
“Mm.”
 
We sit in silence for a while longer. I bow my head. Ivolethe just looks at the still landscape.
“I was jealous of her, you know. Just a bit. I don’t like Skills and Classes but—I’m so slow and weak without them.”
Ivolethe looks up at me silently. I avert my gaze; look at the gray horizon as I try to explain.
“It’s always the same argument. I think I’m giving away something by leveling up. Or—or I’m compromising, taking the easy route to success without any effort. But there is effort required, and what’s the harm in doing what everyone else is doing? It’s only logical.”
More silence. Ivolethe just listens as I externalize my struggle and confess.
“But it’s hard. I want to be strong. Erin’s—she’s stronger than me in so many ways. But I thought that would be fine. I could do things my own way, become a Courier even—I had Octavia’s potions, and I can even do magic. But it turns out I can’t even do magic that well.”
Some snow blows off of the ground and into the air. I watch it whirl upwards and away.
“I can’t do magic. And I’ve hit my limit physically. I could—try altering my body, I guess. Teriarch mentioned that. But that’s cheating too. I just wish there was a way to be faster. Just faster. If I were faster, I’d be happy with the rest.”
 
“So what is it ye wish?”
 
Ivolethe turns to face me in the snow. I look down at her, and feel that same sense of envy.
“I wish I was better. Just…better.”
 
“‘Tis a tall wish. Even a King could not grant your request. Why not be content with your self as it is now? You are brave and quick; is there aught else you need?”
 
I know she’s right, but at the same time, she’s wrong. I shake my head and shiver.
“Who I am isn’t enough. I want to become more. Is that too much to ask?”
For a while Ivolethe studies me. Then she smiles, teeth flashing in the winter sunlight.
 
“It is. But mortals have always wished for such. That is why you spread like wildfire while we remain, timeless.”
 
She looks rueful and sad, and happy at the same time, like an adult watching a child play. My heart aches.
“I don’t know what to do. What would you do, in my place, Ivolethe?”
She looks at me from head to toe.
 
“What is it you’ve dreamed of, Ryoka Griffin? What do you wish for with all your heart?”
 
It’s an important question, but I know the answer in a second. I just have to think back to the day I started running. I speak my reply to her and the cold.
“I always wanted to run like the wind. I felt it once, when you led me and Mrsha away from the Goblin army.”
I remember the rushing air behind me, and the sense of weightlessness I felt. Each step was forever, and I watched the world fly past me. For a second I was wind, and I lived my dream.
 
“Well then, I would search for that. I would seek to run as the wind, for that is my dream. If I did not chase such things, I would not be mortal, no?”
 
“How?”
I have to laugh.
“Even a Courier couldn’t run like that. At least, not Val or Hawk. And certainly not without levels. How would I ever get that fast, when I can’t even outrun Persua?”
Ivolethe spreads two tiny hands.
 
“We are friends, are we not? What do friends do but help each other?”
 
She grins at me again, and I pause.
“What? How could you help?”
 
“You want to study magic? To become better? I told you once; you will not find what you look for in a book. But perhaps it is because ye haven’t seen what magic truly is.”
 
I know what she’s hinting at. But I have to hear it out loud.
“What are you suggesting?”
Slowly, Ivolethe flies upwards until she sits in the air in front of me. She looks me in the eye, still smiling.
 
“I’ll teach you the ways of the fae, not the tricks mortals use. I will teach you to listen to the wind and run like we do. That is what a friend does for a poor mortal who wishes to be better than she is.”
 
My heart is thundering. My breath catches in my throat.
“Can you do that? Isn’t it against the rules?”
 
“No one has made rules against this. No one has been mad enough to try. But for you, friend, I would try. It’s worth a shot, eh?”
 
I look at her. Ivolethe grins at me, a tiny, mad faerie. My friend. I stare back at her, a shivering, depressed Human girl who dreams of flying. Slowly, I offer her a hand.
“If you’d be crazy enough to try it, I’d be forever in your debt.”
Ivolethe wrinkles her face in disgust and slaps away my hand.
 
“Bah. Do not make such promises so lightly. Nae, I offer you this: I will try to teach you to run like the wind for one thing.”
 
“Name it.”
 
“Friendship.”
 
She offers me a tiny hand. I don’t hesitate. I reach out, and her grip is like melting ice, winter’s thaw, the moment of tiny warmth in the frozen heart of the world. We shake, and it is done.
A faerie’s bargain. A friend’s promise. A child’s dream.
The wind blows, and my heart races off with it.
To run like the wind.
