Reynold didn’t think of that. If he did, surely, it had to be in the context that all that he had lost, or seen lost…had to matter. That Magnolia Reinhart had a worthy dream. If not? Then it was for nothing.
He was at least important enough now to have knowledge second only to Ressa herself. Reynold suspected it was Magnolia and Ressa’s way of repaying his loyalty. For instance…he stared at the two Dragons.
Did Teriarch have a sweet tooth? He didn’t know, because the half-Elf had visited sporadically, and before Reynold was employed as well. And…well, because Magnolia Reinhart made you not notice even a [Glutton]’s appetite for sugar.
Incidentally, she was currently engaged in a quiet screaming match with Lyonette du Marquin, in a [Silenced] corner of the ballroom. Reynold saw Wall Lord Ilvriss being harangued by his sister and mother for similar explanations. He was impressed; the Drake calmly thrust his uncle in the way of his family, and ran for it.
Now there’s a fellow who’s led a battlefield rear action more than once. Commendably fast retreat. No hesitation.
Reynold saw Ilvriss pass by the two Dragons. Now here was his chance to observe, and Reynold had to own that, scouting for enemy [Assassins] and [Spies] as he was doing even now, despite that fellow from Manus, and Magnolia’s own security cordon, he couldn’t take his eyes off the Dragons.
They fascinated him, but he was careful not to give away that he was watching. The one with blue scales—Rafaema—and the one with brown-green, Cire? Different! She was taller, older, and more snappy, and he was a happy-go-lucky scamp. But that wasn’t the fascinating thing.
It was how they reacted to stress. Cire was glued to the First Gardener, checking on Mivifa, going back to Rafaema, peering at Lyonette—making sure everyone he knew was alright. By contrast? Once she’d come down, out of the rain and tremendous hole in the clouds she’d created, Rafaema had taken stock of the situation, then marched back to the buffet table.
She was currently clearing out every dessert with a hint of sugar in it, and this being Magnolia’s party, there was a lot. Even so…Reynold eyed Rafaema.
Lady Reinhart had a secret to her sugar consumption. It didn’t touch her, which was how she managed to eat so much without her heart stopping. The Lightning Dragon? She just ate it, and Magnolia Reinhart herself would have applauded anyone who could eat…
“Five…six…pounds of ice cream.”
Reynold shook his head. Extraordinary. And it wasn’t like that was her only option. Rafaema was going for the sweets, and her minders looked worried she’d puke. But then, the one called Ferris had taken a tremendous beating and was recovering.
“Reynold.”
The [Butler] didn’t jump. But he had a hand on his longsword, even though only Ressa could have crept up on him like that. He nodded to her as she appeared. The [Maid] turned to Reynold, inquisitive.
“All clear?”
He nodded.
“No more killers I could find. Numbers 1-7 are on patrol.”
“Naturally.”
There had been a bad opening in their security, which allowed the criminal mob to get at Miss Lyonette. They’d pulled their attention back to watch Magnolia, and the only people on guard-duty had been forced to choose between the dignitaries and Lyonette.
“Is it simply Oteslia’s underworld?”
Reynold murmured, covering his lips, on the pretense of smoothing his mustache. Ressa grimaced.
“For a measure of ‘simply’? They have Faces. I want you to post more watchers on Lyonette’s residence.”
“Watchers or ready to intervene? I must say, her guardians have done a rather poor job so far.”
By which, Reynold meant Saliss of Lights, the Gentlemen Callers, and, to some extent, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Ressa growled.
“They’re not professionals.”
She meant as they were. Reynold nodded.
“And are we launching a counter-offensive?”
“No.”
“But…”
Ressa folded her arms. She was unhappy, but she twisted a ring and Reynold caught a thought on the linked band on each of their fingers.
“It’s the damned Dragon. Oteslia’s afraid to move on them because whoever’s in charge clearly knows. Magnolia does not want to reveal she knows or get entangled in it. Even the First Gardener would slit all our throats if she suspected we knew.”
“Ah.”
Now that complicated things. Reynold grimaced.
“But we have…our Grand Magus. Surely that might persuade them…?”
“If he was—normal—I’m sure that would be an option.”
“Aha.”
Reynold wanted to say something un-butler-y. It was a bad situation all around. He didn’t know how far from ‘normal’ Grand Magus Eldavin was behaving, but given that Magnolia and Ressa were worried…
“Then we’re collecting signatures? Stay on plan and leave for Wistram as soon as possible?”
“…Almost. If we leave, we’ll have to avoid Zeres. The Velistrane will pick us up when that occurs.”
“Not myself via carriage?”
It seemed to Reynold they could travel on land just as fast north to a safe harbor, but Ressa elaborated.
“No. That is because you will head north when we depart Oteslia. At that time, you will go via carriage to the ancestral manor. And you will collect a few household trinkets.”
They had been strolling left as they walked, circumnavigating the buzzing Oteslian ballroom, all eyes on Lyonette or the golden [Knights] who had come and knelt towards her, or looking at her ring. Reynold nearly slammed into a decorative pillar.
“A few household…?”
He turned a shade paler, despite himself. Ressa smiled thinly.
“Magnolia has forgotten some of her travel supplies. We will need them for where we’re heading next.”
If you didn’t know what they were talking about, it sounded perfectly innocuous. If you saw Reynold’s face, you’d suspect it was not.
If you were Reynold? You would have understood that, while Magnolia Reinhart and Ressa headed for the Reinharts’ capital warship, he would run a fetch errand and meet them at sea, no doubt.
…Carrying every doomsday and armageddon-class artifact he could tear out of Regis Reinhart’s possession.
There was a contingency. Reynold knew what could be traded to make the ghost give up items, as well as Magnolia claiming her birthright. But that kind of weaponry was a step up from the items Magnolia had requested to use against the Goblin Lord. Just what did she intend to do when she met Grand Magus Eldavin?
Even Ressa didn’t know. But she laid one more piece of information on Reynold.
“That’s just a bit of servant gossip. Keep it in mind when we leave.”
“…Naturally, Miss Ressa. The other?”
“Prepare yourself for a trip. Lady Reinhart has, in her infinite wisdom, decided to split some of her gifts that are Oteslia-bound. She is going to get every signatory she can before leaving. You are going to present some gifts to the Gnolls.”
Reynold’s head snapped up.
“But Zeres’ army is outside. I can’t imagine they’ll be keen to let Lady Reinhart leave, the statement we made at the gates or not! Ressa, I can’t guarantee her safety.”
Ressa gave Reynold a happy, sympathetic smile. And that chilled him to the bone worse than any scowl.
“No. Which is why she won’t be going.”
She patted him on the shoulder. Reynold took a moment to let that sink in. He pressed some cool fingers to his brow.
“About my vacation…”
“After this. Bonuses, as well.”
“Very good, Miss Ressa. Might I request a change in shifts?”
“Why?”
“I have the pressing need to find a drink.”
Ressa thought about it.
“Granted.”
The [Butler] nodded smartly, gave her a bow, and stepped lively over to the nearest available drinks. No good, cheap beer or ale. But the fancy stuff did it, and maybe they were serving Firebreath Whiskey, an impropriety to the occasion or not?
He found something almost as good; Hoshill Champagne. Now, your average champagne was slightly less alcoholic than wine. Of course, they also served it in tiny glasses. But Hoshill Champagne was a particular type of the stuff that was made from grapes. All kinds of grapes, but grown on Hoshill.
It was a place in Izril with higher-than-average gravity. Reynold didn’t know the details. Someone had been mucking around with physics, as usual. The end result was a particular kind of grape that took to a stronger, more concentrated drink, even after fermentation.
Strong stuff, which they served in what Reynold had always thought of as a noble’s version of a shot glass. It was a fluted, fancy, thin glass, practically pencil-wide and almost as long.
He calmly walked around the table, to where one of the staff was serving drinks.
“Excuse me, Miss. Would you mind if I…?”
She recognized him as being in the employ of the caterer, and nodded.
“Of course. Do you need some drinks?”
She offered the tray, which had little holsters to prevent the glasses from tilting. Reynold adjusted his suit lapels.
“I shall requisition what is needed, thank you very much.”
She nodded. The Drake watched as Reynold carefully picked out an appropriate vessel. Which was the biggest cup he could find. Then he expertly popped the cork on another bottle, filled the entire cup up to the brim, and took it down.
Her mouth opened wide with awe. Reynold sighed. Now that hit you well and truly proper. One of the other guests, none other than Wall Lord Aldonss of Manus, stared at Reynold. He checked his tiny glass, then tried to copy the [Butler]. He took down two mouthfuls of the Hoshill Champagne and realized he’d made a mistake when the world tilted forty five degrees. Reynold just poured himself a second cup.
Someone else drinking hard was also causing a scene. Two rather shabby fellows were clinking cups of wine. They would have fit in, normally…except that both had scorched clothing, dried blood all over their scales and fur, and they had just been seen laying waste to everyone within reach.
“Not today, then, Ratici. We nearly died.”
“Nearly, Wilovan, nearly. Here’s to nearly. Was that the aforementioned boon I saw on you?”
“Ratici, it was.”
“What did it feel like?”
Reynold’s head turned in time to see a Gnoll with a battered top-hat exhale. Wilovan looked at Ratici gravely.
“It felt like I was a…it was like being filled up with light and…when I saw that ring glowing, I thought—”
He hesitated, and took a drink. Then he shook his head and spoke, solemnly.
“…It felt like I was a decent man. With a hat made of gold, and a knighthood.”
“All that.”
The Drake looked wistful and envious. Wilovan touched his chest, as if he could still feel it.
“Humbling.”
“Do you think you’ll level, then, Wilovan? It seems to me a fellow might hope for a bit of good news ere he lies down his head.”
“Ah, Ratici, that would be asking. That would…but a fellow does hope.”
“Excuse me.”
At this point Reynold had to break in. The two Gentlemen Callers turned, and gave Reynold a supercilious look. He saw them recognize him. On two levels.
First, as two men who saw someone else who was dangerous. And Reynold had to own—he wasn’t sure if he was the kind of danger they were. His magical legs and recent levels…well, he’d dare any group if he was sitting on the pink carriage’s driver seat.
But the second way they recognized him was, more importantly, as another man with the ability to dress himself. They gave his suit a nod. He gave their battle-worn ensembles the same. Ratici went to adjust his vest.
“Good day to you, sir. I hope we’re not disturbing the environs, such as it were? Been a rough day.”
“Not at all, gentlemen. Allow me to welcome you to Lady Reinhart’s gathering, in the name of Lady Reinhart herself.”
The two exchanged a glance. Ratici coughed into a fist.
“That’s a tall thing for a fellow to offer, sir. We’d be happy, but I’m not sure that’s yours to give.”
Reynold gestured at his garb.
“I am, in fact, Lady Reinhart’s personal [Butler] and driver. I can happily assure you that you two are welcome. Especially in light of you keeping Miss Lyonette alive. Believe me, Lady Reinhart respects acts like that.”
They all looked over to where Magnolia Reinhart and Lyonette were still arguing. By now, Ressa had included a visual filter, but Reynold, and, he suspected, Ratici at least could see right through it. Magnolia was splashing tea at Lyonette, and the [Princess] was pointing at the Thronebearers, clearly shouting ‘get rid of them!’.
“Well, thank you, sir.”
Wilovan broke the silence and raised his wine glass. Only then did he see Reynold was drinking.
“Is it customary for the help to drink? Not that we’d tell, sir.”
“I’m actually off-duty. Can I interest either of you two gentlemen in a fine Hoshill Champagne?”
“I’ve never really tried the stuff myself. I can’t say I’m in the mood for social drinking.”
“Ah, then you will be pleased to note Wall Lord Aldonss’ condition, Mister Ratici. Two gulps.”
Reynold expertly poured two full cups, having to crack open a second bottle as he did. Ratici saw the Wall Lord walking sideways, bumping into people.
“Aldonss? Aldonss, what’s the matter?”
Makhir hurried over, breaking off his surveillance of Rafaema as Ferris composed a [Message] back to the screaming High Command of their mutual city. The Drake was shaking his head.
“I can’t stop. I can’t stop. Everything’s sliding! Is the world on a slant or just me?”
Makhir seized Aldonss. The Drake breathed a sigh of relief as he stopped and began to right himself. Just a loss of equilibrium. He’d really thought for a second…
Hunt Commander Makhir’s eyes widened. Then he looked down and saw both himself and Aldonss sliding down the ballroom floor, despite standing perfectly upright.
Wilovan and Ratici looked at Reynold. The [Combat Butler] offered them a cup.
“Inebriation changes your gravity, sirs. Just don’t drink enough that you pass out.”
“Now this seems like a fellow who knows his drink.”
The two abandoned their wines and took a gulp. It went down hard and stung, but that was what you wanted. All three sighed. Then Reynold nodded.
“Gentlemen Callers?”
They stiffened. Both nearly went for their weapons, but Reynold glanced at them.
“I am in Lady Reinhart’s employ.”
“Ah. The Flower Lady.”
Wilovan murmured, relaxing slightly. Reynold nodded.
“I never did foray into it before becoming a [Butler]. But I am from the north.”
“Ah, then sir, you have us at a disadvantage, knowing our names and all. To whom are we speaking?”
“Do pardon me, gentlemen. Reynold, [Butler], at your service. Charmed to meet you.”
He gave both a firm handshake. Ratici and Wilovan smiled, and Reynold managed one himself.
