“The first way to make a staff trigger and release a [Grand Glowball], or whatever, is to make it so that when you throw five [Glowball]s into the staff in five Script Seconds, the expansion of area of effect caused by the imbued spellwork’s existence will trigger a release of the imbued spellwork.

“The second, much better way to make a staff of [Grand Glowball]s, is to make the triggering mechanism a different rune system, that can link to and trigger the main rune system via the expansion of affected area effect. In this way, you can actually stick many, many more [Glowball]s into the [Glowball] rune system, and they can lay dormant until the triggering rune is flipped. With a well-enough made system, you could soak a staff with a thousand [Glowball]s, and through utilizing ten different triggering systems, you could have a staff that triggers up to ten times in one hour, or, with a much more complicated system, you can have a staff that triggers once every other Script Second.

“The first method is safer, but opportunity costs are terrible when you’re in the moment, and everything you do matters. It’s fine when you have all the mana and time you want, but what you need is power. This is often not the case, though, since mana and time are usually much more important than power.

“The second method is for when you can prepare ahead of time, and then unload your spellwork when you need to. The second method is the preferred methodology, since it allows you to spend mana and time when you have extras of both. Either formation can create artifacts, but I prefer the second formation, because of stated reasons. This is the methodology that I carved into the staff of [Flying Scorchballs].

“That particular staff is rated for a million mana worth of [Flying Scorchball]s, which is about 4000 casts. Releasing the first, and permanent scorchball is necessary to release all the rest, and it can be released once per half hour, for 10 mana a pop, with the trigger based on [Force Bolt], which acts as initial destination/target for the [Flying Scorchball]. More scorchballs can be released for 10 mana per ball, with a max of five out at any one time, each of those extras circling around the main ball.

“There’s a third storage and triggering method that is rarely used, but we will talk about it if only to acknowledge it, for this third method is far beyond the skills of most Rune Smiths. This third method is used at the Bastion Down Below, where we have canisters of [Fireball] that we can fill up off-site, and then, during a time of trouble, we stick the canisters into the cannons. One hit of the triggering runes will discharge the cannon, firing off a [Grand Fireball] that is almost a Super Large Area spell.

“I’m going to teach you the first two methods, because the triggering mechanism is more delicate than the main mechanism, and works on an arcane understanding of runes.”

For a long moment, Erick was reminded of how Darabella had mentioned that runework was sort of like [Renew]. Now that she spoke of ‘triggering mechanisms’ and ‘canisters filled off-site’, Erick believed her. He said, “So you really can take a dozen [Fireball]s cast by a dozen different people, throw them in a canister, save it for a later day, and then fire off all that spellwork at once, when needed?”

“Very much, yes. But we’ll work on [Glowball] today.” Darabella smiled, happy that she had been fully understood, as she added, “A flash of light is much easier to recover from than a room full of flames!”

“But what about the fact that magic from different people doesn’t like to mix?” Erick asked, “That cooperative casting is a big hurdle to overcome when dealing with magic cast by many separate people?”

“Oh? We mostly dodge that problem through the use of runes.” Darabella said, “Proper runework will force the spells cast into them to adhere to certain shapes. Like…” She paused in thought. She said, “Imagine instead of carving runes, you’re carving a hole into a sheet of metal of a certain shape. Imagine punching a four-point star into a sheet of metal. This shape defines the shape of the spells that can be accepted by the metal. Now, with everyone else, they all cast their ‘star magic’ of different shapes. You got your bulbous stars, or five-point stars, or three-point stars. But the rune does not move, while the magics of people are mutable. So when a caster shoves their star into the star-shaped hole, the caster’s star either bends to fit the shape, but with loss of power, or it doesn’t fit at all.

“I believe I mentioned that some people could not contribute to the [Light Ward]s of Enduring Forge? Or to any of the other spells in the runic web, for that matter.” Darabella said, “This is the ‘cooperative casting’ problem; most people can shove their spells into the proper slots, but with a bit of loss, but some people cannot fit their spellwork into the system at all.

“This is also why I have the Class Ability of Greater Shifting Runes. It’s not so useful for the runic web of a city, but for artisanal weapons, used by the specific people they’re made for, this allows the runes I scribe to shift to better fit the spellwork shoved into them.”

“… Oh.” Erick was struck by the idea of [Renew] again, and questions spilled out of him, “Could anyone shove any amount of mana into a fixed rune and have the magic described by that rune function as written? What about a filtering system for mana, so that any input could be transformed into the appropriate output? Could I make a runic web that allowed people to shove in any amount of mana they wanted, and the outcome would be a [Prismatic Ward] sized to the runic web?”

Because that would solve the problem of town defense; such a solution could be easily sized to any city and population.

… But it probably didn’t work like that, and as Darabella took a little while to consider her response, Erick realized that it very much didn’t work like that.

“Mostly no. Technically yes.” Darabella said, “Such a working is possible, and people have been trying to do it for a long time with some success, but this is the problem of shoving the wrong magic into a runic web. For small systems, you simply get odd effects, but for large systems, you end up with nothing. We do have a few successful examples of what you theorize, though. Those successes are locked up in vaults in the noble district. I have seen several of them, but mostly… The problem is mana conversion is very, very costly. For a thousand mana input, for such a conversion, you might get a single mana of properly aligned output.”

Erick breathed out slowly and with great deliberation as the weight of Darabella’s words took hold. If he could refine a process that had already proven possible, then…

That would be [Renew].

Thinking about it now, such a spell would probably look like a donor taking their mana and making it manifold and —for lack of a better classification at the moment— ‘bouncy’ or ‘flexible’, or something like that. The mana would have to be stable enough to stick together through the paring-down process that seemed to occur when it went through a runic web, through a bunch of molding runes, and then entered the final casting runes, taking on the exact shape it needed to take before it was ‘shoved into the star-shaped slot’, as Darabella put it.

He might be wildly off-base with all of that, though.

But according to his own Undertow experiments, it was certainly possible to Drain a person’s mana and use that mana in a zero-loss manner to bolster the Undertow spell. Therefore, it should be possible for a sufficiently advanced runic system to be able to accept raw, donated mana. And if not, then Erick could just make a runic web with an Undertow spell inside of it that could then do most of the required ‘molding’ work.

Erick said, “So this is all really amazing. I’m glad I came here to learn this.”

Darabella grinned, showing off pearly teeth. “Me too! So let’s work on a staff of [Glowball]s— Ah. Wait. Uh. I have a few adamantine pieces to rune today. I think your daughter’s sword and your other guard’s armor are among them?” She glanced up, and up, at Teressa, then turned back to Erick, saying, “Yup. Your other guard’s armor. The smaller one.”

Teressa grinned in the corner of the room, saying nothing.

Darabella said, “Want to see me rune those items? Then I can answer all your questions about those and then we can make the staff of [Glowball]s; All of these lessons work well together.”

Erick said, “I would be delighted to see all of that, and then, if you have any recommendations for any reading, then I would be honored to know those recommendations, too. I can get out of your space after that, since I know you must be busy.”

“No no!” Darabella had a controlled panic, then she calmed, saying, “You don’t have to go that fast! But… Reading? Eh…” Darabella said, “Yeah, we have some books… Nothing published like the Arcanaeum Consortium publishes them, but we do have our own logbooks of runes and diagrams and all that.” She said to him, “Anyway. It’ll take twenty minutes to do your daughter’s and your guard’s items, and then we can move on? Sounds good? We can take all the time we need, or want, Erick.”

Erick smiled. “Sounds great.”

“Then let me set up some stuff…”

Darabella told Erick what she was doing as she went to the various wooden crates sitting to the side of the room. With a flick of her wooden knife, she popped open the crate labeled for ‘Jane Flatt’. With a quick dig into the woodchips inside, she retrieved the weapon. Jane’s black sword was a weighty thing of 6.5 kilos of solid adamantium, hilt and all, with a blade a meter in length, and a 30 centimeter hilt. It was single-edged and straight, with a straight-back tip and no crossguard at all. It was meant to be able to fly and pierce into then cleave out of an enemy, and it seemed rather capable of doing that, looking much like a weaponized length of rebar, and not much like a proper sword at all. Still, it was what Jane had wanted; a bit bigger than a normal sword for her size frame, and heavily focused on cutting power. Packed away in the box was a little removable crossguard, too, which could slide onto the blade and click into place, but for now, the removable hilt remained off of the weapon.

The weapon itself already had nascent grooves, pre-carved, that would accept the main [Flying Weapon] runes that Darabella was to imbue. Darabella would be putting a bunch more smaller, refining runes into the entire piece, where she felt like it, but those smaller control runes had not been pre-carved.

Working on adamantium after it was allowed to cool was a large problem, though, and carving runes was no exception. Darabella had a solution to that, though. She brought the sword over to the white stone table and locked it into place in the center, then she went to the manasphere controls at the side of the room. Those controls connected to the surrounding wall, and the adamantium spheres that rested upon that wall.

“You might feel a tingling in the air; that’s normal!” Darabella said, as she touched off some complicated shifting of the controls, sending bright copper glows into the workings.

Two stories down and floating on the wall around the whole tower, meter-wide adamantium spheres began to softly glow with a burnished-copper light, like the sea at sunset; the color of Darabella’s mana. Those orbs rotated slightly, aligning ‘properly’, whatever that meant; whatever was happening out there was too far out of Erick’s expertise to understand. All he truly knew was that, yes, the air did start to tingle, and his mana sense dropped to maybe half of its original distance. Darabella was letting her Domain out to play.

Darabella said, “Step back, please. Beyond the black line in the floor.”

Erick did so, stepping a good two meters away to leave Darabella as the only one in the room near the stone table, near the sword. This was fine, as Erick’s Perception, remaining mana sense, and his good eyesight was more than enough to see the smallest details that she might carve into Jane’s sword.

“When I pick up my actual enchanting blade, please do not talk to me, or disturb my creation. We can talk after I put my tools back into their box.”

Erick nodded, saying nothing. He watched.

Darabella looked to him, and seeing compliance, she nodded, too. Then she closed her eyes.

The manasphere tingled. The world seemed to highlight with color and sensation as Darabella opened her hands and relaxed, dropping her wooden knife as she metaphysically let her hair down. Her Domain blossomed outward, highlighting the world near her in fractured rainbows. And then she opened her eyes, and glared upon her task. Her and the sword; those were the only two things in the entire world at the moment. She smiled a cutting smile as her eyes focused her dissecting sight upon the length of Jane’s future weapon.

And then she breathed out, and she changed.

Gone was all frivolity, and uncertainty. Here now was a woman who could cut the world in half and felt no sympathy for its survivors. Erick almost took another half step back. Teressa went on edge, but hers was a weak thing compared to Darabella’s; a butter knife compared to metaphysical molecular wire.

Darabella saw the sword. She touched the bladed tip with a finger. The black adamantium shifted to white, and grey, and every monochrome color in between black and radiance. She pulled her finger back, and smiled a predatory grin as the sword calmed down to dull illusions.

With a deft flick, she opened a small compartment on the side of the white stone table, exposing a black adamantium knife that seemed ancient with power. And then the knife was in her hands; she had not moved to pick it up, and it had not flown to her grip. The knife was simply where it was supposed to be; in her grip.

Together, the Rune Smith and her knife became one complete entity of cutting horizons. Darabella’s edges became cut-glass rainbows, while her hand became a monochromatic dance of light and shadows, narrowed to a single, glorious point.

Darabella and Jane’s sword were still the only two things of notice in the entire room, but while one was perfect in her delineation, the other was a poor facsimile of a Truth. So Darabella worked on fixing that discrepancy of what was, turning it into what should be.

She carved runes of power into one side of the black blade, like the world’s most perfect calligrapher, her arms forever steady, her hands never not where they were supposed to be, her knife always carving away exactly what it was meant to carve. She revealed the jewel underneath a drab exterior.

