[Flying Striker] appeared out of the deep grooves of the weapon. The sword creator’s original wording was completely obliterated by Darabella’s, as she shaped her perfect version of the world with her impeccable runes.

Then she added more designs, smaller than the original one, and quickly emplaced here and there as only a master Rune Smith knew how to do, flipping the sword over with the controls on the table as she needed. ‘Pierce’ went into the three sides of the weapon, near the tip. A hundred ‘Cut’s, in tiny, almost imperceptible Ancient Script, went down the length of fuller, near the edge, first on one side, and then on the other. A bevy of ‘Control’ and ‘Solid’ and ‘Swift’ and a bunch of other Ancient Script runes of which Darabella knew how to use, but which she had not explained to Erick, circled the hilt, transforming the solid surface into a grippable surface with spiraling, tiny words.

And then even more runes went into the weapon. A particularly strong-looking series of six runes circled around the base of the hilt; ‘Fire’, ‘Air’, ‘Light’, ‘Water’, ‘Stone’, ‘Shadow’. Followed by ‘Prismatic’ placed directly in a location of power directly on the end of the hilt itself.

A few more stray runes went into the working here and there, and then Darabella switched from carving runes to producing artistic swirls and flows, surreptitiously joining runes to each other in a flowing manner which Erick only sort of understood because he knew Jane’s desired outcome. Everything else he saw was easily understandable from there, for Jane wanted a sword that would work with every single Elemental Body she had, and she had all of them. The sword would let her borrow the adamantium’s indelible strength whenever she was air, or light, or prismatic, or anything else.

Darabella pulled back from the sword, her eyes scouring the weapon for faults and finding none.

Then she went back in, and with one final touch, ran her monochrome horizon across the edge at a shallow angle, imparting a small token of her own severe edge to the sword. And then she had the stone table flip the weapon over and she sharpened the other side.

Darabella pulled back and eyed her work, and was satisfied. She was done. She slipped her adamantium rune dagger back into the slot in the side of the stone table, and closed that drawer. The world seemed to linger on the edge of severity for one long moment, and then it was over. Darabella’s horizons vanished.

She sighed, as though she was picking her burdens back up, and perhaps she was, for she tiredly went over to the control mechanisms of the adamantium orbs, and flipped a few gears. The air calmed.

The moment of magic had passed.

Darabella smiled softly, breathing deep, and said, “You can talk now, and approach the table.” She walked back to the table with the sword, her exhaustion rapidly fading as she asked, “What do you think?”

“That. Was. Amazing!” Erick stepped to the weapon, saying, “That’s a heck of a lot more complicated than I would have thought!”

“Oh yeah.” Darabella said, “I like to do more than is necessary, than to find out after the fact I have not done enough, since Shifting Runes will allow for gradual optimization of all runic structures, and your daughter’s request was a lot more complicated than normal.” She gestured to the sword. “So let’s go over this. Here you have…”

They spoke for a good twenty minutes on the intricacies of the runic structure, going over the flow of the main runes, as well as the influencing runes which would bring about specific effects. Those influencing runes, the ‘cut’s and the ‘control’s, were new to Erick.

“I’m surprised that you got the edge so straight when you sharpened it, too.” Erick said, “That’s a master’s skill in itself.”

Darabella blushed as she smiled, her cheeks dimpling. “When you’ve sharpened as many swords as I have, then this much is expected.”

“I can see that, I suppose.” Erick asked, “How do you test it to see if it’s an artifact or not?” He smirked. “Am I going to have to pay the artifact price?”

Darabella blushed even more, laughing a little. “Even if it is an artifact, that’s fine. Don’t worry about that. But I don’t think it is; I didn’t feel the usual pull when I make an artifact. But if it should happen to turn into an artifact through use? Then that’s your good fortune— or your daughter’s I suppose. That happens sometimes.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Okay.”

Darabella nodded, and went right along, saying, “But about the testing… Your daughter will have to use the weapon for a while, cycling through all of her Elemental Bodies as she does. She’ll have about a week of experimentation and tempering before my Greater Shifting Runes fades, so she’ll have to work the weapon as hard as she can during that time.”

“She’ll be thrilled, I am sure.”

Darabella asked, “Ready for your guard’s armor? This one should be easier.”

“Yes, please.” Erick said, “It’s amazing watching you work.”

Darabella gave a few small giggles as she picked the weapon off of the table and brought it back to the box, where she stuffed it back into the woodchips and closed the lid. Then she moved that box aside and grabbed the box with Poi’s armor set.

Poi’s runework required the adamantium orbs outside to be in a different configuration than they had been for the sword, bringing a tempered solidity to the air instead of an amplification of horizons, which was only a part of the difference of enacting this particular runework. The most major difference of this job, though, was the inclusion of joining runes between every single separate piece of armor, to allow Poi’s [Weightless Armor of Silent Reflections] spell to bridge the air gaps between armor pieces, ensuring that his spellwork imbued the entire shiny black thing, from the helmet, to the gauntlets, to the greaves, and everything between. Once it was fully imbued, it should turn fully silver, too; Poi would not be walking around in black armor in Spur, no way.

Other than that, the armor’s carving was a rather simple runic map that mostly took place on the interior of the breastplate.

When that was over, Darabella shifted the adamantium orbs to a neutral position, explaining how they were only necessary when carving adamantium, to make the impossibly hard metal more pliant to her touch.

They moved on to mage staff creation, as Darabella plucked an unadorned steel staff out of a box in another room. It was a simple four-sided thing that was thicker on one end and tapered to a flat bottom on the other; it was to be the staff of [Glowball]s.

After twenty minutes of Darabella carving into the steel staff with her wooden dagger, explaining everything she was putting into the working, the staff was done. Erick didn’t have the spell [Glowball] himself, but after Darabella explained what the spell was, exactly, Erick had little difficulty flowing mana through [Ward], but for lightwards, and [Force Bomb], to make the necessary spell. He showed off his own skills with making spells, and Darabella seemed to find that interesting too, in her own way.

The spell [Glowball] was rather unimpressive, but Erick supposed that it would be useful for conjuring a light into hostile hordes.

Glowball, instant, long range, 75 mana

Conjure a quick ball of mana that unfolds into a large light upon striking a surface. The light lasts for 24 hours.

After that, Erick could have stuck around for more lessons, but he saw the work piling up downstairs. It was time to go.

“Thank you, so much, Darabella.” Erick said, “This has been very enlightening.”

“I’ve had fun, too!” Darabella smiled brightly, almost going to ask him something, but she stopped and turned away. She softly said, “Thanks for coming by.”

Erick latched on to the opportunity, saying, “They’re holding a banquet or something in a few days at the noble district if I have that right. Would you like to go with me?”

Darabella brightened, but a shadow crossed her eyes. After a moment, Darabella said, “Yes. I would love to.”

Erick mentally took his paranoia out back and shot it in the head, and then he put on a happy face and said, “Then I will pick you up at the appropriate time… Wherever your home may be? Or from here?”

With a tight smile, Darabella asked, “Uh? Sure? I. Uh. Live down on Steel Street, across from the Church of Forgotten Light— Ah. Ha ha? You don’t really need directions though. You could find me wherever I went?”

Darabella’s expression was only superficially a smile.

Things had gotten very weird, very fast.

Erick brushed off his own concerns and tried to mitigate whatever might be going on with Darabella, saying, “If you don’t want to, that’s fine. I merely thought that—”

“I want to go with you to the banquet.” Darabella discarded her own inhibitions and spoke with calm authority, “Pick me up an hour before the event. I don’t know when the banquet is, but I’ll be sure to have at least ten different people remind me when it’s happening so that I can be ready. I haven’t been to a banquet in a long time though, Erick, so please forgive me for my oddities.”

Erick smiled softly, saying, “Then I will pick you up an hour before the event, Darabella.”

Darabella nodded, saying, “I look forward to the night, Erick— Oh! Wait. Uh.” She lost her edge again, going a bit scatterbrained as she said, “You’re leaving now then, yeah?”

Erick paused, feeling like he had been tossed from one side of the room to the other.

And then Darabella handed Erick the staff, saying, “Here. Take this. And the other stuff, too, of co— Oh!” She rushed to her desk, paused to look around, then she grabbed two small books from the shelves behind the desk. She handed those off to Erick. “Some books on runes. Bring them back when you’re done and don’t forget your completed items! Tell me how they work out!”

“… Of course. Thanks again, Darabella.”

“See you later, Archma— Erick.”

…

Erick nodded.

Between Erick and Teressa and Ophiel they had more than enough hands to make light work of carrying the loot back to the rooms. Which is what they did.

Along the way out of the Smithy, Teressa smirked as she teased, ‘Good luck with that one, Boss.’

‘Ah… Thanks.’
