“—so now his weapon goes to the tournament, instead.” Darabella said, “The guy was a competent caster, too! He could have paid the artifact price money rather easily by hunting down some grand cores. It’s not like these weapons go bad.”

Erick nodded. “So how do you make a good mage weapon, then?”

“Hmm… You want to make one?”

“Yes.”

Darabella nodded, then said, “Let’s start with the theory and implementation of joining runes together, first, and then we’ll go from there to making a mage weapon.”

Erick nodded.

Darabella trailed her knife through the air, conjuring lightwards to explain herself, as she said, “There are two ways to join runes together. The first, and the easiest, is to place the desired runes on two ends of a system. A ‘system’ can be any single metallic object.

“There’s some complicated math involved here based on the magic saturation rates of metal and the outflow of spell effect and the distance between runes and a whole bunch of smaller stuff, like the type of metal you’re using, with magical metals of all kinds generally being better for all runework than mundane metals. But we’re going to ignore all of that, for now, and I’ll give you a few good rules to follow, and there is some math involved in this.

“For every letter of a completed rune, the magical effect imbued into that rune will effortlessly transmit a decimeter through the material in a spherical area, not a linear area, with the runework at the anchored center.

“This means, if you have a ten meter long stretch of steel that is a meter in diameter, and you put [Conjure Weapon], which is 8 runes, onto the caps of both ends of the system, you have made a system that will fail. The runes simply will not link that far.” She drew out some math, saying, “The volume of the area that [Conjure Weapon] can imbue is .27 cubic meters, while the volume of the 10 meter long cylinder is 7.85 cubic meters, meaning that to make a 10 meter cylinder of steel into a weapon, would require at least 30 joined carvings of [Conjure Weapon]. And the appropriate amount of spellwork imbued, of course.

“Also, ‘spherical area affected’ means that if you have a cylinder of steel only 10 centimeters in diameter, and ten meters long, which is a volume of .08 cubic meters, then a single [Conjure Weapon] rune will affect the entire system. Wires are very good for conducting runes. Generally, though, when you put down runes, the system to which you have attached them will generally be able to sustain the power of those runes, unless you're doing thick construction work.

“Large scale runework is very complicated, though, and much more complicated than simply ‘carving more runes’, or ‘making the system thinner’, but that’s as far as we’re going with that, right now. Because you also have to take into account the area affected by the original spellwork which exists outside of the affected metal, which is also attached to the runework you imbue.” Darabella said, “For instance, [Flying Weapon] naturally allows for the user to use the conjured sword in a close-range area, which varies by specific person.

“But ignoring those variations, now we get into multi-imbues, which temporarily throws everything I already said out the window, because multi-imbuing changes everything.

“For every spell imbued into those runes, you double the distance that the runes affect, multiplying the volume affected by around 8. The average runework is more than enough to cover most every person-sized effect you would ever need to consider, from pixies to orcols, because, notice I said ‘spherical area’, and a sword is much, much, much less than a sphere.

“Now: there’s two parts to most spellwork. For [Conjure Weapon], there’s the actual effect, which is a sword in hand, but there’s also the connection it has to you, which is a lot more ephemeral. It is through the usage of this secondary aspect of spells that we are able to make mage-rune items; that we’re able to project the spellwork away from the staff.

“But unless you make this secondary aspect of your mage runes well, then you’ll only ever end up with staffs of [Fireball]s that explode in your face. Normal enchanting doesn’t have this problem, because the core dust takes care of all of these problems for you. But runework very much has this problem. The artifact [Flying Scorchball] staff I made had a range of Large, because it was very, very well made, with lots and lots of runes.

“[Flying Weapon] swords are limited by this spherical restriction, too, but you always use those close to your body except on rare occasions, so this is fine.” Darabella stopped her lecture, to see if Erick was understanding.

Erick summed it all up, “Expansive runework systems are needed to make a large item function properly, while specific runeworks are needed to ensure that you get range for your imbued spells.”

“Exactly.” Darabella said, “[Conjure Weapon] is 8 letters, so with a single set of runes you can fully rune swords of all but the most impractical sizes, since you’re still holding onto the weapon yourself.” She added, “Another way to increase range is to increase the number of spells you imbue into the item. Simply casting the same spell into an item twice will double the range, more than octupling the area affected. A third cast will only increase the area affected by half of the number of runework letters… And I think I’ve gotten into the math too much. But we can do a bit, here, to illustrate the progression.

“8 letters means .8 meters, which means about .27 cubic meters of volume. Let’s overcharge the [Conjure Weapon] with another cast, for 1.6 meters, or about 2.14 cubic meters of affected space. A third cast brings us to 2.4 meters, though, or about 7.24 cubic meters. The second imbue octuples the volume, but the third imbue only increases it by a factor of 3.4.

“Diminishing returns on volume and distance start to hit even harder than that, once you get up to four imbues. And while overcharging runes provides a brief boost of distance, that distance settles down to more duration rapidly enough, at a rate that goes down about as fast as the original spell’s duration decays, based upon how much overcharging you’ve done.

“Now, when it comes to very large systems, with many, many people putting in more and more power, you’re practically always on the lowest end of a downswing.” Darabella said, “Your range is more or less at the original size. But your duration is very, very large.” She looked to Erick for confirmation of understanding.

Erick said, “More power is useful temporarily, when the system has nothing in it, but more than anything, the number of runes in a system is what determines the distance the runes work at.”

“Correct.” Darabell said, “But we don’t write novels in weapons, for the mana prefers simple to complex, and too many directions will confuse the final product, just as it would for any actual tierwork done in the creation of higher spells.

“And this is where we get complicated. As in ‘creating spells’ complicated. Because that’s what we’re doing when we create mage-rune items. The user of the [Flying Scorchball] staff will essentially be creating a new spell every time they use that weapon, for non-standard, self-centered effects are difficult to make the mana understand what magic you want out of it.

“[Flying Striker]? Perfectly understandable; it's a weapon that’s controlled with your mind, which is what you’re already doing when you put a sword in your hand and swing it with your real muscles. [Flying Striker] uses an effect tethered to you, using your own physical capacity, except done magically, with as much skill as you possess yourself. Simple stuff. Using a Flying Weapon is about as hard as swinging a sword with an arm you didn’t know you had.

“[Flying Scorchball]? That secondary aspect of spells comes up again, because what have you made? Is it a [Fireball] centered on you? No. Is it a randomly moving conjured elemental? No. Is it a summon under your control? Yes. How does that work? Telepathically? Not really; it’s more of a general guidance which some people do with verbal commands, and some do with other means. Pointing and intent can fill a lot of blanks, but that’s not good enough for a spell effect you want to use strategically, and allow it to work under its own auspices.” Darabella said, “And this is why mage-runecraft is harder than warrior-runecraft.

“But there are solutions.

“For mage-rune items, you center your runes around the end-effect; simple, just like carving [Conjure Weapon] into a sword. But this will usually blow up in your face, so you have to add side-runes in an order-of-operations-like methodology. This is fine for base auras, though. A staff of auras is easy to make, and easy to power, too. But other spells are harder.

“For [Flying Scorchball], you actually add in a bunch of stuff that isn’t part of the spellwork itself so that the mana understands what you’re asking of it. For the staff I made, I added [Force Bolt], for the homing aspect and control aspect, along with [Force Platform] for the stability and more control. The guy who ordered the weapon was very skilled at controlling his spheres of power, but a weapon cannot do this without considerable intelligence, so several chained runes went into the staff to replicate his own honed capability and to allow the conjured elemental some of its own ‘fill in the blank’ power.

“Because putting a spell into a staff is essentially handing over most of the spell to the staff, itself.” Darabella said, “It’s complicated.” She smiled. “So let’s work out some of those complications! Now for this lesson, we’re going to be creating runes which will allow an imbued lightward to create a ball of light that hovers outside of the metal plate which contains your runework. So to do that, we will…”

Soon, Erick was carving.

Light and [Ward] were the first two runes, joined with a simple line, since that’s how you joined runes together. This prompted a small discussion about naming conventions because Erick had not written [Light Ward], which was Darabella’s preferred incarnation of that particular rune set; he had written them with the bracket spell designators only around [Ward], while Light was left on its own. Erick’s design worked, though had a different meaning than Darabella’s and was probably what caused the steel plate of the previous day’s wardlight experiment to light with a fluorescent bulb-like effect.

Then came [Force Platform], written smaller than the main runes, along with a single line branching off from the thicker line which had joined Light and [Ward] together. [Force Platform] was a subordinate spell to the main effect, after all. In this way, you would end up with a lightward floating in the direction the runes faced.

If, however, you did a trio of lines that joined every single word to each other, or a branching line that joined the three runes together, then you’d end up with the steel plate becoming the centerpiece of a solid light effect, instead of having a floating ball of light hover a meter away from the spellwork.

Usually.

“You can end up with really odd effects with seemingly insignificant changes in operational structure.” Darabella said, “But even more than that, if you imbued runework with spellwork that isn’t the main focus of the runes, then you’ll switch everything around, and you’d end up with the steel plate becoming a very weak [Force Platform] that glowed a bit. This is due to a loss of effect because you put the wrong magic in. This small bit of loss isn’t anything special, but when you run magic through a hundred different runes, then those inefficiencies add up exponentially. But go ahead and try imbuing [Force Platform] instead of a [Light Ward]; it should still function, somewhat.”

Erick did so.

The small steel plate acted exactly as Darabella expected it to act; a gently glowing [Force Platform] that looked both small, and weak. The steel plate itself hovered next to him and moved around tethered to Erick, as Erick moved, testing the spell. It behaved exactly as a [Force Platform] should, but then Erick pressed his hand onto the metal plate and the spell broke. The steel plate clattered to the ground.

He picked it back up and imbued it with a lightward.

A ball of light sprung out of the plate’s surface, to hover a meter away from the steel. Erick shook the steel plate, and the ball of light lazily tried to remain a meter away from the runed surface. Then Erick rapidly moved the plate through the air, from one side to the other, and the ball of light tracked its anchor, always attempting to remain a meter away from the front surface of the metal plate. Erick spun the metal plate, and the lightward tracked that spinning, too.

… There was a lot of potential here, but for exactly what, Erick could not say.

Darabella smiled the whole time Erick experimented. When he finished, she said, “Looks like you made it perfectly well! Let’s move on to more complicated experiments. Any requests?”

“Sure.” Erick asked, “Could I make a rune that only turns on when someone touches a part of it, or imbues a basic spell into it, triggering a main effect? No need to imbue spellwork at all?”

“Ah! So you have been reading up a bit! This is a triggering effect, and it’s necessary for all the higher uses of runes.”

“Uh. I haven’t read anything at all.” Erick said, “Nice to know my guess was correct, though.”

Darabella smiled wide, then said, “Let’s move on to triggering mechanisms, then. Let’s make a staff of [Glowballs]s that stores four [Glowballs]s and then releases at a target with the power of five [Glowballs]s when you put in number five. It is easy to extrapolate this mechanism to larger workings, like for making a staff of [Grand Fireballs], but through the use of runes, it’s considerably easier than trying to actually make that spell, or that staff. Mana costs and opportunity costs not taken into consideration, obviously.”

Erick was all ears.

Darabella nodded, saying, “There are two ways to make a staff of grand [Glowball]s using runes. This is why I spoke of the area of spellwork as it is linked to runework being dependent on several factors, of which infusion speed and decay time are the two most important factors.

“It is through this mechanism that we can make imbued spellwork ‘cross thresholds’ and thus trigger.

