“So what? You’ve spent too much time hiding among the sheep, you sound like one yourself. Hear the truth from my lips and return to your devotions.” Yo Ling snorted and dismissed the concerns. “Who will come to Sanshu’s aid? Not a single scout or messenger has made it past our agents, and even if someone did, Jiu Lang and Shen Yun will never make it in time. The city will fall and then we march north to grind the Herald beneath our boots, welcoming our comrades into the Province.”

“And if we fail?” Jianghong asked. “Even as we stand here, armies might be ready to march on Sanshu and put and end to us all.”

Shrugging, Yo Ling smirked. “Then we kill and burn as much as we can before slipping away. Victory or defeat, it matters not, every soldier here means one less at the Bridge. This is our inauguration, the dawn of a new era, and we’ve been chosen to raise the curtain on the glory of the Enlightened. Whether we become heroes celebrated for millennia or ashes floating in the wind to be forgotten in a month’s time, it is too late for regrets friend. Our hand has been played and our path set: tomorrow, we attack and Sanshu will burn.”

Leaving the dour warrior behind, Gen and Yo Ling sauntered up the gatehouse stairs to stand on the parapets. Overlooking the plaza and the city beyond, Gen’s breath caught in his throat as he took in the sights. Beautiful canals ran alongside paved stone streets, while grand manors dotted the landscape. The city seemed carved from a single, sparkling white stone, with beautiful lush greenery, ornate marble statues, and vibrant, colourful flowers sprinkled neatly about. A veritable paradise sat within these walls, forever denied to Gen and his like.

Until now.

“Impressive, isn’t it my boy?” Yo Ling wore an amused expression, and Gen reddened as he closed his gaping mouth.

Clearing his throat, he answered, “It’s more spectacular than I could ever imagine.” Sighing audibly, he imagined how the scene would look after he was through with it. “I can’t wait to burn it all.”

Chuckling, Yo Ling wrapped Gen in a fatherly half-hug, joining him in his reveries. “Neither can I, my boy. This has been a long time in the planning.” Sighing contentedly, he muttered reverently, “A glorious era it will be.”

Happier than he’d ever been, Gen stood and stared, filled to the brim with confidence and bravado. This was the first step to realizing his dreams, to bathe the world in blood and fire and spread the truth, cleansing away the taint of the Mother and her duplicitous pawn, the Mongrel Emperor.

What a time to be alive.

Chapter Meme
