An [Innkeeper] rolled over in bed, and it was easier to do than it had been before. She caught herself and realized she was tossing and turning in her sleep once more.
Her body was healing…just in time for her to find herself lying on her stomach while her lower half was twisted around and trying to turn her organs into a corkscrew.
Erin’s back was killing her. But she had the ability to untwist herself. Then she wondered why she was freezing and realized she’d kicked off half her pajama pants…and all but her lightest blankets.
In the winter—that meant she was now freezing. So Erin had to fish around at the foot of her bed for her sheets. Her ability to self-sabotage her sleep was really masterclass.
By the time she had gotten back into bed and was staring at one of the walls of her room where her calendar hung and the table where books, her primary chess board, and other knickknacks were arranged, the first rays of light were glimmering down from the High Passes.
They looked like shards of light; the High Passes would reflect the rising sun so that you could tell it would soon be brighter. Oddly…Erin had once wondered if Liscor lived in darkness a lot more than other cities because the High Passes could block the sun’s rise and fall.
But no, after having camped around Pallass and travelled to Riverfarm, she had found Liscor got exactly as much sunlight as other cities. She supposed she just didn’t understand how sunlight worked.
However, Erin knew that her inn could wait another hour. And with [Twofold Rest], that meant she got two hours of sleep, which she could really use. She’d been up late watching a horror film with Bird.
Birds, by Alfred Hitchcock. He had quite enjoyed it. She had not. It turned out the [World’s Eye Theatre] could do more than just surround-sound and unparalleled image quality on a massive overhead screen. It could also give you the distinct sensation of a feathered bird cawing behind you or a fluttering pair of wings actually floating around the dome. And right when Erin had gotten used to that—a huge raven had landed on the seat next to her.
Nanette had invited Witch Mavika without telling anyone. The [Witch] had quite enjoyed the film. But that meant Mrsha, Octavia, and Dame Ushar had to exit the theatre rather than continue watching. In fairness to the ‘fair sex’—Joseph had never appeared, and Relc had already left.
Hence, Erin’s poor sleep. She’d gotten three hours, which was six. She wanted eight. The [Innkeeper] was just dozing off again when her staring at the wall made her brain focus on something.
The calendar. It hung there, sixteen months of thirty-two days each. That helped for standardization, at least. Eight-day weeks. Very confusing.
This calendar was a gift from Krshia. It had lunar cycles written on it, two moons that waxed and waned, blue and green. Storms danced across the spring part of the calendar, moving to hot summer, an autumn full of falling leaves, and then to cold winter with Snow Golems roaming about.
Erin’s bleary brain wanted sleep—but her treacherous eyes had focused in on one thing. An item circled in red on her calendar on the wall.
Day 32. Red circles of ink surrounded that day, and an ‘x’ had been drawn through every other day in the list. Including that one. Then…Erin Solstice felt her heartrate spike.
Sleep fled her, and the [Magical Innkeeper] sat up. She blinked as the 13th month of the year, the first month of winter—Liuwhe—ended.
Her feet touched the cold floor. Erin Solstice shivered as she swung her legs out of bed, and they strained a bit as she stood. But she swayed as she walked over to the calendar and stared at it.
The 14th month of the year, Mouring, had already begun. And according to Erin Solstice’s math and the date circled on the calendar…her eyes slid down the delicate paper to the last day of the month.
There, she had written a single event in the same red ink and underlined it.
Winter Solstice.
The date that bore her namesake was coming. And like the Summer Solstice, halfway through summer—it was an auspicious day. The sun would enter a solar eclipse, then. Like clockwork, Erin understood. It would be a time of great power for some classes. A zenith of potential.
And…for Earthers, it would be one of the most dangerous days ever. For everyone.
There was no sleep anymore. Erin Solstice looked back at the previous month. The beginning of this month had been a good one for her.
Relaxing. Ryoka hadn’t run off—much—and there had been Flying Gnolls and fun and games. Dancing and relaxation. She had known what was coming and given herself a month on purpose. It had not all been wasted.
But now—Erin Solstice clenched her hands and looked at the calendar. Her break was over.
It was time.
 
——
 
A [Knight] was sitting in his room on the 2nd floor of The Wandering Inn, polishing his armor.
He did so every single day obsessively. He took a bit of soft cloth and worked at the bright, blue stuff that was called Demas Metal. It felt oddly slick to his bare hands. Tough; he couldn’t flex any part of the armor if he tried. It also took on temperature quicker than regular metal, if that were possible. It was highly adaptive to temperatures, and so he’d actually been freezing this winter.
But it was a powerful, nay, inordinately expensive set of armor. Possibly one of the first sets ever forged of its kind. Demas Metal was rated on par with or above mithril for some qualities. Behind it for lightness, but it was rumored to be a new magical metal that would change the economies of the world. If it could be mass-produced.
And he had a set of armor. It made him nervous. The mace, a flanged weapon with blunt edges of metal running up to form a teardrop head, was also a beautiful thing. A weapon. He almost felt like it shouldn’t look so beautiful.
A blade crusted with blood or so stained you could smell it, that was an honest man’s weapon. His late mentor, Crimshaw, had possessed a dagger like that. Serrated, and the man kept it clean. But you could still see bits of blood, like rust, in the grooves.
Yet he had a shield, too, in a classic heater shield’s form, a curved wave at the top moving down to a teardrop base. It was slightly smaller than average, so he could use it like a buckler in a fight.
A shield for a man who would protect more than himself. Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings bore no shields. This piece of metal…was more than metal as he touched it. It was right. It felt like a symbol of who he aspired to be.
Therefore, it must shine and be clean.
This armor had never seen combat. But it would, and because he felt he didn’t deserve it, every day, Normen would wash it with a bit of soap and water. He was afraid of chipping or damaging the armor—until he realized the suit wasn’t actually painted. So he’d scrub dust and dirt from the grooves, then use some wax polish and give it a gentle buff.
Every morning, without fail. It made him feel as though he was doing something right. He’d seen how the Thronebearers kept their armor spic and span, and Normen had asked for tips on how they did it.
A [Knight] should look the part, surely. That was his thought on the matter. He was a new [Knight], and he didn’t know what his class entailed.
Not fully. He was…nervous. Nervous about letting the Order of Solstice, of which he was one of the two members, and Erin Solstice down. More than that—of squandering the great opportunity he had been given.
“This is not the kind of thing men like me deserve. I’ll be worthy of it.”
So vowed a [Knight]. Of course, in practice, he was just training with the mace, working out, and feeling as if a great weight were on his shoulders. Expectation not yet fulfilled.
He was a Level 28 [Knight]. He’d levelled once by virtue of his training or some other feature, and he felt like that was a sign he was doing something right. But Normen would readily admit—being a [Knight] had issues.
 
——
 
Once the armor cleaning was done, Normen donned it. He had debated not wearing the armor, then decided only a fool didn’t put on armor. Plus—he had better get used to wearing it all the time.
The process of putting armor on was lengthy, and he was cutting down the time from forty minutes to twenty. Even so—it ate into his dawn wakeup. Thereafter, he crept downstairs as quietly as he could.
Clunk, clunk. He winced as his heavy footfalls echoed in the hallway. The Demas Metal was not as heavy as some metals…but the plate armor was thick, and so it was still heavier than some suits of armor, according to Ser Dalimont. He felt ungainly in it, although part of the ‘ungainly’ was the feeling he could get shot with a bow and not feel a thing.
A good tradeoff, as it were. But it made sneaking around like a proper footpad hard, and Normen didn’t want to wake the other guests. Second floor, his rooms near the end of the hall.
Something of an honor, he felt. He’d been on the 3rd floor until the Horns left. Then he’d been given Miss Ceria’s rooms. It wasn’t as if they left more than trash lying around, and Lyonette had decided, with due deference to the great friends of the inn—they didn’t have rooms to waste. Especially if they would be empty for months.
So Normen was on the 2nd Floor, and that felt like you were part of the inn. Miss Mrsha, Miss Lyonette, Witch Nanette, Mister Numbtongue…all of them had rooms here.
In fact, there was a bit of a to-do about rooms, but Normen stayed out of the inn-drama. He was a [Knight]. He wasn’t like Miss Lyonette, who was a [Princess] and ran things.
He was just the hired muscle—er, the lucky hired muscle who’d become a [Knight].
What was his role again?
Previously, Normen had been in a similarly uncertain state with Alcaz. The two Brothers who were more than bouncers and less than bodyguards. Unable to keep up with the Thronebearers, but able to run errands for Erin and provide backup.
That had frustrated Normen. He had felt inadequate, and Erin, seeing it, had made him a [Knight]. Now, he was filled with a kind of nervous desire to prove his worth.
Funny how the two things can be so similar and yet so different. Instead of waking with uncertainty in my mouth, it’s more of a delighted terror.
Every time he saw himself in the mirror, Normen nearly jumped out of his skin. The sight of the azure [Knight] was so alien…he adjusted his helmet slightly and stared at his reflection.
If I saw this fellow walking down the street, I’d give him a wide berth. A [Knight] with enchanted armor. Perhaps a decent mark if I thought we could get the armor off quick and he wasn’t as good as the shine let on, but not a fellow I’d want against me without due cause, a jump, and three mates.
An honorable man, I’d think. A man of saving folks and valorous quests. Completely foreign to my world. Good in a fight against monsters, but I’d have him down in two seconds without that armor and be kicking him in the nuts.
Of course, Normen was in the armor now, and he was well-versed in the art of nut-fencing. He was a dirty fighter, a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. Despite their code of conduct—Normen had been a [Courteous Mugger]. He had swung his club on the back of people’s heads more times than the front.
That…made him wonder if he was unworthy of being a [Knight]. But he was taking lessons on how to do things right.
 
——
 
The problem was that Normen was a [Knight] alone, at least in the Order of Solstice. So while he had generous instructors…he did not have comrades.
At least, not yet. That was one of the things he often dwelled on, this last month especially. He dwelled on it and brought it up to a man silently pumping iron in the gymnasium.
“Alcaz. I’m sorry for being late.”
“Normen. Apologies. Ser Normen. It’s fine, I was sure you were about putting on that armor before I heard you coming downstairs.”
Normen paused. The man sweating into his light cotton shirt was his friend, Alcaz. Another former Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. But their usual, easy camaraderie was…all wrong.
“Don’t call me that in private, Alcaz.”
The other man glanced up. He had a slightly crooked nose, faintly orange hair, and a perpetual sense that he was glancing over his shoulder. He was a proper [Footpad], lighter on his feet than Normen, but strong—and adding muscle thanks to the Grimalkin Gym, as it was being called.
“A [Knight]’s a [Knight]. You should be one wherever you go. Ser Normen.”
He emphasized the words, and Normen uncomfortably took one of the weight bars off the rack. It was odd, looking in a mirror and seeing a [Knight] doing the ‘squats’. So odd that Alcaz seemed to sense it too.
“Do you need to work out every morning?”
“A fellow should be strong. That goes double for a man in armor, I warrant. You know, Ser Sest and the Thronebearers have been using this place. Come evening, though.”
“Huh. Maybe it’d be the thing to work with them.”
Normen threw the bar back on the rack and glared at Alcaz. Then he realized the man couldn’t see his face—so Normen yanked off his helmet.
“That’s a hell of a thing to say to me, Alcaz. I may be a [Knight]…but we’ve shed more blood together than anyone else I know that’s still above the dirt. Are you really no longer my friend?”
Alcaz’s gaze never wavered. He answered with a deliberate pause.
“I’m never prouder of my friend Normen. But I’d hate to drag him down with me. You’ve stepped up to bigger and better things, Normen. Been chosen. A fellow has to leave the streets behind when they trade a hat for a helmet.”
The [Knight] paused. Normen felt a sudden pang in his chest, and he realized Alcaz wasn’t sneering at him. Rather, it was projection. Normen straightened slowly.
“—What about you?”
“I’ll be fine by myself, Normen. Like I said, a fellow’s proud. All the Brothers are.”
“No. I mean…do you want me to ask Miss Solstice about getting you into the Order of Solstice? We might not get the armor, but I could ask.”
The benchpress weights bar shifted as Alcaz nearly dropped two hundred and sixty pounds on his chest. That was why you had a spotter—or in Grimalkin’s case, he’d demanded a safety bar that could catch the bar before it literally caved in your chest or stomach.
Normen leapt over, and the two replaced the weight. Then Alcaz sat up. He was sweating a bit. He looked up—and his eyes opened wide. Normen saw a reflection of that fear and wonder and hope in his eyes that he had surely had when Erin Solstice knighted him.
But unlike Normen—that desire changed to—
“No. No. I don’t think I’m a [Knight]’s material. It’s kind of you to say that, Normen. But I’d’ve asked you or Miss Solstice myself if I had the desire.”
“No?”
It had never occurred to Normen to refuse the chance. But Alcaz sat there, shaking his head.
