“Purely in number. It’s a lot of copies of battleaxes and such. We can requisition it, whereupon a poor [Squire] rides out with everything we need. Mostly—you take a lot of things you might need. Gold, enough food to last months, potions for a number of issues like bug repellant—we do carry a lot of gear. It’s led to unfortunate attacks on our number for our ‘treasures’. I don’t recommend that for your Order, Ser Normen. Ours has famously deep pockets to operate so.”
Normen was actually close to writing this all down. He looked at the gear as the [Knights] presented it and nodded slowly.
“I can see I have a lot to learn, Ser Solton, Sir Knights.”
“Please, in company, we are ‘esteemed friends’ or we use our names. Just something else to learn, this decorum business.”
Solton winked, and the other [Knights] nodded in a friendly way. But that dismayed Normen.
“I fear I’ve been a fool as it were—I fear I’ve made a mistake, I mean to say. I didn’t realize there was so much to learn.”
Riding horses. He hated horses. They hated him too—they could tell he was uneasy, and he couldn’t get one to move at all. Let alone knowing how to talk with other [Knights]. Normen hung his head, and Sest clapped him on the shoulder.
“Ah, but you’re a [Knight] when you’d be a [Page] then [Squire]—a decade of training is being compressed into, what, a month? Ser Normen, this is why [Knights] take so long to train. And why we must know so much.”
Normen nodded dejectedly.
“I confess, I did have a different view of [Knights]. I thought—when trouble came, you would all just mount up and ride to the nearest problem. Draw your swords and charge off.”
All the [Knights] laughed at this, but not unkindly. Ser Cloudst raised a hand.
“You have Clairei Fields in some ways, but it is political, knowing which areas we are meant to patrol and not stepping on a [Lord] or [Lady]’s toes. The age of the roaming [Knight] in its most earnest form is gone, Ser Normen. With civilization comes different [Knights].”
Solton was all in agreement, nodding ruefully.
“Like my Order. I can’t remember when I last rode off on a random Goblin. Izril might see me fighting them—with respect to Miss Solstice. I’ve heard there are some nasty ones in the north. Half the time, I’m fighting off a Mothbear then figuring out how much the repairs might cost for the poor family whose larder was raided. Negotiating with a [Farmer] for grain or contracting a [Hunter] to kill enough game for a month…”
They were all smiling, and Normen didn’t think they felt he was an imposter. But certainly, he was untried and listened as best he could. And what they were establishing was…
He needed an Order. The problem, as Ser Solton put it after a long gulp of water, was…the [Knight] glanced sidelong at Normen.
“I must say, I feel as though you have a rough patch, Normen. A Knight-Order costs quite, quite a lot of gold. Kingdoms and the richest nobles can fund them, and your armor is quite a lot of your cost up front. But between a proper steed and funding for any other [Knights]…I hope Miss Solstice’s inn is quite affluent. I feel it is, but it might need to be more so if your Order grows.”
So he was a burden upon Erin economically? Normen’s heart sank. He looked across the city, west, towards the gates, and wondered if Yelroan, the new [Mathematician], had room in his budget for a Knight-Order.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had until the end of the month to prepare for the worst.
She didn’t know what was coming. But as she set a loaf of black bread on the window of her kitchen, the air was heavy and dark. It felt like it was hard to see—and a Hobgoblin [Chef] walked slam-bang into a hanging pot.
“Ooh! Calescent, are you okay?”
“Ow. Am okay. Bread makes it hard to see.”
The Hobgoblin rubbed at his forehead as Erin guiltily lifted the black loaf. Once more, it sat there.
Her Shadowloaf. It was pitch-black bread that drank in light. In fact, this one was more powerful than previous versions. She didn’t know if it would save her—but Califor had once told her that it had helped her in the past, and any way to ‘hide’ her inn would be useful.
However, three Shadowloaves were making the kitchen so dark that Erin could barely see the glowing stone oven. Calescent felt around in the dark, and Erin looked at the other two loaves, which were cooling.
“I’ll, um…I’ll put them in the [Garden of Sanctuary] real quick. Can you take this one?”
“Sure. Where is it?”
Erin handed him two loaves, then sat back down in her wheelchair. The garden door opened, and she and Calescent headed into it.
“Let’s…put them at the top of the mist hill. I’ll put them in my lap if you push. Sorry. I could get up—”
Erin was tired after her morning dance, and the [Chef] grunted happily.
“Is no problem. I like pushing. This bread not for eating?”
“Nope. It’s for hiding. I figure if I leave it up there it’ll keep a month, even with mold and the magic possibly waning.”
“Hmm. Dry bread. Could make fried toast with it after you’re done.”
Erin laughed slightly.
“If it’s still there, we’ll all have fried toast. Thanks, Calescent.”
A bee buzzed past her, and her stomach hurt as she tried to smile. The Goblin noticed Erin’s expression.
“Why until the end of the month?”
“Oh—the Winter Solstice. It might be—hectic.”
“Hmm. You want I should tell Chieftain Rags to get Goblins? We can put lots of Goblins in the inn. Redfangs.”
Erin bit her tongue as they rolled up into the mists. She looked around—and a stone bench materialized. That was as good as any. She put three loaves there, patted them, and turned around.
“Maybe. But I don’t know if that would help.”
Calescent’s face wrinkled up. He couldn’t understand a situation where more Goblins wasn’t the optimal solution, even if it was an army. But Erin…
Erin had seen armies of ghosts die. She was under no illusions. If they faced what she had seen in the lands of the dead, she was not ready.
But if she faced…half-things, there were weapons to use against them. That was her morning. First, Shadowloaves. Next?
 
——
 
Normen came in as Erin emerged from the Garden and let Calescent reclaim his kitchen. Actually, all the [Knights] did, and Erin saw them join a number of guests streaming into the inn.
“Hey, are there more guests than usual? One, two…what’s with all the people?”
A lot of Humans were entering the inn, and Erin got her answer as someone strode over.
“Erin, don’t be mad—”
Ryoka Griffin had a way about her that seemed to provoke a fight. Erin looked around instantly.
“If Tyrion’s here, it’s fight time. I told you, door only.”
Ryoka waved her hands.
“No, no! But he’s coming through the inn. He won’t stay—I’m telling you in advance. All these guests? The Haven’s at the edge of your range. They just reached Pallass. Actually—there’s a huge group of Drakes at the Haven, and some of the nobles got spooked.”
So that was why they were here. Servants and the entourages of The Adventurer’s Haven’s many guests were crowding her inn. Erin exhaled.
“So Larra’s made it? I might want to see what this ‘delegation’ is like. Is it dangerous?”
Ryoka dragged the words out.
“No…but they aren’t exactly happy to see Tyrion and a number of nobles who fight with them every year. But it’s peaceful. Chaldion himself is making sure of that.”
“Wow, it’s almost like they don’t appreciate war-hungry [Lords] who kill a bunch of people.”
Normen sidled around Erin and Ryoka, deciding this was not the time to inject a question. But he stood next to Erin’s wheelchair as Ryoka inhaled—then decided to drop it.
“Yeah, well. If you want to head over, that might help. As long as you don’t start something. Because the Drakes’ war-hungry Grand Strategist is scaring us Humans.”
Erin rolled her eyes, but she looked around and called out.
“Lyonette! I’m going to the Haven!”
“Wait! Dame Ushar is my only [Knight] on duty! If it’s the Haven, don’t cause a fight!”
Lyonette appeared, fussing, and Normen bowed.
“Miss Lyonette, I could go.”
“Normen! Of course! Yes, please take Erin, and if she does anything—yank her back!”
Erin smiled up at Normen and stuck her tongue out at Lyonette.
“Bleh! I didn’t want your Thronebearers anyways. Hey, Normen, I can roll myself. How was your training?”
“I fear I embarrassed myself, Miss Erin.”
“Why?”
The two headed down the hallway, towards Liska and the door, as Normen talked with Erin. She did keep up with her staff, and she grinned when she heard about Lormel’s storehouse of sunshine that had gotten upset.
“Oh, oops! But hey, a victory’s a victory, right?”
“Is it…knightly, Miss Erin?”
“I dunno, but it works. Hey, Liska, how’s it going? Two for the Haven, please.”
A Gnoll was furiously opening and shutting the door in the portal room. When she heard Erin, she whirled around.
“Argh! Right now? Oh—fine! But you have lots of guests coming in, Erin. I’ve served nearly a hundred at almost max range of your damn door!”
“Uh oh. It’s almost outta juice.”
Erin noticed the same thing as Liska, and her portal door didn’t let [Mages] replenish it anymore! It had a far deeper capacity though. Liska just smirked.
“Yeah, well, that’s not the problem. It’s just a pain in my tail getting all the coins. [Item: Replenish Charges]!”
She slapped the doorframe, and Erin blinked as she felt the mana levels skyrocket. Liska opened the door, and a bunch of people tried to push through.
“Hey! [Form a Line]! Miss Erin, you first. The rest of you, coins please! Or my [Filtered Entry] Skill will prevent you from coming in.”
The [Doorgnoll] had a lot of, um…Skills. It was slightly concerning how many Skills she had at this point. Was [Doorgnoll] a viable class? Erin knew she as an [Innkeeper] wasn’t one to talk, but…doors? Really?
The Haven was cold, but the braziers deflected the heat the moment Erin rolled into the open-air second floor. And the moment she entered the inn—Larracel felt it.
So did Barnethei, and he broke away from a crowd to stride over to her.
“Miss Erin! Just the woman we thought might be coming.”
“Heya, Barnethei. Is that a good thing or not?”
The [Vice Innkeeper] wasn’t Erin’s favorite guy, but he was capable, and Erin was friendly with Larra, even if they were aware they were competitors and not always aligned. He gave her a tired smile.
“If you could speak to the Drakes…we’ve been held up at Pallass, and it seems now is the time our guests might leave.”
“You’ve got like a hundred and twenty miles to go before you leave the door’s range entirely.”
The [Vice Innkeeper] shrugged, and his fancy uniform caught the light, as polished as Normen in his way.
“Yes, but this is the moment when I think they realized they were in Drake lands.”
He pointed, and Erin understood why in a flash. There was something about a force of foreign soldiers—even a polite one—that could make you nervous. Especially if you were someone who thought of Drakes as your enemies.
Then again, the silent [Lord] watching with his arms folded wasn’t flinching. Lord Tyrion Veltras glanced at Erin, and she ignored him. But she eyed the thousand or so Drakes, most of whom had dismounted, and the ranks of huge Drakes with tower-shields in full armor.
“Darn. They’re armored as much as you, Normen. I’ve never seen Drakes with that much armor.”
Huge headpieces, bulky pauldrons, and even tail-armor made them look like grim sentinels. They had massive tower-shields too and spears which were forming a very imposing wall. Not that they were aiming at the Haven, which was stopped and lowered to the ground with a ramp extended.
They were just…at parade rest. And behind them were Drakes with longbows, [Mages]—and most tellingly, groups of [Alchemists] with flasks ready to throw.
There were even a pair of what might have been cut-down siege weapons pointed just past the Haven. Pallass’ forces.
Leading them, and talking to Larracel the Haven herself, was a one-eyed Drake as well as one of Pallass’ [Generals].
General Shirka of 3rd Army was alert and glancing at Tyrion. Her eyes found Erin as the [Innkeeper] rolled down the ramp—and realized she didn’t have a parking brake on the cheap wheelchair.
“Aaah! I can’t stop! Save me, Normen. Save—watch out!”
Erin’s hands slipped trying to slow her wheelchair on the steep ramp. Down she came in an accelerating vehicle.
“Incoming! Turn ranks—”
A [Captain] snapped, and the huge Drakes in the front row pivoted—only for Shirka to call out.
“It’s a wheelchair. Relax.”
The Drakes stopped, and the [Innkeeper] shot over the dirt road. If she grabbed her wheelchair legs, she’d probably abrade her fingers or snap them in the spinning wheels.
She was also about to kneecap Larracel, Shirka, and Grand Strategist Chaldion and two other Drakes who looked up and saw her coming. The two other Drakes leapt back, but Larra and Chaldion just watched as Shirka stepped over.
The Drake stopped Erin’s wheelchair with one foot—and caught the [Innkeeper] as she went flying out of the chair. Then she steadied Erin.
“Miss Solstice. General Shirka, 3rd Army.”
“Whoa! Uh. Hey, Larra, hey, Chaldion. What’s up?”
Hugely embarrassed, Erin sat back down as Normen, wincing, came down the ramp after her. Was failing to catch your [Innkeeper] a knightly failing…or just par for the course with Erin?
“Erin. This is a routine moment for the Assembly’s benefit. It’s hardly something to get worked up over.”
Chaldion’s gemstone eye glinted as he nodded to Erin. The [Innkeeper] raised her brows.
“So what’s with all the worked-up nobility coming to my inn?”
His smile said it all. Erin rolled her eyes and guessed that Chaldion was doing this on purpose. He probably wanted the Haven to stop having so many noble Humans—but what he was doing was perfectly fine under Drake law.
Indeed, Larracel was also fine under Drake law, as a sheaf of papers were passed over to her.
“Your passports are in good order, Innkeeper Larracel, and we are pleased to note you even had a form for a moving vehicle under exception. Very good. Do note we have a customs-tax on non-Drake beverages sold within ten miles of any city, and you are subject to the same for weaponry.”
“Very good.”
Larracel was as polite and professional as could be, and she was definitely not giving Erin the side-glare as the embarrassed, younger [Innkeeper] peered at the documents. One of the Drakes coughed—glancing at Erin with obvious interest.
