Yet—and yet the [Knight] had to say something. He tried to figure it out, how to say it right. He was no great talker, and he struggled.
“I…would just like to tell you, Erin…there’s a perspective I have as a fellow who’s been knighted, but so to speak—I’m sorry. I don’t have my thoughts in a line.”
He was getting flustered, and Erin reassured him.
“Take your time.”
Of course, that made it worse. As the [Courteous Knight] floundered, an unlikely ally came to his rescue. And that was the girl who had a lot of classes and few levels. Mrsha the Low-Levelled, the Wastrel of Many Trades, Master of Absolutely None.
Yet she had a few levels. Level 11 [Druid]—and no, the class had not advanced markedly despite meeting the Gaarh Marsh tribe. Level 13 [Last Survivor]. Level 2 [Emberbearer].
High levels for a child. But her most active class that she was currently advancing in the inn was…
Level 6 [Scribbler]. The little writer of many notes had only a few Skills. But she raised her paw and solemnly slapped Normen’s back with it.
[Momentary Eloquence]!
The words came forth. Normen exhaled in relief, then he had the way to say it. He looked at Erin and thought of Crimshaw. Thought of how it had felt to kneel in the garden…and his fellow Brothers.
“Miss Erin. It may not be right for me to lecture you on what the Order of Solstice is…but I’ve been wondering exactly what we will become. Us [Knights]. There’s a fellow I’ve been dying to meet, because he’s the guiding light I want to follow. But it seems to me that the people who’re applying, even if they’re not the right sorts to fight off legends like Zeladona, you should give them a chance.”
“Why? They’ll die, Normen.”
Erin Solstice was frank. The [Knight] nodded. He rolled his shoulders—then pointed to the hallway that led to the inn. Erin’s head turned, and Normen stared at the floorboards that had been replaced as the door opened and let some nobles in. There wasn’t a trace, but—
“A better man than I am died not a foot from the door, Miss Erin. There lay Crimshaw. If you took him—he’d be a fine [Knight]. But he still died. The armor won’t save us. You won’t…stop us from dying. But I’m ready for it.”
She had such a bleak, pained look in her eyes, yet Normen leaned over the table, trying to make it make sense.
“I’m not aiming for that, Miss Solstice. I’m just telling you that I was a Brother, a thug. We wear hats, and we gussy up our language and pretend to be honorable men—but when you made me a [Knight], I was never prouder. I felt like there was some genuine honor and goodness in me after all. I felt like I was chosen. These men—and women—the Order of Solstice should be a place for people like me to seek redemption. If your life is the price, we’ll gamble on it. But I should hope that you’d accept another Brother if ever a good one asked. Because I’d like to share this feeling I wake up with with every man who thinks he’s at the bottom of a well and there’s no way up.”
He caught himself, then took a breath and felt embarrassed and right in how he’d said it, but flustered because it sounded so portentous. But he’d meant every word. Erin Solstice took him at his word. She looked at Normen, eyes bright, and smiled. Painfully.
“…That’s why it’s hard for me to do this thing, Normen. I knew the Order of Solstice would be something big. Perhaps I’m the wrong person to manage it.”
If not you, then who? Her statement made Normen nervous, but Erin Solstice shook her head.
“This is why I would never have been a good [General]. I don’t want people to die. That’s what Olesm is getting good at. Sending people to die.”
It sounded like the most dire insult in the world, but that was how Erin Solstice saw it. She clarified again when she saw Normen’s face.
“Not on purpose. He tries to save them all. I’m sure he does. But that’s what you do. You look at the odds, and sometimes you have no choice. You say, ‘hold this line’. They do, and triumph or fail, they die either way. The moment you say that, you know at least one soldier is going to die. Someone you know. I don’t want that, for [Knights] or anyone else.”
People were coming into the inn and listening to Erin speak, some of them. A one-eyed [Strategist] who’d appeared here after settling things with Larracel. A bunch of Antinium, including off-duty soldiers from the army.
Chaldion exhaled when he heard that, almost in disbelief. Because he thought Erin could do exactly what she was afraid of. What a great butcher she could have been, if she had found her way to Pallass or a Walled City first and they had used her talents. 
The Antinium liked Erin. They thought she was very nice, and they hand-signed in their language that only Mrsha could pick up on.
“Is so nice.”
“Yah. Sky is nice.”
“Bad leader. Pivr leader. So nice.”
One of them, his carapace scarred, bearing a greatsword on his back, was slower to hand-sign than the others. He kept trying to talk, but the mellifluous language escaped him, and he missed lips.
He was Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus, and he no longer fit in his body and Hive. Even among the Beriad of Battalion 6, he stood out. He gave Normen and Erin a look as he sat down at a table with the others and waited for glorious food. Yet he felt it might not fill him up.
He hungered for more. More than even the continuing war with Hectval. More than the 7th Hive of the Antinium. He had no voice for it.
Antherr was not alone, either. Normen, the Antinium [Immortal], Chaldion, and the nobility filing in and staring at the Antinium with more disgust as they muttered and demanded cake and ate it too—they were all people made starving by recent events and the New Lands. Starving for something better, something greater.
Something new.
 
——
 
A number of things were changing in the inn and nearby—at least, near given the magical door. One of those things was that another sad pillbug, this one made of scales rather than sad armor and Goblin, woke up when someone opened the door.
“Aaah!”
“It’s just me, Tesy.”
A white-scaled Drake paused in opening his artbook to deploy the emergency escape-door he’d drawn in advance. He looked over, and Vetn walked into the room. The Gnoll [Thief] eyed the dirty bowls stacked up, the paints strewn about, and the mess.
His friend, Tesy, looked bad. The white-scaled Drake had paint on his scales—but there was an additional level of grime, and his robes looked unwashed. He smelled bad.
“Are you not even taking a bath?”
“Bathhouses are dangerous. They’re after me, Vetn.”
“Yeah. I bet. But you can use a bucket of water from the well.”
“But that’s cold. And I don’t have soap.”
The Drake’s voice was hoarse. Vetn resisted the urge to hang him out the inn’s window. That was Qwera’s job, and she was gone, back to work. Tesy and Vetn had always had bad patches…but this one was bad.
And there was no easy fix for it. There was a hard fix, and Vetn’s heart was beating painfully as he sat down.
“You’re going to have to find soap by yourself, Tesy.”
“Wh—are you leaving? Don’t go. Erin might kick me out of the inn soon.”
“Why would she do that?”
“Because…she doesn’t like me. Even if Qwera paid for me, I see how she looks at me. It’s dangerous here. W-what if Salazsar pays Shriekblade to kill me?”
“They’re not going to do that.”
“You don’t know that. I’ve messed up big, Vetn. I don’t know what to do.”
The Thief of Clouds exhaled hard.
“Then—why are you drawing on Liscor’s walls? And in the city? You’re supposed to be keeping hidden.”
He was annoyed with Tesy, who was simultaneously so paranoid he wouldn’t leave his rooms to bathe and crept out to draw Antinium on Liscor’s walls.
“I have to draw or I’ll die, Vetn.”
The Thief of Clouds nearly kicked Tesy out of his bed. He still had the urge, right this moment, as he shook Tesy, to kiss him. But that wouldn’t help.
“Tesy. You can’t stay here forever. Listen. In a few days, tomorrow, even, you should leave your rooms. Go out, don’t cause trouble, and stay away from the law. But don’t worry about the underworld and Symphony coming after you.”
Tesy turned paler with even the mention of that name.
“Wh-why? They’ll be back. Don’t lie, Vetn. Erin might be able to protect me in the inn, but if I leave—”
“—They won’t come after you. I’ve made a deal. They’re being bought off. Everything’s…sorted. At least, with the really dangerous people.”
Neither Vetn nor Tesy really considered the ‘regular people’ dangerous. None of them, with the exception of Wall Lord Ilvriss, even knew what Tesy looked like. The underworld was far, far more deadly.
“Wh—really? Thank you, Vetn! How’d you do that?”
Tesy was suddenly animated, and he sat up in bed. But Vetn was the moody one. He pushed Tesy back from the hug.
“Never you mind. I’m going to have to go on a job.”
“You did it for me? Vetn.”
Tesy was smiling, but Vetn grabbed his arm as he tried to put it around the Gnoll’s shoulders. That was the problem with Tesy. With Vetn, too. He growled.
“I keep doing you favors, Tesy. Bailing you out of your mess. Well, you’d better be grateful. You’d better—straighten up. Now, get washed and just—wait a day, alright? The arrangement is in progress, and after that, you’re protected when it comes to the bounty on you and Symphony.”
The Drake [Painter] looked hurt by Vetn’s attitude. He didn’t see how the Gnoll’s paws were shaking, and he snapped back.
“We do each other favors, Vetn! I’ll pay you back!”
“Sure. Just wash up. Qwera’s not around to hold your tail anymore. Neither am I.”
Vetn snapped as he rose. He ignored Tesy’s hurt look. That belonged to him. But it was done. He turned and thought it was a good story to write on his tombstone.
The Thief of Clouds tried to steal from the Slayer of the Antinium. For his friend.
 
——
 
Everything was changing, in the inn and without. An important-looking [Lord] with an archer’s bracer on his wrist was demanding service from Ishkr, who appeared from behind the bar.
“I said, get me a person—oh. At last.”
He had been shouting at a nervous Antinium hiding behind Peggy. The Hobgoblin was scowling—and wary. She recognized the man was a [Lord], and an important one, it seemed. He’d pushed past Lord Alman Sanito and a bunch of other nobles, and they’d barely protested.
“Is something wrong, sir?”
“I am Lord Xitegen Terland, and I have been demanding service for the last six minutes.”
Ishkr opened his mouth and looked at Peggy and the Antinium, Silverboots.
“There’s two of the inn’s staff right here, sir. They can take your order straight to the kitchens.”
“Hah! I knew the inn was mad, but at least it had the magical door, so I didn’t complain. No. Absolutely not. You—I’ll take two of your cakes, your entire assortment of cookies excepting the ‘fly’ ones, and anything else interesting. And you deliver it. I don’t want ant or monster hands touching the food. If I must wait ten minutes, you will lose my custom.”
The Lord of House Terland was slightly overweight, a fact Ishkr didn’t really hold against him. But he had surprisingly well-developed thighs and an equally strong voice. Ishkr noticed these things, like the archer’s bracer, because they stood out.
“Lord Xitegen, the inn’s staff are Goblin and Antinium. If you have an issue with their service—”
“I do indeed. Someone must, even if this [Innkeeper] has browbeaten every other guest down. Lady Magnolia Reinhart might be so unscrupulous as to not raise comment, and Lord Tyrion might feel indebted, but I am watching. And if this inn is a ‘net positive’, I shall abide in silence.”
Well, he was rapidly rising on the unpopularity scale for the inn’s worst guests. Liska was definitely going to put him on file. But Ishkr kept smiling.
Lord Xitegen was lucky that Erin was busy talking to Normen. Or perhaps, the inn was lucky. Because a [Lord] could cause trouble.
Nevertheless, Ishkr was wavering between the personal vengeance of a [Server] and being cautious with this man. So, he moderated his tone and pointed to the kitchen. It did not escape his notice that a few nobles willing to get their sweets even if it meant dealing with Silverboots—they would rather take him over Peggy—had stopped talking when Lord Xitegen mentioned the staff.
“I feel I should mention something first, Lord Xitegen. All the sweets you see here are prepared by our [Chef].”
Not strictly true, but Calescent did most of it. Xitegen’s face was blank.
“And?”
Then he slowly, slowly craned his head around Ishkr, and the open kitchen revealed a humming Hobgoblin breaking eggs one-handed into a bowl where he was making more cake batter. Xitegen’s face turned waxy. Then pale.
Several of the nobility tucking into their desserts looked over with frank horror. Ishkr kept his polite smile there as Peggy cackled. But Xitegen’s reply was calm.
“I see. Thank you, Gnoll fellow. You may wish to consider a change of employment, but I take your warning. Very well. This is for you. And this inn is Liscor’s…Drake lands for now. The Goblins will be safer here than wherever this new tribe nests in the High Passes.”
Ishkr’s smile waned, despite the fat gold coin that appeared on the bar counter. Peggy’s head swung around, and she stepped forward.
“Hey. What that mean?”
Lord Xitegen ignored her completely. He had, Ishkr noted, no bow at his side despite the bracer. He turned and, with a heavy sigh, strode for the door.
“The Haven served remarkably well as a distraction. Innkeeper Larracel can make the world’s woes fall away. But the south is ashambles. Antinium, Drakes, and foreigners making claims on Izril. And Goblins? The Kraken Eater tribe is bad enough. We will not stand another Goblin Lord. Be told.”
He strode out of the inn so fast that he seemed to suck several of the nobility with him. Ishkr was left there, with a keen desire to tell Liska to port Xitegen straight into Pallass. However—he was worried.
That was the kind of guest that Larra had been carrying in her inn from First Landing. They had barely stepped foot inside The Wandering Inn, probably because they were like Xitegen.
However—despite Larra now foisting that unpleasant man on Ishkr for a few moments, he thought the [Innkeeper] had done them a favor. Larracel was a master at keeping her guests happy.
Unlike Erin, the Haven was designed to entertain and cater to whims. One of her Skills, Ishkr had been told by the Haven’s staff, was [Soothe Clientele]. They literally forgot their worries while they were in her inn.
