“Upon that note, Pallass is interested in such a famous inn. Would it be acceptable to arrange for a shuttle service, either to your inn here or via the door for our dignitaries?”
Oh, of course. Erin rolled her eyes at Chaldion and folded her arms, but Larracel smiled with the air of a woman counting how many new guests she might get.
“I believe my inn will soon have a number of vacancies. Is there a customs-tax for this too?”
“That would be where I waive any fees. Purely as a matter of friendship. I may wish to visit myself, although that would be personal business.”
Chaldion leaned on his cane, and Erin’s eye-rolling almost became a spin.
“Sure. Suuure. Just a personal guest. No special favors at all.”
Larra flicked a finger, and Erin’s wheelchair began rolling backwards, seemingly of its own volition.
“I would be delighted to have such a famous guest, Grand Strategist. I assume there’s paperwork I can show…thank you.”
She accepted the sheaf of papers, and Erin folded her arms.
“Hmph. So there’s no need for me? Normen, push me up the ramp so I can fold my arms and glare at the same time.”
He was about to when Chaldion coughed.
“This is a good moment to ask if I can have a moment to meet with you later, Erin. On the business of your inn and Pallass.”
Erin’s shoulders hunched as she turned, and Shirka exhaled. Erin looked back, and Chaldion gave her a long look.
She had not often had time for him—but he had a lot of time for her. If he could get it. Erin had once told her guests exactly why she didn’t trust Chaldion. Normally, even a ploy like marching out a thousand soldiers just to get her attention might not work. But today?
Erin Solstice turned her head and gave Chaldion a slow nod.
“Later. Larra, I don’t think it’s goodbyes right now for us—but your guests seem to be leaving. Is that okay?”
The Haven’s [Innkeeper] stood there, and the [Wizard] Named-rank adventurer just smiled.
“We’ve had a hundred goodbye parties, and some were with me all the way from First Landing for months, Erin. I’ve said my goodbyes.”
Erin looked back at her—and sensed very little regret from Larra. She really didn’t care. They’d spent their money, they thought she’d given them a sendoff—and that was it for her regular guests. But Mihaela Godfrey was still leaning on the railings, and while Colth and Deni were gone, all the others…Erin craned her neck, and there they were.
Eldertuin the Fortress. Viecel the Gambler. They were watching the Drakes casually, but the [Soldiers] below were eyeing those famous names with the most chagrin.
Those were Larra’s real guests, and she was moving her Haven all the way to the New Lands—or close enough—so she didn’t have to say goodbye to them.
What a soft- and hard-hearted [Innkeeper]. Erin nodded at Larra.
“Well, I’ll move them back to Invrisil.”
She was about to go up the ramp when Mihaela leapt. Weapons rose—but Shirka lifted a claw and put a hand on her sword. Mihaela landed lightly, coughing—and Chaldion of Pallass looked up at her.
“Guildmistress Godfrey. Are you inclined to inspect Pallass’ Runner Guilds? I would be delighted if you threw some discipline into their ranks.”
“Grand Strategist. You’re still breathing. I—kaakh—never expected that. If you want me to kick your Runner’s Guild around, I will. Though they’re less trouble than the north. Less interesting, too.”
Mihaela coughed, a deep, painful one, and wiped a hand on her shirt. Chaldion addressed her by name, and as Erin turned—she realized the two knew each other. The other Drakes looked offended by Mihaela’s comment, but Chaldion just nodded.
“Let’s have a drink at the Haven. Unless you’d like a warm reception in Pallass? That was never your style.”
Mihaela cast a glance backwards and seemed to lock eyes with Larra for a millisecond. Then she shrugged and jerked a thumb over her back.
“I have two friends and their rowdy teams who want to see Pallass. Two Named-ranks plus…Larra, Barnethei? Group of five?”
“I could invite you to Tails and Scales—but if you’d like a proper sit-down restaurant in formality, we can do that too.”
“I’ve heard of that bar. Give us a fancy reservation at your best restaurant and then a night there. Otherwise, Larra won’t relax.”
Erin peered at Mihaela and then at Larra, who looked embarrassed.
“Mihaela. There’s no need…”
Chaldion just nodded at one of his subordinates and smiled.
“We’ll have a few [Senators] drop by to honor you—at a different table. For the heroine of the First Antinium Wars—Pallass can be welcoming. Miss Erin, my evening is filled.”
“Wh—but—okay. I guess—there’s a Human that Pallass actually likes?”
If there was—it was probably Mihaela Godfrey, the Courier of Izril, who had helped run deliveries across all of Izril’s south when the Antinium first invaded. Indeed, Mihaela was getting the approving side-eye from many Drakes. Erin, as the resident nuisance of Liscor, felt a bit hurt.
“Guildmistress, I studied your escape from Antinium armies in class. It would be an honor to shake your hand.”
General Shirka offered, and Mihaela rolled her eyes in a surprisingly Erin-like way.
“There’s no honor in shaking my hand. Just you, then. I’m not shaking everyone’s claw. If you want legends, the Cyclops was there too, and all I did was run. I wasn’t the one lasering Flying Antinium from the battlements with my gemstone eye.”
Everyone’s head swung to Chaldion, and the old Drake with his flaking scales actually looked embarrassed as he waved an ancient claw.
“As I recall, I was doing that because a daring City Runner jumped off the walls to get a head-start on the Antinium. It is good of you to come to Pallass. A reminder of what a Runner looks like should inspire my city.”
Mihaela’s smile was brief.
“Your Flying Gnoll can do that. And if looks were all it took to inspire—I wouldn’t have to discipline so many corrupt Runners. Can I toss any bad Human ones in your prisons?”
“I shall leave a cell open. Do you have that many?”
“One’s coming, at least. Is General…the one with the two scars on his neck alive?”
“No, he passed away…”
 
——
 
Sometimes, Erin forgot Chaldion was a war-hero. She didn’t forget Mihaela all the time, but it was one thing to remember, another to see.
Then again, people gave her the same look. Like Normen, as he pushed Erin up the ramp. You see—in that high-power, high-level meeting, Normen was there.
He saw things. He heard things as he accompanied Erin, and he was like Ishkr—there for it. Also like Ishkr, he was in the background.
Then again, Ishkr was coming into the limelight more and more. But Erin Solstice, upon return to her inn, exhaled.
“Well. I guess the Haven really is in Drake lands for good. No more Tyrion. Hey, that’s a positive!”
She smiled about that until Normen leaned over the chair.
“I’m sorry to bother you, Miss Erin, but on the note of talking—could I have a word with you about the Order of Solstice? I—don’t want to take up your time, though.”
She glanced up at him, purely surprised.
“Normen! Of course you can! What’s up?”
The [Knight] hesitated, then replied.
“I, er, well, was wondering about how we should arm. Not that I’m not well suited in our armor and weaponry! But the other [Knights] have told me about the need for a horse and other gear, as it were, and I’ve been asked by eighteen folks about applying for the order.”
He’d left it as long as he could, hoping she’d bring it up, but…Erin blinked.
“Horse? Oh yeah. And—gear?”
She began to look uneasy, which Normen didn’t like, but then shook herself and gained a determined look.
“I—absolutely we can talk about gear. That’s actually one of the things…Chaldion, you know? The gear. The inn. We’ve got until the end of the month. The end of the—I need to stop saying it. I’m getting nervous.”
There it was again. A month. Normen had seen the date highlighted on her calendar when he pushed her in and out of her rooms. He felt a lurch in his stomach. And a determination that made him grip her wheelchair harder. But then Erin frowned.
“What do you mean—applications? Applications for what?”
He gave her a puzzled look.
“Why, to be a [Knight], of course.”
And Erin’s look changed to one of…anticipation.
 
——
 
A [Knight] of Solstice. Who wanted to be a [Knight]?
Well, Normen had eighteen applications to his face. But if you counted people who hinted or asked around—it might have been a hundred. Drakes, Gnolls, Humans.
In fact, another one had just arrived and was sitting at one of the tables as Ishkr brought Erin and Normen brunch.
“There’s a City Runner from far northeast, Miss Erin. He’s asking to become a [Knight]. His name is Herove.”
“Another one? Hold on—I guess there are applicants. Who’re the other eighteen, Normen?”
“Well—the first of them is Menolit.”
“Menolit? But he has a business!”
Erin laughed, but Normen’s face was straight. Menolit wanted to be a [Knight]. Wanted it so much that he was willing to put his own coin into armor, give up the business—and Erin’s amusement turned to concern.
“Wait, he actually wants to be a [Knight]? Why?”
She leaned over the table, her hazel eyes filled with a kind of exasperated mirth.
“Are all the requests as silly as that?”
Silly? Normen looked at Erin and saw the baffled amusement on her face. And he realized—she might not understand.
“I think Menolit was serious, Miss Erin.”
It was the most emphatic he ever sounded—perhaps the words came out too strongly. The [Innkeeper] frowned.
“I’m sure he was. But Normen, being a [Knight] isn’t easy. It’s expensive. Really expensive, dangerous—and with respect to Menolit, he might not be the right guy.”
Normen had been wondering about the criteria to be a [Knight] himself. He leaned forwards anxiously.
“How so, Miss Erin?”
Her smile faded, and she gave him a bleak look. A serious one.
“Why, because it’ll get you killed. Any normal person would die if they did what a [Knight] has to do. That’s what the armor is for. You’ve seen Ylawes fight. Menolit…he’s my grumpy, successful business-guy. He’s good at fighting, I know that. But you’re probably better than he is, aren’t you?”
“I…wouldn’t like to talk myself up before a fight, Erin. It’s not something the Brothers consider wise.”
She gave him a somber look of appreciation.
“No, but it’s also probably true. Menolit was a good [Veteran] in war. You fight dirty, and you put Ser Lormel on the floor. Normen. I’m not talking down Menolit’s fighting ability. I’m saying that you would be the bare, absolute minimum of a future [Knight] for the Order in my head. Anyone recruited should be better than you.”
Now that was a statement that had Ishkr glancing over in his subtle way as Erin bit into some fruit salad. Normen’s hand tightened over his cup of water.
She was making a lot of sense, and the feeling of being—chosen—intensified. But he couldn’t help but feel a pang. On behalf of Menolit.
“May I share the rest of the people who’ve expressed interest, Miss Solstice?”
“Go ahead. Anyone I know?”
“Yes…of the people who claim to know you, there’s a Walt, Culyss, Guardsman Roreh, who says you might know him—he’s a Gnoll from the Watch—Mrsha—wait a second.”
Normen had a list, and for some reason, a certain young girl’s name was on there. He glanced up, and a brave Defender of the Cave puffed out her chest.
Erin laughed. She laughed, rolled her eyes—and Normen got more upset, and he didn’t even realize he was getting mad at Erin at first.
“None of them. Walt…Walt’s one of the Silver-rank survivors of the Creler attacks. Actually, he’s closest. What level is Guardsman Roreh?”
“Um. Under Level 20 would be my guess. He’s a decent [Guard]—”
“Nope. You can cross ‘em off the list, Normen. Maybe Walt if he reaches Gold-rank, but…hey, what’s wrong?”
The [Innkeeper] seemed to realize Normen was getting mad. She broke off, gave him a look of concern, and eyed his…helmet.
Normen had pushed the visor up, but his helmet was still on. Yet it seemed to him like a poorer hat than his actual cap or the fancy tricorne. He missed that. Yet he was happy to have something on his head…what was strange was the sensation of warmth up there.
His armor got very cold in the winter. So much so that a brief outing to the Haven left him shivering a bit. But his helmet was warm.
[His Hat Held Wrath]. And the [Witch] could see it. She eyed Normen with concern.
“Am I saying something wrong, Normen?”
“I—I’m sorry, Miss Erin. I just feel as though each fellow who asked to be a [Knight] was serious. And meant their request sincerely. Laughing at them—would be hurtful beyond the pale. Disrespectful.”
He struggled with his reply, but it came out like that. Erin’s eyes opened wider for a second, and she replied quickly.
“I’m not being disrespectful! Am I?”
She looked around, and Ishkr avoided her gaze as Mrsha nodded vigorously. Erin turned red.
“Well—if I am—I just meant it in the sense that a lotta people wasn’t my vision for the Order of Solstice to begin with. Eighteen? That’d be like the full roster. I can’t imagine there would be eighteen this year.”
Now it was Normen’s turn to give her a blank look. Erin realized she had to clarify and took a deep breath.
“This is uncomfortable. Let me try again. Normen, you know that I’m going to ask you to do dangerous things. Not just me. A [Knight]…if you look at Ylawes, you can see what trouble he gets into. Facestealer, Crelers, monsters above his level. When I asked you if you wanted to be a [Knight], you understood that, right?”
She looked anxious, and Normen bowed at the waist.
“Of course, Miss Erin. I’m ready. I might not be…ready, but if you have need of me, ask.”
In a heartbeat. He had never been afraid of dying. Just dying without doing something. Erin’s smile was bleak as she looked at the Brother. She did understand that gang’s mentality. And they liked the [Magical Innkeeper] for the same reason she knew them. They were a bit alike.
“Normen. That’s why I don’t want hundreds and thousands of [Knights]. I want the best of the very best. With respect to Menolit, with the deepest respect to even Silver-rank adventurers. I want [Knights] who won’t die. Something like Lady Bethal’s Petal Knights. Because if I send fifty against an Adult Creler…I don’t want my friends to die.”
Ah. The understanding drained Normen’s wrath out of his body instantly. But his helmet was still a bit warm. But he now saw Erin’s point of view.
