“Then make me another Saliss.”
The words burst out of his mouth. The old Drake leaned over the table, and Erin was surprised by the vehemence of his voice.
“You want footsoldiers for your [Knight], Normen? You want a militia? I’ll give you a small one. If you want to reach somewhere—ask me. I’ll give you pieces for your board.”
“Why?”
She had the most mystified look on her face. A bleeding heart general. The best ones were. Thrissiam had been like that. Chaldion needed another sip of the drink. He whispered, his voice low. He could bluff his way with the eyes of the world upon him, but in this inn he felt naked. 
A cold hand was reaching for him, and perhaps she would understand if he said it like this.
“You don’t understand, Erin Solstice. They grow. They change when you interact with them. It isn’t just you—it’s the forces you put them under; you introduce flaws, and they shatter or rebuild. Many rise, alone. Felkhr is one such, but there are so few of him. Too many Edelleins or capable Dulns—but one Saliss for an entire city? No. No. I’ll give you thousands. Take them in. Break them if you must, I have millions. But no one can replace me. Not yet. It needn’t be a [Strategist]—”
Thence, the Grand Strategist of Pallass stopped. Because he had overplayed his hand, and Erin Solstice saw what he wanted.
But she didn’t think like that. She never did. She couldn’t—she wouldn’t. The look in her eyes was so repulsed, so silently judgemental, that he stood. He slowly stood, and the divide between them was like a younger Chaldion and the old Drake who had compromised on everything but victory.
—But she was being forced into the position he had held for most of his life. Chaldion couldn’t help but feel a vindictive twinge of pleasure at that. How long could she look like that? He turned.
“Come back once you’ve read your letters. I need another Zel Shivertail, Erin Solstice.”
She called out after him as he opened the door. Got to her feet, and raised her voice. Eyes flashing in a shout.
“You had one. Why did you abandon him? Just because of who he was?”
Chaldion turned at the door. His eyes glinted deep within their sockets, one fake, one real.
“In the end, Erin Solstice. He wanted what I could not give him. I truly thought he would win in the north and come back and order us into line. I would have enjoyed that. Sometimes, faith is a terrible weakness.”
Then he was gone.
 
——
 
It was a familiar dance to Erin. That conversation with Chaldion left her fuming, but she hadn’t expected anything different. The problem was, the dance was a giant circle, and it was to the tune of ‘will you, won’t you?’.
She did it with Niers and many groups who wanted to work with her. She did not want to trust them. Especially Chaldion, but even Niers and…so many. She could. She could play all her cards, join one side, but Erin did not trust them.
She trusted her inn’s family, and the Order of Solstice might be her one trustworthy group she could ask to do things along with her friends.
If only she could make sure that the people she sent out didn’t die.
Ryoka Griffin wasn’t often at The Wandering Inn, being busy with Tyrion and her affairs. But she stopped by.
“Erin, did you annoy some famous Terland [Lord]? It’s all the gossip at—whoa, don’t get mad at me. I’m just asking. I can help!”
Erin stuck her hand out.
“Give me your Faeblade.”
“Um. Not that kind of help.”
“Just give it to me for an hour, alright? I need to do something. You can go say hi to Halrac and the bunch. Oh, and Halrac has his special arrow. He says it doesn’t have any magical or obvious effects on it. Doesn’t pierce magic, and the tip actually could flake off, so he’s really careful with where he shoots it. Go take a look at that.”
Ryoka’s brows rose. Then she hesitated, unhooked the Faeblade, and hit a few settings with it.
“I’m giving it to you on the promise you don’t stab anyone with it. It’s on paralysis—”
“Okay.”
“No stabbing.”
“I won’t.”
“Don’t swing it around either or you’ll hit someone.”
“I’m not going to stab anyone by accident, Ryoka.”
The Wind Runner had the least-trusting look in the world as Erin rolled away with it. Then someone stood up and waved at her.
“Is that—Ryoka Griffin? Hello! Can I have a word? I’m—well, you don’t know me, but I know you! I mean, I know someone who knows you!”
As intros went, that was one of the worst. Ryoka put on a fake smile as she slowed, and a City Runner got up. He’d been waiting for a word all day, but he looked nervous just sitting in this inn.
And excited, as if he were waiting for something to happen. Erin almost slowed to talk to him, having forgotten him, but Ryoka was talking to…
“Herove. Herove Canidus. City Runner in the Toremn region.”
Ryoka blinked.
“Oh, far east. I heard it’s a good training spot for Couriers. Are you on holiday?”
The young man hesitated and stared at Erin’s back.
“No. I—I quit. I mean, I asked to come here. I have something to do. I’ve come to join the Order of Solstice.”
He sounded so confident that Erin looked back over her shoulder once and stared at him. She looked the young man up and down—and then kept rolling.
Who was that guy? Normen turned as well, and Ryoka blinked.
“Wow. Uh—you sure?”
“It’s my destiny.”
He said that deadpan and looked so confident that Normen frowned, and Ryoka…well, she liked destiny, so she was interested.
“What makes you say that? And how…do you know me? Have you met Salamani? Charlay? Uh—Alevica?”
Herove gave Ryoka a weak smile.
“No—actually, I, uh, knew a girl called Persua. She was just behind me, actually. I might have beaten her by a bit, but Guildmistress Mihaela wanted to see her, so—”
Ryoka’s smile took off running faster than she did when faced with emotional connections, and Herove tried to clarify. But as first impressions went—
This was not the winning move.
 
——
 
Erin knew winning moves. She had been losing to Shaestrel all this time, and she thought the faerie was predicting the future. Playing a perfect game by seeing how to win.
…That didn’t make entirely enough sense, though, because Erin could force Shaestrel to draw even if she was a perfect computer. If Erin played her best game, she should have drawn at least one out of twenty-seven games. Or come close.
She never had. There was some trick to the faerie that Erin was missing. Yet the idea of optimal moves in life as opposed to chess was equally nebulous.
It was rare you knew with complete, 100% certainty what the best move was. Erin…thought she had a cheap move that would have made Chaldion get up and applaud with tears in his eyes, it was that dirty. It would have made Zineryr laugh his beard off, it was that cheap.
And it all had to do with a bearded man who was packing lasagna into his mouth like it was a trash can on trash day.
But he seemed considerably more happy to eat it than actual trash.
Here was Demsleth. Erin Solstice tapped him on the shoulder.
“Hey, Demsleth. Can we have a private word?”
He glanced up and frowned deeply.
“This is my day off, Miss Erin. I have been working extremely hard of late—and I am, in fact, a bit troubled. If this is about pranking that young Doombearer, I must add that she started it first.”
Erin gave him a blank look and shook her head.
“Nah. It’s important. Can we talk? In the garden?”
That was serious. Demsleth raised his brows. He took the tray of lasagna with him. As he did, he passed by Rafaema, who was talking to Lulv and Ferris.
“They just don’t stop biting. It’s every time I go to sleep. They just nibble on my wings, and—they ate my house! Every single day! And then they bray and bray and—”
 
——
 
“What could you be busy with? I thought you were training or something.”
Demsleth didn’t change as he walked into the garden, but Erin knew who he was. Teriarch—and yet she didn’t know his full story.
Rafaema, Ryoka, and Magnolia were his real acquaintances. She? She was the [Innkeeper], and he was one of her guests, one she knew less of, ironically.
But she did know him. She had met his kind, so he accorded her a rare respect. He still gobbled down lasagna with a fork.
“This is really, wonderfully spiced, you know. That Goblin—such a tang to the palette. And to answer your question, young woman, I have great obligations besides my personal health. I just fear…my own issues get in the way of my duties.”
“Don’t I know it.”
Erin gestured at her wheelchair, which Demsleth had helped push up the hill. They were going higher, into the hill of mists, and the Dragon sniffed.
“Is that bread I smell?”
“Don’t eat it. You know what’s coming at the end of the month, don’t you?”
His fork paused, and the Dragon looked down at her.
“I can guess. I will be there. Frankly, Erin, I do not know if it will be a great trial or quiet. One would suspect…in the opening engagements of any war, foes tend to skirmish at best. It just depends on what a ‘skirmish’ looks like.”
“Yep. But we’re busy, and we don’t have time to waste.”
He winced at that and closed his eyes.
“Yes…the dead have armed us with knowledge and intent, and I cannot persuade one fool to stop wasting Slime Jelly. I…I have children I am attending to, but I did it so poorly, and I cannot be everywhere at once.”
He slapped his hand against his thigh, growling. Erin had no idea what the Slime Jelly part meant, but she understood he was busy. And searching for his own answers.
“Having money is different from spending it well, huh? Same with power?”
“Aptly put. The firepower to raze islands is nothing compared to the ability to grow Sage’s Grass. One remains.”
The red, glowing grass blooming around their feet receded into the mists as Erin halted on the hill.
“But the power to blow up them islands is also useful. Especially…if it would help a bunch of [Knights].”
“Ah. I see.”
Then, the Brass Dragon was there. He curled around the base of a tree, without statues, and he was probably an illusion of himself, the size of a small bus rather than his full appearance. Like before, though, it was Teriarch. The Dragon’s voice was deep.
“You have a request for me, I take it. I do not make a habit of giving out relics from my hoard, Erin Solstice. Magic attracts problems.”
“Okay. But you are a powerful spellcaster beyond almost everyone, right? Beyond…well, I heard that you even have copies of the laptops and such. Ryoka brought you some, and you copied them. And, apparently, played Cookie Clicker on her iPhone.”
Teriarch coughed deeply, averting his gaze.
“I inspected the software within, yes. What is your point?”
Erin held something out to him.
“How much for you to make me ten of these?”
The Dragon’s eyes fixed on the Faeblade, Ryoka Griffin’s Windsword, and he nearly choked on a bite of lasagna.
“…You want me to copy Ryoka’s gift from the Faerie King?”
“It’s not from him. It’s just technology.”
She gave him a smile, and the Brass Dragon—hesitated.
It was an interesting thing, but Erin Solstice did not jive with Teriarch the same way that Ryoka did. They were obviously different personalities, but Erin was not cast from the same young woman that Teriarch saw in so many that drove him to render his aid.
She was…rather like many [Witches] he had known, appropriate for her class. He and they did not get along, and her proposal sort of annoyed him. He tossed his mane of metal hair.
“I do not perform great magic on a whim, you know, Miss Solstice.”
“I know. Then do it to help me kill the six. Do it so I can help you and send my [Knights] out with real weapons.”
The Brass Dragon grumbled in the back of his throat. Here she was, jumping to the end of the matter without the request. No niceties, no lead up—she was direct, efficient, and he rather enjoyed Ryoka Griffin’s earnest pleas more than Erin Solstice’s logical genius.
No charm at all. Reluctantly, the Dragon levitated the Faeblade’s hilt up and analyzed it.
“I suppose I could use my trick to copy and replace it. Although—given the materials, I might as well just cast [Foundational Recreation of Mundanity].”
“Is that some kind of super-powerful Tier 7 spell?”
He sniffed.
“Tier 8 is technically how I would rate it to cast it in every circumstance. Complexity, not mana cost. I could name the number of beings who ever managed to learn it.”
“And you know it? Well, go ahead then.”
He paused for a long moment. The Dragon really would have liked her to ask who else knew the spell and perhaps given her a lecture on the difficulty of magic and—
Grumbling, he began the analysis process. It really was complex magic, but the truth was that it was all set up. You had to perfectly recreate, in raw mana, the desired object. Any minute thing wrong and the entire thing could kaboom in an unfortunate way. Once you analyzed, the copying was actually just pushing enough mana in to replicate whatever you made.
“You know, the first use of this was to create gold. Highly mana-inefficient, and it was disastrous. It, well—”
He began to chuckle, and Erin rolled her eyes.
“It crashed the economy. Yeah, yeah. That’s so depressing. I know that story.”
Now, Teriarch was getting actually offended.
“Who told you that one?”
“A Dragon. I’ve met your kind.”
The Dragon grumpily replied, drawing himself upright, his mane shining like his scales in the mists that swirled around him. Ghosts. He was half one himself.
“You might have more respect, then. You have met the waning species, the last of the last. We, like Giants, have long gone from the earth. It is something you and I should both cherish, this last meeting of immortal and mortal minds.”
The [Innkeeper] who had walked that very world looked up at Teriarch with old eyes, and he remembered why he hated [Witches]. They made him feel like a person.
“I heard the Giants tell me Dragons died just like they did. I met great Jinn and Djinni and dead species. But you know what? Despite Dragons being one of many species to fade—Halflings, Spiderfolk, and more—somehow, it’s always about Dragons dying out.”
Teriarch’s chest deflated slightly.
“Well, yes. Those are all tragedies. But every species sees itself as—who did you meet?”
Erin was clearly stressed, and maybe they should talk about something else. Although…this damn Faeblade was really complex. Teriarch wasn’t even sure what the metal was, and the inner…workings of it were microscopic.
He had seldom seen anything this ornate, even in Fraerling make, and he was beginning to regret his boast to Erin. The Dragon focused hard as Erin replied slowly.
