Erin huddled with Rabbiteater to establish their genealogy for a second. When they turned—Talia saw where Rabbiteater got his personality from.
“Dead gods. It’s like seeing a female Ser Greysten.”
Ser Lloyd summarized Erin Solstice in the best way possible. Ser Markus choked on his tongue, and Rabbiteater sprayed spit out his visor at a wall, laughing. Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“I resent that comment without having any idea what it means. Rabbit, I can’t follow you, and I’m about to fall off the stage again. Can you find a spot for me? Or I’ll just—re-center! Aaah! I’m outside again!”
She started screaming, then walked through the walls, wiping her brow. Markus nearly leapt down the stairs of the Lighthouse Keep himself.
“Wow, that is scary. Alright. I was feeling bad, and now I’m feeling good. What about you, Rabbiteater?”
He was beaming behind his helmet. You could hear it in his voice.
“I’m good.”
“Ser Solstice—Rabbit. Is this really Erin Solstice herself? In the flesh? Or an illusion, at least? It’s an honor, Miss. I am Ser Markus of the Season of Spring, the Order of Seasons. It is my privilege to meet you.”
Markus bowed, and Erin gave him a more favorable, appraising glance this time. She smiled—and her hazel eyes lit up like flames.
“I know you, Markus. You helped Rabbit—I mean, ‘Ser Solstice’ a lot. I’d better not blow your cover, Rabbit.”
“Better not or I’ll get killed.”
Erin chuckled, but she grew more serious and didn’t let his name slip thereafter. She regarded Markus with a keen look.
“I saw your Season’s leader at the Trial of Blades, didn’t I? And you helped fight for Calanfer. Then we’re friends, Ser Markus. Take care of Ser Solstice for me. And Dame Talia, I only meant half of what I said.”
“I—take your words seriously, Miss Solstice.”
Talia managed, approximating a handshake as Erin held her hand out. The [Innkeeper] met her eyes, and the Summer Knight, who could war with Ser Greysten if not win, shivered.
“Good. Because I meant them. Now, where’s the Toilet Bowl Five, Ser Solstice? I can’t stay all night—but I want to meet them. And Seraphel…Ishkr! I know you’re spying on me! Get Lyonette!”
Wait, did she mean…Talia’s mouth opened wide, and Rabbiteater laughed. He took the stairs down the keep four at a time, and Erin popped into place after him, like she was doing mini-teleports.
That was how she appeared in Pheislant. It was just one moment in the night, and arguably—the least important, especially compared to a conversation with a Dragon because he was a Dragon.
Then again—look at how she arrived.
 
——
 
 
Contrary to Erin Solstice’s accusations, the rest of the Ivory Five were indeed gathering at the base of the Lighthouse Keep, in the banquet hall, debating how to cheer Rabbiteater up. They all had different ideas.
“It’s a kick up the ass, a drink, and a night in a brothel in most armies. I don’t know if we can do the last part, but Cortese has volunteered for the first one.”
Altestiel was more thoughtful than how he was speaking. So was Cortese, who’d brought some Kaazian brandy and Earther-sweets. They were affecting not to care too much, whereas Menrise had put her hands on her hips in pure exasperation.
“You two are terrible moral support. Almost as bad as Seraphel!”
“Me?”
The [Deathtouched Princess] was genuinely hurt, but Menrise waggled a finger at her.
“You just wanted to go on a spending spree tonight! Hit the town with a thousand gold pieces? Princess! Sometimes all we have to do is get Rabbit out of his rooms and laughing. Honestly.”
“That’s what my parents did whenever I suffered a loss.”
Seraphel flushed, and Menrise paused.
“Grim. We’ll go with my plan first. Cortese and Altestiel, throw him into the sea, and then we start hitting him with the sponges I bought. If he comes out mad enough, he’ll forget he’s sad. Then we ask if he wants to meet Pheislant’s tame Cinem Walruses.”
“I dislike the part of this plan where you think he takes a swing at me. But fine.”
Cortese grumbled. They were getting ready, and Seraphel had a bag of lemon-flavored candies—Menrise had some soft tissues in case Rabbiteater’s face hurt from all the crying.
A hubbub was coming down the stairs. Of course, the Ivory Five thought it was Rabbiteater.
But they were not prepared. Altestiel turned—and kept turning until he almost fell over. Princess Seraphel blinked, and her red hair shifted as she tucked a strand out of her face, confused—then gasped. Cortese blinked, then his eyes went round. Lady Menrise pointed.
“Wh—is that—”
A young woman was coming down the stairs. Or rather, teleporting in an odd way after a [Knight] wearing a cloak and talking and laughing loudly. In their wake came the Order of Seasons and Terandrians.
Servants, citizens of Pheislant, and people preparing to depart on the ships. The young woman—she wasn’t moving her feet, but she was tipping a hat made of flame to people. And there was a little Gnoll child sauntering after her, giving people finger-guns. Erin Solstice caught sight of the Ivory Five and called out.
“Make way, you people. Haven’t you seen an [Innkeeper] before? Or is it you, Ser Solstice? Well, well, well. Earl Altestial. We meet again! And this time, I’m showing off.”
She spread her arms, and her hat bloomed with flames. Erin Solstice laughed as the Earl of Rains goggled up at her.
She came down like fire. Her voice was so loud it spilled out of the Lighthouse Keep. And Rabbiteater? He marched straight out the doors as Seraphel gasped.
“Innkeeper Erin? How—wait, wait, Ser Solstice!”
Rabbiteater paused in the streets outside, and Erin Solstice looked out—then up.
“Hey, it does look like a lighthouse. So this is Pheislant. Coastal-y. Did they throw you a banquet, Ser Solstice?”
“Not me, specifically. But they were nice.”
Erin’s eyes twinkled with mirth and wonder. She looked mock-offended as the Ivory Five stumbled out the doors, pushing with the other guests. Then she cupped her hands to her mouth, and her [Loud Voice] really activated.
“Well, hello Pheislant!”
Heads turned. People looked annoyed in the direction of that loud—somewhat familiar—voice shouting in the night. They saw Ser Solstice, Princess Seraphel—and that hat of flames. And they stopped and thought, ‘this can’t be right. That looks like…’
Erin Solstice. She was standing next to her [Knight], beaming as proud as could be.
Duke Firrus Kallinad was coming towards the Lighthouse Keep to see if his daughter was available. He hadn’t had time to speak to this Ser Solstice, who, he understood, was under the weather for some reason. But he halted when he heard that voice—and when he and his guards finally moved to the front of the crowd, he saw a young woman speaking to a [Knight].
“You’ve got to meet Normen, Ser Solstice.”
“Well, bring him out.”
“No, I mean, meet him. In person, and go on an adventure together. We’re starting an Order, and I don’t know what to do. But you do, I bet.”
“Mm. It should have really good food. Can’t fight on bad food. You need a [Chef]. And a fortress. Your inn is nice, but I want a table.”
“A round table?”
“Sure. Why are you saying it like that?”
Duke Firrus hesitated.
“Is that—excuse me, Miss. Are you Erin Solstice? Excuse me—”
He tried to get her attention, and Erin Solstice twirled on her heel. She was smiling now.
“Who’s that guy?”
Ser Markus whispered, looking excited rather than apprehensive. He had gotten on board with Erin Solstice and was just rolling with her being here. Which just went to show why he and Rabbiteater were friends.
“Duke Firrus Kallinad.”
“Wil’s dad? Hey! Hello! I met your son! And that’s all I have to say about that. Hello, Altestiel! Finally caught up? Cat still got your tongue? You knew I could do this. Wait, you’re—Lady Menrise of Tourvecall? It’s amazing to meet you!”
Lady Menrise threw up her hands in terror as if being mugged as Erin strode over in delight.
“You’re amazing! Hello! I’m Menrise!”
Erin laughed.
“It’s so nice to meet you! And you’re…Princess Seraphel, right? And Lord Cortese.”
She saw Seraphel and acknowledged her after Lady Menrise! Lord Firrus felt like he was coming down with something. But before he could even figure out how to re-insert himself back into the conversation, Seraphel was stuttering.
“I—that’s right. This is all through your inn? I—I’m quite delighted to meet you, Miss Solstice.”
“And I’m happy to meet you! I hope you’ll visit my inn. I was hoping to speak to you, actual—”
Erin yelped, and a hand nearly shoved her off the stage again. A young woman with red hair and an apron, plainly dressed, but unmistakable, appeared suddenly, making everyone leap back.
“Seraphel! Seraphel? Oh, dead gods!”
“Eternal Throne! Lyonette!”
Seraphel put her hand to her mouth and shrieked. The Thronebearers all reached for Lyonette, and the little Gnoll girl mock-fended them off with her paws, looking incredibly smug. But the two sisters only had eyes for each other.
“You’re alive! Is Dalimont there? Are you coming back? Don’t—”
Seraphel remembered the crowd, and Lyonette hesitated.
“I’m—not Lyonette.”
“You’re not?”
Seraphel gave her a blank look, and the younger [Princess] turned red.
“T-that is to say, I’m at an undisclosed location, and I wanted to speak to you! Privately! Erin! What are you doing?”
“You nearly shoved me off the stage! Hello, hello! And Mrsha wants to say hello!”
She lifted up the little Gnoll, laughing. That [Innkeeper] of pure chaos. Then Altestiel found his voice. And the roar that was about to come out was, instead, just a remark that drew a moment of silence.
“I should have known that Ser Solstice wouldn’t languish long. After all. His champion will never fail to have his back.”
Erin blinked, then turned to him, her eyes wide, sparkling like a [Prankster], but filled with genuine warmth like an [Emberbearer]. And she gave him a smile that could have parted grey skies.
Fearless as a [Popstar] in front of thousands. And she claimed she was shy, that she couldn’t lead [Knights]. She stood shoulder-to-shoulder with a [Princess], her eyes twinkling like a [Witch]. She looked at Rabbiteater—and the [Knight] felt it.
The Order of Solstice was an ember beginning to burn. As Erin stood in Pheislant, she blew upon that ember, two [Knights]…and called her champion home.
