Halrac murmured, and she turned to him.
“Halrac, protecting little Pebblesnatch is never a problem. This was always coming, and…it is good to see you as well. Are you well?”
She emphasized the question, looking him up and down. Griffon Hunt had been rather silent after the Trial of Zeladona, but Halrac…
He looked fine. He did. He had been malnourished after the mysterious way he’d returned, but his memory hadn’t come back, and frankly, Typhenous had been hurt far worse. However, the [Bowman of Loss] was glancing at Erin, and his hand was hovering near his bag of holding.
“It’s been boring work in the cold. Snow Golems. Snow monsters. Too much snow; Riverfarm is shoveling day and night. Liscor seems spared of it.”
“It has the High Passes, I understand. Are you here for drinks, food? Peggy can serve your group.”
Lyonette was motioning the Goblin over, and at least that was delegable. Halrac nodded.
“If I could have a word with Erin…I’d like to talk to her about an arrow. If she’s free today.”
Lyonette’s eyes sharpened, and she nodded very slowly.
“Of course. Have you found out what…”
The Gold-rank Captain answered softly.
“No. And we’ve been testing it for a month.”
“Ah. Then…I will have her find time.”
“Thank you.”
 
——
 
Change was in the air. It was coming, and Erin Solstice was still—despite all her pledges and goals and quests—trying to hold it back.
At least, where her [Knights] were concerned. Were they even hers? She had taken Normen’s words to heart about why [Knights] should be given the chance. She was now…taking it very seriously.
As the [Innkeeper] found a private room with Chaldion, she put in a threefold request.
“I’ll talk to Halrac, Lyonette. But is today the day Demsleth returns? Have him meet with me before he eats and leaves.”
Every week, like clockwork, Demsleth would stroll in, sometimes with a very dirty and battered Rafaema, and the two would eat everything in sight. Chaldion focused on Erin—and Lyonette gulped.
“You have other people who want to talk, Erin…a Dwarf. And that Runner! And the Mage’s Guild has a bunch of letters for you. As ever.”
“I’ll see them all in turn. If not today, give them a room. Thank you. Actually—can you send the Runner to Normen? It’s probably his thing, and I’ll be talking to him.”
Lyonette hurried off, and Chaldion sat back in his chair as Erin faced him, looking tired. She had so much work to do that she’d put off for a month of rest.
Now came hard conversations and harder deeds.
 
——
 
Lady Salkis had not been downstairs when the nobles of the north had been present. She had been upstairs, in a certain Goblin’s room, having a bunch of fun.
She was sweaty now, and smiling. Though her scales had crawled when she felt auras colliding below. And she had heard Chaldion was about.
The danger made it fun, but she was pestering Numbtongue.
“Come on, give me a door to the portal door.”
“Why? Chaldion isn’t bad.”
“He…might realize I’m not supposed to be here, Numbtongue. Come on. I’ll be in huge trouble!”
The lie about her father flipping out if he heard she was fraternizing with Goblins was good enough for the Hobgoblin to help her move unseen through the inn. The two passed through the garden, and Salkis and Numbtongue avoided the hill where a few glowing faeries were flitting about.
Nor could they hear Shaestrel and the Winter Sprites at this moment, aside from a buzzing and a few glowing lights.
 
“Pissant.”
“Aye, the both of them. Yon Goblin is thinking with his third leg.”
“Psh, eleventh finger more like. Tisn’t that impressive.”
“Neither one thinking beyond the fun. When, at least, the Goblin should for the hearts he cradles and breaks. And the girl’s had her chance to see. Both blind.”
“Reminds me of Guinevere and Lancelot, so it does. Not a thought to anyone else’s feelings but what goes on between the sheets.”
“Those two? Ye’re daft. More like Oedipus and his mother. Or Narcissus and Narcissus. Here, kin, let’s not gossip and do something about it.”
 
A snowball hit Salkis in the back of the head, and she whirled.
“Those damn pests!”
“Ignore them. They throw snow at me, too. I’ll tell Ryoka on you! Ow!”
A mudball, this one flung at even higher velocity than the snowball, nailed Numbtongue in the shoulder. Swearing, the two ran for it.
They were still laughing, ignorant to the commentary of the fae, when Numbtongue swung Salkis into a kiss, and she leapt out of the door.
“Pallass, please!”
She was even polite and ignored Liska’s roll of the eyes. Salkis enjoyed her time at the inn. She—did. She didn’t have the urge to set fire to the building or cause trouble. Instead, she was wondering if Numbtongue wanted to take his adventuring seriously. They could make Gold-rank in a month. All she had to do was hide her…face…
It took her a second before she realized why she was in pain. She had assumed it was something else, but the itching, burning pain on her scales—it was too familiar.
Salkis slowed as she walked down across Pallass, and she touched something burning on her scales. It was…a mark, carved into her scales in miniature. Hidden just under one armpit, and it had hurt like hell the day it was engraved.
Now it burned and itched—and she felt that call.
Bloodfeast. If it was summoning her—it meant she was in the region.
Suddenly, her heart rate was spiking, and Salkis felt a thrill of adrenaline run through her veins. After so long? And they wanted her?
She had to reply. But now she had to get somewhere private and communicate back and learn where—Salkis began striding down the street. Yet—she felt odd.
There was less pep in her step. She would have been kissing her family, smiling at her step-mother, and laughing like she was in the best of moods if this had come before her long journey with the Fellowship of the Inn.
She felt a thrill, but not the giddy high of before. Salkis poked her chest. Was she coming down off the fun with Numbtongue? Or was it…
I can’t not go. There were…penalties for shirking your membership, and once you were in, you were in with the Raiders forever. Strangely, Salkis had never considered that a downside until now.
Troubled, she began to walk forwards. But as the spitting faeries drinking pilfered rum out of Faerie Flowers would attest—she still hadn’t changed.
 
——
 
Lyonette was headed upstairs as Normen circulated the inn. He was trying to watch the Thronebearers and see how they did things.
He knew he would never be as posh as they were, but it was good to see how they bowed to the nobles and guests and talked them down and hinted that Lyonette was busy, but they could convey a tidbit to her?
In that way, they cut down on the [Princess]’ work, and the nobles and other guests got to feel like they had a line to the [Princess]—even if their stupid comments or invitations never reached Lyonette. And the [Princess] had plausible deniability that her ‘idiot knights’ hadn’t told her.
How elegant. How sophisticated. How…
This could not be the Order of Solstice, could it? Normen was afraid of this, because he couldn’t do what the Thronebearers did. Even the Thronebearers were not perfect. Battle sense aside…
“We should have been holding Lord Xitegen from the start. I blame our system. We were too focused on Her Highness—where we should divide amongst the inn.”
Dalimont quietly argued with Ser Lormel and Ushar when they stopped for a moment. Sest was entertaining a few nobles, but Dalimont looked exasperated.
Lormel looked like he was having a bad time; Ushar looked stressed. Normen blamed himself for Lormel’s wince as he leaned on a table—without potion, the man’s groin probably still hurt. Ushar blew out her cheeks.
“Her Highness is the principle charge. We cannot deal with the inn alone. Twenty of us would barely be enough to work in rotations, Dalimont. It was a failing this time—but we all dearly wanted to see Calanfer.”
Oh, they must have been spying on Calanfer via the theatre. Dalimont nodded.
“Then we will have to deal with this issue as it comes.”
“Must we? He’s identified Her Highness, and if a [Lord] of Terland is—Princess Lyonette’s position becomes less and less tenable here, Dalimont. We cannot actually hope to defend her against a full, coordinated assassination attempt or kidnapping. With Adventurer Shriekblade, we have a chance, but she is unreliable.”
Lormel snapped back, and Dalimont raised his brows.
“Well, unless you can speed Calanfer’s ships, we are all that remains, Lormel.”
“We would be—unless you helped me push her to return! Even if only to come back with a hundred Thronebearers and servants!”
Lormel retorted as Normen hovered to one side, listening. A blonde Gnoll with sunglasses pushed through the main door, looking embarrassed as he ran over to ask Rosencrantz what had happened. The Thronebearers were furiously speaking as Ushar raised her brows.
“Dalimont’s made his point clear, Lormel. I can’t sway him.”
“But we have a mandate from the crown—”
“One Dame Ushar is not enforcing for the same reasons I have decided not to. Be sensible, Lormel.”
“Sensible? She’s waiting tables and getting into Izrilian politics. Lord Xitegen had a point! Even with the Antinium and Goblins being a nuanced species each—it will sully her reputation! And here she sits! I don’t care what you claim Princess Seraphel told you. Sest agrees with Ushar and I. Help me convince Princess Lyonette to return!”
Dalimont just raised his gauntleted hands as Lormel snapped, uncharacteristically mad.
“No. And it would not help if I joined you. Leave it, Lormel. We have work to do.”
He stepped aside to keep circulating the tables or perhaps check on Lyonette upstairs, and Lormel snapped. He tugged his gauntlet off his right hand—and slapped Dalimont in the face.
“I have had enough of you going against what is best for Calanfer, Ser. I will have you in the practice courts tonight! A duel on it!”
Dead gods, the drama didn’t end! Normen saw Dalimont take the slap from the metal glove full on. He recoiled—and nearly drew his sword on the spot as Ushar blocked the two.
“Have you gone mad, Lormel? This is not the time!”
The other [Knight], normally calm, was red-faced.
“I have had enough of this, Ushar. Leave be! We’ll settle this by blade and in the old fashioned way—”
“Dalimont will hand you your pride on your shield, Lormel. He’s the best of us four from his time in Noelictus—”
“I don’t care! I will fight, and that is how a [Knight] does it! But I will not wait here—I cannot wait a year or months to—”
Lormel’s voice broke along with his face. His rage turned to a kind of grief, and Dalimont, bristling and angry, suddenly hesitated.
“What’s going on?”
Normen nearly jumped out of his armor as Yelroan grabbed his arm. The [Mathematician] was winded and apologetic.
“I ran over when I heard there was trouble. I’m sorry! I’ve been helping Felkhr—”
“Just some business about the Order of Solstice.”
“Miss Erin didn’t consult with me? I had a budget and—argh. Why are the [Knights] fighting?”
Yelroan had a kind of keen understanding of the inn, despite not being here long, that was equivalent to Lyonette or Ishkr’s. Mostly because he was able to hang back and observe. Normen frowned.
Seeing the Thronebearers fight in the open was—odd. Why was Lormel challenging Dalimont?
The answer came as Ushar patted the man’s shoulder and Dalimont took his hand off his sword hilt.
“—You were looking at home, Lormel. Ah. Was it…it’s Lancresi, isn’t it? Is it her…birthday?”
The [Knight]’s eyes glimmered overfull.
“She’s six, now. Old enough to be walking and talking, and you know how long a year is. I saw her in that theatre, and it brought back more than letters can. I’m—sorry, Dalimont. That was beneath me.”
Ushar patted him harder on the shoulder as Normen exchanged a look with Yelroan. Lormel had a child?
Who knew? Not Lyonette. Not Normen. Dalimont exhaled.
“You’re forgiven, Lormel. Her Highness should never have sent you—not a married man.”
“I don’t think little Ellet knew. I am the crown’s representative, and Their Majesties accepted her vouchsafing me—I thought it was an honor. But I never dreamed we’d be facing months of that siege, nor that the [Princess] would refuse to go home. What am I to do?”
Normen’s mouth opened as he stared at Yelroan. The Gnoll looked pained—and Normen?
Normen headed upstairs at a trot. He didn’t know if it was a scrupulous thing to do, a [Knight] telling tales. But Dalimont was giving him a look out of the corner of his eye, and so had Ushar.
Perhaps that was a kind of knightliness of its own. Lormel couldn’t bring this up, and the Thronebearers might not feel it was their place.
But Normen was a poor [Knight].
 
——
 
“Ser Lormel has a child?”
Lyonette nearly threw a change of bedding out the window when Normen told her that. She looked aghast not to know it, and Yelroan raised a paw.
“He’s married. Eight years. Has a child who is now six—they live at the Eternal Throne, as a [Knight] directly in service to the crown would. No wonder he’s assigned to the 7th Princess. He’s probably good with children.”
“I didn’t know. He never told me! Ser Sest? Get Ser Sest!”
She summoned the fourth [Knight] immediately, and when she demanded answers, Ser Sest winced full-on. But he seemed gratified by Normen spilling the beans and coughed into one fist as he bobbed up and down.
“It…it isn’t the place of [Knights] to complain about such things, Your Highness. Speaking frankly as I may—commenting on his need to go home is both un-valorous and would earn him censure amongst some of the [Princesses].”
Lyonette stared up at the ceiling and closed her eyes.
“I can just imagine my brothers don’t have time for that. And…Shardele wouldn’t care, Aielef would be mad to even hear it…but I would listen!”
Ser Sest nodded politely, and Lyonette turned red.
“I would! I realize I might not have a year ago—”
“We are used to a different [Princess], and there are codes, Your Highness. Forgive Ser Lormel for keeping it in.”
“Well…well…well. We can send him to Calanfer, then. Send him back to be with his family. That’s alright.”
Lyonette came to a rapid decision. But Ser Sest winced.
“No, Your Highness—”
“Why not? If his daughter is growing up before his eyes—I have all the sympathy for that.”
The [Princess] put her hands on her hips, and Sest hesitated. Then he blew out his cheeks.
