“It’s hugely political. The head of a major family? I had heard their rivals, the…Trevalier family, wanted to take charge, and they forced Duke Firrus to volunteer himself. But he was given overall authority in the name of Pheislant, which has not pleased Trevalier. They threatened to pull out, but since they have not, I assume they believe the investment worth the risk. And they do not want to offend the crown.”
“Politics. Doesn’t matter. Nothing matters.”
Now Ser Solstice was on his side. Seraphel looked around—then bent over.
[Ghostly Hand]! She poked him through his armor, and he grunted and twitched. But unlike normal, he didn’t react beyond that. Menrise hopped around him, playfully, poking his armor.
“Come on, Ser Solstice. Where’s your usual vim and vigor? Let’s go have some fun before we have to sit and listen to Seraphel’s boring speech!”
“Hey.”
“I don’t want to have fun, Menrise. I’m sad. Meisa broke up with me.”
“Oh.”
All four of Ser Solstice’s friends paused. Altestiel gave Markus a knowing look, Seraphel bit her tongue and straightened, Menrise stopped shaking Rabbiteater—and Cortese withdrew the boot he’d been about to kick Rabbiteater with. The Hundredlord coughed.
“I, uh—I’m sorry to hear that, Rabbit. Was it due to a quarrel?”
“No. She doesn’t like me because I’m worthless.”
“In bed? Ow!”
Menrise got a kick from Cortese. Rabbiteater just lay there.
“I have no future. Everything is pointless. I want to go home, now.”
“Well, we’re going to embark.”
“Just roll me onto the ship. This sucks. Everything is pointless. I want to go home.”
Ser Markus had apparently decided that Rabbiteater’s friends could help cheer him up. After nearly half an hour of consolation, he was sneaking away into the keep—right before someone put a hand on his shoulder.
“Ser Markus. What exactly did this Dame Meisa say to poor Solstice? Before you go, would you mind explaining?”
Princess Seraphel caught him, and the [Knight] turned.
“Your Highness! I, er, think that should be between [Knights]. I just heard Ser Solstice was in distress, and as you can see, it’s laid him low.”
He tried to edge back, but an unhelpful Thronebearer was suddenly right there, and one did not just shrug off a [Princess]’ hand.
“Of course. But what, specifically, did she say?”
Then Cortese was leaning on his other shoulder, hand on his sword. Markus looked left and right, and Menrise came up from the front and jabbed a wand tip up so that it tickled his left nostril.
“Yeah. What did she say? Why would anyone break our funny Ser Solstice’s heart? Let’s hear it, ‘Ser Markus’. Or you’re about to see exactly how many places I can shove this.”
Ser Markus swallowed and reflected that being Rabbiteater’s friend was sometimes very hard. Especially when it came to explaining why Dame Meisa saw no future with him. Meanwhile, Rabbiteater lay there as Altestiel squatted down next to him. The [Earl of Rains], who knew exactly why he was grieving, patted Rabbiteater on the shoulder.
“Cheer up. At least we’ll see Erin soon enough.”
Rabbiteater’s head slowly rose as the Earl smiled at him. The Goblin Knight retorted once.
“She’s not going to fall in love with you.”
Altestiel stared down at him—then watched as a wave of water slowly picked up Rabbiteater and hurled him off the docks and into the ocean with a splash.
 
——
 
There was a trend of [Knights] lying on the ground these days. Nevermind it was another continent—yet another [Knight] was on his knees.
Then—slowly—the golden armor of Ser Lormel collapsed to the ground. And the man let go of his practice sword and shield so that he could better clutch at his groin.
Ser Normen was highly embarrassed. He lowered his practice mace and felt like a failure of a [Knight]. Ser Dalimont, Ser Sest, and the third [Knight] watching the duel, Ser Solton, winced.
Here was the problem. The Order of Solstice was developing a reputation, though it only had two members. Every Knight-Order had a style.
Like the Order of the Petal, Bethal’s personal warriors, were known for wearing highly enchanted suits of armor. They fought in small groups, were devoted to their [Lady], and they were pink.
Very pink.
Clairei Knights, on the other hand, were fast. They patrolled Izril, zooming from crisis area to crisis, one of the few Orders in Izril.
The Order of Hydra were commoners, literally compared to foot-soldiers, but numerous. The Thirsting Veil used poison, the Order of Seasons were weather-knights…
Etcetera. You could be very uncomplimentary about how you distilled the rich traditions and thousands of individuals into a single concept. But the Order of Solstice was new. Untested. Therefore, their reputation was in development, and what they were getting known for was a lack of skill in diplomacy, statecraft, law—
But being very good at fighting. Especially fighting dirty.
The problem was that Ser Normen was a former Brother. A man of the streets. Even if one of his Skills, [Brute’s Swing] had turned into [Knight’s Riposte], he had all his other Skills. Which included, among other things—
[Free Elbow]. A Skill that let him, in the middle of a fight with fist or club, throw out an elbow to your jaw or chest or throat that really fucking hurt.
[Bone-rattling Swing]. Another attack Skill that threw off someone in the middle of a fight even if they blocked.
[Unscrupulous Instinct]. A Skill that let him guess if someone had a hidden blade or, sometimes, if there was a trap or other nasty surprise.
Lots of Skills as any Level 27 [Courteous Mugger] would have. But one of his, um…best Skills was one he felt really should have been replaced.
And that was [Armor-piercing Low Blow]. A Level 10 Skill that apparently could kick straight through armor.
Normen had not actually fought any [Knights] in his career as a Brother. But most men on the streets knew that your foe would go for your nuts in a fight because that laid most people out. So they wore codpieces.
Normen’s kick went straight through the codpiece, as it were. And unfortunately, the instincts of the street meant that in the middle of this training spar, when he saw the opening, he went for it.
“Ser Lormel, I am terribly sorry, sir. Can I give you a potion for—”
“No potion! We can’t waste—dead gods, it hurts! Right in my coin bank! Straight between Their Majesties’ thrones!”
He had a colorful way of referring to his balls. And it was really—really unfortunate—
Ser Solton was clearly trying not to laugh even as Normen hung his head.
“I am deeply ashamed.”
“Well, it proves that Ser Normen is a good fighter. He had Lormel on the back foot even before that unfortunate blow. That’s a commentary on Thronebearers as much as the Order of Solstice, I’m afraid.”
That comment provoked a slight glare from Ser Sest, who was helping Lormel up. The three Thronebearers were joining Normen for some morning training—Dame Ushar was with Lyonette. Normally, they didn’t like rotating out three at once, but Shriekblade plus a single [Knight] in the inn was considered acceptable.
Besides, the other [Knights] present meant that it was something of an honor. For Normen. The unfortunate part was that the [Knight] of Clairei Fields, Ser Cloudst, had arrived just in time to see the blow.
The [Knights] who had come to inquire after Rabbiteater had stayed. Well, Ser Solton had, while the two Ailendamus [Knights] had gone on. One might be around, but the Thirsting Veil Knight had been determined to return home and report to his kingdom.
“Ser Cloudst. Would you like to test our young [Knight]? I’m a bit wary myself, not being the strongest combatant anymore.”
Ser Solton called out. He was the one running commentary as the oldest [Knight] present. He was middle-aged, a Knight of Haegris—or a Haggle-Knight as they were sometimes called.
He was, um…interesting. Haggle-Knights were not known to Izril, but Solton was apparently well-respected in Terandria. You could tell Solton was used to kinder lands because his armor was shaped for his figure.
…He had a pot belly. His armor had space for his stomach, and he had a rosy-cheeked look and didn’t wear his helmet often. Nevertheless, he carried a sword and shield and was decent with them.
But it was somewhat dismaying that Normen had beaten Lormel both in technique and with the blow. Certainly, the Knight of Clairei Fields agreed.
“Someone must set an example. With respect—none of your Orders are accustomed to fighting solo. Ser Normen, let us test ourselves. Though I caution you—that last blow might not be well thought-of among most [Knights].”
“I will endeavor not to, Ser Cloudst.”
The other [Knight] had naturally white hair and he was perhaps in his fifties. But he was spry. A pure example of how levels let an older man keep up or even pass younger, lower-level folk. He gave Normen a tight smile, plucked a practice longsword, which he held two-handed, and the two advanced into a second duel.
Normen lost that one. Oh, the fight lasted a good while. Neither [Knight] considered a blow to the armor ‘good’ unless it was a strong connection, and Normen could use a club well.
A sword…a sword was an elegant weapon, but he had been assured a [Knight] could use a mace, and it was what he knew. Even the heavier mace made him feel slow, and with the armor, he felt like he was lumbering around.
Yes, knight-armor was light, and you could run and jump in it. But wearing any amount of weight slowed you down, and the entire set was an extra thirty-five pounds on him given Demas Metal’s weight.
Thirty-five pounds—and a heavier mace than his club by far. Normen was using a weighted practice mace to match the weight of his Demas Metal weapon. Even without all that—Normen felt he would have fallen behind Ser Cloudst.
The Clairei Knight was fast. He eschewed a shield for lightning-fast stabs, cuts, and parries. He advanced so fast that he had three blows on Normen in the first minute. When they ended it, it was 1-18 blows.
Although—Normen’s one blow had been a damn good swing on the man’s shoulder. The Clairei Knights adjusted his shoulder with a wince.
“A strong blow, Ser Normen. You’re familiar with that mace. Another round?”
“Yes, Sir! Thank you.”
The second time, Normen got in a lucky blow with [Knight’s Riposte]. As the sword came at him, he deflected—and the Skill came back twice as hard, blew through the practice sword, and caught Ser Cloudst across the chest.
However, even then, the [Knight] had the wherewithal to leap backwards, mitigating the blow. He was fast on his feet, and he ruefully checked himself as his sword came up.
“Not a bad—”
He had clearly expected Normen to give him a moment to set himself, so the [Knight] nearly bit his tongue as Normen came in swinging.
“I say, Ser Normen! You give the other man a chance to breathe!”
Sest shouted, but Dalimont elbowed him. Normen hesitated—and Ser Cloudst swung around him, left, swinging his sword around in an arc so fast that it rang across Normen’s armor.
A beheading strike. It was hard to say whether it would have worked in a real battle—but Normen lifted his mace.
“You have me, Ser Cloudst.”
The other [Knight] had a faint smile as he tugged his helmet off and accepted a drink of water.
“Not bad. You’ve passed the level of a [Squire] already. You lack some polish for a full [Knight]—but I quite agree it passes muster under a more peaceful Knight-Order. If you fought in squads of four, I would say you were ready already.”
He was being polite to the Thronebearers, who were a notoriously weak Order in combat. Ser Solton nodded.
“I’m detecting a few issues, though. Ser Cloudst, we’ve had Ser Normen learning to ride a horse. He’s only got the mace—no lance, no bow, and as we understand it, he might not have a retainer.”
“Hm. He needs more gear.”
The Clairei Knight frowned, and Normen went over to apologize to Lormel. The other man was surprisingly gracious about the blow.
“It’s a lesson to learn, Ser Normen. I won’t take offense—so long as you warn me that you’ll go for such a blow. And maybe we could avoid the Skill and call it a point, eh?”
“Absolutely, Ser Lormel.”
Would he ever conduct himself like a [Knight]? Normen decided to memorize how Lormel talked and the gracious way he took the kick. Normen would not have been so polite.
Then—he was inspecting Ser Cloudst’s gear and seeing what the [Knights] meant by ‘unprepared’.
Here was the thing. Normen was a [Knight]. He had the class. But he had no Order. And what was really meant by that, more than just authority, was…
“Equipment. Training. Backup, be it non-[Knights], friendly [Guards] you can prevail on, [Mages], [Squires] and [Pages], mounts, potions, alchemical tools—these are the foundations a [Knight] must rely on, Ser Normen. It is all very well to say we prevail on might of arms and Skill—and we do—but come and see Ser Cloudst’s gear. He’s the best example of it.”
The Clairei Knight had come through from Invrisil, but with his mount and things. So he showed Normen what a Knight of Clairei Fields had when they were…in the field.
He had: a longsword, enchanted with a keen edge. A warhorse, bred for speed, one of the racers from Walchaís Lands. Light cloth armor only—a long lance and a recurve bow. He also had, for emergency uses, a Potion of Speed, which he could use for combat or to escape.
The Clairei Knight’s specialty, given their speed, was to run down [Bandits], and one of the things Cloudst had was a horse whistle. If any horse was stolen from the stables across Izril, blowing that would make them rear and stop in place.
By contrast, the Thronebearers had a lot of gear designed to protect their charges. Runes that noticed if someone was nearby, fancy writing paper, speaking stones for coordination—they didn’t have bows.
Ser Solton, on crusade, had his sword and shield, one of those big crossbows, and, he confessed, a plethora of magical items.
“I left most with my [Squire]. I was prepared to fight undead, so the exploding potions, scrolls, and whatnot I don’t normally carry. I have this tiny chest of holding on my horse in terms of regular gear, and should I muster with other Haegris Knights, we would select our equipment from our armory. We have rather deep wells.”
Ser Cloudst was rather impressed with the foreign Terandrian [Knight].
“I’ve heard of Haegris’ armory. Don’t you have over a hundred thousand items?”
Ser Solton was modest.
