Now, Xitegen was paying attention. And something told Ishkr that the [Lord] of one of the Five Families was more than hot air.
However, Ishkr had made one mistake. He was just exhaling and looking around for Lyonette to apprise her of the problem. He had assumed Xitegen was done. Ominous threat, leave. Ishkr really should have gone after him. Not to stop him, but to make sure the man exited the inn without trouble.
Because that walk down the hallway to the door took less than a minute, and you had to stand in line for a few more minutes. Plenty of time for the Solstice effect to kick you in the nuts.
In this case—Xitegen’s voice was a roar.
“More Goblins? Get away, you filthy thing!”
This time—Erin Solstice heard it. She looked up from the table, rose to her feet—then rolled herself to the door. Ishkr ran. If Erin Solstice clonked Lord Xitegen with a pan or stabbed the man—
Consequences ran both ways.
“Hey! Who’s bullying Goblins? Normen—”
The [Knight] was already at the door, and the regulars were backing away as Erin’s face turned into a thunderhead. But Lord Xitegen came striding back through the door, locked in a furious shouting match as a tiny, grey Goblin with a poofy hat ran through, shielding her head.
“Pebblesnatch!”
The little Goblin had come for her first visit to The Wandering Inn. It was a grand day, a momentous day, when she returned to see how the inn was getting on. A painful-good day when she got to see the inn full of sadness and hope and wonder.
It should have been. But the horrible [Lord] had nearly kicked her, having never seen a Cave Goblin with their greyish skin before. That would have been bad—for Lord Xitegen—but someone had stopped him.
The furious [Lord] was on the back-foot as he retreated into the inn, but he began shouting back as a woman with black skin and stitch-marks around her fingers jabbed him in his belly.
“Listen, Porcine Human or whomever you are—I know you didn’t just try to kick Pebblesnatch. Because if you did, I would have kicked you. And if you did, you’d lose that foot, and no amount of stitching would put it back. Do you know where you are? Do you know how stupid that is?”
“How dare you. I am Lord Xitegen, and that filthy thing—is it diseased?”
“That’s Pebblesnatch, and if you’re a [Lord], I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. Wait, you’re a [Lord]?”
Revi hesitated for one second, and Xitegen advanced.
“I am Lord Xitegen Terland, and I will not be threatened by a Gold-rank adventurer. How dare you lay your hands on me! Which team are you from?”
He was about to back her out of the door when a hand barred the way. And this time, Xitegen halted as a dour-faced man blocked him and backed Revi up.
“Griffon Hunt. That Goblin is under Emperor Laken Godart’s protection. Lord Xitegen.”
The [Lord] halted, and Erin’s face turned with delight to her old friend. Pebblesnatch ran over to Erin, hopped in her lap, and Erin cuddled her. Xitegen focused on Halrac with actual recognition—then his face mottled.
“An [Emperor]’s protection? That upstart—I heard he had Goblins. Has all of Izril gone mad? Captain Halrac of Griffon Hunt, explain—yeow!”
That last part was from someone running over his foot with a chair. The [Lord] leapt back and stared as Erin opened her arms.
“Hey, buddy, you’re blocking my way. Get out of my inn already. Halrac! Revi! Typhenous! Briganda, and even Cade?”
The team of Griffon Hunt had agreed to escort Pebblesnatch to the inn, or used it for the pretext to visit. Wisely so, it seemed. Lord Xitegen tried to get a word in edgewise as the Gold-rank team came in. Typhenous was smiling.
“Pebblesnatch had to visit. Once she had determined her folk wouldn’t starve, that was. She was surprisingly reluctant.”
Briganda laughed, carefully looking around before letting Cade inside. The boy instantly looked around, spotted Mrsha, and ran over.
“I think she thought the inn’d explode or you’d conjure another Elemental. Hullo, Erin.”
“This is outrageous! Are you that [Innkeeper]? I demand an explanation! Riverfarm harboring Goblins as well? It is one thing to allow on Drake lands, but—”
“Typhenous! How’s the ribs and all the stab wounds?”
The old man winced as Erin gave him a too-firm hug.
“Ah, aaah! Easy, young lady! You’re healing faster than I am. Old bones and healing potions in limited supply, you know. Damned enchanted blades. I have been recumbent in Riverfarm and quite the talk of the town, if I may toot my own proverbial horn.”
Revi rolled her eyes.
“He’s been schmoozing with the [Witches] and playing up his wounds all month long. While the rest of us have to shovel snow.”
“Revi’s summons shovel snow. It’s been pouring. Is this a good time, Erin?”
Halrac was eying Lord Xitegen with more spatial awareness than the rest, but even he was caught off-guard as an Antinium ran downstairs.
“Halrac! My comrade in bows! It is I, Bird!”
Then Bird was there, hugging Halrac, who tried to fend him off. And Lord Xitegen quite lost his temper.
“Enough!”
His aura made everyone go silent, and Erin whirled in her seat. Normen instantly put himself between the [Lord] and…
He didn’t have any bodyguards. Or at least, none that were thrusting forwards. Two blank-faced servants stood behind Lord Xitegen, and unlike the rest of the nobles, he seemed perfectly willing to bull forwards.
“This inn is just as heinously maleficent as I thought. You must be Erin Solstice. I am Lord Xitegen, and I must warn you that this—”
He waved his hand to indicate Pebblesnatch, sticking her tongue out at him, the Antinium, and everything else—
“—is a dangerous precedent to set. You may be in Liscor, but your door connects to Invrisil and beyond. I hope you are aware that your fair-weather ways will not go unnoticed long.”
Erin blinked at the man as Normen bristled. He didn’t put a hand on his mace, but if he’d been a Brother, he’d already be plotting to see if he could mug this man once he stormed off. But Normen’s street-sense told him that might be a bad idea. He blinked at the servants, the [Lord]…
“Hey, pal. I don’t know who you are.”
“Lord Xitegen Terland.”
“—And I don’t care. You tried to kick Pebblesnatch? That’s a brave way to lose a foot. You don’t like my inn? Get out. It’s my door. And if you threaten an Antinium, Goblin, or one of my guests, be ready for the consequences.”
She pushed back on his aura so hard the [Lord] nearly recoiled. But unlike some other guests…he actually held his ground. Lord Xitegen exhaled.
“You’re everything like the rumors. I could almost admire that—but I caution you, Miss Solstice, and this [Emperor].”
He pointed a fat finger at Halrac, who had stiffened up, sensing this interaction might have consequences.
“If you would like to deal in threats—trampling over the flowers of Izril will also reap its own consequences. Be. Told.”
It was the kind of thing he clearly meant to say before storming out in a huff. But Erin blocked his way, and Ishkr groaned. Because the [Innkeeper] wasn’t the sort to let someone get the last word.
“You want to make threats in my inn? Listen, buddy.”
“Out of my way.”
Xitegen walked around her, ignoring her. Erin ran over his toes. The [Lord] shouted in pain—and then his face went blank.
“That is the third time I have been insulted in this inn. In that case—”
He looked over his shoulder, and one of the blank-faced servants stirred. Normen pivoted as he realized, too late, what they were.
Terland. The two Golems shifted—
And Lyonette du Marquin threw herself between Erin and Xitegen. She kicked Erin’s chair, and the [Innkeeper] rolled backwards. A Gnoll and little witch grabbed the chair.
“Mrsha, Nanette, Erin is going to sit over there. Now. Lord Xitegen, please calm down! Let’s all calm down—”
Four Thronebearers appeared like magic and interposed themselves—between Lord Xitegen and Erin’s friends. Ishkr exhaled in relief and wiped his brow.
He’d gotten Lyonette from the [World’s Eye Theatre] in the nick of time. Lord Xitegen stepped back as the desperate [Princess] forced everyone back. In Erin’s case, literally.
“Let go of me, Mrsha, Nanette! Let go of—”
They wheeled her away, and Lyonette bowed very deeply.
“Lord Xitegen. Please allow me to apologize on behalf of the inn. May I ask that you leave matters here? I would be remiss if this incident were to gain further steam. Lady Magnolia Reinhart would be most dismayed, and Lord Tyrion Veltras’ sons might be caught up in any—altercation.”
She invoked the two nobles like words of power, and Xitegen hesitated.
“I have been rudely insulted—”
“May I present you with a coupon for some sweets? Baked by the delightfully Human Imani in Liscor? And her partner, Centaur Palt of Wistram?”
Lyonette had a colorful bit of paper in hand. She thrust it at the [Lord], then remembered to hand it to the Golems.
But Xitegen focused on Lyonette, the red-haired young woman in her apron, and the [Knights] and took the coupon himself. He inspected it, then nodded.
“…That is far more reasonable. It is good, nay, gratifying to find a voice of reason and intelligence in this famous—too famous—inn. Your Highness of Calanfer, I accept your apology and offer my own for any—incidents that occurred here. And may I say, I am somewhat delighted to meet Terandrian royalty in such an odd place.”
He offered her a hand, and Lyonette’s smile froze. The rest of the inn had been cooling down, assuming the event was over. But now the guests, including the nobility now eating popcorn, Goblin-made or not, realized they were only getting started.
“P-Princess? I have no idea what you mean, Lord Xitegen. I’m—Lionette—Lionette with an ‘i’…I’m not—”
The [Lord] gave the politest of coughs as he eyed the Thronebearers.
“I am sure you are, Your Highness. In deference to you, I shall accept your gracious apology. But I must reiterate my point. This inn may be independent in Liscor’s aegis. A Goblin tribe is not. An [Emperor] is not, and so I merely caution you. I am not the most steadfast [Lord] when it comes to action, but rumors of Goblins abounding and that self-styled [Emperor] have reached even First Landing. It is my understanding he has a pact with this inn. This ‘Emperor Godart’ has been expanding worryingly quickly.”
“I—shall convey that to him, Lord Xitegen.”
“Very good, Your Highness. I may also extend to you the warmest hospitalities of House Terland, if you would care to meet with any of my family in Invrisil or travel to First Landing. We may discuss some small matters of the land.”
That was their way of saying ‘matters of state’. Lyonette raised her hands, aware that everyone was seeing her referred to as [Princess]. As it was the poorest-kept secret in all of Liscor…she gave up.
“I am afraid I cannot represent Calanfer in any matters, Lord Xitegen.”
She smiled wanly at him, and the [Lord] raised his brows.
“Eminently not, Your Highness. But your own interests would doubtless rouse even Matriarch Ulva to a meeting. And with that, I shall leave before that unpleasant aura nibbles on my toes.”
He glanced pointedly at Erin, then stepped out the door with coupon in tow. And Lyonette was left open-mouthed, Griffon Hunt were exchanging glances, and the nobles of Izril were getting to their feet.
Things changing. Amidst it all stood Normen, and he felt sweat rolling down his back as the two Golems followed Lord Xitegen out the door. He glanced back at Erin, and her furious gaze found his and turned anxious.
The [Knight] began to feel he might be needed very soon.
 
——
 
Vetn was meeting a young woman at the bar, and only Ishkr noticed in the hubbub that followed. Pebblesnatch was hiding in the kitchen from the horrible [Lord] and wondering if this was a bad idea after all.
But then, the inn had always been like this. She hadn’t known if she wanted to come. She could have, for months, but even the prospect of meeting Ulvama hadn’t changed that this was a sad place.
This was where so many had died. Riverfarm was safer. Or…it had been. Pebblesnatch sat under one of the cauldrons and gloomily wondered if it would change. Then someone lifted the pot and poked her.
“There you are. Causing trouble?”
The same hand smacked her on the head, and Pebblesnatch yelped. But it was a gentle smack. She looked up, and there was Ulvama. And Calescent, who had a piece of cake in hand. Pebblesnatch leapt up, hugged Ulvama, who tried to shoo her off, then hugged her back.
All was well, for a moment. Which was all a Goblin could ask for.
The rest of the inn was less easily calmed. Erin was fuming, rolling back and forth and shouting in annoyance.
“Who is that guy? Even Tyrion isn’t that bad!”
“That’s because Ryoka counters Tyrion. That was a [Lord] of one of the Five Families, and he has the levels to at least be a problem, Erin. You cannot just be rude to him! Lady Magnolia is a bad example. She is political and can accept insults. Some of them will hold grudges, and they can be dangerous. If the Assassin’s Guild was still extant, they might send one after you just for Lord Xitegen’s insults! Just on principle!”
Lyonette was having a row with Erin, and the [Innkeeper] pointed to a far wall.
“Well, that’s why Tessa’s here. Right, Tessa?”
“Huh?”
A Drake looked up from opening a letter with her claws. She gave Erin a blank look as Halrac stared long and hard at Shriekblade. Meanwhile, Bird was anxiously feeling Halrac up and down.
“Do you feel glowy, Halrac? You do not appear to be prone to vanishing again. Hello, Briganda. Hello, Mini-Briganda.”
That was his name for Cade. The boy was following Mrsha around like she was some great heroine of adventures. Certainly, Mrsha was something of an expert in fun stuff. Right now, though, she was whispering with Nanette. They tip-toed upstairs, and Erin pointed the way Xitegen had gone.
“He was threatening Rags and her tribe.”
“If he did, that means there’s already something underway, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] closed her eyes, then looked at Normen.
“Just another reason to get ready. And another reason to think about…damn. Damn, damn, fuck. Where’s Chaldion?”
She looked around, and a Drake lifted a glass.
“Enjoying the show. Are we ready for our meeting, Miss Erin?”
She glared so hard that she should have cracked his gemstone eye. Erin stormed over as Lyonette threw up her hands.
“Dead gods! Thank you, Sest, Lormel, Ushar, Dalimont. You were very helpful. Can you make sure no one else is holding a grudge?”
“Absolutely, Your Highness.”
The four moved off, and Lyonette didn’t even bother to correct them. She rubbed at her forehead.
“I’m sorry if we brought trouble, Lyonette.”
