“I met many, but of the ones I had a conversation with? I could talk to for any length of time? That was Yderigrisel, the Silver Knight. And Xarkouth, the Last Dragonlord of the Void.”
Those two names. Teriarch jerked—nearly lost focus, and looked at Erin. Then she seemed sympathetic to him.
“I knew both. I knew both well, though Xarkouth was often on other continents. I…you told me Xarkouth flew into the sky one last time. He was always worthy of his title.”
“Yes. Yes, he was, wasn’t he?”
Erin’s eyes glimmered and they shared a look like equals. Yes, that was the difference. She rubbed at her face, then laughed.
“But he was so haughty.”
“He was. He was. He’d always lead with the haughtiness, you know. ‘My species flew into the sky’. As if he did it himself. I mean…I suppose he did. But he could be entirely snobbish when he chose to be. You must have truly annoyed him.”
“We got along after a bit. But yeah, he did get annoying.”
Teriarch grinned, warming to his thread. Then grimaced.
“Ah, but of all the Silver Dragons you could have met—Yderigrisel was certainly a decent fighter and one of the most famous examples of his kind, especially on Izril. I can’t tell if it was good you met him or not. Many of the Silver Dragons had personality traits—it is not good to generalize, but we do have shared themes, you know. Predispositions.”
“Oh? Like what?”
Teriarch exhaled as he eyed something odd in the Faeblade. Like the computers…was that a ‘battery’? The explosive thing that required charging, but not too much.
“Actually, they have a predisposition to, er, hypochondria. An obsession with cleanliness, organization—as befits a Dragon bloodline that is renowned for purity and such. Yderigrisel was remarkably unmoved by it all. But then, he turned his passions towards ridding evil in a moral sense.”
“Oh. That makes sense. He was a bit, uh, high-and-mighty too.”
Teriarch bared his teeth and spared a glance, this time with actual, true disdain. He had done a lot of thinking about what Yderigrisel had done, and he had seen the Vampires’ current state.
“Yes. I always thought of him as a buffoon, you know. Blundering around, like a knight, swinging a sword of his self-proclaimed justice at anyone ‘evil’. Do you know what he did to his enemies? He was, in his way, more of a dishonorable wretch than many of his so-called foes.”
He expected Erin to get on board with badmouthing the Silver Knight, especially since she had met him herself. But the [Innkeeper]’s head came up sharply.
“Don’t say that about him.”
“I just meant—you know what he’s done to Vampires, don’t you? He did little of it himself. None, given when he died, but he was incepting the plan even as I knew him. I never thought I would see it in this form. Clouds of falling dust blown from Dragon wings on high…were enough for me to war with him once. Ryoka Griffin must have told you what it became.”
Erin’s eyes opened wider.
“He did—I know about that. He was House Byres’ champion, right?”
“An ineffectual one, but yes. He patronized—”
“Stop badmouthing him.”
The snap ran through the [Garden of Sanctuary] like the rumble of lightning in storm clouds. The Dragonlord stopped—and stared down at Erin.
She was angry. And he? He spoke very quietly.
“I may be rude to him, Erin Solstice, but believe me, I had my respect for Yderigrisel at times. That does not mean he is immune from criticism. Nor I. He has done terrible things in the name of good. That is what I meant.”
She met his mismatched gaze levelly and stared past Teriarch. Into the mists…his head slowly turned as she spoke.
“I know. I know he was not perfect. I know many of the ghosts I met were not wholly good people, or even great on average. Zeladona was probably like that. But don’t say anything ill of them. Not here. Not to me. He saved my life—he saved my soul in the lands of the dead. I know he did terrible things. I believe you. But don’t say bad things. Not to me.”
The Dragonlord turned—and thence he rose, that Silver Dragon’s statue, cast in grey stone, true, but proudly. Proudly, and yet Erin had captured the rare humility in him that emerged when he was most glorious, as he knelt upon the grass.
The last time he ever flew. The Dragonlord lowered his head.
“…It is good of you to remember them in greatness. Forgive me.”
Erin ducked her head.
“And you’ve got to remember their sins.”
“Someone must.”
It occurred to the Dragonlord that this conversation was the inverse of the one he had heard Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin have about Tyrion Veltras. Perspective. One look at Erin’s face suggested that she had come to the same thought.
And a Dragonlord was nothing if not a little wise when it came to his own hide. As Teriarch got back to work—a problem occurred.
“Er…hrm. Ah…ahoom. That can’t be…maybe I didn’t carry the 1? Ryoka Griffin said she got this from—but the laptop—”
He was fiddling with the Faeblade, flipping it over as rays of light crisscrossed it, rather like someone analyzing an object in sci-fi. Erin frowned up at him.
“What’s wrong? You can’t copy the nanostuff?”
“I can copy anything, thank you. It might be small, but I used to work with Fraerlings, and their magic is tiny. It’s not that. It’s…did Ryoka Griffin ever say how this was made?”
“Nope. She got it from some alien soldier dudes.”
Teriarch looked up.
“…Pray tell, what do those ‘soldier dudes’ use as weaponry? Because, er…this device is far more advanced than your laptops, you know.”
“I know.”
Teriarch waved the Faeblade at Erin, nodding slowly.
“As in, magnitudes apart. It takes a lot of mana to copy your devices—not the copper or plastic or gold and such, but that thing that explodes. The battery. This one has a battery. A power source.”
“Oh. And how much mana does it require to copy?”
Teriarch was trying to visualize how much mana it would require to…he craned his head back, as if staring at something his height. Then craned it back. And stared up…
“…I wonder how big an explosion this thing would make if the battery were broken.”
Of all the concerning statements that he could make—Erin slowly rolled back a pace in the grass. Teriarch gingerly now, very gingerly, held the Faeblade back to Erin.
“I regret to say, Erin Solstice, that this is uncopyable based on my mana pool. [Foundational Recreation of Mundanity] is not the most efficient spell—but however this power source is created and works, it is capable of insane energy generation. Please, return this to Ryoka Griffin, and I regret to say, I cannot copy this.”
“You can’t? Well…thank you for trying.”
Damn. Another blow. Erin Solstice turned to roll down the hill, head bowed. Teriarch gently placed the Faeblade in her lap.
“Shortcuts are not easy. And I will say, a fantastical magical blade will not let your [Knights] level.”
“I don’t want them to die. Here, take it back. I need both hands to go downhill.”
Erin chucked the Faeblade back at Teriarch. He actually sidled away from it as it landed in the grass and floated it far from him. He tried to put it back in her lap.
“No, no. I’m sure you can keep it in your lap. Just don’t run it over. An object loaned should be returned by the one who took it.”
Erin instantly threw it back, and the Dragon actually hopped out of the way.
“Yeah, but Ryoka likes you. You should give it to her and not run away from her.”
“It’s your inn.”
“Don’t bring it near me! How big an explosion is it?”
“Stop smacking it on your chair, you insane buffoon!”
He roared back, and Erin waved it overhead like a grenade.
“I’ll take you out with me!”
 
——
 
The prospect of blowing The Wandering Inn sky-high for the umpteenth time aside…the conversation with Teriarch really was disappointing.
The only thing that Erin established was that he had his own woes. Unlike Magnolia Reinhart, Erin had no time for it.
She left him drooling over a filet mignon steak, whatever that actually was. Erin had never actually seen those, but Pebblesnatch was apparently good enough to make it out of Corusdeer, which her tribe hunted in Laken’s lands.
Erin Solstice had a few things left on her plate for today. Before she got to the one she felt would take the most time…
“Lyonette? I’m ready to talk to that Runner now. And see my letters.”
The said City Runner had apparently brought them to the inn, which suggested they had come from further than even Invrisil and taken some time to get here by Runner mail. But Lyonette bustled over.
“Erin, don’t worry about the Order of Solstice. Yelroan is working on a budget proposal and organizing the entire thing.”
“Oh? Thank you, but I really want to help with applicants—”
“Let us help, Erin. I know a bit about [Knights]—at least give them a trial period. I heard you talking about the ‘best of the best’, but there’s not many to go around. You have to at least let them show their abilities before you give up on them!”
Lyonette scolded Erin gently. The [Innkeeper] resisted the urge to snap back.
“I am not making a random person a Knight of Solstice, Lyonette. But fine. Do your thing, and I’ll vet your list afterwards. But promise them nothing.”
The [Princess]’ face fell slightly as Erin made an ominous threat.
“I’m just trying to help.”
“I know, but we’re not inducting Thronebearers. They have to be—unique, and until I know what that is, the only person qualified to say what the Order of Solstice is—is Normen or Rabbiteater.”
The [Knight] heard that. He looked up from his table as Erin hit upon a decision almost by accident. But the moment she said it—Lyonette looked at him.
Wheels were set in motion. Erin rolled away from Lyonette and straight into a pile of letters. A literal pile that Ishkr was carrying up to her room.
“Wait. Is that for me?”
“Yup. Most of it looks like Christmas letters.”
“Christmas? Oh, right.”
Erin had decided that Christmas should come halfway through winter. Yes, Fetohep and other nations had jumped the gun, but she had established Christmas as canonically being 25/14. As in, the fourteenth month, twenty-fifth day, with Christmas Eve thrown in there.
Erin had been so stressed about the Order of Solstice and the Winter Solstice she had completely overlooked it. She actually beat Ishkr to her room via her [Garden of Sanctuary].
There, Erin sat down and accepted a huge stack of letters. Most were cheap, some just folded up with a bit of wax dribbled over them, rather than a formal envelope. There were a good deal of the latter, but Erin thought many letters looked cheap and dirty. Or showed water damage.
“Where did all this stuff come from? And why’s it to me?”
“I think…they’re being sent to Santa Claus.”
Ishkr had a carefully neutral face as he brought a second load up. Erin began laughing and then groaned.
“Oh no. They think I know him. Great. This is another problem I made.”
She actually anticipated the issue in that moment. But…she cracked open the first, and for a few more minutes, she didn’t see what Chaldion had anticipated.
That genius bastard of a Drake hadn’t even needed to read one letter to foresee the future. Ishkr, who had the last armload of letters, paused in the doorway and saw Erin’s face change.
There was no way to describe the way her exhausted annoyance turned to confusion—and then, abruptly, into pain. She put a hand on her chest, as if she had been shot once more.
But this time, it was with the closest thing to prayers this world had. Little prayers from children, even adults desperate enough to write a request for a miracle and entrust it to a Runner.
And these were only the letters from north and south of Izril. More were coming, and Erin Solstice had no one to blame but herself. Not for trying to bring a holiday and joy to the world. But for opening a door into the realm that was occupied by deities and faith, where suffering and hope and desperation met.
It was—her face was exactly like that of a certain Revenant. Whether they knew it or not, in that moment, Erin Solstice sat in her chair, at her writing desk, a glowing chessboard sitting next to her as a Fraerling moved a piece left and right to get her attention.
She ignored it. Like King Fetohep of Khelt, sitting weary upon his throne, his golden eyes reading plea after plea…Erin Solstice sat in her inn.
 
Dear Santa,
Please send my village food this winter. Our fields all burned down, and Mother says we are in Trouble. I watched the [Innkeeper] on the scrying orb before the [Mayor] sold it. If I have a present this year, I would like enough food to get by.
My favorite food would be cookies I saw on television, but even Yellats would be nice. Or a big herd of Corusdeer…
 
To Mr. Claus,
I am a representative of the Village of Kinneld, in the Eastern Rise Ridgelands of northern Izril. I have a business offer to make you. Do you have firewood along with your toys and such? The [Traders] are all going south, and the roads are very snowy. It may be silly—but the Winter Sprites have brought more snow this year than we can remember.
We are in need of firewood. Dire need; it is impossible to dry most of the trees, and we have suffered eight feet of snow in places. The roads are impassible even if there were merchants. I am prepared to pay silver per pound of wood—as fast as can be arranged. Before Christmas would be best. We have had to burn two homes already. If the winter continues, it is unclear whether cold or lack of housing will haunt us first.
If this is amenable, I can send via the Runner’s Guild…
 
There were too many letters. Erin began organizing them by what were just…requests for a toy or something that wasn’t critical versus the appeals that were written from people who had no more recourse.
Some of the non-critical ones were still beyond painful. Ishkr began helping Erin, and he silently put an appeal from a boy asking Santa to send him back the ghost of his father again if he was good this year in the ‘non-important’ pile.
“Some of these letters refer to local nobility, Miss Erin. I will have Yelroan contact Lady Magnolia Reinhart. Or Lord Tyrion Veltras?”
“Why?”
“We could…show them the letters? Ryoka could forward some of the issues to them.”
For once, Erin barely blinked at the thought of invoking Tyrion. She grabbed the pile of critical letters.
“Yes. Do that. Let’s reorganize into—”
“I’ll get Yelroan and a map.”
Ishkr hurried off. Erin Solstice sat there, and in that moment—she did look like the King of Khelt, staring blankly into the distance.
But there was one difference between her conclusion and Fetohep’s. The same energy and need that had led him to shame nations upon television…
