A month was a long time to endure that, in happiness, rest, sadness and shame. But Erin only let that sink in a moment before she put it aside with a laugh. Almost as good as a Grand Strategist hiding his fear with a smirk and a drink.
“It wasn’t all just—house visits. I’ve been talking to people. The King of Khelt, Fetohep. The King of Avel. Foliana—and not just the super-important people. It’s really not deep. They all have motives, so sometimes I feel like we talked for an hour and nothing got said.”
“That’s all of Calanfer. You should meet Lyonette’s mom. She’s weird. She sounds nice, but I kept checking my seat for daggers under my butt.”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“I’ve been avoiding them for that reason. So I have been using the theatre. Just not for you, Rabbiteater. Because…you’re on an adventure. And I thought I shouldn’t interfere with that. I was waiting for you to come back and tell me everything, but I’m afraid I got lonely. And sad. And I really just needed to see my brave [Knight]. I’m sorry.”
Try as he might, Rabbiteater was unable to reproach Erin. Delayed or not, she had come at the right moment. Somehow, she always did.
The [Innkeeper] raised her hands, as if trying to touch his face, and again, Rabbiteater tried to grab her hands. Gently. His hands passed through, but Erin lifted her hands and pretended he was holding them. He looked her up and down.
“I thought you were in a wheelchair.”
“Yeah, well…I’ve been training to stand up. I wanted to see you when I was walking. I can stand for a bit. Look at you. You look older. And your armor looks shinier.”
Erin was pacing around him slowly, as if making sure she didn’t fall over. He tried to do the same thing to her and slammed into a wall.
“Ow.”
“I’m in my [World’s Eye Theatre], silly! It’s this big circle…hold still, I want to see you! Wait, why am I walking around you? You have a back. Butt…you didn’t poo it off you. I have been reading your letters. Have you been reading mine?”
“Yeah. Yeah.”
He wiped his eyes, and suddenly he was burning with a million questions. Erin held still, and he edged around her. She didn’t look like she had visible scars, and she looked—
Older.
They both did. Rabbiteater tilted his head left, and Erin copied him. She tilted it right.
“Hmm. You look healthy. And just as good as when you beat the Dame of the Hills. So why are you crying?”
For a second, he didn’t know why himself. Then it came back to him, and Rabbiteater almost started crying again.
“I had an adventure. But it went back. She left me. She’s not coming to Izril.”
“Aw. Um. Who?”
“Dame Meisa!”
Erin bit her tongue.
“Oh no. Isn’t that the nice [Knight] you fell in love with? Wait. I thought that was Talia Kallinad.”
“No! She was the first one. But Meisa was the one who liked me back!”
He got mad and then guilty, because Erin retorted.
“I’m sorry! I was dead for a lot of that.”
“Oh. Right.”
She was alive. Rabbiteater tried to poke her a third time. He knew it wouldn’t work, but when she twitched in response to the motion, he felt better. He had feared it was all a lie, or a trick, and she wasn’t really alive.
Seeing her like this—suddenly, he wanted to go home more than ever. And he was glad they were getting on the ships.
“I’m going to Izril. Tomorrow. It’ll be weeks of the stupid sea, but I’m coming. Don’t die before I get back or I’ll kill you.”
She smiled hugely.
“I can’t wait. But first—I remember Dame Meisa, now. She’s that nice Spring Knight who you told me way too many details about. I don’t need physical appearance, Rabbit. You know, Mrsha reads those letters. Why’d she dump you now?”
“She doesn’t want to stay with me. Or have Goblin babies. I was a ‘spring’s romance’ to her.”
Everyone else had reacted with a kind of unsurprised resignation or sympathy without much else. It was young love. Only Rabbiteater had apparently thought this would last.
But Erin Solstice? She blew out her cheeks.
“Is that so? Some [Knight] spring romanced my [Champion]? What’s her name?”
“Meisa.”
“Last name?”
“Ineireb.”
“How do you spell that? I-n-e-i-r-e-b. Got it. Okay, sit tight. I’ll be back in fifteen minutes.”
Rabbiteater hesitated.
“Wait, why?”
Erin rolled up her sleeves and pulled a knife out of her belt, then thought about it.
“I’m going to give her a piece of my mind! I can see whomever I want. Well, no one with ward-spells, but I bet she doesn’t have any. What’s my move? Aura doesn’t work, so I bet I scare her. Psycho style! Knife raised! I hope I don’t get her in the shower, though. Sorta awkward. Then I’ll shout at her. Maybe my flames work on people if they see them?”
“What? Waitwaitwait! Don’t do that!”
Suddenly, Rabbiteater was trying to stop Erin. And that was really hard when you couldn’t touch her. But Erin was adamant.
“She knows who you are? Then she’s a jerk for dumping you.”
“She’s got a sick father and—and don’t do that!”
“Why not? Okay, she’s got one good reason. But I’m still allowed to not care about that and threaten to break her toes.”
“No!”
Rabbiteater danced around Erin, shouting, and the [Innkeeper] ignored him.
“If she dumped you, I hate her guts. I don’t care if she had great reasons or not. I won’t tell her you knew about it. No, wait. I’ve got a better idea. What’s the Knight Order’s name? Who was the Spring’s Warden? She had a really long name…I know Ser Greysten. I’m gonna shout at them, too!”
“You can’t! You’ll embarrass me! Don’t do it!”
 
——
 
In the room next to Rabbiteater, Ser Markus was having an early night of it. Or he was trying and deciding he might need to go for a walk and have a drink.
Dead gods, Rabbiteater had been moping all day. As any man might—but listening to the muffled sobs was hard.
Now, it sounded like he was in hysterics. Markus was trying not to let any tears out himself for his friend. He had realized this might be Rabbiteater’s one true love, and his sympathy had only increased at seeing Rabbiteater’s genuine heartbreak.
“—can’t! …me! Don’t do it!”
Rabbiteater’s voice was muffled through the walls, but it sounded like he was now screaming at Meisa. Perhaps he was having a dream? Ser Markus had to get up and leave the room, wiping at a sparkling tear clinging to one eyelash.
And the legend of Ser Markus, able to misunderstand every event, continued.
 
——
 
Erin only relented after Rabbit threatened to jump out the window of the lighthouse if she embarrassed him by going to Meisa or, worse, Ser Calirn. She peered out the window.
“Ooh. That’s far. I wonder if…aah!”
She walked out the window, found herself staring down hundreds of feet, and screamed. Rabbiteater screamed too.
“Aaah!”
Erin’s voice was coming from outside.
“I feel like I’m falling! Aaah! It’s horrifying, Rabbiteater! Aaaah—oh wait.”
She walked back through the window and wiped her forehead. He felt like he was going to burst a blood vessel. Then—Rabbiteater began to laugh.
He couldn’t help it. He began chortling—then laughing. Not at Erin’s silliness—not just that. But with sheer delight. Relief. And so much affection and happiness that he couldn’t hold it in.
Erin looked mock-offended, then she began to laugh as well. It came out of her in a rush, and all the tension and worry she held—drained away. And some of Rabbiteater’s sadness, too.
“Rabbit. Rabbiteater, why’d you have to go? I miss you so much! Why’d you have to go and be a hero in Terandria, huh?”
“I don’t know. I was sad after the battle. I thought Numbtongue was dead. I’m sorry. I didn’t want to go back.”
He caught himself—and the words he hadn’t spoken to her floated out. Erin gave Rabbiteater a solemn look.
They were back there, with Headscratcher and Shorthilt. That was the last time they had been face-to-face. Erin’s hands shook. She had to find the wheelchair, just off-screen, and Rabbiteater saw her sit down. She was different. When she looked up, her eyes were teary.
“I know. I didn’t get it until I realized—Pebblesnatch came to the inn for the first time in months. She could have, earlier, but she was afraid to. Afraid the inn would hurt her again.”
“She’s alive?”
“Yep. And she’s still got her poofy hat. I could show her to you, if you want. Although she’s apparently challenging Garry and Calescent to a cook-off. Some things never change.”
With every second, Rabbiteater wanted to go back. He had wanted to go back when Meisa left him and before that.
Now? Now, he’d damn well jump into the ocean and swim! The little fish hook in his heart had become an anchor, and he felt like he could drag Terandria with him.
His aura. Hearth filled him like a mountain’s resolve and strength, and Erin saw it.
“Hey, is that an aura I see? Why do I smell pizza? You silly Goblin.”
“I’m not silly. I’m a big, brave [Knight]. Mrsha’s the silly one. Is she okay? Numbtongue said she had another big adventure.”
He wiped at his eyes. Erin blinked.
“Oh—you don’t know? She’s alright. She moved out of Lyonette’s room today, actually. That was like—one tiny event, but it was big for Lyonette. Into Nanette’s room.”
“Who?”
“You don’t—of course you don’t! She’s a little witch. Very nice. She’ll love you. She likes Goblins and—oh, Rabbiteater. Everyone’s changed. Did you know that Badarrow and Snapjaw are a couple?”
“I knew that. She’s weird.”
“Really? She eats a lot, and she’s got a literal big mouth, but she’s nice.”
Rabbiteater sniffed.
“She likes Badarrow. She’s weird.”
Erin laughed so hard she nearly fell off her wheelchair.
“You jerk! Doesn’t Badarrow deserve love?”
“If I can’t have any, he can’t.”
The [Knight] smiled at Erin, and she sucked in her breath.
“Oh, man. You’re going to hate Numbtongue then. Remember Octavia? And, uh—Garia. And Salkis…”
She was ticking off names, and Rabbiteater took a second to get what she meant. Then he began shouting and hurling things around his room.
“What? Three? I’ll kill him! He’s not that funny! He just knows big words! And he’s lame! He plays his stupid guitar—”
The Goblin started laughing then, and Erin joined in. They only paused when they heard voices outside the door.
Ser Markus had returned, and he was whispering too-loudly to some others.
“There, can’t you hear him? I’m telling you, Dame Talia, Ser Lloyd, we have to do something. He’s laughing now. And he’s throwing things—I fear he’ll do himself harm. I’d ask Earl Altestiel and the others…”
“No, if he’s got his helmet off, we’re the right ones. Ser Solstice? Are you in there? It’s your friends! Open the door, please!”
Someone tried the handle. Erin put her hands over her mouth, and Rabbiteater—he looked at her and grinned.
“What do we…?”
“They can see me! It’s okay—but wait! I have an idea! Open the door when I say. And…”
When the door opened, Dame Talia followed Ser Markus into the room, expecting to have to console Ser Solstice. She was trying not to be smug about being right about Meisa and completely unaware that she was the last person Markus wanted to help—but he hadn’t been able to find any other [Knights] who knew Rabbiteater’s secret.
Markus advanced into the room with Lloyd behind him and Talia in the rear. A classic three-[Knight] attack team. But they didn’t run into Rabbiteater like they had planned.
Instead—a young woman who looked oddly familiar stuck her finger out, and Markus slammed back into Lloyd.
“Who the—”
“Aha! You’re the jerks who let Rabbiteater get hurt, huh? And stole him from Izril? And you! You’re Talia Kallinad. Like your brother, you keep putting your nose in places it shouldn’t be!”
“Wh-who are you?”
Why was someone in Rabbiteater’s room? Then Talia recognized Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper] advanced. The off-guard [Knights] retreated as Rabbiteater poked his head up from behind the bed, grinning in delight.
“Me? I’m your worst nightmare, buddies. Because I’m gonna report you to Ser Calirn for sucking at being friends. I found Rabbiteater all alone, crying his eyes out.”
“I wasn’t crying that hard.”
Rabbiteater called out. But Erin just poked a finger at Markus, who backed up.
“You call yourselves [Knights]? You ran away from a Goblin’s tears—I’ve seen braver children! And you, Talia, didn’t like Rabbiteater for being a Goblin? A [Knight] is a [Knight]! But I guess you’re a pretty bad one if you can’t even figure that out.”
“Wh—is this Erin Solstice? How’s she—Miss, please lower your voice!”
Markus was backing up as Erin lectured them down the corridor. Talia was red-faced, and Erin grinned.
“Lower my voice? When I say that both Wil and Talia Kallinad are sneaky, back-stabbing lizards? No wonder Wil went to Baleros—he learned how to betray people from his big sister! You would have made a better [Strategist] than a [Knight]! I’m gonna tell Wil—aaaaaaah!”
Her attack on Talia’s dignity, honor, and feelings cut off suddenly as Erin’s eyes went round—then she plummeted through the floor. The [Knights] froze—and they heard swearing as Rabbiteater poked his head out.
“…Erin?”
“I fell off the stage! Ooh! It hurts! Someone help! I’ve fallen and it really hurts! Ow! My leg! My side! My pancreas!”
Erin crawled back into view, holding her side in agony. She looked up at the [Knights].
“You did this.”
“I—no we did not, Miss Solstice.”
Markus protested weakly. Erin waved a fist at him.
“You did this. The Order of Seasons is full of people like you! You hurt people like Rabbiteater and me! Rabbit, give me moral support.”
“You’re a good person.”
The [Knight] was putting on his helmet as Erin levered herself up. She rubbed at her side.
“Thanks, Rabbit. See? That’s how you friendship. You’d better get over here, Rabbit. All your friends over here look like jerks. Like that guy. And that guy. And her.”
She pointed at the three [Knights] from the Order of Seasons, and Rabbiteater seemed to feel her joke had gone on long enough.
“They’re good people. You’ll like them.”
Erin folded her arms as the shock finally wore off and the [Knights] realized she was an illusion.
“Well, maybe I will. They’ll all get blue juice…assuming there’s any left. This is a cold winter over here. Hi. I’m Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper] and Rabbiteater’s super-big sister. And mom. And [Innkeeper].”
“She’s not my mom.”
“Am I not your mom? I’m like Numbtongue’s…I guess big sister works. But Mrsha is his little sister. So does that make you another brother in the family?”
