“Your Highness, if I may be frank—doing that to Ser Lormel, however kindly intended, would ruin his reputation and career as a [Knight]. Their Majesties and the Order of Thronebearers would not look kindly on a [Knight] who eschewed his duty and left you in Izril for his family. Lormel might not be stripped of his class or publicly disgraced—”
“Stripped of his class?”
“—but he would be relegated to a lesser role. And that would doubtless affect his income and family.”
Lyonette closed her eyes as the realities of the issue sank in. That would be what happened.
“I can’t ask for replacements, can I? And unless I go…”
Glumly, she realized that her decisions were having a real effect on Lormel’s relationship with his family. And Ushar and Sest and Dalimont…
“You all have your own friends and families and [Princesses] to tend to, don’t you, Sest? Have I kept you from anyone?”
The [Knight] hurriedly stood straighter.
“Not at all, Your Highness! I do not have a beau—no, wait, that’s a lad. A lovely lady, I meant!—back home, and there’s only my grandmother left in my family who’s not busy with spouses or children. And she would tan my back if I left Calanfer’s 6th Princess to go home!”
Lyonette gave him a wretched look. Yelroan, though, had an idea.
“What if you sent Ser Lormel with an important message or something valuable, Lyonette? Something you could only trust to a [Knight]? Calanfer is sending a fleet, so it’s not as if you wouldn’t have more [Knights] to call upon.”
“Oh. Oh! Maybe I could do that. But my parents—especially my mother—will probably see through it. She probably sent Ser Lormel just to make sure I’d have another reason to go. Something important…I will have a solution. Ser Sest, we must send Ser Lormel back.”
“Very good, Your Highness. But don’t fear—Lormel is dedicated to Calanfer, and it’s not like we’re wasting time here. Young Lady Mrsha aside, it is something to see all the happenings at the inn. Why, Ser Normen’s own Order of Solstice was a sight to see. A sight to see.”
Sest smiled at Normen, and it seemed he was one of the most supportive [Knights]. Normen flushed, and Lyonette turned to him.
“Normen, I heard you talking with Erin about your Order. Do you need…help? Yelroan, maybe we should take over organizing the Order a bit.”
“Organizing the Order of Solstice, Miss Lyonette?”
Normen was worried about that, and Lyonette hurried to clarify.
“Just…matters of finance and such. Horses, all the things Erin doesn’t like to deal with. Yelroan, didn’t you have a budget?”
He pulled out a file, opened it, and winced.
“Yes…and our estimates on how much a new [Knight] would cost to arm run three thousand, two hundred, and forty-six gold coins cheaply. Unenchanted steel, basic sword and shield. And we forgot the horse.”
Lyonette’s face fell.
“Oh no. A good horse can cost hundreds of gold coins. And we’d have to use the stables! I mean, have a handler and feed—do, um, [Knights] generate a lot of gold, Ser Sest?”
His pause was very long.
“We…are a net good to the places we patrol and a delight upon the eyes, Your Highness. A lead stone in your bag of coins. Occasionally, we generate profits by slaying monsters with valuable hides or locating treasure. On the whole, I would say we cost the crown tens of thousands of gold coins per year. Possibly hundreds.”
He gave her a radiantly embarrassed smile. Lyonette put her hands over her face. No wonder Izril had few [Knight] orders.
Then again, consider adventurers. They were one of the most well-paid, treasure-hungry addicts, and they didn’t roll around with warhorses and plate armor. Arming yourself properly was the constant problem even Gold-rankers faced. Hundreds of men and women being outfitted in armor and being unpaid?
Normen felt even more like a drag on Erin—but Lyonette turned to face him.
“Well, we’ll just have to make do with Normen for now. You are a [Knight], Ser Normen, and I think Erin should put you to a task. You can certainly ride a horse out and slay some Shield Spiders, right?”
Normen’s chin came up, but he hesitated.
“I…could walk or ride a coach, Miss Lyonette.”
She gave him a blank look, and Sest muttered.
“Ser Normen has not yet managed the—incredibly difficult feat, you must admit, especially for a man in armor in a combat situation—of staying on a horse, Your Highness.”
Normen turned red. Lyonette gave him a concerned smile.
“Well, that’s what training is for. Let’s…let’s work on it. Alright, downstairs and not a word to Ser Lormel for a moment.”
They were all heading downstairs to check on Erin when a pair of girls emerged from Lyonette’s room. The [Princess] had been changing sheets, and the girls had clearly thought she was busy downstairs. Mrsha and Nanette froze—in the middle of lugging out a bunch of Mrsha’s possessions.
From Lyonette and Mrsha’s room. The [Princess] blinked.
“What are you two doing?”
“Nothing!”
Mrsha and Nanette tried to hide their things behind their backs. Lyonette’s look of puzzlement turned to one of…
“Mrsha? What are you doing?”
Slowly, very slowly, the Gnoll girl edged sideways. She pointed and then wrote on a notecard.
I…in light of our recent slumbering incidents of which we have quarreled, Mother, I have elected to room with the considerably smaller and delightful Nanette. This is not a personal decision, but one of scale—
Lyonette and Mrsha had been having issues, with one rolling over and hogging the sheets or just a growing girl and her mother arguing over possessions.
When Mrsha had complained to Nanette about it, the little witch had claimed that her rooms were quite large, and because the two were such good friends…they had hatched a wonderful idea.
Why not be roommates? They could have fun, stay up, and wouldn’t fight at all. They could divide their room in half.
It had seemed like such a good idea. But Lyonette’s look of pure betrayal and pain made Mrsha hurry to rush up and assure her mother it was not personal.
But it was. Normen and Yelroan sidled quickly out of the way, leaving Ser Sest with the hardest job a [Knight] could have. Consoling a [Princess] who had suddenly burst into tears.
Chaaaange.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice sat with Chaldion, and the Drake lit a cigar. He had to know Erin’s feelings on smoking, but he had the upper claw.
And he seemed to be enjoying it. He stretched out in the private dining room, exhaling.
“It has been a while since we talked, Erin. You have been avoiding me.”
“Gee, I wonder why. Does spying on me ring a bell?”
He waved this off.
“Erin, in our position, it’s practically expected. A compliment. But I understand—Magus Grimalkin does it less adeptly, but he represents Pallassian interests to you. Your inn…does not always go along with Pallassian interests.”
The [Innkeeper] waved the smoke away as she sipped from a cup of Firebreath Whiskey. But she was immune to alcohol, so she was just drinking it for the taste.
Which was not why you drank the stuff.
“Yeah, well. I don’t make a habit of stealing Gnollish magic or trying to wipe them out at the Meeting of Tribes, so I guess it’s hard to align with Pallassian interests.”
He laughed at that. Laughed. In the middle of her scowl.
“Pallass had nothing to do with that. You must have seen my…oh.”
He paused and looked at her.
“You were dead. Well, I disavowed that. Publically.”
“Yeah. And I ‘don’t know where the Crossroads of Izril are’. They’re just words, Chaldion. It doesn’t matter how many people hear them.”
The [Innkeeper]’s arms folded, and the Drake gave her a side-long look.
“I take your point, but that is the entire point, to me. People hearing something, whether it is true or not, is power. So is gold and your ability to spend it. You, for instance, understand the power of an idea. The Order of Solstice. ‘Goblinfriend of Izril’. The Innkeeper of Liscor. But it’s power without the ability to act. That’s why you’re talking to me.”
Erin sat there, scowling deeper. Chaldion waited, and she replied after a minute of silence.
“It feels like you know how this conversation is gonna go. Go on, I’m just waiting.”
He chuckled again.
“If I had to guess—and I don’t, with you—you’re going to ask me for funding. Material. Candidates isn’t likely, but Pallassian armor? For your [Knights].”
“Why would I ask you when I know I have to pay something in return? Also, I helped Saliss. Are you…looking for something now?”
He paused at the mention of that, and a word hovered between them.
Seith. Chaldion tipped his glass to Erin.
“That’s a consideration, Erin. And keeping me on your good side is another. But you’re going to ask for a lot. Incidentally, part of the service I am offering includes a bodyguard detail. A proper one for Hectval raiding parties and a full-on conflict.”
“How much is ten sets of armor and a sword? I mean, ten swords. To go with the armor. I feel like you owe me that already.”
Chaldion’s eye was yellow, today, and he polished it as he removed it from his socket. He frowned at Erin—and then shrugged.
“Ah. You haven’t checked your mail, then. We could continue this tomorrow. I have a dinner to get to—and you need to consider your options.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed suddenly, and she wondered what he knew. But Chaldion was sliding something over the table.
“This is a speaking stone to one of my subordinates. They can get you in touch with me. My price for the considerable aid can be a favor. But knowing you, you dislike favors immensely.”
“They’re open-ended checks. And I bet you’ll write whatever you feel like on them.”
Erin scowled as she put the speaking stone in her bag of holding. Chaldion smirked.
“Well then. I will accept a <Quest>, assuming it’s worthwhile. But I would rather have details. Six names and considerable information there.”
Erin looked him in the eye and scowled at the Grand Strategist.
“If I say them to you, you’ll die. Come back in ten more levels.”
His self-satisfied grin turned into a blank look for a second, and Erin almost smirked. But Chaldion just exhaled again.
“If I were you, Erin Solstice. I’d start with your inn. This is a friendly warning from me to you. Attracting the attention of world powers is not wise. The King of Destruction is a friendly, if completely insane warmonger. Predictable to some extent. But I have heard Roshal knows your name.”
He replaced his eye, and Erin sat there with a chill on her arms. But she had been here before. So had he.
“Chaldion. Can I ask you a question? Dancing aside?”
Chaldion had half-rose, expecting the conversation to be over. But he caught himself, then lowered himself down, with raised brows.
“I quite enjoy the dancing.”
Erin sighed gustily.
“Everyone does. You know, it feels like sometimes talking with every important person means we have to feel like we’re being smart and dropping innuendo and stuff every other line. The only exception is like…King Itreimedes.”
“The King of Avel? Ah. Talked to him personally, have you?”
Erin stuck out her tongue at Chaldion.
“He’s fun. He just yaks my ear off about his bow. He’s like a Human Bird.”
Chaldion actually shuddered.
“Perish the thought. So you have been using that theatre.”
The look that the [Magical Innkeeper] gave him was not annoyed or angry, because that would have encouraged him. It was just disappointed, and that made the Grand Strategist frown.
“This is why it’s not fun, Chaldion. Why don’t you just tell me what you want? More than secrets. You’re the Grand Strategist of the Walled Cities. What can little old me give you, really, that another [Innkeeper] couldn’t? I saw you chumming it up with Larracel and Mihaela.”
He defended himself, taking a long sip from his mostly empty drink.
“—You have abilities no one else has.”
“Bullpoo. I don’t believe that. You put in a lot of effort, personal effort, when you could send a flunkie to do all this. And it’s not because you like me that much. I don’t give you half the things I’ve given some of my friends.”
He was growing uncomfortable with this line of conversation. The Grand Strategist almost snapped back, then caught himself and moderated his tone.
“I make it a habit to know people who can destabilize a continent. If you think you haven’t done that…you did not see General Sserys walking through Pallass. I wish I had a recording to show you. He had your face. Just—take my offer and do me a favor. Part of the service includes a bodyguard detail. A proper one for Hectval raiding parties and a full-on conflict. Oh—I’ll also take a list of digging sites or whatever has Wall Lord Ilvriss completely pivoting to the north.”
He was deflecting, deflecting from the conversation. Again, a kind of fog seemed to drift over the conversation. Erin Solstice looked at Chaldion and frowned.
“You already mentioned the bodyguard detail.”
The Drake lifted his eyes to her and raised one brow sardonically.
“No, I didn’t.”
“That’s what you led with.”
“I am sure I did not—”
The Drake was replaying the conversation in his head and it wasn’t there. Chaldion saw Erin’s gaze flicker in confusion, and the old [Strategist] experienced a moment of panic. He hadn’t mentioned the offer of a bodyguard. He didn’t remember saying that.
But he—looked at Erin and slowly pushed his drink back deliberately.
“Too much for me tonight. It’s something when even a single drink can muddle my senses.”
It didn’t fool her. She could sense emotions. Erin Solstice sat there, and the Drake felt words tug themselves out of his treacherous throat. Coward’s words.
“—I might settle for you accepting a bodyguard detail as part of my—fee. Staff or bodyguards or members of your Order of Solstice.”
“Wait, as your fee? Are they that annoying?”
The Drake murmured.
“You’d probably find them so. But I wouldn’t mind if they died. It would be worth it to see his face if I made General Edellein your next barmaid.”
He almost laughed at the thought, and Erin gave him a severe look.
“And here I thought you’d be serious. Come on, Chaldion.”
The Drake shook his head.
“Oh, but I am. Would you take a hundred Drakes as your new [Knights]? You wouldn’t. But maybe one or two. One or two, and if you accepted some help…that will be part of my fee, unless you offer something better. Take them in and do what you do with all your little projects. Princess Lyonette, Ishkr, the Goblins. I’ve tried to steal Ishkr, you know. But you do it to Grimalkin, even Saliss, in some small way.”
“You give me too much credit. The only thing that moves Grimalkin is Grimalkin. And Saliss is better at being weird than I am. Lots of practice.”
