“So that’s what Chaldion meant.”
She saw it now. That Drake—Erin’s mind wasn’t working. She was overwhelmed for a moment, and when a young woman poked her head into the room, she looked grave.
But unsurprised. In the same way that Erin had a more equitable relationship with Teriarch…Ryoka’s face was unsurprised.
“I heard you’ve got a problem, Erin? Let me help.”
She was not surprised to see the appeals. Not immune. But she began to work, briskly sorting the ones who mentioned a [Lord] by name as Yelroan appeared.
“We should do a system. Locate each one by where they are. Then, if they fall in the aegis of the nobility…”
Yelroan was on it. A pleasure to work with, and the two Gnolls grinned as Yelroan gave Ishkr a nod.
“Copies. We need a [Scribe] team. I sent a request for three in Invrisil.”
“Whoa. That—works. Erin, that’ll help. Tyrion can lean on the nobles, and Magnolia can too. The rest…I’ll tell Demsleth.”
That was Ryoka’s go-to answer. Erin pushed herself back from her table as her rooms suddenly were filled with people.
“Do that. I’m going for a walk. Roll.”
Ryoka paused. Her green eyes found Erin, worried.
“You okay, Erin?”
“Oh. Yes. I am.”
“We’ll help these people. As many as we can.”
Erin focused on Ryoka.
“Of course we will. It’s just a lot of people. Demsleth, Magnolia, Tyrion…”
“All of them will help, I promise.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“I know. But there’s not enough. That’s what Chaldion meant. How much food and—firewood is there? That’s what he meant. Normen. Tell Normen I have his first quest. I’ll figure out if I should post <Quests>. Chaldion gets his pound of flesh. You’ll have to do runs too.”
“Of course.”
The Courier who had once run deliveries for Laken Godart’s people didn’t even blink at the suggestion. Come to that—she nudged Yelroan.
“A copy for Laken Godart?”
“Sextuple copies so far. One for Chaldion’s people as well. Doubtless, they’ll want estimates.”
Ryoka counted.
“Wait. Tyrion, Mags, Laken, Chaldion…who’s number five, even if we have a copy for ourselves?”
Yelroan gave her a blank look.
“Why, that’s for Niers Astoragon and King Fetohep. You’re going to need a lot of coin. Order of Solstice, new inn, Santa.”
He sighed.
“I can add numbers all day, but Erin Solstice can’t afford any of this without generous backers.”
Ryoka bit her lip.
“And what does she have to offer all these people aside from quests and secrets? She can’t keep pulling miracles and wonder out of her ass.”
That comment was greeted by a bark of laughter. Ryoka turned, and Ishkr looked up from opening letters. The [Head Server] smiled at Ryoka Griffin.
“She can’t? Just watch her.”
 
——
 
Ishkr’s faith in Erin had no limit. But Erin—as she rolled away from her rooms, she knew that some of that aid, some of those wishes would never go answered.
Even with all the will in the world and all her friends, there were some that would never get a reply from the letters. She was already too late.
“Miss Erin. I heard you had a job for me.”
A [Knight] found Erin in the hallway. He looked beautiful as the fading light caught his armor. It was practically night already in the short winter days. But his armor shone, Demas Metal’s cerulean gleam.
“I have too many, suddenly, Normen. You’ll have to go out there. We’ll figure it out—but are you ready?”
He touched his helmet and forgot he had no hat.
“I can’t ride proper yet, Miss Solstice, but say the word and I’ll run there.”
She smiled faintly.
“We’ll get you a coach or wagon. You’ll need one. All hands on deck. Maybe we’ll make the applicants help. That’s a good use. I’ll be back in a bit. Go up and get things figured out, please?”
He bowed and strode up the hallway. Erin took the [Garden of Sanctuary] to avoid annoying guests.
It was snowing through the dome in the center, but it was pleasant here. It always was.
Now, Erin understood Empress Sheta’s words. Sanctuary. Her beloved garden.
 
‘Sanctuary can never shelter enough.’
 
Of course it couldn’t. The cocoa trees, the little garden couldn’t even feed Erin’s little family. This cold winter suddenly felt less restful to Erin. She hadn’t realized people were going hungry. Nor that the snow was so deep.
“Shaestrel. Why are parts of Izril covered in snow? Is it something you can control?”
It was just a hunch that Erin called out, but the fae liked it here. They slept among the Faerie Flowers.
And sure enough—a green figure leapt up and grabbed a pair of blue ones. Shaestrel towed two Winter Fae over to Erin by their ears.
 
“Ah, ye have it. Consequences…tell her, you idiots. And it is all our faults, Erin Solstice.”
 
Shaestrel looked unhappy. Of course, she knew what was going on. One of the other fae, who sounded younger, looked unhappy as she broke free of Shaestrel’s grip and replied.
 
“‘Twas not our faults! Well—maybe it was. When we came here, we zoomed so fast and dumped so much snow—we set too much up from the coasts!”
 
The crystal fae scuffed at the air as if kicking at the ground.
 
“We may have dropped too much. But we thought we would be hunted! The roads will be tough to travel, and that is no lie. Not as bad as hoarfrost or a thousand-years winter. More like…the worst in a century?”
 
Erin gave the faerie a bleak look. The faerie backed up.
 
“It wasn’t our fault! Mostly. It may be our fault, but it’s done. And we’re not the ones going around burning farms and sowing sickness. We killed a lot of it with the cold, and the winter means you won’t have full blown plague as bad as—yeow!”
 
Shaestrel viciously kicked the Winter Sprite, and the two flew off quickly, covering their mouths. Erin’s eyes sharpened.
“Someone’s burning down farms? Did you—are the snows and cold deliberate?”
 
“Ignore that. They have fat mouths. Think of it as a game like the one we play. Piece for a piece. I’m sorry for the snow, truly. But there’s naught we can do. Some of it is just weather.”
 
Erin shook her head as Shaestrel shrugged. Another thing to worry about. But she thanked Shaestrel and continued on.
 
——
 
 
The cause wasn’t important. In this moment, somewhat strangely, Erin wasn’t worried about the fix.
They’d do their best. The Order had its first calling, and more disasters were on the way.
Bloodfeast was coming. Goblins would never stop being hunted. New Lands.
Whether Erin knew all of the issues, she felt the weight of them all on her. She shouldn’t think of it that way, she knew. There was just…
Even she was allowed to collapse, right? Even she was allowed to be scared for the future. But she couldn’t. Not right now.
So Erin did the only thing she could. No smart moves, well, clever, but not Niers-level diabolical. Nothing sneaky.
Not tonight. She just rolled into her new rooms. The [World’s Eye Theatre], and into the center of it where she could see across the world. Or project herself across space.
Then—she slowly got up from her wheelchair. Her legs instantly felt the strain, but she forced herself up. She could stand and dance for a while with Ulvama.
So she stood. Kicked the wheelchair back. She might be exhausted come the dance with the [Shaman].
But she did not want to sit. Erin Solstice took a breath, and her inn waited. She called up at the ceiling then. And used her power for its humblest, intended purpose. No tricks. Just this.
She could ask for anything in this world. Anywhere. And show herself to them. There were some times when it would fail, but the [Innkeeper] could demand it all. So she took a tremulous breath and decided it was time.
It was more terrifying—and fitting for this place that when you saw and spied on people, they could see you too. So easy to be a voyeur. But if you could show your face, there was no excuse.
So. Therefore.
“Show me…”
 
——
 
It was night. It was night everywhere in the world, the exact same amount of light coming out of the sky. Clouds might affect how much light filtered through, but the input was constant. Regardless of where you were.
And wasn’t that a tiny bit strange, if you understood astronomy? Well, best not think of it. What were you, a Gnome?
At this moment, in one place of this great world, was a [Knight].
A Goblin.
He lay in his bed near the top of the Lighthouse Keep of Pheislant, crying.
He had been sad all day. Not even the best efforts of his friends and the rest of his hosts had cheered him up.
Ser Solstice had snotted through the royal ceremony with Pheislant. He’d hiccuped through a banquet and gloomed his way so much that even Seraphel thought he might be overdoing it. Whereupon Rabbiteater had swung back with ‘have you ever been in love’?
She had said yes. But it wasn’t a requirement for being a [Princess]. Then he had withdrawn to his rooms and kept crying. Worse, he had hydrated, so the tears still kept coming.
He didn’t hear the door to his rooms open, and in his grief, hiding under his blankets, he didn’t want anyone to talk. If it was Markus or Cortese, he’d kick them hard as he could in the stomach. If it was Menrise or Seraphel or anyone else…he’d kick them in the same spot.
But someone was there. He heard the breathing. Maybe it was an [Assassin]; they didn’t have any footfalls.
Good, then they could kill him and put him out of misery. Rabbiteater waited, and someone spoke.
“Well, well, well. Hey there. What happened to my brave little guy? I thought you were going to be happy.”
The Goblin…paused breathing for a second. He kept his face still, then spoke.
“Bad illusion, Menrise. Stop it or I’ll throw you out the window. I mean it.”
There was a startled laugh. It sounded familiar—maybe deeper? Rabbiteater was still confused, though, and his mind lurched to ‘this is a trick’. So he got angrier instead. Altestiel. It was him! With—a speaking stone?
“Who’s Menrise? Is she the [Lady] with a helmet you wrote about? The one stuck in the toilet? That was gross. Mrsha nearly died laughing.”
Rabbiteater threw the sheets off his head, or tried to. He had taken off his helmet, so his face was messy and uncovered. He came up, not caring if anyone else was there, and resolved to hit Altestiel when—
Erin Solstice stood in front of him. She had her hands on her hips, and she looked vaguely amused. She wasn’t wearing her apron—instead, she had a red, fur-lined jacket and long pants, both a pale white like the snow falling outside.
Gifts from a Goblin Chieftain. But it was her. She was…the slightest bit transparent if you looked closely, but for a second, Rabbiteater thought she was here.
He reached through her with a cry—then recoiled. And Erin Solstice jerked.
“Aaah! I’m a ghost! Whooo~! Wait, that made Badarrow cry when I did it to him. I’m not a ghost! It’s just me! Via a Skill! I’m alive, Rabbiteater! This is a Skill! Don’t cry—although, you look like you’ve been crying a lot.”
She caught herself, speaking quickly, waving her hands, and Rabbiteater just stared at her. His mind had gone totally blank, and he just stood there.
“Huh?”
Erin folded her arms, looking miffed.
“Wait. Did I even tell you…? I haven’t done this for more than the Earthers since it’s sort of weird. I guess you didn’t know. It’s me, Rabbiteater. I have a new Skill.”
“Wuh.”
“Yuh.”
She stared at him. Rabbiteater punched himself—then punched himself in the cheek. It hurt. But he tried again just to make sure. And Erin?
Her smile grew wider. She had looked—uncertain. Sad. Even guilty when she first appeared, though he hadn’t processed that in the shock. Now—she was smiling properly and raised a hand when he brought his fist up for a third try.
“Hey, stop hitting yourself. I mean it. Didn’t you see me already?”
“I…”
He’d seen Erin when Altestiel appeared, but she had been speaking to everyone, like a scrying orb. He hadn’t realized she could do this one-on-one. That was the first thought he had. The second was—
“How long could you do this?”
“A month? I dunno.”
“And you didn’t say hi?”
Suddenly, Rabbiteater felt hurt. He felt beyond hurt, actually. When he realized that Erin could have appeared before him like this—
Even if it wasn’t during the war, a month? He had been wanting to see her so bad, and just the sight of her speaking to Altestiel had made his heart leap.
He began to get angry. But Erin Solstice lifted a hand, and she looked—pained.
It was a familiar expression that Rabbiteater kept seeing. It reminded him of how Seraphel talked about her family. It was the look Aielef had had when she drew art in her rooms, or Vernoue contemplated her marriage.
The look he had worn as Meisa told him what they had was ending. And because he saw it, the [Champion], the [Knight], stopped. Erin coughed into one hand, rasping.
“Hey. That’s fair. I’m sorry, Rabbiteater. I really am. It’s just—I wanted to see you the moment you landed on Izril. With everyone. I thought this would make me cry. And it’s gonna. But not…yet.”
She seemed to master her own tear ducts with sheer force of will. Erin wiped her face on her sleeve.
“I didn’t want to see you because then I’d have to wait for a long time! Dummy. And if I did that…now I’m going to have to visit you, like, every other day at least. And I’ll be even more worried the entire sea trip. See? Look what I made me do.”
A watery smile, and then Erin coughed again. She still wasn’t fully healed, and he wondered what it had been like, to see her when she first woke up. Perhaps that would have hurt—but Erin whispered.
“There’s one more reason, too, Rabbiteater. I have been using this theater to visit other people, so I’ve been…busy. That’s no excuse. But those other people I had to talk to? I owed a great debt for the things I did. Remember Zeladona?”
“Yeah. Scary blade-ghost. You looked great. And Greysten got his butt spanked by Redscar. I liked that.”
He saw her laugh and chuckle. But then Erin’s face looked so bleak.
“People lost limbs in that battle, Rabbiteater. Some were maimed. I…I’ve been visiting them. Apologizing. Not that I can.”
“Oh. Oh.”
It hadn’t occurred to him, the Drakes that the Slayer had wounded, or the Antinium or…but Erin Solstice had. She regarded it, all of it, as her fault. The young woman shook her head. She looked past him, and he thought he saw it.
Reflected in her eyes. In something rising around him. His aura of Hearth and Home. 
He could see an [Innkeeper] silently visiting a Drake lying wounded or trying to piece together how to walk again, how to live with only one hand. Head bowed, accepting recriminations or blame.
