“Not many. I’ll come back and visit. You have to stay here, that’s okay. But there are ships, and maybe I can use Erin’s door. I’ll come back for you. I promise. [Knight]’s honor.”
He meant every word. Even if it took him months or years, across an ocean—Meisa looked into his eyes. And she remembered a conversation with Dame Talia.
She had insulted the Summer Knight for her attitude towards Rabbiteater. In turn, Talia had questioned Meisa’s commitment to suddenly entering into a relationship with a Goblin. Her comments had been—largely motivated by spite, Meisa had felt. But there was one arrow she’d shot that had found its mark.
“Rabbit. Have you ever thought what will become of us in the future?”
“All the time.”
He was squeezing her hand gently, probably worried about how she was feeling about her father. Meisa…would face that soon. But it was something else that made Meisa’s heart constrict.
“Tell me your dreams.”
Rabbiteater stared into the distance, and he spoke, as if watching something bright and glorious. A dream without end.
“I was going to take you to the inn. That will have to wait a little bit. I mean—a long time. Right, right. But I’ll come back to Terandria. I guess I’ll adventure on Terandria with you. And maybe it’ll be complicated with…I’ll find a magic stone so Erin’s door lets me go all the way to your home from the inn. That’s what I’ll do. You can be a senior Spring Knight. Or turn into Summer. Fall is bad at fighting, so don’t go there.”
“Rabbit. Don’t be mean.”
He was grinning, now, his pointed teeth flashing.
“But you’ll be important. Maybe even the Spring’s Warden or something. I’ll be Ser Solstice. We’ll visit my tribe and see what Chieftain Rags did. Then—when we’re both Level 50, maybe we’ll do one of Erin’s quests.”
“And then? After that?”
“Mm. More fighting. But when I get lots of gold and…maybe I buy a room at Erin’s inn? Then we can have little babies.”
Ah. There it was. Meisa’s hands tightened, and Rabbiteater took that as a good sign.
“How many do you want? Five is a lot for Humans, Menrise said. You can take in little Goblins. There’s always little Goblins you can look after.”
He looked into her eyes then, and that was when he seemed to see it. In those earnest green eyes, like Spring’s affection, kindness, empathy, and even love for a Goblin…Rabbiteater hesitated. Because he saw something else there for the first time. Meisa took one slow breath one last time.
“Rabbit…I think this is where I have to tell you something. I loved knowing you. And I fell in love like a spring’s romance. Like my season, well and truly and genuinely. But whenever you talked about children. About a future—that’s when I never was able to follow. Because I don’t see that future you see.”
“What? No. I don’t need to have kids. We can just adventure.”
“Or perhaps we could part. And do it now rather than…when we don’t see each other, Rabbit. Listen. Have you ever heard of a spring’s romance?”
“No.”
He looked so blank. Meisa’s heart hurt, and perhaps she should have said this from the start. But she hadn’t realized he had never considered breaking up. Goblins didn’t have that long. But she…
“We’re both young, Rabbiteater. I never planned on being together forever. Just however long it lasted. And I think today is when it should begin to fade. I’m sorry. Spring ends.”
And like that—she broke the Goblin’s heart into pieces.
 
——
 
It had been a longer conversation, of course. But Rabbiteater got choked up again, and Ser Markus patted his arm.
“She didn’t want to have babies, Ser Markus.”
“That’s a lot to ask of a woman, Rabbit.”
“I didn’t need them. She didn’t want to stay with me. I thought she liked me.”
“She did. Believe me, I saw her leaving, and she was awash with tears. Awash, Rabbiteater.”
“Then why did we break up?”
Ser Markus almost wished he’d stayed away. But he had known what was probably afoot, and a [Knight] did not abandon a comrade in trouble. Especially not now.
In truth…Meisa had not been crying that hard. Her eyes had been red, but she had looked almost relieved, as if a great weight had been lifted from her shoulders. She had been resolved. And it cut Markus to understand why.
“It is…hard. Hard to ask someone to live their entire life with you, Rabbit. We Spring Knights seldom enter into relationships that last forever. Spring is youth. Experimentation. I’m not saying Meisa played with your heart. It was just that she probably thought this entire time it was a temporary thing, and she regretted you not thinking the same way.”
The [Knight] was curled up on his side.
“It’s because I’m a Goblin, isn’t it? She doesn’t want to be with a Goblin.”
“That’s not it at all!”
A baleful, crimson light between the slits of his visor. Rabbiteater looked at Ser Markus and glared.
“You lie badly. Do it again and I’ll kick you out the window.”
Ser Markus hesitated. He bowed his head and sat there on the bed. When he spoke—it was painfully.
“Alright. Alright. But don’t kick me for this part. I…it is probably because you’re a Goblin that Meisa let you down. Partly! But even if you were Human, I maintain she wouldn’t have been ready for a full-time relationship, Rabbit. That part is true. It’s just…hard. You’re a Goblin. Any child she had would be a Goblin’s, and if you were found out—she has to be thinking of such things.”
“Because I’m a Goblin. And there’s no life with Goblins.”
“That’s not what I said.”
“I heard you. I’m a Goblin, and no one will ever love us. I’m a worthless Goblin, and I should go back to Izril.”
He was climbing into his bed, rolling himself into his sheets like the saddest metal sausage in the world. Markus sat there and tried to think of something to say.
“If I thought Meisa didn’t love you, I’d have said something, Rabbit. I would. I think she did love you.”
Markus looked over, and his friend lay in bed. A helmeted head turned—and Rabbiteater’s reply was very soft as tears ran from his visor.
“That’s why it’s worse. Because she can fall in love a bit. But never really. Never truly. Leave me alone, Markus. I’m done with my adventure. It’s no longer fun.”
He stared out the window.
“I want to go home, now.”
 
——
 
“Where’s Ser Solstice?”
Standing outside one of the Lighthouse Keeps, Lady Menrise looked up and waved at one of the windows high-up in the round fortress that housed the huge gemstone that shone into the oceans beyond.
“Ser Solstice, are you coming?”
“Oh, leave him alone, Menrise. Let’s have one last fine day on land. Then it’s weeks—at least two, possibly three—aboard a swaying tub before we get to land. I might jump ship the instant we get to First Landing, just like he wants to do.”
A man was lying on the ground. Lady Menrise turned, and like Rabbiteater, she wore a helmet. Although hers was far more ornate, and she had a gemstone inlaid in the forehead part of the polished metal.
Lady Menrise was a [Lady] of Tourvecall, the reclusive Kingdom of Incantations. Generations of magical exposure had left her with innate magical power—and features that mandated their helmets. She, like Rabbiteater, almost never took off her helm.
The man lying on the ground had a fur-lined coat, armor, and a dueling sword. He looked slightly green, and when he was on his feet, Hundredlord Cortese stalked like a lion. He also had a huge cat named Baeris, an actual lioness, and he wore a silver bell.
He was a deadly duelist, a proud, haughty, and quick-tempered man—and right now, Altestiel, his purple-and-silver hair swept back, was laughing at him.
The [Earl of Rains], moody, showy, and just as passionate—albeit older and more tempered than Cortese. Desonis’ marshal and champion. The last member of the Ivory Five was a demure [Princess], gloved hands folded, nervous in contrast to her peers, with a light-patterned riding dress and several Thronebearer bodyguards.
Princess Seraphel couldn’t resist nudging Cortese with a foot. The man, without looking up, spoke.
“If that was Altestiel, I’ll stab you when I get up.”
“You’ll have to avoid throwing up to do that, Cortese. A night on the sea not doing you much good?”
Altestiel laughed, and Cortese raised a bloodshot pair of eyes. His lion was sprawled next to them. Both looked sick.
“How does anyone sleep on that rocking, swaying, noisy—I thought I was going to die.”
Cortese apparently got seasick worse than most. His great anticipation towards the New Lands of Izril had turned to sudden horror. Meanwhile, Menrise was putting her hands to her visor.
“[Loud Voice]. Ser Solstice! We’re leaving without you!”
Her spell made her shout echo, and people turned in the city of Phel’s Light. Seraphel winced.
“Menrise, you’re causing a scene!”
“Am I? I do apologize, Your Highness. Ser Solstice, you’re making me cause a scene! Get down here! Cortese is lying on his face! It’s fair hilarious!”
She kept shouting, and Seraphel was appalled—and privately delighted. Menrise, one of her new friends, had no shame, no sense of propriety—and she was crazy.
Ser Solstice, or ‘Rabbit’ as he sometimes liked to be called, was crazy, but in his way. Menrise? Menrise looked down at Cortese.
“While we wait, I think it is a good time to challenge Kaaz’s great Hundredlord Cortese to a duel. En garde, Cortese.”
“Leave off, Menrise. I feel sick.”
“No, no. You’re all for dueling. Kaaz’s folk never turn down a duel. So—have at thee! Ah, I’ve gotten him on the ground!”
So saying, she stomped delicately on his back, put her hands up in the air, and gestured to Altestiel.
“Earl, take a mage-picture! Princess, you saw it! Completely defeated in a single blow!”
Altestiel gamely began fishing around for a magical tool as Seraphel covered her mouth. But that was enough to get Cortese moving.
“You want to duel me? Fine—”
He surged upright, and Menrise gulped.
“Uh oh. [Spell B—”
Cortese had her feet, and he yanked as he came up. Menrise flailed—then went over.
Donk. The sound of her helmeted head hitting the ground made Seraphel wince. Cortese, unmoved, pointed a sword down at her.
“I believe that’s my victory. Unless you’d like to seriously duel. Menrise? …Lady Menrise?”
The [Lady] didn’t move. She lay there, and Seraphel blinked.
“Oh no. Did you knock her out, Cortese?”
“She has a damn helmet on. I didn’t—Menrise?”
The [Lady]’s head was twisted to the side. Altestiel frowned—and then a bit of something left Menrise’s visor.
Red.
Blood? Seraphel’s heart began to pound, and Cortese raised his sword.
“Wh—Menrise? Did she bite her tongue? Menrise—”
He shook her, and more blood exited the visor.
“Cortese, potion.”
Altestiel snapped. Cortese fumbled for his side, and then more blood trickled from the visor. He swore—and a stream of it was pouring from the visor, seeping into the ground.
“Dead gods! Get a potion! She must have—”
Menrise vomited about a gallon of blood onto the ground as Cortese and Altestiel leapt back. Seraphel stared as a bloody woman rose—and then began screaming.
“Aaaaah! My tongue! I’ve bit off my—”
It was only then that they realized she was definitely lying. Altestiel relaxed first, and Seraphel covered her mouth. Menrise paused—then twirled, and the illusory blood vanished.
Cortese’s look of horror instantly changed to one of outrage.
“Menrise! I thought you were dying!”
“Another victory for me, then!”
She pumped one arm, and Cortese began chasing her around, swearing.
“You damned—this is why Tourvecall has the reputation it does!”
“And this is why no one likes Kaaz! You bully! Rapscallion! We’re still dueling!”
“I’ll draw blood this time! Kaaz cares for no gender nor station! Draw a sword and fight, Menrise!”
He roared, ripping his sword from his sheath. Menrise paused as he charged at her and flicked a wand out.
“Very well. [Tidal Wave].”
Cortese turned—a wall of water rose, surged at him, and he saw the edge of the docks near the Lighthouse Keep. The wave of water caught him and made to toss him over the edge, fourteen feet into the dark blue waters below—
Menrise was celebrating, wand in the air, when Cortese slashed the water in half, stepped forwards, and put the sword close to her visor. She hesitated.
“Ah. I really thought I had you.”
“I have dueled [Mages] too. My victory?”
“Mm.”
He poked her, and Menrise snapped.
“Alright, yes, yes! Don’t poke me, I bleed easy. You really have to win everything, don’t you?”
“A duel is a duel. And here is Ser Solstice. You’re late.”
A [Knight] emerged from the Lighthouse Keep. He was dragging his feet along, and Cortese glowered. Seraphel noticed that Ser Solstice didn’t have his cloak or belt and another man was half-carrying him.
“Your Highness, [Lords] and [Lady], I apologize. Rabbit—Ser Solstice is a bit under the weather.”
Ser Markus panted. Cortese just scowled.
“From what? I slept on a boat, and Menrise—”
“Rabbit! Cortese was just poking me in unwanted places with his ‘sword’. Can you believe the man?”
Altestiel’s eyes bulged, and he choked along with Seraphel. Cortese nearly threw Menrise over the edge of the docks. But Rabbiteater didn’t warm to Menrise’s pranks like before.
“Hey, Cortese. Hey, everyone. I’m not in the mood to have fun.”
“What? Are you getting seasick too? We’re going to embark at last, and you…is it the ceremony? We’ve only got one day before we launch.”
“Dead gods. I forgot. I have to give a speech. At least it’s pre-written.”
Seraphel groaned. Her mother and father had already given their send off at Calanfer’s docks, but due to the delays, the fleet had actually gone to Desonis for a second speech—and then sailed to Pheislant for a third while more ships joined them.
“This one is all Pheislant’s King. It will be short…though we’ll have to stand for a good portion of it. I’m afraid House Kallinad just decided Duke Firrus Kallinad himself will lead Pheislant’s ambitions, so it’s a full ceremony from the crown. That’s Dame Talia’s father.”
“Oh, your friend, Ser Solstice?”
Menrise turned to Rabbiteater. He was sitting on the ground.
“I guess. He’s going? Good for him.”
Altestiel exchanged a glance with Cortese as Seraphel eyed Ser Markus. He looked apologetic as Menrise nudged Rabbiteater with a foot. Altestiel cleared his throat.
