“I’m all for the inn, Normen. But that armor…I don’t want to wear it. I want to see you wearing it. But some men aren’t meant for armor. They’d tarnish it.”
“If I can wear it…”
“You worked under Crimshaw. I didn’t. There’s a difference. Some…I don’t deserve the class.”
Alcaz sat there, averting his face, and Normen sensed this was the kind of thing that the Brothers never talked to each other about. He let the matter drop, but he couldn’t resist adding.
“If I can wear this armor, Alcaz—I might not be worthy of it either. Just say the word.”
Alcaz recovered his hat and put it on his head as they cleaned up the weights room.
“True enough. But you earning the right to wear that armor—that’s a heavy thing too and another reason why I don’t jump for the honor, great as it is.”
He glanced at Normen, and the Knight of Solstice exhaled slowly.
“You’re right about that.”
 
——
 
They left the gym, the two brothers, and found something unusual instead of their usual, quiet inn in the dawn’s glow.
They found an [Innkeeper], sitting awake at one of the tables. She glanced up at them, and Normen felt a prickle on his flesh under the armor. Today was the beginning of something. Great events were beginning to be set into motion.
The [Innkeeper] was serious.
The [Knight] was apprehensive.
The [Bandit Lord] was plotting.
Across Izril, once more, a tipping point was reached, and once again—normality could no longer continue.
The Haven had reached Pallass. Ships set sail from every continent to the New Lands of Izril. Ghosts of Roshal gave quiet orders. A Necromancer regained his humanity.
A Goblin wept loudly beneath his helmet.
 
——
 
Three [Knights] made up the Order of Solstice. One was dead.
The first [Knight] was Brunkr Silverfang, posthumously inducted into an Order not yet fully formed. One of five needed to convene a formal Knight-Order. Never forgotten, though.
The second was a Goblin. Another [Champion], who had risen to their class before beginning the Order of Solstice by lies and intent. By his own kind of valor on the battlefield.
The third was Normen, the first [Knight] to be appointed with clear purpose to a coming group, an organization.
The Order of Solstice had been a joke, really. A half-Elf’s prank and a convenient lie to hide a Goblin fighting in a Terandrian war. Trust a [Witch] and an [Innkeeper] to make it into reality.
But the truth was, it was a beguiling lie. A story you wanted to believe was true. Order of Solstice. What might that look like? Would it represent the [Knights] who made it up, that woman’s values? Surely, it would. It would be…
Amazing. Wonderful.
That had made Rabbiteater so glad when he heard it. Once more—he would have brothers. He would have comrades, united in purpose. Ser Solstice, Rabbiteater of Izril, the ‘Goblin Slayer’—
Couldn’t wait to go home. His [Innkeeper] was awake. He had a Knight-Order. Numbtongue was alive. And he had new friends to introduce Erin to.
The Ivory Five. Well, four, excluding him.
Earl Altestiel, Princess Seraphel, Hundredlord Cortese, and [Spellbound Lady] Menrise. Good, funny people. Also—the Order of Seasons, who were filled with good people like Ser Markus and Talia.
And…
He had wanted to introduce Erin to someone very special. Dame Meisa. Rabbiteater had been looking forwards to it all, and the ships were almost ready.
Today, though, the Goblin wept. He did it loudly in Phel’s Light, one of the ports in Pheislant where the ships of countless Terandrian nations were preparing to set forth from.
He had rooms in one of the Lighthouse Keeps, a gigantic lighthouse-fortress that was actually considered fairly rich and pleasant to be in. It shone into the sea, hence Pheislant’s reputation as a powerful coastal kingdom.
Right now, the light was passing over ships coming into port, even at dawn. Many, many ships. Some chartered—many from the nations who possessed them, flying great flags.
Gaiil-Drome, the half-Elf kingdom, the silhouette of a pointy-eared figure and bough of leaves. Avel’s bow-and-arrow. Noelictus’ scythe, wheat, and skull. Calanfer’s throne.
What a glorious sight for a Goblin to see. So why, in his window overlooking the coastline and the ships, with his friends—did he weep?
“Ser Solstice? Are you alright?”
Someone was knocking on his door. A certain Spring Knight, Ser Markus, had heard his roommate’s noises. And since he had a good idea of what was going on, he rapped and listened.
“Hhhugh. Nsnf. Ahaanhm.”
The door was slightly ajar. The Goblin was definitely crying. Ser Markus hesitated.
“I am going to indecorously enter, Ser Solstice. One second—”
He pushed the door open, saw Rabbiteater still had his helmet on, and entered before shutting the door behind him. Then Markus spoke.
“Rabbiteater. What’s the matter?”
Something—snot or tears—dripped out of the battered yet ornate visor of ‘Ser Solstice’. The [Champion]’s armor was magnificent, his red blood-cloak hanging next to his axe and belt of gear by the door. It looked like he was ready to head out—but something had reduced him to sitting on his bed. Crying.
An empty chair was facing him. Ser Markus saw where someone had just been sitting, and the pieces clicked. He slowly sat down next to Rabbiteater.
“Oh. Rabbiteater…”
“She’s not coming, Markus. She said she can’t.”
The Hobgoblin cried. And he leaned against his friend as Ser Markus put an arm around Rabbiteater’s shoulders. Markus stared at the door, searching for words to say. He wished he could curse Meisa as easily as he had been mad at Talia.
“I know, Rabbiteater. I know. I’m sorry.”
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes ago, he had been so happy. Rabbiteater had been packing his things, getting ready for his ship.
“We’re going to be on Calanfer’s ship. We all get separate rooms for some reason. Because I’m friends with Seraphel and she’s too good to sleep next to anyone. But you can share my room if you want.”
The [Knight] sitting across from him wasn’t moving. She sat in her chair, her auburn-brown hair blowing in the wind coming from his open window. It tasted like the sea. It tasted like adventure.
New Lands await. Rabbiteater was excited, and he had his helmet on only in case someone looked through his window or barged in unannounced.
“You’re lucky to get a separate room, even on account of your anonymity, Rabbit. It’ll be narrow bunks for most; even [Knights] will have to share private rooms.”
“Ooh. Want to sleep in mine, then?”
He turned, and for the second time, Meisa avoided the question. That made Rabbiteater hesitate.
A month had passed since the great banquet at Calanfer. A month since he’d seen a Dragon! He was in Pheislant now, having gone all the way to Desonis, visited Nadel, and headed back. From coast-to-coast, visiting Altestiel’s lands, hanging out with the Ivory Five—having fun.
Meisa had, unfortunately, not been allowed to go with him the entire way. He’d pressed, but when Ser Greysten and Dame Pertheine had been teleported to Liscor, the Order of Seasons had all gathered in Pheislant to confer and discuss what they’d been told.
Doubtless, the Dragon’s words had also made them want to assess the situation. Rabbiteater had missed Meisa terribly, but they’d been reunited as soon as they’d come close to Pheislant.
Seeing the blasted lands of Silvaria, practically uninhabited, had been another sight on the way. But Rabbiteater had little context for the ash and rubble that made the Terandrians shudder so hard. He had seen it all as a wondrous land he wanted to continue exploring.
And he would, but he wanted to go home, first. And the Order of Solstice had only served to make him happier. Now, he was throwing souvenirs into his bag of holding.
“We’re on Calanfer’s big ship. Not Altestiel’s. Because Seraphel, again. Something about rankings. Stupid. Altestiel’s ship is cooler.”
The Earl of Rains had a flagship that befit an [Earl] accustomed to both sea and land combat. Calanfer’s flagship, the Throne’s Will, was decent and certainly big, but Rabbiteater had wanted to keep the Ivory Five together. He’d been annoyed that politics meant the [Princess] should be quartered on her ship.
His disregard for politics, social conventions, and most other things was probably why Ser Solstice was enduringly popular. Pheislant had been having him for dinners, banquets, trying to get his helmet off—and lauding him as one of the heroes like Ser Greysten who’d stopped Ailendamus in its tracks.
It hadn’t really gotten to his head. Which was amazing, but the Goblin didn’t care for such things. The accolades of his own people embarrassed him far more.
All of this was good to see. But Dame Meisa’s face was unhappy, and Rabbiteater only realized she hadn’t replied to his comment about rooms until now. He turned, a pair of underwear in hand.
“Is this another thing about propriety? You can sneak into my rooms if you want. It’s a long ship voyage.”
In some ways, he was still just a young man, regardless of species. Meisa rolled her eyes. But she was a young woman, and they had had a lot of fun. A lot of fun that was scandalous to many. Especially if you knew Rabbiteater was a [Knight]. She didn’t regret that. But she was going to regret this.
“I wanted to talk to you about that, Rabbiteater. I’ve been meaning to, but you’ve been flitting around, and the departure keeps getting delayed.”
“Yah. Because Humans suck at moving fast. It’s too many ceremonies, getting ships lined up…it’s been a month. Do you know where Cortese is?”
Rabbiteater was laughing. A month had come and passed, so he pointed out to the bay.
“He’s in a ship. See?”
Cortese was sleeping on a ship tonight. Meisa raised her brows.
“Is he that eager to go?”
“Nope. He swore he wouldn’t spend the end of the month on land. So he gets to sleep on a boat. Until we go! He’s been sleeping there for days!”
Indeed, the Hundredlord had publicly sworn that in front of the Dragon at the banquet, and he, like Rabbiteater, had been chafing to get out to sea. Well, never let it be said that he didn’t honor his promises. That was part of the reason Rabbiteater liked him.
Meisa almost smiled at that. Then she took a breath.
“What…what’s the first thing you’re going to do when you get to the New Lands, Rabbit?”
“To Liscor. I’m going to Liscor, first. They can drop me off on the way. It’ll be a long journey down Izril’s west. Too hard to go through the center anymore. All the…currents.”
“The trade routes are disrupted. That’s why it’s taken so long, Rabbit. The nations want to do an organized push. The Blighted Kingdom had confidence they could move even with the tides against them—but Terandria is going together. Plus, there were Ailendamus’ fleets at sea, and until Wellfar hunted them down, I think everyone was—nervous—of fighting either side. Especially if Wellfar was unfriendly.”
The [Knight] just laughed.
“I hear a lot of reasons. Doesn’t matter. I’m going home. Then I’m going to meet Ser Normen and maybe bring him to the New Lands. And Erin. And Numbtongue and Badarrow and…Mrsha! I’ll tell Lyonette I met her sister. No, I’ll bring Seraphel and the Ivory Five with me! Then we can go to the New Lands. And you’ll go. Meisa. Oh—Meisa. I had an idea last night.”
“I’m—what’s the idea, Rabbit?”
The Goblin turned to her, all shining armor. [Indomitable Champion]. [Knight of the Dawn]. He was a fantastically high-level [Knight] already if you counted his [Champion] class, armed with artifacts.
And he was rising still higher, befriending powerful people. Meisa did love him. And when he spoke, it got harder.
“When we get to the inn…do you want to join the Order of Solstice? Erin wrote me a [Message] earlier this month. She wants to see me, and she’s been waiting. She says we need two more [Knights] to make it official. I was thinking…what if you were also a Knight of Solstice?”
“M-me? Rabbit, I can’t leave the Order of Seasons!”
The Spring Knight was alarmed by the suggestion. But Rabbit was smiling.
“You could do both.”
“That would divide my loyalties!”
“Eh, you can have loyalty enough for both.”
“You—”
She almost laughed, because that was the kind of logic only a Goblin could come up with. Wistfully, Meisa hesitated.
“You think I could join? If I wanted to, I mean? Would your [Innkeeper], Miss Solstice, even allow it?”
Rabbiteater thumped his chest.
“If I ask, she’ll definitely let you. And we’ll find more Goblins and…and have hundreds of [Knights]. Inn, New Lands, and then…another adventure.”
He stared out to sea, and Meisa thought it was time. It should have been, already. But she had been delaying it.
“I wish I could do that, Rabbit. But I can’t go to sea. I have to stay here.”
He didn’t seem to hear her, at first. Then the Goblin’s head turned.
“What? Why? Did Calirn say you had to stay? I’ll go talk to him.”
“No. It’s not that. Rabbiteater…I’m not going to the New Lands at all. My family’s here. Let me explain.”
He had such a blank look as she made him sit. And when he tugged off his helmet, she closed the windows fast. But the Goblin’s crimson eyes looked bewildered.
“Your family? I met them. They were nice.”
Meisa had introduced him. As Ser Solstice. She folded her hands and sat.
“What did you think of them, honestly?”
“Nice. Like I said. I felt bad about your father.”
He had been bedridden when they came to visit. But he’d tried to get up to shake Ser Solstice’s hand and ask him to show off some of his fighting moves. Rabbiteater had obliged him at the bedside. Meisa’s smile was painful.
“He loved you. But Rabbit. That’s why I can’t go. He’s sick. Nothing the [Healers] know of. He’s going to die soon, they think. If not this year…the next is likely.”
“Oh.”
The Goblin sat there a second. His eyes narrowed—then looked up at her. And they were honest.
“I’m sorry. He seems nice.”
That comment could have been insincere from someone else. But from him it was simple and honest. Meisa reached out and squeezed his hand.
“That’s why I can’t go.”
“Oh. But—you want to stay with him?”
A painful realization flared in his eyes. He hesitated—then exhaled.
“That’s okay. I’ll go myself. Then I’ll come back or wait for you to…maybe Erin can find magic medicine. She brought herself back from the dead.”
Meisa took another, longer breath. This part would be harder.
“How many years would that be, Rabbit? I don’t want to leave my family’s side. Going to campaign in Ailendamus was as far as I was comfortable.”
