The sixth door had not appeared in the antechamber.

Solenne had known it would not — she had sat in this room for the better part of an hour watching five doors open and close, and the System notification had said five, and five was the number. But when Nadia walked out of the fifth trial and they had all eaten their rations and the antechamber's quiet had settled into something restful, she had still been running the Conductor. Still receiving the six signals. Still, somewhere in the peripheral register, half-waiting.

She was not waiting for anything specific. There was nothing to wait for. The Gate had been completed.

She knew this the way she knew most things about the Conductor: as a feeling that preceded the logic of it.

They gathered their packs. Nadia put on the dulcimer case — the strap settling the way it was supposed to settle now, the resonance-damping insert giving the case a cleaner quality than she'd carried before. They moved toward the antechamber's entry door, the one they had come through. It opened for them as it had opened for them before, and Solenne stepped through it first, and the sixth door was in the far wall of the antechamber.

Set flush into the white stone. Same material as the other five. Same seam. Its existence did not announce itself. It was simply: there, where it had not been before.

She stopped.

The party stopped behind her.

The System notification arrived as they registered it.

```stat-screen
[PROVING GATE — FLOOR 20]
Individual Bond Trial Chamber

One trial remains.
The trial ends when the Trial determines you are ready to leave.

Party members waiting in the antechamber retain passive Harmony connection.
```

Nobody said anything for a moment.

"That wasn't in the first notification," Tomás said.

"No," Solenne said. "It wasn't."

She ran the Conductor over the six signals. The party's Aspects were all at a modified register from the trials — she had been reading the shifts since they came out, each one carrying something different from the forty minutes of private evaluation. The new notification had arrived without warning. The door had appeared without warning. The Gate had decided there was more.

Nadia was looking at the door.

She looked at it the way she had looked at the first door — with the quality she brought to things she was actually trying to see rather than things she was preparing a response to. She was not managing toward it or away from it. She was looking.

She looked at each of them. Dayo. Miriam. Vesper. Tomás. Solenne last.

Then she put the dulcimer case down at Solenne's feet.

"Hold this," she said.

She walked through the door.

---

Nadia had stood in a lot of empty rooms.

She knew the species by register: rehearsal space before anyone arrived, green room with the equipment put away, recording booth after the engineer stepped out. The specific weight of a container with no contents and the implied instruction that she was supposed to supply them.

This room was empty and it had a different quality. Not hostile. Not neutral in the way a neutral room was neutral. The air had attention in it — or the attention was in her perception of the air, she couldn't be certain of the distinction, and she filed that uncertainty away because the distinction might matter.

She stood in the center of the room and waited for the evaluation to begin.

Nothing happened.

She had been in evaluations before. Not Tower evaluations — the kind that had been running since she was seven years old, the ones where someone watched her do something and decided if it was enough. She knew how those went. She knew how to read what was wanted, how to calibrate her output to what the moment required. She had gotten very good at it. The performance of presence was a skill like any other skill; she had developed it over enough years that it ran without her having to consciously direct it.

She started there.

She stood in the center of the room and let herself arrive in it. She brought her attention to the specific quality she knew how to produce — not the amateur version, where you tried too hard and the room felt the effort and it read as effortful. The practiced version: you allowed the space to fill with the fact of you. You did not announce yourself. You were simply present enough that the room registered it.

The air did not change.

She tried the inverse: the contained, inward version. Some evaluations wanted you to expand into the space; others wanted you to demonstrate that you did not need to. She sat down on the floor against the wall, her back against the white stone, and drew her attention slightly inward. The grounded, present-but-not-broadcasting quality. The one that read as depth rather than breadth.

The air did not change.

She stood up again. She moved to the center of the room and tried a third approach — something she had developed specifically for environments where she could not read what was wanted: the open, receptive quality. Not trying to be anything in particular. Just: available. Attending to the room rather than projecting into it. She let her breath slow. She let her shoulders drop. She let the attention that was in the air land on her without deflecting it.

The air did not change.

She thought about what the Proving Gate had asked of the others, observed through eleven minutes of waiting in the antechamber:

Dayo had been asked to carry weight without converting it to momentum. The Steadfast aspect at rest — load-bearing without a load.

Miriam had been asked to show what Warmhearted looked like at its minimum register. The care underneath the clinical frame stripped to its baseline.

Vesper had been given twelve minutes with nothing to make. Openhanded without the Workframe.

Tomás had been asked to sit with a conclusion that made him uncomfortable. Clearvoiced turned inward, looking at its own timing.

The pattern was: the Trial asked you to demonstrate your Aspect in the mode it found hardest.

Brightspirit's hardest mode was presumably —

She stopped herself.

That was analysis. Analysis was a different kind of performance. She was running a calculation about what the Trial wanted from her so that she could produce it, which was exactly the thing the Trial was presumably not looking for. She had caught herself doing it, which was useful. She noted the catch and set it down.

She sat down on the floor in the center of the room.

She looked at the wall.

She had been here for — she estimated, without a timepiece — maybe eight minutes. The room's attention had a continuous quality. She was not failing, in the sense that nothing had ended her trial and ejected her from the room. But she was also not succeeding in any way she could identify. The assessment was running. She could not read its output.

---

She thought about Pattern Break.

The skill had arrived as a System classification for something she had been doing her whole life. Reading the established rhythm, the expectation, the groove — and breaking it. Not to be difficult. Because the break was where the actual music was. Because patterns that were never interrupted calcified, and calcification was the enemy of the thing that made music alive.

She had Pattern Break. It was genuinely hers. Not a performance of something she wasn't — something she had been doing before the Tower gave it a name.

She could use it here. She could identify the pattern the Trial was running — evaluation, expectation of produced presence, reception of performed presence as insufficient — and break it.

The problem was: she had just done that. She had identified the pattern and was now attempting to break it in a controlled way, which meant she was using Pattern Break as a tool to produce the result the Trial was looking for, which was a performance of non-performance. You could not Pattern Break your way into genuine presence. Pattern Break was a skill. Skills were performed.

She was in a loop.

She sat in the loop for a while, because the alternative was to start running another approach, and she had tried three approaches and an analytical framework and a skill deployment, and none of them had produced a different quality in the room's attention. The loop at least had the quality of honesty: she genuinely did not know what to do.

She breathed.

---

She thought about Dayo.

Not Dayo as a formation element. Not Dayo's threat assessment profile, not Dayo's combat patterns, not what Dayo needed from Nadia in the next encounter. Just: Dayo.

The tally bracer in her hands in the antechamber, not on her wrist. The way she had looked at it — not the way you looked at a tool that wasn't working, the way you looked at a thing that was yours and was telling you something. Dayo had said "Is Nadia still in?" before she said anything else. Nadia had heard that afterward, after she walked out and Solenne told her the time. Dayo and Tomás had both said it first. She had not known, inside the trial chamber, that anyone had asked.

She thought about Miriam.

The notebook open, nothing written, closed. The years of clinical processing that had built the frame, and the frame being the thing Miriam used to make contact — not to block contact, to make it. The tool in reverse. The voice under the frame when she said "Can I have the Mana Vial?" was not a different voice. It was the same voice, doing the same thing. Miriam always asking for exactly what she needed — the clinical frame was the mode, not the request.

She thought about Vesper.

The hands turned over. The specific quality of her saying "I didn't need it" — not discovery, confirmation. The check had returned a result she hadn't expected and she was reporting what the check found. Vesper with something to hold that she didn't know yet where to put. The two things simultaneously true. Nadia had watched Vesper pick up each result and carry it with the same quality she carried her constructs: as something that belonged to her and was her responsibility and she would figure out what to do with it.

She thought about Tomás.

The exhale when Solenne said "yes, Nadia's still in." She had not been inside the antechamber, had not seen it, was reconstructing it now from: Solenne's account of the time, the quality of what she knew about Tomás. He had been running a contingency calculation. He released it when the calculation resolved. He had said "I said something wrong in there" and had not elaborated, because the trial had been enough and the after was its own separate thing, and you did not unpack the after in the antechamber of a Proving Gate with everyone still processing their own results. He would put it somewhere eventually. He was precise about where he put things.

She thought about Solenne.

Sitting on the antechamber floor, back against the wall, the Conductor running. Receiving all of them through stone and not being able to do anything with it. The quality of Solenne not acting on information — she had felt it from the outside, the particular quality of being observed by someone who was not translating the observation into intervention. Solenne had been developing this since before Nadia could name it. The full bandwidth without the management. She had held the dulcimer case at her feet, waiting.

The room's attention had a different quality.

Not granted. Not resolved. But the texture of it had changed, the way a conversation changed quality when the person listening stopped trying to formulate their response and started listening.

She was still sitting on the floor of a white stone room.

She had been sitting here thinking about five people who were waiting outside in an antechamber, which was the most ordinary thing she could imagine doing — just sitting somewhere thinking about the people she was with. She had not been trying to be present. She had not been performing non-performance. She had not been Pattern Breaking toward a goal. She had just been sitting here. The room had changed quality while she was doing it.

She was aware that she was now aware of this, and that the awareness could tip back into calculation — noticing that genuine thought about five specific people produced a different quality in the room's assessment, and therefore continuing to think about five specific people in order to maintain the quality, which would not be the same thing at all.

She let the awareness be what it was.

She breathed.

She was still here.

---

She did not know how much later it was when the sound appeared.

Not a decision. Not a performance. A sound that had been building in her chest without her registering it until it was already there — a hum, low and without specific pitch at first, and then resolving into something specific: a phrase, short and complete, the kind that arrived whole rather than constructed. She recognized it the way she recognized things that came from the same place the single note in the Transition Hall had come from — the place that moved before she decided to move, the place that had been opening since the dulcimer arrived.

She hummed it.

She did not produce it for the room. She did not calibrate it to the room's attention. She did not check the room's attention while she hummed. She hummed it because it was there, and because it had been there without her directing it, and because stopping it would have required more intention than continuing.

It had the specific quality of a sound that was alone in a space and was not lonely.

She stopped when it stopped.

She sat in the silence.

---

It was a very large silence.

She noticed this the way you noticed the size of a room when you stopped moving through it: it had been there the whole time, and the stilling revealed it. The silence was the size of twenty-three minutes of a white stone chamber, and it extended in every direction she had gone in the room — the corner where she had tried the contained version, the center where she had cycled through approaches, the floor where she had thought about five specific people. All of it was in the silence now. The silence held it.

She did not fill it.

The not-filling was not a decision, exactly. She had been in silences she filled — every silence she had been in for the last several years, she had filled, because silences that stayed unfilled were the kind of silences that other people filled with things she couldn't control, and she preferred to be the one managing the register. She had filled silences with the next note, the next word, the performance that preempted the need for one. She had been very good at it.

This silence arrived in a space where she had run out of approaches and had not found a new one. She was sitting in the center of the room and she had hummed something that was genuinely hers and had stopped when it stopped and the silence was the size of everything she had not filled in the last twenty-three minutes. She did not fill it because she did not reach for the tools she used to fill things. She did not reach for them because she had tried the tools and they had returned insufficient results, and she was sitting in the result of not-reaching, and the result was: this. A silence she was present in.

The System notification arrived without preamble.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — BRIGHTSPIRIT]
Nadia Volkov-Baptiste

Trial duration: 23:17
Result: Genuinely Present
  (minimum threshold: met)

LEVEL UP: Level 11 → Level 12
  +3 AGI  +2 INT  +1 WIS
  Chaos Grenade — Lv. 6 → 7 (third grenade per activation)

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Brightspirit]
Party total: 145/150

FLOOR 20 — CLEARED
  Party XP: +4,200
  Section bonus: +840 (20%)
```

She read it twice.

*Genuinely Present. Minimum threshold: met.*

She sat with this for a moment. The minimum threshold. Twenty-three minutes and change for the minimum. The humming and the thinking and the sitting without filling — all of it had cleared the floor.

She found this somewhat funny.

Not in the managed way, not a produced reaction to a result she wanted to present well. Just: funny, in the way that accurate information sometimes arrived with a quality of absurdity that didn't require embellishment. Twenty-three minutes for the minimum. That was specific. That was very her.

She stood up. Her legs were stiff from the stone floor. She picked up her pack.

She walked to the door.

---

The antechamber was as she had left it.

Dayo against the wall. Miriam next to Dayo, notebook in her lap. Vesper with her hands resting. Tomás with a schematic in his hands — she recognized the format as the Floor 21 advance notes, which meant he had not been idle.

Solenne was standing. She had the dulcimer case at her feet. When the door opened, she did not move, but something in how she was holding the Conductor shifted.

Nadia walked out.

She looked at Solenne.

"Took me a minute," she said.

"Twenty-three minutes and seventeen seconds," Solenne said.

Nadia held this. "Yeah," she said.

Solenne felt something release in the Conductor — not in the party's signals, in her own processing of them. Twenty-three minutes of receiving the Brightspirit signal through stone without being able to do anything with it: not the working register, not the tactical read, just presence arriving and being received and not converted into action. She had been holding it the way the antechamber had asked her to hold it. The weight of it had been real. And now Nadia was standing in front of her saying "took me a minute" with the quality of someone reporting an accurate result without embellishment, and there was something very specifically funny about this. She did not name it as funny. She held it for a moment and let it be what it was, and it had the quality of something that had been carried and was now set down by someone else, and she had been there to watch it land.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 20 — PROVING GATE: COMPLETE]

All trials resolved.

PROVING GATE: OPEN

SECTION CLEAR — FLOOR 20: CRYSTAL SALT DESERT
  +1 RES (all party)
```

The notification was addressed to the party. All six received it simultaneously. The fifth trial door and the sixth trial door — all the doors in the far wall — were open at once, not into separate corridors, into a single room beyond: a Transition Hall, fully lit, with the fire-bowl configuration that meant rest and passage.

Nadia picked up the dulcimer case from Solenne's feet.

She settled it onto her back. The strap sat right. The case had the quality she'd been noticing since Vesper finished the insert — the ambient chord muted, the instrument's own resonance distinct and clean, the two things no longer interfering. She had not known, when she first started carrying the dulcimer, how much the interference was costing her. She knew now.

She looked at the Transition Hall.

The Tower's background Mana pulse — the constant that had been running beneath everything since Floor 1, the hum she had stopped registering sometime around Floor 14 the way you stopped registering your own heartbeat — had a different quality.

Nothing had changed in it. The pulse was what it had always been. But the place she was receiving it from had changed, and that changed the quality of the reception. She did not have language for this yet. She filed it.

"Ready?" Tomás said. He had the Floor 21 notes folded in his inside pocket.

Dayo said: "Yeah."

Vesper said: "Yeah." She was already looking at the Transition Hall with the quality of someone who had identified it as the next environment and was beginning to map it.

Miriam had closed the notebook. The ink Nadia had seen at the margin was dry now. Miriam was looking forward.

"Yes," Solenne said. She was still running the Conductor. The party's Aspects at whatever register they were running at now — the post-trial register, the one Solenne had been reading since the first door opened and had not, Nadia suspected, fully categorized yet.

Nadia said: "Yeah."

They walked through the antechamber and into the Transition Hall.

The fire-bowl was lit. The passage to Floor 21 was at the far end — a door, unremarkable from here, the same white stone. The Tower had placed the fire-bowl without ceremony. A floor had been completed. The place that registered it was what it had always been: functional, unhurried, designed for rest before the next thing.

Floor 20 was behind them.

Twenty floors of building was behind them, and ahead of them was the fire, and past the fire was a door they had not walked through yet.

They sat down.
