—KAELOR—

I watched as Allene’s soul was ripped away from her body.

I watched as the demon before us tossed her aside like waste, having no empathy for life.

And then I blinked. A cruel mistake that was. A blink was all it took for him to completely disappear from my sights.

I felt a breath at the back of my neck. Then a touch.

It was the demon. It had to be.

But when I turned, the demon wasn’t there. It was only Meriel, standing a distance away in the backline.

“I didn’t want to do it like this. I really didn’t,” Gal’Meth said.

I turned. He reappeared beside Allene’s body, which was lying motionless on the ground of mist beside the weapons she had dropped.

Allene’s soul was in his hand. But not just hers. A clone of my soul was also in front of him. He must have taken it when he touched my neck just now.

“Give her soul back,” I demanded, squeezing my hand.

The demon slowly shook his head. “I can’t do that.”

Allene’s soul pulsed in his hand like a heartbeat as he drew it closer to his chest cavity, where an entire universe of souls resided. He simply pressed her soul into his chest, letting it sink into the cosmic abyss within his body.

Allene’s soul drifted through the endless expanse, and before long…

It was completely gone.

“And now… she joins the rest of them,” Gal’Meth said. “But don’t worry. She won’t feel pain any longer. She’ll endlessly drift through the inside of my body, which is as vast as the cosmos itself. Her soul will be at peace here, alongside the others.”

I narrowed my eyes. “What do you accomplish by taking our souls?”

He burst out into laughter. “You’re asking a Sovereign of Souls why he must take souls?”

Meriel walked next to me from behind. With each step she took, tiny roots from the Elven Tree briefly sprouted from below before disappearing again, as if reacting to her steps.

“We’ll have to revise our tactics,” she whispered. “I thought that you and Allene would be able to overwhelm him with your offense while I gave my support from the back and chained him down with the roots. But I realize now that was a mistake.”

I frowned. “Well, I apologize we weren’t strong enough.”

She shook her head. “No. This was an oversight on my end. I should’ve fully joined you two on the offense. It would’ve been easier to overwhelm him that way.”

Gal’Meth kneeled beside Allene’s body, putting the back of his fingers on her forehead and brushing aside her hair. Even with her hair tied up, loose strands covered part of her face.

“Don’t touch her,” I said, stepping forward.

Meriel put a hand on my shoulder, holding me back. “Your soul’s clone is right next to him. You know what will happen to you if he decides to attack it.”

I stopped right away.

Gal’Meth continued parting away her hair like a gentle parent watching over their sleeping child. Only now, it was a demon’s touch with a victim of his soul magic.

“She’s as beautiful as her soul,” the demon said. “But her wings… not so much. They resemble an angel’s too closely for my liking. But I can ignore such a minor detail.”

His fingers moved down to her neck as he checked her pulse.

“It always intrigues me how a body lives on without a soul. As for how long they can survive, however—that’s an answer even I do not know. It’s different for everybody. Aurelius found the simplest solution yet, and was able to cast magic that can slow a husk’s metabolism and steady their heart. He was a great man. One of the most intelligent ones I’ve contracted with.”

He stood, looking at Meriel. “Of course, none comes closer than that elf I saw thousands of years ago.”

Meriel shrugged. “That’s not too surprising. Elves are known for their intelligence.”

Gal’Meth nodded. “They are. And I’m glad to see you’re proud of your own kind.” He glanced upward at the Elven Tree. “Even this spell—this tree—was a culmination of everything your kind has ever done. Their mana… their expertise… their knowledge… This spell is just one of many that the elves created to support themselves and subdue their enemies. But… a part of me is disappointed.”

He caught one of the leaves as they fell near him, observing it briefly before letting it fall to the mist below our feet.

“Though this Elven Tree looks the same as the one I saw thousands of years ago… it isn’t nearly as powerful.”

Meriel stayed silent.

“But don’t be ashamed of yourself—I’m not critiquing your power,” the demon continued, opening his hands. “It isn’t your fault that you were born in such a pathetic era. The world was far more dangerous in the past. Because of that, a single mage of an era millions of years ago would be a catastrophic threat today. Why do you think that is?”

Meriel shrugged. “There could be many reasons. Lost magic and knowledge, less mana in the world, a diluted pool of mana as populations increase across eras… they could all be true, or all be completely false. Everyone believes different things.”

Gal’Meth nodded in agreement. “Yes. But it’s frightening, isn’t it? If this trajectory continues, our descendants will continue to be far weaker than us. Perhaps one day, magic will cease to exist altogether. And if one day we are met with a force from beyond this world, we’ll all vanish together. Though I’m not sure the same rules apply to Firstborns.”

He looked at me.

“What are you trying to say?” I asked.

“Your kind is an ancient race. Your kind preceded all those that exist, yet you wear the faces of elves, dwarves, giants, dragons, demons, and all else. And you, Kaelor… You happen to wear the face of a human. But then, what are you? Are you a human? Or are you a Firstborn?”

“It depends who’s asking,” I said. “I’m not picky with names.”

The demon chuckled.

“That’s peculiar. In the past, speaking of a Firstborn was enough to spark fear in the eyes of all those who heard it. Yet, in this era, you walk among the others like you belong with them. You walk as if you are human rather than a Firstborn. Or rather—you walk as though the others belong in this world which was supposed to be yours.”

I narrowed my eyes. “A world that was once mine, huh? Don’t tell me you’re one of those people who believe the world belongs to the Firstborns…?”

Gal’Meth shook his head. “I don’t just believe. I know. And I find it fascinating that you cannot recognize those who are the same kind as you.”

“What…?”

The demon stared deeply into my eyes. The look alone was enough for me to understand what he was trying to say.

“You… you’re a Firstborn?” I said.

He didn’t say anything. Didn’t nod or shake his head.

Silence was his answer.

I had more questions. Perhaps hundreds.

But with Allene’s body lying motionless beside his feet… I couldn’t afford to waste any more time on questions.

Whether he was a Firstborn, a demon, someone from an ancient or modern era—it made no difference. He had taken someone from me, and I wanted her back.

I tightened my grip around my dagger. Gal’Meth noticed.

“Finished with your questions?” he asked.

“For now.”

The mist exploded beneath my feet as I propelled myself forward with an explosion of wind beneath my feet. My soul’s clone stood in between us. If he attacked it, it would instantly stop me.

But he didn’t. Instead, he moved the clone away before my dagger could get close.

Why would he do that? Wouldn’t it be better if he used it as a shield? To force me to hurt myself?

Or did he not want me to attack it…?

I pressed him with a flurry of attacks. The Elven Tree’s roots followed up with each of my attacks. Meanwhile, Meriel concentrated all her roots to sprout up and chain him down, but Gal’Meth had learned from the last time she did the same thing, flying high in the air and avoiding the roots. She cast several spells to shoot him down. He dodged them.

My soul’s clone followed him wherever he moved. I did as well.

But one thing was clear. Whenever my dagger got too close to my own clone, he moved it away.

“I see…” I muttered under my breath.

I decided on a risky move. Something that would immediately turn the tide of this battle, whether by causing my defeat or by giving me an advantage.

I aimed my attacks directly at the clone. Eventually, one of my hits struck it.

I braced for a world of pain. None came. Instead, the clone disappeared without any harm to my soul or body.

I smiled. “Hah… So if someone attacks their own clone, it disappears. That’s good to know.”

Gal’Meth flew back. “Your adaptability is impressive.”

“Thanks, but I don’t take compliments from demons.”

“You insist on calling me that while knowing that I’m a Firstborn?”

“If you wear the face of a demon and make contracts like one, then you are a demon.”

At that moment, a soul emerged from his chest cavity, exploding in front of me. I cast a windwall to block off the explosion. Meriel had also cast a barrier around me.

When the smoke settled, he wasn’t there anymore.

“Over here!” Meriel shouted.

I turned, seeing Gal’Meth flying straight toward Meriel, who was still on the ground. She cast several fire spells to shoot him out of the air, but he dodged all of them. When he got close enough, several roots exploded from the mist, not to capture him but to tear through his body. One of them clipped his arm, but he didn’t show any sign of pain or stopping.

Meriel was forced to flee. She made a gesture with her hands, casting a gust of wind to sweep her up by her feet and take her through the air. Gal’Meth pursued her without end. He knew that Meriel was the easier target since she wasn’t able to fight him off in close combat.

I flew after them, but I was too far behind.

“Meriel!” I shouted.

She looked back. Gal’Meth was quickly gaining on her. I wouldn’t reach them in time.

Not with wind.

I stopped.

For most spellcasters, wind was exactly that. Wind. Something to propel themselves through the air. Something to knock their enemies away.

But those who understood it well enough knew that wind was merely one part of something greater.

I hadn’t used that magic in a long time. I couldn’t because of the damage it would cause to my body.

But I had to. It was either me or Meriel.

It was a risk I was willing to take.

I raised my hand, and the winds within the realm began to change direction. Gal’Meth noticed right away, shifting his attention from Meriel to me.

The mist below began to churn. As leaves fell from the Elven Tree, they were swept upward before they could reach the ground. They spiraled higher and higher, following the currents gathering above us.

Although there were no clouds in this realm, it didn’t matter.

When the air became heavy enough, static crawled along my skin.

Gal’Meth’s eyes widened. For the first time since his transformation, I couldn’t see amusement on his face anymore.

“You—!” he uttered.

I pointed my dagger at him.

Thunder shook the realm.

A bolt of lightning tore through the Elven Tree and struck Gal’Meth directly out of the air. He crashed into the ground, landing hard.

I clutched my chest, feeling a sharp pain from within.

A pain in my heart.