Patricia still got her bolt off, and it slammed into his upraised left hand ineffectively, though the maneuver opened him up to a retaliatory barrage of attacks from the lesser elites. Both peak elites rushed him, shields raised, trying to crowd Matt out and preventing him from causing any more harm to their team leader.

The bleeding from the [Wind Cutter] he sent back didn’t last long, but it lasted long enough for Liz to pierce the pinnacle elite’s invisibility, letting Allie attack.

Like the teleporter herself, her attack was quick and vicious.

She teleported to the side of Patricia, her dagger already moving with spell-enhanced speed, ready to ram into her skull, but before the dagger could do more than brush her eye, the pinnacle elite was replaced with an explosion.

The first of her life-saving treasures teleported Patricia to the side, and without a moment's hesitation, she raised her crossbow to snap off an opportunistic shot at Susanne. The worst was avoided when Susanne desperately threw herself out of the way. It saved her, but in the process, she lost the rest of her leg, resorting to creating a Domain clone copy replacement. It allowed her to keep fighting, but it was yet another burden on her already stressed Domain.

Meanwhile, thankfully, Allie reacted fast enough to avoid the worst of the explosion, but Matt saw her stumble to the ground deeper in the bunker, her armor red hot from taking the hit, her cloak torn and tattered.

The teleporter was almost immediately back in the fight after she downed a potion, but Matt saw a new opportunity as he parried a thrust from one of Patricia’s peak elites.

After informing Liz, Matt launched himself to the side, reigniting his main three sword skills, [Tribulation Strike], [Mana Slash], and [Mana Charge]. He didn’t aim for Patricia’s peak elite tanks, but at Remi’s peak trying to wear Susanne down.

While she was managing to hold her own against one of the peak elites, she was doing so by pushing her everything to its limits. Her eyes bled, her muscles tore with each movement, her spirit screamed as she forcefully cast spells before they were ready to cast again. Her Domain, her greatsword manifestation in particular, was in fact the only part of her that was shining as brightly as when the fight had begun, as it was her singular focus.

Rah was holding on slightly better, but that was at least partially because he had mostly given up the offensive and was using his Ascension-upgraded Talents to protect himself. He still ran the risk of being forcefully captured, but his life wasn’t in danger.

The two were continuously retreating, forcing everyone else to retreat faster in line with them, but that was why Matt left his place in the frontline with a Liz to try and prevent the seemingly inevitable.

His blow landed, but the peak elite vibrated, trying to phase through the attack.

Matt countered by throwing his Intent at the man, forcing him back into reality, but his sword was already into the man's chest at the time, avoiding a lethal blow only by some very careful placement on Matt's part. It, nonetheless, heavily wounded him, and forced a healer to redirect their attention from the lesser elites.

Seeing that his gambit failed to truly work, Matt joined the frontline, cutting through a few of the lesser elites who didn’t respect lethality.

As they retreated, he noticed a feigned opportunity aimed to bait out an attack from Rah. Seeing that, Matt cast [Cracked Air Slide] nearly teleporting next to the peak elite.

Deflecting the initial reaction, Matt slipped his blade into the peak elite's armor, cutting a long furrow and leaving a bloody wound as his blade caught on a crack and penetrated deeper.

The lower ranking elites on both sides of the peak immediately turned their full aggression towards Matt, aiming blows at his head trying to force him to disengage.

Matt flared his Power, pushing deeper instead of retreating. [Cracked Phantom Armor] blocked one of the blows, but the second, a heavy axe, managed to shatter his armor and cut deep into his chest.

He ignored it all.

While he had spent most of his time working on his mana stone project, Matt hadn’t stopped working on his Power while they waited.

Empowering his arms was fairly easy, and the increase in strength surprised everyone as Matt’s sword impaled the peak elite.

Wrenching his sword free through the man and his armor alike, Matt felt two much stronger than normal spells landing on his head and shoulders, but both failed to fully penetrate [Cracked Phantom Armor].

The peak tried to use their escape method, but having already seen the phasing, Matt commanded reality to firm itself with his Intent.

They surrendered just as Matt took a crossbow bolt to the spine that nearly made him falter, but he had long since cast [Sword Twin], letting his blade move independently to secure the surrender.

Rah followed up with a punishing blow to the elite that attacked Matt with the axe, crippling his arm, but they pulled away, letting another fill in before Rah could follow up and destroy the limb entirely. A few moments later they returned, arm repaired, and rejoined the attack.

Matt used the opening to attack the second peak elite, unleashing a [Tribulation Strike], [Mana Slash], and [Mana Charge] combo, driving the advance back for a moment.

The tide quickly turned once more as Remi and two of his elites tore a Liz apart.

As the ichor tried to flow away, a gourd on his flank tried to rip the water from the ichor but failed to fully do so. However, it still managed to slow Liz’s retreat enough to destroy the body.

The other Lizzes didn’t let that go unanswered. They struck out, unbothered by the wounds they took in return, aiming for the pinnacle elite's eyes.

One of her spears managed to penetrate, but his Tier advantage allowed Remi to retreat before she could expand the damage.

Allie, pausing from trying to take out Patricia, arrived and drove her dagger into one of the elite's eye before withdrawing and teleporting away.

Axe wound healed, Matt continued to pull back, aiming for a fighting retreat.

Instead of allowing that, Remi called out from behind the frontlines, ordering another push despite them taking two important losses.

One of the peak mages on Patricia's team tried to dissipate their secondary shield, but they fell for the illusionary barrier Aster had created in front of the real one, buying them some time.

Their inner layer of shielding that blocked the entrance of the fortress fell to a second device. It resonated with the shield and then purposely disharmonized, pulling the entire shield down as the device destroyed itself.

They weren’t new devices, and unless the Corporations had made a breakthrough, the attacking pinnacle teams had burned through two very rare sound Natural Treasures to get into the bunker proper.

Having been forced back so far so quickly, Liz signaled for everyone to start fighting to cause as many injuries as possible before they fully retreated. Between Matt and her, they would heal faster than their enemies, so it was time to raise the cost of this world that their opponents seemed so determined to take.

Inside the fortress, the lower rank elites moved in perfect unison, trying to gain control of empty halls, only to find them filled with traps. They had built the fortress to army specifications to try and waste the enemy's forces. With only seven, they had no need for the large halls and spacious workshops, so they booby trapped everything except their retreat path.

As the attackers took serious losses trying to clear the fortress, they redoubled their attention to trying to defeat them, now pushing for as fast a defeat as possible.

Matt saved Rah from being physically dragged under, his cultivation method putting him in a serious disadvantage when it came to raw power, but took a crossbow bolt to the neck in return, thanks to Patricia’s regular testing of his defenses’ weaknesses.

Once more, poisons tried to invade his body, but this time, he failed to completely purge them. They were reduced to mere background nuisance, but the fact they were there at all was distractingly painful. Whatever poison she had started using, Matt wasn’t sure, but he could feel as it tried to claw its way to his bones and convert his marrow so it would produce further toxins.

Matt did his best to cover three peak elites, two from Patricia’s team and one from Remi’s, but he was barely able to keep from being surrounded and dragged down, having to cycle between offensive and defensive phases to keep them from succeeding.

Seeing Rah get advanced on by yet another peak elite swordsman and two lower-ranking elites, Matt took a sword to the neck to escape his encirclement and intercept.

The enemy had expected that, and the three peak elites reacted instantly, each moving to try and surround him.

One tried to use their Intent to break Matt’s concentration, but fully engaged with his fight, he shrugged the attack off.

Casting [Cosmic Pressure], Matt made one of the peak elites stumble.

Before he could follow up and decapitate the man, one of the other peaks thrust his shield between Matt and his comrade, even as the third cast a spell aiming at Matt’s head. His [Mana Slash] reflected back at him, but he didn’t deflect and let the spell detonate, using the force to accelerate his left fist forward.

The [Fist Blast] took on the spikes Matt grew on his fists with [Cracked Phantom Armor] and its impact cratered the reflective shield and caused the man holding it to start vomiting blood, as the backlash from having the growth item heavily damaged rebounded.

His attack wasn’t without its cost.

The third peak had put everything into their silvery flames, but [Cracked Phantom Armor] blocked the attacks until a crossbow bolt slammed into his cheek, shattering the spell, and letting the flames rush his body.

Clearly waiting for that moment, the elite attacking Rah turned and kicked out towards Matt with their glowing boot. The spell disrupter fizzed against the raw amount of mana flowing into Matt’s body, thanks to his Millennium Willow Lifesap, unable to end his healing spells and leave him vulnerable.

The flames ate at his raw flesh, waves of fire following one after the other just as flesh replaced flesh.

When the flames stopped, Matt was charred from the waist up, but as the flames petered out, he opened his already healed eyes, letting his anger leak through.

Casting [Cracked Phantom Armor] after a second armor-breaking bolt meant rebuilding the spell structure in his spirit, but it was his oldest and most familiar spell, making the process easier than it would have otherwise been.

Luna had made sure of that.

Feeling blackened skin flake off him, Matt lunged forward, not grabbing for his sword but rather the retreating foot.

The peak elite sacrificed the entire leg instead of letting Matt grab him, and that saved him from Matt’s follow up.

Seeing he was still up, more elites turned to face Matt, but at that moment, the world went white and Aster’s spirit space expanded and retracted in moments.

All of the lower level elites not directly next to one of the peak elites vanished as their side’s support mages failed to keep Aster contained.

So many people removed, Matt was able to see a Liz falling apart, having landed a decisive blow on one of their support mages at the cost of her life.

The remaining Liz still on their side exploded into a flow of golden ichor as whatever they had hit her with truly killed Liz.

She revived with a gasp, but the fight only intensified with two of the remaining peaks going after Liz, trying to take her out once again.

Patricia reacted a moment faster than Remi and snapped a shot at Aster’s actual location, triggering [Floating Snow].

Remi instead turned his attention to Matt, seeing he was still standing as he ordered the peak who had been attacking Matt to focus on Rah and Susanne.

Matt wanted to help, but with the strongest pinnacle elite on top of him, with his most trusted peak elite lieutenant at his side, it was all Matt could do to keep himself from being overwhelmed.

Remi fought like a monster, utilizing his body type and size to their maximum advantage.

When he snapped, trying to bite Matt’s arm and drag him down, Matt shifted to avoid the blow but a second mana-made jaw appeared around Remi’s mouth and clamped down on Matt’s arm all the same.

Having succeeded for a second time at grabbing one of the Ascenders, Remi drove his paws into the floor and pulled.

Matt didn’t move. He anchored himself with his Intent and even with Remi trying to crack his Domain’s power with his own, Matt didn’t waver.

Remi, however, wasn’t alone, and his lieutenant Simon’s longsword danced out, cutting at Matt. A more typical example of the type, long, thin, relatively light weight, the blade crackled with a colorless energy the army suspected was part of the man's Talent, and was something Matt didn’t want touching him.

Not that he had a choice, unless he was willing to be dragged around and torn apart.

The mana from [Cracked Phantom Armor] slipped from Matt’s control to flow away like cobwebs being caught upon a broom handle as the blade passed through his flesh and innards like a razor.

Sadly for the two men, what should have been an opening on any other magical armor, [Cracked Phantom Armor] wasn’t a typical magical armor spell.

The mana taken was instantly replaced.

Matt ignored the crossbow bolt that bounced off [Cracked Phantom Armor] and raised his sword to deflect a follow up swipe from Remi, cutting a deep furrow into his muzzle. In return, he slashed out with the blade hidden in his tail, transitioning his dodge of Matt’s follow-up strike into an attack.

Simon wasn’t as lucky as his leader.

A touch slower in his retreat, that mistake cost him.

