[Mana Slash] was a fast spell, and Matt’s version was faster than most, but it was still slower than the Tier 31 peak, who managed to raise his blade intercepting the spell.

Foolishly, Simon tried to take control over the mana with his sword and redirect it as he had with Matt’s armor. He even managed it, but he wasn’t able to stop all of the mana. The excess shredded his armor and chest, the peak elite falling back to the remaining pair of healers as his helmet's greater protection saved his life.

Matt wanted to follow the attack up and finish a weakened opponent off, but Remi expanded in size and rammed into him.

Together, they slammed into the far wall, the Tier 30 materials shattering on the impact. Matt was less bothered than Remi, who realized he now had a blade protruding from his chest.

Matt yanked it free, taking a large portion of the wolf’s chest, but their healer was good enough to fix the wounds as they clashed again.

Remi howled, buffing himself and his allies once more, but Matt cut off one of his rear legs for his distraction. The move turned out to be the right one, as Remi was forced to pause to reattach the limb as Matt felt Rah signaling that he was being overwhelmed in the same moment.

Turning that opening into a sprint for Rah, things collapsed further. Susanne signaled that she was also at the end of her rope. Liz split off a clone to help, but at the same time, Allie informed them the backline fighters were setting up additional spatial stabilizers which would make leaving even harder if they waited any longer.

Seeing the situation was lost, Liz called it.

Allie, sans her left arm and with a crossbow bolt still in her chest that Matt knew from experience was laced with poison, appeared next to Rah, teleporting him away. An instant later, she did the same with Susanne, despite their enemies’ attempts to stop her.

Matt, despite already running lower than he wanted on his Willpower, activated his Meld for a moment, canceling the various enemies’ Domains who were assisting the technological measures.

Knowing what was about to happen, Matt disengaged completely and ran to Aster along with Liz.

Aster, eyes glowing, cast [Shatter] on the core of ice the orbital fortress had been built around, releasing the spell the moment Allie appeared next to her.

They got to watch the explosion from inside the Unsparing as their healing spells were finally able to get ahead of the damage they took.

Remi and Patricia were the first to escape the rubble, the rest of their elites, now with even more wounds, appeared bedraggled, but looking like they had been told they could immediately advance to Tier 50. In fact, Matt saw that everyone on their side had similar expressions, as if all of their hardships were worth it now that they had the world.

It was probably for the best that no one had died, but Matt wouldn’t have minded removing anyone from the other side. He didn’t understand why they had attacked so determinedly, but the enmity was sown.

Matt pushed those thoughts down. For now, they needed to recover. Keeping his Concept going above all else, the seven of them healed quietly and topped themselves back up. The moment Aster dumped the lower level elites out of her Tier 25 Talent, the Unsparing tore its way into chaotic space.

when they were all recovered enough to start looking beyond themselves, Rah said, “I am sorry, I—”

He was cut off by Liz. “Rah, don’t apologize. A loss is a loss, and if we try to make excuses we will never improve. In fact, let's do our debrief now. Let's start with the shorter list. What did everyone do right in the fight?”
