Despite the teammates not making a sound or moving at all, Remi laughed as if he had heard the funniest joke before his expression went blank and he started to growl.

“Give me a reason, Ascenders. Give it to me. Stay and fight over this world with me. Do it.”

Matt saw deep hatred in the Tier 31’s eyes that he couldn’t quite place.

He also thought he saw desperation. Not in Remi’s eyes, but in his teammates’. It wasn’t much, but they seemed determined. If they had come into the fight claiming vengeance for the Day of Long Shadow, that might make sense. But as far as the army intelligence reports knew, their attack hadn't deeply affected Remi, Patricia, or anyone they should have known to explain the hostility.

They had been briefed on enemies they had made that day, and he knew neither of these two were on those lists. In fact, Patricia’s presence didn’t make any sense, as the Corporations hadn’t been heavily targeted that day.

Treasures and loot could explain a lot of conflict, but the level of determination he saw almost seemed personal, given there were only a few months until most worlds were fully looted and people would start moving around to find strange realms.

Before Matt could psychoanalyze the enemy any more, the fight started.

Remi howled.

Unlike a normal growl, the Domain-assisted rumble Remi let out traveled through the vacuum of space without any obstacle. As it passed over his side’s troops and Patricia’s, the sound bolstered them, a small pulsating aura forming over them while it tried to sap the seven of them.

Aster, having expected the spell, dispelled the wave of power before it could affect them, but their enemies didn’t waste the opportunity the howl had bought them.

That did nothing to remove the buff both teams got, but she and Zack were already fighting both groups’ mages and their support teams’ mages, trying to gain dominance over their surroundings as the frontline fighters approached the shield in perfect unison.

Remi’s ship, or more likely one of his teammates, had a very strong anti-teleportation ward raised, preventing Matt from swapping places with Liz and making it harder for Aster to use her spirit space.

Not impossible, the attacking groups didn’t seem to have gear specifically made to counter them, just spatial magic in general.

Those types of defenses were good, but they could only hamper, not stop, Allie.

She appeared next to Remi’s team healer, only to nearly lose her head in return as the man next to the healer was already bringing his glowing staff up and around. Her teleport had only been slowed down a tiny bit by the wards, but that made it readable by the well-trained Tier 31.

With Allie’s ambush failed, she teleported out, leaving the healer to fully reattach their head. Remi’s team charged along with all of Patricia’s general soldiers and half of her elite defenders, the rest protecting her from Allie.

Matt cast [Hail] for a brief moment to give Aster some more ice to work with, but he was forced to cut the spell off as the one of the backup troops’ support mages interrupted the cast with a purple dart of metal.

The additional troops were only Tier 31 and low-level elites, so Matt wasn’t too worried about their tricks in a vacuum, but he wasn’t going to be dumb and risk taking the hit.

He had no idea if his dropping of the spell was correct, as the orbital bunker came under fire.

Checking the shield reserves, he immediately understood they weren't going to last long. The items both pinnacle elite teams were using, while only Tier 31, were the best their Great Powers could give them.

Each of Patricia’s bolts caused their shield to wobble and distort, forcing the shields to expend more mana to restabilize.

Others had similar enchantments on their weapons, carefully attacking from cover, not exposing themselves, as they battered the shield. While clearly unfamiliar with each other, both pinnacle elite teams seamlessly worked to chip their way through the barrier.

The only positive Matt could see in the situation was the fact the ships hadn’t tried to gang up on the Unsparing, instead flying away from the planet and possible conflict.

Matt pointed a finger and cast a short but energy-intensive [Mana Beam], cutting out to cross both enemy teams.

Having worked so much on his mana control in the last few years, even when cast at a hundred million mana, the bar of mana hardly wavered, outwardly only looking like the radiance of the spell had increased.

He was already doing his best to condense the bar of mana into an appropriately thin laser that would best penetrate armor, but that much mana was hard to keep smaller than his thigh.

The average Tier 29 was not meant to be throwing around millions of mana through a spell, and at Tier 29, Matt had a lot of mana. 671 million mana available every second gave him more mana to throw around in a blink of an eye than Tier 40 mages had for an entire battle.

Shields turned red then white, enchantments flaring, as both groups' defenses tried to shed the energy [Mana Beam] imparted to them. People swapped places and no one panicked, but their siege against the barrier increased as their squad leaders urged them on.

Matt wasn’t alone.

All seven of them used their best mid-range spells to try and wear through their attacker’s defenses before they inevitably broke through into the fortress itself.

Frontliners swapped constantly, but they only managed to inflict semi-serious wounds onto the non-pinnacle elites, not defeating more than the occasional unlucky elite.

When Matt had no better options, he turned [Mana Beam] onto them, but both enemy teams’ elites fearlessly persisted, only surrendering when it was clear he would have killed them otherwise.

A momentarily exposed helm was all Matt or any of the others needed to defeat the comparatively weaker fighters, but the peak and pinnacle elites moved to their support the moment any of them tried to wipe out a large portion of the weaker elites. Forcing the seven of them to redirect their attention elsewhere gave the weaker elites time to recover, replace gear, and start attacking the barrier once more.

The stalemate held for what felt like days, before the shield cracked and shattered under the relentlessly and well-coordinated assault.

At that moment, a deceptively fast red and blue spell left Zack’s hands. Before anyone on either side knew it, the spell had already covered the distance and slammed into their enemies’ own shields, taking down the linkages they were using to spread the damage.

Everyone’s spells started doing serious damage, with Matt’s [Mana Beam] cutting through five lesser elites before being intercepted and blocked by one of Patricia’s guards. All of the elites grabbed their bodies and fled the battlefield, signaling their acknowledgement of the possible kill.

Shields down, Patricia made her presence known.

A rain of crossbow bolts, each a different color, fell and exploded on the battlement around them.

The varying elemental effects did a surprisingly good job of damaging [Cracked Phantom Armor], the armor trying and failing to match aspects as the elemental damage types rapidly changed.

That single area attack, effective as it was, wasn’t enough to penetrate [Cracked Phantom Armor].

The following bolt that slammed into Matt’s chest, carried along by force mana, however, was successful.

It was filled to the brim with poisons and toxins, each lethal all on their own, but even as his flesh melted, it was repaired just as quickly.

With a small use of [Telekinesis], Matt yanked the bolt out of his chest, along with most of his heart.

The next bolt was aimed for Zack’s head, but when he dodged it and every following shot, thanks to his recent Natural Treasure acquisition, Patricia changed from a medium-range approach to a close-range one, closing in and seeming intent on fighting Matt.

Unlike most who used her weapon, Morgan being the last Matt had fought alongside, Patricia was perfectly comfortable in melee combat as a crossbowman.

Her move signaled Remi, who launched himself forward with a howl, this time trying to intimidate them with a fear spell.

Seeing the approaching enemies were in the best spot that hopefully wasn’t lethal for the lowest elites, Matt activated the talismans he had built into the outer face of the orbital station.

The world exploded as a wave of mana slapped the approaching shield wall.

If Matt had waited too much longer, the battle-hardened elites might have identified the blocks of mana stone as not being part of the wall, but more importantly, he would have risked outright killing the weaker elites and escalating things.

Even with adjustment, their opponents lost nearly twenty percent of their lower-level elites due to surrenders after the explosion, as the worst of the injured retreated back to their ship for healing and consequently stepping out of the fight entirely.

Instead of slinking back like he hoped, both team leaders called for a continued push, wanting to get in close enough that the seven of them couldn’t harass from range from the fortress.

As they charged forward, Matt waited a moment and activated the backup talismans he hadn’t yet detonated.

All were single use items, having been made from his mana, but they made up for the lackluster materials with raw power. Not entirely caught off guard like he hoped, the teams survived the smaller explosion even better the second time. Though they still lost a considerable number of normal troops in the process.

Retreating into the fortress where the reinforced ice walls made it harder for enemies to attack, and impossible for them to try and flank them, Matt fought two of the defensive elites from Patricia’s team and the woman herself.

The two peak elites were experts. Despite not being comparable to Patricia, they were close.

Together with the lesser elites constantly taking opportunistic shots at Matt from every direction, they were difficult to deal with, due to using long-standing Anti-Elite methods designed to wear down even the strongest foes.

With perfect coordination, they advanced on him, keeping their shields up and preventing Matt from attacking each other's arms or limbs, all while Patricia flitted behind and around them, shooting various bolts at him, trying to determine how to best dismantle his armor.

Trying to feint his way into a better position, Matt’s blade found no opportunities to do anything but cut at shields or deflect blows that came from above and the sides, the pinnacle support teams taking the open space to spread out.

That backfired on them quickly, as it allowed a Liz to run rampant amongst over a dozen of the support staff before one of the peak elite healers managed to isolate the infected, and they surrendered as Liz dissipated the body.

While that hurt their enemies, both pinnacle teams had come well prepared, having more than enough people to fill in the gaps.

Having reached melee distance, the fighting became brutal.

With his spiritual perception, Matt saw as Rah and Susanne were each targeted by a peak elite from Remi’s team with a squad of lesser elites backing them. They didn’t instantly try to rush down the weakest two members of the team, but instead tried to exhaust them, the lesser elites constantly attacking while the peak elites kept their attention.

It was a well-proven tactic to deal with strong but outnumbered opponents.

It also wasn’t without its flaws.

Even under immense pressure, both Susanne and Rah managed to force the lesser elites to retreat, but they paid for each victory with blood. Susanne had a substantial chunk of her left leg missing and it wasn’t growing back, while Rah seemed to be suffering from a concussion.

All of them were well used to fighting alone, and so the lack of a dedicated healer didn’t hurt them, but in this fight, even Matt’s Concept couldn’t keep up with their mana expenditure, forcing them to dip into their reserves.

Not that the other side wasn’t burning through their own reserves the same way, but even the best rapid mana stone converters were lousy, which caused millions of mana to go to waste. However, anything less would mean running out of mana mid-fight, and that was something they didn’t normally encounter. But fighting up two Tiers over Tier 25 was considered impossible for a reason.

Thankfully, Matt did have his Concept out, and while two of the support mages had tried to probingly disrupt Matt’s working, they had bigger threats to deal with in the form of Aster, Allie, and Zack. Not that taking down his Concept was easy, even if they were left to work, given how long he had established connections with the six others.

That helped their side fight to their limits. Spells were cast the moment they were off their internal cooldowns and cycled back to the moment they were applicable and available.

Most spells weren’t large-scale but rather tightly focused to best penetrate armor.

Liz was, in fact, the only one not desperately struggling, though she wasn’t winning either, her dozen bodies holding their side’s center from Remi and his remaining frontline peak elites, who were advancing steadily but not pressing too hard, trying to wear them down.

Matt was definitely not having an easier time of it.

Patricia stepped out from behind one of her peak elites and fired her crossbow at Matt, aiming for his left eye, before quickly stepping back behind and vanishing from Matt’s spiritual sense once more.

Blocking a thrust and sidestepping into a spell that failed to penetrate [Cracked Phantom Armor] and barely registered to Matt’s perception, he slashed out at a spot to the right of the peak elite.

