After more than an hour of frenetic chasing, just as he was about to call off his bloodthirsty student, she whooped in joy and drew her bow, loosing an arrow in the blink of an eye. Shortly after, a resounding, trumpeting call echoed out, followed by the thunderous sound of a charging Meng-Zhua. A shot fired from almost 300 meters and still managing to penetrate its thick hide, his estimation of the Akanai's Khishigs climbed a few notches. Terrifying enemies to have, especially in guerrilla warfare, it was little wonder that the Society had failed in apprehending his student and her cohorts.

A ferocious, solitary beast, the Meng-Zhua or dream snatcher was a fearsome opponent, with two enormous, ivory-white tusks and a long, sinuous trunk capable of crushing a grown man in its grasp. Facing it head on was a risky prospect, with wide, scaled ear-flaps, a powerful tail for balance, as well as a thick, brown-furred, hard-skinned, cat-like frame and claws, it was a beast that looked built for war. A shame they were untamable, ferocious and bloodthirsty predators that roamed the mountains, devouring man and beast alike.

“Guards, spread out and encircle the beast, keep it from escaping. Student, dispatch the beast on your own, I will not lift a finger to aid you.” Ignoring her sour look, he continued. “Also, dismount and leave your bow behind as well, I'll not have you running circles around it atop your quin, filling its valuable hide with holes.” It did no good to coddle children, an element of danger was required for students to become full-fledged warriors, but neither did he wish to lose his prized pupil so quickly. Silently Sending to his guards, he added, “Be prepared to protect her life at risk to your own, but do not act unless absolutely necessary.”

Outwardly calm, yet filled with both apprehension and excitement, he stood on his mount's back as he watched his student charge down the rocky slope towards the Meng-Zhua, closing in at an angle and hoping to target its exposed flanks. A standard stratagem against the beasts, but this particular specimen was far too clever, an aged beast almost twice the standard size, more than 3 meters tall from foot to shoulder, with tusks at least half that in length, it spun in an impossibly nimble turn for its size and speed, its claws digging into the stone as it bore down upon his student.

In an acrobatic display, his student dived across the rocky ground, the tusks and nose narrowly missing her as she deftly avoided death, springing to her feet and loosing her shield, the edged weapon spinning end over end and embedding itself into the beast's hide. Foolish! She had but the one spiritual weapon and she had risked so much only to panic at the worst possible moment. With only a short-spear of wood and iron, the risk to her life grew enormously. With a loud trumpeting cry, the beast turned towards her once again, charging headlong without a care for the injury it had suffered, deceptively fast for its size.

So too was his student, who back pedaled furiously, her chi Lightening her body as she sprung away from the beast in almost weightless, one-footed hops, deftly parrying each swing of the beast's nose as she retreated back up the slope, deflecting all of the power with precision. Were she to continue backwards in this manner, she would soon run up against a boulder, stopping her retreat and quite possibly ending her life. Resisting the urge to warn her, holding out until it was certain she would make such a horrendous mistake, his eyes widened with alarm as she closed in towards her unseen doom.

Just as he was about to shout a warning and send Kyung to intervene, the beast made one more swing, his student directly blocking with her spear as she hopped forwards, the impact sending her flying aside and tumbling down the rocky slope in a barely controlled spin, a soft block that allowed her to absorb most of the impact into her flight. Meanwhile the beast crashed into the boulder, breaking off a large section of the stone and staggering backwards before finally collapsing to the ground, it's weight dragging it down the gentle slope, its death calls weak and pitiful. Even in his agitation he found it odd, the Meng-Zhua far too agile to have made such a gaffe, but he soon puzzled out the mystery, laughing uproariously at the clever girl. Blood spurted from the beast's wound, coating the beast's flank with his student's shield embedded deeply in its neck, having severed an artery with a single throw. She had killed the beast in their first exchange, risking all for the clear shot at a vulnerable point. Guided, Honed, and possible even Amplified, her control over chi was growing by the day, a byproduct of her advanced chi manipulation practice.

Lightly sitting back down, he directed his quin down the slope towards his student, the other quin following behind as the Meng-Zhua stumbled about, his guards closing in around it and letting it bleed out slowly, the pitiable beast unable to dislodge the shield and heal its wound. Upon reaching his student, he leaped down and helped her battered and bruised form up, the girl's mount sniffing and chirping in concern. Grinning up at him, his student dabbed at a gash on her forehead, looking every bit like the proud idiot she was. Infuriating. “That went well, right Teacher Du?”

“Hmph. Foolish girl, the point of this was to hone your skills in true combat, not to gamble foolishly with your life. A single mistake would have seen you dead a half-dozen times over.” Signaling for one of his physicians, he inspected the girl for broken bones or deep wounds, and upon finding none his shoulders sagged in relief. “With your speed and control, you could have shorn through the beast's tusks and snout, no need to take so great a risk. Better yet, use your damn spear to kill it, you've enough power to do that, pierce it through the eye.”

“Respectfully, Teacher Du mentioned the value of the hide, but the skull and tusks are even more valuable.” Her eyes gleamed once again, this time with avarice. “A Meng-Zhua tusks do not grow so quickly, and with tusks so long, it must be centuries old, perhaps even over a millennium. It might even be used as a Heart! Even without that, the materials are highly sought after and will fetch a pretty penny.”

Snorting as he helped her onto the quin, he fumed with anger. “For this you risk your life so recklessly? If you want another Spiritual weapon, I can have one ready for you as easily as turning my hand, and there is no need to even mention coin. Do not waste my efforts in guiding you by dying young, you must live a long and healthy life so that my name will be spoken of for centuries still.”

Still smiling foolishly, she nodded, brimming with elation as she stared at the dying beast, ignoring the ministrations of the physicians as they cleaned and bandaged her cuts. Chuckling to himself at the sight, he resisted the urge to whoop with joy and dance a little ditty. Talent and guts, instincts and determination, this student of his would truly be remarkable. He had claimed he would make her a crane among chickens, but it seemed that he was a liar.

She would be a dragon among men, unparalleled beneath the heavens, of this he was sure or else his name was not Du Min Gyu.

Chapter Meme
