“Don't you dare think that for one second, Ren Haddon!” Barbara said in a strict voice. “If it wasn't for you, none of us would be here in the first place. They'd have only one nurse to maintain all the residents in the day, and a part time care-giver at night... and that's it.”

Ren's eyes widened at the vehemence in Barbara's tone. “I'd already had my 20 years finished before you came here, Ren. They'd have made me retire 5 years ago if it wasn't for you.”

“Barbara...” Ren tried to interrupt, but Barbara put a hand on his arm.

“No... let me finish.” Barbara said. “I've been taking care of you every night since then. Even my husband complains that I spend too much time here with you.” Barbara sighed. “I know he's right, since I haven't had a night off in 5 years... but I just can't let myself ignore my duty to be here when you need me.”

“I didn't realize...” Ren whispered.

“You're like the son I never had, Ren.” Barbara said and a tear came to her eye. “You're kind, and funny, and you treat everyone here as if they were important, and try to spend time with all of us when you can. You even put up with us when we tease you, hang out in your room for no reason, or hug you more than we're supposed to.” Barbara said and chuckled. “I just want you to know that, because of who you are, I'll always be here when you need me.”

“Barbara... I...” Ren stammered. “...thank you.” Ren reached out and hugged Barbara. They held the hug for a while and then Ren leaned back.

“How did you do it?” Ren asked.

“Do what?”

“How did you work every night for 5 years?” Ren said.

Barbara laughed. “Oh, it was easy. I just traded shifts with the other nurses when it was their time to work the night shift, and then traded back when those nights came up.”

Ren stared at Barbara. “Isn't that... ah... illegal? I thought you couldn't work more than 6 days in a row or something.” Ren thought he'd heard that on a tv show.

“I'm only on the books for the regular shifts. I haven't broken any laws... officially.” Barbara said and winked.

Ren shook his head. “I'd tell you to take the next few nights off, but you're just going to come here anyways, aren't you?”

Barbara nodded and smiled.

Ren sighed. “I've only got about 15 minutes before I need to log back in.”

“Um hm. You think I don't know your schedule by now?” Barbara said. “I've been watching you every night for weeks.”

Ren chuckled. “All right. Give me a hand to the bathroom. I better go before I 'have' to go.”

Barbara helped Ren to the bathroom and Ren did his business and washed his hands. Barbara acted like a third leg for Ren and they made it back to the bed without incident. Ren settled down and Barbara sat down in the chair. Ren put on the VR headset and relaxed.

“Thanks, Barbara.” Ren said. “For everything.”

Barbara pat Ren's hand. “See you in a few hours.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********
