Competition always brought out the worst in Yan, but she couldn’t really help it.

When she was younger, her yearning to stand out came from a place of envy, jealousy, and inadequacy which manifested itself as a desire to prove everyone wrong for skipping over her when it came time to choose a child for adoption. A childish mindset to be sure, but she would be lying to say she didn’t still harbour some small resentment for spending her whole childhood in the orphanage instead of with a family who loved and cherished her. Of course, had this not been the case, then Yan would have never become the woman she was today, and she now had a loving family to cherish herself, but she still liked to dream about what might have been. These days, she had a better idea as to why she was always overlooked for adoption, and the answer was not a pleasant one, nor was it one she could ignore.

No matter how much she wanted to, for she was not the only one to notice that the horned Half-Demons dotted amongst the Enemy ranks bore more than a passing resemblance to herself. They had yet to take part in the fighting, but they stood just out of cannon-range at all times, rotating alongside their tribal allies so that there was always a significant force of the formidable monsters just waiting for orders to advance. Clearly Yan’s sire was either working with the Enemy or a captured prisoner, which brought about a host of uncomfortable questions regarding where the People found her in the first place. Technically, she supposed it could have a dam instead, though the thought of any one woman having enough children to literally form an army was horrific to the extreme, even for someone like Yan who could never bear a child of her own.

Not that she wanted to. There were plenty of children in need of love and affection already, so why subject herself to the ghastly unpleasantness of childbirth unless absolutely necessary?

Since Yan didn’t really want to ponder the implications of all this new information, she focused on her ugly competitive streak instead, even as the whirling links of Paragon sparked her competitive spirit. While she was more than happy to share Rain’s affection with multiple women, fame and prestige were another thing altogether, and Mila had always been her chief rival and goal to surpass when it came to the Martial pursuits. The domineering woman was a sight to behold upon the battlements of Shi Bei, whirling her incomprehensible weapon about overhead to scythe through every Defiled tribesman with the misfortune to come into range, a veritable one-woman army who was not only decimating the Enemy ranks, but simultaneously protecting Li-Li, Yan, and a whole host of soldiers through some inconspicuous manner. Difficult to say what it was, but the Defiled standing out of range of Mila’s chain-whip were unable to fight effectively, coming over the battlements only to flinch and squint as if blinded by the glare of the sun. It was so widespread that Yan even glanced behind her only to see nothing, for not only was it past noon, but the sun was hidden by the raging storm clouds overhead as they unleashed a downpour to wash away the fatigue of Imperial soldiers and likely drain the stamina of Defiled as well.

Perhaps there would come a time when darling Lin-Lin learned to do the same, but Yan couldn’t imagine ever wanting to compete with the sweet, lovable half-hare. No, not half-hare, but Ancestral Hare, one who only recently ascended and turned out was either older or younger than her supposed twenty years of age. Technically, Lin-Lin had only been human for about eighteen years or so, as she went from hare to toddler to skip maybe eighteen to twenty-four months as a helpless baby. Made sense considering babies pretty much needed constant, round-the-clock care to just survive, though it begged the question of why a Spiritual Hare wouldn’t just turn into a fully-grown human instead. Alas, no one had the answer to that one, but Yan was still hung up on the fact that the cherubic Lin-Lin was quite possibly the oldest one of them all, if you added in her years spent as a Spiritual Cloud Chaser Hare.

Then again, that didn’t seem fair considering Lin-Lin had no real memories of her past life, only vague inklings and faint impressions that sounded suspiciously similar to Insight. Regardless of her age, what really irked Yan about all this was not the fact that Lin-Lin had hidden this from them all, which was understandable, or that she was now one of two women capable of bearing Rain’s natural born children, which didn’t matter at all, but that she was arguably the strongest and most talented out of all of Rain’s wives. Luo-Luo’s meteoric progress in the Martial and Musical Dao already had Yan on edge, for the formidable Imperial Scion was seemingly perfect in every possible way, and now her musical talents were filling the hearts of Imperials with courage and determination aplenty. Then there was Lin-Lin, who Rain spoiled the most and was also fated to ascend to Divinity naturally over time. It hardly seemed fair for Yan to devote herself to the Martial Path and make even less progress than Lin-Lin, who spent most of her time either sleeping or playing with the pets, two activities Yan also loved with all her heart, but it was well known that the Mother always had Her favourites.

It just stung to know that Yan wasn’t one of them, something she’d known all along, but she could do without all the constant reminders…

Luo-Luo, Mila, and Lin-Lin weren’t even the worst offenders, for there was still the matter of Rain’s ascension, which had Yan all twisted in knots inside. Proud as she was of her beloved husband, she was also undeniably envious of his success and his ability to accomplish something which no one in the history of the Empire had ever accomplished. Twenty-two years young and already a Divinity, or at least someone able to challenge them in some way, shape or form. Though Rain himself claimed he was no match for a Divinity in combat, and Taduk reluctantly agreed when pressed for an answer, the fact that Yan’s husband was even able to affect a clash on this level was staggering to behold, especially considering the fact that he said he still had room for improvement. Rain being Rain, he said this as if it were some grave sin to not be perfect and beyond compare, because surely he should have sprung out of the womb as more than a mere Divinity, but Yan could only marvel at how incredible he truly was. So what if Vyakhya stood still and took Rain’s attack head on? The fact that he was able to kill a Divinity at all was worthy of praise, yet he acted as if he didn’t deserve any credit at all, especially considering how Nian Zu’s titular Shooting Star barely made the Ancestral Bristleboar bleed when they clashed back in Sinuji.

Meaning Rain, Yan’s beautiful, beloved fool of a husband, had more killing power than the Shield of the North, a Colonel General and Living Legend venerated by all.

As for Yan herself? She’d been progressing by leaps and bounds of late, and recently even learned how to use her Blessing of Air to keep tabs on the battlefield, soar high into the sky, unleash devastating explosions upon her Enemies, yet she still felt as if others were surpassing her with each and every day. Not just her sister-wives and Rain either, for many a diamond in the rough had been revealed of late. Lang Yi for example, with his superlative spear skills, or Ravil who’d revealed his rough and tumble fighting style in Meng Sha, or Jorani whose courage never failed to surprise as he rose to the occasion time and time again. Then there were the established rising dragons to compete with as well, like Zian, Dastan, Sai Chou, and more, to say nothing of BoShui’s shocking achievements in the closing minutes of the battle of Meng Sha as he slaughtered a path through the Mataram Clansmen to kill Captains, Senior Captains, and even a Major without blinking.

Grandpa Du had already filled her in on everything that took place these last two weeks and revealed more rising young talents to be wary of, which left Yan feeling like her rivals were always hot on her heels no matter how far ahead she progressed. Now, Mila had not only proven herself as a Warrior to be reckoned with, but was also establishing herself as a pillar capable of holding the Heavens up on her two sturdy shoulders, for if the Enemy were to have any hope of overrunning this section of the wall, they would either have to kill Mila or wait until she used all her Chi and stamina. In contrast, while Yan was capable of slaughtering vast numbers of Defiled with little more than a look, due to her newfangled Wind Domain allowing her to unleash Wind Blades, the Sanguine Whirlwind, and Grandpa Du’s poorly named Explosive Wind in an instant, but she couldn’t keep this up for long. As impressive as it might be to cut down hundreds of Defiled with a single slaughtering gale, she had a limited amount of Chi to work with meaning it was more efficient to slaughter her foes one at a time.

Whereas Mila killed tens of tribesmen with each pass of her chain-whip, and could likely swing it from dawn till dusk without ever pausing.

If only Yan had Grandpa Du’s abstruse Talent for retaining control of his Chi as it passed through a living being, enabling him to slaughter multiple Defiled with a single Wind Blade with only minimal upkeep. She had Chi enough to launch hundreds of Wind Blades over the course of a battle now, but it still wasn’t worth using against the naked, tribal Defiled who died just as easily to a swing of her Battle-Fan. Stamina and staying power, that was what was needed here in Shi Bei, but despite having done the math and arrived at the correct answer, it wasn’t an answer Yan particularly liked. Much as she loved the Forms and fighting head-to-head against a challenging foe, there was no challenge in slaughtering these crazed Defiled tribesmen, for she wasn’t fighting against them so much as she was struggling to outlast them. Better if she could unleash widespread death and destruction from afar to send them running for the hills, for there was no honour or satisfaction to be had from this unending slaughter as the half-blinded Defiled delivered themselves to her Battle-Fan and Six-Pointed Shield.

Wry amusement welled up from within, so familiar and innocuous that it took Yan a moment to recognize her beloved Husband’s presence. So the idiot was still expending his Soul to help others without a care for the consequences, but there was nothing she could do to stop him. Stubborn was putting it lightly, for Rain was always someone who moved to the beat of his own drum regardless of what others said or did. It was one of his most infuriating qualities while also being one of her favourite things about him, his determination to be his own person even when everyone else tried to change him to suit their own needs. This attitude was what gave Yan the courage to be herself when she first arrived in Central, rather than try and acclimate to the local customs, ones which saw a talented and peerless dragon of a generation suppressed due to her gender alone.

Poor Da’in. Even if the Ryo Family sided against them, Yan would always hold the fearsome Sword Princess in high esteem for her Martial Skills alone, and hoped to one day even challenge and surpass her, but from what little Grandpa Du had told her, that day would not be soon.

Sooner than you think.

A wealth of knowledge surged into Yan’s mind as Rain’s Natal Soul bridged a connection to the Heavens above and opened the floodgates of Insight and Inspiration. At least, that’s how she felt it best described, though she knew her irreverent husband would simply scoff at the statement if she were ever to voice it. A discussion for another day however as Yan immersed herself in the Mother’s Wisdom to progress by leaps and bounds yet again, for the Heavens had sensed her desire to master Grandpa Du’s Talent and provided her with an answer that was both shockingly simple and staggeringly complex at the same time.

The wind is constantly in motion, because without motion, there is no wind.

That was it, the answer even Grandpa Du could not provide, for his Talent had been present since the day he Awakened to the Blessing of Air. A distinction he was always clear to make, that their Blessing was of Air, and not Wind, but Yan had always nodded along without really understanding the difference. Wind was just moving Air, so why was it necessary to have different names for the same thing? Moving water was still water, dancing flames were still fire, and shifting earth was still earth, so why the discrepancy with Air and Wind?

Because there was power in motion, and Wind was a perfect representation of that power.

Grandpa Du kept Air and Wind distinct because they worked on different principles. The Blessing of Air was about Lightening and Guiding, but the core concept of Wind was based in motion. That’s how Yan was able to deliver her Wind Blades to where they were needed, through instinctive Guiding similar to how Rain threw his sword without thinking, or how Mila utilized Guiding to target her foes’ necks and minimize resistance. This meant that utilizing Wind was merely one half of the Blessing of Air, for there was a whole second facet to it that she couldn’t even describe just yet, much less begin to explore. More to the point, Grandpa’s Talent to retain control of his Wind Chi even after passing through a foreign Domain was no Talent at all, merely the result of the indirect manner in which he used his Blessing. He understood the concept of wind being in constant motion on a base level, so ingrained into his mind that he utilized it without even thinking when unleashing his Wind Blades, but even now, Yan still struggled to put it into words.

