When she first started using Wind Blades, she always had to envision her ‘Wind Chi’ moving down the edge of her Battle-Fan, for that was how she shaped the Blades. Now, she could do so without the need for it, because she realized Visualization was not her strong suit and she worked better through other sensations instead, like the tangible and tactile sense of the wind blowing through her hair and clothes. The problem was that unlike Grandpa Du, Yan always envisioned the wind as something separate from the air, to the point where she even sometimes confused herself at times by thinking she had the Blessing of Wind, when instead, they were one and the same. Moving air was wind, and wind was moving air, and wherever the wind passed, air would be displaced to make way for the wind, which in turn would give rise to new winds moving in new directions in a perpetual cycle that had neither an end nor a beginning.

Just because the wind died down didn’t mean the wind had stopped. Only a wind had stopped, the wind Yan could sense, for elsewhere in the world, there were countless other winds blowing as the air itself shifted about in a dizzying pattern dictated by an endless number of variables. Temperature, altitude, pressure, terrain, and so much more had an effect on where the wind blew, but nothing could truly ever contain it. There might be pockets of still air somewhere in the world, but all it would take was the slightest hint of motion to set the wind to blowing once again, while there was never a time when the wind ever stopped as a whole, for that would mean an end to all motion everywhere.

How was this applicable to Yan? Because now that she knew and accepted that the wind never stopped, she understood where she’d deviated from the correct Path. In her mind, her Wind Blades were expendable workings, a one and done sort of deal in that she summoned into existence to strike their targets and dissipate into nothingness, but Grandpa Du was not the same. He was more in tune with his Blessing of Air and understood the concept of perpetual motion, even if he was never able to put it into words. Thus, his Wind Blades were not the true Chi working, but rather the result of a separate working instead, the Air-infused shard of Domain driving the Wind Blade along.

Or at least, that’s how Yan figured it, though the reality of things might be completely different, and the only way to find out was to try it for herself.

Drawing her Battle-Fan back, she waved it about and immersed herself in the sensation, but rather than focus on the wind itself, she instead turned her attention to what moved the air. That was the true purpose of her unique and sometimes inefficient Spiritual Weapon, a tool created to move the air, a truth which had been staring her in the face all along, yet she failed to ever realize until now. All this time, she’d been pouring her Chi into creating Wind Blades when instead she should have been using it to create a tool to move the Air instead, a discrepancy so minor that it was almost without distinction, yet one which also made all the difference in the world. When Grandpa Du struck down multiple opponents with his Wind Chakram, it wasn’t technically one Chakram in the same sense as striking a foe down with a sword or sabre, a solid, unchanging weapon that persisted with use. Instead, it was better to envision it as a ring of rotating air used to form Wind Blades, and every time one Wind Blade was consumed, the ring could easily form a new one to take its place for only a fraction of the Chi required to create a Wind Blade from scratch. Most of the work had already been done after all, since getting the Air moving was where the bulk of her Chi went, with Honing and Guiding requiring only a minimal effort on her part. It was similar to how Rain’s Keystones worked, and this thought more than anything was what made it all fall into place.

For Yan recognized that her Natal Palace of endless wind could serve as a Keystone, and she already knew how to manifest her Wind Domain into reality.

A light breeze passed over her skin and clothes, yet the falling rain remained untouched as Yan’s Domain manifested into reality, where she had long since used her authority to establish the constant motion of Air into law. From this motion, it took only a bare modicum of effort to form a Wind Blade and send it shooting out, an effort which cost her even less Chi than it took to Amplify her strikes, while maintaining her Domain was far easier than sustaining constant Reinforcement. Now, it was finally more efficient to kill her foes from afar than to take up Fan and Shield, a task Yan immediately set to with glee and delight for the endless waves of Defiled were an eyesore to behold. Turning her attention to the right, Yan mowed down the tribesmen on the battlements one by one with Wind Blades no longer than her index fingers and was rewarded with a resounding cheer, but she was hardly paying any attention, because she realized she had a much more target rich environment on the ground.

Normally, she would’ve hopped up onto the parapets for a better view, but Mila’s swinging chain-whip would not differentiate from friend or foe and was effectively keeping the Enemy off an entire stretch of the wall. Thus, Yan fell back on her Spiritual Senses, ones which she perceived through the stirrings of wind, and after a moment spent figuring out how to best decipher this knowledge, she unleashed a barrage of Wind Blades high into the air, whereupon they arced back down towards their chosen targets. The Enemy died in droves without even knowing what killed them, her Spiritual Senses helping her target her foes’ vulnerable areas in a manner which was superior to using her eyes to aim instead, yet another discovery Yan was delighted to uncover as she unleashed wave after wave of death.

It was so easy, so simple, so effortless she wanted to cackle and scream, but Yan refrained from doing so out of a sense of propriety. She still laughed however, because she was only human, her mirth spilling out as she became aware of how many Imperials were awed by her display, one which even Grandpa Du would find difficult to match, because he had yet to learn how to materialize his Domain. What was it about a Domain that made this so easy? The answer struck her like a bucket of cold water and chilled her to the bone, for it came down to a matter of cost. If energy could not be created or destroyed, then it stood to reason that these ‘cost-effective’ Wind Blades were being paid for in a different denomination than Chi. Perhaps it came at the cost of her soul, or perhaps some other energy she was unable to perceive, but she’d know soon enough. In all likelihood, if the cost was her soul, then she would soon pass out like Rain, but as the minutes ticked by and she kept her barrage of Wind Blades going, she felt no noticeable strain on her mind or soul. No headache, no distraction, no pain or even a sense of fatigue, so she kept cutting down the Enemy tribesmen as they came until there were no longer any living targets in range.

The battle still raged on around Shi Bei, but even the fearless Defiled were unwilling to charge headlong into certain death, especially when they were still unable to discern how Yan was cutting them down. To the outside observer, she’d merely been standing around and laughing like a fool for the last few minutes while holding her weapons at the ready, yet it was clear to anyone with eyes that her Blessing of Air was hard at work as arterial blood burst out from razor sharp incisions that appeared along the throats of the Enemy. Even Mila had stopped swinging Paragon about and was watching her with a silly smile, one filled with love, pride, and admiration to match Rain’s, a fact which only made Yan feel guilty for harbouring thoughts of competition, and she resolved to be better about it in the future.

They were sister-wives and best friends, not rivals and competitors for Rain’s affection, and once their husband ascended to Divinity, hopefully they would have a long lifetime to share together, rather than merely a short hundred years.

Before any of them could say a thing however, Grandpa Du cleared his throat and revealed his presence behind Yan. “Stay vigilant,” he warned, so stern and sombre in appearance yet clearly struggling not to bounce in place with unmitigated delight, and she could almost sense his love and pride emanating from his presence. “You’ve both proven yourselves as Warriors to be wary of, and prime targets for the Enemy elites.”

As if to prove his point, a body thudded down on the parapets as his Wind Chakram roared into existence to scythe through seven Wraiths at once, while Li-Li and Kyung accounted for two more each, their sabres moving so quickly Yan could barely even track them. Formidable Warriors the both of them, and their skills were a stark reminder not to slack in her efforts, for though her Blessing of Air was powerful indeed, the Martial Path held power aplenty and she still had a long ways to go from reaching the peak.

And not as much time as she once believed either, for her goal was no longer Peak Expert and Living Legend, but Divinity now that Rain was so close to that same achievement. Not because she yearned to compete with him, but because if he was going to live for several lifetimes, then she wanted to spend several lifetimes with him as well, to make up for the fact that she had to share him.

Alas, it also meant that she would likely have to wait until the next life to gather a harem of handsome husbands, but this was a price Yan was more than willing to pay.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Standing with sabre drawn and dripping with blood, Song screened her surroundings for more threats to dispatch, but she saw nothing besides the falling rain.

That’s how she spotted the Wraiths in the first place, by the void left by their passage through the wall of raindrops, one which outlined them in a watery shell as they Cloud-Stepped towards their intended targets. Mila and Yan had both forced the Enemy’s hand with their superlative displays, and Li-Li knew Mama was already making arrangements to exploit this, either by moving them further apart to defend even more ground between them or rotating between them to keep one area clear at all times. Li-Li would happily go along with either to defend them, for she knew her talents lay not in massed slaughter, but single combat, and she yearned to put her newfangled abilities to the test. Not against crazed, half-blinded Defiled tribesmen, but against foes strong enough to require the full measure of her efforts, a whetstone to hone her skills against and an accomplishment worthy of pride.

Where were the Champions and Chieftains, the Demons and Half-Demons, the Chosen and Experts among them? All standing at the back of the army, waiting for the Imperials to expend the bulk of their strength against the tribal Defiled who seemed undaunted by the prospect of death. Even from afar, Song could feel their hatred and animosity burning hot within their chests as they glared towards Mila and Yan in unbridled contempt. Rather than fearing for their lives, they were unresigned by the fact that they could no longer try to kill the two Imperials who slaughtered so many of their comrades, the deaths of hundreds, if not thousands far from enough to cow the bloodthirsty cannibals. Surprising to be sure that they would be so determined to take Shi Bei, even after so many days of unfruitful slaughter, but Song supposed it should be expected since they were willing to charge through Medical Saint Taduk’s incredible and inexplicable working which brought rainfall to the desert plains. A most formidable display of power and control, especially considering what little Song knew of Divinities, that their power was beyond compare and how they could easily destroy an entire city in their rage. It was only recently that she became aware of the fact that the destruction was an unintended side-effect of utilizing the Energy of the Heavens, something to do with Will and Intent and the eagerness with which the Heavens responded. The way Rain explained it during the harrowing boat ride to Shi Bei made it sound like Divinities were the true Chosen of Heaven, the most beloved children of the Mother Above who monopolized the bulk of Her affections.

A shame Rain couldn’t find it in himself to simply crash his wave into the Enemy forces and end the battle outright, but putting aside the implications of this possibly Treaty-breaking action, Song suspected that such a wholesale slaughter was beyond him. Not only would he have been risking losing control of the Energy of the Heavens, but killing so many with a wave of his hand would have broken him. He was a kind man who empathized too much with too many, and while he was more than capable of killing someone threatening his safety or the safety of another, slaughtering Defiled without reprisal would have laden him with guilt enough to crush him, and she could hardly fault him for it. Killing in war was one thing, while killing in cold blood another, and though they were at war with the Defiled, crushing them with a sea of Water Chi would have been asking too much of Rain.

Something Song understood, but didn’t entirely comprehend since he seemed more than happy to design weapons of war for others to use. Strange that, but she supposed using Chi to kill was more personal than using a Runic Cannon or catapult, or at least different enough for his delicate sensibilities.

