For now, he seemed more than content to stand nearby and watch the battle unfold while listening to Luo-Luo’s musical masterpiece. One which was very different from her usual performances, far less structured and melodic, yet brimming with meaning and significance in a way Song could not wholly grasp. It was there, filling her with courage and conviction aplenty, but also reassuring her that no matter how dark the night, daybreak would soon come, for there was a pillar here waiting to hold up the Heavens, and that pillar was none other than Falling Rain. He would not act until he had to, not because he disdained warfare, but because he loathed it with all his heart, the same way Junior Martial Brother Fung loathed it. The difference was that Fung shirked his responsibilities while Rain did his best to fulfill them, a lesson Song’s Junior Martial Brother would do well to learn.

Or maybe Rain needed to learn the reverse lesson from Fung, how to be true to his heart and desires. Difficult to say which of them was right, because while Rain’s meteoric progress spoke volumes to his success, Fung’s free-spirited manner was more in line with the likes of Ping Ping and Pong Pong’s attitudes. Nature was cruel and merciless, and none knew it better than the beasts who struggled to survive each and every day of their lives, so why go looking for trouble when there was already so much out there in the world at large?

Sheathing her sabre and drawing it again in one, fluid motion, Song set aside her idle thoughts for another time as she cut down a Defiled Champion, a recent Western convert if his rounded eyes and dusky complexion were anything to judge by. There was a poem in the Classics which spoke of death and release, and it flashed through her mind as her sabre scythed through the man’s neck and released him from his trials and tribulations.

“Empty-handed I entered the world, barefoot I leave it. A life endured, a death suffered, with only the strings of fate and karma to bind me.” Though this Defiled Westerner likely committed all manner of atrocities once he gave in to the Father’s lies, Song bore him no hatred, only pity, and in a moment of clarity, she finally understood why Rain couldn’t bring himself to kill the Defiled in one fell swoop. Not because he couldn’t stomach their deaths, or because he thought it beneath him to use the Energy of the Heavens to kill so many, no, Rain’s reasons were hidden so deeply he himself might not even realize it. Before setting out on his crusade West, he’d given a rousing speech to the troops about what he intended, but most of it had gone in one ear and out the other. Song remembered every last word however, because she knew he was a man of his words, and the speech played back in memory once more.

“Today,” Rain had said, standing there in his golden armour and struggling to look both regal and impassioned at the same time, “Marks the first day in our holy crusade against the Defiled, for we will show them the errors of their ways and teach them the meaning of regret.”

A single line part of a larger speech promising victory and more, but this was Rain’s true goal. To most, this line would reek of rhetoric promising death and worse to the Enemy, but Song knew him better than that. When others spoke to Rain of faith in the Mother or the Heavens, or hatred for the Father, his response was usually to shrug and say he didn’t care too much about religion, but when the Abbot spoke of mercy and absolution, Rain dug his heels in and strove to prove the man wrong. Why? Because he so desperately wanted to believe in the Brotherhood’s teachings, even as he outwardly scorned them, else he wouldn’t bother holding them to such a high standard. Their outlook resonated with him, even if he didn’t wholly agree, which was why he was unwilling to simply kill the Defiled and had set his sights even higher. It wasn’t enough to drive the Enemy out of the Western province, he wanted to rehabilitate the Defiled Westerners as well, or at least give them the chance to redeem themselves by showing them the errors of their ways.

A move which would not be popular with the Empire at large, even if he revealed his Heaven-sent ability to Cleanse them of their Spectral taint, but that never stopped him before. Easier to ask for forgiveness than permission after all, an idiom Rain continued to wholeheartedly believe in even after all the calamities he’d suffered through for it, and it appeared as if he was about to suffer through yet another. He was a foolish dreamer who expected more from himself than anyone would ever ask of him, but Song knew this more than anything else, for unlike her, he would never give up on hope no matter how dark the night might grow.

You know me so well, it’s frightening.

Despite the alarming undertones of his non-verbal statement, Song clearly sensed Rain was more amused than anything else, and flattered that she understood him in a way no one else could match, because they were so alike in so many ways. He was here again not in her mind, but her soul, a Natal Soul popping in to deliver Heavenly Energy through sharing his emotions, so full of tender love and affection. That was all he had to say, with no questions for her about her feelings or expectations of any future together, just an affirmation of his emotions without the fear or shame this time around, for he’d unburdened himself of his secret and left the next move up to her, like a game of chess he started and would leave untouched until she was willing to partner and play.

Truth be told, Song wasn’t entirely willing to play actual chess with him, much less this game between men and women, mostly because Rain played by his own rules which were indecipherable to most. Perhaps there would come a time when that changed down the road, but Song didn’t see it happening anytime soon, but the beauty of it was that Rain didn’t either, yet still he was willing to wait. What he was less willing to do was compromise, on his love for her or his intentions to help others find redemption, a goal even this Natal Soul had not been wholly aware of, because Rain himself had yet to realize it. Gone was the young man who earned himself the title of Undying Savage by fighting like a crazed barbarian, one who harboured an intense hatred for all things Defiled, and in his place was an older and wiser Falling Rain who saw the Defiled as the pawns they truly were. Some were beyond redemption, but the same could be said of many Imperials who were not Defiled in the least, for the Heavens and Balance had little to do with morality and ethics.

Something Song had known for some time now, and a lesson she would rather do without. Better if the Empire stood for good and the Enemy for evil, but while this was usually true, one could argue that some good could be found among the Defiled, like in the tribesmen who found their way to the Brotherhood monastery, and much evil could be found in the Empire, of which there was too much to even begin to list. Chief among them was the evil of slavery, one Rain was wholeheartedly against, and Song looked forward to the day when he made this a reality.

All this and more passed through Song’s mind in the blink of an eye, and as she cut down the second Champion to reach the parapets, she took a brief moment to glance at Rain and consider him in a new light. While handsome, he was not overly so, nor was he even visually impressive, a slender, boyish man who still managed to look tired and bored despite the invigorating rain and cacophonous battle unfolding all around him. When he caught her eye, he flashed her a tiny half-smile in greeting out of sheer politeness, only to immediately break eye contact in the same breath because he didn’t know what else to do. It was small habits like this that made so many of his enemies hate him, because they saw it as arrogance for him to dismiss them out of hand, or worse, a deliberate insult meant to imply they were beneath his notice, when the truth was that Rain was just awkward and anti-social due to his lack of upbringing.

It was almost endearing in some ways, and Song wanted to reach out and pat his head, but she settled for a brief burst of Aura to thank him for his help. That was all, but he beamed so happily she suspected if he had a tail, it would be wagging even harder than big brother Baatar’s, but she had no more time for him anymore as more Defiled Champions and Chieftains arrived screaming in incoherent fury as they sought to claim Yan and Mila’s heads. A futile effort, for Mama, Papa, Teacher Du, Kyung, Big Sister Tursinai, and so many more Warriors of note were standing by to defend them, but first, they would have to get through Li Song.

As she drew her sabre once more, Song realized her foe’s guard was already raised, for he’d seen her use this attack twice now. Oddly enough, this was the first foe in a long time to come at her in this manner, ready to guard against her quick-draw and intending to counter once her strength was spent, but she’d long since planned for this eventuality. Instead of her standard horizontal or diagonal slash, she twisted her hips, back, and shoulder to turn her quick-draw horizontal strike into an overhead slash, one which cut the Defiled Champion in twain from crown to groin without ever touching his weapon. A simple enough variation, one she’d practiced many a time before after her close failure to save Luo-Luo during their trip to the Central Citadel, but never used in real combat until now. Smiling as she returned her sabre to its sheathe, she met her next foe head on in hopes of further testing her might and finding some use for the gift of Heavenly Energy Rain had only just bestowed upon her.

Combat was simple. Life and love were far more complicated, but that could wait until after the war, or perhaps even later when she joined hands with Rain to free the slaves of the Empire. Whatever the future might hold, Song could rest easy knowing that she had her family and loved ones to accompany her, as well as a man who loved her enough to hold off on his own desires to give her the time and space needed to recover and rediscover her own heart.

And for now, that was more than enough.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
