“Indeed. Thankfully, you aren’t a well known Paragon, and your recent roots in the Defenders will help excuse your actions and mitigate any fallout that might have otherwise come from this.” He sighed. “I assigned you with that unit precisely because I had hoped that they would learn from you. I’ve had reports of you connecting with those you work with before, and I thought that such a connection would help draw out the best in them. They’ve been struggling a bit, and you are an exemplar of this generation of Archons.”

Tala hung her head just a bit. “I know, but I…” She swallowed. “I didn’t really want to connect with them.”

Master Grediv arched his eyebrow once again, leaning back and waiting for her to continue.

“I… I don’t want to get to know anyone else, just for them to die, and Defenders die.”

The man grunted, and Rane reached out and took her hand. Master Grediv leaned forward and rubbed his hands over his face. “I see. I apologize; I did not consider that Master Girt’s death was still affecting you so strongly.”

Tala bristled, almost snapping back at him, but she let the words die in her own mind.

He sighed again. “This is my fault, really. I was here, with you, when we all saw the statue of remembrance. I saw how affected you were.” He grimaced slightly. “Have you shown the rest of your old unit yet?”

She shook her head. “There wasn’t a good time before the mission to maintain the cell.”

He nodded. “Thus showing that I sent you out before you’d finalized that.” A sigh escaped his lips. “I know better and should have thought better before doing as I did, but that is little comfort.” After a long moment, he gave a decisive nod. “Please take the next few days, grieve with your old unit. Lay your friend to rest fully in your own mind. Handle any lingering tasks you might have in that regard, and then I will have Rane do his first cell as Paragon in command.”

Tala hesitated. “Is… is that it? I won’t be reprimanded further?”

“Do you want to be?”

She shook her head. “No? Maybe? I just sort of expected it.”

He smiled kindly. “You already know that what you did wasn’t right. This isn’t a case where I have to convince you of that. You aren’t a child. I don’t believe that you will act in that way again. Am I right?”

She nodded decisively. “Yes, Master Grediv. You are correct.”

The older man smiled. “Then, I don’t see a need to discuss it further.” He pushed himself up, sliding his chair back and away from the table as he did so. “And with that, I will take my leave. Good night to you both.”

“Good night, Master Grediv.” They responded almost as one.

Tala opened a portal for him to depart, and shortly, they were alone once more.

Rane squeezed Tala’s hand. “Are you alright?”

She nodded even as she sighed. “I almost wish that he’d shouted instead…”
