"Now, there is no turning back in this conversation. My mercy has limits, and you've found them."

Ghelid scoffed.

"I will destroy everything that I possibly can. I'll kill every human I see and destroy the Earth's entire environment. Once I've ravaged Earth, I'll do the same to the moon. I'll find Blegara next and leave it ravaged."

I reached out my hands, unleashing a storm of singularity around Ghelid. While just outside the altered reality, my magic worked fine, it couldn't pierce the veil of stillness. I raised a brow before running into the wall again. I bounced off without doing anything. My blood ran cold as my stomach sank.

I had no idea how to stop this.

Ghelid narrowed its eyes.

"You think I'm unable to hurt you? You think you're invincible?"

I slammed into the space a few more times. Ghelid droned on.

"Oh, there are ways to torment the living beyond mere death. I'm quite adept at doing so, as you've seen."

I roared in frustration, unable to pass this barrier. Even my dimensional wake struggled to press into the space. Ghelid cackled.

"You've seen these monsters trapped within the ice. They believed themselves ready for death. I gave them something worse. I will do the same to your friends, family, and loved ones. Diesel would be an easy target. So would his wife and kids. I wonder what they sound like howling in the ice?"

I bolted into the air before crashing myself down in an Orbital Bombardment. I vaporized everything for kilometers in the distance, and a pit of boiling water carved itself into the middle of the glacier kilometers down. Rivers ran down the sides of the mountainous pit, and clouds formed overhead from vaporized water.

The stasis was left unaffected. Taking a breath, I dove into thought. I glared at the entity.

"You can't even reach Earth, can you?"

Ghelid took out a glowing, purple rock and seethed.

"I will take a portion of these stolen leylines from Balsht's territory. I'm not a master of space, but I can do this much."

My eyes locked in on the stone, and a hunger surged in my chest. Crackles of purple lightning rippled across the stone, and it made space shiver around itself. I took a breath. Now wasn't the time for greed. Having a moment to think, I considered my options. Physical forces had no effect on this weird subspace, and neither did magic.

Ghelid developed that bead for a long time, turning it into a regional catalyst for all this madness. Trying to destroy it would require an enormous amount of...Something. I honestly had very little understanding of what was going on, at least in detail. However, I could deduce a few things from how Ghelid acted and what he said.

This entity was a congregation of laws. Likely, this subspace was something similar, perhaps laws bound to a certain space. Peering closer, I uncovered something. Beyond the pale blue glow of the core, an innumerable number of leylines condensed over the bead's form. They had amassed the majority of the region's energy, and Ghelid collected that energy to strengthen itself.

Sensing my surroundings, I could feel Ghelid's ability to warp the world. With each passing second, the subspace shrank, and Ghelid was empowered. I probably had a few hours before the eldritch consumed the entire bead. After a few attempts at esoteric magics, I pivoted my approach.

I opened my pocket dimension and swung the opening at the core. My personal dimension slammed into the edge of the subspace, and they both gushed energies. Immense forces passed through our surroundings, kilometers around us standing still. Even I froze for a moment before regaining my bearings.

"Woah."

Ghelid eyed me from within his altered space.

"I've spent millennia on this, gathering all I could to change it. You cannot dismantle it in hours."

I ignored him. After a few slams of my pocket dimension later, I began to understand the issue. Ghelid's altered space exceeded my own. The laws, mana density, and influence it carried were simply more than mine. Whenever the two objects clashed, I still whittled away at the forces holding the space together. However, it wasn't fast enough.

My dimensional space rippled on the brink of destruction with each slam. On the other hand, Ghelid's altered area held strong in the face of the clashes. It didn't surprise me. While I understood a little about my pocket dimension, I'd never truly cultivated my use of it. Sure, I had a few nifty tricks I could use it for, but was I taking full advantage of the resource?

No. Definitely not.

That became more apparent as I crashed it against this other subspace. While it lacked the fluidity of my own pocket dimension, Ghelid's stasis field was something ingrained into reality. It reminded me of cipheric changes, but with a key difference. While the cipher converted the existing laws of space, Ghelid's bead created new laws altogether.

In effect, it made the space absolute. While I could bend and resist the changes of the cipher, even ignore it altogether at times, this was different. This patch carried an enormous amount of stability and would maintain itself forever. Ghelid had amassed mana, laws, and mental energy into this tiny patch for millennia, and my dimensional abilities couldn't compare.

Yet, that is.

Knowing I'd eventually exceed this patch's effects offered me little comfort. By the time I eclipsed it, Ghelid would've killed every person on Earth. Feeling my psyches strain for solutions, one of them came up with an insane idea. I took a deep breath before taking out the tiny dungeons I carried with me all the time.

I wielded them in my hands once more. Taking a second to center myself, I swung them together in front of Ghelid's stasis. The spatial openings cracked against each other, each one fighting to remain a singular entity. They reminded me of atoms clashing in a star, and like bouncing atoms, they unleashed devastating force.

A cosmic ripple echoed across us. My bones broke. My skin split. Blood leaked from my nose and eyes. Liquid pooled in my lungs, and my face was a bloody mess. I heaved for breath, my exhausted form struggling to hold together after withstanding the torrential forces. I peered up, my gaze hopeful.

I smiled. Ghelid's form cracked. The eldritch gawked at me in horror, and Ghelid snapped.

"You're swinging worlds at me?"

I shook my head.

"It's more like I'm clapping them."

Though my wounds were many, they left me in an instant. I clapped the dimensions together in front of me several more times. Damage mounted on Ghelid, but the eldritch would still escape before I could kill him. He laughed as plasma dripped from his mouth.

"Every morsel of pain you've put upon me, I will magnify on your worlds a thousandfold."

I racked my brain for more insane ideas. After finding one faster than I'd like, I clapped the dimensions once more. This time, I opened my pocket dimension, and I wrapped it around the epicenter of the collision after my hands snapped back. The portal covered over half of the collision, most of it facing me.

I nodded as my pocket dimension soaked in all the cascading ripples in those directions. Ghelid narrowed his eyes, and I kept colliding spaces together while capturing as much of the excess as possible. After several minutes, I experienced a fullness. An instinct told me that any more force would be dangerous, and it reminded me of the wounds I gained from Marcella's death.

Taking a breath, I opened my portable world towards Ghelid. The entity hid behind its core, confident in its protective stasis. From my portal, a vast, cosmic wave ushered forth. It shot out in a persistent beam, and it created a series of oscillations that vibrated the fabric of reality. Time bent. Gravity shifted. The entire area devolved into an approximation of existence as the space-time bent away from the blast, even the stasis.

It was only for a moment, but it was enough. I snatched my pocket space at the core of Ghelid's stasis. The eldritch wrapped itself around the core, but my dimension sheared right through its body. In a moment, I stole the core of Ghelid's subspace along with both his arms and a portion of his torso.

Plasma gushed from his body, and the stasis rippled. Without the core sustaining it, the eternal stillness faded in seconds, and normalcy returned. I faced a dying monster, and it gave me a smile. Ghelid gurgled his words.

"I was meant for nothing then."

I seethed.

"The moment you threatened my home, I stopped caring."

I ripped him into shreds with the portals I carried. They separated Ghelid into many fragments across the dungeons and inside my pocket dimension. Slicing the entity apart didn't kill it at all, but I had time. Over the next few hours, I dismantled each fragment in extended conflicts. Even when separated from its glacial feeding ground, Ghelid's tenacity was something to behold. However, it was still only the dying throes of a once planetary force.

Once I destroyed the last fragment, I finished my quest and gained a series of notifications.

Quest: The Death of The Frostlands's Ruler | Rank: S- | Description: Whenever you killed Ghelid, the Beginning of Stillness, you not only eliminated a solar tier threat, you freed a portion of the populace of [Rebirth.] This was a feat of courage and bravery, giving you ample awards, Sovereign.

Awards: +10 blue cores, +100 red cores, +100 million credits, +The Frostlands territory is assimilated into your guild, The Harbinger's Legion.

Chain Quest Activated!

The Death of a Planetary Pillar | Rank: S | Description: On this planet, there exists other planetary-scaled eldritch, all vying for control. The ones you know are Balsht, Firamnia, and Emeralga. There exist five of these lords, each carrying causality-disrupting powers. They have achieved a delicate power balance since the inception of this planet, and with Ghelid slain, they are no longer bound to that previous status quo.

The first part of this quest will be to gain ownership of the Icelands. Establish cities, clear out the eldritch, and seize your territory! After gaining your rule of this area, you must dismantle the other planetary pillars of [Rebirth]. Once killed, you will gain ownership of Rebirth along with any bonuses that may entail.

Quest Progress:

Ghelid Slain | 1 out of 1

Firamnia Slain | 0 out of 1

Balsht Slain | 0 out of 1

Emeralga Slain | 0 out of 1

??? Slain | 0 out of 1

Bonus Objectives: Uncover the hidden secrets of [Rebirth].

??? | 0 out of 1

??? | 0 out of 1

??? | 0 out of 1

The quest came in handy. It gave me a supply of blue cores, which were always in short supply, and I could use the red cores to upgrade my stats. Of course, this fight changed my ideas about my current path of progression. My strategy revolved around amassing as many stats as I possibly could. Ghelid had nullified that entirely.

If anything, the fight showed how meaningless raw attributes were in the face of different tiers of magic. While I was an absolute powerhouse in lower-tier conflicts, I barely got out of this one unscathed and entirely due to luck. If I weren't carrying those dungeons with me, then Ghelid would've traveled to Earth and unleashed an unreal amount of devastation.

I furrowed my brow. Now that I thought about it, the ideas I arrived at were also quite timely. I took a breath, wondering if Schema may have nudged me in the right direction during the fight. I had an enormous amount of luck, so it made sense that the AI may give me a slight nudge here and there. I'd never noticed it, but I couldn't shake the feeling it had done something today.

Either way, I never wanted to rely on something so intangible. I would just appreciate it and strive to eliminate my need for it. To that purpose, I pulled out the charged, sparking bead that Ghelid had tried to use. As I thought, it was a collection of condensed leylines, though they nested over a blue dungeon core.

The leylines channeled mana and converted it into the strange, deep purple shaded mana. A quick tap verified that the blue core was radiant at the center like those on L-7. To fully understand it, I'd need to sit down and research it for a while. At the same time, I'd have to go out and take over the Frostlands for my quest.

I could get the others to help me out, and they'd power up in the meantime. As we did, we could scout out places of interest and see if we couldn't find Amara's origins. After all, I found almost no ruins in the bleak ice. If anything, it appeared as though civilization never spawned here. A list of objectives pooled in my head alongside a few status updates.

Taking a moment, I allocated my attributes from the fight, finalized my selections, and inspected my status.

Things were looking good.

The Living Multiverse | Level 39,918 (Cap: 46,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign

Strength – 789,155 | Constitution – 796,314 | Endurance – 1,232,700

Dexterity – 532,312 | Willpower – 1,489,506 | Intelligence – 1,095,903

Charisma – 577,730 | Luck – 737,796 | Perception – 423,414 |Awe - 67,361

Health: 38.18 Billion/38.18 Billion | Health Regen: 9.348 Trillion/min or 159.81 Billion/sec

Stamina: Infinite +++++++++++++++++++++++++ | Ambient Mana 123,152 Trillion

Mass: 32.358 Billion Pounds(1.471 Billion Kilos~)

Height: 63'02 |19.25 meters | Actual: 63'02

Damage Res - 99.835% | Actual: 99.835% (Infinity) | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 1.298 Trillion% | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius

Mana Conversion(Elemental Furnace Count: 14) - 632.2 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor
