My armor grinned, mana falling from me in a crimson wave. It fought back the ice, my dimensional wake stretching over it like a cloud of smog in a clear sky. A wave of excitement rushed through me, melting the cold and hastening the states of matter near me. I spoke, my voice a thrumming violence in my wake.

"Then let's see your stillness save you."

Chapter Begin

Ghelid bolted towards me. As it did, causality shifted where I stood and over itself. The entity affected me on a dimensional level, trying to change my core being. It carved into my dimensional wake, a strange, insidious altering creeping in. I rebuffed on instinct, my dimensional wake's density pulling the altered space apart.

Ghelid rammed me with its antlered head. All the while, it spoke from all directions.

"You're entire being...It's quite dense, isn't it?"

I slammed my fist forward, and it collided against Ghelid's forehead. Like a pipe bomb in my palm, the forces exploded. Ice beneath us cracked for kilometers in all directions. The clouds parted above, a spiral ushering in the clouds. The blizzard around us rippled out, a momentary clearing bringing the sun's light.

Sonic booms erupted the entire time, both of us passing the sound barrier as we fought. I had wielded immense amounts of gravitation to propel my fist, and I clasped a dimension in my palm. It slammed into a thick telekinetic panel. A bullet of force erupted over the space, and it slammed into the entity.

Ghelid implanted itself into the ice, and cracks radiated across the horizons. The monster laughed.

"I am that which you see in all directions. I am the ice, the cold, even the air you breathe. I am everything here, and your blows mean less than nothing to me."

It was odd hearing him speak this way, though the entity likely hadn't had much company. If it were me, I'd try to befriend anyone I could talk to after eons of loneliness. It felt fitting that it tried to dominate all that made contact, especially considering it operated as a set of principles more than a living being.

Those thoughts darted in my head as I threw out a dozen more strikes. My pummeling began to rupture glaciers far in the distance. Ghelid snarled.

"Futility. Come like all the other animals here. Show me your fangs, and I will show you what it is to feed."

It kept the oppressive aura over me before the ice came to life. My surroundings stabbed for my vitals, but ice shattered against steel. I stood there, and Event Horizon melted the assault before Ghelid reached out its hands. Our shifting dimensional forces clashed, and I stood as the victor. Within my wake, at least. It tilted its head.

"You leave no mark on the realm, yet you control the space around you with such force. An oddity."

I smiled.

"A Harbinger, some might say."

It laughed.

"Pretentious."

I bolted towards the monster. I compressed time around myself as it redoubled its efforts. Swaths of eldritch died below us, their demises a sweet mercy as Ghelid's principles strengthened. They met the unmoving wall of my dimensional wake, and Ghelid's eyes widened.

"Ah, now I understand."

The principles began bleeding around me, no longer trying to create the same shift in my being. Instead, they warped my surroundings, and the reality I occupied crushed down on me. I shrank down, the weight of the attack palpable. My skin ruptured, and several bones broke. Ghelid nodded before molding into the ice below.

It spoke from all directions.

"You aren't within this realm at all, yet you are still beholden to it. Fascinating, if not flawed."

It crushed me from all sides. Ghelid laughed.

"You are surrounded by something foreign. While I may not mold you, I can change what you move through, and that is enough."

I pressed out with my wake, but Ghelid's pressure mounted. It sacrificed thousands of lives every second to crush me, and I bent under the strain. It was unlike any battle or pain I'd ever experienced. My mind, mana, and being began slowing to a standstill. It was like facing Medusa, and I had met her gaze before turning to stone.

Before I molded into a frozen statue, I pulled my wake inward, keeping it close to my skin. The dense aura fought off the shifting principles far better than my dispersed wake. I kept that knowledge in the back of my mind for later. Before I could escape Ghelid's jaws, its colossal mind rumbled. From all sides, it poured into my head.

A cold invaded my thoughts, and I slowed down further. I processed everything in slow motion, and my senses faded. I summoned mana, but it trickled in. What was once a raging storm weakened into a mild gust, and a pang of fear sprang into my chest. I put that fear behind me, and it spurred me on.

Before I rallied, Ghelid jumped out of the ice, swinging at my frosted form with an icy halberd. It was a beautiful weapon, one that carried hundreds of small, densely clustered leylines all fused into a single blade. It held enough of these principles within to leave me frozen in time. Before it cleaved me apart, I took my cold-infested minds and shredded them to a pulp.

Ghelid gawked at me in disgust before I flooded its mind with the remnants of my own psyche. Droning chaos entered its psyche, an annihilating chaos of thought, spirit, and impulse. It could overwhelm yet not sustain, and my psionic flood crowded out the lines of coherence that formed Ghelid's mind. The eldritch struggled to maintain its cognition as I met its incoming swing with my fist.

We clashed, and we both flew backward with heavy wounds. Bits of my body converted into void ice, the material eating away at me like a chemical reaction. Ghelid carried no marks on his surface, but he hobbled forward with jilted steps.

Ghelid laughed.

"You're a warrior willing to tear your own mind apart. You remind me of Firamnia, but the price you pay for that is steep. Still, you're devoted. I'll give you that."

I answered his words with an ominous silence. I tore all my cold-infested minds apart, gushing them toward his immense mind while eliminating its cold poison. I walked out of my stiff, dying body and into a new one. Ghelid stared in horror as I turned the building wounds into mere memories. It raised a pearlescent hand.

"You have a phoenix-oriented skill? You must be aligned with Firamnia. No matter. I've faced that kind of revival before, and it has its limitations."

My armor grinned.

"You'd be surprised by how lax those limitations are."

We ran towards each other. We met charge for charge. Each time we met, wounds covered me from head to toe. Ghelid dispersed the damage to its vast, continental form. I regenerated instantaneously, and in this conflict, we reached an impasse. After an hour of slugging it out, Ghelid sighed.

"It's obvious that neither of us is making any headway. Firamnia, I know you can hear me. We can just end this before fighting another day. There's no need to give Balsht and Emeralga an opening like this."

I let out a laugh.

"I'm not aligned with Firamnia, and you should know something about me. I've fought for weeks on end before. For months, even. I'll fight you as long as I need to, whether thats years or hours doesn't matter."

Ghelid's form rippled, and its legs broke. It stood atop them, its hoof-shaped hands turning into fingers and palms. I rolled my shoulders,

"Do you honestly think this is an impasse? A stalemate?"

My smile turned wicked.

"No. You've met an unstoppable force, and it will grind you to dust."

Ghelid rolled its eyes.

"You've come from a far-off place, and your entire bearing evokes a sense of fear and dread. Though you lack the explosive finality I can unleash, there is an air of, hm-"

It rolled a hand.

"Inevitability about you. I can see that. However, surely there are better uses of your time than this?"

I glared down at the creature.

"It's been a while since I've let loose. It's time to show you just how much destruction I can unload."

Before it replied, I spread my hands. My body flashed bright as mana erupted in an endless torrent. I wielded the flood, and it turned to darkness. Singularities feasted on Ghelid. It stopped the singularities that began feeding on its body with its use of laws, but it couldn't stop them all. Singularities formed near its humanoid form, and the black holes fed on the air.

They erupted, and vast swaths of ice began disintegrating far in the distance. Ghelid roared.

"You're destroying this land."

"I'm destroying you."

"It will leave nothing for those who live here."

"You've left nothing here to live for."

Ghelid bolted to me, trying to close the gap.

"Then let's test how devoted you really are. Tell me, warrior, are you willing to destroy yourself?"

I smiled and turned into a liquid. My armor let out metallic laughs far into the distance as I flowed over him, and we erupted into plumes of light and darkness. Ghelid's unmarked form ran away from me, but I followed. A writhing blot of black metal, I flowed over the ice and over him time and time again. I fed my body to my magic, and my magic made murder.

Ghelid howled.

"You're insane."

It sank into the ice, and I followed as a singularity storm. We ran across many kilometers of ice, back and forth. I began letting my body fall from my dimensional wake, carpet-bombing our surroundings with my corpses. I saturated them with gravity wells, and they reached terminal velocity in seconds.

As was the case with Chrona's Planet Wielder skill, my Orbital Bombardment became stronger on larger worlds. After all, the more gravity a planet had, the faster my body could fall. As they unleashed devastating waves of kinetic destruction, Ghelid bellowed.

"What kind of abomination are you?"

"Daniel Hillside. I was an amateur boxer."

"What the hell is a boxer?"

"Can't you read memories?"

"Not unnecessary ones. That's trash about your old world."

"Obviously, we have different ideas of what's considered trash."

We continued our battle for hours. After ravaging a country-sized section of ice, Ghelid reached a radiating mass of ice. At the center of the mound, a strange space bled into our reality. It shifted the color of all objects to a cerulean blue, and it reached out in fractal-laden branches like a snowflake carved from eternity.

A strange core radiated at the space's center. It reminded me of the yellow core on Leviathan-7, but it lacked the sheer energy flow. However, the flavor of this space was far more defined. It was as Ghelid wished - a domain dominated by absolute stillness.

Ghelid fled into the odd space, and I followed before crashing against a wall. At least it felt like one. It was actually a pure and perfect stasis. It held the air in such a state of stillness that it became harder and denser than rock, metal, or even my armor. Unlike a material, this subdimension didn't hold atoms together. It simply stopped them from moving.

Cold spread from matter, evening out the ambient temperature. Since this didn't spread, it left the density without the chill. Regardless of how, the wall kept me and my magic out. Ghelid went beside the core and began fusing with it. Ghelid snarled at me.

"You've forced me to burn everything to stop you. What a waste. The others will conquer my realm, and I will need to hide for millennia. I can only pray that another careful balance is achieved."

I gazed at him. Cracks spread over his body, and chilled, mana-based plasma leaked out from him like a cracked vase seeping water. I sighed.

"Why do you want everything to be still?"

"It is what I am."

"Are you really this powerless to stop something you were born with? Are you really so unable to change who you are?"

Ghelid stared at me. Despair crept into its voice.

"Who I am? Do you think I know what I am? My mind is something constructed by the memories and thoughts of other living beings. My body is made of the swirling principles of a world that does not care for me. It is indifferent. It doesn't offer answers, only silence. I am that silence."

It met my eye.

"You think you're speaking to me, but you're only speaking to another shade of yourself. I am a reflection of all that is, and therefore, I am nothing more than a mirror. An echo. A likeness."

Its voice cracked.

"I am not truly alive. I never was."

I turned a hand to it.

"Then why would you want everything to stop?"

It roared before murmuring.

"In that stillness, I will find an endless silence. I will be alone with no minds, thoughts, or laws to define me. All that will be left is my own self. I will uncover who and what I really am. I will be untainted and pure."

I closed my eyes.

"If you're made of other people and the laws of nature, then stopping those concepts will undo you. In trying to find yourself, you will die."

Ghelid let out a caustic laugh.

"That is a risk I must take. Otherwise, I'll live as you've said: as a parasite. That is my curse, but it will not define me. After I've spread this stillness to all that is, I'll have nothing left to feed on. All will be silenced."

Ghelid's eyes filled with resolve.

"Only my voice will be left, and it will be the first time I've ever heard what I have to say. What I genuinely think. What I actually am. If I die, then I'll die having tried to live."

I rubbed my temples with my hands.

"Let's think. You don't need to extend that stillness to literally everything. It only needs to be as far as you can influence, right? We could make this patch in the void of space where nothing is. Out there, you'll find this quiet and stillness you want."

Ghelid shook its head.

"I have to be sure. If anything occurs, then I will always doubt what thoughts and voices I hear."

I shook my hands at Ghelid in frustration.

"I'm giving you an option despite everything. Why aren't you taking it?"

Ghelid laughed.

"Because my other option is to survive this fight. Survive, and to hurt you."

I furrowed my brow.

"What?"

Ghelid glared at me.

"I know where your home planet is."

I tilted my gaze.

