By all accounts, the sense he got from that mana core should have translated to Sternkessel being a weak mage, but Cale found himself studying the professor with caution anyway. And wasn't that interesting! It was rare his instincts warned him so directly about the danger another mage might pose.

Utelia was just full of surprises, wasn't it? He couldn't wait to dig into them.

Professor Sternkessel evidently noticed Cale's attention, because the rings of his head immediately spun to focus on him, giving him the rather distinct impression of being stared at. "You must be Cale Cadwell Cobbs," the professor said. "A pleasure to meet one so... distinguished."

"Just Cale is fine," Cale said, distracted. Normally he would have questioned whether the professor was being sarcastic, but right now he was far more curious about the mechanics of how that head was supposed to work. He stood on his tiptoes, trying to peek at where the professor's neck was supposed to be. "Where are you even talking from? Do you have some kind of neck hole?"

[Blabbermouth] has reached level 11!

Behind him, Damien sighed, and Leo pressed his face into his hands. Cale heard the distinct sound of a minotaur desperately trying to suppress his laughter moments later.

"It's a legitimate question!" Cale said, offended. How was this enough to trigger a [Blabbermouth] level? Surely it should have been getting harder to level by now.

Professor Sternkessel, to his credit, seemed entirely unperturbed by Cale's remark. "Perhaps we should save the personal questions for after class?" he suggested smoothly. "Though I am aware you have other matters to attend to today. I can make my office open to you, if you like; feel free to visit any time you are available."

"Good, because I have so many questions," Cale said immediately. Maybe he could squeeze in some time after meeting with Akkau? It wasn't like he needed to sleep much, and there were far more important things to do, like ask Sternkessel if he could spin the individual rings of the professor's head. Or if anything would happen if he kept rotating one of the rings.

Also, how did he eat? Did he even need to eat? Had he never experienced the wonders of sourdough bread?

"I can see you need a moment," the professor said dryly. "Alas, we do not have time for such dalliances. I understand your fascination, but I must ask we do this at another time, if it pleases you. I assume Akkau has informed you that I will be conducting a test to ensure you have what it takes to attend our academy?"

The other students immediately began whispering among one another, casting wide-eyed glances at him. Cale was briefly distracted by, again, what was clearly three kobolds in a trenchcoat arguing with each other and gesticulating wildly. Everyone else was studiously ignoring the sight, which was ridiculous. The trenchcoat was bulging!

"Uh, yes, he might have said something along those lines," Cale said, snapping back to the moment. Akkau had definitely said a lot of things, but he also didn't quite seem to like Sternkessel, for reasons Cale had yet to determine. He was probably a bit biased in how he was presenting him.

Sternkessel seemed fine so far. A little eccentric, perhaps, but no more so than Imrys had been. If anything, he seemed like the most normal professor so far. And he hadn't so much as glanced at Leo or Damien, so Cale wasn't sure he was as biased as Akkau claimed.

"Allow me to lay out the parameters of the test, then, so you understand what is at stake," Sternkessel said. He reached up to adjust one of the rings on his head, almost like he was adjusting his glasses. "In addition to being the professor for Magical Geography, I teach the Celestial and Spatial Resonance classes. You will not be allowed to attend either until I am certain of your proficiency. Are we understood?"

"Perfectly," Cale said cheerfully. All that meant to him was that he'd get to see Sternkessel even more, which meant all the more opportunity to study the enigmatic professor. That he taught spatial resonance was even better—Akkau had said resonance was required to learn spells above the second tier, and spatial spells tended not to have any low-tier variants.

"Should I be concerned about the expression he is wearing?" Sternkessel asked Damien, who started.

"No?" Damien answered cautiously. "I think he's just like that."

"I see." Sternkessel folded his arms behind his back. "Do you not have any questions, Cale?"

Cale opened his mouth.

"About the class," the professor clarified. Cale snapped his mouth shut again and thought for a moment.

"Akkau said you wanted to test me on dangers unique to Utelia?" he asked instead.

"That is correct." The professor gave him an approving nod. "You have proven yourself quite capable against dangers that you have context for, and your circumstances mean you have far greater contextual awareness than many of your peers. The celestial and spatial aspects, however, care very little for context. One must exhibit the capacity to adapt to new circumstances to be able to master them."

Was it just him, or was Sternkessel beginning to sound kind of excited? The students around him, on the other hand, were beginning to look increasingly nervous. He was almost certain he heard Damien audibly gulping.

Cale wondered if it said anything about him that everyone else's clear discomfort only made him more excited.

To be fair, it had been a long time since he'd had the chance to really test himself. That whole thing with Sneaks-In-Darkness didn't count; he'd barely had to show off a fraction of what he was capable of to put her down. Magical combat rarely interested him, really.

Now on the other hand, if Sternkessel was designing a test for him and had observed his classes with Imrys and Graystalk, there was a good chance that whatever test he concocted would actually let him stretch his wings a little. Though he supposed Syphus's presence during Graystalk's class might have disrupted any scrying attempts...

Eh. If the professors were any good—and they were—then they could simply have observed his duel with Nala Whiteleaf through the academy's windows. Not everything needed a magical solution.

"So what's the test going to be?" he asked curiously.

"Perhaps it will be easier to show you," Sternkessel said. Cale didn't know how he knew, but somehow, he was almost certain the professor was smirking at him. Then he dipped his head in a slight bow, reached up to grasp one of the golden rings that made up his head, spun—

—and between one second and the next, he and all the other students of Magical Geography were just... elsewhere. Cale blinked rapidly, startled. He hadn't felt the professor using any hint of magic, nor should any magic have been able to teleport him without his allowing it. He double-checked his barrier, just in case, and it was as strong as it always was.

Professor Sternkessel had bypassed it somehow? Or... no. More likely what he'd done just hadn't counted as magic to his barriers, at least not in a way Cale understood.

The professor was an out of context problem. For him! Cale had so many questions.

Then his mana sense caught up with the rest of his senses. Cale took an almost involuntary step back, brows furrowing slightly—there was some sort of boundary in front of him, and while the immediate impression he'd gotten was that he was in front of a place of restoration, something about the mana felt off.

Just beside him, Professor Sternkessel nodded in approval.

"Good instincts," he said. Then, displaying a remarkable amount of physical strength for his relatively slight frame, Sternkessel placed a hand on his back and promptly shoved him forward through the barrier.

He did the same for every other student in his class simultaneously, though the others were handled with simulacrums. Cale noted with some satisfaction that Sternkessel had reserved his real body to deal with him specifically.

More interestingly, it also looked like they had been separated intentionally into three groups of three. Leo and Damien were with him, though they both still looked rather disoriented; Damien in particular clutched his cloak tightly around himself, clearly uncomfortable without the Astral Wing's suppressive wards around him.

To Cale's surprise, though, he couldn't feel even a wisp of stray decay mana from his friend. Was the professor shielding him somehow? He had to be, or else Damien wouldn't have had any experience with these expeditions, surely.

Before Cale could ask about it, Sternkessel cleared his throat, his voice booming all around them. He sounded entirely different now—cheerful, excited, anticipatory. Cale grinned. He recognized a mage in their element when he saw one.

This was a professor that was truly passionate for the subject he was teaching.

"Welcome," Professor Sternkessel said, "to the Inverted Spires!"

Professor Graystalk sat in a magically sealed room in one corner of Kazix Brightscale's Academy of the Attuned Arts, watching the scrying mirror set into the far wall intently.

Normally, he wouldn't be caught dead in the so-called Teacher's Lounge. As a general rule, Graystalk avoided the other professors as much as possible. He didn't dislike them, per se, nor was he exactly afraid of them—but he was a private man, and he preferred to keep other people out of his affairs. Many of the other professors were either eccentric or too well-meaning for their own good, and Graystalk simply didn't have the energy to deal with them most of the time.

Especially Imrys, who struck him as missing a few too many screws to be allowed to teach in a magic academy.

As usual, though, the Headmaster's word was final, and for whatever reason the dragon seemed to trust the little mousefolk. She did seem to have an incredibly sharp intuition. For all that she took almost no precautions when it came to her Ancient Artifacts class, their students never died during them.

They had, however, sometimes emerged badly injured, mutilated, or cursed.

Which was why it said a lot that he continued to remain in the Teacher's Lounge even with Imrys pressed up against his side.

"Would you like a cookie, dearie?" Imrys asked, holding a crumbly biscuit up toward him. Graystalk wondered where she kept those things. Were they even fresh? She always seemed to have a few at hand.

"No, thank you," he said shortly, trying to stay polite and move away from her.

There wasn't much space to do so, though. Really, there were far too many professors here for his liking, but Graystalk couldn't really blame their interest. It was the whole reason he was here, after all, and it was the reason even the most introverted and reticent of professors had shown up.

They all wanted to see how the new student dealt with Professor Sternkessel's test.

The Inverted Spires were famed for being one of the most dangerous active magical anomalies across all of Utelia—more dangerous than even the most highly-ranked dungeons, which was saying something. But it wasn't dangerous because of mana quantity, powerful monsters, deadly spells, or anything of the like. If that were the sole criteria, then many of Utelia's dungeons would be more dangerous by sheer magical power alone.

It was dangerous simply because it didn't seem to care how powerful a mage was. Many, many mages had tried to uncover its secrets, and many of those mages had died or gone missing. About thirty percent of them, in fact, across almost all tiers of power that had gone in.

Professor Sternkessel was just about the only man in the realm that could guarantee a mage's safety, and up until now, he'd refused to provide his escort services. He'd certainly never used the Inverted Spires to test first-year Academy students, of all people.

"I do hope you know what you are doing, Sternkessel," Graystalk muttered. He stared at the scrying mirror for a long moment. "Or perhaps I hope that Cale surprises us yet again."

Graystalk frowned slightly as he spoke, then took a moment to examine exactly what he felt. He'd assumed initially that he was worried—he'd been against this particular test for Cale especially—but now that he thought about it...

It wasn't that he wasn't worried. There was always the chance for things to go wrong, and the fact that the Inverted Spires didn't seem to care about the rank of the mages that explored it implied rather heavily that one of its anomalies either ignored magic entirely or scaled in danger to the mage's power. Professor Sternkessel's test had every chance of going wrong, and if it did, he wanted to be ready to try to intervene, even if his curse restricted him.

But if he was being honest with himself, he was also excited.

It was an old instinct, really. He hadn't paid attention to it in years because he hadn't felt anything from it in years. But he could feel it stirring now, a song of adventure he thought he'd long lost, and it spoke to him in no uncertain terms: Keep watching, Zeren Graystalk, and you might learn something new.

Graystalk snorted. To think the human he'd barely known for an hour was already making him feel like he might learn new things. Yet he was here, wasn't he? And tolerating Imrys and the other professors, even.

Some part of him, it seemed, had faith.
