When Ryoka finished her run, she found Erin and Olesm sitting around the chessboard, discussing chess. She, Val, and Hawk stopped to watch the two.
If running was their world, Erin and Olesm belonged to the silent, mystifying world of chess. It reminded Ryoka a bit of religion, only instead of an altar or text, Erin and Olesm used a chessboard.
But then, would playing chess be the equivalent of prayer? And what was blasphemy? Flipping the board? And why was Ryoka taking this analogy so far?
She coughed into one hand. Olesm and Erin didn’t even look up.
“See, that’s when I knew he was pushing with the left side and trying to set me up for a pin. Here. So I did this and…”
“Ah! That’s when he made the blunder!”
“Right. But even if he didn’t, I would have taken a pawn and taken an advantage for the endgame. Which is where it would have gone if he hadn’t opened himself up like that.”
Olesm was busy writing on pieces of parchment as Erin explained. At least she looked happy. Ryoka still wasn’t sure about the advisability of playing chess with someone unknown but—
Trust. She had to trust Erin. Not with everything, but at least with this.
Ryoka coughed again, louder. Then she gave up.
“Erin.”
Erin looked up. She caught sight of Val and Hawk, and her eyes widened.
“Oh! Oh!”
Olesm looked round and nearly dropped his quill.
“Is that Hawk? What are you doing here?”
Hawk smiled as he and Val stepped into the room. Ryoka was displeased to note that they weren’t even sweating.
“We had a morning run, and Hawk and I were thinking of staying here for a chat. Unless you’re busy with your…game?”
“What? The chess? Oh, no. We’ve got lots of tables.”
Erin hovered around the two Couriers as they chose a table on the other side of the room. She kept staring at Hawk, and Ryoka knew she wanted to pet him. Erin was complex in many ways, but her hand was twitching.
“Can I…get you two anything? Breakfast? An early lunch? Snacks?”
“Can I have a hamburger?”
Hawk looked wistfully at Erin. Val groaned.
“Anything but a hamburger. How about those potato strips?”
“French fries? Sure! One hamburger and fries coming up. You want ketchup? Everyone wants ketchup.”
Ryoka looked at Olesm as Erin bustled around. The Drake was still writing on the parchment. Chess…notation?
“Now would be a good time for you to use your head, idiot.”
Olesm looked up.
“Hm? I’m sorry, were you speaking to me, Ryoka?”
“No. Myself.”
He went back to writing. Ryoka tried to clear her mind. She’d had her morning run, and that was helping dispel the effects of last night’s partying and drinking.
Now—concentrate. What was he doing? Writing things down. Obviously. Try to think a bit harder than pre-school level analysis. No, if Olesm was writing down Erin’s chess game—presumably against the other player—and given her comments about an equal game…
Erin was considered better than anyone else…
Ah. He was making a record of chess games. That was again, obvious. But Ryoka could see him making commentary notes on another sheet. And you only did that when…
“A newsletter. Or magazine.”
Olesm looked up again.
“Hm?”
“Sorry. Just thinking aloud.”
“It’s quite fascinating, isn’t it? Erin is a brilliant player and her opponent—”
“I imagine you must level quite often, playing her.”
The Drake made a face Ryoka could only describe as ruefully awkward.
“Not that much. But you’re right. I did level up quite a bit, and quite quickly too!”
Great. So Erin was helping whoever was on the other side of the world. Ryoka eyed the parchment. Would reading chess strategy help other [Tacticians]? For that matter, why was chess so good for [Tacticians] anyways? It was a game. One that involved strategy, true, but not…
“Oh my god.”
“That’s an interesting phrase. Most humans just say ‘dead gods’.”
Ryoka didn’t answer. That was it. Think for five seconds and you could figure out one of the critical truths of this world. This system of leveling had not been created by someone from Ryoka and Erin’s world, from Earth.
If what Ryoka thought was true. She had to ask.
“Olesm.”
He looked at her, quill poised above the parchment.
“Yes?”
“Are you familiar with most classes? I mean, I assume there are rare classes, but you know all of the ones people normally receive, don’t you?”
He hesitated.
“To an extent. I do ask about classes so I can use them if I need to coordinate with the Watch, so you could say that. Why? Was there one you were interested in?”
“Are there any classes for people who play…games? Board games, I mean?”
Olesm frowned and tapped his chin with the quill, ignoring the spots it left on his scales.
“Board games…we don’t really have that many. There are checkers, of course, and I know there are games that [Tacticians] have invented like chess…but none other that I can think of. Kids mostly play games like tailpuck or beanbag throwing.”
“Any classes related to that? A…class that involves playing against others for fun?”
“[Gambler]? Um…I’ve heard of some people getting the [Layabout] class or [Idler] class depending on what people call it, but that’s something that usually only applies to the aristocracy, you know, fourth sons and all that. Otherwise I suppose the [Tactician] class is the only one that fits.”
“I thought so. Thanks.”
“No problem. Glad I could help?”
Ryoka left Olesm to his game, thinking hard. She was right. It explained everything.
Question. Why did [Tacticians] level up from playing chess? Perhaps a few levels could be explained by the idea of strategy, feints, and so on, but that kind of rapid growth? No. It made no sense, especially not for a class that should be gaining experience from commanding armies and making dangerous decisions.
Yes, normally if you were going to level it should be in some kind of board game playing class, only there wasn’t one. And that was why Olesm and the others were leveling, and also why Erin wasn’t.
Because there was no [Gamer] class. And whoever had designed the initial system hadn’t thought of—no, perhaps it was the culture which hadn’t yet adapted to the idea of someone who just played casual games without a tactical or gambling focus. Erin thought of the game as casual; not something that she should gain a [Tactician] class from. But Olesm and the others looked on it as something different.
Which meant that Erin and Ryoka by themselves didn’t constitute enough of a group to define a new class, if that were even possible. The idea of pre-defined classes made by the creator of this leveling system might not gel with culture defining classes—Ryoka decided to table that idea for now as unconfirmed.
But it all made sense. It was a loophole in the system.
And she had no way to exploit it, unless she decided she wanted to play chess. And even then, probably only Erin would gain the benefits if she stopped looking at it as a game.
But that wasn’t the truly frightening thing. What was truly frightening was the secondary thought that had sprung into Ryoka’s mind as she stared at the chessboard.
Was it an accident? Or…was it on purpose. Chess. It had just been invented in this world, and it was gaining popularity among [Tacticians]. Enough so that one person had sent an expensive chessboard across the world, paying probably thousands of gold coins for the board, delivery, and so on.
Because they loved chess? Or because they knew it would help them level up if they found a worthy opponent?
Did the person who invented chess know they’d found a way to peacefully, easily level up their class? Or was it coincidence?
And what the hell should Ryoka do about the chessboard?
She considered her options. They weren’t numerous, and most of them would lead to Erin pitching a fit, even if the board ‘disappeared’ by accident. And the dangers…
True, it would help one person. But considering them an enemy because they might be using this to their advantage wasn’t wise. For all they knew, they were benefiting Erin as much as themselves, and that was if Ryoka’s darkest fears were completely on a level.
At any rate, Erin’s skill made her noteworthy, and more importantly, valuable. Was it better to be valuable and noticed or hidden and secret? She’d already sent the letter, and it would invite more problems to stop now.
Let her play was Ryoka’s plan of action, but she resolved to talk with Erin as soon as possible. Right after—
“Hey, do you want some fries?”
Ryoka nearly jumped out of her skin. Erin stepped back to avoid Ryoka knocking the big platter of golden, crispy, french fries. Ryoka stared at them.
“That was fast.”
“Yeah, it’s this new skill I got! [Advanced Cooking]. It makes preparing everything so easy, and look!”
Erin held up the plate in front of Ryoka. Each fry had been cooked until the skins were golden-brown, and Ryoka could just imagine the crunch. And hear it, because she’d tried one.
“This is good.”
“I know, right? So much better than the ones I made the first time! Skills are awesome!”
There was no denying that. Awesome. And scary.
“Anyways, I made a ton since I want to eat while I play with Olesm. Too bad they’re so greasy, but I bet the pieces won’t even take the grease!”
Erin beamed as she pointed to the magic chessboard and the ghostly pieces. Yes, that was Erin. Give her a magical chessboard capable of playing anyone around the world and she thought it was nifty because she wouldn’t get food on the chess pieces.
…Actually, if Ryoka could do that with clothing she wouldn’t mind forking over as much gold as necessary. Erin carried the food over to Val and Hawk, much to their approval and called out over her shoulder.
“Oh yeah, I forgot! Ceria’s upstairs, Ryoka!”
“What?”
Ryoka looked over, confused.
“She’s back already?”
They’d barely been gone for two hours, even with their discussion about dangerous places and monsters to avoid. Erin nodded.
“Yeah, she said she wanted to rest. But I’m sure she’s still awake. You could invite her for…french fry brunch! Or let her sleep if she’s napping.”
“I might do that.”
Ryoka left Erin behind as the innkeeper happily went back to the game with Olesm and the Couriers began eating. The taste of the french fry lingered in Ryoka’s mouth. It wasn’t quite a McDonald’s fry, but damn it, it was close. Skills were the scariest thing in the world if they could let Erin do that.
“And maybe they’ll change me, too.”
Absolute power corrupts absolutely. But what did…changes like classes and levels do to people? Empower? Or turn them into unstoppable bullies who picked on the weak?
Ryoka knew what it would do to people from her world. She’d seen the Stanford Prison experiment footage.
But people were different here. Some were better. Or maybe it was just that Ryoka noticed they were better. It might be that there were monsters, actual monsters to fight, or that people had to risk their lives. Those who went through trials might strip away some of the things that burdened people like Ryoka, might make themselves different.
Ryoka pushed open the door and stopped.
Or—perhaps they were altogether too alien for Ryoka to ever comprehend.
Ceria sat on the bed the Antinium had helped construct, in the light from the window, her features fair, her hair caught in the sun. Sometimes Ryoka forgot that half of her ancestry was immortal. Long dead, yes, but the flickers of her unearthly nature made Ceria so unique at times.
At others, she was just like any human. But Ryoka had never asked her about her parents. And—
She had the sense that it was something she shouldn’t ask for a long time, anyways. Not if what Ryoka thought was true. Cause and effect. Predictability.
The world was made of sad stories.
Such as these.
Ceria turned as she heard Ryoka step into the room. She wiped at her eyes, but didn’t pretend she hadn’t been crying.
“Ryoka. Sorry, I didn’t know you were back.”
“Something wrong?”
“Where should I start?”
Ceria laughed. She held up her skeletal hand mockingly, and shook her head.
“No. It’s not that. It’s Yvlon. She’s awake.”
For a second Ryoka had to remember, and then she recalled the female adventurer captain who wore silver armor. She felt a pang of guilt, remembering Yvlon had been at the Adventurer’s Guild and she’d only visited her once. But—
“Is she okay?”
“Her body is. They fixed most of the injuries she got, but she’s—scarred. But her mind…”
Ceria shook her head, despairingly.
“She just woke up. When she saw me, I thought—she blames herself.”
“Ah.”
It said it all, really. Ryoka listened to the sound of the same tragic story replaying itself out behind Ceria’s words.
“I had to leave because she was getting agitated. But she knows almost no one’s left. And the insurance—”
“The gold for the families of the dead?”
“Yes. We can’t pay it. I mean, she’s the only captain left, and her squad perished entirely in the Ruins. There are about eight others who made it, and they’ve scattered to the winds. And all our equipment was seized by the Watch.”
“And how does she feel about what happened?”
Ceria raised her shoulders slightly, and let them drop.
“How do you think? She blames herself for everything, never mind that Skinner ambushed us. But she wouldn’t calm down, and we had to get people to stop her before she injured herself. I had to go.”
The news had affected the half-Elf, Ryoka could see. But as to making Ceria feel better—
Ryoka looked to the stairs, wondering if she could call Erin. If not for support, at least for advice. Ceria noticed her look and shook her head.
“I’m fine. I wouldn’t want to disturb…whatever she and Olesm are doing.”
“Not having sex, if that’s what you’re wondering.”
Ceria half-choked. Ryoka stared at her, eyebrows raised.
“I—”
She hesitated.
“About Olesm…it was—”
“Forget it. I didn’t come here to ask about that. And I don’t want to bother you. But if it’s a problem, I’d rather ask now before you melt Erin’s face off.”
“It’s freeze, actually. I’m not good at fire spells. And I wouldn’t do that.”
Ceria sighed and settled back on her bed, gesturing for Ryoka to take a seat. The girl rejoiced internally; she’d gotten the topic away from adventurers and death. Smooth conversationalist, Ryoka was not.
“Slime molds, I’d nearly forgotten about last night…look, I’m not sure what Olesm thinks. But if Erin’s interested in him—”
“She’s not.”
“Are you sure?”
“Fairly. It would be obvious, wouldn’t you imagine?”
“I would. But Olesm likes her.”
“Right. And you like Olesm.”
“A bit.”
Ceria smiled, and Ryoka had to ask.
“So?”
