It was supposed to be a fun day. Erin thought that as she picked up pieces of ice and swept snow into a corner as Ceria tried to light the fire. The half-Elf was shaken, and she needed a bit of healing potion for places where the faeries had cut or bit her or torn out hair, but she was alright.
“Ryoka really saved me. If she hadn’t gotten rid of them—normally they go away if I get inside somewhere, but here—”
One of the faeries had dropped down towards Ceria, and Erin had had her only good idea for the day.
“Pay me.”
“What?”
“Quick, anything! Hurry!”
Ceria didn’t have any coins, but at Erin’s insistence, she’d handed Erin her bra. It was either that, or her underwear, and Erin had taken it as payment.
And…it had worked. The few faeries that had elected not to chase Ryoka had grumbled, but they’d agreed not to bother the half-Elf. Why Erin hadn’t thought of that earlier she didn’t know.
And then they’d hovered around, making faces and rude remarks as Erin cleaned up until Toren came back. He came back!
How? From where? And why were his eyes purple? Erin was so elated, everything else fell away until she realized Rags had joined the inn too, and messed up her game!
But it was okay. And then Klbkch had come by with all the Workers he’d promised, and Relc and Pawn too! And that should have been wonderful as well. Except…
“It’s not going to work.”
Erin said it after the Workers had played for an entire hour. She stared at them and shook her head. Something was wrong.
“What is the matter?”
“They’re not…it’s not the same. You’re forcing them to play, and that won’t do any good.”
Klbkch stared at her, uncomprehending. He’d brought twenty Workers to Erin’s inn, to eat some food, but mainly to play chess like he’d said. And she’d explained the game and set them up playing just like last time, but—
“Is something the matter? We must have these Workers learn this game, Erin. It is…very important to the Hive.”
“Yeah, but it’s not going to work. It’s not going to make them individuals, or whatever.”
Klbkch paused. Pawn was busy talking to the Workers, and Relc was slouching against a wall, bored, as the two conferred. Ceria had gone upstairs to sleep off the Frost Faerie attack. But Klbkch—
It was still odd, talking to him. It felt like talking to a ghost, or—almost a stranger. But he was the same.
But different. And it made Erin hurt inside a bit to know it.
“I know what you’re doing. You’re trying to make more Workers like Pawn, right? By playing chess?”
“Ah.”
Even Erin could figure that out, given enough time. She shook her head.
“It’s not going to work.”
“May I ask how you know?”
“Remember the first time we played and I taught them?”
It seemed so, so long ago. But had it only been a month ago? Two? Erin wasn’t sure. But it felt like nearly a year.
“I recall. You played both Olesm and me, as I remember.”
“Yeah, and then I invited the Workers to play. But that was it. They weren’t forced. And later—I asked Pawn his name. That’s how he chose it.”
Klbkch was silent for a second, staring at Erin.
“You asked him his name? That was…dangerous. Most Workers become Aberration if that occurs.”
“Yeah. I know. But he managed to do—something. Because he played chess, I get that.”
“Because of you.”
“Not just me.”
Erin shook her head, but Klbkch was insistent.
“You have the quality. It is that which we seek.”
“Yeah—maybe. Probably not. But either way, you’re not going to get it by forcing the Workers to do anything. Ordering them around won’t make them individual because they’ve got to do it, see?”
Klbkch was silent for so long, Erin was worried, but then he nodded.
“I…believe I do. Odd. I believe…yes, I believe I do. It is a strange thing, for Antinium to comprehend. And it raises a problem which must be considered. But yes; I understand.”
He’d nodded, then, and ordered the Workers to stop playing. He was so bossy with them, but then Klbkch had told Erin they’d try again later, and that would have been fine. Fine, if it wasn’t for what happened afterwards.
“Stop. That.”
Erin stood in front of Relc, trying not to tremble. Was this how Ryoka had felt? He loomed over her, and only now did she realize how big he really was. How strong he looked. How—
She saw Toren moving behind the Drake, although he didn’t have a weapon. Erin shook her head slightly, and shifted to protect Rags. No one could stop Relc with force, she was certain. But maybe she could talk him down. She had to.
He stared at her with hurt and rage, and then a Frost Faerie had flown up and landed on his head. He’d run shouting from the inn, and Erin had sagged against one table.
“I will make apologies for my partner, Erin Solstice, and to you, Rags. I believe he cares about me, and you. But he fought in the Goblin Wars and thinks of Goblins as enemies. I will speak to him, but it may be best for all if the Goblin does not come here for a while.”
She’d nodded, and the faerie had flown back in, looking smug and satisfied.
 
“There! ‘Tis the boon fulfilled for your meager offering, Human! The hotheaded oaf will not bother you again today!”
 
And so she’d left and Rags had left, wounded and full of pride, and Ceria had gone to sleep and the faeries had flown off and Klbkch and Pawn and the Workers had left until Erin was all alone.
Except Toren was back.
Erin sat in her inn, at a table, tired, cold. But no longer alone.
“It was supposed to be such a good day, you know?”
He stared at her. Good old Toren. Where had he gone? But he couldn’t answer her. He was just…just…
What was he? Erin stared at him. He was more than a thing, but he was so slow. Could he think? He was an undead servant, according to Pisces.
“A lot’s happened, you know. A lot of good. Some bad.”
She felt tired. Yesterday had been wonderful, beyond words. And the days before that equally good. She’d rebuilt the inn, and created success out of failure.
“But I guess I can’t do that every day.”
Erin put her head down. Ryoka was gone, and Erin wasn’t sure when she’d come back. Faeries were flying in and out of her inn whenever they pleased, Ceria could move her hand, Toren was back, the Antinium had a weird problem, Relc was being a jerk even if he sort of had a reason, and Rags was hurt and missing and her tribe might be killed if they came back.
Some good. Lots of bad. But Toren was back. On the whole, Erin would consider that even-steven with the universe’s karma.
If nothing else happened today, she’d consider herself fortunate.
Erin put her head down and went to slee—
 
—-
 
She was a [Princess], and she was starving. For too long, the winter chill had cut her to the bone, and the wary shopkeepers and suspicious guards had made stealing far, far harder. And her magic was running out.
She had only a few charges of [Invisibility] left, but she was starving and so she used one now. It was the dead of night, and no one was around, anyways.
The stalls were left locked, but she had spells to take care of any locks, magical or otherwise. And besides, richness was her birthright; she deserved everything she took from the filthy mongrels and the disgusting serpents living here.
But tonight it seemed one fool had left their stall without closing it. Warm blankets sat to one side, next to rows of dried food and most tempting of all, a fresh ham sitting on a stool. The [Princess]’s mouth watered as she stole near.
“There you are.”
The voice came from out of the shadows as the [Princess] whirled in fright. A massive Gnoll—a huge creature of dark fur and muscle stood up and walked out into the moonlight. She had a deep woman’s voice, but all the [Princess] saw were her fangs, and teeth as she spoke.
“Hrr. Too long we have allowed you to go free. Between Gazi and the undead, we have not had time. But now you smell and you are without your magics hiding your scent, yes?”
She pointed in the general direction of the girl even as her eyes searched the empty street.
“Invisibility is not enough for our kind. And we have ways to catch you. Do not run—!”
Too late. The girl ran, but no sooner had her footfalls began to echo than the Gnoll was on her. She screamed, but that just made it easier for the shopkeeper to catch her up in one huge paw.
“I have you. Now, we shall soon see what you look like, yes? And then you shall answer to the Watch, for damages caused and mischief done, yes? Do not struggle. I will not hurt you.”
The invisibility spell, weak from the residual magic in the girl’s cloak and strained from the contact, broke. The ragged [Princess] swam into view, and the Gnoll smiled down at her.
“There you are.”
All the [Princess] saw were the teeth. Her mind was clouded with fear, and so she raised one finger.
She had rings on every finger, but the magic of each had long since faded from her journey from overuse. But one still shimmered with violet light. The Gnoll saw it glowing as the [Princess] called magic to it and spoke harshly.
“Do not—”
Again, too late. Too late, and too slow. The girl raised the ring and screamed one word.
“Ignis!”
The fireball that burst forth from the ring was nearly twice the size of her head, but when it struck the stall behind the Gnoll and girl, it exploded into a burst of fire that blew the girl off her feet while the flames engulfed the Gnoll.
For a few minutes the girl couldn’t move. She only heard the roar of flames, and the panicked shouts as people from nearby houses poked their heads out and saw the fire. Slowly, aching, the [Princess] got up. She stared at the burning stall, full of precious goods and a lifetime of work. The fiery display began to crumble, and flying embers began to ignite the street again.
Something seized her from behind. The girl screamed and whirled, raising her ring, but a massive hand descended, capturing her hand in a grip that promised broken bone if she moved.
The [Princess] stared into a snarling face and burned fur. She screamed and screamed, but too late. Two sets of fangs opened, and claws drew blood.
