A foolish, brazen child of luxury, this Tong Da Fung. How could he not see that most of those challenges had been arranged by the fathers of the same young ladies he courted? Undisputed heirs to Magisterial offices were few and far between, so all he needed to do was accept the challenge and fight. Regardless of whether he won or lost, Fung would have undoubtedly been invited back to the family manor to ‘smooth things over’, but the boy couldn’t even do that much. To make matters worse, he fought the famed Ryo Geom-Chi to a draw in an impromptu restaurant duel on the same day he arrived in Nan Ping, which proved he was skilled enough to challenge the current members of the Hwarang. So why then, did he behave in such a dishonourable manner?

Truly a foolish, hedonistic young master, this one, though Shi-Woo could hardly point fingers, for his sons had been just as bad until this past year...

All in all, Nian Zu’s guests presented something of a quandary, but Shi-Woo could do nothing before speaking with Falling Rain, so he greeted Nian Zu and his guests cordially. Marshal Yuzhen arrived soon after, but she was merely a side dish, for everyone gathered was waiting for the true star of today’s show, who soon arrived in spectacular fashion. Three striking carriages of golden wood lead the way, surrounded by hundreds of marching Death Corps guards and noble Imperial cavalry, with savage Khishig outriders following soon after. It was both familiar and exotic, inspiring and intimidating, and when those luxurious carriages came to a halt, Falling Rain scrambled out with almost undue haste to lead his family up the steps, where they joined Marshal Yuzhen and Colonel General Nian Zu.

Only for Falling Rain to immediately break custom by greeting Shi-Woo with a bright smile. “Long time no see, Uncle Yo!”

Despite the gross breach of protocol taking place before his eyes, Shi-Woo couldn’t refrain from swelling with pride as he greeted young Falling Rain intimately in return. “Too long, too long,” he intoned as he took the boy by the shoulders and turned him this way and that to inspect, all the while ignoring the displeased mutters emitting from the prissy nobles behind him. “Forgive your uncle for not visiting more often, but I knew the rumours of your poor health were grossly exaggerated.”

They hadn’t been, but the past was the past and easily rewritten, for the Falling Rain standing before him now was as hale and healthy as could be. In dire need of fattening perhaps, but alert and able-bodied, and that was what mattered for now, not only to the peasants and soldiers watching from the crowd, but also the fence-sitting nobles gathered on stage behind him.

“Think nothing of it, Uncle Yo, you’re a busy man with many responsibilities,” Falling Rain replied, playing the game well as he ignored everyone else and dragged Shi-Woo over to meet the other Bekhai. “Come, let me introduce you to my family. Believe it or not, this lovely young lady here is not my sister, but rather my mother, Sarnai...”

By all rights, Shi-Woo should have insisted they greet his brother first, as Jeong-Hun was Central’s Marshal while Shi-Woo himself was merely a business associate, but Big Brother seemed mildly amused by the boy’s antics while many of the nobles behind him looked positively green with envy and regret. Shi-Woo could read their thoughts from their expressions, for they’d all heard tales of the Yo Family’s recent windfalls, most of which could be attributed to their close association with Falling Rain.

Not to say it’d been nothing but calm waters and gentle winds, but the benefits far outweighed the costs, which was all that mattered to most greedy merchants, Shi-Woo himself included. Let the others stew in the jealousy a little while longer, for they too could see the Bekhai carriages sitting in the plaza below, neatly surrounded by the iconic Death Corps Guards which made the scene look that much more Imperial. Already, Shi-Woo could hear their internal abacuses click-clacking away as the gathered merchants calculated the cost of each exquisite vehicle and the staggering profits they stood to earn if they could broker a deal with the Bekhai to sell them. Zhengui rosewood was forbidden to any but the Supreme Families, but this golden wood was a close approximation, and the affluent families of Central loved nothing more than to emulate their Imperial masters. Were Falling Rain to bring just one of these carriages to auction, it would no doubt sell at outrageous price as the nobles of Central beggared themselves in a bidding war over the right to own this first ‘Imperial’ carriage.

Ah, the boy was just full of pleasant surprises today, and Shi-Woo once again thanked his lucky star for guiding him to where he stood today.

Since Falling Rain arrived with the two most influential individuals of the Northern province, Big Brother Jeong-Hun had arranged for a suitable welcoming party to come greet them. Not only was he here himself, as a sign of respect to his Northern counterpart, he also brought representatives from all his closest allies along with him, not to mention the aforementioned fence-sitters who had yet to choose a side. A good thing too, because while officially, they were all here to receive Colonel General Nian Zu and Northern Marshal Yuzhen, in truth, they were all here to gain the measure of Falling Rain and the Bekhai, and the boy had not disappointed.

Truth be told, even Shi-Woo himself could hardly believe this was the same Falling Rain he’d met in Nan Ping just over a year ago. Dressed as he was in his fine silken shirt and dark-leather armour, one could easily mistake him for a novice soldier of middling wealth who had yet to see action, rather than the hard-bitten veteran he’d since grown into. With his cheery, bright-eyed smile and goofy menagerie of pets, it was hard to believe that he was the preeminent talent of his generation, a man who fought and beat back a million-strong army of Defiled in utter defiance of the odds. There he stood before the welcoming crowd, the wealthy elites of Central, and a multitude of spies to demonstrate his good health, vast wealth, and touching sincerity as he introduced Shi-Woo to his beloved family.

The boy gave the Yo family much face in doing so, and his mother gave face to the rest of the gathered individuals by loudly scolding him for neglecting them. Between her fierce disapproval and his sheepish embarrassment, the exchange seemed so natural and believable it must have been rehearsed a thousand times. A masterful maneuver, and Big Brother went along with it, laughing off Rain’s subsequent apology and attributing it to the ‘excitement of youth’. Since Central’s Marshal took no offence at the lapse in manners, how could anyone else dare to voice their displeasure? And thus, this ‘gaffe’ was quickly swept under the rug and Big Brother was free to introduce his allies and carry on with all the planned pomp and pageantry.

Or he would be, if the hard-headed Nian Zu didn’t have the social graces of a drunken ox, interrupting after only the second introduction. “Esteemed gentlemen, it has been a long and tiring journey,” he said, with a feigned smile so faint it was barely visible, “And I am an old and tired man, so if we could table the introductions for another day? The sooner you show my soldiers to their billets, the sooner this old soldier can rest.”

“Of course, of course,” Big Brother replied, taking Nian Zu’s gruff demeanour in stride and abandoning all of his lavish plans. A lesser man might have taken offence and tried to convince the Colonel General to offer face, but this was why Jeong-Hun was Central’s Marshal while Shi-Woo didn’t even merit the rank of Lieutenant Marshal. Then again, he preferred things this way, because merchants only needed to be diplomatic when there was something to be gained, so Shi-Woo didn’t begrudge his older brother for his accomplishments.

Having long since prepared for their arrival, Jeong-Hun brought Marshal Yuzhen and Colonel General Nian Zu away while his people led Nian Zu’s soldiers to their quarters in the heart of the Citadel. This left Shi-Woo free to bring Falling Rain away, for the boy’s status and circumstances warranted a more personal touch. They could hardly let him stay in a soldier’s billet, so Shi-Woo had purchased a manor just for this occasion, one large enough to fit his family and guards, yet small enough to easily secure without an entire army camped around them. There was still room enough for the Bekhai Khishigs to do just that, and a good thing too since one could never be too cautious when it came to the safety of an Imperial Scion, which Falling Rain technically was. There was even a pond just outside the manor large enough for the Divine Turtle to swim in, but only just barely, and she made herself right at home as soon as they arrived.

Leaving his mother and sister to oversee the defences and unload the inordinate number of carriages bearing personal belongings, Falling Rain extended an invitation for tea and snacks, which Shi-Woo graciously accepted. After spending an appropriate amount of time exchanging pleasantries and sipping tea in the dining room, Shi-Woo swallowed the last bite of his delicious pastry, wiped his lips clean, and folded his hands atop the table in silent assertion that they move on to business. The Imperial Servant caught on to Shi-Woo’s intention first, but before she could quietly remind him, Falling Rain picked up on it as well. “Kuang Biao,” he said, turning to the Death Corps Guard standing directly at his side. “If you could be so kind as to... well, step outside and not eavesdrop. Pass the word along to the rest of the Death Corps as well, please.”

Hardly subtle, but at least he knew not to trust the Death Corps without question anymore. They would guard him with their lives of course, but they were also liable to share any secrets they learned with any Imperial Noble who asked, which was why the Emperor bestowed Death Corps Guards to all his important Imperial Clansmen. Once the room was secured by a trusted Bekhai Khishig and Shi-Woo’s guard, Shou Yi, Falling Rain slid a stack of documents across the table, each one bearing the likeness of a man or woman and their respective weapons. “These people were all Martial Warriors,” he said, his tone cold with anger. “I would like to know who they worked for, and I would be deeply grateful for your help.”

Noting the past tense, Shi-Woo realized he was looking at portraits of the dead. “Easily done, so long as they were locals and you still have their weapons.” Even with Shi-Woo’s vast network of connections, he was powerless to identify Imperial Assassins, but if these Martial Warriors were Central-born, then they would have been trained and equipped here as well. There were only so many Divine Blacksmiths in Central, and even the secretive ones could be recognized through unique details in their work, meaning that it was only a matter of time before Shi-Woo could narrow down the faction which employed these Martial Warriors, if not identify the warriors themselves. “Trouble on the journey over?”

“Yes, but they didn’t attack me, not directly.” Clenching his fists, Rain took a deep breath and said, “I would have preferred it if they had, and even left an opening for my enemies to take advantage of, but I played my hand too early and then was left with no other option but to hide away in my carriage. Since they couldn’t get to me, these assassins went after Luo-Luo and almost killed Song in the process, so I mean to use their employer as an object lesson. I wanted to string their bodies up and leave them outside the Citadel to see who would come claim them, but I was told this would be... frowned upon.”

Repressing a shiver, Shi-Woo managed a faint smile in response to what he hoped was a joke in poor taste. Desecration of corpses was the domain of scavengers and Defiled, not quasi-Imperial Nobles like Falling Rain, but still, Shi-Woo felt the need to offer a warning. “Your anger is understandable, but this is hardly the time or place to wage warfare, in the shadows or otherwise.”

“True, but my enemies seem to disagree.” With a smile that left no doubt as to his bloodthirsty reputation, Falling Rain added, “I would still appreciate if you could find me those names, but don’t worry. I won’t act yet. Revenge is a dish best served cold, after all.”

A novel take on the more common idiom ‘When a nobleman takes revenge, ten years is not too late’. The boy had an interesting way of seeing things, and a penchant for doing the impossible, so Shi-Woo put aside his reservations and put the documents aside. “Very well. Now I must ask, are things well between you and the Colonel General?”

The boy didn’t answer immediately, but not because he was hiding anything, but because he was surprised by Shi-Woo’s question. “...As far as I know,” he finally replied. “Why do you ask?”

“Because his choice of guests raises certain concerns.” Even the Imperial Servant seemed confused, and Shi-Woo was glad he’d spoken to his son before coming here. Sung-Hoon was right, Rain and Zheng Luo were intelligent, but inexperienced, and they both knew it, so neither one would take offence at having their mistakes pointed out. A logical response, but alas, the world was filled with egotistical fools who never learned how to handle criticism or failure, so it was a good thing Falling Rain wasn’t one of them. “On the surface, there is nothing amiss with Nian Zu’s guest list,” Shi Woo began, “But one cannot help but think he is trying to replace you with someone less... impaired.”

