Which was entirely the wrong message to send at such a delicate time, especially with Shi-Woo and Marshal Yuzhen working so desperately to have Falling Rain’s non-combat contributions recognized by the world at large. Wasted effort, now. He could hear the questions now. ‘If Living Legend Nian Zu is ready to cast Rain aside, then what hope of recovery could there possibly be?’ Hmph. Soldiers playing at politics was like giving swords to drunken children. A recipe for disaster. Better if Nian Zu left politics for the politicians, rather than blunder about like a bull in a porcelain shop...

Unfortunately, despite Shi-Woo’s warning, Falling Rain didn’t seem to mind. “Is that what he’s doing? Not a bad choice. Zian and BoShui are too old to be young talents, so Huushal is probably the best pick unless Nian Zu can convince Fung to work harder. Lack of motivation is what’s holding him back, so maybe this is a good thing.”

Shi-Woo wholeheartedly disagreed, but there was nothing to be gained from convincing Falling Rain that this was a disaster in the making. Besides, even if the Colonel General had erred or had ill designs, Rain wasn’t the sort of man to act without hard proof. He was ruthless to his enemies, but sincere to his friends, two reasons why Shi-Woo stood by his side for so long. Putting the politically inept Nian Zu out of mind, he moved on to other topics of importance, discussing the news of the citadel and specifics regarding what he should expect from his enemies, as well as how they should proceed from here. There was so much still to do and so little time to do it, for in three short days, the highest echelons of nobility in the outer provinces would gather here in the Central Citadel, ostensibly to celebrate the Imperial victory at Sinuji. In truth, most would be watching to see the Legate’s attitude towards ‘Imperial Consort’ Falling Rain and learn if the boy’s Imperial title was worth the parchment it was written on, for many had received concubines and offers of peerage for themselves.

There were new and exciting times ahead, and Shi-Woo prayed to the Mother Above that he’d backed the right horse, because if not, then the whole Yo family might be dragged down along with him.

Assuming they survived, of course.

Chapter Meme
