Born and raised in Central’s Nan Ping, Yo Shi-Woo was undoubtedly biased towards his home province, but even he had to admit the Northerners knew how to make an entrance.

Riding at the head of the ten-thousand soldier convoy was the highest ranking officer in the Northern Imperial Army, Situ Nian Zu. A hundred-years-old and a hero amongst heroes, the grizzled veteran made for an impressive sight in his ebony armour, with its gold trim and his flowing cloak accentuating his heroic figure. Seated atop his obsidian horse, the Living Legend gazed out at the crowd from beneath his open-faced helm, so stern and austere it quieted their cheers, for this was a man who fought not for honour and glory, but for duty itself.

Trailing almost twenty meters behind Nian Zu were the soldiers of the North themselves. There were no blaring horns or beating drums, no marching chants or proclaiming heralds as a Colonel General from Central might employ, only a single man sitting atop his behemoth horse, followed by the stomping cadence of thousands of boots marching in lockstep through the gates. Much like their commander, these warriors were clad in dark armour and darker cloaks, all of which lent an air of menace and foreboding to these formidable foreign soldiers. The colours were not chosen for this reason, but because the burnished steel armour so favoured by the warriors of Central would be all but impossible to pick out amidst the blinding snow so commonly seen in the North, and cloaks were necessary to keep the soldiers warm and alive, but this didn’t take away from the impressive display before them.

Practicality over appearance, a chilling fact which rang true in every facet of these Northerner’s demeanour.

Not a single soldier was out of place amidst their ranks, and such flawless coordination came about from either practice or experience. In this case, it was clearly the latter, as these men and women were veterans one and all, warriors who cut their teeth defending the Northern Wall from Defiled invasions, and now they were here to defend Central with brutal efficiency. From Shi-Woo’s place atop the platform, built to welcome these Northern heroes, he saw that the gathered crowd was both intimidated and relieved. Intimidated because Nian Zu was a formidable man of almost peerless power, a career soldier and Peak Expert who struck a blow against an Enemy Divinity and lived to tell the tale. Relieved because if they found this man and his elite veterans intimidating, then think how the Defiled must feel when facing them on the field of battle.

A display of bold determination, plain and simple, and Shi-Woo quietly applauded Nian Zu’s efforts. It was easy to see why so many decorated officers called him the North’s Shuai Jiao, for they were two men cut from the same cloth. Honourable and ethical, some would say, stubborn and intractable to others, but however one framed it, they were both men of principle. Unlike Shuai Jiao, however, Nian Zu was finally dipping his toe into politics, having thrown the full weight of his support behind the Bekhai, and today’s entrance had been tailor-made to show it.

Still, it was easy to see that the Colonel General was a complete novice at politics, but then again, everyone who was anyone had known this for years. Riding in the centre of his soldiers were Nian Zu’s Famed Fifty, his honour guard of Peak Experts of humble descent, all arranged to escort Nian Zu’s guests to the banquet. Next to the Colonel General’s bold entrance, the overabundance of guards made his guests look timid in comparison, but politically, this was merely a minor blunder compared to their actual identities. Shi-Woo knew most of these young warriors by name and reputation, but this would be his first time meeting any of them in person, so he took the time to study them as they rode up to greet him, or rather, to greet his older brother, Yo Jeong-Hun, Central’s Marshal and host of Sinuji’s celebratory banquet.

Closest behind Nian Zu and riding in the centre of his peers was Situ Jia Zian, a fellow clansman and outcast with much in common with the Colonel General himself. A fitting parallel, to have these two black sheep riding so close together, and with the younger Situ Clansman poised as the leader of his peers to boot, but name, circumstances, and positioning aside, the two men were nothing alike. As the Mother’s Chosen Warriors, all Martial Warriors were handsome or beautiful to some degree, but where Nian Zu was a rugged, masculine warrior with broad shoulders and a barrel chest, Jia Zian was a slim and dainty pretty boy who fit right in with those worthless fops so commonly found throughout Central’s brothels and gambling dens. To make matters worse, where Nian Zu’s colours were black and gold, Jia Zian was dressed in teal, silver, and white. From the flowing mane on his tasselled helm to the shiny boots adorning his feet, and even his pure white stallion armoured in burnished steel barding, young Zian could not have done more to highlight the differences between himself and the Living Legend.

A pompous decision which did him no favours, for the former young patriarch of the Situ Clan had long since been painted as a debauched popinjay who deserved to be displaced as heir to the Clan. Likely all untrue, but the common people were a foolish bunch, more willing to believe bar-room stories than evidence laid out before their eyes...

It physically pained Shi-Woo to see this missed opportunity in action, for it would have taken almost no effort at all to paint young Zian in Nian Zu’s colours and hold him up as a prospective successor, but now the chance was lost, as first impressions were hard to change. Half the Citadel’s population had turned out to receive the Northern Delegation, lined up on the streets and rooftops between here and Nian Zu’s quarters in the heart of the Citadel, and every one of them would bear witness to the glaring disparity between Situ Nian Zu, a man who fought tooth and nail to reach his current staggering heights, and Situ Jia Zian, who was the very picture of an entitled dandy literally and figuratively riding on the Colonel General’s coat-tails.

Nothing could be further from the truth, of course, for young Zian was a fearsome duellist and able commander in his own right, but the huddled masses cared not for facts or information and made snap judgments based on appearance alone. Were this not the case, Nian Zu would have never become the man he was today, for his manly appearance alone was enough to stamp out the early ‘rumours’ of his ‘deviant sexual preferences’. In the eyes of the public, Nian Zu was far too heroic and masculine to prefer the company of men, as if that somehow made a difference, causing any and all attempts to spread the truth and ruin his reputation to fall hopelessly flat.

Amusingly enough, despite young Zian’s sordid history of lecherous delights, there were rumours floating about that Falling Rain conquered him not only on the sparring stage, but in the bedroom as well, a tale spread by tittering young women and jealous young men alike. Such was life and politics, where appearances mattered more than facts.

Laughable as all this might be, Zian’s image alone was enough for Shi-Woo to write him off as a lost cause, especially with the gallant and heroic looking Han BoShui riding beside him, sporting his signature tiger pauldrons in reference to his old reputation as the Paper Tiger of the Han Clan. Where Zian had fallen from his pedestal to follow in Nian Zu’s footsteps as an outcast, BoShui persevered and overcame his failings to become the Young Patriarch in truth, and now he had the full support of his Clan behind him. Unfortunately, this meant less now than it would have a year ago, because the Society of Heaven and Earth was no longer the united powerhouse it once was. A large part of this was due to BoShui himself, because by supporting him, the Han Clan was also indirectly supporting the Bekhai, which led to fracturing amongst the unified forces of the Society. Many still remembered the shameful loss of face dealt to them by the Bekhai and Falling Rain in particular, which made many of the Han Clan’s allies shift their allegiance to the Situ Clan instead, the only remaining powerhouse amongst the Society who still stood against the Bekhai.

Internal politics aside, Han BoShui was the living embodiment of nobility itself, a stately young man whose mere presence exuded power and authority. A shame that he spent so much of his time extolling Falling Rain’s virtues, much like those lackeys found so commonly hanging around disreputable fops. Young BoShui truly admired Falling Rain and wanted to share his admiration with the masses, but it would have been better if he’d kept silent and let his actions speak for him instead. Had he done so, then the people of the Empire would see him stand by Falling Rain and think, “Perhaps there’s more to the Bekhai savage than we thought.” Instead, they heard him sing his ridiculous praises and wondered, “What hold does the Bekhai savage have over poor, heroic BoShui?”

The next guest on Nian Zu’s list was almost entirely unknown, but between his half-wolf heritage and roosequin mount, any fool could see that the young man was of Bekhai origins. Huushal was the boy’s name, accompanied by his mother and Mentor Ghurda, whose recent exploits in Sinuji had garnered her some small amount of fame. More importantly, young Huushal’s heritage marked him as Major General Baatar’s half-brother by blood, unless the improbable had taken place and the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains housed not one, but two Ancestral Wolves. As such, the boy’s presence showed Nian Zu’s dedication to his Bekhai allies, bringing yet another of their young warriors with him to this most exclusive of banquets, one with close ties to his second-in-command. More importantly, young Huushal was an imposing man in his own right, almost shoulder to shoulder with the gargantuan BoShui despite riding a compact roosequin instead of a behemoth warhorse. With his pale, porcelain skin, bright, silver hair, and yellow, wolfish eyes, young Huushal made for an exotic sight, which had many a young maiden fluttering their lashes at the handsome, hulking young warrior, and a stark contrast to the slight and slim Falling Rain.

Thus far, one could argue that these young men were not Nian Zu’s guests at all, and that they were only invited out of respect for their elders, namely disgraced Lieutenant General Situ Jia Yang, Major General Han BoHai, and Baatar, all of whom worked closely with the Colonel General. Were it not for the remaining four guests, this argument might hold merit, but it was clear Nian Zu had purposely picked a group of promising young heroes to accompany him to the banquet, all of whom were affiliated with the Bekhai in some way, shape or form.

Such as Nian Zu’s fourth guest, Lin Ji Yeon, formerly Situ Ji Yeon, who at one point had been betrothed to current Situ Clan heir, Gulong. That all changed when Ji Yeon’s brother left her to die on the front lines, supposedly under Gulong’s orders no less, and their plot would have succeeded if not for Falling Rain’s intervention. A masterful counterstroke bringing her along, for not only was her adoptive father and maternal uncle, Lin Xiang Gu, a rich and powerful merchant with deep pockets and widespread influence worth courting for allegiance, the girl served as a living reminder of what the Situ Clan’s allies should expect from the overbearing Rang Min, to be used and cast aside once a better offer came along. Not only this, but Lin Ji Yeon’s presence was a weapon in and of itself, because even though her story would amount to nothing if brought before a Justicar, it would see Gulong and Rang Min crucified in the court of opinion and shamed before all their peers, allies, and the public in general, for there were few things more shameful than leaving one’s woman to die.

Yet thus far, Ji Yeon had kept her silence, which meant Rang Min would have to tread lightly, and perhaps even keep young Gulong away from the banquet entirely. A brilliant move on Nian Zu’s part, no doubt suggested to him by the devious Northern Marshal, Shing Yuzhen.

Which made Nian Zu’s last two guests all the more surprising. Whereas the other eight guests consisted of promising young warriors accompanied by prominent and powerful individuals, the last two were... unexceptional, to put it generously. Keeping to the theme of young heroes associated with the Bekhai, Nian Zu invited Tong Da Fung along to the banquet, to be accompanied by his manservant, Fu Zhu Li. Truly a disgrace, bringing a manservant into this banquet, for there were wealthy nobles and decorated Major Generals who failed to make the guest list, but nobles were an eccentric bunch, and Tong Da Fung was no exception. Worse, there was no merit in bringing the boy with them, unless it was a request from his Mentor and leader of the Bekhai, Akanai. Fung’s military record was worse than non-existent, as it started and ended with a minor role in the battle of Sanshu, where he was promptly defeated by the traitor Dastan and subsequently removed from battle before even entering the city. Considering the circumstances, Fung’s disgraceful defeat could easily be overlooked if not for his contemptible behaviour during the First Imperial Grand Banquet, where not only did he spend all his time flirting with every eligible young lady in sight, but he also actively avoided sparring with other young warriors of renown. Instead, he ‘randomly’ selected one challenge to answer every day, the bare minimum required not to be considered a coward, and then promptly defeated his opponents without mercy.

