“Who's next?” Ren asked, and each of the succubi asked for what they wanted, and he filled them up. When he was done, he could see all of their eyes glowed and he could feel them in his Aura. I guess that the more I feed them, the longer I'll be able to feel them afterwards.

“That makes sense.” Teepo said. “The more they take from you, the more of you they have in them.”

I don't know if they would prefer that, considering our current situation. Ren thought.

“You could ask them if that's what they want.” Teepo suggested.

No, I don't want to detect a lie. Ren smiled. I'm steeping myself in ignorance for now.

Ren used the Staff of Earth to drop the protective walls and stored both Instant Towers, then waited until the glow in the eyes of the succubi faded. He couldn't feel them in his Aura anymore, either.

“Are we ready to head out to the next cavern?” Ren asked.

The succubi nodded and stood up almost as one, and Ren took out the Wand of Transport. He cast two skeleton-like Phantom Steeds for the skeleton knights, then cast his own Phantom Steed. It still had the neck and chest damage, and Ren pat it as he climbed up onto the saddle.

“Let's go.” Ren said, and they all flew out of the safe zone and up the next tunnel. I'm surprised there's not multiple tunnels to go through. He thought.

“Maybe they didn't want any confusion over where to go.” Teepo said.

Or they're luring us into a false sense of security. Ren thought in amusement as they came out into the first cavern where the harpies would have attacked. He brought everyone to a stop in the air when he thought of something, and took out the All-Seeing Mirror again.

“Show me the Lost Knights skulls in this cavern.” Ren said, and three skulls appeared on the map. “Nice.” He said. “Seldanna and Wynphine, get that one.” He showed them where it was. “Be careful with it.”

“Right away!” Seldanna said, then she and her sister took off to retrieve it.

“Ellaria and Miastina, grab this one.” Ren said and showed them where it was. They left and he looked at Zunala. “According to the map, this is the most difficult one to get to.”

“I will succeed.” Zunala said. “Kelfaren, let's go.”

The two succubi flew off and Ren waited with the rest. Surprisingly, they all returned within moments of each other with the three skulls. Ren checked the All-Seeing Mirror again, and it was the right skulls.

“Thank you.” Ren said and stored the skulls, and checked the All-Seeing Mirror for what was in the next cavern section. It showed him a black kangaroo-like creature with a huge single eye in it's head, and huge talons on it's hands and feet.

“That looks bad.” Teepo said.

What is it? Ren asked.

“I have no idea.” Teepo responded. “I haven't seen any beetles in the caverns so far, either.”

Maybe they were all smart enough not to come here. Ren said and Teepo chittered in laughter. Ren tried using Identify on the creature, and all he received was a popup for the All-Seeing Mirror. I guess we have to go in blind, despite how much I hate doing that. He thought.

“Stay cautious and up high.” Teepo said.

What about the stalactites on the top of the cavern? Ren asked.

“Use the Staff of Earth to move them out of the way.” Teepo suggested.

Good idea. Ren thought and took out the staff. He played around with just shifting the dirt and rock to the side so it would move the stalactites out of the way, when a ripple of dirt broke one of the stalactites off and it fell down to the cavern floor and shattered.

“Whoa.” Teepo said. “Are you thinking what I'm thinking?”

If you're thinking that we have a huge area-covering natural weapon at our disposal, then yes. Ren thought happily and looked at the succubi. “Activate your Displacement enchantments and let's go!”
