“I’ll get dinner ready,” Mato said, walking over to the campfire and summoning his pots from his storage ring.

“And how, exactly, are you going to do that?” Calen asked, just as the pot materialized in front of him and the stupid mace got in the way, knocking it right out of his hands. Everyone stared as the pot clanged against the ground.

“Ugh, this is stupid.” He stared morosely at the pot on the ground, knocking it out of reach with the mace or the shield, and trying in vain to collect it.

“So, cursed items,” Lyeneru said.

“I see,” Vivian answered. “I’ll let the guild know to bring items back for proper appraisal before equipping them.”

“You might want to let Commander Brand know, just in case,” Malika added.

Mato finally managed to get his left hand on the handle of the pot and stood triumphant in the pose of a mighty conqueror. His wry smile spoiled it, however.

“I’ll get Tabitha after we finish debriefing,” Calen said, and Mato’s face fell.

It was not his friend’s betrayal that hurt – he even understood – they all were hungry, and he was stuck with a stupid weapon and shield glued to his arms. But he loved cooking, and it was embarrassing to have to rely on someone else to feed him.

Wait, I hope I can use a fork? Or this stupid shield for a food shovel? “Wait… Malika! Can you cut my arm off and heal it back?”

“That might free you of the weapon, but it’s unlikely to remove the curse,” Lyeneru interjected, puncturing his brilliant plan. “You’d still be taking damage.”

“Might be worth it,” he muttered, cringing at the indignity of asking one of his friends to feed him if he couldn’t figure out how to wield a spoon.

“What about the dungeon itself?” Vivian asked.

“We encountered three main variants of the Sylvan humanoids: archers, warriors, and druids,” Lyeneru said. “The archers seem to be the most dangerous; they have two strong disengage skills and can use Ambush multiple times per fight. The druids are shapeshifters. They can summon monsters and have strong heals. The warriors can inflict Mutagenic Corruption, so they have to be killed quickly, or rotated off the tanks.”

“The dungeon also has an accelerated respawn time,” Calen said. “About fifteen minutes for normal monsters.”

“Don’t forget to tell her about the Creep Spawners,” Mato said, sitting down grumpily, not quite knowing what to do with his hands.

“Creep Spawners?” Vivian asked, an eyebrow arching.

“Oh, yes. The creep creates spawning pods, and they spawn several of the more common dungeon mobs every few minutes. They’re the reason the dungeon is in a continual dungeon break. They can probably be killed, but I think the dungeon will just respawn them again in fifteen minutes,” Calen explained. “They identify as monsters.”

“We would need more people to defeat the raid boss in the marketplace, but we probably can’t afford to take them off guard duty,” Lyeneru continued. “I recommend we try entering from a different entrance tomorrow – maybe the sewer or the forest cavern – and explore further.”

“That sounds reasonable,” Vivian said. “And Mato, I’ll show you where the crafters have set up. You can ask them for some wisdom gear tomorrow when they wake up.”

“Thanks,” he said with a frown. He was going to have to endure the embarrassment of asking Thuli to make him some pure wisdom plate or something, and who knew if it would even be enough.

“Also, check your regeneration before you go to sleep with that ring on. Malika has been healing you every few minutes,” Vivian said before getting up to leave.

“Aah…” Shit. He hadn’t even considered that. The ring did twelve damage per second to him continually, and with his resistance, he could see himself taking only ten damage per second. It was a little better in Bear Form because his evolved Elemental Shapeshifter forms granted a nice bonus to resistance. He pulled up his status sheet, frowning as he tried to work out the numbers.

“Need a hand?” Calen asked, getting a snicker from Malika.

Mato frowned at the joke but shared his numbers anyway. Math was not his strong suit, certainly not quickly.

Health RegenerationPercentage of maximum health regenerated per hour.+190.6% Sanctuary.Total: +190.6%

Health: 4893/7082

“That’s three-point-seven health per second,” Calen said, after a pause of just a couple of seconds. “Perhaps try your Bear Form?”

Mato obliged, swapping to his Bear Form and sharing the numbers a second time. It was complicated to work out without shifting, mainly because Natural Prowess shifted which attributes it enhanced based on his form, and while Bear Form had a whole lot more health, his wisdom had actually dropped.

Health RegenerationPercentage of maximum health regenerated per hour.+169.3% Sanctuary.Total: +169.3%

Health: 9996/14538

“Six-point-eight and change,” Calen said, pursing his lips.

“So, I need healing all night, or some more resistance gear?” Mato asked. The prospect of dying in his sleep to the parasitic ring he couldn’t remove was moderately terrifying – and worse, extremely embarrassing.

“Looks like it,” Calen said.

“I don’t mind,” Malika said suddenly. “I can just meditate nearby.”

“Wait, let me try Tree Form first,” Mato said. “Arboreal Sanctuary gets a big bonus to regeneration in that form.”

Health RegenerationPercentage of maximum health regenerated per hour.+325.6% Sanctuary.+500% Tree Form.Total: +825.6%

Health: 25637/36765

“Seriously? You have thirty-six thousand health?” Malika exclaimed in surprise.

“Yes,” he sent. Normally, he didn’t use his Tree Form much, but lately he had been sleeping in it every night to cleanse the corruption that kept seeping through. Hearing Malika’s surprise was at least a little soothing to his bruised ego.

“That’s a winner,” Calen said. “Eighty-four-point-three health per second. Mato, you’re officially a beast.”

“Thanks,” Mato said, shifting back from his tree form. At least he wouldn’t have to sleep with the indignity of relying on Malika to keep him alive.

As if on cue, Calen got up. “I’ll go see if Tabitha has any food left over.”

Mato grumbled. Food would be very welcome after a long evening of fighting through creep and Sylvan monsters, although technically it might be possible for him to survive just on mana like Lira had done, provided he spent enough time in his Tree Form. Still, the fact that he couldn’t cook made him sad.

Ali struggled onward, enduring the uncomfortable heat of the strange hellfire-affinity plants that hung off the walls and the stench of the blood that dripped and leaked into the passages, seemingly emanating from everywhere and forming warm, dark puddles and rivulets in the deepening darkness. Azryet’s kobold scout continued picking out what were presumably the optimal paths without hesitation from the myriad turns and twisting caverns and tunnels, but Ali was well and truly lost.

It was not just that she was lost. As they crept deeper into the dungeon’s maze-like tunnels, the domain grew denser, pressing down on her like a smothering blanket of pea soup, and the shadows grew deeper and darker. She knew she had to keep alert but the exhaustion and constant need for hyper-alertness made her thoughts feel like sludge, as if her physical stumbling was a manifestation of her frayed mental state. Initially, it was just harder to see behind boulders and into alcoves, but now the shadows seemed thick enough to cut, reaching ominously out into the passageway as if to clutch at her.

She kept a constant connection with all her minions, relying more and more on their diverse perception skills as her eyes grew progressively more worthless in the deepening shadows. She followed her vanguard out into a broader cavern, but without her Devouring Consumption and her Sacred Ooze, she would never have known how large it was because she simply couldn’t see all the way to the edges. That was how dense the shadows were. She was beginning to suspect they were not of natural origin.

A strange ripple flickered through the shadows, and her chime sounded as the magic prickled against her skin.

You have been cursed with Vampiric Hex+31 Blood damage per second.+25% vulnerability to bleeding.Attackers gain health on hit.Duration refreshed on hit with Blood damage.Curse – Duration: 30 seconds.You have been cursed with BlindnessYou cannot see.Curse – Duration: 2 minutes.

What little Ali could see of the cavern plunged into pitch darkness as she was hit with two simultaneous curses.

Shit, something is in here! How she had missed it, she didn’t know, but she frantically scanned all her available senses while she surrounded herself with a preemptive bubble of barrier magic. Her Oozes couldn’t feel any vibrations, and her blood-affinity minions were almost worthless, being assaulted with an overwhelming sensory overload from the rivers of blood that flowed through the shadow-shrouded chamber.

There! Ali suddenly saw dark tendrils of mana rapidly forming into shapes. Shadow magic! A volley of six perfectly silent shadow bolts flew out in all directions, followed immediately by another volley and then another, spreading out through the cavern and striking her minions.

“Attack!” Ali called out, directing her minions to where she had seen the mana formations, quickly checking in with her mages to see if they had seen it, too.

Her monsters charged forward blindly, and the formations of mana flickered again. Teleport… and… Is that Blood Siphon?

She struggled to pinpoint the monster, but moments later, her Devouring Consumption struck something solid, and she caught it through the Ooze’s sensitive sense of vibration.

Sentinel – Demon – level ??? (Shadow / Blood).

An Eye of Agnor! She couldn’t exactly count the eyes this time, but it had to be. This one, however, was an entirely different beast. Somehow, it was filling the whole chamber with a cloying shroud of shadow magic, and with its Blindness curse, half her minions couldn’t see a thing. The eye demon may as well have been invisible to her and her entire minion army, and if it wasn’t for mana sight and the constant stream of shadow bolts and teleportation magic, Ali might have waltzed right into its hungry maw.

But the bigger problem was – most of her minions couldn’t see whatever it was that had just been summoned into the room either.

Did it summon stealthed demons? Are they invisible?

But the cackle and detonation of fresh hellfire fireballs, and the familiar howls of wargs, told her it wasn’t just teleporting in Abyssal Stalkers or other stealthy demons; somehow, the eye demon had cast a blanket of shadows across the room, concealing everything from view.

“Remove the Blind curse with higher priority,” Ali said, knowing her witch doctor was standing right beside her. “Focus on the melee.” Then she fragmented her barrier magic into several dozen tiny shards and blasted them through the room in a swirling maelstrom while she settled her awareness into her Devouring Consumption to see if it could feel the vibrations of anything she hit.

“Yes, Seeker,” Kir’vella cackled. She would need to be on decursing duty full-time, at least until Ali somehow gained a handle on the fight. She and her mages could see the Eye of Agnor, or at least its magic. Her melee monsters could barely see anything. I’ll have to guide them manually.

Through the sliver of awareness that she used to guide her Devouring Consumption, Ali encouraged it to go after the vibrations of whatever monsters in the room were not hovering above the ground. She could tell there was a blindness curse on her ooze already, but oozes did not have vision; as soon as there were demons running around the chamber, in contact with the ground, her gigantic ooze could see them just fine, regardless of whatever the shadow magic was doing to conceal their presence. The massive blob of slime the Devouring Consumption had become was her best choice for cleanup duty.

Mana surged from the back of the cavern, and a flicker of blood-red magic tore outward, a storm of blades that ripped into her melee creatures, tearing large chunks of health from them in an instant. Her healers instantly reacted, chaining Blood Siphon and holy Restoration magic. Ali’s awareness split a second time, settling into one of her acolytes. It wasn’t exactly the best sense for this, but Healer’s Sight at least told her the approximate whereabouts of any monster with health; it was ideally suited for healing, but in this situation, it was likely her best demon detector.

What it told her chilled her to the bone. The Eye of Agnor was constantly firing off beams of blood magic into the crowded melee fighters before it, and it was healing rapidly from the damage it dished out.

“Kir’mogan! Use Mortal Wounds on the Eye,” she shouted, loud enough for her Bone Warriors to hear. The healing rate she was seeing on the demon was phenomenal – she wasn’t even sure the fifty percent healing reduction would be enough – but without it, she stood no chance.

Then she saw something new: a meta-magic formation that she was almost certain would greatly increase the area of effect of another spell, coupled with a powerful shadow magic formation that must have been the monster’s primary attack. Shockingly, it did absolutely no damage. Puzzled for a few moments, Ali let her awareness spread out, sharing the mana sight of her mages, and finally, she recognized it.

Shroud of Darkness. Or something like that. Ali wasn’t exactly certain of the name, given how much it diverged in structure from the spell she had studied in her library’s magical tomes, but it was an area shadow magic that obscured the light, enhancing any stealth effects within its range, just like the traditional Shroud of Darkness spell. It still didn’t fully explain the stealth shroud granted to all the ordinary demons being teleported in, nor did it explain how the Eye was continually thwarting her efforts to ambush it, but at least she now knew how it controlled the darkness of the cavern. That’s the one to target.

Ali waited patiently while the monster unleashed unseen destruction upon her minions, a continuous stream of blood blades, shadow bolt volleys, and blood siphon, forcing her shamans and acolytes to scramble to keep up with the healing. Come on!

