She allowed the teleports to continue, waiting for her moment. Out of nowhere, it suddenly appeared. The same meta-magic formation that enhanced area of effect, and then the Shroud of Darkness formation appeared, flickering black strands of mana against the shadowy backdrop. She pounced; the anti-formation already prepared within her mind. She ignored the meta magic – disrupting that would simply lower the effect of the spell, not cancel it – but as any competent mage knew, if you disrupted the main spell, all support and meta magic would fizzle without a proper target to enhance, granting a much more potent denial effect.

Her golden needles lanced out, brilliant streaks of gold against the darkness, puncturing the shadow formation. It hovered for several moments with large chunks dissolving from within before it collapsed into motes of unbound mana. The Eye of Agnor let out a furious screech, a disconcertingly high-pitched noise for such a large monster, and the first sound it had made so far.

Suddenly, Ali could see again. She blinked at the abrupt return of her vision, taking in the full extent of the cavern at a glance – all the hostile demonic monsters, the Eye, her forces, and the horde of tiny little sacred healing slimes crawling about.

“Bloodlust!” Ali yelled. At her command, the blood runes erupted from Joraa’s chest, and her melee monsters roared with renewed battle fury. Tol’brekk’s axes blurred with speed, the Armored Drake’s fire struck dead center on the Eye of Agnor, causing it to wail and screech in pain, and the flurry of bone tonfas tore into its flesh, applying Mortal Wounds.

The only shame was that her Devouring Consumption had no blood to benefit from bloodlust, though it seemed to be doing quite well enough with an imp struggling inside of it and a struggling Hellfire Warg raised high into the air in the firm grasp of a giant coiling tentacle.

It’s getting really big.

It took substantially more effort to kill this Eye of Agnor than the last one, but Ali bore down on its magic, completely denying the shroud of shadows. She kept Kir’mogan and her other Bone Warrior on it at all times, maintaining Mortal Wounds, and the rest of her forces applied continuous pressure, eventually out-damaging the Eye of Agnor’s ludicrous blood healing ability. It was remarkable what being able to see could do.

Your group has defeated Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 138 (Shadow / Blood).Your Devouring Consumption has reached level 314 (+3, 214 temporary).Your Devouring Consumption has met the requirements for class evolution.

It hit one hundred! I need my shrine, Ali thought as she watched her Grimoire inscribe the final level gain for her Devouring Consumption onto its glowing parchment pages. Even if it lost all two hundred and fourteen temporary levels, her slime was still a three-mark monster now, having joined the ranks of her most powerful minions. Her idea of using her slime through the chasm had been an astonishing success – the temporary levels granting way more than enough attributes for her monster to continue consistently killing demons far above its actual level, and this was her reward. If nothing else, she would have an evolved ooze when she finally returned home.

She quickly deconstructed the demons, earning another Demon Core from the Eye of Agnor. Do all second-tier evolved demons have them?

Demon Core.Greater Shadow Essence x2.

“Miss, we should press on,” the scout kobold said. “With this much of a ruckus, Destraggoth is sure to send reinforcements soon.”

“Right, lead the way.” Ali’s job was not nearly done.

“East of your position, five hundred yards, three-mark Fungaloth.”

The telepathic communication from Commander Brand’s aide prickled in his mind, and Aiden sprang to his feet and stared toward the east. In the dim, predawn light, he saw some huge shapes moving around, and the sounds of frenetic battle suddenly carried, reaching his ears.

“We’re up!” he shouted, sprinting toward the sounds of crashing and the screams of the guards stationed up ahead.

Devan vanished from sight in a sudden gust of wind and shadows, while Havok lit up like a beacon of blazing holy light and charged. His low chanting sounded as if he were praying. Not a bad idea, although he was not sure if Azryet could have done anything to help them now. Take whatever help we can get, he thought grimly.

Following close behind him as he ran, Aiden could already feel the gathering storm of Kaitlyn’s lightning by the way the hairs on the back of his neck and arms felt like they wanted to crawl out of his skin. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Flynn floating above and behind him on a chunk of rock while a several-ton boulder hovered in the air above his head.

His group was nothing if not reliable. He focused on the task at hand, sprinting along behind the radiantly incandescent Goblin and channeling his ice mana into his swords. Thin streamers of fine ice crystals and snowflakes trailed in his wake.

The scene of the battle was a disaster. A small grassy hillock, now covered with mud and deep grooves. Guards lay strewn about, moaning in pain or lying broken in unconscious heaps while the shattered remnants of their squad valiantly tried to hold off the giant, misshapen fungal aberration. A level-fifty guard raised his shield, but the Fungaloth bit right through it, shattering the shield and taking the man’s arm in a scream and a spray of blood. The stricken guard fell to his knees before the giant monster, but at the moment it tried to eat his head, Havok’s shield suddenly appeared between the massive, slavering maw and the poor guard.

“Havok help!”

Nice timing, Havok.

A huge grinding crack rang out as the Fungaloth broke its teeth on the heavy shield reinforced with radiant holy magic, and then Havok stabbed under it with his glowing shortsword, unleashing his Holy Smite into the monster. His spell flashed spectacularly, and the ground at his feet erupted into holy flame.

Aiden ignored the stricken guard at Havok’s feet, knowing the consecrated flames spreading across the ground would begin healing him while he dashed forward using Ice Dance. The freezing mana within him blended with his stamina, accelerating his body with such speed that he crossed the last couple of yards in a flash, his swords whirling and slicing as vortices of ice trailed the path of his blades. The sharp swords, custom-crafted by Thuli out of pure mithril, channeled his mana into two great slicing gashes on the hindquarters of the Fungaloth, and then the ice vortices his magic had spawned smashed into it for secondary damage, simultaneously inflicting his signature ailment, Chill.

He wasn’t a particularly high-damage melee class, even though that had been his hope at the outset. But there was no way he could compare to the monsters Devan or Kaitlyn had become in sheer offensive power, or to Flynn in general versatility. But his Chill affliction dramatically improved their control of any fight, slowing the monster down, both in terms of movement and melee attack speed. As long as he kept hitting, the monster would be much easier to tank and do far less damage to his teammates. He struck again, refreshing the ice affliction, ensuring that his magic seeped deeper into the giant monster.

Suck on that, you freak!

Havok shifted, drawing the creature away from the fallen guardsmen and women, leaving his signature consecrated holy flame blazing on the ground around them, and then the entire battle erupted with the violence of Kaitlyn’s incandescent lightning assault. Enchanted arrows rained down on the monster, exploding with deafening thunderclaps and the continuous blinding flashes of her signature lightning magic barrage.

A sudden gust of wind by his side told him Devan’s silent Ambush had just struck, and just in case there was any doubt, he was suddenly showered with rain of slimy ichor and bits of fungal flesh. Then, a massive boulder fell from on high, crushing the back leg of the monster as it released an unearthly screech of pain.

But, as they’d come to learn over the long slog against this dungeon, the monster was incredibly durable. Even crippled by the crushing boulder, it still held out for more than five minutes under their most intense assault before it finally succumbed to their attacks. Several chimes sounded in the back of his mind as the giant monster collapsed to the ground with a shuddering thump.

“Havok, check the wounded,” he ordered, following the protocol. “Kaitlyn and Devan, eyes on the perimeter.”

He studied the guard squad, frowning as he failed to find a healer on their team, but under the influence of Havok’s consecration and his healing spell, they all seemed to be recovering quickly. If it were up to him, every squad of ten or fewer would have at least one healer. Havok was nowhere near as strong a healer as, say, Belmar or Teagan, but his area healing skills meant they could survive encounters like this one without problems. Just having one’s health ticking up constantly was a huge boon and a boost to morale.

I guess healers are scarce in the guard, too. It was surprising just how rare healers were, given how important they were – even among the guild teams, the balance of damage classes to healers was likely worse than ten-to-one. The lower-level groups were often forced to share healers, meaning the healers disproportionately outleveled the damage classes, causing all kinds of imbalances in the group structure.

Vivian’s problem, I guess, he thought, sighing. Maybe Havok’s fledgling church could help to make paladin classes more exciting to the new adventurers, but without Aliandra and her shrine, choosing such a class became almost impossible.

“Congratulations, Aiden.” Flynn’s soft interjection interrupted his restless mind frantically solving guild and the guard’s problems.

“For?” he asked, glancing around.

“Platinum.”

The heck? Platinum? Oh… Quickly, he opened his notifications.

Your group has defeated Fungaloth – Fungal Aberration – level 108.Ice Spellsword has reached level 100.+10 attribute points.Requirements met for class evolution. Class evolution options will be automatically assigned in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.Class experience is paused until your class evolution is complete.

Dammit! The timing could be better… He stared at the notifications with a sudden onset of trepidation. This was precisely what Vivian Ross had been worried about – he had reached platinum rank out here on the field, because of course he had, and an event that should have been felt as an achievement was now fraught with anxiety and worry.

Again, without Aliandra and her shrine, his class evolution would be whatever his natural path selected for him. Maybe something powerful, but also potentially a broken path combination that would leave his class unusable.

He frowned as he looked over his companions.

Rogue – Human – level 99Mage – Human – level 98Archer – Human – level 100Paladin – Goblin – level 100

Kaitlyn and Havok, too. If his class was wrecked by his natural evolution, that would be a disaster for him, and likely, he would need to retire from active raiding like the Guildmaster had. But if Havok’s class was butchered by the process, the guild would be in dire straits, losing both a healer and a tank in one fell swoop.

He took the time to ensure the guard squad was fully recovered before he led his group back to the center, to wait for another call for aid, his thoughts in turmoil.

I need to find the Guildmaster.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
