My eyes widened. Of course. Florence was close to the Emperor, and he was missing. Not wanting him to stress anymore, I pulled out Valgus's shackles from my pocket dimension.

"Obolis is in here. We got him out, chief."

Florence's head tilted back.

"By Baldowah, thank you...Thank you."

He gave my forearm a squeeze before resting his head against my arm. I leaned down.

"Woah, are you alright?"

Florence lifted his head, and his face wore a smile.

"Of course, of course. I'm sure you wish to meet everyone, so we'll discuss what happened afterward."

I spread my hands.

"I don't mind calling the meeting right now."

Florence shook his hand.

"I won't ruin your return just because I'm a little worried."

With a bit of apprehension, I let it go. Knowing Florence, he'd let me know when to discuss what happened. We went up several stairways before Shalahora touched Florence's shoulder.

The shadow murmured, "I am sorry for your loss."

Florence raised a hand.

"It's nothing. Let's continue."

Florence's voice held a heavy hurt. I was affected as we reached the third floor, searching for other guildmates. I couldn't find anyone, but something stalked me. I peered around, surrounded by bookshelves. An entity resided within my dimensional wake, tapping upon senses I wasn't aware of.

Shalahora tilted his head at me.

"What bothers you?"

Alarm bells rang in my head.

"That's just it. I don't know."

Something spawned behind me, erupting from the ether of the void. I liquified, letting the entity pass through me. I solidified while grasping my hand around its thin neck. Althea turned to me, a grin on her face.

"Wow. You have a strong grip."

I released my grasp and lunged to a knee, holding her in a gentle gravity well.

"Oh my god, I'm so sorry. Are you ok?"

Althea tapped her chest, "Ahem, yeah. I'm cool. How about you?"

I wrapped my arms around her, my lunging form far more prominent than hers. I held her in my arms for a moment. I soaked in who she was and that she was here, and man, she smelled so good, and wow, she looked amazing, and she must have done something with her hair because-

She gave me a kiss, and my thoughts muted. I was home.

We held each other for a while. She whispered, "Hey."

I smiled until my cheeks hurt. Again.

"Hey."

We let go for a second, and I stood up, towering over everyone. Althea put her hands on her hips.

"You look so huge now. Like, wow, big. Too big, heh."

"Huh. You're right. Let me fix this."

I pulled myself down using Mass Manipulation. I shrank some but still dwarfed everyone. I shrugged.

"Eh, that's all I got."

Althea jumped up, landing on my shoulder with ease.

"It's plenty if you ask me."

Shalahora condensed into the form I was most used to, and the shadow gave her a bow. He said, "You are a walker of other planes with a mind of steel. Your will is admirable, echoed one."

Althea scratched her cheek.

"Heh. Thanks. What's your name?"

"I am Shalahora, the Sun Swallower."

She hopped off my shoulder, and Althea landed as if she were the master of gravity and not me. She waved a hand with a smile.

"Hey. I'm Althea Tolstoy."

Shalahora froze in place, his form no longer rippling. He turned to me.

"Harbinger...You are fortunate in this life."

I gave him a thumbs up.

"You know it."

Althea kicked me.

"Hey, don't talk like I'm not here."

I raised my hands.

"What? Me? Never."

She jumped at me, and I darted sideways. Two leaps later, she cornered me between bookshelves. She bolted at me, but I caught her in a gravity well before she could grab me. She windmilled her arms.

"Hey, no fair."

"All's fair in love and war. This happens to be both."

I pulled her to me, and she flipped in midair, landing on my shoulder.

I said, "Come on, let's find Torix."

Althea put one finger on her chin, "Hm. He's having a meeting upstairs. He mentioned that no one interrupted him. Speaking of which-"

Althea peered at Florence.

"Is everything alright? You usually have a lot more to say."

Florence peered at her, pain across him. Althea raised her hands.

"Not that your talking is bad or anything. Like, I personally like it. You know, you're just always making sure everyone's feeling cozy and-"

I put my hand on her shoulder.

"It's not you. It's something else."

Althea peered between the both of us before she jumped down. She gave Florence a hug. The albony gave her a nod.

"Thank you."

Seeing Florence's duress, I sent messages to everyone to meet in Chrona's home. I could have my happy meetups later. Althea let go of Florence and leaped back onto my shoulder. I turned to everyone.

"We'll discuss what happened during the meeting, which we need to have now. I've been gone a long time, and a lot has changed."

Althea leaned on my head, my armor's spikes softening for her without me thinking. She said, "Torix will ignore your messages, probably. We'll have to grab him from the logistics floor."

I said, "If it's so secret, why do you know where he's talking?"

"Because no one else was allowed on the floor today."

Brimming with unanswered questions, we headed to the central elevator. Once at the logistical floor of Mt. Verner, I frowned. My dimensional wake passed over some kind of secrecy magic. Quite a few layers of it, actually. Shalahora's shadows bristled.

"There is someone here who does not belong."

My eyes narrowed.

"Let's go."

We passed through the elevator doors, and no one was present. I leaned through several doorways, each building designed with me in mind but no longer comfortable. After passing several openings, I found the source of the isolation magic. From behind a doorway, Torix stood, his eyes flaring red, and he interlocked his arms behind himself.

The lich sighed.

"It would seem we have company despite my warnings against any interruptions. Who-"

Torix laid his eyes on me. He took a step back.

"Daniel, ah, it would seem you've arrived from the lottery."

I peered around.

"Why are you so nervous?"

I entered the room, finding a remnant in diplomat's clothing. They spread their hands to me.

"Ah, the Harbinger of Cataclysm. I wanted to apologize for whichever agent acted against you in the lottery. We had no clue-"

I reached out a hand, holding the remnant in a gravity well. I pulled his frail body off the ground and glared, my face like cold stone.

I growled, "Who let him in?"

The air grew heavy. Torix's eyes dimmed to a deep blue. He raised his hands.

"Please. Calm yourself. I can explain."

I squeezed the diplomat until they curled into a ball. One of their shoulders dislocated, and they grunted in agony. I stepped up to the remnant.

"Why shouldn't I kill you here and now?"

The diplomat tried smiling but grimaced instead, "It...It seems like whoever broke the treaty truly gave much of the goodwill between us away."

Disgust spread over my face.

"Goodwill? Between us?"

The remnant coughed.

"Ahem. I would hope so, yes."

I pulled out Valgus's shackles. I wrapped a chain around the remnant and gave it some mana, enough to psionically isolate. The diplomat screamed before I put my hand over his mouth.

Torix's fiery eyes flared white.

"What madness has overcome you? They are only a messenger."

My armor leaked ascendant mana, and Event Horizon crawled toward the remnant.

I seethed,

"Why is Elysium here?"
