“After the war, when I left the camp with my new parents, we were given twenty-five dollars and the notice that our old homes had been sold for next to nothing to the Americans who came to claim them.”

The room grew quiet except for Hana.

“The Kurodas, my new family, felt immense shame. They had told me they would take care of me, but their shop, their house, their business were all gone. We didn’t know where to go, how to rebuild our lives. Mr Kuroda had dreamt of returning to his Tea Shop for six years, and now…”

Tanaka sighed, then he looked up at his wife.

+ Karmic Causality

Oh… Eppie realised where this was going almost immediately. Did I set this up? I… I guess I did…

“We were staying at a Marysville motel, at our wits' end, when someone came to find us. Mr Walter. G. Higgins of Sacramento. He did not come for the Kurodas. He came for me.”

Tanaka held his wife’s hand. “Mr Higgins told me that six years ago, he was friends with a Japanese man who ran a farm that grew the best damn cabbages he’d ever tasted. I’ve never seen this man, because they usually met at the farmer’s exchange. He told me that Otosan would share a drink with him, and they would talk about farming, about life, about the war.”

“When Otosan didn’t show up for several market days, he went looking for him. He came down to the farm, and he found an abandoned lot, being sold on the cheap by a government man who asked him if he wanted the farm.”

Tanaka's voice didn't crack much as slow down, his anger rising but also being soothed by his wife’s presence.

"The government asked for sixty dollars an acre. Higgins-san bought our farm on the spot. The whole thing.”

“So we followed Higgins-san back to his property—my old home. And found it as it was. Untouched.”

Tanaka’s voice shivered with emotions his listeners struggled to imagine.

“Our family photos were still here,” he said. “Okasan, Otosan… all still here…”

+ Karmic Causality

Eppie found herself dabbing away tears. She now knew why Margaret had given out so many napkins earlier. Her eyes wandered from Tanaka to Kiritani. The story, she knew, was for her Kiritani-sensei.

“Mr Higgins wanted to give the farm back. He couldn’t, legally, of course. The government wouldn’t allow it. The county clerk told him my father was deceased, and the transfer, therefore, impossible. Not to mention, I had no papers.”

“So we stayed on as farmhands for the Higgins, but in reality, we were living on Otosan’s farm. I met Margaret here, and she felt sorry enough for me that—”

Margaret slapped her husband. Everyone laughed through their blurred vision.

“—Well, I guess you grow close when you grow up in the same house, sharing the same chores. It took me too long to understand what we were to each other. There was a lot of opposition, not from Oto-sama, of course, but from the neighbours, the Parish.”

“The last time I spoke to Higgins-san, when we walked down my farm to his, he told me that never once had he felt peace walking on the Tanaka’s land, even as he took care of it. He felt like a thief standing in another man's boots, and he would never put an end to that feeling until he found his friend and gave him back the farm that fate stole.”

+ Karmic Causality

No one at the table was pretending not to cry anymore. Eppie had a hand pressed over her mouth. Lafitte had stopped writing entirely, her pen forgotten against her notebook. Even Eric had to look away toward the window for a long moment. A white American had acted with honour in a moment of collective dishonour, and the world was a better place for it.

Tanaka squeezed his wife's hand. She squeezed back and said nothing, because Tanaka had finally done the very thing that Mr Higgins had done for Tanaka’s father.

He had told a story.A story of compassion for his Kiritani-sensei.

“Why are you all crying?” Hana tilted her head, her enormous eyes watching them from the floor. “Do you want more katsu?” She had earlier eaten the last piece.

For a long moment, nobody spoke. The fire ticked in the next room. Tobimaru sighed against the porch boards outside.

“So I hope,” Tanaka said to his sensei. “That you won’t hate them too much, Kiritani-sensei. There are good people here as well. No matter how harsh life has treated you, I want you to know that a good man saved me, and without this, none of this—”

He gestured at the farmhouse, his eyes benevolently hovering over the cutest little girl this side of Sacramento. “—would be possible.”

Henry Kiritani bowed his head deeply.

Huh? Eppie wondered as the man seemed to make peace with himself. Where is my [Causality]? Was the [System] on a delayed fuse? Or—?

Then the artist’s eyes landed on herself, and with a sudden burst of heat from deep inside her chest, Eppie understood why there was no more reward.

Kiritani-san did not need Tanaka-san’s convincing.He was already at peace.
