“I believe ye. This is the first step. If you saw that then—”
 
“You think I can do it again?”
“Miss?”
A voice interrupts Ivolethe’s reply. I look over and see Reynold staring at me, eyes wide.
“What?”
“Are you, ah, speaking to me?”
“What? No. Of course not. I’m speaking to—”
I pause and stare at Ivolethe. I glance back at Reynold and realize that he can’t see the Frost Faerie, or if he can, she’s only a faint blur. Ah.
“Um. I’m speaking to myself. Don’t mind me.”
“Yes, Miss.”
Slowly, I sit back down. Ivolethe grins at me.
 
“Are ye scaring the poor mortal?”
 
“Probably.”
I glance over at Reynold. He’s hunching over in his seat, pretending he can’t hear me. His [Butler]’s façade is a bit ragged as he studiously ignores my one-sided conversation, at least from his perspective.
Ivolethe shrugs, as if she couldn’t care less about Reynold. Which is probably true. She points to the whirling scenery and grins.
 
“Yon contraption is quite a thing! It moves almost as fast as ye did when you drank the magic brew.”
 
“When? Oh, you mean in the castle. Do you think I could ever learn to run this fast?”
The faerie considers this and shrugs as she props her chin on her hand. She sits on the air next to me.
 
“Perhaps. But not at first. I can sense the magic in this thing; it is rough, but there is an art to it. Does the lady who sends her servants to you have much wealth like this?”
 
“A lot. I don’t know how much, but she’s one of the wealthiest and most powerful individuals on the continent.”
That makes me worried again, but having Ivolethe around dispels a lot of my fears. The faerie nods seriously.
 
“Then perhaps a bit of respect is in order. The lords and ladies of the land were always touchy and prideful, even to the King of Knights.”
 
“King Arthur?”
 
“Aye.”
 
Ivolethe smiles and points. I turn my head and see Reynold is actually edging away from me on the front of the carriage. That makes me smile too. I wonder if I should explain to him what’s going on—but nah.
The faerie pauses as she seems to glance at the horizon ahead of us. She frowns at me.
 
“There is much moving in the world this time. Much happens even as ye ride about.”
 
“Oh? Like what?”
 
“Like the children. They are marching.”
 
“The…children? Who?”
 
“The youngest. The ones with small ears and crimson eyes. They burnt a city, did they not? And they fight amongst themselves. They are moving about in the snow.”
 
She means Goblins. The children? The youngest? I frown at Ivolethe, but decide to pursue their movements before I ask about the other bit.
“What do you mean they’re moving? Moving where?”
 
“Everywhere. They run about in their hundreds, coming north from south. A vast army sits below the pass—you have seen them once.”
 
The Goblin Lord. I shiver. Ivolethe nods, and then points ahead of us.
 
“But another army—smaller, but thousands strong—lies ahead. They march north as well. Fleeing their own kind.”
 
“What? Where?”
I sit up in the carriage, heart pounding. Ivolethe nods at Reynold.
 
“Yon clueless fool is about to drive you straight into the center of them.”
 
For a second I just stare at Ivolethe in horror. She grins at me, exposing a mouth full of sharp teeth. Then she flies up and away.
Instantly, I turn in my seat.
“Driver, turn the coach around!”
Reynold stares at me. He looks around, and then points to himself.
“D-do you mean me, Miss—?”
“Stop the carriage! We’re about to run into Goblins!”
“Goblins?”
He just stares at me incredulously. I see a large hill approaching, and curse. I reach for the reins. Instinctively Reynold pulls away.
“Please don’t, Miss Ryoka. I can’t let you—”
“What is going on?”
Then a panel slides open behind us. I see Ressa’s impatient glare as she looks at us. There’s no time to explain. I try to grab the reins. Reynold pulls away, Ressa shouts. The carriage swerves as we crest the hill—
And then there are Goblins. They march in a vast column across the valley in the snow, trampling slush into mud as they walk a hundred abreast. I see Hobs, dragging weapons in the snow, massive, dwarfing the smaller Goblins that run before them.
Children, what look like pregnant mothers and of course, warriors walk in some semblance of order, carrying packs, lugging improvised sleds—some are even herding horses, mules and other pack animals! It’s the most hodge-podge collection of equipment I’ve ever seen. And at the head of that group is a detachment of Carn Wolves. Ridden by Goblins.
My heart stops. The sudden surge of fear and panic makes the world slow as the carriage shoots over the hill and directly into the mass of the Goblins. I turn my head and see Reynold frantically pull the reins left. The carriage immediately turns, but it’s too late.
Goblins, hearing the sound of the carriage and the shower of snow, turn and cry out as we speed past the column. I hear their high-pitched screams, and then horn calls.
Instantly, the group of wolf riders at the head of the column turns. They run towards us and I shout.
“Take us away!”
Reynold desperately pulls, and the carriage turns. But although we’re already speeding away, the Goblins are everywhere. And this particular bunch is smart, because the wolf riders are already running to cut us off. We must have passed some scouts because they come from behind us, trying to run us down.
I see a tall Hobgoblin on a Carn Wolf running at us, shouting as more riders run with him. The main column of Goblins is in panic—warriors are surging towards us en masse as the children and other Goblins try to run back.
“What should we do?”
Reynold shouts in fear as the wolves box us in. He’s trying to pull us away, but the wolves are everywhere.
“Go through them!”
I point at a few wolf riders and pray like hell the carriage can take a hit. Reynold hesitates—
And then I feel a hand grab the edge of the carriage. I jerk, but it’s no Goblin. Ressa pulls herself up as the carriage speeds along and shouts a word.
“[Invisibility Field]!”
Instantly, the world around us goes dark. I see runes on the carriage glowing, and the Goblins around us cry out, their eyes tracking the air where we were. I look around. Are we invisible? I can’t tell, but we must be. It’s as if someone’s put sunglasses on the world.
“That way.”
Ressa points and Reynold immediately turns the carriage, making a break for an opening in the ranks of Goblins and wolfriders. After a moment I hear more shouting, and look back to see pursuit has resumed. How…?
“The snow! They can see it!”
I shout and Ressa nods. The Goblins can indeed see the geysering snow from the carriage’s passage and they follow that. But the moment of hesitation has given us an opportunity. If we can just get ahead of them the carriage will easily outdistance their riders—
As we pass by more Goblins, I see something strange. A knot of huge Hobgoblins is dead ahead of us, and they’re turning, weapons raised and ready for us. Reynold takes us right past them, but then I spot something odd. In the center of the armed group of elites, a small Goblin is riding a wolf. And she has something in her hands. She raises a black crossbow, almost as big as she is, and points it at us. She can’t see us, surely. But she knows where we are. And she’s aiming—I shout.
“Down!”
The carriage swerves as I pull Reynold down and I see Ressa blur beside me. The crossbow bolt streaks towards the side of the carriage and shatters as it touches us. The bolt doesn’t break the magically-reinforced sides of the carriage—
But it does end the spell. The world goes bright again and I realize we’re visible. The Goblins shout and Reynold desperately flaps the reins to move us faster. I glance back at the Goblin with the crossbow—
And recognize her. Rags meets my shocked gaze for one second, and I see her own eyes widening. And then we’re past her in a blur of snow.
“We’re almost away, Miss Ressa!”
Reynold shouts in relief as the Goblins fall away behind us. Then he shouts in alarm as someone runs ahead of us. The tall Hobgoblin is streaking at us from the side, on a direct collision course as he rides his massive Carn Wolf. I hear Ressa mutter something from my side. I’m scrabbling at my belt for a potion, one of the bags—anything. But I’m too slow, and the tall Hobgoblin’s mouth is open in a roar as he holds a crimson sword over his head—
On the carriage beside me, Ressa stands up. Her hand blurs, and something flashes at the Hobgoblin. He jerks, and his sword deflects a flying object with a ringing sound. Ressa’s hands move again and the Hob snarls and jerks his reins. The Carn Wolf dodges away as five more black blurs fly at him. He strikes down each one, but while he does the carriage flies on. In a second we’re past him, and his howl of fury confirms that we are safe.
Then we’re gone. The Goblins racing after us stop as they become distant figures, and then just blips on the horizon. We race on through the snow, once again lost in a void of silence.
The three of us just sit on the front of the carriage, breathing hard. At least, Reynold and I am. Ressa is still sitting on the edge, still gripping the open door she came out of. Reynold’s hands are white on the reins and I’m wondering if I’m going to have a heart attack.
Gods. What just happened? Goblins, obviously. But so many? Where are they going? Was that Rags, Erin’s little friend!? And the other Hob—I could have sworn he was the one at the inn! What’s going on?
And Ressa? My head turns and I stare at her. She returns my look impassively.
“We’re safe now.”
That’s all she says. Slowly, she begins to pull herself back into the carriage, ignoring the wind ripping at her maid’s uniform. I call out to her.
“Wait! What was that?”
She just stares at me. And shrugs.
“My orders were to keep you safe.”
I point to her with a trembling hand. It was just a blur—hell, all of that was a blur. But I saw what she threw at the Hobgoblin.
“That was a throwing star. Are you—?”
Ressa slams the door to the carriage without a second word. I stare at the door. Oh my god. That can’t be true, can it? Is she a ninja mai—
Nah. I sit back with the [Butler] and shake my head. I’m going nuts. This entire thing is nuts. I’m nuts, I want to eat nuts—I’m shaking—
So is poor Reynold. His face is pale, although he still looks pretty damn composed for someone who just drove us through a Goblin army. More props to him, I guess. If this is how all British people are, no wonder they didn’t crack when they were getting the shit bombed out of them during World War II.
I’m generalizing. And panicking. I take a few more breaths of cold air to still my beating heart. That was—jeez.
After a minute I rap on the little window that connects us with the coach with a trembling hand. It doesn’t open.
“Hey. You in there. Pass us a bottle, will you?”
I shout it at Ressa and hear no response. But after a moment, the window slides open and one of the bottles of wine is handed through, bottom-first.
I pop the cork after six tries, and then drink from the top. It’s probably high-grade stuff I gulp down; I don’t even taste it. After I down a third of the bottle I nudge Reynold. He jumps and the carriage swerves; when he sees the bottle, he gratefully accepts it and drinks from it without a word.
We just sit in silence for a while, passing the bottle back and forth. After we finish it, I throw the bottle into the snow, ignoring every instinct in my body that tells me not to litter, and I get Ressa to pass us another one.
Reynold drinks, I drink. We stare at the landscape, and I look at the side of the carriage. The crossbow bolt didn’t even scratch the paintwork. God.
I want this carriage.
After I’m feeling a bit warmer and the cold sweat has mainly evaporated, I glance at Reynold. He’s got a bit of a flush as well. He’s just a [Butler], wearing a light grey jacket over his dark clothing. He’s holding the reins steady, guiding the magic horses forward.
“Is it always like this?”
He shudders, and shakes his head for a second before changing his mind and nodding weakly.
“Sometimes. On bad days.”
“Jeez.”
I sit back, and stare ahead. The world is white. It rushes past me with a roaring sound made faint by the carriage’s magic. I sigh, and look ahead. My friends and Goblins lie behind. And in the distance I see a faint shape on the horizon. Dark buildings, rising out of the ground as the light in the sky fades to nothing.
Invrisil, the City of Adventurers, awaits. And after that—
Lady Magnolia.
