Another half an hour later, Erick had worked out that screeching kink by switching to a glass disk. The problem with the cylinder and the automatic moving of the cutting head across the glass surface, because Erick had created a single swinging point for the cutting head, which arced across the cylinder like how disk record players worked, but for a cylinder, he’d need to figure out some perfectly straight method of moving the cutter, and he didn’t want to do that. Going back to a flat disk removed all of that unnecessary problem. And besides! Disks were easier to reproduce from a mold than cylinders were, and the end goal was mass-produced music.

Time to test it!

Erick put his face into the metal cone, had an Ophiel crank the wheel to the device with a bit of Handy Aura, and listened to the sound of nothing, as the diamond head cut into the glass.

He spoke, “Hello, World. This is Erick Flatt speaking. Test. Test. One, two, three.”

Ophiel stopped as Erick pulled his head back out of the cone. They had only gone through eleven revolutions of the disk, forming almost a dozen lines of spiral on the glass surface. Erick stared at the disk for a moment, wondering. Imagining.

It was the work of three seconds to switch out the cutting head with the play-back head. Kiri watched, enthralled. Poi’s eyebrow ridges were high on his head, as he regarded the scene.

Erick moved the head back into the starting position, and carefully took control of the turning wheel, himself. He spun the disk, and listened. He barely heard his success.

“Hello, World. This is Erick Flatt speaking. Test. Test. One, two, three.”

It was crackly. It was imperfect. It was not what he remembered when he thought of records and music. But it was a start. Erick smiled wide, and reset the player. He turned the crank again, listening to himself again.

Kiri said, “Well that’s certainly something I’ve never seen before. You’re going to put a lot of musicians out of business.”

Erick laughed much, much louder than he ever intended. Kiri frowned for the briefest of moments. Erick almost thought he was going to have to explain it to her.

But then her eyes widened. “OH! They can record music and sell it the world over. Right. You did say that, didn’t you.”

“You got it!” Erick said, “And this is just the prototype. The proof of concept. The thing I made in an afternoon with the wrong materials, and barely any ability! Gods above, magic is wonderful.”

Poi asked, “How good are you going to make it before you show the world?”

“I wanna record something,” Kiri asked, her emerald eyes glittering with hope. “Please?”

Erick stepped away from the machine, saying, “Go for it!” He said to Poi, “As soon as I can get it to work as well as I can, then I’ll showcase it to a few select people.” He added, “[Control Machine] might be just what is needed to make great recordings, or maybe some other specialized spell. And that would be good to control some of the creation of these records. But I want anyone to be able to play them back—”

Kiri had been waiting by the machine, patiently, after replacing the glass disk, but she couldn’t help but glare a little at Erick as he continued to talk. Erick shut up, grinning. She handed him the disk he had recorded on, saying, “This is important. Maybe not right now, but for the future, it’s already a historically important item.” She added, “If this ‘record player’ thing sells well.”

Erick took the disk, and set it aside, saying, “I think it will sell really well. Everyone likes music, right?”

Kiri nodded, but all of her attention was on the recorder. She was just waiting for Erick to stop talking. When he did, she recorded what was possibly the second-ever record on Veird, saying, “Hello! This is Kiri Flamecrash speaking! Test! Test! Three bees with keys and peas, squeeze and sneeze round breezy knees.”

Erick held back his giggle till she was done, then he asked, “What was that?”

Kiri responded, “A nursery rhyme,” as she flipped out the recorder heads and moved the needle back into the start position. She stepped away, saying, “Here goes.”

With a bit of her own [Telekinesis], the recorder began to play back her words, which sounded fine, but the nursery rhyme was more buzzing than anything intelligible. Still, her smile never left her face.

Erick said, “We can make a better one.”

“Of course!” Kiri exclaimed, “But even this much is amazing!” She suddenly stared at Erick. “Do you know how to make a computer? You talked about them once and then you brought that one back from Ar’Kendrithyst…?”

“Barely. A record player is an application of simple physics, but a computer is that, and a lot more.” Erick said, “I must have seen several videos on how a computer works, but I couldn’t tell you how any of the parts actually connect together, or anything, really. Besides. Veird needs electricity and—” He paused, as another thought came to him. He asked Poi, “Didn’t those people who showed up informing us of Hocnihai’s death talk about electricity in the Wasteland Kingdoms? And lightbulbs?”

Poi nodded. “They did. They also offered to host you for a while.”

Erick said, “Well then we have to go there!” He added, “But maybe not right yet.”

Kiri asked, “So what was the methodology with this recorder?”

Erick brightened, as he began speaking to his apprentice, saying, “I will start at the beginning. Sound is just vibrations in the air; an oscillating pressure wave of dense and not-dense particles that…”
