Jane shook her head. “That’s only part of the problem, and easily testable, anyway. Sorry. It’s… really late for me. The main problem is that the mechanisms that created the oozes in the first place are still there. The old dungeons and old ruins of Quintlan are the bedrock of that entire continent. There’s literally no way to clear all of those up, unless you’re capable of leveling mountains… Which I guess is possible. Ah. But even if you do, the Rock Oozes just make more dungeons.” She added, “Sorry. Tired. I forgot about those. The Rock Oozes make more dungeons all the time.”

“Oh?” Erick asked.

Kiri said, “A lot of monsters make natural dungeons when they dig out homes under the ground. We’re still waiting for the inevitable Ballooning Spider Horde dungeons to start spewing monsters back onto the surface around Spur, any day now. They’ll probably be half a [Teleport] away and no real threat because of the Crystal Mimics, but those holes are out there, for sure. Anything could spawn in those dark tunnels.”

“Ah,” Erick said, a tad sullen. “I forgot about all the natural dungeon makers.”

Poi said, “We might not be able to eradicate every monster on Veird’s surface, but we can do a whole lot of good, if you’re willing. Half a house is good enough when it’s raining, sir.”

Erick thought about that, then said, “Syllea said that we archmages shouldn’t try to solve the monster problems of the world. What do you all think of that?”

“Rubbish!” Kiri instantly said, and likely louder than she meant to say. As the other two turned to her, she continued, “You have power. Therefore, there is a responsibility to use it correctly. That’s what you once said to me, wasn’t it? With great power, comes great responsibility. By your own words, you have a responsibility to save others who cannot, will not, or who are too ignorant to save themselves.”

“Yes. I said that. Which is why we’re having this discussion. There is great, fantastic, all together apocalyptic power, right in this room. You might not be an archmage yet, Kiri, but you’ll get there soon enough. With Sunny on your shoulder, you’re already well above all the other mid-tier mages of the world. Hopefully when you are an archmage, you’ll talk everything out before you decide to change the world.”

Admonished, Kiri said, “Well. Yeah…”

Jane said, “I think archmages should solve the problems of the world, with fire and light and surgical strikes. Have you considered linking your [Cascade Imaging] to your [Luminous Beam]? In a matter of moments, you could create the single most useful death-spell in the world, and eradicate every single Moon Reacher for a thousand kilometers, all at once.”

Kiri looked down. Poi looked away.

Erick said nothing for a long moment, and then he said, “I have thought of that spell, Jane. I have the rhyme, the intent, the power, all ready to go. But I won’t ever pull that trigger. A spell like that should not exist.”

With a quiet voice, Kiri said, “I agree with Erick. That spell shouldn’t exist. There is a limit, Jane. That spell would cross a horrible limit.”

“But!” Jane said, “According to all the spells I’ve seen out there, it could work. Why not make this magic? So what if it’s horrible? It’s efficient. It’s fast. It clears out a problem that everyone but stupid nobility would agree is a problem. So why not?”

“… I could do it,” Erick reluctantly said. “But a spell like that should not be allowed in the Open Script, or locked behind a Class, or whatever other qualifications you want to put on it, no matter how rare and hard to get.”

Jane said, “Give it over to Phagar. Seems like a very ‘Ending’ spell, and Phagar is your sponsor god, right?”

“Sponsor is not the right word.” Erick said, “And I don’t want to have to make that sort of spell, anyway.” He added, “There are a handful of spells that should not exist. I have thought of them. I have almost made them, in my moments of desperation. I am not going to make any of them. And besides that, circling back to Kiri’s words about people valuing this endeavor: If others aren’t involved, then they won’t see the value in what is done for them. I won’t ‘clean up’ this world for the people that live here. That’s just… That’s not who I am.” Trying to keep a mounting horror out of his voice, Erick said, “And aside from all that: I’m not going to put a target on my back by making some spell that could individually kill all the people in a thousand kilometers. Gods! That’s… That’s unconscionable.”

“I agree.” Jane said, “But if I were you, then I’d make the spell anyway, use it to clean up this world, then give it to a god I trusted for safe keeping.”

“You would?” Erick asked, not sure he liked where this was going.

“Yes. The power to, in the space of an afternoon, erase Moon Reachers, or Puppet Minds, or any of the other monsters from the face of the world? Yes. Absolutely. Do it, and never look back. And when people complain, [Teleport Other] them away.” Jane said, “There is a responsibility to use it, and then to lock it up behind all the gates you can find to ensure that it is never used again, but the power itself should exist.” She added, “Besides! If you don’t make it and then lock it away, someone else could make it!”

Erick shook his head. “The power to wipe out any vast part of the world should not exist.” He added, “I don’t even like that the Script allows for more than [Telekinesis] and [Cleanse]. If there were less power in the world, then the Shades would never have been a problem. I’m not going to contribute even more to the problem than I already have.”

Jane sat back in her chair, saying, “This is something that’s been bugging me for a long while, and I think I’ve found some of the problem. You know all my troubles with making magic? Well. I have a theory. I’m a lot more violent than you, dad. By a vast quantity.”

Erick did not like her talking about herself like that. He instantly said, “You’re not violent, Jane. You’re just driven, and this world requires violence. Don’t get the two confused.”

Jane smiled, then lost her smile. “I know what I am, dad. Just as I know that you’re a pacifist, I know that I am violent. I think this is why you’re better at magic than I am. The mana is alive, I’m certain, and it wants certain things, like to grow and expand, and… And I think I am very tired and not making much sense. Anyway. You’re good at magic because you believe in the good of magic. I just see it as a tool to carve a bloody path through my problems. I don’t think the mana likes that.”

Erick didn’t know what to say to that.

There was one secret he was keeping from everyone in his life, except for Poi, because the man was a Mind Mage and knew everything. Erick had never told anyone, including Jane, that he was a Wizard…

Except the Shades all knew, didn’t they. Ah. Shit. Did they tell anyone?

But Jane didn’t know, and it felt awful not to tell her. It felt horrible to hear that Jane thought that things were difficult for her because she was ‘violent’. Things were just easy for Erick because he was lucky… And maybe there was something to Jane’s theory, but...

Erick ignored all those thoughts, and said, “Maybe. I don’t know, Jane.”

Kiri instantly latched onto the idea, saying, “Erick’s methodology is vastly different from normal arcanaeum training, but everyone who goes to arcanaeum goes there in order to learn how to kill monsters or about various other topics. Only a very few graduates ever become archmages, but that number is much higher than the number of people out in ‘the wild’ who become archmages, like Erick.”

“How would you even know that, Kiri?” Jane asked, “Where’s your knowledge base coming from?”

“… I admit, that I might not know a lot about a lot, but I do know a little about a lot, and one of those things is the number of people who manage to become archmages every year…” Kiri added, “Or rather, I know the number of people who the Arcanaeum Consortium verify as Archmages every year. It’s a matter of public record.”

“Is it?” Erick asked, right as Jane said, “Really?”

Kiri said, “It’s widely believed that not everyone who gets accredited chooses to make themselves public, though. With regard to the idea that magic loves pacifists, I would have to look at arcanaeum records for centuries before I would ever go so far as to say that your idea, Jane, has merit, but it is testable.” She whispered, “And isn’t that interesting.”

Erick frowned at that, and asked, “How many archmages are there in the world, according to this publication? How many live on the surface?”

Kiri scrunched her face, and said, “Something like 400, total? Maybe? Only a handful of those in the Underworld, though. It’s believed that Melemizargo doesn’t like them being down there.”

Erick said, “I was told by a priestess of Melemizargo, named Priestess, that there were 47 currently living archmages in the world, with only 18 of them, including me, living on the surface.”

“That’s weird.” Kiri asked, “Why would she lie? Shades don’t usually lie… Wait. I’m remembering Priestess now. She lies all the time to people in order to get them to join the Cult of the Dark Dragon.”

Jane said, “I don’t think she was lying. Maybe they have a different definition of ‘archmage’.”

Erick said, “That might be possible. She said there were only 47 archmages on Veird, and she compared them directly to the number of Shades, saying that they outnumbered the archmages by a fair bit.”

“Huh.” Kiri said, “She was comparing you as a Shade, then. Or at least of that power level.”

Erick said, “Which is another odd thing! They talked of destroying the world, but if there were truly over 60 mages with a skillset similar to my own, then they could have done whatever they wanted to whoever they wanted.” He added, “But I guess they already did that.”

Poi said, “You are vastly more powerful than most Shades, Erick. I don’t think you understand this.”

Jane nodded, saying, “Yup. Which I think is because you won’t kill or harm unless you absolutely have to, and the Mana likes that.” With eyes widening, she added, “But the Shades were manual casters! And as manual casters, they make their magic individually, all the time! … But they’re as violent as I am… so they shouldn’t be that good at magic… Okay. I see a flaw in my thought process.”

Kiri stifled a laugh.

“Anyway!” Erick continued, undaunted, “It is important to have self-imposed limits. I won’t go forward with this monster extermination without approval from others, and I certainly won’t ever make a magic that can automatically exterminate a two-thousand kilometer diameter of Veird’s surface!” He shivered. He added, “Never repeat that thought, ever, anywhere. Please.”

Kiri said, “Of course, Eri—”

Jane slapped a hand against the table, triumphant. “That’s it! You have limits!” She said, “Each Shade had limits, too. Maybe a hard limit means the Mana likes… them…? I think I lost my train.”

Erick looked to his daughter. He tried to keep the frown off of his face and the hurt out of his voice, he asked, “You don’t have limits? Jane?”

“I mean…” Jane fumbled, “I have limits. But I wouldn’t hesitate to press a button and kill every single monster in the world. I guess the Mana doesn’t like that much viciousness in their heroes.”

Erick sent, ‘Did something happen after the Hunt? Or during?’

Jane stood up from the table, saying, “I’m being entirely too melodramatic. Time for sleep. If the building blows up while I’m asleep I’m blaming you for planting that flag, dad.” She sent, ‘I had a good Hunt. I’m just tired.’ She walked off, toward her room.

“Good night— Er. Morning.” Erick said, “Sleep well.”

Kiri watched Jane go for a second, then turned back, and finished off the last of her cold breakfast. Erick had already finished his while it was hot. Cleaning up was as easy as leaving the [Cleanse]d plates and utensils on the food cart, and leaving that cart outside the door.

After the heavy conversation at the breakfast table, Erick settled down onto the lounge with a rather dry, but heady book from his library, for he needed some perspective that was not his own. It was titled ‘On the nature of Magic and Ethics’, and it was dense. It was a thick book composed of selected texts from many of Veird’s historically-known philosophers, but whom Erick had never heard of before. The book was not reader-friendly. Occasionally, when he just couldn’t follow the looping arguments anymore, he shifted his sight to Candlepoint, and to other spaces where Ophiel flew, unimpeded. On his third glance toward Candlepoint he saw Justine, who had moved into the city just last night. She walked alongside the envoy from the Baroness, and also alongside Mephistopheles, as they strode along the boardwalk next to the water. They spoke of trade and products.

Justine looked alright, even if the eyes she occasionally made at Mephistopheles weren’t the kindest. Mephistopheles gave her those same eyes right back, though none of them did any of that when the envoy could see them.

Erick turned his gaze to his house, back in Spur. Justine’s room was empty, except for a note.

Dear Archmage Erick Flatt,

Thank you for everything you have given me. From the words of encouragement, to the opportunity to dip my fingers back into alchemy, to the clothes and the allowance, to the room, to the home, thank you.

I hope to be able to repay all that you have given me, some day, and I hope to continue to work with you in helping the people of Candlepoint live out in the open, with lives of their own, with their own dreams to guide them.

Please remove my [Prismatic Ward] permissions.

With all my gratitude,

Justine Erholme

Erick smiled, and then lost his smile. With a heavy heart, and a twitch of thought, he disallowed Justine from entering any of the [Prismatic Ward]s he had, anywhere in the world. The moment passed without fanfare or demarcation.

He returned to his book.

- - - -

In a forest of twelve trees, where a million small messages passed between roots each day, and all minds were in a sense, as one, a voice grumbled, and rose above the susurrus.

Wyrmrest spoke, “An Idea has been presented. Small deliberations are complete. We will now begin the large discussion, and come to an accord within one standard week, or sooner.”

The susurrus went quiet. Other voices rose into that silence.

