“Which monsters have we decided upon?” asked Ikabobbi. “I wish to know which ones I will no longer be able to taste.”

“That is strange for you, Ikabobbi.” Home said, “I would have thought you would have been against this idea.”

“I am against it, but the small deliberations have won me over.” He said, “Twice now, a chieftain has died to those Deathsoul Shrooms and deprived me of my Honored Meal. That shrooms would feast upon what was mine by ancient pact is beyond unforgivable.”

“There’s the Ikabobbi I know,” said Home, with maliciousness in her voice. She dropped her anger, and said, “I vote to proceed, though I would prefer to kill all of the monsters listed, I can live with ridding our Forest of the selected two.”

O’kabil said, “There is still the matter of payment for Erick.”

Nosier said, “He has gotten enough from Syllea. If he wishes for more secrets of magic then we can give those to him, but I refuse to actually pay him anything at all! This action against the Forest will cripple many of my enchanters! I will lose money with this plan, and I don’t like it.”

Home said, “Disgraceful.”

“And when the anti-magic runes on your houses fade and the Grand [Prestidigitation] Stoves stop working, then you will come to me begging for grand rads, and I will have none.” Nosier said, “This is what will happen. If anything, he should pay us for hunting on our lands!”

“Enough squabbling over money.” Icebrand said, “My mages and I stand ready to purge the Forest. We are eager to bring about the deepest days of winter to those who have done us the deepest harm. Freeze the Deathsoul Shrooms to splinters. Bury the Moon Reachers in ice. An avalanche upon the Twisted Visions and the—”

“Just the first two, my sweet.” Firebrand said, “We’re not touching the rest of the list. It has been decided.”

“… What!” Icebrand vibrated with chilly anger. “Kill them all!”

“I agree. Kill them all.” Rottundra said, “We should just melt the entire Forest to the ground and burn what remains. Maybe create some reservations out in select areas, full of certain lifeforms that we wish to come back, when we instead demand that Erick regrow the whole thing with his [Exalted Rain]. This is a much better idea, and we should discuss this greater plan more than you all have been willing to discuss.”

Redarrow said, “There are too many artifacts and too much history in the Forest for us to melt it all down. I will not allow such a thing to happen. If we move forward with this plan of yours, know that I will not support such an action, and I doubt the small deliberations will support it, either.” He added, “And besides that, we’d have to get a full tribe accounting before we went on melting, and that would be a disastrous headache if there ever was one.”

Heral-ken said, “We won’t be destroying the whole Forest to just regrow the whole damn thing. There are too many horrific nasties out there, and I will not have them allied against us when they see that we are the only parts of the Forest not burning.”

“There would be no alliances against us, Heral-ken. They are just monsters and dragons.” Rottundra said. “Besides, this is an idea that would take years to complete, and years to back off from if it seems we were upsetting things that should not be upset. And besides that! With the Shades gone, we might actually get to work on turning the Crystal Forest back into a real forest, and unless we want the Crystal Forest to become another Forest forest, then we must seriously consider purging all of the current Forest, before it can look right over the mountains, see a fresh green land, and expand into the fresh green that has been denied to it for almost a thousand years.”

“Freeze it all to bitter shards.” Icebrand said, “I would agree with this plan.”

“I would see the Forest burned, too.” Firebrand said, “But perhaps, only when we have Yggdrasil on our side. A World Tree would do much to quell whatever might boil out from the green after we start applying the heat.”

“There is merit to delaying this plan until we have more of an actual plan,” Leaf-cutter said. “I would like a thirty-year projection of the long term consequences done up by at least a hundred prognosticators of tier 6 quality or higher. We could ask the Geodes for some projections, too. There is no need to be hasty with this. A long term view is exactly what we need to take, if we are to mulch the whole Forest. Which, for the record, I see as a good thing.”

O’kabil said, “I, too, would like to see a long-term prognostication of what would happen if we adopted Rottundra’s alternate plan.”

Steel-Branch said, “Melting and burning the entire Forest, only to regrow it seems like the plot of a play. Adopting such a plan would be asking to get murdered by every Dragon, Twisted Vision, and horde hiding out in the Green.” With a jubilant laugh, he said, “And I love it! Bring it on! We can weather these storms, and we can bury them all in lightning and fire and rot.”

Icebrand said, “And ice!”

Wyrmrest spoke, “I do not like this idea. It is too hasty by far.”

O’kabil offered, “Adjourn, then, while more prognostications and small deliberations are undertaken?”

Rottundra rustled with a small joy, as he said, “I have never before thought that we could change the world. But then all the Shades died to their own god. It truly does seem like anything is possible, doesn’t it?”

“It does!” Nosier asked, “But if we do this, then we do not need Erick for the first part. Leave him to the side, and let us consider the Complete Destruction of the Forest. My mages could use the resources. We should not be paying him for anything else besides regrowing it all.” He added, “Maybe by then some of our own religious types will have gained that [Exalted Rain] through Atunir. I hear she’s giving it out now, too.”

Home perked up. “Really? When did this happen?”

“Yesterday, in her grand church in Fortress Rad-binder, in the Kingdoms.” Not allowing further off-topic discussion, Wyrmrest continued, “I disagree with the idea of cutting Erick out completely, Nosier. We need him to work with us on something, and soon, so that Yggdrasil can see how a proper Arbor acts upon the world, and how we act upon our communities.”

“Well when you put it like that…” Nosier said, “Then yes, we need to work with him on something.”

A small round of agreements passed through the discussion.

Wyrmrest declared, “Then we should vote upon the extinction of the Moon Reachers, and the Deathsoul Shrooms, for this is the plan that has been vetted by the small deliberations, and for this plan we very much need Erick’s magic. We will put aside the Idea of Complete Destruction and Regrowth to a full prognostication effort, to be completed in a satisfactory manner by all involved. What say you all?”

There was more discussion, but more of logistics and clarification than of any real substance.

Soon enough, the Arbors of Treehome came to a decision.

- - - -

Erick was done reading, for now. He did not like the ethics of Veird. Much too violent and much too dense, in his opinion. So for now, he was mostly just waiting for other people, and Arbors, to make decisions about the future of the Forest. He almost went back to reading, but there were things he could be doing besides reading, or magic making, or spying on other people. Or getting high on blueweed, he thought, as he looked at the blunt in his fingers.

He could be making music!

Which is why he had Kiri go out and get a few supplies. Those supplies were now sitting in front of him, taunting him, because he wasn’t exactly sure how, exactly, to record music. Oh! He knew the theory behind it all, with the little grooves in the vinyl that then became sound. But how to turn sound into those little groovy grooves? And that thought brought up another.

Listening to music back when he was a teenager, both by himself and when he was smoking out with his friends in one of his friend’s garage-turned-bedroom. They’d all get together every time they could...

Erick blew out blue smoke, and smiled to himself as old songs came back to him. Janet Jackson. Michael Jackson. Madonna. Whitney Houston. Looking back on it, Erick had to laugh. His entire group of friends was queer and none of them knew till later in life.

Ahhhh. And here came the bad memories. Erick felt a spike of pain, as he recalled one of his friends dying of HIV right after he had Jane. George was his name. He and his boyfriend both died of that disease, or rather, from complications from that disease. This was back at the turn of the millennium, and though HIV treatment was leaping ahead, it wasn’t fast enough, or cheap enough, for some people.

Looking back on that, and with the benefit of so much time and space between him and those events, Erick linked up those facts with his own unwillingness to actually fuck around with anyone on Veird… Or even back on Earth, for that matter. Erick certainly looked at all the pretty people whenever he wanted to look, but when was the last time he actually fucked around with anyone?

… Seven years ago? With that woman he flirted with all the time, over at the county clerk’s office? Marissa? That was her name. Marissa Collins. If she hadn’t moved, maybe something would have come of that. But even then, they had flirted for five years before anything shifted in that relationship, and Marissa had been the one to initiate it. And then she up and moved two months later!

Had it really been seven years since he had… any sort of relationship with anyone? Physical, or otherwise?

… Had time really gotten that far away from him? Shit. It had!

That thing with Al and Mog in the Red Dream did not count. That was a very nice experience, but it did not count.

Erick took the cigarette out of his mouth and extinguished it with a flicker of [Fireshape]. Or at least, he tried to. The end still glowed.

“Oh. Right.” Erick spoke to the air, “O’kabil? Can I get some Shaping permissions, please?”

Erick felt something shift in the air. Some power in the walls turned off. Erick tried a [Fireshape] again. The cigarette stopped burning. He nodded, then spoke, “Thank you. I’m gonna need those permissions for a while, if you could please. I’m gonna try to make some music.”

The misty Domain in the hotel room fully vanished.

“Now. Where to begin with those groovy little grooves?”

Erick faced an incredible uphill battle, and he knew it. Modern recording systems, back on Earth, were made off of wires and electricity and vibrating parts that were all built upon other understandings which were built upon even more understandings that Erick barely understood. He knew the direction he had to take, though.

“I just have to have vibrations and then I need to record those vibrations and then I need to be able to play them back. All without the use of magic in the end result.” Erick put on a happy voice to fool himself into thinking that this would be easy, and said, “Simple.”

[Metalshape] turned some steel into a cone—

“No. Not that way.”

Erick started with the base—

“But how to get the turntable to turn without a motor? That’s a whole level of society that just doesn’t exist yet.” He stopped what he was doing, and said, “I need to figure out how to record the music, first. I can just manually turn the thing, for now.”

He went back to the cone, and considered vibrations.

And then he asked Poi, who was sitting across the room from him, “No one has ever invented non-magic-based recording and playing? Really?”

Poi looked up from his book, and said, “Really.”

Erick returned to his cone, and said, “Then that’s no help— Wait! I got it!”

A flat circle of metal became slightly domed, and a little arm came out of it. More metal wrapped around the outside, but it was then Erick knew he needed to use other materials, too. This type of machine was not possible without rubber, at least. But he had not asked Kiri to gather rubber.

He asked Poi, “Is rubber a thing that exists?”

Poi took several moments to answer, “Not really— I mean. Yes. It does exist. But… No. Not the kind of rubber you want. You’d have to invent that, too. We do have rubber vines, if you want some rubber from those.”

“Rubber trees would be better, wouldn’t it? Why would someone make rubber vines?” Erick said, “With trees, all you do is score the outside and they leak rubber.”

“With the vines, you cut the end, put that end into a bucket, and the entire thing pumps rubber to the bucket.”

“… That works, too.” Erick looked around through the light and found Kiri in her room, upstairs. “Kiri! Can you go get some rubber? Sorry, I should have thought of this beforehand.”

Kiri called out, “I’m on it.”

Erick returned to his recording cone as Kiri flickered to light, vanishing from her room. With that part soon to be settled, he returned to his metal cone, and the ‘cymbal’ with the arm attached to the dome. He stared at the pieces for a moment…

“Oh!” He moved fast as everything suddenly clicked. Metal flowed, as he mumbled, “This part goes here, and this goes here, and then this arm cuts the surface— And I can make a diamond cutting head to cut the steel! And a play-back head will just be of a softer metal than this one! HaHA!”

Over half an hour, Erick molded metal, defined some diamonds, worked with wood for some of the parts he would replace with rubber, and eventually, rolled some rubber into some ribbons and made some O-rings to keep certain things separate from other certain things. Soon, a large, thin-metal, acoustically amplifying cone was connected to the would-be vibrating cymbal, which was surrounded by separating rubber. A small cutting arm arced out of that cymbal, onto a rolling cylinder of glass, because steel was too hard for the diamond to cut (producing grooves which were too small) as the vibrating head vibed back and forth. It was thick glass, anyway; it wouldn’t break that easily. The cone and arm and upper parts barely weighed as much as an apple, which was good, because Erick had to suspend that entire half of the construction on a tension-spring metal arm that held it at exactly the right height above the glass cylinder, which was the bottom half of the construction.

With a happy heart, and with Poi and Kiri watching, Erick turned the crank at the bottom, which both spun the glass, and moved the upper half at a constant rate across that glass. Diamond carved into glass, making an awful screeching sound—

“Ah. Damn.” Erick said, “I thought I fixed that. That’s going to ruin it all… But I can fix that.”

