Another stroke of good fortune was that the Enemy had yet to resume their attacks. Aside from Tiger Slayer Tran Hoang’s unfortunate death, the withdrawal from the second line went about as well as could be expected. The castles were razed, the majority of soldiers safely returned, and for three weeks, the Empire saw neither hide nor hair of the Defiled, a much needed reprieve to rest and recuperate.

And so, for the thirty-first morning in a row, Yuzhen awoke to no news of Enemy armies on the horizon, civil war erupting in the outer provinces, or Imperial Justicars arresting Bekhai youngsters, and she gave thanks to the Mother Above for Her continued mercies. The only way the day could have started off better was if her beloved husband was there beside her, but the sun was already peeking over the horizon, which for Gerel, was hours too late to start the day. Her magnificent lion of a man had grown restless of late, his dark moods bleaker than ever before as he drove himself to exhaustion each and every single day. Throwing a modest shift over her naked frame, Yuzhen sauntered over to the window to drink in the sight of her husband hard at work, Demonstrating the Forms in the manor courtyard.

There he was, his shirtless torso steaming in the cold morning air and glistening with sweat as he zipped through the courtyard with such speed, precision, and power she could hardly follow his Movements. Going through them sequentially was too simple and boring for him, and instead, he powered through the Movements seemingly at random, supposedly in search of new and undiscovered combinations to learn and master. Tiger and Mantis, Wolf and Oriole, Bear and Snake, each Movement transitioning so smoothly into the next, Yuzhen wondered how she could have ever thought them mismatched. It took him less than three minutes to go through all the Forms, each and every movement demonstrated and accounted for, at which point he stopped, returned to the centre of the courtyard, and began anew.

As she watched, she tried to keep a mental checklist of his Movements in hopes of accounting for every last one, but her eyes were not up to the task. Three minutes and seventeen seconds passed, and again, he returned to his starting position and began anew. This time, she checked for patterns against the previous iteration, and spotted no repeated combinations in the three minutes and nineteen seconds it took him to finish. Twice more, she watched, and still was unable to pick out any repetitions, all the while committing his unique routines to memory for later study. Though most of her time was spent dealing with civic, mercantile, and political matters, she was still a Martial Warrior, albeit one barely worthy of her former rank of Major, and she had a mind to progress along the Martial Path. Later, perhaps, if her meetings went quicker than expected and no new problems arose, but she might as well wish for the sun to rise in the west and settle in the east instead.

This was part of what it meant to be a Peak Expert, to do more than just Demonstrate the Forms, but to make them your own. Whatever that meant. Yuzhen was far from reaching this level, so she focused more on a metric she understood. Three minutes and twenty seconds. That was roundabout the time it took for Gerel to go through one iteration of the Forms. In contrast, she herself required over nine minutes, while most Martial Warriors averaged between twelve to fifteen. While hardly an adequate measure of strength, the sheer speed required to go through them almost five times faster than most was shocking to behold, not to mention the stamina needed to keep going for so many rounds without rest. Pursing her lips as she dressed for the day, Yuzhen inwardly cursed at her inattentive husband for spending all his strength on training and leaving little to none for recreation, but she kept her grumblings to herself. Far be it for her to get in the way of his Martial Path, especially as he was progressing by leaps and bounds in the midst of the greatest war the Empire had ever fought.

Not to mention the minor, trifling detail regarding his limited lifespan.

Perhaps she’d grown maudlin with age, or perhaps it was the long lists of dead soldiers which until recently crossed her desk daily, but Yuzhen had grown more and more concerned about Gerel’s mortality. Though she was ten years his senior and they’d been married less than a year, she could not imagine life without him at her side, an eventuality she would most likely one day have to face. He gave her strength and confidence she never knew she lacked, and just laying down next to him helped her sleep more soundly than ever before. There’d been talk of children and debate on how this wasn’t the best time, but how it was also possibly the only time that mattered, with so many orphans out on the streets. Though hardly a cuddly, paternal softie like his friend Charok, Gerel abhorred the fact that the Empire allowed children to go hungry. “It’s not right,” he’d say, every time they passed a street urchin or child beggar, often after parting with enough coin to endanger their lives. “Children are the future, and the Empire must take better care of them.”

Alas, even Yuzhen’s and Rain’s personal wealth combined wouldn’t be enough to feed all the hungry children of the Empire, and the harsh truth was that there would always be more children born than seniors dying. Such was life, and despite all her efforts to fund and expand Rain’s schools and charities, there was simply no way she could feed and house every orphan in the Northern province, much less start work on those of Central.

That said, she wasn’t above taking in one or two to call her own, though if she was going to adopt, she would prefer to adopt a half-beast like herself, since she also wanted Gerel to father a natural-born child or two with one of the maids. The problem thus became three-fold, in that one, Gerel had no interest in the maids, no matter how fair or enthusiastic they were, two, after the allure of a new and different experience faded, Yuzhen grew bored of sharing, and three, Central had a marked dearth of free-born half-beasts, with the majority being born into captivity. While purchasing slaves in order to free them was all good and moral, the stigma would haunt her children for the rest of their lives, for the nobles of the Empire would never let them forget.

There were days when Yuzhen wondered why she worked so hard to save the Empire, and couldn’t come up with a suitable answer. Mostly because her old man loved this broken kingdom and the people who called it home, but her motivation was fast fading as the days passed by, the work piled up, and the pain of his passing slowly faded.

Mostly, she just wanted to spend more time with her beloved husband...

Striding out into the courtyard, she stood at the edge of his training area and appreciated the view from up close, right up until he stopped to reset. “I miss waking up beside you in the morning,” she said, and only then did he notice her arrival, but her dissatisfaction from being ignored melted away before his radiant smile, and her legs grew weak as he greeted her with a kiss. When she found her breath and mind again, she picked up right where she left off. “But then, I suppose I should’ve known what I was getting into when I married a training maniac.”

“Apologies, my love,” he said, panting with what she liked to imagine was desire rather than exertion. “But the Martial Path waits for no one.”

“Yet you already stand upon the Peak,” she retorted, ashamed of herself for trying to hinder his progress, but she loved him too much to deny herself his company for so long. “Surely you could spare an extra hour a day for your loving wife.”

Though delivered in a teasing manner, her all-too-serious husband took her admonishment to heart, his beautiful amber eyes so full of guilt and sorrow. “Apologies, my love. I’ve been distracted of late.”

He didn’t say anything more, and despite her guilt, Yuzhen’s curiosity won out. “I’ve noticed. Ever since the Imperial Forces withdrew from the second line.” Hesitating to consider if she should say something, she threw caution to the wind and asked, “Is it because you blame yourself? For his infirmity?”

That was all she would say out loud, here where too many prying eyes and ears were present. At least two of the maids were on someone’s payroll, and she took great delight in feeding them misinformation, but she didn’t dare speak of the Legate’s poor health out loud. Thus far, only the Marshals, Colonel Generals, and War Council knew about Rain’s condition, and only because there was no way of keeping them in the dark. Already there were whispers wondering why Falling Rain hadn’t made a single public appearance in the last month, with rumours abound of everything from his untimely death to having gone into secluded meditation to reforge his Core and emerge a Peak Expert, or perhaps even a Divinity. A load of hogwash is what it was, but better to keep them all guessing than to confirm his poor health. Being a cripple was bad enough, but a dying cripple would draw all manner of speculation and panic.

Given the roundabout way she’d brought the subject up, it took some seconds for Gerel to pick up on her meaning. “Oh,” he said, his eyes lighting up in comprehension before narrowing in absurdity. “No, of course not. He had protectors enough that day, and more importantly, he walks his own Path. I can do nothing for him, nor would I blame myself if he should misstep.” They shared a strange relationship, Gerel and Rain, barely even friends yet her husband would clearly die for the almost indifferent Legate, whom she suspected would also die for Gerel. “No,” Gerel reiterated, turning his gaze far west as his muscles tensed and trembled with anticipation. “I train for another reason, one I cannot yet explain, but as I told you before, when the Enemy whelp appears again, I mean to seek him out.”

Not to kill Gen, as Yuzhen had long since ascertained, but to kill someone he expected to find at Gen’s side. Whoever it was, Gerel only recently learned of his or her existence considering the timing. Who might it be? Gongsun Qi? Mataram Yuchun? The Confessor? No, Gerel’s focus wasn’t driven by glory or challenge, this was something darker, something more personal. There was someone he knew, out there in the Enemy army, someone who’d turned Defiled and revealed themselves in the great clash on the plains, but who could it be?

Guessing would do no good, since whoever it was, their relationship with Gerel likely predated her own, but still, her curiosity drove her to wonder. It could be the Chieftain Vithar, who young Huushal hungered to kill, or someone else like him that Gerel met in Sanshu, but most likely it was a Defiled member of the Bekhai, someone captured, turned, and now revealed. The problem was, Gerel had precious few friends and no family to speak of at all, so who was this mysterious foe who inspired such passion in her stoic husband?

Passion which she would much rather have focused upon her...

After stealing a few precious minutes more of her beloved husband’s time, Yuzhen headed out to her office, escorted by her Captain of Guard, Tang Yu, and nine of his subordinates. A full honour guard, no more, no less, such was the state of vigilance within the Northern Citadel. If the Enemy were happy to keep this stalemate, Yuzhen feared the Warriors of the Empire might start a civil war just so they’d have something to keep them occupied. Peace was precious, but anxiety-inducing to the extreme, especially since she had little to no information to go on. Thanks to MuYang’s contacts, she knew the Defiled were still marshalling in the Western City of ShiBei, but in numbers far less than what they set out with the last time around, and in no rush to do so either. It could be the Enemy had lost their appetite for conquest, but the general consensus was that either they were hiding their numbers until they attacked, or they had secondary staging grounds elsewhere along the border that had yet to be uncovered. All this was not her business however, so for the next five hours, she devoted all her focus towards the vital paperwork necessary to keep the wheels of the Empire greased and running.

It was lunchtime when she finally emerged from her office and headed down to the Citadel docks, drawn there not to partake in a meal, but to welcome an all-important guest. The vessel bore no distinguishing markings, but one could hardly mistake the unique and beautifully crafted carriage which drove off the ship and onto the pier. If that wasn’t enough to identify the owner, then the fact that the carriage was being guarded by the Death Corps meant that the vehicle must belong to the Legate, since the entire Empire would know if another Imperial Scion deigned to publicly reveal themselves in the outer provinces.

Entering the carriage as it pulled up alongside her, Yuzhen carefully made her way through a horde of bunnies loafing around a sleepy turtle to find her seat. She also chose not to remark on all the rabbit-sized receptacles lining the wall that went unused, save for one which held a scowling red panda. “Good afternoon,” she began, directing her greetings to Sarnai first, then the mysterious guard, then Lin-Lin last. The lecherous boy’s wives were in another wagon behind them, alongside Du Min Gyu and no doubt more hidden Peak Experts than hairs on an ox. Well, perhaps not that many, but enough, for even unconscious, Falling Rain gathered fervent followers like flies to honey. Glancing at the boy in question, Yuzhen saw that nothing had changed, but still asked anyways. “How’s his health?”

