“Same as always,” Lin-Lin replied, fussing with the pillow wrapped around his neck to keep his head upright while Mama Bun sat and stared at his face. Apparently he tore a muscle during the long ride back from battle, what with his head jostling about even in the well-suspended carriage compartment, and as for Mama Bun... well, bicorn rabbits were famously stupid, so who knew what went on in their heads. “Sleeping and unresponsive, but healthy as can be.” Gone was the sweet girl’s customary smile, her brow furrowed and hare-ears drooping at the tips. “Sometimes his eyes move though, which means he’s dreaming, or at the very least thinking about something.”

Yuzhen desperately wanted to say something to encourage the poor girl, not to mention Rain’s forlorn mother who’d aged a decade in a month. Perhaps Baatar could cheer her up, but Yuzhen was at a loss, so she simply offered a hand to each and squeezed softly when they both accepted. They weren’t family, but they were close enough, and Yuzhen knew they would move Heaven and Earth to cheer her up if she were in the same straits.

Not if. When. Gerel’s death was inevitable fact, and odds were he would die long before her time was up.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If Pride is the father of all sins, then Curiosity is probably the mother.

I keep glancing at the phone sitting on my desk, but I cannot bring myself to remove it. It’s an oddity I can’t ignore, an anomaly inside my Call Centre of the Void, and I keep trying to wrap my head around it. This all goes back to Emotion and Intent. I withdrew into myself, isolating my soul from my mind and body, alongside the world outside it, whether it be real, imagined, or made up. I tried interacting through a more comfortable medium, that of my long-forgotten bedroom from my previous life, but that experience was too real, too substantial, too undeniable for me to deal with. I wanted to cut myself off from the world, so I threw up a bunch of layers between us, layers which are embodied by the slow, call-centre workstation computer and headset which are my indirect connections to the outside world. Through this, I spoke to so many people and affected so many things before finally just using as a medium to divest my emotions, and when I turned it off, I closed the connection. No connection, no Heavenly Energy, no limited omniscience, and most importantly, no illusions to deceive me.

And then this goddamned smart phone showed up, willed into existence by my unwilling subconscious, or perhaps Zhen Shi’s malevolent machinations. I haven’t been doing any of this on purpose, but rather the Energy of the Heavens is doing it for me, its actions shaped by my Emotions and latent Intents. It’s the same way it tells me everything I need to know, but not in so many words, just... sensations, and while I’m not a hundred percent certain I’m interpreting all this correctly, it just feels right. The computer is how I connect to the outside world, but the phone is how the outside world reaches me, a Keystone forged by the hopes and dreams I have yet to let go of. It’s funny, technically, I could use the computer for both, but Keystones need clear separation of purpose, which is exactly what all these things are.

And now I can’t stop checking my messages.

Huh. That’s new. There, under Mama Bun’s latest snoot selfie. Adorable. No, ignore that. Yuzhen’s here. Seems like Zhen Shi hasn’t stopped playing his games. Also, I may have fucked up by convincing Zian’s mom to reveal her strength and save her son, since she was planning a coup against Rang Min I didn’t know about at the time, which is... interesting to say the least, and has caused my favourite Marshal quite the headache. Wow. That’s a lot of baggage between Jia Ying and Rang Min, but I’m not gonna touch that with a ten-foot pole. Poor Zian. Maybe I can help Yuzhen with more than just good vibes though, since there’s someone else nearby struggling with a decision.

The message sent, I resist the urge to keep going through the phone and put it back down on the desk once more. Glass side up of course, so I won’t miss a thing. It doesn’t light up for every message, but important ones do, like when Mila was feeling really down this morning when she woke up, or last night when Yan was struggling to find the words to express her feelings. This is not what I would call severing ties, but I don’t think I’m quite ready to give everything up just yet, even if it might all be a lie. How about this: no more messages from random people. If I don’t personally know them, then they’re blocked.

Baby steps.

Oblivion awaits.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All good things must come to an end, which makes it all the more important to enjoy the journey while it still lasts.

Buoyed by this thought, she squeezed Lin-Lin and Sarnai’s hands once more. “This will pass,” she whispered, smiling as she glanced at Rain. “Sooner or later, he will wake. This I believe.” Meeting the others eyes, Yuzhen softly added, “Do not give up hope.”

Hope. That was all they had left, and precious little of it yet, but Sarnai and Lin-Lin both rallied their flagging spirits and nodded, if only to affirm their own belief to themselves. “Maybe the grove will help,” Lin-Lin said, and from the tone, Yuzhen could tell she’d said it many times before but still didn’t believe it. “Or Daddy came up with something while we were travelling.”

“Maybe.” That was the purpose of this little trip, one they’d put off for weeks for fear Rain’s condition would be revealed. Visit the supernatural bamboo grove and hope for a miracle. Failing that, the next best option was to find the Brotherhood and try and cajole their rooster into working his magic to try and wake Rain, but the Abbot’s whereabouts were still unknown and all their pooled contacts were unable to find him. “Is the groundhog still plaguing your father? Catch it and I daresay Rain will wake in an instant just to cuddle the new beast.”

That won Yuzhen a small smile from them both, but smiles that faded as they all glanced at Mama Bun, still standing on Rain’s lap and staring at his face. He loved that rabbit dearly, and if he could see her distress, it was hard to imagine he would ignore her, which meant there was little chance a tunnel-digging rodent would do any better.

When the carriage arrived at the Eastern Gate, Yuzhen bid them all farewell and stepped out of the still moving carriage. Her honour guard was there waiting, all mounted and carrying a spare horse for her to ride, but she spotted someone in the crowd that made her stop and stare. There he stood, casual as you please, Situ Rang Min in the flesh, his hands folded behind his back and nose pointed towards the sky. Though he met her eyes, he did not greet her, so Yuzhen mounted her horse and hoped no one saw her freeze. While she trotted away, Rang Min made the first move. “We should speak,” he Sent, still as haughty as ever. “In private. I believe we have much to benefit from a discussion.”

Leave it to Rang Min to make a plea for aid sound like a mutually beneficial arrangement. Yuzhen was of a mind to leave him hanging in the wind for his attitude alone, but a part of her would not allow it. “At least hear what he has to say,” the little voice in her head suggested. “The Empire must stand united against the Enemy, else all we have done will be for naught.”

Nodding more to herself than at Rang Min, Yuzhen Sent, “My office. Come unseen.” Much as she loathed Rang Min, she desperately needed to put an end to the Society’s internecine struggles, and Situ Jia Ying had not seen fit to approach her, or even respond to Yuzhen’s none-too-subtle appeals for a meeting. Rang Min was all she had to work with, and while there was no chance she would stick her neck out and help him regain the seat of Patriarch, she could help him keep his dignity, or his dog life at the very least, and maybe even back him in forming a new faction of the Society. Better yet, perhaps she could invite the tiger into her den and take him on as a Lieutenant Marshal. The man was nothing if not frighteningly competent, and as Rain once said, “Keep your friends close, and your enemies closer.”

A brilliant man, Falling Rain, and the Empire was lessened by his absence. He would be back though, this Yuzhen believed, because when it came right down to it, Core or no Core, Falling Rain was a Warrior born.

Chapter Meme
