After dinner, I say goodnight to Ping Ping and leave the floofs in Song’s care as I head out for my turn at watch duty. I almost wish the Defiled would attack so I can work off this nervous energy and go to bed exhausted, but alas, my watch passes without incident. After collecting the floofs from Song, I head back to my yurt for bed, though I doubt I’ll get much sleep. On the plus side, my post-Baledagh enervation has disappeared and I’m back to sleeping four hours a night, so there’s that. Then again, considering years of post-traumatic stress and insomnia is probably what led to Baledagh in the first place, I’m not sure this is really a plus.

Too wound up to lie still, I give up on sleep and take a seat on the floor, double checking to make sure Mama Bun, Blackjack, and Pong Pong are all still in bed. I’m not entirely sure how I dive into Natal Palaces or if my long-eared floofs even have Natal Palaces to dive into, but I’d rather not risk another foray into the spiritually massive turtle’s gargantuan domain. Not that it matters. It could be the fear, frustration, anxiety, or perhaps the torrent of whispering Spectres are to blame, but Balance doesn’t come easily tonight. My mind will not calm, I cannot focus on nothing, and I’m painfully aware of all my faults and deficiencies. Maybe a month off wasn’t long enough, or maybe it was too long and I need to work off the rust. Who knows. Not this guy. I know nothing. Ugh. Focus. Calm. I wish I could go swimming in the bay. It’s always nice and calm underwater, except when it isn’t. Fucking sharks.

Annoyed by my failures, I lie back with a sigh and despair. The last time I had trouble finding Balance was before Baledagh came into being, because I’d become Tainted and was on the cusp of turning Defiled. Is that what’s happening here? Why are things so difficult on this patrol? Because I’m bored of fighting? Or am I worried about the tentacle-knife Demon Jorani saw in Sinuji? Maybe it’s guilt from not helping Ji Yeon. I’m a sucker for a pretty face and doubly so with a damsel in distress, but I just ignored her plight and sent her back to the people who tried to kill her. Her brother and betrothed, no less. God the Society is fucked up.

So what do I do? Rekindle my love of bloodshed? Ride back to rescue a beauty? Before, I fixed things by creating Baledagh, but that’s not an option anymore. I wish Baatar or Akanai were here to help. They rarely give lessons these days and barely even send letters, but I can’t blame them. They have more important things to deal with than a stubborn idiot who refuses to listen. No, that’s not fair, and probably Spectres. I never really appreciated how much my family risked to welcome me into the Bekhai, or how hard they fought to keep me there. They aren’t to blame for my problems, and even if they were a thousand times busier, Baatar and Akanai would still make time for lessons if they thought I needed them. Even though they prefer I figure things out on my own, they wouldn’t leave me flapping in the wind with no help or support, which means they’re confident I have the tools required to progress along my Martial Path and are content to let me puzzle it out.

So what would they do if I told them I was having trouble finding Balance?

Probably tell me to seek Insight in the Forms. That’s essentially what most of my training amounted to, that and sparring. Resigned to give it a try, I clear the yurt and do as Baatar taught me several years ago, freeing my mind as my body slowly guides me through the Forms. Stalk the Dragon melds into Killing Lunge before seamlessly shifting into Swipe the Rushes, a prelude to Reverse the Flow and Fanged Clutch. Finding a sense of comfort in the familiar movements, I relax and feel all my anxieties and insecurities melting away as I give myself over to studying the Forms.

Unity’s binding ceremony aside, I can’t remember my last Insight into the Forms. Why? It’s a part of my daily routine, but somewhere along the way, I stopped studying them because... because I was impatient. I was so caught up with my Blessing and Blobby, using External Chi and whether Visualization or Intent is better for Chi manipulation, I forgot all about the Forms and the mysteries hidden within. I spend so much time speculating on wild guesses and half-baked theories because I’m too eager, too ambitious, and too impatient for more. I’m like a kid who just learned to count and is trying to puzzle out quantum physics instead of learning how to add and subtract. Add in all my neurotic tendencies and a rotating host of Spectres lodged in my brain, and well, we got ourselves a mental breakdown stew going.

Just relax. Your retinue will be fine without you fretting over them all the time, and who cares about what the Abbot is doing? Stop worrying about what GangShu will do, you’ve made your choice, so live with it. Leave the mysteries of animals and Spiritual Hearts for someone else, it’s a flight of fancy you don’t have the time or lifespan to indulge. I’m not saying stop asking questions and leave everything to fate, but there are some things outside of your control, so stressing over them accomplishes nothing.

As for becoming stronger? Baatar once told me ‘the Forms hide within them all the knowledge you require in order to do battle’. How much of that knowledge have I uncovered? Probably less than a single percent, which makes my desire to move on all the more ridiculous. The answers were right in front of my face all along. Seek nothing, find everything, isn’t that how it goes?

Banishing all extraneous thoughts, I calm my mind and focus on nothing, making my way through the Forms, one movement at a time.

And when the last movement fades away, I find Balance already upon me and slip into my Natal Palace, my domain, drawn there by an inkling in the back of my mind I wasn’t even aware of until I act upon it. Ignoring the horde of Spectres all but begging me to surrender, my attention fixates on the torrent of Heavenly Energy surging into my Core, invisible and intangible, but the sensation is there. What was once a warm summer breeze in the cool, calming shade has become a constant struggle to keep my head above water, one I’ve grown accustomed to in the years since I first put on the Runic Ring. Even after I stopped wearing it, nothing changed. The Energy of the Heavens were once gentle and affectionate, a refreshing, invigorating experience which left me tranquil and content, but now it is more akin to a turbulent river, raging windstorm, blazing inferno, and destructive earthquake all wrapped into one, somehow both exhilarating and calming at the same time.

It’s like I’m fighting the Energy of the Heavens, trying to keep it from overwhelming me, right until I feel the overwhelming urge to stop struggling and let the power consume me. Why? Others say that to bask in the Energy of the Heavens is to experience the warm embrace of the Mother, but why does it feel so... antagonistic?

Because it’s resisting. Probably for the same reason Chi returns to Heavenly Energy when released into the world, because that’s its natural state, and what I do now is... unnatural? Wait, no. No one else has this problem, so this must be something unique to me. Why?

...Fucking idiot. You’re doing it again, speculating without basis. I can’t help it. It’s who I am. Still, my gut tells me I’m onto something, like I have most of the pieces to the puzzle, but just can’t figure out how it all comes together...

From the top. Heavenly Energy goes into my Core and becomes Chi. Chi moves out of my Core and goes back to Heavenly Energy. Heavenly Energy in and Heavenly Energy out. Aside from the name, what’s the difference between Chi and Heavenly Energy? No, better question, how do I keep Chi from turning back into Heavenly Energy? Is it possible to... expand my Core outside my body so Chi stays Chi? No, that’s stupid. Not my Core, but some type of barrier which can’t be Chi. I tried that with Sending and it didn’t work, so... what do I make the barrier out of? What else do I have? What am I missing? It feels as if it should be obvious, like the answer is on the tip of my tongue, but I can’t figure out what it is...

New topic. Fresh break. Come back to this later.

Animals have Spiritual Hearts. Animals have everlasting life. Left side equals right side, so Spiritual Heart equals immortality?

...No. Break.

Embrace of the Mother. Surrender to the Father. Are they really all that different?

...Probably Spectres. Break.

Fuck I’m doing it again, reaching beyond my comprehension. Still, I think I was close to several answers there, but I couldn’t quite finish any of my thoughts. Overwhelmed with frustration, Balance slips away and I crawl into bed to rest, but before the blankets even settle over my body, shouts rise throughout camp, warning of an incoming Defiled attack.

What did I say? Just my friggen luck...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
