Titan’s Torch hadn’t cracked the code quite yet, but two teams were working on making Tier 8 skill rifts without so many failures, and they could make a Tier 8 [Bandage] rift about one out of sixty times thanks to some refinements in rift stabilization.

That was still expensive, but for a rare skill like [Bandage], it could be worth it to create a few. The Tier 14 healing spells were harder and far more expensive in material costs, as a failure meant the loss of far more valuable skill shards, but if the teams kept up the work, they might be able to get the odds down to something reasonable in the next few hundred years.

Such custom rifts could tie in well to Countess Walsh’s idea for exports of aura potions. They might also attract delvers that wanted the rewards, but didn’t want to or didn’t have the ability to directly purchase them.

Not that Matt was about to accept right here and now, but he liked what he was seeing both from the plan and Countess Walsh herself.

It would also give him and Liz a bargaining chip for their upcoming ducal gathering. No one would truly expect them to have something to export, but having something valuable but not exclusive might put them in a good position.

Not an amazing one that might draw jealousy, but a good one. And anyone who saw their success and coveted their profits could copy their actions, making aura potions easier to buy for the common man.

That in and of itself was a good enough reason for Matt.

“An interesting proposal that I will look over in more detail later Countess Walsh, but I like what I saw on a brief skim. Tell us about Mythena.”

Matt should have expected it, but he had to force himself to pay attention when Countess Walsh immediately launched into an explanation of how the change in her world's chaotic space location had broken all of the previous supply deals the local businesses had, and while she had facilitated quick replacements, the deals weren’t nearly as favorable as they could have been with the shipping companies holding most of the cards.

Phoenix Liz shoved her head under a wing, which nearly caused Matt to laugh, but he managed to contain himself through an effort of will.

Countess Walsh thankfully turned the topic to something far more interesting. “I was hoping for support in keeping most of my population in orbit and to finish the orbital ring. Most of the hard work is done and I—”

“Agreed.” Liz accepted her proposal before Matt could. “We actually intended to ask if you would be willing to do exactly that. Even beyond how much Matt loves impractical infrastructure projects and wants to research rift development in offworld environments, we want to try some of the Corporations’ methods for Tiering up planets. See if they might be viable and worthy of replication on a larger scale.”

Countess Walsh positively beamed at the acceptance. “Wonderful. If there is anything you would like to test I will of course be willing to assist any way I can. I can even set aside one of the completed sections for an outpost of your guild my Lord.”

Instead of denying, Matt just nodded. “If you can prepare the facilities, I can have a team moved over in the next decade. Now, tell me about the orbital ring. Are the people who live on it disadvantaged without access to rifts?”

Countess Walsh’s happy countenance mellowed noticeably. “Not at this point, but I can see where issues likely will arise. Companies and immortals are the only ones who could afford the taxes of surface living, and transportation to and from the planetary surface isn’t expensive, but it does serve as an additional hurdle for either onworld delving or transportation to lower-Tier neighbors. Now, of course, with the integration, lots of people are trying to buy up land on the surface in preparation for normal Empire tax codes, and the most successful are… flaunting it. I had a few plans to work around them, and with your support in maintaining the ringworld, new plans have presented themselves. Likewise, the local Oniel cylinders produce plenty of food for all inhabitants, and even something of a surplus, but without trade routes, we’re not able to really benefit from that.”

Matt spread his spiritual perception until he found the giant cylinders in space. A little more than a thousand miles in diameter and five thousand miles long, the cylinders were massive and entirely dedicated to growing crops with mostly automated systems.

He was able to identify most of the things growing, but a few of the items he needed his [AI] to tell him what they were or why they were valuable enough to grow.

Silver pumpkins were a delicacy in the Corporations, but the dishes it was used in weren’t that popular in the Empire, with most people considering the salty and yeasty flavor unpalatable.

Rainbow apples were popular commodities in high-end restaurants thanks to their ability to be infused with other flavors and magnify the tastes.

He had never heard of some of the other ingredients, like a strand of wheat that had all the vitamins and nutrients that a mortal needed. The Corporations apparently used the bread it made to create a cheap but nutritious food for those who couldn’t afford anything more luxurious.

Matt didn’t want to just get rid of the wheat, but he couldn’t see the bland bread it made catching on in the Empire thanks to the control over food prices ensuring that a variety of food was available to every citizen at a minimum cost. That meant there was a lot of wheat that was going to end up without someone to buy it, which felt like a waste for such an incredible food product.

A quick search told him that most other nobles who got the wheat simply replaced it, but a few had made some headway reducing the bland taste by mixing the grain with others and changing the recipes used. Those places had some success in making the bread popular as a way to ensure nutrition, but the main use for the bread seemed to be as a sort of travel ration for medium-Tier delvers who still needed to eat, but had delves longer than could be completed in a few hours.

That had some merit, but Matt felt like there was something staring him in the face but he couldn't see it.

He did place an order for a few crates of all of the exotic foodstuffs to be delivered to their cruise ship. It had a team of chefs and he wanted to see what they could do with the dishes.

The orbital ring was a marvel, and Matt enjoyed a few moments scanning it with his spiritual perception to understand it.

Seeing one in person, even one that only had a few sections built out and livable, Matt wanted to create one of his own for their capital. It felt like a bold statement about just what people could do when they put their minds to it, to do things in ways that even a created planet couldn't match.

Though, he’d never do so without having a good reason for one, which he didn’t have. Orbital rings like that were expensive, but it was a fun thought.

What was less fun was the interruption at the next stop.

Cato’s message rerouted them, and there Matt found an irritated looking Tier 40 Federation man sneering at their arrival.

He didn’t attack them or do anything that could be considered hostile, but he did rudely look at Cato and ask, “Can I leave now?”

Matt probed the world that was only tethered to a single nearby world instead of the three that should have locked it in place. Even that single tether was thin and clearly not the full lock down.

As his spiritual perception reached the planet, Matt stiffened. Liz, however, rippled and in unison they both looked to the Tier 40.

“What did you do?” Matt knew he was growling at someone many times stronger than him, but he didn’t care.

The planet that should have had millions of people was empty.

It was like someone had deliberately removed the top fifty feet of all the surface of the planet, leaving nothing but barren rock and loose soil. Beyond that, someone had gone through the effort of sterilizing the planet. Not even a single bacteria was left alive on the world, with animals larger than an ant just entirely missing, their bodies just gone with the topsoil.

The delivery man laughed in their faces. “As per the treaty, the planet was selected and delivered. All the residents chose to take the offer to relocate, and that is all I have to say to mongrels like you.”

His eyes were firmly locked on Liz as he said that, but before Matt could lash out, someone else did.

A man wreathed in lightning, wind, and rain stepped out of nothing, his entrance punctuated by a ball of storm mana that flew out faster than anyone, even the Tier 40, could react.

The Federation Tier 40 flew back as his chest was ravaged, but he didn’t die, which Matt couldn't help but think was a pity.

But if Leon wanted to keep the man alive, he must have a reason.

“This is breaki—”

“You insulted my daughter, and my reprimand was well restrained. Would you prefer something unrestrained?”

Instead of his typical goofy demeanor, Leon stood there like the Royal he was. He had an aura that demanded obedience and proclaimed itself the ruler of the turbulent storms that wiped out entire settlements.

The Tier 40’s angry expression melted away to be replaced by a smug smile. “I will be informing Fir—”

Leon cut him off by sending a hand of lightning at the man. As the mass of mana flew, it was so strong that it warped chaotic space and aspected the corrosive energies to a dark storm color.

Magical hand clutching the man's throat, Leon looked at him like he was looking at a deadman. “I don’t need you to threaten me, pup. I will personally go pay Faith a visit after this. We accept your delivery of the world, now begone or remain forever.”

The Tier 40 looked like he wanted to say something, but he clearly thought better of it as he turned and flew off into the swirling energies of chaotic space without so much as a sneer.

Leon sighed, but didn’t drop out of his Royal demeanor. His tone did lighten a bit, though. “Hey kids. Sorry we are meeting up like this, but Manny sent me when he noticed the anomaly.”

Liz looked to the floating ember next to them that was the connection to the world's real space. “What did they do and why?”

“It’s a tactic to deal with high-Tier information gathering Talents. It rarely needs to be used, and the last time I can remember it being used was during Georgios’ time. Let's take a step back and add some context. You need to understand that the planets that are transferred in deals for Ascenders and the like aren’t entirely picked by the Great Powers themselves. That means places with important assets might be slated to transfer. Normally, that's not a big deal, just move them and hide it. But with, for example, Georgios’ Talent for past and future sight, that tactic suddenly doesn't work any more. They found that if they simply send a Tier 47 or higher to the world in question and cause enough destruction, they can create enough interference that most Talents for past sight can’t see anything past the destruction.”

“And we have no idea what they want?” Matt gestured to the world next to them as he asked, but felt he already knew the answer.

Leon shook his head. “It could have been for a single important person, there could have been a super secret research station here, or it could have been a rare resource in one of the rifts that they moved. Or, it could have just been to spite us and make us not look somewhere else, though that is unlikely. Once the planet is selected for transfer, they couldn’t fully destroy the world, but this is the next best thing. It is, though, considered very bad form, and I’ll be having a bit of a meeting with their First Leader Faith after this about proper inter-Great Power relations.”

Matt was going to ask what Leon meant by that when his father-in-law clutched his storm wreathed fist, and the star system in the real space connected through the node exploded. Unimaginable power ripped and twisted reality itself apart until it destabilized and chaotic space poured in, destroying everything.

Leon kept his fist clenched until the very node they were using to access that real space universe was destroyed.

“We can never be sure that they didn’t do something else if they went through this much trouble, and Manny can’t check. Better to just not risk it.”

Matt just took in Leon’s display of power in silent awe. It was hard to remember that his goofy father-in-law was one of the three strongest people in the Empire, and top 24 people in the Realm, until he did something overt like destroying a star system with a single clench of a fist.

Turning to the two of them fully, Leon smiled, and Matt could see more of his father-in-law shine through. “Ok, I have a few hours before I need to go kick Faith's ass… I mean discuss proper planetary transfer procedures. Tell me about what went wrong.”
