Tala grinned, feeling a moment of true freedom in the pure conflict.

There was nothing to protect here, nothing to consider. The town that was in danger, prompting her to come, was far behind her and getting further away, and none of the automata would be trying to go around her.

This was simple.The Black Legionnaires were the enemy, and she was to destroy them.

For old time's sake, she verbalized her next working. Though she only did so once despite using it twice concurrently. “Crush.”

She had always had a weighty soul and magical aspect, generally able to target things that were equal in advancement to herself, where others struggled to do so. In this, however, that hardly factored.

She was Reforged, and their weight was barely equivalent to Bound.

The two closest, charging automata slammed into the ground, sinking into the relatively soft earth much like their lieutenant had. In their case, however, when their feet stopped sinking, their torsos were bent over, their bodies pressed into the ground as well.

She layered a second casting on to each before striding forward, leaving Alat to tear out their soul-cores and obliterate the spirits of the things.

Alat would also pull the bodies into the sanctum as soon as they were fully free of the Black Legion inhabitation.

The researchers were still in heated conversation about her existence workings, but they would pause to confirm theories with new automata bodies.

She was all but a Sovereign of War as she strode between the utterly overcome legionnaires, and the remainder noticed.

Still, they kept their focus, linking together their fields, and their power rose up, Tala able to see hints of it with her threefold perception despite its oddity and wrongness.

There was some irony to agents of reality wielding that power as one would magic, but that was a long harped on issue that didn’t bear further consideration at the moment.

Still, the effectively anti-magical domain started by rippling outward until it came in contact with her own, contracted aura, barely ten feet in front of her.

That superficial placement was well inside her star- and stoneward chain net, but there would be time for that at the end.

When their field clashed with her aura, Tala’s obviously proved utterly dominant, but that’s where the expected sequence of events ended.

Tala had expected the combined field to wash out around her and hers, leaving her aura and authority as an island of magic amidst a sea of enforced reality.

Instead, the field began strengthening without increasing in size. Curious, Tala walked forward, causing the field to contract as well as strengthen more quickly even as she advanced, maintaining marginal contact with her own aura as if constantly checking itself against her strength.

She realized then that, of course the Legion had to be used to fighting more advanced beings, otherwise the Archons and powerful arcanes would have wiped out the standard footsoldiers with little issue by dint of magical weight alone. She’d been told about this effect several times, but seeing it in person was an entirely different experience.

The strikes on the arcane cities really hadn’t given the Black Legion opportunity to demonstrate this, partially because their intentions had been different. They hadn’t wanted to successfully oppose the defenders as that would have driven those defenders back closer together, likely closer to the central column that was their true goal.

Now?

Now, they sought to destroy her in turn, and their goal was through her.

Thirteen standard legionnaires, four sergeants, and one lieutenant combined their metaphysical weight to tip the balance of the area around them toward reality, even as they worked to free the lieutenant from the ground.

Tala continued her slow march forward, their working slowly retreating before her advance.

The dividing line between their field and her aura came to equilibrium barely five feet from the lead automaton that was already bracing behind a tower shield of black steel.

Tala almost paused, still ten feet from that dividing line where her own aura began being pushed in and back toward her, unable to overcome the weight of so many, but instead, she decided to learn.

She drew her own sway back toward herself, condensing it as she advanced until hers pushed forward once more.

Theirs responded in kind, until Tala stopped her contraction at roughly five feet from herself, matching her striking range with Flow in sword form.

To keep her tightened and reinforced aura at bay, the foremost legionnaire had barely six inches of shelter, and if the inhuman thing could feel nervousness, it certainly seemed to by its expression and shifting stance.

A grin pulled at Tala’s lips beneath her faceplate, and she lunged forward, ready to stretch herself against these opponents.
