“We can discuss it while we fly,” Sarya answered, turning and leading them onwards in their journey. “To start, your brows are too heavy. You need to lighten the hair and angle the inside edge down more. Merge it with your nose, and make the flare of the nostrils more delicate.”

Nathan swallowed his objections. He’d used his healing talent to modify his body before, but mostly to reinforce it in various ways. He’d also grown his hair out manually before, but hadn't dramatically altered the shape of his face. Sarya made him do all of that and more, adjusting his face and body in a dozen small cosmetic ways to appeal to the gaze of Questors.

Sarya had some suggestions for using his Talent, and Nathan learned new ways to control his body. He didn’t like the process of being so nakedly objectified and optimizing for that objectification. The Heirs were intentionally molding themselves to fit the Questor’s preconceptions so that their voices would be heard.

Which is part of the problem. We shouldn’t have to do this just to be listened to. But if it improves our chances of fixing Davrar, then we need to do it.

His clothes were easy. Sarya approved of Nathan’s choices of loose and simple garments and commented that it wouldn’t be a disaster if he ended up without them at the end of the battle, especially if he wanted to make a few other modifications.

At least Nathan didn’t feel singled out. The glamour enchantments continued to work their magic on the rest of the Heirs, making them look like they’d just stepped out of a multi-hour session with a whole team of makeup artists and stylists. Sarya improved on that, giving them the same kind of stylistic advice she’d given Nathan and helping them with the details she’d already mentioned.

Aarl replaced the enchanted robes with his old metallic armor, morphing it to a more form-fitting style that emphasized his lean musculature. He kept Sussu’s bangles and several other trinkets that provided most of his real protection, but hid them beneath the tight covering. The armor looked like metallic spandex, and he really did remind Nathan of a superhero like this.

For Stella, in addition to glowing jewelry and floating gemstones, Sarya provided some enchanted undergarments. Then she had Stella undo her long braid to let the glamour enchantment array it into wavy layers that looked effortless. With all of it, she looked like a mage from some imperial court, with rich colors and intricate details emphasizing her figure.

Khachi didn’t require much beyond the glamour, since his armor was already polished to a mirror sheen by his magic. His divinity had also seen to the rest of his appearance, ensuring that his teeth were pearly white and that dirt never stuck to him. The glamour mostly made sure that his fur looked soft and freshly combed even when the Heirs were speeding through the air.

Sarah seemed the least bothered by the whole situation, happily replacing much of her clothing with leather straps and belts. The bandolier of bullets was the largest piece of covering she kept, and with that and two holstered revolvers she looked like a femme fatale from a western movie, or the supervillain to complement Aarl’s superhero.

They were down to fine details as they spotted the battlefield below. “There it is,” Sarya declared. The valley looked just like the map, with the addition of a couple of campfires burning towards the back of the Ashen Accord’s designated starting zone. About two dozen people sat around the fires on chairs and benches, and even from here, they were unique enough to obviously be Questors. Sarya led them down, straight towards the fire. “It’s time to meet some of the other original Questors.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 8

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 9

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 8

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 4

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
