I practiced my other spells for a bit after we got back to uncle Barro's, after which we had a good dinner made by my aunt, whose name it turned out was Elna. Elna was a lovely woman, if a bit quiet, and her cooking was a refreshing change from my mother's.

Dad talked to uncle Barro while we cleaned up and then we all chatted for awhile. I sat on a bench with my father, opposite another with my aunt and uncle. I curled up and closed my eyes, letting myself relax a bit after the long day.

"Verren," Barro lowered his voice, likely assuming I was asleep. I wasn't yet of course, but... "This isn't some border skirmish, not how they're moving troops. They're even calling some of our lads up."

"They call for men every year, and every year a few hotheads go to join up," dad replied.

"Aye, aye, that they do, I know one hothead that joined the call as soon as he could," Barro chuckled, "But this is different, ain't just a call. Come spring they're going to draft some of the lads who don't sign. The mayor got wind, wanted me to let you know."

"An actual war? Are they nuts? We're not on the border, but we're certainly close enough for it to spill over here if it goes wrong." Dad sounded unhappy at the information.

"Ermath may not be giving them a choice. You may not hear it from out in the boonies where you are but from the sound of it, they're massing troops. Your lads are too young, and mine are all moved out, but it's bad news little brother, bad news indeed," my uncle sighed, sounding tired. I knew Ermath was the proper name of the empire, but not much else about them, same as I knew our kingdom was called Bergond, but that kind of thing just didn't come up much.

"I left the army to get away from that nonsense Barro, nobles who only care who was whose kid. The blaring incompetence of their mess, and the constant fights. Even this far out are they still gonna keep pushing? Where's it end?" Dad sounded some mix of tired and angry. "I hate to say it, but what if the kingdom lost? Do you think...?"

"Don't finish that thought Verren, you know where that line of thinking leads. We've both seen it." There was sadness in that, though I didn't understand it.

"I'll have to teach the boys to fight come spring," dad mused. "As for Alana, well, we'll see if Mystien has any ideas on how she can defend herself. Though I hope she never needs it." He petted my hair. "Regardless though, as long as the army doesn't drag them in, they should be fine." He laid back for a few moments, before he returned to more mundane conversation. I continued to feign sleep until he picked me up and took me off to a proper bedroll to sleep.

Our days continued much like that, more frostbitten men were always showing up, though once I worked my way through the backlog it wasn't too bad. We even had a few more spellcasters come by now and again. They seemed to approve of my work. There were also a few knights who popped in. This group gave dad some weird looks, almost as if they could nearly see something off about him. I could tell that most of them had auras too, mostly weaker ones. I assumed those who had any of note wouldn't be stopping in our out of the way little town.

After a bit of practice I managed to get my water spell to make ice too, and learned that I could in fact fix missing digits. I assumed that meant I could fix limbs as well, but even a pinky toe was so mana intensive to regrow that I shuddered at the thought of that.

After learning to make ice, and learning that I was being paid a good clip for this work I did make a request of my father: to order an ice cream churn from uncle Barro. He didn't know what it was, but after a bit of pestering and telling him I thought I had an idea that would be good eating he finally relented. The plans were simple enough for a hand churn, and with my ice making spell the spring and summer would surely improve. I also got him to order me a beehive, another thing he didn't really understand, but the woodworking was cheap. After making a lot of money for the family, and mercilessly pestering him about it he finally caved.

Once winter slipped away and we were no longer needed in town, we went home. The snow was mostly gone by this point, and I got to skip along as my dad carried the churn. He was picking up my hive in a few days, and I was in a cheery mood.

Mom even let me take some of her extra thread and weave it into a loose mesh. Well, let me is a bit of an exaggeration I did it and pretended like it was a mistake. She was a bit cross, but I told her that we could still use it - I'd think of something.

"You had better. Spinning all that wasn't easy," she glared at me, obviously suspecting foul play on my part.

"I've got an idea. Don't be mad," I answered placatingly.

"Looks useless to me," Rod offered.

"Nope, nothing for that," John said.

I gave them a grin, I knew two young men who would be helping me. Bee stings hurt.
