“… Sure.” Erick ignored the fact that Syllea had ignored part of his own demands, and added another request of her own. Erick gestured to the flat, open space beyond the gazebo, in full light of the sun. “Over there? Or in the office space down below, if privacy is needed?”

Syllea did not answer—

For ten meters away, atop the flat white roof of House Benevolence, the air shimmered purple and opened, becoming a [Gate]. A courtyard full of people lay on the other side. It was night in that other part of the world, and Erick recognized the pillars and the people from a while ago. It was the same place which the original Rocky and a few others came from, when they visited his ailing, dying father, after Ophelia had differentiated from the spell inside Tenebrae’s soul, causing the older archmage some physical distress…

Tenebrae had almost died, actually. It wasn’t a simple ‘distress’.

Erick had imagined that Tenebrae had recovered, and that he would be walking through the [Gate] alongside Rock and a few others, but he had been misinformed about Tenebrae’s health.

Rock, the original differentiation of Tenebrae’s [Summon Rocky] spell, stood beside a bed that floated upon a purple Platform spell. The bed held a lot of pillows. So many pillows that it was hard to initially see the man upon those pillows.

Erick did not expect Tenebrae to be this bad, but maybe he should have.

The old man was thin. He was barely awake, struggling to keep his eyes open, but then Rocky walked through the [Gate] and brought his father with him. Tenebrae recognized that he was moving. He saw night turn into bright day, as he passed under the purple arch of Rock’s [Gate], and his eyes opened fractionally wider. He looked around. It was easy to tell that Tenebrae was heavily drugged and in a lot of pain; he was barely himself.

But then Tenebrae saw Erick. Focus came to the aging Stone Archmage like the final flickering of a candle, turning into pyre. The old man stared with bright, grey eyes.

Two more people came through the [Gate].

Palodia, Tenebrae’s Cook, was an old incani woman with red skin and horns who scowled most of the time; now, she just prayed, silently, to whatever gods cared to hear. The only other person to come through the [Gate] was a dark black stone woman. She was Obsidia; one of the differentiated Rockys. The purple [Gate] closed behind them, shutting out the sights of over fifty other people, stone and otherwise, in a dark courtyard on the other side of the world.

Rock walked forward silently, barely willing to meet Erick’s eyes. He held some paperwork in his stone hands. Erick walked forward and met the man halfway, silently taking the paperwork. Rock kept his head bowed and stepped away.

Erick read over the paperwork in under four seconds, without even flipping through. His eyes briefly went wide. He had to confirm what he had read. “You got rid of the [Summon Rocky] spell?”

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes at Erick.

There was a lot to see in that small expression.

Tenebrae hated everything about this. He hated that Erick was a Wizard, and that he had gotten [Gate]. He hated his own mortality. He hated that Erick was young again, and Blessed by Rozeta. He was furious that Erick had gotten secrets out of Ar’Cosmos that he had been working at for decades. He was angry at the world, but mostly he was angry at needing to come here and beg like a dog. Mostly, though, he was furious that Erick would ever think that killing the [Summon Rocky] spell didn’t hurt him; that it wasn’t a massive emotional turmoil, and that he wasn’t devastated that it had to be done.

Palodia took a half-step forward, her voice was weak, but it was stronger than Tenebrae’s, for he could not speak at all. She said, “When we… When we divested Tenebrae of all his worldly assets and set to right his final papers… We did that two months ago, back when the doctors said that the next differentiation would kill him.”

“I apologize for my uncouth suggestion,” Erick said. “Please forgive my unkind words.”

Tenebrae relaxed a little, looking both vindicated and supremely tired.

The differentiation of a summon into a person was not an easy thing on the original creator. It was likened unto a birth, but the pain was less of the body, and more of the soul, as parts of the creator’s soul were ripped away as the new soul became their own person. Tasar had explained all of this to Erick, back when she spoke about what it meant to be an immortal and have [Familiar]s.

Ophiel’s eventual differentiation would hurt Erick a lot, in all the unintentional ways a person can hurt another. Yggdrasil’s differentiation would have probably been easier, since Arbors were generally in the original caster for such a short amount of time, but then again, Yggdrasil had that seal on him, and he would be with Erick for a hundred years. Maybe Yggdrasil’s cognizance would make that separation easier; Tasar didn’t know, for sure. Usually, as soon as [Familiar]s became cognizant, they separated, and that process was exactly as bad as souls splitting.

Tenebrae had taken a different route with his [Summon Rocky] spell, and the eventuality of differentiation. His soul would slowly bleed off new people every few years. Tasar didn’t quite approve of that, nor did she disapprove. It was simply an option, one that ensured that the people created by the [Familiar] spell would be able to be their own species, and that the creator got to keep their [Familiar] spell.

Of course, such a decision led to this outcome right here. The [Reincarnation] option was a twist, but even still, Tenebrae’s [Familiar] spell would die with his current form.

Erick had no idea what to think about everything that was happening in front of him. He was thankful, though, that Tenebrae had removed that thorny ethical problem before coming here.

There was one thing about all of this that Erick was sure about, though.

Erick said to Rock, “Rock. If your people ever desire to leave behind your stone bodies and become fleshy sorts, then I could probably [Strike] that mark. I plan to do the same for Ophiel when that inevitability happens, if Ophiel should choose that path.”

Rock stood a bit straighter. Obsidia’s eyes went wide. Palodia gasped a little, feeling overjoyed in the moment.

Tenebrae’s eyes also went wide as a tiny, overjoyed, yet barely audible laugh escaped his dry mouth. His heart briefly beat hard—

And then flatlined.

Everyone instantly panicked—

Except for Erick. Erick ignored the frantic scream of Obsidia, the sudden crash-to-the-knees of Rock, and Palodia’s rush to be closer to Tenebrae. The Wizard flickered forward, like lightning, and did the [Reincarnation] as fast as he could. He made it in time, of course. Tenebrae’s soul remained inside his rapidly transforming body the whole time he transitioned into someone else.

Erick hit every mark that Tenebrae had seen fit to write down.

Orcol. Male. Average height. Average build. Young, at 17. Would grow slightly bigger thanks to puberty, his lower fangs coming in properly in another year.

A trajectory toward magic and using that magic to make the world better everywhere he went.

A love of the forest, and the mountains, and of the sun and flying and delving into stone. A love of women.

A desire for children, and to help others.

Tenebrae’s soul lay bare before Erick, written in the fractal splash of possible futures, but even before that, his soul was laid bare inside the paperwork Rock had handed over. Tenebrae wanted to help people. He had always wanted to help people. He had simply gotten cynical about it after too many tragedies. And yet, in his own way, he had still continued to help people to the best of his ability, as much as his psyche could handle.

Erick hoped Tenebrae’s next life would have fewer tragedies.

Palodia was next, for Rock had handed Erick paperwork for two people.

She was ready.

Erick sent the old incani woman into dreamland. When she awoke, later, under the care of the differentiated Rockys, and alongside Tenebrae, Palodia would be a 17 year old orcol woman with a love of food, and men, and battle. She would be the best Cook in the world, learning all there was to know about all sorts of foods, and maybe, this time, she would have a knack for [Grow]ing things, too.

Maybe, this go-around, she could even find the time to have children.

There were a lot of similarities and complementing factors between both Tenebrae’s and Palodia’s paperwork. Because of those, Erick could only draw one conclusion.

Tenebrae and Palodia had loved each other for a very long time, but they had never been able to make it work for any number of reasons. Age difference. Incani versus human differences. Power differences. Emotional and circumstantial differences. Tenebrae had once had a flesh and blood family, but as far as Erick knew, those people were all dead. Only Palodia, his Cook, remained from that time.

Maybe they could make it work, this time.

Erick watched the two new orcols depart on a single floating purple platform, sleeping amongst the pillows as they floated through a purple [Gate], with Rock and Obsidia guiding them forward. Back to Eidolon, back to the Rocky compound. He wished them the best in their new lives.

For a moment, nothing happened.

And then Erick returned to the gazebo to sit back down with Syllea and hash out a few more specifics of what it meant to have Yggdrasil in Treehome. This second conversation was nice and easy, with Syllea hinting that if Erick wanted to build a house on Yggdrasil’s roots and spend some time up there, then that was great. Soon enough, all of the previous wariness was gone. Syllea was happy to be here, talking to Erick, and Erick was glad to have Syllea here, too. Erick eventually asked after the sorts of fish of the Forest which might transplant well to Candlepoint’s lake, and Syllea had a bunch of ideas about that.

Yggdrasil’s enthusiasm for this whole thing returned. He really started bouncing at the side of the table when Syllea began making lightwards to illustrate the fish she had been naming.

They went through two pots of tea and a whole tray of cookies as Syllea spoke of various happenings in her neck of the woods while Erick had been on the Path, and Erick spoke about what had happened to him on the Path. Erick asked after Treehome’s relationship with the fae, and the dragons, and he got a few unexpected answers.

“Ha! I had no idea about all this Fae stuff until after your Path ended!” Syllea laughed a little bit more, then said, “Wyrmrest knew some of it, though, so I was furious with him for a good week and constantly worried about some sort of attack from them. But nothing ever happened. Whatever contacts that Ar’Cosmos has to have with Treehome are so minimal that they’ve simply never been in my Sights, at all.” Syllea scoffed, “Which is rather personally annoying! I can’t believe that we don’t have contact with them… Eh!” She shrugged.

Erick had a hard time believing that, too, but Syllea was telling the truth as she knew it. “And you’ve never been warned away from using Fae Magic?”

“Everyone always warns against using that Mana Alter but I’ve literally never had a problem with using Fae Magic.” Syllea said, “I certainly didn’t expect Fae Magic to be the way to make a [Gate], either! I’ve barely ever found any good use for it, though, so that’s why I never did much with it.”

“What!” Now that was simply unbelievable. Erick laughed a little, asking, “But [Fairy House]?”

“Easy to find when you know how to look, and even easier to break. Fae Magic is too fragile.” Syllea shrugged. “That’s why I don’t use that magic.”

“So what about using it with runic webs, then?”

“… Ah… Those things that the wrought use to emplace magic? I mean… Sure? They make magic more stable, but— Well. Runic webs hold up well against normal mages and when they’re respected, but that is only one problem. The real problem is that they cost too much! All that platinum and gold! Ha!…” Syllea looked at Erick. “But I guess you got a connection to Stratagold so that particular cost isn’t a problem?”

“I’m working on a way to make runic-capable iron that won’t rust. It’ll be some combination of [Condense Oxygen] and [Condense Iron], and then the rest of the runic web will be built upon that.”

Syllea’s eyes went wide. And then she threw back her head and laughed. “That’s wonderful! I hope you can make it work!”

Erick smiled.

They had a few more words, but Syllea was ready to depart soon enough. All of the coldness she had first shown was gone. She had seen the entirety of the [Reincarnation] process and she had been absolutely floored the whole way through, like she was witnessing a miracle made manifest. The conversation afterward had been wonderful, too.

Syllea was back to being someone that Erick could talk to, and she even said as much as she walked out of the gazebo, saying, “Call me up anytime, Erick!” She rapidly added, “Uh. Everyone else in Treehome is still scared of you, but if you get a restaurant up and running here at your House then I’d love to have dinner with you sometime, and—” She blushed a bit, almost saying something else, but then she did not.

Erick smiled, saying, “Maybe I’ll have to offer some [Reincarnation] services to the Cooking Guilds of Nelboor. Get me some world class Cooks on the cheap!”

Syllea’s eyebrows went up. “You should! Maybe you could— Ah! I could keep talking for hours, but I must be off.”

“See you tomorrow.”

“Yes! See you tomorrow, when you come by for Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye bounced in the air next to Erick. He was eager to go visit the new fishes.

Syllea and Bayth stood together under the sun, ready to leave, but then Bayth did an uncharacteristic bow. She had no idea what to think of everything she had just seen, nor what to do with the thoughts she had managed to pin down, which didn’t seem like many to Erick; she had been silent and thinking the whole time. He could only guess at what Bayth truly thought of the whole experience. Syllea grinned as she glanced at Bayth, and then she took her hand.

The two vanished in a flash of clear magic.

Erick stood alone with Poi on the steps of the gazebo.

He breathed deep, thinking about what had just happened, and feeling happy that all it had taken was one conversation with Syllea for her to move past her fear of him. He had been a bit worried over Treehome and some of Syllea’s questions regarding Yggdrasil, but those worries were mostly gone now. Treehome would be good for Yggdrasil.

