Syllea said, “We ask that you not actually assist him with clearing his land, securing it from threats, or doing much at all for him, physically or magically. He needs to be on his own at least a little. Having a house atop one of his roots is fine, though.”

Yggdrasil was back to not wanting to do this anymore.

Erick said, “It’ll be fun, Yggdrasil. You’ve been seeing me make a kingdom, and now you get to try making one all on your own, with a bunch of other Arbors there to guide you along the way! Holy O’kabil is good people, and Nosier knows a bunch of magic, and Wyrmrest ties everyone together in the same land; I’ve met those three the most, but I’ve had talks with all the rest, and they’re good people. And besides that, I’ll still be here with you here at Candlepoint.”

Yggdrasil bounced slowly, still unsure.

Syllea watched, holding back her thoughts for the moment.

Erick waited for a few moments, too, then he said, “I’m sure that the other Arbors can help you learn how to taste food, too.”

That cinched it. Yggdrasil went back to Erick’s shoulder, and hung out there, waiting for the rest of the conversation. He was prepared to be planted at Treehome.

Erick smiled a little bit.

Syllea changed topics, saying, “As for you, Erick, we would ask that when you do come to see how Yggdrasil is getting along, that you remain with him and not venture into the city. Do not open public [Gate]s on our lands. Do not interfere with our governing, and we will not interfere with yours. These are our basic requests of you.”

Erick said, “Sure. Sounds fine to me.”

Syllea gave a half nod filled with relief, then said, “We would ask after the possibility that you can tell the Twisted Visions to go far from our borders. Can you make that happen?”

Erick had no idea if he could make that happen. “I can ask around. I know that one of the Visions belongs to Ar’Cosmos, but beyond that, I am unaware if they have control over all of them, or not. I doubt they do. But now that you bring that up, that reminds me—” Erick asked, “How much of the Twisted Visions and [Gate] did Treehome actually know, all the way there at the beginning of my Path?”

Syllea frowned a little bit, but Erick knew it wasn’t directed at him. She was mad at not being told certain things, too. “The Arbors knew some of the truth of what Ar’Cosmos actually was, but according to them, the one of us who actually knew the most was Tenebrae. I didn’t even know that he knew as much as he did until recently, until Ar’Cosmos’s appearances here at Candlepoint made us reevaluate everything we thought we knew. If you ever happen to discover how such a subterfuge could have happened, then I would count it as a personal favor owed if you could inform me.”

She was telling the truth, as far as she knew.

And so, Erick moved on. He already had a suspicion on how the truth of the Twisted Vision could have been suppressed, so he said, “It was probably a Fae Seal; the removal of memories that coincided with the Twisted Vision, or anyone who happened to step inside. It would have been easy for that truth to be concealed like that. This is how the dragons have been operating for a long time, to ensure that their lands remained untainted and unchallenged by outsiders, so they could have a land where they weren’t automatically at war with each other because of the intrusion of the Dragon Curse.” He shrugged. “They did it to survive. It is what it is.”

Syllea just sat there for a moment, digesting that new information. And then she nodded, accepting Erick’s answer as ‘true enough, for now’. Syllea moved on, asking what she felt was the largest question of the meeting, “What are your ultimate goals? Why are you doing all of this? The dynasty creation. Declaring yourself a king. Getting into alliances with Ar’Cosmos. Even making the Gate Network. It’s all very big, Erick. It’s all rather worrisome, too, to know that you are actually a Wizard.”

For a moment Erick was speechless. Erick had felt that his actions spoke rather loudly, but then again, Syllea’s question was a large question; one that not many people had directly asked. But Treehome was asking, so Erick would answer. “I am attempting to make the world a better place because I want a safe place for me and mine, and ‘mine’ can include the entire world on most days, if you look at it from my perspective; we’re all in this together.

“The only way to get to a better tomorrow is through ensuring that today is better for everyone than compared to how yesterday had been. I do this through talk, and work, and otherwise, and will continue to do this for as long as I am able. But of course, talk and small actions only work when one has the power to back up their desires, so while I have power, I will also use that power for the betterment of all.” He added, “And as long as everyone else at least tries to do the same, then that is how it will go. If civility breaks down, then the darker sides of power will come out, and I will use my power to end those threats before they can harm me or mine.”

Though some of Erick’s actions had and would continue to be radical, his purpose for doing it all was not very radical at all.

Syllea asked, “You do it for safety?”

“Peace, more realistically. But it’s more than that.” Erick spoke the refrain he had learned from Songi, “Peace and prosperity for all.” He shrugged. “If I have to force that peace and prosperity, then that’s fine. For instance, I know of a few longstanding threats and possible boons coming in the next several decades, and so I will be erasing those threats and supporting those boons as necessary. I don’t plan on using too much force to get the peace and prosperity I desire, though, for a world built upon too much blood can only ever get more bloody.”

As a test, Syllea asked, “But some blood is necessary.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “The Shades needed to die. Terror Peaks needed to die. Monsters that cannot suffer others to live free also need to die. These should not be surprising or even controversial statements.”

“And you determine who needs to die? Across the whole world? And the next and the next?”

Oh.

Erick realized what Syllea’s specific problem was.

He recalled a conversation he had had with Syllea about the responsibilities of the individual archmage, back when Syllea had been teaching him about Elemental Mercy and Air Magic in order for Erick to be able to operate incognito; so he could walk around places without being swamped by fans or assassins, or business requests. During that conversation, Erick had asked about large scale magics and how archmages could end monster threats the world over.

Eventually, Erick had done just that, helping to rid the Forest of deathsoul shrooms and moon reachers. That had only been a temporary measure, though, lasting maybe a century or two, since there were still moon reachers deep in the mountains and they moved around all the time. Deathsoul shrooms spat spores out, too, and the extermination efforts could not have possibly gotten rid of all of those.

Whatever the final outcome, that action was still a reprieve from the dangers of those two monsters.

But monsters still filled the Forest. Death and danger still came for Treehome and the migratory orcols all the time. Erick had not ‘solved’ anything, only delayed the problem for a few generations.

And that, specifically, was Syllea’s problem with progressive archmages.

If the archmages helped too much, then the next generation might not be able to weather the coming storm of new-to-them threats. Of course, this analogy broke down in the orcol’s specific case, for they had the immortal Arbors there to inform people of all sorts of monsters. Those immortal Arbors allowed information and tactics to be planned decades and centuries in advance, long past the short memories of mortals.

Syllea was terrified of the fallibility of people, and as far as she knew, Erick was just a person; he would be dead in any number of decades hence, and all that he built would come crumbling down.

She was wrong, Erick thought, but he let her finish what she was saying.

With a barely-hidden sadness in her voice, Syllea continued, “If you do too much for others then they won’t be able to stand on their own feet when the Darkness comes, and you’re not here to defend them.”

“The world is changing, Syllea.” Erick said, “And just like your Arbors, just like Yggdrasil, like Kirginatharp and King Alfonin, I’m going to try and stick around for as long as I can, to see these changes turn out well. Unlike them, I have the power to take everyone who wants to stick around with me into the far future, too. But I’m not morally better, or worse, than anyone else who tries to do good for others. Just different. Hopefully, even with these differences, what I build here will still be stable enough for others to build upon.”

And now Syllea was speechless. Behind her, Bayth’s eyes went wide as she looked across the table at Erick, and then she frantically averted her gaze. Syllea breathed deep, then said, “Then you’ve already crossed that expected threshold.”

“Back in the Core, actually. With Rozeta’s help. I’ve been functionally immortal for several months already.”

Syllea breathed again.

Erick waited.

Syllea collected herself, and said, “A place will be made for Yggdrasil by tomorrow. I look forward to a long and bountiful relationship between you, Erick, and Treehome. I hope that whatever you’re building here can be a good part of that relationship, too, but…” Her voice trailed off, as she had too much she needed to say, and not enough words that were good enough to fulfill that need.

“That’s good by me.” Erick decided to move the conversation to an old topic, saying, “When we first met, you expressed an interest in pushing back the Crystal Forest. My apprentice is starting that project either at the end of today, or tomorrow. We’ll begin with a hundred kilometer ring around the lake here, and expand from there. I expect it will take her and my Overseer of the Exterior about a week or maybe two, to get that far. If you’re still interested in helping with that project, we could use your expertise.”

“… Maybe later.” Syllea was ready to leave, but remembered something which she did not want to remember. She cringed a little, then said, “Tenebrae has asked me to ask you how much a [Reincarnation] would cost him.”

Instead of being surprised at the sudden change in topic, Erick simply felt calm. He had been waiting for some sort of communication from Tenebrae, through some sort of official or unofficial channel, or whatever, if only for [Gate]; for Tenebrae to demand that spellwork for himself. This was a variation on that demand that Erick was not exactly prepared for, but he had prepared for this sort of request anyway, for a lot of people were asking this same sort of question; sometimes subtly, sometimes openly and with great promises of gold attached.

Erick said, “[Reincarnation] rids the target person of every single spell they have, every single blessing, every single curse. Everything. It sets them to level 0. In return, I am able to give the recipient any sort of body they wish for, with any sort of predispositions for anything that they can think of and request. I can change a person’s race, gender, or predispositions toward being happy or being serious or being gloomy, or being smart, or being brave, or anything. Or, I can set you on a track to a far-off goal that aligns with your desires, and predispositions toward emotions will align with that far off goal.

“If a parameter is not specifically selected, they are filled in randomly. Such things include the sizes of feet, or eye color, or the color of your magic. The color of one’s magic tends to shift lighter, usually.

“What you keep, and what I cannot change, are your memories. I can alter biology so that you might view those memories differently, but I cannot change your memories themselves.

“I suggest a ‘less is more’ approach with your requests, where the thinner your requests, the easier it is to get what you want, and the less control I have over the final outcome.” Erick added, “In Tenebrae’s specific case, though, as is the case with everyone who has [Familiar]s… This kills the [Familiar] spell inside the soul. Any undifferentiated Rockys will simply cease to exist.”

Syllea asked, “But what would it cost him?”

For a brief moment, Erick was rather sure that Syllea had not heard his explanations of [Reincarnation]’s costs.

But then Erick realized that Syllea and other people from Treehome had likely talked with Tenebrae about all of this, at length— Well. Like. Duh. Yes. The Wyrmrest Enclave, which oversaw much of the beating back of dangers of the Wyrmridge Mountains, and of which Tenebrae and Syllea were both a part of, likely had a lot of discussions about all of this. They had probably spoken at length with all of his various former-Oceanside people about their own [Reincarnation]s, too. Nothing Erick had told Syllea had been new.

She truly was simply asking about costs. Monetary, or otherwise.

“Free.” Erick said, “For Tenebrae? Free. For anyone who has proven to be an asset to the world? Free.” Erick rapidly added, “But… I would hope that Tenebrae would request a new Familiar Form that allows his true, wonderful self to come out. I’d hope to see more of that version of Tenebrae that helped Jane and Teressa and I learn of gridwork, and gave me all that assistance with [Gate]. Less of the version of him that threatened Poi, and which dumped us unceremoniously off at Songli. I’d also like for his children, the Rockys, to be separated from him before I do this magic, for I won’t kill them myself... Though with what I know of how he made that spell, any separation will end up with some of the Rockys dying before they can be born.”

Syllea leaned back a bit, then asked, “Would you impose such soul changes upon him?”

At that moment, Erick saw where this line of questioning was going.

Tenebrae was probably watching right now.

Erick said, “No. I would not. I would ask him to consider the ultimate trajectory of his next life, though, in the hopes that he would choose the right path himself. But I would not force my own views upon him. And I also won’t kill the Rockys. Tenebrae would need to find a way to save them or kill them himself, for I won’t do it.”

“… Well.” Syllea resolved herself to what came next, as she said, “Tenebrae would come here, now, and have you do this for him while I watch the process. He would also have you perform a [Reincarnation] on his Cook, Palodia. Do you agree?”

