She walked down the hall, entered her room, and crashed on her bed. She was out before her head had hit the pillow, which was not that surprising. Her soul was mostly healed, but ‘mostly’ was not ‘fully’. There were lingering effects of her transformation. Teressa had barely been hanging on to consciousness while standing in the hallway, and now that she had discharged her duty, she was sleeping it off.

Erick turned back to Poi, saying, “You seemed unduly hard on her.”

Poi frowned, saying, “I was not, actually.”

Erick pulled back a bit. “You were fighting on telling me everything that she told me, weren’t you? All while Syllea was here.”

Poi frowned again, saying, “I was not, actually.” His frown briefly deepened, as Erick realized the logical progression of what his answer had meant. But to dispel any possible misinterpretation, Poi said, “I was not fighting on telling you about Treehome’s possible plans for Yggdrasil, because Syllea might have heard something about that, but she didn’t know what all the rest of her people might have been planning—” While Erick had a bunch of ideas about that, too, Poi pointedly said, “That right there! Stop that. Prognostication battles veer directly into the exact same problem with acting on information gathered from minds, and not from actions. I’ve held my tongue on this subject for quite a while now, but the time for my silence must end.

“People had plans to do something to Yggdrasil. But then nothing came of it, because they were able to meet you and have a conversation and see that you were the same person that everyone is telling them that you are.

“If they had actually tried shit with you, Erick, I would have warned you long before Teressa could. I’m sure every single god and otherwise working with you would have tried to stop it, too. Goldie is literally always by us, and she would have been involved in a prognostication battle, too, for sure. AND, whatever Treehome needs to do in order to break Yggdrasil from you probably requires your direct presence; they can’t do it through Yggdrasil, himself, or else they already would have done so. Maybe they have already tried it, too, but failed. I do not know. Yggdrasil is not a point of worry, here; you are, and you’re a lot easier to protect than Yggdrasil.” While Erick’s eyes went wide and he had a dozen thoughts on that, too, Poi ignored him and glanced toward the hallway that Teressa had gone down, saying, “She’s going to end up seeing a lot, Erick. More than you or I ever will. I think she needs a promotion, or something. Something to make it less ethically dubious for her to not tell you what you don’t need to know, for she should not have felt the need to come to you to clear her conscience for not telling you about what did not happen and will not happen. She should have felt she was free to decide not to tell you certain things. The same goes for Aisha.

“All that happened from this is that you are now poised to dislike Treehome.”

“… That’s a good point.”

And it was.

Erick would need to think on what that meant, though.

Poi added, “Of course Teressa should still tell you about the big stuff. But the small things she should leave alone. You don’t need to trudge through un-[Cleanse]d sewers if you don’t have to.”

Also true.

Erick said to Poi, “Maybe Teressa’s goal was actually to get this conversation to happen. You’ve been holding in that speech for a little while, haven’t you?”

“… Or maybe the Benevolence made her do it.” Poi said, “But yes, I have been holding onto those words for a while. I was hoping I wouldn’t need to actually say them, but… I think Benevolence can see a great deal more about the future than anyone has ever seen before.”

“Well... Yeah. Definitely.” Erick considered what came next. “Probably gonna have to institute some anti-abuse protocols, aren’t I.”

Poi relaxed. “I feel that would be for the best.”
