Tenebrae asking for a [Reincarnation] and then showing up not a minute later had been unexpected, but that was fine, too. He and Palodia could grow up together, both of them as orcols, and maybe that was exactly what they both wanted. Asking to be an orcol had been slightly unexpected, but maybe it shouldn’t have been; the Wyrmridge Enclave was multiracial but it was mostly orcols.

And that got Erick wondering.

Erick had never played around with his [Perfected Polymorph] from his Protean species at all, but maybe he could give it a whirl? Greeting Syllea at eye-level might be fun the next time he saw her…

But.

No.

That was probably weird. Showing up as an orcol?

Hmm.

No.

It was a fun thought, though.

Erick stood there for a while longer, enjoying the sights of his growing kingdom, and the northern breeze as it brushed through his hair—

A thought arrived. In all the drama of the day, Erick had forgotten to joke with Poi about how he was overworked and he needed more sleep, so he had taken the world’s potentially strongest magic, Time Magic, and made a nice little [Hasted Shelter] to sleep within. Kinda funny, that.

But before he could fully realize his joke, though, Poi was already laughing.

Erick just smiled.

That was good enough.

- - - -

The Crystal Forest stretched further than the eye could see. Orange and tan sands covered most of the land out there, but it was not all uniform. Deep below the sands, the stone land undulated up and down here and there, forming valleys and sometimes mountains. Or, there would have been mountains, if the natural processes of the crystal mimics didn’t degrade stone and otherwise into sand. Occasionally, though, that stone basin was too thick to be fully broken down, and too near the surface. Those lands formed plateaus of stone, or, in the case of dungeons and city work, formed a solid base to dig into and/or build upon. None of those under-sand mountains or valleys were large at all, but here and there, civilization had built upon many of these stony areas of the Crystal Forest.

All of Candlepoint, the lake and the Gate District, and much of the surrounding lands, was a rather good building site, because it was rather solid. This was not due to any natural variation in the Crystal Forest, though. It was due to the [Metropolis Shape] that Melemizargo had done to make the lake; bringing an Underworld ocean closer to the surface.

The Benevolence dungeon was built upon one of the further-out undersand stone prominences, about 25 kilometers north, and just a bit east, of the Gate District’s outer wall.

This dungeon was a spiraling tower of thick stone, reaching a hundred meters into the air and half that wide. Large, arching windows followed that spiral all the way up and down, allowing ample light into the tower, where a great many series of pools had been created all up and down the spiral to catch water, and then allow that water to continue to flow all the way to the bottom. The dungeon had had floors this morning. It had not looked like the thick, spiraling base of a unicorn horn with a bunch of holes following that spiral, until now.

Mox, her people, and Kiri, had adjusted the whole place over the last few hours.

They had even changed the pit beside the spiraling tower into a deep reservoir where fish could live well enough, as soon as some greenery started to grow and support that life. At the bottom of that reservoir lay some pipes in which some [Gravity Ward]s could be placed, allowing the water to cycle back up to the top of the tower.

Mox, Kiri, Tasar, and Poi, stood with Erick upon Erick’s own [Teleporting Platform], in order to view the lands from the outside, and to inspect the surroundings. They currently floated atop the wall that surrounded the dungeon, about a kilometer away from the actual building. Other workers for the Office of the Exterior stood upon that wall, watching Erick inspect their work.

Mox said, “This wall is not far enough to stop mimics from viewing the tower and seeing the greenery which we expect to grow, but that’s why we put a second wall five kilometers out. We have not cleared that land because we have not had time, so we will get some mimic problems for a few days, but with a green beacon in the center those monsters should come forward on their own. We won’t have to do too much active hunting.”

Erick gently moved the platform forward, toward the tower, as he said, “It looks great.” He smiled. “Really good, actually. It should be able to hold up a lot of water weight and plant life, too?”

Mox nodded. “Every part of its construction is overengineered. The walls are at least three times as thick as they have to be. The floors are the same, and the ceilings are made with arch support. The land below has been solidified with a lot of the previous tunneling removed. This has cut the expected space of the dungeon down to half normal size, but if you’ve got a real Rift spell, then this is probably the most we should attempt to handle at this early stage of Benevolence dungeon design.”

They had reached the dungeon, and Erick began to ascend, watching the spiral floors fall away as they went up. He said, “I can make a big place out of eternal stonewood if it proves necessary, but this is great for now.”

Their Platform crested the upper edge of the dungeon.

The top of the tower was complex in execution, but simple in effect.

The spiraling dungeon capped off with a large, open space, about twenty meters across and with a bunch of pillars located all around the edge. A railing ran around the rim, connecting each pillar to each other. In the center of that space, about ten meters across, was a basin that emptied to the north. In the north lay the entrance to the spiral, where even more empty pools lay. Those pools were like steps ready to be filled before they, too, spilled downward, into more pools, down, down, down, all the way to the reservoir to the south of the tower.

Loamy soil lay in divots all around every pool, and also at the bottom of every pool. Erick expected that this place would eventually be filled with ferns and lilies and moss and mushrooms. Maybe some small trees? He did not know. Probably not, though.

Lotta flowers, though.

The building itself was built with the northern winds in mind, but unlike in the Air dungeon where the wind was gathered and channeled and would eventually bring about air slimes, the air here was buffeted away. They didn’t want air slimes; they wanted Benevolence slimes.

Or rather ‘benevolence slimes’, with a small ‘b’, because they were just a general manifestation of the element and not the element itself.

Mox said, “We might end up with benevolence plants, though. Still not sure if Benevolence is capable of making slimes, but it can surely make plants.”

Erick grinned as he moved the platform to the east, slowly circling the top of the tower, getting a look at the whole place. “I’m rather sure [Terraforming] won’t be able to make slimes directly, but I still expect slimes to eventually happen.”

Tasar offered, “They found a few blood slimes at the former Brightwater a week ago, even after they cleaned it up. Esoteric slimes spawn all the time where odder magics happen.”

Erick was happy to hear that. “Then this should make some benevolence slimes, eventually. You know, I haven’t seen any light slimes around Yggdrasil yet. I’m guessing it's the deep waters, and slimes don’t do well in deep water?” As he stabilized the Platform on the western edge of the tower, he asked, “But I could be wrong?”

Tasar shrugged; her guess was as good as Erick’s.

“Slimes do not do well in deep water.” Mox said, “But if you ever plant Yggdrasil on land, then there will likely be many slimes.”

“I’ll probably be planting him at Treehome tomorrow.” Erick smiled as he reached forward and cast, saying, “He’ll get to have fun learning from the other Arbors.”

A spark of white lightning crashed out of the empty air, coalescing into a glowing white cloud that sparked brightly, before transforming into a billowing white mass of iridescent wind and water and—

Rain fell like drops of white gold, splashing on the tan and orange stone below. Where it struck stone, that stone glowed white, and moss began to spread. Where it struck dirt, ferns and small plants began to grow—

Arm-thick lightning crashed out of the cloud, striking a pillar to the right, turning the entire orange and tan stone into something whiter, lingering like an infusement of light. Or rather, an infusement of Benevolence. It didn’t linger long. As the light faded, moss began to grow like a spreading green carpet—

Lightning flashed inside the [Terraforming] space, flickering here and there all across the top of the tower, turning dull stone into something that glowed white. Erick backed away the platform as the wind picked up and gathered into twisting, iridescent flows. Moisture turned thicker. Rain began to fall in heavy drops, and the cloud began to expand, covering all of the tower’s top. White rain fell down the sides of the tower, eliciting moss here and there—

The cloud condensed into a thick, white fluff directly above the tower, losing most of its white light, turning to grey clouds as the rain began to truly fall. It was only a large-size cloud, though. It might have been a heavy rain, with only the barest flickers of white inside of it all, but it was still a small cloud.

It would take a little while to fill that first basin and to begin to truly wash water down the entire tower, but it would fill nonetheless. [Terraforming] wasn’t a one-and-done spell, meant to do everything all at once. It was meant to last forever.

Or at least as long as the spell wasn’t purposefully disrupted.

Kiri said, “I expected it to go faster than that.”

Erick chuckled, saying, “That’s as fast as it needs to go because it’s going to last forever, and even if it does degrade, someone can simply [Renew] it when that spell comes out in the Open Script.” Erick briefly calculated how long it would take before the water eventually filled the reservoir down below, and said, “I’m guessing about two weeks before it’s filled? Rough estimate.” He turned to Mox. “Plenty of time to get a feel for how it all works, and to clear out the mimics between the walls. Probably don’t go to the very upper level, though. It’s still sparking lightning.”

And it was. Here and there, small flashes of white light echoed inside the grey cloud.

Mox nodded. “Aye, my king.”

Erick asked, “Do you all want off here? Or shall I bring us back to the House?”

“We still have more work to do,” Mox said, looking to Tasar.

Tasar gestured to the right and conjured her own black-green [Teleport Platform], asking, “Are you going back to Yggdrasil, then?”

Kiri and Mox moved over to the other platform.

“Yes. Teressa says she’s fine, but she’s still recovering. Aisha is back in her office, but I haven’t gotten a chance to speak with her yet. How was she, last you saw?”

Tasar followed Mox and Kiri onto her platform, saying, “She’s doing good.”

“I’ll talk to her next.” Erick pulled his Platform away a bit, saying, “See you three later!”

And then Erick blipped back home with Poi.

- - - -

Back inside the house, Teressa met them in the front foyer, saying, “While you were gone, something strange happened. There was a counter-prognostication battle with Treehome, but I won.”

Erick froze.

Teressa continued, “To explain better: Upon your initial contact with Treehome a few hours ago, Treehome decided to revisit an old idea about breaking Yggdrasil from your control. Nothing will happen now, because you ensured as much with your talk with Syllea, and because of this conversation happening right now. I do apologize for keeping this information from you until after the fact, but it was for the best… I still… I’m sorry, Boss.”

Erick was briefly… Not mad. Not exactly.

Disappointed, perhaps.

Not disappointed in Teressa, either… Not exactly. She had let him know what had happened— after the fact, yes, but she had still talked to him about it. She did what she thought was best, and it worked out well, in the end.

Erick got over his brief turmoil of emotions and said, “Thank you, Teressa.”

Teressa had been expecting a reprimand, and she did not get it. Surprise was the least of her emotions, as she said, “I’m really sorry about not telling you while it happened, Boss. The chain of command means I have to tell you what is happening but what I saw told me not to tell you and you made Benevolence so…” She went quiet. “It was like you were already giving me the go-ahead to… Make my choice how I made it.”

“It’s okay, Teressa.” And Erick found himself not lying, as he said, “It’s really okay. I’m capable of sensing Benevolence, too… I mostly go with the flow until I know I shouldn’t, though, which is, I suppose, Benevolence at work? Eh. Don’t worry about it. I’m certainly not going to worry about it, either. And besides that, of course the Arbors would try to break Yggdrasil from my soul. It would be a monumentally stupid thing to do, but they’re just acting in their own natures as Arbors; They don’t want to be slaves, and they don’t want others to be slaves. I can see their perspective. Thankfully, they saw that their initial impetus was a bad idea, too, so I’m not going to begrudge people going over their options when they end up choosing the best one.”

Teressa breathed a little, relief showing on her face. “But now you know, and that changes things politically.”

“Yup,” Erick agreed.

Poi had been silent, but now he spoke up, saying, “This right here is why we Mind Mages don’t tell anyone about what we sense; it leads to destructive habits and people planning around things that others only think about, and don’t actually do.”

Teressa frowned at him, saying, “Prognostication battles are not Mind Magic. These things could have actually happened.”

Poi frowned, for he knew that Teressa was wrong, but he wasn’t willing to fight her on it. Mostly, he knew that she would realize what she had said if he gave her a disapproving look.

Which is exactly what happened.

Teressa recoiled a fraction, and went, “Uh. But I suppose… Thoughts could happen, too? I mean… Someone could act on those thoughts. They just chose not to in this case.”

Poi slowly nodded.

Teressa dug her heels in as she said, “This is more complicated than Mind Magic, Poi.”

“It’s really not,” Poi said.

“I’m not going to worry about it,” Erick decided, ending the argument. He said to Teressa, “And you, young lady, should be in bed.”

“Yes, Boss.” Teressa turned and walked back to her room, saying, “Back to bed, back to bed.”

