Poi informed Erick that Treehome was ready to talk.

On the north side of House Benevolence, atop the large roof of the ‘sheet cake’ part of the building, Erick had built a small gazebo out of eternal stonewood, near the northeast lookout tower. It was there that Erick sat waiting for his appointment to show.

And show she did.

Syllea Wyrmrest, archmage of Treehome and expert in Mana Altering, appeared in a flash of clear light to the north, about a hundred meters away. She stood upon a [Force Platform] alongside Bayth, her childhood friend. Both women looked the same as the last time Erick had seen them; Syllea had green skin, with blonde hair and eyes like ice, while Bayth was brown with black hair and even more muscular than Teressa. A few weeks ago, Bayth had been the one to tell Erick not to contact Treehome for a while, opting to deliver that message in person.

That had been the last contact that he had had with that ancient home of Arbors and orcols in the Forest of Glaquin.

It probably would have been a good idea to have Teressa here with them for this meeting, but Teressa was still sitting at home, forced to rest. She had an Ophiel to keep her company, so it was just Erick and Poi here in the gazebo. They had only needed to wait about five minutes; just long enough for Syllea’s long range [Scry] to inform her that yes, Erick was waiting for her.

Erick stood up and stepped to the side of the shaded space, happily saying, “Hello again, Syllea! Bayth!”

In a professional tone, yet with underlying happiness, Syllea floated their platform forward, saying, “A pleasure to meet you again, Erick. We have had the most difficulty getting our Arbors and leaders to agree on our stance with you, but your recent request has finally tipped the scales in your direction.” She stepped down onto the ground. Bayth followed at her side. “I have been wanting to have any sort of conversation at all with you for the last two months! Thank you for the invitation.”

Erick smiled brightly at that, for she was telling the truth. Bayth looked happy to be here, too, but she was rather adept at playing the part of bodyguard, so she kept silent and stayed in the back. Erick offered, “Tea? Cookies? Or would you like to get down to business?”

“I’d love to have some tea,” Syllea said, returning Erick’s smile as she and Bayth stepped into the gazebo with him and Poi. “I’d also like a deep conversation about what you think a connection to Treehome looks like.”

Poi began making the tea, as Erick and Syllea took their seat in the gazebo.

Erick said, “A connection to Treehome could look like any number of things. It could be a full Gate Set, on Gate Road, along with a 500 meter by 500 meter plot of land that would be Treehome’s. I would ask for a Gate Tax for goods moved through the [Gate]s, or something like that. Perhaps a flat rate per tonnage moved? That particular question is still up in the air right now and getting rather complicated though, politically and numerically, so I’m not sure about that.

“Or, there could be a smaller connection of one single Gate that goes from Treehome to the financial district here in the Gate District, though that financial district hasn’t yet been built. That would be a Gate for personal, individual travel. I’m rather sure that I’ve figured out that cost at 1 gold per person, per trip through a Gate. Simple, easy to enforce, and not too large of a problem if people skip through without paying.

“Trade will not go through those Gates, aside from personal effects. You can already see how that could get into a grey sort of area, though, so that policy is still up for debate, too.

“Most places are going to be offered the single Gate option, but certain places that are large enough will qualify for the full 4 Gate Set and a plot of land on Gate Road. The plots of land are embassies and are required to do their own bookkeeping, but my castellan will be checking up on those sorts of numbers, and discrepancies will be frowned upon.

“But for Treehome, specifically:” Erick said, “I might want to plant Yggdrasil there, because he is asking questions and growing up fast, and I want him to be around trustworthy Arbors to grow up well. This sort of arrangement will be massively different from the other, normal options, and I might want to open up more Gate Networks using Treehome’s Yggdrasil; turning his new planting spot into another node of the Network, sort of thing. Local areas only, of course; individual Gates to— Well. The orcols don’t have any other cities aside from Treehome, so maybe just some Gates open between the Arbors? Or somewhere close? Allowing for easy travel between all your Arbor lands.

“Major Network traffic will still come through Candlepoint. I don’t expect that to ever change. When Songli finally stops being scared of me I plan to do a ‘local Network’ option for them, too, along with an embassy and 4 Gate Set here in Candlepoint.” Erick shrugged, adding, “Unless they decide they want something different. I suspect I will be doing a ‘Local Area Network’ for Stratagold in the next month or two.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye bounced on Erick’s shoulder as Erick spoke of a new planting by Treehome, and all the rest. The big guy wanted to be in Treehome, to be near other Arbors, even if he didn’t really know what that meant besides the fact that he was an Arbor, and maybe other Arbors would like fish as much as he did. Or maybe they would like different things! Yggdrasil was eager to find out. He wasn’t exactly cognizant of the world the first time Erick swung through Treehome, after all.

The tea was ready by the time Erick finished speaking, so he sipped his tea, and Syllea sipped hers.

After that calm moment, Syllea looked to Yggdrasil on Erick’s shoulder and brightened, asking, “So this is Yggdrasil, correct?”

“Oh! Yes.” Erick gestured to the eye, saying, “Yggdrasil, meet Syllea Wyrmrest, of the Wyrmrest Tribes of Treehome, the land of the orcols to the north of the Wyrmridge Mountains, in the Forest of Glaquin. Syllea, meet Yggdrasil, World Tree and my very good big boy.”

Syllea smiled brightly again as she bowed in her seat, saying, “A pleasure to meet you, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s iridescent white [Scry] eye hopped off of Erick’s shoulder and then bounced up and down once, copying Syllea’s gesture. And then he returned to Erick’s shoulder.

Syllea turned her focus back to Erick, turning back to professionalism, as she said, “We are more interested in raising Yggdrasil correctly, through the planting of Yggdrasil close by Treehome, than at any possible expansion of the Gate Network. Perhaps, in the future, we will ask for a local area system, or some smaller application of your Network, but for now, Yggdrasil will be our priority. To determine how urgent this need is, I would like you to answer some personal questions, and we can go from there.”

“I can work with that.”

Syllea nodded. “What sort of questions is Yggdrasil asking you? Explain some of the situation, please.”

“Questions about sex and relationships and what it means to feel things as we ‘small people’ feel. What does food taste like. How can he taste food. I can’t really answer those questions, but I know Treehome can, for I have seen O’kabil’s and Nosier’s avatar forms. I know that at least O’kabil enjoyed a smoke with me that one time. If Treehome is willing to tell me what sort of spellwork allows your Arbors to achieve this sort of magic, then perhaps I could just pay for that spellwork and continue to raise Yggdrasil on my own and leave all of you out of this whole Gate Network thing.” Erick said, “That seems like an improper way to raise Yggdrasil, though, for I want him to talk to other people. He’s already making friends with people outside of my purview, which is fine, but I want to ensure that he is making the right kind of friends.”

Syllea relaxed as Erick spoke. She hadn’t been too tense, but there was some tension, and Syllea was not anywhere near as friendly as she had been when Erick had left Treehome behind. Erick suspected they were back to an even starting point, for the whole Wizardry thing still freaked her out.

It was fine.

They’d get back to that friendly sort of situation eventually.

Syllea said, “This is not nearly as bad as we feared. We have time to do this properly.”

That worried Erick a bit, so he asked, “What would a ‘bad situation’ look like?”

“If he was plucking things up from the world and ripping them apart to see how they functioned.”

Yggdrasil instantly cringed away from Erick’s shoulder, retreating behind him for a moment, before coming back out.

Erick said, “He has plucked fishes out of the water to show me, but he has not taken them apart. He is a good boy who knows that other things can feel pain, and he wants to lessen the pain in the world.”

Yggdrasil bounced up and down a fraction, though his enthusiasm for this conversation had been diminished.

Syllea nodded again, then looked to Yggdrasil as she asked Erick, “What actually prompted this contact?”

“I taught him how to send [Telepathy] message packets this morning and ended up experiencing about a half a million words worth of questions and concerns.”

Syllea’s eyebrows went up. “Ah.”

“We’ve talked all the time, but this was an order of magnitude more words than he has ever shared with me.” Erick said, “Mostly stream of consciousness stuff, but there were a lot of questions in there about small people, and how to act around small people, that require answers that I simply cannot give him, for I have no basis to draw upon besides my own.”

Syllea said, “Yggdrasil needs some experience with other Arbors.” She said to Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, “Arbor Holy O’kabil, Arbor Wyrmrest, Arbor Nosier, and Arbor Home, will be your primary guides on how to be an Arbor, but all of our Arbors also wish to share in your presence. All of Treehome wishes to get to know you, Yggdrasil, and to help you grow strong.”

Yggdrasil bounced a bit, ready to make new friends.

Syllea smiled a little, then said to Erick, “But as for our relationship with you… I have a few more questions to establish how our nations will interact, since you are a nation now. I also have a few demands of your person, to ensure that Yggdrasil is raised as well as any ‘small person’ can raise an Arbor.”

Erick nodded. “Okay.”

“I’ll go over the demands first.” Syllea said, “You will be granted the space directly above Yggdrasil roots and below his boughs as your own lands, but in reality, they will be Yggdrasil’s lands. You will not build anything upon that land that Yggdrasil does not approve of, and it has to be actual approval, written down for long term recall. You will not build in Yggdrasil’s boughs, though this is less of a long term concern for Yggdrasil than it is for the other Arbors, for Yggdrasil is World-Tree-large. Even so, Arbors sometimes like to change things about themselves, and having buildings on their boughs is not good for easy change. For the Yggdrasil at Treehome, we ask you to follow this rule.”

Yggdrasil sunk down on Erick’s shoulder.

Erick said, “I can work with that. I can put a house down on his roots.”

Syllea nodded. “That is the common way to do it.” She asked Yggdrasil, “Do you like living in water? Or would you prefer something different?”

Yggdrasil went still, in thought.

And then a tendril of thought came out of the air and connected to Syllea.

Syllea perked up, listened for several moments, then said, “The Restful River flows out of the Wyrmridge, beginning as a hundred smaller streams before it turns into the actual river, which then runs through the center of Treehome from east to west. There are some really nice fisheries located downstream, and some really dangerous fisheries located even further inside the Forest itself. We would like to grant you a space inside the Forest, near the river. The specific land we have in mind is a hundred kilometers north from Holy O’kabil, on the western edge of Treehome. It will be your job to transform that land from dangerous Forest into a solid expansion for Treehome, into which we people of Treehome will be able to expand into, with your approval. If you wish to make that river into a lake, then that is something we ask you to do yourself, with assistance and guidance from the Arbors, and from the people of Treehome. Working with people who are not your creator in order to provide bounty, probably in the form of fisheries and otherwise, will be the primary learning experience that we wish to impart to you, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil was a bit excited, at first. But then Syllea kept talking. Yggdrasil had heard of the Forest from Erick, and that it was a dangerous place, and now Syllea was telling him that he couldn’t have his father there with him to help him along. Yggdrasil rapidly realized that maybe he didn’t like this whole idea of meeting other Arbors at all.

Erick spoke up, “You’ll be able to see other types of fish, and make a lake all to your liking. There’s this one fish called the Scarlet King that is really delicious, but also dangerous. We don’t have it here at Candlepoint, or over at Holorulo or down at Stratagold. Syllea and I shared a plate of that at a restaurant called Overloot one time. I’m sure it’s just one type of fish, too. There have to be hundreds of different fish in the lakes and rivers of the Forest.”

Yggdrasil was interested in seeing more fish, but he was not fully convinced that this was a good idea.

Syllea nodded at Erick’s words, adding, “The Restful River serves as the basin for about 30% of the Forest, which means there are thousands of types of fish which only live in our part of the world. Most of them are monsters. Many of them turn out to be unique species that we only ever see once or twice before they vanish back into the depths of the Forest. Some of them even through the Forest itself.”

Yggdrasil’s enthusiasm returned, but it was a brief candle that guttered rather fast.

Erick realized what the problem was; Yggdrasil was worried about leaving Erick behind. He told Syllea, “We would wish to be able to farm those waters, too. Maybe not through a permanent Gate between our lands, or at least not right away, but at least through shadelings and otherwise coming to Yggdrasil to fish. I will be coming there too, occasionally, both to be with Yggdrasil, and to help him when he wants.”

Yggdrasil perked up.

