The answer was the entry in Nomna’s book. It was in Herdmistress Geraeri. The great leader of their group.
A person over Level 50.
 
—-
 
“Your Majesty. I greet you, and offer condolences for the capture of your father. We sent gifts to your coronation—I am Herdmistress Geraeri of the People of Zair.”
Her ‘hut’, one of the temporary buildings, was more like a mansion. Enchanted to be larger on the inside than outside, perfectly cool, filled with expensive furniture. All fit for someone with four legs; the Herdmistress ‘sat’ on pillows, rather than anything as arduous as a chair.
The main base of the People of Zair had seen more people, more relaxed and contented than Jecaina had seen in months. In addition, their guards and hunters and so on had outnumbered even the retinue Lael had sent. Enchanted weapons. Mounted in a sense; well, you couldn’t call Centaurs infantry.
“Herdmistress, thank you for meeting me at such short notice. If I may ask—will you share your full class with me?”
Geraeri hesitated. She was old, in her sixties, but looked like a younger woman in her forties. She was certainly hardy as the best of her tribe.
Level 50. Youth, authority, a vast nomadic tribe—Jecaina kept staring at her. Enchanted earrings, magical cloth clothing—
This was a woman who could change events. Flos Reimarch and his Seven might still eclipse her, but why, why…?
“It is no secret. Yes, your Majesty. My full class is [Stonesoup Herdmistress of the Greatland].”
Jecaina blinked. That was…a mouthful. Geraeri smiled.
“Not the class you expected?”
“It is—lengthy, Herdmistress. May I ask about it? How did you come to this class? And level?”
“Of course. They tell this story in the camps. Here—I share with you the drink of our peoples.”
Zair’s people drank a custard-like sweet milk-substance. Jecaina tasted it, and it was good, and listened.
Geraeri’s tale was the tale of someone who had risen to her level despite adversity. She had not been born into the line of succession. She had not even been related to her [Herdleader], how they reckoned such leadership.
“It was a cold winter. And cold winters. We were poor, starving. Our [Herdleader] died; a plague ran through the herd, and at that time the People of Zair were infighting. It got to the point where River Wardens fought us, and the crown debated expelling us from the land. We were no asset; this was the time of your grandfather, your Majesty.”
Jecaina didn’t even remember that, but she had heard about a terrible winter era from Geril. She nodded. Geraeri went on.
“They tell it more fancifully. But the simplicity of it was—I rallied my herd. I kept us alive. We began to trade again. I negotiated an end to fighting, unified the herds around mine. I was, oh, Level 30, and younger in years, when the [Herdmaster] of the People of Zair decided I was trying to usurp our way and declared a civil war.”
“And then?”
Jecaina saw the older woman smile.
“I won the war.”
 
—-
 
Geraeri had reached Level 50 through time and hard work. Under her, the People of Zair had turned in decades from a nomadic tribe that could be accused of banditry and thievery and certainly was poor, into a power on its own level. They were rich, prosperous—she put it down to the struggles.
“I leveled up fast in those lean years, your Majesty. The civil war helped me—though I wish it had never come to that. We were also lucky in how we were needed to replenish horse stock after the plague. The truth was, the civil war put me up to Level 40. It took me thirty years to get the last ten levels. And that was only because the People of Zair were so large. I will not get to Level 60, I think. Not unless worse happens and I would rather it not.”
Jecaina nodded. It was an impressive tale.
“But why…”
[Stonesoup Herdmistress of the Greatland]? Geraeri had a simple explanation too.
“Before I became Level 50, your Majesty, I was an [Eternal Rocksoup Cook] and a [Herdmistress of the Land]. I suppose they were just mashed together. And the [Rocksoup Cook] was a rare class. I did nothing as extraordinary as my early years when I earned the [Cook] class. But it defines me now, so I keep it in my class.”
“Rocksoup…?”
Then the old Herdmistress laughed.
“Have you not heard that the People of Zair will never go hungry as long as I live?”
Jecaina had heard something…like that. But she had never given it credit. She watched as, prompted by her question, Geraeri showed her why she had her class.
 
—-
 
Rock soup. Most stories had it, or some variant. The idea was…a rock soup.
When times were lean, you put a rock or maybe grit into soup. Or—there were actual ways to cook with heated rocks in cauldrons.
But there was always that tale of the cunning [Trickster] who had a rock he made some kind of mishmash soup out of, getting other people to contribute ‘just a bit’. A carrot, some flour or meat…and thus avoided starvation by getting everyone to put in a bit of something. So a ‘rock soup’ could feed a village.
A parable. Except when you had Skills.
Look and wonder. Geraeri brought out an old, polished rock, smooth, but plain. She put it in a cauldron filled with water and covered the lid.
It was a vast container, and hundreds of Centaurs gathered around as the fire roared. Steam rose—and when Geraeri removed the lid, a wonderful soup appeared in front of Jecaina.
She gasped. The People of Zair had seen it thousands of times, some every day since they were born. But they laughed to see it impress the Queen and guests. They served it and it was good to eat!
“A cornucopia Skill?”
“Just so. But it fills more than even most artifacts, or so the King of Khelt once told me. When I first had it, it really was a rock that just made the water taste of something. As I leveled—it became my great Skill. And I have many Skills, your Majesty. Those to allow my people to feed vast flocks, to prevent fighting, to defeat plague. But this is why my people do not grow hungry. In every herd, once per day, they can drop a rock into water and eat.”
That was the power of Level 50. Jecaina’s skin chilled with the awe of it. It was not the ability to summon an army out of thin air—but she had just watched the woman turn water into food for over a thousand, and it could easily be two meals. And every herd?
“It is an incredible Skill, Herdmistress. Thank you for demonstrating.”
Geraeri waved a hand.
“In truth, your Majesty—it is not. I know of greater classes and Skills. I have reached mine, but I am humbler now than the woman who united the People of Zair. I am content for this greatness. I have at least two decades left! I intend to spend it living fat and well!”
She looked at Jecaina then. And the Queen knew that Geraeri knew why she had come. She put down her bowl, and sat formally. So did the Herdmistress.
“Herdmistress Geraeri. I am Queen of Jecrass. You know the Realm of Jecrass is at war, that my father is kidnapped—that the King of Destruction and Medain threaten us and advance, day by day. I ask you to lend Jecrass your might; you have surely done so already. But now I ask for the People of Zair to help repel these foreign nations. I offer—and ask that you join my private council, and I will give you great rewards in exchange.”
The Herdmistress nodded and heard Jecaina’s offer out. She waited a beat.
“I must refuse, your Highness.”
Jecaina stared at her. And then it hit her. Your Majesty or, ‘Your Highness’ was how the woman had addressed her the entire time she had been visiting.
Never ‘my Queen’.
“May I ask why, Herdmistress? If Jecrass falls—”
“Your father asked me the same, your Majesty. I refused him. Just as I refused the King of Destruction when the Shepard Zamea approached me.”
Jecaina stirred.
“He asked you to—”
“To fight for him. Provide for his armies. And I would receive vast lands of Jecrass as a reward.”
Geraeri’s eyes glinted as she looked up at Jecaina from her drink. Jecaina swallowed.
“You refused.”
“Of course I did. And I will refuse you, Queen Jecaina. Just as I refused your father.”
“If Jecrass falls—”
“The People of Zair will not fall with it.”
And there it was. The [Herdmistress] sat there, drinking, hosting the [Queen] of the realm…with no intention of going to her aid. The Human [Queen] argued with the Centaur [Herdmistress], desperately trying to make her see the danger.
“What if Medain conquers Jecrass? The King of Destruction?”
“We will bow to whomever rules. If Medain wins, we will trade with Medain. If the King of Destruction wins, Reim. Your Majesty, I mean no offense.”
But offense had been given. Lots of it. Mountains of horse crap of offense. Jecaina began to grow angry.
“Do you have no loyalty to Jecrass? You have lived here nearly a century!”
“We love the land, your Majesty. But we have never benefitted from its protection. We are nomads. If the time comes, we will move.”
The Herdmistress retorted. Jecaina half-rose.
“What if High King Perric decides he needs no nomads? You know the man.”
“He might.”
Geraeri allowed. She sighed.
“If that were the case, we would move to another land and he would lose our trade and what we provide. Make no mistake, your Majesty—we have been contributing to the war. In goods, crafts—we gave much of the food your armies eat for gold. We are a benefit. But we will not take sides.”
“And what if Jecrass falls and Medain seeks to wipe you out?”
“They may try.”
The [Queen] saw Geraeri reach for her side. She drew a knife and placed it before them. It had a sepia glow.
“I fought in a war between my people and I have fought armies as well. The People of Zair are no weak force; the Nomads of the Sky are strong, but few in number. I would not put us below them. If any nation wishes to challenge us, we will fight and leave. But we will not be forced. The King of Destruction might have the strength, but we declined to join him and he did not push us. What does that tell you, Queen Jecaina?”
“That he didn’t want to waste his strength when Jecrass was fighting him?”
The Herdmistress snorted.
“True enough. We aren’t as strong as a nation. But we will be independent, your Majesty. I wish someone had told you, that I did not have to refuse you to your face.”
“So you will let Jecrass fall.”
“Do I take pleasure in it? I am independent, your Majesty. I think of my people. We love life, not war. I have had to defend my people from countless aggressors. Even Crelers. I am…”
 
—-
 
“—stubborn, old, prideful, arrogant harridan of a—”
Jecaina shouted insults the entire way back to the capital. She had argued with Geraeri, pleaded, offered incentives for three whole hours.
The woman had refused her everything. She did not want promises of land or concessions if there was the risk her people went down with Jecrass.
She was stubborn, independent, and, Jecaina hated to admit it, far too powerful to anger. She could seal Jecrass’ fate if her people were angered. She was too strong to offend; no wonder the war went around her lands and she could refuse all comers.
If the [Queen] had ever gone to Liscor and talked with the Council there, or the Watch Captain, she would have been able to commiserate about a similar problem. Or—former problem. Crossbows solved problems and created them.
Jecaina returned to the capital in time for Reim to take another fort. This time Lael tried to fight it.
The [Mages] of Parasol Stroll called down lightning and her forces fell back.
 
—-
 
Jecaina was drunk when she summoned Lyfelt. He paused uncertainly as he saw her sitting in her room.
“You wanted to see me, your Majesty? Jecaina?”
“Come in.”
She half-slurred. Jecaina had realized something.
If she wanted a drink, no one could stop her. She had a royal permit to access the wine cellars or the bottom of any bottle she damn well pleased and it was on her head. Or it had been.
The crown had been tossed onto the carpet. Lyfelt stared at it; she’d dented the painted metal.
“Is…something wrong, Jecaina? I’m here to talk.”
“Oh yes. You are good at talking. Just like that [Herdmistress] was at making soup. Rock soup. I heard you once talked a [Bandit Leader] into becoming a [Soldier].”
He smiled at that.
“I told you that as a child, didn’t I? It was true—it wasn’t Maresar, but he served in the army. Still did when…yes.”
Lyfelt scooped and picked up the crown. Jecaina laughed as he placed it on a table.
“That’s a powerful Skill. Like making rock soup for free. It’s the best—until someone can call an army of ghosts or sail a ship onto land!”
“Military might does beat softer power directly. But I am trying, your Highness. This is salvageable. There will come a time when Medain or Reim seek to negotiate. If, say, Hellios rebels or the Claiven Earth begin to look at Medain—”
“Shut up. Just stop talking. I’m sick of hearing your voice.”
Lyfelt halted. He looked at Jecaina. Then he noticed the sword lying across her lap.
The [Queen] rose unsteadily. She aimed the rapier at him as he backed up. Her hand wasn’t that unsteady, even though she was heavily drunk.
“It’s all so clear after I drink. Why shouldn’t I turn you over to Flos? It solves…everything. His armies fight Medain. Jecrass is at peace. Why not? All he wants is your head. And a few dozen others.”
The former [Prime Minister] backed up to the door. But he’d closed it.
“Jecaina—Jecaina, listen, my dear. You’re not thinking straight. The King of Destruction won’t just let Jecrass be. If you turn me over—”
She laughed.
“What, I’m in a worse spot than I was before? Then I only have to fight Medain!”
“And they will sweep over Jecrass if High King Perric thinks he might lose you as a buffer.”
Lyfelt spoke urgently. He gestured to one of the war maps Jecaina was using in her private rooms to track the war.
“You can make peace with Reim and he might turn on Medain—but he won’t be able to destroy it. Not with the other nations. Perric will destroy Jecrass—or try to—in order not to have two enemies. He has the numbers to hold off Reim and do so.”
“How convenient. You know, I met your wife. You didn’t tell me she divorced you.”
“You met…Nomna? Whatever she said, Jecaina—”
“It is your Majesty, Queen of Jecrass!”
She shouted and slashed the air. He flinched. Jecaina looked at him, breathing hard.
“Do you—do you even feel guilt for what you’ve done? At all?”
He was huddled up, raising his hands as if it would stop her. She could run him through. The [Queen] swayed.
It wasn’t fair. He had no skill at arms, or even a weapon. Drunk—she could murder him. And it would be murder, wouldn’t it?
Lyfelt had done nothing.
