“…But we’ve already surrendered!”
“What?”
The [Messenger] stared up at the walls. The [General]’s head snapped around. Had another part of his army—his cheeks bulged and he spat out his wine.
Reim’s flags were on the walls. The people within shouted that Reim had already taken this city.
“Do we take it, sir? It doesn’t look garrisoned—they might have known we were coming.”
“Hold—we have orders not to battle Reim until we take the capital or his Majesty orders. Move…”
The [General] was cursing. He decided to take another stronghold and sent [Riders] ahead to force the surrender.
That city was already Reim’s. And the next…Medain’s army came to a standstill as the [General] realized that Reim had swept in and taken every border settlement. Medain’s army was effectively surrounded by land now held by Reim, not Jecrass.
“How did it come to this?”
He sent urgent word to the capital as he sent more [Scouts] ahead. What he found made a pit open in his stomach.
Jecrass’ forces were in full retreat across the border to the capital. Reim was advancing non-stop and apparently, Queen Jecaina was considering surrender. To Reim!
They must have lost a huge battle. If they took Jecrass—
The capital had the same thought as the [General]. They had to take Jecrass first! Medain’s army changed directions.
They ploughed straight into Reim’s battle lines to slow Zamea’s advance while more armies were mustered and sent to end the war.
 
—-
 
The first clash between Medain and Reim in Jecrass probably surprised the hell out of Shepherd Zamea, leading the forces there. But she must have concluded Medain was ready to fight at last.
Jecaina was mostly surprised the ruse worked. What if Medain called the bluff? What if they realized those were stolen flags, or just decided to take the cities?
“A man or woman roused to haste makes mistakes never borne in slow certainty.”
Fetohep explained it to her in another of his platitudes. The fact that Jecrass would pretend to be defeated—the audacity had sold the lie as much as anything. Moreover, it was here that Lyfelt’s posturing as Jecaina had actually paid off.
Ironically, he hated the idea. Because, the [Prime Minister] pointed out, this meant war. Medain would now be going for Jecrass’ capital to end the two-pronged conflict.
Sure enough, more armies began coming down the pass and Jecaina amended her policy to fight both Medain and Reim. At least Reim and Medain were now battling it out. But was she in a better place?
Perhaps. Because the King of Destruction used his [Army of the King] and sent the southern battle lines into an uproar. He crushed Medain’s army on the Belchan front with his [Steward].
And a month later, Jecaina was still [Queen]. When even Fetohep had predicted Jecrass would be destroyed.
But they were still giving ground—fighting—people dying. Jecaina felt thirty years older, not thirty days.
 
—-
 
The [Queen] of thirty days was also looking forwards to Level 30. She understood her class was temporary—so too might be her Skills.
If she became a [Princess], she might change her Skills and certainly her class. If she became…[Queen]…she would keep it.
Level 30 might give her a Skill worthy of fighting back Reim and Medain. It might.
But in truth, she knew her father had hit Level 30—had changed to a new class and still he had failed to stop Reim alone.
The war continued, and she held on. She did better than anyone could have dreamed, but not because she was that brilliant.
Rather, Jecaina had learned a truth known to only a few people. Trey Atwood being one of them. And it was this: Fetohep of Khelt had excellent advice.
Not just ‘good advice’. He wasn’t just ‘smart’, but a six hundred year old ruler. When he gave you a battle tactic, or idea, he had seen it work or fail. He had the best advice she could hope for, and his little flourishes had turned ideas her advisors had into workable plans. No single grain of wisdom was an enchanted arrow—but they added up.
He was so helpful. And she had begun to respect the King of Khelt, who was clearly bored as could be. She had, in fact, talked with him more than even Trey Atwood at this point.
That was why Jecaina knew Jecrass was still going to lose. Advice was helpful. But it still didn’t stop Zamea from swinging her axe. The King’s Steward was still leading his forces and he was using his Skills.
A strange calm had descended over the palace. One of the bastions along the River Celed had fallen and River Warden Mulre was defending his lands.
Another defeat in a litany of defeats. But then, why was the [Queen] smiling?
It was not a happy smile. But the [Servants], racing about to placate the angry or distraught, stopped. The River Wardens halted in their urgent war council.
“You are dismissed for the day. I know what must be done.”
They opened their mouths to argue—and looked at their [Queen]. Lyfelt was the only one who voiced a protest. Perhaps because familiarity had blinded him.
Queen Jecaina sat on her throne. The speaking stone next to her. A voice began speaking the moment she turned it on.
“Ah, Jecaina. Good. I was reviewing the last battle. General Lael did her best, but it seemed to me on the eighth replay of the battle that a few elements could stand to be improved. Are you familiar with the Cavel Charge formation? That, and if you changed the placement of your fortifications…”
“Fetohep. Thank you, but it won’t be necessary.”
In his throne room, the King of Khelt was offended.
“Do you intend to cede more ground, Jecaina? Or is my advice no longer necessary?”
He huffed. Jecaina smiled. And it was in her voice.
“It is not necessary, Fetohep. Because it is over. Your advice has prolonged this war. But I am only fighting Zamea. More of Medain’s forces arrive day by day. You helped me fight Reim and Medain. But I will never win.”
“If you reach Level 30—”
“I will be twenty levels behind the King’s Steward. And still behind Perric. This war was lost, even had you personally commanded my armies and I followed your every word from day one.”
He was silent. This time, the young woman told him the truth. At last, he sat back and thought about the thirty days that had passed.
“It is a strange thing. But we began talking and I suppose I began offering comments, from monarch to monarch.”
“Yes. Fetohep—Jecrass is dying.”
He knew that too. But why did it pain him, all of a sudden? Nations rose and fell. Jecaina spoke, abruptly.
“Fetohep of Khelt. I speak to you not as Jecaina. But as Queen Leysars of Jecrass.”
He did not sit up; his posture was perfect. But Fetohep focused on her voice.
“Then we greet you as Fetohep of Khelt.”
She nodded. As he had taught her, she spoke smoothly. Ruler to ruler. A month ago, she had been a [Princess]. Raelt’s child.
“In the name of the Realm of Jecrass, I thank you for your support. I will not forget what you have done for Jecrass. And yet, my kingdom is ending. And I am not my father. Fetohep of Khelt, I see few routes into the future that do not end in the deaths of countless people, fighting to the last. Tell me. What would it cost for Jecrass to summon Khelt to war?”
He froze on his throne. In distant Khelt, Fetohep’s golden eyes burned. He turned his head—and for a second, the warriors living in death stirred at their posts.
For a moment. Then, Fetohep sat back. And his answer was the same.
“…I regret, Queen of Jecrass, that Khelt does not—that is to say—we do not go to war for foreign interests. Only for Khelt’s safety. Thus it has been and ever is.”
“I see.”
Jecaina nodded. It was not the first time she had asked. It was an obvious thought.
But it was the last time she would ask. She had hoped…but she knew Fetohep by now. She smiled.
“Then, Fetohep, I fear I must make my decision.”
“Reconsider, Queen Jecaina. Whatever you plan, always think in calmness.”
He urged her. Fetohep drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne. Such a strange, living gesture.
“If Jecrass should fall—it is not the end. A captive people can still rally. Vassalization is likewise not the end. If the war drags on, your advisor may be right that Medain will sign a peace treaty for the gains it already has. And ultimately—should the throne fall—I offer you sanctuary in Khelt.”
It was Jecaina’s turn for her eyes to open wide.
“You mean it, Fetohep?”
He had not conceived it a moment ago, but in the second he spoke, Fetohep was sure.
“Yes. Does Jecrass fall, I offer you the safety of Khelt no matter who might follow. Merely cross my borders and you will be safe as long as Khelt endures. That is the promise of Khelt’s ruler.”
She exhaled. He meant it. If the King of Destruction brought an army and demanded her…
But only Khelt. So she smiled and thanked him.
“You are kind, Fetohep. It seems at this point the wisest thing to do is…kneel. To Medain, Reim, Nerrhavia, even.”
“Sometimes one must. Khelt has knelt.”
“Yes. So why can I not?”
The [Queen] stood up. She carried her speaking stone through her palace, talking lightly, walking, nodding at [Servants] who bowed, and watched her. She came to a hallway where the sun was visible, where a [King] used to toss oranges on people’s heads. She lingered there, a moment.
“I know what is practical, necessary. But—I think I took the King of Destruction’s words too much to heart, Fetohep. I cannot bow. My father, my family, guarded and tended Jecrass. I love this place. It’s silly to feel like it’s mine—but I can’t bear to throw it away. Not me. I would rather die. But I know what you would do. Because you love your people.”
He was silent, listening. Jecaina gulped and went on.
“Better to be a vassal. Yes. I am not an idiot. I will not let stubborn pride kill my people, because it would be my fault. But Fetohep—thank you for your offer. But I could never be your subject.”
He stirred.
“I would not expect you to be.”
She nodded. Jecaina saw Jecrass glimmering in front of her. She gulped.
“I still hope—Fetohep? I hope though, even if I am never your citizen? I could count you as a friend?”
“…Of course. I already do so.”
“Thank you.”
Fetohep listened, as the young woman made mortal sounds. Gulping. Breathing heavily. They were not so foreign. Not so unpleasant as they had been in his long death.
“Fetohep. You have helped me more than I realized. Because now, today, at last—I know what I am. I know my value. I know the weight of my words, the breadth of my knowledge. And because I know myself—I know that I am not enough to win this war. I am not wise enough. I am not smart enough. I am not strong enough. But—it might be vanity. Yet I feel that if I had enough time…I might have done a better job. If I had a year, half a decade…but I don’t. I do not deserve my kingdom. I wish I did.”
Tears ran down her cheeks. Jecaina spoke.
“Thank you for helping me, Fetohep.”
“Jecaina, I—”
She turned off the speaking stone. Placed it on the balcony, and stepped away. With heavy steps, she did what must be done. Fetohep didn’t know what it was.
Half-risen from his throne. He stood there. Then, the King of Khelt seized the speaking artifact. He hurled it across the throne room, seized a weapon from one of the undead guards—
His servants cowered. Fetohep split the floor of his throne room.
His fury was over in a moment. But it was a rage of despair, more than true anger. He stood there, not breathing hard, but eyes flaring bright in their sockets.
“If only.”
That was all he said. Measured words even as he calculated the cost of repairs, the necessity—but inside a voice was screaming.
If only! If only Jecaina Leysars had the time not afforded to her! If only she had—for she might be a great [Queen]. Her words had echoed what the best of them had said.
He stood there, head bowed, for a long time.
 
—-
 
Jecaina Leysars, who would be the last [Queen] of Jecrass, had no more Fetohep. She had relied on him—but a [Queen] leveled by herself. That was why she had not hit Level 30, even though she had begun to act as one.
She knew herself. And that knowledge was power. She knew her ignorance, and the limitations of her advisors. And that was a strength.
She knew a great man, a ruler, who sat dead on his throne was wiser than she. She knew her enemies might be grander—and it was not a poor thing to admit this.
If there was any wisdom Jecaina had, she would put it to use today. An end to it.
It was harder than she thought. Oh, some of it was not. Jecaina went to her study and wrote down a few words. She checked them—reread them, made them better.
Lyfelt had taught her that. Write down speeches; some people were good at impromptu lines, but you made mistakes. She thought about that as she prepared [Messages].
“Aca. Tell the [Court Mage] these are to be sent with highest urgency to the following. Have the [Court Mage] report to me instantly when he is done; I will have him accompany me so I can respond. And—this to the Mage’s Guild, I suppose.”
She handed missives out. Aca hurried them along. Jecaina sat back.
The Mage’s Guild was fastest as the [Court Mage] got to work. They…gave her their regrets. Wistram decided.
“Send a [Message] to Wistram, then.”
Jecaina heard back from them almost instantly. She read the reply and grimaced.
 
…Wistram Academy is not able to afford scrying [Mages] to all parties at this time…
 
A stock response. Well, it was a slight delay. Jecaina sat there. She waited, tapping a finger on the chair. She did not have to wait long.
Queen Yisame was first. Then another…another…half replied in the hour. Yisame had questions; they all did.
Fetohep had taught her how to talk to rulers. Direct, diplomatic—unyielding despite being a broken kingdom in war.
A speaking stone was arranged. A male voice, surrounded by the chatter of an entire court.
“Does this one speak to her Majesty, Queen Jecaina of Jecrass? I am Minister—”
Jecaina instantly handed the stone off to the [Court Mage]. She refused to speak to the man. After some negotiation, she heard a female voice, bemused.
“I am Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Do I speak to Queen Jecaina of Jecrass?”
“Yes, your Majesty Yisame. Thank you for speaking with me. May we converse of matters of state?”
The woman audibly hesitated. Unnerved by Jecaina’s poise, perhaps expecting a different person from what she understood.
“It is permissible, yes. Your [Message] intrigues us. We agree with reservation. How shall it be done?”
The [Queen] smiled again. She adjusted her crown and spoke. That was unimportant, really.
 
—-
 
Wistram Academy was used to fielding requests for airtime by now. They didn’t even keep track of who asked unless you were royalty or important.
