“I would look for existing veterans within my army and form a force out of them. And hope, count on the formation of a Unit. The [Trick Riders] have fallen. But that Reim and Medain do not sweep over Jecrass means some element of Jecrass’ army is keeping them at bay. Do not build what will be washed away by the tide in a moment, Queen Leysars. If I were you, I would fortify what still stands.”
She sat there, staring at the speaking stone. After a few seconds, she hung up. Fetohep didn’t realize for about thirteen minutes.
 
—-
 
What annoyed her was when people were right when she thought they should be wrong. Jecaina spent the next day, relatively hangover free since she had terminated her drinking, reading Lael’s more detailed reports.
Jecaina had learned to skim over certain details since so many figures came in. Now, she unlearned that bad habit. She had been at it all night and napped—but by the time Aca found her, she had found what Fetohep was talking about.
There were veterans who had endured from battle to battle. As in, more than the survivors of a [Trick Rider] group who kept being folded into smaller and smaller bands, or [Veterans] who were added and reinforced with newer [Soldiers]. The war killed even the most experienced [Soldiers], so there was no looking to one particular band to keep surviving.
Or so Jecaina had assumed. So Lael and the River Wardens had assumed, hence needing to replenish their numbers in the project Jecaina now knew would take far too long.
But this? She summoned Lael’s replacement in the capital, a [Strategist of Mobility], newly elevated by leveling in the war.
“Meroon. I would like to meet with some of the soldiers on the front who are resting here. Is that possible?”
The [Strategist] was a Centaur, possibly from the People of Zair, but a true Jecrass citizen. He bowed.
“Naturally, your Majesty. To hearten them and inspire?”
He looked at her and was surprised when the [Queen] shook her head.
“No—I want to meet with them to understand something. Can you provide…the Neer Riding Group, the Galmut Regiment, and…?”
 
—-
 
They were assembled for her, and knelt when the [Queen] arrived for them. She saw the gaps in their number; they would be replenished ere they fought.
“You fought Zamea at the battle. I was there.”
She felt stupid, but the [Captain of the Charge] bowed deeply.
“You inspired us to victory, your Majesty!”
“Daughter of—”
Jecaina ignored the cheers. She wanted to shake her head, but she instead shook the [Captain]’s hand. Awkwardly, she gestured.
“Your sacrifice, Captain, and that of your soldiers inspires all of Jecrass. I know this is an imposition while you rest, but I have brought something to express my gratitude for all those here…it isn’t much…”
Lyfelt had made this a public relations opportunity. The [Soldiers] saw dates, fresh fruit like the oranges everyone knew that the royal family loved so much, being placed on the table by [Servants]. They crowded around before the [Captain] tried to restore order.
“No, please, let them eat. I only wonder if I could speak to some of your people, [Captain]? Afterwards?”
He was all too willing to agree, and while many helped themselves, Jecaina found herself looking at nearly two thousand survivors of the battered group. And they were almost entirely intact…
Only about two dozen of them retired with oranges and glasses of grape juice in hand—plucked from vineyards rather than made into wine to support the war effort—in a more private setting. Jecaina found herself face to face with Fetohep’s veterans.
“[Horse Archers].”
The [Lieutenant of the Bow] bowed deeply.
“Yes, your Majesty. We got out of the last battle mainly intact.”
“And you haven’t taken nearly as many casualties as any other group in the war.”
The [Mounted Archers], [Rider]-[Archer] composites, some of whom had been one or the other but were gaining levels in both, bowed their heads. They looked guilty.
“No, your Majesty. The truth is…”
It was plain tactics. [Horse Archers] didn’t take casualties nearly as much as [Lancers], [Trick Riders], who raced into the fore of battle. They retreated from half-Giants, shot arrows on the flanks—their only real danger was an enemy cavalry charge or other [Archers].
“We’re ashamed to admit it, but we’ve let our brothers and sisters die while we shoot from afar.”
The [Lieutenant]’s cheeks were red. Here, at least, Jecaina could do something. She thought of what Lyfelt might say, and changed it to be actually genuine. She put a hand out and touched his shoulder.
“Lieutenant, you fulfilled your role in battle. If others fell before you—you will have to fight all the harder for the living and the dead. I think Jecrass has need of your bows, so I am grateful you are all alive. I would rather not one more [Soldier] died, so don’t regret it. Please.”
“Thank you, your Majesty.”
He bowed again. And Jecaina looked at the group of [Horse Archers], all of whom wanted to thank her for coming. And she knew what to do.
 
—-
 
Lael came to see her personally two days later. She expressed her concerns bluntly; the war had worn down any niceties she used to employ at court.
“Your Majesty, you’ve disassembled every mounted archer group in all of my forces and replaced them with new [Archers]. Am I to understand this new battle group will be under your direct command?”
“Not mine, Lael. Yours. But it will be this.”
“A mounted archery group?”
It was Jecaina’s idea. Strategist Meroon had made it more possible. Centaurs knew this kind of fighting.
“It’s hardly a new idea. The—Maelstrom’s Howling company in Baleros is famous for this kind of fighting force. They’ll harry our enemies. Loose arrows, flee. I intend to make them a Unit if I gain a Skill. Or if you do.”
“Begging your Majesty’s pardon. But we have [Trick Riders]—”
“Not anymore, Lael. We need a strong, veteran force and all of our old groups are worn away. They are high-level—higher level than any of the other soldiers by an average of six levels. Meroon has ideas…”
It was simple. Make up smaller groups, each led by someone with fast movement Skills. They would then shoot and run, and harry anyone but the [Steward].
Change the strategy of the war. Lael sighed.
“Your Majesty, we can do this. I would love to harry both Medain and Reim the instant they leave their camps. But they can catch even fast [Riders]. I would be much more comforted if I didn’t think I’d lose [Horse Archers] on each skirmish, despite their formations. And arrows—we’re starting to need to think about those, too.”
Jecaina bit her lip. It wasn’t a bad idea, Lael assured her. But it wasn’t perfect.
So Jecaina went back to Fetohep to complain.
 
—-
 
“Queen Leysars. It is a pleasure to speak once more. To what do I owe this call?”
She wasn’t drunk this time. And his ire over being hung up on had abated enough for him to stiffly acknowledge her—although he’d kept her waiting fifteen minutes this time.
“King Fetohep, I took your advice—”
The undead king blinked. Or his glowing, golden flames in his eye sockets actually winked out for a second before reigniting.
“You did what?”
“The veterans. The army—you were correct, King Khelt. But you see…”
He listened. Of course, he’d meant what he said when he pointed out there had to be some group that survived, some more elite army that was leveling. Mobile archers, of course. That her [General] hadn’t thought of it was probably a reluctance to experiment during a war.
“But we’re running low on arrows, and unless we can ensure the safety of our [Riders]…”
Ah. He saw the issue. The [Queen] had made a good effort based on what he’d told her, but she’d still ran into naturally fouling problems.
It was a fun puzzle. If only it was a hard one. Sadly, Fetohep didn’t even get to think on it because he knew a few answers. Time, history, was a teacher and he was an old student.
“Arrows can always be bought or obtained, your Majesty. But if you fear counterattack by [Archers], simply vary the composition of your mobile forces. You might be able to rapidly expand their numbers as well, by inducting youths that might hitherto be unsought.”
“How so? We can’t afford to simply redistribute armor or new weapons, King Khelt…”
He summoned one of the undead-drinks and sipped at it as he illuminated her.
“The simplest answer, Queen Leysars, is often the most expedient. You may be forced to purchase ammunition for those [Archers]…but the simplest ammunition has always been free. If the enemy may pursue or shoot back, do not allow them to.”
 
—-
 
The answer, and the first surprise-attack on Reim’s forces—then Medain’s—which stopped them from fortifying their stolen land, then attacks on their supply trains, was [Slingers].
Every [Shepherd] had a bow or sling. Slings were cheap, ammunition was a rock, and they featured in most armies as a kind of off-bow unit. Of course, bows had more range, you could enchant arrowheads, and so on; slings against heavy armor was like uh, rocks versus steel plate.
However, you could hurl a rock pretty damn hard into a helmet. It was just that—how would that help? [Mounted Slingers] and [Mounted Archers] had the same issues being ‘if I can hit you, you can hit me, or race after me with a spear and poke me’.
To that, Fetohep had simply answered with experience.
The first sorties of the new archery group saw them appear, using stealth or sheer speed Skills to attack the enemy. They loosed arrows, even drew blades and attacked if they thought the enemy was completely unguarded, and ran.
…But that was basic. Orthenon was no fool; he had [Riders] to compensate for half-Giants’ slow speed and they were Reim’s veterans, as nasty in the saddle as Jecrass’ best.
They raced after the [Mounted Archers], exchanging arrow fire, running them down; they just had to catch or cut them off! And there they received the weapon of Chandrar, cheap, unlimited.
Sand in the face.
[Slingers] hurled powdery balls of the stuff, covering enemy [Riders] in dust clouds. Try shooting with sand in your face. It was coarse…rough…it got under your armor…
It wouldn’t have worked if the [Mounted Archers] weren’t so experienced from the war. And Jecaina had called for all the [Slingers] across Jecrass—even those not in the army and asked boys who guarded flocks to practice this trick.
It was one trick, but it slowed both Medain and Reim down, and annoyed the hell out of the half-Giants, one of whom got a faceful of grit and nearly trampled their allies. Of course, they began to take countermeasures; a simple barrier spell blocked the sand-in-the-face trick.
So Jecaina ordered a [Sniper]-type [Archer] to hit [Mages]. Reim had to disguise them…or figure out different methods, or just not leave workers and groups without a lot more archer and cavalry support. Which slowed them.
And suddenly, they were reacting to Jecrass. Just a bit.
Well, it worked right until Zamea lost her patience and broke another fort in two. And Medain was still grabbing land.
 
[Queen (Temporary) Level 29!]
[Skill – Unit: Bows of Sand obtained!]
 
And they became more obnoxious still. Especially when it turned out the Unit allowed [Archers] to fire ‘sand arrows’ just as well as the [Slingers].
Sand in the face!
It was a valid tactic.
 
—-
 
Twenty four days into her rule, and Jecaina was calling Fetohep once, even multiple times a day. It surprised her that he had this much time, but she couldn’t help it. She kept telling herself it might be a bad idea to take advice from another ruler…but who else could she turn to?
Fetohep was surprised for different reasons. Mostly, that someone else had time to talk at all hours. Kevin didn’t. Even the news had lulls.
But what really surprised and even gratified him was…Jecaina of Jecrass was listening to his advice and acting on it.
He’d actually seen the reports of Jecrass’ successful raids in the news. Which gave him a curious sense of immense satisfaction.
Did Kevin listen to his platitudes on artisanship and act on it? Not that Fetohep could see. So, he listened to Jecaina talking about the war.
“It’s Medain and Reim. They’re both attacking Jecrass; we can’t fight both at once!”
Fetohep was playing chess against an opponent from afar. He moved a piece and it was sent via [Message] spell in chess notation. A new thing proposed by Chess Weekly, from Liscor. He was, of course, winning. Good opponents were hard to find. Some fancied themselves skillful since they had practiced every day since it had been invented, a few years ago by Niers Astoragon.
Fetohep practiced while they slept.
“Jecaina Leysars. If two mongrels attack you from either side, let them bark at each other before finishing the wounded victor.”
He rather liked that old platitude. Jecaina snorted at the comparison to the two nations and their leaders, whom Fetohep held in pretty much that level of esteem.
“Your Majesty Khelt, even my River Wardens and advisors suggested that. It didn’t work. I’m afraid neither side is that stupid.”
They played with how they addressed each other. Fetohep checkmated his opponent.
“Queen Leysars. Stupidity may be encouraged. If a tactic does not work, I suggest employing methods to make it succeed before abandoning the idea outright. A fool uses a spear to simply jab; every tool can be utilized in many ways.”
“How so?”
Jecaina fumbled for a piece of paper as Fetohep smiled. Well, he was always smiling—but this time he meant it.
 
—-
 
The Glorious Army of Medain roused themselves to take another piece of land the next day. They had been bored; marching in, seizing cities, demanding their surrender…but the Queen of Jecrass, who was rumored to lack any of her father’s spine, had wisely not provoked Medain as of yet.
Aside from skirmishes, perhaps ordered by the damned River Wardens and the sand-[Archers], no large-scale conflict had taken place.
Of course, the [General] knew it was going to happen at some point. Jecrass, or Reim. Jecrass was weak so it wouldn’t be more than 1-3 battles. But Reim? He was sweating fighting the half-Giants, [Mages], and the Steward, but High King Perric had engaged Reim on Belchan’s front so if it came to that, Medain would bring the hammer down.
The next city they came to would fall like the first. A [Messenger] was sent bearing the flag.
“Surrender to the Kingdom of Medain or face the consequences! High King Perric seizes this city!”
The man roared up at the walls. The defenders—what few of them remained, Jecrass having apparently abandoned the place and run with their tails between their legs again—shouted back. The [General], having a drink in the summer’s heat, heard them shout back.
