“Your Majesty, we have not had large-scale desertions thus far. The army is loyal to Jecrass; this is their homeland. Holding back pay might decrease morale.”
Jecaina nodded.
“I don’t see any reason to hang onto their pay, River Wardens. Lyfelt.”
“But your Majesty—”
“Enough.”
She said it and they fell silent. Maybe because Lael was standing there—but Jecaina felt good. She took a breath.
“Enough. I have made my decision.”
They looked at her. Lyfelt looked peeved, the River Wardens hesitated. But they did bow their heads. Lael nodded at Jecaina and the [Queen] exhaled.
A small victory, enough to make her think she could actually do this.
 
[Queen (Temporary) Level 27!]
 
No Skill that night. But it was already a fast level—faster than Jecaina had in the last six years! That encouraged her too, that what she was doing was right.
The next day, the King of Destruction rode on Jecrass with an army.
 
—-
 
“I wish to speak with Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass!”
He roared from the head of an army of eighteen thousand. A paltry number compared to what he had been fielding; but General Lael and her entire army—what was left of it—stood ready to meet him.
Around sixty thousand, the rest spread to garrisons. Again, Jecrass had been depleted. Even so, they might turn him back…
But the Steward held Belchan, and Zamea stood with the King of Destruction. The rest of his forces were moving south at speed.
Yet he was here. Jecrass’ army wavered, but the King of Destruction had come under the flag of truce. And he wanted to talk to Jecaina.
“It might be a trap, your Majesty. Allow one of us to negotiate—”
“I don’t suggest speaking with him, Jecaina. The alliance against the King of Destruction is one place where Jecrass can find common ground, perhaps even aid. Compromising that—”
Jecaina ignored both River Wardens and Lyfelt. She rode stiffly across the ground, surrounded by a personal guard six times as large as his forces. Then, the two rulers rode forwards as both sides employed Skills to make sure the other was not treacherous.
In truth, Jecaina would not have done this for anyone but the King of Destruction. She doubted he would try anything; she had grown up listening to tales of his conduct in war. His honor…
She resolved the childhood admiration—even half a year ago—with the man who had slaughtered Jecrass’ people and brought war to her kingdom.
It was bittersweet. Because a part of her still looked up at the man sitting there in his saddle, imposing, regal even without a crown on his head. And she saw a hero out of tales. Part of her longed to believe in that.
The [Queen] dipped her head and received a nod in reply.
“I thank you for meeting me, Queen Jecaina. I understand that is your new title?”
“I was crowned since my father is unable to rule. Until such time as he returns, I am Queen of Jecrass, yes.”
The King of Destruction’s green eyes fixed on Jecaina. He noted her armor, her sword, the tense forces behind her in a heartbeat, and then studied Jecaina. Even sitting on horseback in front of him was hard. It was like trying to face the wind at full-blast with your eyes open. He was pushing Jecaina back without even trying.
“I see. Then, Jecaina, you have my deepest sympathies. I know what it is like to come to the crown too soon. And—if I may speak personally for a moment—I regret High King Perric’s treachery. Rest assured, if I am able to take Medain, I will free your father regardless of where we stand. But that is an unlikely scenario now, especially with that damned [Pirate] haunting the coast.”
Jecaina was taken aback at first by Flos. Especially by his sympathies, which seemed genuine. She swallowed.
“I had forgotten, K—Flos—”
How strange it was to address him so.
“—that you had come to your throne when your father fell.”
“Yes. An age ago. I found myself at war with Hellios as a boy.”
The man’s eyes were distant. He looked at her.
“A word of wisdom, if it is that. Listen, learn; your advisors may know what is best. Some will be treacherous. In time, you will know who to trust. But in the end, remember that you are [Queen]. No one will ever sit above you, and no one must tell you what to do.”
She nodded.
“Thank you, sir. King Reimarch. I have learned that, and will take it to heart.”
He smiled. They sat there, awkwardly. For Jecaina had not wished to like him. But she wanted to ask…
“So much for pleasantries. I cannot stay long; I must ride within the hour. We are at war, Queen Jecaina. Reim and Jecrass. It has been a bitter war, and a glorious one. Your father fought as few [Kings] have ever done. For that, I would salute him. But now, I think, it is enough. I come here to ask you to pledge Jecrass to Reim. Surrender Lyfelt, the high authorities of Belchan, and I will bring battle to Medain and cease the bloodshed.”
He looked at her and delivered his terms. Jecaina blinked—then recoiled.
“You still would make war, King Reimarch? After all this? Is Nerrhavia not marching on your rear at this moment?”
The King of Destruction shrugged.
“They are. You have already noticed my forces dwindle. But I am a [King] and I gave my word to my subjects who were slaughtered in Belchan. I do not forswear myself. Until peace is made—we are at war.”
He leaned on his saddle horn and Jecaina and her horse danced back. His eyes were terribly frightening, then.
“I do not wish to kill more of Jecrass’ brave children, Queen Jecaina. Nor do I think your nation can stand against mine. Accept vassalization, as Germina and Hellios have and my armies will battle Medain and free your father! Refuse me, and I will take your capital, if I must.”
Her blood chilled. The border was still a ways from the capital, but if he beat Jecrass here, he might march on the capital; albeit with forces to his rear.
Could he do it with eighteen thousand men? She stared at Zamea as the half-Giant yawned, visible to all behind him, with four of her Nomads of the Sky.
Was she tempted? Part of her. If he had asked her to ride with him, as one of his Seven, to bring High King Perric to justice…
She still would have refused. The Queen looked at the King.
“Did you not just tell me that no one would ever sit above me, Flos of Reim? Do you think Jecrass is weak enough to be pushed into submission?”
Flos raised a hand, smiling ruefully.
“How I like to stab myself in the foot. I did say that—it is how I live. You would still be [Queen]. And I do not make light of Jecrass, Jecaina. But look. Do you really think you can hold both my armies and Medain’s at bay?”
He gestured to the half-Giants, his army. Himself. Jecaina quailed.
Still. Still…it was Jecrass. Her home! Perhaps if he had come with vast armies? Perhaps. But—
“You have spilled too much blood here, Flos Reimarch. I cannot kneel after all you have done. You made war on Belchan, yes. But now Jecrass? I refuse you. Nerrhavia’s armies are creeping up on your ass. Be done with them and take Jecrass if you can!”
She blushed as the rude words burst from her. To her surprise, the King of Destruction threw his head back and laughed. One of the watching bodyguards, a young woman who looked out of place, started, as did Jecrass’ forces.
“I have never heard it put like that! But then—your father was a different ruler. So that is your will? We will meet on the battlefield, Queen of Jecrass. Will you have the same resolve then?”
He looked at her again. Jecaina gritted her teeth so hard she swore one cracked.
“I will.”
He frowned…then exhaled.
“Will you at least turn over Lyfelt and the ministers of Belchan? I would sign a peace treaty for that alone.”
This time Jecaina was very uncertain. She bit her lip. Flos pressed her, riding a step or two closer.
“You know what he has done, Queen Jecaina. Is one man’s pitiful life worth more war? Especially that one’s?”
“I…I…”
 
—-
 
Her second refusal worried Jecaina. She refused to turn Lyfelt over, and the King of Destruction departed. For a tense moment…
But he didn’t have the forces to attack. Lael had suggested that, which was why Jecaina had dared him by refusing. He pulled his army back, riding south. Orthenon and Zamea would hold the north, along with the forces of Parasol Stroll, even the dreaded death-warriors of the Rustängmarder, perhaps. Jecaina didn’t know.
For now, Jecrass was relatively safe from aggression. But the war continued.
Why had she not given him Lyfelt? In truth, Jecaina had dithered. But when his life was in the balance, her father’s friend…she had caved in.
Not to Flos, but to her father. He had not given Lyfelt over at any cost. Did his daughter know better? Was she weaker, to reverse his decision?
She couldn’t do it.
Everyone congratulated her when it was done, even though Jecaina had felt like a leaf before a storm. To her bravery—as if not wetting herself was accomplishment enough.
Jecaina still felt a bit proud of the praise—there was even a banquet where the River Wardens made speeches, promising to defy Reim to the last! She did not level, to her disappointment, that day.
The next? Medain and the High King made their move.
 
—-
 
Raelt Leysars of Jecrass stood, flanked by two of the Golden Ranks of Medain. He wore manacles on his legs and arms—and the crown of Jecrass, the real one.
His clothing was not a prisoner’s ragged cloth, but neither was it regal; just a plain, if slightly expensive tunic and britches.
Jecaina nearly wept when she saw him. Alive! He was alive!
Prisoner.
The broadcast was being covered by Pallass News Network. Drassi, the Drake [Reporter], was leaning in. Raelt was standing on a platform in front of which the jeering citizenry of Medain’s capital were gathered. They were silenced as a [Herald] shouted his name.
Raelt was standing quite far away. Drassi turned to someone off-screen as Jecaina and everyone crowded around the scrying orb to see.
“Why’s he on the platform? Can’t we get up close?”
“…[Mages] told to stand…”
The Drake listened as Jecaina’s eyes flicked from Raelt to Drassi. The [Reporter] frowned.
“They can’t get close? That’s stupid. Is it that rat-[King]’s fault? Oh sh—er, High King Perric?”
She looked at the camera and smiled innocently. Jecaina wanted to smile at that. But she was staring at her father, and a pit of fear was in her stomach.
Was he going to be executed? The Golden Ranks had weapons. But it didn’t seem…surely…
No, it turned out. The [Herald] bellowed.
“His Majesty, Raelt of Jecrass, has a proclamation for his people of Jecrass, at war with the Glorious Kingdom of Medain! High King Perric has graciously given him the chance to speak to his subjects and urge reconciliation!”
Jecaina started. Reconciliation? Her father? He hated Perric—even before the High King had kidnapped Jecaina! But then she saw Raelt being pushed forwards. He stood there and…spoke.
“My people of Jecrass. This war has gone on long enough. After Jecrass’ defeat and the aggressions of the King of Destruction, I have decided war is no longer in either kingdoms’ favor. I urge my daughter, Princess Jecaina of Jecrass, to make peace with High King Perric…”
Jecaina sat back and stared. For a moment she felt like the world was turning upside down. Then—Lyfelt spoke.
“It’s an illusion.”
Everyone started. The River Wardens, Jecaina—the [Queen] sat up and realized he was right.
Something was off about Raelt’s voice. She hadn’t heard it in nearly a week—but that wasn’t her father. The cadence, pitch, were close, but like voices or faces, you could be so close as to be jarringly off if you knew someone.
That was the case here. Also—her father didn’t speak like this. It was too…polished a speech. He might read a pre-written announcement, but he liked to make it short and snappy. Also, he sometimes paused for a painful period if he was reading something he didn’t like.
This Raelt spoke without breaks. Also? She frowned.
His mouth was moving, and he stood there with the two Golden Ranks…but was it really moving?
“You’re sure?”
River Warden Mulre turned anxiously to Lyfelt. The former [Prime Minister] nodded, eyes fixed on Raelt.
“Someone write down the contents of what he’s saying. And we should make a proclamation to the effect within the hour, your Majesty, Jecaina. But I’m certain. That’s why the scrying [Mages] aren’t allowed any closer.”
Indeed, even Drassi seemed to suspect something was off. She narrowed her eyes as she shuffled her papers together as the announcement concluded and the link was abruptly shut off. Almost as if someone had told the [Mages] to cut the connection now.
“That’s an awfully convenient message from the King of Jecrass to the King of Medain. I understand they hate each other’s guts, but what do I know? Please stop writing in if you’re from Medain, incidentally. I’m allowed to give my opinions! Anyways, that was the ‘speech’…we’ll see what Queen Jecaina says.”
Jecaina sat back, head spinning. The River Wardens, Lyfelt—everyone wanted to talk. A proclamation had to be sent, and General Lael urgently requested a [Message]…
 
—-
 
It rattled Jecrass, to see their [King]. People who didn’t know Raelt half-believed it, even though their enmity towards Medain went back generations. They needed to be told it was fake.
Even Jecaina felt shaken. But in the hours afterwards, she realized a few things when talking to her advisors.
Firstly? This was definitely an illusion—Perric putting words in Raelt’s mouth. Raelt would never just surrender, not like that. Jecaina had no illusions; Flos would have vassalized Jecrass, but maybe let her keep her authority.
High King Perric wanted to make Jecrass into Medain, and he had already stripped two former monarchs of their power, turning them into puppets. He had kidnapped Jecaina—let’s not forget that either! Raelt would never forgive that so easily.
Secondly, and this actually brought her hope—Lyfelt pointed out a few details.
“Did you notice how poorly they copied his voice? A good [Mage] can do far better—but they didn’t. And Medain is not poor. They had to hold him in place, those Golden Ranks.”
“Why was the voice so poor?”
Jecaina asked—then realized before Lyfelt smiled bitterly.
Her father hadn’t said a word. Not one word, even perhaps under torture. That was why they couldn’t steal his voice.
She was proud of that. He was alive. That was enough for hope, to keep her going. What she feared was what he might be suffering or…or that he would not continue to stay alive.
