Orjin likewise. Yisame seemed equally unsure, but she actually played to the audience, reacting to the other rulers.
Fetohep was most at ease. As if he was born to be seen by countless people; then again, he had no mortal tics. He vied for the most speaking time.
You could spin out the trial into a story of its own. A long debate. Arguments. Pettiness. But the end was all that mattered.
Lyfelt begged. He pleaded. He insulted the King of Destruction, trying to play to his audience, use Skills—but his judges were rulers far removed. He stood firm, shrank back on his convictions.
Jecaina saw him clearly. He was not a bad man.
No—that wasn’t right. He might be, but he had not set out to be one. He had compromised morals she would not. He was greedy, careless…
Did that mean he should suffer for ignorance? In the end, six rulers spoke.
“I will have him dead. Nothing said sways me.”
The King of Destruction was predictable. Femithain, the Magus-Crafter, somewhat likewise. He stared at Lyfelt, and there was dislike even behind his eyes after all was said and done. Lyfelt’s hair was messy, he was sweating and pale.
“I say that as a ruler, laws passed, crimes committed under your governance reflect on those at the top. This tragedy was eminently preventable. I do not vote in favor of death, and I do not hold all of Belchan’s leadership to blame, as I have reiterated. But I do find Lyfelt guilty of the crimes laid at his feet.”
It seemed split then, and then the Speaker of Trees stood. Lyfelt turned to him and Flos frowned deeply, because the half-Elf had seemed as peaceable as Femithain.
And Jecaina had sworn to break the tie, or uphold a majority. The half-Elf looked into the camera, and spoke.
“As one of two non-Humans present—”
He nodded to Yisame. The Stitch Woman inclined her head.
“—I can only present my understanding of Belchan. I speak for the Claiven Earth in this matter, because I must, because I was asked. Because my insight may supersede other’s. With this in mind, I find Belchan’s attitude towards non-Humans telling. Gnolls were slaughtered, while Humans made their way to Reim with far less aggression. Lyfelt of Belchan knew of this. Children have died. Enough…I am a father. I say enough. The Claiven Earth do not suffer him to live.”
The former [Prime Minister] turned white. He looked at the Treespeaker. The half-Elf stared at him, then his viewpoint turned dark. He did not even stay to watch.
Orjin of Pomle was next. He stood there, clearly unhappy with his decision. The big man spoke, at last, as [Martial Artists] stood, watching, behind him.
“I am a [Martial Artist]. Strongest of Pomle. I rule on matters like this. When murder occurs—I rule on intent. Always, there is an option to let those accused seek death in a way they find honorable. But Pomle does not kill unless necessary. I cannot weigh this man’s crimes.”
He looked at Lyfelt. The man choked.
“Strongest—”
Orjin ignored him. Jecaina slashed a hand and Lyfelt was gagged. Orjin went on.
“Ignorance. Law. These sound like excuses. I do not believe Lyfelt is innocent. Nor will I see him dead. However he is punished—let it be so. Give him to the families of the Gnolls, and that will be his death. Give him to the King of Destruction, and let that be his death. Or give him a chance for his own end. But he is guilty. That I cannot see the weight of it does not mean it is not there.”
Hope—if there had been any for Lyfelt—dwindled.
Queen Yisame and Fetohep were left. The [Queen] looked as though she had been planning to give a speech, but the eloquence of the others had made her reconsider. She looked into the camera and slowly extended a hand.
A single thumb, pointing down. She delicately withdrew it and sat back.
A gladiatorial gesture. Death.
The last was Fetohep. Some people turned away rather than stare at the revenant [King]. But he sat there, among the peers of Chandrar, a valuable voice. Jecaina smiled, but not really, at him.
“And what will you, Fetohep of Khelt?”
He waited a second, before replying.
“Wisdom from my peers. It has been long since such a gathering of Chandrar’s rulers was called. And it was to rule on the fate of a throne then. Queen Jecaina of Jecrass.”
He nodded at her. Yisame, Flos, Femithain—all of them blinked at the gesture. Fetohep went on.
“You invoke Khelt’s ruler. I rule as if it were one of my subjects, who art beloved, who committed such a crime. For a deed such as this?”
His eyes flashed golden.
“I would not even take their bones in service to Khelt, but bury them outside my realm in a place forgotten to time. Those who rule are responsible for the lives of all who pass in their domains. If they grant safety, their word is their bond. Lyfelt of Belchan dies.”
It was done. Not even 1-5. Only Femithain and Orjin had even spoken out against death. By any measure…
Jecaina rose, slowly. She looked at Lyfelt. Let me speak, the man’s eyes begged. Let me try one last time…
Now, the audience waited. The [Queen] looked around.
“The leaders of Chandrar have spoken. Nothing more need be said. Lyfelt…”
She stumbled over her words.
“Dies.”
The man collapsed. Flos Reimarch smiled.
“Let it be an end to this war, Queen Jecaina. The fate of the others we may debate. I will even accept the ruling. But Lyfelt—I shall order my armies back. Give him to my Steward and—”
“No.”
The King of Destruction stopped. Jecaina turned to face him.
“King of Destruction, I called this conclave of authority to weigh in on Lyfelt’s fate. It is not for you to execute him. That burden—that responsibility is mine. My father fought a war in the name of his principles. I will not give Lyfelt to you.”
“But he will die.”
“Yes.”
The King of Destruction folded his arms. After a long moment, he nodded.
“Very well. My cause to war with Jecrass is then—”
“The war?”
She interrupted him. Jecaina stood there, looking at Flos. She half-laughed.
“King Reimarch. This war has gone beyond one man’s fate. Even the fate of Belchan! You have brought death and destruction to Jecrass! Now, the vultures and hounds circle! You may believe there is no more cause to war with Jecrass, but we have cause to war with you!”
He stared at her. Queen Yisame bestirred herself from her throne. Jecaina went on.
“If you had not made war—if you had suggested this—if you had asked my father to ride with you, or simply asked to exist in peace, perhaps we would have been allies. But King of Destruction, look at what you have done. You know how many of Jecrass lie dead. I do not accept your call to end the war. And you will return Jecrass’ lands.”
Flos Reimarch blinked at her. Yisame applauded quietly. Orjin, Femithain, Fetohep, waited. The King of Khelt was grinning.
And yet. The King of Destruction shook his head lightly.
“I understand your rage, Jecaina of Jecrass. But one of those dogs is barking from the north. If you will not make peace, then I caution you. Takhatres has returned to me. My Steward advances. Do you wish to make war despite knowing that?”
She just looked at him.
“I will not let Reim rule Jecrass, King of Destruction.”
His eyes flickered. What had been something like admiration turned to…
“So be it. It grieves me—but my Steward shall see you before I. Let us hope whatever you intend can stop him. Either way—I thank you, Queen of Jecrass. Let justice be done.”
He turned. His viewpoint went blank. But no one had missed the look he gave towards Queen Yisame. She looked at Jecaina. Fetohep slowly watched as all the viewpoints in the conference call turned dark.
His was last of all. He stared at himself.
 
—-
 
Thirty three days after her ascent to her throne, Queen Jecaina had shown herself to be a [Queen]. At least, so they told her.
It was time. Medain was coming for her. High King Perric had realized she was no dancing puppet, no frail girl.
The [Steward] was coming too. Her River Wardens had been admiring and horrified.
Jecaina was neither. She was calm. She knew what had to be done.
“Tell Queen Yisame…”
She didn’t say it just yet. She just sat there. The best option, after all, was the most expedient. But how bitter.
She had felt like a [Queen] there, just for a moment. And then…
Lyfelt was dead.
She had not televised that. She had not made a spectacle of it. She had asked him and he had taken poison. She had not watched, but been told when he passed.
And she had wept for him. She had wept for her memory of the man. That it had come to this.
But it had been…justice. As just as she could give him.
Fetohep had called her, afterwards—well, all of the rulers did, except for Orjin. To congratulate, talk—even the King of Destruction had asked her to reconsider and join him.
Oh, fleeting glory. But Fetohep had made her feel proud.
“Well done, Queen Leysars. I did not suggest such an event.”
“You inspired me, King Fetohep.”
“But you have remade history on your own. For that—I express my candid admiration. May you reign well.”
And they both knew what was coming. Jecaina had fixed her hair. She doubted Yisame would…
If only. She wanted to be [Queen]! That was why. Jecaina had felt the level up building in her very marrow. But she hadn’t slept. Not with Lyfelt. Not with…
It mattered not. Tomorrow, she would find out what she was. Today, she greeted the dawn. If only. She thought of the one king she would have ever…but she meant what she said.
Not even Fetohep would rule her. Could not, if she was who she was. Could Jecaina be a [Princess] again?
What would her father do? She stood there a moment. Then, she had an idea. It came down to her as she beheld Jecrass, green lands, the rivers, and in the distance, the smoke of approaching war. As she thought of the Herdmistress, the lack of time—
Her conversations, the other rulers. The [Queen] of thirty days turned as Aca approached, pale.
“Your Majesty? Yisame is waiting.”
“Tell her to wait a moment longer. I have one last…”
Queen Jecaina spoke one last time. Then she spoke to Queen Yisame. And delivered the bad news.
 
—-
 
Chandrar was still buzzing from the notable meeting of leaders. ‘The Deliberation of Belchan’ was the working title that Pallass News Network was going with.
So there were eyes in place to see. The first word of it was the weather, fittingly enough.
A sandstorm blew over the land. So vast that it kept everyone indoors. Even Flos Reimarch, King of Destruction, wouldn’t fight in that kind of weather.
He was supping with Teres for lunch, waiting on word from Orthenon—even he would probably halt to take Jecrass’ capital. Flos Reimarch was moody; he had ordered the [Steward] not to kill the Queen of Jecrass, but her words had bothered him.
“Your Majesty!”
Mars herself tore open the tent flaps. Flos looked up and was on his feet with sword in hand in a moment.
“A sandstorm attack?”
They were clashing with Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Teres had her sword out nearly as quick. Mars strode over to him.
“No. Worse. Flos…”
She spoke. Teres heard a ringing in her ears. That couldn’t be true. It just…
The King of Destruction stood there, eyes wide. He looked at Mars. And then he exclaimed.
“Of all the ways and things I imagined—is this the end of my kingdom?”
 
—-
 
The first sighting of them was the border of the Shield Kingdom of Germina. [Scouts], the few of them on this border, more watching the Great Desert, were hunkering from the storm, but watchful for tricks.
They did not have to be keen-eyed. The whipping storm of sand, the most intense here—began to reveal shapes. They stared as figures emerged from an angle they would have never dreamed of. They raised the alarm. But Reim—Germina—no one knew what had caused it.
But the first giant made of bones, coated in gleaming armor, walked over Khelt’s borders. And then another. And behind it came the legions of Khelt. Warriors without end.
Not the scrap warriors. Not the broken warriors that would drown enemies in numbers.
Khelt’s army. Clad in shining armor. Warriors in life and death.
First ten thousand. Then a hundred thousand. Then—
A shape pierced the sandstorm as Wistram’s news network arrived on the scene. [Mages] recoiled. Drassi screamed.
“What is that thing?”
It looked like no creature she had ever seen. Tall—taller even than the giant skeletons! A moving fortress of dead, chitinous armor. Bone and chitin, moving, gigantic legs, tearing through the dust—
“That…might be one of the Jaws of Zeikhal. The greatest predators of Chandrar.”
Sir Relz adjusted his monocle. The vast war monster crawled forwards. A creature mortal armies would tremble to behold. And—it had been altered.
A kind of…saddle…no, throne, was installed on its head. And guess who sat there?
Fetohep of Khelt. He carried an enchanted halberd and wore the armor of kings. Behind him marched legion. He saw the few forces at the border of Germina cower at the sight of him.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt! Who will stand to bar my way?”
His voice split the air. The watchers from Wistram, the forces of Reim, Germina…fell back another mile. Fetohep saw the great beast he rode cover hundreds of feet with a single motion.
His armies marched. And standing with him were six figures. An archer, a warrior-mage, a…
They were dead. Their skulls showing, fragments of skin clinging to their bodies. They were not as mighty as some of the greatest of Khelt’s protectors. But they stood with the king on his throne.
They were his comrades. Fetohep’s mortal friends. Bodies still bearing their death-wounds.
“We ride again.”
He told them. They didn’t move. They stood there, awaiting his orders. They were not Revenants. They had died before they could be made into ones with him.
His Queen had apologized for that. Weeping, if she could but still shed tears. Fetohep reached out to one of his friends and tried to recall…
“If only you were more than bone and decayed flesh. If only you had joined me in my long service, my boon friends, my companions unto death. What might I have been then?”
He mourned them, even as they went to campaign once more. Fetohep halted and the countless undead, seemingly limitless in number, halted. They had crossed over Germina’s border. Now—the King of Khelt looked down at the few mortal figures among the legions. Commanders of Khelt all. They looked up at him.
“Warriors of Khelt. We ride in Khelt’s name. Quicken your pace.”
Below him, the first ranks of undead warriors—skeleton warriors, perhaps even at the level of Ghouls—moved forwards. They began to walk. Then advanced to a trot.
Then they ran. They sprinted across the ground. The second rank followed. They sped up—and never slowed down.
