“I didn’t know. I didn’t know—I swear. I’ve had nightmares, Jecaina. Please—put down the sword.”
He begged. Jecaina stood there.
“It was your nation. Those poor Gnolls…Flos would kill you.”
“I know. And is that fair? I…I might need to be judged. I admit that, your Majesty. But is now the time?”
Lyfelt dared peek as Jecaina lowered her sword to the carpet. She sat back down and stared at her cup. She felt too sick to drink more. She wanted to, to embrace oblivion. But she had a duty to—she pushed the cup away.
“Why didn’t my father do it?”
“He was too close. He and I were friends. He told me he would rule—after the war ended. But he didn’t hand me over to die. A poorer man might have. But your father was a great man. A great ruler. He was exceptional…”
“No, he wasn’t.”
Jecaina muttered it. Lyfelt didn’t hear her. But Jecaina sat there with the drink giving her a kind of weird clarity. Raelt Leysars had not been a great [King].
He had been a good man. A decent [King] who kept his kingdom running. But a great [King] was one who did extraordinary things. Raelt, her father—was a great [Duelist].
Not a great [King]. She looked at Lyfelt, whom Raelt had protected even though it meant war, even though people had died and there was blood on his hands. The [Prime Minister] fled. Jecaina realized that he was her father’s mistake.
It hurt, terribly, to know your father wasn’t perfect. She wasn’t even his blood-daughter, but she had always…
The [Queen]’s head lolled and she slept.
She did not level.
 
—-
 
She did not hand Lyfelt over when she woke. She pretended not to remember and Lyfelt was only too keen not to remind her.
Was it foolishness? Yes. Probably. But Jecaina…her father’s will was hard to overturn.
More than that, it was her failing. She did not like feeling as though Flos was pressuring her into handing over innocent people to die to end the war.
Perhaps she had to. But on the day after her drunken outburst, she sat, hung over on her throne and too embarrassed to ask for a cure.
Aca brought it for her and Jecaina would have kissed the [Housemistress] if everyone wasn’t…
Well, they actually weren’t here. Lyfelt was keeping well away, and the River Wardens were busy in defense of the realm.
She had to do something. But an unusual event presented itself because of her outburst.
“Some [Messages] for you to review, your Majesty. If you wish it.”
“Bring them to me.”
Normally Lyfelt handled diplomacy and sorted through [Messages]. This time, Jecaina wanted to see Perric’s next demand-request, or…
You might assume that the great and powerful did not get trivial [Messages]. You would be wrong.
 
To Her Majesty Jecaina of Jecrass, I represent the Viole Company, Battle of Brilend, War of Onerous Aggression (Hellios, Germina), and I am offering my services to you with my entire company, subject to a modest retainer of…
 
…healing potions and other wares directly available to you in large quantities if you will provide transport from the port of…
 
…fifteen thousand [Mercenaries] at your disposal! This is a limited-time offer for both of us, so act now and—
 
Discount on arrows! I’m offering a 16% discount for the brave soldiers of Jecrass and the King of Duels’ legacy—
 
…your hand in marriage. I can provide my protection for…
 
That last one actually made Jecaina stare. Then she realized the next six [Messages] were marriage proposals.
Not just from the ruler of…a small nation she had never heard of. A [Merchant], an [Emir], and a [General] all thought they were also good as heirs to thrones. They offered gold, transport to safety, or amazing leadership for someone in your difficult t—
She crumpled up that last one. It sounded like Perric.
“Damn this! I’d rather marry—the King’s Steward than any of these suitors! What, do they think I have vaults filled to the brim with gold?”
“It’s a seller’s market for [Mercenaries], your Majesty. In desperate times…should I not give you the rest?”
Jecaina collapsed into her throne.
“There are more?”
She’d wondered if Lyfelt was playing her wrong, but she had asked to see his missives in outgoing and incoming [Messages] more than once. She wasn’t stupid.
As it turned out, he had screened a lot of stupid from her eyes as well. But another note made Jecaina stop.
 
To: Queen Jecaina of Jecrass
From: Her Great Eminence, Her Majesty Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen…(see attached titles.)
Subject: Nerrhavia’s Protection
To her Majesty, Jecaina of Jecrass, Nerrhavia’s Fallen is willing to undertake the defense and liberation of King Raelt of Jecrass if the Realm were willing to undertake immediate vassalization by the Great Empire of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. As a fellow Queen, I would assure your ranking within Nerrhavia and…
 
“She wants to make Jecrass a vassal-state?”
It was the most handsome vassalization offer she’d gotten so far. Albeit Medain, Reim, and Nerrhavia being the only offers.
But Yisame actually tried to entice Jecaina, whereas the two [Kings] had been more about threats. Unlike them, not only would Yisame guarantee Raelt’s return and the protection of Jecrass, she would install Jecaina as ruler of the region, give her the following titles in Nerrhavia’s hierarchy…
Jecaina spat out some orange juice all over the floor. Aca rushed for a cloth as the [Queen] exclaimed.
“Four hundred thousand gold?”
A [Servant] nearly dropped the orange juice pitcher.
“For what, your Majesty?”
“I—me?”
Yisame was offering Jecaina four hundred thousand gold pieces to sign over her crown, and more aid for Jecrass.
It was tempting. Jecaina wasn’t going to do it—but it was tempting. The letter even had a bit offering condolences that seemed more…personal than the business offer. Maybe Yisame had added that last bit in?
Jecaina read it, and actually told Aca to send a polite refusal and counteroffer of nonaggression, trade—she doubted Yisame would bite, but it opened a dialogue and she felt like she did something.
“Well, that at least lightened my mood. I’ll sign that if I have to. Better Nerrhavia than Reim or Medain, maybe.”
The servants actually smiled. Jecaina wished she could believe she wasn’t serious.
“One or two more, your Majesty…let’s see. Here.”
Jecaina sorted through the last of the [Messages]. Most were useless, but the Mage’s Guild apparently filtered countless even more trivial [Messages]. One could not send a [Message] to Jecaina if you were a common citizen; only those of wealth, power, and so on could even get to her.
Which was depressing if you thought about it because Jecaina would have loved a [Message] from some child who’d saved up all their coins to tell her they believed in her.
…Or that their family was dead and they blamed her.
Mercenary offer, marriage offer, bill—bill? For a Pegasus from Oteslia—she handed that one off. Then she blinked at a weird [Message].
“‘Cordially offering you my congratulations on your ascent to’…huh?”
The last [Message] was not a threat, offer, or…anything. It was, in fact, a polite nothing. A lengthily worded congratulations for her ascent to the throne, complete with reminiscences about the ‘lately detained King Raelt’, and a cordial invitation to visit the sender at her leisure, if she retained the throne after the end of the war.
She stared at the sender. And blinked.
Fetohep of Khelt.
 
—-
 
She knew Fetohep. She had never met him—but her father, Raelt, had spoken to all the rulers in the region. Fetohep was actually one of the rulers that Raelt had liked.
Or at least, had no gripes with.
He had liked the previous Quarass, for all she was manipulative, for reasons Jecaina had never known. Hellios was…strained…as Queen Calliope had been the sometimes-enemy, sometimes-friend of Jecrass.
But Fetohep? Jecaina sought out Lyfelt. He was only too happy to explain.
“The Quarass? Germina was never our constant ally. I never knew Raelt liked her. But then—he did like people who didn’t bother him overly long unless they were friends. And the Quarass—even the one before the present one—knew people. She was probably straightforward with him.”
“Ah. And Fetohep? I know Khelt…”
The land of the dead. The kingdom of the unliving. A paradise few had ever seen. Lyfelt shrugged.
“I’ve never been. Did he send you a [Message]? Fetohep does do that. He offered me a chance to visit. I think.”
“Did you?”
Lyfelt scratched at his head. Bemused, he frowned.
“Wait. No. He didn’t. He sent one to Raelt, but not to me! I don’t think [Prime Ministers] count. He is an enduringly polite [King], though, but…peculiar. As arrogant as the King of Destruction in the few times we’ve directly corresponded.”
“You’ve talked?”
“Oh, of course. Normally it is through lesser channels, but he does involve himself from time to time. Never directly, but he buys water from Jecrass each year. If it were possible, I’d suggest selling some. No one would raid Khelt if he provided the transport. Khelt is not to be trifled with.”
Jecaina knew that. She knew the stories. Once, Khelt had been larger, but even now—they did not attack unless threatened and were isolationist. But take one step beyond the border and the dead would rise. Even the King of Destruction did not try to claim Khelt.
Anyway, it was a strange letter. Lyfelt waved it away, more preoccupied with the vassalization offer from Nerrhavia and Jecaina’s reply—he was peeved she’d done anything without talking to him.
Jecaina sat, reading Fetohep’s letter. It was…funny.
 
…I am minded to recall your Great Great Grandmother’s sojourn at the beginning of her reign where she was kidnapped to Terandria. I trust the Realm of Jecrass shall likewise endure from a female influence upon the land.
 
He knew her great, great…Jecaina actually had to walk through the halls of portraits to find out who it was. But Fetohep had lived when she was alive.
Also, he’d written essays like a [Historian] on lovely paper. Just beautiful. Someone had put wood shavings into the delicate paper, and the ink had some kind of strange quality that made it easier to read. Jecaina sniffed it and smelled a pleasant fragrance.
Had he scented it? Who took this much time on a letter? Even the seal had gold flakes sprinkled into Khelt’s national symbol.
The lengthy letter took an hour to read. And Jecaina was not a slow reader. She realized as she unfolded it that the thin piece of paper was also enchanted to keep unfolding; Lyfelt had unfolded the first, official greeting and hadn’t realized—
She had to stop and laugh despite herself when Fetohep listed the other times Jecrass had been invaded to this extent. And hadn’t she seen Fetohep? No—heard his voice?
Actually, after asking Aca, the woman provided the answer.
“I believe he was featured three times on Pallass News Network, your Majesty. I watch it all the time when I can—they take in viewer responses. Fetohep of Khelt—I remember the name. The Drakes had to cut off his responses because they were so long.”
Jecaina smiled. Then, as she was nearing the end of the missive, something caught her eye.
“…‘as fellow rulers, I remain open to communication if you so desire’. Huh—what is this at the bottom?”
Aca blinked at it. She had no idea. But the [Court Mage] supplied the answer.
“I believe it’s a key to a speaking stone, your Majesty. The Mage’s Guild can tune a speaking stone to it.”
“Really? And he just wrote it down…”
Jecaina broke off as her River Wardens filed in for the day. More bad news. Medain looked like it was going to push further in, and they had begun loosing arrows at Jecrass’ forces to keep them back.
She dealt with that, and the news that there was an outbreak of something amongst animals and people in the crowded cities—they had to send for [Healers], make sure it didn’t reach the horses…
Miserable, depressed, Jecaina found the letter in her pocket later when she was staring at another bottle of alcohol. She had sent Lyfelt away after he’d failed to answer her if he could stop Medain. The River Wardens weren’t fun company.
So why not? She summoned the [Court Mage].
“Has Queen Yisame responded?”
“Nothing yet, your Majesty.”
Jecaina nodded gloomily.
“Then—will you tune a speaking stone to this thing? And tell Fetohep of Khelt I thank him for the [Message].”
She did it mainly to see what happened. From what it sounded like, Fetohep sent these things out of pure etiquette. She didn’t expect anything.
The speaking stone was placed in front of her. The [Court Mage] bowed, and showed Jecaina how to use it.
“If it is tuned correctly—and we believe we have followed the procedures—one can simply speak into it, or tap it to turn it ‘off’. Like so.”
He turned it on and off for her. Jecaina nodded. She hesitated over the stone.
“…Hello? Your Majesty, Fetohep?”
The [Court Mage] left. Jecaina stared at the stone. Then she laughed and felt foolish. What was she doing, talking to the undead ruler of another nation? She went to put it d—
“Queen Jecaina of Jecrass. We are pleased our missive was delivered to you. We are King Fetohep of Khelt. I greet you in confidence in this dark hour for your realm.”
She jumped. That had been seconds! She stared at the speaking stone.
Somewhere, many miles away, in the land of Khelt, the eternal, sleepless King of Khelt, two nations over…had heard the speaking stone’s brief comment and responded in a moment.
Why?
Because he was very, very, very…
Bored.
 
—-
 
Fetohep of Khelt, the unliving monarch of the empire which lived by the fruits of undead labor.
Jecaina knew all the stories. But she had never met someone who’d actually come from Khelt. A [Merchant] could boast they’d been allowed through the border once or twice. But Khelt was so closed off as to be forgotten.
Now, she spoke to the ruler of that nation.
He was surprising to Jecaina. She found herself sitting in her bedroom—now the royal bedroom since she had refused to move to her father’s quarters and ordered it kept for him—on her bed, nervously speaking to the stone.
“I…apologize if I am interrupting you, King Fetohep.”
She didn’t know his last name. And a monarch could greet each other informally, or in that way.
What was unnerving was how Fetohep seemed to leap around conversations. He replied, his tone faintly echoing, but precise.
“As we speak in confidence, Queen Leysars, I would not take it amiss to be referred to as King Khelt—it is traditional for rulers of Khelt to abandon their names of family as we serve our nations with no personal bias. Fetohep would also be acceptable if you will entertain the informality.”
“I—would appreciate that, Fetohep. Thank you.”
