A [Princess] could not stay a [Princess] when no one sat on the throne. She became a [Queen], or what was she?
Jecaina had not known there could be temporary classes. But she assumed that if her father abdicated…or was discovered dead…or perished…
She would become [Queen] in truth.
She did not want that. She did not want the class. After she had been crowned and then stood at the balcony and read a speech one of the River Wardens had written, Jecaina burst into tears in her room.
That was embarrassing. She hadn’t cried since she was too young to hold a rapier—not like this, at least. But it was too much.
She knew the River Wardens had crowned her to say Jecrass wasn’t anarchy. As they filed into the throne room and she sat on the throne, feeling how uncomfortable it was, how alien the position, how heavy the crown, she expected them to say how it was going to be.
They were going to seize power, after all. The nobility did that sometimes, and Jecaina didn’t know what to do. She waited.
They knelt. Jecaina hesitated. Either they were doing a good job acting or…
…Or, she realized, as they raised their heads and she saw the desperation in their eyes, they were as lost as her. Or they had crowned her because they didn’t want power. Not now. Perhaps they might have seized it last year, before the King of Jecrass had shown them he was King of Duels—before the King of Destruction and Medain invaded.
Now?
“My Queen, what is your will?”
Jecaina threw up in her mouth. The River Wardens waited; she tasted bile and looked around. She held her mouth shut as Warden Mulre, their spokesperson, stared up at her.
“My Queen?”
Jecaina looked around for somewhere to spit it out—but she couldn’t tell them to turn their heads. The River Wardens saw her gulp—and then speak. The first decree of Jecaina Leysars’ rule was a muttered voice.
“…I need a cup of water. And an orange.”
The River Wardens hesitated. After a second, one of the [Servants] dashed out of the throne room and returned a few painful minutes later with water from the well and an orange from the gardens.
Jecaina loved oranges. She reached for it, but the [Servant] peeled it as the water was presented on a little cushion.
It was painful, as the intervening time waiting had been her and the River Wardens not-quite-staring at each other in dead silence. Jecaina’s throat worked as she gulped the water and then bit into the pieces of the orange—her first real meal in three days.
Thus began her enlightened rule. All hail her highness.
Huzzah.
 
—-
 
The first four hours of her rule later, Jecaina put her head down on the war council’s table and tried not to cry. Again. Was she going to become a weeping [Princess]—no—[Queen], the kind she’d always despised?
But this was dire. Even if it hadn’t been her—she had seen how this war had wrung her father dry. And he had been a [King]. Fun fact?
They were not in a better place. Far from it. The desperate attempt to rescue her had cost more lives. And a [King] whose Skills had prevented Reim from stomping all over Jecrass. Now, Medain had him, Jecaina was installed…
The River Wardens had eventually realized she was paralyzed and begun offering…suggestions. Cautious ones, such as, ‘would your Majesty care to make a proclamation and have it sent across the nation’? ‘Should we move to the war council to discuss this very serious, very bad situation we’re in?’
She hadn’t second-guessed any of it. Four hours had seen them showing her Jecrass’ depleted armies, [Messages] from General Lael and other River Wardens on the front, and spreading out forces from the capital to them.
Thank goodness Lael was alive. If she’d been dead—the River Wardens and Jecaina essentially did as the [General] requested. Then they had asked her what her plan was.
She’d looked at them in silence—until she realized she had to say something. So Jecaina had taken a shaking breath and spoken.
“My father is alive.”
The River Wardens stirred. Jecaina removed her crown and stared at it. It wasn’t even real gold, she realized. Just painted iron or something. The real crown was on Raelt’s head—or had been. She shuddered.
“He is alive. King Perric has him or…he is alive, and so Jecrass will have him back at whatever the cost. I don’t know how—but we will do that.”
“Does that mean submitting to King Perric’s will, Pr—my Queen?”
Warden Mulre had a flinty look in his eyes. Jecaina hesitated. Her fist clenched involuntarily.
“Not if I can help it. He kidnapped me and because of him—I would rather surrender to Reim than Medain! At least the King of Destruction does not stab his allies in the back!”
She had meant that personally. But the River Wardens had shot to their feet and applauded. Jecaina had been stunned, but they had bowed, swore fealty again, and left the room.
Now, she wondered what the hell she was going to do.
It was then that the door opened.
“Queen Jecaina? Your Highness? Might I…have a word?”
A familiar voice. Jecaina looked up and saw him standing there. Like her, he was worn. Wan, thinner—but Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan stood there.
“Lyfelt?”
He tried to smile. Jecaina pushed her chair back—but nearly fell over as she attempted to rise. He walked over, looking worried.
“You’re as pale as a Wight. Have you eaten? I saw you at the coronation, but when I asked the [Servants], they didn’t mention that.”
“No—no. I haven’t. Lyfelt? How are you…?”
It was all a blur. Lyfelt looked around, then called to the door.
“Someone fetch her highness a nourishing meal! And more water! Sit, Jecaina, my dear. Sit…”
Soon, Jecaina was blinking at one of her favorite meals, Estreke Almeat, the nomad’s hot, shredded meats with some cheese and butter sauce on top.
She ate, mechanically at first as Lyfelt urged her to, and then so fast she was nearly sick. She barely tasted the food and burned her tongue as she gulped it down and ate.
The world…resolved itself into more clarity as starvation ended and she began to process everything. She looked left to make sure she wasn’t mistaken. He was still there.
“Lyfelt? How are you…?”
He spread his hands on the table.
“I’ve been a political prisoner—more like a political refugee, really, thanks to your father—since the war began in earnest. He gave me sanctuary; I was in hiding for my safety in case the King of Destruction deployed Gazi the Omniscient…but I had to see you once I heard the news. I am so sorry, my dear.”
He almost reached out, but caught himself.
“Queen Jecaina, that is.”
“Don’t call me that. You knew me since I was a girl. You were…”
Jecaina blinked at Lyfelt. It was so good to see someone who was friendly, that she knew personally. At the same time…
He was the reason Flos had gone to war. Jecaina warred with two feelings and put one aside. Geril was dead. And he and her father were the first people she would have turned to. Without them…
“It was my fault, Lyfelt.”
She looked down at the empty plate. A servant put another one in front of her. Lyfelt shook his head.
“Don’t say that. It was High King Perric’s doing. That shady rat—he was always conniving, but this? If it wasn’t for the King of Destruction, all of Chandrar would be declaring war on him. He’s clever…but we’ll get your father back, don’t you worry. Even Perric isn’t stupid enough to execute a [King].”
That was Lyfelt for you. Even when insulting someone, he used their title. Raelt and Lyfelt had been old friends. Jecaina had thought little of it except that she liked to visit Belchan and had thought Lyfelt much more ‘fun’ than her father, if far less good with a sword—not at all, really.
But she had heard Raelt sometimes remark that Lyfelt could teach the Nagas something about cold-blood—that was when they argued. And she had seen…
“So you’re here to check on me? Help?”
Lyfelt smiled with genuine warmth as he rested his hands on the table. That was a [Prime Minister] for you—she supposed he might have his class if Belchan still existed, but even if not—he was the most charming man she had ever known. But she had grown up knowing him.
“My dear, oops, your Highness, again—”
He paused a second. This time, Jecaina didn’t correct him.
“—I thought you’d be lost, coming into the crown. Your father was, although he found his peace—but there wasn’t a war going on. The River Wardens thrust you into the crown because they had no idea what to do. Otherwise, they’d fight like pack rats over it.”
True enough. Jecaina nodded.
“They knelt to me. I thought they’d do just that. But they just asked me what to do.”
“Really? What did they say? They crowned you, met in the throne room—I anticipated that, then…?”
“We came here and talked about the war.”
Jecaina recounted the last few hours to Lyfelt. He nodded, drumming his fingers on the table.
“Sensible moves. They’re worried. Your father must have inspired them or they realize the real threat if they’re not trying to seize power. They might, in time. If they think Jecrass is doomed, they’ll surrender to whoever is most advantageous and try to keep their power.”
He spoke earnestly and quickly. Jecaina listened. Lyfelt went on.
“And you inspired them, another good move. You have your father’s gift.”
“I did? How?”
“Your proclamation to deny Medain, of course! That was what they wanted. It’s a nebulous goal, getting Raelt back, but it’s the kind of thing a ruler must do. Tomorrow, you should preempt them. Keep ahead of them so they start to follow. They’ll second-guess you if you let them think. So don’t.”
She blinked at him. Lyfelt had gotten up to pace, a habit of his. Her father had once joked, exceptionally privately, that he thought that was the only reason Lyfelt wasn’t pudgy. That, and his love of swimming in the pool at the capital.
She nodded to his suggestions too. That was smart. Lyfelt turned to her.
“You’ll want to talk to the servants, General Lael—all the people around you and in high positions. The city’s ruling body too, the Watch Captain—they know you. Now, they need to see their Queen. Figure out a schedule and get them to follow it. Everything from when you want breakfast to how they should contact you when an emergency arises.”
“Why? They know all that, surely.”
He waved a hand; he still had his rings of office on.
“You can use your father’s methods, Jecaina. But they need to know the system again. Your arrival has caused uncertainty. It’s time to do it your way. For instance—did you notice the throne doesn’t have a cushion?”
She blinked. She hadn’t, but come to think of it…Lyfelt grinned.
“It was no doubt hard as a rock. I pity you, sitting for hours on it! Raelt always complained, so he had a cushion placed there; it’s supposed to be put there and removed when he leaves so people might not notice, especially if they walk into the throne room without him there. He always talked about getting a really nice one—enchanted to be invisible! I was going to get one for his 40th birthday…”
Jecaina smiled despite herself. That was exactly like her father. She dipped her head.
“Thank you, Lyfelt.”
And she saw the white Gnoll in her mind’s eye. The dead tribe, the King of Destruction’s wrath as he made the villagers kneel and lifted the sword.
It was gone in a flash. But she had been horrified when she saw that. She had never doubted that Flos Reimarch’s wrath was justified. And Lyfelt had known—or he had not stopped—
His smile turned waxy. The man put his fingers together and twiddled them, then opened his arms.
“Jecaina, I know I’ve done some…terrible things. Believe me, I didn’t know it would lead to this. I made mistakes—didn’t check on things, lowered my guard. The Gnolls crossing Belchan…I never would have allowed villages to attack them. I truly didn’t know. But I want to make it up. I’m a [Prime Minister]—former, actually. I lost my class. But I have all the knowledge of how to run a country. Let me help.”
Jecaina blinked at him. And she thought a few things in a sudden flash.
Firstly, he’d just read her feelings towards him. She knew it was a Skill of his. If someone, people, had auras—Lyfelt could read emotions with his very eyes. He’d done it for her as a child, to delight, and impress her when he could tell when she was lying.
Secondly? He was trying to get her to appoint him into a position of power. Jecaina was not a fool. She might have been shell-shocked and grieving, but she felt Geril’s presence. The old [Retainer] would be grimacing right behind Lyfelt and then smiling serenely.
Thirdly? How dare he? An entire tribe had been slaughtered because he had told Raelt that the King of Destruction’s refugees were a trifling concern—that it was even fine to let them suffer duress!
Her hand twitched towards her rapier. But it wasn’t there. And—
Suddenly, her blood was pumping. Suddenly, Jecaina knew what had to be done. She mastered herself. She smiled—and threw up an aura.
She wasn’t good at it. Neither Raelt nor Jecaina had ever been aura-wielding masters, even innately, as Flos Reimarch was said to be able to kneel people with a single word.
But no proper ruler was taught without lessons in fighting [Charm] Skills or similar effects. Jecaina couldn’t project—her father had gotten a Skill which had begun to enhance his aura, but she knew the basics. Any person in the world could at least learn to…and a [Princess], a [Queen]…
Lyfelt hesitated as Jecaina exhaled slowly. She knew she had just gone blank to his emotion-reading Skills. Or she hoped she had. Similarly…she felt more goodwill towards him, nostalgia for the past, oozing out of her feet.
He’d been charming her already! Jecaina was furious. But she smiled.
“I feel like I’m already becoming a…[Queen], thanks to you, Lyfelt. And I do need help. Thank you. Can I count on you to help me? Tell me—discreetly—if I make a mistake, or about how to do…everything?”
The former [Prime Minister] hesitated, eyes searching her quickly, then beamed.
“I consider it a point of honor, Jecaina.”
I bet you do. She hadn’t missed how he was now calling her Jecaina.
The [Duelist Princess] had never liked or wanted to rule. She had flirted with her lessons, happily gallivanted around. But the war and watching her father had given her some maturity. More than that? Well—Lyfelt had made two mistakes.
The first was thinking she was overwhelmed and helpless. The second was in forgetting that she knew him. Skills that worked on emotion didn’t work the more you applied them. So, Jecaina was frightened and upset and grieving.
But she smiled and asked Lyfelt to help her. That was her first real move as [Queen]. Checkmate.
