And even then—Queen Jecaina, labeled as ‘Princess Jecaina’ was shuffled to the bottom of a list a bored [Mage] was keeping.
There were more important things to do! A schedule to keep! No one had time for your little parade or—
“Excuse me, High Magus—we just received word that Queen Yisame is requesting a scrying mage? From Nerrhavia? She can supply the image herself, actually.”
The High Mage sat up.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen? You verified, of course?”
“Um…”
Now this was what his job was for. He sent a quick [Message] to the team working Pallass News Network that they might need to adjust their broadcast. Of course, even Yisame had to wait, but Wistram treated with her carefully…
“High Magus! The King of Destruction is demanding a scrying mage!”
The High Mage promptly forgot about Yisame. He spun.
“Is there a war? A battle? Is he just bored again?”
“He says it’s a matter of state! He wants the one with him to begin broadcasting on the hour!”
“Queen Yisame—”
“Tell her to wait. Er—that we cannot accommodate her now.”
The [High Mage] was sweating. He hurried over to the [Mage] taking the [Messages]. But the first one called out.
“No, High Magus. The King of Destruction is saying that Queen Yisame and he both want another [Mage] in…Jecrass.”
Now the High Magus slowed. He turned and pointed a wand at his head.
“[Amplify Hearing]. What did you say?”
The [Mage] held out the [Messages] helplessly.
“Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen in conjunction with the King of Destruction demand that scrying mages be sent to the following kingdoms and rulers…”
A prickling feeling ran down the [High Mage]’s back. He stared as a third [Message] came in. This one from…he turned.
“Get me the Pallass News Network team.”
 
—-
 
Jecrass had been unable to secure a single Wistram [Mage] even asking in advance. It turned out that other rulers could get whatever they wanted from Wistram just by speaking, not even bothering to shout.
And the King of Destruction did shout. And Wistram, despite being officially at odds with him, moved. They did not know why they were moving, first. Nor did Pallass News Network.
High King Perric was waiting to see his army’s glorious push into Jecrass; he had informed them of the timing. What he got was a yawning Drassi, sitting up and dully reporting the advance. Perric scowled. He hated her.
The feeling was mutual. The Drake’s eyes opened as someone began to whisper off-screen, though. She sat up, excitedly.
“Hold on, people. We might not be watching Medain right now. I’m getting word of a live event taking place. Chandrar—stay tuned. Wait. Wait…Jecrass? Slow down—we’re covering—no? The King of Destruction?”
Parts of Perric puckered up at the name. That man! That man had better not—
The image of Medain’s army marching and singing praises of their High King vanished. Perric rose from his seat with an oath.
“Get me the Wistram Mage! Now and—”
His words were choked off as Flos Reimarch’s face popped into view. He was staring at High King Perric. The man nearly climbed out of his throne until he realized—
This was the broadcast. Drassi herself recoiled in the foreground.
“Aha. So it’s working, is it? Am I first? Good.”
Flos Reimarch boomed. Someone spoke.
“Your Majesty, you’re too close. Please—allow us to—”
They backed up. The King of Destruction appeared in view. He was standing, in a war tent, location unknown. Perric’s hands clenched into fists at the sight of him.
That damned man! He had humiliated Medain and beaten him—now he was upstaging Medain’s hour of triumph again? Were there no limits to how far he would sink?
Perric was about to castigate the Wistram [Mage] and demand to know what was going on when someone else appeared. And the screen—split.
Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen appeared on the left side of the screen. Flos on the right. he was staring at something and blinked.
“Ah. I see her! And myself! Queen Yisame.”
“Flos Reimarch.”
The [Queen] blinked a few times, and then sat back. She was on her throne. It was perhaps the first time the two rulers had met face-to-face in an age. Perric stared.
“Fascinating. I am here. So are you—are we waiting on the rest?”
“It appears so. King of Destruction, it pleases me you acceded to this moment despite the war between our kingdoms.”
“Ah, well, it is gracious of you to do so. Besides which—would you mind ceasing your invasion? It is getting rather tiring, swatting down your chariots as they buzz about like flies.”
She smiled thinly.
“Nerrhavia will see Reim fall within the month, King of Destruction. But perhaps this is not the time to debate your kingdom?”
He gave her a wolf of a grin.
“What in the name of Selphid’s foul tits is going on here?”
Perric roared. The High King saw another face appear. And this time it was—
“Femithain?”
Yes! Magus-Crafter Femithain of Illivere sat back at his desk, adjusting his spectacles.
“Ah, I see I am…‘connected’. Thank you, Magus.”
He nodded to someone off-screen. The rulers seemed to be using stationary artifacts rather than the shakier ‘live [Mages]’ who could broadcast events.
Yisame blinked at Femithain. She tried to speak, but was drowned out by Flos as he crowded closer to the camera again.
“Is that Magus-Crafter Femithain? Finally, a ruler who hasn’t declared war as of yet!”
Yisame frowned in the background. Femithain blinked. He inclined his head.
“Your Radiant Majesty, Queen Yisame, King of Destruction. Greetings. I assume I am not late?”
“Not at a—”
“Not at all. Incidentally, Magus-Crafter, I hear your Golems are quite extraordinary! Would you care to sell some to me? Illivere hasn’t responded to my requests. How is Nsiia? I trust she is being treated well?”
Flos was louder than Yisame, to her clear annoyance. Femithain hesitated and was spared having to answer as someone else appeared.
The screen split further. Drassi actually disappeared as more faces popped into view. Perric stared. He realized each one was a ruler of their land.
Next, was the leader of the Claiven Earth, their Treespeaker or whatever his name was. He appeared and Flos jabbed at the half-Elf, who ignored him completely to greet the other two leaders.
Then—and then—six rulers appeared.
 
Flos Reimarch, King of Destruction.
Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Femithain, Magus-Crafter of Illivere.
The Treespeaker of the Claiven Earth.
Orjin of Pomle, the Strongest balancing on a pile of rocks.
…And Fetohep of Khelt.
 
Perric recoiled at the sight of the last ruler. Even Femithain blinked; Yisame was not so subtle, nor the Treespeaker.
Orjin didn’t appear to care, but Flos frowned.
“You’re attending this too, Fetohep? I didn’t know you were invited.”
“I have acceded to this meeting of thrones, King of Destruction. Not for your benefit. Far stranger that you are present when the Quarass of Germina is not. Perhaps she is busy.”
Six rulers. Perric knew the Strongest of Pomle, even if he didn’t know Orjin. Why was the man balancing on rocks? Yisame kept staring as well—not to mention at the fact that Orjin was relatively bare-skinned.
“Is this appropriate for the meeting, Strongest of Pomle?”
The Treespeaker of the Claiven Earth looked similarly uncomfortable. Orjin opened his eyes.
“I am not sure what this meeting is about. My [Secretary] informed me I should take part. So here I am.”
A Drake hurried to whisper to him. He leaned over, still balancing on one leg.
Six rulers. And High King Perric realized they were not including him in this, but it was a number of powerful rulers in his region. And second—they were waiting for someone.
“Are those Wistram [Mages] not in position yet? They’re covering the war! Whom do I have to shout at?”
“The King of Destruction is, for once, correct. Nerrhavia does not wait on ‘technical issues’. Where is her Majesty? We have all agreed to come here at her request; does Wistram seek to offend all our thrones?”
Yisame snapped at an unseen speaker. Perric frowned. Her Majesty? Orjin frowned.
“What are we doing? Explain it slower, Salii.”
“Strongest of Pomle, this meeting was agreed to by all the rulers—and one [Secretary], it seems—to decide—”
Femithain was addressing Orjin as Flos shouted something in the background. The Speaker of Trees was frowning around, trying to get a word in edgeways as the first mass-call devolved into chaos. Fetohep was engaging in a lengthy greeting to Yisame, who was trying to listen while addressing someone off-screen—
Then she appeared. Princess—no—Queen Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass sat on her throne. Perric stared.
The rulers looked up.
“Ah. There you are.”
Flos grinned. Fetohep’s golden gaze locked on her. Jecaina stared at something—a glowing scrying orb, and then looked up.
The camera and her personal viewing lens were not in the same place. And she was sitting on her throne—a bit away from the ‘camera’.
High King Perric stared. What was going on?
“Rulers of Chandrar, your Majesties, Magus-Crafter, Speaker of Trees, and Strongest of Pomle. Thank you for agreeing to this meeting.”
Queen Jecaina spoke. She inclined her head and all the rulers did likewise, even Flos. They knew what was going on.
Perric did not. But he didn’t like it. And—seeing Jecaina now, instead of the fawning letters begging for this or that—she did not seem like a helpless young woman overwrought by her crown.
Another copper penny dropped. The High King realized a lot of things in that moment. He might have acted on the rampant fury rushing through him, but everything became clear to the audience—and himself—the next moment.
Queen Jecaina looked at the scrying orb. She was smiling—but it wasn’t a real smile. It was unhappy, and she looked young and old. The crown sat on her head, as if she had forgotten it was there, so much it had been a part of her.
“Hello. I am Queen Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass. To those watching—I have called upon six great rulers of Chandrar, wise and knowledgeable leaders of their nations all. Each one I trust for different reasons, even if we are at odds—”
She nodded at Flos and he inclined his head with a smile.
“—to weigh in on a decision that has haunted me since I was crowned. I am young to the throne of Jecrass, and have not reached a verdict in an issue of…morality. Judgment. Thus—I asked for the aid of a council of my peers.”
High King Perric felt something was wrong here. Where was he, Perric? Medain? Hello? He called for the Wistram [Mage].
But no one was answering his [Message] spells. Jecaina went on.
“The issue is the heart of the war between Reim and Jecrass. A tragic—no, horrific incident for which my father was forced to go to war over. An event we all witnessed. Please—bring him in.”
She turned her head. And Perric, the watching world, saw a man slowly led forwards by a pair of [Soldiers].
Lyfelt of Belchan. The man was terrified. Also—gagged. He stood there, staring at Jecaina. Perric sat back.
“Dead gods, she’s going to execute him in front of everyone.”
He was of course, wrong. He did not know Jecaina.
 
—-
 
Fetohep of Khelt had not been told what was happening. He had agreed, instantly, but the King of Khelt, to some, their first time realizing that an undead held the throne, sat there, eyes flashing golden as he and the others listened. Jecaina did not need to speak overly long.
“All know Lyfelt of Belchan. That my father defended him—or the slaughter of Belchan’s rulership and their families—”
“I reneged on the families.”
Flos interrupted. Jecaina looked at him and he sat back. He was quivering with fury. Jecaina spoke on.
“—my father, King Raelt of Jecrass, did not decide Lyfelt’s fate. The King of Destruction would have his death—and all of his officials—to end this war. I refused, just as my father did. Jecrass should not give up a man’s life even when threatened. Yet. The issue weighed on me, because injustice was done. A tribe of Gnolls, slaughtered nearly to the last. More victims. How am I to judge a man who was my father’s friend? Who raised me? Who…might not have known?”
Her head bowed for a second. Then it rose.
“I understand that I do not have the scope to pass judgment—or the impartiality. Thus, I requested six of the most trusted rulers available. You sit now, rulers of Chandrar, in judgment. Seven thrones shall decide Lyfelt of Belchan’s fate. Whether he is guilty or not. I shall abstain, unless a deciding vote is needed.”
This was television! Drassi was dancing in her studio since she wasn’t on air. And she wanted to be part of this one.
But this was a time only for the rulers. They were live. Their people—other rulers, viewers watched this. A man’s fate. Lesser [Kings] were not invited.
And Jecrass’ people watched Jecaina. So did Lyfelt. He looked accusing. Betrayed. Pleading…Jecaina met his gaze.
“So. Then. Let there be justice for all to see, from minds wiser than mine.”
She met Fetohep’s gaze. And he bowed slightly to her.
 
—-
 
The trial of Lyfelt of Belchan was simple. Chaotic, yes, confused, yet.
Half wanted to speak first. Some spoke over each other, in outbursts—at one point, the Speaker of Trees’ son came in to ask if he wanted to pick—he was hurried out of sight.
Orjin of Pomle began practicing punches until he was asked to stop. Nsiia poked her head in to stare at Flos.
Wistram’s viewer-count was skyrocketing. They were breaking all records. War? Forget war. The life of a single man was at stake here.
Gnolls were watching. And Jecaina presided.
She hadn’t thought she would, but when Fetohep kept calling Flos ‘boy’, or ‘child-king’, someone had to stop Flos from retorting. Someone had to—so she ended up asking people to wait, or be silent.
They all spoke. Flos first. He did not need to speak overly long.
“I will have Lyfelt’s head. And no force will compel me otherwise. I will have his head—the head of his officials—you saw the slaughter. Need I describe it? Need I ask the boy who watched his tribe die? If I must, to convince you that he is dead, I will. Even if every nation tries to oppose me, I will lead my kingdom to Rhir’s hell to see him dead.”
It was not a classic trial as Earthers knew it. Because the defense was Lyfelt himself. And he spoke.
“I did not know, your Majesties. I did not. Believe me! I may have been…flippant…but how was I to know what one village would do?”
Cross-examination was every ruler. Some spoke more than others.
Some were more at home than others. The Speaker of Trees was actually far more comfortable than Femithain. Both decided matters like this, but Femithain didn’t like being on air all the time.
