It was still war. It was always war. And now—in the thick of the third war in as many months, they were beginning to remember.
King of Destruction.
He had lost a battle versus the House of Minos, and stalled in his Jecrass-Belchan offensive, even if Belchan was functionally no more.
Yes, every nation within two hundred miles had declared war. Yes, all of Reim and the King of Destruction’s empire were now embattled, from the newly-held Belchan regions to Reim itself, under threat from Nerrhavia’s hordes.
And still, the King of Destruction fought. War was endemic to his kingdom. And he thrived on it.
History taught lessons. And the [Historians] warned—it was repeating itself. Not in the same ways; the young [King] Flos Reimarch had never fought so widely at first. His had been a slow progression.
But the adult [King] had the Skills to at least force this war to drag out.
Nerrhavia was the first to realize the error in assuming his single defeat had spelled the end. They had invaded, practically overrunning the border with three hundred thousand foot and countless chariots led by the Silk caste.
They had then slowed their advance as Reim’s capital unleashed the thunderbolt defenses installed by Drevish. Similarly—the King of Destruction was pulling back his armies. He left Orthenon in the north, divided his command between Zamea, the Rustängmarder, Mars—
Gazi the Omniscient was noticeably absent, but everyone knew she would be slaying [Spies] and [Infiltrators] behind the scenes rather than leading from the front. And even the ‘lesser’ vassals like Venith and Maresar Crusland were a fearsome duo capable of stalemating a [General] or even routing an army of equal size with their battle experience and levels.
However, Reim was on the defensive. However, however?
His enemies ran out of time.
 
—-
 
At a pitched battle between Nerrhavia’s great hammer, they finally unleashed their true might in an effort to rout an army led by Venith and Maresar, which had struck and retreated time and time again to the aegis of the capital. The rapid speed of their movements had stymied even Nerrhavia’s infamous war chariots.
No more! Nerrhavia’s Queen Yisame brought forth one of Nerrhavia’s great assets she had not even used against Tiqr.
[Summoners]. The Will of Yisame was not a formal Unit; it was renamed after each ruler, but it was the kind of army only Nerrhavia could field.
Ten thousand [Summoners] of the Stitch-Folk, each who conjured warriors ranging from Silver-rank to even Gold-rank. Expendable warriors who could appear, fight, and die, along with [Sand Mages] who raised gigantic Sand Golems.
Countless chariots cut left and right, cutting off the [Bandit Lord], Maresar, who could normally pull back the army from such an attack. Venith Crusland fought in the vanguard, refusing to yield as countless foot soldiers of the Hemp-caste moved in, trying to drown Reim’s forces by the sheer press of bodies, fearless of blades.
It seemed even Reim’s forces would waver and break when he appeared. From the north, the King of Destruction raced into battle with less than two thousand [Riders], having come all the way from Jecrass, knowing Nerrhavia would be the greatest foe at this moment.
His arrival brought morale to Reim’s forces, but surely he would have been barely able to make a dent—let alone reach the encircled army. That was when the King of Destruction bellowed his Skill.
“[Army of the King]!”
Nerrhavia, and the combined nations had been too slow. A month had passed since the King of Duels’ fall, the House of Minos’ defeat. No—even less than a month. They had fallen into the trap of Reim’s forces; on the defense, they had stalled for time.
The King of Destruction had regained his most dangerous Skill. Flos Reimarch charged the enemy [General]’s position as Venith Crusland and Maresar ordered their forces to follow suit, heedless of tactics.
It was hard to say whose morale broke first; the army or General Val-Nerein. Both broke and fled within minutes, fleeing the battlefield in every direction or just surrendering rather than face the King of Destruction’s army.
This was all caught live on television, of course. The sight of Nerrhavia’s grand army breaking and running was a humiliation compounded by the fact that the King of Destruction had not, in fact, used his Skill.
How did everyone know this? Well, the King of Destruction gave an interview after the battle, with countless prisoners being marched to be ransomed or sold off.
“General Val-Nerein nearly had our forces dead to rights! But it seems his backbone should have been stitched of sterner stuff. Hah! Venith, that was quite a neat turn of phrase. If I can bluff a victory just by shouting, Nerrhavia should fall within the week.”
Never let it be said that Flos Reimarch was a gracious and humble victor.
Humiliated and furious, Queen Yisame ordered the [General]’s execution and reformed a second army of equal size. This time, she warily split it into multiple forces who assaulted Reim from multiple angles.
But the [Army of the King] had been used and the teleporting cat was out of the bag, so to speak. It could go back in, but would it?
No. The King of Destruction used the power in a protracted engagement between Medain and Orthenon’s forces. The King of Medain, the High King Perric, had forged a massive retaliatory force after his flight to his capital. However, the Skill manifested as his [Soldiers] and the Steward’s were fully engaged, with the King of Destruction far, far to the south.
The outnumbered [Soldiers] underwent a transformation on the battlefield. Medain’s army, first bewildered, then alarmed as they realized what was happening, saw some [Soldiers] grow in size. Others dropped their weapons and drew spectral or shining blades out of the air.
Broken armor mended and reformed itself in a minute. The [Steward] and his personal vanguard themselves were said to have howled like the Demons of Rhir as they broke the lines of Gold-rank adventurers. Like Nerrhavia’s host, Medain’s army broke within less than twenty minutes of fighting, but less than a quarter escaped without surrendering or being slaughtered.
A second incredible defeat in the north. At this point, armies from the Claiven Earth, Medain, Nerrhavia, and even further-flung nations such as Deimos and Lamult pushed in, seeking to gain ground before the Skill could be used again.
Of course, that was when the forgotten vassal of the King of Destruction, one of his Seven, Takhatres, Lord of the Skies and his tribe, appeared.
 
—-
 
Destruction from the skies. To an observer, and those watching from the scrying orb, it was an unnerving sight.
The skies turned dark, a rarity in Chandrar where clouds and rainfall were common only to the coast. From above came terrible shrieks. Nerrhavia’s [Soldiers] threw up their shields and raised their bows.
That was when the rocks started falling. Rocks, arrows, shot from archers far out of range of mundane arrows, and clay pots filled with oil or alchemical explosives. Nerrhavia’s bunched-up forces began to spread apart as the sudden attack rained down on them.
Above, the Garuda flew in a huge, circling swarm. They did not land. Nor did they even flap their wings much; they were hovering on hot air.
Thermals. [Mages] were casting weather spells and allowing the tribe of Takhatres to just…hover…high out of range and unload all their ammunition.
The Lekrei Tribe did not fight fair. Most Garuda didn’t; they had light bones and preferred fast attacks and retreats rather than sticking and fighting like the Stitchfolk who could make themselves tougher.
Even so. High-level [Archers] would happily blow the Garuda to bits with lightning arrows, or [Mages] do the same—or create wind, rain, bringing the Garuda down or forcing them to retreat. In a normal battle versus a Garuda tribe, that was what they’d do and they tried, to their credit.
[Mages] lifted wands and died. A [Strategist] surrounded by bodyguards dropped with a knife in her cheek; not enough to kill her, but certainly to unnerve and incapacitate. Something blurred past [Archers], cutting through one of their groups and beheading the [Archery Captain] before moving out.
The Lord of the Skies, the fastest warrior in all of Chandrar, or so it was said. While his tribe attacked from afar, his best warriors diving occasionally to wipe out separated groups, he ran in and out of the enemy army, beheading high-level combatants.
It was honestly like…bullying. Like a grown up running around children, cutting them to pieces. Takhatres moved in a different world than everyone else. Yes—he probably had a fragile body and might be wounded or even killed if an enchanted sword struck him.
But they would have to touch him first. And he was faster than horses, faster than arrows. His great Skill allowed his tribe to move as fast as he did—for five seconds.
They took no prisoners, just decimated the army and vanished. Now, Nerrhavia’s advance slowed.
Much like Ailendamus suffering the Griffin Prince’s ambushes, they had to be wary of a mobile force. And unlike the Dawn Concordat, Takhatres’ army was arguably the strongest and most complete of all that Flos Reimarch had fielded thus far.
Unfair. Unfair, unfair, unfair. You could say it and it was true. Flos Reimarch wasn’t starting from scratch. He was starting with his great vassals, the remnants of his Seven, who could not be matched easily!
Consider the following: in between fighting the Claiven Earth and holding back superior forces with a far smaller army, Mars the Vanguard forced the half-Elves to be wary.
When Belchan’s shattered armies arose and several border cities were taken, Mars the Vanguard retaliated by sieging one city, climbing the walls while ignoring the spell-defenses, and cutting through the garrison for two hours before retreating. Orthenon performed similar feats; one of the King’s Seven was an army.
As Aaron Vanwell commented to some of the other Earthers watching in Wistram, ‘it was like Flos was playing on New Game+’, a statement that confused the [Mages] to no end.
If he had a weakness, it was that he would bleed out of [Soldiers], not lose a decisive battle. The King of Destruction was being forced to stretch perilously thin.
Even so. Unfair. Not everyone had such gifts. Some people had lost…everything. And now nations teetered as the King of Destruction fought on.
That was what he did.
 
—-
 
Weeks ago.
Jecaina Leysars watched the first news reports dully. She was feverish, sick, bedridden.
“…King Raelt of Jecrass, dubbed the King of Duels, is confirmed to be missing after the monumental battle involving…”
She lay in her bed, pale-faced despite all of the attention lavished on her. [Servants] who would cook or fetch anything, potions—the River Wardens sent their personal [Healers], but their diagnosis was the same.
“Shock. It’s no wound we can heal. The [Princess]…the [Queen] is in shock. She must rest and recover.”
And why shouldn’t she be? Jecaina was feverish the first day, then the second, raving, sick to the point of nausea, plagued by nightmares, waking and in her sleep.
She had lost everything. Her father. Her guardian, the old, loyal Geril, who had sacrificed himself that she might escape.
Jecrass’ armies had been decimated. A third of their land was gone, taken by Reim in the conflict. And they were now at war with Medain and Reim. Their old ally of Belchan was no more.
Oh—and countless River Wardens were dead, and her father was a captive of Medain’s High King.
Jecaina knew all this and knew it was her fault. If she had not been captured by those Gold-ranks—if she had been stronger, wiser—
Her fault. She could not eat, or properly sleep, and the servants whispered and tried to cool the room, even as they piled sheets on her because she was shivering nonstop.
For two days, Jecaina wished she had died and her father were here. And that Geril was alive. She wept and listened to the news reports; Flos retreating, Nerrhavia announcing it would take Reim within the week—
On the third day, the River Wardens came to her.
 
—-
 
“Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass.”
A voice spoke. Not unkindly. Jecaina was sweating under the sheets. The room was darkened, but now someone raised the blinds. Light spilled in and she tried to hide under her pillow.
“Close the shutters! Leave me be!”
But then she realized. It was not servants who stood around her.
Eighteen River Wardens had entered her bedroom. Not all that remained, but the greatest of those that did. She knew some of them.
Warden Mulre, Warden Svinta, Warden Elaire—familiar people, few of whom she had ever really liked. Her father had had personal gripes with many, and often complained to her of their flaws and foibles in private.
But there were gaps in their number. So many dead. Warden Winta, Warden Telimt, Warden Dulfe—
Casualties of this war. Some dying heroically, to save Raelt. To save her.
“What—what do you want?”
Jecaina croaked through a dry throat and lips. She saw the River Wardens look at her, flushed, shaking, tears staining her face, eyes red. They looked at each other, and nodded.
Then they knelt.
“Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass. King Raelt is missing. Perhaps captured. Perhaps dead.”
She flinched at the word as Warden Mulre, a man with a long scar horizontally crossing to his nose across his cheekbone, spoke. He went on, looking up at her with the others.
“Medain and Reim’s armies march on us! But Jecrass still stands. It needs a leader. It needs you, my [Queen].”
He looked at her. And Jecaina felt a terrible fear take hold of her. She tried to speak, but choked. Yet there it was. Even as she stammered, protested, they knelt. They wanted to crown her; a ceremony was held within the hour and a shaking [Princess], who looked like she was dying of the ague, saw the crown placed on her head—a backup. She stood in front of a balcony and [Soldiers], [Servants], and the people of the capital, who did not really cheer, but stared up at her with a horror like hers.
She would have denied it. But even before the crown had touched her head, as she blanked out, head lolling in the chair as [Servants] tried to apply makeup, she had heard it.
 
[Duelist Princess Level 26!]
[Conditions Met: Duelist Princess → Queen (Temporary) Class!]
[Skill – Kingdom: Desperate Rallying obtained!]
 
—-
 
A [Queen]. She was a Queen, now. And they called her ‘Queen Jecaina’, even though her father was alive.
Not dead! Not dead—Jecaina believed that with all her heart.
But a kingdom needed a ruler. And if the [King] was missing, she was [Queen]. There could be temporary regents if she was not of age—but she was. If Raelt was ruling from prison—but no one had heard from him.
