Actually, Jecaina didn’t play chess. But she had once ‘beaten’ her father by flipping the board. And she was pretty sure that might work on Lyfelt.
 
—-
 
Being a [Queen] was something that involved so many things no one told you about. Because a monarch could rely on vassals or helpers, yes.
But when things went south, or you needed to replace, hire, or train them? You had to at least know what was missing.
Jecaina was already glad on the second day that she hadn’t stabbed Lyfelt. She announced him as her advisor, much to the River Warden’s skepticism and dismay. They had not forgotten either.
However, Lyfelt was similarly dismayed that she had not made him [Steward], or [Administrator], or a dozen other classes she had fielded.
“But Lyfelt—I think of you as Belchan’s [Prime Minister]. And I fully intend to restore you to your lands if possible.”
He had grinned weakly at that.
“I believe my…tenure is over, either way, Jecaina. But let’s put that aside for now, I suppose. You can always announce it tomorrow…about your Skill. It’s not, er, the best. But it fits a temporary class. And it is useful here.”
That was one of the things he helped her with. He knew Skills and had quickly identified the nature of hers. It was obvious from the title, really, but—
“Let’s see. ‘[Desperate Rallying] allows for an embattled group to quickly rush to the aid of forces under siege or attack in fractions of the time taken. The highest-level version of the Skill identified was a Level 60 [General of Defense], General Noln of the Argoth Alliance, who could reach a city-state in hours where the march would normally take over a day at top speed.”
He had a book—one of Belchan’s treasures, which, like the Book of Levels, detailed Skills and records. Jecaina nodded.
“I should tell General Lael. That means we can shift Jecrass’ forces from spot to spot—not [Archers] since they’ll still be outside the walls. But we can keep a mounted force with her ready, perhaps.”
“War is not my purview. But that is quite nice. Perhaps we should announce it? To boost morale?”
Jecaina looked at Lyfelt.
“No. That…does not sound strategically advantageous, Lyfelt.”
One of the other things she’d learned was that he was right about leading before people could think. Because the River Wardens and Lyfelt all thought they were right. Sometimes they were; they had experience Jecaina did not. But they always thought they were right. Lyfelt had just shrugged and begun discussing other Skills he hoped Jecaina might get if she leveled quickly.
She had listened, learned, and smiled at him. Then begun making plans of her own. She did not know what to do—but she did know at least what her father might do.
 
—-
 
Warden Mulre, Warden Svinta, and Warden Elaire had all been present at her coronation. They were also the three strongest River Wardens with all the deaths of the others. Jecaina summoned them for a private meeting after Lyfelt had gone to sleep.
She was just…following what he said to do, and the River Wardens, and Lael. Because she didn’t know how to fight a war or run a kingdom!
But she had always known her father relied on the River Warden’s support. It seemed to Jecaina that it was wise to copy that.
Raelt had faced challenges to the throne where River Wardens—led by Dulfe back in those days when he was a dreaded enemy—had tried to force laws helping them or curtailing the crown’s power. They could always rise up, after all, or boycott, or…
He had dealt with it, as a young Jecaina had observed, by playing them off against each other. There were always factions, and the River Wardens had longstanding grudges.
Jecaina had no time to do that. So she took the three greatest River Wardens and bluntly spoke to them.
“Former Prime Minister Lyfelt is advising me, Wardens. He is a knowledgeable man and a skilled diplomat, even if he is no longer a ruler. I accepted his service because I am in dire need and because of the longstanding friendship he had with my family. However, I cannot forget that his neglect led to the slaughter of innocents and…this war.”
She stumbled over the last bit; she’d been writing down speeches as he suggested and practicing them. The River Wardens looked relieved.
“We had serious reservations, Pr—your Majesty, and I am gratified to hear that. Very gratified.”
Mulre murmured. Svinta nodded stiffly. She was tall, a skilled [Rider], and older than the other two; Mulre, despite the scar, was more prone to indulgence, owning fruit orchards and the largest river which made him rich. Elaire raised magical animals, like Pegasi, Bicorns, and even Kelpies.
“Do you intend to hold him to account? The King of Destruction may have been forced to retreat, but his forces still hold part of Jecrass. Not strongly, but if he returns, it is that fool who will have damned Jecrass time and again. Your Majesty.”
Svinta frowned at her. Jecaina folded her arms defensively, then remembered not to show emotion like that—another Lyfelt lesson—and uncrossed them.
“I intend to use him, Warden Svinta, because he is helpful. But that is why I am also appointing the three of you to be my council among the River Wardens. A…check on Lyfelt in case he becomes too powerful. I do this because I hold the three of you—as my father did—in highest esteem.”
They murmured at that. Maybe they were using truth spells and seeing the half-lie about that last part, but Jecaina saw them preen a bit and doubted it.
“We will attempt to be the voice of the River Wardens and the people of Jecrass, your Majesty.”
Elaire bowed smoothly. Jecaina had smiled.
She thought of this in terms of dueling. Ruling, that was. She wished Raelt were here to explain more, or that she could have asked him—but without him, she was using Lyfelt’s lessons against him.
But this was simple. Lyfelt was a blade, a kind of…what, parrying dagger? Not much reach since she could order him arrested, but he had a lot of Skills that allowed him to build influence. You wanted to check that with the River Wardens, who could be a double-edged sword.
Attack and defense. But how was she to attack or defend?
 
—-
 
General Lael bowed so deeply in private that her head touched the rug.
“I failed his Highness, your Majesty. I hope you will accept my word that I did all that I could—and that I will strive for Jecrass in the future, if you allow me.”
The [Queen] waited a moment. She wanted to say…but no. Lael was a good [General]. But under-leveled compared to every foe she’d been fighting. So, she lifted her hand slowly.
Why didn’t you save my father?
“Rise, General Lael. I do not believe my father’s faith in you was misplaced. Nor do I think you will let me down.”
The formal speech still felt odd, but she was already falling into it. Lyfelt had suggested using the royal ‘we’; Jecaina felt it was pretentious.
She was trying to figure out what [Queen] she was. A reluctant one, a temporary one, she hoped.
It was strange. Lael was the woman who’d often had to clean up Jecaina’s antics, or at least, was one of the busy ‘adults’ when the [Princess] had been a [Princess]. Now, relief shone in her eyes.
Did she think I would order her executed? She had known Jecaina for—
Uncertainty ruled Jecrass. And Jecaina realized it that day.
“With your permission, [Princess], I hope you and I can speak of the realm’s defenses.”
“Let’s…can it be done while riding? Or at least, walking?”
Jecaina was sick of the war room and her throne, even with the cushion. She had never gone a day without a ride before now, or a run. She hadn’t even had time to pick up a rapier; there was no one to practice with and besides, little good she’d done.
“Of course, your Majesty. Allow me a moment to prepare an escort.”
Lael barely blinked. Thus—Jecaina learned two things. Firstly, that she would never ride around alone again. Second?
“Your Majesty, are you going for a ride? Considering the state of the nation, is that the safest—”
Lyfelt halted as the [General] looked at him.
“Her Majesty has decreed it. Former Prime Minister. I did not know you were present in the capital.”
“I am serving as advisor to the throne. Your Majesty—”
Jecaina saw Lael turn. The [General] bowed as a group of her best [Soldiers] knelt. They did that, the first time they met her. She inclined her head.
“I am going for a ride, Lyfelt.”
“I shall go w—”
Lael looked at him and Lyfelt hesitated. Jecaina felt refreshed.
General Lael had reminded her that she didn’t have to argue. The River Wardens obeyed, but they and Lyfelt had suggestions. In the presence of the [General], Lyfelt hesitated.
“I will send for you if needed upon my return, Lyfelt.”
Jecaina enjoyed seeing his expression. And soon, she was riding out of the palace.
Another experience she had not been able to achieve the last two days of her new reign.
“Where to, your Majesty?”
“Just ride, Lael. And then—around the city? Down the streets? Not far.”
Jecaina sped up to a gallop. Instantly, the [Riders] followed her. She hated that. But she let them; they were even worried she’d break her neck.
Was this what father had to live with, day in, day out? Jecaina wished she had been more understanding when he didn’t want to duel, or was so gloomy. No wonder he’d started throwing oranges at River Wardens from the balcony. She was half-tempted to do that too.
After her first gallop and sensation of being free, Jecaina slowed. She turned to Lael.
“General, you’re one of the few people I can trust. With my father…missing…and Geril…”
She swallowed hard.
“My father always said you were trustworthy. And I have found few people to trust so far. Please, speak candidly.”
She was uncertain, but the [General] looked relieved at the blunt phrasing.
“Your Majesty, I worried at what I might find upon my return to the capital. I am pleased that all seems well and that the crown’s authority is not questioned. I dared not move my forces or even return until I learned of your new Skill, but I brought three thousand [Riders] with me in case order needed to be maintained.”
Jecaina started. She looked at Lael—then the remaining [Trick Riders], and recalled that Lael had returned with heavy [Bicorn Chargers], [Armored Cavalry]; a vanguard for the [General].
Had she been intending to free Jecaina if it turned out the River Wardens had staged a coup? That just made Jecaina more hopeful she could trust Lael.
By the same token, a whisper in her head that sounded like Lyfelt made her wonder if the [General] might have held onto the reins of power if she had been forced to seize them…
No. No, trust that her father had at least known a loyal woman. Jecaina nodded to Lael.
“Thank you, [General]. I’ve read all your [Messages] and sent all the forces that could be spared. The River Wardens have contributed their forces to the cause, all they can. Candidly…what is the situation?”
They rode through the gates of the city and a cheer startled Jecaina before Lael replied. She looked up—and saw the City Watch on the gates cheering her.
“Your Majesty!”
“Jecrass still stands!”
It was a handful of voices, soon silenced. Lael turned to Jecaina.
“Apologies, your Majesty.”
“No, I…”
Jecaina rode through the capital of the Realm of Jecrass. And once again felt odd.
People turned out to see her. They came out of homes, the overcrowded city flooded with refugees or [Soldiers], lining the streets. Some cheered; many just stared, or knelt.
It was the legacy of the King of Duels. Jecaina might have feared they would insult her, throw things, blame her for the war. But the people still remembered how he had fought the King of Destruction twice. So his daughter they bowed to, even though…
We cannot continue. Jecaina saw how packed the city was, and recalled the orders to ration stockpiles of food. Already, this war had drained Jecrass, and that was with auxiliary forces, gold…Lael let her ride through the city, looking at her people. Jecaina had not the courage to dismount and talk with them that day.
Especially not with the great threat of war past the horizon and fast-advancing.
“Candidly, your Majesty. We are in trouble. Jecrass’ army is depleted and while we had been buying ample supplies, munitions, potions—I understand aid from foreign nations is cut off. May I ask the state of the treasury?”
Jecaina didn’t know. That worried her. Lael went on.
“Moreover—the King of Destruction’s forces have retreated from Medain. But I fear they have now regrouped. And Medain is at war.”
“What is to be done, General? What are our odds?”
Jecaina knew the answer before the [General] gave it. Lael bit her lip.
“Candidly, your Majesty, Jecrass alone would have struggled to repel Medain at full-strength. Now, we face a war on two fronts and nigh a third of our lands are embattled. Reim’s forces fell back, but it is essentially a warfront on the western edges. The only thing stopping him from taking the capital is the fact that every nation has declared war on him. Medain may well be wary of him…but not us.”
The [Queen] nodded. That was how it was.
 
—-
 
Lael’s suggestions were simple and to the point. Upon her return, Jecaina ordered more fortifications built at every fortress or city, creating a new line of defenses. Put the [Archers] behind walls, and keep a large, mobile force, the remainder of Jecrass’ army, to rush to a battle.
For now, that was all they could do. What she was mostly concerned with were the gaps in her knowledge.
“The treasury will last Jecrass quite a while, your Majesty. I was going to speak to you about delaying the [Soldiers]’ pay…”
She whirled on Warden Svinta and the others. Lyfelt was jostling for a chance to speak.
“And no one thought to bring up the treasury with me?”
“Your Majesty is in command of us.”
The River Wardens bowed. Lyfelt nodded.
“And any expenditures haven’t been necessary so far, J—my Queen. If you wished to spend money…”
Jecaina was annoyed because the assumption was she would discuss it with them before wasting money. But the truth was that Raelt had not spent the massive sums Yisame and the other nations had gifted him; he’d stockpiled as much as he’d spent.
Gold, more than Jecrass had, ever really had, sat in the treasury or was vouched for with the Merchant’s Guild. Not enough to hire an entire army; more than enough to continue a losing war with.
“Why would we hold the [Soldier]’s pay?”
“It is traditional, your Majesty, to ensure [Soldiers] do not desert if they are in arrears several months.”
Warden Svinta said smoothly. Lyfelt nodded behind her. Jecaina looked at General Lael. The woman grimaced.
