Four days passed. Then, almost like they had timed it, Reim, a force with Zamea, Orthenon, and the others again, took the border fortress adjoining the first one. They had to manually fortify, but left a half-Giant and skilled [Archers]. Medain, to ‘counter their aggression’, informed Jecaina they were taking the city along the pass.
She had the choice of fighting—which Lyfelt urged her not to do so for Raelt’s sake and Perric’s ego—or evacuating it.
She did the latter. Jecaina sat in her rooms at night and stared at the pieces of Jecrass’ map that had just vanished. She realized something else at this point.
Her Wardens, Lyfelt…even General Lael. They weren’t enough.
 
—-
 
Here was the question. Was it Lyfelt? Was it a River Warden? Lael?
Did she have traitors who were manipulating her?
Jecaina actually wished it were so. Because she feared the truth was they were outmatched.
Lyfelt might have failed, but he had done his best. She felt like that was so, and she had read all of his sickening letters in her name to Perric, and the High King’s superior responses—but even trying to be ‘kind’, assuring her that her father was well, that he had personally checked in on him…
And indeed, Medain was not threatening the other passes, just the ones closest to Reim’s held Jecrass territory. So her fear was not treachery—not entirely. It was just the same issue that had plagued Raelt.
They were outmatched. Plain and simple. Put them up against each other. General Lael vs Orthenon. Warden Mulre—dead gods, Mulre, Svinta, and Elaire and two dozen others against one Zamea. Lyfelt vs Perric.
Loss, loss, loss…
“We have to pit Medain and Reim against each other.”
Lyfelt came to the same conclusion as Mulre and the others. He framed it as a ‘good thing in disguise’. He hated admitting failure or that something was bad. The River Wardens were more blunt.
“This is a disaster, your Majesty. But we can salvage it. Medain and Reim are staring at each other. Time to let them fight and hold this line.”
Jecaina nodded. They pulled back more, so Medain and Reim swept into the new ground and were now locking borders. They waited.
 
—-
 
Neither nation fought. Oh, Medain was clashing along the west and trying to take Belchan. But along the Jecrass border? Neither Orthenon, Zamea, or Medain’s forces there engaged.
Because, obviously, they weren’t idiots. They knew Jecrass would take any weakened position. Why bother when you could eat Jecrass? In short, to make an analogy of it, why would two Nightmares eat each other when there was a sheep nearby? Nightmares were the carnivorous, nocturnal hunting horses, incidentally.
Warden Mulre suggested raiding Medain or Reim poised as the other’s forces. General Lael advised Jecaina not to try it.
“They’re too intelligent to fall for an open ploy, your Majesty. Our forces would have to ride in from their side and if they were caught or a single one identified…”
So they didn’t do that.
“What am I missing, Aca?”
Jecaina turned to the [Housemistress] during a bath. The woman hesitated.
“Pr—my Queen?”
Jecaina looked at her. Bathing was a luxury that Jecrassians could afford thanks to the river. She looked at the [Housemistress]
“About the war? About my advisors, as I was saying? You were listening, weren’t you?”
“Yes, my Queen. Only…”
In her desperation, Jecaina had turned to the servants, to her friends. She spent most of her waking hours talking to her advisors. Yes, to lesser commanders, the Watch Captain, head of the Merchant’s Guild, Mage’s Guild, [Treasury Keeper] and so on, but—
She didn’t have more personal advisors than those. She had tried.
But her friends? The riding companions, dueling partners? Some had enlisted in the army and were in far flung locations where she would have to recall them.
Some had died in the war. And she hadn’t known.
She might have sent for them anyways, but Merib, a friend of hers, had just repeated the same basic advice.
“I don’t know, Jecaina—I mean, Queen Jecaina. What if you…shot arrows at Medain with Reim’s fletching?”
They were her friends. But they weren’t great leaders in the areas of war or diplomacy. They were as young as she.
So she turned to servants. She missed Geril and cried for him more than her father. Her father was alive. But Geril…
She would have listened to him above all the others. More than Lyfelt, the River Wardens, even Lael. He had known her grandfather! He had known…everything. And she had been so ungrateful.
“Aca?”
She prompted the [Housemistress]. But the woman just shook her head, nervously.
“It’s not my place to say, your Majesty. I’m sure the River Wardens know what to do. Sh-shall I have one of the girls scrub your back?”
Jecaina sighed.
Aca was not Geril. She was a lovely woman, good for gossip, young at heart as Jecaina was. But the idea of giving advice in war to Jecaina terrified her.
“I need…high-level advisors. There have to be some left besides those still fighting.”
She knew General Lael was over Level 30. She had a Level 27 [Lieutenant], a [Master Archer] of Level 32, Verrod the [Horsemaster], Level 45—who was helping with Svinta and Elaire’s projects.
Jecrass, like every nation, had high-level individuals. A few. But they were always a handful over Level 30—over Level 40?
Jecaina had demanded the [Trick Riders] and Bicorns and Pegasi when both nations had begun swallowing parts of Jecrass. She had been assured there were thousands of candidates in training—Mulre even had lists. And that stables, areas of land, had been donated by Svinta and other River Wardens for the new breeding projects, and they were even asking Oteslia for more breeding stock.
Nothing at the moment. Desperately, Jecaina listened to her advisors.
Medain took more ground. Reim’s Steward was moving back this way, perhaps for another attack-and-swallow.
Sixteen days after the King of Destruction’s defeat, an age or so it seemed, the Queen of Jecrass paid a visit to someone.
 
—-
 
“Your Majesty?”
Nomna, Lyfelt’s wife, looked wide-eyed at Jecaina as the guards let her into the rather nice guest-estate. She and her children bowed deeply, Jecaina lifted a hand, not even bothered at this point.
“Don’t bow, Nomna. It’s…good to see you. Are you well? The guard told you I was coming.”
“Of course, your Majesty. Please, come in. We don’t have much to offer, but I did what I could…it’s all been provided, and we have to thank you for our very lives.”
The two children of Lyfelt and his wife, Nomna, welcomed Jecaina into their small household. They had been living here since Raelt rescued them at the capital.
It was not a grand estate, but it was still a rather large one for a single family. Jecaina thought that, looking at the padded couches, rather lovely ceiling—two floors plus a cellar! Then Nomna shook her head.
“Oh no, your Majesty. Your father—King Leysars gave us this estate with the other…leadership of Belchan. They and their families share this space. It can get a tiny bit crowded—I believe they are helping at the farms.”
“Farms?”
It transpired that Raelt had practically arranged for all the people threatened by Flos’ execution order to live here. Families as well as those responsible. Most were in the fields, apparently.
“There is a shortage of hands, you see, your Majesty, so we volunteered—it was that or sit about and argue.”
Jecaina appreciated that. She sat, and was offered some dried dates and a bit of goat’s cheese by a timid girl…eleven years old? Jecaina blinked at the reserved girl.
“Is that you, Presca? You look—older.”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
The girl curtsied politely. Her younger brother was more nervous and kept staring at her. Jecaina looked at a Lyfelt’s family and realized she had aged too.
“What brings you here, your Majesty? We were in the fields, but you wished to see us? Is it…are Reim’s armies that close? Or has Lyfelt done…something?”
Nomna was clearly afraid. Jecaina tried to smile to reassure her.
“No, neither. Lyfelt has been…helpful.”
Yes, that was how she’d say it in front of his family. Nomna nodded cautiously.
“That is…good, your Majesty. We were afraid when the King of Destruction came—”
The children looked at her. Jecaina’s stomach twisted.
Give me Lyfelt and those responsible. Did he mean the families? She shook her head.
“No. I would never put you in the way of—Lyfelt has been advising me. Conducting diplomacy. I may make him a [Royal Advisor] or…something.”
She hadn’t done so yet. Nomna nodded cautiously.
“That would be something he would enjoy, I am sure.”
The way she phrased it made Jecaina hesitate.
“Surely he’s told you about his work. He hasn’t visited, but I thought he would at least write. Or is it not safe to travel? I can arrange an escort if—”
Presca made a sound. Nomna looked at Jecaina and her eyes widened.
“Lyfelt didn’t tell you? Your Majesty. We are divorced now. He left this estate as soon as we fled Belchan. I have not spoken to him in months.”
The [Queen]’s eyes widened.
 
—-
 
“I could not continue…even the [Guards] looked at us like monsters. I didn’t know. Believe me, I would have told him otherwise. Some of the people here—we don’t speak to them.”
Nomna told Jecaina all of it. She had divorced her husband in the days after the war with Jecrass began, because of what she had seen.
Divorce was not permissible in some Chandrarian nations—at least not for a woman to divorce her husband. It was in Belchan, ironically one of the laws that Lyfelt, considered rather liberal, had refused to ever alter.
In Jecrass too. But it still astonished Jecaina.
“Was that the only reason, Nomna? I’m sorry, but Lyfelt said nothing of this. And…I did not come because I suspected him of anything. But should I?”
The children had been sent away. Nomna hesitated.
“Lyfelt? I wish I could say, Jecaina. He’s not the man I thought I knew. Or perhaps he is…I can’t say. It’s just that after I saw those Gnolls—the children thought he was a monster.”
She shook her head.
“Tell me. Even if it’s a hunch, I’ll weight it with what I know. Please, Nomna.”
Jecaina urged her. The woman pursed her lips.
“If he wants to be a [Royal Advisor]—do I think he would sell out Jecrass? No. But Lyfelt is ambitious. He would never settle to be a [Senator] when he could be a [Prime Minister]. He probably thinks you’re his last avenue to safety and power after what happened. I don’t think he’d ever betray you. He was Raelt’s friend. He can be ruthless, but he doesn’t betray. Or so I thought. After I saw those Gnolls…I don’t know.”
That squared with Jecaina’s thoughts. She sat there. Another strike at Lyfelt? Perhaps, perhaps not.
“I’m in a bind, Nomna. Lyfelt is the best advisor I have—for politics. My River Wardens try, and General Lael, but…I was hoping you had some insight.”
“Me, your Majesty? I’m a [Socialite]. I can throw a party, be entertaining—not more than that! If dates were arrows, I’d be more use.”
The woman sighed. Jecaina had to chuckle. The dried dates and cheese from the rations had tasted excellent thanks to Nomna’s Skills.
“I just lack for high-level individuals, Nomna. Flos Reimarch has more levels than any two—maybe any three of my advisors. I need someone who can give me insights. Advice. I need…”
Jecaina realized she was raising her voice and blushed. She sat there, tiredly.
“My dear, you look run down. Have something more to eat.”
Nomna urged her. Jecaina nodded. The woman rose.
“Let me see if I can help at all. I can’t do much, but…”
The Queen of Jecrass blinked up at her. But soon she had her feet up and was dozing as Nomna pulled something out and consulted it.
“Lyfelt didn’t even have a bag of holding—it was confiscated. So these were left behind. I may not be an [Administrator], but part of my class was entertaining people like Grand Mage Esiela and our high-level individuals. Each one is a nation’s strength and we had records…aha!”
Jecaina stirred. Nomna was poring over the list of high-leveled people. She offered it to Jecaina as the [Queen] rose.
“Dead, dead, dead…in service, fled, dead, fighting under Lael…”
Many she knew. They were [Stable Mistresses], [Horse Breeders]—Jecrass used them, but having met many, Jecaina had little hope that one could add themselves to her cabinet. At least she knew…
“Wait. Go back to that entry.”
Jecaina stirred. She stared at a single name on the list. And the estimated level of—Nomna saw the [Queen]’s eyes come to life.
“Your Majesty? You know this person?”
“I know the area. And their…thank you, Nomna! I have to go. Say goodbye for me. I have to…”
 
—-
 
An oddity in the war between Jecrass and Medain and Reim. Jecaina had seen it in the war reports and General Lael speaking, but now it manifested itself as she stared at the map.
A fortified, moving border had been established between garrisons and the advance of armies. The war had slowed down so both sides had tried to entrench—for all the good it did when Reim’s full hammer came at them.
However, there was a southwestern section that had never really been fought over. When Flos’ armies had come, they had essentially just passed it by rather than building forts. In the same way, Lael’s armies did not seek to fortify it.
One of the open plains areas was held in strength. But not quite by Jecrass’ forces. Jecaina herself rode south with a heavy escort to see if her memory was correct. It was.
The Nomads of the Sky, the half-Giant group led by the fearsome Zamea, were not the only nomadic people in Chandrar. Far from it.
This was known as the People of Zair, who, like Gnolls of Izril, had essentially moved about this part of Jecrass for the last century or two. They travelled from spot to spot, and, Jecaina understood, numbered in the hundreds of thousands.
She had visited their camps before; they were swift and loved to race, and raised their own breed of horse. Zair-bloodlines, who had a tendency to outrun most other breeds over the long term.
Ironic, or maybe weird given that they were Centaurs? But then again, who better than a Centaur to care for four-legged animals like them? The People of Zair fit Jecrass, arguably more than even the Humans. Centaurs, to race about the plains.
They had always been a people unto themselves. Not reclusive, but separate. Jecaina mostly remembered River Wardens didn’t like them, leveling all the common complaints at nomadic outsiders. Thievery, banditry, and so on.
What she wanted to know was why Flos had never tried to take this area of land. Or, apparently, recruit the People of Zair. And why her father hadn’t done so either.
