Khelt’s army began to advance at a fast pace. As fast as a skeletal body could sprint. Slower than a horse. But they did not slow the first hour, or the next.
While he rode, the King of Khelt received a speaking stone call. He’d brought it along, on the assumption it was needed.
“Fetohep of Khelt. I cannot speak long. But—what are you doing?”
The Quarass’ voice was breathy. She had to have noticed the…army…sprinting across her lands.
“I am engaged in the business of Khelt, Quarass. I would have asked permission to cross your lands, but this involves the safety of Khelt. I swear by my people no harm shall come to Germina save that it is offered. Will you allow me passage?”
“The business of…yes. But how is this Khelt’s security?”
“You will see.”
Fetohep rather enjoyed hanging up on her. He continued his advance.
 
—-
 
“…No idea what has set Khelt off, is there, Noass?”
“None, Sir Relz. And this—I didn’t know an army of undead could run like that. How is it possible?”
The King of Khelt was why. Normally, Khelt’s strength lay only in its borders. But Fetohep had taken to the front in the first time in…centuries.
And every nation in this region of Chandrar had stopped fighting. Nerrhavia, Medain, the Claiven Earth—all were watching to see what was happening.
Reim’s armies were pivoting, trying to regroup. But—the [Army of the King] had been used.
If ever there was a time to strike, it was now.
For two days his army marched. Only the living suffered. Yet they moved with fervor, after their king. He spoke to them, to the skies. To his long-dead companions.
“They make much of Nerrhavia’s hordes! Mine are without limit! Medain is said to have all the treasures of a lifetime. Khelt’s vaults stretch beyond imagination. Reim’s forces once took all of Chandrar and the world by storm, but Khelt’s soldiers have gone further than the King of Destruction ever dared dream.”
They had forgotten that fact. Fetohep’s head turned. He spoke.
“The world shall remember Khelt anew. And to my subjects who idle from passion to passion—they shall never want. Never yearn for needs. But let them dream. Let a passion be born into their hearts. Let the topic of every hour be war, and their dreams of glory. And let those who will it take up arms.”
He was enacting decrees as he rode. For the first time, Khelt was calling its citizens who so desired to lead, to fight—if they wished it.
Some would die. But for any who enlisted and fought for a year’s time, the right to bear children would be given.
After two days, the army of Reim met Fetohep’s at the border of Hellios and Belchan. Fetohep had ignored former Queen Calliope asking his intentions, refused all hails for two days.
Now, he came to a stop. And he saw the Nomads of the Sky. The Steward of the King of Destruction—
Not the King himself. But he was ready to ride on Fetohep’s flank. The Steward, Zamea, Parasol Stroll—they were all there. An army brought low only once in recent memory. Half-Giants, the legacy of old—
The army of Khelt advanced and Reim shuddered for the first time in memory. For look up—and remember.
“My kin? My foremothers and forefathers?”
Zamea whispered. She stared…up…at a giant of bone. Fetohep heard her voice from afar. He would have laughed.
All species had come to Khelt, large and small. They had been welcomed, the tallest of the world. And the rulers had only asked for their service in death.
“Fetohep of Khelt! What are your intentions?”
The [Ruinbringer Steward], Orthenon, bellowed. Fetohep did not reply. Orthenon turned.
“Go.”
A single rider shot across the ground, bearing a white flag. Fetohep watched the person advance.
Bone giants, bearing enchanted javelins, aimed, tracking—but he overruled the authority of the living.
“Let her come. Halt the army.”
He dismounted from the great war monster and claimed an undead horse instead. He rode through the silent ranks as the young woman bearing the white flag, Teresa Atwood, approached.
Flos had sent her north, believing only one person could speak to Fetohep if…she was panting, winded from near non-stop travel.
“Fetohep. What—what are you doing?”
The King of Khelt’s eyes were shining brighter than she had ever seen him. He was…imposing. He stared down at her, garbed in armor, holding the halberd.
He had been a great warrior in life. Teresa stared at his army and quailed.
“My business is that of Khelt’s. Tell your Steward and your ruler, Teresa Atwood, that if they stand against me, I shall destroy them.”
She flinched. Fetohep did not lie.
“Is it…war?”
Her voice quavered in the air. Fetohep tilted his head.
“That depends on what his Majesty Reimarch wills. If he is amenable—I shall allow him to flee without bringing him to battle.”
“What does that mean?”
He told her. Teresa’s jaw dropped. She looked over her shoulder.
“You can’t just—”
“It is done. I will not tarry, Teresa Atwood. Will the [Steward] retreat?”
“He—I think he will.”
He had to. Orthenon was staring up at the giant of Chandrar, and Reim had fought 6-to-1 odds. But…a hundred to one?
“This isn’t war with Reim.”
Teresa had to clarify. She was already turning her horse, which was terrified of Fetohep’s dead one.
“Not necessarily. But tell me. If I did tell you I intended to take Reimarch’s head—what would that man have said?”
Fetohep was curious only about that. Teresa hesitated.
“If you were going to destroy Reim…he told me to tell you that, ‘he did not think you were that petty a man.’ Then he would have asked you where you wanted to end things.”
“I see.”
Khelt’s army began to march slowly behind Teresa as she rode like an arrow, giving her time to relay his words. Orthenon stared at Fetohep.
“He cannot be serious.”
Zamea rumbled.
“Oh, but he is. Fall back.”
The Steward cursed. Reim’s forces looked at him. He raised his spear.
“Fall back!”
It was not Reim that Khelt had come to destroy. Not necessarily. But as Fetohep’s army crossed through Belchan…it became obvious where he was going.
Jecrass.
 
—-
 
High King Perric of Medain had come personally with the bulk of his armies. He did not know why Khelt was marching. But he espied an opportunity.
After all, Medain had no quarrel with Khelt. And the undead were tamed, their teeth pulled so long as no one interfered with…with…
He realized Fetohep was making for him. His armies formed up.
Queen Jecaina of Jecrass brought her smaller forces to the side. Medain did not attack, even though they were close.
Fetohep of Khelt advanced with an army so vast you could not see the end of them. It was then that High King Perric, his forces having taken all of Reim’s fortifications, poised to take Jecrass once and for all, sent a [Messenger].
“King of Khelt! What are your intentions towards Medain?”
The High King stood with his Golden Ranks, sweating. Was Fetohep trying to take Jecrass for himself? He received a reply—not from the person on horseback, but from the King of Khelt himself.
Fetohep spoke, and his voice boomed across the ground and his army. Audible to all.
“King Perric of Medain. Your armies stand upon my lands. Remove yourself before I turn Medain to ash and dust. You will release Raelt of Jecrass or I will cast your head into the sea.”
Queen Jecaina had ridden all the way out here just to hear that. To see the distant ‘King of Adventurer’s’ face and reaction.
All the golden pennies dropped. Perric looked at Jecaina, in the distance. At Fetohep, who had come here on the ‘business of Khelt’. Defending his…
“You whore! You sold yourself to that undead thing?”
He howled at Jecaina, and he was lucky his voice was not audible to Fetohep. Perric, High King, raged.
And he was once again wrong. He was right in a small way. For a small man with no imagination.
For look—
Here was the [Queen] of Jecrass. Jecaina rode at the head of her army as they looked at her. But she was…
[Queen of Covenant]. And she was still a [Queen]. No longer temporary.
Perric did not understand. But Jecaina did. It was so simple. She stared across the new border between Jecrass and Khelt.
She had sworn not to kneel to anyone, even in vassalage. And she had found a way to refrain from doing just that.
The funny thing was that she didn’t even need to marry Fetohep. As funny as that might have been—no. The King of Khelt was a practical undead.
“You sold him Jecrass?”
Warden Svinta looked like she wanted to faint as the heralds finally shouted the news for all to hear. Jecaina turned her head. Was that the People of Zair in the distance?
“A fourth of it. Maybe a bit more.”
“To the undead?”
“To the only kingdom who would guarantee Jecrass’ autonomy, Svinta. And who could bring Medain to heel now.”
The High King was bellowing insults at her. Right up until one of the bone giants hurled a javelin. It soared high, high—everyone’s heads turned up to watch.
It landed among Medain’s army and exploded. Jecaina blinked.
“Advance. Let us see if Gold-rank means anything in this day.”
Fetohep’s legions began to charge. Medain’s combined armies wavered—and began to retreat.
Jecaina was grinning madly as Medain’s forces raced for the pass, abandoning…everything. She would speak to Fetohep soon, but he had sworn to return her father to her.
Return her father, protect Jecrass from Reim and Medain. That was the cost of a fourth of Jecrass. And…
“You have sold our lands, the lands we were born on, Queen of Jecrass!”
Herdmistress Geraeri realized it first. The People of Zair had wisely moved out of the way of Khelt’s armies, but they couldn’t miss where Fetohep was claiming ground. Jecaina nodded at her.
“Firstly, you are nomads, Herdmistress. Your people move from place to place. You told me that yourself.”
“We have lived there for decades!”
“And you may still. If Fetohep of Khelt allows you. I would not anger him, by the way. For all the People of Zair’s might. And he might allow you to stay.”
It was part of the proclamation being put out. The people of Jecrass who lived in the lands under Fetohep would be allowed to stay if they wished it. But they would be people of Khelt. Fetohep would rule them—and he would rule this place. The rivers he now controlled meant Khelt would never go thirsty again. And if he established his undead dominion…who would take it from him?
On the day nearly forty days after taking her crown, the world was reminded of the nation of death, Khelt. They stared at the first expansion to the kingdom since most could remember.
Undead. On this day, Khelt declared war on Medain and began to invade, to rescue the King of Jecrass, while claiming—no, fortifying the land they had been sold by Jecrass.
As for the [Queen]? She was [Queen of Covenant], Jecaina Leysars. Queen of Jecrass.
They had known her as Princess Jecaina, the [Duelist Princess].
They had called her the Daughter of Duels.
Now, they called her the Arbiter Queen of Jecrass.
Death’s Friend.
