“Then I shall refer to you as Jecaina, Queen Leysars.”
An odd mix of formal and anticipatory. For instance, in that one exchange he’d read into her uncertainty of how to address him, provided the answer, but then proceeded to negotiate the forms of address.
Her father would have hated doing that. Fetohep seemed to act as if there was no other way to be. Jecaina swallowed, aware he might hear that slight sound.
“As I said—I connected us via…speaking stone to thank you for your letter. It was most refreshing to receive.”
“The formalities of state cannot be ignored. I did wait the customary two weeks before sending it. I trust the ongoing war did not delay its reception unduly.”
Jecaina blinked and realized—the letter had been included with the [Messages], but it had to have been hand-delivered. By a Courier?
“Not at all, Fetohep. Two weeks…? Is that a customary wait?”
She realized she had inadvertently revealed her ignorance. Normally, she would be afraid to do that and she bit her lip hard. But Fetohep replied without missing a beat.
“Perhaps the custom has fallen out of date? It is customary to my understanding to wait two weeks before congratulating a new monarch on their ascension to the throne.”
“Wh—”
Ah. Jecaina fell silent. Just in case they were replaced just as fast.
And it hadn’t been a sure thing for her. Fetohep might still have wasted a large amount of time and gold sending that letter. She fell silent, reminded of the present.
It reminded Jecaina of one of those state dinners where she had to sit and talk with some ambassador. Raelt would be wooden unless he actually liked the person, and the River Wardens would fill the air, or the [Courtiers] and so on. Jecaina, like her father, had trouble if there was a lull in the conversation.
Fetohep did not. After the silence lingered for a few seconds, he spoke, not at all bothered by what was awkward silence to living people.
“I understand both Medain and Reim have continued to gain ground on Jecrass’ soil. A distressing turn of events. Do you believe the war has a chance of victory for Jecrass?”
The question lanced Jecaina like a sparring wound. She stared at the speaking stone. It lit up as Fetohep continued.
“Of course, if this is a matter of national secrecy, I quite understand. However, Khelt reveals no secrets.”
“I…I…that is a direct question to ask, Fetohep of Khelt.”
Jecaina got mad, and she couldn’t have said reasonably why. Fetohep’s reply was deadpan.
“I assume it is a practical one, however, Queen Jecaina. War is not so nebulous a thing as to be constantly obfuscated. If you would like me to present my opinion, there is little to bet on. If one were to try to gauge the outcome of Jecrass’ conflict.”
He was right. It was just stunning to hear someone say that. Lyfelt always said there was a new angle, a new plan. The River Wardens? Resist until the end! Defiance! Glory to…Lael was grimly determined. She didn’t couch her words as much as the others, but even she had not said it.
“Would you tell me what you see, King of Khelt?”
The undead ruler did not pause to soften his words. He did not hesitate, or change his level tone. There was something terribly cold and frightening about that.
“As it stands? Jecrass will fall within the month. Unless a change takes place that unseats how the war has unfolded since King Raelt Leysars’ capture.”
He said it, and Jecaina knew it was true. She sat there, and faced the truth no one had been willing to tell her.
 
—-
 
Fetohep hadn’t factored in a conversation with Queen Jecaina of Jecrass in his schedule, but he felt he could justify it in between his now-daily walk, betting on the three Pomle matches, two gladiatorial arena bouts in Nerrhavia, and watching the news.
In fact, it might kill a whole hour. He found the [Queen] to be somewhat like he expected. Young—allegedly free-spirited, but mostly fitting to a young [Prince] or [Princess] of her age.
He delivered his stark assessment of the war and began to elaborate. He, of course, had been watching all the current wars and was more interested in the Ailendamus conflict, frankly. There were more variables at play there.
“Given that Jecrass has no remaining reserves to call upon, I find it difficult to believe they can break the Steward or bring down a half-Giant in battle, aside from pure luck. Reim’s forces will slowly take fortification after fortification; Medain’s army is more rapid in advance, but they may fear a full battle. It only depends on which nation takes the capital and key positions first; Jecrass cannot endure if either army brings its full might to bear. The best it can hope for is a delayed conflict of attack-and-retreat over a narrowing span…”
Was it fun? Was watching the news, gambling, fun? Well, the gambling, a bit. There was always unpredictability. But things like the Jecrass conflict, Fetohep had seen thousands of times before.
Thousands? Perhaps hundreds. Enough to know how they almost invariably played out. Fetohep was going to speculate about the odds of Jecrass managing to overwhelm Medain’s heavy infantry in a pitched battle—of course, they’d lose the second and third ones due to sheer attrition—when he heard a sound.
It sounded like a sniffle. The undead ruler stopped.
“Queen Leysars?”
He hesitated. He had definitely heard a suppressed sound, like a sob. Very quiet, but it was not one that he, Fetohep, had really heard for a long time.
Tears did not exist in Khelt. If a child fell, they would be tended to. He heard a muffled reply.
“Nothing. Thank you, King Fetohep. Your reply was most…illuminating.”
She made no reference to the sound, but her voice was thick. Fetohep’s glowing eyes dimmed a fraction.
“I have been uncourteous. You have my apologies, Queen Jecaina.”
“No, your Majesty. This is the truth. No one else would speak it to me. I understand the fate of Jecrass. I wish I did not wear the crown at this time. But we do not run from the truth.”
It sounded like she was quoting someone. Fetohep inclined his head, though his figure was obviously unseen.
“Just so.”
Silence again, and this time it was Fetohep who felt the discomfort of it. Presently, Jecaina spoke.
“Thank you for speaking with me, Fetohep of Khelt. It has been most—illuminating.”
“Of course, your Majesty Leysars. If you should desire to again, I shall of course have the time to speak.”
She was surprised at that. He almost heard a chuckle.
“I…thank you, King Fetohep. That is actually most welcome. But I must go. Once more…thank you.”
“I express the same sentiments as my letter, Queen Jecaina Leysars. Congratulations on your crowning. May your reign be prosperous.”
He heard a sound. It might have been ‘thank you’. He heard her fumbling with the stone. Then silence.
King Fetohep sat there for a moment. Then he turned on the news. He felt less comforted when he saw the conflict in Jecrass. He listened to Jecaina’s name with more attention.
The next day, Reim and Jecrass clashed. And the Queen of Jecrass took to the field.
 
—-
 
Jecaina did not so much as swing her sword once the entire battle. She was there, as they tried to defy Zamea and an army who wanted to expand Reim’s reach yet further.
But Lael refused to let her near the conflict. Jecaina was surrounded by a heavy bodyguard of [Trick Riders], and she had sworn to leave if the half-Giant came towards her.
She was there for morale. And the [Soldiers] of Jecrass fought.
Still, Jecaina had seen battle only a few times before with her own eyes, and most recently was when her father had tried to save her. Then, she had been fighting for her life.
Now she saw what Raelt had seen all the war. It was sickening, horrifying.
The half-Giantess kicked through a battalion of [Soldiers]. Lael had tried to keep them away, harrying the half-Giants with [Riders], but she had to put the infantry in some position to fight Reim’s foot soldiers. And Zamea ignored the [Riders] and strode in. She and three half-Giants raised their bloody weapons and turned formations into strewn bodies.
That was a horror of its own. But the fighting itself—Jecaina saw a [Soldier] of Reim go down screaming with a javelin in his gut. He rose, bloody, and hacked at a [Soldier] until someone put an axe in his head.
Gore. Death—Lael fell back. So did Reim. They did not go for the fortress; Jecrass had stopped their advance for once.
But the cost? Over two thousand dead. Reim’s half-Giants were impossible to turn back without casualties.
And yet, the River Wardens called it a great victory. Warden Svinta had ridden with Jecaina and she raised a spear, shouting, and the [Soldiers]…
They cheered her. That was when Jecaina felt sickest. Bloody, wounded men and women.
“The Daughter of Duels! Jecrass stands!”
“Queen Jecaina Leysars!”
‘Daughter of Duels’. That was what they had dubbed her, in honor of the King of Duels. Though she had not swung her sword—and she didn’t have the courage to overrule Lael.
She was not her father, who had actually killed a half-Giant in battle, fought the King of Destruction. Jecaina owned a silver bell, not a golden one.
She was sick, afterwards. But she let no one see. She threw up in a potted plant in the palace.
The worst part was that she had told Lael they had to stop Reim, and the [General] had agreed. They had done it—so they might do it again.
Fetohep was right. And it was his words which had given her the truth which drove her to…
Well. First she got drunk. She did not dine in banquet; the official line Lyfelt put out was that she was fasting in honor of the dead, even as celebration should be had for repelling Reim.
In truth, Jecaina locked herself in her rooms and…
 
—-
 
“Is it on? King Fetohep. You were right. I saw a battle today.”
The slurred voice surprised him at first. But he replied just as quickly.
“Queen Leysars. I know. It was spoken of, in the news.”
“Really? Did they watch?”
No. In fact, it was a footnote and his own [Informants] had been more detailed than Pallass News Network. It was a small skirmish really, compared to all that had come before it. No half-Giant was wounded, casualties were ‘low’.
But he heard in her voice a mortal horror. It had been so long since he, Fetohep, had fought his first battles that he struggled to empathize.
Sympathy was easier.
“I—I could not fight. They call me Daughter of Duels, but I’m not my father. He could fight—I would be trampled or captured.”
“There is wisdom in that. A [General] or [Ruler]’s fall means the end of nation or army. Does your General Lael take to the front?”
Fetohep found this conversation more…personal. Probably because she was drunk. Jecaina had no one to speak to she would not dismay in the palace. She made a sound through the speaking stone. Perhaps a snort? Fetohep did not need to breathe.
“I should be ashamed. I am. My father taught me how to duel. How to fight and I thr—I couldn’t even watch the battle without flinching. I’m not a [Warrior]. I’m just…”
 
—-
 
Jecaina heard the voice reply calmly. She was just ranting, complaining. But the undead ruler’s words were…
“It is not shameful to decry war, Queen Jecaina. Great heroes of battle have often done so afterwards.”
“But I am a [Duelist]! I couldn’t even watch as they—”
The sight of blood and death filled her mind. And again, Fetohep’s response was reasoned. Even helpful.
“You were taught to wield a blade like a craftsman a tool. Did your father teach you to respect your opponent, to learn, to be humble and enjoy a sport where blood is not the goal—or did he teach you to kill?”
Jecaina stopped, lips on the wine bottle’s mouth. She lowered it.
There was truth. That battle had not been glorious, a display of arms. It had just been slaughter. If there had been anything that it gave—a sense of victory, honor—she might have rationalized it.
All she had seen was bodies piling up to delay the battle another day. She said as much and Fetohep agreed.
“Jecrass did not have the might to hold back the Nomads of the Sky or Reim’s forces. If they wish to force Reim back, more strength is needed.”
The implication that she didn’t know stung her. Jecaina snapped back.
“We’re trying. I have River Wardens reforming the [Trick Riders]—we will have Bicorn and Pegasus riders soon—”
She realized too late that she had given secret war information out. Jecaina was horrified, until she heard a sigh.
“A laudable notion if Jecrass were at peace with no war threatening for two or more years. Not the decision I would have come to in the interim, your Majesty.”
“What? What?”
She put a hand to her head. The world was spinning—she looked around.
“But we need [Trick Riders]. The war cannot be won without elite forces.”
“And will this initiative provide them?”
“Of course it will!”
Jecaina fumbled with a cork. She took a swig, gagged—Fetohep made a slight sound. Taptap—was he tapping his fingers on something metallic?
“Let me rephrase my statement, Queen Leysars. Will this initiative by your River Warden provide [Trick Riders] in sixteen days? Or sixteen months? Unless you have a River Warden of outstanding talent in elevating new [Soldiers], your revitalization of Jecrass’ ‘elite’ will take too long.”
The Queen stared at the speaking stone. And she sobered up. The potion in her hands, placed there by Aca to do just that, nearly spilled onto her bed before she stoppered it.
“But we need them.”
“Certainly. But they will not arrive in time to end this war. So, if that was the goal, Princess Leysars, it was in error.”
A cold flash struck her. She knew that was also correct. Warden Mulre had been so convincing, though…
“Similarly, Pegasi and Bicorns have breeding times which will eclipse the end of the war by months, even if they are already impregnated.”
“I have a Skill—breeding of animals—”
“Perhaps a mistake to hope for and rely on that, Queen Leysars. Ah. I do not intend to demean Jecrass’ efforts.”
He caught himself, perhaps to stop her from bursting into tears again. Jecaina didn’t—but she felt like he was still pushing a stiletto into her heart.
“Then both plans won’t work.”
“Not unless Jecrass can withstand for over a year. And if it can—there are better uses for such funds and manpower in the interim.”
Her face flushed. He sounded so—so—arrogant, lecturing her when he wasn’t at war!
“It was the only option we could think of at the time! What would you do, then, Fetohep?”
