Maranor favored straight columns of red stone and gold filigree. Half of the decorations were exquisite works of art while the other was more warlike: stained pennants along with broken weapons lined the walls as a reminder that order would be enforced by violence if necessary. They turned deeper into the complex under the skull of some imposing beast, Irao leading the way. Viv bathed Sidjin and herself in a layer of shadow-infused black mana just in case. The hadal stopped them as they passed by a training courtyard. Targets and charred practice dummies could be seen from openings through the thick walls. They stopped when he made a sign.

Viv and Sidjin knelt on the ground. The sounds of footsteps sounded from the other side of the courtyard while fleeting light shone on the ceiling above them. She cast a sound enchantment and reinforced the darkness effect just in case. Just as expected, the guard moved on without contest. Viv looked up to see directions written on the stone in a nearby corner.

‘Cadet’s barracks’

They were on the right track. Irao and Solfis led them to an intersection with what Viv would have believed where two decorative armor sets were it not for the buckets suspiciously blocking their view. Golems. The passage that interested them was next.

While the previous alleys had led to the lines of evenly spaced doors Viv associated with dormitories, this one had only six. Solfis’ prep work confirmed this was the VIP part of the barracks where rich scions could have their own personal quarters. A massive red seal covered the entire passage from wall to wall and ground to ceiling, visible in the darkness as faint lights. Just as Viv was making herself ready to breach it, Irao and Solfis moved. Irao pushed Sidjin towards Viv and then Solfis picked them up, jumping to the ceiling like a spider. The four huddled above the ground in an awkward and slightly uncomfortable hunch bathed in dark mana. There was someone coming.

A young woman in the dress of an apprentice passed through the barrier without issue before leaving with quick steps. Viv spotted a chit dangling from her waist. It was an identification token used to go through wards without issue, and even bring people with. It had been one of their leads but Viv had eventually decided against using them as she didn’t know what kind of extra checks might be in place. Irao made the sign for ‘acquisition’ but Viv denied him. They had a plan, and they would stick to it unless otherwise necessary. The woman had barely turned the corner before Viv was working on the divine ward.

Now, divine wards could be broken with a ton of effort, less from Viv since breaking stuff was her specialty. The issue was, if you broke a ward fueled by divine power, the goddess owning it would be immediately aware of it.

That would be extremely bad.

Fortunately, divine wards were less responsive than temporary ones. Maranor was propping up hundreds of wards, conducting her normal business, plotting, floating in the in between, and generally being a bitch all at the same time. Even a divine being could only multitask so much so their wards could be stretched a little without them noticing. A bit like a mosquito stinging skin, Viv’s little prick would not be felt.

That was a rather phallic metaphor. The party was really getting to her. Viv focused and started pulling on threads. The ward itself wasn’t that complex. It was the power behind it that truly mattered. Slowly, and with a delicate touch, Viv pulled on threads to loosen them. It felt very much like untangling cables. She merely had to exercise patience and consistency.

The world around her faded away as did her stress. The others were looking after her. She had nothing to worry about. All that mattered was to coax the construct into extending a little, not much, just enough so that a weakness could be crossed without triggering the construct. Thanks to her training with Garm, the Knight Captain of Neriad, she knew how durable divine mana could be. Eventually, she pulled back. There was now a semi-stable circular opening in the ward. She slipped through it immediately with the other four hot on her heels, then she moved down the alley.

Sidjin took the time to pat her arm. He looked very impressed behind the leather half-mask. They easily found the right door as it was the only one locked from the outside.

Irao could have probably taken it from here but this was an extraction and he was not exactly the most trustworthy-looking person around. The door was locked and warded, though not divinely. Sidjin and Viv worked together to displace the alarm’s anchor away from the gate, then Viv opened the door into a dimly lit room.

It was a little bit messy and very pungent. It reeked of sex. Suddenly, the fleeing girl’s late night visit made a lot more sense. So the apple didn’t fall far from the tree huh? Viv shouldn’t judge.

As for their target, he stood abruptly when Viv walked in, growing more alarmed as Solfis joined them. He was wearing a simple summer sleeping shift. The room itself was decorated with basic trinkets that showed a lot of care but very little means. The most complex one was a basket made of straw, a little scuffed around the edges.

“Who are you?”

“Hello Gil, we’re here to bring you to freedom. We were—”

“Give me one reason why I shouldn’t scream.”

Ugh, the little shit.

“I’ll give you two. First, I cast a sound bubble so no one will hear. Two, as I said, we’re here to free you and bring you to your dad.”

Gil was like a younger and admittedly more handsome version of his dad. He had the rugged charm of an action movie star, the kind that couldn’t express his feelings until he and the female lead were caught in the villain’s lair above the shark pool. He was also rather young which made sense since he was still officially in training, as well as remarkably calm for someone caught with his metaphorical pants down. Viv had also expected some measure of resistance, so she pulled her ace from her sleeve.

“Here, one of the letters you sent to your father. You hid a message in them.”

Gil gave her a measuring look. Viv gave him some time to look at the letter.

“You are not my father. For all I know, you—”

//Did you seriously expect your father, the king, to charge in with a regiment of Enorian knights?

//Inside of Maranor’s main temple?

“Well, no, but…”

//You are being extracted at your own request.

//Kindly cooperate.

//Because our schedule is tight and said cooperation is, in fact, not required.

“We are taking a major risk to come here,” Viv added.

“Alright, alright. There is just one thing. We need to get Lydia as well.”

Viv felt her stomach drop.

“The woman who just left?”

“Yes. You… didn’t do anything, right?” he said, suddenly afraid.

“No. We didn’t touch anybody.”

He was infatuated. Fuck! She gave it two chances in three this was a honey pot either started or tolerated by the temple but if she said that to the strapping young man, he would definitely dig both heels. A woman approaching him because he was a valuable royal hostage who needed an outlet and not his roguish charm? Unthinkable.

“Look, we can’t get her. It’s too risky.”

“I love her, we’re not leaving without her,” the young man said with a stubborn clench of his jaws.

Had to work on it a bit.

Viv pushed leadership into her words. This wasn’t a moment for threats. It was a moment for maturity.

“Look, if she comes with us, she will be seen as a traitor by her hierarchy and by the goddess she swore herself to. She will live the cursed life of a hidden exile because you couldn’t bear to be separated from her for a month or two. If you really care about her, you will leave her behind instead of destroying her life.”

“Her life will be destroyed anyway! They will suspect her.”

“They will suspect the fucking doorman after we’re gone, but right now she can swear an oath she had no idea you would be leaving, something she cannot do if we miraculously find her through patrols and closed doors. I’m not asking much from you Gil, just that you consider the future of Lydia as well as that of your nation, which is being endangered because you’re wasting everyone’s time with a selfish request instead of saving yourself. We will die if we are caught here. Don’t you care about that at all?”

Gil bit his lips. Viv’s short speech acted like a cold shower. The key had been to avoid questioning her love in any way.

“Right. Sorry, I just care about her very much.”

“And you can see her again once you’re free and secure as Enoria’s official heir. Alright?”

“Right. Lead the way.”

Gil only put on boots. Irao and Solfis exited the room first, then signaled that the way was clear. Viv took the time to repair the door’s ward just in case someone came to check on Gil in the middle of the night. It wouldn’t surprise her. The divine ward was pulsing back in position by the time she returned to it. Irao and Solfis slipped through without difficulty. They kept a vigil while Viv widened the passage again so the humans could cross. She pushed it back into position even as the stomping of boots drew closer, and had to run to catch up with the others. They doubled back at a good speed until they found the bath again. Viv locked the door behind them, then Sidjin fixed both holes on the way back until the walls appeared as pristine as the day they were built. They absconded to the Hidden Smile without issue, and that was weird as hell.

Upon returning to the kink room, Irao simply melted into the shadows while Gil put on his cloak and mask. They returned back to the main hall. By that time, the festivities were in full swing and coincidentally full swinging. It was definitely decadent and amazing. She still leaned towards poor Gil who’d been briefed and still stared.

“Get a grip.”

“Sorry! Sorry, I just, I’ve never seen anything like it.”

To be fair, neither had Viv but she was cool and would never admit to it. The stress of the operation and surrounding horniness faded in the background when Gil stopped in front of his father. They had a code ready in case the operation succeeded, so Sangor could be seen ruling over the revelries without any break while still learning of his son’s fate.

“It is time for us to leave you, king. Thank you for your hospitality,” Viv started as planned.

By then, the number of empty bottles by Sangor’s side had reached a concerning amount. He grabbed the table with white knuckles, the emotions barely visible in a very distracting scenery.

“I see. I hope you and your guests had a pleasant time.”

“We did, king,” Sidjin said. “It was good for us to meet.”

“Though we were apart for too long, our bond is one that cannot be broken,” Gil said with a voice heavy with emotion.

For a moment, Viv thought the two might jump into each other’s arms and ruin the plan and it would have almost been worth it.

“I… see,” Sangor replied.

They awkwardly retreated towards the door. Revelers looked up to see her leave but soon returned to their current concerns. The Harrakans had come by three and now returned by three. Nothing interesting. A carriage led them to a small square on the way back to the embassy where visiting artists had erected a tent. Gil recognized one of Sangor’s bodyguards as soon as he stepped out of the compartment.

“Erlyn?”

“Gil m’boy? It’s really you!”

The two threw themselves into a hug and Viv saw that all was well. Sangor had it from then on. She could count on the old fox to manage things from here and she could also count on a defensive alliance. Gil would leave at dawn with a caravan of traveling performers, long before Maranor’s temple could react in a way that maintained secrecy. After all, they wouldn’t want knowledge of their humiliation to spread.

Viv had now accomplished all the objectives she’d fixed herself for this meeting. Her only objective now was to avoid catastrophes.

With that, they finally made their way home. She breathed out the anxiety of the night into her paramour’s neck.

“Everything went admirably well,” Sidjin replied, voice tight.

“Yeah.”

“Unfortunately, I fear Sardanal’s divine magic might have been more potent than I expected.”

“I have never been more horny in my entire life.”

They kissed passionately, finally relaxing after what was probably her most flawlessly executed operation. A bloody miracle. It had gone almost too well.

Was she forgetting something?

Maybe? But then Sidjin’s calloused hand grabbed her thigh and she lost what was left of her patience.

***

Morning light filtered through the crimson stained glass of Maranor’s temple.

The high priest of Maranor stayed still so his subordinate wouldn’t see the fury in his eyes, the shame and outrage twisting his features despite his best attempts at self-control. A disaster had befallen this hallowed ground. A humiliation. He had failed his goddess.

“Your Excellency, we detected weak brown mana residue near the southern bath house, but even this is…”

“What about the sewer wards?”

“Intact, Your Grace. No wards were breached, no physical damage was detected. It’s… a complete mystery.”

The head priest glared forward, towards the guardian golems even now wearing those silly buckets as hats. As far as they could tell, it was the only visible evidence the sanctum of Maranor had been desecrated and its valuable guest stolen. It was a boast. A slap to the face. Nay, it was a message.

“They want us to be afraid. They want us to know they can hit us and there is nothing we can do to fight back. We are being mocked, but this is not the last of it.”

“Yes sir.”

