“You will have asylum if you are truthful, if I can ascertain that you don’t intend to betray us, and if Lady Azar thinks your skills are worth employing for the duration of your exile.”

“How would you even know that I wouldn’t betray you?”

“You will swear an oath to Neriad which I will have Lady Azar prepare. I have had some people get creative with oath breaking in the past so I am no longer leaving anything to chance.”

“This is acceptable. As for the piece of information, the League intends to secure its flank by making an example out of Zazas. Ambassador Feliserendi knows the city intends to contract you to become the center of the gate network in the north. They want to dispose of the ruling couple. I… am not sure how. This is all I have learned, I swear.”

“This diplomatic summit is growing more and more annoying.”

//Diplomacy can be quite complex, Your Majesty.

//May I offer an alternative?

“No.”

***

Solfis’ taunt had been directed at the lady. In reality, the ancient golem strongly favored a peaceful approach for the summit since he cared about the glory of Harrak even more than he cared about the glory of battle, and so Viv returned to the negotiating table along with a mollified Sidjin. As expected, the alliance was eager to stop funding the deadland forts and the vote passed with Viv’s support. It was a bit of a blow since the sentries manning said forts didn’t just provide a buffer for invading necromancers. They were also a good source of trade on their way to and back from the fortresses. Viv took solace in the fact that thanks to her effort, they were now only a minor contribution to Harrakan total trade. She could consider their loss a growing pain.

The afternoon was spent voting on stuff that didn’t concern Viv. The Paramese alliance covered an entire continent, of which Harrak was still just a very small part. Trade disputes, border disagreement, even the responsibility for rampaging monsters were the subject of many arguments, some of them fierce. Viv watched the King of Baran raise his voice for the first time when confronted with the news of a rampaging creature called an ‘earth wyrm’ that had crossed into Helock-controlled territory. Viv had no idea it was such a big deal, even with Lady Azar mentioning it in the past. The earth wyrm had apparently destroyed a valuable small town.

“The sons of Baran have bled to slow the beast down and you have the gall to demand reparations from us? While their widows still weep?” he roared.

It was serious business. Viv voted for whoever was right according to her advisors in order to develop a reputation for impartiality. She voted against Enoria once, but Sangor didn’t seem to care much. His request was shot down by most representatives anyway. The negotiations continued well into late afternoon to make up for the earlier disruption. Once more, it was amazing how high stats made everything easier. People talked faster, points were clearer, people tended to be more precise and presented more structured arguments. The votes were tallied in record speed as well. Viv was starting to think it wasn’t just superhuman abilities that let humans thrive here in a land with liches and dragons. Superhuman bureaucracy could be credited for a lot of successes as well.

Speaking of, there were a few improvements.

Leadership: Intermediate 9

Polymath: beginner 5

Apparently, achieving a major breakthrough for one’s nation improved leadership. Maybe it was about legitimacy as much as it was about rhetorics. Achieving results gave one a reputation for efficacy, after all. She wondered if failed diplomats gained the ‘disgraced’ title until they cleaned the stain on their honor. She wasn’t exactly eager to find out.

The second day was much the same with more minor cities requesting portals which Viv was only too happy to provide. After that, Mornyr offered a welcome break with a fencing competition.

Mornyr was famous for its arena, of which Selyen was the champion. He didn’t participate in the bout and Rollo was beaten in the semifinals which was very honorable for a commander path. Viv had a good time watching all the muscular sweaty men and women slicing at each other for her pleasure. It was quite nice. On the third day, Viv had finished her preparations. It was time to secure an alliance with Enoria or be expelled from the international community. Or maybe both.

She was feeling confident though. The League of Lesser Evil was back in town and there were no gods on the planet who could create contingencies around Solfis.

***

Three shapes in black cloaks climbed the stairs to the Hidden Smile’s monumental gates. Viv felt giddy behind her mask with Sidjin and Irao on her arms. Even outside the ancient circular building, songs and enrapturing perfume filled the air. Well-armed guards waved her in without a challenge since she had her anchors out. The Hidden Smile was a temple to Sardanal, more specifically its fertility aspect. Viv knew it offered more medical services for those who had difficulties conceiving, but tonight’s focus would be the seductive aspect of growth and Viv was kind of excited for it.

It was a sex party.

She’d never attended those back on Earth! She also presumed they were less grandiose since Nyil had an abundance of sex-related professions. The Northern Cities didn’t share Enoria’s or indeed the judeo-christian’s prudish approach to lovemaking. The Hidden Smile clearly advertised what it was down to the lush wall paintings and voluptuous carvings of its exterior, though it was still in good taste so far. Buxom women in togae danced with muscular men, the marble simile cloth clinging to their fetching buttocks. The suggestive imagery remained subtle enough to tease while leaving the building’s purpose clear to all. Past the gate, priests and priestesses of Sardanal welcomed them in fitting clothes, distributing glasses of sweet wine and spicy snacks. Viv removed her cloak to reveal a rather daring dress while Sidjin’s northern toga left his tanned legs bare. It was all rather stimulating. Sadly, Viv was here for business as reminded by Irao’s insistent steps. They moved to the main room soon after, appearing on a balcony overlooking the open space below and the court held there.

In the center of the room, an orchestra played an engaging song while performers mingled with the guests, half dancing and half cajoling. A brush of the hand on a shoulder here, leaning tittering laugh there, all conspired to make the guests more relaxed, dragging all into the spirit of the party in an inclusive vortex of sensations. It was still relatively early and only a few breasts were on display, most of them in a body paint exhibition that impressed Viv with its hypnotizing patterns. The dancers also knew how to use their waists, and for Viv who, as her grandpa used to say, worked on both steam and sail, it was a treat for the eyes. She helpfully directed Sidjin’s gaze to the sexiest ladies while she sneakily checked the men herself. Hey, this was a sex party. It was only mild now because those priests understood the notion of foreplay.

Soon, their steps carried them to the back of the grand hall where the king waited for them, surrounded by a court of priests and nobles in shimmering attire. There, the outfits and masks gained an exquisite quality that matched Viv’s fucking expensive own so that attendants would know, if not their identity, then at least their status. The three Harrakans slightly bowed before the dais where Sangor sat with his bearded chin resting on a scarred fist. A suspiciously high amount of empty wine goblets cluttered the table by his side. He nodded in acknowledgement.

“Welcome to the party, dear guests. By day we all carry a heavy burden, so tonight let it rest and set your minds at ease.”

“Not going to join the party, oh king?” Viv asked in front of the priests.

It was important to really mark her presence in the mind of other guests, hence why she didn’t bother to hide her anchors. It was simply a matter of establishing a rock solid alibi. Similarly, Sidjin’s form was rather easily recognizable. As for Irao, those capable of noticing him through the passive obfuscation skill would assume he was a bodyguard.

“Oh, it would not be fitting to join when I am already blessed, you see?”

Yeah if his war witch of the thorns paramour learned he was having orgies while she was giving birth, it would probably make his return difficult. Viv suspected that the man was intensely nervous. There were subtle hints, like the way his sword arm flexed when he reached for more alcohol.

“And besides, I am enjoying fruitful conversations. It will have to satisfy,” the king finished to the indulgent chuckle of the surrounding clergy.

They had apparently decided it was a perfect time to proselyte. To be fair, Sangor was trying to reduce Maranor’s hold on his kingdom. A competing church would go a long way towards doing so. Viv left him to his devices, going instead to the various shows with her companions. She leaned towards Irao as they neared naked acrobats.

“Are you alright so far?”

“Yes!” the hadal replied with more excitement than Viv had ever heard from him. “The mask. I like it. I feel like I am someone else. No one is looking at me because they are looking at the mask. I am not me!”

He sounded really happy about it.

“That’s great to hear. Huh. Maybe we should get you more masks. Just let me know if it becomes too much anyway.”

For an hour or so, they moved through the main room. Some people came to talk to them since their real identities were not exactly a secret, though the topics of discussions stayed on light talks and innuendos. Viv had to decline several daring invitations on the way which proved that eldritch wings and devastating black magic could not stand in the way of libido. The party gained intensity as the last guests arrived and the first led temple attendants and each other to alcoves from where moans soon emerged. Interestingly, established couples in matching attire were the drivers behind the heating atmosphere with priests and lone guests joining along as they were invited. It was an interesting tidbit to note to distract her from the fact she had to remain at the periphery. Her soul sense detected a diffuse cloud of divine mana suffusing the place, untying tongues and making limbs and mentalities more limber. She forced herself not to succumb to the siren’s call. When the agreed hour was upon them, it couldn’t have come too soon. She guided Sidjin and Irao by hand to a secluded corner in full view of the attendants. There, they found stairs going down towards a room they had reserved because of its location. It catered to a more specific taste, one that really enjoyed restraints. Sidjin shivered as he entered and just like that, the mood was ruined.

“I’ll never get used to that,” Sidjin said.

“Well at least I won’t need a cold shower. Let’s get changed.”

The trio quickly swapped their party clothes for dark leather attire somewhere between armor and really kinky suits that would help them melt into the shadows. The last thing Viv needed was for a loose piece of fabric to activate a ward.

The witch deactivated the protection glyph on the room’s grate then lifted it with telekinesis. The trio slipped down the opening to surprisingly clean sewers. A massive bone form unfolded like a flower from a corner, eyes quickly pointing towards the north. They didn’t speak on their way through several damp corridors, their feet light on the slippery cobblestone. The grates that barred their way opened with a little bit of magic. The underground smelled rank though the stench remained extremely mild compared to what could be expected from a large city in summer. There were actual enchantments down there to purify both water and air.

After only a couple of minutes of walking. Irao pointed at a wall. Sidjin wordlessly traced a large spell on the surface and Viv once again marveled at the fallen prince’s ability to just make up ad hoc spells with only a couple of days of preparation. Keen mind on that man. Once done, he moved his hands to activate the hex.

A flash of blue formed a circle on the brick surface, then an entire tube of rock was smoothly extracted, the titanic rod carried in silence by a layer of liquid mana. Sidjin sectioned it, then Viv used telekinesis to quietly place them by the newly formed hole. The League (minus Abe, who had arguably retired) crawled through it and found themselves in the sewer section dedicated to the temple of Maranor, facing a cistern that smelled like really dirty socks. They were in.

Maranor’s temple sewer system was only joined to the main one by pipes no larger than an arm’s width, yet despite this there was still a divine mana ward covering the grate leading up to the temple’s baths. Solfis and Irao nodded at each other before signaling the path was clear. Like last time, Sidjin quietly made an opening while Viv levitated the cleanly split segment out. The team climbed or flew into the deserted bath in silence. The place was Spartan in appearance though it was large enough to host at least twenty people cleaning themselves butt to butt. It was also entirely deserted. The followers of orders weren’t fond of unscheduled midnight dips, at least. Small mercy. Viv unlocked the door, then Irao and Solfis slipped out first.

Viv settled to wait. Just like the Hidden Smile, this place too was permeated by a halo of divine mana. It was more pronounced here than it had ever been in any of the provincial temples she’d visited. It felt quiescent to her soul sense, like a house with its host absent. After ten minutes of tense expectations, the pair returned. Solfis signaled and the casters slipped into a richly decorated corridor.

