“Yes, but I’m not sure what that will do to your choice of paths,” Ali answered. But Aiden was adamant about letting Teagan go first.

“Havok first?” he asked.

“I think you can all go at the same time,” Ali answered and unlocked the shrine for the five of them. “And Havok, perhaps you should let Azryet know before you choose?”

The little Goblin snapped a startled look at her, but he abruptly fell to his knees and delivered a solemn prayer.

Azryet brooded in his library, studying the Rift through the eyes of his kobold scout, a thin but unbreakable thread of worry worming its way through his gut.

He had promised Aliandra that after she recovered the Rift from Maalgaroth, he would study it with her and together they would figure out how to reopen the way for her to return home – and he had fully intended to make her promise to keep the rift open and remind her about her bargain to share knowledge.

But when he had returned from the diversionary maneuvers, he found that the resourceful Fae had somehow figured out how to open the Rift on her own, and she was gone. Gone where he could not follow.

“She better remember our bargain,” he grumbled to himself, for about the eleventh time.

“She seemed honest,” Tiraza answered. “Perhaps you should trust her?”

“Yes,” he said, just like every previous time. But the worry would not leave; it gnawed at him, reminding him that he should have made it more secure, or bound her to him with something a lot more certain than just a mentor enchantment. He couldn’t shake the fact that he had her here, within his domain, and now she was beyond his control, and he could not make her do anything.

“Gann,” he said, through his link to his kobold scout.

“Yes, master?”

“Go find her,” he said. “But do not interfere, just observe,” he added after glancing at Tiraza guiltily. Sending a scout was not an act of trust, but he could not shake the fear of betrayal that his imagination kept throwing at him. This was important – the first time he had made contact with something or someone from outside his stagnant, aeons-long defeat in this isolated realm. As slim of an advantage as it might provide, he could not afford to let this opportunity slip through his talons.

“She will keep her word,” Tiraza said, as if she had heard his mental conversation.

“How do you know that?”

“She left her domain here. It passes right through the Rift, and she even created a defender in that chamber.”

“But…” But right at that moment, Azryet felt the tingling prickle in the back of his mind. A sensation he craved, the sense of a prayer.

“Oh, mighty Azryet. Havok evolve class now. Thanks for the damage!” The voice of his Goblin paladin came to him borne upon the tendrils of his mana he had imprinted into the lowly creature.

Evolve? Wait… now?

A soft chime sounded in the back of his mind.

Your follower Sneeze “Havok” is undergoing Class Evolution.Do you wish to offer a Path?

The question hung in the air, a potential, a fleeting opportunity waiting for his response.

“Oh… Oh! Tiraza! Quickly! He’s doing his evolution! Do we have a paladin path?” He couldn’t remember ever having had a paladin before, even thousands of years ago at the height of his power. In the days before he had gotten stuck in this realm, he had prepared and maintained several standard Paths to offer in case people tried to evolve their classes, but besides Mato, he had not done one in thousands of years.

“Of course,” Tiraza said, with a soft amusement in her voice. “I assume you want to invest a lot in this one again?”

“Yes. Something special for my first paladin.”

Tiraza vanished and reappeared with a stack of magical tomes, opening the top one to an appropriate page. “How about offering him the First Paladin of Azryet?” she asked.

He quickly scanned the runic formation, matching the options with what he had learned of his first follower in several ages, and the more he studied it, the bigger his smile grew.

“Oh, this is perfect,” he said, and channeled his mana, twisting the formation, refining the details, and adding embellishments to make it perfect for Havok, his Goblin paladin.

Another chime sounded, interrupting his thoughts.

Your follower Devan Owens is undergoing Class Evolution.Do you wish to provide a Path?

“Devan too?” he asked in surprise. He had so few followers now that he knew every single one of them by name. He had memorized the details of their personalities and preferences, the sense of their mana, and the richness of their traits and experience shared with him through their bond, all seeking to understand and influence them to draw out their best potential.

“She is the rogue, correct?” Tiraza asked, pulling out a second book from her pile, opening it to a new and different formation. “How about a Demon Hunter Path for her? I think she might like that.”

“How did you know to get that book?” he asked, but already he was studying the shape of the prepared Path, adjusting it to be a better fit for Devan. His followers deserved his best work.

“I trusted Aliandra,” she said, giving him a significant look.

He frowned at her, but it was not with anger. He summoned his mana, powering the Path choices he had crafted for his followers. His magic surged as he spent mana, experience, and every last drop of his precious Authority, hoarded now for thousands of years. The library shook, sending Tiraza into a frenzy of teleportation, trying to catch falling books.

He shifted his awareness, finding himself hovering above a crowd of adventurers clustered about a shrine, glowing with so much mana it looked about to explode, in the middle of a dark, depressing forest of rotting trees and fungal growth. The group looked haggard and dirt-splattered, but there was an undercurrent of excitement running through them that even he could sense in his astral form.

His two followers were present, front and center, eyes closed, with their hands resting upon the glowing shrine. He directed his delicate magical formations, sending them along the pathway to his patron enchantment that rested within both of them, infusing them with his offer and his hopes that they would find it worthy of choosing. Then, he looked on with mounting anxiety as they did not immediately respond.

“It takes mortals a while,” Tiraza offered gently.

Azryet hated how vulnerable he felt. He was a god after all, and an ancient dragon at that. He was The Calamity. He was above mundane emotions like anxiety and vulnerability. And yet, he paced back and forth in the library while his followers contemplated their paths, making Tiraza dodge the flips of his tail. He had drained himself of his last Authority for a mere chance at helping his followers.

And then his astral vision caught sight of the tiny Fae with her golden wings, sitting quietly by herself beside the shrine. Her amber eyes met his, staring directly at his incorporeal awareness. Then she waved a little hand and smiled, and in that moment, he understood Tiraza’s trust for Aliandra.

The moment was broken by the sound of a chime.

Your follower Sneeze “Havok” has advanced to First Paladin of Azryet.Your Authority has increased by +178.

Your follower Devan Owens has advanced to Demon Hunter of the Winds.Your Authority has increased by +163.

Despite his stature and his dignity as an ancient dragon, he gasped at the glorious, near-forgotten rush of fresh reputation and Authority that ignited his senses with an ineffable sweetness, like molten ambrosia welling up from the deepest, most secret places of his dragon soul.

“Aah, that’s what I remember,” he purred, unleashing a triumphant roar that shook the library.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
