Aster nodded along, trying to let herself fall back into her Domain sense.

Moire continued to speak, her voice taking on a lilting tone that lulled Aster into seeing things her way. “See without looking. You aren't looking for the lighthouse. You are looking for the event of their passing. The evidence that they existed, the Wake they leave behind.”

Aster quietly let herself merge in with the Realm. She was looking for familiar things after all. She was looking for evidence of her friend's passage in the Realm.

She was sitting on a nearly frozen lake, trying to feel for ripples.

That should have been easy.

Her friends were some of the most impactful people she knew. They made waves, not just ripples. They make Wakes.

Susanne was one of the best swordswomen in the Empire and had gone into Minkalla with them, risking life and limb for over a year. And beyond that, they had grown closer during and after the war.

It should have been easy to see her Wake, but Aster just couldn’t find it.

Zack was a good friend who had battled with her in the war and after. He was quiet but always there for anyone if they needed it. She wouldn’t call them best friends but they were friends.

He might make small and precise waves but those waves were like his spells and should have created impacts on someone as close as her to see. But all she saw was an empty lake.

Then there was Allie, her partner in crime. The devious teleporter was one of Aster’s best friends. They were just similar enough they got along incredibly well and beyond that, Allie had created one of the most impactful events of the war through her efforts.

Aster felt she should be able to see her, even if she couldn’t see the others, but again, there was nothing.

Then there was Liz, who had been with Aster nearly as long as Matt had.

Aster could still remember their first encounter when the three of them had fought over a rift, and they had gone over a cliff after some idiot exploded a bomb. Liz had used her blood to protect both of them. Aster hadn’t merely sat there, freezing it to make it even stronger, a small hint to their future cooperation.

Aster should have been able to find Liz in the quiet lake she was imaging but she couldn’t.

Trying not to grow irritated, Aster focused on Matt.

He was her bond. Her brother. The person who had pulled her out of an impossible rift and then ensured she wasn't taken from him. They had shared a nearly identical simulation in the Folded Reflections but, even without that, they were siblings. He was hers as she was his. He might irritate her some days but he was bound to her as she was to him. By chance but more by choice.

Aster had learned a lot in her time at the bond Academy. Learned just how many bond pairs were indifferent or uncaring, as well as learning just how many bonds were as thick as thieves, but all of them paled to what she had with Matt.

Matt was the best bond because he was Matt. Because he was her bond.

Her bond.

Finding his impact on her should have been easy.

He had been able to find not only her Wake but manifest it in seconds. Sure, Matt was really damn good at Domain things but she should be able to sense him if no one else.

Except she could sense nothing, no one.

They went through a few other lessons, each saying similar things, just trying to find new ways to describe it all, hoping one resonated better.

Liz was the second person to get it but Zack then Allie quickly followed behind, with Susanne figuring it out just a day later.

Aster kept searching the Realm and herself while the others worked on advanced applications.

What was wrong with her?

It was a question that nagged at Aster.

She had struggled with her place in the team for a while and thought she had moved past all of that after the war when people stopped asking if she really counted as an Ascender.

She had proven her worth.

She had carved her place into the Realm through ice and paw.

So why couldn’t she figure this out?

Not everyone was suited to Domain manipulation. That much was obvious and she knew it, but Aster felt she shouldn’t get tripped up on the first step.

She should be able to do it.

She was fucking Aster Alexander damn it.

Aster started cycling her mental image until she eventually landed on a field of snow.

It was the snow of the night after the storm.

It was the quiet of thick snow that muffled sounds. It was a bitter cold that just sat there unmoved by even a small breeze.

It was…

Aster didn’t know what it was, but she was determined to figure it out.

It wasn’t until three days into their training when Aster had her eureka moment.

She was looking for the Wake. The evidence of one's passing and that wasn't found in the snow. It was found in the birds and deer. It was found in the trees and the hills, the rivers and lakes.

It was there that Aster found them.

Susanne was the evergreens that bent in the winds that scoured flesh from bone and froze lesser trees.

Zack was the birds that managed to find the pinecones despite the blanket of snow.

Allie was the wind itself. There but unseen.

Liz was the pitfalls, the twisted branches that would drag someone down given a single moment of carelessness. The thin ice over the lake you didn’t see and only heard when it cracked and sent you plummeting into its fridged depths.

Matt was the mountains and the rivers. The bedrock on which everything else conformed itself around.

And there was Aster. She was the snow that blanketed it all.

That was her mistake. She didn’t need to embody or find the others’ Wakes or anything like that. She was a support. She already fit herself into others’ shapes. That was what a good support did. It didn’t make her lesser as some people, even herself sometimes, said. Rather it enabled her to best support her team. Her friends.

She didn’t need to find the Wakes because she already had them.

Not knowing what Matt’s Wake would do, Aster chose Liz’s.

Her blood surged and turned vaguely golden, which then slightly empowered her flesh and bones. It was almost like casting a physical buffing spell. One that was just potent enough that she saw as her skin took on a golden tinge from the ichor that was trying to replace her blood.

It wasn’t at the level of one of her combat spells but it was a useful effect, similar to a basic, unmodified lower Tier outer skill.

“Ha!” Aster popped to her feet, startling everyone who was working quietly off to the side.

Grinning, she skipped over to them. “Okay, let me prove why I’m going to be the best at this.”

***

Matt felt a pulse of happiness from Aster and knew she must have figured out the trick. He had been contemplating going back down and trying to help her but had wanted to give her some time.

The method really wasn’t anything so grandiose as Moire was making it out to be, even if it was probably a useful metaphor to get in the right mindset. Domains as one of their core principles were about connecting a cultivator to the Realm, and the method they were teaching was fundamentally just about getting a sample of said Domain with your own and then empowering the sample to get its effect. With them being Ascenders, their Domains were well entrenched in the Realm and being friends it wouldn’t be that hard to find each other's ‘Wakes’.

She was smart, and he was sure she’d pick up on the trick easily enough as soon as she got out of her own head.

He had just really needed to leave.

The power seemed useful, as did all general Domain abilities, and he had been initially really excited when he immediately saw the lights that represented himself and his friends. It would be really cool to have a small piece of Susanne’s blade manipulation or manifestation, Zack’s mana control, or Allie’s spatial control but, the moment he touched them, any of the powers, his Domain revolted, nearly making him vomit.

Even Liz and Aster, the two people he was closest to, had similar effects.

His Domain did not like the idea of embodying someone, anyone, else. The only person he had been able to embody was himself, which was useless as it gave him a minor repulsion effect that actually cost him Willpower, instead of being free like the proper power was.

It felt egotistical as hell, but he just wasn't suited to embodying others.

It felt weird and wrong, which really irritated the logical side of himself.

He was the Master of his own Destiny and should be able to embody whoever he wanted. Not that he thought it was his Truth in particular that rejected the idea so much. It was part of the problem, but in that instance, it was part of a unified whole of not only his Domain but his spirit itself that screamed out its disgust at making itself other.

Matt almost felt like there was something there that was useful to him, but every time he tried to push the idea, he felt that slimy feeling once again and had to resist the urge to vomit.

Not that he had let that stop him. Matt had forced Aster’s power to manifest, but his internal resistance had resulted in an incredibly weak showing. But that was good enough for him. He hadn’t given up, he had done it and moved on.

It was bullshit and he knew it but it soothed his bruised ego.

Instead, he came outside to find a stall with Wun. The same stall he was sitting at now.

The proprietor was a short Tier 35 human man who had initially distrusted Matt’s approach until Wun wandered over with a packet of honeyed nuts.

Matt hadn’t been interested in the weapons the man was selling; they were fine but not that unique or special.

Instead his attention had been caught by the lighting the man's stall had used.

It was unique in the market, which had obviously been the point, but instead of just having a rune carved somewhere or on something, the man had turned extra large artificial mana stones into light sources. That in itself wasn’t new to Matt but the man had encased his mana stone lights in a thick mesh of iron.

A weave of iron encasing a spell-inscribed mana stone was practically the description of his blade now that he had turned it into a hollow lattice.

The craftsman, Joey Currie, had originally wanted a Tier 40 mana stone to divulge his secrets, which Matt would have been happy to pay, but once he saw Matt’s blade and realized what Matt was doing, he was more than happy to talk shop.

Joey wasn’t a Talented crafter in the traditional sense. Instead, he was a Talented inventor who simply wanted to capitalize on the uptick in weapon sales to make a quick buck. Most of his time and effort instead went to non-combat applications, and enchanting mana stones directly was his latest idea.

According to his theories it should be possible to enchant a mana stone with an effect itself, making the rune perfectly efficient, but he hadn’t yet been able to create an internally stable design and instead used an external metal lattice to stabilize the spell.

It was a novel idea to Matt and he really wished he could poach the man for his guild but kept that to himself. It was neither the time nor place, but the man was gifted even beyond his Talent.

While Matt couldn’t help Joey in his efforts beyond sharing a few special methods he had developed to make a lattice stabilizer work better to channel mana and spell effects, Joey’s method of putting a spell in the center of the mana stone was just the revelation Matt needed to finally complete his sword’s upgrade.

The additional rune stabilized the runes he normally carved on the surface of the mana stone so long as it applied to the spell effect.

That might be a bit of a problem in a heated battle when Matt couldn’t easily absorb and change the mana stone, but he was sure he’d figure out an answer to that. Even without that, the addition of the central rune and few tricks Joey used, when combined with everything he was already doing, would see an almost thirty percent increase to his spells’ output when he used the right core of his sword.

If nothing else, that made the trip to the base entirely worth it and almost got rid of the bad taste left in Matt’s spirit.

Almost.

On a more interesting note, they got a meet up request from a name they hadn’t really expected to hear from.

Seasaìdh, the woman who they had fought before they finished the Path, was on the same moon and wanted to talk before they left to return to the Empire.
