The Spore unleashed a cone of translucence over Shiv, and he heard the whispers of the vampire's mind: "I must ask you something, fellow Legend. I must ask you to stay your hand, to show at least a modicum of decency. If you are here to speak, then speak. But I must warn you: I will not forgive you if you harm the young. I will not forgive you if you butcher and mutilate the uninitiated, and I will inflict retribution upon your mind and flesh. Do what you will with the militia—deceive them; torture them. I care not for the lost dogs of the Republic, but these children still have the possibility to see beyond.”

This took Shiv entirely by surprise. The vampire's voice was still cold, still cruel, still the kind that seemed capable of drinking joy from another's misery. Yet he sounded entirely genuine.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He could be playing a game with you—trying to deceive you or confuse you—but whatever the game is... I can't see it. I don't understand what he's trying to do.

"Yeah, you don't need to worry about that," Shiv replied. He kept a close eye on the other medics and Maxime as they began their ministrations for the patients. "I'm not here to hurt them. I'm here to talk with you."

A low hiss escaped the vampire's mind. "I believe you," he finally said. "You are dangerous. I felt your strength and tasted the resistance infusing you. But I also notice the way you move. Too much confidence, too much strength. That's not your real body, is it? Are you hiding inside that boy? Or is it just a False Semblance, a shell?"

Shiv didn't reply to that.

"The latter, then. Very well. I will not ask you questions you don't care to admit, if you do not do the same for me. But you said you have a way out of this quarantine, this cage that the Ascendants have shaped around us. You said that you might be able to bypass it. Well, weave your tale for me. I will judge it as truth from lie."

"Before that, I think we need to talk a little bit about trust."

The vampire was taken aback. He almost laughed. "You think there can be trust? Between Legends? Between creatures such as we?"

"Look," Shiv said, his mental voice casual, trying to take the vampire off guard. "You're clearly willing to deal with me diplomatically, and I'm willing to do the same. I think that even if we are both monsters, we can be reasonable monsters. I'm not here to rip you apart and expose you. I'm just trying to maintain my cover and to ensure... stability. I have no idea what you're here to do other than this so-called 'him' you're trying to hunt. I don't even know if it is the same 'him' I'm going after. But hey, let's start with a bit of honesty. Let's start with the fact that I think I know who you are."

"And who do you think I am, oh fellow Legend?"

"I think you are Tulveg the Irreverent, disciple of Ekkihurst the Sculptor."

Silence followed. Two seconds passed. The vampire let out an annoyed rasp.

"Ah, so you are astute. But now you have me suspicious rather than more trusting, for who else might recognize me, other than a hunter of the Inquisition, of course?"

"If I was a hunter of the Inquisition, I would have locked the building down, and I would have gone after you with full force. Inquisition doesn't give a shit about individual children, or fifty, or a hundred. They're willing to burn a hells of a lot more than just a children's ward to kill an enemy Legend. But they're not trying to kill you, are they? They're trying to recapture you. They're trying to experiment on you. You can tell that I know because I was there," Shiv growled. "I saw what they did. I saw what they did to other prisoners. To Rebis."

And that startled Tulveg. "Rebis? Is he still alive? Did he manage to escape? I prayed to the Great One that he broke free in the chaos. Or that he met a final end and was granted rest."

Shiv now found a new avenue to tap into the vampire's trust. "Yeah, not unharmed, though. The Ascendants managed to recapture him for a while, and Enoch shoved himself inside Rebis, but that didn't last. The… explosion did things to their connection.”

"Damnation," Tulveg snarled. "Rebis... He deserved better than this. A death would be more gentle than what they did to him."

"On that, I think we can agree," Shiv said, and he tested something. He noticed how there was a small dot inside the speck there. Subtly, he cast a dark ember from his heart into the vampire and fanned the flames of his anger, realizing he could tap into that.

Another angle of attack.

"He's with us," Shiv said. "We managed to save him, but his current state is dubious."

So far, Rebis and an unknown number of Legends and Heroes were still trapped inside the Educator's tome. Shiv hadn't had the time to talk with her about that, but he was going to have her release Rebis at some point. Maybe his messed-up half-sibling Threshold as well, just to potentially figure out what Udraal was planning.

"Is the vulpine known as Five with you?" Tulveg asked.

Shiv suppressed a grin. "Yeah. You wanna speak to him?"

"Yes," the vampire said without hesitation. "Him and the rest of his cell. If they're there, I will know that I can trust you more." Suddenly, he hesitated. "Are you a Raven as well? Is that why you know such things?"

Shiv laughed. "No, not even close. Frankly, I don't know who I despise more: your kind, or theirs."

“Ah, my kind,” the vampire said with a chuckle.
