It had briefly stirred as if it instinctively sought the source of the disturbance. As terrifying as the concept of being noticed by a possibly deranged Realmlord was, a secondary fluctuation made Zac harden his heart. He actually felt a slight increase in the Imperial Ferit accumulated in his identity seal when the realmgate was briefly exposed.

It was clear his actions aligned with the purpose of the trial and the needs of the Limitless Empire. If his boon wasn’t proof enough, Zac could actually sense a slight increase in ambient Imperial Faith. It was as though Poised Meadow and the Left Imperial Expanse were reaching out to one another. For some reason, the notion made an old memory pop into Zac’s head.

“The status quo isn’t enough,” Zac muttered as he continued into the next stance.

The prospect of drawing the attention of another Realmlord—a Realmlord from the present, who likely still carried crippling wounds from the battle that finished off the Limitless Empire—was terrifying. Last time, he’d managed to escape Kālasūtra by activating Yphelion’s special engine. How was he supposed to escape Poised Meadow’s mistress? The closest memory domain was more than a day's travel away.

At the same time, wasn’t his current predicament the exact reason why he wanted to break through? It had become increasingly evident that the journey to the Hollow Court would take him through the Nine Gardens and Eight Hells, and there was no guarantee all the paths would be hidden from the view of their Realmlords.

The method of breaking through [Void Vajra Sublimation]’s fifth layer was breaking the Earthly Chains. In Zac’s case, these intangible bonds were made from the chains of Authority, connecting him with various old monsters through the Grand Tapestries of his Daos. Shattering them wouldn’t just come with a boost to his life-attuned constitution; it would make him harder to notice.

As though conjured into being by his determination, Zac’s vision suddenly filled with countless intangible chains. Some led to the islands around him, though Zac could tell the locals represented their mistress rather than themselves. Others stretched toward distant realms, toward whoever held the Authority over the truths that made up his path.

Seeing them didn’t automatically mean having the strength to tear them apart. The elusive chains might as well have been forged from godly steel. Each added step contributed to Zac’s momentum, but the vast amounts of Divine Energy he absorbed soon had nowhere to go. [Void Heart] reached its capacity first, then the hurricanes in his cells.

Even his personal Void, hiding at the bottom of his cells, soon showed signs of overconsumption, yet releasing the excess energy wasn’t an option. Poised Meadow’s Primal Life might as well have a mind of its own, and it doggedly crammed into Zac’s body to awaken the stubborn piece of flesh that had resisted it for so long. Zac only barely managed to hold on by having Verun, Haro, and his Draugr half share some of the burden.

Zac knew his problems would be immediately solved if he could just rid himself of the fetters holding him back. Unfortunately, the Earthly Chains still refused to budge. Their resilience far exceeded Zac’s estimates, despite observing them multiple times inside Joyful Gardens. It was as though breaking the chains was to overturn the ironclad traditions shaped by the Cosmic Order. Even the latent wills of the existences seemed to resist Zac’s plan.

Adding to his pressure, the fluctuations coming from the other side of the Realmgate were growing in both focus and intensity. It was only a matter of time before the Realmlord noticed what he was up to—the worst possible outcome, considering she held one of the chains Zac was trying to break.

Giving up would come at a steep cost. He was ready, and his momentum was at its peak. Backing down now would leave a shadow on his heart, making it harder, if not impossible, to succeed in the future. The backlash wouldn’t just harm him; it would probably destabilize the growing C-grade spirit. If it exploded, could Zac even survive the fallout?

He was running out of time, and the only question was whether he’d reach [Void Vajra Sublimation]’s closing sutra or the limits of his body first. The final step was when he’d accumulated the limits of his momentum, his last chance to break the Earthly Chains. Zac knew it was time for a Hail Mary, and he absorbed the enlightenment stockpiled in [Purity of the Void].

Life and truth combined into an answer, and Zac acted before he could talk himself out of it. He flashed forward, solidly stepping inside the teardrop’s inner domain. He was already overflowing with Primal Life, yet his suffering instantly reached new heights. The ambient energy was even more terrifying than he’d expected, which was exactly what he wanted to see.

Zac’s eyes were wild with madness and glee when even the Earthly Chains were affected by Poised Meadow’s whispers of awakening. His Void Emperor Bloodline erupted with unprecedented intensity. It was time to see which came first: his death or the Earthly Chains being transformed into something he could cut apart.
