“Nonsense! You worked hard on it, right? Just like you did with mana sense.” Erick looked from Teressa to Poi, and said, “You both work very hard. You deserve something extra from what we’ve done here, and for what you’ve done for me. I wouldn’t be alive if it weren’t for you, Poi, and your coordination. We would have been blindsided multiple times if it wasn’t for you, Teressa, and your Sighting and sensing of outsized threats.”

Poi looked unconvinced.

Teressa laughed. “I had to find some way to make myself useful.”

Erick frowned a little at Teressa’s self-depreciation. He said, “You’ve been great.”

She shrugged. “If we go to the Core, I need to be better than ‘great’. I’d have to have enough power and ability to rival Killzone, and I am not there yet, at all.”

Erick glanced between his people, saying, “I don’t expect it to be that bad?”

Poi had been looking at Teressa, but he switched to Erick. “It will be that bad.”

“When we find some level 90 monsters down there, we need to be able to fight and kill them. Every single one of us, individually.” Teressa said, “Think ‘Daydropper Queen’ for every single monster with the possibility that we might come across multiples.”

Poi shook his head. “Fight them? No. That is not how it’s going to happen. We’re doing delay tactics and running as fast as we can. We will need Killzone-level of power to be able to do just that much. But we won’t get there with points, Teressa.”

Erick frowned. “I was expecting to kill monsters.”

Poi frowned a little, too.

Erick said, “You know Ava Jadescale, that snake shifter in Candlepoint? She said that the wrought Geodes keep people from going that deep because then there’d be level 90 people walking around all over the place, meaning that the monsters are not that hard to kill.”

Poi said, “Any trip to the Core will cost lives unless the group is small, able to hide from everything, and exceedingly mobile. [Teleport] doesn’t work at that depth. [Teleport] is unreliable anywhere past the surface.” He added, “I never said it before, for it is not my place, but I say it now: Ava was delusional when she said that. Teressa has some of the danger level correct—”

“Course I do!” Teressa said.

“—But you also have it wrong. Our capabilities do not allow us to actually fight anything at the level necessary for us to be ready for the Core, and 25 points isn’t going to change that.” Poi said, “And you don’t need the 25 points, either! You’ve got nearly 250 extra from Erick’s rings; same as me.”

Teressa looked chastised at that. She looked at her hands, and the rings on her fingers. “Ah.”

“Oh! You guys deserve more than that!” Erick said.

Poi said, “I’ll take the Constitution.”

Teressa frowned at everything, and nothing at all.

Erick said, “Teressa. You want 25 points, you can have them. You deserve good things for the good work you’ve done. You want a [Blink] up on the path to being a mage? I will make that happen.”

“No.” Teressa said, “Poi is right about… a lot. I just…” Her voice trailed off.

Poi filled the silence, “We need a lot more preparation before a trip to the Core. Erick could probably do it on his own, but the rest of us also need Elemental Bodies. Getting to the Core isn’t even an option if you don’t have multiples of those. As well as redundancies in all of our spells, and items, and everything else. Food might not be an issue, but we should plan like it will be an issue.”

Moments passed in silent thought.

“I guess I hadn’t given it too much thought until now, but you might be right.” Erick said, “Anyway… Okay. Maybe a trip to Oceanside? They have elemental dungeons there with lots of slimes. That was already on the itinerary, but it could be moved up. I need actual downtime to work on my own aura control, too.” If he was at Oceanside, he’d certainly have to talk to the Headmaster, which might not turn out well, but… It would have to be done. Erick said, “We could each get new Elemental Bodies. You two could certainly use [Lightwalk] and I can help you get [Greater Lightwalk], for sure. Maybe I’ll get [Water Body], or [Stone Body]. Anyway. The cinnamon rolls are done.”

“Ah!!” Teressa practically jumped. She spun around to the oven and pulled out the cinnamon rolls. “Ohh~ Perfect.” She stared at the browned baked goods for a moment longer, her thoughts trailing away.

“If you don’t want the points, Teressa, that’s fine. But you still want Constitution, right?” Erick asked. “You too, Poi?”

“Oh yeah.” Teressa nodded, as she set down the rolls and slathered frosting all over them. “For sure.”

“Yes, sir,” Poi said. “That is one thing that we can do right now, that we cannot get anywhere else.”

“Then, here you go. Both of you.” Erick held out his hand, and a ring appeared upon his palm. Ophiel had made the ring while they had been talking. The ring was large enough for Teressa’s pinky, but small enough to still fit on Poi’s thumb. Erick sat down at the dining table, placing the ring in the center. “Constitution. I don’t feel comfortable letting too much of this jewelry out, though, so your rings are going to stay normal All-Stat rings.”

Teressa and Poi stared at the ring for a long moment.

Teressa said, “I wouldn’t want you to give us this ring permanently, either.”

Poi added, “I agree with this decision.”

Both of the intended recipients went silent, neither of them going for the ring.

Both of them were still apprehensive.

Erick broke the silence, “Bring over those rolls.”

Teressa eyed the tray of rolls in her hands, and then mumbled, “Oh. Right.”

Teressa set the cinnamon rolls on the table, along with three plates.

Teressa and Poi sat at the table. Teressa looked to Poi. Poi looked to Teressa.

Erick imagined what Jane would have said, if she were here. She had already headed off for Star Song before sunrise, so it was just the three of them in the house, at the moment. Erick was both sad and glad for that, for he wanted to ask Jane her thoughts on allocating points, but also didn’t want to have an argument about giving points to Teressa or Poi. Just by guessing… Erick supposed that Jane would have said that people were trying to kill him, not his guards, therefore he needed as much defense as he could get, and he shouldn’t be giving away any of the points he had gotten.

At least Teressa and Poi had decided to get Constitution, though.

Eventually, Teressa asked Poi, “Are you gonna go?”

“You can go first,” he said.

She furrowed her brows. “Okay. Now I’m not sure.”

“… Now I’m not sure, either,” Poi admitted.

“Oh really?” Erick snarked, “I couldn’t tell.”

Teressa scoffed, “It’s a big deal!”

Erick asked, “It’s not that bad, is it?”

Poi rhetorically asked, “You have a question mark on your ‘human’ Status, and you don’t think Constitution is a big deal?”

Erick thought for a second, and said, “No. It’s not that important. What happened to me will not happen to you. You’re only getting one New Stat. You should be fine. Everyone else who got one New Stat is fine.”

Teressa nodded, and said, “That’s true,” as she picked up the ring.

Poi watched, eyes a little wide, as Teressa took off her old ring on her right hand, and slipped the Constitution ring onto her pinky. Erick watched as sunshine yellow spread through the grey of Teressa’s soul, like sunlight flickering behind storm clouds. The moment passed, with clouds turning a bit whiter, a bit brighter, and then settled. Grey returned, but it was a different sort of grey.

Teressa slipped the ring off of her finger, then set it down in front of Poi. She breathed. She said, “You know what? That feels… odd. More solid. Whatever happens, I’m glad the decision is done.” She put on her old ring, and then her eyes crossed, briefly.

Erick winced. Yup. Stat Dissonance. Erick expected that. He said, “That should go away soon enough.”

Teressa blinked a few more times. She breathed, then said, “Oh. Yeah. It’s going away. Okay. There. It’s gone.” She glanced at the air and smiled wide. “Ha! I started off at 21! Didn’t know that was possible. This means 21% less damage taken from all sources, right?”

“Health damage only; but yes.”

Teressa giggled. “Then yeah! 21% less damage taken from all sources, for me! I don’t use a [Personal Ward]. Okay. This is awesome.”

Poi quickly took his ring off and slipped the Constitution ring onto the thumb of that hand. He had much the same soul experience as Teressa, except the sapphire blue clouds inside of him briefly turned golden, and then settled back down to the same sapphire blue his soul had always been. When he changed back to his own ring, his dissonance lasted a bit longer, but he, too, was fine, in the end.

Poi stuck a fork into his cinnamon roll, saying, “Constitution has benefits beyond the Health damage reduction. It helps with—”

“No no!” Teressa asked, “What was your starter number?”

“Unimportant.”

“Bah!” Teressa added, “I already bumped it up to 25. A quarter less damage from everything! That’s amazing.”

Poi ignored her and continued, “Constitution helps against damage, for one, but it also makes everything a bit more comfortable. It’s easier to be out in the blazing sun, or to swim into deep waters. It even allows you to not be bothered by sand in your shoes, or other small annoyances.”

“Oh. That’s why you went for Constitution?” Erick went, “I guess it does do all that, but I never noticed.”

“[Personal Ward]s also do this.” Teressa said, “So it’s not surprising you didn’t notice.”

Poi said, “My [Personal Ward] isn’t always against damage, though, so this is good for me.”

Teressa teased him, “You wanna prepare against a delve to the Core, you gotta make up some new spells, too. Can’t be using your [Personal Ward] for flight.”

“… Maybe.” Poi said, “Whatever the case, Constitution will make being out in the wilderness not so draining.”

“I can’t wait to get back out in the open spaces!” Teressa said, “Camping under the stars—”

“Under the ground,” Poi interrupted.

“We’re not going straight for the Core. We’ll be above ground most of the time!” Teressa asked, “Right?”

“Right!” Erick said, “I have Privacy spells.”

And then the good natured bickering started.

Poi countered how anyone with a mana sense could see [Sealed Privacy Ward], even if they couldn’t see inside. Teressa countered how ridiculously hard it was to find someone out in the wild, and then she added how Erick didn’t count for the purposes of the argument. Erick laughed.

They spoke of different places to visit.

After having two more cinnamon rolls, because he wanted more nice things in his life, breakfast was over. Poi went to bed, because he had spent the entire night awake with Erick. Teressa stayed up, since she had been able to sleep. Erick didn’t need to sleep, though. Staying awake for 48 hours was easy.

On the way to the clan mountain scrolls, Jane called, asking about the night. She didn’t get a chance to talk to him before she was requested for action, though she was getting a break now.

Erick was happy for the distraction. He readily gave her a breakdown of last night, skipping over most of the major details, but talking about what he had seen and how to counter a few mental monsters. Those mental monsters no longer existed inside the Songli Highlands, though.

He also spoke of the dragon attack, and the aftermath of his interactions with the Dragon Stalkers, which was another thing Jane had not been there for. That was another 20 minute conversation.

As for what Jane was doing, she and some other Enforcers of Eralis were getting ready to assault some tangled hydras that had followed/chased some boats into the harbor. The hydras had briefly gotten past the Void Wall, but then the Singers were alerted to the danger, and they sang some special songs, pushing the tangled hydras back into the ocean beyond the Void Wall. The monsters were now camping outside the undersea Void Wall, poking around, looking for breaks in the defensive magic.

‘It’s the second tangled hydra in as many weeks as I’ve been doing this. They’re more of a problem than I thought they were.’

‘You’re good with your prismatic octopus form, right?’ And then, because Erick decided he could handle an argument, he said, ‘I spent 60 points, but I have a hundred and fifty points left, unspent. I want to give you some so you can be safer from mental contamination, and so that you can get a rivergrieve, and be even more safe in the water. I killed a juvenile rivergrieve not a few days ago, but I can get you an adult. They’re out there, somewhere.’

Thankfully, there was no argument.

Jane sent, ‘Nah. Thanks, though. Star Song is trying to tempt me with more points than what you bargained for, so I’ll get them on my own. You don’t have to worry about me.’

‘But I always will.’

After a long moment, Jane sent, ‘I worry about you too.’

Erick smiled, as he sent, ‘Physically, or emotionally? I don’t think you have to worry too much on either account, just like how I know my fears about you are unfounded. You could face anything.’

He must have put too much pain into his thoughts, or maybe the lie was simply too apparent. Jane had heard something in his words, and the conversation shifted in an uncomfortable direction.

‘… Dad. I’m scared all the time. I’m scared for you, and I’m scared for me, and I’m scared about the monsters that live under beds and in the dark.’ Jane said, ‘But I’m also doing a lot of good out there, and that helps me know that fear is just fear, and my anger is stronger. Back on Earth, there wasn’t a lot I could reasonably be angry with. All the problems were problems that you were equipped to solve. It’s a lot easier… Life is a lot easier here, on Veird, for me. But by that same measure, this life is harder for you. And I see what this life does to you, and I fear that you’re burying your feelings, and that’s not something I can power through with anger. You’re ignoring the stress you’ve put yourself under. You’re not ignoring the truths around you anymore, but even that is hurting you. Deeply.’ She added, ‘What I truly fear is that some mistake is going to get made, and there’s nothing I can do if you make a mistake, just like there’s nothing you can do if I make a mistake. I can handle my small, melee problems. But you…But you almost died to a dragon, and now some dragon is out to get you.’

