“Oh, come on, Ryoka. She’s just hungry. She barely eats anything, and little Nerry has a full bowl. Let her have a bit? Why is Nerry so attached to you, anyways?”
Lyonette frowned briefly at Ryoka, but she was distracted. The Wind Runner raised a hand—then gave up and poured some mana potion into a separate bowl. Instantly, the Ashfire Bee crawled over to that.
“There. Both of you get mana potion. Sheesh. Shaestrel, keep an eye on Apista too?”
 
“Yeah, yeah.”
 
The reason Lyonette was so distracted, even from her beloved pet, was because her daughter and Nanette were the center of attention this morning.
There the two sat. Mrsha wore a spare set of  blue robes that Nanette had, and she was sitting next to Nanette, who’d put on one of Mrsha’s kilts with a trendy patchwork, colorful shawl in the same style as the kilt, boxed tartan lines, over a black shirt. They’d even found a beret hat that Mrsha refused to wear.
The two girls held hands as they waited for breakfast, smiling and showing everyone they’d made peace. Both their supporters stared at the two as Mrsha and Nanette became the bridge for peace in the inn.
“They’ve made up.”
Lyonette spoke, staring at Numbtongue cautiously. He frowned, eying her, and nudged Ishkr, who nodded.
“They have.”
Lyonette looked at Mrsha, and Bird glanced over as he walked downstairs and nearly fell flat on his face. Jewel pushed into the inn, looking tired, and waved something at Numbtongue. She mouthed.
“I have the centipedes!”
He pointed at Mrsha and Nanette, and she nearly dropped the sack she was holding. Lyonette looked at Numbtongue, then exhaled slowly. He looked at her, nodded, and they put out a hand. They shook hands—and Nanette and Mrsha beamed in relieved satisfaction.
For about five seconds. Until Lyonette, Numbtongue, and both sides rounded on Nanette and Mrsha. Lyonette raised a finger.
“You two made up? Now? After all the trouble you two caused?”
Numbtongue nodded.
“You can’t dress up and make up. There’s a mess everywhere.”
“There’s itching powder traps all over the inn!”
“There’s a sack of centipedes about to go into the bedrooms!”
“You two are in so much trouble, young misses! You have a long weekend ahead of yourselves—guess who gets to clean up?”
“Us? But you—”
Nanette and Mrsha stared in horror at the evil adults. Their scolding only intensified as the two began to protest. And Ryoka was rolling her eyes and smiling in relief as a door opened and the light of the garden in the morning spilled in.
“hEy. aNYonE sTill FiGhting?”
The most scratched, worn out, and hoarse voice in the world made everyone turn. And then they saw Erin Solstice’s haggard face. But that wasn’t the scary part.
The scary part, as the [Witch] rolled into the common room of the inn, was her hair. It was standing up in parts, messed around by a storm, and had dried into place. She had rings under her eyes, and she smelled like a bunch of alchemical items.
But she smiled. And she was holding something in her hands. A flask filled with liquid that swirled around like a vortex even when she held it still.
Acid green mixed with a swirl of black and white, rotating together in a spiral. It made you feel vaguely uneasy when you looked at it.
And it wasn’t even the full-power version. Lyonette stopped scolding.
“Oh. Erin. Um. Actually, Nanette and Mrsha just made up. Silly them. Isn’t it? Was—was that you laughing last night?”
“No one’s fighting?”
Erin rasped. She looked around, and everyone eyed her. Erin smiled.
“Because if someone’s fighting…I have a tonic to mend your ailments. By killing you. Anyone want a taste?”
She looked around, and everyone remembered the tragedy of Numbtongue. Slowly, they backed up, and suddenly, Mrsha and Nanette? Why, what silly children! But girls will be girls. We had a bit of egg on our faces too, didn’t we? But least said, soonest mended, we’ve put it behind ourselves, and we’ll be right as rain now. Punishment? Forget about it!
The [Innkeeper]’s smile was a bit tilted. She looked around as she bit the cork and opened the bottle. Ryoka Griffin eyed the brew.
“Oh shit, it’s smoking.”
Grey smoke drifted from the bottle despite the lack of heat. Erin stoppered it with one thumb as she looked around.
“But I was sure I saw a lot of fighting last night.”
“We’ve settled it. I’m so sorry you were eating spices, Erin. But it’s all sorted.”
“Okay. But you were fighting.”
“But we’re done! This is all good, Erin. There is no need to be scary. I must now go to the outhouse.”
Bird waved his hands. Erin smiled at him.
“Yeah, but Bird…I remember you were all fighting. So here’s a question. Side Nanette. Side Mrsha. You two made up, right?”
Ishkr, Numbtongue, Bird, Jewel—Jewel was outside the inn and running through the snow, the centipedes running too. She was learning. Lyonette, Ser Sest, Normen, Octavia, everyone gave Erin a nod to say they had mended their ways and made peace.
The [Innkeeper] gave them a happy smile. And side Solstice slowly raised the brew and took a huge gulp.
“Well, now it’s my turn to attack everyone. That’s called a grudge. Hah. Heh. Heeheeheehee–ahahahaha. AHAHAHAHAHAHA–”
She began laughing. But—it was hard to even describe how painful the laughter sounded. Instantly, everyone clapped their hands to their ears.
What laughter! It sounded like—Ryoka had once heard laughter like this in a movie. A crazy clown. But that was just special effects and some good lungs.
This sounded like insanity. This made thoughts—jump—made thinking difficult. And it was uncontrollable.
Erin Solstice cleared The Wandering Inn for five whole minutes. Ishkr threw himself out one of the windows with [Emergency Evacuation], and the rest of the guests ran out, covering their ears.
Five minutes, and the [Witch] was lying on the floor, face-down when the laughter stopped. When she looked up and Ulvama nudged her with a toe, hands over her ears, the [Witch] croaked.
“My throat hurts.”
Ulvama gave Erin a look of vague respect.
“Yah. I bet.”
 
——
 
“I call it a Cackle Brew. I’m not sure if it’s something you drink to attack your enemies with or whether it’s something you give your enemies. It’s a work in progress.”
Erin’s voice was still hoarse after all that, but she could at least get that much out. Everyone went back to breakfast, a bit shaken up by Erin’s newest creation.
“But Erin, I don’t understand. By the way, breakfast? Ishkr found a cask of blue fruit juice, so we’re having the last bunch this winter.”
Lyonette poured Erin a cup, and it soothed her throat instantly. The [Innkeeper] brightened up.
“Hey, that’s great. I’m feeling a lot better. Now, have we all stopped fighting? We’re all friends here.”
Erin looked around at the guests of the inn, and they glanced at each other. Erin Solstice had come in with all finger-guns blazing. Numbtongue leaned on a table and frowned at Mrsha and Nanette. Lyonette sniffed as he brushed at her skirts.
“You didn’t need to be so aggressive, Erin. That was practically Kaazian or something Taimaguros would do. I’ll have you know that it was never about the girls. Well, not entirely. I certainly didn’t start anything.”
“You didn’t? You’re the worst one!”
Numbtongue shook his fist at Lyonette. Several members of team Nanette nodded, and Lyonette made a scoffing sound echoed by three [Knights]. Ser Dalimont just rubbed at his forehead wearily. Erin’s face fell. Then her lips compressed.
“Come on, guys. Lyonette, have a drink.”
She poured the cup for the [Princess], and Lyonette hesitated as Mrsha and Nanette groaned. Ser Dalimont looked at Erin, and she gave him a sunshine smile as he opened his mouth. He slowly closed it and looked at his fellow Thronebearers. Then he folded his arms, looking resigned. Lyonette turned to Erin with a false smile.
“I am just stating facts, Erin. But we’re all calm—even if some of us are prone to being unreasonable.”
“Or stuck up [Princesses] who like bossing everyone around and think they know what’s best.”
Numbtongue muttered under his breath. Octavia kicked him. Erin said nothing, but her lips were compressed slightly in vexation. Lyonette was glad Erin wasn’t reaching for more Cackle Brew. Hurriedly, the [Princess] sipped from her cup.
Or rather, she looked at the cup and hesitated for a good second.
“Wait a second. Is this cup unwashed? It looks dirty to me.”
Erin blinked a second and peered into Lyonette’s cup.
“Whatchu talking about? Looks clean to me.”
“No, I think it’s dirty. I swear I can see bits of dirt in it. Ishkr, can I get a second cup?”
Lyonette was just about to get a second pour when Numbtongue called out.
“Ooh. Look. She’s too good to even drink blue juice with a bit of dirt in it. She’s got to waste the last stuff we have.”
Lyonette’s head snapped up. She took one huge gulp of blue juice instantly and glared daggers at Numbtongue. Then she grimaced.
“Nevermind, Ishkr. Although—eugh. Either there was something in there or it’s the cask itself. Is your cup good, Erin? I’m afraid mine’s gone bad. Why did you make your brew, again?”
Erin sipped from her blue juice, face neutral.
“Eh, mine is good. I just made it because…well, laughter’s the best medicine, right, Lyonette? But medicine can also be deadly. And laughter is the cure to fear. Which means it can probably hurt someone.”
Erin-logic was hard to follow before you had your coffee. Lyonette signaled for some as she suppressed a burp. Nanette peered into her cup and slowly pushed it back.
“I have to go to the outhouse. Mrsha, let’s go.”
Erin smiled at Nanette and looked at Lyonette.
“I think it does something. After all, that was one gulp. And I can make it even stronger.”
“Dead gods, Erin. Better? I—hic—excuse me. I—hic. Hic. There’s something in my throat.”
The [Innkeeper]-[Witch] spoke cheerfully as Lyonette took a deeper gulp of her drink, grimacing, and waved for some water.
“Right, and I’m tired and a [Witch]. So I didn’t get the real effect. Plus, I put everything into that brew. But I wonder what comes out if you haven’t had a good cackle?”
“Erin, you’re not–hic–making any sense. I–Heh.. Ohohohohohohoho–you–hahahahahaHEHEHEHEHEHEE.”
Lyonette began laughing. It started as hiccups, then a polite giggle. Then it grew louder and shriller. She stared at her cup, and the blue juice…which barely masked the swirling brew. And it couldn’t hide the taste.
Everyone turned and stared at Lyonette. The [Princess] covered her mouth to muffle the sound. But this time, it was building within her. She looked around desperately—
“[Emergency Evacuation]. Everybody out—”
Ishkr touched his chest—jumped to the window—and Erin’s portal door opened, and the [Head Server] went through it. He popped out of the air and onto his back in the middle of the common room. He stared up—and Erin winked at him.
“You’re part of the inn now, Ishkr.”
“Wh—Erin?”
Ryoka tried the door to the hallway. It was locked. Erin Solstice looked around as her guests tried the windows, realized they were locked, and stared at her. She smiled happily at them.
A big, happy smile.
“Erin, this isn’t funny.”
“I think Lyonette thinks it’s hilarious. Show them, Lyonette. Oh—and one more thing.”
Erin Solstice stared around as Calescent covered his ears. Mrsha and Nanette were staring through a window in horror and relief they weren’t there. Erin Solstice gave everyone a happy smile.
“This is for the death-spice.”
Then the [Portal Door] opened under her wheelchair and spat her out of the inn. After a second, it grabbed Ulvama, who went through with a shout of surprise.
No one else was spared. Lyonette’s eyes bulged—then she threw her head back and started laughing.
 
——
 
This time, the laughter took out half the inn. Anyone over Level 30 stayed conscious. But despite Erin’s reinforced inn, the laughter cracked two windows and everything made of glass that wasn’t in a cupboard.
It wasn’t eardrum bursting. It was a combination of mental and physical. It had shattered all the plates at the table Lyonette sat at.
The [Princess] was lying on the floor, exhausted, after four minutes when the laughter finally ceased. Everyone else was either passed out or in the furthest corner, covering their ears.
The worst part was that Lyonette had [Detect Poison]. But she hadn’t realized her Skill was letting her know the drink had been bad since she’d never needed to use it before. And Ser Dalimont, who had also noticed, had weighed tipping Lyonette off versus the wrath of Erin Solstice. He was shaking his head as he knelt on one knee and Erin rolled past him, making a show of checking on people.
“Alright. Anyone else want to start fighting? Because if we want to do this, I’m fighting everyone and I can do this all week. Tessa, you’re on my team. So is Gothica and Ulvama. I give you full permission to get nasty.”
“Ooh.”
The [Goth] poked her head up from under a table and her eyes lit up. But to her great disappointment—the sides were done. So Erin turned to the Named-rank adventurer. She had earplugs in and she was removing them calmly, unfazed by the damage.
“Hey, Tessa, how did you rate that?”
“Pretty painful. Good way to clear a room without killing everyone.”
The Named-rank adventurer popped into view as Erin, being pushed by Nanette as Mrsha held open the doors, rolled back into the inn. Erin smiled.
“Good. I’m still not sure of the final product, but Cackle Brew is a go. Everyone stopped fighting? Also good! Take an hour off, guys. I’m gonna get some sleep. I was working on this all night.”
Erin rolled away in the silence as the two girls who had theoretically started all this looked around at people massaging their heads or picking each other up. And this wasn’t even the full version?
The very good girls, determined to sit there and do nothing contentious at all, froze as a hand grabbed each by the shoulder.
Then Erin Solstice smiled.
“Oh. And since you two got out of the laugh-zone, why don’t you do the shopping for the day? Tessa will watch over you. While you’re there, see if my Ashwheat has arrived from Imani and Palt? Then you can clean the cauldron out. It’s in the garden.”
Nod, nod. Nanette and Mrsha nodded. Do the shopping, get the Ashwheat, clean the cauldron? Sensible work. An honest day’s work.
Mrsha had always said that there was nothing to life like doing chores without remuneration. That was the principle by which Nanette lived.
The two hurried out the door as some stragglers came in. Menolit, for instance, walked in, took one look at the collapsed people and the chaos, and turned right around.
