The following events took place during the month of winter quiet, including dancing lessons, a cold war between two girls, a Gnoll learning how not to fall, and more.
 
Some days, life kicked you in the face. And you thought that sucked, like a bucket hitting you in the face while you were drawing water and your best, traitorous friend, Nanette, laughing at you if you were a white Gnoll.
Or you were a certain City Runner turning over a new, positive leaf. But you just happened to get in trouble for turning in the wrong denominations of gold coins. They weren’t all weighted the same, and you were being accused of swapping coins around so you turned in the lighter ones and kept the heavier ones.
Or you were a fun fellow to be around, a confidence man, a [Trickster], not a scam artist, and you really didn’t deserve to have a death-squad set fire to your apartment. With you in it.
So, when life kicked you in the face like that, you reeled and perhaps took it on the chin. You complained, you scowled—
Then life drop-kicked you in the groin. It didn’t matter what gender you were or if you even had gonads of any kind. It still hurt. And when you were on the ground, like the white Gnoll girl putting too much death-spice in a plate to get back at her worst enemy—the plate got served to the [Innkeeper] instead, and she died, and it wasn’t your fault.
Or you, the innocent City Runner, Persua, found out that someone was investigating you for previous complaints about supposed sabotage of fellow Runners, and you had a ‘record’—again, unfair.
Or, as a young man climbed out of the soot and ash of the building where he’d used an emergency wand of water to prevent himself from dying, he ran for it and someone shot him through the leg.
That was when you and life had a personal grudge. And you thought, ‘well, this is a bad day, but it can’t get much worse’. And then—you looked up as you were lying on the ground, and life had fifteen friends, and they had spiked clubs.
That was when the little Gnoll girl caught herself in a fight with Nanette as two sides of adults shouted at each other, and she got a bloody nose and scratched up Nanette’s face. And that was when Persua heard that she was under investigation—and the investigator was Mihaela Godfrey, and she was to report to the Haven now.
That was Rickel dragging himself to an [Underground Healer]’s, no longer laughing, no longer having a good time, and being told he could get treatment but no potions. And realizing he didn’t have any either because everything had burned up in the fire. And the [Healer] took a look at his leg and the crossbow bolt in it, checked their notes from the Last Light’s tutorials, and said they hoped they figured out the stitching technique.
That was a bad day. Sariant Lambs knew it because they had those kinds of bad days all the time. The sound you made when life kicked you in the stomach was not a scream of defiance or even a cry of pain. It was, at that point—just a noise you made, like the sound Nanette made when getting hit in the stomach by a flying headbutt from Ekirra.
Hubwigh.
 
——
 
During the month of winter, not all things were good and pleasant. True, it wasn’t ‘Creler eggs in your cereal’ unpleasant—it was just two kids fighting.
The snowman incident had evolved. Why were they fighting? Well, neither one would back down. But the adults could recognize a bad fight, and so they got together.
Lyonette invited Numbtongue, who was backing Nanette, over for a cordial chat after the second day of hostilities. This was before the Erin death-spice incident. The day before, actually.
“My, they haven’t stopped fighting for two days straight! Nanette’s going around telling everyone how mean Mrsha is, and Mrsha’s been attacking Nanette with beavers.”
“Yeah, that was pretty funny.”
Each girl was using their specialty. Nanette was rallying public support, and Mrsha was rallying the troops. But the [Bard] and [Princess] thought that it could get worse.
“My sisters, you know, get this bad. There would be years of fighting and feuding. All this silly escalation—we can end it now, can’t we, Numbtongue? If I am counting right, it’s Calescent with you, Jewel, Normen and Alcaz, Liska…”
“Mhm. But you get Ishkr and Bird. And all the [Knights]. The Antinium…”
“Yes, but you have all the Goblins.”
Lyonette’s acquaintance with Pawn meant the Antinium backed her implicitly. Numbtongue was a Goblin, and Goblins went with their own. Ishkr had decided to check Nanette, so Liska had joined the opposing side.
In truth, Mrsha, as the older resident of the inn, should have enjoyed unbridled support, but she had grown complacent. Her cuteness had long reigned alone.
A new era was coming. Yet it needn’t be one of strife. Numbtongue sipped from some coffee. It was late, but gaming on the laptop never stopped. Nor did the fun. The ‘fun’ in his case was either going to be seeing if Garia wanted to get into a fight after her training or seeing if Salkis had snuck out of her home.
Lyonette was just having some decaffeinated tea, courtesy of Eloise. She wished Numbtongue had joined her. Tea and coffee was like Nanette and Mrsha. They were on the same side, really. Dreamers in search of caffeine when they woke.
“I appreciate you taking Nanette’s side, really. Both girls were naughty. Mrsha shouldn’t have overreacted, and Nanette shouldn’t have been so…well, petty.”
“Mm. Silly fight, and then they make up.”
Both smiled at each other. Numbtongue nodded to the relieved [Princess].
“Let’s get them to be friendly again. It was a good lesson for both.”
“Agreed.”
“Mrsha just had to learn she couldn’t keep getting away with things, though.”
That was when Ser Dalimont, standing with his hands folded behind his back, winced. The [Princess] paused for too long, and her voice rose slightly.
“Excuse me? Her get away with ‘things’? Get away with what, pray?”
The negotiations were beginning to break down. Ser Dalimont had heard the like before.
“Could—I get a snack for anyone, Your Highness? Bard Numbtongue?”
“Nothing for me, Dalimont. What did you say, Numbtongue?”
He raised his brows.
“What I said. She does this all the time. Sometimes it’s funny, but she picks fights with bears. Sometimes the bears eat her.”
“Name one time!”
“Belavierr. The Meeting of Tribes, all of it. Fetohep. My laptop. Nanette’s the latest…”
Lyonette’s eyes grew wider with each passing second.
“None of that was her fault! She was defending Rufelt and Lasica, she was a Doombearer hunted by Gnolls—it’s not your laptop either, Numbtongue!”
The problem was the representatives. Numbtongue and Lyonette did not always get along. The Goblin’s eyes narrowed.
“Oh yeah? Even if it wasn’t her fault, she’s smug. Sassy. Sometimes someone needs to dunk her head in the well. She hurts people’s feelings and gets away with it because she thinks she’s cute. Remember her stealing food?”
“I cannot believe you. You are the last person I want to talk to about propriety. You—triple throne-hopping fan-collector.”
That was a Calanferian insult. Ser Dalimont hurried out with a pair of cupcakes.
“Perhaps we could slow down, Your Highness? Mister Numbtongue. A cupcake?”
“If Princess Lyonette eats something so uncouth, sure. Or is she going to lecture me on how to eat a cupcake?”
The [Princess] stared at Numbtongue, and her eyes narrowed.
“It seems someone must. Because for a [Bard], you have no notion of how other people feel.”
His eyes narrowed. He didn’t like her assertion. Numbtongue ignored Pyrite and Reiss, the voices of reason. He turned his head to Shorthilt, listened for a second—then flipped the cupcake onto Lyonette’s dress.
The icing slid down the front of her dress. The [Princess] gasped. Ser Dalimont, the failure of a bodyguard, deflected the second cupcake and got his charge to safety as she shouted insults at the grinning [Bard].
The death-spice incident occured the next day.
 
——
 
Hubwigh.
The sight of a Gnoll boy cannonballing into a young witch’s stomach was either funny or painful, depending on whether you were a terrible person with the empathy of a raisin or not.
Needless to say, Shriekblade nearly laughed herself out of concealment. Several members of the inn were also laughing themselves silly—but the fighting was actually not that pleasant at this point.
The adults were nastier than children could ever dream. Bird had been putting wormy birds under all the enemies’ pillows. He rubbed his hands as he emerged from Nanette’s rooms, having wormed multiple foes. Octavia, another Nanette supporter, was not going to enjoy the dead bird he’d put on her slumbering back when she rolled over.
But he halted in the second floor hallway as someone emerged from his rooms. Or rather, four people.
Goblins.
Peggy, Sticks, Picker, and…Bird peered at the fourth Goblin. She had a maid’s uniform on. Unlike Sticks and Picker, both male Goblins who were slightly troublesome for Rags and good, if not committed workers, she wanted to be here. Her class was [Maid]. Her name was Ressga. She was waiting for the Skills where she got to throw knives.
“Wait. What are you doing here? That is my room. You are not allowed in there.”
In reply, Peggy gave Bird a huge smile.
“But you are helping other people so much. So we help you, yah?”
Bird hesitated. Then he brightened up.
“Oh? Is there a dead bird in my room? How sad. How sad.”
He turned until his back was facing them and rubbed all four hands together.
“The fools. Another good lie! Heh. Heheheheheh.”
Bird then turned to face the Goblins and gave them an innocent smile. But who was the fool, Bird? Because the big smile the Goblins gave Bird made him hesitate.
“Wait. What did you do to my rooms?”
“We cleaned them.”
The Goblins walked past Bird. He stared at them—then threw all his hands into the air as he rushed inside.
“No. Noooooooo—”
 
——
 
If you thought that was cruel, when Ser Sest had tried to tattle on Nanette, someone had wired the door to Numbtongue’s mining site in the High Passes and not let him back through. Liska. Liska had done that.
Kevin made the mistake of being team Nanette and bit into a Garry-made mealworm pie. In retaliation, Joseph organized Liscor’s entire soccer team to have practice right outside the inn as Lyonette tried to put on a quiet, refined tea party with some friends. Later that day, Joseph was attacked by some beavers who extorted him out of his pants.
Octavia added itching powder to Ser Lormel’s armor.
Erin Solstice died of spice-death. Which, as Goblins could tell you, was a terrible way to die.
 
——
 
Her mouth was still on fire and her face was puffy as Ulvama laughed at her during dance practice. Erin Solstice scowled.
“Stop laughing.”
“Or what?”
“Or I’ll tell that lot you’re on Mrsha’s side and you’ll be part of it.”
That drew Ulvama up for a second. She, like Erin, had stayed out of the turf war. One would have thought she’d take Mrsha’s side, but the [Shaman] knew a problem when she saw it.
“Ooh. Good answer. You’re being more [Witch] every day.”
“Thanks.”
Erin Solstice was another neutral party currently being hit by friendly fire from both sides. She glumly got up to do some dancing. Ulvama had not asked why Erin didn’t just defuse the fighting. The [Innkeeper] might have been able to—but the [Shaman] gave her a side-long look as they did some jumping-jacks to warm up.
“You don’t want to stop them from fighting?”
“I want them to stop on their own. If I’ve gotta do it—Nanette and Mrsha were so buddy-buddy I thought they’d never fight. But Mrsha’s fought with Ekirra before. He lost—but she felt bad about it. She’s fought with Visma. I gave Ryoka a flying elbow two days ago. Fighting lets you make up.”
“True…but what if they don’t stop? Then it’s like Garen and Reiss.”
Erin nodded stiffly.
“Yeah. That’d be bad. If it keeps going, I’ll settle it without taking sides.”
“…How?”
The [Innkeeper] was counting the days to what she thought the Winter Solstice was. Her days of relaxation were not pointless. She glanced at Ulvama sideways and, through puffy lips, muttered.
“I destroy both sides and salt the ground.”
Not even a flicker of hesitation. If the Titan of Baleros could have heard that, he would have teleported himself into her inn with a rose. And the [Innkeeper] meant it. She wiped at her face as she felt her body getting tired—but slower than before.
“Alright, what’s our first dance, Ulvama? Also—you promised to share your magical recipes, remember?”
“Oh, right. You doing something witchy?”
Erin Solstice’s eyes flashed slightly.
“Just a pet project while I’m waiting on an Ashwheat delivery.”
She was a [Witch], after all. And she had not made use of many of her other class’ abilities. But Erin Solstice had decided there was some utility. She might not be able to compete with Imani, but she could cook her own brand of food. And yes, it might be less edible, but it was magical. And no one had ever said [Witch] brews were supposed to be tasty, right?
 
——
 
“[Basic Brewing]. Let’s toss in [Wondrous Fare] because it boosts everything. [Infuse Witchcraft]. Well, what’s the point of infusing food? I guess I’ll save that for something else.”
Erin Solstice was running down some Skills she had later that night. The inn was…quiet.
There was a lot of scheming abounding. And no one wanted to be out.
If you were on either side, the other side had a target on you, and you might run into a trap. But if you were one of the few neutrals left, like Relc or Bezale or, ironically, Ryoka Griffin, you did not want to be seen as being on one side or the other.
So Erin had the run of her inn, and at the moment, she was making a fire in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
She might be too tired to do anything but roll around in her wheelchair, but a bag of holding and the ability to use her [Portal Door] in imaginative ways let her collect most of what she wanted in moments.
And what she wanted was firewood, the big cauldron—it fell through the floor and nearly brained Erin as it landed in the grass.
“Whoa! I could kill myself like that! Okay. Damn, it rolled over. I wonder if I can infuse witchcraft into a sword? But why would I?”
She was thinking hard. About…enemies. And about how the heck she’d be able to confront them with her limited resources.
The sword in the stone would work—but anything short of that was worthless. A legend of Chandrar had not left a scratch.
But sunlight had. Ideas. Ideas like loaves trumped magic, which was why she hadn’t convened Pelt and Hedault and tried to buy a weapon.
