“I’m down for islander fare. Though I will say—Baleros can’t be beat for some of its spices. What if we did, um…Gazers?”
Imani gave Palt look.
“Do you know their city? Any city? The region? If not, get a map and we’ll do it in four days.”
“Give me one second! I’d love to know…map, map. Excuse me, girls.”
Palt trotted around, and Mrsha and Nanette, justifiably wary of a Centaur with four left hooves, let him clatter about, pulling out a map. They were entirely curious as they peeked at the crate, and Imani put her hands on her hips.
“Oh, you two little spies! Are you here to steal my recipes? And here I thought Erin of all people would hold back!”
“No! But we are curious. Miss Imani, what’s this about countries? Are you using a Skill? Can we see?”
Imani sighed. But she was proud, so she explained. Mrsha and Nanette’s eyes went round as they clustered around the crate.
After all. It was ready for Imani’s best capstone Skill, as soon as she and Palt settled on a country.
And she was a Level 35 [Otherworld Chef].
It had taken a while for Imani to find her feet after the trauma of arriving in this world. Magnolia Reinhart had not helped there—though she had with the grief and mental anguish. Erin’s inn had been the start, but finally, after starting her own business and meeting Palt—
Imani had begun stepping into the next level of her own career. She wasn’t chasing Erin Solstice by far, yet. But her rate of levelling had still eclipsed all known speed, and she was going strong. It already put her as one of the best [Chefs] in Liscor, hands-down, and she could have walked into Pallass and Invrisil with respect.
Her Level 30 capstone Skill had also been her class consolidation, and it was therefore a doozy. For reference, Erin Solstice had gained [Field of Preservation] and [Magical Grounds] at Level 30, two Skills that both turned her inn into a free, fully-preserved area and made it magical enough to run the portal door.
Imani had gained only one Skill. And as she and Palt argued, they eventually came to a conclusion.
“Gazers might eat bugs. Or worms or something. I don’t know, but I have heard they eat some ingredients raw.”
“Well, then we’re not doing that. I will not be cleaning that up, thank you. Morocco? New Zealand? We can go more specific?”
“What about…well, what about that place with excellent meat?”
“Turkey? You just want to do more barbecuing with your favorite customers.”
“Iran?”
“…I could do that. I’m honestly curious. Okay, Iran. Where’s our list?”
After some consultation, the two found the list, wrote ‘Iran’ on there, and Mrsha and Nanette saw they’d done a number of different places. They had written…
 
-Nigeria. (Good for home cooking!)
-Hostole Plains. (Too many oats. Palt’s home is banal and must import too much. Hurtful, my dear, but possibly true.)
-Khelt. (Wow! AMAZING option! So expensive!)
-Thailand. (Street food! Sell this to the vendors!)
-Springwalker Village. (CERIA EATS BUGS. BUGS. I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST HER.)
-Samal. (It’s good and fine and has a lot of contrast, but why did we get a key?)
-Nombernaught. (Sushi and seafood options galore!)
-London. (No…)
-Iran.
 
What on Earth could it mean? Mrsha was scratching her head, but Nanette’s eyes lit up. Then she saw Imani put her hands over the crate and saw the ingredients.
There were cuts of meat, local venison, a sack of flour, salt, a few local spice-varieties, herbs, even a jar of Gnollish fish paste. Yellats, apples—it was a complete spread. As if Imani were trying to get a bunch of generic ingredients. Because her Skill—the [Otherworld Chef] spoke with great excitement as Palt danced on his hooves.
“[Ingredients: Cultural Shift!]”
And the bin changed before their eyes. Mrsha began choking on her viennetta as she saw the glass jar of salt turn pink.
“It worked! It’s a good one! What is that salt?”
“I knew it. Himalayan salt. Oh, dead gods. It’s the trendiest—it’s just pink, Palt. Stop dancing or you’ll step on my foot again! But the spices…oh, I think we’ve got to make a curry. I knew freshness mattered!”
Imani was not a fan of the salt, which was very popular in her world, but she was all over the spices. In fact—she slowly pulled out a small bag, opened it, and smiled.
“Saffron! They must either have enough of it or—it’s the jackpot, Palt!”
“Free saffron! Wait, wait. What was it labeled as?”
“Um…oh! Some of Wailant’s spices. The good stuff. So we have to put in good materials to get good results.”
“Checks out. How’s the meat?”
“…I don’t know what it is. Goat? It’s not impressive. I told you, we’ll put in a huge box of steak, do Kobe, Japan, and hope for Wagyu.”
“It cannot be that good.”
“I wouldn’t know. I’ve never eaten it! Come on, help me sort through the box.”
The two [Chefs] were all over the ingredients, sorting, cross-referencing them—and Mrsha and Nanette finally got what the Skill did.
It changed them to local variants! Mrsha ran around, sniffing at the box in delight! You could get food from any country in the world! Any one you wanted!
Now the worry about any group that ate bugs or something nasty made sense. Imani was telling them about how she’d experimented—and levelled—like mad after getting it.
“All five of my new levels come from this. We did a few more countries before we took a list, but it was generic. ‘America’ just gets you…all of America. You have to get more specific if you want to make sure you get something good. Also, I was given an entire jug of corn syrup.”
“Have you gotten many good spices and foods, Miss Imani? What did Khelt give you?”
“Nothing but the finest. Old Fetohep really does buy the best. Apparently Khelt imports so much that the ‘national food’ really is imports. In other countries, it’s often what they grow. We’ve had a lot of winners. A few duds.”
Imani was nodding. She pointed to another bin mostly untouched.
“I did an entire spread for London. Four pounds of Calescent’s best spices. And guess what it turned into? Salt, pepper, and vinegar.”
She sighed. Mrsha peered into that box and pulled out a packet of preserved, salted cod. She tossed it back in sadly. Then she pulled out something odd.
“Wait, what is that?”
Nanette had never seen such a colorful object in her life. Imani hesitated.
“That’s wrapping paper. It’s not chips, Mrsha. It’s just fries. They call it chips over there.”
An entire package of…‘chips’ from a supermarket in a plastic bag was in the box. It was still frozen because Palt had enchanted the box to stay cold like a fridge. She stared at the nutrition label on the back and looked at Imani. The [Chef] shrugged.
“I have no idea. I hope I’m not stealing the food from some store. Oh, Palt! We have got some of the good rice, turmeric, a lot of chickpeas over there—I think this is another keeper!”
“Well, my darling Earther knows her countries. Even if she places too much faith in the United Kingdom.”
Palt trotted over to her, and the two kissed. Mrsha gagged, pretending to throw up into a bin, but Nanette watched the two smiling and flirting—before they noticed the children and told them to go back to Erin.
“And not a word to her, got it? I’m going to surprise her, but knowing Erin, she’ll make me get food from her home. And make…ice cream sandwiches or pizza with stuffed crust or something completely banal. Imagine wasting an entire bin on frozen pizzas and hot dogs? Americans.”
Imani’s blatant food discrimination might be a bit too mean, but she was aglow with pride and accomplishment. And food. Mrsha’s mouth watered, and she reflected that Erin should have never let Imani run off with this prancing Centaur. Calescent was very good, but he was taking over the inn and not an Earther.
Imani, like so many, was advancing fast.
 
——
 
“I heard there was a new dessert available in my walk through Liscor. You wouldn’t happen to have a small cake I could purchase, would you? Not for myself. But a certain young woman is a bit down. Lots of pests gnawing on her while camping and whatnot. I would like to cheer her up.”
Demsleth hurt Erin without intending it. But he was a good guest at the moment. He sat at a table as Ryoka first met with Klbkch—but he kept shooing away a pair of Gnolls.
“Where is she? Is she eating well? Is she safe?”
“I think she’s quite well. Thank you, Spearmaster. That will be all.”
Lulv sat down. Demsleth pointed a finger, and Lulv popped out of the inn. He reappeared, and Bird raised his bow.
“Oh, it’s just a falling Gnoll.”
The Gnoll raced back into the inn and this time popped back into the air again. Bird waved at him as Lulv and Ferris fell down. The [Infiltrator] landed hard and groaned. Lulv just got up, ran back into the inn—
The third time he reappeared, he was buried up to his neck in the dirt and snow just outside the outhouses. Erin stopped rolling towards an outhouse, pointed at him, and laughed.
“This is why I let you into my inn. Get Gnomed, sucker. Gnomes laugh at you. No, wait. I can do better. Welcome Gnome…you look stupid.”
 
——
 
While Demsleth nibbled on some Yellats, he glanced over at the young woman making him wait. Ryoka Griffin was talking to Klbkch, and the Slayer had abandoned Relc for a moment.
The Senior Guardsman was a bit hearing-impaired after the laugh-attack, and Klbkch had once again been accosted by Workers and Soldiers. He sat by a fireplace as Ryoka patiently ignored Nerry kicking her and Shaestrel rolling her eyes.
“More stories from my past? Very well, very well. I did once encounter a sonic-based attack. Perhaps it was laughter, but it was so loud it would literally shake your insides and kill you.”
“How did you defeat it, Revalantor Klbkch?”
Rosencrantz scooted forward on his butt, and Klbkch paused dramatically.
“Why, I flooded the entire tunnel by breaching a wall. My theory was that the pressure and water would destroy the enchantment.”
“And did it?”
A longer pause, and Klbkch sipped from some blue juice.
“…No. In fact, the sound travelled through the water, and I think it killed hundreds of thousands of fish. That was the first time I met a Drowned Person, I think. I had kept coming back because I was unable to enter the water—and I saw a group of four individuals breaking the magical enchantment for me. They left quickly, and I cannot believe it was easy. But I must assume the sound travelled a great distance underwater. When we closed the gap in the seawall and dredged the water, I think we recovered enough fish to supply one of the Combat Hives for two months.”
Ryoka exchanged a look with Shaestrel. Klbkch’s war-stories were dubious, ethically, but he was certainly open about his time. In fact, Ryoka suspected there had to be at least a few representatives of both north and south writing down all his anecdotes.
Well, here went nothing. Ryoka leaned over as she signalled to Nerry to deploy the localized privacy spells. There were a bunch of Workers and Soldiers near her, but no one else, and Shriekblade had come back with Nanette and Mrsha, so she thought they could get away with it.
“Klbkch? Would you mind telling me about how Antinium…got the ability to level?”
He gave her a blank look as Nerry sat up.
“Got the ability…to level?”
“I assume you had to gain it, right?”
Ryoka Griffin was gambling on the fact that Klbkch was one of the oldest beings in the Antinium’s entire history. He had known the First Queen. If any being knew the secret—it was him or Demsleth.
But Klbkch gave Ryoka the blankest look in creation.
“—Every species levels, Ryoka Griffin. Every sentient species. With the exception of…Dragons…one presumes.”
He slowly turned, and Demsleth got up from his chair and began to edge over to the private conversation. The Antinium looked from Ryoka to Klbkch, confused as the Wind Runner frowned.
“No, but—does that mean when Antinium were first created, they were able to level? Can you explain some of that for me?”
Klbkch put his chin in his hands, looking intrigued.
“A strange question, Ryoka. But I will answer. No, the Antinium were not always able to level. The first ‘Antinium’ were far more primitive, and Queens warred with each other. The First Queen was the uniter of all, and when Antinium fell under her governance, her Hive became the center of reason and True Antinium. They were the ones who were able to level.”
“Ah. But what was that factor? Were you there? What was the—announcement—like?”
Nerry was vibrating, but Klbkch gave Ryoka an even more puzzled look.
“Announcement? Why would there have been one? We were able to level. I would know. I was there.”
“You were? Did you wake up one day and just level?”
Klbkch paused.
“Functionally, one supposes so. I recall gaining levels a number of cycles after my creation. Let me think. I was created when we only had one Hive. By the time we had thirty? Fifty? That was about it. This is an odd question, Ryoka Griffin.”
His head swung to Shaestrel and Nerry, and whether or not he could tell what Shaestrel was or knew Nerry’s secret—and Ryoka doubted both—he was intelligent. But he seemed genuinely confused.
“So…you don’t remember a thing? Did the First Queen ever talk about it?”
“Why would she talk…about something that needed no discussion? It is not like we knew of levels before we were able to level. Nor…afterwards did we need to know why.”
Ryoka frowned at Klbkch, mouth open slightly.
“Huh? You didn’t question it?”
“Why…would we?”
Klbkch’s blank look was intensifying, but the rate at which he was speaking was slowing down. Nerry was staring at Ryoka intently, and Shaestrel was muttering swear words.
 
“Ye secret keeping shites with your poking of the…too much. Even if it is yer power…”
 
Ryoka looked at Shaestrel and felt a sudden tinge of unease. The same reflected in Klbkch’s eyes. But the regular Antinium were growing restless. One whispered loudly to another.
“This is a bad story.”
“Yes, I agree. The Wind Runner is bad at asking for stories.”
“Hello, I would like my turn, now.”
One waved an arm as Demsleth sidled through the privacy spells. He sat down, and Klbkch and he exchanged one look fraught with dislike. However, Ryoka wasn’t done.
“—If you don’t know about how you levelled. Then—tell me about towers. Did—did the Antinium ever build a tower, Klbkch?”
The Antinium sitting there all looked at Klbkch dubiously. Ryoka’s question seemed like an uninteresting one, but Klbkch did sit up then and snap his fingers as if in sudden relief.
“Towers? What a curiously stupid question, Miss Ryoka. Why would we echo that kind of egotistical design, underground?”
