“This has gone way too far. Why are we fighting?”
F-forsooth. I felt bad when you got hit.
“And I felt bad when I punched you in the nose!”
Nanette, I’m sorry. It was my fault for being petty. Like a real Terandrian noble.
“But I’m older! And I’m a witch! Can we make up and fix this?”
Both girls nodded and hugged each other. This war had done nothing but hurt both sides. But how would they fix this? Someone had to. The adults were all stupid.
 
——
 
“Damnit, is everyone plotting around here? I bet it’s Erin in the garden. Let’s try the basement—”
Ryoka tried to find a quiet spot in the basement—right until a shadow shouted in pain.
“Off my foot!”
Ryoka leapt back, and Gothica hopped around in a circle.
“Sorry, Gothica. I didn’t see you there! It’s your fault you’re invisible. You’re too good at hiding.”
A patch of the wall spoke up right next to Ryoka and Gothica.
“She’s not that good.”
“Gaaaaaaaah!”
This time, Ryoka and Gothica leapt back, screaming, and Shaestrel dove into Nerry’s fur. Shriekblade looked slightly pleased as she appeared. She slowly uncrouched from her spot, and Ryoka pointed at her.
“What are you doing here? Er—Shriekblade?”
“Hiding. I’m not taking sides in this war thing, and Lyonette wants me to prank someone. I don’t prank. I stab. Don’t tell anyone I’m here or I’ll stab you.”
“Got it! We were just leaving. Um…”
Ryoka backed up the stairs quickly. Gothica held up a middle finger at Shriekblade experimentally. It worked well on Demsleth, Erin, Magnolia Reinhart…the Named-rank adventurer eyed the middle finger.
“What’s that for?”
Gothica lowered the finger, feeling embarrassed.
“Nothing. Sorry.”
 
——
 
“Is there anywhere private?”
Ryoka Griffin ended up standing in the snow outside the inn, shivering despite the coat and boots she’d put on.
Nerry had it even worse. The lamb vanished into a snowdrift and came out spitting snow and shivering. Shaestrel grumbled, and she was shivering, arms folded together as snow came down.
 
“This is stupid. ‘Tisn’t as if the inn isn’t warded. Let’s risk prying ears and just use yer rooms.”
 
“Can’t you ward them with something, Shaestrel?”
 
“Oh, sure. Let me just pull all the magic I have into a spell that works under your stupid rules. Because that’s what I get to have here. Magic in spades. Notice how my form is also so mighty? Or maybe I’m weak as a puppy and can only work in my element.”
 
“But you’re still a fae.”
 
“Aye! And ye see all the bloom and flowers and crap? My power is weak! It’s winter! I’m cold!”
 
Above her, a few Winter Faeries who were as yet not known to Ryoka were flying around, sprinkling snow in places. They came and went and seemed to be just having fun. Or perhaps just trying to literally freeze over certain places.
 
“Hah! Shaestrel’s lost her touch! She never was good at snow! She just had to come through in spring!”
“Shut up, you lot! You worthless pixies, go off somewhere else. Eat sh—uh oh.”
 
The downpour of snow covered the front door of the inn, and when Ryoka, Nerry, and Shaestrel collapsed into the hallway, the snow literally blocked the front entrance.
“Well, that’s the first time I’ve ever seen one of the fae get their ass kicked by one of their own.”
 
“Shut up, Ryoka.”
 
The laughter had gone quiet as Nerry, Shaestrel, and Ryoka, thoroughly defeated and cold, got back to Ryoka’s rooms.
Nerry was disgusted at both. She set about putting down the ward-stones that Ryoka had been given and checking the room for cracks. She put a blanket by the crack in the door.
“We’re already warded, Nerry. If someone breaks through the spell, I don’t think that will muffle us.”
The lamb was so annoyed that she had to write a reply. It took her longer than Mrsha, but her writing was more economical. She took the time to get across some salient points.
“Idiot. Ward spells don’t block wires. Wire under door and sight spell. [Rogues] can put tube under door too.”
“Oh. Clever.”
There was an odd balance between the three. Ryoka was an expert on Earth and some other things. Shaestrel was a magic, mythos, and fae expert. But Nerry was actually the most knowledgeable about this world.
Unfortunately, the lamb was incapable of doing much, so Ryoka was the mind of the hapless vessel Shaestrel and Nerry had to work through.
The fae seemed content with how things had been going, but Nerry was not. She was a mad ball of spite, and she would often follow Ryoka around, kicking her in the ankle or being darkly amused at everyone’s ineptitude at best.
She had every reason to be, really. That bad day that Mrsha and others had had?
Imagine being a Sariant Lamb. At best, they were pets. At worst, monsters who didn’t appreciate their charm would devour them, and they were a conscious species living in mortal terror of being found out, unable to easily manufacture tools or advance out of a primitive stone age without stealing. In some places, people ate them.
Sariants had tried. But hoof-based tech was just—cumbersome. There was a reason why Earth’s predominant species had digits and opposable thumbs.
Well, actual sheep or goats would have still had a lot better time than Sariants. They had just been built too small to do much. Their one hope, as mentioned, was the Trials of Levelling.
But as Ryoka was learning, the solution was far from easy.
“Alright, sorry, Nerry. We wasted a bit of time, but at least we learned Mrsha and Nanette are burying the hatchet. That matters a bit.”
Nerry rolled her eyes, and Ryoka persisted.
“No, it does. I mean what I say. We’re spending time here gearing up and trying to introduce people to one another, but that’ll help your people and my goals. If I can get Tyrion to sit down with an Antinium or Goblin—that’s something. Erin Solstice’s inn works literal wonders, but only when things are good.”
“Fine, true. It is why we wanted her help.”
Nerry allowed. Ryoka sat down and reviewed the scrolls that Nerry and her people worked so hard on. She had been provided with a lot of info, and she was right now…understanding more of the Trials of Levelling.
“Okay. I get the Tower of Sariants issue. The highest you guys have ever gotten is two hundred feet?”
“214.4. It counts for us.”
 
“Odd. I never knew it did that.”
 
Shaestrel muttered. The…system or whatever governed classes apparently kept tallies on the Sariants. It was not in constant contact, though; since they did not level, it essentially had a kind of ‘report’ that would generate every year on their progress to their goals.
Ryoka was rubbing her head.
“It’d be so easy if we could only do one of these. Alright…tell me about the other trial. The Respect of Species?”
Nerry glumly indicated a scroll. Ryoka picked it up, and her face turned into a gigantic wince instantly.
“Oh my—and you guys did six? Wait, this is amazing, it’s over half-done!”
Nerry gave Ryoka such a sour look that the Wind Runner lifted her hands.
“I know, I’m—and there aren’t many people at all! Dead gods.”
 
“Let me see. Let me see. I don’t see what makes it so hard. Explain it to me?”
 
Shaestrel flew over to stare at the scroll, and Ryoka tried to explain.
The second trial, the Respect of Species, was arguably easier than the first to the naked eye, at least on a practical level. But as Ryoka read the exact wording, she had to think that this would have been far, far easier in another age.
 
<Trial of Esteem — The Respect of Species>
To justify yours is a group worthy of its place amongst the other species, receive the respect and accolades of the worthy. An individual must, without coercion or influence, genuinely offer one or any number of your people the sincerest token of personal gratitude, admiration, respect, envy, or fear.
Awe no less than [10] individuals capable of levelling to fulfill this task. 
 
That sounded really reasonable, right? Sort of like one of those old-fashioned rules that said you had to have a certain number of representatives to start a club or start a petition. In this case, it was dependent on people with levels.
It would be really, really simple for even Sariants to do that.
If not for the next part.
 
Each one of the ten individuals must be at least [Level 57] or higher.
 
The Sariants had wept tears of blood when they’d heard that. Level 57? How many people in this world were there that counted? From their time of genesis, they had worked on that one. That was one reason why they tried to become pets of the rich and powerful.
High levels arose at the heads of kingdoms or gave rise to them. And they had diligently pursued that goal.
In this time, they had managed 6 out of the 10. Very promising. But Ryoka’s heart sank at the prospect of getting four more.
Then again, she thought of Larracel. Was she over…?
Valeterisa?
Um. Well, Erin knew Niers Astoragon, and he had to count, right? That was at least helpful. But the problem was—how did you get genuine respect, awe, fear, or anything for a Sariant? Their perception as pets did not help.
“How did Sariants do it the first time? Or with the others?”
Nerry wrote for a while, and she had an ugly smile that made Ryoka suspect she was not going to enjoy reading it.
“Saving their lives works. But we can’t set it up. The first one we accomplished before we even knew about the quest. That was Eydol.”
“Ah. Say no more.”
“She feared us before she died.”
“Please, say no more.”
Ryoka Griffin shuddered, and the lamb spat, looking pleased. Ryoka had higher hopes about all this. Right until she reached for the scroll and read the last quest.
“…Oh, come on.”
Shaestrel floated over, read, winced, and nodded.
 
“Aye, there it is. I told ye, those six bastards and all the rest never played fair.”
 
<Trial of Growth — The Unsurpassed One>
To win the right for your kind to grow beyond their mortal limits, hear these words, worthy one. You of all your people must achieve what is impossible by any member of your species naturally. You must create, in body, spirit, or magic, what lies in the realm of Skills. The foundation of [Flurry of Blades] is unsurpassed motion and ability that cannot be replicated by mortal hands. Create a single concept worthy of a Skill and you shall usher your people forward.
 
Erin Solstice had told Ryoka Griffin about the origin of blade-Skills. And she had cited the traitor of Elves, the greatest warrior in the lands of the dead with a blade, as the foundation of those.
Ryoka looked at the Sariant Lamb. Nerry stared back at Ryoka and kicked her in the leg. And yes, it hurt like the dickens, but there was a world of difference between that and—[Ankle-blasting Kick].
Because that was a copy that scaled with your level. But the real thing? Ryoka Griffin exhaled slowly.
“There’s no way. I mean—it has to be magic. Do Sariants have mana?”
 
“About as much as you have in one leg at most.”
 
Shaestrel muttered. Ryoka sucked in her cheeks. She stared ahead and wondered how they were going to manage that. Nerry gave Ryoka a searching look.
 
——
 
The lamb waited for despair. They had put their burdens on other levelless people, the Sariants. Some had been kind. Others, opportunistic or uncaring.
A few had needed to be killed before they endangered everything. But even the best-intentioned had just flailed around without a plan. Some had helped with the first task, the Respect of Species, and they would be remembered forever. The second, the tower, was ironically probably the easiest to solve, and the Sariants had tried to accomplish the first and last before they tackled the tower. That would be doable—but the effort might expose them.
Far better to know the last could be done. Yet it was the last that made them despair the most because the issue was simplest and hardest to grasp.
Hubwigh. The sound of life hitting you when you were down. Hope without a chance. It was probably the sound that defined Ryoka’s life, of walking around the corner into a sucker punch.
But you know what? If you got hit enough like that—you eventually learned to walk around the corner and punch life in the face before it got the first shot in. Ryoka Griffin opened her eyes, slowly, and looked at Nerry.
“Well. I don’t know about the Respect of Species—and I think we should ask for hints about the tower and…the rest. Tomorrow, I’ve asked to talk to Demsleth and Klbkch because I think both might have…clues for us.”
Nerry nodded. It had occurred to Sariants to ask the species they knew to be new to the world, like Antinium and Stitch-folk, how they’d done it. One had to assume they had done it.
Asking a Dragon was just common-sense if you could find one. But Ryoka was running her hand through her hair.
“As for that last quest…that’s a stinker, for sure. I don’t know where to begin. I don’t think you’d be able to create a new martial art even if we, uh, got you started. We’ll think on it. Shaestrel?”
 
“I…dunno if she can learn a thing. I could think on it.”
 
The Spring Faerie was uncertain. Nerry closed her eyes and exhaled. One quest would be appropriate for her lifespan. But then Ryoka Griffin hit expectation in the balls with a kick.
“…But for now, you’re lucky that we have a healing potion shortage and not a mana potion one. I’ll buy as much as we need, and we probably need a lot less given how much you weigh. It might get you killed, though, Nerry—but I do know how you could get enough mana to cast magic. Although…you can’t use traditional spells, I bet.”
Say what now? Nerry opened her eyes, and Ryoka Griffin remembered something Teriarch had once told her. There was a way to expand your mana pool. Shaestrel and Nerry looked at Ryoka with open mouths.
Ryoka Griffin smiled evilly…then shuddered.
“Dead gods. That laughter really is spooky.”
 
——
 
The next day, Ryoka Griffin put a bowl down at the breakfast table, and Nerry lapped at it, made a face, but kept drinking the mana potion. The Wind Runner watched her anxiously, and Shaestrel did too. She’d promised to see if Nerry was about to kill herself with excess mana potion drinking, but the truth was that it was going to be an unpleasant, long process that would strain Nerry’s body either way.
The same way Ogres had learned to give themselves spellcasting abilities, it was like enlarging your stomach by eating too much—or just like how someone built muscle by tearing it and forcing it to grow and get stronger. It wasn’t going to be easy, but the lamb never hesitated.
The one problem Ryoka had was having to keep pushing away a nosy bee.
“Apista, shoo. Shoo! Lyonette—can you take your bee away?”
