Ryoka turned red as the Antinium laughed at her—but Klbkch waved them to silence and lifted a finger.
“Curious—but not inaccurate. I remember one time when the Queens sent me looking for resources. Do you recall the gemstones I located in an earlier tale? Well, they had me retrieve the entire vein. Tens of thousands of Workers to quarry them and other, rarer materials. Useless marble. Quarried stone, and we could not repurpose the existing materials at all. Only once did we build an obnoxious tower in our Hives. I cannot understand why the Queens wanted it, but the First Queen allowed it to happen. Such a waste of energy. Then we knocked it over.”
The Antinium listened respectfully, then looked at one another. Rosencrantz raised a hand.
“Is that the end of the story, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“Yes. The most useless building the Antinium ever made.”
Klbkch sat back and helped himself to a plate of Erin’s new chicken tenders as the Antinium muttered. Ryoka, Nerry, and Shaestrel looked at each other. The lamb was so tense Ryoka could have used her like a mace.
The Antinium were not impressed.
“This is another boring story. Miss Ryoka should not be allowed to ask them.”
“Three out of ten. I would like to ask a story now, please.”
“—When was this, Klbkch?”
Ryoka refused to let it go, and one of the Antinium threw a piece of Garry-bread at her head. It bounced off a shoulder as they booed her. But Klbkch just shook his head, also looking exasperated.
“I do not recall the details, Ryoka. It was entirely unimportant. Your talk of levels is—I am sorry, I have stories to tell.”
He turned away from her. Then stopped. Klbkch looked at Ryoka and Shaestrel, then focused on Nerry. And for some reason, Klbkch, who shared his food with no one, not Relc, not Mrsha, slowly pushed his plate over the table.
“…Your lamb looks hungry. Have a snack.”
Nerry blinked at the chicken tenders, then picked one up in her mouth and began to crunch it down. Lyonette looked horrified at the carnivorous Sariant Lamb, but Ryoka Griffin was already looking to Demsleth.
 
——
 
Teriarch, Dragonlord of You Know the Rest, sat in his Human guise at his table. He effortlessly blocked a number of scrying spells, including one he recognized.
That damn Wyrm again. He wasn’t annoyed; this was a decent break from his training, but the line of questioning exasperated him.
“Miss Griffin, levels are levels. Some species gain them, some do not. It is a matter of factors that…”
He hesitated.
“Well, in truth, it always seemed to me to be about balance. We, Dragons, are far too powerful to gain levels. We would rule the world…and we already did at many points.”
“So you don’t know about any…secrets about levelling? Did Dragons ever build towers?”
The poor girl was having a bit of a mental episode, it seemed. He’d known a number of people like that. They got into vehicles, got obsessed with aesthetics or building huge edifices or the highest tower…the Dragon sighed, but humored her.
“My dear. You have seen my Dragonthrone. We build everything. Have we built a tower? Yes. I remember one in a Dragonthrone. Ridiculously high. It must have been eight hundred feet, made out of precious gemstones, Adamantium, even the bones of our kind. Magic in some places—all in a Dragonthrone. A true edifice to hubris.”
“Is it—where is it?”
He exhaled over a drink morosely.
“Lost. Destroyed in one of our wars, I believe. A Tier 8 spell hit it and broke the enchantment. All but two or three Dragonthrones have been lost, remember?”
“Why was it built?”
He gave her a confused look. No, a puzzled look. No, a confuzzled look. What were these questions about? Teriarch shook his head.
“My dear, why do children build sandcastles on beaches or people in snow? I think you had better reflect on why you’re drawn to tall, vaguely phallic objects. It’s all conditioning, you see. A respect for height is a completely Human concept. Fraerlings don’t respect that sort of thing. Neither do Selphids.”
She was so stunned that she didn’t say a thing as he patted her on the shoulder. Teriarch leaned back in his seat and shook his head.
What a silly question. What a…
He fixed on a little lamb staring at him with such desperate eyes that the Dragon paused. Ryoka said something else.
“What was that, my dear?”
She gave him an anguished and, for some reason, frightened look.
“I said…didn’t you hear me? About Nerry.”
“What about her?”
The Dragon gave Ryoka a puzzled look. She sat back, white-faced and looked at the annoying faerie. And Shaestrel looked nervous; the lamb looked sad.
He didn’t know why, only that Ryoka gave up trying her silly requests after a minute.
“I’m—sorry to waste your time, Teriarch.”
“Not at all, my dear.”
He should have been annoyed. The Dragonlord felt that in most circumstances, he would have been quite annoyed to come here and be bombarded with pointless nonsense. But for some reason…he wasn’t.
Perhaps he was just in a gracious mood today? That was it. Demsleth got up—then paused.
“Your lamb looks underfed, as Klbkch said, Ryoka. I say, server? Get her something nice to eat. And you should get her to a proper [Pet Carer], Ryoka. Fluff the wool, get her hooves shined, and all that. Here.”
He put a handful of gold in Ryoka’s palms and nodded at Nerry. Then Demsleth walked out of the inn. Before he undid his fake clone, he felt sad for a moment.
And he couldn’t have said why.
 
——
 
The answer was unspoken, but it was there. Ryoka Griffin had never been more shaken than when she sat down and Ishkr brought Nerry a milkshake.
“Something happened.”
 
“Oh, aye. But even that Dragon forgot it. We play with deep secrets, Ryoka. Deep ones at the core of it all. That bug-man is ancient of days, and he was there. And he forgot.”
 
Ryoka’s head swiveled, and Shaestrel stared at Klbkch. The Antinium was back to telling stories, but every now and then, he would glance at them.
“Nerry? What do you think?”
The lamb had been in high emotional distress ever since the first time Ryoka had broached the subject. But at length, she calmed down and looked at Ryoka.
“We know they did it. They did it. We will too.”
That was all she wrote. Nerry looked at the Antinium, then Ryoka, and the Wind Runner nodded slowly.
“Well then, I think we had better start working on what we can do. Finding people with levels and brainstorming how to do the final test. I’m going to loop that into Erin’s goals too. I can go places, even if she can’t, and Hedault…well, hopefully we can hit all three in one go.”
Dryad seed, Sariant Lambs, and fighting the six. Nerry glanced at Ryoka sharply. She didn’t understand the six entirely, but she got the gist.
“Where are you going to go?”
Ryoka Griffin was looking around the inn. Erin Solstice had come back, and she was laughing, if somewhat hoarsely, and making plans for her bread. She caught Ryoka’s eye and waved. The Wind Runner smiled, if somewhat warily, and looked at Nerry and Shaestrel.
“For now? Nowhere. Hedault’s still working on my stuff, and I have a dinner date to plan. Maybe I can get Klbkch and Tyrion to eat a meal together?”
 
“That seems stupid.”
 
“Yeah. But the month remains.”
Ryoka Griffin looked again at Erin and then out the window. The snow was falling. She saw the door open and glanced over.
“Hey, it’s that Gnoll again. The one who flies? He keeps visiting the inn. Do you think he hates me? I think he hates me.”
“Plenty of people hate you. It’s fine.”
Nerry wrote, and Ryoka looked self-conscious. Then shook her head.
“I’m staying till the end of the month. At least. And in two months…I will either be here, or far away from the inn as I can be. Whichever is safer for everyone.”
“Why?”
Nerry frowned, but Shaestrel slowly nodded. She looked at Erin, who had made her Cackle Brew and was upgrading her Shadow Loaf. Ryoka absently felt at her side.
“Hedault better have my Faeblade done by then. He’s not permanently enchanting it…why, Nerry? The Winter Solstice comes dead at the end of the fourteenth month of the year. Halfway through winter. I’m going to be here for that. Then we’ll see.”
She and Erin traded another look, and of all the people in the inn, Ryoka Griffin understood why Erin was working hard.
Dance, dine, fly, and live with little kids like Mrsha and Nanette enjoying food and cuisine from around the world.
But when the Winter Solstice came…Ryoka Griffin tried to make the most of this month off. Because it might be the last one before nothing was ever the same again.
