“What it’s made of…” Jamus trailed off, then gasped, staggering. His eyes had gone wide, staring at a book that only he could see. “What...?” he said, licking his lips as he reached up to run a finger down an invisible page. “This is…”

“The same enchantment I made for Rain, yes,” Tallheart interrupted before Jamus could name the material. He hummed to himself in satisfaction.

And in one ring slot, not five, with additional supporting runes, and in a significantly smaller piece of jewelry. It is refreshing to have proper materials once more.

“How delightfully vague,” Staavo grumped. “Since when do you make anything for anyone other than the wonder couple, anyway?”

Tallheart turned to look at him, then blinked slowly.

“You know what I mean,” Staavo huffed. He tapped his metal foot against the ground, then snorted. “Your apology isn’t even enchanted, not that I’m ungrateful, and those resistance rings hardly count.”

“You sound ungrateful,” Meloni observed, drawing a few hesitant laughs. Everyone in Engineering had set down their work after the commotion, and they were now all watching with keen interest.

“Thank you for this, Tallheart,” Jamus said, sounding overwhelmed. “I’m honored.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, nodding to him. “You are welcome.”

“Any chance you’d be up for honoring anyone else?” Staavo grouched, placing a hand on the hilt of the disgrace to metalwork that was his sword. “Us humans don’t want the Adamants to get us either, you know, and a few upgrades would go a long way. Obviously, you are well-aware of what they do to awakened that aren’t theirs, and obviously, we aren’t going to use what you give us to go deer hunting or anything, so stop being fucking stingy!”

Jamus gasped, grabbing for the old man. “Staavo!”

Tallheart looked around at the humans, hiding his amusement. Their expressions varied between anger toward Staavo, awkward embarrassment, and poorly hidden hope. Clearly, many of them agreed with the old human’s position, even if they would never be so crass in how they expressed it. In truth, Tallheart had already made up his mind about this before returning to the surface.

Forgive me, Lilly.

He blinked slowly, keeping his face impassive. “I will have no time in the coming days, and I will not work for free, nor for just anyone.” He paused, rumbling deeply as he enjoyed the way the humans were hanging on his every word. “However…” He paused again, really dragging it out. “I am now…hmm...open to requests.”

Emerton hadn’t expected to wake.

And yet, here he found himself, mounted on a placid mule with the morning sun pressing against his sensitive eyes. They were veiled by a thin layer of gauze, but the bandage was sheer enough that he could still see. The healer had said the sensitivity would pass. Said he’d make a full recovery. And that no payment was necessary.

Emerton reached up with one gloved hand to rub at his neck as he grappled with the memory of the horrible wound. Supposedly, there wouldn’t even be a scar. Around him were his friends, the loyal retainers of house Sale, armed and armored. Jasu stood beside him, Emerton’s oldest friend in more ways than one. The aged warrior was holding the mule’s reins in one hand and a crossbow in the other. The weapons had not been taken from them, despite how keenly Ascension desired them.

Lowering his hand from his neck, Emerton touched the small pouch at his waist once more, hardly believing what was in there. Inside were accolades. Three of them. His great grandmother had never acknowledged the rumor of their existence, but when Ascension had cracked open the family vault, there they had been. Even more amazingly, Ascension hadn’t taken them for themselves, nor anything else they had found in the vault. They’d…returned it all.

To him.

The company’s following offer to purchase the accolades had done nothing to resolve his confusion. Ascension clearly wanted the plates, but they hadn’t just taken them. It was inconceivable. Awakened weren’t like that. None of them. Not nobles, not Guilders, and certainly not those employed by the Bank. Not even the Watch would consider giving up such wealth just because an unawakened had a claim.

And yet.

Emerton squeezed the pouch tightly, feeling the metal plates slide against each other within. He still didn’t know whether he was going to sell them or not. It wasn’t something he’d wanted to decide overnight. The rest of the vault’s contents had been easy to part with. He’d kept the Tel and coins, selling the weapons, armor, and everything else Mlem would buy on Ascension’s behalf. The mustachioed merchant had even given him a surprisingly fair deal.

A murmur ran through the crowd around him, and Emerton stiffened. Not far ahead of him, on a hill at the very center of the circular formation, stood the captain. The armored man was silhouetted by the rising sun, the first sun of the new year. Through the haze of the gauze, Emerton saw that Rain had raised his hand, his fingers splayed wide.

Another wave of confused thoughts swept through Emerton as he took in the armored figure. He shuddered, remembering the horrible flash and the burning agony, unlike anything he’d felt before. Then he remembered the warmth of the blood dripping down his neck, the pain of the cut not nearly so sharp as the knowledge that his great grandmother, the woman who’d raised him since he’d been old enough to remember, had tried to kill him.

Tendrils of anguish grasped at Emerton’s heart as other memories came. Memories of her decline. He had simply refused to see it, not until he’d been made to. His blindness to her growing insanity could have been his end, as well as the end of all those under his command. Ascension hadn’t killed his great grandmother. That woman died years ago, not all at once, but gradually, leaving behind only a deadly and bitter husk. Rain had merely ended her suffering.

“Lord Sale?” asked Jasu, making Emerton inhale sharply.

He looked down in disbelief. “What…? What did you just call me?“

“The lads and I talked it over,” Jasu said, giving him a fatherly smile. “We think it was what she would have wanted, had she not…you know. I know it was what your father wanted, El guard his soul in the heavens. As far as any of us are concerned, the house is yours. You did as much to keep it together as anyone.”

Emerton shook his head. “There is no house, Jasu. Not anymore. I’m no lord.”

“So just take the name, then,” Jasu said, looking back forward with a shrug. “Emerton Sale. Sounds like a good name to me, even without the ‘lord’.”

Emerton closed his eyes, fighting tears that had nothing to do with his injury. “It does.”

“Brace for Velocity!” Commander Vanna cried out.

Emerton looked up, seeing her on the hill beside the captain, who was no longer standing. He had mounted a palanquin, carried by two of his followers, one of them a man with arms like a blacksmith, the other a spindly youth with striking red hair.

The palanquin was neither laziness nor entitlement, Emerton knew. Word had spread that for the captain to do what he was about to, he would need to remain in some kind of trance for the entire day’s march—awake, but without any of his senses. It sounded like torture. It was also why everyone had been arranged into a circular formation rather than an orderly column.

The crowd shifted nervously, and before long, Emerton felt...something...settle over him, his every movement becoming ever so slightly easier. Beneath him, his mule flicked an ear, but it didn’t otherwise seem too bothered by the magic.

“Huh,” Jasu said, stumbling as he took an experimental step.

Emerton gripped the horn of his saddle tightly as the mule took a step after Jasu. The speed boost they were experiencing was supposedly one in twenty. As everyone grew more used to the spell, the plan called for an increase to one in ten, then to one in five, and then perhaps even higher.

Emerton got the feeling that even then, the captain would have still been holding back.

He looked up just in time to see Commander Vanna slash her hand downward. “Move out!”

The sun was setting as a group of gray-cloaked figures entered the abandoned fortress beside the chasm. The glass ceiling did nothing to hide them from the emerging stars as they walked to the center of the largest room, stopping beside the table that stood there. It bore a single blank sheet of paper, left for them by the subhuman. Otherwise, the room was entirely cold, empty, and impossibly, unnaturally clean.

Red twilight glinted off the hilt of a knife as the lead figure’s cloak shifted. A gloved hand reached out, picking up the blank page and turning it over. There, on the other side, was a drawing of a flower.

A lily.

The cloaked figure set the page down where it could be seen, then stepped back from the table to join the others. Together, eight masked faces looked up through the glass.

Awaiting their next orders.
