Ameliah tsked, hearing a tiny click as the mechanism in the padlock shifted. Letting the shackle fall open, she removed her picks and set them down on the table. The crude lock was too easy for her now. Her stats and the enchantment on her gauntlets made manipulating the tumblers trivial. It couldn’t even serve as a distraction.

She sighed, sitting back. She was supposed to be resting, but she couldn’t sleep. She didn’t know how anyone could. It also didn’t help that her boosted stats had left her struggling with insomnia ever since Tallheart had crafted her equipment. She’d been awake just as long as Rain had, but her body felt fresh and unfatigued. It was her mind that needed rest.

Reaching up, Ameliah ran her fingers through her hair, wishing for the warmth of a proper bath. Perhaps that would have been enough to help her relax, and perhaps not, but either way, wishes were meaningless when there was no hope of them being fulfilled. She sighed, thinking over the whirlwind of preparations she’d participated in that day.

Her role had been constant watchfulness, including frequent patrols. Other than that, she’d also spent an hour in which she’d loosed gods knew how many arrows helping Corrin collapse as much of the passage to the depths as they could. It wouldn’t be enough. Perhaps if Rain had taken Shear before returning to the surface, rather than Fulmination, they could have done a more thorough job of it, but there had been no way for them to have known this would happen. As it was, their only hope was that the Adamants would see the collapsed mineshaft at the bottom of the crack and not think to delve further. If they realized what was down there, she had no doubt that a few fallen rocks wouldn’t stop them.

Ameliah shook her head, then extended a hand, resting it palm-up on the table. Into it, a tiny tendril of slime placed an even tinier crystal.

“Thank you, Dozer,” Ameliah said, pinching the Tel with two fingers on her other hand, then depositing it next to the six others that the slime had brought her since she’d been sitting here.

*pop*

Despite the tension in her neck and the seriousness of her thoughts, Ameliah smiled. She flipped her hand over, then began using it to pat the slime.

Dozer wiggled happily, luxuriating in the attention for a few seconds, but then he squeezed himself out through her fingers to ooze to the edge of the table. The minuscule slime dropped down with an equally minuscule splat—off to find her more presents, she was sure. She didn’t know whether Rain had put Dozer up to the task, or if the adorable blob had decided to do it on its own.

Dozer’s seen me gather Tel with Attract before. Maybe that’s why.

She snorted, watching as the slime squeezed out through the gap in the door.

Where is he getting them, anyway? Someone’s pocket?

With a shrug, Ameliah picked up the lock again, then sighed and set it back down. She leaned back in her chair, rubbing her eyes. Tomorrow, they would march. She was ready, though she wasn’t looking forward to providing stamina to just under eight hundred people.

Straightforward logic said that people could expend one hundred stamina per day without running themselves into the ground. It wasn’t that simple, of course, but regardless, they’d be pushing much harder than that, setting a blistering pace that would have seen everyone burned out completely by nightfall.

To sustain that kind of speed, Ameliah planned to provide each and every person with an additional one hundred stamina per day, doubling their natural regeneration. Spring would have been the best way to do it if she’d had the range, but she didn’t, not without jeopardizing her build. That made Energy Well the only practical option, given that she could just use it at night on smaller groups. Eight hundred people, plus two hundred or so animals, made one hundred thousand stamina per day. Basic math.

The stamina would start out as Rain’s mana, of course, merely converted by her and distributed to the masses. The issue was, one hundred thousand wasn’t a small number. For her, it would mean a fair bit of discomfort, at least until she got used to it. As for Rain, he said it was just ‘Tuesday.’ Apparently, the days within each week were given names instead of numbers where he came from. Regardless of the foreign saying, it was clear enough what he’d meant. For a Dynamo of Rain’s level, that level of mana output was perfectly reasonable. He just needed to be careful because of his condition, especially with the other things he was planning on using his mana for.

Ameliah closed her eyes and sighed. Her relief that Rain seemed to be recovering warred against her concern that he was just headed blindly for the cliff again. He assured her that he wasn’t, and while she wasn’t convinced, she didn’t have the experience to contradict him. Her progress with her soul had been non-existent. Every time she felt like she was getting close, the darkness would close in on her, and then memories of her past would well up and shatter whatever serenity she’d managed to achieve.

Damn it.

Ameliah reached up, brushing her hair aside to touch her forehead. Her armored fingers found only smooth, unbroken skin. There was no evidence of the twisted monster she’d once let herself become.

I promised I’d tell them, but with the Empire after us—

No. The longer I wait, the harder it will be. Tomorrow. Once we stop for the night.

If we’re all going to die when the Empire catches up to us... I need them to know.

By the sound of things, Rain was still fighting. He’d stopped screaming, but the crackle of lightning had only grown stronger. He was growing stronger, even more rapidly than she and Lerith had. The difference was, Rain wouldn’t let the power corrupt him. Wouldn’t let it blind him. He was already incomparably more powerful than she had been back then, but where she’d been ruthless in using her new strength to save herself at the expense of others, Rain was already doing the opposite. He didn’t need to have his eyes opened. Not like her.

What he DOES need is someone to stop him from hurting himself.

Getting to her feet, Ameliah glanced at the bed, then picked up her helmet from where it sat atop the covers. If she couldn’t sleep, there was no point in trying. She could at least make herself useful.

Working carefully, Tallheart traced his Telscribe through the air above his anvil, inscribing a spherical shell of runes in empty space. A faint scratching followed the motions of the enchanter’s tool, despite it not making physical contact with anything, but this small noise was lost beneath the clamor of the argument that was raging amongst the humans. It was Staavo on one side, Meloni, Myth, and Reason on the other, and Jamus in the middle playing diplomat.

In addition to being loud, Engineering was also packed. Not including Tallheart and the arguers, there was also Ellis, working at the smelter, Shena, standing at a workbench and sanding something, and Romer, tucked away into a corner where he was studying the runes they’d discovered in the ancient human’s den.

There were many things to be done before the sun rose, not the least of which being destroying Engineering and all of the equipment that they wouldn’t be bringing with them. It was not time for that yet, however, so everyone was trying to finish as many of their projects as they could before then.

Tallheart hummed to himself, focusing on what he was doing, but also keeping one ear on the discussion. It was a fascinating topic, after all.

“I’m telling you, you’re wrong!” Staavo shouted, his volume somehow rising further.

“Staavo,” Jamus said scoldingly, “There’s no call to get angry.”

“I’m angry because they aren’t listening!” Staavo snapped.

“You’re the one who isn’t listening,” Meloni snapped right back. “Didn’t you hear what Reason said?”

“Bah!” Staavo said, then did a passable imitation of Reason. “He who expects to see the workings of magic shall find them before him.” He barked out a laugh, returning to his normal tone. “What does that even mean, eh?”

Myth sighed. “It means that you are dismissing the mundane explanation. Limit Spikers are Rellagian weapons. Just because we cannot determine—”

“Yes, yes, you’re a failure as an alchemist,” Staavo interrupted.

“Staavo!” Jamus protested. “Seriously? Do you want people to hate you?”

“The dog that knows least, barks loudest,” Reason intoned solemnly before releasing a distinctly unsolemn shriek. “Eeeaahh!”

Tallheart paused, the tip of his Telscribe hovering in place as he glanced over. He swiftly hid a smile, seeing Meloni grabbing Reason by the ear. “You’re not helping,” she said as the black-jacketed man struggled to escape.

Tallheart snorted in amusement, then returned to his work. He was almost finished aligning the shells, and it would not do to make a mistake now.

“We might not be skilled enough to determine how the explosive was made, yes,” said Myth calmly, though there was a current of anger in his tone. “But that doesn’t mean we don’t know what we’re talking about. We are from Rellagia, not that you cared to ask. You might have heard how the monarchies feel about awakened in their lands, but we have lived there and felt that truth. You should listen when we speak.”

“So?” Staavo said. “I’ve read books, and I know enough. The monarchs are awakened, and so are their courts. They could have made them.”

“Books,” Reason said with a scoff. Tallheart glanced over to see that he’d gotten free from Meloni and was rubbing at his ear.

“Tell me then, oh expert,” Staavo said mockingly.

Reason sighed. “Our knowledge of the weapons is second-hand. They are not something that is available for purchase on any street corner, and their manufacture is shrouded in secrecy. That said, there are strict rules concerning what the monarchies can and can not do. If Limit Spikers are magical, it would require collaboration between the major countries to control their production. Even a non-Rellagian will agree that the prospect of that is near ludicrous. Limit Spikers are an equalizer, said to have been developed in the third Mage War. Their use is now restricted to defense against foreign powers and against the few members of the Guild that are granted permission to set foot on the continent, should they exceed their bounds.”

“Finally,” Staavo said, exasperated. “He speaks normally. And admits that I’m right.”

“I did no such thing,” Reason replied.

“Mage War,” Staavo said in a sardonic tone, misappropriating Rain’s air-quotation gesture. “Emphasis on the word Mage.”

“Perhaps they were developed by an alchemist originally?” Jamus interjected before anyone could punch anyone else. “Could the original design have been magically developed, but made to be constructed and operated by those without magic?”

“That is precisely what we have been saying,” Myth replied. “The residue has no lingering traces of Crysts, Tel, or any of the common compounds that are derived from them. I have never heard of a mundane explosive with such power, but there is nothing to say it is not possible.”

“Well, why didn’t you just say that then?” Staavo replied in a huff. “Fine. I’ll accept that. I’m tired of arguing with you anyway.”

“There,” Jamus said, relief strong in his voice. “Finally, everyone has seen reason.”

“I was not hiding,” Reason replied immediately.

There was a brief pause, broken by an exaggerated groan from Meloni. “You see, Jamus? You see what I have to deal with?”

Laughter rose from the humans, Tallheart joining them with an amused rumble. It seemed that they had managed to defuse the situation themselves without the need for his intervention.

He set down his Telscribe, the Arcane Cryst he’d been using as a tip now spent. The runes in the air before him had shifted from white to purple now that he’d added the final elemental modifiers throughout the multi-layered sphere. Below the magical array, a tiny ball of golden metal sat on his anvil, no larger than a Tel. The outer layer was gold in truth, but the core was Grand Arcane Atantum, considerably more valuable.

Tallheart picked up his hammer, the muscles of his forearm bulging beneath his armor as he squeezed its handle.

“So,” Myth began, looking between Reason and Staavo. “Do you think we’ll be able to duplicate this?”

“I—“ Staavo began, but whatever he had planned to say was cut off by the thunderous crash of Tallheart’s hammer.

Shena screamed at her workbench, and various other exclamations of surprise and protest rang out, but Tallheart ignored them all, leaning down to inspect the tiny golden sphere. It remained unsmashed, as he had known it would, but the force had subtly twisted the runic array during the compression. Frowning, Tallheart poked the sphere with a finger, concentrating as the runes once more sprung back into his mind—sensed this time, more than seen.

Before anything could detonate, he gently extended his will, nudging the disrupted runes back into position. Then, he smiled, feeling the enchantment solidify, the ethereal fragments of the Tel and Crysts he’d used taking their place within the crystalline structure of the metal. It had worked, and it had only taken three tries.

“Again with this!” Staavo shouted, marching over to Tallheart to haul on his shoulder. “You said you’d warn us this time! Is this one going to explode too?”

“And you promised you would keep your voices down,” Tallheart said, ignoring the pitiful attempts of the human to move him. He turned, paying Staavo no mind as he made his way to Jamus.

“What is it you were trying to make, anyway?” Jamus asked as Staavo harrumphed.

“A gift,” Tallheart said, extending his hand palm up to reveal the tiny golden sphere, now a stud with the addition of a pointed spike. Shaping the pure gold plating as he’d walked had been trivial, compared to what he’d just done.

“An earring?” Jamus asked, his eyebrows rising. “Tallheart, I haven’t done anything to deserve that. You didn’t need to.”

“I did need to,” Tallheart said. “You are my first and oldest human friend. This has waited too long. Stand still.”

Reaching up, he grabbed Jamus’s ear, then jabbed the spike through, making the man yelp. Before he released him, Tallheart flattened the tip of the spike, forming a backplate to hold the stud in place. “There. Do not attempt to use the full enchantment. I should not have to warn you why. And do not tell anyone what it does. Or that I made it. Or what it is made of.”

