Something in the tone of his voice made Thomas want to trust him. It was like having an old, wise grandfather tell him that everything was going to be okay.

That was straight-up manipulation. He knew it. Though even as he recognized it, he couldn't completely push away the impulse to trust him.

Luckily, he'd had a very bad night and could summon up some old-fashioned belligerence. "How do I know this is not a trick? You people promised help, and so far I'm the one doing all the work here."

The man didn't roll his eyes, but he looked like he very much wanted to. "I am Healer Akilah Brogger-zon," he said, as if that should mean something.

"Hi, I'm Thomas," he said sarcastically. "Stop it with the mind stuff."

To his shock, the feeling of safety and trust vanished. Thomas's suspicion rushed back full force, and he realized, Oh, crap on a cracker, he'd just led himself, Zach, and Jo into possible enemy territory with really weird people—if they even were people.

They were like the conspiracy theory description of lizard folk wearing human masks. Or maybe they were Old Families and had become so disconnected from real people that they were just… like this? Were just as sadistic as the Brightens? What had he done? They were trapped, and—

Thomas's breath caught, and Zach choked.

Forcefully, he breathed out and then focused on his breathing. Akilah observed him calmly with his hands clasped behind his back. After about a minute, when it was clear Thomas hadn't broken the bridge, he spoke.

"Let me tell you what I see. Your friend is a natural mana channeler who has somehow entangled his life force with his mana. He then foolishly scoured his mana empty to his core's second layer, likely with that high leveled teleportation skill which is fresh in his spirit. Does that, what is the phrase, ring any bells to you?"

"Can you see Gifts?" Thomas demanded, with new dread.

Akilah's eyebrows raised. "Of course not, but I have seen many injuries in my years. Now, if you want to see him live to be healed, be quiet and concentrate on maintaining a stable bridge."

With that, Akilah turned and started speaking to Jo in a low voice.

Thomas closed his eyes for a second and again opened his healing sight. Zach's mana was still flickering, but now that Thomas was doing the heavy lifting for his heart and lungs and... immune system, okay that was unexpected, his core was starting to trickle out some mana on its own. It was like a drop at a time trying to fill a deep bucket, but it was something.

Seeing a tiny bit of progress helped. Thomas told himself just to relax and breathe. Relaxing was not a natural state for him, but somehow he fell into the rhythm of sending out and catching his healing mana through someone else's body.

A few moments later, though he suspected far more time had passed than that, there was a knock at the door. Akilah went over and grabbed a few glass bottles from an eager deliverer. One was brilliant, churning red mixed with white; the other, a shimmering, glittery black filled with stars.

The healer shut the door and came over, pulling a wheeled stand around as he did. He hooked up the glass bottles along with some tubing, and Thomas realized it was an IV system.

"The red glass is Fire and Air mana," Thomas guessed. It only made sense to infuse through the veins what couldn't be consciously absorbed, "but what's with the black?"

"Teleportation and Adaptation," he said briskly. "Level 3, of course, in keeping with the System restrictions."

System restrictions? "There's Teleportation mana?"

Akilah stopped and looked at him for a second, then let out a snort.

"What?" Thomas asked, defensive.

"Nothing. I just realized the scale of what we are facing. Yes, Teleportation mana exists. It is not common, of course, but level 3 is not so uncommon as to be rare." He deftly inserted the IVs in the back of Zach's hand. "This will be a potent mix, I think, considering that skill. Young people who get teleportation—especially young men with more testosterone than brains—generally overdo it the first few times. Though it's usually just a headache that makes you want to die, not actual death. That comes with being a mana channeler."

"He saved our lives," Thomas said. "We were surrounded, and he teleported Jo and I away."

Akilah paused. "Ah, I see." He looked at the mix, seemed to nod to himself, and then said, "He will wake in a couple of hours. You may release the bridge. Simply cease sending your mana through, and lift your hands."

Thomas did, and watched for a few anxious seconds, but Zach's breathing remained stable.

"That's it?"

"That's it," said the healer. But he wasn't looking at Zach; he was watching Thomas. "Now, how do you feel?"

"I don't know, tired." Who cared how he felt? It had been a long, long day. Absently he checked Zach's pulse and found it strong, too. He really was going to be okay.

"No, Thomas," said the healer, "how do you feel?"

Something in the timbre of his voice made Thomas glance inward. Then he frowned and looked at his own steady hands, even though his real attention was in his head. "I feel... fine?"

Tentatively, he thought of the witches and specifically of that wizard. There was no accompanying flash of fear, no sense of horror or phantom memories of centipede feet down his throat, the smell of the rot of his own body in his nose. He remembered exactly what had happened to him, but it was like the memory had turned... factual.

"When we heal others," Akilah said, "we also tend to heal ourselves. I saw the signs of mental trauma on you, which is why I did not have an apprentice swap out holding the bridge. You were doing a fine job, and you needed it every bit as much as your teammate."

Thomas opened his mouth, then closed it when he found himself at a loss for words. Reflexively, Thomas looked over at Jo and found her curled up on the bed, over the covers, peacefully asleep.

"Joanna Marie Fitzsimmons will recover as well," said Akilah. "She was starting to show the first signs of a virulent bloodborne fever. Physical symptoms would have started to show in a few hours, but I took care of that. Plus," he sighed, "some low-grade poisoning. Assassins." Now he did roll his eyes.

Thomas started. "I didn't—"

"Of course you didn't know. You were triaging your other teammate. Now, sit. You and I must have a chat." He gestured to two high-backed chairs that bracketed the fire.

"About what?" he asked, brittle. This guy was being extremely helpful, yet it didn't escape his notice that Zach and Jo were knocked out cold. And despite being one of them, he wasn't getting 'weirdo' red flags from Akilah. There was still some low-grade mind-magic going on.

Akilah's eyebrows raised. He pointed to Thomas's stomach. Or more specifically, his core.

"That, and what you intend to do about it."
