She quickly distributed her incredibly welcome new attribute points: two into vitality, four into perception, six into wisdom, and the remaining eight into intelligence. Then she dismissed her level notifications as she flew across the devastation to take stock. There were enormous furrows where stone, runes, and holy fire had been obliterated, victims of the passage of the dragon’s intense void-based teleportation magic. There wasn’t even any rubble. More than half her minions had been killed; some of them were entirely erased, leaving nothing for her to even deconstruct.

Carefully, she approached the enormous black dragon, but the void magic that had ripped her monsters to shreds had died down to a slowly fading trickle, no longer presenting any danger for her, and even the dread weight of Dragon Fear had vanished like it had never been.

Void Dragon. Scion of Azryet. She reached out and laid a hand on the still uncomfortably warm black scales and filled the corpse of the powerful Abyssal Dragon with her Deconstruction magic. Her impressions of this dungeon had been entirely wrong; it was not a kobold dungeon – this monster before her was the king of the dungeon and entirely warranted the power of the domain she had witnessed. She was just glad she had encountered only one, and that it had not been a domain-enhanced boss of some kind. She shuddered to think of the power of such a monster with Spell Cascade or Elemental Storm.

As the dragon faded into motes of light and darkness, two chunks of the abyss popped out, hovering in the air.

Greater Void Essence x2

Ali collected them for later investigation, but as the motes of mana drifted away, her tension faded. I survived. It had been a close call several times – too close. She was strong, but surprise could still easily kill her, and this monster had been stronger. She didn’t know how the dragon had picked her out immediately as the most important target, but she had nearly died from barrier failure right at the start.

For now, though, she was safe. Plenty of lessons learned, I suppose, she thought ruefully, mentally dusting off her knees and elbows and taking a deep, calming breath. Right. What’s next?

Her gaze turned to the room itself – a wrecked holy cathedral deep in an abyssal dragon dungeon. Much of the fascinating runework inlaid into the floor had been destroyed by the dragon’s power that ripped great chunks of it out, leaving pieces unconnected, runic circles shredded, and holy magic leaking out as the spells slowly faded. But there was still enough remaining for her to study, and the giant voidstone still hovered above, waiting for her to deconstruct it to see if she could finally create a gap in this powerful domain to create a small niche for her own or to create stronger ripples of force that might show her the way out.

She floated up slowly, examining the hovering voidstone before reaching out with her mana and deconstructing it. The giant crystal of pure black vanished in a surprisingly anticlimactic puff of mana, and the potent domain about her shivered, rippling as if her magic had removed a critical support and now everything had suddenly become unstable. It wobbled.

Interesting, she thought. She had half expected that it would immediately collapse, but something more was propping it up. I guess I’ll just have to find whatever that is. She watched curiously, studying the ripples emanating from her removal of the voidstone, trying to understand what she saw. The domain bent and twisted with strangely powerful formations springing up where it should have been weakened.

Is that a defensive enchantment? Ali backed up a little while she studied it carefully, but couldn’t uncover how it might have been created.

“Master!” The urgent voice of her Baelok Descrier appeared suddenly in her mind, and she shifted some of her awareness to the demon. Suddenly the formation became clear – it was a vast, domain-powered teleportation spell on a scale she could scarcely believe, and she was hovering right in the middle of it!

Heart racing, she vanished, switching places with her Sacred Ooze and appearing back at the entrance archway, hovering above the patch of moss and mushrooms she had grown right up to the edge of this chamber.

Domain mana surged as the spell completed, and Ali’s ears popped painfully from the implosion of all the air in the room being sucked out, followed by a sudden reversal as the vacated space within the cathedral abruptly manifested a vast, singular form that blotted out the light and the entire roof. Its arrival was accompanied by the detonation shockwave of air blasting outward, making the stone walls tremble and knocking her minions to the ground.

A huge eye, larger than Tol’brekk standing at full height, opened within the scarred and black-scaled reptilian face. The eye trailed intensely bright holy fire and wisps of the blackest void, and she could see the immense fury that smoldered within. Giant wings of black unfurled, trailing void magic, a span wider than the entire cathedral as they ripped through the stone walls on either side, sending great boulders of alabaster stone crashing to the ground.

The sheer presence of the dragon – far beyond mere Dragon Fear – bore down upon her, driving Ali to her knees on the shattered ground. She shuddered as the words of her identification seared into her mind.

Azryet [The Calamity] – Ancient Abyssal Dragon God – level ???? (Void / Holy)

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
