His six physical forms had only a scant few vectors they could spend. He'd already used everything for his first punch and didn't keep any overflow tides in reserve. All of his skill-based resources were shared between his bodies, and so he couldn't waste them. Or I have to give my other selves Animated Skill Infusions. I'm going to have to do that if I want my physical bodies to do magic.

His skin capes whipped and lashed about. His recursive biology shifted and cleaved, projecting waves of cutting aura through the air. Shiv didn't need a clear head to guide a whip or slit a throat. Though he couldn't quite be a literal one-man army, settling for being a one-man Pathbearer team was plenty good.

I'd like to see the Culturist or Jessica counter this. Shiv cackled internally. And Roland. Oh, Master Roland Arrow. When I get out of this place and we meet again, I'm going to have to offer you my apologies—our duel is going to be something else.

He continued transforming his physical body, growing branching limbs that were edged with crimson cutting intent. He cleaved and slashed until his vessels became gardens that shredded, that ripped, that tore all around them. And Shiv took it to the very limit. He became near thoughtless toward the end, lost his sense of time, but he still shifted lanes every time it got too much, and he squeezed out a few moments more.

He didn't know how many transitions he made, how many synaptic ghosts he mantled. If he had to guess, it was probably somewhere close to a hundred and twenty, or maybe more than that. It was hard to remember anything now, hard to think.

His mind wasn't trapped in a downpour or a storm anymore. It was an ocean, and the core of his consciousness was sinking to the bottom like a stone. But there was no pain to this skill anymore. There was only a numb bliss—the feeling of spending oneself to the very edge and knowing there was little to nothing left.

When he finally stopped, all his cognitive shadows merged into one. His many cells were reforged. This instance of time, where he lived and repeated over and over in tandem with all the other instances he experienced in parallel, was fused back together. All of his many lanes crashed into one, and the future extended onward, further and further, reeling far and out until the tunnel widened, until the present became the present once more and natural time resumed its flow.

Or so Shiv thought.

A blanket of weighted confusion lingered over his consciousness. Shiv lost his train of thought.

He stared at nothing.

He thought of nothing.

It felt good to do nothing.

He was faintly aware of someone calling out to him, trying to rouse him, but he wasn't fully there. Not enough of him was present to respond. He remained in that pacified fugue for a few moments.

And then finally, in what felt like no time at all, he returned to himself, crawling out from the depths of his mind to see a panicked-looking blonde girl his age scream in his face.

Legion of Self 102 > 106

“—iv! Shiv! Shiv! Holy fuck, Shiv! Wake up! Fucking wake up already! If we die because of this, I'm gonna kill you!”

Shiv's physical bodies blinked. His Severed Shadow reeled back. Every version of him groaned in tandem. Without using Legion of Self, controlling six bodies was still far too much.

“Give… me a second,” Shiv rasped. He called upon his synaptic clones once more. They appeared by his sides, and that tunnel which represented how long his parallel actions would last came into shape. As he shortened the period, the girl who didn't exist grew muffled once more. Shiv grimaced and extended the tunnel again—kept lengthening the period until her words became coherent once more.

“—the fuck just happened? Are you insane? What were you doing?” The girl's voice was choked with worry and confusion, and her azure eyes were wide.

“Testing a new skill evolution,” Shiv answered, confused why she was overreacting so much. “A pretty damn good one at that. Sage's pre-Skill Fusion thing distracted me from a very active Skill Evolution happening inside me. My Bifurcated Processing evolved. It's called Legion of Self now. I got these lanes and synaptic clones, and I can like… jump over to them. Uh, let me show you…”

The Deathless tried to demonstrate his new skill to the girl, but he couldn't. He couldn't cross over. The synaptic connection between him and his parallel instances was too weak. There wasn't enough compression, either. His brow furrowed. “Hm. I think the tunnel needs to be flattened before I can cross over.”

That did explain a few things—namely, why he didn't feel any strain anymore while the synaptic tunnel was active.

“Is that why you started blasting magic everywhere, and also why six different bodies suddenly blasted out of you and started slashing and whipping and everything?” the girl asked. “Can you make more bodies?”

“Tried to. Can't. Seems to be a hard cap to how many Feat slots I can have. Actually, why are you asking me this? Shouldn't you know everything about me?”

The girl looked at him like he was stupid, but there was also more than a hint of anger in her expression. “I'm not omniscient, Shiv. Being backstage just lets me peek, and now that we're backstage and you're doing all that weird shit in front of me, I can't even do that.”

Seeing her so overwhelmed filled Shiv with a dose of pride. “One hell of a skill evolution, huh?”

“Yeah, with a hell of a downside too,” the girl ground out. “You've been brain-dead for the past five fucking hours! I've been screaming, calling, waving in front of you. Your three skill stooges went missing. I was back to being alone out here. Back to being alone.” There was a slight quaver in her voice, and the girl hugged herself as she turned away from Shiv. “I'm used to being alone. But I'm even more used to not existing, and with you here right in front of me and just not responding… It just feels like a new form of pointless purgatory.”

Shiv's first impulse was to apologize to her. Even if she wasn't real, the expression on her face and her body language screamed of trauma born of isolation. But then the crux of what she said hit him like a hammer blow across the jaw.

“Wait, past five hours? I've been like this for five felling hours?” His sudden realization obliterated the remaining cobwebs lining his mind.

“Yeah, I've been screaming at you for the entire time. Mainly because you've been burning vitality. With all the bodies you resurrected, you have… I don't know, maybe a few minutes left.” Her lips pressed together tightly, and her fingers dug into her arms. “This almost went really fucking badly, Shiv.”

For the third time, Shiv cursed his lacking foresight. In his defense, though, he could never have seen this coming. But that's never an excuse, is it? Dying from ignorance is no different than dying with understanding. The outcome’s the same. He sucked in a breath. Damn, I came close this time.

“Well, I guess I have an answer to why this is a Master-Tier Skill and what its costs are,” Shiv muttered. “Still an incredible skill, but I can't afford blanking out for five hours every time I get into a fight.”

“I think it lasted five hours because you did so many things at once,” the girl replied. “You were controlling six bodies, casting a bunch of spells, attacking using all those bodies, punching with your main body, and I don't know—a lot of stuff. Maybe try something simpler? Maybe have all seven of your bodies throw a bunch of punches or something?”

Shiv hesitated. “What if I end up brain-dead again?”

“I…” The girl winced.

“I think you're probably right. I think my mind going blank is cognitive overload from too much complex stuff at once. But what if the cost is five hours of thoughtlessness every time, regardless? I don't have an hour Backstage left.”

“No,” the girl replied quietly. “No, you don't. If you stay here past the point where Longinus’ mana gets used up, you’ll go out like a candle for good. And then it’s bye-bye Shiv, and bye-bye me.”

Shiv winced again. “Okay, so the solution should be pretty simple, then. We need to surface back into context, dodge another attack, and then…” He trailed off as he realized he had six other bodies to control. Once more, he tried to think ahead. He thought back to his experiments earlier.

“I can't do anything that contradicts an already performed action,” Shiv said to himself. He followed that thought to its logical conclusion. “Which means I can't just dodge and slip out of reality while my other bodies are still doing things. I'm not seeing into the future. I'm reliving a present series of events over and over again. At least my gut tells me I can't.”

And he had six physical bodies. Six he had to control all at the same time. He suspected that, should he try to dodge out of context upon being hit by one of Longinus' attacks, a cognitive shadow would form over him, preventing him from completing the action. He might be able to render the Wanderer’s assault acausal under most circumstances, but Shiv was still self-referential. “Which means I can't contradict myself,” Shiv concluded.

Skill Gained: Metaphysics (Adept)

Metaphysics (Adept) 1

“Huh?” The girl gawked. “Shiv… what the fuck are you talking about?”

“Logic,” he murmured. “Logical outcomes. Rules derived from… Shit, what did Adam call it? F-first principles. I exist in relation to myself, so even though I can render someone’s attack on me non-canon, I can’t make my own actions counter to what actually happened…”

She stared at him like he was an insane person.

“He’s right. I think.” Sage rubbed his bulging brain matter in thought, suddenly hovering right next to Shiv again. “We will need to proceed with caution, Shiv. You’re going to have to cross over with your other bodies and use them in a live-fire situation.”

“I know,” Shiv said. “I’m going to shrink my synaptic tunnel to full compression. It only works for a single instance of time.” Thinking about the exact mechanics for Legion of Self was starting to give Shiv a headache.

“Get used to it,” Sage said without any sympathy. “You want to be more than a dumb brute? Well, here it is. You have to think things through. You have to be patient, not only in terms of combat but also in understanding.”

Shiv nodded resolutely. “Right, so here's what I'm going to do: I'm going to compress time as much as I can when I cross over. I'm going to destroy all my physical bodies within the span of a second, regardless of if Longinus is there or not. Then I'm going to try to see if I can intercept or bait out one of his attacks using my Severed Shadow. If all that fails, then maybe I should leave a temporal anchor somewhere. Something for a final retreat.”

But Longinus had found his Revenant form with little difficulty last time. If he went thoughtless for even just a few minutes, then his enslavement or true death was practically guaranteed.

“All actions have risks,” Sage declared. “All actions have consequences. But there comes a point where you have done all the thinking you can, and hesitation offers nothing but building dread.” The Skill shaped in his image faced Shiv down. “There is something you aren't considering, or at least you're not considering it on the surface of your mind. Evanescia wants this. She has not turned back the pages and reset this loop this entire time. She has been watching our fight. She has been enjoying it every time you return from context.”

“You think she will intervene on our behalf?” Shiv asked. “If shit goes sideways?”

“I don't know for sure, of course, but she seems to be invested in our struggle. We haven't read many stories, but we know enough that there should be three acts, right? Characters usually experience a darkest hour or some major setback before returning to try one last time. At least that's what I remember. I don't think we can count on her to save us, but I do think we can expect something like that since we're in a dimension shaped from stories.” Sage pushed his spectacles up. “Regardless, you’re about to start running out of vitality.”

As if on cue, Shiv felt his body start dissolving. The last of Longinus' divine mana was spent, and now the Deathless, divided among seven controllable vessels, began burning his own life to keep himself in existence. And he wouldn't last for more than a few seconds with that. He scoffed. “Well. So much for patience.”

“No. Patience will see you perfected.” Sage’s voice reverberated as a golden shroud formed over his representation, before it shattered like glass a heartbeat later. “Do not act blindly. This skill gives you time. Think. Strategize. Perform every action with scope in mind and toward higher purpose. We cannot afford thoughtlessness when facing a god in combat, and we cannot afford foolishness if we ever want to escape the Fairwoods.”

With that exchange, there was no more to be said—not between Shiv and his Psychology skill, at least.

“So, into the fray once more, huh?” The girl looked beyond the veil of integration, and Shiv followed her gaze. He couldn't see Longinus, but the god was out there somewhere.

“Not done ruining his sauce perimeter,” Shiv replied. “I think I'm gonna slam all my bodies into as many rivers as I can. Blow them apart into trenches and mix them together before I let go.”

“Sounds like a plan,” the girl breathed. “And… I hope it isn’t five hours.”

“Yeah,” Shiv grunted. “Me too. Guess we’re about to find out, huh?”

She nodded. “Don’t get enslaved by that fucking creep.”

“Not planning on it. I’ll play this careful. I’ll do this right.”

“Patience,” she said.

“Yeah. Patience.”

