That was unusual but not unexpected. Mistress Dihsre was a bit of a specialist with souls and so had volunteered to come out with them to be there if Tala had need. She was also a prominent member of the oversight counsel for the cells. Given the nature of this cell, it was deemed wise for her to come along for that reason as well.

The prisoner was seemingly a phoenix of glass.

That wasn’t as helpful a description as it might seem, because basically every prisoner could be described as phoenix-like in their survivability. In this case, however, the incarcerated seemed to legitimately be a bird of some kind, at least in its preferred form.

The theory that had been recorded for posterity was that it had been a dasgannach of silica or something similar which had advanced sufficiently to take on a more definitive shape and gain some intelligence.

If the conveyance was to be believed, it had approached the Mages of its day, distraught with concern that it might destroy the world, asking that they help it.

They tried, but it was its very nature which threatened to subsume the material it was drawn to. They could contain it, but not alter its nature through means that they all agreed were acceptable.

Eventually, it had learned of the cells and asked to be imprisoned.

All that to say, the unit wasn’t expecting a fight. On the contrary, they were expecting to be able to simply speak with the creature as the cell was repaired.

All that combined to explain why they were there.

Tala was technically still a few days from returning to active duty, but the unit that had initially been sent to this cell had reported in, before handing the opportunity to Tala’s group.

Her own bonding of a dasgannach was seen as a powerful touchpoint for interacting with the creature, and if the description held true, Tala might be able to get more from the being than anyone else, just by dint of that connection.

Lyn was also there with Tala, but the older woman hadn’t actually been assigned to the task, so Tala didn’t really count her as ‘officially’ being there.

Lyn was looking around the atrium this time around. Ron was at her side acting as a sort of escort—not that she needed one—while she goggled.

She’d be back in Irondale with the place sealed up before the cell was opened, no matter how peaceful the prisoner was supposed to be.

Ron was actively leaking power, but it was at a markedly slower rate than nature would account for. He was getting very good at holding in magic. He was actually about matching the natural retention rate of a ‘high’ race in Platoiri. Even so, he was still a far cry from what their trained members could achieve, but it was a solid start.

Lyn came over to stand beside Tala before nudging her with her shoulder. “So, this is what one actually looks like, eh?”

Tala smiled back. “Pretty much, yeah. Though, this is a bit more upbeat than they generally are. This is a voluntary incarceree rather than the usual fare, who were trapped against their volition.”

“Well, I don’t envy you regardless. Do you know why the depictions of the Mages are often holding their ears?”

Tala shrugged. “They are probably trying to convey that the thing is noisy to a painful degree. If it really is made of—effectively—glass, I believe it too.”

“Yet another reason I’m glad to not be going any deeper than this.” She gave Tala a long look. “This one is a candidate for Kit’s devouring, isn’t it?”

Tala nodded. “The cell is, yeah. That’s one reason Mistress Dihsre is here. Honestly, this cell is a more reasonable candidate than even Walden was, given he still would prefer to be out and about.”

Lyn chuckled. She’d had the opportunity to talk with the elk, but nothing had really come of it. He wasn’t overtly hostile to humanity as a whole, but he wasn’t one for small talk, and Lyn didn’t have anything pressing that she’d wanted to ask him. It had effectively been a greeting in passing before Tala asked a few questions that she’d expanded his forest to get answered. All in all a mundane experience… with an Immortal Elk of human-like intelligence.

Tala smiled, happy to have her friend with her, if even for a moment. “Regardless, we’ll have to see where this goes.”

“Indeed.”

Mistress Dihsre called out from near the center. “We’ve gotten the all clear. Time to get to work.”

Lyn bowed toward the Paragon then turned back to Tala. “That’s my cue to leave. We’ll close up Kit and wait on the outside of this cell.”

“Sounds good. See you soon enough.”
