Frikara chuckled. “That was my thought.”

“Mine, too.” Lusinia said.

“I thought it was just me.” Verwynn said.

“He deserves it.” Andrela said. “He's done so much for us, and we...”

“...we haven't done anything except tempt him.”

“We sold all that glassware.” Verwynn said.

“You sold all that glassware.” Frikara said. “Who would have thought we'd have a natural peddler among us?”

Verwynn laughed. “The people here love striking a good deal just as much as dwarves do!”

Frikara nodded. “That was surprising to discover.”

“So...” Navruth said to get the subject back on their problem. “If it does turn out that he can only play with us...”

“...then we can only play with him.” Frikara said. “We can't even imply that we want sex.”

“How in the world are you going to manage that, Frikara?” Lusinia asked. “You've always told him you wanted it.”

“With your help I can do it.” Frikara said. “Keep me restrained. Bottle me up. Hold me back.”

“I hope we can do that.” Andrela said. “You're the strongest of us.”

Frikara hugged her. “We're all strong, Andrela.” She said and looked at her fellow maids. “You can all feel how strong we are now.”

They all nodded.

“If he can only satisfy us and never himself, then we will become the best maids a Lord could ever have.” Frikara said. “He will want for nothing, and we will give him everything that we are.”

“Agreed.” The other maids said, then they laid down in the bed together.

“I'm still surprised he never asked for the money from the market stall.” Verwynn said a few minutes later, and they all laughed.

********

Ren slipped off the VR headset, and saw Barbara and Stella as they stood by the bed. “Good morning.” He said and held the headset out to Stella. She took it and set it on the dresser by the bed.

“Ren...”

“We should talk.” Ren said and got out of bed. “But first? A bathroom break.”

Stella nodded and Ren went to the bathroom to take care of business. He came back out a few minutes later and sat on the bed.

“Ren...”

“I've invited a couple of people over.” Ren said.

“I know.” Stella said. “That's what I want to talk about.”

“You think having Lisa and Gloria here with Elise is a bad idea.”

“The worst.” Stella said.

“Why?”

“Why, he asks.” Stella said and shook her head. “Ren, the reason you can see multiple women is because they don't see each other.”

“What?” Ren looked at her with wide eyes. “I don't want them to date!”

Stella sighed. “That's not what I...”

“Let me.” Barbara said. “Ren, each of them believes they are your girlfriend.”

“No, they don't.” Ren said.

“Ren...”

“Gloria doesn't want anything in real life, so it's only game time for her. Although, she was upset for some reason when she found me in bed with the maids...”

“It's because she thinks you're hers.”

Ren chuckled. “Not only has she never claimed me like that, she's never even mentioned taking our relationship past the 'sex for food' stage in the game.”

Barbara couldn't argue that. “Well, Lisa...”

“We just started seeing each other. She knows all about... well, everything. Both in the game and out. She knows Elise is my girlfriend.”

“Then, about Elise...”

“I've told her, and I'm sure either you or Stella have also told her, all about Lisa.” Ren said. “I've hidden nothing at all from anyone.”

“But, still...”

“I've even asked Denise about this.” Ren said. “She hasn't given me a response, though.”

“You have?” Stella asked.

“You sound surprised.” Ren said. “Like I said. I'm not going behind people's backs, or starting things without telling everyone exactly what's going on.”

“I think that you should just...”

“Look, we'll see what happens when Lisa gets here later this morning... and when Gloria gets here.” Ren said. “I'm pretty sure she won't be here until tonight, though.”

Unable to come up with any real counter-arguments for Ren's statements, Stella gave him his breakfast and he ate it in relative silence. When he was done, he got up off the bed and changed into his jogging pants and a t-shirt. “I feel like going for a walk in the workout room.”

Stella and Barbara exchanged glances, and Stella shrugged.

“Well, get in the wheelchair and I'll take you down.” Barbara said. “Donald is already there.”

Ren smiled. “Thanks.” He said and sat down in the wheelchair, and Barbara pushed him out of the room, down the hall, and over to the elevator.

*

Officer Holly Stonewall had logged out that morning, had a shower and got dressed, ate breakfast, then waited for her partner to pick her up. She heard a familiar car horn and left her house at a jog. She opened the passenger door of her partner's car, sat down and put on the seatbelt, and the car sped down the street.

“Nothing new last night after finding him?” Detective John Ramirez asked.

“He ran around the city to a few places, but he was in...” Holly took out her notebook and looked at the recent page. “Walin County.” She shook her head. “I still haven't figured out how he's moving so fast between the city and there.”

“No clues from the stable or blacksmith?”

Holly shook her head. “They can't explain it, either. They've never heard of anything that could move that fast.”

John chuckled. “Leave it to him to find a way to do something weird or funky.”

“Like his personal maids.” Holly said.

“His what?” John asked and glanced at her, then back at the road.

“Personal maids.” Holly said. “He apparently rescued them from...” She looked at her notes. “...a thieves guild, and they're under contract to him now.”

“Under contract?”

Holly nodded. “It took some digging, but when I finally managed to bribe one of the mansion's guards, he filled me in on what personal maids are for.”

“That doesn't sound good.” John said.

“It's not.” Holly said and let some of her anger show. “They... they're... legal prostitutes.”

“WHAT?” John yelled and looked at her, then almost lost control of the car. He slowed down and pulled over, put the car in park, and turned to his partner. “Explain.”

“Sometimes women, if in dire straights or some other nonsense, will sign a contract with a man. He provides them with food, shelter, and clothing... and they provide him with... anything... he desires.”

“Oh, god.” John said.

“It gets better.” Holly said. “They have parties at the mansion, and the guests can bid on which personal maid they can spend some 'quality time' with at the end of the night.”

“You're kidding!”

“I wish I was.” Holly said. “I was tempted to punch the guard in the face right there.” She sighed. “I know it wasn't his fault and that he isn't responsible; but, he knows it's going on and doesn't say anything.”

“He probably bids himself when he can.” John said, and Holly looked at him. “They don't have parties all the time, right? What do the maids do during their off time?”

Holly blinked her eyes at him for a few moments, then she scowled. “Dammit, I should have punched him!”

John laughed. “You'd have been tossed in jail before your punch landed.”

Holly opened her mouth to say that she could have gotten away; but, then she remembered she was only level 1 in the game and reluctantly nodded.

“I can't believe Ren has personal maids.”

“Yeah, six of them.” Holly said.

“Did you say six? He has six personal maids?”

Holly nodded. “He was rewarded one of the mansion's maids when he received his knighthood and land grant.” She said. “He's got quite the collection of them now.”

“How does he satisfy them all?” John asked. “It's difficult for a man to satisfy one woman, but 6? Is that even possible?”

“They take turns.” Holly said, a little disgusted.

John sat back in his seat. “Yeah, that could work.”

“John!” Holly exclaimed.

“What? It would.” John said. “Taking turns with them would give them all personal time with him, and they'd all be happy they were all getting attention.”

“You're supposed to be outraged at this!” Holly said.

John reached out and put a hand on her arm. “Holly, it's a game. You said it yourself, it's legal prostitution. Even if we could somehow police a virtual world game, we still couldn't interfere with it.”

Holly squinted her eyes and stared daggers at him.

“Don't be mad at me, Holly.” John said. “You know I've got your back.” He squeezed her arm. “If it was real life, I'd be the first one in there to kick the mansion's door down.”

“I... yes, I know.” Holly said and let her anger subside. “It just burns me up that it's happening!”

John nodded. “I'm with you.” He said. “But for now, we've got to check the temporary care facility and see if anyone has tried to visit Ren.”

Holly sighed and nodded, and John put the car in gear and drove to the building. He parked and they went inside to talk to the worker at the desk. They were quite surprised when they heard what she had to say.

“What do you mean he's not here anymore?” Officer Holly Stonewall asked.

“I mean he's not here.” The woman said. “He moved out last week.”

“Where did he go?” Detective John Ramirez asked.

“I'm sorry, but I can't give you that information.” The woman said.

John pointed to the badge on his hip. “We're the police, and we need to know where he went.”

The woman glanced at his waist, and for some reason John didn't think she was looking at his badge. “We've all seen how that nurse, Cheryl, was vilified for violating his rights and telling everyone about him.” The woman said. “She's already settled 2 lawsuits out of court and declared bankruptcy so they couldn't take her house. She even lost her job after that.” The woman said. “I'm not going to do the same thing to him and suffer the same fate.”

“His life is in danger!” Holly said, and the woman chuckled.

“You need to play another tune on that pity violin.” She said. “Just getting out of bed without help puts his life in danger.”

Holly opened her mouth to respond, then the woman's statement registered and she closed her mouth.

“We can come back with a warrant.” John said.

“There's not a judge in this city that will give you a warrant against Ren.” The woman said. “Have you seen his show? It's the best show on television right now, especially since everyone knows what his real physical condition is like.”

John put a hand on Holly's lower back and eased her away from the counter towards the front door.

“I'll just sit here and wait patiently for you to never come back with that warrant you'll never get.” The woman said and laughed.
