Salt and silt will break you, if you let them.

“A little more salt perhaps.”

Ironwine adjusted the recipe, his nimblelimbs fetching a pinch of white granules while stirring. Chopped rootas, plancid, and favanna rolled amid the heavy chunks of white-belly trout and unshelled black mussles. More ingredients remained to be added, but already the scent of it set his antennae to jittering.

It wasn’t ready—wouldn’t be for a half day, in fact. Sliproot stew was slow to cook and notoriously difficult to get right. Learning to balance the poisons alone was the work of years. The toxins from the black mussles would spoil the trout if left to run riot, and the star urchins would curdle all else. Done right, the end result bore a delicate flavor that would astound even the palate of a tongue-numb human, though that was not Ironwine’s reason for its making. His hands needed to be kept busy, and in the absence of his craft, cooking would suffice.

He had much to ponder.

To call him surprised to see Stillwater on his doorstep was an understatement. The Gilken had been gone for centuries—bound by the Pale Court—long enough that Ironwine had almost believed him dead. Their Bargain, however, let him know that Stillwater survived. Yet to see him free…

The Queens must have gone mad.

His heavylimbs crushed three star urchins, their spikes splintering harmlessly against his iron carapace. He swept them off the cutting bored and into the pot.

Mad or not, the infamous Gilken had swam out of his river. With a human. A human with Stature. Ironwine added another log to the stove. Ashes puffed out against his forelegs.

A human that was dying.

The medicine will take care of that. It was a simple solution that only proved how far Stillwater had fallen. Beholden to a human child, like a sunstarved Tideling? The Scourge of Sails could not possible recognize himself. What tragedy saddled him with such debt?

A life debt was potent, as such things should be, and Ironwine did not miss the traces of it’s full weight. Somehow the human had pulled not one but three turns from Stillwater. Two of them had been resolved, but the remaining third was still immense enough to beggar a lesser Eidhrin. That was the only reason Ironwine had agreed. Anything less than crushing would not be an appease his own debt.

He paused his stirring, black eyes turning upward. The saddle moss hung thick across the rafters, and though he discouraged the growth of corpselights there, a few colonies still dotted the fronds. Ironwine bore the Stature of many deeds and turns. He was strong, even by the standards of the Thrysalid, and absolving his debt to Stillwater ached.

He returned his attention to his cookpot, his nimblelimbs reaching for the next set of ingredients. There was little else to do but endure.

By taking on Stillwater’s debt, his own Bargain was appeased. It wasn’t enough, of course. Words and even Stature could not erase the past. Settled or not, peace remained just out of reach—as always.

Perhaps when the boy is saved, it shall all be remedied.

Thoughts of the human tipped the Thrysalid’s mind toward the child’s curious nature. The boy had a passable amount of Stature—far more than some, and too much for a human. They didn’t have Stature at all, not to Ironwine’s recollection. Their Talents, like the gifts of the Great Princes, were entirely separate from the Eidhrin’s own.

The Chartermark could not be ignored—Ironwine had not missed its hatched presence—but if that old Bargain had the ability to build Stature, then the isles would have long since been flooded with such humans. Thousands took the mark every year, racing across the surface to reach those overrated Skimmers on their way to their academy. Ironwine made it a point to keep clear of their kind, but enough passed near his home that he would recognize if they bore even a speck of Stature.

But the mark is strengthening him. That much is clear.

Whatever his opinions on the infusions of humanity, the Primordial Stones were not overengineered baubles. Connected by their ancient Bargain, they reinforced all the marked as they passed by, reaffirming their vows until the Aspirants were all seized by the throat. This Harker seemed to have experienced at least two such Charterstones, but that left the bulk of his Stature to have been built by Stillwater’s triple turn.

No. There was something else, something the Thrysalid couldn’t pin down.

A true mystery. Ironwine’s antennae flicked downward. Mysteries were dangerous.

When the sound of liquid splattered against stone, Ironwine looked first to his stew. It simmered away, uninterrupted. Yet the sound continued.

The human was thrashing.

Black tides. Ironwine scuttled closer as medicine sloshed onto the ground. The human's skin was molting, stripping away and bubbling sheets where it lifted above the mud. His head whipped side to side, the tendons in his neck struck out like cords of rawhide. No sound came from his mouth, nor did his eyes open. Yet Ironwine was struck by a powerful presence—one that had only hinted at itself before.

The human was dying, and knew it.

He didn't understand. The mixture was meant for the weakest of Thrysalid young, whose iron carapace was still soft as rose petals. It should have succored his body like mother's milk, not peel him like an overripe fruit.

Ironwine’s antennae quested forth, testing the rhythms of the air. It is hollowing him out. Killing him.

“No,” he hissed, a metallic rattle from his throat. "I will not be made a liar."

Harker thrashed, his body not under his control. His Talent told him too much, the calm mastery he’d felt now replaced by the burn of exposed nerves and the liquid ache of his interior turning to jelly. He could feel his organs deteriorating, his blood vessels stretching, and his skin boiling away from the fat and muscle beneath. The shadow of death loomed over him, a metallic rattle sounding its unkind approach.

The Thrysalid…

Their hand reached out, snatching up his own in a tight grip. Harker couldn’t struggle, only spasm, but the iron carapace caged him without mercy. Eyes of liquid black leaned closer, staring at Harker with a terrifying intensity.

“Water and salt.”

The words didn’t penetrate, for all that Harker heard them with astounding clarity. Ironwine’s antennae wriggled.

“We are all of us, water and salt. Separated, they are opposed. Dross and gem. Trash and treasure. Together, they are more.”

A thin, armored finger tapped Harker’s wrist. “You are more.”

Harker convulsed, pieces of him falling away into places even his Talent could not reach.

“I offer no platitudes or false praise. I see where you stand. I see the terror and the oblivion. I am not your salvation nor your resolve. It must come from you.” The thin hand tightened against Harker’s and a warmth seemed to pulsate from their palm. “All I can offer is a push.”

The warmth thrummed, rippling against Harker’s near-numb hand. It wasn’t intense or gentle, merely insistent. “I propose a new Bargain, child of man: against all odds, live.”

Such a simple statement, yet behind it gathered a weight Harker could barely understand. The warmth grew, as if he’d stuck his hand into a steaming bath up to the wrist. The Bargain coiled there, within that warmth. Waiting.

I…accept…

The Bargain leapt, squirming through his arm like a grip of eels. The warmth spread with it, filling him, passing from palm to shoulder to chest in an inexorable wave. A creaking stretch took hold of him—of that boiled leather that was his Stature—and the barrier around his reservoir thickened ever so slightly. A dribble of strength amid the boiling agony. Just enough to drive a wedge of lucidity through him. Just enough to think.

Thinking was enough.

Harker shut down his Talent.

It dropped from him with an arthritic release, and the world went dark. He could not see, hear, taste, or smell—all that remained to him was the destruction that took root inside of him.

Live.

The new Bargain roiled through him, and at the same time, his soul shook. His Water, given no release, thundered through his tributaries. The Lock at his center flexed, its bored stone crackling with sudden gold. Pressure built behind it, a noxious, nauseating heave that he’d suffered through all too often. Now, it would serve him.

A violent wave of the untempered Sea erupted from his Soul Lock. Golden lightning crashed, illuminating the storm-tossed deluge that surged into Harker’s undersized reservoir. It overflowed it immediately, rushing out into his tributaries along the spiral path in a blink—overflowing it all.

Harker convulsed in the dark. Muck sloshed around him, expunged from his skin by the violent rush of the Sea through every orifice he bore. Water gushed into the basin, mixing with the mudbath and driving the hideous, poisonous heat away from him and his vitals.

Blood and phlegm flecked his teeth. Throat quivered. Bones quaked.

The reflux did not end.

…good…!

Harker was not done.

Ironwine scuttled back, heavylimbs raised against the splash of medicine and…

The Sea?

It poured out of the human child, more than Ironwine would have ever expected. His antennae whipped back and forth. It was like no Talent he’d ever seen. The blue-green waves were thick with impurities, raw and unrefined, filling the air with a pungent, cloying brine. It spread through the basin, cutting into the mudbath like vital, glowing rivers. It pressed the solution away from the boy, but only for so long. Soon the mud rushed back, too thick and potent to be held at bay—but it wasn’t the same.

Was this your intention, human?

A strange potency crackled amid the medicinal mud, a charge that crawled into the air and against his antennae. The near-black mud turned, folding away from those bright rivers with swirls of newborn color—striations of blue, green, and a surprising flash of muted gold.

"Water and salt," Ironwine murmured. His antenna twitched. "Clever."

The boy seized, body thrashing even worse than before. The Sea did not stop, it coursed from his pours, eyes, and mouth as if he were drowning. His head swung, pinging off the basin with enough force to send small cracks spider-webbing through the enamel.

With a sudden, guttural rumble, it all reversed.

Mud and Water alike swirled inward, pulled now toward the boy’s flesh. Streamers of brilliant color and muted muck sank into his neck and jaw, pulsating like worms beneath his reddened skin.

Ironwine leaned closer. The human's heart hammered on. He endured.

The presence had vanished. Though Harker held on, though he screamed enough to spit blood between the mouthfuls of Sea, he was as insensate as a poleaxed bore.

Ironwine settled back, legs folding beneath his long tail. Perhaps he could have pulled the boy from the medicinal bath, but that would assure his death. Within, he stood a chance. His curiosity stoked to a blaze. The Bargains thrummed, stretched taut across his Stature until they creaked.

The Thrysalid folded his nimblelimbs against his heavy. The grooves he’d carved into them were rounded with time and touch, but his Stature responded without pause. Ironwine’s black eyes sharpened, the air gaining a crystal clarity as he stared through the boy.

His Stature stretches clean through him. Unlike his inherited debt, their new Bargain wove through the human’s like thread. Perceiving through it was no more challenging than a child’s first swim—an awkward barrier that vanished with smooth, confident movements. It coats so much… Reservoir, tributary, and Lock. Why? How?

A human with Stature was nothing more than a passing novelty. To have it filling his soul and flesh alike was… Ironwine rattled his breath. It was as if he were staring at another Eidhrin. Weak and malformed, but…

The medicine and Water alike propped up against the boy’s internals, as if Stature alone would be enough to keep him alive. His flesh remained too weak, his vitals worn or split in too many places. Yet the boy did not die.

Ounce by ounce, the medicine and Water vanished. Long minutes passed, and the human settled. His limbs no longer spasmed and his skin had ceased peeling. The Sea and medicinal mud had all but vanished, leaving his stained form set atop the cold dregs at the basin’s bottom.

The child had absorbed it, as Ironwine had originally intended. He stretched out his nimblelimb, letting it hover a few inches above the human’s chest.

His injuries persist. The body had healed, but it was only a patch on the deepest of wounds. Ironwine clicked his inner jaws. A Thrysalid would have taken far more from the medicine, even one as weak as this solution. Is it because he is human? Or because of the Sea?

It had saved his life, but such a move had introduced more than a few variables. Ironwine could not be sure of the result. The potency couldn’t be denied, but it was a volatile mixture that all but undid the nurturing toxins.

Ironwine twitched. The brush of something vibrant touched his chest, but it was gone before he could identify its source. His nimblelimbs quested forth, passing over the boy’s ravaged body from heel to crown. He felt it again—a flash of gold—but then it vanished. Retreated.

Into the boy.

The presence he’d felt before did not return, but a measure of awareness filtered across their Bargain. A piece of the human resurfaced. His throat, raw and thick with blood, managed to spit out four words.

"Mudbath. Vial." He choked. Swallowed. "Last Grace."