Late after sundown, when the moon was at its zenith, two small groups left their respective bases of operation, heading outside of town, toward an old statue.

Its stone was worn down by time and the elements. At some point, it would have displayed the simile of a saint, or perhaps even a founding god. Nowadays, it was faceless, its form smooth and nondescript. A silent witness to the passing time.

The first group, led by Emile Landretti, followed by a handful of family guards and one cloaked individual, arrived first. They left the small rocky path and made their way to the back of the statue, where they pushed aside a large boulder, just enough to reveal a narrow stairwell.

Holding up light sticks, they descended.

Half a bell later, Sebastian Quaro's group arrived, again consisting of him and a handful of henchmen, followed by the Allwardens, their two guards, and Jordo.

They followed after the first group, meeting them at the base of the stairs, inside a large antechamber from which a single path led downward into the earth.

The air was damp, and the old brown bricks that made up the floor in a radial pattern were slick with moisture. Sounds reverberated inside the domed room, making it feel bigger than it was.

Emile turned toward the approaching footsteps, smirking when his sight landed on Sebastian's dour face. “Sebastian. Finally agreed to being reasonable. I was surprised when I got your message that you were willing to give up your runes...” His eyes shifted to David and Niala.

The Landretti Company's manager dusted his suit with his hands, patting off the dirt transferred during the tight passage. He looked up to the Landretti scion. “Emile. I'm pleased to know you are still as gullible as your father. As if I would let the runes into your foolish hands.”

Emile shook his head. “Tsk, still as stubborn, I see. Too bad for you, murdered, but I took measures to ensure I was getting what I needed tonight.”

A smirk played on Sebastian's face. “What a coincidence, so did I.”

They turned their heads toward the third party that had stepped away from Sebastian's group, except for Jordo, who had stayed at the entrance.

David looked around, his gaze landing on the path leading further in. “Is that the way toward the vault?”

Emile blinked. “It... is. But it doesn't matter! Get me my runes from that vile piece of human trash, and we'll get it opened with your help, as agreed.”

Sebastian chuckled at that, earning him a grimace from the young Landretti.

David looked at Niala and nodded. She reached into her dress's pockets and took out two phials. She threw one at each group, accelerating them with a burst of wind.

They shattered into a hungry cloud of vapours that billowed outward, engulfing both groups. Shouts were strangled short as bodies began hitting the floor like flour bags.

The last man standing was Emile, who managed to push through the sleeping gas for a few seconds, glaring at the traitors. He shuffled one foot forward before sprawling along with the rest of his group.

The smoke reached Niala's group and passed them over as nothing more than a lazy haze. They'd all drunk a neutralizing agent beforehand.

David observed the sleeping bodies before looking at Niala. “A new recipe? That was some aggressive sleep.”

She smiled. “It's a hybrid of two different sleep potions. One that acts fast, and one that's very potent. Without hybrid brewing, it's usually a trade-off.”

He pushed pride and love through their link, and her smile widened. He looked at the rest of their group. “Sybil, Sammie, Jordo, stay here and make sure they're sleeping properly. Me and Niala are going further in.”

The Scion Guards nodded as the couple turned and moved toward the corridor leading further in.

The path was narrow and sloped downward. David, in front, had his old Courier plaque out and illuminating the way. Heartsong was in his hand, adding its soft blue glow.

The passage gently curved after a hundred metres, cutting off sight of the antechamber. This far in, there was only the sound of their footsteps, some water drips, and their breaths.

They walked for close to 15 minutes before the air took on a humid and earthy smell. Soon after, the path opened up on a large, vaulted cavern. David's light didn't reach all the way, but it was enough to see that the way forward was made of old stone bricks, half covered in moss, with an underground lake stretching out on both sides.

Up ahead, at the far end of the cavern, was a faint yellow glow. Niala brushed up against David and leaned to look past him. Her ears twitched as she squinted. “...I think I can spot the outline of a door, or something like that.”

He nodded at her and resumed his advance, pushing some more mana into his plaque, throwing the light a bit further out. The water looked crystal clear, with the bottom of the lake peering back at them under the dim light. No movement or sound reached their senses.

A small bridge split the path mid-way, with it continuing all the way to the end. There, it widened into a 3-metre wide landing, with a semi-circular door of about the same size. On it were a mess of symbols and engravings that looked like runes to David, even though he couldn't even guess what any of them did. The yellow glow came from a single rune in the middle of the door. Every other rune was dead or dormant.

He could tell that some of them looked more recent, and while complex, seemed almost quaint when compared to the more ancient ones.

Niala stepped next to him as he passed his plaque over the door, closely observing the diagrams and enchantments. She tilted her head, the tip of her tail swishing. “Are you trying to figure out where to push in your mana?”

He nodded, sheathing Heartsong and keeping his eyes on the door. “Anna just said that it should be possible. She didn't know how.”

She turned her eyes toward the vault's enchantments herself, letting her eyes dart around the complex diagram.

They stared at the vault door for a quarter bell before David sighed. “I don't see any handholds or indication of where to put my hands.”

Niala scratched her temple. “Maybe it's not hands? Did they have people like you back then? Or would they have relied on mana crystals?”

He looked at her, then turned his head back toward the door.

And he felt a little bit foolish.

He closed his eyes and pinched the bridge of his nose. He reopened them, settling his sight on his wife. “I'm guessing you already spotted a place to put in a crystal?”

She nodded. “Yes,” she said, pointing at a spot on the ground, just in front of the door, that looked like a shallow plate carved into the stone.

“Why didn't you tell me earlier?”

Her ears wiggled. “I thought you were looking for something less obvious.”

“...Thanks for not laughing at me about it.” He said.

“David. I am totally going to tell this story to everyone I can.” She deadpanned.

He stared at her. She stared back.

Letting his shoulders slump, he approached the indent in the ground. With care, he put his hand down, pressing his palm in the shallow curve, and pushed out a splurt of mana.

And nothing happened.

He looked back at Niala, who gave him a slow nod. Taking in a breath, he willed more mana forward this time, keeping a slow trickle going.

After a few seconds, he started to feel it; something was greedily devouring the mana he was offering, as if the rock was parched and absorbing it like a sponge.

Another check with Niala, and another approval. He refocused on his hand and let the flood surge. His mana rushed forward, drowning the enchantments and the stone they were carved in. A deep rumble reached the surface, unsettling small pebbles and dust. The runes and lines on the door flashed once, the light fizzling out. Then one more time, this time lasting for a few seconds before disappearing as well.

David squinted and willed his mana forward into a solid torrent.

The door lit up, every rune gorged with mana, bathing the room in pure yellow light.

But the enchantment still felt hungry. David kept feeding it.

Niala gasped, and he looked up, his eyes going wide when he saw it; some of the runes were disappearing, the stone that had been carved away by Stefan was being remade.

By the end, when the stone bowl began straining against David's mana, all of the more recent runes were gone, with only the ancient enchantment remaining, a bright yellow, and giving off a sense of impassibility.

He stopped the flow of mana and looked at his handiwork. Niala walked up to him, her ears twitching. “Aren't you a little curious about what was on the other side?”

He smirked. “I am. I figure we can come back eventually, once we find someone able to do what Stefan did.”

She looked at him. “But the runes had to be depleted to...” She blinked and looked at the wall, then at her hand, and back to David.

He smiled. “Yeah. I'm thinking a magivore should be able to drain it.” He said with a wink.

Her lips curled upward, and she leaned on him, rubbing her face against his arm once. “Now what?” She asked.

“Now we go tell them to stop being difficult and give us back your distiller.”

Her ears perked up, and her smile widened. “Let's go!” She said, turning around and racing ahead.

Sebastian came to, his mind swimming up through the haze of sleep until it surfaced into consciousness. A brief moment of confusion passed over him before he remembered. The traitors had-

They were looking down at him. He grimaced and scrambled to his feet. “Hector, Arthur! Get them!” He shouted, back-stepping.

Only, the traitors didn't move, simply kept looking at him. He hesitated a glance over his shoulder and saw... no one. He was alone in the antechamber.

He spun his head back toward them. “What did you do?! Where are my men?!”

David took a step forward. “Gone home. You're the last one we woke up. Do we need to paralyze you like we did with Emile, or are you going to listen?”

Sebastian scowled. “You don't get to order me! You backstabbing idiots! If you think you can intimidate the runes out of me, you don't know a thing about Sebastian Quaro!”

David sighed. “We don't want your runes. We resealed the vault. Your runes are useless. We want our distiller back. We'll give you your money back.”

The grand manager stared for a second. “What do you mean, resealed the vault?! It was opened by Emile's grandfather!”

Niala sidled up to David. “And Stefan had put a new lock in place, over the old one, but the old lock wasn't gone; it was just out of mana. David powered it back up. It's sealed again.”

The man looked between the two of them, eyes widening, before he turned around and bolted at a run toward the path leading down to the vault.

David held his arm sideways, stopping Sybil from jumping after him. “He'll see for himself. We're done for the night. Let's get back to sleep.”

They shared looks, shrugged, and everyone followed after David.

If Niala was to be honest, it felt a little anticlimactic, but she guessed this was for the best. With the vault out of reach, Emile and Sebastian's backers would lose interest, and Anna's incriminating evidence could get them, at the very least, burdened with criminal inquiries, if not outright imprisoned.

She didn't put much hope in that, though. Nobles were slippery snakes, and they'd probably find a way to stay free men. Hopefully, free men with a tarnished reputation and added to their peers' blacklists.

They went back to the Landretti company the next day, demanding a meeting with Sebastian.

The man refused to see them, of course, preferring to hide behind his employees. David got the receptionist to tell him where his office was, turned all of his imbuements on, making his mana catch fire, his eyes turn a solid blue while dripping congealed mana with every step, and headed toward the man.

Nobody in the facility dared to stop or even touch him.

Sebastian's locked door didn't hold up for very long, either. It burst open, slamming into the wall. David stepped in, followed by Niala and the others, and planted himself in front of a very tense-looking Sebastian.

“The distiller. We want it back.” David said.

The grand manager's face scrunched up, his mind churning through what little options he had, anything to spite these parasites that had cost him everything.

His shoulders eventually slumped. His words were growled, forced out of his throat. “Fine.” He said, opening his drawer and taking out a small slip of paper that he crumpled and threw at them. “Show the slip to the receptionist. She'll do what's needed. Now get out, or I'm calling the city guard.”

David nodded, and his group left. They handed the paper slip to the catkin front desk clerk, who read it and nodded tersely, still tense after having seen David catch blue fire.

Irvin, the service enchanter who had inspected their distiller the first time, crashed into the lobby, greeted them, and brought them back to the examination room where the distiller was still partially disassembled.

He gathered some help and got the unit back into a single piece within a bell, much to Niala's pleasure.

Before David got the distiller back into a cargo cloth, Irvin, looking conflicted, held his hand up. “If... If I could have a minute of your time, Sir and Madam Allwarden?”

David looked at the man. “What is it?”

The technician wrung his hands together. “Well, it's just that, as part of our examination of the unit and its design file, we were able to determine why the unit had begun brewing with a reduced efficiency.”

Niala's ears perked up. “Really?! What's the issue?!”

Irvin flinched back. “Ah, well, it's incomplete. It's missing a part.” He said, swallowing before continuing. “Stefan Landretti designed this distiller to “learn” recipes and settings, and apply them automatically. However, it is without its control module that would normally be used to input the relevant data.”

The technician gained confidence as he delved into his explanation. “It is quite an ingenious design, meant to lighten the burden on the user. The issue is that, without the control module, the unit will slowly “default” to the average time, temperatures, and cycles used, which end up skewing the recipe.”

Niala's eyes widened as her ears twitched. “Ah! So if I'm always running it at a high temperature, then if I set it to 110 degrees, it will add a few degrees to it over time?”

Irvin nodded. “Exactly. Now, without the module, it's impossible to know what the unit is deciding to do unless you measure every variable. With that said, I do have good news! The schematics for the control module were found alongside the unit's file, and I had a copy made. If you can find a master enchanter, they should be able to replicate it, completing your one-of-a-kind distiller and unlocking its true potential!”

Niala almost hugged Irvin.