They quickly broke camp and headed out, falling to the same routine they had been using for the last three days. Ali followed along quietly with her Kobolds while Mato ranged ahead figuring out where they needed to go.

The forest slowly lit up with the approach of dawn, and Ali’s worries mounted. Mato was doing all the practical work to rescue their friends, and she was merely walking through the forest with her thoughts and worries as her constant companions. While her Kobolds could talk, they hardly offered enlightened conversation.

Her eyes were drawn to a fallen tree, marked with scratches in the bark – Mato’s sign that she could safely deconstruct it. She welcomed the brief distraction and the opportunity to use her magic, but all too soon the tree dissipated into glowing mana, lighting the forest around her for a few moments.

Something tucked away in the undergrowth attracted her attention. Something she might not have noticed without the light she had just created. Making a barrier to increase the illumination, she crouched down and scraped away some moldering leaves and dirt revealing a fist-sized red-and-white toadstool growing underneath.

Forest Amanita – Mushroom – level 6 (Poison)

Excited by her unusual find, she brushed away more of the leaves revealing several more of the brightly colored toadstools, fascinated by the delicate flow of bright red mana within the cap that presumably was the poison magic augmenting its natural toxicity.

She summoned her Grimoire and immediately deconstructed several of the pretty toadstools.

Variant: Forest Amanita added to Imprint: Mushroom.

There, all efficient and tidy, no extra chapter needed. Maybe I need to be thinking of these chapters more as categories?

“May I have a mushroom, Ancient Mistress?”

Her Kobold’s voice was calm but, spoken right next to her while she was absorbed in studying her find, it startled her more than she would have liked. Calming herself by easing her breathing, she turned to find her highest-level Kobold crouched in the dirt beside her, examining the remaining toadstools with a gleam in his eyes.

“Why do you need a mushroom?” she asked, her curiosity piqued. It was the first time one of her minions had asked her for anything.

“I would poison my blades,” he answered.

“You can use poisons?” Ali had little insight into how rogue classes worked, or even what kinds of skills they may have, beyond the obvious stealth and Ambush attacks she had become so familiar with.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress. I have the Deadly Poisons skill.”

“Go ahead,” she said. The Kobold carefully uprooted one of the toadstools and separated the cap from the stem. He then crushed it into a paste with a rock, all the while using some strange magical skill. Is this what crafting skills look like? she wondered. When he was done, he wiped his dagger blades through the paste and then wrapped the excess in a few carefully chosen leaves which he stored under his leather armor.

“Do the others need poison too?” Ali asked.

“They have not advanced yet.”

The response puzzled her for a few moments before she realized that the other rogues had lower levels. Kobolds must unlock a skill at level ten, just like I did. Ali found the tidbit of information, an unexpected and curious insight, quite fascinating. The idea that the Kobold’s leveling worked just like hers made a kind of logical sense to her, even though they were monsters.

She was just about to ask him for more details about his skills when a sudden sense of urgency flowed through her connection from her wolf minions, and she sprang to her feet and began to run, followed closely by the Kobolds. Within moments, the large form of Mato’s wolf shot from the bushes and onto the trail right in front of her, his body already warping and twisting into his Beastkin form.

“Grrr … I found them!” he snarled, his voice a skin-crawling blend between beast and man as urgency drove him to speak mid-shift. “They’re in trouble!”

They both rushed off, but it was immediately clear that Ali couldn’t even remotely keep up with his pace. Her tiny frame and short legs simply couldn’t run fast.

Glancing over his shoulder, then whirling, Mato called urgently, “Can I carry you, Ali?”

Not caring much for her dignity, given that Malika and Calen needed them, she nodded. No fear! she thought, trying to remind her trembling heart. He’s not a Berserker anymore.

He swept her up in his arms and sprinted off through the trees, trailed by the chirping Kobolds.

Calen’s eyes widened in shock as three towering, shadowy shapes crept through the trees, moving with uncanny silence and grace, almost invisible in the dappled shade.

Warrior – Bugbear – level ?? x3Mage – Goblin – level ??Shaman – Goblin – level ??

Not far behind them, scampering through the bushes, came a pack of smaller, green-skinned figures carrying an assortment of crude weaponry. Scavengers and Skirmishers, but Explorer couldn’t get a good read on their numbers in the dense undergrowth.

A Goblin Warband! The recognition that the Goblins had finally caught up made the blood drain from his face. Instantly, he knew that they were hunting Malika, who sat in her Meditation pose in the open clearing beside the corpse of the Bugbear they had just defeated. She seemed, blissfully unaware of the stealthy death that crept up on her.

Acutely aware of his own vulnerability should he call out a warning, he quickly stooped and grabbed a handy stone. Wiping the mud from his chosen weapon, he took aim. With a swift underhand toss, he lofted it high overhead, watching closely as it arced through the tree branches. It struck the lead Goblin Bugbear on the shoulder, clinking sharply as it bounced off his plate pauldron.

The creature let out a loud roar, and he could only stare in disbelief as two of the Bugbears leapt effortlessly into the air, sailing across the clearing, heavy maces stretched high and back overhead ready to strike. His brief warning was enough to alert Malika, but she was only able to avoid one of the leaping monsters. The sharp crack of bones breaking echoed through the trees as the descending mace smashed her body into the ground, making her bounce.

I need to run! The errant thought popped into his mind with the startling clarity of a clear bell. There was no chance they were a match for an entire Goblin warband. He hadn’t been seen yet, still concealed in the shadows of the trees, and his escape route was clear. His desire to flee surged within him, a palpable urgency that demanded action. Bugbears had a reputation for ugly cruelty and viciousness, and even just one of them had almost been a match for him and Malika combined.

An angry red glow caught his attention. Back among the trees a robed Goblin was hunched over a growing ball of conjured fire, his eyes narrowed with malicious glee as his tongue ran over cracked green lips, curled back into a sneer.

She’s going to die. All thoughts of running away vanished as he suddenly found his bow in his hands, arrow nocked and drawn. As he released the shaft, he suddenly understood Mato and his penchant for charging into trouble seemingly without heeding the danger.

His arrow flew true, striking the Goblin Fire Mage clean in the ribs, pinning its flowing robes to its torso. It screeched and snapped around to face him, the conjured ball of fire growing ever more intense. Suddenly it released the magic, angry roiling flame shooting through the trees with incredible speed. Calen dove for cover on the leeward side of a large oak, barely making it before the ball of fire exploded. The detonation was deafening, stripping the leaves from the nearby trees instantly. Even protected by the thick bulk of the tree, his skin was scorched and blistered from the wave of heat. Gobs of fire and clods of dirt rained down throughout the area in the aftermath of the powerful explosive magic. Calen nocked his bow and sidled out from behind his tree but was forced to duck back again as a high-speed Firebolt sizzled past his cheek.

I’m going to die too. But somehow the thought did not fill Calen with terror, and he no longer had any desire to run. The fact that he had just bought Malika a few seconds by acting as recklessly as Mato made him want to laugh. His mind and purpose felt clear. Maybe the fear is making me hysterical, but this sure feels good.

He popped out from his hiding spot and loosed his arrow. The second elite Goblin pointed a short mace in his direction and Calen instinctively dodged. His vision went white as a coruscating blast ripped past him, unleashing a deafening thunderclap that shook his bones. He barely made it behind his tree, his left leg jangling and cramping from the near miss.

Fuck. The shaman has Lightning Bolt. We are so screwed!

He remained behind his tree as a hail of pebbles and stones flung by the Skirmishers and Scavengers pinged and cracked off the branches and trunks nearby. A couple of trees to his right had caught fire, and a blaze burned through the undergrowth, blocking his way past and filling the forest with smoke.

We probably have about a minute at most, he estimated. It had been a great risk to investigate the Goblins, instead of heading directly back home, but both he and Malika had chosen it deliberately. Perhaps not a worthwhile trade for such a lawless town. But when he thought about Myrin’s Keep, it was his mother’s face he saw.

Too bad. I’ll just have to take as many of these monsters to the grave with me as I can! He rolled out from cover to another tree and took a quick shot with his bow, striking a level-one Scavenger in the throat. He had the satisfaction of seeing it drop before the painful crack of a high-speed stone against his right hip spun him half about.

A new roar – a decidedly deeper and more bestial one – bellowed through the trees. Screeches arose from the Goblins as they reacted to the sound; Calen found his own nape prickling intensely as he reacted to the new danger. Suddenly, a huge mass of fur and muscle charged out on four paws, crashing into the trio of Bugbears that were beating on Malika’s downed and lifeless body.

Mato? Where … how?

Thunderstruck by disbelief, Calen rubbed his eyes and stared again. There, high upon the ridge among the trees, he spied the tiny form of Ali by the glow of her full-body barrier of golden magic. She crouched, under the partial cover of a large spreading oak, flanked by two green reptilian creatures wielding drawn swords. There was a ruckus of screeching and howling as an entire pack of wolves tore into the group of Skirmishers and Scavengers from behind.

Calen whistled between his teeth, drawing another arrow back to his ear.

They’re alive!
