The problem with Goblins is that there’s never just one of the blighters.

- Bragni Doomhammer [The Hammer of Justice], Dwarven King of Dal’mohra.

Malika trudged along the game trail, forcing her tired eyes to keep scanning the forest around her. It was a little after dawn, and the forest felt hushed as if it held its breath, waiting for something to happen. She was exhausted. Neither she nor Calen had gotten any sleep over the last two days in their desperate scramble to stay ahead of the pursuing Goblins.

But it was not hard to motivate herself to keep going. All she had to do was recall the sight of the Goblin horde pouring out of the cave entrance with their raucous calls, brandishing their rusty weapons so recklessly that she had seen the severed tip of an ear leaping into the air. Perhaps the horde wouldn’t have felt quite so terrifying if it were just the normal little green Goblins that people across the realm recognized as vermin.

This horde had larger and more advanced Goblin species: massive ochre-furred, feral, and muscular monsters that caused the ground to shake under their huge feet; armored crimson warriors with black topknots, mounted upon large and cunning Timber Wolves; and she was definitely not about to forget the elite Goblins with dangerous classes that they had personally encountered along the way.

The fact that Calen had told her Kieran Mori and his goons had provoked the Goblin horde by inciting a dungeon-break, made her coldly furious. It was happening again, and she’d be damned if she stood idly by and let a dungeon-break destroy another town. Even a shithole like Myrin’s Keep had innocent people.

Our information will save lives, she told herself. At least, if we live to tell the tale. And if Kieran Mori doesn’t meet us at the gate to fuck us over again. She was furious. She took a deep breath, trying to calm her sleep-deprived mind.

A shadow flickered across her path. Malika hesitated, glancing left and right but seeing nothing. There was a sudden huge crash and she blinked. Somehow, she was on her back, blackness receding from her vision. She stared dumbfounded at an eight-foot-tall, furry Goblinoid and the wicked two-handed mace that was descending unceremoniously towards her face. Her mind struggled with the sheer improbability of it. The monstrous mountain of muscle and steel had literally appeared out of nowhere, flattening her with such force that she lay stunned upon the ground with the breath knocked clean out of her.

An intense flash of light shot out from the dense trees of the forest and an arrow struck the creature in the shoulder, eliciting a howl of fury. That was all Malika needed to restart her stunned brain. Desperately, she threw herself out of the path of the descending mace and felt the ground punch her hip as her arm buckled and failed to support even the slightest pressure. Rolling over and over across the dirt with her left arm flailing uselessly, Malika nearly vomited from the intense wave of dizziness and pain. Something was very wrong with her shoulder. Things that shouldn’t be moving crunched sickeningly as they twisted, bone scraping on bone. Clutching at her wounded shoulder, she scrambled to her feet, knowing her life depended on keeping her distance from that monster.

What the heck was that? I lost almost half my health. Her arm dangled limply by her side.

She poured her mana into Healing Mantra, wincing as the intense burning sensation of her magic caused her bones to snap painfully back into place. The rearrangement of her shattered shoulder caused her arm to twitch and spasm as she tried to place the Goblinoid.

Bugbear. Calen had identified them for her earlier – from a suitably safe distance.

Bugbears had a notorious reputation as the most ill-tempered and vicious of the Goblinoid races. And now she had just experienced firsthand what it felt like to be ambushed by one of them. Also, it stank.

The Bugbear roared fiercely at her, the foul stench of its breath merely adding to the general unpleasantness as she hastily backed away. Suddenly, its muscles bunched, and it leaped high into the air, easily closing the distance as its giant steel mace swung down for another overhead smash.

Crap! Malika dodged left using every drop of her speed to avoid the brutal attack. She felt the wind of its passage as the heavy steel missed her shoulder by a fraction of an inch, slamming into the ground behind her feet. Splinters of rock and dirt exploded outward from the impact, drawing blood as they sliced across her ankles. She was forced to dive out of the way as the huge monster recovered with a grace and agility that seemed downright uncanny on such an enormous frame.

Drops of morning dew glittered along the wicked-looking steel spikes that jutted out of the plate pauldron strapped to its right shoulder. The monster glared at her with cunning dark eyes set deep in its squat and ugly face. Its thick lips drew back into a snarl, baring its oversized fangs. Mismatched leather armor had been strapped haphazardly across its heavy, muscular body, leaving the dark ochre fur to protrude in thick tufts and clumps. Malika grimaced at the rank stench of unwashed sweat and worse emanating from the giant Goblinoid as it coiled, preparing to rush her.

Frick, that smell’s a bloody weapon … ready …

The Bugbear flung itself into a headlong tackle, leading with the heavy armor spikes welded to its pauldron. Appearing as if by magic, a couple of glowing arrows embedded themselves in the back of its other, unarmored shoulder, causing it to erupt with a bellow of rage. Darting aside with a fraction of a second to spare, Malika seized the opportunity to unleash a strong high kick, connecting solidly with its jaw lighting up the nearby trees with a sky-blue flash as she activated her Soul Strike skill.

Caught off balance, the monster crashed down beyond her, ripping through some bushes, roaring furiously.

I think I just pissed it off more. An arrow whizzed by, impaling a tree with a loud thock and a buzz as it vibrated from the impact.

Glad I’m not alone. The arrows sticking out of its shoulder didn’t seem to be hampering it much, but Malika was extremely glad Calen had her back, and that he hadn’t been scouting too far away. She quickly ducked under a whistling horizontal swipe and counterattacked with two punches to the ribs. Blocking a deceptively fast return strike, she danced back out of range. She couldn’t believe how tough his skin was – it was like punching a stone wall. Her physical attacks barely had any impact, only Soul Strike felt like it was effective.

Dodging the next sweeping attack, she stepped in, keeping her weight light on the balls of her feet. As her kick slugged the Bugbear in the gut, his mace blurred with unnatural speed swinging from low to high. It smashed into her ribs with a loud crack, launching her off the ground. As her body flew through the air, she urgently healed the ribs crushed by the heavy momentum of the mace.

What was that? Dude hits like an avalanche!

The speed of his retaliation had been almost too fast for her to even see. The heavy two-hander combined with the almost instantaneous strike had crushed her bones beneath its brutal impact. Without her Healing Mantra, she knew she would be dead already. She tucked her legs and absorbed her momentum against the trunk of a tree before leaping back towards the monster.

Malika came down as heavily as she could, striking with a knee to his unarmored shoulder, right between the two protruding arrows. She used Soul Strike, welcoming the small trickle of health she gained from its magic and landed behind the brute. As her feet touched the ground, she unleashed a low-kick combination at close range, striking at ankles and knees with her magic flickering and flashing in the early dawn light. She kept a sharp eye open for the retaliatory counterstrike, and when it came, arms blurring with speed, she blocked. Unable to completely avoid the attack, she was still sent sprawling but at least she had prevented most of the bone-crushing impact.

Quickly, she rolled sideways as the Bugbear took to the air once more. The great mace smashed into her hastily vacated spot, powered by enormous muscles and the sheer momentum of the leaping giant. The nearby trees in the forest shook from the impact – easily the most powerful strike yet. The Bugbear roared in frustration and lashed out with a wild haymaker that Malika easily avoided. Her eyes widened in sudden shock as she realized that the ridiculously clumsy attack had been a cunning feint and the real attack, the heavy mace, smashed into her side, cracking her ribs again and slamming her into a tree.

Damn, he’s using me for a fucking punching bag!

Shouting incoherently, the powerful muscles in the Bugbear’s back and shoulders flexed as it swiped its brutal mace horizontally, trying to take advantage of her injured side. Malika leaped, taking two running steps up the trunk of the tree, and performed a backflip over the head of the Bugbear while her healing magic coursed through her body.

She wiped the blood out of her right eye. Time. Just need more time. It’s playing with me. Controlling the distance…

Ignoring the arrow that lodged itself into his ribs, the monster wheeled about with balletic grace. With an unexpectedly powerful sweeping attack, he caught her in the chest right before she landed. Malika screamed at the sickening crunch of crushed bones as her chest was caved in by the heavy steel. Her body flew across the path and bounced off a maple tree on the other side of the clearing like a ragdoll. Before she even slumped to the ground, the Bugbear landed on her, one knee driving into her gut, meaty hands the size of her head reaching for her throat.

Pinned under its huge bulk, she pulsed her healing magic once again and unleashed a fury of elbow strikes and punches to the side of its head and face, struggling to find proper leverage while the monster grappled her. The Bugbear roared in triumph, abusing his superior strength to tighten his stranglehold around her throat. But Soul Strike cared only that she connected, flashing brightly even at the lightest of touches. She burned through her stamina with reckless speed and desperation as her vision started to flicker from the lack of oxygen.

Out of the corner of her eye, she glimpsed Calen emerging from his forest cover, bow drawn right to his chin, his face etched with concern and concentration. Tucking her arm in towards her body, she rammed the heel of her hand upwards, unleashing Soul Strike into the Bugbear’s chin. As the monster’s head snapped back, from the force of her blow, Calen released his arrow. With an incredible feat of accuracy, it shot across the forest glade, burying itself up to the fletching through the Bugbear’s left eye. The Goblinoid never even cried out, killed instantly.

Your group has defeated Mace Brute – Bugbear – level 17.

Malika slumped under the now dead weight of the monster. Mace Brute. No kidding.

“Are you ok?” Calen worried.

She just groaned and used her healing once more. “Can you help get this thing off me?”

The two of them struggled to shift the dead weight of the huge creature, but eventually, Malika wriggled out from underneath it.

I’m going to be aching for a while, she thought, considering how many bones she had just broken. And I want a bath.

“Thanks,” she offered Calen. He nodded quietly, and after verifying that she was going to be ok, slipped back into the shadows of the forest, presumably to scout or keep watch.

Malika didn’t bother to move, simply sitting on the ground beside the corpse and beginning to Meditate. She settled in, taking a few minutes to calm her mind and her breathing while her severely depleted stamina and mana began to regenerate. She was mostly healed up, but she was quite low on her other resources after the stunningly brutal fight.

A loud roar shook the forest, snapping her out of her Meditation. To her horror, three more hulking monsters emerged from the trees lugging their huge weapons of choice. The glint of morning light reflected off their miscellaneous plate armor pieces strapped over their bristling coarse orange or brown fur.

Using their larger brethren as cover, two elite green Goblins slunk out from behind the Bugbears, one clad in flowing scarlet robes with the red glow of flame dancing in its hands, and the other wearing a shining chainmail shirt and leaking white sparks from their eyes.

Partly concealed in the bushes were at least several other small dirty green faces with wicked snarls twisting their mouths and exposing crooked yellow teeth.

With a great roar, two of the massive Bugbears immediately leaped for her, flying through the air in exactly the way Malika’s mind insisted a half a ton of muscle and steel shouldn’t.

Oh fuck.

You have been afflicted with Domain Withdrawal.Separation from your domain weakens you.-10% to maximum health.Affliction – Duration: Indefinite. Count: 5

Ali woke with a start to the now familiar throbbing headache and cold sweat. For a moment, she was confused. The darkness, and the sense of her domain withdrawal, conspired to place her back down in those cold and dark ruins again. But the stars shone through the tree branches above, reminding her that she was in the forest.

Halfway. The point of no return. Ali had to remind herself that she had the Potion of Recall that could send her home instantly. But, while it was one thing to have options, it was another to be wholly reliant on them. Although I can’t walk as fast as that courier wagon, she thought, realizing that in fact the point of no return had already come and gone.

Mato said we were getting closer. She was beginning to worry. So far, it had taken two days on the road with the courier, and then three more days of scouting through the woods. Yesterday, Mato had killed two stray Goblins while he was following Calen and Malika’s trail.

I hope they’re ok, she thought. Mato had reassured her repeatedly that their trail was still active, even though they had doubled back several times, and there were numerous signs of pitched battles.

She sat up and looked around. All her minions silently stood watch in the darkness. It was hard to judge time by the forest and the light, but going off the timing of her withdrawal notification, Ali guessed it was about an hour or so before the first light of dawn.

She moved to go rouse Mato but found him already stirring. By mostly unspoken agreement, they had been sleeping only a few hours a night. She was tired, but she needed far less sleep than he did. She couldn’t imagine how he felt, only that she knew they were both driven to find their friends before something terrible happened to them.

