Janos looked at the countless thread stretching into the horizons in awe. Each was an illusion holding a complete world, and they held the potential to transcend their current state—the potential of becoming reality.

[Good. Follow the trace.]

Janos was full of misgivings, but he followed the guidance echoing through the resplendent realm. Grand Dream’s offer was one he couldn’t refuse. Janos instructed the [Realmkeeper Orb] to adjust the gondola’s course, and he sailed through the fold between dreams until he found what he was looking for.

Home.

Drawing a deep breath, Anson could almost see the swaying Lonton stalks. The thread also held the indelible mark of Zachary Atwood, bringing memories of Earth rushing back. Two homes, two identities. Janos wondered if this was anything like what his unpredictable Emperor experienced. It would explain how he always got himself in a mess.

The timeline otherwise looked no different than the countless others, but Janos could somewhat tell it had seen some recent alterations. Grand Dream had upheld his part of the deal, so it was time for Janos to do his part. He looked down at the [Realmkeeper Orb] with reluctance.

[You don’t have to do this. If it fails, she won’t even remain in your memories. The Fifth Pillar is ascending, which means the Zenith is drawing closer. There might be a better opportunity waiting for you there.]

“Soon in the Multiverse is an eternity for me. I’m not confident in living that long, let alone finding the answer,” Janos said with a shake of his head. “This is it.”

[Are you confident? I can help you pick another.]

“Can’t you see the outcome?”

[Ultimately, I’m but a figment of a possible past. My vision is limited by history, and I can only see the trajectories that have been recorded.]

A slight smile tugged at Janos's lips as memories of his time in the Atwood Empire flashed by.

“I’m not sure. I’m confident in his ability to subvert all expectations. If you’re looking for change, then he’s your man.”

[Then brace yourself. The Dream will soon end, and the Heavens have already taken notice. I cannot hide your involvement. A sacrifice must be made to maintain equilibrium.]

“Then so be it.”
