“… Oh?” Erick was familiar with those lightwards. He couldn’t recall the spell at the moment, and he was not about to ask Poi for clarification, but those lightwards made the light bounce in every direction. He said, “There’s no escaping the light, for even with your eyes closed, it’s still there.”

“Yes. That is the spell.” Syllea smiled. “Light’s greatest strength is that it can be coherent, and directional. It can slice through anything, and punch harder than most other magics. But shadow abuses the directionality that you find in normal light magic. With a break in Light, and with the proper magics, you can create Shadow out of shadows.”

“Is that all there is to it? Just… Making light, like a liquid?”

“No no. That’s just the simple overview.” Syllea said, “The stronger the Light, the darker the Shadows. Even if you make Light go everywhere, you’re just making the Shadows stronger, too. The true solution, here is to ‘grey out’ everything. The proper way to have Light win over Shadow, is to be subtle, to be elsewhere, to be everywhere and nowhere.” She said, “You lose a lot of Light’s directional power. A vast, vast amount. But the best way for Light to fight the Shadows, is to focus on Illusions.”

“That seems...” Erick wasn’t sure how that seemed.

Syllea put words to Erick’s unformed thoughts, saying, “It seems pretty damn shitty, doesn’t it?”

“Yeah.” Erick said, “Yeah. It does.”

Syllea nodded, then said, “You can always overpower the dimmer Shadows with a strong, omnipresent Light. But when you’re dealing with the Deep Darkness, Illusions work best. They’re the only thing that works— Ah! But you can use Shadow magic against Shadows, no problem. It’s like striking stone elementals with Stone, but it works, well enough.”

Erick had a thought. “How about [Shadowalk] and [Lightwalk]? Can you use one to empower the other?”

“Probably.” Syllea said, “But all I know of that is theory. You made a light slime dungeon. Doesn’t one of your Army people have both? They could likely help you more with that than I could.” She asked, “Do you have [Shadowalk]? I tried to get it, twice now, but I was chased out of both the Fractured Citadels and the Shadow Canyons. I’m not going to attempt Ar’Kendrithyst.”

“I do not have [Shadowalk].” Erick frowned, knowing that he could never go to Ar’Kendrithyst to ‘farm wolves’ like Jane had done. Maybe he should get [Shadowalk], but… “Silverite mentioned those places to me, once. Said I should go there if I ever wanted to get [Shadowalk], hinting that it would be a good idea. How bad are the Fractured Citadels and the... other place?”

Syllea nodded. “The Shadow Canyons are deep in the frozen south in Nergal, near Veird’s Axis. It’s the only place on the planet where the Deep Underworld has breached the surface. Shadows and fires thrive in that place, but if you’re not in the heat, then you’re in the frozen sky, or jungle, and both places are deadly to most people. I lost two members of my group to chance. I decided not to continue.” Syllea said, “The Fractured Citadels are barely better. In that place, untended sewer systems and untended tunnels to the Underworld have carved out dungeons the likes of which exist nowhere else on Veird. Shadow took hold when Quintlan fell, but the ghosts of that destroyed land still fight. Wraiths. Zombies. Undead of all kinds. Sometimes a stronger undead will arise, like a lich, or a corpse knight, and they’ll make an organized push against the shadows, to carve out minor undead kingdoms in the graveyards of the past. None of it is real, though. Undead are barely better than monsters, though they’re not monsters; they’re just… tortured souls. There’s always a necromancer behind every false kingdom.” She said, “I was already an archmage when I attempted to get [Shadowalk], but I was targeted rather heavily. When one of my people was exposed to soul magic, I decided [Shadowalk] wasn’t worth it.” She added, “I haven’t been able to craft a full set of shadow armor, either. [Shadowblend] was the best I managed on my own.”

“Sounds like gaining those skills is best done when you’re too young to be a target, and you can just eat the essences.”

Syllea smiled softly, her voice filled with a familiar longing for a simpler time, as she said, “The hermit archmages are able to move silently and unencumbered, but that’s not for me.”

Erick returned Syllea’s smile, saying, “But it would be nice to move silently, occasionally.”

“Sometimes… Maybe.” Syllea waved her hand, saying, “There’s likely someone else you can talk to about using [Shadowalk] and [Lightwalk] together, that would serve your needs more than I. Anything I told you with regard to that would be based on theory, without any true practice. What I know I can do, is introduce you to using Mana Altering for Light in order to empower Shadow magics.”

That led to a question that Erick had thought of before now, but was too busy to pursue. “There’s no ‘Shadow’ in Mana Altering, though. And there’s no Decay in the [Element Shape] spells, either?”

Mana Altering X

Bludgeon, Slash, or Piercing Damage

Force to Light, Blinding, Variable Cost

Invisible Force, Variable Cost

Force to Thunder, Disorient, Variable Cost

Force to Fire, Burn, Variable Cost

Force to Ice, Slow, Variable Cost

Force to Lightning, Paralyze, Variable Cost

Force to Decay, organic damage, Variable Cost x1.5

Chain, Variable Cost x2

Combine Effects, Variable Cost x3

Generate new effects. Variable Cost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Erick asked, “Shadow is a part of the ‘New Effects’ section, isn’t it?”

Syllea smiled wide. “There are so many secrets to that little ‘Generate new effects’ section of Mana Altering, that you could build an entire school around it all.” Her voice took on a wondrous quality, as she said, “Mercy. Vile. Exalted. Bounce. Destruction. History. Time. Void.” She laughed, “Book! That’s a fun one. If people knew more about all the true elements out there, then— It would be amazing. I don’t know what would happen, but it would surely be a sight to see.

“All of Reality is capable of being expressed in Mana Altering, for mana is undifferentiated possibility, and altering is the process of bringing that possibility to the forefront.” She added, “Though some possibilities are easier to work with than others.” Hedging her words, she added, “But almost every one I mentioned is among the hardest to use, or even understand. The true, full list of Mana Alter is quite long, but no one cares about Rain or Ash; they’re not very impressive. Magma is useful, sometimes. The Headmaster is pretty famous for his Sun Style, which is a variation of Air and Fire.” She said, “More people should be interested in the truths behind Mana Altering, but almost no one is, and it’s a damned shame.”

Erick felt like his eyes had been opened, and yet he was more confused than ever.

Syllea noticed. She said, “Mana Altering is very, very deep magic. Almost no one goes beyond the surface understanding taught in Arcanaeum, and a lot of my ideas are considered radical— But it’s hard to argue with results!”

And now Erick was lost again. “So. Uh. Pardon my ignorance, but what results do you mean?”

Erick didn’t know what he expected from his sudden admission of ignorance, but Syllea didn’t seem to mind.

“Buffing magic, Erick.” Syllea smirked. “You didn’t know that?”

“I knew you were famous for Mana Altering.” He admitted, “But I had no idea what that meant.” He asked, “And doesn’t buffing magic harm as much as it helps?”

“Okay. That’s fair. I’m also capable of doing a wide variety of esoteric spells. Maybe you’re more familiar with [Starlight Fall], which actually uses— Actually... Have you heard of that one?” When Erick shook his head, Syllea popped out a box.

Starlight Fall, instant, super long range, 29,900 mana

Conjure countless stars down to Veird, each creating a large explosion for 50x WIL per star.

[Starlight Fall] looked like a very, very large spell. Erick was impressed.

Syllea continued, “[Starlight Fall] covers a good hundred square kilometers, and is not based on any sort of Light or Shadow or Stone or Fire, as you would with one of the many variants of [Comet Swarm]. It’s actually based on altering for Starlight.” She added, “There’s a few more like that that you might have heard? [Void Bomb]; altering for Void. [Crystal Prison]. You saw that one—” She lost a fraction of her mirth, saying, “That’s what I used to stop Bayth from killing...” She shook her head. “Anyway. That one was altered for Crystal, which is an offshoot to Order, of Glass, which is itself a paraelement of Light and Stone— And I see I have confused you. Apologies. We’ll get to that in a minute. But.

“The thing you have to know about alters is first, their existence, so that you can Mana Alter to them, directly. This is one of the harder steps. I can tell you that Starlight exists, but not many people are capable of actually capturing that element in a spell.

“Stepping beyond that initial knowledge, then you have to know their relationships to each other, so that you can alter from one element to another, and occasionally, through several elements at once. But we’re getting far ahead of ourselves.

“The purpose of altering for buffing magic, is because you are right. Buffs harm the body. But do you know why they harm?"

Erick chuckled, saying, “I hope for you to tell me.”

Like revealing a great secret, Syllea said, “Buffs change who you are in the moment, but that changed self is not who you truly are. Normal buffs are like filling your veins with power, instead of blood. It’s just not good for the mortal body.” She smiled, stressing, “If you do it wrong.” She said, “If you do it right, you’re just Mana Altering the aura of a target, and therefore the side effect is minimal. Your body clears out mana all the time, but most people aren’t capable of altering on the level that is required for a clean buff, so they go into battle with improper magic, and suffer the next day.

“A properly Mana Altered aura is like the difference in a hangover from rotgut, versus five-time distilled flarewater.” She popped out three blue boxes, handing them to Erick, saying, “These are some of my nicer spells. Each of them has zero consequences, but it is the last one that you might find the most interesting.”

Hour of Flame, instant, touch, 16,000 mana

Imbue the aura of a willing participant with Fire. They become a Flaming Existence for one hour. Their temporary nature does no harm versus all they have in their aura at the time of casting, but all other close range existences suffer from 5x WIL damage per second, while Hour of Flame is active. The target is able to suppress Hour of Flame at will. A suppressed Hour of Flame could last up to 12 hours.

Forest Touched, instant, touch, 5900 mana

Imbue the aura of a willing participant with the Forest. Forest Touched are able to survive off of water and sunlight for one week, as well as speak to plants, both mundane and magical. Forest Touched are able to move between linked trees, but this lowers the duration of the spell.

Shadow Conversion, instant, touch, 9000 mana

Imbue the aura of a willing participant with Shadow. All Light magic cast by the target is transformed into Shadow. Shadow magic cast against the target is less effective in all ways.

Erick read the third box for the third time. He looked up to see Syllea’s smiling face watching him. He asked, “Okay. So. That looks amazing. Can you do that with all of them? All of the elements?”

Syllea almost said something, but she paused. “How do you mean? The Shape elements? Or? There’s actually either 18 or 200 elements, depending on who you talk to.” She rapidly added, “But you probably meant the Shape elements.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Yeah, I did— But 200? 200 elements?”

Syllea seemed to tease, “What’s this disbelief? If I recall correctly, you stood up there on that podium and said there were actually closer to 250, and that we were using the term ‘element’ all wrong.”

Erick conceded, “Okay. True.” He added, “But. Yeah. I meant the 6 [Element Shape] elements. Or— You tell me.”

Syllea nodded. “There’s a mostly academic debate in some Arcanaeum circles as to the actual number of classical elements, but the ones everyone actually concerns themselves with is likely exactly as you’re thinking. Fire, Water, Stone, Air, Light, and Shadow are the main ones. Force is undifferentiated, ‘natural’ mana; if you want to call it that. Dragon is an element not accessible to most people, but it is technically an element; it’s just an element outside of the normal ordering.” She said, “But as for switching one element into the next, in the way [Shadow Conversion] switches light to shadow, every element is able to be switched into something close to what it is, rather easily. You have go to through the list, though, and each step from the original magic is further complication to the spell. [Shadow Conversion] is a two-step conversion.” She lifted her hand to the left, to an empty space in the room, and conjured a blackboard. “This is the normal conversion series.”

Gloom

Air

Lightning

Rain

Abyss

Water

Healing

Mud/Ooze

Shadow

Swamp

Stone

Glass

Light

Magma

Ash

Fire

Radiance

Sun

Syllea conjured a many-sided polyhedron, with all the words listed on the board, but in handheld form that was almost a ball. “The main elements listed on this map, along with all of their mixed elements, is the common conversion map, but in handheld form.” She set it on the table between them, then summoned another object. This second conjuring was a lot more complicated than the first, for it was like a small, stabilized orrery, with the previous 18 elements on the outermost ring, but a good thirty more on the inside and a few on the outside, on rings of various sizes, and sticking outward on pins. She set the second ball of elements down beside the first one, saying, “The interior of this map is toward Order, while the exterior is toward Chaos, or Force, which is just undifferentiated mana. It is theorized that Dragon and Order are one in the same, but you can’t get to Dragon from any element, so those experiments are dead in the water. And besides, experimenting with Dragon is a good way to get assassinated.

