“What’s it like, being a [General], Uncle Zel?”
“A [General]? Hm. That’s a difficult question. Why, are you planning on becoming a [General] instead of a Named Adventurer, Selys?”
“No…I don’t want to join the army. Grandma hates them. I do, too. Every time they come home, they cause trouble. They tried to kill some Antinium.”
“Ah. I heard about that incident. How is the city adapting to them?”
“Dunno. They’re weird, but I don’t see them often. There’s one in the City Watch. Did you know that?”
“I…did.”
“He’s really strange. He’s always polite and everyone avoids him. Why are we talking about the Antinium? What’s it like being a [General]? Huh? Tell me!”
“What part of being a [General] interests you, Selys?”
“Um…what’s it like being famous.”
“Famous?”
“You know. Everyone staring at you. Grandma said you led a huge army against a Gnoll Tribe last month!”
“The Vaskia Skyhunter Tribe. It wasn’t that large of an army. But yes. I had to do that.”
“So? What’s it like?”
“…What?”
“Being at the center of attention! Is it fun?”
“It’s not exactly like that, Selys. I’m a [General], not a hero. People take orders. It’s not like being an adventurer or a celebrity.”
“But they do pay attention to you, right?”
“They do.”
“I wish they did that to me. No one ever pays attention to me. Grandma’s famous. So are you. I’m just Selys.”
“It’s not everything you might think it is, Selys. Fame is a one-way street. Once you go down it, you can’t go back.”
“Huh? What’s that supposed to mean?”
“Er—being stared at by everyone isn’t always fun, Selys.”
“Why do you do it, then?”
“…Huh.”
“Wait, you don’t know?”
“I’m thinking. Hush for one second.”
“Okay.”
“…Why do I do it? Well, I don’t like being famous. Having everyone’s eyes on you, being trusted to lead an army…that’s a heavy responsibility. There’s something unique about being the one person in the world everyone’s watching. That’s true.”
“What’s it like, Uncle Zel?”
“Indescribable.”
“Really?”
“Really.”
“Does it feel good?”
“That’s hard to say too. Being in command, taking charge…some love the feeling of doing that. Others hate it. I do it because there’s no one else. Because it’s my duty. Because…it must be done.”
“Oh. Okay. Well, I bet that I’ll like it. When I’m a Named Adventurer, I’ll visit you all the time, okay? I’ll be more famous than you are!”
“Hahaha—”
“Don’t laugh! I’m serious.”
“I’m sorry, Selys. I know you are. I was just thinking that might be pleasant. When you’re more famous than me, come visit me anytime. It would be refreshing to have a niece more famous than I am.”
“Just you wait. I’m going to do it. Grandma’s teaching me how to use a sword, and I can go into the sewers when I’m fifteen! Evvy’s parents are going to let her try when she’s fourteen, but Grandma says I’m too reckless. I’m not.”
“I’m sure she’s just being careful. And she is the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild, Selys.”
“Yeah. Anyways, I’ve been practicing with those claws you gave me! Look, I brought them!”
“Oh. Well done. I suppose if you’re here, I should teach you another trick. Unless you want to use a sword?”
“Nope! I’m gonna learn how to do everything. Teach me another trick!”
“Alright. Stand back and give me some room. You’re going to want to be a bit back from your opponent when you do this—”
“Wow! Let me try!”
“Careful. It’s not easy. And remember what I told you?”
“Don’t do this to anyone I know?”
“Right. But the second part—”
“‘Stay out of trouble.’ I know, Uncle.”
“I’m just concerned for my favorite niece.”
“Really? Your favorite?”
“Well, maybe my second favorite—”
“Uncle!”
 
—-
 
­“Wake up.”
Someone smacked Selys with a claw. She jerked, felt the binding on her wrists, and stared at a Drake. He had an ugly, flat face, like a Human’s. And he was standing too close to her. She tried to back up, nearly fell, and realized she was sitting in a chair. Her hands were bound to the back with rope. She saw other Drakes in the room, huge, thickset ones, and thought of the worst.
“Touch me and I’ll—”
“Shut up.”
The Drake in front of her glared at her. He had dark orange scales, greasy and uncared for. He also had a knife. Selys realized that when he brandished it. She eyed the blade, but kept talking.
“If you lay one claw on me, I’ll bite your hand off, got it?”
The Drake exchanged a glance with his buddies.
“Cooperate and you won’t be harmed.”
“Yeah. Cooperate or we’ll have to persuade you. Which would be fun for us. And not for you.”
Another Drake leered at her. Selys stared at him. He was shorter with brown scales. She glanced around. This was bad. Really bad. What was—
The Drake in front of her slapped down a piece of parchment. Selys stared at it. The Drake put down an ink pot and quill. He pointed.
“Sign.”
Selys stared at him. She stared at the contract. It was hard to make out since the only light in the room was a single lantern. But she could make out what looked like a legal contract. ‘I, Selys Shivertail, hereby authorize Watch Captain Zevara to relinquish the artifact in my possession to the bearer of this document. Said artifact is known as…’
The pieces flew together in her mind. The Drake [Receptionist] looked at the parchment, at the thugs, and then relaxed.
“Ancestors, that’s a relief.”
Her reaction caught the Drakes off-guard. They stared at her. Selys glanced around. Dimly lit room, about eight Drake guys—okay, one female skulking near the back, although she was twice as big as Selys so it was an easy mistake—she’d jumped to a far worse conclusion. Not that this wasn’t bad. But Selys felt better. She glared at the Drake.
“You hit me.”
“Sign the document. You won’t be hurt. We’ll keep you here until we obtain the artifact, and then you’ll be let go. Unharmed, if you cooperate.”
“Oh yeah?”
If looks could kill, Selys would have been Liscor’s most-wanted years ago. She glared around and then yanked at her bindings.
“Hey! My hands are tied. How am I supposed to sign anything if I’m tied up? Are you idiots?”
The [Thug] in front of Selys stared at her. She glared at him.
“Untie my hands! Unless you want me to sign that parchment with my tongue? I can’t tail-write, you know!”
Her response took all of them aback. One of them coughed.
“What, you’re just going to sign? Like that?”
“Uh, yeah? I’m not stupid. I’m locked up in this room, and you’ve got knives. Give me the quill.”
The Drakes exchanged glances as Selys glared at them. What did they think she was going to do? Resist torture? An artifact wasn’t worth that, no matter what it was!
“Fine. I’ll release you. Don’t move. And don’t try to run.”
“Don’t worry, I won’t. And watch my claws! I got them polished the other day!”
“She can’t be serious.”
One of the other [Thugs] muttered as the Drake with the knife began sawing through Selys’ bindings. Selys tried to breathe normally. She was being mouthy, but she was terrified. She waited until she felt the bindings fall off her claws and then grabbed the quill.
Everyone in the room tensed. Selys stared at them.
“I’m signing the document.”
Slowly, she dipped the quill into ink and scrawled her name across the bottom of the parchment. The Drakes blinked. Selys pushed the parchment back towards the Drake with the orange scales.
“There. How long until you let me go?”
He looked at her.
“Uh—”
The [Thug] picked up the parchment, frowned at it, and looked around.
“We have the signature. Let’s go—pick it up?”
His companions looked nonplussed. The short Drake looked bewildered.
“I thought we’d have to torture her.”
“Why don’t we leave a guard—”
“Just like that? Okay, what if we—”
“You think you’re going? Not a chance. I’ll go with—”
Selys watched them argue, feeling a sense of unreality to the day. First she’d been to a funeral. And she’d been given armor. She’d gone into the sewers, then gone to Pallass, been kidnapped…
She’d been to a funeral. This morning. Selys could barely remember the smell of smoke and the sound of long speeches, now. It felt distant already. But at the same time—
Her uncle was dead. Zel Shivertail was gone. Those were the facts. Everything that followed, all of this—it was over his armor. The Heartflame Breastplate. Selys had barely seen it for more than a minute. Who cared about it? Why was this happening?
She lowered her head as her tail curled around her legs. Dead. But his ashes weren’t even buried and Drakes were fighting over his legacy. That was the worst of what they could be. That was what she’d tried to tell Erin. Drakes were descended from Dragons, yes. That was true. But where Dragons were greedy, Drakes could be so petty.
“Alright! We’ll do it like that!”
Selys looked up. The [Thugs] had come to a decision. Five went over to the door, while two folded their arms, looking annoyed. The one with orange scales came over to Selys.
“We’re going to take the artifact. Where is it being held?”
“I don’t know.”
“What?”
Selys glared at the Drake’s incredulous face.
“Do you think I had time to put it somewhere? Zevara has it! I don’t know where it is!”
“You must have seen where it was last.”
“Yeah, but they moved it! I don’t know where it is!”
Selys folded her arms. The hired muscle looked at each other. One growled.
“Maybe she’s lying.”
“I’m not.”
The young [Receptionist] stared at the thug. He narrowed his eyes and came over.
“I don’t like the way she’s talking back.”
“Oh y—”
At last, Selys’ mouth finally got her into trouble. The other Drake caught her arm, and she yelped as he gripped it hard enough to bruise.
“Tell us where the armor is. You know where they put it. You’re just lying to us to buy time. I want to know where.”
“I don’t know! Let go of me!”
Selys grabbed the arm holding her, but the Drake was far stronger than she was. He grabbed her other arm and spoke menacingly a few inches away from her face. His breath stank.
“Think really hard, Miss. Or else I’m going to have to—”
He gasped and jerked. Selys felt him let go and saw him jerk backwards. Something was protruding out of his shoulder. The silvery tip of the rapier pulled back as he cried out in agony. Pisces appeared behind him.
“I would ask that you refrain from threatening Miss Selys, good Drakes of Pallass. Or I might be forced to harm you.”
He turned as the Drake he’d wounded grabbed at his shoulder. Pisces whirled, and the [Thugs] in the room cried out in shock. Pisces smiled, his white robes shining in the lantern light, his bloody rapier held at the ready.
“It appears that degenerate behavior is not simply a Human trait. I would have expected this in Terandria. Or Wistram. But here? Is there no regard for grief, no respect for mourning?”
They hesitated. Pisces flicked his gaze from Drake to Drake. There were eight of them, spread out around the room. The [Necromancer] backed up towards Selys.
“I would advise you to lay down your arms. You are outmatched. I am a Silver-rank adventurer and my team—”
The Drake he’d stabbed rose up, punched Pisces with a roar, and the other Drakes charged. Pisces yelped, and Selys saw him stagger back. The injured Drake charged him—
“[Stone Spray]!”
—And received a face full of razor-sharp stone shards. He screamed and fell, clawing at his eyes. Pisces whirled. Someone charged him with a club. The [Mage]’s form blurred and he lunged—the thrust of his rapier went through the Drake’s chest and out the other side. The [Thug] stumbled, dropped. Pisces backed up, cursing, as he tried to withdraw his fragile blade.
“He’s a [Mage]! Rush him!”
The Drakes charged. Pisces looked up, let go of his rapier’s handle, and flicked his fingers.
“[Flame Jet]!”
A gout of fire blasted from his fingertips, catching two of the Drakes. They screamed and dropped to roll about on the ground, and Pisces turned, forcing the others to back up. He fumbled for something at his belt—
“Watch out!”
Selys shouted. A [Thug] was throwing one of the knives he held in his claws. Pisces blurred as something dropped, and he appeared three feet to his left. The knife missed him, and the [Mage] flicked his finger. Selys saw a ring on his finger glow, and a bolt of white light shot across the room and struck the knife-thrower in the chest. She heard a crack, and the Drake folded up with a hole in the upper right part of his chest.
“He’s got artifacts!”
“It burns!”
“Get around him!”
The Drakes were shouting. Selys was standing up, but she had no intention of getting into the fight. She backed towards one wall as Pisces looked around. Five Drakes remaining, two of them burned badly. They dodged as he raised his hand and shot a stream of crackling electricity towards them. One had a buckler and caught the electricity on the wooden frame, grimacing. Pisces backed up towards a corner.
“I would advise you all to surrender.”
“Oh yeah?”
It wasn’t witty repartee, but the murder in the eyes of the Drake who’d spoken did a lot for the delivery. Pisces sighed.
“Yeah. Look behind you.”
Amazingly, one of them actually did turn his head. That saved him. The others were just readying themselves to charge when the long scythe of bone shot out and buried itself in the back of the first Drake’s head. He fell. The others turned. And screamed.
A tall, tall creature of bone stood behind them. It had no face, just a torso without neck or head. Its arms were long whips of bone ending with curved scythes. It had long legs and a strange, ball-like waist from which it could rotate and bend its upper body freely. It did so now, leaning low to the ground and slashing at the other Drakes with its arms, cutting their flesh as they screamed and backed up.
“Ancestors, an undead!”
“He’s a [Necromancer]! Run!”
One went for the doors. The Bone Horror tangled him with its arms, cutting him over and over with whipping strikes that flayed the Drake. Another slashed at it, but Pisces’ creation simply ignored the blows. Pisces blasted a third Drake with a spray of stone, making her scream and back up—
“Nobody move!”
Someone grabbed Selys. She hadn’t seen the fourth Drake running towards her. She’d been too focused on Pisces’ creation. Now the criminal grabbed Selys with one hand, keeping his club raised towards Pisces. The [Necromancer] whirled. The air around his hands frosted with cold as he pointed a finger.
“Let her go.”
“Back away, or I’ll club her brains out! Tell that thing to leave!”
