“Whatever. I don’t want slaves. I don’t want Wistram’s lesser artifacts or the gratitude of Liscor’s army. What should I do?”
Selys looked pleadingly at Zevara. She wasn’t that much older than Selys. Maybe seven or eight years, at most. But the Watch Captain felt older. Zevara hesitated.
“I have no idea, Miss Selys. It’s a tricky situation with a time limit, as you know.”
“How long do I have?”
“I’m not sure. Wall Lord Ilvriss is protecting the armor, and I believe his escort can ward off any potential thieves. I have Relc and Klbkch on guard duty as well, but Wall Lord Ilvriss is a member of Salazsar when all is said and done. There is some question about him influencing you…”
“Politics. He helped us defend Liscor.”
“My thoughts exactly. And he hasn’t given me any reason to doubt his word. It’s just that giving him aid—and by proxy, Salazsar—would put Liscor in a tricky spot, especially with this doorway to Pallass. I can’t make a decision for you, but you should know what might occur.”
Zevara offered Selys a sympathetic look. She glanced at Selys’ empty cup and reached for the tea pot.
“You could just sell it. The amount of gold you’d get from an heirloom like that would set you up for life.”
“But if I sell it to Ilvriss—”
“Sell it to Wistram. Or the army. Those are the safest bets. They might not be able to outbid a larger city, but you’ll get the least amount of trouble for it. I think we Drakes would be happier if none of us had it, rather than one of us.”
“Great.”
Selys buried her head in her hands. Zevara looked at her and cleared her throat a few times.
“Look at it this way, Miss Selys. Make a decision, and you’ll be rich for life.”
“However long I have left.”
There was nothing Zevara could say to that.
 
—-
 
It was too hard. Selys lay on her grandmother’s desk, groaning. Her grandmother looked at her and then pushed her off.
“Ow!”
“I have work to do, Selys. This is your day off. Enjoy it.”
“How? I can’t go anywhere without an escort, and I have a magical artifact under lock and key! What am I supposed to do?”
“Stop lying on the floor. It’s dirty.”
Selys got up. She felt wretched.
“What do you think I should do, Grandma?”
“Sell it. Or give it away. I don’t particularly care.”
Tekshia sighed as Selys groaned and flopped back onto her desk. She rapped Selys on the head with a knuckle.
“You’re making too much of a fuss about this, Selys. The armor is armor. You’ll make enemies no matter what you do, so take the best deal and live with your choices! I had someone after my head when I was eleven! You’ll manage.”
“But Grandma—”
“You need to decide for yourself. No moping! Get out there and make a choice, young one! And don’t let me catch you bothering the adventurers downstairs!”
“I know one I can bother.”
“Then go find them. But stay out of my Guild! Until work tomorrow. I expect you on time, escort and armor or not.”
 
—-
 
There was no good way out. No right decision. Selys was trapped. And she hated everything. Right now she hated Pisces, despite him being very helpful of late.
“Try these command phrases next. ‘Ia curim law’. ‘What is will be and shall ever be the will of flame.’ Um…‘Drakes rule.’”
Pisces paced back and forth as Selys kept her hands on the Heartflame Breastplate. She looked up at him.
“Seriously? Drakes rule?”
“Any phrase could work, Selys. Any one at all. It’s the most nonsensical that would be chosen so no one would guess.”
“There’s no point. I give up.”
Selys leaned her cheek against the metal, not caring about smudging the legendary artifact anymore. Pisces turned to her.
“Don’t say that. Isn’t this exciting? The challenge. Imagine it! You could unlock the secrets of a powerful artifact today!”
His eyes gleamed. Selys just made a thbbting sound.
“It doesn’t matter. Someone else is going to get the armor. Let them have it.”
“Ah. So you’re inclined to sell?”
“I’m inclined not to die. Which means I have to sell at some point, only there’s no one I can sell it to that won’t make someone else mad! I’ll have to sell it and hire a [Bodyguard] for the rest of my life. How is that good?”
Pisces shrugged.
“You don’t have to sell it.”
“What? And keep it? Zevara won’t guard it forever—Relc’s already complaining about his job. [Thieves] will take it, or someone will kidnap me for it—what other options are there?”
“You could lend it—”
“Hah! That’s the same problem!”
“Not necessarily—”
“It doesn’t matter. I’ve got no choice.”
Selys turned her head away. She knew Pisces was trying to help, but she was just done with it all. Erin could handle something like this, but normal Selys had nothing. She’d just sell it to Embria. Or give it to Wistram. That was safe. Then she’d ask Zevara for protection…
What a mess. Selys leaned against the armor as she sensed Pisces coming over. He sat next to her quietly.
“Do you recall what I told you yesterday?”
“It’s not helping, Pisces.”
“Perhaps not. But you never gave me an answer. I asked you if you wanted this.”
“I don’t. Problem solved. Okay?”
Pisces didn’t move.
“That’s not a truthful answer. Truly, honestly, without the issue of pressure, do you want this armor?”
“It doesn’t matter!”
“I believe it does. You should make a choice that is honest to yourself.”
“Honest? Myself? Honestly, I don’t want this! I’m not special, Pisces! I’m not an adventurer like you!”
Selys raised her head. She wasn’t crying, but she was angry. She glared at the [Necromancer].
“I’m not meant for this. I’m just a [Receptionist]. This shouldn’t happen to me.”
“And yet it did. You may be Selys Shivertail, a [Receptionist], but your uncle was Zel Shivertail.”
“Don’t mention him. He’s not like me. He lived in a different world.”
Pisces raised his voice.
“So? You were part of that world. You can’t deny it! You may have only been his niece, but he cared about you, enough to give you his armor!”
“It was a mistake!”
“It was his will. And you were part of his life! Enough so that he gave you this, even by mistake! You were part of a legend’s life, Selys. You can’t deny it.”
“Shut up!”
Selys thrust Pisces away. He retreated a bit, hurt. But he didn’t give up. He called at Selys as she wrapped her tail around her body.
“If you want to be ordinary, you can claim ignorance, but you know that you’re at least related to—”
“I said, shut up!”
Selys screamed at Pisces. She was so frustrated and angry that she actually hissed at him. The sound was loud in the small room, an angry viper’s hiss. Selys felt hot with embarrassment. No—not hot. Warm. She saw Pisces staring at her, pale-faced, and felt awful.
“I’m sorry.”
“Selys.”
“Look, I didn’t mean to—you should probably go.”
“Selys!”
Pisces was pointing, his finger shaking. Selys looked at him. Then she turned.
Behind her, the Heartflame Armor blazed. It was on fire. Flickering, ghostly-pale red and orange flames licked across the armor, burning without smoke. There was heat without sound, motion without fuel. Selys stared at the armor as it blazed.
“Huh?”
“You did it!”
Someone hugged her from behind. Selys yelped and looked into Pisces’ ecstatic face. The [Necromancer] danced about the armor, happier than Selys had ever seen him.
“That was it! That was it! Of all the sounds! What genius! What simple—”
“What? What was it?”
Selys was confused until she recalled what she’d done. Her eyes widened.
“Hissing? But that’s—”
“So simple! Isn’t it? You wouldn’t expect it to be a phrase, and if you heard it in the heat of battle—and it’s something only a Drake would do! Do it again! Turn it off!”
“I’ll burn myself!”
“Try touching it from the inside!”
Cautiously, Selys did. She could feel the heat of the flames, but the inside of the breastplate was simply warm. Selys hissed, feeling embarrassed, but to her astonishment it worked! The flames immediately vanished. Pisces whistled slowly.
“Incredible. Hissing. A simple command, not lengthy, easy to activate and so simple that it would be overlooked by anyone attempting to guess the password. I suspect you can subvocalize the noise and activate the enchantment.”
“Sub what?”
“Make the sound so small, so inaudible that no one can hear it but you.”
She tried it. The flames flickered into life across the armor though the hissing sound barely passed her lips. Selys jumped. Pisces smiled widely.
“Wondrous.”
Selys just stared at the armor. The flames licking across the metal were hypnotic. They weren’t just fiery red anymore—they had shifted to become slightly purple with a white core. As if the flames were reacting to something? It was magical fire, and a magical effect. Selys felt someone standing next to her. Pisces.
“And so I ask you one last time, Selys.”
She stared at him. Pisces pointed to the burning armor.
“Look at it. Selys. This armor was given to you. It was your uncle’s will that you have it. I have but one question for you: do you want it?”
Selys stared at him. She looked at the armor. She closed her eyes. She didn’t need to think of the answer. She’d known it all along.
“Yes.”
“Are you sure?”
Selys nodded.
“It’s mine. It’s what my uncle gave to me. It’s mine.”
She reached out and turned the enchantment off. Selys touched the warm metal slowly. Mine. Hers. Of course she wanted it. What Drake wouldn’t? And there was a part of her that remembered. She’d wanted to be an adventurer, wanted to be a hero.
Maybe her uncle hadn’t thought of it. Maybe he hadn’t updated his will. But he had known the Goblin Lord was coming. Maybe he hadn’t cared. Or maybe he’d remembered and decided to do nothing anyways.
“What’s it like, Uncle?”
“Excuse me?”
Pisces was staring. Selys turned her head. There was an epiphany in her mind, a rushing roar of understanding. She felt like her heart was about to beat out of her chest. Everything was slow and fast at the same time. Dreamlike.
“What a strange world we live in.”
“Go on.”
That was Pisces for you. He stared curiously at Selys, waiting for her to elaborate. She stared at the armor.
“Is this real? Or am I dreaming? It doesn’t feel real. It’s like a fantasy. Something I’d imagine. How could this happen to someone like me?”
There was no answer. There never was. Selys was ordinary Selys. A Drake without aspirations, without ambition. Only, that wasn’t true. She’d had all those things, once. She’d just given up on them.
The armor was heavy. Probably six pounds. Which was heavy for the average breastplate. But it was balanced well. Selys lifted it off the stand. If you wore it, it would be easy to move around in. Far lighter than if you had a back plate, too.
It felt like it should be heavier. Selys lifted the armor up. A legend’s armor. It had been worn by General Ironscales, by heroes of the Drakes. It had been worn by the Tidebreaker, and it had seen more battle and glory than Selys could ever imagine. It was an artifact worthy of myth.
And it still looked a bit tacky. Selys inspected the Heartflame Breastplate.
Then she put it on.
Pisces gasped. Selys fastened the straps around her body, feeling the metal shift to fit her form. It was a perfect match, despite having been on Zel’s chest before now. It fit like a glove. And it was—comforting. Selys turned, and Pisces backed up. His eyes were wide. He looked awed, in wonder and happy with it. Another emotion she’d never seen in him. Selys smiled.
“I’m going. Are you coming with?”
“Where?”
She laughed. And pointed.
 
—-
 
Liscor was busy in the rain. People walked to and fro under awnings, grumbling about the rain but accustomed to the season’s weather. There was a lot to do. Business was business, and there was actually more business in the spring. A lot of Drakes were on boats outside the city, hauling in prodigious catches of fish and watching out for aquatic monsters. Others were fishing from the walls, casting their lines into the water and returning with buckets of fish of varying sizes, shapes, and taste.
So there were plenty of people on the streets. Plenty of people who were going about their ordinary days doing what they thought of as mundane things. They looked up when they heard the shouting. They saw an ordinary Drake striding down the wet street. An ordinary Drake, a young woman. A [Receptionist].
Wearing the Heartflame Armor.
Selys heard the shouting. She’d been hearing it since she’d left the room with Pisces following. She had a crowd in her wake. Angry Drakes, [Guardsmen], officials. Shouting at her. Telling her all kinds of things.
“Stop!”
“You can’t do that!”
“Put it back!”
“Who do you think you are?”
Noise. Selys walked through it all. She stopped in the street as Drakes and Gnolls paused, looking at her. The Heartflame Breastplate was warm on her chest. It shone. It would make a good nightlight. But that wasn’t all it could do. Selys took a breath, her heart pounding. Then, ever so softly, so quietly even the Gnolls couldn’t hear it, she hissed.
And there was fire. It sprang around Selys, covering her hands, her tail, her face—but she could see straight through the flames. It was only when she looked at her body that she saw the blue flame. She heard the angry shouting go silent. And then there were voices raised in awe.
They didn’t matter, either. It was just Selys, standing in the street. She stood and felt the armor burning.
Heat. Selys closed her eyes. She felt warm. Only, it wasn’t heat. The burning flames around her didn’t touch her scales. She didn’t feel the temperature. But her heart—
Her heart beat fiercely in her chest. Her blood rushed. Selys opened her eyes and felt alive. She looked around and finally took in the crowd.
People were staring at her. Hundreds. Some were running, others shouting. A Drake had fallen to his knees. A Gnoll was staring mesmerized into the flames. Another Gnoll was shaking her head, pinching herself. So many eyes, so many faces.
All turned towards her. It was surreal. Selys had been at the center of attention in the Adventurer’s Guild. She had made announcements, shouted for attention—never this. This was something else. This was a moment she couldn’t forget, a brief window in time where a part of the world had stopped to stare.
At her. Selys looked around and then started walking. She had to. She had to move. The crowd parted before her and trailed in her wake. Selys walked through the rain as it burned and turned to steam on her armor.
