She walked with her knees shaking, her head light. Every head turned towards her. Selys felt the world passing slowly. For a second, a minute, she was the center of the world. It was terrifying. Amazing.
She wasn’t supposed to be here. They were staring—Selys shook like a leaf. But she was warm. And that gave her the courage to go on.
Down the street. Through the crowds as every person in Liscor came to a stop. Whatever they were doing, whatever they had planned—Selys occupied their attention. Zevara came running down the street and stopped. Embria paused as she and Ilvriss ran forwards. They became part of the audience.
Left at the intersection. Walking the same path from her apartment she’d always done. Selys looked around, trying to remember this feeling. Trying to capture every moment for the rest of her life.
There was a two-story building ahead of her. The doors were worn with age. Selys put her hand on the handle and opened it. Adventurers rose to their feet. The [Receptionist] on duty fell out of her chair. Selys walked into the Adventurer’s Guild.
Her home. She heard the crowd press at the doors. She saw an elderly Drake walk down the stairs and waved at her. Tekshia stared at her granddaughter, blazing, on fire. Selys walked past the line of wet adventurers, seeing them flinch back from her. She saw the Halfseekers turn. Gold-rank adventurers, staring at her just the same as the children.
The [Receptionist] at the desk backed away. Selys rested a claw on the wood and saw it begin to burn. She lifted her claw and turned. A room full of faces stared at her.
Ten minutes. That’s how long it had taken for her to come here at a slow walk. Ten minutes. That was enough.
For ten minutes she had been a hero. Selys looked at her grandmother and saw Tekshia looking at her with an expression Selys had never seen on her face. Wonder? Awe? Respect? There were no words. Selys stepped behind her counter. She ran a claw over it and saw smoke rising. Then she leaned on the desk. She hissed, and the flames died out.
In the silence, the smoke drifting from the desk swirled upwards and vanished. The Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, and other adventurers stared at Selys. She stood at her desk, wearing the Heartflame Breastplate. She smiled as wide as she ever had.
At the head of the crowd was a young man in white robes. Pisces stared at Selys. She beckoned him forwards, as if he were in line. He took a few hesitant steps. Selys leaned towards him.
“So what comes next? Huh?”
Pisces blinked. He stared at her and then around the room. She didn’t have to say it. She knew he was thinking the same thing. Sometimes, just sometimes, it was good to be the center of attention. At last, Pisces smiled. He looked at Selys, that challenging, excited gleam in his eyes.
“I don’t know. But I’m eager to find out.”
 
—-
 
Selys stood in a room with an odd group. Watch Captain Zevara. Wall Lord Ilvriss. Pisces. None of them were people she’d normally talk to. Well, maybe Pisces, but that was so new, as well. And yet, she didn’t feel afraid of talking to them anymore. Instead, Selys was all business.
When you wore the Heartflame Breastplate, people listened to you. Sometimes it was because you were on fire. But it was also because you’d dared. Dared to put it on. Even Ilvriss hadn’t dared to try. It was Selys’ armor. Hers.
And she was talking about giving it away. Pisces stood with a sheaf of parchment in hand, reading through his notes, talking animatedly. He’d been using [Message] spells all day. He’d taught himself the spell, apparently.
“…and in light of the new enchantment’s trigger being discovered, all of the cities are bidding desperately. They regard the armor’s powers—correctly—as something that could turn the tide of battle if used to full effect. A [General] wouldn’t need to fear danger, and take to the front lines with far more certainty, with such a powerful protective enchantment.”
“If my uncle had known how it worked, I wonder if it would have helped him.”
“There’s no telling. But the armor—”
Ilvriss stared at the breastplate. Selys had put it back on the armor stand. People also tended to stare at your chest if you wore it while talking to them. And it got heavy. Pisces nodded.
“I have noted your increased bid for the armor, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Backed by your Walled City, you are, of course, fielding one of the highest bids for the armor, from a purely monetary perspective.”
“One of the highest? Who else is bidding?”
Ilvriss swung around to stare at Pisces. The [Necromancer] smiled.
“Confidential, I’m afraid. Some of the potential buyers wish to preserve their anonymity, I’m sure you understand.”
Ilvriss narrowed his eyes, but he couldn’t exactly sneer at or ignore Pisces. The young man cleared his throat.
“However, yours is certainly an alluring bid. And Pallass is aware of it. They are concerned about Wall Lord Ilvriss’ ties to Liscor and have come up with a counteroffer, Selys.”
He turned to Selys and smiled.
“They’re willing to offer you a modest sum if you’ll agree not to lend, lease, or otherwise give the armor to Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“What?”
Zevara and Ilvriss looked at Pisces. He looked smug. Selys stared at him.
“Not to sell it to Ilvriss? But then I’d be getting money—”
“For nothing. Exactly.”
Pisces looked around at the Drakes. He sighed.
“It’s a simple concept! A magical artifact can make money simply by existing and remaining neutral—especially in ideal circumstances like these. Pallass, and the other Walled Cities, are keen to get their hands on such an artifact, but not at the cost of outbidding each other. They would rather pay a small fee to ensure none of their enemies turn up on the battlefield wearing that armor than obtain it for themselves.”
“That’s robbery!”
Zevara looked aghast at the idea of paying someone for nothing. Pisces laughed. He actually laughed!
“No. Just politics. Terandria has treaties like this in place. That’s where I hit upon the idea.”
“And you’re willing to hold onto the armor? Even if it means risking losing it? We can’t guard it forever, especially if you want to wear it.”
Ilvriss turned to Selys, looking exasperated. She shook her head.
“I still want to earn money off it. More money, I guess. Come on in!”
She raised her voice, and the door opened. Ilvriss looked past Selys and up, as a giant head appeared. A half-Giant head. Moore stepped carefully into the room, bending so as not to bang his head on the ceiling. Jelaqua strode in after him, and Seborn appeared at their backs. Selys shook Jelaqua’s hand.
“You’re serious about this?”
The Selphid stared at the armor. Zevara and Ilvriss, catching on, stared hard at Selys. The [Receptionist] just nodded.
“I’m willing to lease the armor to your team, Miss Jelaqua. Lease, not sell.”
“For the dungeon? How would that work?”
The Selphid scratched at the back of her head, her claws brushing the spines. Her tail twitched, and Selys wondered if she could hiss using her body’s new throat. They’d figure something out, if not.
“It’s very simple. I’ll let you use the armor to take on the dungeon—or any missions in the area. You’d have to give it back to me after a set amount of time, but you can use it until our contract expires.”
The Halfseekers stared at each other. Seborn raised a hand.
“And if we lose it or it breaks? We’re adventurers. Accidents happen.”
“If you can find something that can break the Heartflame Breastplate, I’d love to see it. From really far away.”
Selys folded her arms. She nodded at a book that Pisces had found for her.
“I’ve been doing some research. With Pisces. Possession of artifacts is very clear. Under Drake law it means that if you die with the armor on in the dungeon, it’s mine. If it’s stolen, it’s still mine. Only in war does that rule not apply. If you lose it in the dungeon, I’ll hire someone to get it back.”
“And it’s not likely to break. Alright. But what happens to you in the meantime? I’ve been hearing rumors that lots of people are targeting you. I’d hate to get my team involved in…”
Jelaqua looked around at the other Drakes and hesitated.
“…politics.”
“That’s a good point. Miss Selys, your life would be in danger if—especially if you lent the armor to adventurers.”
Ilvriss looked like he was struggling to find a flaw in Selys’ plan. The Drake [Receptionist] just smiled. She looked at Pisces, who gave her a self-satisfied smirk.
“Pisces had an idea about that, actually. It’s the kind of underhanded thing I would expect from him.”
“I shall take that compliment in the spirit with which it was given.”
“Explain.”
Zevara demanded of Pisces. It was Selys who replied.
“In the event of my death, the armor doesn’t go to anyone in my family. No matter what I say, no matter what I might sign, it’ll go straight back to Magnolia Reinhart. With instructions on how to use it. That will is good for ten years, at which point I’ll have to renew it or write another one.”
“Back to—”
Ilvriss spluttered in horror at the thought. Selys imagined that would be the reaction of most Drakes. She nodded.
“Back to her. I can’t change it no matter what. That will is solid and sealed by a Wistram Mage—”
“Falene. Pah. As if I couldn’t do the spellcasting myself, given a moment’s time to study—”
The Watch Captain of Liscor ignored Pisces. She studied Selys seriously.
“And if she has you killed? Magnolia Reinhart uses [Assassins].”
Selys gritted her teeth.
“Then she’ll have to get through every Drake who cares about the armor to get me. And I’d say one Human [Lady] being after me is better than six Walled Cities pulling me apart, don’t you?”
Ilvriss had the decency to blush slightly. He looked around and sighed.
“Ancestors. You’re serious about this, aren’t you?”
“Absolutely. Jelaqua, if you’re willing, I’ll lease the armor to you. I know I could find a team in Pallass or someone else in Liscor—the Silver Swords, maybe—but I wanted to ask you first.”
Jelaqua looked dumbfounded. She looked at her teammates and then at Selys, rather helplessly.
“Well, of course we’d love to borrow it, even for a day! But Selys, we can’t afford—”
“Oh, it’s not about how much you can pay me now. I just want a cut of whatever you get.”
Selys interrupted the Selphid. Jelaqua snapped her fingers.
“You do? Of course! A cut of the treasure!”
“I don’t need artifacts or anything else. All I want is a percentage of anything you find. You can have first rights to artifacts, and compensate me the cost.”
The Halfseekers stared at Selys. She held her breath as they turned. Moore covered their heads as he bent his to confer. Jelaqua turned back within a minute.
“Well, if it’s a percentage of our findings, we could offer you thirty percent—but let’s talk this over, okay? How’s a drink sound? At Erin’s?”
Selys smiled. She turned to Pisces, and he gave her a thumbs-up. He looked satisfied as he edged over to Selys.
“I get a cut of the profits, right?”
She stared flatly at him. Pisces lost his smile.
“Ah. Was that the wrong time to ask?”
He yelped as Selys poked him in the side. The [Receptionist] winked.
“We’ll talk.”
 
—-
 
It wasn’t over with the Halfseekers. Before they met to discuss the terms of their contract, which would be magically enforced and certified by Liscor’s Watch Captain, Selys strode into Tekshia Shivertail’s office. The elderly Drake looked up as Selys thrust a parchment onto the table for her. Selys didn’t wait for Tekshia to speak.
“The Goblins are going to be a Bronze-rank team. They’ll work their way up through the system, but this way Liscor can take credit for them entering the dungeon, and we get a cut of whatever they find. Otherwise, we have five Goblins running about who aren’t under anyone’s control but Erin’s.”
Tekshia picked up the form to create a Bronze-rank team. She studied it. Then she pushed it back across the desk.
“No.”
Selys leaned over the desk. She should have worn her armor.
“Why not?”
Tekshia’s face didn’t change.
“I don’t trust them.”
“I do.”
“So? You’re not the [Guildmistress].”
Selys stared at her grandmother. She glared and then took a deep breath.
“I’m not. But I say it should be this way, Grandma. If you’ll sign this, I’ll take responsibility for the Goblins. If they cause trouble, I’ll take the blame. Not you. You can put that in writing.”
She jabbed a claw at the parchment. For a second she thought Tekshia would scoff at her, but then, to her astonishment, Tekshia laughed. The elderly Drake grabbed a quill as Selys stared at her in astonishment.
“Do you know how long I’ve been waiting to hear you take some responsibility for your actions? Fine. If you’ll put your tail on the line…”
She signed the parchment with a flourish. Selys gaped at her.
“What?”
“Oh, don’t stare. I’ve waited for ages for you to suggest something and have the spine to back up what you’re suggesting. You’ll never get anywhere by trying to get someone else to take the risks, Selys. An adult takes chances, and backs them up! A shame you had to make Goblin adventurers your first big decision. Ah, well.”
Tekshia sighed as she pushed the parchment back towards Selys. The Drake stared and then snatched the parchment up. She peered at the signature. It was real. She glared at her grandmother.
“Wait, was this all another test? You mean all my suggestions—Pisces cleaning the sewers—all that was to prepare me to follow in your footsteps?”
The old Drake paused in nibbling at her quill tip.
“Hardly. I just don’t like [Necromancers]. What’s this about you following in my footsteps?”
“I thought—you were preparing to make me the Guildmaster! Guildmistress!”
“What?”
“You’ve been having me run about, do all kinds of important work for the Guild. And you keep talking about your bad back and how much work there is. I thought…”
Selys trailed off as Tekshia gave her an incredulous look. The old Drake shook her head.
“Guildmaster? You thought I was grooming you to replace me? Hah!”
She barked a laugh and pointed her inky quill at Selys like a dagger. Tekshia grinned, her teeth inky in one spot.
“You can have my place when I’m dead, Selys, and not a moment before! I just wanted you to take some responsibility and start leveling up again!”
“But—”
Selys felt like Tekshia had kicked the rug out from under her. The old Drake cackled.
“I’ll give you a small raise. Assuming you’re not too busy, running around in armor?”
“I—but—you—I worked so hard—and you—”
Selys spluttered. Tekshia shook her head.
