Selys regretted saying the words as soon as they came out. It was such an instinctive response, the kind of thing you heard the army say all the time. General Sserys had coined the phrase, and it was a saying among the Drakes. But it was so…
Pisces raised a sardonic eyebrow.
“Drakes might not run, but presumably they do turn around at some point. I believe my point stands.”
She glared at him and then laughed despite herself. Pisces smiled. That was it. He always seemed to be laughing at his own sense of humor, his mockery of the world. For the first time, Selys was laughing with him. She stopped as soon as she realized.
“Okay, tell me, Mister Intelligent. Why would the Drakes make a mistake like this? Unless they didn’t have enough metal for the back?”
Pisces stroked his bare chin.
“Hm. That is a theory, but I suspect we’ve already obtained the answer. Do you recall the revelation of the Heartflame Armor’s abilities we uncovered in Pallass’ library? It had an enchantment. A fiery ward that sprang up around the armor and user.”
“Huh. That does seem likely. So it would have protected the back. But are you sure it came from the armor?”
Pisces nodded. He gestured at the shining breastplate.
“It seems realistic to assume that the fiery protection on the armor was an effect of the Heartflame Breastplate, especially considering the motif and name.”
That was true. Selys stared at the armor. But no one had mentioned her uncle using the ability, and both Ilvriss and Zevara had just thought the armor was…well, legendary. They hadn’t wanted to test the ability, and she was sure they would have tried, had they known.
“Do you know how it could be activated?”
“No, and I suspect Magnolia Reinhart herself may have lacked the information. The true powers of artifacts are often hidden from public knowledge. That is why I considered research—it may have more abilities lost to time.”
“So my uncle wouldn’t have known how to use it?”
Pisces hesitated.
“He may not have had time to research it, if he had thought of it. An [Enchanter] would have known to ask such questions, but would a Reinhart have let him inspect the armor? Well…we shall never know if it was inspected before. As for now…”
He pondered over the armor, checking its front and back as Selys gently ran her claws over it. It was warm. Soothing.
“Spell activation is tricky. If it were a ring, it would be activated by twisting, but usually armor is activated by contact or some other set of rules. Touching it in a certain place, striking it with enough force…but the myth of the armor seems to indicate that the protection effect could be triggered at will. Why don’t we try a few activation phrases?”
“You know some? And it’ll work? Don’t you have to put it on?”
Selys couldn’t imagine…it was hers, but could she…? No. And Pisces was shaking his head.
“Simply uttering the right phrase should work, Selys. It’s actually quite difficult to make the armor ‘sense’ who is speaking, so personalizing the command trigger to only activate when the wearer speaks is usually not included in the enchantment’s features.”
“Really?”
Pisces nodded conspiratorially. He smirked.
“In fact, keeping the secret phrase of an artifact hidden is quite vital, unless it has been truly customized to a certain vocal pattern. Otherwise an enemy could trigger the enchantment in battle. It has happened on more than one occasion, historically speaking.”
“Okay, then what are some command phrases?”
“Well…why don’t we keep inspecting it? Perhaps there are hidden touch-mechanics. And I will utter as many phrases as I know. Thankfully, we know the common language has remained unchanged forever, although written text often replaces itself. So any phrase would work. It’s the key that could be anything. A phrase, a single word…there are a number of mage-sounds that I will try first. And I will have you do the same.”
“What? Why?”
“It could be that the armor only activates for a Drake. That would be a tricky enchantment, but it is possible. Keep your hands on the armor. Also, if you know any archaic Drake expressions, they would be the most likely activation code.”
It sounded impossible, and yet, exciting, too. A mystery to solve. Selys placed her claw on the armor.
“How about this? Drakes do not run.”
The armor was warm underneath her claw. Selys waited, but nothing happened. She heard a cough. Pisces looked away from her.
“Ah, Sserys’ famous line probably postdates the creation of the armor by at least six hundred years…why don’t we try a few older phrases? Allow me to begin.”
He made a sound and had Selys copy it. She came up with a phrase—nothing happened. Pisces ran through over a hundred different mage-sounds, some of which Selys found nearly impossible to copy. Nothing happened. The two gave up when their voices went hoarse after about two hours. It was a fruitless two hours, but for some reason, Selys felt much better afterwards, albeit with a sore throat. She’d had fun, laughing at some of the phrases and sounds Pisces came up with.
“Ah, well, activating an artifact is an extraordinarily difficult task in the best of circumstances, and I am no [Enchanter]. A true shame, really. I always wanted to learn that discipline, but I never got the chance in Wistram…”
Pisces was chatting to Selys as he closed the door. Relc stood to attention, as did the [Mage]. Selys didn’t have to look at Relc’s red cheeks to know she’d shot him down. Or slapped him.
Or both.
“Thanks for helping, Pisces. I’m going home—but I appreciate you giving me that advice.”
He smiled at her and hesitated as the sleepy [Guardsmen] marched over to escort Selys back to her apartment.
“I could come back tomorrow. This is a fascinating artifact, and if you would permit me to try and discover the key…”
Now it was her turn to pause. Selys looked at Pisces. He really had been helpful today. Surprisingly so. She found herself nodding.
“Sure. Why not? I owe you one.”
The smile he gave her was surprised, but he made a show of bowing to her as he bade her farewell. Relc muttered about ‘showoffs’ until the [Mage] standing next to him gave him a look. Pisces grinned impudently.
“Good night, Miss Selys.”
She smiled wearily.
“It’s just Selys.”
He nodded and strode into the rain. Selys watched him go and then looked up. It was raining, still. It was always raining. And then she felt tired. Good moments were only that.
Moments.
 
—-
 
The next day, Selys woke up, went outside, and visited her friends. She had to. She had to be social and normal, or she’d go crazy. To her relief, she managed to find her usual gossip group and circle. Or rather, they found her. They walked through the rain, from shelter to shelter as the [Guardsmen] followed, laughing and talking.
Today Selys was the topic of conversation. Drassi was off work, so she was there, as were eight of Selys’ female friends and eleven male ones, even the ones Selys didn’t talk to that often. Even the ones she’d been fighting with and an ex-boyfriend. They all wanted to make up and talk with her. No guesses why.
After fifteen minutes, Selys was sick of it. The other Drakes were wagging their tails, agog over the gossip about Selys being approached by a Wall Lord and other cities to sell the armor. They wanted to know everything about it, what the reaction had been when the will had been read out loud. No one asked Selys about who had been wearing the armor.
“Can we…see it?”
One of the male Drakes suggested that quickly. The others leapt on his suggestion. That would be so rude! Selys was busy—and Watch Captain Zevara had it under lock and key. Guarded. No one could see it. But if they could…
“I think Zevara wants to keep everyone away. There are [Thieves] who want it, and there was an attempted break-in already.”
Everyone sighed in disappointment. Drassi nodded, though.
“There was another [Thief], Selys! They caught her this morning! Alive!”
“Really?”
Selys stared at her friend. But Drassi would know. She had both earholes to the ground, and she caught rumors like a lizard caught flies. That analogy had caused a fight the last time Selys had jokingly said it out loud.
“Well, I’m sure Zevara can handle it. And Ilvriss. And Embria. I’m so done with talking about it.”
Instantly, everyone took the cue. One of Selys’ friends looked around in the rain.
“I know, right? It’s so tiring talking about politics. Why don’t we go to a bar and relax instead?”
“It’s only just past morning!”
“Well—what if we—”
The others started arguing over the favorite place Selys might like, picking all of her favorites. Selys listened gloomily. It was a bit sickening. And depressing. Selys knew her friends, and she wasn’t surprised by how they were behaving. She’d probably act the same way. At least Drassi was open about it.
“All I want to do is tell people I know you, Selys. Everyone’s asking me to introduce them to you, and they want to see the armor! I bet you could get a date with any guy in the city—even the married ones—if you promised to let them touch it. By the way, did you hear about the Goblins in Erin’s inn? They got their own artifacts—”
“No one wants to hear about Goblins, Drassi!”
One of Selys’ female friends, Wuvisa, glared at Drassi. The [Barmaid] rolled her eyes.
“They’re not bad, Wuvisa. They don’t cause trouble—or try to slap your tail or butt like the Drakes in the bars I used to work at! They’re really scary, true, but listen—”
“Miss Selys Shivertail?”
A voice interrupted Drassi. All the young Drakes turned. Watch Captain Zevara strode up to them. She was in full uniform, and Selys saw more than one of her male friends eye her tail admiringly. What was the saying? There was nothing like a Drake in uniform. Or something. Selys just sighed. She had no time for tails, and neither did Zevara. The Watch Captain nodded to Selys.
“I’m afraid I’ll have to borrow you, Miss Shivertail. There are a number of dignitaries and officials waiting to speak with you. In connection to your inheritance.”
The other Drakes oohed and tried to pester Zevara with questions. Selys didn’t. She looked at Zevara’s unhappy face and sighed.
“Okay.”
 
—-
 
Zevara led Selys through the city and into Liscor’s city hall. There was a small meeting room set up with snacks and drinks. The Watch Captain offered Selys a seat, and after a moment, showed a Drake in. Selys rose as a Drake from Pallass—a senator from the Assembly of Crafts—walked in and gave Selys a bright smile. She was the first of a series of Drakes who had requested to meet Selys. All about the armor she owned. Selys sat, nibbling on her snacks and sipping from a cup, bewildered, listening.
Each Drake wanted something from her, and each one phrased it differently. A Senator from Pallass, a [Mage] representing Wistram, a Drake speaking for Zeres, one from Oteslia, a trio of Drakes from lesser cities, Wing Commander Embria…
That last conversation stood out to Selys. At least Embria was short and to the point. She didn’t beat about the bush, or offer Selys condolences for her loss or compliments. She walked in, gave Selys a firm handshake, and got straight to it.
“We want the armor.”
“So does everyone else.”
Selys’ arms were folded. Embria nodded.
“I’m well aware of the politics, Miss Selys. May I call you Selys?”
“Nope.”
“Very well. I’m sure you’ve had any number of offers for the armor. Trades, bargains—and threats, no doubt.”
Selys was silent. More than one Drake had hinted—not quite overtly—that there could be trouble if the armor didn’t come their way. That was a scary threat, especially when it came from an entire Walled City. But a [Receptionist] could at least do a good blank face, so Embria got nothing more than the others. Embria went on without missing a beat.
“I want you to know that your safety is my priority, and the priority of Liscor’s High Command, regardless of what your decision is. Obviously, the army would appreciate the use of such a powerful artifact. We could reimburse you some of the cost, although I’m afraid purchasing the armor outright would strain even a Walled City’s military budget.”
“So what’s my incentive? You’ll protect me if all the bad Drakes get angry?”
Embria’s face didn’t move, but her tail gave the tiniest of twitches, telling Selys she was getting to the Drake.
“We hope you could think of your civic pride. If not to us, then perhaps you might consider relinquishing it to the city’s custody? It could still be your possession, but be put to use defending the city itself as the situation demands.”
“Only it’d be yours. I get the point. Thanks, Wing Commander, is it? You can skip the part where I’ll end up dead in my bed if I don’t give the armor to you. I’ll just assume you said it, okay?”
Selys saw Embria’s eyes flash. The Drake stood up.
“Now listen here you ungrateful—”
“Wing Commander Embria!”
The red-scaled Drake snapped to attention. Zevara opened the door, giving her a frown. The Wing Commander’s red cheeks turned darker. Selys waved at Zevara, who gave her a resigned look. She’d had to stop Drakes from trying to throttle or attack Selys three times today. Selys was in a bad mood, and she was inclined to share it.
“I think that’s enough for now, Wing Commander. Don’t you?”
“Yes. My apologies, Miss Selys. I shouldn’t have lost my temper. Consider my offer carefully. Liscor’s army is here to serve the city.”
“We didn’t see you when all the moths were trying to eat us!”
Selys shouted at Embria’s back. She heard the door slam and sat back with some satisfaction. Zevara eyed her as she took a seat—and a handful of dried fruit.
“I thought [Receptionists] were supposed to be welcoming.”
“Not in the Adventurer’s Guild. And it’s my day off. How many more do I have?”
Selys sighed. She was tired. Zevara shook her head.
“None for now. Ilvriss declined to take up your time. He just wants you to remember—”
“He’ll buy the armor. Yeah, yeah. And if I sell to him, Pallass might send an arrow into my skull.”
Zevara grimaced as she chewed.
“That’s a threat. I’d like to say it’s an idle one. If they do that, it’ll be a war.”
“Doesn’t help me if I’m dead. All these Drakes—you know, Oteslia offered me thirty thousand gold pieces and food for life? Just that. Food. They’ll feed me. What am I, a [Gourmet]?”
“It’s hard to compete with sheer wealth. Salazsar is rich, Oteslia less so. Other groups will offer you different incentives.”
“One of the Drakes offered me slaves. Is that legal here?”
“It’s rare, but not unheard of. There are strict rules about them, though.”
