Her voice had the authority of command in it. And she used a Skill. Selys stopped unwillingly. Zevara looked a bit ashamed of herself. She cleared her throat.
“You’re going to need an escort.”
 
—-
 
Selys hated everyone and everything by the time she got back to her room. There was a [Guardsman] outside her door—a pair of them, actually—and four had had to walk her back through the rainy streets. Zevara had suggested putting Selys up in an inn—and Ilvriss had immediately offered the Tailless Thief. Selys had turned them both down, instantly.
She was miserable. She sat in her bed, tossing her wet cloak to the floor and stomping into her kitchen. She reached for a mug, opened her cupboard, and realized she had nothing to drink. No tea leaves, no bottles, nothing. She’d forgotten to go shopping.
“Lizard’s eggs!”
Selys shouted. She turned and saw Pisces sitting at her table. He offered her a cup of dark red wine.
“Try this.”
For a second Selys considered poking his eye out. Her heart beat out of her chest. Pisces seemed to realize and coughed.
“Sorry. I should have announced myself.”
She stared at him.
“How did you follow me?”
“As a point of fact, I slipped in before you got here. Watch Captain Zevara made an error. She posted a guard who checked for invisible or concealed intruders before the escort brought you here. There was a window of opportunity as you opened the door. I followed you in.”
His self-satisfied explanation made Selys clench her fists.
“Pisces, I’m not in the mood.”
“I understand that. And I will leave instantly. I just wanted to give you this, actually.”
The [Necromancer] stood up and reached into his bag of holding. He produced a bottle of wine, a plate of steaming spaghetti and meatballs, and a bowl of salad. The salad had spilled a bit, and he shook a few leaves of lettuce off of the bowl.
“Apologies. Bags of holding are tricky to use. It’s practically impossible to put a cup of water inside and not spill it all.”
“What?”
Selys just looked at the food and wine and then at Pisces. Her stomach rumbled. She hadn’t had lunch—she’d barely eaten breakfast. The sight of food made her feel faint. Pisces shrugged and smiled a bit as he explained.
“You are under a version of house arrest. Ah, pardon me. I misspoke. You’re being ‘protected’. I thought you wouldn’t wish to eat dinner, or go shopping—or subject yourself to a public setting—so I asked Erin to make you dinner. I apologize if I’ve overstepped.”
He looked at her questioningly. Selys made her mouth work as her stomach made a motion for food.
“No, that’s—considerate of you, actually. Thank you.”
He offered her a crooked smile.
“Consider it further recompense for putting you into harm’s way in Pallass. I should have considered the risks. I will leave you alone now, if you’ll open a window to let me jump out.”
Selys hesitated. She looked at the food, and at Pisces.
“You don’t have to go. In fact—here.”
She went and grabbed two cups from her cupboards. She offered one to Pisces. He looked at it, surprised. Selys gestured at the table.
“I’ll let you have the salad.”
 
—-
 
It was an awkward meal. Selys had never talked to Pisces, not in any intimate way. She barely knew him, and yet he’d been around Erin’s inn as long as she had. Longer, really. He wasn’t what Selys would call an ideal dining partner, but she needed someone to talk to. She was upset.
“Look, there’re threats to my life, people wanting to buy it from me—I just want to be left alone! Why is that so hard? Why does everyone have to bother me? And it’s just for the piece of armor my stupid uncle left me!”
She was on her fourth cup of wine. Pisces his second. He ate silently as Selys gnashed down a bite of food. Selys paused.
“I didn’t mean that. Uncle Zel—it’s not about him! That’s the problem! I just—I didn’t ask for this!”
“Some might call it good fortune.”
“Yeah? Tell that to the lump on the back of my head! And how good is this fortune? Am I just supposed to sell the armor? Get rich?”
“That’s the theory, yes.”
Selys snarled.
“I’d do it in a heartbeat if I didn’t think it would get me in trouble. But everyone wants it. If I sell it to one person, I get in trouble with everyone else.”
“A tricky conundrum, yes. But you would be rich.”
“Rich doesn’t help if everyone hates your guts!”
“You seem certain that would be the case.”
Selys rested her head on her hands and nearly poked herself in the cheek.
“It’s politics. I’ve seen it happen. If you’re not a patriot to your city, if you’re not a good Drake—you get treated like a traitor. If I get in trouble in Pallass for instance, I’ll get blacklisted until the end of my life and treated like a criminal. I don’t need that kind of drama.”
“And yet, you have an obligation to do something with the armor. Surely there is an optimal choice for you.”
Pisces’ reasonable tone made Selys angry. She jabbed a fork at him.
“What would you know? No one likes you! And everyone wants to be my best friend now!”
She paused. Pisces looked hurt. It didn’t show in his face, but his eyes reflected it. Selys paused, ashamed, and her tail drooped.
“Sorry. I didn’t mean—I’ve had a hard day. You have no idea how bad it’s been.”
“I might, actually.”
Pisces shifted in his chair and got up. He walked past Selys to fill his cup—not with wine, but with some water from a jug. It was stale. He grimaced but sipped it anyways. Selys looked at him, confused.
“How do you mean?”
The [Necromancer] sat awkwardly, resting his weight on Selys’ kitchen table. He studied Selys.
“Well, it’s true that I am a pariah in Liscor. But I would argue you seem to be one, too, although your fortunes are the inverse of mine.”
“What?”
Selys sort of got what Pisces meant, but the wine was making actual cognition difficult. Pisces saw this and flicked his fingers.
“Let me speak plainly. I attract attention because I am a [Necromancer]. A criminal. An undesirable element and, perhaps not least, a Human. This is not a new experience for me. I have long been a notable individual worthy of contempt. However, you are the same. Everyone knows you as the bearer of the Heartflame Breastplate. A Drake inheriting Zel Shivertail’s will. They all want something from you. But they do not care about you, do they?”
“No. They don’t.”
Selys bowed her head. She was just an ordinary person, changed by circumstance. Pisces nodded.
“So. I understand the feeling. It is not pleasant, even if the attention is envy, or intrigue, I imagine.”
“No. How do you deal with it?”
The young man pondered the question for a moment, sipping from his cup.
“There are many answers. Many personalities would react differently. I ignore the scorn. I weather hatred as ignorance. I am myself. I will not change for societal pressure. But you do not have that luxury, I fear. They want your inheritance.”
“They can have it. It’s no good to me.”
Selys slumped at her table. She heard Pisces sigh. He sat across from her.
“That attitude is defeatist.”
“Consider me defeated. What am I supposed to do?”
“Be honest.”
The words made her look up. Selys frowned at Pisces.
“I am being honest.”
“Are you?”
He challenged her. Pisces looked at Selys’ eyes. He had gray-green eyes, not vibrant, a dreamer’s, perhaps. But they were serious.
“You have been reacting to all that has happened, Selys. So much has changed for you. I understand that it must be…impossible in many respects. But have you truly taken a step back to think about all this?”
No. There was no stepping back in a hurricane. Selys shook her head. Pisces tapped the table with his cup.
“Then allow me to help. If you would.”
“I would.”
If he could make sense of it all…Pisces nodded.
“Let us ask one question then, and one question alone. Do you want the armor?”
Selys paused. Her instinctive reaction was to say ‘no, of course not’, but that wasn’t a true answer, was it? She spoke slowly.
“I don’t know. I haven’t really looked at it. I didn’t know what it was. Now I know. You showed me those stories in Pallass. And they were amazing! I had no idea that was what it was. I knew it was valuable. But it’s still like—I haven’t looked at it, you know? I didn’t care. When I saw my uncle, lying there—”
Her throat closed. Pisces looked at her. Sympathetically. Had Selys ever seen him look like that?
“Of course you didn’t pay attention to it. And that is the problem. You don’t know what others are so fixated on. You were cursed, Selys. Cursed with a conscience. Cursed with affection. You cared about your uncle’s passing, more than the armor. If you were greedy and selfish, you would not be in your predicament.”
Like the rest of the Shivertail family. Selys shuddered. That was true, though. She’d watched her uncle’s funeral this morning. It was too soon. But Pisces was also right, in that she had to face it.
“Okay. Do I need the damn armor? I don’t know. I want to look at it.”
He nodded.
“Then perhaps you should. That would be an adequate first step. Do you wish to see it now? Or later?”
Selys stared at him.
“Wait, what? You mean…go to it now?”
Rain was pattering on the shutters of her window. Pisces nodded.
“Why not?”
Selys opened her mouth. It was under lock and key! It was being guarded! It was valuable!
And it was hers. She closed her mouth. And stood up.
 
—-
 
Watch Captain Zevara was not happy that Pisces had emerged from Selys’ apartment with her. Nor was she happy that they’d forced the [Guardsmen] assigned to her to bring them to her and the room the armor was being kept in. The Watch Captain stared at Selys.
“You want to do what?”
“I want to look at it.”
“Now?”
Zevara was probably off-duty. But she’d come hurrying as soon as Selys had made the request. The Drake folded her arms.
“It’s mine, isn’t it? I want to look at it.”
“Yes, but the security is there for a reason, Miss Selys.”
“And it’s still my armor. Unless you’re not going to let me see it?”
Selys stared at Zevara. The Watch Captain backpedaled immediately.
“No, it’s just that—of course you can look at it. For how long?”
“Is there a time limit?”
Perhaps she didn’t deserve this. Zevara’s jaw worked silently. She looked at Relc. The [Guardsman] was leaning against the wall next to the iron door, snoozing. The [Mage] that Ilvriss had assigned to the door was glaring at him, clearly envious.
“Relc. Wake up.”
“I’m up! Do I get to stab anyone?”
Relc jerked awake. He looked comical as he fumbled to attention and Zevara chewed him out, but Selys suspected that anyone trying to sneak into the room behind him would find that Relc was more attentive than he seemed. Zevara sighed as she looked at Selys.
“Take as long as you like, Miss Shivertail. Relc and Wall Lord Ilvriss’ people have the room warded and under guard.”
“Good.”
Selys put her hand on the door knob and heard the [Mage] mutter something. She paused.
“She deactivated the ward spell. Don’t be alarmed.”
Pisces nodded at the Drake [Mage]. She eyed him warily. Zevara turned towards Pisces with a frown.
“Thank you for bringing Miss Shivertail dinner…Mister Pisces. But I’m afraid that this is a restricted area.”
“He can come in.”
Selys thought Zevara might actually inhale her tongue. The Watch Captain turned towards her. Selys put her claws on her hips.
“It is mine, isn’t it?”
“Yes! But do you—”
Zevara bit her tongue on the rest of the sentence. Do you trust him? Pisces pretended not to hear. Selys sighed.
“Please let us in, Watch Captain.”
Zevara was in a bad mood. She looked at Selys, threw up her arms, and stalked away. Selys watched as Relc yawned.
“Go on in, Selys. Hey, bone-guy.”
“Guardsman Relc.”
Selys and Pisces entered the room. It was fairly large, a meeting room, in fact. It had no windows, and someone had cleared out the table and chairs to put a single stand in the center of the room. On it hung a shimmering, golden piece of armor.
Selys’ heart skipped a beat. She stared at the Heartflame Breastplate, taking it in. This was the legendary armor. This was the artifact everyone wanted.
She still thought it looked sort of cheap. It was gaudy. Gold metal, shining colors—it was impressive, yes, but—
Pisces’ inhalation of breath was more fitting for the moment. He stared at the armor as Relc closed the door and began flirting with the [Mage] on duty. The [Necromancer] approached the armor, stepping around it to stare from every angle. He reached out, hands shaking, and then looked at Selys.
“May I—?”
“Go ahead.”
For some reason Selys’ voice was hushed. She held her breath as Pisces touched the armor. Then she felt silly and walked forwards. The metal was warm to the touch. That was all. There was no zap of magic, no aura of power. It was just armor.
But it was magical. Pisces ran a finger over the armor, seeing something that Selys could not. He murmured to himself as he inspected it.
“Warm. What exquisite spellcraft. And the metal—it’s alloyed with gold, but the rest of the metal is…Adamantium? Some spell-metal, perhaps?”
“It’s impressive. I can see why the legends say it was indestructible. It doesn’t have a scratch, even when—”
Selys’ throat closed. Pisces looked up.
“Your uncle—General Shivertail. Was his body…damaged by the battle?”
“It was. It was horrible. Part of his head was missing, and his body was cut and burned like—”
Selys felt like she shouldn’t talk about it, but she had to. The words spilled out, and Pisces listened.
“Ah. Those wounds are…incredible. But also a sign of the armor’s power, I think. General Shivertail was renowned for his durability and toughness in battle.”
“He was. He could block an unenchanted axe strike with his scales! But still, he—”
Selys broke off, shaking her head. Pisces peered at the armor and coughed.
“Ah, look here. I had wondered about the name, but this truly is a breastplate and not a cuirass, isn’t it? Curious that such a powerful piece of armor would lack rear protection.”
He indicated the armor. It was indeed just a breastplate. In that it only covered the front. Selys was no armor expert, but she knew that a cuirass covered both front and back. It was a strange design flaw. She wondered if that was one of the reasons why Zel had—
“Maybe they lost the other half?”
“It wouldn’t be called the Heartflame Breastplate if they had. Artifacts are seldom so easily dismantled. No, this is simply an oversight. Quite a curious one. One has to wonder why the Drakes who made this didn’t think to shield their backs.”
“Drakes do not run.”
