“You’re not having my job. Too much good fortune is bad for your character, anyways.”
“I hate you! I worked so hard! And for what? I’m not working overtime again!”
Selys raged as she turned and stomped away from the desk. She had to come back for the parchment. Tekshia nearly laughed her tail off. But she stopped Selys as the young Drake stormed for the door.
“It was a smart idea to keep it, Selys.”
Selys turned. The young Drake woman smiled at Tekshia, her anger forgotten.
“I know. And I couldn’t just give it away. After all, Uncle Zel gave it to me.”
Tekshia sighed.
“He did, at that.”
The door closed. Tekshia watched Selys hurry down the street through the window and laughed before snorting.
“Guildmistress? Hah! Not this year.”
Then she reached under her desk and produced something round and soft to nibble on while she worked. It was a cookie.
 
—-
 
It wasn’t over. Selys sat at a table in The Wandering Inn, talking animatedly with Jelaqua. She was no [Shopkeeper], but she had a certain degree of charm, and she could talk shop with any adventurer under the sun.
“I’m just asking for a reasonable percentage of whatever profits you make. With this armor, you can literally walk through some traps unharmed. And the flame enchantment will protect you from all kinds of effects. For a Selphid you’d practically be invulnerable, wouldn’t you?”
“True. But we haven’t tested the magnitude of the enchantments. Forty percent is high. Hell, thirty percent is high! We’re doing all the work!”
“And I have a legendary artifact. With it on, you might be a Named Adventurer, Jelaqua. Think of that. If you don’t want it, I could talk to Ylawes…”
The Selphid was thinking, Selys could tell. Jelaqua leaned back to whisper to Seborn, and someone passed by their table.
“Another round?”
Erin lifted a mug, smiling. Selys smiled too. She had barely had time to talk with Erin over these last few days. But that was the thing, wasn’t it? Erin had her busy life to lead. She was always getting into trouble or finding something weird. And for once, Selys could relate.
“I’ll have a fruit drink, Erin. No more alcohol. But can I have another kebab?”
“Coming right up! Hey, did you know I didn’t make this, for once? Ishkr’s really good at searing the meat. As good as I am with my [Advanced Cooking] Skill!”
Erin left and returned with some hot skewers of pork and chicken. Selys gobbled one down happily as Jelaqua looked resigned. She had her on the ropes! Selys would be content with thirty five percent, actually. It was just a matter of getting the Selphid to agree…
Selys paused as she chewed and swallowed. Her armor was going to be huge, especially if Jelaqua’s team found something. But there was something she had to do as well tonight. It had to be tonight. She’d talked with Zevara, and it had to be tonight. Zel’s remains would be transported through to Pallass tomorrow with a huge honor guard. So…
“Erin, I need a big favor.”
“Oh?”
The [Innkeeper] looked intrigued. Selys scooted her chair back to whisper in her ear.
“I need you to pull a few strings to get some people to help me. Here’s what I’ll need…”
 
—-
 
Later that night, two [Guardsmen] stood in one corner of Liscor as the rain fell unceasingly. They were on duty—it was customary for the Watch to post a guard here, regardless of weather or circumstance. The graveyards of all major cities were well-tended, and the remains were disposed of in such a way that the undead couldn’t rise, but you could never be too certain.
It was wet. One of the [Guardsmen] shifted and yawned. He raised his voice and spoke above the patter of rain to his companion.
“Say, Klb, old buddy. How much trouble would we be in if we were caught doing this?”
The Antinium standing next to him paused. Rain dripped off his mandibles as he opened them to reply.
“By saying ‘we’, are you referring to you and I as Senior Guardsmen, the four of us present in the graveyard, or the entire group, including Watch Captain Zevara and Miss Solstice?”
Relc paused.
“Any of us.”
“Hmm. I believe in our case we would both be fired, or forced to resign instantly, be court martialed, perhaps imprisoned, and potentially be executed.”
“Ah. Right. I was just curious.”
“Indeed.”
They turned their attention back to watching. Not watching for intruders, but rather, watching for anyone who might catch the two intruders already in the graveyard. They were holding shovels. One of them whispered to the other.
“Can you hurry up?”
“I’m trying! This would be easier if you would let me use an undead, rather than do it myself—”
Pisces straightened, mopping dirt, sweat, and rain from his forehead. Selys glared at him.
“What, and get murdered for desecrating the graveyard more than we already are?”
“I think this is a treasonous offense, either way. The coffin is just a few more feet.”
“You sure?”
“It has bones in it. Of course I’m sure!”
Pisces was irate. He hadn’t signed up for manual labor, as he’d pointed out all night, but Selys had trusted no one else. Ironically, the [Necromancer] was her only expert in this field. Digging up a grave.
Not just any grave either. Selys shuddered. She pointed at Pisces.
“Don’t you dare steal so much as a bone from this graveyard. I mean it, Pisces!”
“I wouldn’t dare.”
He sounded sincere, so Selys relaxed. Pisces grunted as he hopped back in the hole he’d dug.
“Besides, all the bones are disposed of in such a way that they can’t be used easily. Warded coffins, silver dust…it really is inconvenient. Or so I’ve heard.”
“Please stop talking. You’re standing over his grave.”
Selys closed her eyes tightly. She clutched the urn to her chest as Pisces kept digging. She heard him pause.
“Ah. Here we are.”
Selys looked down. Pisces clambered out of the hole he’d dug and eyed the gravestone in front of the hole. It was a marvelous tombstone, a grand thing that looked a lot better in the daylight. The name of the owner was emblazoned across it. A name every Drake child knew. A name from history.
General Sserys.
“The coffin is right there. I presume you don’t want to open it? It’s probably loaded with enough ward spells to destroy half this graveyard if I managed to break through it at all.”
Selys shuddered.
“No, it’s fine. It just needs to be next to the coffin. Here. Give me a moment.”
Pisces walked back. He stared at Selys as she opened the urn. In the pouring rain, Selys hesitated over the hole. A perverse part of her thought it would be so funny if she tripped and fell in. Then she stared at the urn.
It was so small. Too small. And try as she might, Selys couldn’t find enough sadness in her heart. It was still there, but she’d done so much mourning that it was smaller. Truly. And this moment didn’t strike her as sad. She held the urn over the grave and said a few words that were lost to the rain. Perhaps Pisces heard them—perhaps not. The rain was loud. But then again, he could read lips.
Selys poured the urn’s contents into the hole in the ground. The ash fell, a brief cloud, settling into the grave. Selys stood there for a minute and then turned to Pisces.
“Okay, let’s cover it all back up. Hand me a shovel.”
The two got to work, piling the wet, heavy dirt back into the grave and tamping it down. Pisces even levitated the plaque back into place, adding the uprooted turf so it looked like no one had ever tampered with the grave. The two stepped back, and there was a moment where they looked at each other. Pisces cleared his throat.
“Turnscale. Not a word I’m familiar with.”
Selys jumped. She glanced at Pisces, and he shrugged. Selys hesitated and turned away.
“That’s probably because it’s not a word you’d find in any Drake book.”
He nodded, flicking wet hair out of his eyes.
“You’re most likely correct. But I can guess the meaning.”
“Yeah. It’s fairly obvious.”
“From the context of what you’ve done, I can only infer one conclusion. Selys. Am I right in thinking…?”
Selys looked at Pisces. He fell silent.
“Yes.”
The [Necromancer] looked startled.
“Truly? I can understand General Shivertail. But was Sserys…?”
The Drake [Receptionist] hesitated.
“No one knew. He died long ago, and Uncle never talked about it. But I think he and Uncle were…he wouldn’t have written that, if it hadn’t been true.”
Zel Shivertail’s will. The words that had been taboo, unutterable. Unthinkable. They came to Selys, unbidden.
Bury me with my love.
A simple request, nothing more. She had honored it as best she could. Selys turned away. Pisces stared at the grave.
“Could you imagine?”
“What?”
“If it were true. Think of what that would mean for history!”
“It was true. No one talked about it.”
Selys stared at the grave. It felt…good. She’d just dug up a grave, in a sense, despoiled the grave of Liscor’s greatest hero, General Sserys. If Embria had known about this, she would have beheaded Selys and Pisces in an instant. Or stabbed them. She did use a spear. But Selys only felt good. It was what Zel had wanted. And she thought it was what Sserys would have wanted.
She lingered over the grave, as Pisces walked back towards the entrance of the graveyard, where Relc and Klbkch were waiting. Selys stared at the grave. There was no grave for Zel, no marker of where he had been truly buried. But she thought he might have liked it that way. He didn’t like standing out, in the end. He’d done it out of duty.
And now, he was gone. Selys rubbed at her eyes but found nothing to irritate them but grave dirt. It truly was the end. She bowed her head and spoke one last time.
“Goodbye, Uncle. Rest well.”
Above, the rain kept falling. It should have stopped. There should have been a moment of peace, perhaps a brief ray of sunlight or something else. But there was nothing. Selys turned and trudged away. She looked back only once.
She wondered what had been. What might have been. And for an instant, Selys imagined a tall [General], proud and commanding, laughing with Zel Shivertail over a cup, in the corner of an inn. For a moment Selys could see it—then it was gone. Selys left the graveyard, empty urn in hand. She had to come back fifteen minutes later to find the lid.
 
—-
 
Here’s how it finished. That night, Selys stayed up late, taking care to wash all the dirt off her scales in a tepid bath of rainwater and soap. Then she sat in her small apartment and made a small fire, though the rainy spring night really didn’t call for it. She let the fire burn hotly for a long while, breaking up the decaying logs and embers until it was burning low, and then extinguished it. Then Selys waited some more, until the embers were out. She gathered a dustpan and broom and began collecting what was in her fireplace. She got a good helping—not too much, and sifted through it to remove any telltale debris.
At last, Selys poured the hot ash and dust into the urn and then set it carefully on her dresser, wiping the rim so it looked polished and untouched. Selys stared at it for a second and then shook her head.
“Have fun burying that with a big ceremony.”
She turned, blew out the candle on her bed, and lay down. She was so tired. Selys hadn’t ever been more exhausted in her life, not even after fighting for her life against the undead! She had worn herself down. But she felt good. Relaxed. Almost at once, Selys drifted off to sleep.
 
[Receptionist Level 19!]
 
[Heiress Level 6!]
[Skill – Legacy Whispers: Heartflame Set obtained!]
 
In the night, the rain poured down. Slowly, the Drake sat back up in her bed. Eyes wide. She heard thunder and then words. There was no voice that spoke them, no tongue to shape them. They appeared in her head, searing, unforgettable.
 
To find the helm of fire,
Look to death’s ire;
That village without rest,
Where the Putrid One met his death.
 
They were there, and then only a memory. But what a memory. Selys sat in bed, clutching her covers to her chest, heart pounding wildly. She looked around.
“Ancestors.”
And then she went back to sleep.
