He was gripping Selys’ arm hard, his claw slippery with sweat. He was shaking. Of his seven buddies, five were dead and the other two bleeding badly. He tried to pull Selys towards the door.
“Don’t be foolish. You have nowhere to run. Let her go and I’ll spare your life.”
Pisces’ voice was cold and, somehow, larger. The Drake gulped.
“I won’t fall for that! I’m not turning into a zombie—back off!”
He was shaking with fear. Pisces stared at him. The light from the lantern in the room flickered suddenly, though there was no breeze. The [Thug] jumped.
“Don’t move! You cast a spell and she’s dead, you hear me?”
“Let her go. Do not make me ask twice.”
This time Pisces’ voice was deeper. It echoed and cracked with dark intent. The Drake holding Selys whimpered. Pisces took a step, and the Drake raised his club.
“Touch her, and you will suffer long after death. Don’t mistake me for a common [Necromancer], fool. I could do things with your body that would make you scream to hear about.”
“S-stay back!”
He nearly let go of Selys in his panic. He stared at Pisces. Now the [Mage] was grinning horribly, and the shadows behind him danced on the wall. There was a stench of graveyard rot in the air, and he seemed to grow as the Drake retreated.
“I could make you a puppet in your flesh. Would you like that? Let her go or I will ensure you live…forever.”
“I—I—”
The Drake was panicking. Selys stared at him. She stared at Pisces. Neither male was focused on her. Selys looked at her captor and tapped him on the shoulder with her free hand.
“Hey. Look at this.”
“Wha—”
The [Thug] looked down. Selys’ hand shot up. She raised her index and middle finger and jabbed them into her captor’s left eye. Her claws went into his eyeball. He screamed and let her go. Selys stepped back and wiped her claws on her clothes. Then she kicked him between the legs. The Drake fell, screaming. Pisces turned to Selys. She stared at him. He blinked.
“Huh.”
 
—-
 
Half an hour later, Selys sat in Watch Captain Venim’s office. She had a cup of hot tea in her claws, and Venim was downstairs, supervising the capture of the thugs that had kidnapped her.
Well, capture and clean up. Of the eight, five had died to Pisces or his Bone Horror. The other three were badly wounded, and it was a testament to the bloodshed that the one with the least amount of injuries was the one with a missing eye and bruising in the groin. The surviving Drakes were being arrested downstairs. Meanwhile, Pisces stood next to Selys in the office, looking around with interest.
He’d been interviewed at length as soon as the Pallass Watch had arrived. They’d come within minutes of Selys walking out into the street and shouting for help—apparently someone had seen her kidnapping, and they had already been canvassing the city. They hadn’t expected Pisces to arrive first, though.
The [Necromancer] hadn’t given Venim or his people much of an explanation as to how he’d saved Selys. He’d made the Bone Horror vanish into the bag of holding he held before the Watch had arrived. With just his rapier in hand, he’d greeted the City Watch. They knew he was a [Necromancer] somehow—perhaps from Liscor’s Watch, but they’d been impressed and disturbed by his nearly flawless victory nonetheless.
Now the two waited in silence for Venim to come back to the office. Selys heard Pisces’ robes swishing as he looked around. He walked behind Venim’s desk and eyed a stack of papers.
“I wouldn’t touch that.”
Pisces started and sniffed.
“I’m just investigating. A Watch Captain shouldn’t leave classified documents lying around.”
Selys eyed him severely.
“It’s generally considered polite not to snoop.”
“Polite, but not informative.”
The [Necromancer] sighed, but he backed away from the desk. He looked at Selys.
“How are you feeling?”
“Fine. Thanks.”
Her head had been treated with a splash of healing potion, and she was fine, albeit a bit shaken. Selys sipped at her tea.
“How are you? How’s the face?”
Pisces rubbed at one cheek where the shadow of a bruise was forming. He shrugged.
“A minor injury. I’m more embarrassed about it, in truth. I shouldn’t have let my guard down.”
“Yeah. What was that?”
“What?”
“That! That—appearing and stabbing that Drake before facing them all down. What were you thinking?”
Pisces looked surprised, and a bit hurt.
“I was trying to intimidate them.”
Selys glared at him. Her nerves were shot.
“By yourself? You don’t give speeches, you idiot! You’re lucky that Drake on the floor didn’t stab you while you were showing off! You should have stabbed him in the back and laid a trap, rather than play the shining [Knight] in armor!”
The young man blinked at her.
“That’s strangely pragmatic of you.”
“I’m not an idiot! But you were, rushing in there! You could have been killed! [Mages] die after being stabbed, and taking on a bunch of [Thugs] with knives is a death sentence! What were you doing?”
Pisces hesitated. He rubbed at his cheek and glanced past Selys.
“I was…concerned for your safety.”
“Oh.”
Selys sat back. Pisces hesitated.
“I thought that I could distract their attention from you, or ambush them once they’d left. I grew worried when the Drake grabbed you.”
So he’d stepped in to protect her? Selys regretted shouting at him. She shifted uncomfortably in her chair.
“Well—thanks.”
“I only regret that I didn’t stop your kidnapping.”
“You couldn’t have known.”
He shrugged.
“No, but I was there. Invisible, yes. I could have cut the first Drake down, but I elected to follow you.”
The gratitude infusing Selys’ heart faded slightly. She looked up over her cup’s rim at him.
“You what?”
“I thought it best to know the scope of the threat before I stepped in.”
“So you let them drag me away?”
“It was that or fight them all in the street. I had to know their numbers.”
Selys glared at Pisces as he hunched his shoulders. She opened her mouth, thought better, and closed it.
“Well. That was smart of you.”
“You think so?”
“It was the smart thing to do. There was no telling how many of them there were, or if they had more friends. So yeah, good job.”
Selys grudgingly agreed with Pisces’ decision. He blinked at her, looking slightly pleased.
“Well, I’m happy to help. Unfortunately, I fear that this is only the first event of many. I’m sorry you were targeted—although I noticed you were able to defend yourself. That was an, ah, appropriately vicious attack you performed.”
“What? Oh, poking that guy in the eye? Yeah…he deserved it. And I wasn’t about to wait for you to scare him into letting me go.”
The Drake [Receptionist] wiped her claws on her clothes for the umpteenth time, shuddering as she recalled the feeling. Pisces flicked his eyes towards her claws.
“Nevertheless, it was an adroitly done maneuver. Did someone teach you how to do that?”
Selys paused.
“My uncle taught me how to fight, when I was growing up. I was never good at claw fighting, but he showed me how to defend myself.”
“Ah. By poking eyes out?”
“Not everyone has time to learn how to use a rapier. Anyways.”
The young Drake woman cleared her throat awkwardly. She looked at Pisces.
“Thank you for saving me.”
It was the first time she’d gotten to say it. Pisces shook his head slightly.
“It was nothing.”
“Really?”
False modesty was somehow annoying on Pisces, who was often the exact opposite of modest. Selys raised one of her brows at him. He caught her glance and smiled slightly.
“Well, it wasn’t nothing. But I considered it my responsibility. I did invite you to enter Pallass. I should have considered the risks.”
“The risks. You mean, more of that might happen?”
“Perhaps. You are the inheritor of the armor.”
“Yeah. Damn it.”
Selys closed her eyes. All this and she’d only held the armor for a day! She was about to ask Pisces who he thought had hired the Drakes, when the door opened and Venim walked in.
“Apologies for the delay.”
He glanced at Pisces and nodded to Selys.
“We’ve arrested the surviving Drakes who kidnapped you, Miss Shivertail. We’ll interrogate them—after they heal up a bit.”
“Oh. Thank you. Do you know, um, who told them to get me? Or was it just them?”
Venim hesitated.
“That’s unclear. The Drakes didn’t say much—well, only one was conscious, so we’ll have to rely on truth spells when the other two wake up. We’ll charge them for kidnapping and attempted extortion, but my guess is they’re just hired [Thugs] and [Rogues].”
“Do you have any clues as to who might have organized their kidnapping of Selys?”
Pisces leaned forwards over Venim’s desk. The Drake Watch Captain frowned at Pisces.
“No. It could have been anyone.”
“Anyone?”
Selys’ heart sank. Venim nodded.
“You are the owner of the Heartflame Breastplate, Miss Selys. And while I’d like to assure you of your safety…things are moving quickly in Pallass. I’ve informed Watch Captain Zevara, and she’s requested that you immediately return to Liscor. I just need the rest of your statement and your…bodyguard’s before you go.”
“My who? Oh, Pisces? He’s not my bodyguard—”
“Oh. Then what was he doing in Pallass?”
Venim frowned at Pisces. The [Mage] smiled calmly.
“I came through. No one stopped me, so I assumed the passageway between Liscor and Pallass was free for public use on this day.”
“You just walked through?”
“Mm, yes. In a crowd.”
The Watch Captain flicked his gaze to Selys, who shrugged, keeping her tail still. Venim grunted.
“Well, the door is open, but I’ll have to ask you to refrain from visiting Pallass without requesting permission first, Mister…Pisces.”
Pisces bowed slightly, smiling.
“Oh, I believe I’ve had my fill of Pallass. What do you think, Selys?”
Selys looked around. Her head didn’t hurt. But she had a headache now. She raised her claws.
“I think I’ve had enough too. Can I go back to Liscor now?”
 
—-
 
A large group had formed in Erin’s inn, waiting for Selys’ return. Watch Captain Zevara, Ilvriss, Tekshia—and a member of Liscor’s council! He was the Guildmaster of the Merchant’s Guild, and he practically knocked over Pisces when Selys walked through the doorway.
“Miss Shivertail! I’m terribly glad to see you. What an affront, to be kidnapped while walking Pallass’ streets! I want you to know that Liscor did everything in its power to ensure you were found as soon as—”
“Thank you, Guildmaster Fleiss. Please, give Selys some room.”
To the [Receptionist]’s relief, Zevara stepped in and forced the heavyset Drake back. She nodded to Venim.
“Thank you, Watch Captain.”
“My pleasure, Watch Captain.”
He saluted her and left. Selys looked around, bewildered, as the others clustered around her. Erin tried to push past Fleiss.
“Selys, are you okay? I heard about what happened! Are you hurt? Did you—”
“Drakes first! Please! Miss Shivertail, we really must speak about your inheritance. I hate to bring up the subject so soon—”
“Silence!”
Tekshia raised her voice. The others fell silent. The Guildmistress stepped closer to Selys and inspected her granddaughter. She nodded.
“I heard you poked an eye out, Selys. Good job. Next time try ducking before they hit you.”
“Thanks, Grandma.”
Selys rolled her eyes. Tekshia nodded at her.
“Looks like you’ve had a rough time. All these Drakes want to speak with you. I just came to tell you that you can have tomorrow off. But I’ll expect you back into work at noon the day after, understand?”
“What? Grandma—”
“Enough. Don’t whine, it’s unbecoming. Now, I’ll be going. Innkeeper?”
“Yes?”
“Give me another one of those ‘cookies’ you made. A bag, actually. I want to share them with some of my friends.”
Tekshia turned. She paused and glanced over her shoulder at Pisces. He was standing behind the others, forgotten. Tekshia met his eyes.
“Necromancer.”
“Guildmistress Shivertail.”
He bowed very politely. Tekshia snorted and walked away, the others looking after her. Zevara cleared her throat.
“You’re, ah, well, Miss Selys? Don’t take Miss Tekshia’s words too seriously. She was quite insistent you be found when Pallass informed us of the kidnapping.”
Selys smiled wryly.
“Don’t worry, I know. That was her being considerate and caring. I think. Trust Grandmother not to give me more than a day off for being kidnapped.”
“Speaking of kidnapping…”
Ilvriss broke in. The Wall Lord looked around, his tail wagging furiously.
“This is a disgrace. A citizen was kidnapped, in Pallass, on the streets? What kind of Walled City allows that kind of crime?”
“The kind that has an inheritor of the Heartflame Breastplate walking its streets, I think.”
Zevara glanced meaningfully at Selys, who flushed. She consulted a piece of parchment.
“Watch Captain Venim tells me they were local thugs, hired to kidnap Miss Selys and force her to sign a waiver allowing them to take the Heartflame Breastplate. They’d take it, drop it at a safe location, and receive their payment. Forty thousand gold pieces, allegedly. Not that they saw any of it—they may have intended to take the armor for themselves once they had it.”
“Dead gods, plots already?”
Fleiss shuddered. Zevara just shook her head.
“It was a shoddy plan that never would have worked. Whoever hired them must have panicked when they saw you in Pallass and didn’t think things through. If I’d have seen the document, I’d have arrested the Drakes and found out where you were being kept. Fortunately, you didn’t have to wait that long.”
She glanced at Pisces, who smiled politely.
“I was accompanying Selys, and I happened to be in the area, Watch Captain.”
“Good. Thank you.”
Zevara nodded at him and turned her back on Pisces. Ilvriss glanced at the [Necromancer] and then at Selys. He looked quite a bit kinder as he went over to her.
“Miss Selys, I understand you must be shaken.”
“A bit.”
Selys wasn’t going to lie—she was more than a bit unsteady. Wall Lord Ilvriss nodded sympathetically.
“I just wanted to let you know that my offer still stands. I don’t want to force you into a decision, but perhaps it would be best if you allowed some of my people to escort you—”
Selys’ eyes narrowed.
“Ancestors, I just got kidnapped and you’re already trying to buy the armor from me?”
Her raised voice made the others look at her. Selys turned red with embarrassment and anger. Her voice cracked as she shouted at Ilvriss.
“I don’t know what to do with the armor! Leave me alone!”
She turned and ran out of the inn. Zevara called out after her.
“Miss Selys, wait!”
