When Master Grediv saw the statues, he froze in place, stopping with one foot partially raised, his eyes widening in surprise.

Tala understood. Even though she’d never known the woman in life, she’d felt echoes of her, both briefly at the moment of Master Girt’s death, and throughout Tala’s own time knowing Master Girt.

The aura coming from the two-yet-one statue was like a harmonious duet, the peaks and troughs of sensation complementing and sustaining each other in unexpected, pleasant ways.

As Tala forced herself to feel each aura individually, before once again letting the impressions wash over her as a pair, she noticed that the two seemed to almost smooth over the other’s rough edges, to almost highlight the best qualities in their spouse’s aura while mitigating the flaws.

They were in perfect sync, Rane having somehow gotten their auras exactly right.

Master Grediv swallowed, obvious emotion welling up within him. “I only met her a handful of times… I wouldn’t have been able to give you enough information for an impression, but it feels like her… It feels like them.” He gave a sad smile. “He loved her so, so incredibly much, and he was never the same after her passing.” He let out a single barking laugh. “No, no that’s not right. He was exactly the same after her passing, but without his other half, he didn’t function the same. If nothing else, this proves it. His aura still fits with hers flawlessly.”

Rane put his arm around Tala, and she tucked in close against his side as they simply stood together for a long moment.

Master Grediv’s expression settled into a grateful smile. “I think they would have appreciated being united here, like this.” He looked to Rane. “You have truly outdone yourself, Rane. Wherever did you get such a perfect impression for her likeness and aura?”

Rane gave a small smile. “Mistress Ingrit, the Librarian. She was able to track down a record of both for us.”

Master Grediv gave a slow nod, the logic of the answer clearly apparent. “Of course… I hadn’t considered them as such a resource, but it fits their tasks and capacities nicely.”

They all turned back, falling into silent regard of the frozen couple. The two locked as if caught forever in a quick, intimate glance.

The three stood there for a long, peaceful moment, each lost in quiet remembrance of their friend, now home with his love.
