“So then they all knew it was real! And this gossip wave hit the school, and…it was weird but fun. People kept staring at me like I had become a completely different person overnight.”

His mother was beaming. Her hands were clasped over her heart.

“I wanted this for you,” said said in an emotional voice. “All your life, I wanted you not to have to go through what I did. I wanted you to have everything, but I couldn’t be sure.”

“You weren’t sure…of what?” Lute asked cautiously. He didn’t know if wanted the answer.

But she still loved him. They were still a team, hiding out here in this giant closet from all the other Velras. Nothing else could matter as much as that.

“I wasn’t sure if you’d be Avowed or not.” Jessica reached for his knee and squeezed it. “Growing up assuming I was—all that endless training and preparing, and then…it was gone. I hated myself. I hated myself for years. I couldn’t let it happen to you. If you didn’t know, you couldn’t be hurt like that. If you didn’t know, and something wonderful happened, it could only be a blessing for you.”

Lute’s chest felt tight. So it was a lie then. She thought maybe I could be…but she told me never. My whole life was built on that lie.

Her face was a mess from the crying.

She thought she would be Avowed. Aulia designed her to be one. Trained her. Told her she would be strong.

And then she wasn’t.

Then she was the assistant.

Lute knew these things about his mother. But in his eyes, she was somehow above them. It had never occurred to him until this second that she might be thinking about his life and future this way.

I thought we were the same. Me, her, and Dad. But that’s not right. They grew up…like everyone else I know. Like Avowed.

Not like me.

“You understand, don’t you?” Jessica said in a rush. “You’re old enough to know. I couldn’t raise you like the rest of them. I couldn’t let you live that way, training for a future that might not happen. I wanted you to have everything I didn’t. School, hobbies, a childhood, no fear at all about disappointing me…you could never disappoint me…and then, maybe, it would come to you like this. As a gift. And I never imagined…S. Baby, you’re going to be an S-rank! For the rest of your life, nobody can take that from you.”

“Oh,” said Lute, still feeling like someone had stolen the last few crumbs of solid ground out from beneath him. “Mom, I know you love me, but this is—”

A lie. Wrong. I don’t know what the right thing would have been since you only thought I might be an Avowed, but you got it wrong. The whole world hurt me every day because of your lie.

But she was so relieved. She’d been crying all afternoon…because she wasn’t afraid for him anymore. He couldn’t say something that harsh.

“I really wanted to be the best harpist in the world,” he said softly. “I was proud of that. I wanted that.”

You made me want that.

“You can be that, can’t you?” Jessica said, beaming at him. “You can be that and so much more now.”

Lute’s phone, on the little table beside the plate of brownies, buzzed and he snatched it.

Dad?

It wasn’t. Of course. Somehow Miyo had gotten hold of his phone number, and she wanted to know what he was about to do.

“They’re so wrapped up in themselves they can’t even imagine I might not care about Chainer,” Lute said. “They assume everyone is just as obsessed with the class as they are.”

Jessica took a deep breath. “Don’t get your hopes up, but Grandma might consider giving it to you. She wants to put the most powerful family member possible in front of the Artonans, and Hazel—”

Lute snorted. “It doesn’t matter if she’s considering me or not.” He was still staring at his text messages, willing a new one to appear. “I made a list. Chainer’s not that high on it. I know there are some positive things about it, but the fact that it’s held mostly by people I hate shoves it way down in the rankings.”

“Lute, you don’t hate your grandmother.”

He considered that. “I think it’s really close to hate,” he said. “What’s hate, but with less passion? Hate but in a way that’s less, ‘I want you to die,’ and more, ‘I want to never see or think about you again’? Because that’s the feeling.”

A fair feeling, he thought, considering how she treated them.

Jessica blinked.

“I traded into Shaper of Water,” Lute said. “Mom, I wanted to talk to you about Rabbit and Adjuster and see if we could to swap to one of those without Corin’s help? Or with it. He seems extremely eager to help. I’m not sure I want to. I’m not ready to make the decision. I think I need a professional class and career counselor. A lot of my classmates have them.”

“Shaper?” Jessica said. “S-rank Shaper? I know you used to admire them, but…”

“I know, I know,” Lute said quickly. “It’s probably not the perfect thing. I just need time to figure it out. If you get good with it at S, you don’t really know what you’ll be summoned for or how often. And I assume I’ll want to be talented with whatever class I have? But there’s something about it. Even holding it feels better than Wright did.”

“Don’t affix until we’ve figured this out together!” Jessica said quickly. “I think you might change your mind. Even if you take Chainer it’s not like you have to stay around the family members you don’t like. Your grandmother would expect you to drop out of school and study under her, but—”

“No.”

“But you wouldn’t have to,” she continued. “You can still go to school wherever you want. You can play your harp. Don’t make any hasty decisions.”

“I’m not going to.” Lute reached for another brownie. “But there’s nothing Grandma can say that will convince me to take Chainer.”

His mom blinked again. Her smile turned a little strained. “I know I never encouraged you to like wordchains. In fact, I discouraged you from it because I didn’t want anyone to take too much of an interest if you seemed good at them. But they are useful. And the safety…Lute, it’s a class that will never have to worry about…about being sacrificed in some awful foreign battle or—”

“But there’s Rabbit, Mom.”

“Chainer can make you as much money as Rabbit, if that’s what you’re worried about.”

“No,” said Lute. He paused. “I hope she does want to give it to me. So I can tell her I don’t even care about her special, mysterious class. I guess maybe she could convince me to take it if she gave me Libra…no not even then. Maybe if she gave me the Healer.”

He was being a touch dramatic. He’d heard someone say once that Libra, with all of its magical modifications and comforts, was worth more than everything else Aulia owned combined.

“The Healer?” Jessica said. “What do you—?”

“The rejuvenation person.” Lute couldn’t stop the anger from slipping into his voice. “The one she’s got the deal with. Him. I’ll take him, and she can give me any class at all.”

“Lute, it’s important to think seriously about this kind of thing. I know the family hasn’t been friendly to you. In general. But you can’t throw the rest of your future away just to spite them.”

Lute swallowed his last bite. “I am being serious. Mom, I know we don’t talk about it, but you’re not even on the rejuve list. You’re not important enough for that? You’re not important enough, but Keiko is? I’ve met her twice! She doesn’t even like the family. And Cady? Cady gets to stay young, and she and Hugh are the ones who…who…”

Who talk about you like that in front of Hazel. Who tell her that you pick up garbage for the other members of the family.

“They were trying to climb in the car with me when I left Dad’s!” he said instead. “I had to yell for the watcher on duty to get them to leave me alone, like a kid in a public safety video!”

Jessica’s expression had gone blank.

Lute gripped the velvet arms of the chair. “We deserve better. You deserve better. I don’t know if I’m going to like being Avowed. I can’t imagine it. It’s like someone else’s life has landed on me and squashed my plans into dust. But even if I hate having the System in my head, even if I can’t ever leave this tiny little trap of a country, the one good thing is that there are more Healers here. And as an S-rank I can eventually get money with our without Aulia’s help. By the time I’m out of school, I can get some kind of job. And I’m going to make sure I don’t have to come to dinner here in the mansion a hundred years from now and look at Grandma’s face and wonder why she gets to be here when you and Dad aren’t.”

He’d used up all the oxygen in his lungs on that little speech. He drew in a breath.

“I didn’t know you were worried about that kind of thing,” Jessica said in a strange voice. “Not at your age.”

“You’re my mom,” Lute said. “And Dad’s my…he’s Dad.”

She folded her hands over her lap.

“All right,” she said after a minute. She cleared her throat and switched to her all-business. “We’ll talk this all through before you have to make a decision. When both of us are just a little calmer. When your grandmother gets back home with Hazel.”

Lute slumped in his seat and sighed. “It’s been a long day.”

“It sounds like it. Did Hugh really—?”

“He did. Like a crazy man.” Lute shook his head. “And Cady was coming with him! What were they going to do? Beat me up in the back of the car and force me to affix right then and there?”

Jessica frowned. She tapped a polished nail against the side table. “I think we’ll have a party tonight.”

“What?” Lute said.

“The whole family. Even the more distant relations. Maybe some friends as well. Lydia.”

Lydia? It took Lute a second to place the name, and when he did, he was surprised. “Orpheus’s mother?”

Hugh’s ex-wife. The S-rank Strength Brute he had divorced for Cady.

“Yes, I don’t think Hazel’s parents will have any time to bother you tonight with her around.”

“Do I have to go to this party?” Lute asked.

“You do,” his mother said. “The point is to surround ourselves with people in order to prevent incidents. Until your grandmother gets back from the TC and reminds everyone of their duties to the family. It should be late tonight. Besides, who else would the party be for on this particular night?”

“Me?”

“Well, yes,” said Jessica. There was a glint in her eye that Lute had never seen before. “I seem to remember making you attend two Coming of Age parties for one of your cousins. Wouldn’t you like to have one of your own?”

******

******

“Did you have horses at your party?” Alden interrupted, grinning.

“Horses?” Haoyu asked.

They were both sitting on the rug now. Alden was petting it. Lute didn’t think he realized he was doing it.

“Do you seriously think I had horses running in circles around the mansion just to remind Hazel of her bizarre taste in party entertainment?”

“Did you?”

“No! It was very last minute. And honestly it wasn’t fun. I was tired and stressed, and people I didn’t like were flooding me with handshakes, advice, and demands. They were all so fake…” He shook his head. “Jessica asked me what kind of party I wanted, and I had no idea. I was like, ‘A fourteen and a half birthday cake? Music. Some candles maybe. Dad to come.”

He grunted. “Not that I actually said that last part out loud. Mom’s good at putting on events, though. Sometimes Aulia’s just in the mood for one, so she throws something together. She had an Adjuster come and blast the lawn with spells so it felt like summer, and there were food trucks parked all over the place. Street musicians took turns playing from one of the balconies. Nobody beat me up or Swayed me into affixing, so I guess it worked.”

“We should throw you another one,” said Haoyu, watching with interest as Alden stroked the fluffy rug. “So you can actually enjoy it. Coming of Age parties are supposed to be fun for the person having them.”

“I’m going to be sixteen in January.”

“So?”

“I’m too old. I don’t want one.”

“I want a birthday party,” Alden said. “I’ve just decided. I’m having one. My last one was memorable, but I would like to make the next one more run-of-the-mill.”

“What did you do for your last one?” Haoyu gave the rug an experimental pet of his own.

“I picked all the vegetables I was sure weren’t poisonous from the greenhouse at the lab, and I made something that looked like seven-layer dip out of them. Then I put on a Hawaiian shirt and ate it on the roof with Kibby. I taught her about candles and she enhanced the tradition. Everyone gets to take turns blowing them out.”

Lute exchanged a look with Haoyu.

“That sounds…peaceful?” Lute suggested.

“I thought I did a pretty good job. I sang. We looked out at the corrupted grasslands of Thegund and talked about whether or not the lab lights would last through the long night. I did some parkour.”

“You guys both need normal birthdays bad,” Haoyu murmured.

“I didn’t sing at mine,” said Lute. “But I did play a song.”

******

******

Lute Velra had a little voice in his head that told him to be careful about revenge.

He didn’t feel great about how it had gone last time. A couple of people had cried.

He stared really hard at an accordion player and ate onion rings out of a paper cone. He was hoping the mix of his apparently intense focus on the musician, his smelly breath, and the fact that he’d hidden his name tag and put on a ball cap would protect him from his relatives for at least a few minutes.

