114

Lute lay on the sofa—a distressed leather chesterfield Alden Thorn had been very easily talked into buying during their dorm decoration shopping spree—and stared up at the copper-painted antler light fixture.

If I were rewriting the story of my life, he thought, would I affix Shaper of Water right there in the hallway at school?

Haoyu was telling Alden animatedly about all the traditions surrounding the graduation pins. He was of the opinion that shock from the eighth grade student body had rendered Lute’s reveal day less joyful than it should have been. Lute hadn’t minded at the time. It had felt right to him, even if the congratulations from his peers had been more confused and subdued than they would have been for most people.

The day had been an ending and a beginning. He hadn’t been in the frame of mind to want more from it than that.

“Everything that happened next,” said Lute, “makes me sound so dumb. I don’t know how to say it without making you both think I’m pitiful.”

Maybe if he just stuck to the facts. Ruthlessly.

“I went to see Cyril right after school. The word had been spreading through my mother’s side of the family for a few hours, but nobody had called him. I’m sure they wouldn’t have anyway, but just in case, I had texted Jessica when I realized the news was out, telling her I wanted to talk to him myself. It was hard.”

Dad, it doesn’t have to change anything. Please. I don’t want it to.

…I need some time to think, Lute. Thank you for telling me. Thank you. Why don’t you stay with your mom tonight?

“He’s still taking some time to think,” said Lute, “about whether or not he wants to be my father. It’s been a year and a half. I suppose he’ll get around to deciding one of these days.”

The apartment had gone quiet. I hope I’m not traumatizing Haoyu. His parents seem so functional and loving. And…shit…Alden’s died horribly so I guess I should be careful not to whine about mine too much.

“I’d been getting interface calls from every Velra ever spawned since noon,” he continued. “If I was the System, I’d have teleported Hazel’s parents and Corin to the bottom of some oceanic trench. They must have been standing around chanting, ‘Call Lute! Text Lute! Call Lute!’

“I blocked them. They couldn’t believe I would do such a thing. Apparently we’ve got a Velra rule about not blocking each other because ‘What if there’s a family emergency!?’”

Roman had texted him right as school was letting out. If they give it to you, make her pay.

Grandma or Hazel?

Yes.

“The talk with Dad really messed me up. I was so mad.”

Not mad. He didn’t know why he’d lie about the emotion. Mad was what he was about it now. At the time, he’d been scared.

He’d stood in the elevator of Cyril’s building, going up and down whenever someone boarded the car, wondering if he’d just lost his dad forever and trying to figure out if it was the parentage or the fact that he’d gotten something Cyril had always wanted for himself. Or did I say something wrong when I was telling him? Maybe different words…

“When I finally left, it was ridiculous. Hugh, Cady, and Corin were parked outside in the Bentley. Roman’s dad was there glaring at them from his motorcycle. Miyo and a couple of the other cousins were standing on the sidewalk. The neighborhood watcher for that area was an Adjuster, and she was making herself obvious, standing out in front of the library with a look on her face that said she was ready to turn some Velras inside out if they started anything.

“As soon as I stepped outside, they stampeded me. They were all like, ‘What wonderful news! You might not know this, but I told the maid to change your diaper once when you were six months old and that makes us incredibly close. Now do exactly as I say.

“Jessica was ahead of them, though. She’d sent a driver to take me to the helicopter. Hugh tried to get in the car with me, and I told him to go about his business. Politely.”

******

******

“Grab my arm one more time and I’ll scream for help,” Lute said as he swatted at Hazel’s father with one hand and tried to close the car door on him with the other.

“Now listen to me, young man!”

“No! I won’t listen to you. You freaking lunatics drove all the way here from Apex to jump me! Don’t you put your hand in this car!”

“You’re being ridiculous, Lute. You’re going through a difficult time right now and you need guidance—”

“Help!” Lute bellowed, so loudly that the driver swore. “I’m trying to leave, and this man won’t let me! He’s not my guardian! I barely know him.”

Hugh’s feet shot out from under him. Cady, who’d been about to get into the backseat of the car from the other side, shrieked as her husband was lifted by the ankles into the air. He dangled there, flapping his arms and babbling excuses while the Adjuster charged with keeping the neighborhood family friendly stalked over. She was pushing up the sleeves of her gray uniform, and she looked deeply annoyed.

Lute went still in his seat. Corin was straightening his tie, like the watcher was going to take him more seriously if he did that. Roman’s dad was cackling next to the fire hydrant. Half of the cousins looked startled, and the other half looked delighted.

“Are you all having some kind of trouble?” she asked in Mandarin. She directed the question to Lute, probably because she knew he lived here sometimes. He had seen her in the area occasionally.

“My mother called this car for me. Only for me. These people are trying to get in it with me when they’re not supposed to,” Lute said in the same language.

“We’re his family!” Corin said quickly in English. “It’s not like we’re strangers.”

“That’s right!” Hugh was still dangling in the air. “We’re just trying to help him. He’s—”

“A moment away from being an Avowed,” said the Adjuster, crossing her arms over her chest. “He’s flashing a name tag andthere’s a non-Avowed notice, which means he’s recently been selected. Congratulations, by the way.”

“Thanks,” said Lute.

“Why do you all seem to think someone who’s about to make some of the biggest decisions of his life needs your help for a little car trip?” she said, leaning down to look at Hugh with a menacing expression. “Hmmm?”

She made a humming sound and gestured, and Hugh was flipped onto his feet again. The damage was done. People were watching curiously through apartment windows.

Cady pulled up the collar of her coat like that might hide her from view.

“Buckle your seatbelt,” the watcher said to Lute. “Have a nice afternoon.”

I could be an Adjuster, thought Lute as the car drove away. I wonder what types of spells she has? It could be binding spells, and that one just happens to lift the target off the ground. It didn’t look like she messed with gravity.

There were so many different methods that wonderful lady could be using to punish his family. She was probably just giving them a talking to, but Lute liked imagining them all hanging upside down.

The happy thought was short-lived.

Dad…

If I just give him time, it’ll be all right. Won’t it? Obviously he didn’t suspect at all. And he’s upset. It’s a lot.

Lute hoped it wasn’t too much.

What if Mom’s just as upset?

She had texted him several times, but it was all very business mode. Yes, you can go see your father. I’m getting the helicopter arranged. There will be a car for you. Don’t make any sudden decisions. Come straight to me. Are you all right at school?

What if neither one of them want a son who’s different from them in this way? How would I feel if one of them suddenly became Avowed?

He rested his head against the window. The answer came to him immediately—Like they’d left me behind. Like they’d gone to join the rest of Anesidora.

Lonely.

Was his mother feeling like that right now? Would she look at him differently when he walked through the door?

If neither one of them want me like this, I think it might kill me.

Car to helicopter. Helicopter to Narcissus House. A bit absurd just to shave minutes off the travel time, but at least Chainers couldn’t fly. If they could, they’d be up here trying to drag him out of the helicopter.

Hazel’s family really did want me to affix before Grandma got back from the Triplanets. They’re worried about her position more than they’ve been letting on.

And Roman’s dad had been there to tell him not to affix until Aulia got back.

None of them had even asked him what class he actually wanted. Corin had just started shouting the names of things he could get his hands on very quickly.

Lute watched the city and the sea pass by below him.

He kept checking his cell phone and his interface for messages, hoping to see one from Cyril that said not to worry. Or a single emoji would be enough. Not even a heart, just a thumbs up. A wink.

The helicopter landed, and Lute headed toward the back of the house with his coat over his arm and a feeling close to terror making his stomach roil.

Mom will be okay with it. She will. She’ll have advice, and she’ll help me figure all of this out. She’s probably working in Grandma’s office right now. I’ll go see her, and tell her every—

The sliding door that led from the sunroom to the outdoor kitchen opened, and Jessica Velra stood there. She was wearing the dark green sweater Lute had bought her for Mother’s Day and a pair of jeans. She had on the ugly slide sandals she loved but only wore when they were unlikely to have guests. Her white blonde hair hung down in a side braid.

She’d been crying. She was still crying. The mascara she used to darken her lashes sometimes had run. Her cheeks were wet.

Lute stood still, more afraid than ever before in his life.

Mom, no. Please don’t. It’s all right.

He meant to say the words out loud, but he didn’t.

Then she was running toward him, her arms outstretched, and Lute couldn’t even drop the coat before she was embracing him.

“Mom, what—?”

He stumbled. Before he knew it, his butt was on the grass, and Jessica was on the ground right beside him, still hugging the life out of him.

“Look at you,” she sobbed in his ear. “Look at you, baby. You’re an Avowed! I’m so happy.”

“You are?” Lute asked. “Really?”

“You’re beautiful,” she said, leaning back and cupping his cheek with a hand. “You’ve always been so beautiful. Things have been hard for you. It’s my fault. I’m sorry. I was afraid they’d be hard forever, but they won’t now. Lute, you’re going to be all right.”

What? “Mom, I’ve been fine.”

“I was selfish for wanting you so much.” She stole his pocket square and wiped at her face with it. “Are you all right? Are you hurt?”

“From falling in the grass?”

She chuckled. “I know. I’m being silly. I’ve seen Selection happen to how many other people? But now it’s you and the first thing I thought was, ‘I hope the Contract is careful with him! I hope it didn’t scare him!’”

“It scared the shi—stuffing out of me.”

“It did?”

“I didn’t even believe it was happening until an hour later.”

She stood and pulled him onto his feet.

“…Mom, you’re really happy?”

The terror was fading. Relief was replacing it.

She smiled and reached for his hand. “Lute Velra, this is the happiest I’ve been since the day you were born. I’m proud of you.”

“But I didn’t do anything.”

Despite how some people seemed to feel, being an Avowed wasn’t something you earned. Still, he couldn’t help returning her smile.

“Come on!” she said. “Come with me. We need to talk before your grandmother gets home!”

******

Jessica’s joy at Lute’s selection was infectious. He hadn’t once had a similar emotion about it himself, and after a week of feeling every way but pleased, he gave himself permission to relax a little.

“Okay, okay!” he said, brushing the crumbs from a brownie off his shirt and leaning toward her just as eagerly as she was leaning toward him. They were sitting in a pair of pink velvet armchairs inside the expansive walk-in dressing room that connected her bedroom to Aulia’s, and they’d set the panic protocols just so that they wouldn’t be able to hear relatives knocking.

Lute was enjoying imagining some of the particularly toxic ones out there, throwing themselves stupidly at the walls of what was effectively a bomb shelter again and again. Like zombies.

“So the first person other than Kon sees my pin, and they say something to their friend, and then it goes all through the hall. And it gets quiet except for a couple of older students who are like, ‘Hey! Awesome! An eighth grader’s wearing a pin!’ And they’re all trying to figure out if I really got selected or it’s some kind of stunt, and then Mrs. Sharma comes down the hall juggling all her bags and a pile of supplies. She just stops and stares at me for ages, and she doesn’t notice her mug is tilted in her hand and she’s dripping that Artonan flower tea she likes all over the floor.

“Finally she realizes her foot is getting wet, and she snaps out of it and she just drops everything she’s carrying on Declan without even asking—like he’s a catch-all table!—and she hurries over to make sure that I’m not doing anything stupid. She seemed to think I might have gotten overwhelmed and started affixing right there by the lockers.”

He shook his head. “I wasn’t a great student when it came to the Avowed stuff, but I’m not that ignorant.”

He’d been a quarter of a second away from becoming a Wright out of curiosity, but did that need mentioning?

