Aulia breezed into the room, her wooden hoop earrings swinging. “You’re back to yourself, I see! Excellent. I was just telling some people about you. They can’t wait to meet you. But they’ll have to I’m afraid. We have an appointment to get you your new class.”

She’s chipper.

“Hey,” he said. “Do Chainers only work for this Palace of Unbreaking? Because one of the terms in the contract—”

“That’s right!” Aulia said. “Hop up. We’ll be exiting from the same spot we arrived in.”

She held out a hand as if she were going to pull him out of the chair and onto his feet. Lute ignored it and stood on his own.

“We don’t ever get summoned by anyone else? Ever?”

“Hardly ever,” said Aulia, “The Palace has exclusive summoning rights for Chainers. They can loan us out, but they rarely see fit to do that.”

Lute peered at her. “Is that a good thing?”

It didn’t sound like the worst thing, depending on how nice the palace people were, but the family had been quite tight-lipped about it. Lute had thought that they all worked for the same place, but he hadn’t been aware that they could only work for that place.

“It has its pros and its cons,” Aulia said, her smile turning forced. “When I was a little older than you and had my first magical adventure…I admit, I was somewhat distressed to find that I wouldn’t have access to the entirety of the Triplanets. But what Avowed does?”

Access…thought Lute as they rode the cart across the parking lot where nobody parked.

“Don’t you have friends all over the Triplanets?” Lute said. “Everyone says you—”

“The Palace exists in multiple locations on all three Artonas,” Aulia replied. “And there are a few on other worlds. Plus there are plenty of other ways to make connections.”

“Yes…but that’s definitely not the impression most people have about you.”

“As I said, there are pros and cons. For example, the Palace doesn’t summon other classes of Avowed. Feel free to tell people that as long as you adhere to the family guidelines about making it sound the proper way.”

“Why do we have guidelines about how things sound? It’s weird.”

“What people think is the truth is often more powerful than the actual truth,” Aulia said in a tone that seemed designed to convey wisdom.

That sounds bogus, thought Lute. That sounds like the kind of thing you say because the actual truth is that Chainers are isolated from the rest of the Triplanets and we only get to work with one specific group of Artonans. Who own buildings that look like sports stadiums.

“Why is it good that they don’t summon other Avowed?” he asked.

“Because there’s power to be had here, dear,” said Aulia. “Why would we want to share it?”

******

When they arrived back home, it was mid-morning. Jessica was waiting in Aulia’s office with a dark-haired boy in a dress shirt. He leaped to his feet as soon as Aulia entered and said, “Counselor Velra!” excitedly.

“Yes, you’ve won the lottery, haven’t you?” Aulia said. “Thank you for holding the class for us for the past few months. The funds have all been transferred? Good. Jessica, give us a moment alone.”

Lute’s mother hugged him, then left.

“Lute, trade with him,” Aulia said when the door had closed behind her.

It’s too soon. I’m not quite ready. Let me think about it just a little longer.

The protest died inside him. Among the thousand other things the tattoo he now wore said, he had promised he would affix Chainer, and in return, Aulia had promised she would do everything in her power to uphold her end of the bargain even if Horatio the Healer dropped dead suddenly.

The other guy enthusiastically initiated the trade. Aulia stood there as an authorized witness. Lute accepted.

There was a twinge of regret when the words Shaper of Water were replaced by Chainer.

Giving up Wright didn’t feel like that.

He knew he was just being childish. He’d spent his whole life thinking he wouldn’t be Avowed at all. Any class he got would make him far more magical than he’d ever expected to be.

While he tried to distract himself from the unexpected sense of loss by examining the Artona III globe and trying to figure out exactly where he’d just spent the past few hours of his life, Aulia said kind politiciany things to his trading partner and wished him a bright future before sending him out the door.

It clicked shut behind him.

“All right,” she said. “What an exciting morning! Now, you’ll hold the Chainer assignment for the next two and a half months while we give you a crash course on everything you need. I’d download the language into your head if I could, but even beginning to teach you that kind of thing will have to wait. There’s so much else. You’ll need a wordchain repertoire first, lessons on the unique culture surrounding the Palace of Unbreaking, and etiquette. God, the etiquette! And of course I’ll be giving you a complete rundown of all the important figures you might meet during the course of your work.”

Lute looked around. “You don’t want me to affix the class right away?”

“Absolutely not,” said Aulia. “You’re already contracted to do it, so I’m not worried about a change of heart. You’re an S. We don’t have that many. More than any of the others, you need a thorough education in how to handle yourself and how to handle the people you’ll encounter. It will take time, but the Palace tends to summon new Chainers very quickly to say hello. I don’t want you affixing until I’ve nudged things around and talked to the leaders about you. Given your age, and the way Orpheus fell apart when he started, it shouldn’t be hard to convince them you need to work alongside one of us every time you’re summoned for the next few years.”

“I think I’ll be all right on my own.”

She rolled her eyes dramatically. “Yes, yes. I know you’ve decided I’m a terrible person. But would you really rather work all alone with a bunch of aliens instead of having some backup from some more experienced members of your own family?”

“Maybe if it’s Aimi.”

“Aimi can’t be your keeper. Aimi needs a keeper of her own. It’s…nine in the morning. We’ll have breakfast brought in here and get started on your first lessons right away.”

Breakfast is French toast casserole today. Lute had the menu he’d made with Kabir for this week memorized. Breakfasts were the only non-spicy dishes on it for some reason.

“How much time is all this tutoring going to take?” Lute asked.

“I’m in the process of clearing my schedule for the coming weeks. We don’t have a moment to lose.” Aulia’s eyes were flicking through the air as she did something with her interface.

“I have school.”

“Don’t be ridiculous. Do you want to spend the next few weeks practicing your multiplication tables or do you want to know how to handle your career on the Triplanets?”

Multiplication tables? When was the last time she looked at eighth grade math homework?

She walked over to him and reclaimed her swivel chair. He was standing between her and the globe.

“One more thing…” Her lips twisted. “Jessica has asked me not to tell you that you’ve made a judgment error until you’ve grown to enjoy your new class, but I’m afraid I won’t be able to accommodate her wishes. I prefer not to become tutor to a grandson who thinks I’m evil. I would feel bad, since she and I have a relationship built on trust. But apparently that trust doesn’t run as deep as I thought it did.”

“What are you talking about?”

“I asked her who your genetic father was. She insisted it was Cyril. You haven’t demanded to know otherwise yet; I suppose she feels like preserving that little illusion for you if you want it. Do fill me in if you change your mind. I’d be very interested.” Aulia stacked the tarot cards she’d left behind earlier and tucked them back into the desk drawer. “As for your error…I never had any intention of letting your mother, or you, suffer the ravages of time while the rest of us lived on.”

“I don’t believe—”

“Healing doesn’t always work. You know that?”

Lute frowned. “I know there are some things that magic won’t fix. And there’s reversion.”

“Artonans had magic long before they understood cells or genes. Healing does things beyond the realm of medicine and it suffers from drawbacks beyond the realm of medicine as well. Reversion, for example. On occasion, or in response to certain interferences, a Healer’s work can revert. A week passes and a healed bone is suddenly broken again.”

“Reversion is really rare though.”

“Yes. But it’s more common after intensive or repeated bouts of healing. And it’s more common when the healing is done by Avowed.”

“What? I’ve never heard that!”

“It’s rare enough no matter who the Healer is, so it’s not something you need to worry about on a daily basis. My point is that healing is miraculous, but it isn’t flawless. A specially trained wizard—or sometimes a whole team of them—can offer gentler, more customized healing options than any Avowed we currently have here on Earth. Rejuvenation is considered an extreme magical process. The Artonans who are allowed to take advantage of it almost never use Avowed for their own treatments.”

She interlaced her fingers over her stomach and watched him.

“When I realized Jessica wouldn’t be one of us, I researched the matter. Not many regular humans have received rejuvenation treatments, especially not multiple ones, and there wasn’t a lot of information here on Earth. But I found it on the Triplanets. I was told that a non-Avowed would be more delicate than you and I are. They said that if I wanted her to have the longest life possible, she should be treated there by specialists. Not here by someone like Horatio.

“Getting it lined up for her isn’t simple. We’re waiting another decade or so and then I’m going to agree to what will no doubt be a gauntlet of awful favors in order to have a Rabbit who’s an expert at locating human-friendly healers arrange it for us.”

The first thing Lute felt was relief.

The second was a dawning understanding that almost took his breath away.

“You’re…I know you’re lying,” he said. “Mom knew what I thought. I told her, and she never said…there was no reason for her to let me think…”

“She’s the one who told me about your misapprehension in the first place,” Aulia pointed out. “I was confident I could persuade you to want Chainer on your own, but she was afraid that you were only going to grow more enamored with Shaper as time passed. Or with Rabbit. She thought one was too dangerous. She thought the other might take you off the planet so that she could never see you again. A bit silly. It’s not like we have Shapers dying left and right. Most Rabbits enjoy their travels. But Jessica is most familiar with Chainer. She understands all of its drawbacks and benefits clearly. She wanted it for you. And I wanted you for it. So she suggested that if all else failed, we might take advantage of your misunderstanding so that you would do what was best for yourself.”

No, thought Lute. No, she wouldn’t do that. She wouldn’t do that to me.“I’m sure you picked up the idea that I was a coldhearted creature who would let my own daughter die from the rest of the family. Obviously Jessica and I don’t tell them that she’ll be receiving access to far superior magical treatments in the future. It would only make them jealous and obnoxious. Some of the more shameless ones would hover around me at all hours, begging for more than I already give them.”

Aulia put her feet up on the desk. One of the laces of her sneakers was beginning to come untied.

“So now you have the full picture. You mother has always been well cared for. You were to be well cared for. And please remember that even if I played a little trick on you, I did give you Horatio’s time to use for whomever you wish. It would have been so easy just to promise you that I would help Jessica get rejuvenation treatments, and it wouldn’t have cost me anything at all since that was already my plan.”

I’ve already agreed. I agreed to it.

When he tried to imagine himself giving Chainer away to someone else, he could feel it. The contract. He could hate the class. He could want to be rid of it. But as soon as he seriously thought about trying to be rid of it, there was this…denial of the possibility that it could be a reality.

He’d promised. He’d meant it. It was done.

Aulia laughed suddenly. “You’re the first person I’ve ever paid to take Chainer! Think of it as an apology for all the years of my tutelage you missed. Do what you want with your prize. Sell it for a fortune. Give it to the man you call your father. Save it for yourself or share it with someone you find in the future. Enjoy!”

There was a cry of rage. The Artona III globe hit the floor. Lute Velra was running through the mansion, through the White Parlor, past the kitchen, toward the front door.

His mother was there picking up a pair of shoes someone had left in the wrong spot when they came in.

“Lute?”

“You lied to me!” he shouted. “You lied to me my whole life! You lied to me about all the most important things in my life!”

She looked so shocked. “Lute, let’s calm—”

“NO!”

She reached for him, and he backed away from her so fast he almost tripped.

“This was supposed to be my decision! Mine! It’s the biggest choice I’ll ever make, and I was trying so hard to get it right, and you knew that, and you lied to me!”

“I just want you to be happ—”

“Go fuck yourself! Keep picking up everyone else’s shit until you really die. I promise I won’t shed a single tear for you ever again!”

