He ran past her and out the door.

She lied. She lied to me and dad. She lied about me possibly being Avowed. She plotted with Grandma to make me take Chainer.

He ran until he was about to collapse. He stumbled onto a bus.

Jessica kept sending him texts and voicemails, trying to explain that she understood how upset he was and she loved him and she only wanted to make sure he had the best life possible. [That’s all,] she wrote, [I’ve ever wanted for you.]

[Make Aulia agree to break the contract,] he wrote back finally.

[Come home. We’ll talk.]

[Make Aulia break the contract. Let me make a choice when I have all the facts. Fix what you did.]

He went to Cyril’s and practically forced his way into the apartment. He stayed for a couple of nights, trying to ignore the fact that the atmosphere had turned poisonous from a combination of him needing his dad to act normal around him and his dad not being able to do that.

The only moment of connection came when he first explained what had happened.

“She was raised to be this way, wasn’t she?” Cyril said, giving Lute an orange juice to drink since that was all he had in the fridge at the moment. “Chainer this. Chainer that. Jessica always said she hated it and that things were going to be different with you, but I guess she meant she was going to wait and see if you were actually Avowed before she put you in the family business instead of starting when you were a toddler.”

Lute clenched his juice glass in both hands. “If she doesn’t at least try to get Aulia to let me out of the agreement, I’ll never forgive her.”

“Doubt she’ll believe you about that. After all, she forgave Aulia for everything, didn’t she?”

They talked for a while longer. Lute was starting to relax and get things off his chest. Then Cyril had to ruin it.

“It’s not right, but really, Lute, you haven’t got much to complain about. Chosen at fourteen. S-rank. About to become an Avowed with one of the rarest classes. Be happy with what you’ve got.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?” Lute asked. “I have to be happy about my own family manipulating me because they’re manipulating me to take something other people would want?”

“I’m just saying…”

“I wanted to be a musician. I had goals of my own and I have worked toward them every day. For years.”

Cyril snorted. “Nobody would choose that life over the one you’ll be getting.”

Lute hated him right then. Just a little.

He started his applications to all of Anesidora’s best high school music programs that night. When the forms asked him to input his Avowed class, he wrote, “harpist.” He wished the forms were paper instead of electronic so that he could write the word more aggressively to get his point across.

Filling out the forms and writing essays about his future as if class and rank were completely irrelevant to him gave him some clarity.

I’ve already screwed up. Bad. I trusted the wrong person. My mom. If your mom is the wrong person, then who’s the right one?

Never mind. It’s done.

What do I need to do now?

There weren’t many options. He could keep throwing himself on his family’s mercy and sense of justice and hope they saw reason. He could try to convince Aulia that he was the second coming of Orpheus by finding substances and abusing them in public. He could be the most epic brat in the world in some other kind of way and hope she was dumb enough to believe it was a longterm state. He could wait quietly and hope Hazel had an S buried in the black pit she had in place of a heart.

These are terrible. The first is naive, and I’m tired of being naive. The second is self-destructive and why should I destroy myself for them? The third…could be really fun. But I don’t think she’d buy it. The fourth is just unlikely.

He’d been expecting Hazel to call him. She hadn’t.

He didn’t know if she was busy plotting to kill him or if she was just really depressed. Despite what Aulia had said, Lute didn’t think she was expecting S for Hazel anymore either. One too many disappointments. One too many signs from the universe against her. First a surprise Roman causing a family schism. Now a surprise Lute in all his youthful glory!

Lute pulled his applications up on his interface. The word “harpist” was so satisfying. The answers he’d written about what kind of musician he hoped to be were so him.

This is who I am. Why can’t I still be this?

“System, can I ask you a question?”

Why not? Mom can never be trusted again. Dad’s…not at his best.

“Haha, System. You’re my family now. That’s what you get for picking Lute Velra.” He dragged a blanket off his bed and sat on the floor. “What should I do?”

He waited.

[Make a choice for yourself.]

“Thanks I guess.”

Lute continued to stare at the words. The System was just telling him what he already knew. It was up to him. Decide.

Deciding had been so impossible since the moment he had been selected. It turned out that the real life version of the dice game scrambled your head up horribly.

“I’m always going to be a harpist,” he said.

A choice. Just one.

“I’m going to be the best musician on Anesidora. I don’t care what my class is or what theirs is. I’m going to destroy them all.”

Two.

“I’m going to high school. No way am I getting roped into private tutoring. I want people who aren’t my family around me.”

Three.

The more choices he made, the more solid ground he had to stand on. Two weeks ago, he’d known himself perfectly. He just had to build it back brick by brick.

Lute kept at it, making decisions about tiny things when he couldn’t handle the big ones. Until finally…

I think I’m back. I think I’m me again.

The class he ended up with was terribly important. It would shape his whole life. But it wouldn’t be his whole life.

He could look at it more calmly when he thought of it that way.

The most likely outcome from this point on is that I affix Chainer. Lute Velra-Harpist. Side order of wordchains. Address: Anesidora.

If that’s the way it goes, what choices are there left for me to make?

Aulia was planning to tutor him and teach him everything he needed to know over the course of the next two months. She was planning to have a chat with the Artonans and make sure he was placed with a family monitor even when he was on other worlds. She was planning to have control.

Lute dropped his blanket and went to the bathroom. He checked out the ornate symbol on his back for the thousandth time. It was a lot of geometric linework contained in a shape that looked like a wide-splayed letter V.

I think this is enough control for one lifetime, he thought. I think…she doesn’t get to have anymore.

A choice.

A big one.

He did sleep on it, just in case he was insane. But when he woke up in the morning, he still felt sure that he wanted to do it.

“I’d like to sign the Contract,” he said. “Right now.”

“Welcome, Lute,” the System murmured in his ear. “And thank you for your future service.”

******

“What is this?” Lute asked, staring at his interface.

He’d selected the Skills tab first because he wanted to see what juicy goodies Aulia was keeping secret from the rest of humanity. And…

“Mass Bestowal is automatic!? I thought the other S’s just took it because Aulia did! We don’t get to pick? What kind of damaged class is this?”

He was having a mini heart attack sitting on the edge of his bed because this was his big S-rank skill, and he was trying to make a bold step forward in his life here and make choices, and there were no choices.

“Are you laughing at me right now?” he asked the System. “You’re almost as bad as my real family!”

He poked the words Mass Bestowal (required), hoping they’d disappear. When he finally got around to looking away from the terrible crime that was his complete lack of a skill list, he felt silly.

“Oh. I get to choose something down here. Whew. I was panicking for nothing. Sorry, System. We’re still friends as long as it’s at least a C-rank.”

He prodded the option, and the skill list he’d been hoping for appeared.

Now let’s see what kinds of things Chainers can do that I don’t know about…these all look so boring. Debt this. Loan that.

Am I a magical banker now?

Wait, these are all S’s.

“Am I supposed to have two S-rank skills?”

He knew he wasn’t.

“I get a whole second S skill?”

When it sank in, he started to laugh. He felt delighted. And excited. Two S skills! Not one!

Lute Velra was a god! Maybe only a banker god, but he’d take whatever victories he could find at this point.

“Okay. Let’s study this.”

He had nothing to rely on but the words in front of him. There weren’t descriptions of Chainer skills for him to read on the internet. He wasn’t about to call any of the S-ranks in his family and ask them for tips.

Fortunately, the Chainer S-rank skill list seemed to be way more forthcoming than the ones he’d heard about. There weren’t that many skills—around thirty with a note at the bottom reassuring him that if he ever used them all up, the Palace of Unbreaking would design more especially for him!

Lute peered at it. That’s friendly of them, he decided. But how many lifetimes would it even take to get thirty S-rank skills?

Even more shockingly, the skills were listed in non-alphabetical order. Instead, they were sorted by their priority in the Palace of Unbreaking’s eyes. Number One on the list, a skill that accelerated a wordchain so that it would hit harder but last for a shorter duration, was the one that was most valuable to the Palace at the moment. He could expect more summonings if he took it.

The other classes would kill to have skills sorted this way. Ultrarares designed for specific jobs obviously have their perks.

He thought about Number One for a long time.

That’s an amazing skill, he decided. Worthy of S-rank for sure.

There were a dozen reasons to want a wordchain’s effect to be intenser, briefer, or both.

The main drawback seemed to be that the skill would have to be actively used the whole time the chain was being accelerated. Most wordchains lasted hours. Aulia’s Gloss lasted days. It was great if Lute was just going to be working for himself and on himself, but considering the fact that this skill was in high demand with his new employers…

This could be a skill that requires hours of work from me every day, couldn’t it? All of them could depending on what the Artonans do with us. But this is the number one most wanted.

He went down the list, reading whatever skill descriptions were offered carefully.

Some had notes about “ethical limitations” and when he asked the System for clarification, he actually got it. They were like Mass Bestowal—permission from target required.

Not that surprising. I knew they didn’t just ask to be polite. They have to do it.

The limit wasn’t placed on all the skills, but it was there on a significant number of them.

He made himself take his time and not jump ahead to look at a few skills he’d spotted on his initial skim. He had no idea what they did yet, but they had music-related names.

Most were about halfway down the list. One was just a couple away from the very bottom.

Aulia would probably lose her mind if she knew I was getting to pick another S skill. She would have wanted me to choose something in the top five so that I could make myself more useful for the Artonans and for her schemes. She’d have slapped the instructions to do it into the tattoo with all the rest of it.

He was looking forward to picking whatever he wanted and then repeatedly reminding her that she’d missed the chance to control an entire extra S-rank talent.

I wonder how many people even have access to this skill list?

On Earth it might just be Aulia. Maybe Aunt Hikari was hiding another max rank skill up her sleeve, too.

And then there were the Chainers from other worlds. They probably had a very similar list, right? But it still couldn’t be that many people. Especially if every S-equivalent Chainer on every planet got Mass Bestowal first.

Lute spent hours on the selection process.

The farther he went down the list, the more strange little notes started to appear out to the side of the skills:

[Ceremonial Use Only]

[Supervision Required]

[Created in Memory of our Brother Sess-nor]

Eventually, he decided he liked the third skill from the bottom. It had a musical name even if it didn’t do a musical thing. It seemed like the titling was more of an artistic nod to the fact that wordchains could sound quite musical or, if a couple of the other skill descriptions were anything to go by, be performed in time to music.

It’s a short description, but it sounds cool. It doesn’t have any special notes out to the side.

Being at the very bottom of the list meant the palace didn’t really want him to take it. It probably wouldn’t increase his work hours at all. It wouldn’t put him in a good position to rub shoulders with and become valuable to important Artonans.

He considered that a total benefit. A harpist needed time to play the harp.

Grandma would hate it.

He stood and stretched. “System, what do you think of this one?”

The System had no comment. It wasn’t a good sport about commenting on the skills at all.

“I like it,” Lute decided. “I want it.”

He jabbed it confidently.

Next my foundation points!

They were mostly selected for him.

“Are you serious? Even though I’m S?”

It wasn’t like they were bad stats. He had to dig down into sub menus and sub-sub menus and ask a few questions to see what it was the System would actually be doing for him. Vocal range. Linguistic processing. Pattern memorization. His ears were going to be amazing and his fingers were going to fly.

