This party was full of some of the most blistering family interactions and vitriolic backbiting he’d ever seen or heard. None of it directed at him, of course. Goodness no!

Everyone was his friend tonight.

The Roman supporters were spoiling for a re-match, and they would take up Lute’s banner whether he had agreed to have a banner or not! And the Hazel supporters were losing ground, but they still kept finding time to swing by and let him know that Chainer was just the worst. Really. He’d had no preparation. If Aulia decided to offer it to him—not that she would ever do such a thing!—he was going to struggle and find it so terribly dull and didn’t he want to take another class?

Any other one? They would go kidnap some innocent fifteen-year-old for him and deliver them tied up like a present if he wanted.

Grandma and Hazel are going to come home to this.

I don’t think she has tears inside her. She probably weeps acid. But still…I think I should have said no to this lunacy. We could have hidden out with someone trustworthy. Mom was just mad about them trying to strongarm me.

Then his phone rang. He started to reach for his pocket, then he stopped.

“System, can you send that to my interface?”

He had to start learning the features.

A familiar face appeared, floating in a circular window at the top center of his field of vision.

Hazel’s brown hair was braided into a crown. She was wearing a black dress with a white collar and cuffs. She was standing in a toilet stall at the TC.

Lute recognized the tile work on the wall behind her because he’d recently blown his nose in front of it for a while.

“Lute, hello,” she said. She sounded very professional, like this call was a meeting they’d scheduled ages ago. “Congratulations! My phone is full of news about what’s happened. This is wonderful. Grandma and I are so excited for you.”

“Thank you,” Lute said in an equally professional voice. He’d had a couple of hours worth of practice thanking people when he didn’t mean it tonight. He was all warmed up.

“I hear you’ve got Shaper of Water. That’s a wonderful class. You’ve always liked…swimming.”

Little fumble there.

“Thank you,” Lute said again.

“I was thinking…this is so crazy,” said Hazel. She licked her lips. “At work today, there was a woman who reminded me of Aunt Jessica—”

“Are you really going there?”

“No!” Hazel said quickly. “Listen, this is important. There was a woman who reminded me of Aunt Jessica…because of her personality. She was having a hard day today actually, and I helped her come to terms with it. I do that sometimes when I’m visiting our friends there. I’m sorry I can’t tell you more. But I wanted you to know, she reminded me of your mother and you, and I thought…it’s terrible that I never apologized to you. I shouldn’t have said those things to you—”

“Which time?” Lute interrupted.

“What?”

“Which things are you apologizing for saying?”

Say them aloud to me right now. Any of them. Any one of the thousand things. I dare you.

“…you know, you were right when you yelled at me at my little Ascot party. I was so immature. I should have apologized, but instead I said what I did. I don’t think of you and Aunt Jessica that way. I never have. I was just upset and confused.”

A toilet flushed in one of the neighboring stalls.

“Thank you, Hazel,” said Lute. “For apologizing like this. See you when you get home.”

The helicopter should be there at the TC waiting on them now.

What’ll it be? Half an hour maybe if they’re slow. That’s enough time.

He hung up. He found his mother laughing behind a food truck with Orpheus’s mother, Lydia. Hugh’s ex-wife was a brunette with a very noticeable hourglass figure. Lute knew at once that he’d never seen her around the house before because he would have remembered her. She was striking. Magnetic in a way that made him think high Appeal, though that wasn’t necessarily the case.

If he remembered correctly, Lydia was a Strength Brute. One who’d gone through one of the Apex leveling programs…so she’d wanted to be a superhero or something like it at one point.

Cady was also extremely curvy and brunette. Lute wondered if Hugh had a type.

“Mom, I’m going to be in the formal living room for a while. I’ll take Aimi with me.” She was around here somewhere, taste-testing the food.“Grandma and Hazel are back.”

“I know. Your grandmother texted.” She checked one of her smart watches. “Is currently texting, in fact.”

“I’ll be in there when they get back to the house.”

“You aren’t enjoying the party?”

“There’s a song I want to play. I need to warm up.”

******

Lute left Aimi to enjoy a tray full of fried food and skewered meat while she guarded the door to the living room.

He practiced the song until he was sure of every note, and then he kept playing, trying to breathe some life into it. It had been a while.

He didn’t have long to wait.

When Aulia swept in with a delighted smile on her face and Hazel scuttled in after her with a strained one on hers, the room was dark. The only light came from the windows and from the lamp over the sheet music.

“Hello, Hazel,” said Lute from his seat at the piano. He didn’t look away from the music. “Do you remember the name of this song?”

The name tag floating over his shoulder said, “Lute - The Least of the Velras.”

He doubted his grandmother even remembered saying it, but the idea would still come across.

“This is Gymnopédie 1,” said Lute, his fingers delicate on the keys. “It’s my mother’s favorite song. It’s almost painfully beautiful. And every time I play it…I have to think of tissues in trash cans. Thank you for that.”

He finally looked up at her. His fingers kept moving.

“Don’t worry about the Ascot party. It was so long ago. You were only fourteen.” He paused. “Oh. Wait. That’s the same age I am now.”

******

Small, wet feet slapping on the decking as Lute chased after a beachball. A bare adult foot stopping it for him. An anklet covered in sparkling charms that made him pause for a curious examination.

And a fragment of the anklet-wearer’s conversation with another family member, overheard but filed away in the back of his mind. A grown-up artifact on a day filled with more interesting things for a young child to think about.

“Everyone thinks Aulia’s attempts to find signs and omens within magical occurrences is a weakness, the one crack in an otherwise indomitable nature. They’re wrong.”

A gasp. “Aunt Hikari! You don’t really believe in it, too, do—”

“It doesn’t matter,” said Hikari. “That’s what nobody seems to understand. It doesn’t matter if such signs exist. It doesn’t matter if Aulia reads them correctly. She thinks they do and that it is possible to interpret them, and that frees her from one of the bonds that hold most of us back.”

“I don’t understand.”

“Fear. And the inertia it breeds.” She nudged the ball toward Lute. “Once Aulia is sure magic is pointing her down a path, she takes it. Her own certainty in the supernatural provenance of her course reduces the obstacles in her way. So she tends to arrive at her destination when by all rights she shouldn’t.”

Stubby fingers wrapped themselves around damp vinyl. Lute stood and turned back toward his pool.

“There aren’t many people strong enough to halt the momentum of someone who believes she has deciphered the voice of her god.”

******

Aulia Velra stood smiling beside the piano bench, her hair shining a deep honey color in the lamplight as Lute finished the song.

“Lute, my dove,” she said. “Aren’t you spectacular tonight! I didn’t realize you’d kept up with the piano at all. I thought you and Angela were more of an exclusive couple.”

Startled, he looked at her.

She knows the name of my harp? He was sure he’d said it in front of her a few times. But he would have bet the price of Angela that she wouldn’t have bothered to remember.

The name tag that said “Least of the Velras” was floating beside his head for a reason.

“I haven’t really kept up with it,” he said. “It’s just not that hard to go back to a song you used to spend so much time on.”

“Mmm,” Aulia said. “Congratulations. I am truly overjoyed to learn that all my heartache over your future was wasted.”

“I don’t believe for one second that your heart ached for me.”

She touched his cheek. This close, she smelled faintly of jasmine.

“I know you don’t,” she said. “That’s my fault, isn’t it? I’ve been gifted with more talented young grandchildren than I can keep up with. That doesn’t mean I don’t love every last one of you. But sometimes I turn around and realize you’ve gotten so big in the last few blinks, and I wasn’t paying attention.”

She sounds sincere. How unsettling.

“Grandma,” said Hazel, “you’re not going to—”

Aulia’s eyes didn’t leave Lute’s face.

“Hazel, sweetheart. I know the difficulties you’ve been facing. And you should know, your position in my heart and in this family could never be in jeopardy. You may be the most uniquely gifted person on all of Anesidora. You will be a Chainer.”

Hazel straightened. There was just a hint of smugness tinging the relief on her face.

“Let’s go for a little trip,” said Aulia. “Just the three of us. I’ll drive.”

In the ensuing moment of silence, the noise from the party filtered into the room.

“You can drive?” Hazel and Lute both said at exactly the same time.

They frowned at each other.

“Good grief, you two,” said Aulia, flipping her hair over her shoulder. “I’m the reason Anesidorans drive on the righthand side. Just because I haven’t done it in a while doesn’t mean I’ve forgotten how.”

“But…how long has it been?” Lute asked. He had never seen his grandmother operate a vehicle.

“I got my license renewed fifteen or so years ago. So it was just the other day! We’ll take the Bentley.”

She drove them to the apartment. It was a quiet trip except for one of the local news streams playing through the car’s speakers. They were talking about upgrades that had recently When Aulia pulled up to the building and passed the keys off to a valet, she raised an eyebrow at the two of them.

“Good job,” said Lute. “We are alive.”

“Grandma, can you teach me how to drive?” Hazel asked.

“Corin can teach you,” said Lute. “I know, because he drove your parents over to my dad’s place today so that they could all accost me.”

She glared at him. “Your da—”

“I’m not interested in hearing the two of you bicker,” Aulia said, making the tossing gesture at the building’s doorman that she used to automatically send argold tips through the System. “You’re family. Act like it.”

Should I start speaking a language Hazel can’t understand? That would be very familial, as far as this family goes.

When they reached the penthouse, it was empty. Aulia’s residences were rarely empty. There was always some family member enjoying the luxuries. Maybe everyone was just back at the party, but Lute thought it was more likely she’d called ahead and cleared the place out.

She led the way into the apartment, kicking off her shoes and dropping the Artonan-style widesleeved coat she’d been wearing on the foot of a chaise lounge. The lights, operated by a command from her interface, came on then dimmed. And the giant windows framing two sides of the apartment’s main living area turned opaque, blocking the view of the skyline.

“Sit wherever you like,” Aulia said, tying her hair back with a ponytail holder she’d pulled from her pants pocket. Blue tattoos peeked out of the sleeveless cream-colored top she was wearing—the back of the shoulder, her chest, her waist.

Having seen her in a swimsuit, Lute knew the geometric patterns interlocked, making a network over the left side of her torso. The newer ones were smaller than the older ones, but just as intricate.

One for every Velra who wore one of their own.

“Let’s have a little tutoring session,” said Aulia. “A special one. We’re going to learn a wordchain together. The name’s nice. <<The Eye of a Thousand Instants>>.”

Hazel perched herself on the center of the sofa.

<<I’ve never heard of that one?>> she said in Artonan. <<What kind…?>>

“An old one,” said Aulia. “So old it’s decrepit, you might say.”

Hazel drew in a breath. “But if it’s like that…it won’t…and won’t we get in troub—?”

“I know what I’m doing,” Aulia replied. “And why would we get in trouble? If one of you forges half of the chain, I will make sure the other half is forged to meet you. It’s simple. Let’s see if we can’t wake it up.”

“I haven’t agreed to this,” Lute said. “I don’t understand what you’re talking about, and I don’t really do wordchains.”

“Ha!” said Hazel in a vindicated tone, as if he’d just confessed to eating boogers instead of not fooling around with the family hobby.

“And what does this one even do? Maybe I don’t want to see a thousand instants.”

“It’s nothing that grand,” said Aulia. “If you get it right, it will give you long distance vision for a moment. There are other chains with similar effects. This one was just designed in a way that makes it unusual…and undesirable to certain people in decision-making positions. So you won’t find it in any book. Hazel won’t find it in any of her books either.

“Actually, it’s not in any of my books. It’s that far removed from the world we work in.”

Hazel gasped.

Lute looked between the two of them. They’re so melodramatic. I think they enjoy it.

