“It’s a special acquisition of mine,” Aulia said. “And the words and signs aren’t very difficult, Lute, so Hazel’s advantage will be slightly reduced. It’s uniquely suited for a little friendly competition.”

“What’s the other half do?”

“You won’t have to pay it.” Her smile widened. “I took care of Hazel’s debts for the chains she cast on her Coming of Age. It wouldn’t be fair if I didn’t do the same for you.”

Coming of Ages, thought Lute. Plural.

He went to the bathroom and texted his mother. [Grandma wants me to learn some ancient vision wordchain. It’s a competition thing with Hazel.]

[Good luck! You’ve got this!] Jessica texted back.

Not what I was getting at. He texted Aimi. [Grandma wants me to learn some ancient wordchain. It’s a competition thing with Hazel. This isn’t some kind of trap is it?]

After a few seconds, Aimi replied, [Run! Run for your life! :) Just kidding. She does this kind of thing all the time. Cousin versus cousin battles make us all feel even more loving toward each other as we grow up.]

Lute sighed.

[Spending hours watching you fumble around in Artonan is a really inconvenient murder method, don’t you think?] Aimi added.

[I didn’t think she was going to kill me. But why does she have to act so spooky about it!?]

[Vibes.]

Well, it’s fine. Not like I even have to try the chain seriously if I don’t want to.

He was sure this whole plot was designed to boost Hazel’s confidence and reassure her.

Yeah, that’s it. Here, Hazel. I know you’re feeling bad about being sixteen, and half the family is mad about Roman. Crush Lute at your favorite game so everyone still knows you’re above him.

The wordchain Aulia taught them was, as she’d said, simple. Simple-ish anyway. Twenty words. Some gestures. They weren’t allowed to practice everything all at once. Instead they had to do it in out-of-order sections.

“When you decide you’re ready to try a full cast, let me know,” she said brightly after she was done teaching. “Only one attempt each!”

“Only one?” Hazel asked.

She seemed displeased with this wordchain. She kept looking at Aulia and saying, “That’s it?” with regard to the gestures and words. Like she wanted it to be harder.

The translations for the words that had appeared on Lute’s interface indicated that the wordchain would do what Aulia said. It was about seeing really far anyway. He’d written the words phonetically in English with notes on pronunciation quirks out to the side. Aulia’s chaining had a pleasant chanting rhythm to it as well, and that was helping.

Artonan—bad.

Songs—good.

Hand gestures—it wasn’t like playing the harp, but he was pretty decent at getting his fingers to do what he told them to when he told them to.

Hazel, apparently worried about giving him any advantages, was refusing to practice out loud. She was just moving her lips silently and staring off into space.

Lute discarded the page on which he’d written the definitions of the words, because trying to remember what it all meant was unnecessary, wasn’t it? Just make the sounds right and convey the idea.

Hey! Give me some long distance vision for a second. You’ll be paid back.

No reason to be all formal about it.

But be sincere, he decided.

Did wordchains care about sincerity? He doubted it. Hazel could do them after all. But they sounded like they were supposed to be sincere, so he’d claw an advantage where he could.

Hazel was definitely going to beat him at this strange little game Aulia had decided to invite the least of the Velras to participate in now that he was looking less least.

This is quieter than the party was anyway.

When he thought he had it memorized, he waited. No way was he going first. He wanted to make sure he saw Hazel try it.

She was glancing at him, too, as if she was thinking the same thing.

I can outlast you, thought Lute. Because I don’t want to prove myself as much as you do.

He grinned at her.

“On the off chance that you both succeed, the first person to do it successfully wins,” Aulia said from where she was typing on a laptop nearby.

Hazel leaped up. “I’ll go first!”

“What are we winning anyway?” Lute asked, not moving an inch.

“You can pick the menu for the next month,” said Aulia. “Anything you want. How does that sound?”

“With Kabir?”

“Unless we’ve gotten another chef.”

That wasn’t a bad reward. Hazel hated spicy food. Lute hadn’t gotten to eat Kabir’s version of Jamaican jerk chicken in forever.

He still let Hazel have her attempt first. Aulia took her over to the windows and removed the opacity from them. She had Hazel look out over the skyline.

“Begin,” she said.

To Lute’s surprise, his grandmother started casting what appeared to be the opposite half of the wordchain just seconds after Hazel started hers.

So much for listening to Hazel for pronunciation tips.

It sounded like a mess with both of them chanting it.

Hazel finished. Aulia was watching her closely. She suddenly stopped casting mid-word and let her hands drop.

“You did very well, dear. Your casting was flawless,” said Aulia.

Hazel’s hands were clenched at her sides.

“You always take such offense when this happens. Relax. Everything will come to you in its own time.”

She looked back at Lute. “Are you ready?”

“Sure,” he said, pushing himself up off the couch. “Why not?”

He stepped over to join her by the window. “What am I supposed to look at?”

“Whatever you like. Something in the distance is best. It will only last a moment, so why waste it?”

“If it works, you mean,” Hazel muttered.

Lute fixed his eyes on the farthest point he could see from this height. Past streets and rooftops and spires, past Nautilus Needle, to a small light in the distance on the water.

He performed the wordchain, tuning out Aulia’s simultaneous performance with ears used to ignoring some of the more offensive members of the youth orchestra.

The words were just sounds to him. The hand motions were a dance that went in time to the song he was making. He tried to sincerely want to borrow something so that he could see the pinprick of light out there.

He didn’t feel anything special happening. There was no headache or psychic event. Just him doing the thing as well as a tedious night of practice would allow for. He pronounced the last syllable.

And then…

The thing he’d assumed was a boat wasn’t. He could see it clearly, as if darkness and distance didn’t exist. It was the moon. Not the real moon, but a big gleaming moon nonetheless, brought to life by someone’s illusion magic and hanging over the water like a giant lantern. A man and woman bundled up in coats and earmuffs suddenly appeared from what should have been the dark side of their giant moon. They were arm-in-arm, flying around it slowly.

“That’s got to be the most Apex date that’s ever happened in the history of dating!” Lute exclaimed. “Which one of them is doing the flying and which has the illusion spell?”

He blinked, and he couldn’t see it anymore.

He stared out at the city and the tiny light over the water that was no longer a mystery. “Wordchains can do that?” he asked in surprise. “That was really Longsight level—”

There was a thump behind him that caught his attention, and he turned to see Hazel hopping on one bare foot. She was clutching the other and grimacing.

Did she just kick the sofa?

He said, “Kicking things is its own punishm—”

“Shut up!” Hazel spat. “Just shut up!”

“I see now.” There was something in Aulia’s voice that made Lute forget his cousin. One of her hands was pressed to the window. She closed her eyes. “Or rather I don’t.”

Her expression was soft. She turned to face Lute unerringly, even with her eyes shut.

“So this is what I’ve been blind to.”

******

It was four days later when his mother woke him in the night.

He struggled his way out from under the sheets, adrenaline flooding him at the urgency in his mother’s voice, and the tablet he’d fallen asleep with came to life, showing the last website he’d been viewing.

Class and career counseling services. He’d found one that seemed cool. He was going to ask his mom to set up an appointment. He wanted to talk about Shaper and Rabbit. And Adjusters with illusion abilities—the moon date was just a little too striking to get out of his head, so he wanted to find out more about the path that would get him that kind of spell.

“What is it?” he asked, staring into Jessica’s eyes. “What’s wrong?”

“You need to get dressed,” she whispered. “Don’t be too loud. This is your chance.”

“Huh?” he whispered back.

She was holding out clothes for him. Jeans and a t-shirt with Beethoven’s face on it. “Hurry,” she said. “Your grandmother’s waiting. We don’t want her to change her mind.”

“Is she still…you know. Can she see again?”

Lute did not like that weirdass wordchain she’d taught them at all. It wasn’t anything like the ones he’d ever heard of, even living in a house full of Chainers. The bad portion seemed way out of line with the good one, and wordchains were supposed to be equal weren’t they? Was that one glimpse of a superhuman date night worth days of blindness?

What it did seemed off in the first place, and Hazel was all like, I bet you feel smug, but don’t think something like that is going to get you any respect from people who matter!

No wonder it was some kind of forgotten antique.

“She’s fine,” Jessica said. She went to stand by Angela Aubergine. “Dress. Quickly. Don’t make too much noise. If the others wake up they’ll interfere.”

“Interfere with what?” Lute pulled the shirt over his head and started yanking on the jeans. A pair of sneakers and socks were already on the bed.

“Chainer,” Jessica whispered. She was staring at the harp. “You’re getting it.”

Lute paused with a sock in his hand.

“I don’t want it. I told Grandma I didn’t. I told her before she could even ask me outright if I would be interested.”

Actually, he had said something more panicky about crazy old Avowed doing creepy wordchains they’d probably gotten from the kinds of wizards who had bodies decomposing under their beds.

But he was sure the “no thank you, I’ll have none of that” had come through loud and clear.

Jessica let out a single puff of laughter. “Yes. You surprised her. In a positive way, maybe. You do..it’s a good thing if you can stand up for yourself a little bit in this family. We have some strong personalities.”

Lute wasn’t putting on his socks.

“I said no. She can’t make me take a class I don’t want. I’ll just…I’ll affix Shaper even if I’m not ready.”

He wasn’t sure he was brave enough to do it. He really wanted time.

His mother looked back at him. Her face was suddenly very composed. “Lute, just talk to her. Chainer’s a good class. And I think…I’m sure she’ll make it worth your while.”

“If I do this, then can we go to the career counselor tomorrow?”

Jessica didn’t answer for a moment. “Yes,” she said. “We can do that.”

“It isn’t far from Dad’s place,” Lute added. “I might stop by again. He didn’t answer my voicemails.”

He stuffed his feet into the shoes, then he followed his mother through the mansion, down the curving staircase into the White Parlor, through it and down a hall to Aulia’s office.

Jessica stopped outside the door.

“You’re not going in with me?” Lute hissed.

“Why? Are you scared of your grandma?”

“No.” A little.

She leaned over and kissed him on the cheek. “I love you, baby. More than anything else in the whole world. You can do this. You’re going to be great.”

Now Lute felt embarrassed for making her say something like that before a simple conversation with his own grandmother. He stepped through the door.

Aulia was at her desk. Four globes—one Earth and each of the Artonas—stood on wooden pedestals behind her. A fluffy gray cat was sitting in her lap, purring as she stroked it.

Persia had been dropped off by Orpheus a few years ago. Lute wasn’t sure whose cat she was officially, but her heart belonged to the housekeeper.

Aulia stood and set her on the floor. She stepped out from behind the desk. “Well?” she said, holding her arms out and spinning in a slow circle. “What’s the verdict?”

Teal sleeveless mock turtleneck. Batiked harem pants. Low-top sneakers. Large wooden hoop earrings and a wooden armlet. Her hair was in a French braid.

“Early 1970s Universalian,” said Lute. “They wanted to look Artonan but cooler.”

“Bingo!” said Aulia, putting a hand on her hip. “They also wanted to look as different as possible from those fogeys who were hankering for a return to the 50s.”

“I don’t want Chainer. Give it to Hazel.”

His grandmother heaved a dramatic sigh and flopped back down into her rolling chair. She crossed one leg over the other.

“You know, Lute,” she said, “I’m sure the Artonans could tell me if Hazel was an S-rank. Or they could have told me you were. Maybe not the minute you were born, but surely before you were this age. If the System knows, how could they not? But they have very stubbornly refused to give me any information like that. In fact, they get ridiculously offended if I ask. They seem to think having such answers might lead me to rear young minds improperly. A rather backward point of view considering how all of this has gone.”

If the Artonans had told her about me years ago, would I have spent all my time locked away with her and Hazel? Lute shuddered.

