He’d known his relatives had those, and he’d assumed he would too. He’d just thought he’d have a few more points to spend than he did.

He stared at the Strength stat. And the Appeal stat. He kind of wanted to go under Stamina and whack up his Formation, but that was mostly because Haoyu had been talking about how great it was in class the other day.

“Can we talk about more customization? I don’t know which combo of points to pick to get the effect I want.”

They’d taught them in school just to ask when it came to things like this. The System knew what it was doing way better than you did, and while it could be really silent on talents, it didn’t usually mind having chats about the points.

******

******

“Don’t you two dare laugh at me,” Lute warned his roommates. “I took some Strength and Stamina!”

Alden and Haoyu exchanged looks.

“Why would we laugh about that?” Alden asked.

“Because…I didn’t take much. I spent almost all the free points I had on my hearing.”

Haoyu pointed at him. “You accused me of eavesdropping, but you’ve got super ears!”

“Cool,” said Alden. “Also, Haoyu, we didn’t accuse you of doing that. You were literally doing that. You confessed.”

“No, you guys,” Lute said. “It was already going to enhance me so that I could pick up and interpret sounds better. I asked it to give me more conscious control over it, so that I could not hear things if I didn’t want to. I basically asked it to give me the ability to hear worse than my new superhuman best.”

“Music thing?” Alden asked.

“I wanted to make sure I could still hear like I’d always been able to. It’s not like the System does a bad job when it boosts a sense. If I’m turned up all the way and I’m hearing the heartbeats and stomach noises of people sitting near me, I don’t usually get annoyed or distracted by them. But I was worried about it, and more than that, I was afraid of forgetting what my baseline was. Now I’ve got this mental notch that feels like Original Lute, and I can shift up and down from there by concentrating.”

“It’s not like it’s useless just because you did it so you could be human normal sometimes,” said Haoyu. “Can you selectively hear stuff? Can you make Alden’s stomach sound loud to you and make mine sound quiet?”

“Pretty well. I can focus to make one noise come to the foreground or recede into the background better than a normal person.”

“Then it’s awesome.” Haoyu smiled at him. “Like a mini Audial talent that you got through creative point use instead.”

“I need soundproofing for my room,” Alden muttered.

“Why?” Lute asked. “What secret things are you doing in there?”

“One of you thinks fifteen minutes of eavesdropping is not long and the other one can hear my heartbeat. I’ll probably find out Lexi can see through walls soon. A guy needs to feel alone from time to time.”

“So suspicious.”

“I have bouts of insomnia. I want to be able to make a racket in there at three AM without feeling guilty for waking all of you up.”

“It’s three AM now.” Haoyu’s hand was in the air as he shifted something on his interface. “Lexi’s going to call us idiots again.”

“Tomorrow’s Sunday. We’ll catch up on sleep then,” said Alden. “So, Lute has a mystery skill that even his own family doesn’t know about, ears he can dial up and down like a radio control, great hands, processing so that he can memorize wordchains faster, and Mass Bestowal…which bestows wordchains.”

“It does do that,” Lute said dryly.

“How does it work?” Haoyu asked.

“Ass tatt,” Alden said before Lute could open his mouth.

“Oh you already asked?”

“I wanted to know if he could bank chain halves for later. He can. Or the skill does something similar enough to that. He doesn’t actually have to cast one that very second to pass it to you.”

“Just talk amongst yourselves,” said Lute. “I can’t tell you exactly how Mass Bestowal works. But you’ve seen the effects of it so it’s not like it’s that big a secret.”

******

******

“Aren’t I supposed to get access to some special wordchains?” Lute asked the System. “Does that not happen now?”

He wouldn’t be getting spell impressions. There was an option for choosing a wordchain impression instead of points, but he didn’t see any reason to do that. It seemed like something you’d only want if you were prone to screwing up some particularly difficult and important chain.

But beyond the impressions, all of his Chainer family members—even the C’s—seemed to have a chain or two that was their special thing. His grandmother had quite a few.

Maybe I pick those later?

He’d bumped Strength and Stamina. It was a difficult decision. He wanted to see what would happen if he boosted Appeal instead, but he was already having enough trouble wrapping his brain around the halo effect his new rank was giving him. People at school, especially the upperclassmen, were suddenly much more interested in him.

He didn’t want to be friends with people who liked Lute the S-rank when they hadn’t cared about Lute the Human Being. And the fact that he was going to have to navigate that for the rest of his life was freaking him out a little.

Zero tolerance for suck-ups and rankists. The same as always. They’re just a lot harder to identify now, and I need to learn how to find them in a crowd.

He’d taken points for his signing bonus, so that was all done. And there was a note saying he’d be getting “Gifts of Joyous Welcome!” from his new…bosses? That could include the wordchains?

Lute was enjoying all these personal notes from the Palace of Unbreaking people. It wasn’t what he’d expected, and it was making him feel like he was the newest member of a club. A peculiar club for sure, but the notes were giving off an impression of reason and companionableness. These Artonans created skills in memory of former colleagues and helpfully told their Avowed which talents were on their wishlist.

It made everything that was happening seem a little less insane.

They have at least one building that looks like a conference center on the inside. Conference centers are safe. So how weird could they possibly be?

He checked the time. He’d been at it all day and for most of the night except for a nap and snack breaks. It was almost 5:00 AM. He could affix then go to school. Or skip and figure out how his new powers worked.

“Let’s do it, System,” said Lute, standing beside his bed. “Let’s make me magical. Finalize affixation.”

He’d find some way to make Mass Bestowal look like magic. Throwing fistfuls of glitter at people when he did it might be satisfying.

Ha! Didn’t think to ban that with the family tattoo, did you, Grandma? Think of how ridiculous I’m going to make the Velras look when—

******

The boy recognized the tall golden concert hall before he recognized himself.

The audience was full but silent. The orchestra at the front of room hadn’t begun to play.

This is the Musikverein, thought Lute. In Vienna.

He was standing in an aisle, and there was only one empty seat in the whole place. It was a couple of steps away.

Lute knew it was for him, but he still hesitated. The paintings of Apollo and the Muses on the ceiling looked down on him. The golden caryatids holding up the balcony level watched him mutely.

When he finally moved, a violin released the first haunting notes of a song.

A white humanoid doll sat in the neighboring chair. Its oval hands were folded in its lap.

“Good,” it said, when Lute took his seat. “That’s the desired response. Hello, Lute. Your affixation is underway, and everything is progressing normally. Do you have questions?”

“Not really,” said Lute, gazing at the orchestra. “I know what’s happening.”

“Then I’ll leave you to enjoy the show.”

*
