“Jessica…” Aulia frowned. “Your mother seems to have held a similar sort of opinion without me realizing. If she had acted differently, if she had given me some inkling that you might be Avowed…you would’ve faced less trouble. I would have insisted on teaching you. As you aged, I would have noticed you were above average, I’m sure. Some children surpass others through effort even though they lack talent, as your mother did. But when talent is present it always shows itself eventually. Cream rises, as they say.”

She arched a brow at him. “To be frank with you, Lute, I haven’t given up on Hazel achieving S-rank. So I hope you’ll take it as a compliment that I wish to give you the position over her. You haven’t had any of the training I prefer to give our new Chainers before they’re presented to the people of the Triplanets, but as your mother points out, you’ve proven you’re capable in other ways. You speak two foreign languages, you are accustomed to long hours of practice with your harp, and your casting of such a rusty chain was fateful. Don’t you think? I selected that one because I knew it would be. Magic has so obviously chosen your cousin, I was blind to the fact that it has also chosen you.”

Yes. That was a completely sane way to decide how valuable family members are.

“An S at fourteen,” Aulia said. “Do you know how many people have called to congratulate me on you? And there have already been tasteless questions about your origins. I would expect a smidge of jealousy and misdirected anger from fools and their mediocre children for the next few years. Take whatever idiotic accusations they throw your way as compliments. And, of course, you’re my grandson. You’ll suit Chainer well.”

Lute swallowed. “Are you saying that the family won’t help me get any other class?”

“Does it sound like I’m saying that?”

Aulia opened her desk drawer and took out a deck of tarot cards. They had been in there for as long as Lute could remember. When he was little, he’d asked her if she believed in them, and she’d said of course not. They were just useful for putting her thoughts in order. Only an idiot would take them seriously when real magic existed.

He still didn’t know what to make of that.

She laid the first card on the table. “What is it you think you hate about Chainer?”

“I don’t want to be around most of the people who have the class.”

“Get an apartment,” said Aulia. “Lock the door and tell the family members you don’t like to go away.”

Does she not realize that includes her?

“I don’t even understand what it is you all do when you’re summoned.”

“You’ll be wonderful at it! It’s simple. You go, you use Mass Bestowal until it doesn’t work anymore, you meet lots of people who are very excited to see an important Avowed, and then you come back home.”

“Anyone can do wordchains,” Lute said. “I know you learn extra ones—”

“Anyone can do wordchains, yes. But do you see many people running around using them as often as we do? The System will adjust you in ways that make learning them so much easier. And you’ll be able to give them to other people. Master a few highly desirable ones, and you can make a fortune of your very own if you like.”

“It…” Lute hesitated, “…Chainer doesn’t feel very much like magic.”

Aulia looked up from the Ten of Swords. “What?”

“Grandma, if I’m going to have magic—” after thinking I couldn’t for so long, “—I’d rather it do something more obviously magical.”

An illusion of the moon. Flight. A swimming pool’s worth of water obeying his command. Even something like Roman’s new lost item finding skill.

“I have no idea what you’re talking about right now,” Aulia said. “In a couple of seconds, I could pass you a chain that would make you as strong as an ox. What’s not magical about that?”

Lute shrugged. “It’s just how I feel right now. Chainer sounds okay, but it’s not my favorite. If you’ll help me get other classes, that’s great. If not, I’ll take Shaper of Water.”

No thanks. I haven’t enjoyed being a Velra of Great Worth for the past few days. I’ll make my own way.

He felt good saying it.

When his grandmother didn’t answer, he decided it was fine for him to declare the meeting over himself. He turned to leave.

“I’ve heard you claimed you wouldn’t take Chainer unless I gave you Libra. Or Horatio. Don’t you have expensive tastes?”

The bitterness stirred. Lute was afraid if he turned around, he’d yell at her. And he didn’t actually want to make her that mad.

Aulia was the ultimate authority in his life and, more importantly, his mother’s. She always had been. Even if he could get an apartment and lock her out of it…it would be a while before he was out of school and able to work. It would be a while before he had the resources to completely sever ties without risking things that mattered more to him than his own pride.

“You can have Horatio.”

Lute spun. “What?”

Aulia’s smile was gone. “Imagine. Asking me for a whole person. A Healer. I almost admire you for it.”

She set aside the deck. “You say Chainer is ‘okay’ with you, so you don’t actually dislike the class that much. That’s enough. You’ll see its benefits once you have it in hand. You can’t have the entirety of Horatio, though, no matter how…interesting I find the request. You can have one hundred and forty years of youth restoring treatments for whomever you like, whenever you’d like. A decade of rejuvenation for every year of your own life. It’s not like his talents control things on a literal year by year level, but we can approximate the amount. What do you think?”

Lute didn’t think anything at all. His mind had gone blank.

Aulia crossed her arms over her chest and waited.

“You…” said Lute, his voice cracking. “You’re just….you’re going to give me one hundred and forty years worth of rejuvenation treatments. To do whatever I like with? When you won’t give…”

His neck was hot. Jessica might still be right outside the door. He dropped his voice to a fierce whisper. “When you won’t give Mom anything?! She does everything for you. She’s the hardest working member of the entire family. And just because I got an S—”

“An early S,” said Aulia. “A very early and auspicious S.”

“I don’t care how early it was. I don’t care if I was born with the letter tattooed on my ass!”

“Oh, you’re old enough to swear at your grandmother now. Precious.”

You monster, thought Lute. You’re an awful monster of an old lady and if there was a magic power to suck all of the youth and beauty out of your face, I’d use it on you right now.

“I’ll make my own money,” he said. “I’ll make enough to get a rejuvenator myself.”

“I’m sure you can,” said Aulia. “You’re clearly very angry, but since it’s for the sake of your mother, I won’t hold it against you. I promise, on the day you have enough money and connections to force your way onto a rejuvenator’s waiting list, I’ll applaud you. How long do you think it will be?”

Lute stared at her.

“Eight more years of school before you can work full-time. But maybe you’ll be summoned often, and that will really speed you along in terms of money and connections. Shaper of Water is so useful. If you go through a talent development program and focus on leveling it intensely to the exclusion of all else, you’ll no doubt become one of the best in the world. And maybe the Artonans will stop being so stingy with the rejuvenation skills in the first place. If they dole them out more often, then the Healers being selected right now who choose to follow that path could be at Horatio’s level in…well, he’s the same age as me.”

She sighed through her nose. “I believe you’re capable of getting there. But you have a painful and lengthy journey ahead of you. You wouldn’t believe the things some people put themselves through to get on those lists. They ruin their youths in the process of chasing youth if you ask me. Wouldn’t it be much simpler for me to—” She made a flicking gesture with her fingers, “—thump some relative who’s already had a turn or three off the list for you so that you can put whoever you like in their place?”

I’m trapped, thought Lute.

He could feel the tension in his muscles, like he was preparing to bolt.

“Why…?” he said. “Why are you pressuring me so much? Just for Chainer? Why is…?”

Why is an S rank worth this much? When only days ago I was worth nothing at all to you. When my Mom is apparently still worth nothing at all.

I hate Anesidora. I want to leave this place forever.

“Don’t feel pressured,” said Aulia calmly. “This is only a business agreement. I’m presenting you with an option you didn’t have previously. Make whatever choice you want.”

Then she swiveled her chair around to stare at the globes.

“I need time to…to think.”

“Take as much time as you like,” said his grandmother. “But…while you think, consider this: if Hazel does get an S, I’ll give the prize to her. It’s just like in our game the other night. In the event of a tie, the first to volunteer wins.”

Lute fled.

The house was dark. One of the automatic nightlights in the hall turned on as he ran from the office, casting his shadow against the walls. In the White Parlor, he found his mother sitting beside her computer on the sofa, staring down at her hands.

“Oh,” she said, giving him a shaky smile, “you caught me. I was so nervous I was just sitting here instead of working.”

He threw himself at her and grabbed her in a hug.

“What’s wrong?” Jessica asked.

“We need to leave,” said Lute in a muffled voice. “She’s awful, Mom. We need to live somewhere else.”

She stroked the back of his head. “Lute, I like it here. And I love your grandmother.”

“She doesn’t love you back.” He didn’t let go of her. He felt like if he let go of her, she would disappear. “I think…I think I might have to take Chainer.”

Her arms tightened around him.

“It’ll be all right, won’t it?” He could barely think through it. There was suddenly a ticking clock over his head, and it wasn’t the friendly ninety day clock the System had given him.

The first to volunteer wins. Hazel probably wouldn’t get S. But she might. She might any second. She was so freaking old. The System could be giving her that speech right now.

“It wasn’t…it’s not my least favorite class. And I don’t have to hang around the family just because I’m a Chainer. I can get an apartment and lock people out. I can support myself. When I was making my list, I liked the schedule. Because I could keep being a musician instead of spending all my time on Avowed stuff. I never wanted this in the first place, so any class that’s not too hard and doesn’t get me killed…that was how I was thinking the first day. That’s still a bit how I’ve been thinking. Like if I did get the right kind of Rabbit skill, it wouldn’t be that different from Chainer, would it? I only put it so low because of the cousins. That’s such a childish reason to discard a class. Maybe I actually like it fine?”

Shaper of Water was in his head. And the moon. That was dumb. Lute had lived his whole life not wanting magic at all. Now that he thought he might get it, he was getting off track.

“I did do that wordchain when Hazel couldn’t the other night. So, I’m probably not going to suck at them. And…I need to be practical. Chainer is very practical.”

He rambled on until he finally realized he was rambling on.

He was still so anxious he couldn’t feel embarrassed that he’d been hugging his mother and babbling in her ear for entirely too long. He let go of her and stood up, straightening his Beethoven shirt. “I’m making the right decision, aren’t I, Mom? It’s…I know it’s an important decision, and she’s making me rush. I hate her so freaking much. But this is still the right decision?”

Jessica leaned forward. “Well,” she said, “I want you to be happy. And I want you to be safe. And I don’t want you to have to live your life being summoned every few seconds for who knows what. I think Chainer will give you all those things, when not many other things could.”

“Yeah. I know you don’t like the Shaper idea,” Lute said.

“I think that class might get you killed one day,” said Jessica. “So you’ll have to forgive me for not being a fan. It just doesn’t feel like you to me.”

“And Rabbit’s…if I had the perfect Rabbit skill it might be great, but what if the Artonans suddenly decide they just can’t go five minutes without seeing my face?”

“It’s a cute face.”

“So they’d summon me all the time. One minute I’m in bed, the next I’m falling all over myself trying to get clothes on before someone orders me to polish their chandeliers.”

“You don’t even like cleaning your own room,” said Jessica.

“I think I’d like it a lot more if magic was involved.” Lute sighed. “But still. Chainer. It’s not bad at all.”

“It’s right for you,” she said firmly.

“You think so?”

“I truly do.”

The reassurance did make him feel better.

“Hazel’s going to lose her mind. If she really does get an S, too, I might need to hire protection. Okay. Chainer. Easy decision. I don’t know why I’m freaking out. Let me just go tell Grandma.”

He walked back to her office. Slightly less panicked.

