In spite of my repeated attempts to Snatch Metztli upward from below the swamp, she never dives deeper out of my range. She stays just under the mud, the box frogs right beside her, taunting me. The mud around her is infused with mana and seems to have some kind of insulating properties that protect her from being forcibly teleported, much to my frustration.

“Yona, are you calm enough to have a rational conversation right now?”

I’m always calm!

“Right… In that case, you must be calm enough to realize that she’s leading you into a trap. Right?”

Of course.

“And then you also have a plan to deal with said trap when it’s sprung?”

Yeah.

“And is that plan ‘be the Chosen One’ or ‘run away into the Dungeon’?”

Hey, those are perfectly viable plans.

“The second one is, but it runs the risk of getting your Dungeon discovered.”

Yeah. And?

“You know you don’t have to go get the frogs back.”

She stole them!

“And she summoned a demon that’s going to be dealt with promptly, at which point you can go back and just collect frogs at your own pace. Or you could go to Ocula, deal with the Wesley issue, then come back and get them.”

No.

“Yona–”

We spent days preparing for this heist, and it all went off without a hitch until that bitch swooped in and stole my frogs. I can’t just sit by, Abby. That’s not how this works.

“There were quite a few hitches, actually. And–”

No. I don’t wanna hear it. I will get those frogs back, and I will bitch slap that ugly gray bitch so hard her head spins in a full circle.

“Her skin is more black than gray.”

Abby, that’s racist.

“What?! I was just—”

Abby, you’re gonna get us cancelled.

“You’re the one who called out her skin color!”

But you corrected me.

“Besides, according to Illiana, the drow are inherently demonic.”

Wow. Abby, that was really racist.

“Yona–”

I’m sending you to sensitivity training after this.

Abby makes an unintelligible noise of annoyance, but doesn’t respond further. I focus my attention back on Metztli, who is still heading toward the demon, then look up at the demon. Now that we’re closer, I can see it in a lot more detail. It’s a woman, and it probably would be a shapely one if it wasn’t so skeletal and also if it had skin. Like the severed arm, the entire body is completely lacking in skin, showing just bones and muscles and other stuff that’s not normally supposed to be visible.

It has relatively wide hips, but they’re sunken on the sides, like it has anorexia, and all its limbs look disproportionately thin for how long they are. The breasts are almost nonexistent, and what is there is weird and lumpy and very wrong-looking as they protrude from the emaciated ribcage.

It has no head, but it also doesn’t look like it’s missing a head, if that makes sense. When the arm was severed, it was clearly severed, with broken bone and torn muscle sticking out of the end, but the top of its torso is totally flat, as if it never had a head in the first place. I don’t know how it sees, if it sees at all. Maybe it has a face somewhere on its torso where I can’t see that well? Or maybe it’s just blind.

As I watch, I feel a surge of mana, and there’s a bright flash from below the titanic demon. The demon’s knee buckles, and it collapses, making the whole swamp rumble. It catches itself on its long arms, and immediately pushes itself back up and turns.

Now half-facing me, I can see that no, there is no face. It’s totally blind. Whatever it’s using to sense, it’s got nothing to do with sight. And its lack of sight doesn’t seem to be stopping it from fighting back.

It winds its arm back, ignoring another flash. Below it, then swings so quickly it makes a sonic boom behind it. One moment, its arm is behind it, the next, it’s raised in front of it, having gone through a scooping, swiping motion, rending a scar across the swamp. My eyes widen as hundreds of trees go flying through the air at mach something, straight in my direction.

I Blink down, hiding behind a wider tree and conjuring a half dozen layers of Compressed Autonomous Mana Shields. Most of the other trees fly overhead, but a few branches and trunks pepper the swamp where I am, breaking two of my layers of shields. A moment later, another quake hits the swamp, and a shockwave passes through, rippling the water and making the trees sway. I Blink back up in time to see the demon standing up after punching the ground.

I ready myself for it to attack again, but it seems to have decided it’s done, and turns back toward the center of Dryadil and resumes its march. Metzli was unbothered by any of the attacks and kept moving out of my detection range, but it doesn’t take me long to find her. She’s still moving in a straight line for the demon.

The demon tanks another attack or two as it walks, but this time, it doesn’t bother to turn and fight back. The attacks seem a little weaker than they were before, and while the demon stumbles, it doesn’t fall again.

Soon, I get within a kilometer of it, and I start to feel its aura Trait. Because of course it has an aura Trait. It didn’t when it was just an arm, but I guess now that it’s all back in one piece, it’s working again.

Its aura Trait makes me hungry. I should have guessed, since Limos is the demon of Famine. It’s not the worst, I guess, but if I’m already feeling it from this far out, I can imagine that the people fighting right up by it must look as skeletal as the demon at this point. No wonder the attacks are getting weaker.

I start munching as Metzli gets closer and closer. I start with just some random leftovers from all those times I ordered “one of everything,” but after a bit, my mana starts to drain as well, so I start dipping into my more mana-dense foods. Surprisingly, when I scarf down one of the Skarn tacos, it seems to work a lot better against the hunger than anything else. After just one taco, I feel sated for longer than three full dishes of something else.

“It’s probably because of the maligar fruit.”

Yeah, I got that, but why?

“Mali is a deity whose domain touches on Abundance, the opposite of Famine. And while the maligar tree no longer represented him properly, it still kept its name and its core, so its fruits likely carry some of those properties. Additionally, the maligar tree had Patience, which might tangentially help you wait to eat a bit longer.”

Hmmmm… Makes sense, I guess.

I drain a maligar lassi, which has a similar effect, further proving Abby’s theory. Unfortunately, the closer I get to the demon, the more intense the aura gets, and I still have to eat a lot to keep from starving and from running out of mana.

When I get 500 meters away, the demon suddenly falls over. It looks like it tried taking a step forward, but its back leg didn’t move, so its momentum just made it face plant. A moment later, I see the reason.

At first, it looks like a flesh-colored rope wrapped around its legs like a rubber band, but then the “rope” unravels, and retracts back into a familiar body. It’s Jane, the guildmaster, and that “rope” was actually her middle arms. The creepy vivitect is in full combat mode, with swords in her top hands, katars in the bottom ones, and the middle ones are weaponless, but wrapped in spiked gauntlets. The rest of her body is naked, which is weird for about 0.01 seconds until I see exactly why she wants to be naked.

With the demon downed, she suddenly swells in size growing to triple her usual height. The metal weapons grow with her, and she uses them to start pummeling the downed demon in the back. Pitch black sludge erupts from every wound, coating her in what looks like tar, but she ignores it and whales away anyway.

However, the wounds on the demon seem to repair themselves just as quickly as they are made, and after a second or two, it becomes clear that her attacks are doing very little. As the demon starts to push itself back to its feet, Jane switches tactics, turning to face the leg. Her weapons disappear, and she extends all six arms like she’s Mr. Fantastic and wraps them around the demon’s foot. The demon pushes itself onto its hands and knees, then raises the leg opposite to the one Jane is grabbing, trying to stand up. Jane ignores it, pulling harder and harder as she twists the foot further and further outward.

Right as the demon tries to push itself up and put its weight on its foot, there’s a loud crack as the foot suddenly jerks further out. When the demon tries putting weight on it, it buckles, and a moment later, it’s back on the ground, Jane still wrenching on its foot. It looks like she’s just trying to tear it straight off.

At that moment, Wesley appears next to the demon’s right arm, his sword packed with mana as he swings with his full weight. The blade cuts deep into the arm, nearly severing it, and when the arm swings around to try punching him, he lifts his shield, deflecting it with a massive crash. Wesley looks quite bad right now, his face sunken and drawn, but he still moves like the war hero he is as he battles.

Then, Metztli and I arrive. I expect Metztli to just hide under the demon or something where I can’t reach her, but instead, she swims right up beside it and launches up in another geyser of mud. The moment she gets fully out of the protective mud, I try to Snatch her again, pouring more mana than I ever have into the Skill. It still fails. She resists as hard as I pull, and some of my mana just seems to get drained by the demon’s aura Trait, and the Skill falls apart while she keeps flying.

She lands on the back of the demon, and the box of frogs lands right beside her. I can just barely see into the top, and I can see that she kept them mud-free for whatever reason, and despite the bumpy ride, they all still seem alive. Disoriented, tangled, and cramped, but alive.

“Yona?” says Wesley from nearby.

“Give me back my frogs!” I say, ignoring him.

“No,” says Metztli, grinning. “Fuck you.”

With that, she leans back, falling and landing on the demon. Except instead of just landing on the taut muscles, the fibers part for her, and she is pulled inside. The same thing happens to the box of Frogs, and while I try to Blink to catch them before they disappear, I am just a split second too late. I land on the back just in time for the muscles to close back up over the poor frogs.

I summon a half dozen random pieces of meat and scarf them down to counteract the demon’s aura trait while I watch Metztli and the frogs with Food Sense. The frogs sink down and settle down right in the torso in the place that I think might be the demon’s stomach. I watch in horror as the box dissolves in seconds, followed by all the frogs.

Metztli, on the other hand, gets pulled upward toward the neck, and seems to start merging with the top of the spine. I don’t get the time to see exactly what she’s doing, because right when she hits the top of the spine, there’s a rumble, and an almost impossibly large amount of mana gathers in the body of the demon.

Recognizing that I really don’t want to be standing on its back anymore, I Blink up five times, arriving a kilometer in the air right as all that mana explodes outward. Jane already let go of the foot, and Wesley left as well, so neither are caught in the subsequent attack, which is good, because there’s a decent chance they both would have died.

All around the demon, enormous stone spikes rise from the ground, shooting outward all around like a rocky sea urchin. In a 500 meter radius all around, the swamp is completely torn to shreds, and broken branches and tree trunks get sent flying.

Then, just as suddenly as they came, the spikes sink back into the earth, leaving nothing but a big pit of mud and broken trees. The demon uses the moment of respite to stand up, its broken foot snapping back into place, and the cut on its arm healing in an instant. When it stands, it’s no longer headless. Not entirely.

Sticking out of the center of where the neck should be is Metztli, or at least what used to be her. Her face is mostly the same, but there are asymmetric horns sticking from her forehead, and her arms are long with two elbows, much like the main demon body below her. She is no longer wearing any clothes, and her legs are gone, her body fusing  into the demon’s at the hips. She was never sane, but her eyes have a new wildness in them that even I find unsettling, and now upright, she bends over backward to look up at me, an uncanny grin on her face.

“Yona, this seems–”

Abby.

“–above our pay grade.”

I don’t care. She killed my frogs. This is unforgivable.

“Yona–”

Shut up. I’m going to kill her.