The darkened streets ran red with blood. The slaughter of the monsters and the subsequent sharp rise in the number of Ents came swiftly. Just like the mortals, the monsters had been forced to keep marching forward by the encroaching desolation, which had also weakened them.

Ashlock was pleased as he watched from above near Thanatos as his cultists went about their activities.

"The desolation-resistant pills seem to be working well," Ashlock said idly.

"Is it really wise to provide pills that give resistance to your own ability to attack, my Lord?"

"They only provide minimal resistance to ambient desolation. If I were to pour in more Qi to increase the intensity, those pills would be worthless," Ashlock explained. "Besides, it's better than my own people suffering while spreading my name."

He could already feel the flow of divine energy flowing into him. Likely generated from the mortals more out of fear than reverence so far, but he was sure that would change once people saw the effects of his truffles, fruits, and pills.

"The high-value starter packs should be distributed soon," Ashlock mused. "I wonder how the mortals here will react to learning they can become cultivators and turn into my new customers for when I move the Ashfallen Trading Company's operations here."

Freebies were marketing 101. Ashlock had made a thousand or so of those high-value starter packs to get the buzz going and to reward the first people willing to switch sides. He wasn't generous enough to try growing enough truffles or fruits to turn billions of mortals into cultivators. He just had to convert enough people to prove it was possible, and then he was sure they would be lining up to worship him.

"While the destruction of their home is unfortunate, hopefully, I can make it up to them in the end with a brighter future under my rule," Ashlock muttered, unable to ignore the obvious devastation brought about by war before him.

"In time, they will praise your name, my Lord," Thanatos said.

"I only need their praise for divine energy," Ashlock sighed. "I still find the whole god dynamic a little strange—" he paused and looked into the sky at the same time as Thanatos.

"My Lord..."

"I know," Ashlock said. He could feel it too. "A Monarch is watching us through the shadow dimension."

But they weren't attacking.

"Should I flee?" Thanatos asked. Despite being a peak Nascent Soul Realm General with shadow law, he would still have to bow before a Monarch, especially one with affinities similar to his.

"No, wait. Stand your ground," Ashlock said, keeping his eyes on the sky where he vaguely sensed the Monarch's presence. "Perhaps they would be open to a chat?"

"Do you wish for me to try contacting them?"

"Yes," Ashlock decided after a moment of contemplation. "Your soul is linked to the shadow throne, so nothing too bad should happen. Give them a hello."

"She responded."

"She? That was fast," Ashlock said, surprised. "What did she say?"

A woman's voice that was not Thanatos's echoed in his mind.

"Were you the one who cursed the World Tree?"

Ashlock was delighted.

"Of course, they finally show interest once their precious golden sap supply is cut off," Ashlock chuckled. "Thanatos, simply reply with nothing but the coordinates of the mountain peak I've got set up for the meeting."
