Helock had the cosmopolitan feel of world capitals, back on earth. As they moved up the slope towards the Academy, the two humans and one small dragonette had come across blockish, colorful northern houses, the sober lines and peaked roofs of Enoria, and solemn, plastered facades Sidjin said were typical of Baran. There were even, here and there, strange minarets that bore the mark of the distant Vizim from whence Sidjin’s ancestor had sailed, ages ago. The crowd themselves showed just as much diversity, if not more. The dark-skinned northerners were the majority, but the slight green tint of the continent’s main ethnic groups could be found in declinations going from pale to the same burnished tone the savage Koro had shown. Viv also met her first Hallurians, members of an extremely limited diaspora. The men shaved their heads while women wore theirs long and braided, and they all walked with guarded postures or in groups. The clothes too were a study in fashion. Baggy trousers and comfortable skirts alternated with the oriental, padded robes Viv associated with the local nobility. Basic cuts Viv associated with medieval clothes was prevalent among the poorer people, but there were signs of extravagance.

Viv’s enthusiasm for this new environment survived the two minutes it took for the smell of the city to cover that of spices, and for the melting pot to reveal itself as a salad bowl. People rarely mingled, preferring to stick to their own folks. Glares abounded. Covered windows and the occasional derelicts showed traces of damage, some of which appeared rather recent. Many of the men carried knives and truncheons in full display, a sign that the law here no longer had their trust. Everyone gave Viv a wide berth.

“Is it me or is the city a boiling kettle?” she whispered to Sidjin.

“There were tensions like that in Glastia before some food riots, ten years ago.”

“Is that normal?”

“As normal as tensions are, yes. Helock is known for a relative laissez-faire. The city is ancient. There is little space to expand, and the farms work at capacity. Helock is also seldom at war, so overpopulation is often an issue, at least until the next Hallurian invasion, when all the continent’s kingdoms send their levies to the slaughter.”

Thankfully, the mood improved when they walked by a gate to the inner wall. They faced a circular lake surrounded by trees, a literal breath of fresh air after escaping the lower city’s pungent smell. Children played on the glade under the vigilant gaze of groups of knitting women. The guards were more abundant here as well, carrying shortswords, bows, and shields. They wore gambesons and tabards bearing the symbol of Helock: a tower over white walls and two crossed staves. Imagery was rarely subtle in this world, Viv thought.

“Nice lake. It looks too perfectly round to be natural. Is this a mage’s work?”

“After a fashion. You are staring at the epicenter of the alchemy guild disaster of five one two. The bottom of the lake is mana-saturated glass, so the water cannot escape.”

“Ah.”

“Since that time, the guild may not operate within the city.”

“Understandable.”

Viv looked at the lake in another way. How many people had been vaporized by this accident, she wondered? But now there were trees and picnic tables. Hm.

“Shall we?” Sidjin asked.

No one bothered the pair as they made their way up, barely looking at Arthur at all. In fact, even the guards had waved them in towards the inner city, not even asking for identification. She was not the only ‘pet’ around, but Viv wondered if the guards had not been warned.

In this more affluent part of town, image seemed to be everything. The houses were considerably larger, three-stories tall, and they shared strangely identical dimensions despite the different styles in the first show of cultural assimilation Viv had seen here. They were surrounded by cramped gardens and high walls. Viv had not seen such claustrophobic optimization of space since her latest trip to Paris. The people also wore better fabric and the overall place was quieter. Restaurants replaced street hawkers and warded shops replaced stalls. Buggies drawn by people, not beasts, started to appear as well, some of them carrying crates of goods around. They were quite fast. It smelled much better as well. Magical lights atop steel poles stood at the main junctions, unlit at this time of the day.

They reached the central district half an hour later at a brisk walk. It was not the highest elevation yet, which got to show how important the Academy was. A massive central square hosted blocky government buildings that reminded Viv of Egyptian temples, banks including a familiar one, actual temples, and the Keep. Towering over all the other buildings and jealously guarding barracks like a mother goose its war-like goslings, the fortress cast an impressive shadow over the square’s fountain. It also boasted the single largest collection of enchantments Viv had ever seen by a degree of magnitude. Even her most destructive spells would peter out and die before touching the surface of a brick. Guards in mail and conical helmets paraded the grounds or stood like meaty gargoyles over the ramparts, stomping around with great importance. The men and women visiting the nearby edifices were either civil servants in white cloth, rich citizens, or runners darting around with bursts of gray mana. Almost everyone Viv saw had one or several magical objects in their possession, while all the soldiers had runes on their shields. Flowers and trees arrayed around the plaza glinted in the morning light

“The upper district has the highest mana concentration. The government picked trees and flowers that shine in the night because they provide a great view. Technically, the lower districts have enough mana concentration to sustain them as well but the vegetation would be cut and sold on the black market for three iron bits within half a day of being planted.”

Sidjin then expanded on the government while they made their way to the bank to pick a letter of credit for the tuition. Helock nominally had a town council, and it did have responsibilities, but the important decisions such as war and budget were ultimately decided by a council leader under the control of the Academy itself. The school also worked hand in hand with the military, supplying them with the best enchanted gear on the continent and a generous contingent of war casters. For all intents and purposes, the Academy governed Helock.

This time, the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange, Helock Branch, was not the most prestigious and largest financial institution around, which surprised Viv. Nevertheless, she was glad to make her way to the familiar facade with its narrow windows and sober columns. She had to wait in line, for once, and prevented Arthur from sharing her heist questions by redirecting her towards interest rates calculations and risk assessment. It seemed to irk the dragonette that she could simply not eat those who defaulted.

“It’s counter productive,” Viv explained. “They can never repay you.”

Arthur spent the rest of the visit huffing sulkily on the carpet.

Soon enough, they had the letter and it was time to visit the academy proper.

At first, Viv believed there was an upper, upper city. That was not the case. The Academy simply occupied more grounds than the entirety of the city’s administrative center. The path led them to a grand entrance as tall as five men and large enough to accomodate an adult dragon, though it was mostly empty at the moment. Actual war mages in full regalia held the door, faces covered behind a mask. Their armored robes shone in Viv’s perception. They, too, let the pair in without moving. They came across quite a few powerful mages and younger students in several colors of robes. The few civilians displayed amazing levels of wealth and the appropriate numbers of bodyguards and servants. By comparison, Viv felt positively pedestrian.

“We should take horses next time.”

“You need a permit for that, but we could rent a buggy,” Sidjin offered.

The idea was intriguing, but it disappeared as soon as they found themselves in an inner court that also acted as an antechamber. The court itself was large enough to host a couple of basketball games, but more importantly, it was tastefully decorated to provide a facade of understated power. Stone paths snaked through carefully curated hedges and copses, while bright flowers hung from wooden trellises, enticing them with their heady perfume when they walked underneath. Statues of past archmages stood here and there as a reminder of the Academy’s prestigious past. A central fountain gurgled happily. Fishes swam through its waters which rose in the air in defiance of gravity. Viv had to admit, it was a neat fucking trick.

Through the canopies and colorful vegetation, she found three entrances at cardinal points besides the exit. The left one led to the administration, their destination. The right one stood more subdued, the door camouflaged behind a thick hedge. The main entrance, however, was in the front, was as large as a cathedral door, and led to the single largest dome Viv had ever seen. It dwarfed the Pantheon and Hagia Sophia. In fact, she could have shoved them underneath its dizzying height, and from what she could see of its distant, ochre roof, it lacked any sort of support columns.

“How can this thing even stand? It should be collapsing under its own height!”

“Parts of the edifice use gravitite to keep itself aloft. Several brown archmages cooperated under Sotiff the Stoneshaper to create it. It can withstand an artillery bombardment without its wards.”

Viv sighed with pleasure. Now that was some cool magical stuff. That was the new and unseen. The dome extended over her to vertiginous height. She looked up at the summer sky and found floating rocks gravitating over the imposing shape of the chalice, strange mana winds warping its contours.

Someone cleared their throat behind, and Viv apologized, letting a wizened professor with a long white beard pass her. He smiled and gave her a nod of appreciation, which she returned.

“Registration first?” Sidjin suggested with a knowing look.

“Yes, right.”

She didn’t miss the fact he had given her a moment and grabbed his hand as they moved on. Once again, he flinched a little at the sudden contact, but he soon returned the grab. His hand was rather warm, and a bit calloused now that he could move them again to work on things. He gently guided her to the administrative building, which was white and quite clean, then into a large lobby decorated with comfy seats, and guarded by two more elite war mages. Viv did not inspect them as she was certain they would feel it, but the soul and mana impression they got from their strict control was that they were on the fourth step, and if they were, that was a rather impressive flex. Two women occupied a desk at the end of the row. The lead one had short gray hair and she was talking in a low voice with a merchant carrying a bag of samples, if the raw mana emanating from his case was any indication. They finished their discussion and the man walked to a seat to wait, while the woman invited Viv to come closer with a wave.

“Hello, and welcome to the academy. My name is Sel. How can I help you?”

The woman had spoken Enorian, which Viv took as an indication that the woman knew exactly who she was. Her doubts were confirmed when her host’s eyes found Arthur checking the surroundings. The dragonette felt eyes on her and glared back.

“I would like to apply. My name is Viviane.”

“Welcome. We have been expecting you. Darla will guide you to a private office, where you can start the process right away.”

The other woman stood. She was southerner with subdued manners, much younger. She made to leave, but Sel stopped them.

“The application process is a private matter. Your companion must stay behind, though the… young lady… can accompany you.”

“I will stay here,” Sidjin said.

“Alright, thanks. See you soon.”

Viv heard Sel offer Sidjin a cup of infusion, then the two switched to the northern tongue. Darla led Viv through a series of corridors and past busy offices crammed with papers and crystals of unknown function. None of the administrative staff were mages that she could see, but they had a lot of enchanted tools to work with.

Darla finally landed them in a small office at the back of the building. It was clearly meant for interviews, with an intimate feeling more akin to a coffee house than a school. Back windows gave Viv a view of an enormous park, with some students exercising in the distance. A servant brought warm water and two cups, along with a choice of small herbal balls to dissolve them in. Viv picked one at random while Darla removed a sheaf of paper from a drawer.

“Most of our students graduate from chartered places of learning before they come here, so you will be applying as a free candidate. The process will be a little longer and I’ll be asking a few additional questions but it’s nothing to worry about. Free candidates make up a third of our numbers. After that, we will determine which trials you will be taking according to your profile and the classes you intend to take. Do you have any questions before we begin?”

“Are there arrangements for Arthur?” Viv asked, pointing at the dragonette as she was carefully sniffing the herbal balls.

Darla watched the dragonette huff her superheated disappointment and return to her inspection of the windows.

