“The dean is working on it right now, just know that she will not be allowed to stay with you in the dormitory, so you will have to find your own accomodation. We can assist you in this endeavor. In fact, we recommend working through us to avoid fraudulent offers. She will be allowed in the public spaces, though not the classrooms. We will be keying her to the wards during admission. Ah, for the same reason, you cannot take her with you to tests.”

Darla smiled to take the edge off her word. Viv’s careful mind wondered if they were concerned about cheating, but that was probably taking things too far.

“Fine. What did you want to ask?”

“What is your purpose in attending the school? What do you wish to achieve?”

“Mastery of black and colorless casting, and finding a way to survive my increased attunement.”

“You have a dominating color? Black, I assume?”

“Yes. I received some estimates that I have between a year and several before it kills me.”

Darla hissed softly, but then considered the question.

“I think the medical faculty can help you with that, and you could put in a request for an archmage. Yes, the Academy can definitely assist you in this endeavor.”

“What is the likelihood that I would receive help?”

“Medical assistance is a guarantee for all students. Your file says you have made advances in the field as well?”

“You could say that.”

“I’m sure they will do their very best. For the help of an archmage, you would have to see. I would not be able to tell you who might help, and they will most certainly require something in exchange. And it will not be money. I suppose you will have to see for yourself. Do not be alarmed, you are in Param’s center of magical knowledge. If someone has a solution, you will find it here. Now, onto security questions. Do you have any enemies currently attending school?”

“Not to my knowledge.”

“This is important. Many of our students are parts of powerful or at the very least invested families or factions. Although we do not expect everyone to let go of their grievances, the Academy was, is, and shall remain neutral ground. The truce is strictly enforced for your protection as well as that of others.”

“Well, except for gods, everyone who ever offended me here is dead.”

Marla didn’t seem to know how to answer that.

“I have no grudges and no intention to harm any member of the faculty or the student body. “

“Good. You will be requested to swear an oath under Nous as well as a contract before you are admitted.”

Viv frowned.

“Why not just an oath?”

“While we would love to, there are far too many ambiguities to cover. For example, you are asked to do nothing that would harm the academy, but some students come from rival city-states and their very education represents a threat to the city, and thus the academy. The contract makes sure to cover those eventualities, and being found in breach leads to very serious consequences.”

“And the oath?”

“Breaking the oath causes a caster to have their conduits crippled. They will also be expelled.”

Darla clearly believed the second punishment to be the more dire.

“I have no objection, though can I read them?”

“I do not have a copy right here, but I assure you that the terms are quite reasonable. We merely want to prevent rivalries that would lead to bloodshed.”

“I understand. I have no intention of causing problems but if someone tries to attack me or Arthur…”

“You have met the faceless guard, I believe. They enforce the rules. Rest assured that this is one of the safest places on Param, perhaps even in the world.”

“Alright.”

Darla seemed a bit offended at Viv’s apparent disbelief. It was not a lack of trust on the witch’s part. She just expected bad luck and trouble as a matter of course.

“If you don’t have questions about the oath and contract, we can move on to the trial. We have a variety of curriculums you can pick. I have a list here.”

“Oh, I have things I want to pick. Sidjin gave me some advice.”

“The man who was with you? I’d suggest you checked the list anyway. Outsiders cannot have access to the list of classes you wish to follow, unless you give your agreement. If necessary, we can even produce a limited diploma.”

“Is this related to the fact he cannot be here?”

“That is correct. We are a place of free learning. Every year, sponsors and governments try to enforce class selections for women and commoners. Our goal is to prevent this from happening.”

Darla seemed very proud and Viv approved, though the stance begged some questions.

“Would this not lead to people just not applying?”

“Of course, they could… but we have no serious competition. To deny us is to settle for mediocre training, and even if the nobles themselves can tolerate it…”

“The mages would object.”

“It is excessively difficult to keep a caster obedient through coercion, as many rulers have learned. The Academy teaches its members about law and civic duty, to remind them that they are not superiors to their fellow men and women. We also provide education according to the choice of the mages, not the preference of their relatives, to remind them that their magic is their own and belongs to no one but themselves. Thus, balance is achieved.”

“It’s… a really noble goal,” Viv conceded, and she found that she meant it. Of course, there was usually a chasm between theory and practice, and it was easy to provide access to knowledge but harder to make people accept that they deserve it. Especially when they’d been taught since birth they were meant to raise a family. It was still a good start.

“It is, is it not?” Darla replied with fervor. “All of Param’s states treat casters decently thanks to the Academy’s far-reaching influence! Except Halluria, of course,” she said, her mouth twisting in disgust, “but they are barbarians and cruel to themselves.”

“Sorry, what’s with Halluria’s casters?”

“Oh, they are marked like the warborns and kept in control via their tattoos, but we get escapees every year. You will learn more in your law class. Oh, speaking of, we should pick your classes now so we can organize the trials.”

Viv had a list she had built with Sidjin, but when she took it out, Darla expressed disapproval. Viv decided to indulge the determined girl since her purpose was obviously to make sure Viv was using the Academy to its utmost, and they went over the list together.

Viv would have to take compulsory classes on the basics of magic with runes, mana shaping, and enchantment lessons. Every student had to graduate from at least the basic level to graduate. All of those disciplines would be tested the next day.

“Students are encouraged to join us while on the second step. You will do fine,” Darla assured her.

Besides classes on the basics of magic, there was another class named ethics everyone had to follow. It was a mix of law, civics, and etiquette as far as it understood, and the purpose was to make sure graduates were not absolute fucking savages who slurped their soups and blew their nose in the silk napkins. Viv found this understandable. Of course, such a noble institution wouldn’t want to be represented by some vulgar, uncultured louts. She hoped to fuck it meant table manners were on the table, so to speak. Maybe there would be wine tasting.

Viv’s fine food fantasies evaporated when the question of core disciplines came up. This was the real meat of education at the academy, the perfection of one’s mastery of mana. Viv picked black as the first discipline, and colorless as second. That surprised Darla.

“I believe you are the first in the Academy’s history to pick up this specific distribution. We don’t even have people majoring in colorless casting. At least, not this year.”

“Well, considering my attunement…”

“You should keep your attunement secret. Only share it with your medical practitioner after you get one.”

“Alright.”

“Your file indicates you are an outlander, so you may not be aware, but details on your path and your stats are confidential information. The Academy will never demand it of you, though you are welcome to share it with mentors or personal trainers. Be cautious, be safe! Now, to more exciting details. Electives!”

There were a veritable boatload of electives, taught by a variety of non tenured professors or just professionals ranging from fencing to accountancy to language and many other disciplines that could be useful to a mage looking to branch out. There was even a pottery class, and Darla explained that it could be useful in siege weapon enchantment disciplines. Viv thought she might be overwhelmed on account of facing what was essentially a program for magic-boosted prep school workaholics, but there were two she thought she absolutely needed: magical military doctrine, and magical dueling. The first option was obvious: so far she had worked in support of her men back in Harrak to satisfactory results but she had also been coasting on her talent. It might be useful to see how professional armies fought. Solfis certainly had data on this, but it wasn’t the same as learning how her potential rivals did it nowadays.

Magical dueling was another matter. She had done well against monsters and mages caught off guard so far, but that might change. She needed to gain more experience against mages, and possibly learn less lethal options to take down her opponents. Not every death was desirable, especially not in a city that valued the moral integrity of its magical population.

“Is that all? I think it’s a good fit for you, and you can always change electives during the year, or during the next semester. Right, finish filling the form and then I’ll schedule the trial for tomorrow’s session.”

“So soon?” Viv asked, surprised.

“The next semester starts in two weeks and we like to scatter the trials to avoid crowds. You will be in good hands, I promise.”

Viv signed the last few formalities, then it was just a matter of waking Arthur from her nap and making her way out. Darla did not immediately return to the lobby. Instead, they walked through twisting corridors and then past a heavily warded arch to an assuming room occupied by a large crystal. A man stood by its gleaming red surface, inspecting documents on a notepad. He wore the same simplified robe she had seen on the administrative staff, only his was red. He was also one of the ugliest persons Viv had ever seen, with fat lips, a flattened nose, one eye slightly larger than the other, a prominent forehead, and a pointy chin over squarish jaw, yet she still found him striking. He had a fantastic beard, for one, and a solid musculature that pushed against the taut robe. There was also something peculiar about him she couldn’t quite put her finger on.

Soul mastery: Novice 5

That explained it, the man was probably hiding something. It didn’t surprise her. She wouldn’t leave the key to one of the most sensitive locations in the world to a complete schmuck. He greeted her warmly, and she returned it.

“And you must be Arthur! Hello, milady. I hope you had a pleasant stay so far.”

Viv didn’t hear the exchange but the dragonette narrowed her eyes and the man hid a smile.

“I apologize, and we will be sure to offer meat next time. As for the herb pellets, they are meant to be dissolved in a cup of warm water, not eaten as is. My sincerest apologies. We seldom have the opportunity of receiving a guest of your class, milady.”

If Arthur inflated her chest anymore, the warm air might cause her to float, Viv thought.

“Now, would you kindly present your paw so that I may enter your mana signature into the ward system? Thank you.”

The dragonette did so with all the grace of a duchess allowing a baisemain.

“Fascinating. Simply fascinating. My thanks, milady. Please enjoy your stay. Goodbye, and good luck for the entrance trial.”

“Thanks,” Viv replied, somewhat feeling that she was missing some context. Darla led her back to the lobby where Sidjin had been waiting. He stood up and winced, clutching his leg.

“Are you alright?”

“My strength might be returning, but there are still difficult days and it looks like this will be one of those. I fear I overdid it this morning.”

“We’ll take a buggy back.”

“Would you like to grab an early lunch beforehand?”

“I’d love to.”

Sidjin seemed pleased, the reason clear as soon as he guided her to a door on the side. The administrative building had a visitor restaurant with a dedicated chef specifically designed to accommodate dignitaries. A waiter in impeccable livery led them to an isolated table near the windows. The restaurant overlooked the park, where students were still training. Fields and houses dotted the green expanse, with some denser vegetation farther in. The sun reflected on glasshouses in the distance.

“The dormitories are there. There are fraternities and botanical gardens as well as training centers disseminated around the Academy. Around a thousand students and staff share this space at any time, arranged in too many cliques and groups of interests to count. This will be your playground for a year, probably more. Some of my best memories happened here. The discoveries. The learning. Being free of my past.”

“The sex?”

“Some,” he laughed. “The most brilliant minds of Param work tirelessly here, under a lot of pressure. Everyone needs to let off some steam.”

“Is this what they call it these days?”

