The waiter returned at this moment with an assortment of platters. There were eggs in sauce, charred greens, and a tender, spicy meat on skewers. It was more of a degustation menu, and light enough not to make her sleepy afterward, especially after Arthur dug in. Viv noted no one had made a fuss about her. They all took their time sampling everything.

“How did you get in? I assume they don’t just welcome everybody.” Viv asked after a look at the other guests. She was not exactly underdressed but they were definitely on the casual side.

“I chatted up Sel. She knows I’m an alumnus. I told her I was trying to woo you. Is it working?”

“I’m giving you a passing grade.”

“How do I improve the score?”

“Dessert.”

“Of course.”

They were served small tarts and candied fruits with tea. It was quite nice.

“It won’t last, this peace,” Sidjin said. “You… attract attention. Politics rules here, but in a peculiar way. It’s the moment for all those scions to move and grab pieces until they leave. Some of those who shake hands during the graduation ceremony will find themselves at opposite sides of battlefields and assassination plots. And I have not even started on the state of Helock itself, so for now, let’s enjoy the moment. We can visit the temple later.”

“That sounds lovely.”

***

In the wardstone room, the man masquerading as the inscriber turned to the woman pretending to be an assistant.

“How did it go?” he asked.

“Interesting profile. Guarded, wary, distrust of authority despite a bias for control. As far as I can tell, she has no ulterior motives.”

“Any mention of our Enorian contact?”

“I believe she does not see him as a threat. His animosity seems to be one-sided.”

“Let’s keep it that way. Anything else?”

“I noted a relative lack of arrogance and entitlement. She doesn’t see the outlander status as a source of pride, didn’t request special treatment. I predict a good work ethic from her serious approach to class selection, though the conflict resolution profile concerns me. She had no objection to the rules, and did not threaten, however she showed no confidence they would protect her. I predict she will scheme if offended and if she does not believe she has been treated fairly. She might go lethal.”

“Do you expect her to be successful?”

“Yes, if only because of her ability to gather potent allies. The memo on the juvenile is still circulating.”

“What’s the likelihood that she will go through her education without a crisis?”

“Close to zero, sir.”

The Dean of the Academy placed his rough hands on the banister around the stone and leaned forward with a heavy sigh.

“One of those, ey?”

His spymistress believed he had no idea.
