It was there still. Only, it looked like it had been moved slightly from where it had been. A group of Gnolls and Drakes stood in front of it with three [Mages], all from Liscor’s Mage’s guild, arguing with Pisces and Typhenous.
Watch Commander Zevara and Olesm were standing around the restored door, looking grim. Krshia took a seat at a table and listened. There were a lot of conversations to filter out, but she could hear interesting snippets from all sides.
“—thick-headed idiots! How did you not resist a [Sleep] spell? How did you miss the [Mage] who cast it? I should tie rocks to all of your tails and toss you into the lake for the Rock Crabs to eat! Give me one reason why I shouldn’t stab you all to death for failing to guard—”
Embria was managing to shout at her soldiers without actually raising her voice that loud.
“—won’t work. You think it’s simply as easy as restoring a mana stone? If you are able to cast [Restore], please, be my guest. Oh, and while we are on the subject, are you proficient in restoring unique magical signatures as well? Because if the magical coordinates are not perfectly aligned, I would not step through that doorway and expect to live. But by all means, inform me why there is a ‘chance’ of restoring this connection.”
Pisces sneered at the red-faced Drake [Mage] as he pointed to the magic door and a broken yellow mana stone whose shards were lying on the ground in front of the door. Typhenous was stroking his beard, muttering.
“I’m afraid I have to agree with Pisces, as objectionably as he may have phrased it. I simply cannot think of a way to restore the connection safely. Not without sending a Runner to form another link. Oh dear, and Hawk won’t reach Pallass in time, will he? But maybe—no, no—”
“This was a Human action. They came through Celum. But someone had to let them through and put the inn to sleep. Who?”
Krshia’s head turned. There. Zevara and Olesm were talking. The Watch Captain’s claws were balled into fists as she stared at the door. Olesm shifted from foot to foot, his blue scales ghostly pale.
“I don’t know, Watch Captain. It could have been someone hiding in this inn or someone who crept around it at night—the spell was high-level because it got Relc and Embria’s soldiers. It could have been an infiltrator—”
“—or a traitor.”
“Or that. But there’s no way of knowing.”
Zevara ground her teeth together.
“Could it have been the Goblins? We found the dead Humans just outside that cave where they’re supposed to be lurking. And our patrol saw them watching us. If they caused this—”
“None of the Hobs knows magic, Zevara. And they didn’t steal the door. They stopped the thieves from getting away.”
“They could still have been collaborating—”
Olesm shook his head, and his tone grew firmer.
“They let us have it. If they wanted to keep it, I think they could have hidden it quite easily. They’re not the criminals here, Watch Captain. I’ll stake my tail on it.”
The two Drakes stared at each other. Zevara slowly nodded. She turned to the door.
“They’re not going to be able to fix this, are they?”
“No. Pisces doesn’t think so, and I’d agree with his assessment, rude though it may be.”
“Ancestors. What do we do now? Can Pallass get an army here past the Blood Fields in time?”
“They’ll try, and the other cities are sending soldiers too. But I think that they’ll get here too late. The siege will have started before any large force can arrive. If they have Skills, maybe—”
“Can we hold the walls with what we have?”
“Maybe. If the Antinium fight and they have as many Soldiers and Workers as we think they do—with Pallass’ reinforcements and Embria’s forces—maybe—maybe—”
Olesm looked nervous. He smelled of fear. Krshia’s heart began to beat faster. She looked at Olesm and Zevara as the Watch Captain turned away, grabbing at the spines on the back of her head until she realized people were watching her and lowered her claws. She raised her voice as Krshia turned back to her table, pretending to be waving for a drink.
“Fine! Wing Commander Embria, we don’t have a tactical advantage here anymore. This door…is now a liability. We’ll hire Hawk to get to Pallass if he can, but if he refuses—I want a guard on this door, and no one goes through to Celum. Get that mana stone and destroy it. Or we’ll confiscate it.”
“What?”
The adventurers looked up. One of them, Krshia thought her name was Revi, stood up. The Gnoll saw the teams sitting together—the Horns of Hammerad, the Silver Swords, Griffon Hunt, and the Halfseekers, but she wasn’t as firm on the names as she’d have liked. The Stitch-Woman frowned and tugged at the strings sewn into her neck.
“Hold on, you can’t do that. We need to use that door.”
“Why?”
Zevara turned, impatient. Revi hesitated.
“Well…we want to use that door. To go to Celum.”
“For what? You can get whatever you need in Liscor. This is a crisis, Human—I mean, adventurers. There’s already been one sabotage attempt on Liscor from Celum. I don’t intend for there to be a second.”
“Yeah, but—”
Revi looked back at the other adventurers and hesitated. They exchanged a glance. Krshia saw Halrac gritting his teeth and glancing at Jelaqua and Ylawes, both of whom looked grim. Ceria was sitting back in her seat, staring up at the ceiling. At last, Jelaqua stood up. She gave the room a weak grin with her Drake body.
“Hey, I know this isn’t the best time and I don’t know how to say this…but we’re leaving.”
“What?”
Olesm nearly dropped the green mana stone he was holding. Zevara turned.
“You are joking.”
“We’re not.”
Halrac got to his feet, looking unhappy. So did Ylawes. The [Knight] rubbed at his chin and didn’t look directly at Olesm or Zevara. Ceria remained seated, but she refused to look at Olesm and Zevara as well.
“It’s not an easy decision. But we’re going to leave Liscor today.”
“Why?”
Olesm stared at Ceria. Jelaqua’s tail waved back and forth on the floorboards uneasily.
“Look, it’s not personal. We like Liscor and you lot. But this is serious. Two armies coming down on Liscor? We can’t be part of that fighting. We’re willing to kill monsters, but we don’t take sides in a war. Especially not a Human and Drake war.”
“This isn’t a war!”
Zevara snapped at Jelaqua. She pointed out the window at the city.
“Neither the Drakes nor the Humans have declared war formally! The Humans are driving a Goblin force towards Liscor. If they attack—”
“Then it’s war. Yeah, sorry, but we don’t want to be right after the fact. We know what’s happening. And so do you.”
The Selphid met Zevara’s gaze. The Watch Captain gritted her teeth. She looked at Olesm and Embria, clearly searching for help, but both Drakes looked uncertain. Zevara turned back to Jelaqua and snapped, but Krshia heard the quiver in her voice.
“Drake law demands that adventurers support a city in times of crisis. I could conscript you—”
“Not to fight against our people. And this isn’t a war, Watch Captain.”
Ylawes spoke up for the first time. He looked haunted as he turned and faced the room.
“It is not a just…I cannot understand the reasoning for it, but I have learned that my father, Yitton Byres, is marching with Tyrion Veltras. Our house has sent a large force with him. I cannot stay here. Nor can the other teams. We are going. I am sorry, but this is our decision.”
All eyes turned to Halrac. The [Veteran Scout] just nodded. He looked at Zevara.
“It’s a war. Sorry, but I won’t shoot soldiers.”
And that was that. Three Gold-rank teams stood in the inn. Krshia could see Olesm paling, visibly calculating what the loss of three teams would mean. Zevara just looked from face to face. She gazed at Ceria, but the half-Elf didn’t look up.
“And the Horns of Hammerad?”
“We need to talk to Erin. But, uh, we’re not keen on staying either.”
Ceria mumbled into the table. Krshia saw one of the adventurers sitting around her move and saw Ksmvr staring at his captain. Zevara looked around. She seemed lost for a second. Then her brows snapped together.
“Fine. If that’s your decision, I can’t argue against it.”
The adventurers relaxed. Zevara gave them a smile that was all teeth and no goodwill and then turned to Olesm.
“Take the mana stone.”
“Wait, you can’t do that—”
Revi burst out. Zevara whirled.
“I can’t? Guardsmen! Soldiers! Escort Strategist Olesm back to the city and place the mana stone to Celum in our armory. Wing Commander Embria, place your best men on watch there. No one goes in or out of Celum by my order. We’re confiscating the mana stone for the security of Liscor. If you want to go north, you can walk. And you’d better walk fast before you run into the Goblin Lord’s army.”
She locked eyes with the Gold-rank captains. Jelaqua, Halrac, and Ylawes stared as Olesm grabbed the mana stone and backed towards the door. Krshia hunkered down in her seat. Was there going to be a fight?
There wasn’t. The tension in the inn grew more taut, but the adventurers weren’t willing to risk a fight. Olesm edged to the door, remembered there was a magic one behind him, and then fled through that. The Watch followed after him, as did Embria’s soldiers. Krshia slowly let out a breath. She saw the adventurers turn to each other as Zevara strode out the door.
“Moth eggs!”
Revi slammed her hands on the table. Halrac grunted, and Ylawes sat back down slowly. Falene, the half-Elf who smelled of floral perfumes, looked around.
“Well. That went poorly. What should we do now?”
Jelaqua ran a claw down the back of her head.
“We’ll go on foot, then. Or…Gazer’s tits, I don’t know! Go south instead? It’s been years since we worked in Drake lands.”
“We can’t go south.”
Ylawes and Halrac looked up. Jelaqua eyed them.
“Why not? You’re adventurers, and it beats trying to outrun the Goblin Lord, right?”
Both Humans opened their mouths and didn’t know what to say. Jelaqua shook her head.
“Dead gods, we shouldn’t have brought it up! We should have just gone without telling them—do you think we can go north anyways? What if we hired that Hawk guy to carry another mana stone to Celum and just teleport there? Or if we sent one person on horseback—”
The adventurers turned to each other and began to argue loudly. Krshia sat back in her chair.
“Worse and worse.”
She shook her head. Now the adventurers were fleeing the city. It was as if they thought Liscor would fall for certain. But wasn’t there a chance? Wasn’t there a reason to stay? Maybe not for them, but surely—
“Krshia?”
A voice made Krshia sit up. She saw Lyonette hurrying over to her. The [Barmaid] was wiping her hands on a cloth. She smiled apologetically, but like Zevara’s smile, it was a facial expression rather than an indication of any happiness.
“Lyonette. Greetings.”
“Hello, Krshia, I’m so sorry to keep you waiting, but we’re really busy. Erin was arrested, and they haven’t let her out of jail yet. I’ve been managing everything myself and trying to cook—can I get you anything?”
Krshia looked around. Aside from Drassi, there were no other staff. Or guests. The adventurers were eating and drinking, but the news of the impending siege of Liscor had cleared Erin’s inn just as thoroughly as the Raskghar attacks had.
“I am fine, Lyonette, and I did not mind waiting, yes? I only came here to see if Mrsha would like to join me for a day. As we spoke about last time, remember?”
Lyonette hesitated.
“Mrsha? Oh, yes. That would be—I have a mountain of dishes from all the soldiers, and Ishkr’s not in. But an entire day?”
“Or a few hours. Mrsha should have lessons, and it would be good to get her out of the inn, yes?”
Lyonette nodded uncertainly and looked over her shoulder. Krshia saw Mrsha was sitting on the ground. The Gnoll had been playing in a corner of the inn while the adults talked. She’d been playing with her ball and trying to get Apista to roll it back to little avail. She looked bored.
“It—it would help. Mrsha’s been cooped up, and I can’t take her to Celum. But Liscor—”
“She would be safe as a mouse in my house, yes? If we go out, she will only help me with my stall. She will not be alone, I promise.”
Krshia smoothly reassured Lyonette. The young woman bit her lip, but then one of the adventurers—Revi—called for more alcohol as their debate grew fiercer. That decided her.
“I need to go. Yes, please. And thank you! We’re going to have more guests, so if you could bring Mrsha back by dinner—if that’s not too much to ask? Mrsha, honey, would you like to go with Krshia?”
The Gnoll looked up at the sound of her name. She looked at Krshia, thought, and then nodded eagerly. The Gnoll smiled and stood up. Lyonette fussed over Mrsha as the Gnoll leapt over, and Apista buzzed off to do more productive things—like fan her wings in front of the fire in the kitchen.
“You do exactly what Krshia says, Mrsha. And don’t go anywhere! I’ll see you tonight. You don’t have to go. Only if you’re sure. You’re sure?”
Mrsha nodded. She padded around Krshia, sniffing the old Gnoll. Krshia wondered when Mrsha would stop walking on all fours. But then, she was young. She bent and rubbed her face against Mrsha’s cheeks.
“I will be fine. Little Mrsha and I will go to my apartment first, I think. And then perhaps Elirr will join us. It will be productive, yes, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll nodded. Lyonette hesitated again. Then Revi shouted her name. The [Barmaid] turned, scowled, and bent to hug Mrsha.
“Okay. You have fun. I’ll see you soon! Yes, Revi, I see you! I’m coming!”
She hurried off. Mrsha and Krshia stood together for a second as Lyonette rushed over to the bar, and then the two exchanged knowing glances. Mrsha narrowed her eyes, and Krshia nodded. She bent and whispered so only Mrsha could hear.
“It is time, child. You and I—and Elirr—have much to discuss.”
Mrsha nodded somewhat warily. Krshia nodded, and they walked for the door to Liscor. They all had much to discuss. The Gnolls of Liscor had to decide what they were going to do. But for now, magic came first.
 
——
 
Mrsha and Krshia walked through the streets of Liscor in silence. One, because Mrsha couldn’t talk, and two, because what Krshia wanted to say was too important to risk being overheard. They made a beeline for Krshia’s apartment. The Gnoll woman was relieved to finally be alone with Mrsha at last, or rather, free of Lyonette.
