“That is what all adults know, Mrsha. But the truth is more complex. For you see, we went to Wistram in the hopes of understanding a strange phenomenon that has afflicted the tribes for…well, at least a few centuries. Even before our feud with Wistram, no Gnolls had become [Mages] in the tribes. All who tried became [Shamans] or…failed. And we do not know why.”
Elirr nodded. The issue had been discussed at each Meeting of Tribes. Not always hotly, and many tribes did not consider it important, but the Silverfang tribe did, as did other tribes who looked to the future and saw the need for [Mages].
“So we have done without [Mages] for a long time. We are not without magic. Our [Shamans] can rival even great [Mages], but it is a different class, and we know our lack weakens us. That is why we collected spellbooks for our gift to the tribes, in hopes of creating [Mages]. And then you came along. You, who can cast magic and read spellbooks. A [Mage].”
He smiled down at Mrsha, who scratched at one ear, clearly uneasy about something. But neither adult really noticed. Krshia was too preoccupied with her thoughts. It was wonderful, really. But part of her, a small part, resented how easy it was for Mrsha to read the spellbook. Why did she have the knack? When Ryoka had first given Krshia the spellbook, she and others had spent weeks trying to read it and enduring blistering headaches to no avail. But Mrsha had taught herself.
It was…it made Krshia feel jealous. The instant she realized what she was feeling, she stomped on the emotions. Her? Jealous of Mrsha? Why? She had never wanted to become a [Mage]. She had wanted to be a—
Well, maybe that was why. Krshia sighed. She looked down at Mrsha.
“Hope, child. You give us hope. If you can learn magic, maybe we can understand what makes it impossible for [Mages] to appear in our tribes or cities. Why is that? When did the last of the Gnoll [Mages] die? And why did we lose faith in our ability to cast magic?”
Mrsha stared up at Krshia, clearly without an answer. Elirr rumbled as he thought out loud.
“It is not as if it is impossible, Krshia. I have heard rumors of Gnolls who cast magic, who are not [Shamans].”
“So have I. But why are they so few? Because of our feud with Wistram? Because we are unsuited to magic as Wistram said? Because…”
Krshia broke off, shaking her head. It was a mystery, and one she had pledged to resolve. She patted Mrsha on the head as the young cub leaned against her, already tired from spellbooks and the grand fate of Gnolls and magic.
“Ah, Mrsha. Do not worry about it. Just know that you will be important later on. Have another cracker. As for now—Elirr, we must speak of Liscor. And that is a conversation that cannot be put off. It is time to go, I think.”
Elirr nodded. He got to his feet with a groan.
“Past time. We have an hour, but I could use time to set up and clear a space. And my animals need tending to. Will you come with us?”
“Of course. Mrsha, come. We will go to Elirr’s shop. The representatives will gather there. And we must hear what Beilmark has to say.”
 
——
 
Elirr’s shop was filled with noise when the Gnoll opened his door and ushered Mrsha and Krshia in. That was because Elirr was a [Beast Trainer]. Not a [Beast Tamer], which was the base version of his class, or a [Beast Master], which belonged to those who formed steady bonds with a few chosen animals—or monsters. No, Elirr trained animals.
He ran a pet store. One of five in Liscor, and arguably the best. Elirr trained dogs, cats, and birds, although only small pet birds that would live in cages. Just as well, because a certain Antinium [Hunter] would have put him out of business if he’d tried to rear hawks around the city. But mainly, Elirr made his business selling food for dogs, tending to their hurts, and providing all the toys and tools needed to raise animals.
Pet ownership was an interesting thing. A very small amount of people owned pets, mainly due to the costs, the dangers of a pet running afoul of a monster, and mainly, the challenges of keeping a pet in a city like Liscor. But there were Gnolls and Drakes who loved animals, and Humans too, since Elirr’s trained pets sometimes went north. In fact, his war hounds were more highly sought after than his regular house dogs, but Elirr trained few of them due to the difficulty.
He had only one war dog in the shop now, along with a plethora of cats, three smaller breeds of dogs, and a pair of twittering birds. And a crab. All of them greeted Elirr with various degrees of enthusiasm, save for the war dog, who barked.
He—it was a he—was a mastiff, a huge hound with clearly defined muscles. He barked at Mrsha and Krshia, who both regarded the dog with interest. Elirr sighed and whistled, which made the sounds in his shop quiet, except for the mastiff.
“Ah, this dog. It gives me a headache, no?”
Elirr sighed as Mrsha wandered up to the dog. It was leashed rather than in a cage, and Elirr’s shop was very wide as opposed to tall to give his animals more room. He explained to Krshia as he went about feeding his animals.
“It was because I was kidnapped when I just had him. He and some of the other animals starved for two days until someone realized they needed to be fed, and I had just acquired him. So he is wary of me. I have been trying to give him lessons, but he is afraid of strangers, especially furry ones. He smelled the death on the Raskghar when they came.”
“I see.”
Krshia looked sympathetically at the mastiff, who was watching Mrsha and growling. She was not a dog person, but the Silverfang tribe had owned dogs of their own for hunting. They were wonderfully good, and she remembered racing them as a child. Had the Stone Spears owned dogs? Mrsha was regarding this one intently.
“A shame. My progress with all the animals has been set back, especially the cats. They are finicky if I do not feed them.”
Elirr groused as he fed his cats. They meowed loudly, and Krshia sniffed at them, making them scatter back to their homes. She didn’t mind cats, but Drakes loved the fussy creatures, probably because they shared many of their qualities.
“Do you need help setting up, Elirr?”
“If you could bring out some food and chairs—I will help you with the table.”
The Gnoll [Beast Trainer] looked grateful as Krshia nodded. He circulated his shop, tending to the animals while Krshia brought out refreshments for their guests. And all the while, Mrsha was looking at the mastiff. Krshia didn’t mind until she realized that Mrsha was moving towards the war dog, into the radius of his leash.
“Mrsha?”
She and Elirr looked up warily. The little Gnoll was approaching the growling dog, who was clearly nervous. Mrsha stopped in front of him and puffed herself up, standing on her two legs to stare down at the dog. He growled, and Krshia tensed. She saw Elirr doing likewise.
She knew what Mrsha was doing, but that mastiff was bigger than she was and a lot stronger. But Mrsha turning her back or flinching would be the worst thing right now. The little Gnoll stared down at the war dog, refusing to turn aside. He retreated a bit, and she advanced.
Slowly, slowly…she grabbed the dog’s bowl, and he made a warning sound. But Mrsha faced him down and then walked over to a bag filled with food meant for him. She filled the bowl up a bit and then came back. The dog warily moved forwards, but Mrsha held the bowl up. She reached her paw into it, picked some of the dried meat up, and began to eat it in front of him. The dog crouched, and then his tail lowered, his ears flattened, and he surrendered to her authority.
“She did it.”
Elirr breathed out as Mrsha handed the bowl to the dog and he began eating. He looked at Krshia, his brows raised. She was impressed despite herself.
“It was well done, Elirr? I thought so.”
He nodded, his eyebrows fully raised.
“As did I! I thought about bringing a cub here, but I was terrified of what might happen if he bit one. But that child is a natural tamer if I ever saw one. If she were older, I would expect her to gain her class tonight.”
He smiled at Mrsha, who padded back over, smug as could be. Her establishing dominance as the pack leader over the mastiff was impressive, even if she did have a bit of help on her side. Gnolls were naturally good at commanding dogs, with whom they shared a distant ancestry. But it was one thing for Elirr to force a dog to submit and quite another for Mrsha to do it.
“You are bold and reckless, perhaps. If you had gotten bit, what would I say to Lyonette?”
Krshia bent to tickle Mrsha and gently scold her. The Gnoll smiled, not at all deterred. For all she lived in the inn, she was a Plains Gnoll, pure and simple. Bold, a member of a tribe. As Krshia had been.
With that excitement out of the way, Elirr, Krshia, and Mrsha finished setting up and got all the animals to vacate the room and go upstairs—into Elirr’s home. It was just temporary, but they didn’t want the animals to distract from the meeting. And soon, as the sun reached the midway point overhead, Gnolls began appearing in the shop.
Everyone knew that the Drake cities of the south were ruled by Drakes. While it was true that in some cities, members of the ruling body like Pallassian [Senators] could be Gnolls, it was almost always Drakes who occupied the Watch Captain posts, filled Council seats, and so on. In some cities, the Lords and Ladies of the Wall ruled, and they were obviously Drakes.
It was just how it was. The Drakes weren’t about to cede command of their cities to Gnolls, however many lived there. However, while their rules were often fair, Drakes and Gnolls were still two separate peoples with separate cultures and desires. Thus, City Gnolls had formed their own ruling bodies, unofficial and in secret, but ones that dictated how Gnolls behaved in all Drake cities.
They got together and chose representatives who, in a miniature, secret council of their own, ruled Gnolls from the shadows. Or rather, from comfy armchairs and couches with snacks on the table because no one wanted to squat in an alley and debate for hours on end. It was a different system from how a tribe functioned.
There could be no [Chieftain], so instead, a body of the oldest, wisest, most experienced, or simply highest-level Gnolls would decide on issues that concerned Gnollkind. Sometimes, they would just meet once every few months to agree that everything was good, grumble about arrogant Drakes and the foolishness of young Gnolls who had no respect for tradition, and eat food.
In those times, it was more like a social get-together and potluck. But when something of concern happened—tensions between Drakes and Gnolls rose, crime rose, or something like Liscor’s dungeon was found to be nearby—the Gnollish representatives discussed far more serious things.
One by one, they gathered. In a city as large as Liscor, one Gnoll could represent several thousand Gnolls. In a city like Pallass, each representative could represent ten thousand Gnolls who had chosen them from among their ranks. In this case, eleven Gnolls were present, all of whom were middle-aged or older, although Elirr was the oldest. They were not powerfully built [Warriors] or sharp-eyed [Archers]. Half of them had paunches, and only one of them, Beilmark, was in prime condition, although Krshia liked to think she still had a good figure.
They were the [Butchers], the [Bakers], and the [Chandlers] of the city. The nature of the class didn’t matter as much as the depth of experience each Gnoll had. It was about respect. About leadership. It was something you earned and weren’t given. Drakes couldn’t understand that, but it was second nature to Gnolls. As they came in, exchanging greetings with Elirr and Krshia and bending to smile and say hello to Mrsha, the Gnolls were friendly, conversational. They were equals here, not enemies squabbling for political gain.
However, there had to be a first even among equals, and Krshia Silverfang was that Gnoll. Not only had she led a large portion of the Silverfang tribe to Liscor ten years ago, which gave her authority over the others, she had the benefit of a relatively high level and her experience as both a plains and city Gnoll to speak with.
“Raekea Silversmith. How is your husband? Does his leg still pain him?”
Krshia greeted a Gnoll [Armorer] who was married to the best Drake [Blacksmith] in the city. The Gnoll grinned at her, her arms patterned with burns and the hair missing in patches. It was rare for a Gnoll to take up a metalworking class given the dangers to anyone with fur on their body, but such rare individuals were always respected for their sacrifice.
“Well, Krshia. He is well, although it pains him. But the ointment you gave us worked well. I only wish the Raskghar bastard who tried to kidnap me was back so I could split his head open a second time. And is this the little brave Gnoll I have heard so much about? Hello, child.”
Krshia grinned as Raekea bent and scratched Mrsha’s ears. The Gnoll cub was staring up admiringly at her. Raekea believed in advertising her work, so she wore an armguard both she and her husband had worked on together, a classy piece of silver set with amethysts. It covered a large burn Raekea had received in her past.
“I see the others are mingling. Will you speak with me for a bit?”
The [Royal Shopkeeper] indicated the others, who were standing and talking while eating Elirr’s food. That was how the meeting went; until a decision had to be made, the representatives would just talk about business, the issues of the day, and news. They didn’t do formal meetings since that was too regimented for their tastes. It was in the small discussion that all the work got done, such as Krshia’s conversation with Raekea.
The [Armorer] nodded. She sat with Krshia on a pair of worn armchairs that smelled faintly of cat pee. Krshia chewed on a cold sausage with cheese—she’d brought it from home since Elirr hated cheese and didn’t have any in his home—and spoke candidly.
“The news sounds dire. First the attack is announced, and then, not a day afterwards, spies are sent to sabotage the connection to Pallass. We are cut off.”
“Yes. It was a shame. And it speaks to the danger we are in.”
Raekea nodded seriously. Below them, Mrsha sat on the ground and happily ate lunch. Krshia nodded.
“I see Beilmark is here. Did you hear what she had to say?”
The other Gnoll woman grimaced and flexed an arm.
“She thinks we can hold Liscor. She has spoken with Watch Captain Zevara and heard Olesm’s numbers. With the Antinium, with Pallass’ reinforcements, few though they may be, with adventurers…we can hold long enough for a relief army to arrive.”
“And will it be enough to break the siege?”
