She mimed poking Mrsha, who was so alarmed that she nearly fell off her stool. Miss Fauscale stared at Mrsha, and her lips quirked into a smile. Before she quite knew what she was doing, she had bought some quills and ink and was chatting with Krshia.
Just chatting. The Gnoll beckoned over more Drakes and Gnolls, calling the ones she knew out by name. She shook hands with a Gnoll who wanted a new roll of cloth, persuaded a pair of Drake teens to stay and browse, though they bought nothing, and touched her paws to a Gnoll woman as she passed her a dried and salted fish to inspect.
Mrsha, sitting by Krshia’s side and helping her out, if only by being cute, was confused by all of this. She knew Krshia was doing something, but as far as she could see, the Gnoll was just calling out loudly to people and chatting them up. She spoke about the Goblins and Humans, reassuring people, telling them not to go, but only if they brought it up.
And yet, more and more Gnolls kept coming back, anxious and afraid. But they left with backs straight, smiling and talking about errands they had to run or things they’d just remembered they should do. How? Why?
Mrsha finally put the pieces together when Watch Captain Zevara walked down Market Street with a patrol of Drakes and Gnolls behind her. She was speaking to people, answering questions, trying to reassure them. She stopped by Krshia’s stall and looked perplexed at the gathering around the Gnoll. Only a few people were actively shopping, but the Gnoll had somehow created a huge radius of people who were just standing around and talking.
“What’s all this, then? Miss Krshia? What are you doing?”
The [Shopkeeper] gave Zevara a pleasant smile.
“Why, me? Nothing, Watch Captain. I am simply open for business like usual. I think it is not good to worry, so I am getting about my day, yes? Are you on patrol? Could I interest you in a snack for your errands? Walnuts and honey, perhaps?”
Zevara blinked at her. The Drake looked around, bemused, and Mrsha, sitting behind the counter, saw it at last. That was Krshia’s plan. She was going to work and doing ordinary things.
That was it. While Liscor’s people had been fretting and talking, Krshia was calling out to them like normal. She wasn’t pretending things weren’t bad, but she was doing what she had always done. And that reassured people. It brought normalcy back into their lives. It calmed them down.
And Zevara saw it too. The Watch Captain leaned on Krshia’s stall and lowered her voice.
“It seems you’re doing your civic duty, Miss Krshia. Or at least, I’d say that if calming people down was something we asked of our civilians. May I ask why you’re being so helpful? Not that I mind.”
Krshia grinned at Zevara.
“Let us say that it is a decision of Gnolls, Watch Captain. We will not flee the city. And few others will too, I think. When many hearts beat as one, fear has little place, yes?”
“True enough. But why?”
“It is our home.”
The Gnoll met Zevara’s eyes. The Watch Captain blinked. Then she smiled.
“True enough. Very well. I’ll take a pound of walnuts and those little cups of honey. Oi, you lazy lot! Get some snacks on me! And no one tell Relc about this!”
The City Watch cheered and laughed, as did the people around Krshia’s shop who heard. Mrsha thought Zevara was being very clever, and she smiled as Krshia began putting little baggies with honey together for the Drakes and Gnolls to eat from. But then Mrsha saw the curious thing again.
The Drakes took the bags of nuts and cups of honey as they came to them, but each of the Gnoll [Guardsmen] let Krshia put it into their hands. So that they touched at one point or another. They did it deliberately, and the looks in their eyes told Mrsha that they knew…something. They were doing something. And she imagined the spark in Krshia’s paws and wondered.
The day wore on. Krshia stayed in her stall as Mrsha grew bored. But then Elirr came by, and Mrsha was allowed to walk with him. And she saw he was doing the same thing as Krshia. Not selling goods, but talking to people. And touching their hands.
Gnoll after Gnoll, families, single adults, teens. They came up to Elirr, or went to Krshia, and talked, exchanged greetings, and touched paws. Then they left. By the time Mrsha came back to Krshia, she saw the Gnoll shaking hands with a little Gnoll child. And Mrsha knew something was happening.
Krshia was collecting something. Mrsha felt it. Her fur tingled as she passed by Krshia. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] looked down at Mrsha as the Gnoll cub hopped up into the seat next to her. Mrsha stared accusingly at Krshia’s paws and then at the Gnoll. But Krshia just smiled.
“You are not the only one who knows a bit about magic, Mrsha. I suspect you have never seen this before, not even in your tribe. Have you?”
Mrsha shook her head. Krshia nodded.
“If your [Shaman] was good, you would not need to see it. But this is no tribe, and we City Gnolls are not true [Shamans]. I am not. But we have our tricks. Now, see. It is nearly time.”
The sun was setting in the sky, but it seemed like more and more Gnolls were on the streets. And moving between them, at the center of the odd tingling pattern now present everywhere in Mrsha’s mind were the eleven representatives. Fashia, Elirr, Raekea…and leading them was Krshia. Each one of them held something. And as the sun began to set behind the High Passes, they stopped hiding it.
A glowing spark of light appeared in Elirr’s paws, startling the Drakes nearby. He walked towards Krshia, then stopped and looked to Raekea. She raised her paw, and Mrsha saw she was holding another spark of light. They weren’t the same size, but they both shone brightly. She reached out and took the light from Elirr. And then the spark in her hands grew. The Drakes murmured, and the Gnolls watched. Mrsha felt her fur standing on end. She could feel it.
Magic. The Gnolls passed it from paw to paw, a glowing ember of pale yellow light, growing brighter as it moved from person to person. One, two, three…each time, the light seemed to grow, if not in size, then intensity. And it clearly became heavier. By the time it reached Beilmark, the strong Senior Guardswoman staggered, holding it. A dense, bright light almost like flame, almost like lightning in the center of her paw. She turned to Krshia, and the [Shopkeeper] began to sweat as she took it.
“Heavy.”
Krshia gasped. She nearly fell and staggered as she held the light in her paws. She looked up at the fading sky. Beilmark, Elirr, Raekea, and the others clustered around Krshia, not touching her, but urging her softly.
“Do it, Krshia.”
“Throw it.”
Krshia tried. But though the muscles in her arms strained, she couldn’t lift the ball. She groaned, and her arm seemed to creak as it held the shining light in her paw. She gasped.
“Too heavy. I cannot. I cannot.”
“You must! You cannot drop it now!”
Elirr urged Krshia. This was a critical moment. Mrsha could sense it. The Gnolls were growing worried. A Drake [Guardswoman] watching looked uneasy. No wonder. The light was getting brighter, more intense. Changing from yellow to gold. But Krshia couldn’t lift it.
“I—can’t—”
Sweat dripped from her brows. She was struggling. It was so heavy! Mrsha pushed through the circle, staring at Krshia anxiously. It was just light, but Krshia’s bones seemed to be breaking under the weight of it! Why was it so heavy?
“Do not let it fall! Do not—”
Beilmark tried to raise Krshia’s arms. So did Raekea, but neither could lift Krshia’s hands! The other Gnolls tried to pull Krshia up, but they were just as helpless. Mrsha ran back and forth. If the light fell, she knew, it would go out. Krshia had to lift it! She raised her paws, desperately pushed at Krshia’s hands as if that would make a difference—
And the light rose. Krshia stared, and the other Gnolls fell back. Mrsha nearly fell over in shock. Lifting Krshia’s arms had been as simple as…lifting Krshia’s arms! The light had no weight to it! But then Krshia’s arms shook with effort. She stared at Mrsha and then spoke breathlessly.
“Mrsha, child. Can you…?”
She offered the light to Mrsha. The little white Gnoll hesitated, then took it. The light filled her paws, and instantly, she felt it surge through her. Magic. Mrsha’s eyes went wide, and Krshia gasped as she lifted it up. Mrsha stared at the shining light. It wasn’t heavy at all.
It was so warm. It felt like she was amid her tribe as she held it, surrounded by the people she loved. Mrsha could feel the light surging through her, giving her strength. Determination. She wanted to swallow the precious light and let it burn through her forever.
But she didn’t, because she sensed the intention in this magic. It wasn’t hers. It was made up of so many small parts. It was feeling, emotion. She looked around.
It was them. The Gnolls of Liscor watched as Mrsha held the ball of light, as heavy as all of them combined. To her, as light as a feather. Krshia pointed up.
“Throw it, Mrsha. Throw it into the sky!”
Mrsha looked up. The sky was pale red and fiery. The sun was fading. She stood up and clumsily aimed overhead. And she threw the light up.
And the fading sun in the sky was replaced by another. Up the light flew, a small orb growing larger. Growing, shining with a thousand shades of gold and yellow and white. Up and up, until the light became a star above Liscor. A bright star that shone down, casting rays upon the startled citizens who looked up.
And the light was warm. It filled Mrsha with warmth, dispelled the fear and nervousness in her. Made her feel…confident. It flooded her, and she raised her arms up to the sky, smiling. And when she looked around, the people were smiling too.
“What was that?”
The Drake [Guardswoman] demanded, staring up at the sky and then at the Gnolls. Krshia answered calmly.
“A spell for courage. A spell for hope. [Everdawn’s Radiance].”
“Is it—you don’t have a permit to cast magic like that—what Tier spell is it?”
The Drake glanced up at the sky and at Krshia, trying not to smile and look stern. Krshia laughed.
“It is a Tier 1 spell, as [Mages] reckon such things. So low-level that even I, a former apprentice, can cast it, yes?”
“Tier 1? But that’s—”
“A [Shaman]’s spell. And I could not have done it without you. Thank you, Mrsha.”
Krshia knelt and looked at Mrsha. The little Gnoll cub looked up at her. Krshia shook her head.
“I do not know why it was so light for you. For me, untrained, it was as heavy as carrying every Gnoll on my back. But you? Ah, perhaps this is part of what we seek. Look at this, Mrsha. This is what we made. All of the Gnolls in the city. A scrap of courage, of bravery from each one. And it makes this.”
She pointed up at the growing star. Mrsha stared up at it in wonder. Krshia smiled at it.
“It is a weak spell as [Mages] reckon such things. No good in battle. No good when hearts are fearful from the Raskghar or grieving for the dead. But good when one knows a time of strife is coming. It pulls the strength from within and gives it form. And I think—it is enough.”
Enough. Mrsha looked up. The star hovered overhead. It blazed fiercely for one minute, then two. For eight minutes, it shone, and all who saw its light took something from it. It didn’t erase the fear of what was coming or add a new source of courage for those who were worried about the future. But it reassured them. It reminded them of what mattered, of what was important. It was bright. And beautiful. And so for eight minutes, Mrsha sat and stared up and smiled.
 
——
 
Across the city, people looked up. They stopped what they were doing, checking their supplies of coin, looking at maps, arguing, worrying about the Goblins and Humans, and stared at the strange light in the sky. It was reassuring. And as it shone down, they reconsidered their plans made in fear, in haste. They stopped rushing and thought long and hard about what they wanted and what would happen next.
Watch Captain Zevara stood on the battlements as the spell burst into life behind her. She swore, stared at it, and then watched it until it went out. When it was gone, she looked around and shouted an order.
“Someone get Beilmark!”
The Gnoll Senior Guardswoman came up the stairs a few minutes later. Zevara glared at her. Beilmark ducked her head, although she didn’t look the slightest bit abashed.
“Senior Guardswoman Beilmark.”
“Watch Captain?”
Zevara turned back to stare over the darkening landscape and spoke with her back turned to the Gnoll.
“Gnolls aren’t as troublesome as Drakes or Humans, Beilmark. Your people don’t stab each other over family heirlooms, and you police yourselves. With that said, I’ve heard tales of other cities and Watch Captains who clash every day with Gnolls in territorial disputes, racial crimes, and Gnoll politics. But that’s not been the case in Liscor.”
“Yes, Watch Captain.”
Beilmark looked straight ahead. Zevara nodded and went on.
“However, every time I think I know your people, they always surprise me. Every time I think I know magic, it surprises me. When I see that light, I can understand how Gnolls broke our Walled Cities so long ago.”
“Yes, Watch Captain?”
The Gnoll stared past Zevara, smiling slightly. Zevara smiled too. She turned around and looked at her city. And she knew that there wouldn’t be any mass exodus today. Maybe not tomorrow either. She looked at Beilmark, smiled and nodded.
“It was a nice spell. Do it again without telling me first and I’ll throw you off this wall. Dismissed.”
 
——
 
Outside The Wandering Inn, the adventurers stared up at the sky as well. Jelaqua sighed as it went out and looked around.
“I guess we can stay for a few more days. I mean, we can always run south instead, and there’s Mrsha and Erin and Lyonette to worry about. Plus, the door’s back.”
“I think…yes, I could wait. One more day at least. Until Yvlon decides where she’ll go.”
Ylawes spoke quietly. Halrac stared up at the place the light had been. He turned.
“Well, if you’re staying, I’ll wait. It’s late anyways.”
The adventurers turned and looked back at the warm inn behind them. For a second, they stared into the open door and remembered all that had happened there, for good or ill. Then they heard a voice from above.
“You call that magic?”
Pisces stood on the destroyed third floor of the inn and bellowed at Liscor, looking outraged. He waved his arms furiously.
“It’s just a crude emotional spell! It even relies on a visual component to work! You call that real magic? You might as well eat a hot meal and take a warm bath for the same effect! This is why shamanic magic is—”
