“It is hardly as if it would hurt her to read more. And she is gifted. Why not give her the chance to learn more spells? Or tell us what wonders this book contains?”
The [Shopkeeper] hesitated. But she saw Mrsha sitting up eagerly and reluctantly nodded.
“Very well. But we watch her. I have opened this book before and it is a trial in some senses, Elirr. Not dangerous, necessarily, but—Mrsha child, come here. If you are willing, let us open this book.”
Mrsha was willing. She leapt from her couch to Krshia’s side. The Gnoll woman gave her a reproving glance, but then let Mrsha open the tome. Elirr came over to see. All three Gnolls blinked as the book opened and magic, the very definition of magic, shimmered to life before their eyes.
A page blinked up at Krshia. Symbols seemed to slide together and merge, different colors, patterns reflecting in them, hidden meanings changing, offering multiple phrases each second. Krshia stared down at the spell—or at least, what she assumed to be a spell—for all of eight seconds. Then she got a headache.
“Dead gods!”
Elirr recoiled, rubbing at his eyes. Mrsha stared down at the page as both Krshia and Elirr had to look away. A pulsating pain ran from behind Krshia’s eyes.
“I warned you, didn’t I?”
“It strained my eyes! I feel a headache coming on—Krshia, do you have that tea?”
“Hold on.”
Krshia got up and shook her head. Careful not to stare at the book Mrsha was still bent over, she went and got her kettle. Her water was cold, but neither she nor Elirr cared. They drank a cup of tea and felt the world stabilize around them. Elirr growled.
“That hurt. It was like spinning around in circles for an hour or waking up after a hangover.”
“That is what happens when non-spellcasters look at spells and try to make sense of them. I think [Mages] go through this quite often when they learn.”
Krshia massaged her temples. Elirr nodded, then blinked down.
“But look! Mrsha is reading!”
It was true. Unlike the adults, Mrsha hadn’t looked up. She was tracing the symbols with one paw, as if she were just reading words, albeit extremely slowly. Krshia shook her head.
“Will wonders ever cease? Mrsha, child. Mrsha?”
She had to call Mrsha’s name several times before the Gnoll looked up, and when she did, it was reproachfully, as if Krshia had torn her away from something fascinating. Krshia cleared her throat as Elirr sat next to her, taking care not to look at the book.
“You can read this, yes?”
Mrsha nodded. She wagged her tail and smiled at the look on the adults’ faces. Krshia stared at the book and hastily averted her gaze.
“It is a wondrous thing, Mrsha. Truly, for all it was done in secret. You can read the magic book as a [Mage] would. And you understand the spell?”
Mrsha cocked her head and shook it slowly. Krshia noted her moment of hesitation though and rephrased the question.
“Ah, you cannot cast it. But you can guess at its effects, yes? What does that spell do?”
The white Gnoll frowned. She looked down at the book, and for a minute she was lost, running her paw over the first few lines again. Then she looked up and nodded. She raised her arms, making sure both adults were looking at her, then flapped her arms and swung them from left to right as well. Krshia and Elirr stared.
“A…flying spell?”
“It lets you grow wings?”
“It…makes your arms floppy?”
Mrsha looked put out. She shook her head, then flapped her arms harder and swung them, making faint growling sounds. Then she looked at Krshia and Elirr expectantly, as if that said it all. The Gnoll adults exchanged a glance.
“I think it’s an air spell.”
“No, it clearly controls the body. Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll sighed through her nose and shook her head. She awkwardly propped the book up and pointed to a sliding letter, or what looked like a single letter. Krshia stared at it and felt the headache coming back.
“Put it down, Mrsha. Thank you. I do not understand. But then, I am no [Mage]. Nor do I wish to be. But—if you can read this spell, could you learn it?”
Mrsha frowned. Slowly, she nodded.
“Is it hard?”
Another nod.
“Difficult? Would it take you days? Weeks? Months?”
Nod, nod, nod, shrug. Elirr and Krshia exchanged a glance.
“But she could learn it. Her, a cub not even full-grown. Not even able to walk on two legs!”
Mrsha indignantly stood upright. Krshia ignored her. Her leg was shaking, making the cups on the sitting table rattle. She couldn’t help it.
“Mrsha, could you look through that spellbook for us? And find—a spell?”
Elirr glanced sharply at Krshia. The [Shopkeeper] sat forwards.
“Find a powerful spell. No—one that is both practical and powerful. It does not have to be for war. But find the best one for us. Can you do that?”
Mrsha nodded. She paged through the spellbook, pausing for a few minutes on each page. Elirr watched her and then offered a suggestion.
“Mrsha, look for a powerful spell that has to do with earth magic.”
Both Krshia and Mrsha looked up at Elirr, confused. The Gnoll explained.
“I hear that spellcasters learn some magics more easily. A thing of personality, yes? Like how Ceria Springwalker casts primarily ice magic. Mrsha may be attuned to the magic of nature.”
That made sense. Krshia nodded. If there was an element that belonged to Gnolls, it would be earth magic, surely. They were a tribal people.
“Earth magic then, let us know when you find one.”
It took Mrsha nearly sixteen minutes, in which time Elirr and Krshia got some hot tea and just sipped it, watching her. With Elirr and Krshia’s parameters, Mrsha moved swiftly from page after page until she came to one and triumphantly slapped her paw on it.
“This spell? Is it good?”
Mrsha frowned as she read the first line very, very slowly. She looked up and gave Krshia a nod and shrug that said ‘yes, probably’. She didn’t know what it did and kept scratching her head, but her posture said quite clearly that this was a powerful spell of some kind.
“In that case, learn it. Or at least, enough to tell us what it does.”
Krshia gently urged the little Gnoll. Mrsha nodded and, tail wagging, bent over the book. Krshia and Elirr watched her pore over the first letter of the book for five minutes and then realized it might take her a while. So they got up, snagged the crackers and silkap, and went into the kitchen to talk quietly. They didn’t bother to keep their voices low; Mrsha was engrossed in the book, and besides, it was now clear that she could hear them wherever she was, no matter how they whispered.
“Elirr. We have not had a chance to speak privately since you returned from the dungeon.”
The Gnoll smiled wearily. He leaned on the counter as Krshia offered him some dried sausage and cheese. He waved it away. He was older than Krshia, though she was a higher level than he. But he didn’t seem to hold that difference in age or levels against her, and Krshia respected him. He, like she, would have been called Honored Krshia or Honored Elirr by the younger Gnolls, a sign of their rank in the community.
“We did not. And in truth, I have been avoiding joining others for dinner or the requests I have had to socialize, Krshia. I appreciate it, but I do not wish to recall what happened so strongly.”
Krshia laid a gentle paw on Elirr’s shoulder.
“We would not ask you to.”
“No, but you would ask questions with your eyes, even if your mouths were silent. It is not something I hold against you. I would be curious too. But what I have told you is all I can—the others and I try to forget. As does Mrsha, I think.”
“You still have bad dreams each night?”
Elirr nodded. He had bags under his eyes, though his fur hid it to all but other Gnolls.
“Nightmares. Jumping at shadows. What else could one expect? I have used the sleeping potions you obtained from that [Alchemist] you have deals with, and they help. But daytime is sometimes little better than night. I…I do not know how Mrsha smiles so easily after what she saw. After what that bitch, Nokha, promised to do.”
He growled softly, and Krshia hushed him before they disturbed Mrsha. Elirr was upset, because he’d used an insult Gnolls regarded as highly offensive. Comparing any Gnoll to a dog was far worse than using it on a Drake or Human. Saying something like that to a Dog-tribe Beastkin was even more inadvisable.
“It is done. The Raskghar are broken.”
Elirr nodded and then turned to Krshia, his eyes blazing.
“But not dead. Not all. Krshia, they cannot be allowed to sacrifice Gnolls. I stared into their souls afterwards, and what I saw was terrible and ancient. We must bring word of this to the other tribes.”
“They know. But they have not acted. Their [Shamans] communicated with Olesm and warned of the dangers of the Raskghar, but I think they knew as little as we.”
“Then what we should know must be pooled and more knowledge found. Because the awakened Raskghar scare me even in the daylight, Krshia. They must all be found and killed. And if more colonies hide in the earth…”
Elirr trailed off. Krshia nodded.
“The Meeting of Tribes approaches. They will hear your story, I promise.”
The other Gnoll calmed. He breathed more easily and then looked out of the kitchen at Mrsha.
“We would have all died there, I think. All or most, sacrificed before you came if not for her. She allowed most to escape with her strength. After I called her Doombringer. If she had been a few years older, if we had trusted her from the start—perhaps she could have freed us all.”
“She is unique.”
Krshia nodded. The two Gnolls stared at Mrsha, her fur as white as snow. Cursed because of her fur.
“And she knows magic. Because of her fur, do you think? Is that the key?”
“No.”
It couldn’t be. Krshia spoke firmly.
“It is a coincidence, not a requirement to learn magic as [Mages] do. We know Gnolls can rise to the heights of magical power. In an aeon past, it was said that Gnolls were counted among the Archmages of Wistram. But so long and so old were they that no books record their names, and we have only legends to remember. Names. The Archmage Kishkeria, who created one of the grand spells of her era, [Seas of the Everflowing Grass]. With it, she saved a continent, but we know not from what or how.”
“Yes. But we do remember her.”
Elirr bowed his head. Both he and Krshia had grown up in the Silverfang tribe. They had grown up hearing their [Shaman] reciting names of past Gnoll heroes and their deeds, but many tales were incomplete. Old. Faded. Krshia sighed.
“We all know recent stories, like that of our greatest of Chieftains, Kerash, who died a century ago. But older stories? Each time an old [Shaman] or [Storyteller] dies in an accident or before passing on their memories to their apprentices, we lose more of the past. Our history should be written down now, not passed from mouth to mouth.”
She sensed Elirr’s amusement at her suggestion. He glanced sidelong at her.
“If you’d like to bring that up at the Meeting of Tribes, Honored Krshia, be my guest. But too many would decry it as replacing tradition.”
Krshia made a rude sound.
“Tradition? Hah! The old [Shamans] are too lazy to write things down and won’t admit that their stories are full of holes and they don’t know what is true and what was made up! But we need records, we need books! The Drakes are stubborn and rigid, but their records allow them to see the past. We remember fragments.”
“Yes. But our fragments are woven into our culture. There is some merit to that.”
It was Elirr’s turn to comfort Krshia. She sighed.
“Yes. It is good. But that is why we do not change, Elirr. And we must. We must.”
For a while, the two stood in silence. Then Krshia looked to the living room.
“Let us check on Mrsha.”
The little Gnoll was still sitting over her book when Krshia and Elirr came back. She was still reading, but something had gone wrong in the time since they’d left her. Krshia watched as Mrsha’s head bent down, tilted from side to side, and then flicked up. Mrsha was distracted. The single-minded focus she’d had earlier was gone.
“Mrsha? Are you having trouble reading the spell?”
The Gnoll adamantly shook her little head. She scrubbed at her face with her paws, frowned at the book, and then rubbed at her head again. Mrsha was clearly trying to focus, but her eyes began to glaze over. She shook herself, stared at the page. This time, she went cross-eyed.
Elirr tugged the spellbook towards him and focused on the spell. This time, it took him less than two seconds to look away, swearing under his breath. He looked at Krshia with mild concern.
“I think it is too hard for her. Mrsha child, enough. Do not strain yourself.”
The Gnoll cub protested, but only feebly as he closed the book. She blinked a few times and then nearly fell over as if she was dizzy. Elirr was right. Whatever she’d been reading had stumped her. Krshia made Mrsha sit up and drink some hot tea, and soon, the Gnoll was back to her normal self.
“We know enough. She can read the book. There are many spells, but many are beyond her. Whether that is because she is too inexperienced, too low-level, or too young, it matters not. The book is genuine. We have our gift, and it is a treasure beyond compare.”
“Hope.”
Elirr agreed simply. Both noticed Mrsha was staring at them in confusion, and Krshia decided to explain.
“Mrsha, what I am about to tell you is our history, recent. You know that the tribes have agreed no one is to deal with Wistram? Your Stone Spears tribe seldom traded near the oceans, but I imagine even Urksh was aware of the limitation.”
Mrsha nodded. It was a well-known fact. No Gnoll [Merchant] or [Trader] or caravan would do business with a [Mage] who claimed to represent Wistram. Those who came from Wistram were fine, but ones who directly worked for the academy? No. But she did not know why.
“The reason is simple. We hold a grudge against Wistram, a fierce one for matters of honor and pride. The story is simple. Once, we sent our best to Wistram, our pride, our most talented [Shaman] who would be the first of our [Mages]. Who would bridge the gap between our magics and rediscover the pride of Gnollish spellcraft.”
Krshia closed her eyes. She had just been born when the incident occurred, but she could still remember the outrage. Elirr nodded, his brows dark with anger.
“Forty years ago, we went to Wistram, and we were scorned and insulted beyond belief. Our representative did not last a year at Wistram before being expelled as a failure, as proof that Gnolls were unsuited to become [Mages]. Ever since, no Gnoll has traded with Wistram, and we hold them in contempt. And since then, no Gnoll has become a [Mage].”
Mrsha sat up, frowning angrily, catching it from the adults. Krshia nodded but then sighed.
