Today was the first day she’d managed to convince Lyonette to allow Mrsha to go with her alone. The young [Barmaid] had refused to let Mrsha out of her sight since she had been rescued from the dungeon. No wonder, and it spoke to how much Lyonette cared, but it had made Krshia nearly tear her fur out in frustration.
“We will talk there. With snacks. There is much to discuss after the dungeon. Much…we did not get a chance to say. I know of most of it from Elirr, but I would see it myself.”
Krshia spoke quietly to Mrsha as they turned down a street. She saw the Gnoll cub look up apprehensively.
“You are not in trouble, Mrsha.”
That reassured Mrsha, but only slightly. She padded along as Krshia kept them to the right-hand side of the street. Not that there was much foot traffic. People were talking to each other, and Krshia kept hearing the same snatches of conversation.
Siege. Pallass. Reinforcements. Magic door. Leaving. Humans. Goblins. The same words stood out time and time again. Krshia knew she should be focused on that, but the others had to gather. At midday, they would discuss the issue. Until then—
Krshia sniffed the air at the same time as Mrsha. They turned their heads and saw a male Gnoll with dark grey fur and reddish-brown stripes walking towards them. Elirr nodded and bared his teeth in a Gnoll’s smile.
“Krshia, Mrsha child. It is good to see you, yes?”
“Elirr. Thank you for coming.”
Krshia smiled and politely smelled Elirr as he did the same to her. Mrsha padded around Elirr, and he bent to rub cheeks.
“I got your message. We are gathering soon, yes? To discuss the situation with Goblins.”
Krshia nodded. Her smile faded. She began to walk with Elirr as Mrsha walked ahead of them, sighing and listening to the adults talk.
“I opened my shop for a bit to get the pulse of the city. It is not good, no? Everyone knows about the door. And they fear the Goblins and Humans will take Liscor.”
“It is a reasonable fear, no? Two armies…and trebuchets. I have even heard of some talking of fleeing Liscor and moving south.”
“As have I. I do not think it is wise, though. To abandon everything…”
“But if the alternative is death—”
Mrsha looked back up at Elirr and Krshia in alarm. The two adults fell silent guiltily. Krshia cleared her throat.
“It is not set in stone. Beilmark called the meeting. She will know the odds. Let us wait until then, yes?”
Elirr nodded.
“Agreed. We should be focused on young Mrsha. It has been too long since we saw each other. And it is good to see you well, yes, Mrsha?”
He smiled down at Mrsha. She smiled up at them, but Krshia saw more than happiness run through the two Gnolls. They had both been prisoners of the Raskghar. What they had seen—Krshia had heard some of it from the survivors. But only some. Even the oldest Gnolls hadn’t been able to talk fully about the ritual.
So much for a child. Krshia bowed her head. Then they came to her apartment. Both Gnolls followed Mrsha as she bounded up the steps. The white Gnoll leapt into Krshia’s apartment and jumped onto a couch, happy to run about.
“Can I offer you tea?”
Elirr shook his head as he took a seat opposite Mrsha. Krshia nodded and went into the kitchen for some dried crackers and silkap, because it would have been completely rude not to offer something to eat. She set it on the table, and Mrsha reached for a cracker at once.
“Ah, do not eat too much, Mrsha. There will be more snacks later.”
The little Gnoll gave Krshia a look that clearly said that later was not now, and why shouldn’t she eat as much as possible? But she reluctantly took only one cracker and spread the rich paste on top. She munched as Elirr and Krshia did the same. Politeness done, Elirr looked at Krshia.
“I thought you would have young Mrsha here at once given what we discovered. Why the delay?”
He spoke politely, but without the deference that Tkrn would have offered her. In terms of unofficial hierarchy, Elirr and Krshia were close to the same level. Krshia ducked her head by way of apology.
“I tried, but Lyonette, she was very stubborn and refused to let Mrsha out of her sight.”
Elirr nodded.
“Understandable. It is good Mrsha has a protector. Well then. Mrsha.”
The Gnoll guiltily froze in the process of reaching for a second cracker. Elirr and Krshia looked at her. Both adults hesitated. They didn’t really know how to begin.
“Mrsha, we wished to speak to you alone. Between Gnolls. About the dungeon. About what happened there.”
The Gnoll’s eyes went wide. Instantly, she began to quiver. Krshia rushed to reassure her.
“We do not want to make you remember. It is what Elirr saw, about your magic, Mrsha. About the fact that you…can cast magic. Spells.”
Mrsha stopped trembling. She looked at Krshia and Elirr and then looked guilty. And, like a child, she tried to hide it.
“We know you can cast magic, Mrsha. With a wand.”
The Gnoll squirmed in her chair. Elirr shot an amused glance at Krshia.
“We saw you, Mrsha. I did. You are not in trouble—”
“Hmf. Although you are in some if what I suspect is true.”
Krshia folded her arms. Elirr growled under his breath and kicked Krshia gently under the table. Mrsha pretended to be interested in her cracker.
“Mrsha. Can you do magic?”
Reluctantly, the Gnoll looked up. She nodded once. Krshia held her breath. Elirr just nodded.
“You learned it, didn’t you?”
Another nod. Mrsha shot a quick glance towards Krshia’s bedroom. Elirr grinned.
“From her book?”
Mrsha avoided looking directly at Krshia. She nodded very slowly. Krshia scowled. She opened her mouth but received another kick.
“Could you show us? If it is possible?”
The little Gnoll looked up at Elirr. He smiled reassuringly at her, and Krshia tried to wipe the scowl off her face. She wanted to see. Mrsha hesitated, but then nodded her head. She leapt from the couch and began to pluck at her side. Both Elirr and Krshia frowned until Mrsha undid a bit of string and pulled a wand out of her fur!
“Where was that?”
Krshia was astonished. Mrsha had hidden a wand along her side! She’d tied it to her with a length of string, and her thick fur had completely camouflaged the wand! The Gnoll waved it proudly in the air. Krshia gaped and then frowned.
“Wait. That wand smells of Pisces. And I recall Erin telling me you often played with it. Is this the wand you have taken, you little thief?”
Mrsha’s eyes went round, and she shook her head slowly. Krshia folded her arms and again received a kick in her leg. This time, she kicked Elirr back.
“If you are stealing—”
“Come, Krshia, let her show you first!”
Elirr growled, rubbing at his stomach where Krshia had kicked him. He waved a paw at Mrsha, who looked expectantly at him. The Gnoll stared up at Krshia, then nodded. She pointed her wand at the floorboards in front of her.
“Wait, what is she doing to my fl—”
Too late. Mrsha jerked the wand up as if she was raising something, and greenery burst from between the floorboards. Krshia leapt back with an exclamation, and Elirr laughed with delight. Green grass, bright and vibrant, grew between the floorboards, rising upwards, until it formed a bed between the cracks. Krshia stared, dumbstruck at the grass, which Mrsha leapt over. The Gnoll cub batted a stalk, then plucked it and held it up. Krshia slowly took the bit of grass and sniffed it.
Grass. It smelled odd. Magical. The scents of Mrsha and Krshia’s floor stuck to it, but no dirt, no earthy loam. It had been conjured out of nowhere.
“Magic.”
Elirr breathed the words, his eyes shining. Krshia just stared. Magic. A Gnoll had done magic, and it had not been the magic of [Shamans]. If it had been, she would have known. Mrsha had waved her wand and…conjured grass.
“That was your spell? You cast it and you alone? Not the wand?”
She didn’t think so, but she had to ask. Mrsha looked insulted and nodded her head vigorously. Krshia scratched her neck.
“You can grow…grass? And what else? Do you have another spell, Mrsha?”
To her great surprise, the Gnoll nodded. Mrsha pointed her wand at the grass, and both Krshia and Elirr stepped back. They saw Mrsha frown in intense concentration, then wave her wand in a circle. And then—
The grass grew taller. It sprouted up an additional foot into the air, and Krshia heard her floorboards creak as they were forced wider by the growing stalks. Mrsha proudly peeked through the huge stalks of grass at the two adults. She walked back and gestured with her paws.
Tada.
Elirr and Krshia waited for the grass to do anything else, but it just sat there. Krshia scratched her head.
“Anything else?”
Mrsha shook her head. She looked quite proud of herself, but after Krshia’s awe had faded, she had to question the scope of Mrsha’s powers. She turned to Elirr.
“She has magic. But she is growing grass with it. I thought you said this saved all the Gnolls in the dungeon, Elirr.”
The Gnoll chuckled. He bent and plucked one of the huge stems of grass, then waved it about. Mrsha leapt and caught it, breaking the grass. She jumped about, flattening the grass and waving her wand as Elirr turned to Krshia.
“It looks simple, but with it, she freed us from our shackles. With grass. I will not call it a simple magic. And for a child to cast spells, it is impressive, yes?”
“Yes…”
Krshia dragged the word out. She stared at the grass growing out of her floor and found she had to sit. It wasn’t impressive. It was just grass. She had seen Moore grow huge thorny vines out of the ground and seen him conjure an armor of thorns for battle. And yet, she found she was shaking as she reached for a cracker. It was just grass. But Mrsha had done it. A Gnoll had cast magic as [Mages] did.
“How?”
That was the question both Gnolls had. How and when had Mrsha learned to cast magic? They probably knew the how, but they wanted to be certain. Sure enough, Mrsha squirmed guiltily when Krshia brought out the huge magical tome Ryoka had given her. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] looked down sternly, noting how Mrsha didn’t seem surprised by the huge, rich magical tome that was as large as she was, and how she kept looking at it and then away, clearly plagued by a guilty conscience.
“Mrsha. When I was out on pressing business, did you sneak into my room and read this book?”
The Gnoll tried to look to Elirr for support, but this time, the older Gnoll wouldn’t give it. She played with her wand as she looked to one side, then nodded once. Krshia scowled. Mrsha tensed up. Krshia’s arm shot forwards, and Mrsha dove for cover under the couch, but the Gnoll had expected that. She came up with Mrsha, yelping and whining as Krshia held her by the ear and twisted.
“Krshia, do not be so harsh on her. She saved us and did no harm.”
Elirr protested as Mrsha held very still, for fear of having her ear twisted. Krshia scowled.
“She knew better than to go among my possessions, Elirr! And if she had unlocked the trap sealing this box, she would be dead! Do not speak to me of harm! Mrsha, you knew you should not have touched this.”
The Gnoll nodded rapidly, squirming, trying to get free. Krshia had half a mind to twist her ear to make her remember, but Elirr had folded his arms, and Mrsha had survived the Raskghar. So, reluctantly, Krshia let go, and Mrsha jumped away to hide behind Elirr.
“There, there. You are not in trouble. Much. Krshia was concerned for your safety. You should not have touched the book. It was dangerous.”
The old Gnoll comforted Mrsha, who nodded and peeked out at Krshia. The female Gnoll grumbled as she sat back down, but she opened her paws and let Mrsha sniff at her to show she had forgiven the child.
“When I was a cub, my ears were not so good. Of course, I would have known better than to poke my nose into the places of adults, no?”
“Hah!”
Elirr grinned until he realized Krshia had been serious. He coughed and straightened. The two adults sat in silence for a second as Mrsha, much relieved now that she had confessed, helped herself to another cracker.
“So. The book is real.”
Elirr looked at Krshia. She nodded. Her heart was racing.
“It seems so. We had assumed it was, but this confirms it. I had some doubts, but no longer.”
She saw Elirr frown, perplexed.
“You checked the authenticity of the artifact, though. Surely you knew it was a spellbook?”
“Of course we did. We used a scroll to produce magical resonance, and this was the highest—the highest!—that we had ever seen. But without a [Mage], we could not tell all of what the book contained. We had to simply trust what Ryoka said was true until it could be studied by a [Shaman].”
“Or a Gnoll [Mage]. A new class of students.”
Elirr bared his teeth in a grin, and Krshia nodded. She stared down at the tome, the massive spellbook that, according to Ryoka, contained hundreds or possibly thousands of lower-Tier spells.
“It is our great gift to the tribes. A book which all may learn from, which we may train [Mages] of our own from. And now we know. We know Gnolls can learn from it! They can be [Mages].”
She sighed and heard the same sound from Elirr. Relief, exhilaration, hope, all bubbled through Krshia at once. Then she saw Elirr sit up.
“I wish that Ryoka Griffin were still here. We know this book is valuable beyond belief, but how much so? Is it a treasure worthy of a Walled City? Or a national treasure? Or…?”
He trailed off and looked helplessly at Krshia.
“Is it possible to appraise the book further? Beyond what a scroll can tell, I mean. If you showed it to one of the [Mages] staying at the inn Mrsha stays at—”
Instantly, Krshia shook her head. She placed a paw over the cover of the spellbook.
“If I showed this to anyone, Pisces, Ceria, Falene…even one as good and gentle as Moore, I think they would steal it and run, yes? If it is half as valuable as Ryoka claimed, they would all murder for it. And if a place like Wistram were to know of it—they would do all they could to retrieve such an artifact. You know the stories.”
“I do. And that is wise. Forgive me for the foolish suggestion.”
Elirr inclined his head. The two Gnolls stared at the book and then looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll was licking her lips.
“And yet, Elirr, by accident, a child has learned magic. A child. And not only did she save our people from the Raskghar, but she did what no Gnoll of the tribes has done for sixty years. Become a [Mage]. You are a [Mage], are you not, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll cub looked up. She hesitated, then nodded. Krshia exhaled. Elirr glanced down at Mrsha.
“In that case—why not let her read the book, Krshia?”
“What?”
Krshia frowned, and Mrsha looked up quickly. Elirr nodded, stroking the hair running from his chin with his paw.
