“She claims it will. Whether that is so I wonder at, Krshia. I truly do. I am uneasy with this Goblin Lord and the machinations of Tyrion Veltras. I know others here and in the city wish to flee.”
“Abandon Liscor? Just like that?”
Raekea met Krshia’s eyes steadily.
“If it is that or death—yes. I have spoken with my husband. He is Liscor-born, but when he looks at our child…yes, Krshia. We would run to save him. But I am not ready yet.”
“I see.”
Krshia nodded and thanked Raekea. She stood up and found another Gnoll to talk to and then another. She heard the same each time. They weren’t committed. Not yet. But if it looked like all was lost, if it was this or certain death…Beilmark and Elirr were the last two she spoke to.
“You must convince them to stay, Krshia. If Gnolls begin deserting Liscor, if Drakes begin fleeing, then the city is lost.”
Beilmark did not mince words. The Senior Guardswoman was one of the youngest Gnolls present, but she had earned her place here by her deeds. She gestured at the others.
“We can convince them to stay. If we do, fewer Drakes will run. And we need every paw and tail to defend Liscor.”
“And will we defend it with our lives? Will we spill our blood out as the Goblins and Humans overwhelm us, Beilmark?”
Krshia pressed the younger Gnoll, looking into her eyes. Beilmark shook her head, meeting Krshia’s gaze steadily.
“I would not kill my people, Krshia. I would run before that. But the danger to Liscor is more complex than just a game of numbers. Thanks to Olesm, reinforcements are on the way. They will arrive too late, but if we can hold—think on this. The Humans have trebuchets. But they cannot batter down our walls with one or two volleys. It will take time, and our fortifications are enchanted. Tough. We have to hold. The Goblins are not suicidal. Push them back, hold them, and a relief army will arrive.”
“It is a gamble.”
“Yes. But one I will take. But it cannot be done if Liscor is half-empty. We will have to support the defenders, take to the walls. If even a third of all Gnolls hold a bow—Olesm has more than one strategy. He has spoken of retreating into the dungeon. And there are the Antinium! Krshia, it can be done.”
The look in Beilmark’s eyes convinced Krshia that she was serious. But was she right? Finally, she spoke to Elirr. The Gnoll was quiet as they sipped tea and sat. Mrsha was curled up, napping.
“So. I think we are split. More in favor of leaving than staying perhaps, but split five to six. Do you agree?”
“I do.”
Elirr nodded. He was one of the ones who favored leaving more than staying. Krshia eyed him carefully. Then she came out with it.
“I am of the mind that unless all is lost, we must hold to Liscor as one. And you?”
The older Gnoll hesitated. He played with his cup, speaking slowly.
“I—I have lived through more than just the Antinium Wars, Krshia. I was young, but I remember conflicts that left hundreds of thousands dead and burned cities. Liscor did not fall in those days, but I remember the tribes going to war and so few returning in the ones that did. I am not saying we should run. But I am not confident enough to pledge all our lives if it means death.”
“So that means what?”
Elirr leaned forwards. He spoke so softly only the two of them could hear.
“It means convince me. Convince us. Beilmark will wish to stay regardless, but the others are afraid. If we are to fight and bleed for Liscor, tell us why.”
He looked at her. And Krshia saw he wanted to stay, but he was afraid of dying. It was a common fear. So she stood up and looked around.
The other Gnoll representatives were chatting, but they fell silent. They could sense Krshia had something to say. They gathered around her, and Mrsha woke up. She sleepily crawled into Beilmark’s lap, and the [Guardswoman] held her as Krshia spoke.
“So we have debated. So we have shared information. To those of you who may not have heard, young Mrsha was tested at my apartment earlier today. She knows magic. She can read the book. It is genuine, and the Silverfang tribe will present it at the Meeting of Tribes.”
A sigh ran through the room, and Mrsha looked up as everyone stared at her. Just for a second. Then Krshia spoke again.
“War threatens Liscor. The Humans do not call it that, and the Drakes will not declare it, but when the Goblins assault Liscor, what is a word? It will come, and this time, they have brought siege weapons, to at last threaten the Drake cities. Perhaps even the Walled Cities in time. But it is war that will start here. Now our only decision is this: do we stay and fight and possibly die at Liscor or flee southwards and abandon our homes that we might live?”
The others nodded. They waited for Krshia to speak. Everything else had been said, but she had the final voice. Krshia searched for the words, and they came to her, smoothly, from deep within. She spoke the same words she had years ago, to her sister on the day she had decided to leave for Liscor.
“Gnolls have existed since the first record of this world. Throughout thousands of years, we have lived. Not just on Izril. Our people have waned and risen with each passing era. In the beginning, there were Dragons, and they ruled us cruelly. We died for sport, as animals. But we survived. We survived the Sunset of Flame. We marched out of bestiality, survived the long darkness and kept our minds even as the Raskghar split from our people. We became more than animals, and we challenged the Dragons and brought them down.”
Mrsha sat up as Krshia walked back and forth, speaking from memory. The way Krshia spoke, the way she gestured, was familiar to her. Krshia was speaking like a [Shaman], as if she was telling a story from the past. But she was also speaking to the Gnolls of Liscor, who sat and judged her words in silence, drinking and eating slowly.
“Our people rose. We were mighty during the Rain of Scales. We fought the Selphids during the Age of Theft and threw loose the shackles with the rest of the world. During the Twilight of Magic, our armies joined the others and overthrew the half-Elven dominion. Again and again, we were challenged. And each time we lived and prospered. Eras past, the Gnolls rose and fell, and once, we were considered a world power among powers. But now? No more.”
Krshia looked around. Her eyes were sorrowful, and her voice grew deeper.
“In the past, we roamed Izril, made our homes in every direction. But then the Humans came, and we were forced south. Now the lands our tribes venture to have been cut in half. And with the Antinium, with Drake cities and their laws, the places we may walk grow fewer still. And our tribes grow smaller. Our [Shamans] grow weaker. We reduce in strength. Are Gnolls not considered barbarians by other races, called as crude and uncivilized as Garuda?”
It was so. The Gnolls murmured agreement. Krshia nodded. She looked at Mrsha.
“We are in the age our [Shamans] and [Chieftains] have declared the Waning World. A time where the legendary heroes of our kind are memories, and where tradition may hold us back as the rest of the world advances. Since the last Antinium War, since the Humans came, Gnolls have retreated rather than pay the cost in blood. We have always moved rather than stand stubbornly and die as the Drakes and Humans did. But see what it has cost us?”
She looked around, as if Elirr’s shop was suddenly a cage.
“New lands. That is what we need. New lands to grow unimpeded. Not just the north. We must spread from continent to continent. But we cannot run. We cannot abandon what we have to do. We must grow, and we must hold. If Liscor falls, the Humans will sweep south. If Liscor falls, we lose our homes. We have always moved from place to place, but the world is smaller now. We cannot abandon what we have. So I say to you this: we must stand here and fight.”
“And if we die, Krshia Silverfang? If the cost comes in the shattered bodies of your young, our families? Why not simply flee? We have the great gift meant for the tribes. Why stay and put it at risk?”
That came from a Gnoll with blonde fur who looked up at Krshia. The Gnoll woman met her eyes. She had not always been a [Shopkeeper]. Mrsha could feel it.
“We could run. And yes, we have a great treasure. It should not be lost. I propose we hide the book, put it in a bag of holding and hide it so that if Liscor falls, it may be recovered. We will tell the other tribes where it can be claimed. But I tell you this, Fashia Splitfur. There is more than just a single spellbook that defines the worth Liscor has to us.”
Krshia gestured at Elirr’s shop.
“My tribe, the Silverfang tribe, came here ten years back and labored all this time to build something. More than just a gift for the Meeting of Tribes. We founded a place here. Some of you have been here longer. You have families, homes, businesses. Will we throw it all away so easily?”
No one responded. Krshia looked at them.
“We fight. That is what I say. We fight and hold onto our homes. If we run again, we will not stop running until the last Gnoll dies alone in the corner of the world. We fight. Who will stay with me?”
The Gnolls looked at each other. Beilmark stood up slowly. Then Elirr. Then Raekea. Slowly, the rest of the Gnolls got to their feet. Some hesitated, others were reluctant until they saw the others standing. But they did stand. They were in agreement. Krshia breathed out slowly.
“I didn’t want to give up my shop anyways.”
Raekea grinned around, and the others chuckled. They stood more easily now, though Krshia could practically hear their hearts pounding. It was done. The Gnolls of Liscor would stay.
“So what next, Krshia?”
Elirr looked at Krshia. It was not the end of their discussion, for all that they had made a decision.
“If the Drakes begin to run, it will still be disastrous. Can anything be done about their fear? About the fear in the hearts of many Gnoll families as well?”
Krshia nodded. She did have a plan. It had come to her when she had looked at Mrsha and been jealous.
“We do what neither Drakes nor Humans can do. Drakes think they know unity and order? They form spear walls in battle and stand tail-to-tail. But only their soldiers, only in war. But Gnolls are one pack, one people. We are never alone. So let us run about this city of stone and prop it up. If the walls crack, we will hold them up. With more than just words.”
The other Gnolls blinked. Krshia took a deep breath.
“I propose a gathering of magic. I propose a spell.”
The others immediately looked towards Mrsha. Beilmark, who had been all the way behind Krshia up till now, protested.
“A gathering is a serious thing, Krshia. If it fails, it would shatter spirits. And the Drakes would notice. They may object. Besides, the most important issue is who will guide the spell? The child? Surely she is too young, and this is not something she would know.”
“I know. I will guide the spell. I was apprenticed to be a [Shaman], once. I can perform it.”
Krshia spoke simply. The other Gnolls blinked. Mrsha, sitting in Beilmark’s lap, looked at Krshia with wide eyes. The [Shopkeeper] smiled at Mrsha.
“You know magic, Mrsha child. But it is the magic of books and [Mages]. But today, I think, we will show you the magic of Gnolls.”
She turned and looked around the room. Then Krshia cupped her paws together. Elirr was the first to move. He stood up and walked slowly over to Krshia. He placed his paws in hers and smiled. The two said nothing, did nothing Mrsha could see. But then Elirr took his paws away. And then, shimmering in the midst of Krshia’s cupped grip, was a speck of light.
 
——
 
At first, it was the tiniest of things. So small that Mrsha almost thought it was her imagination. But as Krshia went around, touching her hands to each of the other Gnolls in the room, the spark seemed to pass to each of them, so all eleven representatives held a tiny glowing…
What was it? Mrsha squinted, but Krshia shooed her away.
“Not yet, Mrsha. I do not know how [Mages] interact with such things.”
She closed her hands, and the spark vanished. Mrsha thought it had gone out, but something told her the Gnoll had just hidden it away from sight. So had the others. Elirr bent, smiling, and Beilmark straightened her armor.
“I should get back on patrol. I’ll take those of us on duty. Elirr, I suppose you’ll have to leave your shop, yes?”
The Gnoll nodded.
“Too few will visit me. I will go down the residential streets and visit the families. Fashia will join me. But I think Raekea and Krshia may stay in their places.”
“Yes. I will open my stall. Send whomever wishes to argue to me.”
“Or me.”
Beilmark and Krshia nodded. The other Gnolls agreed, discussing things like where to meet and who would go where. It was confusing to Mrsha. They had a plan, but she didn’t understand it. They were going to stay in Liscor, to fight. And they had a plan to…reassure the people? The Gnolls all agreed it must be done. Then they did a curious thing, something Mrsha didn’t understand.
They went back to work.
At least, Krshia did. She marched Mrsha back to her stall and briskly opened up shop. Market street was still mostly empty, and people were nervously talking rather than buying. But Krshia just stood in her stall and began calling out to customers, Drakes and Humans alike.
“Hello, my stall is open! Miss Fauscale, I did not see you this morning. Are you still in need of things to write with?”
An elderly Drake jumped as Krshia waved to her, beaming. She trundled over.
“Oh, yes, I—I suppose I am in need. But what with this dreadful talk of Goblins and Human armies, I’m not sure I’m in the right mind to be buying anything.”
The Drake looked anxious, but Krshia just gave her a big smile.
“Ah, but if not now, then when? You told me you were in need of quills, yes? I have some cheap ones in stock. Come, Mrsha, show Miss Fauscale the little quills.”
Gingerly, Mrsha reached up and offered the Drake a writing quill, dipped in ink, and a bit of parchment. The Drake blinked, but obligingly drew on the parchment.
“Oh! That is quite nice. These are Quillfish quills, aren’t they?”
Krshia nodded. The thin, sharp quills were the byproducts of Quillfish, the pesky fish that hunted and scared off predators by firing them. They were long and thin. Not as easy for the hand to grip as a formal feathered quill, but the little dip-quills from Quillfish were handy for carrying around and quite good for scribbling notes. She pointed all this out to Miss Fauscale as she wrote in a neat, clear script to show her and other customers on the street.
“Four coppers for a bunch of sixteen. Each one has been boiled, cleaned, and sharpened. They are good for writing, cleaning teeth, and poking silly children, yes?”
