I already did my morning stretches before Mom and I went on our run together, but I go through them once more with my armor on to get a better feal for things.

"Alright, Aaliyah, let's show Tabitha what you're made of!" I try psyching myself up for the battle to come, but all I do is make myself embarrassed for yelling that out loud.

Confident I have everything I need, I walk back to the front of our house. Mom and Sandra both watch me approach the kitchen table in my armored splendor. I puff out my chest and put on a cocky grin under their scrutinizing gazes to hide the embarrassment I’m still feeling from what I said in my room.

"Yeah, girl! Ready to show Tabitha!" Sandra mimics my voice, and she and Mom burst out laughing. I feel my face start to redden, realizing they must have heard me a minute ago.

"It's okay, dear," Mom tries to console me in between her fits of laughter. "We all need to be cheered for sometimes."

Mom's words only make me more self-conscience over what I did, and Sandra nearly doubles over laughing. "Thanks, mom,” I manage to mumble. Well, that’s one way to cut the tension. “Let’s go, Sandra,” I move for the front door.

“What, no more words of inspiration?” She pokes fun at me.

“Let’s go,” I hiss to my friend.

“Alright,” Sandra stands up from her chair, still giggling like a schoolgirl.

“Hang on a moment,” Mom calls out to me. She walks over with a full waterskin in her hands and offers it to me.

I take the offered water despite not holding it correctly because of my axe, instinctively thanking Mom.

As soon as I take the waterskin from her, Mom wraps her arms around me, being careful of my axe. “Promise me you’ll be safe.”

“I’m probably about to get my ass kicked again,” I point out to her.

“Promise,” Mom demands.

“I promise I’ll be safe,” I shift my axe to my shoulder and use my free arm to return Mom’s hug.

“Good, now go show that soldier why she shouldn’t underestimate my daughter!”

"Sounds like a plan," I smile. Mom releases her grip on me, and I'm able to set my axe down and attach the waterskin to my belt.

Sandra slips her shoes back on while I change into my thickest boots. We wave goodbye to my mom, and soon we're standing in front of my house again. I turn to Sandra, “No more jokes?”

She looks at me with a straight face and says, "That was beautiful." I snort, and the two of us laugh together.

“So, when does Lady Tabitha usually show up?” Sandra questions.

"I don't know. I try to avoid her, but Tabitha seems always to show up the minute I finish my run." And like a bad horror movie, no sooner than I finish talking, does Lady Tabitha round a nearby house. Sandra and I immediately notice the armor-clad knight.

"Okay, so that is a little spooky," Sandra says off to my side.

“Wait for it,” I tell her.

Sandra casts a sidelong glance at me, not understanding what I mean, almost missing what I was talking about. Tabitha and I make eye contact, and as soon as she sees me in my armor, a feral grin immerges on her passive face. Her hand flashes to her sword's handle and grips it like she's afraid it's going to run away from her. Tabitha wastes no time and starts walking quickly in our direction.

I ignore the goosebumps forming on my skin and turn to Sandra. “Told you.”

“Dear gods,” Sandra exclaims. “I thought you were joking.”

“You should see her when she’s talking about Pacore.”

"Is this what it was like when the goblins were charging you?" Sandra asks me, nervously gripping her forearm and shaking under Tabitha's pressure as she nears us.

I scoff, “The village would’ve been destroyed if the goblins had half the presence as Tabitha.” Obviously, I’m embellishing a bit, but I’m sure Sandra gets what I mean.

“I take it you’re finally ready to start your lessons,” Tabitha stops a few feet in front of us and grins at me. She barely spares Sandra a glance, entirely focused on me.

“I am,” I say, trying to sound more confident than I really am.

"That's good," Tabitha mumbles in an ominous voice. "I've been getting bored waiting for you," she swings her shield off of her back, and I watch it magically fasten to her arm. "Prepare yourself!"

Wait, does she expect us to fight here!? What am I thinking; of course, she does! I clear my throat, getting her attention. “I think it would be best if we take this somewhere else,” I suggest.

A tiny bit of sanity returns to Tabitha's eyes, and she glances around us at the homes nearby. "You should be prepared to fight anywhere, but I guess we can work up to that. Do you have a spot in mind?"

"I thought we could use the quarry outside the village; it should be nice and private there," I tell Tabitha. "That's where I dueled Pacore," I add that bit of information in, hoping mentioning her master will make her more agreeable.

Tabitha's grin widens, hearing me mentioning her master. "Show me where you tried to best Master Pacore." You can feel the excitement radiating off her.

I glance to my side at Sandra. I should make sure Tabitha's okay with her joining us, but I don't think I'll have a problem convincing her. “Senior sister Tabitha?”

“What is it?” Tabitha asks, sounding annoyed that I haven’t started leading her to our sparring site yet.

“When I had my fight with Pacore, he brought two people to observe us. This time I would like to bring my friend Sandra; she won’t interfere with your lessons.”

Tabitha's features soften at the mention of her master, and for the first time, she really looks at Sandra, who's standing next to me. Tabitha's judging eyes scan every inch of Sandra, scaring my friend enough she takes a step back.

“A mage, huh,” Tabitha dryly remarks. “You must have been the one using magic on the fields.”

“Yes, that was me,” Sandra meekly admits without Tabitha even doing anything to pressure her to answer.

I know how Sandra must be feeling; it's hard to stand up to someone twice your level, especially when they're radiating such bloodlust. Tabitha is only twenty levels higher than me, and even I feel intimidated by her.

"Do you know any healing magic?" Tabitha excitedly asks Sandra.

"I'm sorry, but I don't," Sandra hangs her head, not wanting to meet Tabitha's fevered gaze.

Tabitha lets out a disappointed sigh. “I should’ve expected as much from such a remote village.”

“If you need to be healed, our village does have someone who can use basic healing magic,” Sandra offers.

Tabitha shakes her head. "I've met her. I don't need healing, and certainly not from someone so unskilled as her. I was merely curious if I could have you heal Aaliyah during our training.”

"Heal Aaliyah?" Sandra asks, not understanding the meaning behind Tabitha’s words.

"Training is much more efficient with a decent healer on hand," Tabitha tells Sandra with a sinister smile on her face. I swallow back a nervous lump in my throat.

Sandra backs away from Tabitha. Either ignorant of Sandra's feelings or just not caring, Tabitha continues talking like nothing is wrong. “Even if you can’t use healing magic, I’m sure you can be useful for something. Now, will you show me to this quarry?” Tabitha turns her attention back to me.

“This way,” I motion for Tabitha to follow, happy to end this conversation.

I start walking towards master's clearing, and Sandra rushes to my side, keeping a wide birth from Tabitha. "I take back everything I said,” Sandra whispers to me.

Glancing over my shoulder, I check to see how much space we have between Tabitha and us. I don't want to say anything if she's listening in on us. Thankfully, Tabitha is trailing behind us by a good ten feet. I don't think she's a Senses build, so as long as we whisper, she shouldn't hear us. That said, the armor-clad woman looks content to give us our space while she watches us like a hawk. "Apology accepted," I whisper back to Sandra.

“You sure you want to do this?” Sandra quietly asks me.

“It’s a little late to back out now,” I snort.

Sandra moves closer to me. “You don’t have to worry. If anything should go wrong, I’ll immediately run back to the village for help.”

"Gee, thanks," I reply sarcastically as if that would help.

It doesn’t take long for the three of us to swiftly make our way to master's clearing, and instead of seeing master resting on his bench, as usual, he's waiting for us close to the clearing's entrance, wearing his full armor and brandishing his hammer. Master's eyes quickly fall on Tabitha as she follows us into the clearing with an excited grin on her face. She doesn't look the least bit concerned to see master wearing his full gear.

“Is this the place?” Tabitha asks me, scanning the clearing.

“Almost,” I tell her, pointing further into the forest. “The quarry is just up ahead.”

“Let’s go then,” Tabitha eagerly starts walking through Master’s clearing in the direction I pointed out.

Now Sandra and I are following her deeper into the woods. I’m sure no student of Pacore would get lost in the forest when there’s such an obvious trail.

“That her?” Master follows along with us.

"That's her," I confirm master's suspicions. "Tabitha Leres, Pacore the Deathless' student."

Master hums thoughtfully. "There's a dangerous air about her; how did Camden agree to let her live with him?"

“She’s usually stony-faced and quiet while she patrols the village. She got like this when she saw Aaliyah in her armor,” Sandra informs Master Del.

“Do you think you’re in any danger?” Master asks me.

I shake my head no. “Tabitha may be crazy, but I don’t think she would do anything to threaten my life. Pacore did order her to watch over me and the village after all, and I don’t see Tabitha disobeying her master’s orders.”

“I’ll be watching just in case,” Master reassures me. I wonder how Master Del would stack up against Tabitha? Both of them have close to the same level, but after our fight with Pacore, I’m not sure if Master has the skills to fight someone who’s trained for battle.

I see a break in the trees up ahead, and soon we hear Tabitha exclaim, "This will do nicely!"

As soon as we leave the trees and look down into the quarry, Tabitha jumps over the ledge, and superhero lands on the rocky ground below. "The two of you should stay up here," I tell my two companions.

Master hums in agreement while Sandra shouts at me, “Good luck; don’t die,” while I walk over to the ramp leading down into the bottom of the quarry.

“Thanks!” I shout back, walking deeper into the quarry. I could’ve jumped over the side like Tabitha or used Air Walk to reach the bottom quicker, but both would’ve given away information on my stats and skills. I’m about to fight a person I have no confidence winning against, and I don’t plan to shoot myself in the foot before the fight even begins.

Tabitha watches me as I slowly make my way over until I stop fifty feet in front of her. “How is this supposed to work?” I ask, nervously tightening my grip on my axe.

Grinning, Tabitha slowly draws her sword and takes a stance with her shield directly in front of her. “I need to see what I’m working with, so let’s start with some light sparring.”

Without asking for my opinion or stating any rules we should follow, Tabitha charges me!

I wasn't expecting such a sudden charge, but I still instinctively kick backward to keep my distance from the woman. Pacore barely moved during our fight, and I thought Tabitha would be the same way considering she's using a shield. The fight has just begun, and I've already misjudged my opponent.

Tabitha issues a battle cry as she uses her shield as a battering ram.

Dodge, or meet her strike?

I only have a split second to decide as she closes the distance between us.

My instincts are telling me to flee, but I can’t let them cloud my judgment. I won’t stand a chance if I only try to avoid her.

Raising my axe, I extend Magic Threads and prepare to meet Tabitha’s charge. Her smile widens when I stop retreating and ready myself for an attack.

My heart threatens to beat out of my chest as Tabitha enters my striking radius. “Ahhhhhhhhh!” I yell, releasing the air from my lungs and swing my axe with all my might.

I'm rooted in place, and I'm confident in my Strength. Tabitha is rushing me, so her stance won’t be solid enough to counter my strike.  And just for good measure, I activate Weighted Strike to put more force behind my swing.

Take this! My axe reverberates in my hands as it slams into Tabitha’s shield. A smile forms on my face with the clean hit.

Only Tabitha doesn't go flying as I predicted. My eyes dart to the ground and see she's somehow switched her stance in a split second, and that isn't the worst of it.

Tabitha adjusts her shield, so my axe skims across its surface. Even using Magic Threads, the force behind my swing empowered with Weighted Strike destroys my balance. I panic and try to pull my axe back, but Tabitha doesn't miss the opening I left her. My eyes track her sword as she raises it to slice at me.

However, watching Tabitha raise her sword is another wrong decision. Because I was so focused on her sword and trying to fix my stance, I don't even notice her slamming her shield into my chest, sending me rolling across the quarry's floor. The strike is even more effective because she hit me when I was out of breath.

Gasping, I scramble to my feet.

Tabitha doesn't wait for me to catch my breath and continues her attack. I'm forced to use Flash Step to gain some distance between us, or she would've hit me a second time before I could've recovered.

“I see you’re good at running away!” Tabitha shouts as I dodge away from her sword that came mere inches away from my chest piece.

