“Are you enjoying your new teacher?” Sandra playfully smirks at me.

"I don't know; are you enjoying living with Richard?" I try to sound malicious, but I realize how silly I sound half-way through, and by then, it's already too late to stop myself.

“I am actually,” Sandra raises an eyebrow at me. “Is that really what you were going for?”

“No,” I huff as I work the forge’s bellows. “I just couldn’t think of a good comeback there,” I sulk.

“You’re losing your touch, Aaliyah,” Sandra playfully elbows me.

"I can't have a witty remark ready all the time. Besides, Tabitha hasn't taught me anything yet," I complain.

“She’s been here for four days now!” Sandra exclaims. “What have you been doing?”

“I’ve been busy with work.” Sandra puts her hands on her hips and gives me a look that says she isn’t falling for my excuse. “What, I have,” I try to defend myself. “I had to finish the work I started when she arrived. Then, it was my back-to-back break days I spend with my parents.”

“And today?” Sandra asks me.

"Today, I'm making helmets for the village," I motion to the steel heating up in the forge.

"Helmets, really?" Damn, Sandra's mom-look is leveling up faster every day.

“Helmets are important,” I pout.

"Why are you hesitating? You seemed excited to learn from her a few days ago," Sandra gives me a questioning look.

“Because she’s crazy!” I finally shout in frustration.

Sandra is surprised by my outburst, but she quickly raises a hand to her mouth to stifle a laugh. "That's rich coming from you. What makes you think she's crazy?"

“You only need to talk to her for five minutes to see she’s crazy,” I retort.

"That's funny; mother hasn't said anything about her acting weird." Sandra doesn't look convinced. "Mom has complained that Lady Tabitha is too quiet and hard to talk to, but nothing extreme.”

I snort, “Tell your mom to ask about her master. Then we’ll see if her opinion of Tabitha changes.”

“No way, I’m not using my mom to prove you’re right. You do remember she’s living with my parents, don’t you?”

“I didn’t see all this concern for your parents when you used Tabitha as an excuse to leave,” I snarkily grin at my friend.

Sandra folds her arms, “That was totally different.”

"Now, who doesn't have a comeback?" I tease.

"Your horrible," Sandra elbows me in the side again, but this time she tries to put her back into it. "Is she really that bad?" Sandra asks me after her elbow fails to break through Mana Skin.

“She gets this crazy look in her eyes every time we pass by each other in the village. You’ve seen her walking around in her armor, right?” I ask my friend.

"Lady Tabitha is kind of hard to miss; she always has her armor on and sticks out amongst the villagers. I overheard she's been patrolling the village with a blank expression on her face like she's bored or something," Sandra tells me. I do not doubt that she's bored; there's no longer any danger to the village, so the battle junky can’t get her fix.  “She doesn’t approach anyone, so people just leave her alone and try to avoid her.”

“Yeah, so imagine how creepy it is for me when she approaches me every morning after my run and randomly throughout the day to ask me if I’m ready to train with her. I’d agree to get her to stop asking me, but she always asks with her hand on her sword and a vicious smile on her face. I shiver just thinking about it.”

“You’re scared of her?” Sandra asks, surprised.

“I’m reluctant to spar with her,” I clarify.

"You're scared of her," Sandra repeats herself. "It's okay to be afraid of her; dad told me he thinks she's around level 85. That is pretty intimidating."

“Try 95, and I’m not afraid of her. I just… I Just don’t want to lose again,” I admit to Sandra. “I know I need Tabitha’s help to grow stronger, but I’m reluctant to find out how weak I am.” I stare into the forge’s fire, remembering how easily Pacore beat Master and I. Sparring with Tabitha will probably be the same thing.

I hear a giggle from my side, and when I look over at Sandra, I see she's trying to hold back more laughter. "I'm sorry," she waves her hand, trying to apologize without laughing.

I frown at Sandra. “Is this funny to you? This isn’t easy for me, you know.”

“I’m sorry, I’m sorry; it’s just funny to hear you call yourself weak,” Sandra feigns wiping away a nonexistent tear. "You know you're getting caught up in your own head again, right? Just let the lady teach you, and soon you'll surpass her at the monstrous speed you've always have." Sandra gives me a confident smile, but for some reason it doesn’t look like it’s reaching her eyes, almost as if she’s just telling me what she thinks I need to hear and not what’s really on her mind.

I blink in confusion, but just like that Sandra smile has shifted into her usual bight smile. Did I imagine that?

Regardless, I think she’s underestimating Tabitha a bit or not fully understanding the Pandora's box I'll be opening once I finally agree to spar with her. I haven't known Lady Tabitha for long, but I doubt she'll stop pestering me just because I agree to train with her a few days a week. If anything, I expect her to hound me even more once we start.

“Will it make you feel better if I’m with you tomorrow?” Sandra jokingly offers.

Fine, she thinks I'm exaggerating? Let's show her the real Tabitha. "Would you really?" I ask, smiling. "You're probably right; I'm just exaggerating. But it would mean a lot if you join me tomorrow, even if it's only for emotional support.

"Sure," Sandra agrees immediately. "Worse case, I get to watch Lady Tabitha throw you around a bit," Sandra jokes.

“Thanks, I’m glad I can always count on my best friend,” I say sarcastically.

"And don't you forget it," Sandra laughs for a bit, and I find myself smiling along with her. No matter what happens, I still have the support of my family and friends.

Reaching for my tongs, I remove the small steel ingot I've been preparing. The steel glows a beautiful red as I shift it over to my anvil and start hammering away. I need to take special precautions as I start working on the metal. A helmet's shape is very important.

When making a helmet, you need to factor in the area it covers and all the angles you're working with. The purpose of a helmet is to deflect a strike's force and keep the wearer from having their brains scrambled. Whether the helmet is deflecting arrows or a blade, you want anything that hits the steel cap to slide off, preferably away from you.

The problem is I’m making these helmets so anyone in the village can wear one. That might seem like a good thing, but if I want my helmets to be universal, I can’t use any of the designs that would cover the entire head. Helmets that cover the back of the neck, face, and eyes offer a superior defense, but they limit your sight, are hard to move in, and uncomfortable unless fitted for a specific user.

When Master Del taught me how to make armor, I assumed all helmets would look like those I saw in moves. The types of helmets with a faceplate that hilariously drops down when the hero leans in to get a kiss, those kinds of helmets. However, I've long since realized movie knowledge shouldn't be trusted.

There are plenty of helmets that cover the entire head and neck region, but in reality, most helmets were simple metal caps that anyone could wear. They have more openings for your opponent to exploit, but cap helmets offer more benefits for the inexperienced fighter, like the people in our village.

With all this in mind, I decided to make the helmets for the village resemble my own. My helmet is modeled after the standard army helmet from my past life, a dependable design that’s been in use for forever. The helmets stand out with their modern design, and best of all, they're proven effective. I might not be able to replicate the advanced materials used in earth's modern-day body armor, but I’m confident my helmets will do their job against arrows and the occasional sword blow.

I pray my helmets never see use, but you never know when you're living this far in the woods. Knowing that Pacore has taken me as his student, my time in the village is limited. If another goblin horde shows up when I'm no longer here, I don't what there to be a repeat of what happened at the beginning of the year. And that involves switching from making only weapons to making universal armor that anyone in the village could wear.

“So, why helmets?” Sandra asks me when I move the metal back into the forge.

“Because helmets protect your head,” I sarcastically reply. “I’d thought you know that, great mage.”

“Funny,” Sandra dryly remarks. “I mean, why are you making helmets first when you could be making breastplates or something?”

Pulling my metal from the forge and moving it back to the anvil, I explain my reasoning to Sandra in between my strikes. “People already have leather vests and other clothes they can wear in a fight. Animals and goblins instinctually go for a person’s face. I’ll get to breastplates and other pieces of armor, eventually. But I’m not sure when I’ll have to leave the village; I want the armory to have at least enough spears and helmets for everyone before then."

"I heard about the goblins from father. Was it as bad as he made it sound?" Sandra's concerned eyes drill into my soul, and I don't miss how she puts a protective hand over her abdomen.

“It wasn’t a fun experience,” is all I tell her.

"My master would take us on short hunting trips outside Drey. He had us practice our magic on small groups of goblins a couple of times. One of the other students once commented on how easy it was to kill all of them with a single spell, to which our master replied that he hopes we never have to deal with stronger goblins."

"He was probably referring to horned goblins; there were two of them in the horde we fought. Big bastards with a lot of fight in them," I grumble.

“Do you think I could take one?” Sandra asks me.

"I don't know," I honestly tell her as I continue with my work. "I only fought one of them, and it was back when my level was a lot lower. Plus, you still haven't shown off many of your spells yet. Were you one of the people who thought killing goblins was easy?"

Sandra shrugs, “Throwing a fireball into a group of goblins is easy, but then again that applies top most things.” I find myself struggling not to feel jealous of Sandra. Ever since I reincarnated, I wanted to figure out how to throw a fireball; and standing in front of me is someone who knows the spell but isn't allowed to share it with me.

“Who knows, that might be all you need,” I remark, focusing on the helmet taking shape in front of me.

Now that Sandra has me thinking about it, I wonder if I'd still have trouble against that horned hob I fought? Much has changed since then, and I'm curious how I would stack up if I encountered another goblin above level 50.

Sandra shouldn’t worry about another hoard attacking the village, what we experienced was the first in the village’s history. Plus, If we had someone throwing fireballs into that mass of goblins like if Sandra was around, we might not have lost as many people as we did.

I shake my head; I shouldn’t dwell on what might have been. The only thing I should think about is how to improve myself and the village. And that starts with me sucking it up and starting my lessons with Tabitha tomorrow.

I can only imagine what that battle junky has planned.

**********

“That was a good run,” Mom smiles at me. “Want some water before you finish up by yourself?”

“I’ll take the water, but I’m not running my second course today,” I tell her.

“What’s the occasion?” Mom asks.

"I'm going to train with Tabitha today."

"Oh! Are you starting today? That's news to me," Mom's eyes narrow menacingly. "Maybe I should go with you today?"

I give mom an apologetic smile. “I would love for you to join me, but you promised you and dad would try to avoid Tabitha.”

Mom’s face softens, “But what if something happens?”

"It will be fine," I try to reassure her. "I already talked to Master yesterday to let him know what's happening, and Sandra's coming along too."

“Aaliyah!” I hear my name shouted.

“Speak of the devil,” I turn to see Sandra walking over to us.

“Morning,” Sandra smiles at mom and me.

“You’re going with Aaliyah, dear?” Mom questions Sandra.

Sandra looks between us and quickly understands what’s happening. “How could I let her go by herself?” Sandra moves to my side and wraps an arm around my waist, trying to pull me closer to her. I have to physically relax my body before Sandra can move me with her low Strength.

"See, mom, everything will be fine," I reassure her.

“I’m sure it will,” Mom cynically remarks. But she doesn’t push the subject further and opens our front door. “Sandra, dear, would you like something to drink? I’m sure Aaliyah will need a few minutes to get ready,” Mother asks, holding the door open for us.

“I’ll take whatever you have,” Sandra politely accepts mother’s offer while we follow her into the house.

“I’ll be just a minute,” I tell Sandra after the three of us have our shoes off.

“Take your time,” she tells me as she and Mother move into our kitchen while I walk to my room.

Pushing open the door to my room, I grab my armor I have hanging on the wall. I don't see Tabitha's training being easy, so I plan to treat this like I'm going to war. Donning my kaglese armor, I make sure each strap is secured. My knife and scimitar are tightly fastened to my side before I pick up my axe.

