That brought a surprised laugh out of the wolfman. Even his laugh was more profound, and the aether vibrated slightly with his mirth. Then Khachi gestured back to the crater's edge. “We have kept our guides waiting long enough. We should return to them and continue our journey.”

“You don’t want to do that again?” Nathan asked, gesturing around them at the rest of the divine presence that lit the crater. “There’s more power here.”

Khachi shook his head. “I have claimed the mantle and what remains of Deiman’s purpose. Everything that’s left is beyond my reach. Besides, I think a repetition would lose much of its power. Divinity is about meaning and significance, and a miracle repeated is a miracle cheapened."

“I wonder what our guides saw?” Sarah asked as the Heirs flew back towards the crater edge.

“I’m more worried about what they heard,” Nathan answered. “Khachi said more about our purpose than I want to be common knowledge among the Questors.”

They came back into sight of Vira and Liren, who were waiting right next to the carriage where the Heirs had left them. Both of the Questors were watching them with wide eyes. They looked a bit shell-shocked.

“What in the absolute entropic heat death of the universe was THAT!” Liren screamed as soon as they drew close enough to hear.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
