The more coherent a hold was, the harder it was to connect it to the superficial.

It was actually one thing that cells depended on as a portion of their means of sealing. They were effectively made as stable as possible in order to help keep that seal… sealed.

She’d been momentarily confused about the world fragment, but apparently, it wasn’t connected to the superficial, the superficial was connected to it through an intermediary hold that was effectively just the size of the main gates, and that frankly disturbed Tala just a bit.

She wondered why it hadn’t come up in her discussion with the fragment-keepers, but she supposed that many things hadn’t simply due to the nature of the time they had for their discussion.

Regardless, as Tala looked stoneward—to the practically glowing sphere of opulence—she mentally grasped the last portion, her power rippling as it rolled over the final piece.

The whole thing was already in her authority, and her aura permeated the entirety almost as thorough as it did Ironhold.

Off to her right, the large wooden square, which was the temporary entrance, groaned, the internal coherence of the hold becoming too much for the portal magics to maintain a connection.

They couldn’t take that down as destroying, disassembling, or otherwise deactivating it from this side would create a backlash, which might have been problematic.

Doing it from the other side would still create a backlash, but—

The wood detonated, the portal within vanishing in a shower of splinters.

There was more to it than that, the dimensionality around the disrupted portal twisted and tried to buckle and unravel, but Tala’s very presence was a break-water for the energy.

Her aura, her magic, her authority clamped down, bleeding away the potentially devastating reaction and smoothing out the folds of existence.

Apparently, the size of the backlash was generally in proportion to the size of the opening that was broken, factoring in the size of the entire enclosed dimensionality as well, and it was mitigated by the power of what the hold was being bound to instead.

Since there was no new bond—unlike when an Archon soulbound a storage item—it might have done more damage to the city center than the Black Legion, but Tala had been here, and she’d handled it with ease.

A backlash on this side is inconsequential.

-Show-off-

Just doing my job.

Despite the banter, she kept a close eye on the resort as it bobbed slightly up and down in the dimension of magic before settling and slowly slipping through a non-existent crack into the void, only remaining connected to Zeme through its anchor.

That anchor, within the column now in Platoiri’s center, held it fast, the long-honed knowledge of cell construction ensuring it wouldn’t just drift off to be lost in the void.

Still, as the teleporters within continued to flash at a regular cadence, Tala breathed a sigh of relief.

Well, that looks good from out here. Shall we investigate the inside before moving on?

-Let’s.-
