Instantly, another wave of silver threads tethers us together, and I void step through the zone into the top floor of the highest tower in Ellipsia.

This is the very tower that the generals used to assimilate to the Upper Realm.

Many of its features have been maintained, just as they were. However, the city itself has grown much larger to accommodate the influx of new system users pouring in.

There are many assimilation towers using exactly the same technology all throughout the citadel.

Even on the ground surrounding the city, there are larger towers built directly on top of ascension points.

The complex arrays built into these buildings bear the marks of Abby's legacy and her advanced Primordial Aura that allows system users to instantly heal from any injury in its presence.

They are far more intricate than the ascension towers I made as a Green Core.

Even a level 1 system user could climb and assimilate to the Green Zone given enough time in these conditions.

Many of the surrounding buildings in the city surrounding the citadel are very similar to the Grand Citadel's layout, yet they are run mostly by Orcs and Ogres. All of the old framework from Torvak and Asic's old conglomerates has turned this place into their sanctuary.

Both of these Purple-Cored Warlords are already kneeling with their heads down when we arrive. Half the walls of this expansive room are filled with data from the dungeon and energy trade, while the other is filled with real-time surveillance systems connected to the spectate feeds of every guard on duty.

After watching Zashen and the White Griffin fly from their chambers toward the Grand Citadel, and piecing together the footage and telepathy messages from Ava, these two ancient Warlords knew exactly who had arrived.

"Immortal Emperor. Immortal Empress. We have awaited your return."

"True Overseers. I am grateful to have lived long enough to be in your presence."

A light smile forms on my face as I manipulate their bodies to raise them off the ground.

"Rise. You have done well."

With another finger movement, we all find ourselves millions of kilometers across the zone atop the tallest tower in the Mensa Citadel.

Just like Ellipsia, this floating island has gone through a large-scale growth period over the last few centuries. Both the towers on the main island and the cities that branch off grow millions of kilometers out into the green clouds.

When I scan the system users here, I find that there are massive pockets of human populations.

When I first entered this Zone as a newly formed Green Core, the number of humans in the Upper Realm was nearly nonexistent. Out of every million citizens, there were only a single-digit number of humans.

Now, as I scan through the business industries and private housing in this zone, there are hundreds of billions of humans right before my eyes.

In certain portions of the city, they are the majority race. Within the few seconds that I've been here in the Green Zone, I've already sensed a few more humans ascending up from the Lower Realm—and even more giving birth here in the Green Zone, increasing the population at an extremely fast rate.

Pride is the first emotion that fluctuates through the small fragment of my soul at the sight, but there is also a pattern that I can't help but lock onto as I search through the many crowds.

There is a certain lineage that holds positions of power throughout this megacity.

It's quite hard to catch at first glance, but with the laws fluctuating in every person I scan, I can tell that not a single one of these humans in power was born before I left the Upper Realm.

There are a few thousand of them, all sharing a common aura, whether that be the way their Noble Vibrations fluctuate, the color of their soul energy, or the nature of their primordial aura.

Every one of these humans has the essence of the two ancient berserker clans running through their blood.

I can count over ten generations of families all living together and running this city seamlessly. The older generations look more and more familiar until I trace it back to two people.

When we appear on top of the Mensa Citadel's highest tower, I see exactly where this new human clan of elites originated from. An Archer and a Dual-Bladed Swordswoman kneel before me.
