"So, how's our guest doing?" Shiv asked.

"Well, you might be pleased to hear that he's quite terrified of you, but on top of that, I managed to confirm a few things with him." Adam drew in a breath. "This entire thing happened because the chefs here were also moonlighting as Fairwalkers. So, the fault lies largely with them. The damned fools did actually steal from the Summer Court.”

"The hells is a Fairwalker?" Shiv asked.

"People who dive across portals into the Fairwoods to raid the eternal realm for exalted treasures and potential Fae Skills."

Shiv's eyes widened slightly. "Fae Skills? What? You can get a Fae skill in the Fairwoods?”

"Such is the rumor." Adam shrugged. "Haven't met anyone with such a skill, but it's not impossible. Fae Magic and Fae Mana are quite different from what we have anyhow, and getting a Blessing from a Princess of one of the courts is rare..." The Gate Lord paused. "And quite double-edged at times. So, back on topic, Head Chef Velly and a few of his more trusted companions ventured over and performed a heist on the Summer Court as the last cycle was ending. Apparently, the Fairwoods undergo a sort of mixed-apocalypse ending enacted by one of the Four Courts. The one that wins must defend against the others, and should they prevail, they start the next cycle as the dominant Court. As such, the Anointed One and his lesser pawns had not awoken at that time. When he did wake up after basically being kidnapped, he was outraged, for if Princess Plum Blossom didn't taste him and find nourishment in his toasted flesh, then the harvest this year would be weakened, and the balance of power between the Four Courts would tilt toward winter. And with the Winter Court already holding the upper hand… His agitation has its reasons.”

"Ok, all that tracks. So, what do you think we should do about him? Can’t seem to kill his ass, so…”

Adam grimaced and looked over the shivering chefs beneath a skin-tent Shiv made. “What do you even have them hiding under?”

“Skin tent.”

“Right. Well, at least you're still at the normal levels of psychotic that I remember you being.” Adam sighed. “I hoped this was just going to be a hectic day of cooking or other Shiv-type weirdness. Of course, there will always be chaos when you and I are involved, but this is a little bit more than we anticipated."

Shiv almost groaned. “Felling System doesn’t want us to ever have easy or smooth anymore.”

"Indeed," Adam replied with a sigh. The concern in his gaze intensified. "Are you alright?"

Shiv considered the question. "Hells, I'm not going to do anything stupid or destructive, if that's what you're asking. But I don't know, I kind of still feel like shit. The anger's there, and part of me just wants to throw a childish tantrum that ends with me driving my frying pan through the skull of Maiden. But I'm also very clear that it's a purely emotional response. I'm looking for catharsis, but it's not real, you know? It's like it will feel good hurting her, but it doesn't make up for my cooking being taken away from me. You get what I'm saying? It’s like the part of me that knows and understands is finally stronger than the part that feels. And it gets stronger as I get angrier.”

Adam just kept staring and shifted. "Your anger makes you think clearly. Is that what you claimed earlier? Because of your Skill Evolution?”

"Yep. Sage of the Enkindled Heart. You ever heard of that skill?"

Adam shook his head. "No, it's uncanny. And… Well, it’s not—eh…”

Shiv managed a weak smile. “Doesn’t fit me?”

"Going on a bloody rampage and destroying everything… Yeah, that would be more historically accurate to how you would behave.”

“The urge is still there, but it doesn't compel me anymore. It's like..." Shiv looked at his hands and realized they weren't shaking at all. "It's like a part of me has been put away. It's been placed somewhere else, somewhere I can reach into and just wield it to decide to do things. I still feel things, but my emotions, my thoughts, and my logic have been decoupled. They're connected by the skill. Insulated.”

Adam looked worried. "Are you sure that's good for your mind? Don’t misunderstand, I find myself envious of the control, but… Shiv, I just want to know if something is wrong.”

“I was wondering if I went insane earlier too,” Shiv replied, understanding. “You can say it. It’s weird. But I like it.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Still, he poses a good question. You do not know where this skill came from, if it's human or bestial. It might make you seem insane in certain ways. It might literally make you insane. You aren't entirely based on a Tarrasque mentally. There is more than a bit of you that is human. You need to be very careful and keep an eye on your own psychological state.
