Seated atop his jade throne, Jorani sipped his plum wine and watched his courtesans dance in their flimsy, feathered dresses. Mere ribbons of silk loosely plaited together with strands of jewels, their enticing dresses were decorated with colourful plumage in an erotic, netted weave which covered little and concealed even less. Blondes, brunettes, red-heads, and raven-haired beauties all pranced and twirled before him to the steady beating of drums, fluttering their flirtatious eyes and smiling their seductive smiles as he feasted on the sight of their glistening, borderline naked bodies, a delectable exhibition of ivory, bronze, ebony, and every natural shade in between, for his tastes were indiscriminate and his lust insatiable.

Round and round they went, shaking their hips and bouncing their breasts as they cavorted about his throne, each hoping to catch his eye and win his affections for the night. The mere presence of so many beauties had him raring to go, but his girls worked so hard on this dance number, it would be rude not to let them finish and give each a chance to catch his eye. He couldn’t stand the thought of scorning any of his beauties, but alas, he was but a mortal man and prodigious though his stamina might be, he could not satisfy hundreds of women in a single night. Ten or twenty should do for today, but he had to be fair and not play favourites, for there was no crime so great as leaving a beauty unloved. Such was the burden of being a fair husband to so many women, but all beauties loved a hero, so being the heroic and magnanimous man he was, he could not bear to spurn any woman’s affections.

As the music came to a climax, Jorani’s restraint wore thin and he threw himself at the first of his chosen beauties, sinking his fingers into curvy buttcheeks and pressing his face into pillowy breasts as he lifted her into his embrace. “Jorani,” she cried, her voice filled with heat and ardour which stoked the flames of his desire. Working his mouth against her smooth, satiny skin, his tongue sought her succulent nipples and his hips ground hard against her, but try as he might, he could find no purchase on either end. “Jorani!” A man dying of thirst, he groaned and redoubled his efforts, but to no avail, with each passing second of agonizing abstinence drawing him closer and closer to madness.

“Jorani! Wake up, you idiot.”

Coming to with a start, he found himself hugging his pillow in the gloom of his yurt, all too keenly aware of his throbbing erection and a wet stain beneath his cheek. Then he noticed the shadowy figure standing beside his cot with blankets in hand, the deplorable criminal who woke him from the best dream he’d had in months. Daxian the ‘Virtuous’, a poncy, pompous, pig-fucking cake-eater if there ever was one, someone who was everything Jorani wished he was but wasn’t. Tall, muscular, and handsome where Jorani was short, scrawny, and rat-faced, with bony, gaunt cheeks which were better described as prominent and sculpted when mirrored on his older half-brother’s near identical face. When the two of them stood side by side, it was like looking at two identical portraits painted by two different artists, one a grand-master of his craft who composed works of art for the nobility, and the other a two-bit hack who sat around in the park drawing distorted caricatures for a few coppers a piece.

Well, it made sense. Daxian was raised by their Ancestral Beast sire and probably had no lack of food, shelter, women, or guidance, whereas until two years ago, most days Jorani barely had enough food to fill his belly much less two coppers to rub together or time to practice the Forms. Still, Ma did her best and he loved her for it, so he wouldn't trade places with his half-brother for all the coin in the world.

Thankful he’d gone to bed fully clothed, Jorani wiped the saliva from his face and shifted his pillow so he wasn’t lying on the wet spot anymore. “Fuck off,” he groaned, his eyes half-lidded and weighing a thousand kilograms each. “Already had me turn at guard duty and the sun ain’t even up yet.” Just a few days ago, he fought off a horde of Defiled and watched a Water-Awakened Demon run roughshod over the bossman’s Experts, so Jorani had precious little happiness in his dreams of late and was particularly irked by the interruption.

Maybe if he fell asleep quick enough, then he might catch up with his heavenly beauties and pick up where they’d left off...

The world flipped over and Jorani landed hard on the bamboo-panel floor of his yurt. Coming to his feet with a snarl, he was greeted with a slap to the face which sent him reeling in place, but after months of non-stop battle on the front lines, he was made of sterner stuff. Using his momentum, he delivered a spinning backhand which slipped through Daxian guard, or rather as he soon discovered, was let through on purpose. Hard knuckles met harder steel and Jorani emitted a strangled shriek of pain as the Runic breastplate not only blocked the full force of his attack, but also rebounded it back towards him. Skin broke and bones cracked, but Daxian was not one to leave things be as he grabbed Jorani by the neck and lifted him off his feet. “Done dreaming?” he asked, ignoring Jorani’s desperate attempts to kick himself free. “You want to defeat me? Come back after training for a hundred years and you might have a chance.” Dropping him like a sack of rice, Daxian sucked his teeth and said, “We’re leaving. Pack your weapons and a change of clothes, but nothing else. We’re travelling light.”

“What? We just got back to Sinuji yesterday afternoon.” And he’d been planning on paying Sai Chou a visit in the morning. She wasn’t one for conversation and she hated gambling, but she was pretty as a flower in bloom and had yet to outright reject his attentions, so he figured he might as well persevere. “Where’s the bossman bringing us now? Back to Suihua?”

“We’re not moving on Rain’s orders,” Daxian replied, always using the bossman’s name when out of earshot, probably because it grated on the ‘heroic’ Major’s nerves to take orders from a ‘mere’ Second Grade Warrant Officer. “Thank the Mother for small favours, but we’re finally leaving the little savage behind. We’re taking a ‘family’ trip, just you, me, and the Ascendant. Doesn’t that sound nice? Maybe the next time you piss him off, he’ll forget himself and kill you out of hand, which means my days of lecturing that runty bastard will be over and done with. All my life, I’ve never met a smarter idiot than Rain and hope to never meet another again. He expects me to condense ten-thousand years of teachings into a handful of afternoon lessons, then has the gall to only half-listen and criticize. Where does he get off thinking he’s smarter than the greatest military minds of an era? ‘Shock and Awe’ my ass, like the Defiled will give two shits about loud noises or dying in droves...”

Already stuffing clothes into a rucksack, Jorani was also only half-listening to the man complain, and by the time he processed what was going on, Daxian was already dragging him across the camp. “Wait, hold up,” Jorani said, unable to free himself from Daxian’s steely grip. “I thought GangShu was using the bossman to avoid Imperial orders. What’s gonna happen there?” As unpleasant as Sinuji and the front lines were, there was no way following his deadbeat sire around would be any better. Sure, the rat-bastard might find them cozier accommodations, but Jorani’s interests lay in keeping his hide intact, and hanging around an active-duty Ancestral Beast was hardly conducive towards longevity.

It was one thing when GangShu was acting as shadowy protector, but if he had actual orders to carry out... Jorani had heard stories of clashes between Divinities, and they all had two things in common: widespread destruction and enormous body-counts consisting mostly of innocent bystanders.

“You okay Jor?” Running after them in his nightclothes with staff in hand, Ral’s ears flopped about as he glared at Daxian, ready to tear the man limb from limb if Jorani required it. Having circled around on her quin, Chey also joined the party alongside a handful of Jorani’s most die-hard cutters including Erkin, Awdar, Jinoe, and Ronga.

A shame Kimi and Ciro weren’t around, but here in disappointing reality, the ladies wouldn’t bat an eye if Daxian ground him into meat paste. “I’m fine, big guy,” Jorani said, touched by the depths of Ral’s concern. The oafish lug was always looking out for him, and it shamed him to know he wasn’t half the man or a tenth of the friend Ral thought he was. “Nothing to worry about. Daxian here is just bringing me out on an errand with GangShu. Where you say we going again?”

Sneering with an arrogance only he could pull off, Daxian barely glanced at Jorani’s thugs. “I didn’t say and they don’t need to know.”

“Right.” Asshole. “It’s fine Ral, I’ll be back quick as can be. Ye’ll hardly even notice I’m gone.”

“...You sure Jor?” Brows furrowed in suspicion, Ral gripped his staff tight and growled at Daxian while following close behind. “He can’t take you if you don’t wanna go. We’ll stop him Jor.”

More like catch a spear in the gut for trying. “Yea, I’m sure. Nothing to concern yerselfs with here, so back to bed with ye all.”

“Okay Jor.” Ears and tail drooping something fierce, Ral stopped following and said, “You’ll be back fer new years, right Jor? Me and Chey gonna get married after, so you gotta be there.”

Rolling his eyes, Jorani called back, “That’s over three months from now, Ral. Plenty of time to do what needs to be done and get back to drink you under the table on yer wedding day. You just make sure ye plan ahead and buy enough food and drink, ye hear? Ye take care now.”

Waving farewell to his closest friend, he tried not to let his sorrow show as he followed Daxian away in silence. Leaving camp on foot, they walked for another fifteen minutes before Jorani finally asked, “Er... We’ll be back in time, right? Three months ain’t too long a time, but it ain’t short either...”

Daxian didn’t answer and Jorani thought he was being an asshole again, but after a long pause, the older half-rat finally opened his mouth. “...Not sure. Wugang and Yelu Shi have been gone for five months now, and even allowing for the Abbot’s... eccentricities, they should’ve at least sent word back. If the Imperials interfered, then they’ll be keeping close eye on the Ascendant. If we’re lucky and move fast enough, then we’ll get there before an Imperial Dharma Protector moves in to intercept, but if they’ve got one nearby, then it’s anybody’s game. I don’t know why they’d go to so much effort to keep a masochist eunuch away from Rain, but the Ascendant looks after his own, so if the Imperials killed Wugang and Yelu Shi to keep them from delivering their message, then he’ll be out for blood.”

Ha. Looks after his own, that’s rich. There were a dozen half-breed bastards running around the streets of Sanshu and Mother knows how many more elsewhere. Most died, and others ended up slaves like Anrhi and Sorya, but yea sure, GangShu looks after his own. Daxian the Virtuous, more like Daxian the Dumbass.

With his incredulity dealt with and out of the way, the full weight of Daxian’s statement finally hit home and Jorani spent the rest of their hurried journey trying to weasel his way out of the trip, but Daxian would not be swayed. After bringing Jorani east through the morning gloom for the better part of an hour, their deadbeat sire finally stepped out of the tall grass and greeted them with a hollow smile, looking like a superior Daxian just like Daxian looked like a superior Jorani. Being the ugly, ass-end of this trio wasn’t great for his self-esteem, but it’s not like he had a choice in the matter. Grabbing Jorani’s rucksack and rummaging through it, GangShu sighed and threw it back. “Well me boy, ye any good at Lightening?”

Blinking in confusion, Jorani didn’t understand why the rat-bastard had him dragged out of bed at this ungodly hour to question his Martial Skills. “Err.... I can do it, but not well. I dunno.” Truth was, there’d been a time when he’d have called himself a master of the skill thanks to all his practice climbing walls, trees, and other obstacles, but then, one lazy afternoon almost two years ago, he happened upon the Lady Mei Lin doing the obstacle course for fun. After seeing her hop over a ten meter wall and all but float back down to the ground, he didn’t even dare claim to be passable at Lightening, much less proficient.

“Tch. Well, do what ye can.” Obviously not expecting much, GangShu merely shrugged and sighed while tugging at Jorani’s belt, as if checking it for weaknesses. “I’d leave ye behind, but I wouldn’t put it past the Imperials to go to all this trouble just to trick me into taking orders, so yer ass is stuck with me. I figured this fer a cushy job, lookin’ after me whelps while they tag along with a Bekhai brat, but I’ll be damned if this ain’t almost more work than it’s worth.”

