What a load of horse shit. Four months on the front lines and GangShu acted once, and this was considered too much work? Then again, the rat-bastard probably never worked a full day in his life, an Ancestral Beast Divinity who’d been reborn as one of the most powerful beings in existence. What did he know about hard work? Maybe he toiled day in and day out as a mere steel rat, but Jorani doubted it. They were scavengers by nature, cowardly rodents who got their name not from a predisposition to Awakening, but rather because they ate anything and anything even remotely resembling food, hence their full name, Steel-Stomached rats.

He only found out a little while back, when he heard about the half-fox Gams and their penchant with the Blessing of Earth, but unfortunately, GangShu wasn’t just arrogant, he was pretentious too.

While Jorani looked down on his sire, the rat-bastard threw his rucksack back at him, alongside two others. “Best tie those together tight and loop em around yer neck,” GangShu said, favouring him with one of his fake charming grins which usually set every man and woman in sight to simpering, but only filled Jorani with disgust. “Keep em above yer waist too, just in case ye shit yer pants.”

Though annoyed he’d been relegated to luggage duty and made fun for it to boot, Jorani played along and did as he was told, because the alternative was to face the wrath of this horrifying beast in human form. Tying the knots tight, he looped the string of rucksacks high around his neck and said, “Good ‘nuff? So we goin’ anywhere or we just gon stand around?” Looking around, he asked, “Where the horses? Don’t tell me we gonna walk the whole way.”

“Nah, not walk, but it’s good to know yer eager. Try an’ hang onto that too.” There was something about GangShu’s delighted smile and Daxian’s genuine discomfort which Jorani didn’t like, but it was already too late. Disappearing from before his eyes, GangShu appeared behind Jorani and grabbed him by the belt, while doing the same to Daxian on the other side. “Alright then. Lighten yer body and close yer eyes, else the wind’ll peel yer eyelids back. Ain’t a pleasant experience Cloud-Stepping without a Domain, or at least that’s what Little Virtue says.”

“Wait, wh –”

GangShu didn’t wait, nor did he lie, and as the ground shrank away before his eyes, Jorani found out first hand just how unpleasant Cloud-Stepping could be.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

How long they’d travelled for, Jorani couldn’t say, because as soon as they reached the clouds, he’d passed out from sheer fright. When he came to, his world was shrouded in darkness and his eyes felt like they’d been stabbed a thousand times with daggers, so dry he worried that if he shut them, they’d never open again. Fumbling at his hip for a waterskin, he belatedly remembered he hadn’t brought one and opened his mouth to speak, but only a wordless wheeze came out.

Probably from too much screaming. Oh Mother in Heaven, the screaming...

Before panic or pain could set in, someone helped him sit up and pressed something into his trembling hands. “Drink,” an unfamiliar voice said, but he was beyond caring as the cup reached his lips and the cool, refreshing liquid surged into his parched mouth and down his tortured throat. Sobbing in sheer joy, he silently thanked this kind, merciful stranger and drank two more cups of water before saving a mouthful to wash his eyes. The pain was unlike anything he’d ever felt before, but he powered through the agony and blinked again and again until his vision finally cleared. Not much changed as it was still dark, but he could make out shapes and dim colours in the darkness around him, so he knew it was lack of light and not blindness which kept him from seeing clearly. Carefully dabbing at his eyes, the sleeves of his clothes came away red with blood before he realized he was being Healed. The warm energy surged out from the stranger’s hands and into Jorani’s body, repairing the damage GangShu’s Cloud-Stepping had done to his eyes, lungs, and all across his body wherever the high winds and low temperatures had done extensive damage.

Not a pleasant experience? Jorani would sooner let a horse pop his chrysanthemum than go through that again...

The next thing he knew, he was lying in a dark, unlit room with the windows shuttered tight, but before he could sit up for a proper look around, his benefactor’s hand pressed down on Jorani’s chest. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the voice said, kind and amused but holding a hint of exhaustion. “To save a life is better than building a seven-story pagoda, but if you get up and injure yourself again, then this monk will have no choice but to start construction.”

“Thank you for your help.” Remembering something about eyes needing time to adjust after Healing, Jorani avoided looking too hard and limply clasped his benefactor’s hand, both to show appreciation and seek comfort. A soft hand, with a thin wrist and wrinkled skin to go with a dreadfully thin and hunched man, but he couldn’t make out any more. “Might I have your name, good ser? So I know who to thank. Also, where are my er... companions?”

Chuckling, his benefactor replied, “This one is but a humble monk whose name is unimportant. You are here in the monastery, as are your companions. If you promise to remain still, then this monk will go fetch them.” Though he didn’t really want to talk to them, Jorani agreed and lay in the darkness until GangShu and Daxian shuffled in. Waiting until he was sure the shadowy outlines belonged to them, he said, “Would it have killed ye to suggest I wear an extra thick coat or something?”

The figure on the left shrugged and Daxian replied, “No one ever warned me.”

Not expecting such an embittered answer, Jorani faltered and choked back his stream of complaints. Yea, GangShu didn’t seem like the coddling type. “Well, whatever. At least we found the Penitent Brotherhood, and without Imperial meddling to boot. That’s something to be thankful fer. You find the others?”

“Nah. They ain’t here. Hang on.” Growling almost imperceptibly, GangShu paused for a long moment before continuing, “It ain’t safe to speak fer long. Since the Imperials ain’t interfering, we gotta take a good long look at these monks instead. Turns out there ain’t just one monastery, but hundreds of em, all scattered amongst these mountains. According to the wrinkled baldy outside, Fatty didn’t know this on account of only bein’ an initiate, and since the monks don’t keep track of their Abbot, him and Beardy just up and left fer the next location, hoping to get lucky and find him there.”

Fatty and Beardy? Wugang and Yelu Shi, probably. Poor bastards. “That don’t make sense,” Jorani said, so sleepy and comfortable he almost forgot himself. “Why didn’t they just leave the message and let the monks pass it along? Not like they had to deliver it to the Abbot himself.”

“Or send word back to keep me informed like I told em to?” GangShu replied, giving Jorani’s shoulder a pat. “Least yer noggin’ still works, eh? It don’t always go so well when I bring someone Cloud-Stepping, what with how fast and high I like to run. A risk, but it kept us safe, ye see? Hard to go unnoticed while zipping about the Empire, and there a lot of hidden monsters lurkin’ about who can get real particular about uninvited guests.” Chuckling as if it were all a big joke, he said, “Anyway, long and short of it is, since yer eyes are broked and ye gotta stay in darkness fer a few days, I’m leavin’ ye here while I follow in Fatty and Beardy’s footsteps.” Jorani never thought he’d thank the Mother for blinding him, even if it was temporary, but GangShu wasn’t finished. “I’ll take Daxian when I leave, but he’ll double back after a bit to watch over ye while you squeeze these chanting baldies fer whatever information you can get. There’s something off about em, these monks here, but they seem mighty interested in you, what with all their questions, so do what ye can, got it?”

“Sure.” Waving them both away, Jorani yawned and closed his eyes, exhausted from lack of sleep, his terrifying ordeal, and the subsequent Healing required to save his life. Seemed strange for GangShu to be so suspicious of monks, but he always said he was more rat than man, so he was probably suspicious of a lot of things. Maybe the scenery was so nice Wugang and Yelu Shi felt inspired to visit all the monasteries, or maybe they were tired of being called Fatty and Beardy so they were taking a much-needed vacation, but either way, the Penitent Brotherhood were well known across the Empire as devout Mother-lovers who spent their days whipping themselves bloody, likely in remorse of chopping their dicks off. What nefarious schemes could they possibly be up to?

Muttering an insincere good bye, Jorani willed himself back to sleep and hoped his dreams would once again be filled with barely clothed beauties. Since the Imperials weren’t involved, he figured the worst was behind them. After a few days rest, GangShu would be back with Wugang and Yelu Shi in tow, and they’d all have plenty of time to slowly walk back to Sinuji in time for the new year celebrations. Then again, even if there wasn’t enough time, Jorani would sooner crawl back on hands and knees and pay for a second wedding for Ral than go Cloud-Stepping again, at least not before he had a Domain of his own, whatever that was. Man was not meant to fly, that much was sure, and if he had his way, then the clouds would stay firmly above his head for the rest of his life, no matter how short it might be.

Hell, this wasn’t so bad. A nice little break from all the fighting on the front lines was just what Jorani needed, and who knows? Maybe there was a Penitent Sisterhood with an abbey nearby, and he could pay a visit to see how seriously they took their vows of celibacy.

He wasn’t a fan of the bald look, but sex-starved women with whips didn’t sound half bad, and Jorani still needed a date for Ral’s wedding...

Chapter Meme
