Ranthia made a piteous noise, but Avyna remained bereft of mercy. Ranthia took a deep breath or eight before she made her own way through the curtains, where the promised messages awaited her upon the table. The tightly folded, clean paper from her counselor promised a long message that discussed her fictional distant kin—all code that had to be translated, an obnoxious measure to ensure Ranthia’s privacy while she discussed her most private thoughts remotely with the woman—waited next to a neatly bound set of nine scrolls.

The letter that required Ranthia to use a book to transcribe the actual message (let alone reversing the process for her response) promised to be painful, so Ranthia shamelessly chose to forgo any and all pain for the moment. She untied the bundle and plucked the first scroll from the pile.

Salutations Sentinel,

I don’t know if this message will reach you, but the Ranger I spoke to said your name wasn’t on some wall, which meant you were alive. She always meant to write you, but the costs… Well, it’s not like we need the money set aside anymore. I—wait, are you writing all of this? Ugh. Just let me start over!

My apologies for that, Sentinel. I should lead with an explanation. My name is Lucima, I was the wife of a woman you were acquainted with, Hexara. My wife passed away last season. I recently rediscovered the various letters she planned to send to you. I am unable to bring myself to read them still, so I packaged the whole lot to have them delivered to you.

There’s something wrong with this city. My wife was far from the only one to become sickly and die here. The city officials continue to insist that nothing is amiss, but Hexara was never so weak when we lived in Ariminum. I wish I hadn’t brought her here. If there’s anything you can do…

Well, Hexara always spoke highly of you. I’ll end this here; this wonderful, scholarly gentleman is charging me by the word.

Ranthia stared blankly at the message, unable to move.

“<What is wrong, my love? Why are you crying?>”

Avyna’s gentle voice shook Ranthia out of her reverie. She hadn’t even noticed the tears that were flowing down her face. Ranthia carefully set the message aside and wiped at her eyes before she got tears on any of the vulnerable scrolls.

“<Sorry, Gemheart… Hexara, my ex that I told you about? She died.>” Ranthia explained, unable to quite keep the raw pain out of her tone.

By Xaoc, Hexara was still so young! She was only a few years older than Ranthia was…

…Not that Ranthia managed to recall how many years apart they had been. It hadn’t been much, had it? Three? Five? Eight at most, certainly. Probably less. That meant that Hexara had been under sixty when she passed.

That was less than half the life she should have lived, safe within a secure city.

“<My condolences, my love. I know that you had yet to work out things with what happened between the two of you. The mortals that we meet are all too often lost before we realize their time nears.>” Avyna offered soothing words while she hugged Ranthia gently from behind.

“<She should have lived far longer.>” Ranthia tried to explain, but it felt atypically difficult to form the words that she wanted to say.

“<I think that you will find that you shall often feel that way about mortals. …Oh, this is actually a good learning opportunity for you! You should create a form based on her! …Do not give me that look, my love, I am well aware that you dislike trying to copy the form of another person. What I was suggesting is that you could create a new form that uses her as an inspiration. Similar to when you created a form inspired by a combination of the two of us. I suggest doing the same for her, as a memento of her fleeting existence.>” Avyna’s words carried an unexpected note of anticipation.

The strange lilt to the words and the unexpected suggestion were enough to quash Ranthia’s half-baked argument about human lifespans.

“<Easy enough. But are you sure you won’t mind, Gemheart?>” Ranthia asked. She had created the image that Avyna spoke of as her idea of what their child could look like. She had come to accept that she was willing to indulge in physical pleasures alongside the woman she loved, but creating a faux-child with another woman felt like it was crossing some sort of line!

“<Not in the least. It will be good for you for many reasons. And I fully expect that this will convince you that you need an immortal memory skill like my [Chest of Experience].>” Avyna answered, before she kissed the back of each of Ranthia’s ears and stood.

“<It’s not that I don’t want one, it’s that I don’t have a slot!>” Ranthia repeated her usual response to Avyna’s insistence.

“<Finish reading your mail, then you shall see what I mean. I would love to stay and watch your upcoming struggle, my love, but I do have a meeting with the base commander shortly. Do not give in to your grief. I will see you soon.>” Avyna promised.

They shared a quick kiss before the elf hurried out. It was abrupt, but alas, Ranthia fell in love with a woman that considered being late to a business (or business-adjacent, it seemed) meeting to be the height of rudeness. Still, Ranthia had enough presence of mind to appreciate that her chosen partner had expertly defanged the grief that had briefly overwhelmed her. The pain was still there, but Ranthia felt ready to face her grief—just as she had been taught.

The rest of the scroll set contained eight letters, written in Hexara’s own hand with smudged charcoal. Many of the scrolls were left incomplete, but they still painted a picture of the life of the woman that Ranthia had once hoped to pledge her heart to and grow old alongside.

In the first scroll, Hexara wrote to Ranthia. She had just moved across Remus to the city that was established when the formorians were defeated once and for all, Augusta. Her wife had a great piece of property through her uncle, so they chose to move. The house was, in Hexara’s words, gorgeous and airy. And she and her wife were saving up so Hexara could open her own salon, as the competition was both minimal and run by men. Which meant that Hexara was all kinds of confident that she would do wonderfully in their new home.

In the second scroll—also addressed to Ranthia—Hexara had just put in an offer for what she described as the perfect location. It had been a bit expensive, but her wife’s family offered to loan them the money. The tone of the letter was bubbly and excited, but it was tragically unfinished and cut off partway through Hexara’s descriptions of her future business’ layout.

In the third scroll, Hexara’s salon had just opened. Hexara had been forced to delay the grand opening because she came down with a minor ailment, but she was mostly grateful that her wife never caught the sickness. She wrote the letter between customers; it was disjointed but it painted a picture of a woman confident that she had found her calling in life.

The fourth scroll was a bit more somber. Hexara had hired her first employee but almost immediately thereafter she became ill again. She was impatient to return to work and much of the letter lamented how many extra burdens she had accidentally put on the younger woman that she hired. There was also a section at the end that suggested that the employee might make a good match for Ranthia if she ever settled down from her Ranger career, though someone had made an effort to rub those charcoal words off of the scroll, which left them faint.

The fifth scroll, the final one that was addressed to Ranthia, had an unmistakably defiant tone. Hexara had heard that Ranthia was dead, but she refused to believe it and was writing in protest of the news. Her wife had hired a [Healer] that was advising Hexara to rest, but she was stubbornly manning the front desk of her business. She even noted that she was planning to give her newest employee some pointers as soon as she finished writing the message, though the next section only bore an incomplete thought about hoping Ranthia would visit someday.

The sixth scroll was the first that was written for Sentinel Grace, rather than Ranthia. Hexara thanked her for surviving—literally, “thank you for surviving” were the first words after the greeting—and proudly boasted that she would continue to survive too. Allegedly, every time they splurged for a [Healer] she was renewed, but within a season she would be forced to use her cane again. Yet she refused to let a little weakness get her down. She had four employees and her shop’s future was bright, which meant that her mood was bright, no matter how her body betrayed her.

The seventh scroll was largely focused on Hexara’s wife. Hexy wrote about how grateful she was to have met a woman who truly cared for her and supported her. She had been bedridden—again—but had recently recovered. The word choices implied that she carried more than a bit of guilt about what she put her wife through, and the letter ended, unfinished, shortly after Hexara pledged (most likely to herself) that she would start taking better care of herself.

In the final scroll, Hexara spoke of problems at her salon. Two of her trained stylists had left for a competitor that promised better pay and more reliable ownership. Her new front desk girl was like her—sickly and chronically weak—but Hexara wrote that she was confident that the young woman could handle the front desk. Though she confessed that she mostly hired the girl to help her earn money for treatments. But Hexara’s own condition had deteriorated further—Ranthia could tell from the moment she opened the scroll. Her ex’s handwriting was larger and clumsier than it had ever been, and near the end of a rambling section about her business’ escalating expenses, Hexara offhandedly mentioned that her eyes seemed to be struggling a bit as of late. Hexara also stated that her wife had been trying to convince her to tap into their emergency funds to visit a [Healer] again, but Hexara chose the path of stubbornness and believed that she would once again improve on her own.

The scroll was unfinished, and the final words were so poorly written that they remained beyond Ranthia’s ability to parse out their meaning.

Ranthia sat with the scrolls around her until she felt too agitated to keep sitting still. She penned a quick message to Sentinel Night about strange deaths and health problems in Augusta and asked if there was anything the Remus-assigned Sentinels could look into. After a quick trip out of her home to see that letter sent off, Ranthia shifted into a fresh body—her face had gotten sticky and messy again at some point—and settled in to make the image Avyna had suggested.

Ranthia had improved immeasurably in her creativity and consistency with her images since she made the image of her fictional daughter with Avyna. Across the board she had grown—substantially. A single glance at her System-generated sheet proved it. Each number increased Ranthia’s confidence that she could make a new image of her own appearance blended with Hexara readily. A way to remember a woman that she had once found some form of love with.

[Name: Ranthia]

[Species: Human]

[Age: 50]

[Mana: 596335/633420]

[Mana Regen Rate: 403547]

[Stats:]

[Free Stats: 0]

[Strength: 40327]

[Dexterity: 82123]

[Vitality: 82846]

[Speed: 80633]

[Mana: 63342]

[Mana Regeneration: 76438]

[Magic Power: 64381]

[Magic Control: 52302]

[Class 1: [Diffuse Reflectance – Mirror (695)]]

[Mirror Spirit: 695]

[Scattered Reflections: 695]

[Echoes Reflected: 370]

[Pure Reflections: 695]

[Persistent Imagery: 695]

[Ideal Reflectance: 695]

[Distorted Likeness: 303]

[Reflections of Reality: 467]

[Class 2: [She who Dances with Chaos – Void (708)]]

[Void Affinity: 708]

[Rhythmic Grace: 708]

[Void Edge: 708]

[Flowing Momentum: 708]

[Vision of the Void: 708]

[Sustained Chaos: 660]

[Echoes of Devastation: 708]

[True Grace: 454]

[Class 3: [Harbinger – Magic Metal (208)]]

[Magic Metal Authority: 208]

[Adamant Commander: 208]

[Unbreakable: 208]

[Mine!: 107]

[Adamantium Symbiosis: 208]

[One With Chaos: 177]

[Higher Power: 182]

[General Skills:]

[Divine-Touched Identify: 708]

[Ranthia’s Covenant with Xaoc: 208]

[Sentinel’s War Supremacy: 708]

[Submind: 708]

[Combat Awareness: 708]

[Fast Learner: 523]

[Image Recall: 400]

[Sexy: 447]

The young woman that Ranthia envisioned would be based off of Ranthia’s 18-year-old image and, as an easy place to start, she would give the image Hexara’s eyes. The green of that tiny gem on those rings that Ranthia still kept in their safe box was easy to picture; she saw her treasures somewhat often when she felt a need to assess the few relics of her past that she still owned. Okay, yes, Hexara’s eyes were a few levels away from that exact shade of green and Ranthia couldn’t remember if it was higher or lower, but that was a minor detail—the exact shade from the rings was good enough! And most of the general features were even easier. Hexara had a somewhat more generous bust than Ranthia, which she chose to adopt for the image, along with Hexara’s somewhat paler skin tone. Honestly, nothing about the exercise seemed particularly daunting.

And then she hit the nose.

Hexara’s nose… Ranthia just couldn’t seem to recall its shape. It had been a touch bigger than Ranthia’s own, she was fairly certain, but beyond that…

Okay, that was weird, but Ranthia refused to freak herself out over it. Even if she had always trusted her memory implicitly, it was a minor detail. Heck, she tended to pay little attention to noses in general, so it even made sense. She was fine, things were going well overall.

