“What are your options? We haven't spoken of them.” Sarya asked lightly, and Nathan realized he hadn’t described them while the other Heirs were talking. He hesitated before sharing, but decided that it was worth the downsides. Getting her advice was useful enough to offset the issues.

After he was done, she had a firm answer for him. “Death of Legends. Such classes allow you to challenge even somebody who has set their build against you. It is a hidden power to surprise any that work to counter your antimagic. And..." she trailed off, face set in a glower as if struggling against something. “You will need it in the Conclave.”

Nathan rolled his eyes at that cryptic hint, but nodded at her advice. He’d already been leaning towards Death of Legends before this; now he was just more certain. “Alright. I’ll wait a bit, but probably do that. Why don’t more people have two classes?”

“Because the classes are orthogonal,” Sarya replied with a shrug. “It is a matter of much discussion, how to achieve two combat classes. Most early Questors attempted two classes until they succeeded, though Davrar exacts a punishing effort for it, and rarely is the second class useful in many situations.” She pointed at him. “Your classes are closer than most I’ve heard of, across my time on Davrar. Both focus on combat, but at angles. One is an open brawler class with a focus on countering magic, the other is a killer in the shadows that has developed to focus more on death in any circumstance.”

She turned that finger on herself. “My second class is a messenger class, built to travel quickly and stealthily and reach my destination unhindered. But many of the skills only work if I am unknown to enemies. It complements my thief class, but only in limited ways.”

“So - I’m special?” Nathan asked with a light smile.

“Loved by Davrar,” Sarya said with a snort. "It's a joke, but a real one. I have known it to happen to mortals before. Those who charge into risk again and again for their principles. It was written into the founding of Davrar, to reward great anchors of civilization with true power.”

“Great anchors?” Nathan asked, feeling like he was continually asking the Questor for definitions. But she hadn’t gotten tired of him doing so yet.

“The great people, who define the change of eras,” she replied casually. “Don’t place too much calculation on it. It is but a single prompt to reward those who change the times, to see if they will continue doing so. We sought to determine if it was singular people who caused great changes, or underlying pressures. Nothing but a reminder of the early days of our study, but it explains some of your uniqueness. It will not protect you from death, merely see you benefit more from Davrar’s gifts than others.”

Nathan hummed a bit, wondering if he should tell the Heirs, or even let this "great anchor" thing guide his actions at all. After a bit of thought, he decided against it. Sarya hadn’t told him anything definite, and also didn’t seem to think it was a big deal. Furthermore, it didn’t really change anything. He’d taken risks, and would continue to do so. But Davrar wouldn’t protect him from death, merely give him the rewards that came from overcoming the challenges he undertook.

He let the conversation lapse and turned his gaze upwards to the world above. He’d gotten quite a lot to think about from Sarya, and she seemed willing to give him time for that thought.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 729

Regenerative Focus: 7390/7390

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 5

Mystical Discernment 7

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 9

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 7

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 7
