“Speaking of spies…why don’t we check on someone before we visit the inn, yes? I hear Miss Imani is holding a…a…class? In the city.”
The other Gnolls raised their brows.
“A class?”
 
—-
 
“The first step is to cut the squash into roughly one inch cubes. We’re going to bake it, so let’s all do that.”
Imani grabbed the butternut squash, fresh from Oteslia, and began peeling the outer rind with well, a peeler. Shreds came off and the Gnolls and Drakes in her cooking tutorial class copied her.
Elirr and the other two Gnolls peeked in the windows—before someone coughed.
“You have to pay for instruction—wait, is that Elirr?”
Palt had caught the three Gnolls. The Centaur was smoking as per usual and the stern look he gave to the three peeking into the window of the large kitchen rented to Imani for the day turned to one of surprise.
“Er, hello Palt. We were only checking in on Imani.”
The [Illusionist] blinked at Elirr’s shamefaced look. Also—the hat and rather conspicuous long coats each Gnoll was wearing.
“I…see. Well, she’s teaching the [Cooks] and [Chefs].”
“Teaching?”
“Some of The Wandering Inn’s recipes. Cakes, cookies—anything they want. It beats people stealing her recipes every time she comes out with something. Not that…it’s a problem anymore.”
Because The Wandering Inn was closed. Elirr’s ears drooped.
“Is she working, then?”
“What? Oh, yes. At The Drunken Gnoll. The inn run by Timbor Parthian?”
“Ah, the new Human inn. That is good. That is…well, we just wanted to see how she was doing.”
The three Gnolls apologized. Palt hesitated then waved it off. He exhaled a ring of smoke from his cigar.
“…If it’s you, it’s probably fine. Come in. Just watch from afar.”
 
—-
 
Inside, Imani was teaching her first class of [Cooks] her recipes. She’d started with one of her breakfasts. Which included cubed, baked squash—until it was tender and firm, seasoned just right—that was just the side, obviously.
She had decided to offer it after one spy too many. Of course…much had changed since then, but Imani had decided to do it anyways. Just because she didn’t have to cook all the time at Timbor’s inn; he might not have Erin’s Skill, but he had invested in Runes of Preservation like any good [Innkeeper] so he had his own ‘stock’ of fresh foods.
Imani had run into a problem, though. Which was that the crowd of about thirty or so people taking her lesson weren’t all on the same page.
They were about six to a table, since it was a waste of food and time for each person to work on the dish. And it was hands—or paws—or claws-on work. But Imani saw one group of [Apprentice Cooks] struggling.
One group of impatient Drakes had already peeled their entire squash, sliced it open, removed the pulpy, seedy core, and begun cubing it. They were clearly the advanced crowd. As good as Lasica, well nearly…
Poor Lasica. Imani swallowed hard as she thought of that. She hadn’t seen either Lasica or Rufelt since…
Anyways. The apprentices were in trouble.
“Are you having a hard time with the peeler?”
They were only a quarter done. The Drake looked embarrassed as another apprentice clearly wanted to take it and do a good job.
“Sorry, Master Imani—I’m just having a tough time!”
He’d hit his hand twice. Imani stared at him.
The Drake was using the peeler—much like the ones from her world, a type of blade on a handle, to peel the hard rind of a squash off. Obviously it wasn’t the easiest thing because the squash was gourd-shaped. But still.
He was peeling towards himself as he held the squash sideways. Imani slowly took the squash and tilted it.
“…It might be your technique. Why don’t you peel down like so, and…?”
The Drake tried it. He gasped.
“That’s so easy!”
Gravity and the cutting board meant he wasn’t in danger of hitting his scales every time he cut. The rind came away.
“Dead gods, what have I been doing with my life?”
The other apprentices groaned—but two looked like they shared the unlucky Drake’s opinion. Imani shook her head as she joined the other tables.
“Sorry for the delay.”
“Hah. We’re paying for lessons, not hand-holding.”
One of the [Chefs] groused. He’d created perfect cubes of squash. Imani half-agreed; she felt like it might be a waste of his time.
“I’m sorry, Chef…?”
“Remiss. I work at the Tailless Thief? I’m here to learn your secrets.”
The Drake nodded to Imani. He was stiff—a tad bit unfriendly, but perhaps it was warranted. The other [Cooks] and [Chefs] murmured.
There was a pecking order among the culinary elite. Imani had never been in that world before coming here; she was an amateur cook!
Now, a dedicated one, perhaps soon to be [Chef] herself. She nodded to Remiss politely.
“Thank you for coming, Chef Remiss. I hope not to waste your time. This is my first cooking class…”
“…And we were not expecting one of Liscor’s finest [Chefs] about. Chef Remiss, amazing knife work. I’m a fan of the art of cooking myself. Can I offer you something to smoke? Chew?”
A voice. Imani brightened as Palt clip-clopped over. He offered around cigars, spliffs—the Drakes and Gnolls brightened.
“Never in the kitchen when cooking!”
Remiss glowered, but relented as he saw the smoke from Palt’s cigar being trapped in a ‘safety bubble’. He took the cigar, though, sniffed it, and tucked it away.
“I’ll have one later. You must be that Centaur.”
“Palt, [Illusionist] of Wistram at your service.”
The Centaur bowed from the torso. The others introduced themselves as the apprentices got their squashes ready.
“[Line Cook], Errez—I’m doing work at a number of restaurants…”
“I’ve seen you about. I’m a [Soup Chef]. Veriny. You can find me at the Crab Bowl—we’re not as fancy, but I had to learn how to make a ‘cookie’…”
“Surely, you mean sous-chef?”
“No, I know what I meant.”
There were a number of high-level cooks in the audience! Imani gulped, but Palt gave her an encouraging wink. She hurried over to her demonstration table in the center of the room.
“Is everyone done? Well then, I like to apply the following. Some olive oil, a bit of pepper, s—”
One of the apprentices upended the pepper all over their bowl. Imani heard a cry of dismay, and coughed as a stinging cloud hit her nostrils. Palt waved his finger urgently and the pepper cloud whirled back to the bowl.
The other [Chefs] and [Cooks] stared at the same Drake with the peeling problem. He hung his head. Imani hesitated.
“…We can wash the squash. As I was saying?”
 
—-
 
They were done with the squash when Imani realized there were multiple levels of her class, as if that hadn’t been obvious. She turned to Palt.
“Can you…demonstrate the rest of the breakfast dish?”
“It’s just the hamburger on rice, right? And I know a few more. I can take over.”
“Thank you. I’m just going to get the recipes.”
The Centaur clip-clopped over to the demonstration table and smiled.
“Cook Imani is just going to get some reference materials. If you’re with me—let’s go over making the ground beef into patties. Have you all washed your hands?”
Some of the class were watching intently. But about…twelve of the thirty were looking impatient. Like Remiss. Imani hurried over and beckoned them.
“Excuse me? I have the recipes of what we’re going to make today. If you’d like, I can run through them with you while Palt goes step-by-step.”
She presented them with a small sheaf of neatly-copied recipes and instructions, with ingredients, measurements—all done by a [Scribe], very cheap.
Remiss, who had been folding his claws and glowering, blinked.
“You have the recipe books? And you’re just…giving them away?”
“Yes. I was going to hand them out after the class, but I didn’t realize you knew all the techniques. I would not want to waste your time…here.”
She handed them out to the higher-level [Chefs] and [Cooks] she’d noticed. The Drakes, Gnolls, and one Human looked at each other as they paged through.
“Mm. This is easy to understand! Not like some home-recipes I’ve had to copy. Thank you! I don’t think there’s much—certainly not the breakfasts. Good cooking! Thank you for the recipe, but I don’t need to know how to make a hamburger. Figured it out after four tries myself. Only trick was cooking it just right.”
One of the Gnolls commented. The others nodded. One frowned and raised a hand.
“Ah—I’d like to see the ice cream process, actually. And your technique making…what is this? A croissant? Intriguing.”
Imani was only too happy to show them. She waved at Palt, then took over the advanced class for a run through of what she’d go through with the others later.
It was refreshing to be around, well, experts who enjoyed something as much as you did. That was why Imani and Palt had somehow met. The Centaur had kept wandering in to ask how she’d prepared a dish and they got to talking about recipes, techniques…
And cooking was fun. Something Erin never really understood. She enjoyed serving food, but—Imani pushed the thoughts out of the way as she talked animatedly.
“So this technique is actually hard to do in a place with a [Preservation] spell. I actually had to ask…had to ask for a space without the effect to let the aging process take place for about four days. In a refrigerated place, though! So our patty is actually going to be poached in said butter as it melts…”
“This is decadent.”
“Heinous. I can’t wait to make some of these.”
Some of the Drakes and Gnolls were discussing the technique—one among many. They had varying fields of knowledge; the [Soup Chef] could have taught everyone about soups, for instance, but Imani was explaining some of the more esoteric ideas to them. They watched as Imani began to poach said hamburger in the butter wrap…
“I’d never have the time to personally prepare some of the meals with how much food I have to serve during the busy hours. Well, that’s what an apprentice is for.”
Remiss commented to another [Cook] and the man nodded. Everyone winced as someone dropped a bowl from the junior-instructional area. Imani didn’t even have to look to guess who it was, from the apologizing voice.
“Who is that klutz?”
Remiss was outraged. A Gnoll—Errez—murmured.
“That must be Cepil. Young lad—recently apprenticed. You’d never guess it, but amazingly precise at telling when something’s perfectly done. Give him a steak and he’ll make it medium-rare even if the heat’s twice as hot as it should be. Not even a Skill, just good temperature-sense.”
“Well, he’s not ready to learn any of this. Why did his master pay to let him…?”
“Ah. Remiss? His master—Yen? She’s dead. Army versus Hectval.”
Imani’s fingers slipped as she was cutting up some nuts. A hand darted out—Remiss caught the knife a second before it could slash her. Shaken, she stopped.
“I’m sorry. Thank you—”
“Think nothing of it. I see. And no one’s taken him in?”
“Not a one. Not that Yen was ever good at teaching the basics. Did you see the way she cut up…?”
The [Cooks] and [Chefs] were laughing, talking, but sadly. Even here, the aftereffects were present. Imani turned to look at the Drake apprentice in a new light.
So did Remiss.
“Well, someone should take him under their wing. I’ll put up with him in my kitchens, at least until he stops dropping everything in sight.”
“Excuse me—we’re just doing frosting now. Decorations for the cake you wanted?”
Imani adjusted the cooking hamburger example. The others jumped.
“Terribly sorry, Cook Imani.”
Some of them ducked their heads. Imani shook hers.
“No—it’s fine. I was just wondering, is that how it works? You apprentice to a master? Can’t he learn any other way?”
One of the Gnolls scratched his ear. He was very careful about getting hair in his food, Imani noticed, and stood well back from her work space.
“If he has the talent and drive? He’s fine to. But otherwise he should get a good master. Mind you—not all can teach properly. My master never taught me how to properly debone a fish. Never learned; his one weakness each spring. That was how he died.”
“He choked to death on a fish bone in his dish? That’s awful.”
A female Drake commented. The Gnoll gave her a crooked smile.
“No. Someone else nearly did and they stabbed him.”
Imani shivered. The others shook their heads.
“Different standards of teaching. You can see it—see that Drake over there? The girl so artfully doing everything? Her master is Tell Rissiel. I’m sure she’ll be an amazing [Chef].”
Imani listened as she mixed up some frosting and coated a demo-cake. Then served everyone a slice. They nodded appreciatively, asking her about toppings. Had she ever tried meats? Imani suspected there might be some weird cakes coming out of Liscor soon.
“So there’s no school for new cooks?”
“School? Like some…some…well, no!”
One of the Drakes snorted as he took a bite of his cake. He shook his head, chewing.
“Good cake. No, we were all surprised you even were holding this class. Normally we fight tooth-and-claw over recipes.”
“Well, I’m happy to share these ones if you all stop stealing my techniques! Anyways, I have more. These are just the basic ones.”
They all laughed at the first part, and then narrowed their eyes at the second. Imani sighed. Cooking was cutthroat in a world where a new recipe or a sudden rush of customers could mean a new level and thus Skill.
“But how long do apprentices take? Can’t they all take a…a class like this and learn how to do everything for a year or a few months?”
“That sounds like an apprenticeship but with more steps, Cook Imani. We’d still need to teach them more.”
“Yes, but it would stop…that.”
Palt had to halt the lesson again as he stopped the luckless Drake from using a chopping technique that was going to lose him a claw sooner or later. The other [Chefs] and [Cooks] looked at each other.
“I wouldn’t say ‘no’ if there was one. But who would want to teach all day? For that matter—we’re [Cooks]. We don’t enjoy training up good apprentices. I know I curse each time a senior one decides to leave. I’d pay proper [Cooks] as assistants if it wasn’t so expensive.”
A Gnoll sighed. Imani half-shook her head at the way they thought. The idea of institutionalized schooling, a system for it? It made so much sense to her—
But she saw how it was hard to occur naturally. Someone had to plan it out. Teaching was a skill, an actual skill, not Skill, and you had to find someone willing to teach it all.
