Ulvama was setting a trap with her staff under one of the tables. Both Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were watching her out of the corner of their eye as they ate silently.
Crimshaw glanced up. He blinked at Bird.
“In the city?”
“Where in the city? What kind of shop?”
“A…stables? I’m sure they provide one with the horses.”
“I see.”
The Worker walked past them. He ignored Ulvama—she warily eyed him. Bird stopped at the door.
“Thank you.”
The Brothers looked at each other, but then they silently touched their hats. They did not ask questions. Sometimes a man needed a wagon.
Mrsha the Sad watched Ulvama from the basement’s steps. Eyes narrowed. Apista buzzed quietly on her head.
Someone was bumping on the ceiling. The two Brothers were talking about ‘relief shifts’ coming in. Ulvama was chuckling to herself and Bird was counting coins he’d taken from the purse and talking about paying Selys back afterwards.
Mrsha paid attention to none of it. Someone was probably having sex upstairs. And her focus and ire was directed at her.
Ulvama. The [Shaman] had been laying traps! Mrsha had heard Selys get got. But she was clever. Now she’d eaten, she had used her brain.
She could see magic. She was a [Druid]. Ulvama thought she was stupid, but Mrsha was smart. She could see the runes if she squinted. The [Shaman] was hiding them, but Mrsha knew better. And Mrsha was going to…to…
Trip Ulvama? Lure her into a trap? Hit her with a rock? Put poo in her hair?
These were all options. But Mrsha did not feel any particular one was sound. Because she was conflicted.
She was angry at Ulvama. She had been furious when Apista had rescued her. But then…as she plotted making Ulvama fall into her trap and beating her, Mrsha had thought again.
Ulvama was mean. But she hadn’t been…cruel. She’d kicked and poked Mrsha, but she’d also made Mrsha…eat food?
And the things she had said. Mrsha frowned and lurked. She listened.
“Stupid hungry Gnolls. Stupid hungry broken Goblin. Need good food. Why all food in here all weird?”
Ulvama had found pizza, popcorn, hamburgers, even ice cream and cookies, all of which puzzled the Hobgoblin who had never seen any of it before. She turned and watched as the two Brothers finished their lunch and stood.
“Change of shifts. Be out of your way, Miss.”
One of them tipped their hat to her. The Hobgoblin nodded at them, clearly taken aback as two more replaced them, walking into the killing-corridor without a word. Mrsha stared as Ulvama edged back—then looked around.
“Food. Feed them…? Weird foods. Hm.”
Feed them. She was trying to do all this to feed Mrsha? Almost like she cared. Mrsha’s eyes narrowed. She didn’t believe it.
Maybe…maybe the bothering her was to get her to eat. Maybe. But that was maybe. Mrsha crept after the Hobgoblin. Stealth Mrsha, activated. Apista got left behind because she was not Stealth Apista yet.
The Gnoll had Skills. [Natural Concealment] wasn’t as good as Ulvama’s camouflage; Mrsha just tended to be unnoticed unless you focused. But that was still useful.
The Hobgoblin marched into the kitchen. And there her helpful monologue halted. Mrsha listened, but there was no hope for it. She peeked around the edge of the kitchen.
Ulvama was investigating the cupboards and food again, sans voice. She was smacking her lips, trying the guacamole, spitting out some fishy Gnoll sauce, grumbling. She seemed to be hunting for ‘good foods’.
Veggies, probably. Another reason to despise…Mrsha hesitated as Ulvama pulled out an entire steak and made an approving noise.
“Mm.”
Healthy for Goblins differed from the Lyonette-Erin methodology, apparently. Ulvama seemed to want more, though.
“Chewy.”
She grumbled. Mrsha wondered if she was looking for something for her. Ulvama pulled out a shrimp linguini that Imani had made and brightened up.
“Ooh! What is this? Fancy.”
She looked around, then found a fork and began to eat. Mrsha rolled her eyes. But her stomach rumbled. She…felt some of her anger ebbing.
What was she doing? Mrsha hung her head. She should be mourning Erin, not being hungry or interested in the Hobgoblin! Be sad! Be sadder. She wasn’t sad enough. She was ashamed for being distracted from her grief.
She was about to pad away when Ulvama began choking on a shrimp. It wasn’t the fault of Imani not…deboning shrimp…but just the fact that the Hob was gobbling and one went down the wrong tube.
Ulvama hecked the shrimp onto the floor and gasped.
“Aah! Stupid thing!”
She put the meal down, appetite suppressed and went back to searching the cupboards. All things being equal, Mrsha would have left her to it. She’d just been making sure Ulvama didn’t die and didn’t need a punch on the back to get the shrimp out. Just because the inn had had enough dead Goblins. Not because she liked Ulvama.
She was thinking of a place to hide—maybe the rooftop or Bird’s tower—when Ulvama gasped.
“Cold! Cold place!”
She danced back from a cupboard. Mrsha saw frost billow out and realized Ulvama had found…it.
The sacred source. The font of goodness. The freezer from which ice cream and other delightful sugary snacks were kept. It was in a pair of cupboards higher up, out of range of Mrshas unless the kitchen was empty.
And it was a proper freezer. The Hobgoblin was astounded.
“How is this possible? There was no rune…”
There was even frozen ice up there, in wooden ice cube trays that Erin had made. Ice in your drink was normally something you paid for. Here? It was one of the reasons why people paid Lyonette’s prices. Ice in your drink. You had to know to ask, but regulars like Menolit liked having it all the time.
But why was ice here? Ulvama was confused.
“Preservation Skill in the inn? No. That doesn’t work. Why is this place cold? Strange. Strange…”
She narrowed her eyes and dug around in the freezer. Mrsha heard a gasp and knew what she’d found.
A lantern. It was probably running low unless Ishkr had replaced the fuel, but it burned for long periods. This flame, at least. It was the source of the cold. Actually—four lanterns were enough for freezing in a cold environment.
A cheap freezer. Cheaper than Hedault’s work, and he could have done it, or Montressa or Palt. Freezing was not hard if you had enough money, just like the preservation spell.
It was just The Wandering Inn’s style to do it this way, though. Mrsha felt a pang. She turned her head as Ulvama investigated the lantern. It was probably shuttered to avoid depressing anyone; it grew cold either way. And Mrsha was sad enough…
Or maybe not sad enough. She peeked. What could the flame do to her anyways? She deserved that too, for she was Doombringer. She was d—
Ulvama stood, holding the opened lantern facing her. Mrsha could not see the blue, beautifully painful flame of sadness and guilt and loss. But she knew what it looked like.
What she did see was Ulvama. The Hobgoblin’s crimson eyes were open, staring.
Tears were running down her face, dripping down her cheeks and chin and onto the floor. Her eyes were wide. Her face contorted by grief.
Mrsha stared. She had not expected this. Somehow—childishly—she had forgotten that Ulvama was a person. That maybe she had reasons to be sad. She just seemed so bossy or mean or…
The Hobgoblin’s arms shook. She reached to close the shutter. But then seemed unable to. She leaned on the counter. And then her body was shaking. Her chest heaved as more tears fell from her eyes. So many.
She collapsed in the blue glow, onto the floor, weeping silently. Mrsha saw her shaking. The little Gnoll stared. Then crept forwards.
 
—-
 
…all of them, dead. Thousands upon thousands. Tens of thousands. Each one she had known. Dead. 
Dead! Slaughtered. The Great Chieftain of the Mountain, who had met his end without fleeing.
As it was. As it always was. Ulvama tried to stop. But the flame burned her. She tried to stop crying—but she could not.
She had failed them. She was tribeless. Worthless. And that was only what had happened recently. Too much. It was all there, burning like a dagger in her chest. Cold flame. She was—
Click. The tiny sound was matched by the pain welling up in her shutting off. Ulvama gasped and jerked. She looked up.
The lantern with the dreadful flame was closed. Someone had shut it. Not her.
A little white Gnoll stared down at her from the counter. She had done it. Seen Ulvama’s suffering and…
Something like recognition flickered in Mrsha’s eyes. She slowly watched as Ulvama drew herself up. The two regarded each other in silence. After a second, Ulvama drew breath.
Another fire? She looked at the little Gnoll. Mrsha did not run. She saw Ulvama reach out and then steady herself on the counter. She nodded to the girl.
“Good little Gnoll-child.”
They looked at each other a second time. After a second, Mrsha sat on the counter and began eating the linguini. Ulvama joined her after a second. And she noticed it still burning.
Hope. But…had it changed? Because now it spoke to her like something else. Perhaps…
Kindness.
 
—-
 
A Worker paid for a wagon. A young woman stood in a theatre, leaving Liscor and the inn behind.
Armored and armed Antinium trained for war.
How they moved on. How things changed. Had they all given up on her? No—no, but what did you do?
Everything had failed. Magic—true magic—was difficult to obtain. And it seemed like the best, one of the only hopes had failed.
The Summer Solstice. So much work, for what? For naught. For despair.
For, in fact, worse than where the world had been before that. For…things…coming back. Nothing. A rift between the worlds. The flight of the fae.
All for nothing. Seemingly.
At first glance. It was true that terrible things had happened. That the best had not come to pass and the worst might have instead.
But something had been kept. Something had been brought in that time of times, from worlds apart. Perhaps it was nothing. But…the young woman sat on the bed and pondered it.
A plastic dagger. So it had seemed. A gift of the Faerie King. She spoke as she held it in her hands, in this world apart.
“Oh my god I broke it.”
Ryoka bit her tongue and felt a lurch in her chest. She desperately—
Tap, tap, vring.
The last sound was…technological. Impossible to replicate, surely, without a level of technology or instruments not accessible to a medieval world.
Ryoka Griffin had once heard that the sci-fi shooting effects for Star War’s blasters had come from someone throwing stuff at power lines. It was not that sound, not by far. Vring was a good way to describe it, but it had that quality that sounded so—foreign.
Alien. She stared at the…blade…and gulped.
“Um. Never mind.”
A plastic dagger. In the land of the fae, Ryoka had met, well, a group of space-people. Possibly aliens. Possibly.
…Probably. But they had been dressed like a bad, 90’s cosplay of an astronaut or space trooper, complete with toy guns and so on. Which made sense since perspective had meant a lot there.
And their weapons had been about as effective against the fae. Even Ryoka had walked through their attacks like it was nothing.
But she had known it was not. It was just technology versus a pure kind of magic. It wasn’t their fault.
Anyways. From that encounter she hadn’t done much other than help them survive and introduce them to a weapon—which might have been a kid with a stick or a young Dragon wielding an artifact.
It was a weird place. But the bottom line was that when she had left, one of them had, at the Faerie King, Oberon’s request, handed her one of the plastic daggers they’d been carrying.
It had looked like a cheap dagger there. Clearly plastic, not even entirely solid. One of those toys you could break with your bare fingers and bent with your first thrust while playing about. Ryoka had owned one; possibly why it had looked like it to her.
Here?
Well—she hit a ‘button’ and the blade vanished. Ryoka eyed the blank space.
“No afterimages. Right—right. Don’t want to blind the holder. And I just…”
She inspected the weapon of the future. It looked like, well…a hilt. Yes, that was it exactly.
A hilt—meant to be held in a grip slightly different than Ryoka’s. She eyed the contouring, felt at the difference in her fingers than this thing’s.
A different hand, and the material was—well, not plastic. And yet, not a metal. Call it a super-plastic? She’d gingerly, gingerly tried to scratch at it with her sharp steel dagger. Then really put her back into it.
Not so much as a scratch. The steel reacted as if it were smooth, unable to even find a grip except on the grip section and there it hadn’t left a mark. But that was just the vague outline. A rough hilt, complete with a crossguard.
Where it differed was that there was a kind of glass-plexiglass covering from the handle. The entire material was a type of reddish material, dark red.
Red like Mars for martians? No, that was stupid. But it did have a lovely, subtle pattern of the reds and faint oranges mixed in.
Yet the handle was not a sheer hilt minus a sword. It had, well, buttons.
To be more accurate? Ryoka didn’t see actual buttons like on a remote or controller. She saw the distinct colorations against the grip, blue, brown, marked with little symbols that glowed when she touched them.
One even in the grip. So if you squeeze like s—
The blade projected outwards and Ryoka drew a breath. Carefully, she swung the blade down.
It went through the floorboards. Ryoka cursed.
“Oh sh—”
She relaxed her grip and something in the weapon detected it. The blade went out. Ryoka bit her lip.
A perfect line in the floor, very thin. And very cut. Ryoka observed a few more things.
“No smoke. It’s not hot or cold…ff—”
She cut her finger on the cut on the floor. It was so damn sharp! Ryoka blew on her finger and put a bit of healing potion on it.
“Also? Sharp as hell.”
Of course it was. The blade looked like it might be some kind of concentrated plasma, but that would indicate heat. Maybe it was—Ryoka had no real idea. Hardened light? That was something she’d heard in a sci-fi, she thought. Yes, if you could constrain it to a matrix, why not make a perfect cutting edge? If that was what it was. It could be some other thing entirely. Maybe a…a magnetic field containing some other energy or material she couldn’t fathom?
But she thought the blade was beautiful. A glowing, semi-transparent edge. Orange, and Ryoka believed the depth of color was not one her eyes could process, forming a double-edged blade about as long as a longsword. Light as a feather.
She wanted to say it. But she thought it was embarrassing. But she wanted to say it was a…luminescent…sword…
The hardlight blade was sharp as a razor. Yet, Ryoka was certain, it was not the only thing this object was capable of.
