A white Gnoll. He snarled at Mrsha. She flinched—but a bee buzzed past Numbtongue’s face warningly. He swatted at Apista.
“Out of the way!”
He was going to—
A sound crossed the garden. A menacing sound, so rare here.
Thump thump slap. Thump thump slap.
Numbtongue’s head turned. He stared.
Beaver gang. The Fortress Beavers marched up the hill, slapping their tails. He raised his sword, but couldn’t swing it—they bowled him over. The weakened, hungry [Bard] rolled—
And they sat on him. Mrsha patted Numbtongue’s head and showed him a card. He stared at it.
“What?”
Ulvama was heading up the hill. Towards the frozen bier, and the young woman.
She stopped when she saw Erin Solstice.
“Ah.”
That was all. The [Shaman] saw the crossbow bolts, the blood; it did not take a genius to see what had happened. She looked at the faint smile and shook her head.
For a moment she bowed her head. And if Numbtongue had feared she’d be disrespectful…Ulvama bent and felt the permanent cold, eying the runes of power, the altar of gifts.
“Good place to chill drinks.”
She commented to Mrsha. The Gnoll gave her a warning look. The Hobgoblin shrugged. She felt little sadness. A bit, but—
“She is not dead.”
She patted Mrsha on the head. The little Gnoll looked up at Ulvama, longingly, hoping it to be true. Ulvama bent, studying the young woman. And at last, she nodded.
“Yes. I see it now. She is the one. Why it feels safe here.”
[Natural Ally: Goblins].
No killing Goblins.
It had begun here. With a young woman, long before the fire. With an inn. Mrsha’s eyes filled with tears. She wanted to go to Erin and hug her. But it was so cold. And the fire…
Ulvama studied Erin Solstice. Then, slowly, the [Shaman] bent down. She halted at the magical barrier. Then, reached past it.
She touched Erin’s hand. Just—touched. Numbtongue made a sound. He knocked the beavers off him, struggled up the hill. Ulvama closed her eyes. She held up her claw as he shouted, lifting his sword.
And she was holding the fire.
Numbtongue stopped, sword in hand. He stared at the burning flame, in Ulvama’s palm. Mrsha’s eyes opened wide.
It was tiny at first, a spark, nothing more. But it grew, dancing, as Ulvama focused on it. The [Shaman] bit her lip as the flame grew. Then she held it out.
“There.”
She looked at Mrsha. Numbtongue swayed, incredulous. Uncomprehending.
“How?”
The [Shaman] looked at him. She smiled. And the flame grew as she handed it down. To Mrsha. To Numbtongue, who clasped at it, his eyes wide.
It burned in the gaze of the beavers. Over the frozen young woman.
The Worker, who had to come to say farewell, fell to his knees. Rose, Selys, and Ishkr all halted.
Look at it. There it burned. That beautiful flame, made of so many at once. It changed as Numbtongue and Mrsha held it.
Hope. It burned like brilliant blue. In Ulvama’s claws it was different.
Kindness. Which was red like a rose, crossed with gentle orange. Soft and marvelous.
“How?”
That was all the [Bard] asked. He held it, the last gift he had thought lost. Hope. He looked at Ulvama. She smiled, and this is what she said.
“Silly Goblin. When the fire goes away, you light it again.”
The flame grew.
 
—-
 
“I didn’t get what I wanted. Not all of it, Sammial. And I’ve got a lot to do.”
Ryoka spoke to him as she adjusted the straps and harness. The others were backing up. He looked at her. The City Runner looked…worn. Sad.
But not empty of resolve. She glanced up at the sky, her lips moving upwards as she looked at him out of the corner of her eye.
“But you got something.”
“Yes.”
He meant the secret artifact. But Ryoka meant something else. She sighed.
“The strangers—they’re friends of a sort. And they couldn’t help me in the end. But they didn’t leave me with nothing. They gave me some things. And…well, they told me what I might need to do. Where I might need to go. But they gave me one more thing. Hah. Three and three again. A trinity.”
“What, exactly?”
Jericha looked at Ryoka. The wind was picking up. Across Riverfarm, people were working, the nobles riding in the distance. The [Witches] at their craft. Ryoka Griffin’s hair blew in the breeze.
“They gave me gifts, and knowledge. And one more thing. Can you guess what it is?”
She looked at Hethon. He shook his head blankly. Sammial bit his tongue.
“Is it—is it—I don’t know. What is it?”
The Wind Runner looked at him. And her green eyes sparkled. She looked happy for the first time since the Solstice had ended. She glanced up. Then grinned.
“They taught me how to fly.”
She leapt, and the air pulled her into the sky. Sammial’s mouth opened wide. He waited for her to come down.
But she never did. The wind caught the glider as it leapt upwards. Ryoka was blown upwards in a second. She clung to the bar and everyone gasped. They waited for the wind to hurl her—
Ryoka twisted in the air and flew higher. Then she dove. She skimmed over the tops of Riverfarm’s roofs. Then turned. Sammial realized it first as she did a U-turn and came back the way she’d come towards him.
“She’s really flying! Look! She’s really—”
Jericha, Hethon, and the others looked at him without understanding. Then they saw what he meant. Ryoka dipped—and flashed right over the heads of the crowd who ducked. She winked at Sammial and then the updraft carried her into the air once more.
This wasn’t following the wind. She was—Sammial’s mouth opened wider, wider—such that even Apista could have buzzed in and out. He saw Ryoka accelerating. Faster.
The Wind Runner was flying.
 
—-
 
The group of nobles on horseback were enjoying a leisurely hunt, which did not suit the ones who had actually come to hunt. 
Lord Tyrion kept riding ahead with Gralton, rather than socializing. Pellmia alternated between social graces and spirited riding. Typically, Pryde was in the ‘move fast’ group and seemed to want to make it a competition who could bag the better game.
Bethal was taking her leisure and chattering away with Wuvren. Lord Tyrion was grinding his teeth. He longed to be riding. He’d had a ride this morning, but with Lord Pellmia. And no disrespect to the other [Lord], a good campaigner and fighter and [Lord], but no one could keep up with Tyrion in the saddle.
It was the freedom to ride that Lord Tyrion sought in his morning rituals. Since it had been denied him, he was grumpy.
His head was turning impatiently, for a Corusdeer or other quarry he could use to take off after. Thus—he was the first one to see the speck in the air heading their way.
It was coming from Riverfarm. For a second he thought it was one of the ‘kites’ that Emperor Godart had shown the children how to make. But then he did a double-take.
“Tyrion? What is it?”
Bethal called out as the [Lord] changed course abruptly. The [Lord] didn’t answer. Bethal turned and gasped.
“Is that…Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner was flying out of Riverfarm. She crossed the river, and Bethal’s eyes picked out the young woman. She was ‘lying’ against the triangular…thing that was flying through the air! She had seen it in the famous run. But now she saw it again.
A hang glider. Each piece hand-woven with the most secure threads by the best Skills and hands in Riverfarm. The frame likewise designed by the [Engineers] and [Carpenters]. Even mildly enchanted thanks to Lady Rie’s [Mage].
It was not Kevin’s tuned-up bike. And it didn’t need to be. All it had to do was provide a surface.
The wind did the rest. Ryoka saw the ground passing below her in a blur and slowly at the same time; she stared before keeping her eyes ahead. She saw the hunting party as she covered the ground in a minute.
“Ryoka! Ryoka, wait up! How are you doing that?”
Charlay charged across the bridge, shouting up at the sky. The Centaur was slower than Ryoka! Panting, she saw Ryoka angle the glider and turn.
The slight move sent Ryoka down and around towards the ground fast. Tyrion heard a curse and winced as he saw the glider dive; she was too low to the ground! But before the Wind Runner could crash, a gust suddenly righted her. She soared on, gaining altitude.
“My word! I think she’s controlling the wind! Could she do that last time?”
Lord Pellmia blinked. The hunting party came to a halt. Ryoka Griffin soared past them, dipping again. She was only twenty feet off the ground now—and moving—faster—
Flying. The wind was at her back. This—this was what Ryoka Griffin had always imagined. The wind was blowing, not just propelling her forwards, but an updraft keeping her from diving. Faster.
She skimmed across the ground, turning, arcing, racing past the riders and people on horseback. The nobility were all staring. Their swift horses and Skills—even the Centaur Runner couldn’t keep up. And they all belonged to the land. Ryoka was in the air.
Lord Pellmia jerked as someone ran into him. Both Lord Ranga and his son were gawking and had collided their horses with his. For that matter—their horses were staring too.
Ryoka was already threatening to cross into the forest leading up to the Goblinlands. A Cave Goblin sitting in one of the watch towers and having a snack sprayed his cup of water as he saw her flying past him. Ryoka waved.
The glider turned, swinging left. Ryoka was laughing—a touch manically. It was so—so—natural!
They had given her wings. The fae. That was what Ivolethe had given her.
Flying lessons.
After all, no one was good at something the first time. And learning how to skydive or hang glide or…the air was unforgiving. But Ryoka had known flight in the land of the fae. And she remembered.
The wind was also different. Ryoka twisted the glider, soaring down. She soared along the ground, as fast as a bird! And she was laughing.
“I can fly!”
The wind snatched away her voice. Ryoka felt the wind rippling at her clothes, and it was getting chilly despite the summer heat. But…she flew higher again, seeing the world drop away and become small.
It did not bring Erin back. Nor was the sky safe from danger. Plus, she needed goggles or a stray bug would put out her eye.
But look. Ryoka laughed and laughed. She was free.
And she was not the only one laughing. The Wind Runner raced across the ground, and only realized she had a tail when she heard his voice.
Lord Tyrion. Charlay was trying to keep pace, but she gave up after less than a mile. But someone was following her, leaping a stream, urging his horse onwards. Ryoka stared down.
He was laughing as he raced after her. Racing the wind. And…keeping pace. She saw him raise a hand, grinning like a boy. She waved.
Then nearly hit a flying squadron of geese. They honked in alarm. Ryoka wobbled and swore. A feather smacked her in the face and the quill actually cut her cheek!
“Are you alright, Wind Runner?”
Tyrion saw the incident. Ryoka swooped lower, shouting.
“I need goggles!”
“Why?”
He looked mystified. Ryoka opened her mouth and saw Tyrion suffer the same fate as she had nearly a second ago. His horse’s hoof kicked up a stray pebble and it shot towards his face.
Then bounced off a field. The protective spell. She pointed.
“I need that!”
“Ah!”
He nodded, smiling faintly. Ryoka turned.
“One more thing, then! I’m going up!”
She shot into the air. Higher—she was up a hundred feet above the ground in moments and climbing higher. Tyrion slowed and shaded his eyes.
What was she doing now? Ryoka was breathing harder. But she was excited.
Ivolethe had given her the blessing of the fae. And more…her hand fumbled for two objects on her belt. A glass bottle and—
The hilt. Ryoka bared her teeth as Riverfarm became a dot below her. Tyrion saw her stall out in the air, coming to a dead stop as the momentum of the glider met gravity.
“That’s—”
Ryoka gripped the Faeblade. It ignited. She took a breath as gravity began to pull her and the glider down.
“Here we go.”
She had been terrified of the hurricane that had dragged her into the sky. A terrible, careless force of nature that could not be controlled. But now, she knew the trick of tricks. The wind was her friend. And more than that?
She swung the Faeblade and touched it—the harness’ straps parted like tearing paper.
The glider came away. Lord Tyrion shouted. So did everyone watching. Ryoka saw the glider separate. And now—she was free falling.
The young woman was dropping out of the sky. Jericha grabbed a horse and aimed her wand frantically at the target—but it was a million-to-one shot even if her spell had range—
Then she saw Ryoka’s downward momentum…shift. The [High Mage] stared.
“What the—”
The wind caught Ryoka as she dropped. It yanked at her clothes. And it found purchase. Loose fabric—and the stupid suit Sammial had observed inflated, creating drag, and a kind of wings…
The nobles and people of this earth had no reference for this. If they could understand the glider, this was nonsensical. Even Laken Godart, listening to Gamel and Durene shout commentary, had to think. Then he started laughing.
“Wingsuit.”
Ryoka Griffin had done crazy things. But even she had not ever gone wingsuit surfing. That was a special kind of crazy. A special kind of dangerous.
Even skydiving was really only pulling a chute at the right moment. This? Wingsuits let you fly or glide at extreme speed. One wrong move and you could go splat.
But she had the wind on her side.
Ryoka dove, as Lord Tyrion galloped after her. The glider was carried by the current of air, to land in the forest where the Goblins would retrieve it for study before it was recovered.
But Ryoka sped on. The wind was doing its own thing above her; the breeze that high was blowing north steadily. Ryoka raced perpendicular to it, in the wingsuit, carrying her back towards Riverfarm, above the fields where the [Farmers] stopped and stared.
The wind ignored her, but something still carried her down. A powerful gust that belonged only to her.
“What the f—”
Ryoka blew past Alevica. The [Witch] twisted to catch her and was nearly blown away. There was a wind surrounding Ryoka!
She was her own breeze! Ryoka felt the magic burning in her veins. That was it! The final clue. She laughed as she felt her magic exhausting itself to keep her going.
She landed just past the fields, turning, slowing—and at the last moment a mighty updraft totally stopped her momentum. Ryoka hovered—then dropped.
The Wind Runner was panting. Both physically and mentally—and magically—drained from the flight. But she was grinning like a madwoman.
Lord Tyrion was the first to arrive, then Alevica, who had lost her hat. Charlay, the nobility—Ryoka was trying to speak.
“It—that was—where’d my glider go?”
