Ulvama eyed the beavers, then saw Mrsha glancing towards Numbtongue.
“Sad Goblin has ghosts. Harder to make happy, get to eat.”
She explained. Mrsha blinked. She didn’t seem surprised to hear that; only surprised Ulvama knew. Curious. Ulvama sighed.
“Little Gnoll, this place is weird.”
After a moment, Mrsha nodded and sat down on the grass. They could both agree on that, even if Mrsha didn’t think that was necessarily a bad thing.
Well, here they were. Ulvama sat on the grass. She felt unaccountably tired; of course, she’d also laid a dozen trap runes all over the inn. Drat. She was going to have to take them off. But at least…
“Silly Human. Your mother? She left you here. Stupid woman.”
Mrsha punched Ulvama in the stomach. The [Shaman] doubled over, wheezing, and then brought her staff down. She missed. Mrsha glared. Don’t say bad things about Lyonette!
“Little Gnoll…ow. I meant, stupid because she did not take you! Even if it was dangerous—children should go with parents. Better than being left to stay.”
Ulvama wheezed. Mrsha hesitated, and nodded. Tentatively, she patted Ulvama’s stomach. The [Shaman] gave her a look.
“You punch me again and I smack you hard.”
She raised her staff. Mrsha nodded. This was fair. Ulvama sat there. Yes, that young woman should have taken the child with her. She had left her with well-meaning people. But the Gnoll, the Drake, and the others weren’t…caretakers. They had no idea.
And perhaps Mrsha saw that. Because she looked so lost and sad and miserable. And what they should have done was never leave her alone. Not for a second. Not children.
Ulvama sat with her back to the rising hill. She leaned back. She was tired. This was enough progress for one day in her mind. Numbtongue wouldn’t starve in a day, not after being fed.
Mrsha sat there. Her expression grew clouded, uncertain.
Bad thoughts. They led to bad feelings, bad actions. Bad things. Ulvama knew it all too well. She could remember…she looked at Mrsha, sighed, then patted the ground next to her.
“Silly Gnoll. Come here.”
The Gnoll-child hesitated. But…she had leaned against Numbtongue until he left. Slowly, she edged over. Ulvama immediately tugged her next to her. She leaned Mrsha against her.
“There. Sleepy.”
She murmured. Mrsha felt uncomfortable at first—then—reassured. She leaned against Ulvama. This was what she had been missing. Not Ulvama—but Lyonette.
She sniffed quietly. Ulvama pretended not to hear. She began to hum, absently. The [Garden of Sanctuary] was a good place. She felt safe here; and she had felt safe in this inn. She didn’t know why. Only that she felt…she owed the owner of this place a debt. Not from her, but on behalf of her kind.
She was on the hill, Ulvama knew. But she sensed neither life nor death there. Just power. Absently, she hummed. After a second, she began to stroke Mrsha’s head as the little Gnoll began to drift off to the first real, unaided sleep in a week.
 
—-
 
“Enough, Bird. Please, stop.”
The Worker turned. He raised his bow, but Selys was unarmed. She held up her claws; one had been badly burned. But a healing potion had mended it. And they were free.
Rose and Ishkr all blocked the way to the stairs and the last load of arrows. The Worker looked up at Selys.
“I do not wish to hurt you, Miss Selys, Ishkr, Miss Rose. But I will if I must. I will go to Hectval.”
“You’ll die, Bird.”
“I do not think I will.”
“Don’t you think it’s wrong, Bird? To kill innocent people? I could—understand—Hectval’s army. Or even hating their Council. But everyone? Don’t you feel guilty about that? You will feel guilty.”
Bird tilted his head.
“Miss Rose. I have killed people. I have killed monsters. I have killed birds, and rats that eat the food here. I do not feel guilty about killing things. Some things must die. Hectval is one of them. You cannot change my mind. Nothing you say can.”
He aimed the bow at them and they flinched aside. Bird walked past them, and Selys followed.
“Bird—if Erin was here—she’d stop you.”
“Yes. And she is not. So no one can.”
There was calm, pained certainty in his words. Selys looked at Rose and Ishkr. What could they say? They had to go for Zevara, then. But surely…surely there was something that could be said, or done. But what?
If only she was here. And she was. But Selys did not know the words. Selys looked at his back. At last, she spoke quietly, as he was putting the last of the arrows into the bag of holding.
“Bird. We can’t stop you. But if Erin was standing here, and she heard what you wanted to do, if you did it and she woke up—she would cry. She would not want this.”
Bird halted, hand on the last arrows, the one made with Bevussa’s feather. He looked up at her. For the first time, he wavered, dropped an arrow.
“But she is not here.”
That was all he said. He turned, and resumed picking up arrows.
 
—-
 
Ulvama gently patted Mrsha’s head. The Gnoll was drifting off when she heard the curse.
“Aaah! Again! Giant’s poo!”
The [Shaman] waved her clawed hand. Mrsha jerked. Was something wrong? She looked up and saw—
A glowing flame. Mrsha’s eyes went round. It burned bright and clear. It gave off such a pure light it almost hurt. And it was blue.
But not the blue of winter, the blue of depression and darkness. This was the same color as the brilliant sky. The color, like fresh air. Like…
Hope. Mrsha stared at it. It could not be. But only one flame burned so. She reached for it—
Ulvama blew it out and wiped the fragments on the grass.
“Gah! Everywhere!”
She glowered at her hand, checking to see if it was burnt—
Mrsha tackled her. She began pounding Ulvama with her fists—gently—beating her. The [Shaman] yelped.
“Stop! Stop it! What is wrong with you?”
She yanked Mrsha off her. The Gnoll was trembling. She pointed at Ulvama’s claw. You! What did you do? It was there and it went out!
Ulvama stared at Mrsha, then the fire.
“You know what that is? Keeps getting on you. There!”
She pointed at Mrsha’s paw, accusingly. Mrsha gazed at it, hopeful, then confused. She saw nothing—Ulvama scooped something up. She eyed it—then hurled it down and began to stomp.
“Stupid—magic—fire—”
Mrsha went for a leg. Ulvama toppled over and Mrsha looked around desperately for…
She saw nothing. She sagged. Then looked furiously at Ulvama. The [Shaman] raised her staff protectively.
“Stop it! Why that flame matter so much? Too many weird fires! Bad if it burns all over!”
She squawked, defensively. Mrsha opened and closed her mouth. How could she even explain? It was Erin’s fire.
How had Ulvama gotten it on her claws? Mrsha remembered Erin’s last flame going out. She had been so…it had been…
Ulvama saw Mrsha’s mouth opening and closing. She scratched her head, sighing.
“Little Gnoll-child. Too bad your mouth doesn’t work, eh? It would be so much easier if I could understand what you were saying!”
She grumbled, shaking her head. Mrsha looked at her. She held up a single paw and felt at her waist. Then remembered she had no belt pouch. She ran for the closest wall of the garden.
Bemused, Ulvama watched. She saw Mrsha come racing back with quill and paper. She began writing furiously. Ulvama blinked.
“You. You can write?”
Duh. Mrsha wrote, getting ink on her white fur while Ulvama read. She blinked.
“Erin’s fire? Magical fire? [Like Fire, Memory]? Ooh. Oh. Hm, hm—went out?”
She looked at Mrsha’s wretched face. The Gnoll held up a pleading note.
“Please bring it back! Is there more?”
Ulvama checked Mrsha up and down. The Hobgoblin gave her a big smile. And edged back.
“Um. All gone. Sorry.”
She’d taken it off Mrsha. The Gnoll looked at her and fell flat on her back. Ulvama hurried over.
“I thought it was bad! Kept changing! I didn’t know! It kept burning little Gnoll. See?”
She grabbed Mrsha and the Gnoll saw her lift her arm. Sure enough; the fur on her arm was short. Mrsha stared. She hadn’t noticed.
“You said, flame went out when dead Human—er—Erin tried to give it to you?”
Mrsha nodded. Ulvama nodded wisely.
“Ah, but some on little Mrsha-child. Because…fur is flammable.”
She pronounced her scientific hypothesis as to why the flame had lingered. Mrsha blinked at her a few times. So a spark had remained. So small she hadn’t noticed it, on her fur. A bit of hope and kindness and Erin’s fire, still burning.
And now it was gone, thanks to Ulvama. The little [Druid] nodded solemnly. She put two paws in her mouth and whistled. Time for the Beaver-gang.
“No, stop!”
Ulvama waved a frantic claw. She pointed at Mrsha’s notes as ominous furry beavers surfaced out of the pond. Apista buzzed around Ulvama’s face and the Hobgoblin ducked. The little [Druid] held up a paw. And what did Ulvama have to say?
“Fire went out. Not good. But…so what? Give me one chance. Help me—and I help you.”
Ulvama pleaded with Mrsha. She looked at the little Gnoll. She did not regret taking the fire. Perhaps it had been burning those emotions away to survive. It was a glorious thing. But dangerous. Mrsha looked at her, confused.
But a flicker of that same fire in her eyes. Ulvama reached out and took Mrsha’s paw. She looked at the little Gnoll’s face and understood at last.
She did not know the story. But she saw what Mrsha needed.
“Come with me.”
 
—-
 
Sammial was red-faced. Not crying—but he had tears in his eyes from refusing to cry.
He had a scratch on his cheek; another boy had been kicked in the gonads. The wind had died. Ryoka looked at the upset children.
“I think that’s enough flying for today, guys.”
“Sammy!”
Hethon rounded on his younger brother. Sammy was red-faced.
“It wasn’t my fault! They wouldn’t give me a turn! And I asked! Politely!”
“It’s not Sammy’s fault—”
Entirely. Ryoka soothed the children. They’d gotten a good thirty minutes of playing, anyways. And she—she was out of sorts. She had fumbled around with the Techblade—Faeblade—dead gods, she needed a better name for it—long enough.
The truth was, she was still mourning. Still grieving Erin. She had not processed it while hope remained. Now? She had only two avenues left. One easier than the other.
The first was Teriarch. But he had not responded to her. His cave seemed…gone. Yet she needed his aid. She craved it. For a Dragon—where fae failed, perhaps the Dragon could help her.
And she would do whatever it took this time.
But the other road was longer still. More dangerous. She knew where the scroll Ivolethe and fate had led her to. Yet…it would be hard.
So that was why Ryoka Griffin played peacekeeper. Why she reassured Hethon they’d all get a turn—after dinner. And why she put up with Sammial. That—and she saw more than a bit of herself in them.
But she might need Lord Tyrion’s help. And she had called on more than enough favors for him to consider the debt repaid. Yet she might need the aid of House Veltras. The Emperor of Riverfarm.
Even more. Ryoka straightened as the children begged for another go.
“In a moment. Right now…I need to do something. You can all watch, but—there she is. Miss Yesel?”
She turned to Prost’s wife. The woman was waving at her.
“Is now a good time, Miss Griffin? We finished what you were asking for. We think it’s all good—it’s quite an honor, you entrusting it to us!”
“Well, you are the best [Needlewomen] and [Sewers] so on in all of Riverfarm. Er—except for—”
Belavierr. And there was no way in any hell Ryoka would ever ask for aid from her.
Miss Yesel’s face darkened at the unspoken name, but she smiled, beckoning Ryoka. The kids, curious now, followed. Some knew what Ryoka had asked the woman and the other [Seamstresses] and so on’s aid for and brightened.
Not just them, but [Carpenters], woodworkers, even the crabby, spitty Jelov’s aid. It was two things, rather. Ryoka followed the woman.
“I have to pay you, Miss Yesel—”
“His Majesty won’t hear of it. Besides which, it is something to brag about. At least, if you keep using it!”
“I’ll try. I still have the scarf you gave me. It kept me warm all winter, Miss Yesel.”
“Do you? Oh my, that seems so long ago. I’m glad you kept it!”
Ryoka smiled. It was a polite lie; she’d actually burned the scarf less than a week after receiving it. During the Winter Solstice.
This world sucked sometimes. Sammial was still angry and miserable again as he saw the Wind Runner conferring with Miss Yesel. He wanted to see, but the other children—and even some adults, the women whom Ryoka had asked for help from and [Builders] and even the [Engineers] were all crowded around and she was thanking them and shaking hands.
“Does this mean you’ll be leaving soon?”
It was one of the things she had stayed for. Sammial stared up at Ryoka miserably as Jericha helped him through the crowd. He stared at the…triangle of cloth. The light wooden frame. The children looked avid.
Ryoka had changed her clothing too. She was adjusting her new garments and Sammial thought they looked interesting—and stupid—at the same time. He knew what it was they’d finished.
And it was exciting—but it meant she was going to go. The Wind Runner hesitated.
“I will have to go back to work, Sammial. I am a Runner.”
“Courier. You’re a Courier now.”
Ryoka blinked as if she’d forgotten that. She smiled at Sammial, faintly.
“Yes, well. That too. But if you want, I can always drop by, Sammial. And I’m not leaving right away.”
The hang glider sat there as she adjusted her clothing again and took a breath. Sammial stared at it.
“Are you going to use that thing again? You said you’d crash like a bug if you did.”
Indeed, Jericha was eying Ryoka as if she was insane. The Wind Runner’s first flight during the run to House Veltras had nearly killed Ryoka. The Wind Runner shuddered at the memory.
But not all had been for naught.
 
—-
 
The Hobgoblin [Bard] saw Ulvama coming up the hill again. She had more clothing on, but his eyes flashed and his hand shifted on the blade.
If she tried to touch him again, she would lose her hand. He was on the edge of all things. Numbtongue wanted to kill something. He wanted the simplicity of violence.
He looked at her with murderous intent. But Ulvama was walking up the hill, aiming past him. She was headed—
Up. And she did not deserve to be there. She had not been there. Numbtongue growled. He would not have her defiling Erin’s resting place. Never mind that she was a Goblin and had not known her. He was in no mood to be reasonable.
He stood, stumbling a bit as his frozen muscles complained. Ulvama halted a second—then hurried left.
“Stop.”
Numbtongue stumbled after her. But a figure blocked his way.
