Grev knew everyone. And he had somehow become the center of this group of children. After all—he was Jasi’s brother, and a Face of Invrisil. He gestured at the others, then went back to chivvy one of the slower children along.
“Come on, Nanette!”
The [Witch] girl didn’t smile with anticipation. But she did quicken her steps a bit as the others broke up to grab whatever sheets and blankets they could find. The Riverfarm [Washers] and people objected to the purloining of their sheets, but they stopped when they saw who it was taking them—the noble’s children, rather—and what they were being used for.
Soon, more children were begging to go flying and sailing about, shouting, colliding with each other, and experiencing the joys of aviation. The highest they got was a rooftop; Grev was blown onto one with his makeshift parachute. And they laughed and smiled.
Ryoka Griffin sat there. Smiling faintly when she saw Sammial screaming in delight or Hethon tying his sheet to three others to create a mass-sail that dragged a cluster of children along. For a moment, it was good.
But it could not last forever. The truth remained. Erin was gone. And Ryoka…she knew and did not know what came next.
She opened her eyes when the quarrel started. Predictably, it was Sammial, who wanted a turn on a wheelbarrow-sailboat. The older children refused, giddy with excitement.
He threw a tantrum.
 
—-
 
The [Emperor] of Riverfarm watched Ryoka Griffin with his all-seeing…vision. It seemed like a little fight had broken out. He identified Sammial Veltras punching a larger boy before he was dog-piled.
“I never really got into fights because I was blind, but even I know better than that.”
The young man murmured to himself. Jericha and Ryoka were striding to the fight, and Laken could not hear since he was sitting in his home, but he imagined tears, tantrums, and all of what you’d normally expect.
It was a bittersweet thing. A good thing, probably, after all that had happened. He had heard of Eliasor’s tragedy. And he knew Nannette’s all too well. Even Sammial Veltras deserved happiness—although Laken Godart would let him have his fun away from wherever he, Laken, was. The boy was a bit obnoxious.
It was good to see them running about, even if it was briefly. Yet, there were shadows in even childish joy. And not the tantrums.
Erin Solstice. Laken had never met her. But Ryoka Griffin had told him more about her after the Summer Solstice. They had shared a drink, to debrief, talk.
He wished Erin had been there. She had been…gone…for less than two weeks. And it was too long, and far too short for processing. Griffon Hunt had stopped working; Ryoka Griffin had been beating herself up over her failure.
Not that Laken knew all of what had passed. Nor did he know what Ryoka Griffin was going to do. She probably thought he was reluctant to talk about what they should talk about.
“The truth is that I don’t want to know.”
The [Emperor] muttered to himself. He did not want to know Ryoka’s plans. Because, perhaps if he knew…
He sat alone in the cottage. But presently, he felt around with his walking cane. He had taken to carrying it with him again. And he poked around, even though his Skill told him he was alone.
Wherever Ryoka Griffin went, whatever she did—he would help. But he would not ask her plans. Nor could he tell her why. And he had tried to write it down, say it, record it.
A name haunted his mind. A promise.
We will meet again. Sooner, this time.
 
—-
 
It was such a bleak world after that. And it was not, not really. The sun still shone. But what darkened it for them was heartbreak.
The fire had gone out. The young woman lay encased in ice.
The Worker had parked the wagon outside the inn. He was loading it with arrows as the nervous donkey snorted and pawed the ground.
“There you are.”
Bird found Ishkr trying to nudge Selys’ bindings undone. They froze—he rolled them away from the walls where Rose had been trying to kick a message. But the walls were thick and only one person would have heard them.
Don’t do this. Selys tried to speak, but Bird just left. He was transferring his arrows to the wagon, one load at a time. She frantically tried to remove her bindings. All her Skills and artifacts were useless or Bird had taken.
Ishkr was likewise helpless. It was Rose who kept struggling. She was trying to do something. She rolled over, and over—and then put her back to Selys. She’d wavered between her and Ishkr. But Selys was chosen because…the Drake saw Rose jerk her head.
She wiggled her bound claws over at last, and Rose pointed her bound hands back towards Selys. After confirming she was aiming at the bindings, she muttered.
“Fmgh.”
A jet of fire shot out of her fingers. A tiny one. Selys yelped—then realized. Rose was a [Mage]! She winced as the heat cooked her scales, but better her than Ishkr. And all they needed was…Selys’ eyes began to water with pain, but she held on. Bird walked past their room and they all froze, but he just loaded more arrows into his bag of holding without checking on them.
 
—-
 
Oh, these dark days. Mrsha made her peace with Ulvama. But she still did not want to be tormented into eating. She ate to prevent that. Then curled up on the counter. She just wanted to sleep, now.
“Poke. Not sleep yet, little Gnoll-girl. You help me, now.”
Ulvama jabbed Mrsha in the side. The Gnoll girl swiped at Ulvama irritably. But the [Shaman] was insistent.
“You know how to get into plant-place. The garden?”
She pointed out the kitchen, towards where the door was. Mrsha thought—and Ulvama jumped as it appeared on a wall of the kitchen.
“Good Skill. Not yours?”
Mrsha looked at Ulvama. The [Shaman] pressed a palm against the invisible barrier and looked at Mrsha.
“You help me through. Broken Goblin inside. Numbtongue?”
Mrsha nodded. Numbtongue? What did she want with…?
Ah. Ulvama had the steak. She looked at Mrsha, almost pleadingly.
“Stupid Goblins starve after Chieftain dies. You help me. He won’t starve. Show me way through. Special words? Special objects?”
None of that. Mrsha shook her head. She wasn’t sure. Ulvama probably couldn’t harm her or Numbtongue even if she was let in…but Mrsha had never tested that. The [Shaman] glowered. But then her face twisted.
“Please?”
It came out reluctantly. Ulvama was not used to saying the word. Mrsha hesitated. She looked at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin reached out to Mrsha—eyed her. She stared at something Mrsha could not see.
“Little Mrsha-child, help me. Do a good thing for the sad Goblin. You care about…Numbtongue?”
Mrsha looked up. Slowly, for answer, she stood up. She dropped onto the floor. Ulvama watched her. Mrsha beckoned. She held out a paw and stood on her two legs. Ulvama looked at her paw. Slowly, she took it. Mrsha walked clumsily forwards, into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She tugged and Ulvama gasped.
The girl pulled Ulvama through. The [Shaman] stood on the grass of the safe place. She inhaled the fragrant, fresh air. She looked up at the opening in the dome letting in fresh sunlight.
She smiled. Mrsha looked up at her. She did not smile, but she didn’t feel bad about her decision either. Ulvama looked at the statue sitting on the hill who yet breathed and mourned. Then at Mrsha.
“Thank you, little Mrsha-child. Now—I help that Goblin.”
Mrsha nodded. Ulvama looked at her, gratitude in her crimson eyes. Then—she carefully walked around Mrsha. She angled her foot, inserted it beneath Mrsha’s bum—and punted the Gnoll straight out of the garden.
Mrsha went flying. The Gnoll landed in the kitchen of The Wandering Inn and whirled around. What the—? Ulvama smiled at Mrsha. Then she spoke.
“Little children stay out.”
She slammed the door.
 
—-
 
Numbtongue sat on the hill, barely registering anything.
The statues were gone. They had returned to their place on the hill. But there was nothing…left.
Just memory. They had been here. And they had gone.
Something had come. Something…and Reiss had nearly been destroyed. But he had saved her.
Numbtongue should have taken his hand from the start. But if he had?
They were gone.
And so was she. Despair was the Goblin’s world. Despair and grief and…he would sit here. If anything came, he would kill it.
He had let Mrsha come and go. He had eaten when Palt made him move. Beyond that? He had no desire for anything. His ghosts were silent. Possibly Pyrite thought there was nothing to be said. Shorthilt…Shorthilt mourned.
And Reiss was just fragments. Numbtongue didn’t know what to do. Badarrow had gone, and Snapjaw before him. His brother had been just as broken.
All was lost. Numbtongue bowed his head. He only raised it when he saw the figure coming up the hill. He recognized Ulvama—ignored her.
Then blinked. Even in his full depression and mourning, the Hobgoblin noticed a distinct lack of clothing.
“You.”
Ulvama grinned at him. She had removed her top. Numbtongue stared at her. He…recognized her. No—
The [Shaman] seductively walked closer. She bent down.
“Sad Goblin. You need to eat. Listen to me. I am a [Shaman]. Why don’t you—”
She was reaching out to touch his shoulder with a simmering spell in her claw when the [Goblin Soulbard] caught her wrist. His eyes flickered.
“Ulvama. Enough. Leave him alone.”
The [Shaman] recoiled. The broken Goblin’s face had changed! His voice, too! He spoke shortly. Her memory tingled—but then she collected herself. She tried to touch his hand—he let go.
“Grumpy Goblin. You remember me. Don’t want to talk to female Hobgoblin after all this time? What about big, strong, male Goblin? Better? I can be both.”
She poked him gently. That would normally get a rise out of a Goblin either way. This one just grunted. He scratched his belly.
“[Shaman] magic is not what Numbtongue wants. Sex is not useful. Go away.”
She frowned. Was he speaking in third-person? The Hobgoblin picked up something. Grass from the hilltop. He put it into his mouth and began to chew.
“Hm. Bitter.”
He sounded so—familiar. She knew the mannerisms, way of speaking. And he seemed to know her.
“Have we met?”
She demanded. Why was he suddenly so talkative? The Hob glanced at her.
“Little [Shaman] of the Mountain City tribe. Used to get in trouble for stealing chief [Shaman]’s paints when we were small. Helped me when I didn’t poo for two weeks after eating rocks.”
She stared. Only one Goblin came to mind. But that was impossible. She had seen him die.
“Pyrite?”
“Mm. Thirty seconds. Leave Numbtongue alone. He will cut you. Unstable. Unhappy. Doesn’t need Ulvama-treatment.”
The Hobgoblin chewed. Ulvama’s mind raced. She knew Pyrite, before he had left Tremborag’s mountain. If he was here—she gasped.
“He knows the old secrets! He—Numbtongue—is a [Ghost Shaman]!?”
She looked at the Hobgoblin’s possessed body with awe and fear. He had become a medium for the Goblins of old? Pyrite shook his head briefly.
“No. [Goblin Soulbard].”
“Oh.”
Ulvama hesitated. She didn’t know that one. But she knew it existed. She peered at Pyrite.
“He has your ghost.”
“For ten seconds. Nine, eight…”
“Wait! Does he have ghost of Garen Redfang? Tremborag? Goblin Lord?”
She grew excited. This was it! If he was this rare Goblin, then—Pyrite looked at her.
“I told him all about you. Do not play your tricks. He does not need—we do not need a Ch—”
The last word cut off as Numbtongue returned. The Hobgoblin’s voice halted in the middle of the word.
Chieftain. He inhaled, coughed, and spat the mouthful of grass out. He stared at Ulvama. His face twisted into hostility in an instant.
“Go.”
Ulvama backed up. She saw the crystal sword in his lap tense. She smiled—
“Pyrite in your head. He tell you about me?”
“Seducing [Shaman]. Go away.”
His eyes burned. She indicated her full figure.
“Not interested a bit?”
Numbtongue turned to look over his shoulder. Towards the hill with mists. He looked at Ulvama—she was already making tracks. She knew a murderous look in the eyes when she saw it.
 
—-
 
The art of seducing Goblins wasn’t usually this hard. Ulvama investigated the [Garden] as she tied her top, grumbling. Although there were things you learned.
Like…don’t try to seduce a Goblin when the dead body of their friend was only a dozen feet away. She’d forgotten that there was a frozen Human here. Rookie mistake, really.
She’d have to try again. A [Soulbard]. Ulvama didn’t know the class, but she could investigate by memory. A [Shaman] remembered.
And this garden was fascinating. Ulvama saw plenty of things she could use for her craft. Sage’s Grass aplenty! So that was how the magic door ran. This place was also a ley line. If she had a tribe and this wasn’t so close to the city, she’d have wanted to settle here.
For now, she had to think. The female Hobgoblin kicked around, spotting a pond, the arid and jungle sections—
Then ran smack-dab into an angry little Gnoll with a bee on her head. And a half dozen big Fortress Beavers.
Ulvama halted and stopped. Mrsha was giving her a dirty look. She folded her arms as the big beaver chittered loudly.
“Uh. Nice Mrsha-child?”
The [Shaman] hesitated. Mrsha made a rumbling sound in her throat and the beaver-gang slapped their tails on the ground. Ulvama did not want to pick a fight with a bunch of giant rodents who outweighed her and had teeth like shovel blades.
“Sorry, little Gnoll. Trying to cheer sad Goblin up! Didn’t work!”
Mrsha stared at Ulvama and glowered harder. She made some rapid signs with her paws. Ulvama frowned.
“You…is that words?”
Mrsha nodded. What she had just said was—well, it was rather rude, but it translated to ‘don’t have sex with Numbtongue and if you kick me again, I’ll have a beaver eat your foot!’
Ulvama got the message either way. She hissed and backed up. Bratty little Gnoll children and ghost-possessed Goblins! Everything was so much easier with Tremborag. Love him or hate him—and Ulvama had not loved him—he had been simple to anticipate and deal with, his tribe likewise.
The Ulvama-method of working your way to the top of a power structure did not apply to Pyrite—who knew all her tricks—or Mrsha. And she wasn’t sure she could seduce the Gnoll who cleaned things or whether that was useful.
She was frustrated, but she didn’t give up. If the most direct and, to her, easiest method failed, she could always be nice. She smiled at Mrsha.
“Sorry, Gnoll-child. I will not do it again. Let’s be friends. I take care of you, you help me. Okay?”
Mrsha gave her a flat-eyed stare. She folded her arms—then nudged one of the beavers. The gang waddled off, but the big one gave another tail slap and Ulvama a look as if to say, ‘we’re watching you. Don’t mess with our kid.’
