It was not fun having Pelt as your teacher and master smith. He was not a nurturing presence and Kevin had seen dozens—literally dozens—of prospective apprentices kicked out. Not always by Pelt himself. His top apprentice, Emessa, was almost as exacting as he.
“Idiots who can’t even follow basic orders don’t deserve to be [Smiths]. What do you want? I’m busy managing these fools as much as—”
“Master! Your steel’s ready!”
A panting voice. The Drake, Emessa, was waving at Pelt. The [Smith] turned.
“Ah. Wait here.”
He curtly told Kevin. The young man knew that even top-class [Merchants]—Esthelm’s ruling body—and anyone else would wait. Kevin was an actual exception. But even he waited as Pelt marched back to the anvil where the metal was hot and ready. The Dwarf picked up his hammer and tongs—
And the anvil sang. Everyone stopped—at least, if they weren’t at work themselves—to watch and listen. The metal moved when Pelt struck it, shaping itself faster than all but the best machines from Kevin’s world could match.
And machines did one thing. Pelt was infinitely adjustable, doing whatever needed to be done in a blur. He was shaping another gear, hand-hammering in the perfect symmetry of each groove and tooth.
Not even Emessa could match that. Although…Kevin saw replicas being made at other anvils.
Not half as good, for all the [Smiths] sweated on them for…it must be a factor of thirty times as long as Pelt took, even counting Emessa ‘prepping’ everything for him.
But that was how a master worked. It was as close to assembly-line as Kevin had seen, and the Dwarf had actually smiled when Kevin brought it up.
Pelt did not do much himself besides oversee. His apprentices forged iron, purified steel by folding it, cleaned, created usable billets—and only when the masterstroke was needed did Pelt step in.
Or when the material itself was magical. But that way, the [Smith] was only working when he was absolutely needed.
It was either efficient—or lazy—or both. Not everyone could handle it. Many people quit, but many stayed long enough to learn how the best [Smith] in the region—perhaps all of Izril—did it.
He was done and letting Emessa check the measurements, check the steel, and then finish it with quenching, filing, and so on after ten minutes. He strode back, briskly, barking orders, critiquing work—but alive with energy.
Master Pelt had returned in truth. So much so that the Dwarf in Pallass seemed like a cheap joke, a rip-off of the real thing. Pallass had had a master-class smith. But this was him working hard.
“Bicycles. That’s why you’re here.”
He grunted at Kevin. The young man nodded. The Gnoll’s ears perked up. More were done already? The Dwarf spat. And the first bit of reserve entered his voice.
“They’re not the best…”
“I know. But they are done?”
“Yes.”
The Dwarf stretched out the word reluctantly. Kevin shrugged.
“The customers know they’re not your work, Pelt. It even says so. They still run, don’t they?”
“Passably. I tested them out; everything spins. And the steel is good. I wouldn’t accept it for less, but—well, come and see.”
Kevin did. The three Gnolls edged out. Elirr adjusted the hat he was wearing. It didn’t really help since they were still Gnolls in a Human city, but Kevin hadn’t noticed and neither had Pelt.
The bad bicycles were lined up. Three, made of iron, steel, or wood in parts. Pelt looked ashamed of them as the [Smiths] responsible for making them looked up.
Kevin thought they were fine. Not as light as a modern bicycle made of aluminum—and Pelt could forge his bicycle parts out of Dwarfsteel or extremely thin steel for Hedault to enchant, but that was the point.
If he worked at it, Pelt could create a custom-built bike with gold plating that was a masterpiece. But it took him days upon days to do, and he’d happily trash a piece he worked on for two days plus if it didn’t fit his standards.
This? This was his apprentice’s work. Kevin had suggested it to reduce the huge bottleneck and Pelt had reluctantly agreed.
“It spins. But notice that gear? We had to file down the teeth because it was wrong. And it’s not the best of fits along the metal to wood frame…”
Pelt was groaning and hemming and hawing, but Kevin thought it was just Pelt’s standards. He commented mildly.
“The bike runs. That’s good enough. And it’s why we’re providing the option.”
Cheap, unenchanted bicycles. Three, as ordered. Pelt grumbled into his beard.
“I shouldn’t let you take them, really. They’re passable, but—”
“But I’ll say they’re not yours. See? We can even write, ‘not a work of Master Pelt’ on it. And it takes the load off. In fact, other smiths are already trying to make bicycles.”
“Hah! Let them. Those damned gears really are a pain to make. If you have a mold you have a shot, but…”
Kevin smiled. That was his talent. People liked Kevin. And before you knew it, he was wheeling out the bicycles with an apprentice. Elirr and the other two Gnolls listened to everything, of course.
“This one goes straight to Pallass. This one? Liscor’s Runner’s Guild. Ask for Hawk. He knows where to take it. The last one I’ll take to Invrisil. Someone’s getting it. Um—where are my orders? Oh, and I should get a receipt signed…”
“It’s good work. A bicycle, hm? I wonder how much the cheap ones cost?”
“More than we can afford. Yet. He could be good. But he is clearly needed here. That grumpy [Smith]—few could work with him, yes? But he would be a good choice. I like Kevin.”
“He is likable.”
Elirr agreed, watching the young man. But Kevin had established himself here. He had created a job—an entire industry really—where none had existed. He would be a good choice for Krshia, though. Still…
It was Pelt that Elirr glanced at. The Dwarf was working. He was angry, focused, and grudgingly approving at times. He had regained his spark. And one person was to thank for that. It all went back to the inn.
Alas.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was empty. No one came in.
Empty. No one came by, anymore. Who would come to drink and eat when Erin lay in the garden? People did come, but not to dine. Not for those fun gatherings.
The Players of Celum had left. The regulars didn’t show their faces except to ask to go into the garden. A few people did come day by day, like clockwork.
Ishkr, who swept up, served drinks and food, Selys, to check on people. And the inn had guests. Hexel the [Architect], who breakfasted in Liscor and only came back to sleep. His apprentices…a few others.
But all that remained were ghosts. If you walked about the inn, you might find them. A Hobgoblin, sitting in the Garden, usually, sword on his knees. A Worker with a bow, who no longer sang.
Humans, talking quietly. A Centaur, a Minotaur and Human [Mage]. And among them all, one constant.
A little white Gnoll who sat in the middle of the vast common room, like a large stuffed animal. Or a puppet with its strings cut. She didn’t move. Her fur was white, a rarity among Gnolls. Normally she was running about; in other times, better times, she would be playing amidst the chairs, sneaking food, or playing tag with her two friends.
Today, like yesterday and the day before, she sat, unmoving, except when her mother fed her or tried to get her to do anything. She sat there in the empty inn and knew it was all her fault.
For she was Mrsha.
And she was a Doombringer.
I am doom.
That was the one thing that she heard. It was her voice, in her head. Every moment. It was a certainty.
I am doom. Erin is dead, and I am doom. Mother left me. Two mothers, because I am doom.
This she knew was true. She had denied it. But the truth was clear. So the certainty repeated itself, again and again, second by second, minute by minute, hour by hour.
I am doom. I am doom. I am doom. I am doom. I am doom. I am doom. I am doom. I am doom. I am—
Ulvama kicked Mrsha across the inn. The little Gnoll went flying and landed on a table. The Hobgoblin decided that was worth two points.
The art of kicking children was a surprisingly complex mechanism to anyone who was unskilled at it. Ulvama was an expert.
You didn’t kick a Goblin child or Gnoll the same way you hit a soccer ball, for instance, although there were some parallels. As Joseph could have told you for the game of football, it wasn’t kicking with the impact so much as pushing the ball, launching it with momentum. An impact-kick could break your toes!
The trick was to insert the tip of your foot underneath the child—Mrsha in this case—and loft her into the air. Thereby achieving maximum flight and distance with the least amount of damage to your foot and said child. Gnoll punting. It could be a sport.
Mrsha landed on the table and slid slightly, but didn’t go off the edge. The [Shaman] rubbed her claws together. She waited—but the Gnoll just looked at her and then lay on the top of the table.
Ulvama scowled. Well, this was depressing. She wasn’t an expert on Gnoll children, having come from the Mountain City tribe, but she’d expected this one to be at least a bit like little Goblins. But the Mrsha-Gnoll was practically unresponsive.
“Mm.”
The [Shaman] wandered off. Mrsha lay on the table. That hadn’t actually hurt; it had just been surprising. She did not like the [Shaman]. But who cared?
For I am doom. This is what I deserve. Lyonette has left and that is good for she will die if she stays with me. She left because of what I am. Doom, doom—
“What’s this?”
The [Shaman] waved something at Mrsha. The Gnoll’s head moved slightly. She saw the Hobgoblin had found some of the face paint the Players of Celum had left behind in the stage-section of the [Grand Theatre]. The female Hob was sniffing at it.
Mrsha didn’t respond. She turned her head to the wall. She heard Ulvama unscrewing the jar, tasting it, spitting, and then muttering as she put some on her arm.
Shuffle, shuffle. Mrsha wished the Hobgoblin would go. She was the only moving thing in the inn.
Lyonette was gone. Selys came by.
The inn did get visitors. Lyonette had asked so many to take care of Mrsha. And they tried. Oh—they did try.
“I got her to eat a bite. Mrsha? Won’t you have another? Okay, I’ll be back. Ishkr, see if you can get her to take another…”
Selys came every day. She’d been coaxing Mrsha to eat, without knowing that the Gnoll usually spat out the food after a single begrudging bite.
The assigned people were Selys, Ishkr, Drassi to some extent, Rose, Kevin, and Pawn. But Pawn was absent, preparing Antinium for war. Selys came as often as she could and she and Ishkr did their best. So did Rose and Kevin, when they were here, Rose more often than Kevin since she wasn’t fully employed. They all watched out for Mrsha most of all.
But if they compared notes, they might realize that the food Mrsha was ‘eating’ was never eaten in front of them. They would get her to have a bite, put the plate down and have to do something.
Then it would be empty, the bowl cleaned. They would smile and be reassured. What they didn’t notice was in the five minute gap to go to the outhouse, or stretch their legs or talk to someone, Mrsha would throw it into the [Garden of Sanctuary] and the Fortress Beavers would eat.
Mrsha’s stomach growled. She ignored it. She closed her eyes. She didn’t need to eat. She didn’t deserve to eat. She was a bad Gnoll. A bad—
Crunch, crunch, crunch. Mrsha’s ears picked up the sound. She smelled—saw Ulvama walking out of the kitchen with a huge bowl of chips and dip. It was fresh; nothing went bad in the inn, even with Erin on ice.
More growling, but Mrsha had learned you stopped getting hungry if you were too hungry. She’d forgotten that. It was like when everyone had left the first time. But then Lyonette had…
She buried her face in her fur and tried to go back to the half-sleep trance. Covered her ears as the crunching grew louder and the Hobgoblin smacked her lips. She’d appeared at the end of the Summer Solstice, through the magic door. Mrsha didn’t like her.
No, that wasn’t right. She had thought nothing of Ulvama until today. The Hobgoblin had been sneaking around for days. But suddenly—she had decided to pick on Mrsha. First it was staring, then poking Mrsha and scuttling backwards. Then—she’d started kicking Mrsha and doing this!
Ulvama was a bad Goblin. Rude. She kicked Mrsha, poked her, when Mrsha just wanted to—
“Hm. Hmm.”
The Hobgoblin put the chip bowl on the table where Mrsha was lying and then put one of the dip-bowls on Mrsha’s head. She balanced it there as the Gnoll remained motionless.
Mrsha didn’t move. She refused to. She heard more crunching, and then the Hobgoblin began dipping chips in the salsa-bowl on Mrsha’s head.
At that point Mrsha rolled herself and the salsa over. It spilled onto the table and Ulvama made a sound of annoyance. Some got onto Mrsha’s fur. She stayed still. She waited—
Crunch. After a second, Ulvama adjusted her seat and began mopping up the spilled salsa with the chips. The tables were clean, after all. You could eat your dinner off them.
The crunching got to be too much after a while. So Mrsha got up, and padded away. She slunk downstairs, and hid behind a barrel. She was d—
“Cold!”
Ulvama shouted after a minute. Mrsha jumped. The Hobgoblin came down the stairs, wide-eyed, licking some ice cream.
“This sweet. This good!”
She pronounced, looking around for Mrsha. The Gnoll hid behind a barrel, wishing the Hobgoblin would explode. Ulvama looked around for Mrsha. Her eyes glowed in the darkness.
Ulvama was a Hobgoblin. Not like Numbtongue; in fact, different in every way as a Hobgoblin could be. It wasn’t body size so much as attitude.
She wasn’t a fat Hob like some were. But she wasn’t exactly a lithe Hobgoblin warrior who trained—or had trained—daily in rigorous workouts. She was well-fed. Also—a [Shaman].
Her body was adorned with more colorful, glowing paints than even a Redfang and she carried a staff. She also dressed in what Lyonette called ‘scandalous’ attire. Mrsha thought it was close to a Plain Gnoll’s outfit, minus the fur.
She was also rude, mean, and she didn’t leave Mrsha alone. Ulvama looked around the basement.
“Stupid white sad Gnoll? Where are you?”
Mrsha didn’t respond. Ulvama grunted. She adjusted the bowl, and then tapped her staff on the ground.
“[See Heat].”
Her eyes flashed crimson in the darkness. She turned—and spotted Mrsha at once.
“There. Stupid Gnoll. Stupid Gnoll—”
She poked Mrsha with the edge of her staff. Mrsha glared up at her. Ulvama pointed at the ice cream in the bowl.
“Where more this?”
Go away. Mrsha glared. Ulvama poked her again.
“This. More of this. Where?”
The Gnoll refused to respond. Sh—
