Poke, poke. Ulvama, like annoying children or people everywhere, refused to give up. On the eighth poke, Mrsha grabbed the staff’s tip and snarled silently. Ulvama, undeterred, simply dragged Mrsha out of cover.
“Where more sweet stuff?”
Mrsha ran off. She raced up the stairs, into the common room, and then—up the stairs again. Into hers and Lyonette’s room. She pushed the latch on the door, hid under the bed.
Doom. After a few seconds, she heard someone come up the stairs. A mutter—then a knock.
“Stupid little Gnoll. Mrsha-child.”
Ulvama tried the door. It was locked. She called out again. Mrsha ignored her. Now she could—
Click.
The latch slid back and the door opened. Ulvama walked in.
“Little smelly Gnoll—”
This time Mrsha attacked. Furiously. How dare Ulvama come in here! She lunged out from under the bed and—
The Hobgoblin bonked Mrsha with the staff as the Gnoll ran into it, then put her foot on Mrsha’s back. She held down the outraged, squirming Gnoll, and looked around.
“Ooh. Stick here.”
Webs shot from her staff and immobilized Mrsha! The Gnoll struggled as she was covered by a spell. She saw Ulvama walk over to a dresser and immediately open it. She began rummaging through Lyonette’s clothing! Pulling out everything, discarding what she didn’t like—
Mrsha began snarling and tearing at the webbing, but it just stuck even more. Ulvama chortled for ten whole minutes until the spell began to dissipate. Then she shouted as Mrsha bit her leg.
“Aaah! Stupid Gnoll girl!”
She smacked Mrsha on the head. Mrsha let go; it wasn’t a heavy blow, and jumped back. She had blood in her mouth. She snarled as Ulvama raised her staff. The Hobgoblin chased after Mrsha—
And Mrsha ran into a wall. Into a place beyond. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] lunged and smashed into the invisible barrier. Mrsha stood in the Garden of Sanctuary and listened to the cursing and shout of pain with bitter satisfaction.
It did not last. Mrsha’s head turned. She looked towards the hill with the mists. And there, a guardian before that place…
The Hobgoblin with the sword. The crystal-metal blade gleamed. He was as empty as her.
But he had eaten. He ate mechanically, as if only to keep this strength for danger. He sat, empty.
Slowly, the little Gnoll crept up the hill. Numbtongue saw Mrsha come. She hesitated; but she was afraid to go beyond. It was too sad.
So Mrsha approached. Numbtongue watched her; then looked past. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] was banging on the door at the far end of the garden, far below. She hammered, shouted—then gave up and stormed off in a huff.
Mrsha approached. She looked at Numbtongue. Her big brother. He said nothing. Did nothing.
Slowly, almost shyly, afraid, she leaned against him. She wanted him to say something. Even if he was mad. She looked up—
His face was blank. He didn’t respond. Mrsha leaned against him for a while. That made her feel b—
Numbtongue moved and she fell over. He went to sit further up the hill. Mrsha looked at him. She had tried this very thing days ago. The same happened. He sat there, face half-grieving, half-frozen in a kind of bitter concentration.
Mrsha hung her head. She padded down the hill. Furry shapes went to cuddle her, but she pushed them away, like Numbtongue had done to her.
This place was too happy. She wanted a dark space to curl up. That evil [Shaman] was there, though. Mrsha left the hurt Fortress Beavers and changed the door’s position.
Her room and Lyonette’s. No—Erin’s. It smelled of Erin, there. Mrsha sniffed and listened. She didn’t hear the Hobgoblin. She must have left after finding the door impossible to breach. Mrsha padded through the door.
“Aha! Got you, biting little Gnoll!”
Two hands seized her the instant Mrsha was through. The camouflaged Goblin came off the wall—she’d been in Erin’s room, waiting for Mrsha! A trap!
Mrsha fought furiously. Her body was leaden and weak, but she had had enough! She twisted to bite—and Ulvama dropped her. Mrsha hit the floor and tried to scamper off, but she was so exhausted she was not her normal, quick self. She saw a shadow and moved—but too late.
Ulvama sat on Mrsha! Her big, huge, fat butt sat on the Gnoll—not with all her weight, but pinning Mrsha to the ground! She pinned Mrsha with her legs.
“Got you, sly little stupid Gnoll. Always sly. Always throwing good food. Eh, eh?”
Ulvama happily poked Mrsha in the side. The Gnoll snarled, twisted—then abruptly, gave up. She went limp, lifeless. Let Ulvama do what she willed. Mrsha didn’t care. She probably deserved it.
The [Shaman] eyed the limp Gnoll, pursing her lips. Well, the Gnoll was as tricky as some Goblin children or [Warriors]. But Ulvama had been [Shaman] to the greatest of Goblin tribes! Little children were no match for her intellect.
“Hm. Little Gnoll, you hungry? I have meat. See?”
She produced a sausage and warmed it with a spell. The meat smelled heavenly. Mrsha refused to move or even blink.
“Open mouth.”
Mrsha felt Ulvama poke her in the face. A finger tried to prize her jaw open; Ulvama had a slice of the meat ready to insert.
The Hobgoblin saw the mouth open and snap. But her fingers were already jerking back. She saw Mrsha bite—then go limp.
“Hm. Okay, not good idea. How this?”
The [Shaman] was actually enjoying herself as she spoke in a version of Goblin-cant. She thought, and then began to tickle Mrsha.
“Tickle, tickle. Open mouth.”
Mrsha tensed. She tried not to move as the Hobgoblin tickled her neck, her belly, and the pads of her paws. Then she wriggled, fighting to get free. She couldn’t—but she refused to open her mouth, even when tears started leaking from her eyes.
“Stubborn.”
Ulvama gave up in exasperation. Well, it was time for a trump card. She shrugged, adjusted her staff, and bonked Mrsha lightly on the head.
When cleverness wouldn’t work, use magic. That was a [Shaman] motto.
“[Gnawing Hunger].”
Mrsha’s eyes snapped open. She heard the first growl from her stomach so loudly that it seemed like a second animal inside her. Suddenly, her hunger pangs were back and three times as overwhelming. She began to drool as Ulvama cooled the meat in one palm, then put it in front of Mrsha.
“You eat, you go. Deal? I can sit all day. Little Gnoll good pillow.”
She grinned down at Mrsha. The Gnoll wanted to poke her in the stupid face! She was so hungry!
Who made spells that made you hungry!? Only Goblins. Mrsha hesitated. But she was so—and she couldn’t get free.
The stomach overwhelmed even the sad brain’s best efforts. Mrsha scarfed down the bit of sausage. Humming, Ulvama cut more with a knife and let Mrsha devour it piece by piece.
Mrsha hated that it tasted so good. She hated Ulvama—but she ate.
“Let’s see. Sausage for Gnoll stomach…not good to eat so much…if I think about the starvation of Hobgoblin [Warriors]—how much did I feed them during the siege? But that was vegetables, which fill you up…do Gnolls eat vegetables? Tricky, tricky…”
The little Gnoll frowned as Ulvama thought to herself. She sounded—smart there. As in, Numbtongue-smart, who could talk with big words. Was she pretending to sound like other Goblins?
She was curious—and then remembered she should be sad. Mrsha pushed at Ulvama’s legs. I ate! Let me go! She wanted to sign, but her arms were pinned.
“Not yet. Little Gnoll eat this, too.”
Ulvama put a cookie on the floor. Mrsha glowered. No! Ulvama flicked her forehead with a finger, ignoring Mrsha trying to snap and bite it.
“Good sweet thing makes Gnoll girl happy. Stop pretending not to eat. I see. I am not stupid. If little Gnolls dies, everyone is sad. Including not-dead Human, isn’t that so?”
She nodded to the open door. Mrsha…hesitated.
Erin would be sad if she died? A pang of guilt. She wasn’t doing it on purpose! She spat on Ulvama’s leg. The Hobgoblin narrowed her eyes. Deliberately, she wiped the spit off—then used Mrsha’s fur as a handkerchief! Mrsha wiggled in outrage.
“You spit on me, I wipe spit on you. Now, eat sweet thing. Wait—maybe little Gnolls are allergic? Are Gnolls allergic? Why would there be food that is bad for little Gnolls here? No, no. It’s fine. Eat.”
Another tap on the forehead with the staff. Ulvama was smirking as Mrsha glared.
The only warning the smug [Shaman] got was seeing Mrsha’s face suddenly turn to one of…satisfaction. Ulvama looked up and heard the angry buzzing.
A bee the size of her face came buzzing down like the wrath of…bees. Ulvama shouted.
“Aah! What that!?”
She fled. Mrsha went scampering as Apista, who had likewise been in silent mourning, came to life. Ulvama ran about Erin’s room, shouting, then whirled.
“Die, bee!”
She raised her staff. Mrsha tackled her as Apista swerved out of the way.
No! Mrsha grabbed for the staff. Ulvama shouted.
“Stupid Gnoll! We both lose our eyes if I don’t kill—”
She stopped, seeing Mrsha’s desperately shaking head and frantic look. Ulvama lowered the staff, eyed Apista. The bee made her back up and it protectively hovered between her and Mrsha and then landed on the little Gnoll’s head. Protectively, Mrsha grabbed her and hugged her as she backed away from Ulvama.
They disappeared into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Ulvama’s jaw closed after a second as the door slammed shut.
“…What?”
But at least the little Gnoll had eaten something. Ulvama sighed. Stupid door. If she could get through it, she could take care of both Mrsha-child and Numbtongue-idiot. It was getting in the way of her work!
Now, how to trap the Gnoll when she came back? If Ulvama smelled throw-up, she’d have to make sure the little Gnoll didn’t do it again. Not that she thought the Gnoll was that self-destructive. Good thing, too…the [Shaman] hurried off to lay traps.
 
—-
 
Humans and inn. It was true most did not stay at the inn. The Gnolls of Liscor were considering their options.
Kevin was your first pick, obviously. Because he was Kevin. But because he was Kevin, he was useful wherever. So was there a second-tier pick which was actually superior since they wouldn’t be as missed?
No one wanted to give Krshia a headache, though. But still…consider the options. Check the field.
And speaking of fields…as the sun rose, a young man jogged across the grass.
He had a headache. But he was moving quickly. Despair and activity alternated place with Joseph. He had a drinking problem. Yet what got him out of bed as soon as Kevin was responsibility.
Maybe it was a purpose. Maybe it was the conscience of knowing hopes and dreams rested on his shoulders.
Maybe it was because the team would drag him out of bed if he didn’t make it to practice.
It could be any number of things, really.
Football—real football—had a team of eleven players. But obviously, a team should be larger so they could be rotated in and out. And given how some people might have accidents, and those accidents could also be ‘monster attack’ in this world, thirty players were jogging after Joseph.
And that was only Liscor’s team. And only the adults! The little leaguers were trying to follow, but Joseph had had them stop after only one ‘lap’ of Liscor. They had heart, but it was hard to keep up with adults and their parents would be upset if they pushed too hard.
Besides, they had practice all day. Joseph thought that was insane, but for these players?
The game was all. Mind you, he’d be going to Invrisil to coach a second team after lunch. But he started them off with the run. He panted, and then shouted, half-exasperated.
“Pick up the pace! Don’t stop! This is the final lap!”
Four laps around the city, each day. He had to stop drinking; it was miserable with a hangover and before breakfast. To drown out the pain, Joseph shouted the chant they’d made up.
“Which city wins at every game? Liscor!”
“Liscor!”
The Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans echoed him. Joseph winced. The new [Kickers] ran in a line; from the walls he heard a slight cheer before the Senior Guardsman admonished the [Guard].
It was like, well, home. And seeing a beloved team—undefeated!—practicing. There would be a game in a week’s time. No chance of Esthelm winning. Not yet. But soon there would be competition. Invrisil practically guaranteed it since Joseph was creating their team, and they had some strong players…
“Say it louder!”
“Liscor! One, two, three, four! Liscor roars and always scores!”
Oh, the developing culture of the game. Both Drakes and Gnolls found reasons to like bot baseball with the Gnoll love of catching the ball and Drakes liked the idea of possession of the football. And vice versa.
Also—it was a bit easier for Drakes in Pallass to play soccer in a confined space than baseball.
Basketball now? Well, Joseph was no good at that. But somehow, here he was.
Joseph the Soccer Player. And damn Erin for…for…giving him that nickname and spreading the misinformation about the proper name around.
A celebrity, though. He had people coming up to him asking for an autograph. Sometimes very attractive people, of every species. Joseph concentrated on running, on teaching the players football. It beat thinking about anything else.
The Gnolls watched from the hilltop, lying flat to observe. Well—one of them was keeping an eye out for Shield Spiders or Rock Crabs, too.
“He could be good, yes? A celebrity.”
“Hrm. But he drinks. And he is not as discreet as Kevin, I think.”
“You think Kevin is discreet? Hah! You just like him because he reminds you of the grandson you do not have.”
“So what? Stop bothering me, Elirr. You have cute little Mrsha. Where is she, by the way?”
“…I have not checked. Ow!”
“You are leaving that child alone when her mother is gone and that [Innkeeper] is dead? Shame on you! We’re visiting the inn after this. Anyways. Joseph is good, but he cannot go; there are too many people depending on him here. And we must win the next game.”
Elirr massaged his ear.
“True, true. Well, a shame. Let us—oh!”
The oh was because the spying Gnolls realized another group was conspicuously worming its way through the grass. The two Drakes stared at them. One coughed.
“Er—sorry. Are you here to check out Liscor’s team too?”
“No…we were just finished.”
The three Gnolls exchanged a look. The Pallassian Drakes nodded to each other.
“Well, we’ll just take this spot. Have they begun practice yet?”
Elirr stared over his shoulder as the two observers set up their own observation of the Liscorian team practice. He had a distinct desire to want to rat them out to Joseph or the City Watch.
“Spies. They are everywhere, yes? Not that copying our team will let them win! When’s the next game?”
He huffed with civic pride. The other two grinned at him. Hemera scratched at her chin.
