He digests that. I’m laying a lot on a kid. But—he’s a kid with an aura. A [Lord], which can’t be fun. He looks at me, and I remember—he was dying of poison less than a month ago. It wears at him and he looks uncharacteristically old.
“Is that true? Then do bad things happen to bad people? Like the [Assassin] who poisoned me and Hethon?”
I bite the inside of my mouth. After a second, I don’t go to true honesty.
“I believe so. And that’s how I try to behave. I try to do good things.”
“Like deliver medicine for me and Hethon.”
“Yep. Anyways. Don’t boss people around because they can hit you. And don’t boss me around. Or spy on me.”
He kicks at the floorboards sullenly. I exhale. Maybe he’s forgotten…
“What about your magic sword? Can I see that? I’m sorry for using my aura.”
Shit. I hesitate.
“—If I tell you, will you promise not to tell anyone? Even your brother? Swear on…your honor as a [Lord] of House Veltras?”
“I swear.”
He says it instantly. I can only hope he takes it seriously. Young Ryoka would. And he’s already seen it so I pull out the hilt.
Sammy’s eyes fix on it.
“What is it?”
“An artifact. Just an artifact, Sammy. I got it from the uh, strangers. But you can’t tell anyone or I’ll never forgive you. Got it?”
“What if they find out? And what will you do? Hit me?”
He looks at me, testing. I smile.
“Me? I don’t hit kids. I just won’t do amazing things for you, Sammy. Like…let you fly.”
He does a double-take.
“You can do that?”
I think of the parasailing kids and smile ruefully. I want to go back to Reizmelt and…but no. I cannot. Erin is frozen. And I know where to find the cure*.
 
*I should have grabbed it, taken the time to make Ivolethe break the magic on it. Dead gods, how will I get it now?
 
“Totally. I could do it in f—ten minutes if I wanted to. Let you fly about. Kids do it all the time. Why do you think they call me the Wind Runner?”
His eyes flicker as he tries to figure out how I’d do it. After a second, he looks at me.
“Without an artifact? And I could do it?”
“Without an artifact. And not even Jericha would be mad. I think.”
“I want to fly! And see the sword.”
“Well, if you keep it a secret…fine. As much flying as you want when I’m around.”
He nods rapidly. I sigh. Then I hold out my hand. He regards it, then shakes my hand briefly.
“Did you lose your fingers to the strangers? I heard they bit off—”
“No. Goblins.”
I withdraw my hand quickly and hide it. Sammial blinks at me; I’m not normally so self-conscious, but he does stare.
“Sorry. Father says never to point out a [Soldier]’s war wounds.”
He takes that more seriously than anything else and ducks his head. I sigh.
“It’s fine. Now—stand back.”
He obeys. I motion him back.
“Further back. It’s very sharp.”
“I saw. Can I hold it?”
My brain conjures the image of Sammial somehow bypassing the safety mechanism or cutting me and the room apart.
“Absolutely not. The deal was to look. Then you can fly. All we need are bed sheets. You can use mine.”
“Bed sheets? Oh—like the flying thing?”
He’s excited and young again. I half-smile. Speaking of flying things…well, for now, I grip the Faeblade*.
 
*Copyright, Ryoka Griffin. 2017, or whenever the hell this is in this world’s convoluted dating system.
 
And it comes to life. Sammial gapes at the blade as I hold it very carefully up.
“It’s so amazing! Father showed me a Kaalblade—is it like that?”
Great cover, Sammial! I nod.
“Exactly like that. It’s a unique one, though.”
“Oh. And I thought it was super-special. It’s very pretty, though.”
He’s disappointed again. I sigh. Sammial eyes it, then looks at me.
“How strong is it? I saw you cut the floorboards.”
“Er—strong. It goes through steel.”
“What grade of magical artifact is it? Can it cut a [Hardening] enchantment? What about a mithril shield? All of father’s equipment can break weak magic.”
“I would love to know, Sammy. But I haven’t tested it.”
“What about my dagger? You can cut it! It’s just a weak enchantment.”
He eagerly unsheathes his belt knife. I eye it.
“You’re allowed to carry magical artifacts?”
He stares at me.
“Just weak ones. I’m not a child. Hethon cut himself on his first dagger, but I never do.”
Huh. Well, kids learn to hunt. And a belt dagger’s not exactly the worst item. Good thing he’s not that violent or he’d be stabbing kids with it. I hesitate.
“I don’t want to break it.”
“Please? It’s not valuable! Here—I’ll do it for you!”
The young [Lord] dashes forwards. I hold the sword up.
“No, Sammy—don’t—”
Too late. He hops up and slashes. He’s aiming for the Faeblade’s ‘sword’ rather than the hilt. I see his dagger slash towards the glowing orange light and before I can pull it away—
His magic dagger meets the Faeblade. I see the artifact of the future, the magic sword that cuts steel like nothing, the hardlight projection shatter into pieces and dissipate in the air.
Sammial and I stare as the hilt goes dead. The light fragments and vanishes. My jaw is wide open in horror. Sammial has the exact same expression on his face.
“You broke it.”
I stare at the priceless technological wonder from the—Sammial slowly looks at his undamaged, low-grade enchanted dagger. He slowly puts it in his belt sheathe. Then he backs up. He walks out the door, shuts it, and starts running. I stare at the Faeblade.
I am so upset right now.
 
—-
 
“Jericha. Jericha—I broke something! You have to fix it!”
The [High Mage] and assistant to Lord Tyrion Veltras hated hearing Sammial’s voice pitched just so. When he said something like that her stomach hurt. Because when he acknowledged he’d broken something, it was usually not a cheap object.
Statues. Pieces of art thousands of years old. Paintings?
“Lord Sammial. Where have you been?”
She turned as the young [Lord] ran up. He looked guilty.
“I can’t say! But I broke something of the Wind—of Miss Ryoka’s! I can’t tell you what it is! But I broke it and it was…very expensive! You have to [Repair] it!”
Ryoka Griffin. Jericha’s stomachache was joined by the beginnings of a headache. Now there was another enigma wrapped up inside a conundrum.
Four days since the Summer Solstice and they were still trying to figure out what had happened and if it related to the tragedy that came from Rhir. And Ryoka Griffin. Who was she?
House Veltras did not have Reinhart’s spy networks, but Jericha had Lord Veltras’ authority. And even if House Veltras was not…rich…second only to the House of El for poverty, in fact, they had money.
And money meant information from those who gathered it. None of them knew where Ryoka Griffin had come from before Celum. No one knew what her nation was, although the smart money was on the Drath Archipelago or mixed heritage from Chandrar or Baleros perhaps.
Did she matter? Well, to Jericha her identity did. And more pressingly—Lord Tyrion Veltras believed he owed her a debt. Jericha needed to ensure it was not a debt to the wrong person.
“What did you break, Lord Sammial? Why were you bothering Miss Griffin? Your father would be upset.”
The boy looked worried, but Jericha wouldn’t tell Lord Tyrion—unless his son had really broken something expensive. Tyrion Veltras would be furious, and he had been doing his best to spend time around his sons.
Of course, that was time, not ‘all the time’. Case in point, he had gone hunting with Gralton, Pellmia, and some other [Lords] and [Ladies]. Jericha sighed. She’d sort this out.
“I can’t tell you. It’s a secret.”
“Miss Griffin’s secret?”
Sammial shut his mouth. Jericha pinched the bridge of her nose, over her spectacles. Well, maybe she’d uncover a mystery. She was just about to head to the cottage Ryoka had been assigned when the Wind Runner came jogging after Sammial.
“Sammy! It’s fine! I—ah.”
She stopped when she saw Jericha. The [High Mage] eyed Ryoka and…pinged her.
Rather, she cast [Detect Magic], using her spectacles and more refined knowledge of magic to actually gather as much magical data as possible. A basic [Mage] just cast [Detect Magic]. Jericha could sense intensity, even nature.
What she found was…confusing. Ryoka had a number of artifacts. Rings, amulets, the very nice bag of holding which held more magic besides. But Jericha couldn’t see what had made Sammial so excited.
Weak magic aura, wind element. Doesn’t explain how she commands the wind at all. She’s like a Level 3 [Mage]. Which makes sense if she has no levels…
Oh, and another thing. The most powerful magical object Ryoka held was not actually near her hands. They were on her feet.
Foot wraps. Just strips of seemingly-ordinary cloth that covered her feet. The crudest of bindings glowed in Jericha’s vision. She wanted to know where Ryoka had gotten them and what they did.
Ryoka noticed the look. She shifted. Sammial peeked out from behind Jericha.
“It didn’t break? But I saw—”
“It uh—came back. You didn’t break the important part of the you-know-what. Let’s not talk about it.”
Jericha’s eyes narrowed.
“Has Lord Sammial been bothering you, Miss Griffin? I could inspect whatever he claims to have accidentally damaged.”
“No, it’s fine, Miss Jericha. I—I’m fine. Sammy was just bored and uh, I promised to let him fly.”
Fly? Jericha instantly shook her head.
“I regret to say that your method of flying would put Lord Sammial in grave danger, Miss Griffin.”
“No, not that. I mean—it’s just parasailing. You get some bed sheets and…”
Sammial looked at Jericha pleadingly. And she saw Lord Hethon was coming—no doubt equally bored since she had forbidden consorting with the young [Witches] and the other young [Lords] and [Ladies] had no such injunctions and had formed, as children did, a roving group of children: the street urchin Grev, the Riverfarm children, and the next generation of Izril’s nobility.
Jericha wavered between duty and a desire not to have to entertain two bored young [Lords]. She turned to Ryoka.
“I—what does this look like, Miss Griffin?”
The Wind Runner smiled. Jericha wished she could be certain of Ryoka Griffin. If only because Lord Tyrion had spared no expense healing her. Had ridden himself and prevailed upon Ulva Terland to come to the party. Had challenged a warrior of peerless skill for her.
And still, he said the same thing.
He owed Ryoka Griffin a debt. Jericha was worried because she knew her [Lord]. When he said a debt—
He took it seriously.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin had received several things from the journey to the land of the fae. Besides knowledge? Three objects, fittingly. She hadn’t considered it as such, but three was what the final count turned out to be.
Most obvious was the Faeblade, which she was now considering naming the ‘Techblade’ since it was clearly not a blade of the fae.
A low-grade enchantment had shattered the blade like glass! It came back in a second after she reactivated it, but that had shaken Ryoka.
Like the land of the fae, magic beat tech. On the other hand? Tech beat steel. Ryoka could do lightsaber tricks with the sword—unless the material was enchanted. She wondered if she could literally slice a tree in half.
She’d try it later.
The second thing Ryoka had she wore on her feet. Nama’s foot wraps. Nothing special about them…except that Ryoka had run in them through the lands of the fae, across fields of fire where the Phoenix had lived and they hadn’t been singed. They might have magical power. If they were anything like Nama, they were more than they seemed.
Lastly, and this was sort of weird—her third gift was uh, autographs.
Signed autographs by the King of Chivalry himself. Arthur of Camelot, the King of Knights. All three ages, although the youngest Arthur Pendragon’s personal one to her was never going to be sold. But she had the most valuable autographs in the world if she could convince anyone they were legitimate.
Footwear, sword, and autograph. Had she gone shopping at the world’s weirdest mall or something?
All that. And here she was, back where she’d started. Letting kids sail around on makeshift sailboats. Ryoka felt like she was back at Reizmelt.
She sat there, watching as Lord Hethon and Sammial shouted with glee. Sammial had tied Ryoka’s bed sheets in a knot around his chest and was being dragged backwards. He hopped, and travelled a good fourteen feet before he landed. The wind playfully blew Hethon about, and he was laughing and trying to hop and touch the rooftops and leap from there.
“Careful, Lord Hethon, Lord Sammial! Miss Griffin, can you control the wind?”
“I don’t quite control it, Jericha. It’s…safe. Probably.”
The bespectacled woman gave Ryoka a look saying that ‘probably’ wasn’t nearly good enough. She watched anxiously, wand at the ready.
Ryoka watched too.
After all the travails and heartache, here she was. She had come so close. She had the scroll in her hand. And now—
The Gods were alive. She had seen the message on Laken’s phone. She had known…what? That someone in Wistram was on their side? How had they known what to send?
Laken didn’t know what to make of it either, but he was…cagey about what he’d seen.
What now? Ryoka sat there. The boys were laughing. And soon, more people heard the laughter and came running.
“Wot’s this now? Look at that! Come on, you lot!”
A slightly scruffy boy stopped and stared as he saw Sammial being blown around and Jericha chasing after him. He wasn’t far off the ground, but he was flying. Grev Redigal pointed, and heads turned.
Lady Eliasor Melissar, two of Mister Prost’s children, eight young [Lords] and [Ladies], fourteen more of Riverfarm’s own, and six [Witches] all stared, mouths agape.
Well, the [Witches] looked more familiar with flying. Grev was delighted.
“It’s Miss Griffin, innit? I heard she was the Wind Runner—let’s all fly! Come on! All we need’s a sheet!”
“Are you sure, Mister Grev? She was at the party. She could be…odd.”
Eliasor wasn’t certain. Lady Zanthia had debriefed her wards after the party and cautioned them about what had occurred, but she wasn’t here to ask; she was still abed. Sick, from the trials of the party.
The scarf. It had turned to dust the next day, but Lady Zanthia had slept four days from the stress of it and was still abed.
Grev was already racing forwards before Eliasor could object, though.
“Miss Griffin! Miss Griffin, will you let us do that?”
The Wind Runner waved at him; Grev grinned and turned to the others.
“She’s alright! Come on—she’s fine. I know her!”
