“The forest. I saw it land. That was insane! Ryoka! You’re flying! You’re practically a Garuda! That’s not fair! I’m supposed to be the faster one!”
Charlay swept her up into a hug. Ryoka felt the Centauress squeezing. She laughed.
“That was—intense. I should have had goggles. Or an amulet.”
“We thought you were mad when you cut yourself loose of the glider!”
“I knew what would happen. Or I thought so. And I had insurance.”
“Insurance?”
Tyrion raised an eyebrow. Ryoka showed him the second object in her grip; she’d put away the Faeblade.
A bottle. A Potion of Slow Fall, in addition to Hedault’s crash-ring. His eyes flickered and he nodded.
“Wise.”
The Wind Runner nodded to him. Then Charlay hugged her again until Ryoka squeaked and asked to be let go. Then everyone wanted to know what the Wingsuit was—and Hethon and Sammial were already begging to try, which neither Ryoka nor Jericha would countenance.
Bethal wanted to try too, which her husband shot down, and Ryoka had to tell people about the dangers of non-wind hang-gliding—but admit it was a possibility. Pebblesnatch’s mouth opened wide as she peeked out of the forest.
Word spread. Well—who cared about word spreading? The nobles here had seen it! The Wind Runner had built her own wings!
She was a flying Courier.
 
—-
 
The fire burned. Ulvama saw Numbtongue sitting with it.
In the inn. He held it in one palm. And he was drinking—water. Eating.
Light had returned to the inn. It was small, but Mrsha had put it on her head. Selys was fussing—
“Does it hurt? Is it burning your fur?”
The Gnoll looked cross-eyed at the flame burning on her head and giggled. She laughed, and it was a good sound to hear. Ulvama smiled.
Fire could not solve all the world’s problems. It usually added to them. But this was a special flame. It was beautiful, glorious, sad, humble, and powerful all at once.
Ishkr cupped a tiny flame in his paws. It might go out. It might be extinguished. And so what?
Light it again! However many times it took.
Until she came back.
Bird sat with the flame burning on the table in front of him. It began to go out—until he scooped it up. Only then did the flame brighten. This fire could not exist without someone holding it. He looked at it, trembling. Rose and Selys watched him out of the corner of their eyes.
After a long time, the Worker whispered.
“I miss my Fortress of Fluff. I wish I had not cut Miss Bevussa’s feather up, now.”
“We’ll help you get it back, Bird.”
Selys would toss gold at people if it meant getting back his possessions. Beat them to death with sacks of it. She went to Bird. He held the flame. And the vengeance against Hectval seemed less important than this.
Fire and memory. They would carry word of it. Carry the flame. It was not yet lost. It was a sign, a symbol.
As much as anything else. Anything could be a sign. But this? This was good.
The door to The Wandering Inn opened as the light came back. The first visitors in a long time came, bearing a flower to tell Rose that she was the lucky pick they’d settled on. If she was willing to make a commitment, that was.
And Mrsha looked at Ulvama and decided she was okay. The Hobgoblin contently sipped from the alcohol collection she’d finally discovered at the back of the bar—she’d never actually seen a bar in her life before.
This inn was better than she thought!
 
—-
 
I relax afterwards. I meant what I told Sammial. There are always consequences.
For instance—I may have introduced hang-gliding to this world and thus upped aviated deaths by an uncountable number. But you know what? To hell with it.
There are people from Earth here. And I need to fly. I have a sword from another time and reality and even if magic can destroy it, I can use it.
I will use it. Every tool and means I have. Teriarch. My head is spinning.
I just received word from him. From ‘Grand Magus Eldavin’, rather. Who’s at…Wistram Academy?
Holy fuck. Unholy fuck. Why am I swearing? I have to send him a reply. Does he want an autograph by the King of Chivalry himself, in triplicate? Does he want a super-sword? Please.
Oh, please.
And if that doesn’t work? If he refuses? Well—it’s probably still a bit more dangerous to raid a Dragon’s hoard. But I’ll risk it. Whatever I need to do, I will.
Halrac just told me Griffon Hunt is taking a leave of absence from Riverfarm, despite their contract. The Horns of Hammerad have sent out a call.
We will not let Erin stay dead. So, my heart is lighter even as I talk with Lord Tyrion. For some reason, he seems to still tolerate me. Maybe because of the kids. Maybe that’s a way to persuade him. No one else seems willing to really treat Sammial like they should.
And I’ll be a Courier. I’ll do what it takes. I can move across Izril now. Even if I need to learn the air. Even if I can still run out of mana. But Ryoka is flying your deliveries now.
…Am I going to get out of shape? Well, running is still useful, especially during rain.
All of this is in my future. I am not afraid of it. But before that—the scroll. Perhaps Teriarch can help. Perhaps the Horns or someone else. But if I believe the fae, maybe this is the best and most likely solution. Ivolethe always said it was ‘if’, not ‘when’. Maybe I have no chance and the answer is some other way.
But I know where it is. I know where something that can help Erin lies. I only must get to it. 
If only it was easy. If only it was convenient, like challenging Lady Pryde to a cage match. Because I knew that vault. I’ve seen that symbol on the news. A famous place.
Hells, hells, hells. It’s not even close by. Even for a flier. But…well…
Ailendamus.
How the heck am I going to get in there?
