Humans.
Why Humans? That was what they had said, at first. The group that knew the truth of worlds, or at least, part of it.
The Gnolls of Liscor, that was. Because they had known for a while. Not all of them, but the older ones. The ones who didn’t talk about the vast secret. At first it had not been so vast since it was one person. Now? It was growing.
But at first—they had said this. Why Humans? Why couldn’t there be a race of Gnolls who’d managed to create an advanced civilization in another world? Of course, Gnolls would do it differently. Probably…they’d invent better shampoos that didn’t smell so strongly.
Or something.
This was what Krshia wrote. In code.
 
Send one of the Humans. We have met another.
 
Another one. So, Elirr gathered some of the senior Gnolls remaining in the city. Grey-furred City Gnolls, not a tribe per se, but a community.
“This is getting too big, Elirr.”
A Gnoll petting a cat peered at him. [Senior Scribe] Hemera. Another Gnoll sleepily blinked.
“We have to do something. The Meeting of Tribes will produce a large result. Plains Gnolls, though…unpredictable. I’ve never been to the tribes, but they’re temperamental, aren’t they?”
That came from a City Gnoll for life, Permel. Also old—pushing seventy. Many of the most distinguished Gnolls had gone, but still—a [Master Potter] was something to admire. He made wonderful porcelain and had banned Elirr’s animals from his shop forever.
“The tribes are fickle. But it is Krshia who asks, not them. I trust her.”
“Ambitious, though. Young Gnolls—yes, she’s still young enough to be ambitious! Of course, we help, but I’d rather roll around in ink than put little Mrsha in danger. Doombringer. We called her that and we’re city-born. Imagine what they’ll do?”
Hemera put in. The others nodded.
“If only we could send a Gold-rank team. The Halfseekers?”
“Perhaps. They would not be cheap. But they love her too. As for a Human…well, they are older. Krshia is right in that one should go, especially if they have found another. Perhaps bring them back here?”
More nods as a cat teased the shy Wyvern, Jekle, who’d finally been left to wander the shop. The other two Gnolls eyed it, but Elirr could sense the young Wyvern’s emotions and the most the youngling felt was fear towards the evil cats.
Elirr pointed at the offending cat.
“Berry. Enough. Leave him alone. Scat.”
The cat gave Elirr a look. He turned and proceeded to try to—Elirr threw a crumpet at the animal and the cat grabbed it and fled.
“You’ve created monsters.”
Permel shook his head. The other Gnolls chuckled, and presently, the group of six nodded.
“A Human it is. One should go.”
“But which one?”
Ah, now. That was the question. The others looked at Elirr and his ears and tail drooped. He would have to visit. For a strange inversion had taken place.
Where once the inn had been the center of change, now the world was passing it by. And it sat in…stasis.
Waiting for the [Innkeeper] to wake up.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn held so few these days. And even if they slept there, many left as soon as they’d eaten, before they’d eaten. It was like an abandoned…inn…
Before a young woman had found it. A perfect circle—although this inn was not completely deserted. But even the Humans had drifted away.
Case in point. Kevin Hall woke up from the room in which he’d been sleeping at the urgent pounding on his door. He fell out of his chair, hit the ground, and heard the urgent voice.
“Mister Kevin? Mister Kevin—it’s a client!”
“I’m just Kevin! Who—”
But Kevin already knew. The young man picked himself up; his chair was on the floor, and he rubbed at a bruise as he scrambled to his feet.
He had been sleeping in, well, the office. The small room, the building rented for the new job he was working at.
…In Esthelm. Selys had pushed for Liscor. Hedault wanted Invrisil.
Invrisil was expensive. Liscor had—had been The Wandering Inn and besides, the new quarter was unfinished and neither artisan worked there, only the money, Selys. So Kevin had chosen Esthelm. It was cheap and Hedault responded to [Messages].
Master Pelt did not. And yes, Kevin would have benefitted from the sleep Skills in The Wandering Inn. He had his own room—but he’d fallen asleep balanced on the chair in his office, half-leaned back.
It was an art form and Kevin must have managed at least a good six hours in that position before the knocking had awoken him. Also point in fact?
It’s three AM. Or thereabouts.
Kevin stumbled towards the door. And yet—someone had woken him. He recognized the worried Drake [Scribe] he’d hired as a general assistant to write down orders and so on.
“It’s just Kevin. Speaking stone?”
“It’s Client F.”
The Drake was very nervous. He handed Kevin the stone and the young man groggily raised it.
“This is Kevin of Solar Cycles, how can I help you today?”
He recognized the echoing voice and tone immediately.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt.”
Of course he was. Kevin’s skin chilled. He waved the Drake off; the Drake sleepily went back to taking [Messages] or waiting for calls from the people who insisted on it. They had to actually have a speaking lodestone enchanted and then send one to the shop. But some did.
And only one person would call at night. A universal night! Kevin felt he should really look into that at some point. He checked the crude clock he had set up by his desk.
…And recalled that sundials really needed daylight to work. And he wasn’t at the level where a mechanical clock was feasible.
More clear audio than a phone call—sundials. That was technology here for you. Kevin slowly relaxed into his chair.
“How can I help you today, your Majesty?”
Fetohep’s voice was calm. Precise—commanding.
“I have a copy of your latest catalogue, Kevin of Liscor.”
Kevin bit his tongue. Fetohep always said that after the first conversation, but the way he said it made them both know what he really meant.
“Er—yes, your Majesty?”
They’d put that out right before Kevin went to sleep! The Mage’s Guild got a copy, which they could print on demand for whomever wanted it. And the Runner’s Guild had been upset because they wanted to sell copies…
Fetohep had a lot of time on his hands. He kept doing this, sometimes at midnight, or other times of the day. He seemed sort of bored. Kevin fiddled with a gear lying on his desk as he listened. Pelt had been trying different teeth…
“I notice your latest catalogue lists a ‘four-wheeled carriage’ option to be assembled and tethered to a bicycle.”
Oh, the pull-along rickshaw Kevin had thought up. It was a simple idea. If Hedault could enchant a bicycle to be practically weightless, why not add pedal power to create an alternative to a horse-drawn carriage? Was it better? No. But it was fun, and both the [Enchanter] and the [Smith] had okayed a trial version. So had Selys; she’d green lighted it a minute into Kevin’s pitch.
After all, novelty sold. And while Solar Cycles had yet to make many actual sales…they were rolling in orders.
Fetohep of Khelt was not pleased, though. And it took Kevin a hot, sweating minute to understand why. Their first—most important (according to him), and undead client’s tone was irate as he spoke with icy reserve.
“This ‘Cycle Rickshaw’ option is clearly derivative as only the wheels and connective material will be provided. However, it is a new option produced by your store.”
“Yes, your Majesty. Only the parts to ah, modify any standing wagon or carriage will be sent. But it is a new concept! A do-it-yourself assembly; much faster to produce than the entire vehicle.”
“And you did not think to immediately inform me of this new addition to your lineup?”
Ah. Kevin exhaled, keeping his head pointed away from the speaking stone. He spoke quickly, sitting forwards urgently at his desk.
“I ah, did think you would be interested, Your Perpetual Majesty. Which is why we already added the item to your order, gratis. Free of charge, that is! That’s uh, standard policy for Khelt alone. Any new item we deem worthy of import is automatically added to your list of purchases. We will, of course, bill you for more costly additions, but your patronage more than pays for this small addition.”
Kevin waited for a response. He slowly, and covertly, wrote down a note on the wood itself with a quill and ink to do that. And waited on tenterhooks for the King of Khelt’s will.
It was like having a multi-million—a billionaire walk into your bicycle shop and demand quality service. Only—most billionaires even from Earth didn’t employ an army and have the resources to hire [Assassins] if offended.
…Or did they? Kevin was sweating as the silence lingered on the other end. He heard no breathing, no sounds of life. Which, of course, made the wait only more dreadful.
“Very wise of you, Kevin of Liscor. It seems I have underestimated the commonality of knowledge among some of this generation. Very well. And the arrival of my first object?”
“One week, your Majesty. Master Pelt has finished the newest bicycle to exacting performance as you know, and it is in the enchanting phase. I will add that the uh, gold plating did take time to work on, but it will be…”
Kevin consulted his notes and winced. A golden bicycle with superior enchanting and craftsmanship to even the one Ryoka had wrecked on her now-famous run.
“…one week until enchanting is finished, upon which time the Courier of your choosing shall escort it to Zeres.”
“I see. Very good. As to the nature of the request you made of me, Kevin of Liscor…”
The young man sat up. The voice continued as, suddenly, adrenaline ran through his veins.
“I have considered your plea at length. My answer is unchanged from the moment I gave it. An object of such worth is more costly than a hundred such vehicles your company could produce, as you know. If Master Pelt and Master Hedault…and you were to swear yourselves to Khelt’s service, I would consider the issue further. As that is not likely, I will consider the matter closed.”
“I…I see, your Majesty.”
Kevin hung his head. The voice was not unkind at the other end. But neither was it kind. It was, simply, impartial.
“My offer to those still living extends, Kevin of Liscor. Remember that.”
There was no click, but the subtle glow faded. Kevin sat there, exhaling.
It had never been likely. But he had hoped—yet, no. No grand artifact from Khelt. As the ruler of the nation of Chandrar had pointed out when Kevin had begged for it, hoping against hope—
“What you ask for cannot be reproduced, and lingers only in the vaults of those who have saved it from times before I was born, Kevin of Earth. Should we relinquish such objects so lightly? Not even for my own people would I lightly open my vaults.”
No Potion of Regeneration. No artifact of healing. Kevin knew it was fair. Fetohep, for all his horrible hours in calling, was polite and knew there were production delays. Kevin put his head down on the desk.
When he woke, he had ink on one cheek and a back-ache from sitting in the wrong spot. But he was back to work already. He wished for coffee and got tea. The Drake—Merckle—was replaced by a Human [Assistant] and maybe even [Mechanic] in training. A local Esthelm young woman who was taking orders.
“Pallass wants their cycle today, Mister Kevin.”
“They can wait. How many bicycles do we have?”
“Unenchanted or enchanted? Master Hedault—”
“—Works slow. I know. We should hire a cheaper, faster one.”
“He won’t like that.”
“Which is why I get to talk to him. How many unenchanted, then?”
“Um…um…three should be done.”
“I’ll go see.”
Kevin adjusted the clothing he’d worn for uh, two days straight. He sniffed himself a second, but he didn’t notice any odor. And where he was going, all you could smell was soot and metal.
“Phew. He stinks. Humans never bathe.”
“Imagine being in the tribes. We don’t bathe.”
“Do you just get used to the smell?”
“Well…we get used to the smell of sewers.”
“Hrr. Fair point.”
The small group of Gnolls watched as covertly as possible as Kevin left the headquarters of Solar Cycles. The small building was one of many in the rebuilding Esthelm. It hadn’t achieved Liscor’s rapid pace of immigration, but people were coming for work.
Not least because this city now had a calling card. Humans were casually glancing at the three Gnolls peeking around the corner, but they probably assumed the Gnolls were here for the same reason people were deciding to settle here, and trade and business was flowing in.
Master Pelt of Esthelm’s forge was already clanging with sound—but the [Silence] spells meant that it wasn’t that loud.
Until you passed the boundaries and heard the roar of the Dwarf’s voice, louder even than the forges and hammering of metal.
“You! Out of my forge! Out!”
Kevin, Elirr, Permel, and Hemera all watched as a young man fled the furious Dwarf in the early hours of morning, face white, as Pelt hurled something down.
It looked like…Kevin blinked. Dust?
It was a very fine, dark dust mixed with some red. And a few flecks of…well, Pelt was already roaring the answer.
“I told you to watch the metal like your life depended on it! Half a dozen flaws from the very steel we’d make? Why don’t you stab the [Warrior] who tries to use a blade made with steel this shoddy? Out! Out! You won’t work in my forge again! Begone!”
He hurled more insults as the apprentice [Smith] ran for his life. Kevin stared blearily. It was probably like…six AM.
“Hi, Pelt. What did that poor guy do?”
The Dwarf was red with fury. But he was animated. And Kevin saw no less than nine apprentice-smiths—some actual [Smiths] who’d come to apprentice themselves once more—huddling over their work. Not all were banging metal. The Dwarf pointed with a shaking finger.
“Smelting steel. That’s all that fool had to do, but they cut corners. I told them to sieve the dust we use to smelt our crucibles. And look!”
He gestured at the raw iron dust and ore. Kevin bent and inspected the pot.
“…Not all of its iron?”
He saw tiny, tiny specks of what might have been other stone or just sand in the mix, although it was currently lying on the ground of Pelt’s forge. The Dwarf growled.
“Contamination! I demand purity. Not as if we wouldn’t fold the metal and work it out. But look at it! As if you could just trust the smelting process to burn it away! What kind of half-rate—quarter-rate—[Blacksmith] would work like that?”
Possibly no other [Smith] in the world would be so demanding. The Humans, Drakes, even a Gnoll and pair of Dullahans, bent to their work, and those preparing the metal for smelting sweated harder.
