In fact, she knew it. Doubly in fact? She doubly knew there were more functions of this technological weapon from an era far past Earth’s.
Because…she sat on the bed and glumly looked at the second thing she’d been given. She hadn’t realized it at first, but it had been wrapped around the handle.
Here was how Ryoka could describe the object on the bed. Imagine a civilization capable of creating ships capable of interstellar travel, that had formed a kind of galactic empire. An alliance of other species that might stretch impossible distances to Human understanding.
Then imagine they were at war with a second empire, and apparently, losing. So they’d gone into a gateway that only opened once in a long time with an entire war fleet and armies of technologically advanced soldiers.
Such that each one had armor, sensors, a plethora of weapons—even damned missiles mounted in their armor if Ryoka’s perception had been right, and their basic side arms were multi-functional blades that could shear through wood, and even steel, like it wasn’t there.
Got that? Now, the object on Ryoka’s bed is what they would use as paper.
It was dark. Not black—more like a super-dark grey, such that the words stood out. They did not exactly glow, but they were extremely sharp to Ryoka’s eyes. Also? The ‘paper’ was extremely, extremely thin and tough.
Ryoka thought paper was thin. But you couldn’t fold paper more than like, eight times without the layers making it too tough. Books could stop bullets at range sometimes, not that she’d like to try it.
This stuff was thin. It unfolded so many times it messed with your head; you kept thinking it was as large as could be, but it kept unfolding.
It was instructions. And Ryoka thought it had been printed just for her. There were buttons, clearly labeled, diagrams, commentary…
And here was the rub. Ryoka thought to the alien commander she’d met. She’d been reactive, even if she hadn’t understood the basic nature of the fae’s world at first. So this wasn’t her fault—
It was just that everything was in another language. In their defense, they probably thought it was fine since the fae’s world had made understanding universal—perceptions bridging the gap. Ryoka buried her face in her hands.
She just bet they’d dumbed it down for her, too. It looked like someone had done a crude diagram of her and was indicating different things with the handle. Only, like futuristic tech, they’d managed to animate the thing into the poses they wanted rather than redrawing it each time.
“I can handle this. I can do this. Perspective…change!”
Ryoka steadied herself. She did as she had done in the lands of the fae. Ordinary to grand! She opened her eyes—
—and it was all the same. Ryoka sagged.
“Different world, different rules. You have a weapon from the future and you can’t read the instructions. And you didn’t stop long enough to ask for a dictionary.”
Story of her life. Ryoka glumly went back to the instructions.
The problem was also that this civilization had different basic icons for…everything. They had done little graphics, but even their arrows looked different. Their conception of basic elements even seemed odd. Or maybe it was the artist. Ryoka fumbled.
“Let’s see. I…hold these two? And then grip…”
She’d tried tapping both times. She shifted the blade, trying to see what was wrong. She held them, pressed the trigger—
Nothing.
“Okay, that turns the auto-grip off! Good to know! So to reactivate I do the—no—”
She realized the hilt was aimed at her shoulder too late. The blade reactivated. Ryoka cried out—
The first mistake of guns or weapons was never point it at you. But the hilt was so short and she had forgotten the reach on it! She shouted, and then stared at her shoulder.
The hardlight edge stopped a millimeter or less from her skin. Ryoka shakily released the grip and the blade disappeared. She breathed in, out, in, out, then put the hilt down and curled up on the bed. After a few minutes, she pulled the blankets over her head.
“Okay. Automatic safety mechanism. Good to know.”
Good thing stupidity transcended realities or the makers wouldn’t have created this function. With that said? Ryoka realized something. She wasn’t going to point the weapon at herself…again…but the blade had stopped rather than gone through her arm.
Ergo, you couldn’t ever touch it without being hurt. Also, it couldn’t phase through something without going through it. It had a kind of mass, then.
She was learning a lot. Ryoka still shivered in her blankets for a while. But then she got out of them.
Because she had to. Because four days had passed since the Summer Solstice and she’d…failed.
Failed, Erin. Failed to bring what was needed. The world had been lost to something. The fae had fled.
…And yet, it seemed no more different. Ryoka had waited. She had waited for the foundations of reality to start coming undone.
But save for the terrible news coming from Rhir? Nothing else had happened. No…things…had manifested as of yet. Perhaps there was time.
Four days. Ryoka’s head bent. She had only told Lyonette she’d failed. She had not left this place. She had been…busy.
Busy, thinking, confirming things she’d learned, writing down things she had not. Figuring out how to turn this thing on had taken nearly a day; it was harder than it looked! There’d been an activation process that even with a step-by-step cartoon had taken Ryoka nearly an hour.
And more. But here she sat. Ryoka Griffin’s head bowed as she looked at the hilt and gash on the floor. Yet, she did not give into despair or guilt.
The time has come for you to do more than just run.
She picked up the hilt and regarded it grimly. The blade came to life. Now, surer she wouldn’t hurt herself, she performed a vague cut. It was…terrible. She’d never swung a sword! But still, the deadly edge cut the air. Ryoka lifted her belt dagger. She eyed the half of it lying on the floor.
It was not what she had wanted. She had nearly had the scroll! It had been in her hands until the magical protections stopped her and Ivolethe dragged her away. She had not the cure, nor aid from that other place.
She could have used a starship and a legion. She could have used the Wild Hunt and Wyrms and one Nama.
But this would do in lieu of nothing else. Ryoka Griffin sighed. And then she stood. She was rising to greet the day…midday, rather, when someone entered unannounced.
“Wind Runner! I’m bored. What are you doing? What’s that?”
He pointed avidly at the hilt of the futuristic sword in Ryoka’s hand. She hid it behind her back reflexively and realized that was the stupidest move. Instead, she gingerly showed him.
“This? Oh—an artifact. Creates illusions. I’m trying it out.”
The young [Lord] stared at Ryoka. His eyes narrowed. And in that moment he looked like his father at Lord Tyrion’s grimmest. Not that Ryoka had known the man long. Sammial glowered.
“Liar. I saw you cut the floor with it!”
Ryoka Griffin wavered.
“What? You saw—”
She looked around her room. In her house, in, not to put too fine a point on it, her space that Laken Godart, the Unseen Emperor had granted her. Sammial had barged right in, which was fair since Ryoka hadn’t locked the door after breakfast.
But even so.
“How did you see that?”
The boy gave Ryoka Griffin another suspicious look. He pointed at the window to her room, whose shutters were slightly agape. Just enough to leave a crack of daylight.
“I’ve been watching you all morning, obviously. What is it? I want to use it! Give it to me! I order you to!”
He held out a hand imperiously. Ryoka Griffin stared at him.
She had never learned the art of child-kicking. But she was a willing student in this moment.
 
—-
 
There is something about Sammial Veltras that rubs you the wrong way. Hi, it’s me, Ryoka Griffin. And I need an internal minute.
Mostly to prevent myself from killing him.
Firstly? He’s been spying on me all morning? Which means that after my morning run and awkward breakfast with the nobility still in Laken’s empire, I changed clothes. Wonderful.
Second? He saw advanced alien technology and schematics, which means I’ve had the…Faeblade*…for all of four days before the secret got out.
 
*No, that sounds stupid. Lightsword? Hardlight blade? Sword of Light? Wow, I cannot name things.
 
I take a calming breath. The trick to calming breaths is to take huge ones, so that hopefully it distracts you, lets you calm down—or you pass out.
It’s that or kill Sammy.
Sammial Veltras. A ‘prodigy’ in that he has an aura and he’s so young. Not even ten? I forget. Hethon is more reserved, more likable. Sammy is a brat.
However, Ryoka, remember all the lessons you’ve learned over your tenure in this world. Namely? You’re a brat. You were, still probably are, and he’s a kid.
So I take a breath, and look at him.
“You were watching me all morning, Sammy?”
“Except when you took off your clothes. I turned away. Where did you get that? From the weird people? I didn’t get to talk to them, except the rude one with horns on her head. Jericha said it was too dangerous. She says you’re an unpredictable element. Where did you go? You vanished. Then fell out of the sky!”
All true. I wonder what the party guests think. Laken claims they were assailed by four—then five strangers who brought shadows and knew the fae.
No guesses who they are. I shouldn’t have even said their name, even by accident. Holy hells. We are in trouble.
I look at Sammy. He doesn’t know any of this. He’s just staring at the faeblade*. I sigh.
 
*Damn it, it’s starting to stick.
 
“Sammy—it’s a secret. I’m sorry, I can’t tell you.”
His eyes narrow again. He has a temper worse than mine, something I’ve observed. Is it natural, because he’s young, or because he has no mother and his father’s as distant as mine?
“I order you to! I’m sick of adult secrets!”
Again, his aura assails me. I grit my teeth, but in truth, he might be a prodigy but I’ve met Magnolia Reinhart and uppity Dragons. Yes, plural. I wish I could have talked to the Dragon of the Trashheap again.
Still, it’s rather like someone trying to force you to do something by grabbing the nape of your neck. At least how Sammial does it. Magnolia’s subtle. He’s like someone kicking the back of your head, all brute force.
It makes me mad. So does the spying! However, calming breath. I try to think of something reasonable to say.
It’s funny, because a while ago, my go-to response would be, verbatim—‘you little shit, I will kick you into the sun.’
And to judge by some of the things I saw, that’s not entirely unwarranted with Sammial, at least. He rubs people the wrong way and it’s not his fault per se. He’s patently miserable.
How do I know? He’s always angry, always demanding things, and always wants attention. Guess who that reminds me of*?
 
*Angry Ryoka, ages 3 to present. Accept no substitutes.
 
And no, I’m not wiser for going into the land of the fae. I have…learned things. But I’m not better at controlling my temper. I just know I have one and what happens if I snap.
I’m not smarter. I’m not better. I’m just more experienced. And—let that make all the difference.
“Sammy. Stop using your aura on me.”
“Tell me what that is!”
“Sammial Veltras. I said, stop using your aura on me.”
I look at him. His tenuous control wavered and I feel the pressure relent. I nod.
“Good. Don’t use your aura on me. Not now, and not on other people. This is like being rude. No—it’s worse than being rude.”
His cheeks redden. He opens his mouth and lets out a whooping cough. He tries to speak, begins hacking.
Asthma? I look around for…what, a paper bag? An inhaler? I have neither, and within seconds he’s done. He pretends nothing happened. I feel bad for him.
“You’re not Jericha! Stop telling me what to do!”
I sigh. How would I talk to young Ryoka? First, smack her hard. No—I can’t do that. I patiently bend over, and realize that’s patronizing. So I sit down instead, cross-legged.
“I’m giving you advice. I’m not your father, or your—guardian. I’m not Jericha or anyone else, Sammial. But I am telling you, person-to-person. You can’t do that and expect to get away with it. You understand?”
He gives me a long look.
“I know what you mean. Be polite. Make people like you. That’s what Hethon does. But I am a [Lord]. I have pride as a nobleman!”
I scratch my head. Where’s Tyrion? Ah, out riding with the other [Lords] and [Ladies]. Those who didn’t run for the hills the instant the party ended like Lady Ieka and some of the others.
The rest have enjoyed His Majesty’s hospitality, also mainly because they’re trying to figure out what the heck happened? Also also? To eat all of the good food he has. It’s rare so many are in one place and there’s potential here for diplomacy.
Anyways. I’m learning more about Tyrion Veltras, counterpart of Magnolia and the famous [Lord] of war in the north.
He. Sucks. At. Parenting. And I know this might come back to bite me, but I have to say it.
“Okay, Sammy, you’re a [Lord] of House Veltras. So what?”
He blinks at me.
“So, I am a [Lord] and more important than other people.”
I shake my head before he even gets that last part out. Oh no, I have to at least present the counterargument, bad idea or not.
“Sammy, I don’t believe that.”
“Why not?”
He narrows his eyes as if to feel out how offended he should be. I tap my chest.
“We’re all Human. We’re all people. I believe that being a [Lord] means you’re important in one way. But you should still try to be polite. To think about others. Okay?”
“What if I don’t want to? What if other people are stupid and I know what’s best?”
I blink. That’s a Ryoka-question right there. But instead of my parents or teachers or…well, I never liked the answers I got. So here’s a better one. I shrug.
“That’s fair, Sammial. You don’t have to care about people. But you should. Remember the Satyr? The horned lady?”
He nods, cautiously. I smile.
“She would have murdered you for mouthing off. And she’s an extreme example, but your people are no different. Haven’t you ever made…Jericha angry?”
He looks away.
“…Sometimes.”
I just bet you have. I bite my tongue, and keep my voice reasonable.
“Well, Jericha likes you so she puts up with that. No one else has to. Not fellow [Lords], not your people, even. So think about that next time you want to be mean. There are consequences for everything you do. They might not come today, or tomorrow. But they will come.”
