The moment Jake stepped in, he’d already decided that none of these vampire hunters were leaving alive. It wasn’t even a question of him necessarily protecting the vampires anymore, but just that he really didn’t like these people and their entire Paths, which pretty much revolved around genociding an entire race. The Holy Church’s reason for wanting to get rid of all vampires also struck him as horrible, as the only reason they didn’t like vampires was due to their inability to receive Baptisms and enter the Holyland after death. It was purely selfish, and it wasn’t as if the Holy Church didn’t have enough innocent souls to indoctrinate into its fold.

“Lord Chosen, the opinions and thoughts of one at your standing are naturally not mine to dictate or even dare scrutinize, so I would never even consider such a notion in the first place,” the leader of the vampire hunters said, still intent on defusing the situation somehow. A bit funny considering how happy he’d been just moments before to also get the chance to kill the snake and dragonkin.

Jake didn’t see much sense in continuing to address the guy, as he instead turned his gaze to the two vampires who had subtly moved closer to one another after his appearance. Both of them looked a lot worse for wear, and upon seeing Jake look their way, their expressions were an odd mix of reverence and a little scared.

“How do you two think this situation should be resolved?” he asked in a calm voice.

The male vampire hesitated while the female one didn’t even take a moment to think.

“Kill them all!” she said before promptly shutting herself up as the male vampire gave her a frightened look, making her continue. “I mean... I wouldn’t dare suggest what the Chosen should do...”

“A bit late for that,” Jake chuckled, turning his gaze back to the leader of the vampires. “But I do like the suggestion.”

“Scatter!” the leader of the vampire hunters yelled, at least prompt with his decision-making as he threw away all signs of disrespect by pulling out two daggers and lunging straight for Jake as he pushed his boosting skill beyond its limits without any hesitation.

At the same time, his three allies shot off in different directions, the members from the Order barely too slow to stop any of them. Jake smiled as he casually stepped to the side and dodged the slash coming at him, wondering whether this wasn’t the most blasphemous thing someone had done all day.

To attack the Chosen of a Primordial! How dare he? Oh well, Jake would reluctantly take on the responsibility of teaching these vampire hunters proper conduct in place of the Holy Church. Someone had to make up for their lack of education, after all.
