I took a deep breath. “Wonderful. I’m going to be running in that direction.” I pointed in an easterly direction. “Can you give me an opening, Nix?”

She eyed Haddock. “Have the mana for another slip n slide, love?”

He grunted. “That’s the last one I’ve got, though.”

A second later, another heavily slanted wall emerged right in front of us. Now, I noticed a bunch of details I’d completely missed first time around. How it wasn’t just a flat surface, tilted to direct the water in a specific direction – in this case, downward and outward. No, the large sheet of summoned stone-like material, tacked onto the battlements of the wall for stability, was both tilted and rounded, with a shape that seemed optimized to catch as much of the descending water as possible, and launch it out of the bottom at maximum speed, concentrated into a tighter space.

The water from Nix’s Flash Flood emerged from high in the skies, pouring down with the force of a waterfall and spattering all of us with droplets. Yet, when the vast majority of the water struck Haddock’s construction and exploded down and out, it emerged with the force of a tsunami.

“Go! Don’t fucking die!” Nix’s words were barely audible behind the roar of the water and the frenzied roars from the Ghastlings.

I wasn’t paying attention anyway. I leapt from the battlements in the wake of the flood, sprinted down the slippery bridge at a pace that threatened to have me slip and break a leg.

The ground was wet, too. I barely touched it. Why? Because I was running on top of downed Ghastlings. And suddenly, I couldn’t help myself. I howled with laughter.

One shorter Ghastling was shaking itself, getting to its feet. It noticed me and, still groggy, lashed out with an unsteady paw. I ran past it, but managed to catch it with my buckler and send the beast stumbling right back to the ground with a well-timed Deflect. The crunching sound as its joint bent out of whack was a joy.

“Come on, you feckless puppies. Is that all you’ve got? Dinner’s served, you toothless shits!” I howled the words as I sprinted, cackling all the while.

The rush was overwhelming. Anything I’d ever known, all logic and planning, lost in the insane burst of joy and recklessness as I sprinted between the ranks of infuriated Ghastlings, daring them to come get me.

They answered the call. I still wasn’t too sure on the whole topic of monsters vs. beasts, as in, how many regular behaviorisms did monsters actually share with ‘regular’ beasts from home. Yet, right that moment, I definitely confirmed that they had one animalistic trait. When they saw a snack running? They chased!

I was so glad I’d eventually chosen Improved Run Speed. I actually managed to make it through their amassed numbers and almost to the edge of their circling group before they started going after me as a whole. But boy oh boy did they ever react then.

I might have been able to outrun them. Might. Some of the Ghastlings were pretty damn fast on their feet, and I was pretty sure that monsters, same as us, placed their attributes differently upon leveling up. Meaning, some of them were bound to be Agility-focused. That wasn’t the point, though. The point was that, even while I was yelling and shouting, some of the beasts at the back of the horde were turning away from me and back to the big-ass walls that still held a bunch of walking, talking sandwiches for them.

I waved both my hands above my head. Then, I set my feet and opened my arms wide, showing my teeth at the walls of fur waiting to close in on me. My Wheel of Magic activated, all four spokes burning bright with the damage I’d taken from their magical claws, and started spitting magic everywhere. “What are you waiting for? Come get some!” I shouted, drunk with adrenaline.

They didn’t wait. They really didn’t. The next ten seconds were a chaotic wave of fur, claws and teeth. I stood my ground, yelling insanity at any comers. Then, just yelling, shouting, pain and rage taking over while everything else subsided.

All the while, I dodged, deflected, growled and parried. And between my feet, on the ground, a vivid orange flame pulsed and grew bigger.

One moment, I was spitting defiance at a charging Ghastling, trying to dislodge another beast that somehow got its claw stuck behind my single remaining piece of leg armor. The next, the world went up in fire.

Pain. Pain and heat. That was all there was. An all-devouring, burning, rolling torch, trying to carve away my skin, my eyelids, my everything.

And then there was nothing.

I opened my eyes. I lay on the ground in a fetal position. My ridiculous buckler was warm to the touch, uncomfortably so. My swordbreaker was… somewhere. I’d dropped it. The world was utter silence. Around me was death. Death, desolation and a whole lot of charred flesh. I knew there was something I had to do, but my mind was drawing a blank.

Then something connected, and I brought up my details.

Health: 341/770

Oh. There it was. I’d actually survived it. A few rare synapses kicked back in, and I remembered the plan. Apparently, getting yourself torched wasn’t inducive for thinking right.

I grimaced. Then I popped my remaining three attribute points into Fortitude, watching my remaining Health increase to 423. Better. Especially since I wasn’t done.

Slowly, I got to my feet. With a reckless jolt, I dislodged the Ghastling that was still stuck by its claws behind my leg armor. Its eyes were clouded over in death.

Nothing moved around me. The world was silent. I tried to talk, then coughed. Then, with a croak, my voice grew in power, reaching my ears with a tinny quality that told me beyond a doubt that something was wrong with my ears. “Is that all you’ve got? I said, dinner’s served. Are you fucking vegetarians?”

I wasn’t making much sense. I didn’t care. Plenty of notifications were blinking at the edge of my vision. No time. No bother. I waved my arms over my head at Nix, showing that I was good for another go.

Before, the Ghastlings had been chomping at the bit to get at me, eager to grab a bite of the ridiculous dumpling running about and teasing them. Now, they absolutely lost it. Whether it was my defiance, my ridiculous taunts, or the sheer number of dead kin that lay around me, the remaining Ghastlings flung themselves at me with unholy abandon. All of them.

I set my feet and growled in response to the snarls I could barely hear beyond the ever-present ringing in my ears. Then I readied myself for round two. Seconds later, the ground between my feet started pulsating a deep, threatening orange again.

A few minutes later, I found myself running. Ghastlings chased me. Fewer of them than I’d expected, but still more than enough to finish me off.

I was done in. My health was below a hundred. My legs were smouldering from the second firebomb. My balls were aching, blistered in ways that should be illegal. My stamina slowly edging below a third of my total. My clothes and armor were an absolute loss. Again. Bad habit, that. My mind was rattled and barely functional.

Nothing in this situation was funny. Yet, I found myself howling with laughter as I ran. I sent crude gestures at the Ghastlings, whooped and hollered as I ran, and the monsters loped, stumbled and limped after me depending on their injuries, while my Wheel of Magic spat damage at them and kept them engaged.

I’d done it. I’d fucking done it!
