Calen hovered high over the northern battlements, watching the Torian army finish encamping in the early twilight. The details stood out, clearly visible with his enhanced vision.

That looks like the commander’s tent. And those must be the cooking areas. He continued taking mental notes as he studied their deployment. After about ten minutes, when he began to run low on mana, he spiraled downward to land behind the thick, magically reinforced stone walls. Retrieving some paper, he quickly drew out a detailed map of the enemy camp from memory.

He knew he wasn’t the only scout observing the enemy position, but there was significant value in multiple reports, many of the scouts had different perception abilities after all. After handing his report to an officer, he once again took to the air. His wings of light shone brightly in the fading light.

Not the best skill for staying hidden. He didn’t mind though, he loved flying. Besides, his Eyes of the Archon allowed him to observe from much further than the longest range of the Torian archers and mages. His graceful sweep through the air took him over the town, which rapidly shrunk as he gained height, and out past the south wall.

Now, to find that necromancer.

None of the other scouts had found anything to the south, but after several trips in various directions, he began to understand why. It was easy to see the destruction the undead had left, from blighted areas to felled trees and destroyed farmhouses. But he could not find a single skeleton or zombie. Each time he thought he saw a sign, he would fly in for closer examination, but nothing conclusive could be found.

They must be using concealment magic. He puzzled over the problem of the missing enemy as he flew east to check on the Myrin River, but found no signs that it had been forded or had been used for rapid transport.

Frustrated, Calen finally gave up. With the last of his mana, he powered his wings, accelerating his flight to the fastest he could go. He shot upward, enjoying the rush of air on his face and the sight of the world rapidly receding beneath him.

It looks almost peaceful from up here. Myrin’s Keep had been reduced to a tiny circle beside the glistening thread of the Myrin River. He circled idly and his thoughts drifted to Ali’s dilemma. He had been excited about the possibility that his magic could help her – could give her the edge she needed to counter the stealth of the assassin that had so shaken her. But in the end, it seemed it simply wouldn’t work. It had been a great idea, but mana incompatibility was notoriously hard to overcome. He was certain she would be able to solve it, given time – she was one of the smartest people he had ever met when it came to understanding magic. He just hoped it would be soon so she could return to her typical happy self, brimming with curiosity about the world and magic around her.

Wait… what’s that? In his distraction, his eyes picked up an unnatural and subtle pattern. From this height, he could see a roughly straight line running from the far south all the way to near the town. Something he hadn’t noticed from closer. Quickly, he downed a mana potion to give him more time to study the strange phenomenon.

It looks like a path that someone tried to erase. He studied it for a while. Or something heavy was dragged… all the way from the Lirasian forest. His brain suddenly recalled the skeletons from the logging town they had raided. Some of them had been cutting the wood of the giant trees and making something, and now they were approaching a town protected by walls…

Siege weapons! They were building siege weapons to crack the battlements… and they dragged them all the way here under a concealment spell! Quickly, he dove toward the town, gathering speed as he searched for the garrison commander and his aides on the battlements. They need to know this.

Ali returned to the library to find Ryn curled up on a comfortable-looking couch, deeply engrossed in a book. There were several large couches spread around near the area where they had been camping recently on the top floor of the library. A couple of wooden tables with chairs, and even an elegant-looking tea stand with a steaming pot of boiling water. Ali was delighted to see a few of the tables and chairs were sized for her.

Probably made for Gnomes, but they’re perfect! She had just spent several hours making arrows to fill an emergency quest filed at the guild and she returned to find her library significantly more livable – cozy, even.

“Wow, this is great, Ryn!” she exclaimed. She had expected maybe a couch, but Ryn had outdone herself.

“I hoped you’d like it,” she said looking up from her book on Elvish grammar. “I had to buy a storage ring to get everything down here, I hope you don’t mind.”

“That’s fine,” Ali said, “I’m sure it will be very useful.” She hopped up on the couch and even her tiny body sunk into the comfortable cushions. “This is really soft and comfy,” she said, patting the couch.

Ryn smiled, “Would you like some tea? They had a special discount, so I got a good selection.”

“With all the food shortages?” Ali asked, incredulously.

“I’m always looking out for good teas,” Ryn said. “I got this batch a couple of weeks ago.”

Ali nodded and watched Ryn prepare her a cup. Over to the side, she saw one of the free-standing bookcases had been wiped down and cleaned, and the rest of the books Ali had duplicated earlier were arranged neatly on the shelf. Let’s make it look a little more like a library. Ali retrieved all the books she had collected from her ring and placed them on the table.

She accepted her tea from Ryn and took a sip, savoring the flavor. “The tea is a lovely touch, Ryn.” She felt quite elegant and cultured sitting in the library sipping on her cup of aromatic tea. She pointed to the small pile of books on the table. “It’s not much yet, but it should help fill our first shelf.”

With a wry smile for Ali’s chagrinned realization that they were only starting out, Ryn carefully arranged each of the books on the shelf, clearly using a structured ordering system even though there were only a few books.

Ali admired the shelf. It’s tiny, but finally, there are books in the library again. She shivered lightly, a frisson of harmony. It feels so right.

“Wow, this is fancy,” Malika said as she entered the room.

Calen and Mato followed her in, and everyone had to test out the couches. Ali smiled until her cheeks hurt, happy to be part of their excitement.

***

Ali stood high upon the southern battlement overlooking the eerily swirling mist blanketing the fields below. Her small army of Kobolds gathered closely around her like a contingent of scaled bodyguards, unaffected by the chilly dawn breeze. When the orders had come down from Commander Brand, they had requested the Adventurers Guild supply five mages or archers to bolster the ranged defenses in this section. Vivian had sent her. Apart from a pair of Acolytes, she had spent the early hours of the morning summoning Fire Mages – if this was to be anything like the Goblin siege, she would want both the range and efficiency of Firebolts, and the area damage of their Fireball spells. However, her focus was not on her minions, but rather upon a shifting anomaly in the mana out in the fields below.

Arcane Insight told her there were unexpected strands of mana – tendrils emerging from an unknown source – which in and of itself was weird enough. But the nature of whatever magic had been used down there was shifting and vague, as if the spell were intentionally obscured. Even Sage of Learning seemed alert to the strange phenomenon, slowly nibbling away at her mana as she studied it.

This must be the thing Calen mentioned. What’s going on under there?

Slowly a pair of Calen’s orbs of light drifted out over the battlements, meandering toward the formation like a blind person searching for a book on an unfamiliar table. Back and forth they bobbed, drawing further and further from the battlements. Slowly, with a twisted shimmer, the grand magic formation faded, and a horde of dark shapes emerged from the mists.

“Undead!” The cry rang out from the battlements as the archers and mages caught sight of the enemy.

Arrayed in ragged ranks across the field as far as her eyes could pierce the mists, a vast sea of shambling gaunt shapes slowly materialized in the gloom. She heard a low, chilling moan that raised the little hairs on the nape of her neck. Behind the undead horde, she counted a dozen giant, crudely fashioned wooden catapults – with more emerging as the mists rolled back – manned by packs of larger skeletal warriors and zombies. Small skeletons stationed in front of the catapults worked their mana into a magical barrier or shield of sorts, with auras of magic that glowed and flickered eerily in the mist. Dotted through the rank and file were the enormous figures of several greater undead, seeming to be lieutenants or generals – including a second enormous giant troll zombie, perhaps even more massive than the one they had faced at the logging village.

Right on the edge of the forest, upon a small grassy hill behind the endless ranks of undead, a black-robed figure sat astride a skeletal horse, regally surveying his horde. Ali could make out the shapes of several bowed and blighted people standing still as statues around the horse, wearing collars that seemed to be tethered to the robed figure by black chains of ominous death mana. All about the man, the plants were wilted and blackened, as if his very presence were enough to end them.

Alexander Gray. It can’t be any other.

The southern battlements of Myrin’s Keep rang with gasps and shouts as the defenders noticed the undead army materializing in the morning mist. The robed necromancer raised a hand and, with a magically amplified voice that echoed coldly across the entire breadth of the town, he commanded, “Commence firing.”

The Skeletal Warriors on the field sprang into action, loading a catapult with a rock that was several times larger than Ali’s entire body. In surprisingly short order, they had the lines tensioned and a clack resounded as the firing mechanism released. The huge rock soaring through the air was no less terrifying for having been launched from a mundane catapult than if it had been conjured with magic. The massive boulder seemed to hover, momentarily weightless at the peak of its trajectory, suspended above the field, before it crashed down, shaking the magically reinforced stone of the battlement to its foundations. Ali stumbled, reaching out to the trembling stone to catch herself.

In the aftermath, as the undead uncaringly began to haul another boulder into place, she could hear the distant shouts and cracks and thumps of artillery magic. That’s from the north gate. It was clear that the Torian army was coordinating their assault with the necromancer’s undead army, and she just hoped that the garrison was not spread too thin.

“Return fire!” she heard the officer relaying their orders.

Too far for fireballs.

“Firebolts,” she commanded.

As one, Ali’s little army of vengeful Kobolds all began to cast their long-range firebolts in the direction of the catapults. The volley of fire magic crashed into the shields maintained by a continuous group-sorcery wielded by the skeleton mages arrayed in front of them, and the spells of her minions were quickly joined by those of the other mages and archers along her section of the wall, creating a multicolored stream of magic and projectiles thundering against the enemy barriers.

Off in the distance, at the opposite end of her battlement, Calen’s incandescent arrows joined the barrage, his light magic so unique it was recognizable instantly across the breadth of the entire town.

I hope the others are doing ok. Everyone had been assigned different duties based on their skills, and so, even though she was surrounded by defenders, she felt unusually alone without her friends nearby. Another catapult fired, the stone arcing up through the air and passing clean over the wall, demolishing several houses with a great crash. It was followed quickly by another boulder. She heard several screams in the smoke and dust of the aftermath.

“There are people down there!” Ali yelled.

“Fuck, they were supposed to evacuate!” an officer yelled, scrambling to react.

An intense surge of mana and magical power instantly snapped Ali’s attention from the destroyed houses back to the battlefield. In the necromancer’s raised right hand, a dark pulsing formation of mana had gathered.

Summoning? The magic was at once deceptively familiar, and yet, entirely foreign. With a rush, the tendrils of black mana shot forth from his grasp, crossing the battlefield in a blink and passing right through the base of the wall, entering the wreckage of the houses behind it. As Ali turned, she saw newly summoned skeletons dragging themselves free of the wreckage and shrugging off stone and shattered wood.

“Skeletons in the back!” she yelled.

“Sound the alarm! Undead inside the walls!” the officer shouted, causing two runners to sprint off, one reaching a bell and ringing it urgently.

This could not be good. She only hoped Commander Brand had a sound strategy worked out.

Havok stood on the street, watching his companions shifting impatiently as they awaited orders. They were the reserve team ‘blue’. He had made sure to memorize it. Humans tended to make everything more complicated than it needed to be – he didn’t understand why they needed colors to hit skeletons. He hefted his shield impatiently, a little worried by the heavy thumps that shook the walls up ahead.

He hated skeletons. And zombies too. And he was particularly annoyed that they had chosen to come here. Carefully, he checked his bone sword – the one he had earned in the sewers the day he had unlocked his class – it was getting a little chipped and battered, but it would serve for today.

Suddenly, the peals of a bell sounded above the background noise of battle.

“Red team, you’re on Third Avenue! Blue team, Fifth Avenue! Skeletons sighted within the walls,” the officer shouted orders at them.

Time to smash! Havok was tired of waiting, and the sudden orders filled him with a surge of anticipation. Perhaps, if there was a good fight, afterward, he would buy himself a new sword from the one-eyed Gnome.

“Let’s go,” Aiden said. Havok could hear the tension in his voice.

Havok liked Aiden. As he followed him down the street, he recalled the day Aiden had stood up to the mean humans to protect him. Humans didn’t do that for him. Humans were usually mean.

