

Get Amulet to 10

38

Take Smell Bound Item (Sub Amulet)

lol, no

39

Get Smell to 5

40

Take Repair Bound Item

41

Take Recharge Bound Item

42

Dump Smell (Ha ha, I’m a child)

43

Get Repair, Recharge to 10

44

Take Equipment Mastery

1

45

Dump Repair

46

Dump Recharge

47

48

Sharpshooting

Keeper?

49

Restore Drilling Shot

1

50

Restore Seeker Shot

1

51

Restore Hardened Arrowheads

52

Restore Sharpened Arrowheads

1

53

Dump Hardened Arrowheads

54

Restore Strong Draw

1

55

Restore Piercing Shot

1

56

Restore Endless Quiver

1

57

Take Sniper Shot

1

58

Take Bleeder Shot

1

59

Take Multishot

1

60

Rank Shots to 60 total

61

Take Stacked Shot

1

62

63

Total

25

64

65

Additional

Keeper?

66

Keep Healing Word

1

67

Keep Airwalk

1

68

Keep Fire Affinity

1

69

Keep Heat Mastery

1

70

Keep Chanting

1

71

Take Spring

72

Take Channel Mastery

1

73

Take Energy Well

1

74

Dump Spring

75

Dump Other Stuff

Purify?

76

77

Total Skill Count

32

78

79

Current Skill Count

32

80

Skill

Rank

81

Thickened Plate

7

82

Hardened Plate

7

83

Heavy Resistance Enhancement

1

84

Deep Plate

1

85

Skill

Rank

86

Shock Arrow

8

87

Fire Arrow

10

88

Ice Arrow

10

89

Stygian Arrow

1

90

Stone Arrow

1

91

Arrow Affinity

2

92

Skill

Rank

93

Deep Durability

2

94

Deep Hardness

2

95

Empowered Mainhand

1

96

Empowered Offhand

1

97

Empowered Amulet

1

98

Empowered Armor

1

99

Skill

Rank

100

Drilling Shot

10

101

Seeker Shot

10

102

Sharpened Arrowheads

10

103

Strong Draw

10

104

Piercing Shot

3

105

Endless Quiver

6

106

Skill

Rank

107

Healing Word

10

108

Airwalk

10

109

Fire Affinity

10

110

Heat Mastery

10

111

Chanting

10

112

Channel Mastery

10

113

Energy Well

7

114

Mana Manipulation

10

115

Message

10

116

Purify

10

117

118

Current Arrow Ranks

30

119

Current Shot Ranks

23

With a herculean effort, Rain raised his hands and summoned a keyboard. His tired arms screamed in protest at the motion, but his spreadsheet program tended to crash any time he tried to edit anything directly. Working shakily with trembling fingers, he began updating the listed skill ranks.

Ameliah’s Shock Arrow was now at ten, and her other Arrow skills were on the way. Those were the present bottleneck, and thus the primary focus of her training. Rain was done with Arcane Ward, but Ameliah wouldn’t be able to get rid of Shock Arrow until she unlocked Arrow Synergy. She’d said she would be there by this time tomorrow.

Rain smiled, letting his hands fall as he reviewed the updated numbers. Ameliah seemed to be experiencing less soulstrain with each passing day, corresponding to her improving synchronization. She’d started way ahead of him on the physical side of things, only her recent abuse of stat accolades seeming to put a limit on how much stamina she was able to spend. That effect was already subsiding, or at least, she was better at hiding her fatigue. She was eating more, too, which made Rain feel a little better about his own condition.

He wanted to improve his synchronization across the board, and he had the accolades to do it, but he couldn’t use them without risking more side effects. Without them, the only reason he’d been able to keep up with Ameliah at all physically was by being more willing to work himself to uselessness.

Ameliah was holding herself back out of necessity. Her strength, as well as Tallheart’s, was required to keep them safe. Rain, as much as he didn’t want to admit it, was still just along for the ride. What did it matter if he couldn’t move his arms? It wouldn’t make a difference against any genuine threat. Not that there’d been any of those in the past few days.

They hadn’t seen a single Hababa since the injured one, and nothing nasty had come up from below, either. Rain had sensed a few unidentified monsters on the one occasion when they’d ventured back into the cave to check, but they hadn’t gone down to learn more. As much as they needed Arcane Crysts, they weren’t ready. Fortunately, it looked like it wasn’t going to take as long for them to prepare as Rain had anticipated, and Ameliah’s rapid progress was why.

She’s been using Energy Well all morning, and she’s charged Dozer knows how many arrows with mana, yet she claims she doesn’t even have a headache. Liar. He chuckled. Damn, what a pair of Vals we make.

His smile faded as he considered the underlying reasons for her recent behavior, then sighed. She has to stop beating herself up over losing to the Crimson Swords. It’s great that she’s been so driven lately, but it’s not healthy. It wasn’t a fair fight. She had no way to know about their accolades, hell, or their equipment… Shit, their equipment.

Rain sighed again. Worry, worry, worry, that’s all I do. Vanna knows not to let anyone touch that stuff until we’re back. Even if it’s come unbound already, nobody should know that but her. She has it under control.

It will be fine.

…

“Damn it,” Rain muttered, dismissing his interface and rolling himself over. Dragging himself into range of his pack, he rooted around until he found a small cloth bundle tucked safely into an inner pouch. He undid the clasp holding the fabric closed, then let it roll out along the ground, revealing five accolades sewn into pockets. The text describing their properties was visible, meaning that they were bound. The binding wasn’t to him, however. Three of them were linked instead to Vanna, and then one apiece to Jamus and Samson, all unbeknownst to the others. This was Rain’s emergency messaging system. At present, it appeared that there was no emergency.

Rain sighed, rolling the bundle back up and tucking it away. Vanna, Jamus, and Samson each had a bundle like it, though theirs only held a single accolade each. The messaging was rudimentary by necessity. Rain’s idea of painting text on the back of an accolade hadn’t worked, and thus, there was only a single bit of information you could send per plate. Summoning it was a one, and unbinding it was a zero. Each of the five accolades in Rain’s keeping had an agreed-upon meaning for each action, as did those he’d left on the surface. In Rain’s case, if he were to summon one of the plates bound to him, its keeper would know that he was coming back. If he were to unbind it, they’d know that he wasn’t.

Rain shook his head slowly, then pinged with Detection. The scan came back clean. Tallheart was still hammering away at his anvil. Ameliah was out of range.

He sighed, forcing himself to relax. Worry, worry, worry.

His concern for her wasn’t based on anything rational. Her resistances were a bit low without any skills boosting them, true, but Rain had forced her to take all the resistance accolades that were worth a damn, plus those related to stamina and mana. He’d have given her the health-boosting plates as well, but she’d put her foot down.

She had the iron armor to protect her, she said, and she wasn’t exactly wrong. Crappy as it was, it was still stupidly thick. Her still-growing mastery of Airwalk also meant she wouldn’t be getting hit in the first place. The only real threat would be something on the level of the Hababa Shaman King, but such a thing wasn’t likely to be out there. Even if it was, she could simply run or send them a Message to alert them to the danger.

Rain snorted.

Danger. No, she’s not in danger. She IS the danger. She IS the one who knocks.

He let himself fall back to the ground with a sigh, his smile fading. I miss TV. Closing his eyes, he turned his focus inward. It was time to reap the results of his own training.

Setting his training dialog to trigger in fifteen minutes, he calmed his thoughts. This would be his last chance to see the level-up process for a while, as he was currently level 23 going on level 24. His attempts to slow down his progress had been laughably ineffective. He was well aware that he had a mana abuse problem.

However, he had at least managed to gather a little data along the way. He’d seen the leveling process from within his soul five times now, one of those times even being in response to a monster kill. That experiment had taken a bit of doing, but unfortunately, the result hadn’t been very enlightening. This time would be the sixth, and his hopes weren’t high that he’d learn anything new. Due diligence demanded that he try, however.

Within three minutes, Rain was inside his soul, the process almost automatic at this point. As usual, he found himself in his core, then switched quickly to Snek, finding the serpentine avatar adrift in a sea of rage.

Damn. Dozer spat him out. [Hey, Dozer, didn’t I tell you to keep Snek with you?]

[Rain-King!] Dozer replied, happy surprise filling the link, along with a hefty dose of fatigue.

[Yes, hello,] Rain sent, along with the feeling of a smile. [Come on back to the Bastion, Dozer. It’s time for you to rest.]

[No,] Dozer sent, his tone almost petulant.

[Dozer, you come back here this instant, or I’m never letting you out there again.]

[…]

Did… Did he just send me an ellipsis? How in the…? Incredulous, Rain flicked out his tongue, but retracted it immediately upon tasting the battery-acid burn of the chaos.

Feeling the need to rub at his eyes, he switched away from Snek and into his latest avatar, which he’d dubbed Stumps.

A human was much more complicated to sculpt than a snake, surprising no one. Stumps had a face and the correct number of limbs, but that was about where the resemblance ended. Fingers had proven a challenge. The trouble was the bones. Stumps didn’t have any of those as of yet. What he did have was a round head like a cueball, complete with a pair of magnificent cookie-monster eyes and a slash for a mouth. Rain was no Michelangelo; he just wanted to have a shape close enough to human so he could emote properly. Needless to say, it was a work in progress.

Rain blinked his googly eyes, then stretched, reveling in the motion. It felt, well, not right, but at least free from soulstrain. Swinging his arms to reacclimate himself, Rain sighed. So much for Snek, I guess. I’m surprised he hasn’t dissolved out there. Getting him back is going to suck. It will have to wait until—

[Okay. Coming. Dozer good!]

Rain smiled, then poured approval through the link [Good boy, Dozer! I’ll see you in a few minutes.]

He let the link subside as Dozer rejoiced at being praised, knowing better than to ask the slime to pick up Snek on the way. Dozer had listened, and that was enough of a victory for the moment.

Rain planted his hands on his hips and looked around, finding himself with a few minutes to kill. The Bastion was still split by a green plane, looking like an island in the chaos with the glass and adamant dome above. Littered about were various bits of sculpted essence. Some were failed experiments, others merely incomplete ones, as was the case with Stumps. Most notably, there was the skeleton of the airship, not even close to finished.

Rain’s core was there, too, protected by a second geodesic sphere, forming what he’d dubbed his core room. It was a Bastion in miniature, presently fogged by mist and glowing diffusely with the blue light of his core. The structure was embedded in the ground at the exact center of the Bastion, locked in place by the wireframe trunk of a gargantuan tree. The tree’s adamant branches spread as it rose to meet the dome, bracing it from below. With the ground providing stability in the other direction, Rain had been able to remove much of the former scaffolding, freeing up the space and making things look a bit more organic.

He was much less concerned about the fragility of the structure now, so leaving the essence as glass didn’t bother him. As the amount of essence under his control had grown, so too had his confidence in its strength. He’d also found that if he left it clear, it was transparent to both his physical senses, as well as his immaterial ones. That was important, as it let him keep the fog contained without cutting off his view of the Bastion’s interior.

Below the ground, the setup was much the same. With a bit of effort, Rain had convinced gravity to pull in the opposite direction down there. Dozer’s room was directly beneath his feet, upside down from Rain’s current perspective. There was no passage through the two hemispheres, but Rain could see into both from his core room, even through the fog.

Rain ran a stump over his bald head, fighting back a sigh. By his latest reckoning, the Bastion now contained around 120,000 essence in total, with Dozer pulling in about 30,000 more each day. While that sounded great compared to the 10,000 essence Rain had started with, it really was just a drop in the bucket.

As far as he knew, the ratio of essence to experience was at least 1,000:1, though that number was incredibly suspect. It had come from a single observation about Dozer’s size, and it assumed that essence and experience were related in the first place. The problem was that Rain had yet to find anything that contradicted it.

The Bastion’s size, for example, was nothing compared to the overall size of his soul. He’d yet to encounter his paling, hence the airship. Once it was done, he planned to set sail to see just how much chaos was out there.

Anyway, taking the 1000:1 ratio at face value, Rain projected that his soul would have a total mass measurable in units of ‘mega-essence’, or ‘MESS’ for short.

Rain snorted. Oh, Dozer. He shook his head, lamenting the futility of explaining the joke in a way that the slime would understand. The number realistically wasn’t even in MESS anyway, but GESS. Giga-essence.

That was a long road.

If Rain tallied his class experience, it came out to just under 350 MESS. That wasn’t what his status window displayed, however. By default, the system included the experience he’d spent unlocking skill trees, making the number a staggering 1.9 GESS. Even that wasn’t the end, however. If he included his skill experience in the sum, the number shot up to 2.5 GESS. If left to his own devices, Dozer would finish purifying all of that in about 83,333 days, or about 236 years according to the local calendar.

Rain would have rubbed at the bridge of his nose if Stumps had had one. I need to find some way to automate the process.

The Bastion shuddered suddenly as Dozer collided with the airlock, jarring Rain from his contemplation. Switching to his core, he looked up, then flickered pink with amusement as he saw the problem. [Dozer, you have to spit that out. Otherwise, you’ll never fit through the door.]

[?]

[Dozer, drop it. Drop the essence.]

