Lucia was cut from a different cloth. She was technically African American, given that her grandfather was Bailey Ray Richards. BR was the single most prolific Jazz musician this side of US music history, a man who had both the talent and the business acumen to ensure that his legacy could not be pillaged by the pop stars who came after his riffs, drumlines, and stirring choruses.

Lucia’s mother was a performer with a generational collection of Vaudeville Blues under her belt. Her father, Henry Lancet, was a world-renowned hotelier. What had been engendered under those auspicious circumstances was a girl whose genetics had been leveraged by several continents into something the eyes can’t quite discern. Her cheekbones were high and clean, the kind loved by the light. Her eyes were fair, almond-shaped, but unlike Kellie’s swatch of colour contacts, they were a rare green with flecks of yellow. Her lips were her mother's, rich, full, sultry. Her limbs were long, her figure was no worse than Kellie’s, though there was no impetus for Lucia to flaunt it.

The problem with Lucia, Curon felt, was that looks, fame and fortune had come so readily that she was fully convinced that she was an imposter. Davis had set up a brilliant plan to shore up her insecurity—and then Eppie had happened.

Lucia stood with her arms folded, jacket zipped, looking at Curon.

“Hello.” Curon did his best suburban step-dad, trying to placate two fighting step-daughters amicably. It was times like these that he truly appreciated his one true child, Eppie. “I think I know why you’re both here.”

Kellie raised a hand.

“Yes, I know why YOU’re here. Okay, fine. I know why Lucia is here. You’re here because you’re here. But this isn’t it.” Curon gave them his most disapproving look. “I can get both of you time with Eppie, if you play nice. If you don’t, I’ll have both of you grounded.”

“Can you now?” Lucia’s lips curled churlishly.

“Is that how you speak to the man writing your next hit? Are you allergic to Grammys?” Curon’s voice grew low. “Bennett, stand the fuck down. This isn’t something you need to be concerned with. I don’t give a shit about the Richards, and you know it. Go cry to HR if you’ve got a complaint.”

Compared to her feisty PR persona, Kellie was much more demure.

“ERIC!” Curon called for his Newfoundland.

The lawyer hopped out from behind a food truck with his wife, or girlfriend, it didn’t matter. Eric’s was an expression of consternation. His wife’s was one of awe. Her mouth was fully open, and she was wide-eyed with wonder and anticipation.

“You make sure Kellie gets back to Culver,” Curon made the snap decision on the spot, because cancelling all their plans was far better than having the god damn paparazzi snap photos of the girls tearing hair. If that happened, he would never get near the end of it from Davis. “Do this for me, and you’ll get your holiday bonus doubled.”

“YES, SIR! Eric ducked past Big Brandon. “Miss Noah, this way please. Brandon, my er… brother. Did you drive here?”

Big Brandon looked at his ward, the popstar nodded, and they followed Eric and his wife while she gushed about Umbrella.

“Now.” Curon stood as the disappointed step-dad with both hands on his hips. “Now that you’ve ruined my plans, let's walk and talk about why, instead of shooting your million-dollar Pepsi commercial, you’re here risking your lower back watching a fifteen-year-old kid play Antigone.”

Bennet placed both hands on his lower spine, as if suddenly understanding the source of his trauma.

“I know, right?” Curon did his own groaning. “If the Whitman isn't better, I am going home.”
