“You’ve done well thus far,” said the woman. “Even better than I expected, actually. You were quite fast. Things might come to pass more quickly than I anticipated.”

“What is your goal in all this?”

“I simply want to bring the truth to light.”

“Why not do it yourself? You seem to know it already.”

“Ah, but it has to be you. It would not have the right effect if it was me.”

“Why not?”

“You’ll see. Eventually.”

“Why not just tell me the truth now? Then it can be done even sooner.”

“But I don’t want it done faster. I want it done right.”

“But–”

“This is non-negotiable,” said the woman, her tone suddenly stern. “I like you, but don’t test my patience. You are very replaceable.”

Penelope wanted to speak more, but held her tongue. She could tell this woman was strong beyond what Penelope could imagine.

“Good girl,” said the other woman. “Now, as for why I’m here, I’ve brought you a gift.”

She flicked her sleeve, and a small glass vial of clear liquid slid into her hand, and she held it out to Penelope.

“What is it?” asked Penelope, not moving to take it.

“Poison,” said the other woman.

“Why are you giving it to me?”

“You’ll realize, in time. For now, just take it.”

Penelope hesitated, then reached out and took the vial. It was no bigger than her thumb, and the liquid inside was not more than a few drops. It was sealed with wax over a cork, and though it felt entirely mundane to her senses, Penelope knew how poisons worked, and knew that the seal could not be so simple.

“Don’t open that unless you are prepared to use it,” said the woman in black. “And when you are prepared to use it, hold it away from your face. One whiff and you will start to melt from the inside out.”

Penelope suddenly felt nervous, and brought her other hand up to make sure she kept the vial stable.

“Oh, you don’t need to worry about dropping it,” said the other woman with a light laugh. “It won’t break from something like that. I doubt anything you could do would leave a scratch. But it is quite valuable and important, so make sure not to lose it.”

“Why–?” started Penelope.

“When you do use it, don’t be alarmed if it doesn’t take effect immediately,” continued the woman, ignoring Penelope’s half-formed question. “It’s designed that way. It is colorless, tasteless, odorless, has no mana or aether signature, and it remains dormant in the body for up to an hour before fully activating. Once it does activate, however, even a dragon would struggle to survive it. So once again, do be careful.”

“I have no intention of using this,” said Penelope.

“I’m sure you don’t. Not yet. But when the opportunity presents itself, will you really be able to stop yourself?”

“Yes.”

“We’ll see.”

“I don’t appreciate being used.”

“Neither do I! We have so much in common! And don’t think of this as me using you. Think of it as a mutual partnership. We both want to uncover the truth, don’t we? We have the same goal. I just have a bit more information than you do.”

“But–”

“I really should be heading back now. I have people who will be missing me if I’m gone for too long. But this has been a lovely chat. Until next time!”

Before Penelope could react the other woman vanished. There was no mana, and no sign of any kind of motion. She simply disappeared. It made Penelope wonder if she had ever really been there in the first place. But the vial in her hands was very much real, and she suspected its contents were too.

For nearly a full minute, Penelope debated finding a place to bury it so that it would never be found. Then, she heard the sounds of workers in the distance, and one of them mentioned her by name. She had been gone for too long. She needed to get back.

She took one last look at the vial, then with a grimace, slipped it into her spatial ring before heading back to work.
