I press my newest buff, the [Primordial Emperor's Origin Body] burning hot at the bottom of my status.

All of the extremely potent, refined Advanced Primordial Aura in the atmosphere becomes stimulated. For a moment, I feel a similarity in this form to the first time I activated my Astral Body.

It's like the atmosphere around me can be expanded into infinitely.

It is the feeling I felt when my aura poured out, touching the walls of this domain, but now, I feel as though I could grow to fill this entire dome with ease.

There is a fluidity that courses through my soul, that makes me feel like anything is possible... If I can imagine it in my mind, all it would take is the simple command to have it turn into reality. It instantly makes the process that was going on with the Isolation barrier earlier make far more sense.

Primordial Aura and Royal Vibrations at this level of comprehension do not act aligned with the laws of physical nature.

While it feels similar to my astral form, that body was still constrained to the divine threads in the atmosphere. Where there is less energy, the form is limited.

The rules of physical energy do not apply; I am only limited to how far my waves of aura can travel.

The glyphs resting on the outer layer of my soul are able to flow freely on the outside of my body, and move with the waves of intention that I wield. This is only because, at any moment in time, if my desire is strong enough, my new Origin Body will be exactly where the strongest pool of Primordial Aura and Glyphs are. This allows for instant full-power array casting from any angle.

However, this does also have vulnerabilities. In my current case, I can already feel three major limiters.

The first is the dome around me, the second is the Purple Zone's floor below, and the final is the massive, growing chaotic aura that flies down at me. Its Advanced Primordial Aura has the same qualities as mine. It will grow and expand into any area until another will with a stronger potential can stop it.

There is one more variable inside this dome, but it does not limit me at all. Maria's [Mother Angel's Origin Body] activating flows right through me.

Both of our Primordial Auras are co-existing, yet not suppressing each other; they only attack the one target in the sky.

Her form is slightly different than mine. Instead of a pure Primordial Aura–driven activation, her infinite pool of stacking soul energy cores are tied into it.

The outside of her expanding form works exactly the same as mine, using external Primordial Aura to feel everything and pour her glyphs within pockets of her soul wherever she desires. However, in the center of her new form, there is no actual physical core holding her in place.

The dichotomy of her soul energy core that collapsed in on itself in the Lower Realm is that it is technically not even real, but it does store energy within a single point in space, like an ether-powered black hole.

The stress that activating new stacked copies of her core put on her mind, body, and soul before has been almost entirely negated. This new form allows the immense gravity and pressure on her soul to be spread out, lessening the tension the further she stretches it, to the edges of the central domain.

Every single time she allows the pseudo cores to manifest, it follows a perfect Fibonacci sequence, becoming exponentially more stacked cores with every spiral.

She has never pushed it much further than a few thousand cores, but now it is as though there are no negative drawbacks.

Finally, dozens of sparkling blue and white spirals of raw power pour out from the center of her chest.

Instantly, over a billion full-powered soul energy cores stack on top of each other and produce enough energy to stimulate all of the source resin that was lying dormant inside her sword and deep within her soul.

The wings on her back grow even larger, her figure becomes even more mature, and a blinding crystalline halo manifests over her head.

Her entire energy manifestation sparkles like it's made of pure diamond, and all of the chaotic orange aura that pours down to collide with it bounces off and is refracted in countless angles until it's evaporated into unrecognizable raw Primordial Aura.

Her Aura slams against the sides of the central domain just as hard as mine, but her true visible body inside stops growing at roughly 1 quadrillion kilometers tall.

Black, red, and metallic flames burst off my energy body as I consolidate the Advanced Primordial Aura nearest to my soul, and bind together the strongest glyphs around its outside.

I too stand at 1 quadrillion kilometers from my feet all the way up to the manifestation of a faceless demon's mask with horns made of pure Primordial corruption on my head.

The chaotic orange aura that pierces through the veil and hits me is all eaten up by my primordial fire and abyss-like corruption, and converted into raw aura, only strengthening my will.

The sword in the depths of my soul trembles with bloodlust the closer this demon gets. When I reach in to grab it, and my consciousness crosses the Advanced Primordial Aura barrier that was guarding it, I watch the core of the sword flicker with a burst of golden glyphs.

It makes the entire sword light up in my soul, glowing bright crimson. Its entire blade from the base to the tip becomes covered in Originator Glyphs. They all float upward from its core, covering the outer limits of the sword's unique soul.

They flicker with golden light until they're set in place, then flash with raw unmarked rainbow Advanced Primordial Aura, and finally become flooded with the crimson bloodlust of the sword.

Millions of these glyphs float to the blade's surface, and I watch the golden light that flashed in its center fall deeper and deeper into the blade's depths. Once it leaves my senses, all I can see is the heavy pool of crimson power growing stronger and stronger.

I grab a hold of the handle and pull it out into the Purple Zone.

Another unique burst of Advanced Primordial Aura enters the central domain and explodes with black and red flames as my own aura pours into the blade, making both it and me tens of times stronger.

I let out a primal battle yell once this feeling of unity finally flows through me again, and swing upward with everything I have.

On the other side of the tree stump, Maria's diamond ice blade swings upward in unison.

The red and blue swords clash above our heads with the incoming orange light, colliding soul weapon to soul weapon, stopping both of Marcellus Imperial's Chaotic Daggers in mid air.

The tree stump beneath our feet splits and cracks from the pressure, and the entire central domain's dome is vaporized, leaving only flickering silver threads behind.

Ember phases upward, out through the center of the ceiling the instant we clash, and seals up the domain once more with a burst of silver threads right after.
