The Shang’s woman’s gaze drifted to me, her Divine Sense quite rudely invading my privacy. “Already at the ninth layer of Qi Condensation with a bone age of… Well she’s a little old but not that old. Good job.”

Her praise did not sit right with me. What, was I supposed to be at the Foundation Establishment stage when I wasn’t even one years of age? How rude!

Looking around, I did notice that the people I’d called kids were more like teenagers. Well, they all sort of looked like children to me, so what difference did it make?

Was it possible that these teenagers were holding back their cultivation just so they could participate in this sword realm? I didn’t believe for a second that the disciples chosen to be here were not talented enough to have broken through into the Foundation Establishment stage by now.

This just showed how important this place was for them.

And I was going to snag a place for myself, what a joyous ocassion.

The others also introduced themselves, though all they did was do some short exchanges. None of them treated Meng Mao as an equal, not nearly as much as Wu Tien did, but they also had different circumstnaces connecting them.

I’d managed to identify the five major sects though. The Golden Claw Sect, the Heaven Cloud Sect, the Fiery Expanse Sect, the Scholar Domination Sect, and the Reaper Sect. There were about five contestants from each sect, all fighting for one fo the twelve spots to enter the secret realm.

Besides those, there were also three contestants from smaller sects that I didn’t know the name of, and another few from small clans.

Though, out of all of them, it seemed like I was the only lone one. Another great way to stand out if you’d asked me.

They were also dressed rather lavishly, and all had some sort of weapons. The vast majority were swords, but there was the ocasional spear or halberd, and even the rarest of bows.

There were a good number of body cultivators around as well, though I doubted their bodies were stronger than mine. I would love to see them try.

Oh, that also reminded me that I had to pull out my weapon. Deciding which one to use wasn’t hard. Sword of the Elements was out of the discussion, since I was still refining it… slowly.

Naturally, the only valid choice was the Elemental Sword, which was as good as it was basic.

Still, I could’t ask for a weapon more suited for me than it.

Just as I was thinking about pulling it out, a sudden presence descended upon us, and two figures walked out from within the protected area of the sect.
