Give flesh and break bone, that was the Legate’s style, one he used here to surprising effect. Instead of committing sixty percent of all available forces, he committed more than a hundred percent, if one included Gao Changgong’s forces into the calculation. Suihua harbour and Castle Jianghu were the flesh he willingly gave up, but he was not content to merely relieve the second-line defences. Falling Rain meant to break the spine of the Defiled offensive here and now.

And he might very well accomplish it...

All of this had been carried out in utmost secrecy because the Legate was a great believer in operational security. Even Hongji and the other second-line commanders had been left out of the loop until now, so that their actions and decisions could not inadvertently give the plan away. The scramble for support, the requests for reinforcements, the desperate battle to hold the walls for as long as they could, all this and more lent truth to the Legate’s deception.

The only fly in the ointment was Castle Wulin to the south, where Yuchun and a quarter-million Mataram Clan Warriors were battering down the walls and might well take the castle before Colonel General Tran Hoang’s arrival. Rerouting the reinforcements led by Major General Patcha Tong to assist them had done little to slow Yuchun’s assault, and from the sporadic reports, it did not sound like Castle Wulin could hold out long enough for Colonel General Tran Hoang’s army to arrive. A difference in quality of troops, Hongji suspected, for while Gongsun Qi’s so-called Chosen of Heaven played at being disciplined soldiers, it appeared that the Mataram Clan Warriors under Yuchun’s command were the real deal, trained Imperials who’d willingly turned against the Empire.

Hongji thought back to Gongsung Qi’s comment during their one and only meeting, where the man had remarked, “I would much rather you both surrendered, for this Prince has dire need of capable subordinates.” I. This Prince. Gongsun Qi was speaking of his own, personal need for capable subordinates, not the collective Enemy war effort itself, because he knew firsthand how his ‘Chosen’ could perform if provided proper leadership. Hongji had already remarked that the Defiled commander would have won if not for the lacking discipline of his troops, discipline which would be made possible by the presence of capable field and junior officers, from Brigadier down to lowly Lieutenants. That was the sole weakness of this Defiled army, a dearth of leadership, for while the Defiled had Chieftains and Demons aplenty, he’d noted a startling lack of lower-ranked Champions and other leaders to help coordinate the Defiled troops’ efforts.

And even with this debilitating handicap, Gongsun Qi almost won the day with his superlative ability to command, and despite three Colonel Generals and another army joining the fray, was still not defeated yet.

As if to punctuate Hongji’s thought, Gongsun Qi’s laugh echoed across the dark skies. “Ha. Ha. Ha. Ha.” Defiled and Imperial alike diminished in fervour as they curtailed their efforts to kill one another to listen in on this exchange, their mutual curiosity overcoming their zeal and enmity. Standing upon a mound of untouched dirt amidst a swathe of destruction around him, Gongsun Qi cut a dashing figure there upon the battlefield, the damage to his pauldron doing nothing to take away from his valiant bearing. “This Prince heard tell of how the Colonel Generals of Central were not worth their salt.” Scoffing loudly enough to be heard over the whistling wind, he added, “How disappointing to discover the rumours true. Even the half-breed doe presented more of a challenge.”

Rather than answering, Mitsue Juichi unleashed yet another Mountain Collapsing Strike, and with his attention wholly focused on their conflict, Hongji saw the truth of the matter. Rather than blocking an attack aimed towards him, Gongsun Qi now moved to intercept the attack, one aimed towards the ground at his feet in order to direct it out and away. Their duel was not one of equals, but rather a declaration made by Gongsun Qi, one which stated Mitsue Juichi was not his match. “You cannot even force me to move my feet,” the Defiled traitor’s actions were saying, and despite his best efforts, the Obsidian Shadow was unable to prove otherwise.

How could the gap in strength be so great? The Father blessed his Defiled minions with undeserved strength, but even then, how could Gongsun Qi be so far above the famed Mitsue Juichi?

Appearing out of the shadows at the forefront of the army, Mitsue Juichi cut a sorry sight on the battlefield. The oldest serving Colonel General by almost a decade, the Obsidian Shadow had been a household name in Central for as long as Hongji had lived, and it pained him to see this celebrated hero in such disarray. His colourful robes were torn and ruffled, his elaborate painted nails snapped, and his cheeks hung loosely as he panted and heaved in place, a man clearly past his prime and not in the best of shape. A trail of dried blood ran down the side of his head, ruining the effect of his powdered face and leaving no doubt as to which of them was on the losing end of this exchange, but still Mitsue Juichi clung gamely on. Eyes narrowed in barely restrained anger, the Obsidian Shadow fumed and spoke with his pitched, falsetto voice, one not at all suited for the wrinkled, plump grandfather before them. “I suppose I should not be too surprised that the traitor general has studied my records and prepared accordingly. A shame I never saw fit to do the same, but I never thought you worth it.”

Gongsun Qi laughed, again, exaggerating for effect. “And here this Prince believed a Colonel General would have more pride than to whine like a beaten dog. You are correct, however. This Prince has studied you well, with help from someone who knows you well and loathes you as only family can.”

Mitsue Juichi’s fury was frightening to behold, the tired old man transforming into a god of war before their very eyes. Disappearing from sight, he reappeared behind Gongsun Qi and lashed out with his twin maces. Ducking a blow to the head and blocking a second to the knee, the traitor general responded in kind before their exchange surpassed Hongji’s ability to keep up, their arms and bodies a blur as they traded blow after blow after blow. The earth exploded and Gongsun Qi’s mound crumbled apart in an instant as a massive crater erupted in the middle of the battlefield, but still the two Colonel Generals could not be tracked. No, that wasn’t true, their individual movements were too fast to follow, but anyone with eyes could see the trail of destruction they left behind.

A blur of gold shot out of the pit followed by a multicoloured streak of fury, and a second crater erupted from deep within the Defiled lines. Unarmoured tribal types who delighted in torture and bloodshed, but even they didn’t entirely deserve to have such carnage inflicted upon them. Blood and dirt flew in all directions and a chorus of screams rang out, but the eruption had yet to even peak when a second exploded nearby, indicating Mitsue Juichi was done holding back. Thundering explosions detonated across the Defiled army, and everyone could see the struggle between the two Colonel Generals, with Gongsun Qi struggling to bring the fight back to neutral ground while Mitsue Juichi ran roughshod through the Defiled army. Impossible to say how many Defiled he killed in so short a time, but Hongji had to believe the Obsidian Shadow had caught up to Du Min Gyu in sheer volume of kills. Even though a part of him knew this was not an efficient use of Chi or stamina, he could not help by marvel at the massed destruction on display, all wrought at the hands, nay the feet of a single Martial Warrior.

Mitsue Juichi was a relic from another time, one who clung to outdated fashions and let himself slip, but by the Heavens, the man could still fight.

All this took place in the blink of an eye, and by the time Hongji had time to blink a second time, the chaos had subsided. Returning to the Imperial lines flanked by Ryo Dae Jung, Shuai Jiao, Akanai, and Du Min Gyu, the Obsidian Shadow was the very picture of fury incarnate. “Hideo!” he shrieked, struggling against Shuai Jiao who held him firm, and Hongji’s heart broke from the pain in his voice. “Hiroshi! Do not despair! These Defiled will pay for what they’ve done! I will bring you home and do whatever it takes to make you both whole again, this I swear!”

Again, the Lord of Martial Peace laughed, but when the dust settled, Hongji’s spirits soared at the sight of his foe, ringed by a similar number of formidable Demons. Finishing what Akanai had begun, Mitsue Juichi had demolished what remained of Gongsun Qi’s Runic armour, the cracked steel shell just barely clinging to his frame. Holding his reclining moon blade with one hand, his other arm hung loosely at his side, the pale, broken bone jutting out from an ugly wound. “So, perhaps your reputation is not entirely undeserved.”

“Release Hideo and Hiroshi now, Defiled filth,” Juichi demanded, breaking free from Shuai Jiao’s grip and hefting his twin maces once again, revealing that he had not escaped their clash unscathed. Deep furrows ran across the old Warrior’s wrists, so parallel and symmetrical they could only have been left by sharp, grasping talons, no doubt belonging to one of Gongsun Qi’s Demonic guards. Putting the clues together, Hongji inferred that the Demons had come to their commander’s aid, and the Imperial Peak Experts had responded in kind, sending only the strongest and faster Warriors to fetch Juichi. Both Akanai and Du Min Gyu looked none the worse for wear, even though both were older than Juichi and had been fighting all day alongside Hongji. The Bekhai commander had yet to even change out of her tattered armour, which she really should since her pale, bared belly was distracting to the extreme.

Now was not the time to dream of beautiful women though, and the Lieutenant General deserved more respect than that, so he refocused on the matter at hand. Still laughing in response to Juichi’s demand, Gongsun Qi’s tone and expression were tinged with burgeoning madness, the calm, collected facade finally starting to crack beneath the stress of defeat. “Old fool,” Gongsun Qi sneered, and it occurred to Hongji that despite his youthful good looks, the Defiled commander was no spring chicken himself. “Still so blind to the truth. Mitsue Hiroshi, the lone talent capable of propping up the crumbling foundations of your family, is dead.”

The words hit Juichi like a hammer, and were it not for Shuai Jiao’s silent support, the old Warrior might have fallen to his knees. There was no proof provided, but Juichi believed Gongsun Qi’s claim because he had no real reason to lie. True grief spilled from the Obsidian Shadow, mourning a lost family member for the second time, but what did Gongsun Qi mean by what he said about Hiroshi? Was the supposedly unremarkable Mitsue Family Patriarch a hidden Peak Expert? If he had skill enough to match Juichi in his youth, then he would’ve been a well hidden treasure indeed, for already the vultures were circling the Mitsue Family holdings and just waiting for Juichi to die. Now, all those hopes had sputtered out, and Juichi’s legacy would die with him, but to Hongji’s discerning eye, this was not a man lamenting lost riches, but one mourning a beloved son.

Remembering himself, Juichi straightened up and demanded, “Then what of little Hideo? Return my grand-nephew at once.”

“Grand-Nephew, is it now?”

Though the voice was unfamiliar, Hongji instantly knew who it belonged to judging by Juichi’s expression. His powdered face turned even paler and his jaw dropped open in shock, his lips moving without sound as he struggled to find the words to respond and failed miserably. Eyes wide and bulging, he stared across the field at a figure which emerged beside Gongsun Qi, one clad in the Runic armour of the Chosen. The figure removed his red-plumed helmet and revealed a bald head atop a youthful sneer, so despite knowing who it was, it still took Hongji a moment to recognize young Mitsue Hideo’s features.

Not so for Juichi, who staggered back into Shuai Jiao’s waiting arms. Aging a decade in mere seconds, the Obsidian Shadow faded before everyone’s eyes as he whispered, “Little Hideo?”

Standing tall alongside Gongsun Qi, Hideo raised his nose to the sky and declared, “I, Mitsue Hideo, do hereby renounce the old fool Mitsue Juichi as my Mentor. With the Heavens as my witness, may this be so.” The statement pierced the old Warrior like a dagger plunging into his heart, and Hongji watched the hope drain from Juichi’s eyes as he watched his most beloved Disciple forsake him, a sight which brought many a tear spilling down Imperial cheeks. “For the sake of your pride,” Hideo continued, burning with righteous anger while delivering untold pain to a hero of the Empire, “My father, Mitsue Hiroshi, a Dragon among men, languished in mediocrity and kept his true strength hidden. Why? So none would compare him against your worthless sons and lacking Disciples, myself included. You failed as father, you failed as a Mentor, and now, with no heirs worthy enough to carry on your family name, you’ve failed as a Patriarch. How does it feel, old fool, to see your life’s pursuits amount to nothing?”

Closing his eyes, Juichi took his time replying, heaving several sobbing breaths before straightening up. “Come back to me, little Hideo. Return to my side, and I will do whatever it takes to bring you back into the light.”

“...Have you gone deaf and senile, old fool? Were you not listening? You are no Mentor of mine.”

