“So be it, but I am your Grand-Uncle still.” Stretching his arms out as if to embrace him from across the field, Juichi said, “I have failed. I admit this. I failed you. I failed your father. I failed my family, but please, little Hideo, do not let my mistakes be your doom. You have strayed and gone down a dark Path, but it is not too late yet. Come back to my side, and I swear to you, no one will take you away.” Seeing his words have no effect, Juichi slapped himself across the face hard enough to set his previously Healed cuts to bleeding. “Grand-Uncle is to blame.” A second slap rang out, this time on the other side. “I taught you poorly and mistreated your father.” Another slap left a bloody hand print on his powdered white cheek. “Whatever grievances you have, I will redress them, this I swear, but first you must return to my side. Please.”

The last word broke both Mitsues as the elder cried and the younger screeched. “You know nothing!” Tears streamed down Hideo’s cheeks as he strained against someone’s grip, and only then did Hongji notice the gangly monk beside him, with eyebrows so thick they almost negated the point of shaving his head. That explained why Hideo was also bald, having fallen in with the defectors from the Penitent Brotherhood. “Not too late? Old fool, you don’t even know what takes place inside your own manor walls. It is almost a full year too late for me, and still you cling to false hope.”

Confusion, then clarity, then resignation flashed across Juichi’s face, divining some hidden meaning in Hideo’s words which went unnoticed to the rest, and it destroyed what little hope he had left. Unable to look at his grand-nephew anymore, the Living Legend’s shoulders shook as he turned away. Nodding in agreement to a whispered request, Shuai Jiao handed the grieving Mitsue Juichi over to a pair of soldiers and stepped forward to flick his sleeves. Clad in unremarkable, brown robes, his flat, ordinary expression did little to inspire confidence, but this was the foremost Colonel General of Central, an efficient and tenacious Warrior and Commander who was neither flashy nor impressive, yet always emerged victorious no matter the obstacle before him. Running a hand over his bald head as he cleared his throat, Shuai Jiao offered a small, almost apologetic nod to Hideo and said, “Your Grand-Uncle loves you more than words can ever describe. As he cannot bear to see you suffer, I shall endeavour to make this quick and painless as possible.” Turning to Dae Jung, he smiled and shrugged ever so slightly before springing into action.

One moment he stood at the forefront of the army, and the next, he stood face to face with Gongsun Qi, happily demonstrating why he was nicknamed the Grasping Vine. The dirt broke open once again, but rather than erupting in fury, what emerged belied all belief as verdant green plants grew before their eyes, choking, creeping vines which shot up and fastened themselves to Demon and Defiled alike. Only a small area around Shuai Jiao was affected, but it was enough to capture the traitor General and all his guards, though the thick-browed monk somehow miraculously escaped with Hideo in tow. Arriving shortly after Shuai Jiao was the Sword King himself, his pitch-black blade drinking in what little sunlight they had left, all that could make it past the dark clouds overhead. The sword flashed and a Demon died, neatly bisected without resistance. His true target, Gongsun Qi, escaped unscathed, but in the lull of his attack, Shuai Jiao made his second move. A single hand reached for Hideo, and though his movements seemed slow, they were deceptively fast, closing in around the boy’s neck.

Only for the thick-browed monk to intercept.

A struggle ensued, but not one Hongji could follow, their hands seemingly glued together as they sought to grab, lock, throw, or dislodge one another in a clash at extreme close combat. Not an area Hongji excelled in, but while everyone knew this was Shuai Jiao’s favoured range, the fallen monk was no slouch himself, ably defending himself against the Grasping Vine’s physical attacks while somehow avoiding the touch of the plants emerging all around him.

Wait. Did Hongji’s eyes deceive him? The monk wasn’t just ably defending himself, he was doing so with only one hand, his other raised in supplication while he stood with head bowed and eyes closed in silent prayer.

A monster. That was the only way to describe someone capable of fending off a Colonel General with a single hand, much less with eyes closed as well. How many more monks were there like this one? How many Defiled Peak Experts? What of the Demons who’d come out to face the Sword King, including a pale, hulking, Water-Blessed tyrant which washed away all of Shuai Jiao’s obstructing efforts? The Dark Child was also still there, and so many more Demons of unknown strength, so how was the Empire supposed to win against these stacked, almost hopeless odds?

Persevere. What more can you do besides try?

Of course.

Seeing the Colonel Generals were preoccupied, Hongji returned to the bloody work at hand and set his soldiers to killing. Win or lose, the outcome had yet to be decided, and even if all the Colonel Generals should fall and his soldiers slaughtered to the last, even if Heaven and Earth were torn asunder, Chen Hongji would persevere so long as he still drew breath. What more could a mere mortal do? Such was life, trials and tribulations without end, but an end to this battle was already in sight. Just a bit further, and it would all be over, he could feel it in his bones.

For better or for worse.

Chapter Meme
