The earth shook and skies howled as the gathering storm rumbled overhead, but even this was not enough to drown out the din of battle as heroes of the Empire clashed against Demons and Defiled.

This was a day that would be long remembered in history, and one Chen Hongji would never forget, but also one he hoped would soon end. Gongsun Qi had pressed him from all fronts and pushed him to his utmost limits, but had the Prince of Barbarity been in command of an Imperial Army, then Hongji would surely have lost. Even with the advantage of Imperial discipline and massed ranged weapons, the traitor general almost won through sheer ingenuity and adaptability. Mere minutes ago, Hongji’s left flank was barely holding on while the right was on the verge of being overrun. The Irregulars had been routed, and the Legate himself was almost killed by a cadre of Demons and Chosen who broke through the front lines, disasters in every direction one turned. Were it not for the Royal Guardians, skirmishing Bekhai, and staunch Death Corps soldiers holding firm, then Hongji’s army would have broken long before reinforcements arrived.

And even then, with twice as many Imperial troops here on the field, the Enemy still held the advantage of numbers, which meant there was still bloody work to be done. The stubborn Defiled were as spirited and bloodthirsty as always, and though the cavalry appeared to be in full retreat, Hongji’s intuition told him Gongsun Qi still had moves to make. Haste makes waste, so when Hongji was given overall battlefield command, he kept to the basics and cycled his tired soldiers out for fresh, reinforcing ones. A show of respect from the three reinforcing Colonel Generals, allowing him to finish what he started, but truth be told, he would much rather foist this burden onto someone higher ranked. A near victory meant his soldiers would be more cautious and reluctant to risk their lives, for they’d fought hard to survive this long, while the reinforcing soldiers would be over-eager for battle. This disparity meant keeping a close eye on his Officers to ensure they didn’t step out of line, whether it be to rest easy on their laurels or go chasing after glory, when he would much rather lay down in the dirt for a nap.

From early morning preparations to this late afternoon scramble, he’d not had a moment of rest, his mind and body completely spent. So tired, he couldn’t even appreciate the astonishing duel between Mitsue Juichi and Gongsun Qi, the primary contributors to said earth-shaking commotions. They repeated like clockwork, a resounding explosion of steel and earth as the Obsidian Shadow repeatedly struck at his foe from Concealment. Impressive as the display might be, more impressive was how Gongsun Qi repeatedly accepted Mitsue Juichi’s attacks head-on, blocking with the shaft of his Green Dragon Crescent Blade and somehow diffusing the force from the Mountain Collapsing Stomp to the ground around him while leaving a small area beneath his feet untouched. Despite knowing he’d turned against the Empire, it was difficult not to admire him as he stood a man alone on an empty, broken field with weapon at the ready, a bold and brash figure in his black and gold brigantine armour with a pearly-white grin for all to see. Though his army was teetering on the brink of disastrous defeat and his life in grave peril, the Defiled General was thoroughly enjoying himself and seemingly still confident in his chances of victory, both in this duel and the overall conflict itself.

A Heroic figure standing at the Peak of Martial might. Such a shame he turned against the Empire.

With good reason, for the Empire left him no choice.

A chill ran down Hongji’s spine as he did his best to focus on the battle at hand, but there wasn’t much to focus on. On the surface, it seemed like Gongsun Qi lacked the time or inclination to give detailed orders as his battle-lines fell into disarray, but one could hardly fault him since he was locked in a deadly duel with the Obsidian Shadow. Mitsue Juichi did not make his name by fighting in duels, but by crushing his foes with overwhelming force in a single blow, usually from Concealment. This was not to say he was a poor duellist, as he’d been forced to demand trial by combat many a time in his early years while establishing his family dynasty, but few cared to press him once he mastered the Mountain Collapsing Stomp and could demolish an entire stage with a single strike. Difficult to avoid an attack with the ground crumbling beneath your feet, assuming you even survived. What’s more, his twin mace style was dazzling to behold, on those few occasions he’d been forced to use it, but Gongsun Qi had yet to do anything besides stand in place and defend against the Mountain Collapsing Stomp. No doubt planning to wear his opponent down, Hongji feared the Enemy commander planned to win the battle in the same manner, which was why he set his reinforcements to replacing his tired soldiers instead of using them to surround and collapse on the Defiled. The Enemy didn’t break like regular Imperials would, so if the Imperial soldiers were to spread out, this would only give Gongsun Qi a chance to divide and conquer Hongji’s forces . Better to take things slow and safe than rush into disaster, which left him plenty of time to ponder and deliberate on the circumstances which led up to this bloody, near ruinous battle.

His meeting with Gongsun Qi was still fresh in his mind, and as nonsensical as some of the Defiled general’s statements had been, he could not help but sympathize with the westerners’ plight. How would he have felt if the Defiled broke into Central and the Imperial Clan closed off all its borders? Betrayed. Discarded. Forsaken. In light of this, one could hardly fault Gongsun Qi for embracing the Father’s lies, because mortals were still socially minded creatures, and to lose the support of one’s society was a devastating blow, no matter the individual. There was no doubt in Hongji’s mind that Gongsun Qi had committed all manner of atrocities in the name of the Empire, beginning with his part in purging his home city. The man admitted to killing his own parents, which would have been devastating enough, but how many other family members did he consign to death? How many friends, lovers, neighbours, and comrades? A heavy burden for any man to bear, but Gongsun Qi bore it well, because he believed in the greater good. Left unchecked, a Defiled outbreak in his home city could have thrown the entire province into turmoil, if not the Empire at large, so he did what he did because he knew it served a greater purpose.

Sacrifice the few for the good of the many, a hard choice for any leader to make, but one they must all come to terms with. Hongji himself had done so several times in this battle alone, dragging things out as long as possible in order to buy time for the reinforcing army to arrive, so how could he fault Gongsun Qi for doing the same?

Having read many an account regarding the Living Legend’s career, Hongji found it easy to imagine how the Western Hero had based his entire life upon this singular mantra, that the safety of the many outweighed the suffering of the few. Easy to justify when you yourself had suffered for the greater good, so why spare others this same suffering? And thus, the Prince of Barbarity and Lord of Martial Peace was born, a force for order through bloodshed who brought peace through the sword. Small wonder he broke after the Imperial Clan abandoned the West, seeing his own mantra turned against him despite a lifetime of careful adherence to his personal Path, one of shared suffering in exchange for peace and prosperity. Now, that peace had been shattered and his efforts rendered moot, his Path proven a mistake from the first step unless he could radically change his world view. And thus, Enemies became allies and the Empire became the new Enemy, one he must inflict this shared suffering upon lest his life’s work and hard sacrifices would have all been for naught, and Bai Qi would have killed his parents and so many others for nothing.

Could Hongji even blame the man for breaking? A mortal son of Heaven could only bear so much, these trials and tribulations too cruel and merciless for all but the strongest to endure.

Perhaps that was the point. Perhaps the Mother Above did not love Her children, but instead only wanted the strongest to survive, though for what purpose, Hongji could not say. A foolish endeavour, to question the motives of a Deity, but his weary mind would not relent as he lamented the loss of a once great man and Living Legend. The Empire would celebrate if Gongsun Qi should fall here today, but in truth, they should mourn, for not only did they lose him when the Western border was closed, the Enemy took him in and turned him against his countrymen, a tragic nightmare for which the Imperial Clan was to blame.

And now, Falling Rain had seen fit to grant mercy to the Western survivors brought north by Major General Gao Changgong, a move which paid dividends once they helped Lieutenant General Baatar destroy Huanhuzi’s forces terrorizing the shores of the Azure Sea. A move which Hongji feared would not be well-received.

Granted, it was not common knowledge that Gao Changgong had escaped from the Western Province after stumbling across a smuggler’s operation trafficking supplies from North to West in underwater submersibles, but a secret involving so very many people would be difficult to keep. All it would take was one Western soldier to be recognized or caught seeking news of estranged loved ones and the truth would come barrelling out, and he was certain the Imperial Clan would not look kindly upon their newest Scion’s actions. Falling Rain was a magnanimous man, but accepting so many Western refugees without informing the Emperor was all but spitting in His face. To make matters worse, Hongji wasn’t certain popular opinion would fall on Legate Rain’s side, as it had in so many other instances. Here they were, fighting and dying to keep the Western Defiled out of the Empire, while the Legate flirted with disaster in the north by accepting Gao Changgong and his ilk into the province, sight unseen and without notifying anyone else. On the one hand, Hongji could see why the Legate would do such a thing, for he had a kind, compassionate streak about him, but on the other hand, he could not imagine why the powers of the North would allow such a thing.

Then again, perhaps they hadn’t. The official reports labelled Gao Changgong’s forces as unknown forces, and Hongji only knew the truth because Akanai saw fit to inform him. A gambit meant to force his hand, a small part of him suspected, to see if he would turn against the Legate or keep this secret to himself, but this was not the Bekhai way. They would not lie about something like this, and if they did not trust him, then they simply would not have told him, a wholly foreign way of going about politics, but a refreshingly honest one he could somewhat appreciate. Either way, there was a storm building on the horizon in addition to the real storm hanging over their heads, and he almost wondered if a victory here would be worth the price to be paid by Legate Falling Rain.

Even if every single soldier in Gao Changgong’s army was free of Defiled taint, there would be no proving it beyond the shadow of a doubt. If word of this were to spread, then the Legate’s many enemies would use it to destroy him, assuming the Emperor didn’t do their work for them. Ignoring the inherent risks of allowing Western soldiers into the Northern Province, the borders had been closed by Imperial Mandate long before the First Imperial Grand Conference, which meant Falling Rain’s actions were tantamount to rebellion.

The crime for which was punishable by Nine Familial Extermination, a punishment even the Emperor could ill-afford to enforce, considering the Legate’s carefully laid plans might well have snatched victory from the jaws of disaster here on the battlefield today.

A difficult dilemma, this. On the one hand, Legate Falling Rain was a hero deserving of reward, and without Gao Changgong’s forces emerging from the sea to attack Huanhuzi’s bandits from behind, Hongji was hard pressed to imagine a scenario in which the pirate fleet was so easily neutralized. An argument could be made that if, Heavens forbid, the Legate was working with the Enemy, then the pirate fleet could have been a sacrificial pawn, but he’d gone to great lengths to convince the Colonel Generals of the Empire to support this plan with more than mere assurances. Only now did Hongji realize the scope of the Legate’s efforts, for he had insisted that if they were to gamble with the fate of the Empire, then they should do so without holding anything back.

The original plan was to send three armies to reinforce Castle Jianghu, Castle Wulin, and Castle Youxia, at which point the soldiers of Castle Jianghu would retreat and draw Gongsun Qi’s army out to be crushed by a convergence of all three reinforcing armies. However, after openly deploying these three reinforcing armies to the second-line castles, the Legate delayed his plans by several days to give time for three more armies to maneuver into place, armies commanded by Colonel General Nian Zu, Colonel General Tran Hoang, and Major General Gao Changgong respectively. Concealed by the collaborative efforts of multiple Divinities, the first two armies set out for Castle Youxia and Castle Wulin respectively, where they would soon liberate the defenders from the Defiled laying siege to those castle walls.

