The same dark black cracks that appear far above me are not the only place I see them.

Down in the Lower Realm, the artifact that was linked to Marcellus' white orb is breaking apart. The dark mist-like barrier protecting this region of space from being discovered glitches and begins to disintegrate once its main anchor's arrays start to break.

Flashes of white light burst around the artifact, as many spectators watching the scene teleport away to safer regions of the galaxy.

Yet, my senses are potent enough right now to watch it in full clarity.

The entire planet-sized artifact begins breaking apart and pulsing outward with its final desperate attempts to activate its glyphs and carry out its programming. However, the silver, white, and purple waves of energy that come off of it do not travel far at all.

The black cracks in space that form around this crumbling artifact pull back all of the shockwaves of energy with more force than they are moving outward with.

It is like a fractured crack-shaped black hole is sucking up everything left from this dent in space.

While it falls downward, I watch Ember fall upward, and enormous zone-sized arrays spinning at every layer of existence around me.

It only takes a few more spins of the largest arrays here in the Purple Zone, and the new ones latching onto the highways from the center of the Lower Realm go by, and I watch both the strange crumbling structure and the enormous dragon in the sky completely fall away.

The only thing left behind from both of them are large clouds of energy saturated in silver threads.

The cracks in space above me heal up much faster, and a wave of dense energy that Ember just ejected from his body pours down on us.

The cracks in space in the Lower Realm linger and flicker. It looks like a scar is left behind in the void while the dark mist of demonic energy fades away to reveal its existence to the rest of empty space near the edge of the galaxy, where many ancient abandoned worlds already rest in peace.

A large amount of black and white serene aura pours down from the sky of the Purple Zone, and it's filled with extremely refined white-hot fiery ether, along with more silver threads than I've ever seen before.

Many of the threads are left behind in the atmosphere, and even twist away, dissolving into seemingly nothing before my eyes. They aren't spreading out to decompress and create purple threads, but they also aren't just disappearing before my eyes.

The silver threads are moving through space and converting into a strange energy source that I cannot understand.

When the bulk of the wave hits both of us, it feels like we're being splashed away by another ocean of understandings.

My confused and overwhelmed mind becomes completely serene for a few fractions of a second.

I can look over to Maria and see her eyes have also become calm and focused.

It feels like everything around us moves even slower, as our perception increases in far more ways than just what the high-quality ether in the air was granting us.

Instead, my vision looking through Advanced Primordial Aura becomes far more sharp and accurate.

My understanding of our aura, and the intricate balance it's forming with all of my other energy sources, becomes illuminated. An instant mental shift realigns the way my vibrations hold everything in my being together.

I look deep into my system, and instead of just lines of text and floating boxes, I start to see the physical arrays holding every skill, buff, and stat point reading together. All of these glyphs look like dark mirrors. I cannot read them entirely, but I can tell they are there.

Many of them start to give off energy readings, allowing me to read their functions based on their aura's outlines, and I can begin dissecting this language from my instincts alone.

It has many similarities to the Originator's dialect, but there are many fundamental differences as well.

When I look at the microscopic arrays in my consciousness that create the foundation for my Rising Emperor's System, it is made of its own Originator's Dialect, slightly different than the system itself, but with all the same roots.

Flashing colors I've never seen before pour into my mind, and shapes that bend in directions that don't make any logical sense to my mind that is used to the physical realm. Yet, when I let it float into this strange space, and rely on instincts alone, the concepts I'm seeing make perfect sense.

I start to wander deeper, looking at the entirety of the Upper and Lower Realm I'm standing on top of.

All of the micro-tears between every single zone become extremely obvious, to the point where I realize there is hardly any separation at all between them. If I were to just step downward, in the direction of the Blue Zone right now, I could easily tear through the many arrays saturated with an ancient primordial aura that keeps them steady.

Even the curved wall of space high above me, and the same curved wall of space at the bottom of the Lower Realm—they both feel exactly the same, almost fragile, and easy to understand. With the right amount of force, it feels like I could break this entire construct.

The only problem is, I do not know what is out there on the other side.

It still only looks like a pitch-black void, and in the memories of Marcellus, that is all I could see. Everything else was deleted by the Overseer.

Large amounts of this Serene Advanced Primordial Aura are actually flowing into me, and my soul is devouring and assimilating it. I watch Maria's source Resin take it in too. It is not foreign matter at all; it is like a new missing part of my own soul is flowing into us.

The only strange thing is, the waves of silver threads that shower down on us dissolve even faster the moment they touch even the outer edges of our Primordial Aura.

Some of it even bounces off, and the threads that make it through don't even settle in any of my cores.

My Corruption won't even touch these silver threads, it flows right through without any gained energy. Maria's source Resin repels it like a reversed magnet.

There is only one point of gravity where this express energy can go, other than disappearing out of my sight. It falls into the crimson aura of my blade and spirals down into it in shimmering silver streams of threads.

With my senses heightened to perceive a whole new level of Advanced Primordial Aura, I can truly feel the pleasure that my sword is pulsing with. The moment these threads fall into its depths, past the inner core of my blade, I don't even see the energy any longer.

All there is is pure hunger and gluttony, as this is the only place in the entire zone these threads can fall to.
