“Woah, my first girl monster,” Delta muttered and then shook her head, smiling.“As per tradition! We should give you a name!” Delta readied herself for the argument the frog would have, like Rale did.But the figure only nodded.“I would like that. I know that... I knew that I would get one,” the frog-woman did another small smile and Delta gave Nu a baffled look.“How?” she had to ask and the frog just looked unsure.“As.. if I was born knowing how to breathe. I was born knowing that we are your children, know that we are named, know that we are not to kill...” the woman repeated some words, her eyes closed.“Uh... Nu? Answers? Now? Please?” she stuttered and Nu vanished for a second and then reappeared.

Delta put a hand on her cheek and frowned.“Sounds complicated. If I mess up with the first monster I summon, the rest come out broken?” she said and Nu only dinged.The frog in front of Delta waited with a serene calmness that made Delta feel slightly shy.“So, a name! Well... how about...” Delta’s mind wandered for a name. She threw out a few that came.“Lady... Vert... or how about Fleur? Oh, maybe something to do with stars or divination...” Delta mused aloud and the frog perked up at something.“Dev...ina? Devina... Dev. Yes, I like those sounds!” the frog said, sounding slightly excited. Delta blinked but quickly joined in with the excited frog.“Devina! Dev for short sounds... well if that’s what you want to be called!” Delta just grinned as the frog-woman seemed to embrace the name as if it were a gift.Rale’s head appeared out of the river and Delta saw him eye the new arrival but he vanished before too long.Delta hoped they’d get along okay...She followed Dev as she began to slowly adjust to her new environment. Her new monster rushed to one of the fresh trees Delta had just planted and bent down to examine something Delta couldn’t see.“Mother, what is this springy thing? It sticks to the tree like a leech,” Dev mused and Delta, smiling, looked over her shoulder.She froze.On her new tree, was a black cap that grew like a tiny ledge off the bark. It was quickly growing a new shelf above it.“Mother? Mother? Why... why are you screaming?” Dev asked in alarm.

Delta went to a happy place as she sat heavily down, still... singing very loudly.It was a volcano where nothing made of spongy flesh could survive.It made Delta very happy.
