"Dispose of it how you will. There was no recognizable cellular matter within the petri dish, and the radiation has left it utterly. It is but a liability given it no longer offers anything of value. Even the nanomachines self-destructed."

I sighed, using my armor to drain it. At the very least, it carried an enormous amount of mana. Feeling the extra weight, I leaned back,

"Well, that sucked."

Torix nodded, "Indeed."

We waited for another moment. I shook my head,

"Man, why in the hell was Lehesion letting off that kind of radiation? Why did the tail connect with him as well, even from this distance?"

Torix scoffed, "Perhaps they wished for a clean source of energy."

He and I laughed, but mostly to defuse the shitty situation. As our pity laughter died down, I sat up,

"Wait a minute...I mean, they actually might be doing that."

Torix's blue, fire eyes sparked white, the flames building in his hollowed sockets,

"By Schema, you might be right."

He stood up, walking back and forth, "Now that I'm dwelling on the matter, this was by no means a true failure. There is much to learn, though it may be through inference and deduction rather than observations alone."

I pushed myself up, not quite as excited as he was, "I guess, though it won't be as concrete we hoped."

Torix lifted his hands, "For some of the information, perhaps, but some of our deductions will be based on fact. The first of which is that mana is coursing through Lehesion."

I pursed my lips, "Didn't we already know that?"

"The difference is in the sheer scale of the event. Think about it. The amount of mana contained within that tail dwarfed all the mana on Giess combined."

I raised my eyebrows, "What? Really now?"

"As hard as it may be to fathom, it's true. If the rest of Lehesion mirrors that state-"

I spread out my hands, "The guy's a living supernova."

"Precisely, perhaps even greater. It would rival cosmic events with the sheer scale of mana being produced and filtered through him."

I grimaced, "The kind of mana needed to take down a spatial fortress?"

Torix shook his head, "No, the kind needed to evoke a cosmic event which far outweighs the energy required for something simple as taking out a spatial fortess."

My stomach sank, "What in the hell would they even need that kind of energy for?"

"I've no idea, but we know they have it. That alone is valuable."

"Well, we also know they can produce that kind of energy too."

"Precisely so. If the Adair Family managed to recreate novas worth of mana, then they've connected Lehesion to a far greater power source than Giess alone. The question lies in what exactly could supply that level of energy."

We pondered possibilities for a bit. I recounted the radiation and what it felt like. Memories of the malevolent presence returned, and with it, a cold wave of dread. That fear washed over me like jumping into an icy lake. I shook my head,

"They...they couldn't have. That's impossible."

Torix tilted his head, "What couldn't they have done?"

I blinked, my heart racing in my chest. When the tail first ebbed blue, my ears were left ringing. It was like a quiet explosion. It reminded me of a booming voice I'd heard before. I pondered aloud,

"They...they might be using Eonoth somehow."

One of Torix's fiery eyes expanded as if he was raising an eyebrow,

"Eonoth? Perhaps I've forgotten who that was, though it sounds familiar."

I stared where the tail once was,

"An Old One. They might be using an Old One."
