Jessica nodded. Iris was talking more openly than ever before. She supposed they really had started to grow close this week. But more importantly, as Iris spoke of her sisters, Jessica saw a lightness in her eyes and posture that was never there before. It was obvious she really loved her family a lot. Jessica wanted to hear more, and see more of that light take over Iris’s normally cold gaze.

“So why do you call her your strange sister?” Jessica asked, taking a seat on a rock. She glanced at the dragon, who was resting its snout flat on the ground. She didn't get the impression it would be reporting on their conversation—it didn't seem sentient in the same way Iris was.

“She… She has always been strange. In small ways. I… don't know how to tell it.” Iris settled down on her haunches by Jessica's feet. Jessica waited for her to continue as the pup seemed to be searching her memories. “She did not like meat at first. After her first kill, she seemed sad… no… not sad… just, as if she had done something wrong.”

“Um. Guilty?” Jessica offered. “That means, like when you do something you think is bad and wish you could take it back.”

“Guilty.” Iris repeated the word. Then she continued her story. “She moves in strange ways. Makes strange… faces? Like this.” Iris suddenly scrunched her face, her nose wrinkling as if she smelled something terrible. Then she shifted the forced expression to something more relaxed, turning her head to look at Jessica with one eye and letting her lips curl back like an awkward grin.

Jessica snorted, putting her hands over her mouth.

“This is funny?” Iris asked, returning to her normal expression.

“Sorry! It’s just… you’re always so serious, and then you just—s-so—” Jessica waved one hand while the other tried to stifle her chuckles.

Iris didn’t seem offended, just perplexed more than anything as she canted her head and waited for Jessica to calm down. “You make odd sounds.”

When Jessica recovered, she asked, “Okay, okay. What about your other siblings?”

“My brothers…” Iris thought about it. “There is Luke. Strong, but stupid. He would always play hunt with us in the den. He loved this game. But sometimes he goes too far and then seems… guilty.”

Jessica nodded, smiling warmly.

“My last two brothers. They are very much the same. I can hardly tell them apart.”

“The two fire breathers, right?” Jessica asked.

“Yes. Ben and Jerry. They are foolish like Luke, but they make things fun.”

Jessica’s eyebrow instantly cocked upon hearing their names. Ben and Jerry?

“Um, Iris, just out of curiosity, where are you getting these names?”

Iris’s head turned. “It is what feels right to call them.”

“R-Right… but I mean, those are odd names. Nobody around here has a name that’s anything like that.”

Not to mention it’s a freaking ice cream company from Earth…

Jessica froze as her eyes widened, several disconnected pieces suddenly falling into place in her mind.

“What makes a name odd?” Iris questioned. “Jessica?”

Jessica was too lost in thought to respond.

When the Umarii had come for the pups, they were looking for a transmigrator. Jessica didn’t think much of it at the time—she was more worried about surviving the ordeal herself—and now she realized how stupid she was for not putting the pieces together sooner. This “strange” sister of Iris’s—could she be the transmigrator they were looking for? And did that mean… Could she possibly be from Earth?

Read Next Chapter Now!
