“Yes,” Theolias said. “His Visions have guided the Council of Archmages and their alliance with the Troll Kingdoms for ages. I heard. I’m just a lowly acolyte, so I don’t get much more than rumors.”

“That’s cool,” Ryn said, quickly recovering from the intensity of the encounter and peppering Theolias with dozens of questions whenever the incredible city didn’t distract her. For his part, Theolias seemed quite proud to talk about the city, the Trolls, and even history – happily taking up the mantle of tour guide.

“And here you go,” he said, drawing to a halt before a large set of ornate wooden doors that seemed to have been grown right into the side of the tree, rather than crafted, as if that were a perfectly normal thing for a tree to do. “The Library of Ciradyl. If you need someone when you leave, the librarian should be able to contact me. Otherwise, I hope you enjoy your stay.”

“Thank you, Theolias. You have been an excellent guide,” she told him, offering a clumsy bow, but it seemed to be their custom. At least he was smiling when he said goodbye.

When she turned back, Calen was already pushing the heavy doors open. She hurriedly followed, and, as she stepped across the threshold, her body twisted and warped with a disorienting feeling that was mercifully brief and painless. She stopped and stared, dumbfounded. Within the tree, she found herself gazing at a room of unimaginable size, far bigger than what could have even fit inside the enormous tree trunk. Rows and rows of books lined the shelves, disappearing into the distance and she suddenly had the disconcerting sense that she now knew what it might be like to step inside a storage enchantment – although no storage enchantments she knew of could be used with living beings.

“Welcome to the Ciradyl Grand Library.”

The voice speaking Elvish drew Ryn’s attention away from the impossible size of the library, and the wealth of books it contained. The Elf woman who spoke sat primly behind a desk, several books open in front of her, and one hovering in the air beside her.

Librarian – Wood Elf – level ??

“Is this your first time at the library?” she asked, smiling at them.

“Um… yes?” Ryn said. Even the librarian surpassed her level. She hadn’t met a single person so far that she could even identify.

That was not very confident, Ryn, she chided herself. The elven librarian must think she had never seen a library before. To be fair, the library was impossibly extensive, powered by magic on a scale that she had never imagined.

“Ryn would like to apply for membership,” Calen said.

She collected herself and asked, “How much does a library membership cost?” She had brought a lot of gold, but seeing the incredible scope of the library, she feared it wouldn’t be enough.

“It’s free,” the librarian said, glancing at Calen standing beside her. “All you need is a sponsorship from a Pathfinder above the rank of Novice.”

“Free?” Ryn asked, her voice coming out a little like a squeak. She wasn’t quite sure she had heard right for a bit. It had taken a king’s ransom of gold for access to the Myrin’s Keep library, and the ones at Vertias and Volle had been even more expensive. All of those put together wouldn’t even take up a small corner of this space.

“I’ll just take your friend’s name, dear,” she said, eyeing Calen, who nodded immediately.

“I’m Calen Avery,” he said.

“Lyeneru Silverleaf is your mentor?” the librarian asked Calen as she entered his name into the library system. “You’re in for an… exciting time!” She grinned, but it seemed good-natured. Ryn almost expected her to ask for the latest gossip.

She placed a blank token on a panel, and something flashed. After examining it briefly, she handed it to Ryn. “Here you go. This token will let you access the library whenever you need.”

“Thank you.”

“Now, young librarian, let me inform you of the rules,” she said, folding her hands into her sleeves. Ryn immediately ensured that she looked appropriately attentive and respectful. Here came the inevitable librarian’s lecture. “You may borrow as many books as you want, for as long as you want, but any abuse of this freedom will reflect badly on your sponsor and his mentor. The restricted section at the back is off-limits without explicit approval of the Council. Please keep any noise or flashy magic to a minimum within the library, people come here to study. Magic is allowed, but nothing that can damage the books or hurt other people. Is there anything you want help finding right now?”

Ryn nodded, feeling oddly more at home now. The rules were not much different than at the other libraries, with the exception of the extraordinary freedom to borrow books without using money or fees as collateral. For the members of the exclusive Pathfinders Guild, reputation and standing must be worth more than gold. Calen certainly seemed very proud of his membership. She glanced at him, grateful for the trust he was extending to her.

Remembering Ali’s suggestion, Ryn asked, “Do you know where I might find some books on tailoring and crafting?”

“Here, let me show you how to use the index and search spells,” the librarian offered, directing her to a magical construct on a table nearby, a more advanced set of artifacts and spells than she was used to, but familiar enough to understand quite quickly.

“Ryn, I’m going to head out. I have a class on skinning in a few minutes,” Calen told her. “Are you ok on your own?”

“I think I’m good, thank you!” Ryn bade him goodbye and devoted her entire attention to the library’s indices, awed by the sheer weight and volume of knowledge contained within this vast chamber.

Well, one second. She pinched her arm hard and winced at the pain. Yes, I’m awake. Good. To work!

Lyeneru knocked on the aged oak door, taking a deep breath. It had been a long time since she had been summoned by her former mentor, the Archmage, Nathaniel Sunstrider.

The door clicked and sprang ajar by itself. “Come in, Lyeneru.”

She pushed the door open and entered his office. It had not changed one bit since the first time she had entered as a nervous young novice – much like Calen a few days ago. The walls were filled with bookcases, laden with heavy tomes of magical knowledge. His desk was just as cluttered with unfinished work as it always was, and Lyeneru wondered if some of the projects she had seen all those years ago may still be buried somewhere under there, untouched over the years that had passed. It still smelled of ink and parchment, and the faint ozone haze of unbound arcane mana.

Nathaniel stood in his resplendent robes, adorned with arcane silver symbols and runes, his back to the door. His silver-white hair spilled unbound down his back, reaching to the crest of the Pathfinders Guild that was prominently embroidered with shimmering thread, allowing the robes to serve as a symbol of his station as the Guildmaster and a ranking member of the Council of Archmages.

His form shimmered with his hand resting upon the smooth, clear surface of a perfectly spherical glowing crystal orb. An ancient Scrying Stone! Such artifacts were impossibly rare now, knowledge of their making a lost secret of the Age of Enlightenment from before The Breaking. His mouth worked silent incantations continuously while his eyes remained glued to the sights within.

Lyeneru shut the door and stood waiting with her hands clasped loosely behind her back, studying the wise Sun Elf.

Something deep within the orb swirled – a chorus of whispers and screams. Several dark, insubstantial tendrils shot out, whiplike, striking at Nathaniel’s wrist. With a loud crack, a reactive spell formation triggered, and the black tendrils burst apart, the remnants retreating into the orb like an injured predator withdrawing to their lair. The Archmage snatched his hand back with a hiss.

“A Scrying Stone, Nathaniel? You risk inviting calamity upon us,” Lyeneru said. “It’s far too dangerous; not even the Trolls know who crafted those.”

“Someone needs to keep an eye on that Shadow Council. Indacus Argyle has made a new artifact, and they move to take advantage of the rising conflict between Toria and New Daria,” he said, rubbing his hand for a moment before he shrouded the orb with a black velvet cloth. “Besides, that’s what ward spells are for.”

“Still…” she said, worried more than she cared to admit by the strange attack. Those tendrils of darkness were wrong in a way she had never experienced before, leaving her with echoes of horrifying whispers in her mind. At least she had enough experience to know when she was afraid, or strange mana was involved.

“I know what I’m doing, Lyeneru.”

Lyeneru frowned, but let it go. The relationship between them had never truly evolved past initiate and mentor, even though she had long moved on. In his mind, he was always the teacher, and she the unruly apprentice.

“Now, I’m sorry it took so long to find time. With the Shadow Council, the Archmage Council, and now the Troll delegation from Telim Gor, I’ve not had a moment to even sit down. What do you have to report?”

“Alexander Gray is dead, but he unleashed a plague on the forests south of Myrin’s Keep. An undead Blight that spawns endless zombies and skeletons,” Lyeneru began. Even though she had finally defeated the far higher-level Death Knight, the scope of the disaster the Necromancer had unleashed went far beyond her abilities.

“This must be the disruption the Shadow Council is trying to take advantage of,” Nathaniel said, taking his seat at his cluttered desk and inviting her to sit too. “How did he die?”“Killed by a local dungeon.”

“You took care of it, I presume?”

“I chose not to,” Lyeneru answered, twisting her mouth. Nathaniel would not like that – not one bit. She still wasn’t certain she hadn’t made a big mistake, but how could she kill someone after sitting down with them and their… aunt for tea? “Her name is Aliandra. She and her friends took care of the Necromancer for us.”

“An unbound sapient dungeon?” Nathaniel asked, eyebrows arching in surprise.

“Yes. Nature and arcane affinities,” Lyeneru said, adding, “Her arcane magic is golden.” She knew him well enough by now to know where his primary interests lay. If anything was going to get his attention, it was that golden mana.

“That’s… unusual,” Nathaniel said, rubbing his chin and leaning back in his chair. “I remember this Myrin’s Keep now… I got a report from the Guildmaster of the Adventurers Guild – some preposterous claim about the Blind Lich showing up.” He chuckled dismissively.

“That report is almost certainly accurate,” Lyeneru said, grimacing as she realized the likely impact of her report.

Nathaniel’s levity vanished instantly. “I have no patience for jests, Lyeneru.”

“When have I ever joked about the undead?” Lyeneru asked, reining in the annoyance that threatened to spill over into her voice. “They found the ruins of Dal’mohra, Nathaniel. I saw it with my own eyes. Aliandra was born in Dal’mohra, and her dungeon is nestled in the Grand Library Arcana.”

“The library!” Nathaniel exclaimed, sitting bolt upright.

“Just the building, the books are gone. The learning enchantment is real, she restored it. And she recovered Nevyn Eld’s original treatise on dungeons. She confirmed many of our theories about the Blind Lich and his abilities – and she has evidence he doesn’t need to enslave dungeons. He can create them using an artificial shrine artifact.”

“That is… an incredible claim,” Nathaniel said, his surprise giving way to thoughtfulness.

“Nathaniel, she witnessed him turning the kings of Dal’mohra. We need her,” Lyeneru stated flatly.

“I see. I think it’s time for me to pay a visit to this Myrin’s Keep,” Nathaniel said.

“Shall I come?”

“No,” Nathaniel said. “I have another task for you. Tol’zerath has had a Vision – a very troubling one. He saw a vast army of undead spilling forth from a dungeon and consuming Aman Rak.”

“That’s dire news,” Lyeneru said. If the Troll kingdoms fell, nothing would stand between the undead and Ciradyl. The Well of Souls could not fall into their bony grasp. “What shall we do?”

“I want you to go and investigate. The Trolls believe their kingdoms, and by extension, Ciradyl, are in grave danger – but you well know the fickle nature of divination. I need information, Lyeneru. Reliable intelligence.”

“I’ll take care of it at once.”

Despite the pressing urgency of a rash of high-priority tasks that all required his attention, Nathaniel sat in silent contemplation for quite some time, staring at the seat Lyeneru had vacated.

An unbound sapient dungeon… The last time an unbound sapient dungeon had spawned and had been left to gather power, the world had lost an empire.

When Vivian Ross had initially sent him the report of a possible dungeon in Myrin’s Keep and the sighting of the Blind Lich, he had dismissed it out of hand. But it had at least been discreet.

However, there was no way he could ignore Lyeneru’s report. Just the political ramifications of what she had uncovered at Myrin’s Keep would blow up to an enormous headache as the details filtered out.

She was a phenomenal Pathfinder – one in a millennium – but the girl had absolutely no sense of practical politics. She should have taken care of the dungeon, as she always had before. None of this sentimentality. He sighed. No, sapience notwithstanding, the policies existed for a reason. There was no room for sentimentality – he would just need to take care of this situation personally. In his thousand years of life, he had never heard of a trustworthy dungeon.

On the other hand, Lyeneru was never wrong about dungeons. That fact alone gave him pause.

Golden arcane mana.

Nathaniel’s eyes fell upon the great tome resting, battered and worn, on the reading stand. He knew exactly what she had been implying and decided that, while he resented her presumption, he had to allow that she might be right – against all odds.

Everyone knew that arcane-affinity mana was violet or purple, depending on the style or personality of the wielder. He had just assumed she had been mistaken, after all, Lyeneru was a great Pathfinder, but not much of a scholar. But the golden glowing runes on that tome’s cover – an artifact from the City of Learning itself – hinted at ancient secrets waiting to be revealed, if only he were intelligent and tenacious enough to unravel its mystery.

