Yes. He mistrusted these strange events and somehow, this golden dungeon was embroiled in the currents of fate he sensed swirling about many possible futures. Tol’zerath’s presence in Ciradyl was proof enough.

Filled with purpose, he rose to his feet. Reaching out a hand, he levitated the ancient tome, taking it and wrapping it under one arm. It was a particularly frustrating book, so dense with mana that it could not be stored in his ring. Nor could it be memorized or copied – the slippery tome was never the same, no matter how many times he read it. Even his memories of what he had studied were warped by the confounded book when he wasn’t paying attention, a feat of Knowledge magic so prodigious he was at a loss for how to even begin to unravel it. He would need to carry the book and reference it directly. However, it would be better to have the annoying tome with him and not need it than to need it and have to come back for it, especially if there was truth to Lyeneru’s discovery of golden arcane mana.

He waved a hand and a quill on his desk penned a note to his assistant, informing him that he would be out investigating a dungeon near Myrin’s Keep. That should be enough of a paper trail, he decided. It would fend off much of the unwanted speculation and keep the Trolls appeased by the appearance of taking their concerning vision seriously while Lyeneru obtained more actionable clues. He spent a few moments collecting artifacts and spellbooks he might need and storing them.

On to Myrin’s Keep. He levitated the Locus Directory from his shelf and found the entry he needed. It was not one he kept memorized. After studying it for a few seconds, he activated his Greater Teleport skill.

He stepped out of the locus to the awed gasps of the low-level mages present, and the scrambling of people getting to their feet in their haste to bow.

Novaspark Academy of Magic. Quaint and homely in comparison to the wonders of Ciradyl, it hearkened to simpler times – times ever receding into ancient history and now, a notion perhaps forever crushed by the weight of that unprecedented Divination. If Tol’zerath himself was concerned…

“W… welcome… Archmage?” the official stuttered.

Smoothing a grim smile off his lips, he nodded, acknowledging the official, and opened his mind to the ambient mana, ranging outward ever wider as his awareness soared along the currents and eddies in the flow surrounding him.

What he found was startling.

It was obvious where the dungeon was, given the towering intensity of the mana he could sense. The nature-affinity mana was well into the second tier in density, possibly even stronger than his own. He would need to proceed with both haste and caution. But the arcane-affinity mana was what caught his breath, not nearly as dense, but bright and sparkling. And golden.

Lyeneru skipped a few details. Suddenly, he was glad he had brought Elowynn Amariel’s: The Nature of Magic.

He teleported again, heading downward in relentless pursuit of his goal, protective wards snapping into place.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
