The dungeon-rage stabbed into her mind, making her gasp with pain and stagger into the table. Ali vaguely heard the exclamations of concern, but her vision was dim, and the sounds came to her faintly against the roar that smashed through her brain.

Her vision flickered and lurched back to some semblance of normal and she found Lira kneeling on the floor beside her holding her tightly, so she didn’t fall.

“Are you ok, dear?” The concern on her face was echoed by all of them.

“Yes, it’s fading,” she lied. In truth, she was simply getting used to it, but Lira and her friends would worry about it and there was nothing she could do to fix it for now. It was the suddenness – the surprise – that always caught her off guard.

Your minions have defeated Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 49 (Fire).

The pain suddenly eased.

For the price of locking up almost a thousand of her precious mana, her minions were fighting the Emberforge Mines and its continuous dungeon-break, holding back the elementals that it was spewing forth into the jungle. And every so often in the chaos of battle, the elemental might clip her domain mana with its aura of flame, and she would experience the excruciating pain anew. It was quite debilitating, not knowing when or where it would strike.

She sat gingerly on the chair and accepted Malika’s offer of a cup of water.

What were we discussing? She tried to cast her mind back over the conversation they were having before it had struck.

“Morwynne can make fire resistance and fire absorption potions, but they require some fire extracts from the herbalists,” Mato noted, his eyes glancing her way to check if she was really ok. “Eliyen can make it, but they need fire-affinity plants, and of course, there are none nearby. She said the closest is a several day hike up in the mountains near some small fissures and volcanic lava flows. She did offer me Basil if we want to try that.”

Oh yes, that was it. Finding fire resistance gear and potions was proving harder than she had expected.

“That’s probably a good option, though,” she said. If they could find a fire-affinity plant, she could spend one of her Grimoire chapters to learn it, and then they could make as much as they needed, and the potions would simply cost the money for the other ingredients and the time to make them.

“I don’t mind making the hike if we think that’s going to be worth the effort,” Mato answered.

“Calen or Ali may be faster though, because they can fly,” Malika said.

“Is there anything I can do?” Ryn asked.

Before she could answer, Ali felt footsteps and a heartbeat approaching from the darkness and looked up to find Calen stepping out of the shadows.

“Six this time,” he announced and walked over to where Malika was sitting and transferred the bright glowing handfuls of flame to her storage enchant, getting a heal in return.

“That’s probably enough for Thuli to make our plate order,” Malika said. “It’s the leather and the cloth that we’re stuck with. And I have no idea what I’m going to do, I can’t even wear armor.”

“My mom can’t do any fire resistance enchants,” Calen said, looking a little down about it. Ali was immediately reminded how Lydia had seemed the same way, expressing the feeling of being trapped by her profession and the way the guilds treated independent crafters.

“None of the other tailors in town can either, I checked all of them,” he finished.

Cloth armor was their biggest problem. While she did have general magic resistance, something that had made herself and her Acolytes more robust than most of her minions, Ali still had extremely low health compared to almost anyone else, and she would need more protection against the dungeon’s mana if she wanted to be safe.

“There are no decent leatherworkers in town,” Calen lamented, but his eyes danced in a clear signal that he already had an idea. “I was thinking I’d check in Ciradyl when I go back for training. I can check for other things while I’m there.”

“I’ll make you a list,” Malika said. “You might want to take a lot of gold; I don’t think this stuff will be cheap.”

Everything needs gold. It was a good thing she could make so many valuable resources, otherwise she had no idea what they would do.

“What is Ciradyl’s library like?” Ryn’s voice piped up from the table where she was laying out the books she had collected.

“I don’t know,” Calen answered. “But I can take one person with me, do you want to come?”

Ryn’s eyes lit up. “Ooh! Oh! Yes! Please?”

“How can you resist,” Mato chortled, slapping his friend on the shoulder. Calen turned pink.

Oh, Ciradyl probably has a massive library. It was the capital of the Wood Elves, and, by Calen’s account, an enormous and advanced city. Ryn will disappear in a cloud of happiness… Her mind drifted briefly, daydreaming about the kinds of knowledge they might find there.

Wait… Tailoring… Lydia’s problems with her tailoring class collided abruptly with her thoughts of the extensive knowledge that might be in the Ciradyl library.

“That’s brilliant!” she exclaimed and suddenly felt the flush of embarrassment as everyone stopped and stared at the intensity of her outburst. “Well, maybe not that amazing, but… Calen, didn’t you say the Guild of Tailors spans New Daria?”

“Almost all of the human kingdoms,” he answered. “The only reason mom can be independent is that Myrin’s Keep is too far out of the way, and too unimportant to attract attention.”

“But it doesn’t operate in Ciradyl?”

“No…” he answered, suddenly realizing what she was asking.

“Now that you and Ryn are both fluent in Elvish, perhaps you could search the library for books on tailoring enchantments? Specifically, fire resistance? And then maybe your mom can make some things for us?” If Lydia could learn the enchantment and make decent gear, she could get custom pieces made for her acolytes and her mages too, and then she could learn them herself and make as many as needed.

“That’s an awesome idea, Ali,” Malika said enthusiastically. “And it will be a lot cheaper than buying all the pieces already made.”

Mato raised his huge paw of a hand and tapped Ali with greatly exaggerated gentleness upon the shoulder. “There.”

“What was that?” Ali squeaked.

“Didn’t want to flatten my favorite little dungeon.”

“Mato!”

“Ok, I’m ready,” Ryn said, trying not to bounce on her toes and failing miserably. Ready, minus my dignity. This is going to be such a good day!

She had taken the time to pack a few things she thought she might need, but she probably wouldn’t need to stay too long in Ciradyl. Just long enough to secure a library membership and the books they needed, after which she would be able to return as often as she wanted. Just the thought of seeing the fabled Elven tree city, and the library sent tingling excitement prickling along the backs of her arms.

“Have fun!” Ali said, her voice taking on a melodic tone with the lyrical speech of the Elven tongue. The new teaching skill Ali had unlocked had been crazy, she had literally felt her mind forging new connections in a state of pure focus like none she had ever experienced before. It had been a matter of a few relentless hours of study before she had received the notification that she had achieved fluency. While she hadn’t yet had a chance to test her new spoken skills with a native speaker, she could read! And Lira counts, doesn’t she?

She took a deep breath. She was about to visit the biggest Elven city on this side of the continent, perhaps the world. What if I make a mistake and offend someone?

Contrary to what she had said, she didn’t feel nearly prepared enough when Calen reached out his hand, but she took it anyway. Her stomach lurched as if the floor had just vanished out from under her feet, and she was no longer here. She stumbled on the wooden floor and reflexively summoned her wings, but she found herself standing just fine in the center of a magic circle with white-robed Elves looking on with amusement on their faces. She blushed in embarrassment and hurriedly put her unnecessary wings away. When she used her Library Teleport to the Grand Library Arcana, she always made sure to appear in the air of the atrium while flying – it was far easier that way.

“Welcome to Ciradyl.”

The voice was soft and feminine, and it took Ryn a moment to realize that the beautiful Elven lady was speaking Elvish. I understand her!  It even felt natural. Her embarrassment forgotten, she gazed eagerly around the room, taking in her first impression of Ciradyl.

“You have pretty wings,” the Elf added. She was tall, dressed in the flowing white robe of the Temple of Lunaré, and she had gorgeous long flowing brown hair and kind green eyes.

“Thank you,” Ryn replied. Almost a dozen Wood Elf Acolytes and guards sat or stood about the receiving room, but nobody seemed at all disturbed by their sudden appearance in the center of the large glowing white circle of runic magic.

“You ok?” Calen asked, also speaking Elvish. She nodded and let him lead her out of the circle.

“Um, could you perhaps direct me to the library?” Ryn wasn’t certain of the customary level of formality or politeness yet. Her brain was full of conflicting information she had read on the topic, but the Elven Priestess just smiled at her and offered a folded piece of paper.

Puzzled, Ryn glanced at it, and then unfolded it, finding a small, detailed map of what must be the city. Oh. Of course, they’re prepared for wide-eyed tourists from tiny towns…

She studied the map carefully, but she couldn’t make heads or tails of it. It was vastly more complex than a map had any right to be, so she showed it to Calen. “Can you understand this?”

“I’m not sure I know where it is either. This is only my second time here, and I got lost last time – quite thoroughly lost,” Calen admitted, looking more than a little embarrassed.

“Theolias, would you guide them to the library, please?” the Priestess asked.

A male Wood Elf in robes that looked noticeably plainer, but no less well-crafted, bowed to her. “Of course, High Priestess.” He turned to them, gesturing with his hand toward the doorway, and said, “Whenever you’re ready.”

Acolyte – Wood Elf – level ??

Even the acolytes are a far higher level than me.

“Lead the way, Theolias,” Calen said.

Ryn followed the Elven Acolyte out of the door, but as she exited, her jaw dropped. The receiving room for the teleportation locus was situated dizzyingly high up the largest tree she had ever seen – way larger than even the Elder Lirasian Oak that Ali had planted in the center of the library. In every direction, and as far as she could see, Elves soared, swooped, or walked along branches and hanging walkways among the trees in a stupefyingly complex web of streets, highways, and flight lanes that pulsed with the energy, the lifeblood of the busy Elven city. But even with the busyness, the city did not bustle – infused instead with a palpable calm serenity, a tangible elegance and grace that could never have been achieved by a human city.

Her very human stomach lurched unhappily, and she hastily reminded it she had wings. No problem.

In the center, her eyes were drawn to a pool illuminated by a towering pillar of shifting blue light, within which danced brilliant white sparks and wisps, reminding her of the wisps of nature that were drawn to Ali’s library tree, except on a scale that staggered her imagination.

“It’s quite a sight, is it not?” Theolias said, a soft smile on his face. “I envy you seeing it for the first time.”

“What is that?” Whatever it was, it was beautiful, eye-catching, and filled with the serene energy that suffused the very air throughout the city.

“That is the Well of Souls. It is an ancient artifact under the care of the Temple of Lunaré and the source of much of the power of our city. Without it, the Ciradyl trees do not grow, and our defenses do not work. But not much is known now about its purpose, and its origin is shrouded in mystery.”

Ryn followed their guide, her head bobbing back and forth trying to take in far too many sights at the same time. She was so distracted that she almost tripped several times. It was no wonder the map had been indecipherable, the entire city was fully connected in three dimensions, sprawled among the branches of the giant trees.

Suddenly, Theolias gasped and stepped to the side, pulling her with him and bowing low. Surprised, Ryn turned to find a procession of strange beings walking down the broad arboreal highway like they owned it. They were huge, every one of them over seven feet tall, and some had to be approaching nine feet, towering over the Elves that stepped aside to give them space. Their leathery skin ranged from deep cobalt to an icy blue so light she might have said it was white. Shocks of white hair stuck up, styled into topknots, braids, or spikes. They had pointed ears like the Elves, but larger and thicker, and adorned with heavy metal piercings. From their mouths jutted a pair of tusks, most of which were painted with geometric designs or bound with ceremonial braids of leather and beads. Each of them walked on bare three-toed feet, and their hands were similarly shaped and powerfully built. The largest one in the front glanced at her haughtily and she quickly copied Theolias’s bow, noticing his ornately decorated robe and the intense aura of cold that followed him as he swept past with his entourage.

Trolls! She shivered, both from the chill of his magic and the intensity of his presence, and remained bowing until Theolias finally stood.

“Who was that?” she whispered.

“That is the troll delegation from Telim Gor,” Theolias said, breathlessly. “That was Tol’zerath himself, their leader or chief.”

I knew it, she thought. The descriptions in the books had not done justice to the sheer presence of Tol’zerath, but he was unmistakably a Troll. One of the most ancient races, and among the most powerful, they were reputed to be quite arrogant and superior. Living in deceptively primitive cities and dwellings, they were nonetheless feared for their battle prowess and extremely advanced magic.

“What are they doing here?” Calen asked, echoing the question in her own mind.

“I’m not certain, but there have been rumors and portents of dark forces on the move. Tol’zerath is one of the foremost practitioners of divination magic. He’s probably here to talk with the Council of Archmages.”

“Divination?” she asked, suddenly curious about another being with her rare affinity.

