He had ideas, he just couldn’t act on them here, far from his base camp. He needed equipment and knowledge back at his home, or in the main square. The settings were too austere for him here.

He looked up at Ev. “Actually, there’s something I want to try. Could you give me a few days?”

Ev pouted playfully, then waved her hand. “Sure. I’ll just sit here and practice my forms, I guess. Wait for my durable training dummy to reappear.”

“I’ll be back,” Rhys promised, and stood. He jogged out of the crevasse and stopped.

He’d noticed a few bits and bobs being added to the woods. Some strange red ropes, tied in specific knots. Odd wicker structures, often vaguely humanoid, which turned into burned piles not long after. Even a strange shrine cobbled together out of scrap wood, stained with black smoke from the herbs they burned in it. But this was… over the top.

Paper streamers hung from the trees, black as the night. It looked like someone had TP’d a tree after a college football game gone sideways, but black, and vaguely ominous. Small black figures hung from the trees, all of them distorted and only humanoid if he squinted, paired with bundles of fragrant herbs. The trees were riddled with red ropes, knotted in strange and exquisite knots.

Rhys frowned. What happened? Had some evil being escaped, that needed to be appeased and sealed? Was it some kind of festival to celebrate one of this world’s gods? He leaned in close to the humanoid figure, getting a better look at it, but couldn’t make heads nor tails of its intent. Rhys lifted a hand to touch it, then flinched back. What if it was some kind of cursed doll? He, of all people, should know they existed. He’d been trained by one of the most powerful cursed dolls of all, after all.

Shaking his head at the strange decorations, Rhys headed back into the town. At the square, he hesitated, thinking. He wanted to brew the leftovers into a toxic potion, concentrating and hopefully increasing the toxicity of the gunk at the same time. Sorden would have the potions knowledge necessary, but just the idea of explaining himself to her gave him a headache. Plus, she’d already hinted that he shouldn’t tell her too much about how he had grown so strong, so quickly. Asking her something like that might give away too much about his techniques, and turn him from a student to a target. Not that he’d let that hold him back, if it was something truly essential, but for something he had another route to achieving, he didn’t know that he wanted to give that away to her so easily.

Which left his other option. And honestly? It was probably the better of the two. Nodding to himself, Rhys set off.
