“You're small. I think you'd fit.” Jen said.

Ren glared at her.

“You are.” Jen said and smiled, taking some of the sting from her comment. Ren huffed and asked for a piece of parchment.

“That stuff's expensive.” Jen said and handed over a similar sized piece. Ren handed her a silver coin without thinking. Jen took it with a shocked look on her face and Ren got to work. Using the system's options menu, he widened the stairs and moved them to the back of the warehouse, making them go up only one floor, to end in a platform that you'd walk halfway across and turn around, then another set of stairs to go up the rest of the way to the third floor. Ren added a wall and doorway at the top, essentially making the third floor a seperate space.

“Can you add a second floor?”

Jen looked at Ren with raised eyebrows.

“The space is already there. Can we add extra large supports around the outside walls, with free-standing supports down the middle... here, and here, and here... and just make a new floor on top of it?” Ren drew what he meant on the parchment paper and Jen's eyes widened.

“You want us to build a whole floor, a storey high, inside an empty warehouse?”

Ren nodded.

“Do you know how much wood that's going to take?” Jen asked.

Ren thought about it. “Probably most of the stock you have right now, I think.”

Jen shook her head. “I can't empty my business like that. That's a lot more than 400 gold's worth.”

“I thought so.” Ren nodded. “What about just making the supports and I can add the floor later?”

“You're going to add it yourself?” Jen asked, surprised.

“Sure, why not?” Ren replied.

“Once reason could be that you don't know how.” Jen said, and chuckled.

“I can learn.”

Jen looked closely at Ren. “I heard that about you.”

Ren looked back at her. “I've got 4 days of your services ahead of me. I'd like to use them as much as I can.”

Jen chuckled again. “Okay, Ren. Keep going and show me what you want.”

Ren nodded and drew out a section of the floor that he wanted bare, and filled with interlocking stones. “What's that for?” Jen asked.

“I need to have a spot for a forge, and I don't want a wood floor around it.”

“You're putting in a forge?” Jen asked. “What kind of shop are you making?”

“Do I have to pick?” Ren said and grinned.

Jen rolled her eyes. “No, but it would make my job a whole lot easier.” Jan said. “Now I know what Sally was talking about.”

They laughed together for a minute and Jen told him to finish his drawing. Ren completed it by adding walls and storage spaces, even using the area under the staircases. When he was done, he carried it with him as he and Jen went out into the street, and they slowly walked over to where Ren's new place would be, discussing the drawing.

********

Edward Torren's office phone rang.

“We just got a call from the hospital. Ren's in.” Max said.

“Why couldn't you just track his IP or something?” Edward asked.

“We did, but that doesn't tell us where he is in the game.”

“Can't we track that, too?”

“Sure, but if we start that code, we'll get info on where everyone is in the game, then have to filter out everyone else to find him. It was just easier to ask them where he was.”

Edward sighed. “I want that done later.”

“But...”

“No buts. It should have been done when we selected the winners of the contest.” Edward said. “Actually, get me the info on the other winners, too. I want to know where they are.”

“Are you sure, boss? You don't think that's invading their privacy or something?” Max asked.

“It's our game... and I want to see what they've been doing with the special classes I gave them.”

“No problem. I'll have it done by the end of the week.”

“Thanks, Max.” Edward said. “Are you taking Elise in?”

“If you want me to.”

It doesn't sound like you want to. Edward sighed. “No, I guess I better go in myself. Message me Ren's location and what he's up to, when I log in.”

“Sure. Have fun.”

Edward laughed and hung up. He stood up, walked around his desk to his office door, and stepped out to stand next to Elise. “He's in.”

Elise's face lit up and she smiled.

“You're only going to apologize, right? No grabbing, feeling, or anything like that?”

Elise nodded. “I'll be good. I promise.”

“Let's get to the lounge.” Edward said and started walking, with Elise close behind.

********

Ren and Jen walked around the corner of the street and saw 2 people standing in front of his building. Ren kind of recognized the man, and when he got closer to them he definitely recognized the woman, and stopped walking.

“I'm sorry to be rude, but...” Ren said. “...what do you want?”

“To offer an apology.” Edward said. Ren's eyes widened and stepped closer.

Edward held out his hand. “I'm Edward Torren, CEO of SID Tec.”

Ren took his hand and shook it.

“And this... this is my secretary Elise Stanford.”

Elise didn't put out a hand for Ren to shake. He raised an eyebrow and she giggled. Edward looked at her and she coughed and composed herself.

“Ren, I'm very sorry for the way I acted.” Elise said and dropped her head. “It was inexcusable for me to behave that way.” She said. “I know you can't forgive me for what happened, especially after how things turned out; but, if there's anything that I can do to make it up to you... I want you to let me know, okay?”

“You're not just saying that so I won't complain, are you?” Ren asked.

Elise got a shocked look on her face. “Of course not! I...” She frowned. “I really am sorry, Ren. I get excited over things easily. When I saw you that day I thought...” Elise shook her head. “...it doesn't matter what I thought. I was wrong and I'm truly sorry.”

Ren looked at Elise's sad and slumped figure, and remembered having a similar pose while trying to explain things to Lucy, and sighed. “Apology accepted.” Ren said.

Elise took a deep breath and sighed herself. “Thank you.”

Edward put a hand on her shoulder. “The offer goes for myself as well. If there's anything that I or the company can do to make up for this, please let me know.”

Ren thought for a minute and got an idea.

“Well... there is something...”

********

Around 4:00 pm, Lucy sat at her kitchen table and tried to eat a frozen tv dinner. She didn't bake it in the oven, but used her microwave. The turkey was like rubber and the stuffing was hard as a rock. The potatoes were runny and the corn was burned.

Maybe I was a bit hard on him. Lucy thought as she ate the meat and stirred the potatoes, but eventually she just dumped the food in the compost bin and washed out the plastic dish and put that in the recycle bin. There was a knock on her front door and Lucy went to see who it was. The Fed-UPS man was there and Lucy opened the door.

“Package for you, ma'am.” The Fed-UPS guy said.

“I didn't order anything.” Lucy said.

The man shrugged. “I just deliver them, ma'am.” He held out the clipboard and Lucy signed her name. He bent down and picked up a brown wrapped package and handed it to her. “Have a good day.” He said and tipped his hat at her. Lucy took the package inside and closed the door.

What is this? She thought and went back to the kitchen table. Lucy grabbed a knife from the cutlery drawer and opened the top. There was an envelope inside and another box. Lucy took out the envelope and opened it. Inside was a rebate check from SID Tec for the cost of a top of the line VR headset, and a typed note apologizing for the mix-up with her old one. Lucy sat down in the chair and stared at it in shock.

What... what... Lucy tried to think of how something like this could happen and nothing came to mind. She put the check down and took out the other box and opened that, too. Inside was another typed note, and a brand new high-end VR headset. Lucy almost cried when she read the note.

Lucy,

Friends help friends when they can.

- Ren

“Oh, Ren!”

********
