It wasn't a bad trade in my opinion, and that option made the entire process feasible. I also injected a few of my insights into mythical and legendary skills. Urgency was the source of all progress, and the system gave plenty of that for leveling. Skills weren't as obvious or supported, but they carried much of the system's general potency. Streamlining some type of excruciating exam or trial may help people push past skill bottlenecks much like gaining a rare tree.

After several hours of talking, Isa gave me a smile.

"You know, you're a lot easier to get along with than I imagined. I always thought you were hiding your knowledge so that you could stay the strongest."

My runes ebbed with energy.

"If I could have other humans rival me, then I'd do so."

Isa scoffed.

"People are assholes. I'd rather you stay on top for a while."

Thoughtful sobriety spread over my expression, and I gave her a weak smile.

"We'll see how long that lasts."

I left the dungeon clearing corps with Isa feeling reasonably satisfied and content. The new protocol would help advance her troops while letting her handle a few of the more problematic dungeons in a productive manner. At the same time, I left manuals on many of the more esoteric magics I understood. While my own accounts of the fields weren't the best, they acted as an accrual of my experiences. They may help some people.

I wrote them out as I talked to Isa. Initially, she thought I wasn't taking her seriously. After hearing a few quick responses and my steady involvement with what she said, her worries waned. She told me she'd have my books bound, printed, and sold, and she'd use the money for the dungeoneering corps. I told her to do as she liked with them.

Having handled that, I took a walk through Mt. Verner and Springfield. It was an assessment disguised as a stroll, something I hadn't done in a long time. As I passed the everchanging scenery, I kept getting called out by people, pulled to the side for chats, and asked to tell stories of my battles.

To these citizens, I had taken on a mythical status, and it was a strange experience. Many of the older guild members acted like I was a close friend. Their immediate warmth was humbling. Guild members I'd never spoken to told me heartwrenching stories about their lives since the system arrived.

A father who found his brother here. A son who traversed the country to find protection for his grandmother. A daughter who saved her younger siblings. They told tales of how this place had been a sanctuary and that their lives had begun again. It left me feeling better about what I'd done since the system arrived.

Having bolstered my own morale, I checked my messages, and I couldn't help but raise a fist in triumph. The guild had come together, creating a map of the current cosmos while cross-referencing old-world maps of the stars. They'd sent the update over the guild interweb we'd created, and it spread that information for all to know.

It also gave me a better idea of where we were in the universe. Before diving any deeper, I found the end of the message. We were finally prepared to head to Amara's homeworld, and the guild's top brass headed over to the agreed-upon meeting spot. I flew over the growing skyscrapers of Springfield proper before heading over to Mt. Verner's side.

Along the edge of the mountain, we met in Hod's home, the eltari feeling like hosting. I'd made a habit of flying in from above when visiting the Eltari. Otherwise, I missed the images they crafted with their mosaics. Hod had a similar nested image surrounding his home as well. It was one-half a cornucopia brimming with fruit, golden sand, and honey. The other half was a moon dappled with stars, and a scythe was midway through slicing it.

It was fitting.

Torix, Amara, Chrona, and I landed outside of Hod's home. We passed several runic arrays, their setup meant to stop rain and wind from wearing the structure down. The see-through barrier rippled upon our passage, and we approached the elaborate tent, the flowing cloth ornately designed and held upright with sculpted wood.

Unlike many eltari, Hod wished to maintain the customary buildings and architecture of his people, though he still enjoyed the techniques of the modern age. Hod had carved a fire pit into the front, leaving layered piles of steel and slag inside it. It smelled of searing meat and charcoal, and the many bottles of Torix's brews were at different levels of empty.

Hod had many friends, and he spent time with them well.

The majority of the fabric carried colors of carmine and an alloyed orange. They flowed as if midflight, and each piece shifted in the wind without falling out of place. Still, a rancorous sound billowed from his tent, and the sheer volume of junk Hod threw around over the next few seconds was monumental.

We peered at each other while Torix glared at the tent. The lich took a breath.

"It is the nature of this world to be tested."

Hod shouted at us all.

"Hod, almost ready."

Amara let out a hiss.

"I have been to Hod's home. It is far more elegant and refined than the lairs you compose around yourself."

The lich's eyes flared green.

"Oh? You've accepted previous invitations. I wonder what they were for?"

She flared her teeth, her lips curled back.

"You know I want nothing to do with that childish imbecile."

Hod walked out of his tent. He wore flowing robes, his entire sense of style remade. The illusion of an Arabian prince formed before shattering when Hod moved. His bombastic gestures and lanky form gave way to a familiar cadence and voice.

"Hod happy guildmates come. Hod show home."

We walked in, and it was as Amara said. Elegant tapestries and cloths hung from the ceiling, a subtle structure holding it together. The carved cedar scaffolding left the place smelling of rich wood and verdant earth. The eltaris' mosaics were the elaborate flooring, and the flowing elegance contrasted the piles of random trinkets Hod had collected.

They were oddly aesthetic. Aluminum cans, metal flakes, and old-world jewelry lined every part of his home. The neat, orderly piles contrasted with the chaotic individual that had sorted them out. Apparently, in his free time, Hod had polished the many regalia and glass baubles, and he positioned it so that beams of light crossed through them and shined on the metal. It made every pile into a light display, and I'd never seen someone make garbage into something half as beautiful.

I put my hands on my hips and looked at Hod.

"Ok, Hod, I didn't know you were an artist."

Hod boomed out with his chest, reeking of confidence. He deserved it.

"Hod like shiny things. Hod put them out so others see shiny."

Torix walked up to one of the assortments.

"Art? Hm. Color me surprised. I'd anticipated dried feces and poor hygiene."

Hod pointed at another room.

"Hod leave that for other room."

We gazed at each other before stepping towards the place Hod mentioned. The room held a garden with crops from the eltari's home world. A series of crystals lit the room, and they carried specialized inscriptions and runes carved onto them. Instead of the normal, sterile light from quintessence, a yellow shade accented these lights.

They carried the familiar warmth of actual sunlight, the recreation of the unique feel somehow being uncanny and relaxing in tandem. Hod pointed at a line of insulated barrels behind the room.

"Other Hod help Hod set up room. Hod want plants from Hod world. Hod still work on it."

Torix shook his head.

"And the barrels are for the excrement? Charming."

Hod walked up to Torix and put a winged hand on Torix's shoulder. Hod sighed.

"Hod know that to make change, Hod need to get dirty sometimes. Dry man know this. Hod think we all know this."

Torix gave Hod a thoughtful look.

"We may have our differences, but I can respect that resolve."

Hod patted Torix's shoulder.

"Hod respect dry man too. Hod think dry man should know something."

Torix focused in.

"Oh?"

Hod let out a longer sigh.

"Hod not wash Hod hands."

Torix smacked Hod's hand away before summoning an orb of water above his left palm. He scrubbed his shoulder clean before spraying the water over Hod. Hod stood straight up while dripping.

"Hod thank dry man for shower. Hod forget today."

I held down a laugh. From outside, Chrona let out a heartwarming chuckle, and it echoed across the mountain. Chrona leaned a head down to look at us from the entrance.

"You are always full of surprises, aren't you little one?"

Hod crossed his arms in front of himself.

"Hod like book. Every page different."

I raised a hand to everyone.

"Let's get down to the brass tacks of the situation. We're going to start planning for the infiltration mission with Amara. The only free members we have are Hod, Amara, and Chrona. Shalahora's sorting through people to keep Elysium off our backs. Plazia is scouting a few of the worlds we've recently charted."

I counted on my fingers.

"Kessiah didn't want to go. Althea is working on her education program and pharmacy company. Helios and Florence are busy with albony things in general, and Tera's doing skeptile stuff. That's why I called you all. You're going come with me, and we'll be aiming to infiltrate the planet, get the secrets behind the Builders, and keep ourselves alive."

I enveloped them in the Rise of Eden. They stood a bit taller and with more confidence while I spread my arms.

"Any questions?"

Amara sneered.

"Do we have a choice in the matter, or are we being commanded?"

I admired one of the carvings on a cedar scaffold.

"No one is being forced into this arrangement. I figured you were more than willing to go considering the goal of the mission."

Amara peered down before squeezing her hands.

"Then I will go."

Chrona nodded.

"It sounds exciting. Another world? I've only seen three so far."

Hod struck a pose.

"Hod ready. Hod always ready."

Torix coughed into a hand.

"Ahem. Why am I here, exactly? Aren't I busy scouting?"

I gave him a nod.

"Because we're going to build you a new body before we head out."
