A quiet passed over us, the kind thats comfortable and easy. It was like a moment between two old lovers, and I hoped we would be in rocking chairs one day. That hope of mine felt the weight of what happened earlier, so I shook my head. Althea leaned to me.

"What's wrong?"

"I'm still worried about Kryaa. At this point, it's annoying how much it's bothering me."

She winced.

"Yeah. That was pretty bad. That was Kryaa and something else, wasn't it?"

"It was that thing and a lot of other entities from the interdimensional darkness. Honestly, standard stuff at this point."

I turned to the side and gazed down.

"You know...I couldn't have stopped them."

Althea reached out a hand.

"Hey. Stop that."

I took a breath.

"I really couldn't. I would've won in a protracted battle, but they could simply escape before devastating every settlement, town, and living creature on Earth. It's like every time I feel good and solid, something crops up to make sure I'm not able to rest easy. It's starting to get old."

Althea put a hand on my cheek.

"You're ridiculous, you know that?"

I looked at her, my eyes wide.

"How so?"

She lowered her hand.

"You're over there acting all broody just because we got close to death."

I spread my hands.

"That's what we're working so hard to prevent, isn't it? It's like we failed."

She gave me a weary smile.

"Our people are alive with no deaths after getting assaulted. If that isn't a success, then nothing is. We've also done a great job making your guild safe. People who live in these cities can sleep at night without becoming some eldritch's next meal. That's a huge accomplishment, and we're improving the safety of people outside your shelters."

I shook a hand at her.

"They're still having to worry about death even with all these precautions."

She furrowed her brow.

"Daniel, you need to understand something about the system and yourself - you're not a god. You can't stop something like death from happening. It's a constant of the world, especially Schema's assimilated planets. Even if you could take it away, what would the world be without it? We don't know, and it's not something we should be searching out the answer for."

Althea put her hand on mine.

"It gives our lives meaning knowing they can end."

I took a breath.

"I know, but it's so exhausting to try so hard and still have people threatened all the time. Sometimes, it all just feels pointless. It's like no matter how strong I get or how much I build up, everything I've ever done can come crashing down at any point."

Althea shook her head.

"Of course it can. We could get destroyed by some gravitational flux from a black hole or get ripped apart by some Old One's probing. That's just a part of life. If anything, I think you've become a little too accustomed to immortality lately."

I leaned back in my chair.

"Pshh, I'm not even immortal."

She rolled her eyes.

"I've seen you walk out of the air from nothing. Literally nothing, so if total obliteration isn't able to take you out, then what can kill you?"

"Something that attacks my mind and soul."

"Sss. Don't forget the S. You have a whole bunch of them."

"Alright, I'll give you that one."

She reached a hand out to me.

"What I'm trying to say is that you're thinking about this from your perspective, but think about a normal person. At any point in time, they're one sword slice from having their head roll on the ground. That's how we all are. We live on despite that."

She shook her hand at me.

"We're fragile. Close to death. There's nothing that can change that. Look at this."

She pointed down at her coffee, most of it finished. A fly had landed inside the cup while we talked. I frowned at her.

"I figured you knew it was in there."

She gestured to it.

"This is what we're all like. We may think we're not like this bug, but the reality is, there are big forces out there. To them, we're like this fly, and someday, we may get ensnared by something we didn't even know was dangerous."

She put a fingertip into the cup. The bug crawled onto her fingertip. She lifted it up, and the fly flew off.

"Sometimes, we can only hope for a bit of luck to keep us alive."

It flew over to the shop owner. She snatched a bug swatter in a rapid, practiced motion. She crushed the fly with a quick jerk of the tool, and she even moved a garbage can under the fly to catch it before it hit the ground. A sanitizing wipe flashed over the bug's guts, leaving the area spotless.

I grimaced.

"Let's hope we're lucky then."

Althea grabbed my hand.

"We are. At least I know I am."

I leaned to her.

"Me too."

For a moment, I melted. Not literally, of course. I leaned my forehead against hers.

"Thank you. I'm getting lost in this magic I'm using. It's hard to keep my thoughts straight when there are so many of them."

She was warmth, something to calm me. After a quick moment, she pulled her head back.

"You know, Torix and Plazia have scouted different places and run some numbers since we know so much more about the Earth now."

I raised my brow. Althea answered my unspoken question.

"The places we're finding, I mean, some of them are stable, but most of the Earth isn't exactly habitable. Torix and Plazia are estimating that less than a billion humans are still alive after the culling. The estimates keep dropping by the day."

My eyes hardened.

"It's that bad?"

"Yeah. The eldritch have integrated into life here, and there are lots of places where very few survivors have been found. Even in the initial tutorial, nearly a third of all people died. I wasn't a part of it, but apparently, the groups were set up to fight a pack of eldritch wolves. Each person needed to kill at least one wolf apiece, and people were grouped up at random."

My voice was solemn.

"The elderly and children weren't able to kill anything, so groups with lots of members composed of the helpless were exterminated unless they had a true warrior to carry them through. Anyone who wasn't in fighting shape was expunged before they ever had a chance. Still, less than a billion?"

She turned a hand.

"It destroyed infrastructure, and that led to food shortages, a lack of militias, and the inability to organize. People were able to hide and scavenge for a while, but the eldritch kept getting stronger. After half a decade, resistance waned. We're picking up the slack now, but the damage has already been done."

The intangible weight of guilt crushed me. It felt suffocating.

"I wish I'd done more."

Althea peered away.

"Me too. We were wrapped up in a lot of big events, and loads of people ended up being forgotten. It's something I'm not proud of, but we're making a difference now. We're building infrastructure, getting institutions back online, and we're giving people safe places to live. Humanity will have a resurgence. I'm sure of it."

I rubbed my temples.

"Not if these monsters from the dark kill everyone."

She shrugged.

"Like there's anything we can do about that."

I smiled up at her.

"You can. You killed several of them."

Her expression darkened.

"I couldn't. I incapacitated them. You actually killed them...It just took a while."

Shame passed over me.

"Sorry if that was disturbing. If it makes it any better, I didn't enjoy that either."

She shook her head.

"Don't worry, I'm not leaving you just because you can be a little terrifying from time to time. Besides, I know what it's like to be judged."

Her irises changed color and she smiled.

"It's like that fly earlier. Some people act like they're grotesque, but I think that's unfair. They're just trying to survive, just like us. There's something beautiful about all of us fighting towards the same thing. It gives us unity."

I tilted my head.

"Did you know they vomit on their food before sucking it back up?"

She spit out the coffee she was midway through drinking.

"Ugghh. Gross."

Coffee dripped from my brow and off my nose.

"You're telling me."

We ended up talking for a while longer before leaving. We left a generous tip before returning to our suite. After some intimate time together, I left Althea sleeping soundly, and I couldn't help but reflect on what she said. All this time, I aimed every action at protecting people from Schema's world and the consequences it wrought. That's why I gave rings, amulets, and gear. However, no matter how much I sanded the edges of this new reality we faced, the changes were bone-deep. People would need to change with it, and that included me. In essence, I needed to find a way to start giving hand-ups instead of handouts.

With that in mind, I sorted through a few guild documents detailing different trees, classes, and common attribute paths. After getting a firm grasp on the basics, I spent some time devising alterations and pitfalls to our current approach. I also had extensive training knowledge from years of experience, and I pulled from that perspective. Feeling more ready, I reached out to our dungeoneering corps.

Isa had a position that gave her a busy schedule and many responsibilities. Despite that, she didn't make me wait for even a few minutes before arriving in one of her training halls. Surrounded by practical dungeon-clearing supplies, she and I had a quick catch-up. She still wore eldritch leather gear, and she kept her hair in a tight bun so monsters couldn't grab her graying locks.

She leaned against a table, inspecting a few planned operations for any flaws. The maps detailed the insides of different dungeons, her scouting operations helping prevent deaths and reap more rewards. Schema appreciated excellence, after all. Isa peered up at me as I walked in. I gave her a wave.

"How goes it?"

She gave me a tired smile.

"Good. Ever since that little expansion operation of yours, I'm not helping us clear out a few counties of monsters. I'm working in a country full of them, and it's making my back hurt. I'm too old for this."

Streaks of gray striped through her hair, but the system had still revitalized her youthful appearance. She looked like someone in their mid-twenties who dyed parts of their hair gray. I smiled.

"Growing pains are inevitable, right?"

"Sure enough. Is that why you're here?"

"Actually, I had a conversation recently that made me want to take a more active part in a few of my guild's operations. I figured I'd start with what I do best and work my way down over the next little while."

Isa put her hands on her hips.

"So we're finally getting a few more of your secrets, then?"

I pulled out my grimoire.

"This time, it will be all of them."

I shared a copy of my class, attributes, trees, and skills. I detailed exactly how I progressed since the start of my systemization along with general paths to advancement. I even broke down my mindset, how I handled mind magic, and what were the most vital upgrades I'd gotten skill-wise.

She duplicated the documents before reading them over. After a while, she shook her head.

"Jesus Christ. You have a hundred minds floating in that thick skull of yours?"

I nodded.

"It's crazy how full a mind can be yet still sound so empty."

She let out a snort.

"If you say so. I don't know if any of our recruits will be able to emulate that skill. It sounds like it has a lot to do with how disconnected your skills are from your physical body."

I raised a brow. Isa went on.

"The thing is, you're not that from what you've said. You're like a, er, a ghost or something. If that's right, then you're kind of separate from most skills anyway. From my experience, most of these abilities are physical, and they work using muscle memory or predetermined mental functions."

I remembered how Althea's old style of aiming was nearly automatic and easy to abuse.

"Yeah, that's what most people tell me."

"Your abilities sound like they're implanted onto that body you have, but your mind is separate. It makes it easy to change your mind and then use the body as a kind of foundation for everything else you've learned. Otherwise, messing with your head like that will mess up your skills and memories."

I nodded, deep in thought.

"My disconnect from my physical body makes my mind more malleable."

Isa crossed her arms.

"I think so, but this is all way over my head. You'd need a specialist or someone with lots of experience to get to the root of that ability. Everything else you mentioned is pretty applicable, though."

I turned a palm to her.

"Can I see what you have?"

Isa nodded.

"Sure. Let me get it out."

She gave me a few copies of the current training program. They involved a lot of physical training, skill accrual, and leveling guides. I added my own ideas on how to improve the activities, and Isa listened as if I were a god of war giving her advice. If I were, then I'd be useless here.

A god war was someone born for this. They breathed battle in and breathed out a victory. My path hadn't been like that, and though I held great abilities, I wasn't particularly unique. In fact, what I'd done could've been done by most people. I think that was actually what made my perspective valuable here.

For their training programs, my main contributions were setting up rare tree unlocks. They would be there for individuals who had excellent dispositions for battle and stability under pressure. If they gained a few of the hardest-to-collect trees, then they'd be able to get past many of the bottlenecks like class-level limits. A few of those super soldiers could replace hundreds of normal ones.

They would have to take off my rings while accomplishing the tasks, and they'd need to enter difficult dungeons alone. Unlike whenever I fought in BloodHollow, they could keep my gear close by if anything went wrong. If they took the assistance of the treasure, they would forfeit their tree but gain their life.

