And yet, there was no means of doing so. I could try to construct the most magnificent defenses the galaxy had ever seen, but could I stop any attack? Would those defenses leave my people with lives worth living? Did I want to spend every waking moment for decades doing so?

No. I was tired of waiting on my planets and hoping for the best. I wanted to know the secrets of the universe so that I could begin dismantling the pieces that kept trying to kill me. As I grabbed the edges of the spatial rend, I smiled into the dark despite my frustration.

"Till next time, Kryaa."

Chapter Begin

As I hovered out of the portal, a scene of devastation surrounded me. In all directions, upturned soil, powdered dirt, and trembling corpses replaced the once veritable forest. A bright sun beamed down on it all, the clouds overhead forming into a colossal circle where we fought. The opening in the clouds made the desolate scene seem celestial as if a god willed it to be so.

But it was no such thing. This was the result of a haphazard attack on my cities, and it left me in a terrifying position. At any point, Kryaa could infiltrate and kill any population center he so chose. It made the entire process of building cities seem pointless. No matter how many I made, they would never solve the problem.

In fact, this was more than a simple problem with Kryaa. I constructed cities because of Elysium and Lehesion. The golden gialgathen could appear and ravage the entire surface of this world if it so chose. Elysium's Hybrid Stars did the same. While I had to constantly run around building safeguards, my enemies mobilized to get past those defenses.

It was a losing position, one where I reacted instead of taking the initiative. The only two solutions I could think of involved either getting much, much stronger or gaining information. I strengthened myself with every passing moment regardless of what else I did, so that part of the solution was already in the works.

However, my guild had a famine of information. We needed it so badly, yet we couldn't learn what was going on in the broader universe without leaving Earth. However, if I left the Earth, I could lose entire populations in seconds. Honestly, that could happen whether I was on the planet or not.

I stood in this position because my enemies knew a lot about me, but I knew nothing about them. To change my situation, I needed to find their base of operations to get out from under their heel. As my eyes absorbed the devastation, a large portion of my guild's elite peered back at me.

Torix stood upon a cloud of dominion while Althea glided back and forth. Shalahora ignored gravity while Helios bent it. Plazia stood below, wrangling his insect body back under his control after consuming the bodies of the horrors. Chrona and Krog each glided, their gazes saddened by the desolation of another planet they called home.

It left me frowning as I gloated up to them. I created an antigravitational panel, and they hovered upon it, walking in the sheer face of the magic. As they did, we convened closer. Helios dragged his hands down his face.

"We're in an unappetizing position, aren't we?"

Each of my steps set ripples over the panel.

"Yes. We are."

Shalahora murmured.

"We live in the dark, arrested to the confines of a world while our enemies traverse the breadth of the cosmos. It gives us a singular point to defend yet an entire universe to attack."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"Is there a way to make the barrier defend a place's, uhm, spatial integrity or something?"

Torix threw his hands tot he side.

"Unfortunately, Schema keeps a tight lid upon most spatial magic. We own a few passages here or there from the payload Elysium gave us during our ceasefire. Plazia also has researched bits and pieces, but our reality is a grim one. We are faced with an enemy that has tools we cannot stop, and if we leave to find those tools, this planet may perish in the meantime."

I took a breath, taking charge of my emotions and the conversation's flow.

"It can perish regardless of what we do. That's the fate of any planet in Schema's universe, and this happens to be a volatile one. We need to change how we're thinking about the situation because outlining the problems isn't helping us."

Krog's tail cracked against the panel beneath us.

"Then what is going to do so?"

Chrona peered at Krog. She telepathized,

"What has made you so upset?"

Krog flashed his teeth.

"We lived on a planet under siege by the silvers for decades, and now we've found another beleaguered home, one that is assaulted by horrors of a different yet no less virulent nature. I tire of facing an everlasting and eternal war. I want to spend time rebuilding our temples and renewing our songs and history. This...This is no different than Giess."

Chrona snarled.

"You know you lie."

Krog peered at the destroyed landscape.

"I lie, yet the wind howls over the emptied terrain below us as if alive. As if to tell us that we face enemies that lie beyond our sight and in every home we find. I wonder if it is the nature of being in this AI's universe. Perhaps it is pleased by our writhing and our struggle and our pain. It gives it joy to watch us flounder."

Torix raised a hand.

"I doubt the pleasure part, but I do think this is a symptom of Schema's system, yes."

Everyone peered at the necromancer. He paced to the left, his hands interlocking behind himself.

"It's an issue that I've given much thought. In general, we've all lived in the border of Schema's known universe. Likely, it could span well beyond this galaxy, one we've all called home, yet we only know of a handful of other species or garden worlds."

Torix's eyes flared bright.

"It begs certain questions, but we're left in the dark about the age of the universe, our position in it, or where our enemies might be. In fact, any guild that isn't part of the system is effectively safeguarded from those within it. We are positioned upon a galactic grid while they are not. It gives them a tremendous advantage, one that we palpably feel."

Torix gestured to the ground.

"It is our most salient problem - information. We need some method of gaining more of it, and I believe taking risks to obtain it is more than merely worth it. It is necessary for us to survive."

A quiet passed over us. I stepped up to the center of everyone.

"He's right. I'm tired of moving in the dark, and Schema isn't really giving us a way out of it. To do so, we need to start exploring planets deeper in Schema's system. Otherwise, we'll never connect to the broader world or understand it."

I raised a fist.

"And that broader world knows where we are. It seems dead set on coming for us, and I agree, Krog, I'm tired of being attacked. I'm ready to do some of that attacking and show them exactly what we're worth. To do that, we're going to have to find them, and that means expanding outwards and scouting where we can."

Shalahora murmured.

"I may send shades to the far reaches as needed. Plazia-"

I looked at the hivemind. He sat upon a mountain of his insects, each of them writhing under him. They bit into each other, glowing ichor drenching down in torrents below him as Plazia writhed. Shalahora joined my gaze.

"He may also send his insects far and wide."

Torix met my eye.

"And I may use my undead summons."

Helios peered in disgust at Plazia. The ruler of the albony murmured, his ancient gauntlet sheening in the sun.

"Portions of our Obolis's treasury department defected during our fall from grace, and they keep the albony's once extensive informational network alive. Though the tyrant destroyed most of the trails leading to various treasures, we still know of different galactic capitals and hubs that can help us gain more information."

Shalahora's voice omened across us all.

"I have traveled a portion of Schema's unowned space, and I know of sectors that my patron has sent me to. I may detail their locations and help unweave us from this web of ignorance."

Torix rolled a hand.

"And I could actively thread a few of those patchwork pieces further together while giving the location and surrounding hub of my own homeworld."

I nodded a hand.

"Hell yeah, guys. We also know that Amara remembers where her home planet is. That could also serve as a valuable point of information to gather, especially considering she's a builder. We can start building up a set of references using Earth as the center, and that should start stretching out a map we can use to explore further."

Althea smiled while pulling her hair behind herself.

"We'll be exploring the stars while trying to save our home."

I grinned.

"It has a good ring to it, doesn't it?"

Krog let out a sigh.

"This is good. I...I wish we could unveil secrets of our own, but we haven't charted the stars to any extent."

I scoffed before turning to Springfield.

"We're the same for the most part. I'll be contacting Diesel to see if there aren't any known astronomers who can help piece together some of Earth's old data. That should give us a solid grip on what's going on once we know where life is abundant in different sections of the galaxy."

I nodded, my dimensional wake surging out.

"We'll build this map one piece at a time. Let's go get it done."

After a few more pleasantries and hellos, we went back through the warp and into Springfield. We sent a few messages and informed the populace of what happened, and it required a guildwide message explaining the enemy and how we repelled them.

To no one's surprise, our explanation didn't help solve all the problems Springfield just gained. Many people had no clue what the warp was about, and even fewer people knew how dangerous the situation had been. Despite having a barrier that saved them from death, most people had still seen the extent of fighting outside the dome.

The explosions. The horrors from the beyond. Our guild rallying and repelling the beasts. Springfield's residents saw it all, and it had two effects. Firstly, people treated us as gods. It had been a building perspective among many who knew us, but now, after having seen it firsthand, that perspective expanded by leaps and bounds.

The second after-effect arose as a growing sense of unease. People knew about the ever-increasing dungeons, the volatility of the eldritch, and how that destroyed normal people's lives. Hell, a lot of Springfield's current population came from immigrants trying to escape those realities. That was a pivotal selling point of my guild - escaping the destruction of the world.

Having it come into the city showed how bad the situation would become over time, but my executive golem took charge of the situation. In an instant, he began reframing the event as a demonstration of how effective the guild was at stopping horrors like this and what would've happened without our immediate intervention.

The executive told the people that this happened elsewhere in the world and that where it did, no one survived. They had never heard about it because no one was alive to tell the tale, and I was almost sure the golem was right about that. Still, the executive's story stretched the truth since he never mentioned that Kryaa attacked the guild because of me.

Though that may be a bit self-important. I stopped the deformation of the moon, and that is what sent Kryaa after me. If let the moon be, who's to say the Earth would've remained unscathed until now? We couldn't know that, so I let my mind rest at ease. This was the best we could do for now.

Just as well, I was stunned by how quickly Springfield rebounded from a brutal brush with death. Within days, people collected themselves and continued business as usual. At first, I was flabbergasted, but I remembered my time with Nissa, Jamal, Jasmine, and Joshua. They ran along the edge of the death every day, yet they seemed more lighthearted than I did. In that way, the system had changed people.

In the meantime, my guild organized the maps and informational retrieval. It would take a few months to collect it all into a single place, but we would have something to build off of. Unfortunately, I served no purpose in the grander scheme of that plan as I wasn't an astronomer, tracker, or mapping specialist.

It gave me a few days of respite to think and reflect on everything. I spent that time together alongside Althea, and we caught up on the dates we missed over the last few months. Of course, we still spent some time together while I terraformed Blegara, but still, we rarely had a few days like this.

Toward the end of those days, Althea and I gazed at Springfield, each of us sitting atop a marble building in the richer northern district. The sun loomed over the horizon. It was a lazy celestial that turned a brilliant shade of orange as the day winded down. The wind washed over us, the crisp air of winter brushing our hair back. Well, Althea's hair. My hair looked normal, but it held as firm as bent rebar unless I partially liquified it.

It was actually an exercise for tactile control, but I wasn't training right now. I spent all my time with Althea. She peered at me.

"Are you ok?"

I nodded.

"I am. I'm kind of down that we won't be able to spend time like this together for a while, but other than that, I'm good."

Althea winced before standing up. An elegant flip later, and she landed on my shoulder. She leaned against me, and my hair softened on reflex. I didn't even have to try, and she said,

"It's hard to carry a lot of burdens. Still, it's part of why I love you."

She lifted a hand. It changed into a set of monstrous claws.

"And besides, you know who I really am and still love me. I can't tell you how much that means to me."

I watched people mulling about their day.

"It means a lot that you know who I am, too."

Althea rested her chin on her arms. She rustled my hair.

"What else has you down?"

