I contemplated while listening. I could hear every voice in Springfield if I chose to, and I did for a moment. They were a hum of a people I aimed to protect, and their action was my music. I let out a sigh.

"They almost died. Everyone here."

Althea took a breath before hitting my head.

"Come on. Let's go get coffee."

I furrowed my brow.

"Which shop do you want to try?"

Her smile was a Sun at night, the brilliance blinding.

"Oh, well, I have one place I really like. It opened ever since we opened up the trading route with the Shattered Spires. They use a lot of old-world recipes like coffee."

I blinked.

"How'd they do that? And please don't say it's by killing monsters with coffee blood."

She laughed, her voice like a calming melody.

"They have all kinds of territories in the Infinity Plaza, and we used seed banks to start growing all kinds of produce. Coffee was really high on the priority list for a lot of people, along with tobacco. Weirdly enough, growing tobacco stirred up some controversy, with lots of people fighting against its use. Any idea why?"

I looked up.

"In the old-world, smoking caused something called cancer. It was a disease that was kind of like having an eldritch growing in your body. There was also this thing called secondhand smoke, and it killed tens of thousands of people every year. It was like alcohol in that regard with lots of people paying the price for other people's decisions."

I shrugged.

"I don't know if cancer would be a concern anymore with the system remaking and remodeling our bodies from the DNA up. Still, the history of that is still fresh in people's minds, and proponents against smoking probably see Schema's apocalypse as a golden opportunity to stop its proliferation."

Althea rolled her eyes.

"Monsters are running around and tearing people apart while these people are arguing the moral grounds behind smoking a leaf. If you ask me, these people need to spend more time training or doing something with their lives."

I crossed my arms.

"It was a real, moral obligation in our old-world. I knew tons of parents who would smoke in their houses and cars. Those confined spaces would result in diseases that their children paid for. The reason? The parents didn't want to smoke when it was cold outside or wait until after a drive. Five-minute breaks every hour was simply too much to ask."

Althea frowned.

"You sound intimately aware of those problems."

I scoffed.

"My dad smoked and drank plenty. I paid a price for both those habits, though they're mental problems now, given what's happened to my body."

As the wind brushed over us, I met her eye.

"About what you said earlier, I'd really enjoy some coffee with you."

She beamed back.

"Let's go."

We walked across the street while people waved and gave us a few cheers. Their rapid acceptance of the attack on our city still left me surprised, but it had been well over half a decade since the system started. People weren't acting like they used to, though a select few gave looks of fear or anger. They were few and far between, and that acceptance was also where another stint of surprise came from.

Everyone was attempting to live out lives from a pre-Schema era. The smoking argument was an example of that, and my guild had enabled that kind of mass grumbling. One would imagine me annoyed at my complaining populace, but it was actually a point of pride for me. I looked at it as a sign of excess that people could spend their time on something as esoteric as a moral debate.

As we reached the coffee shop, I experienced another kind of surprise.

"Is this really it?" I asked.

Althea gestured to the odd shop.

"It is. Isn't it cool?"

I grimaced.

"Uh, yeah, sure."

The building was made of aged wood, each piece stained and sealed by hand. From my gravitation sense, I could feel the weight of steel embedded into the building, more used than necessary. The unnatural, seamless welds meant one of my architects constructed the framework from nothing.

On the outside of that resilient structure, the gimmick of the building was plastered all over. The owner had used a prolific amount of eldritch memorabilia. Outside of the structural components of the building, every square inch was smothered in the body parts of monsters.

Chitinous plates were sanded down and used for tabletops. The chairs were made of filed-down fangs before being epoxied together. The ceiling fans were made of giant insectoid wings, and the pay counter was constructed from a fused spine. Even the glass looked like the retinas of colossal sea beasts, while the floor was a sandstone interlaced by fossilized monsters.

It was like walking into a demented taxidermist's mortuary. I gave Althea a pained smile.

"It's uh...Great."

She pulled my hand, and we went inside. A woman with a robotic arm and tattoos on her neck looked at me. She dyed her hair crimson red, and she kept it in a pixie cut. Her eyes widened before she bowed.

"Guildmaster."

I raised a hand.

"At ease. We're just here to have some coffee."

In an instant, cold beads of sweat poured down the back of the shopowner's head. I leaned over her, my gaze imperious.

"Ah yes, you should also know that we shall judge this place. Harshly."

Althea smacked the back of my head.

"What are you doing?"

I smiled.

"Having some fun."

The woman took a breath, our goofy exchange letting her relax some. I gave her a quick smile.

"We'll take two specials, whatever they are."

She blushed before giving me a nod. We walked away while Althea gave me a knowing grin. I frowned at her.

"Why are you looking at me like that?"

"Did you have to smile at her so dashingly?"

I rolled my eyes.

"It was either that or terrorize her some more. What did you expect me to do?"

Althea puffed her chest out and stuck her arms out to her sides. She waddled forward with a deep voice.

"Hell yeah. Alright. My name's Daniel. My pain is limitless and I blow myself up all the time."

She flexed.

"Oooh. Ahhh."

I laughed before walking over to a table. I did a back handspring into a fancy twirling leap, gravity wells carrying me through the display of athleticism. I landed in the chair with ease before brushing my hair to my side. I spoke with a terrible, mock female voice.

"Gah, my gymnastics are so, like, terrible today."

Althea laughed before we sat down and talked. We kept talking for several hours, both of us needing a bit of time to decompress. As we did, the owner worked. Whenever she moved aside, I spotted an espresso machine in the back, and it was labeled by our engineering corps. Diesel designed and made those. Another label held the insignia of a gialgathen, one flying with crates hanging from it below.

I pointed at it.

"What are those symbols?"

Althea turned, her hair swishing behind her like strands of silver.

"Oh, those? They're shipments from a gialgathen, uhm, shipping company. I think it's called Fly It."

"Huh. I'd heard of a few industrious gialgathens running a transport service, but this was my first time seeing their insignia. Where does it work?"

"So, I think it operates between us and the Infinity Plaza. They take time-sensitive supplies and a few expensive luxuries that could get stolen. I guess it's hard to beat a giant dragon bodyguard?"

I smiled.

"Frog dragon."

Althea leaned forward.

"Don't let Krog hear you say that. He's gets grumpy when he hears the f-word."

The owner walked over and set down a few delicious lattes smothered in sugar and chemicals. In many ways, it finally felt like I was back in America as I tasted preservatives and artificial flavorings galore.

Ah. Merica.

With our drinks handled, Althea leaned over the table.

"So, how did the terraforming of Blegara go?"

I swirled my coffee cup over a finger.

"It went well. We ended up sticking to twelve giant spirits since any more could've led to regional conflicts. Apparently, they need a set amount of territory or they get angry. How about the education program?"

Althea leaned against her hand.

"Good. I've been handling a pretty consistent stream of unmotivated people, but you do what you can."

I set the cup on the tip of my finger, and its balance defied physics if not for the gravity well supporting it.

"It's difficult to generate momentum for that kind of thing. Motivation is something that comes from within usually. At least the consistent kind."

Althea sighed.

"I suppose. I just...I don't know, expected more? Humans have been through a lot, but they end up falling into these patterns of comfort pretty easily. Maybe that's just sentient races in general, but...I thought there'd be more hunger."

I raised my hands.

"We leave that to the eldritch."

Althea rolled her eyes.

"Oh, ok. Regardless of my motivational woes, I've got ten branches up and running, including a flagship operation in the Shattered Spires. It's become a real success for us despite my complaints, so that's great."

I leaned to her.

"What's the problem?"

She rubbed the back of her head.

"We, uhm, have funding issues."

I spread my hands.

"Say no more. I sit on a pile of money."

She waved her hands, her face flushing.

"No, you've done enough. I don't want to raid your wallet to pay for my passion project. It kind of defeats the purpose if I have to rely on the guild to pay for everything too. The goal was to create something that helped people but also sustained itself. We've got one part down, but the last bit. Heh, well, I'm not a saleswoman. I'll say that."

The sound of spraying coffee radiated in the background. I talked over it.

"In the old-world, we had many educational systems. They were established with the support of a government that took up taxes to sustain them. In general, they dramatically enhanced the productivity of any nation that invested in them heavily. We could do the same with our guild."

Althea crossed her arms.

"Yeah, but how is that sustained by what I'm trying to do? I don't want to leech off of everybody, and the people we're giving this stuff to can't afford to pay for all of it. Locking the poor out of this would defeat the purpose behind what I'm trying to do as well."

I smiled at her.

"It's simple. You're generating productive, creative, and powerful individuals. Someone who's willing to hustle can easily exceed the productivity of ten people who aren't as motivated. Now, that wasn't nearly as much the case before the system was enacted, but it's definitely the case now."

"But how does that pay for anything?"

I turned a palm to her.

"Over the course of a three-hundred-year life, a systemized person could create enough wealth to run one of your academy branches for a year. If you made a hundred of those people a year, my personal taxes alone could sustain your projects easily."

She put a delicate finger on her chin.

"Huh. You take how much again?"

"I think I have it set to three percent. I could make it as high as fifteen, but I don't actually use money much. It sits around for me."

She furrowed her brow.

"You haven't even fully absorbed as many red cores as you can, have you?"

"Not even close."

"Then what do you mean you don't need credits?"

I sat up.

"I've already harvested most of the system gains that I can. The vast majority of my strengthening happens from my rune channeling, skill accrual, and cipheric learning now. The only system benefit I haven't unlocked is a Sovereign skill, but I'm well on my way to getting one. Once that's mine, I'll need to look to other prospects."

I turned up and yelled.

"Unless Schema offers me something tantalizing. Things could change."

Althea crossed her arms.

"Huh. That is why you took that random three-month break. You wanted to be able to strengthen yourself while being busy with the guild. Hmm, I still think it's a bit risky, but you don't seem unhinged just yet. Not more than normal, anyway."

I leaned back in my chair.

"This was the plan. I can train and help the guild at the same time, and we're better off for it. After all, I'm a primary deterrent for people who come to kill us. The stronger I am, the safer the guild becomes. That's part of why this whole situation from earlier bothers me so much. It's also why I'm still training even while we talk."

She leaned to me.

"So you're not giving me your full attention?"

I leaned to her, my eyes dark. A hundred and forty minds turned to her, and my gaze became more invasive than an autopsy.

"Do you want it?"

She sagged into her seat before a bead of cold sweat fell from her brow.

"Where's that pressure coming from?"

I tilted my head.

"You tell me."

She waved a hand.

"Ok, ok, you win. Stop that."

I put my minds back to work and straightened myself back up into my seat.

"You know that sensation you get when an entire crowd stares at you?"

Althea took a deep, steadying breath.

"Unfortunately, yes. Gah, I have nightmares about public speaking."

Mana swirled on my sigils.

"I think that having every one of my minds centered on someone gives the same impression. Some people can blow it off, but other people get nervous."

Althea winced.

"Hah. We know which camp I'm in then. It still seems weird having you not be all there, though."

I smiled.

"Don't worry. I'm giving you plenty of my time, effort, and energy right now. I have one Daniel relish it while three other animas help me think up what to say. Has it made me sound more clever?"

She rolled her eyes, but a smile teased her lips.

"You're definitely more smug."

I tapped my temple.

"Oh, definitely. It's hard to stop because, for me, confidence stems from preparation. With multiple psyches dissecting a conversation in tandem, I'm not just saying something off the top of my head. I'm thinking about every word and parsing it through a few filters. It means I only give my best to people."

I turned a hand to her.

"So I feel much more prepared in what I say, and that also makes me a bit more smug."

She beamed at me.

"Well, I like it."

"Thanks."

