A dark blue wave of mana and qi-infused ice magic just obliterated four moons, and in less than a tenth of a second, it will collide with the final moon.

Abby has grasped her staff, while Raven and Arie begin powering up, reaching into their item storages to pull out teleportation crystals that lead back to the human world.

Bri and the commanders have barely conceptualized what is going on; their reaction times are slightly slower.

At this rate, the generals will survive, though Alveron is the only one with enough mental capacity to correctly assess the energy levels of this blast and watch the reactions of the other humans to properly analyze the probability of everyone's actions.

To the yellow Slug's surprise, it hears a woman's voice in its ear.

"If you're going to teleport them away, leave me here. I want to watch the blast. I can handle it."

The activation of Abby's third-ranked-up buff, in addition to the enhancement attributes of her staff, instantly spreads a warm green aura outward and makes her entire body unsensible to any of the moon base's surveillance or energy level readers.

Commands all over the base trigger teleportation arrays, emptying the vaults filled with mana, divine fragments, and valuable data and artifacts collected from this planet in the past.

Alveron calmly replies to Abby, deactivating some of the commands that were already set to trigger.

"As you wish."

Bursts of white light rise from the ground to trigger prebuilt arrays beneath everyone else in the room.

If Alveron had waited even a single hundredth of a second longer, Arie and Raven would have disappeared back to their home world, but they pause their escape plans as messages are sent into their consciousness to wait.

Flashes of light bring seven humans roughly 700 billion kilometers away, to the outer edge of this solar system.

Rotating around a dense white star, there are multiple planets in this small system. Kelfar is the largest and only planet that has ever shown any signs of life.

However, a planet roughly one-tenth the size, and twice the distance from the star at the center of this system, has been built upon by Alveron as a bounce point to store data in a secure place and house a small teleportation platform linked to the moon base in case a necessary evacuation occurs like this.

–

While Bri, two generals, and four commanders appear on this base, two figures stay behind on the last moon of Kelfar.

Abby and the Silver Knight stand side by side and are hit head-on with the blast.

A sparkling green and yellow aura covers Abby, making her body semi-translucent. It is the same technique she used to shield the commanders from the aura of the Noble Wyvern and Demon bones on the ancient battlefield around the throne.

However, instead of spreading it outward and protecting others, she has it fully concentrated on her body alone.

She is also pushing her mind and True Core to the limits, already facing fatigue as she creates the most powerful activation of this technique possible before impact.

It pays off.

As the wall of Royal Blue Light hits the final moon, it turns icy blue all over in less than a hundredth of a second.

Then, the impact of the blast causes it to fracture all over, split into large chunks, then shatter into trillions of pieces like glass.

The sturdy walls and advanced technology of this moon base look indistinguishable from the solid rock that has been turned to dust in an instant.

Even the Silver Knight, who was watching the blast in awe and taking in as much data as it could until the last moments, is completely overwhelmed and destroyed.

There is no measurable time difference between when the dome of the base shatters and when the Silver Knight and this entire moon disappear entirely.

–

Abby's senses are overwhelmed.

She is not physically struck by the blast, but she can still sense the energy levels around her as her whole reality becomes a raging blue blizzard of aura all around for hundreds of thousands of kilometers in every direction.

After a few more hundredths of a second pass, she starts to feel actual cold on her true body at the edges of her energy form, but luckily this is at the peak of the blast.

She imagines what it would have felt like to be up close, on the actual moon where she compressed her True Core...

Though, these thoughts are pushed to the back of her mind once her eyes move in a different direction, away from Maria, and back toward Kelfar.

–

The monstrous blue wave of energy doesn't stop at the moons; it is currently freezing and breaking through this massive Demonic World like a heavy axe slicing dry brittle wood.

What started as a shockwave that blew away a large portion of demonic clouds and dug into the surface to create a ravine, the depth of one of the moons, continues to grow.

The impact of this shockwave doesn't slow down one bit.

It looks like a thick line through the center of Kelfar is being deleted, like a massive blue eraser is pressing down and making the mass of this planet disappear before Abby's eyes.

She knew Maria's True Core compression and the reveal of her third-ranked-up buff was going to be a spectacle, but the mass destruction before her eyes is absurd...

–

It's over in the blink of an eye.

Just as the shockwave destroyed the moon Abby was standing on without slowing down, it bursts all the way through Kelfar just as fast.

The enormous ravine being created continues to grow and grow until the entire planet cracks in two.

The burst of Royal Blue light blasts forward as though the massive celestial body wasn't even there, expanding further out into deep space, beyond what Abby can see or sense.

The two remaining halves of the enormous world, seven times larger than the human planet she grew up on, float apart, turning brittle as the Soul Energy residue from the cut spreads and freezes the entire floating mass.

The two parts crack and fracture apart slowly, but their entire mass has stayed in large pieces. Luckily, the entire planet wasn't completely consumed by the blast.

However, the planet's former molten core was hit dead-on. It was frozen solid on impact and shattered to dust along with a large percentage of the planet's mass. Over 30% is completely gone, while the rest is frozen blue.

This reveals a secret of Kelfar—one that was quite possibly what the Kings were left here to protect so many millennia ago.

–

With the massive explosions, moons and planets being destroyed, and trying to save her own life, Abby momentarily forgot about the cyan eyes that stared down at her over a week ago when she tried to scan the throne on this world.

Even during the blast, the planets' and moons' orbital rotations had shifted so much in the last few days that the throne was on the other side of the world during this event.

However, now, she can see the other side of this world where the throne should be...

Yet, there is nothing left in its place.

Her assumption is that it was blown away into deep space, or maybe covered in a dense layer of ice, and she lost sight of it in the debris.

That's because no matter how strong Maria's shockwave was, there's no way it could destroy a structure owned by a being two full Divine Thread realms above her...

Though, as a few seconds pass, and the empty silence of space sinks into her mind, watching the two halves of Kelfar drift further and further apart, she begins to second-guess this thought.

That's because a small, clear, shimmering, and oscillating liquid remains in the center of the planet, where the core of this world was destroyed.

Abby stays still, but Maria's angelic blue energy form flies forward through deep space toward it.

–

Moments ago, blocked by the bright radiation of the blast, the only one who could witness the truth was Maria.

She could feel every single bit of matter this shockwave touched.

Every hot, molten particle of Kelfar's core that solidified still replays in her mind while she flies forward toward what's left of it.

The imagery of the world breaking in two, and the feeling that the planet itself was crying in pain yet thanking this mysterious force as it was finally granted relief from the horrific fate it had succumbed to.

Dense black roots from the tower on the other side of the world froze solid once the molten core did too.

This artifact, planted here to take over this system-linked world, is a technology that comes from the highest zone of the Upper Realm.

While it's used for a simple task—to easily claim worlds for the demons and send their kin through trials—it's far more sinister than that. These artifacts mutate the history and system settings granted to a world when it's connected to the source.

Every world where a throne lies is tipping the balance of this mana-based system further in favor of a race that should have never even existed in the first place.

–

The serious implications of what has just happened is unknown to many throughout the galaxy. This is because having the means to destroy an entire world in an instant, especially a world owned by demons; is not common even for the peak of many 1st Class Civilizations. Doing so in such a manner is how a throne can be forcefully deactivated.

It is a device that feeds on the very essence the source granted this world with, and when that connection is severed, the Artifact-Class Soul Weapon known as the throne has no world left to grant a seat for its ruler and carry out its single purpose.

–

The roots connecting the core of this world to the black tower turn gray, then white, then dissolve into nothingness, disguised by the Royal Blue blast.

The enormous black structure, rich with cyan and silver threads, ceases to exist.

All of the stored potential inside is returned to its owner through an invisible and unseeable link.

If the Rising Emperor were here, this sensation and display of an Originator artifact disappearing into dust would feel eerily familiar to when the black trees within Celia's Construct were destroyed by the green serpent in the sky—only when the islands they were planted on were destroyed.

–

Despite these many mysteries unraveling in real time, Maria's gaze is set on the shimmering clear liquid that remains unaffected by the blast.

It is all that is left from the molten core, as it was at its center, yet even now, it remains in place like it has its own center of gravity unaffected by Maria's shockwave. The two frozen halves of Kelfar still float away from each other and begin to fracture into smaller pieces.
