With that, the pieces all fell into place as Luo-Luo understood not only what Lord Husband wanted from her, but why he needed it as well. He’d touched upon it briefly in the aftermath of Meng Sha, his frustrations regarding his Natal Souls’ inability to merge with anyone unwilling to accept it. In essence, Lord Husband could only offer a helping hand, and it was up to the individual to accept it, for the soul was inviolable and even he was helpless to act if someone rejected his efforts. Whether they accepted him out of love, veneration, or even mistaken identity, it mattered not, only that they accepted his Natal Soul and allowed it to merge with their own eternal and inviolable soul. Then and only then could Lord Husband provide any assistance in the form of Heavenly Energy and Insight, but willing recipients were in the minority. Hence his need for Luo-Luo, hoping that she could use her music to not only lift the spirits of the soldiers of Shi Bei, but also convince them to accept Lord Husband’s mystical and miraculous assistance.

A most challenging request, one Luo-Luo had no earthly idea how to set out to accomplish, but as Lord Husband’s Natal Soul merged with her own and the Energy of the Heavens surged through her, a melody sprang forth within her heart and she could hardly wait to play it. Settling down with her zither upon her lap, she ran through her finger exercises to warm up and felt the strain and stress melting away as the Energy of the Heavens eliminated her aches and fatigue while filling her Core to the brim. That’s why she’d stopped playing in the first place, but now she was prepared to perform a symphony unlike any other before, one which she continued to write and revise within her thoughts even as she reached down to pluck the first note into existence.

Oh how her zither sang, its rich, dulcet tones Amplified and Reverberated to ring out over all of Shi Bei, a clear, clarion call to courage and heroism. For a single second, she left the note play out unimpeded so that it would have time to sink into the minds and hearts of these stalwart soldiers of the Empire. Then, the song took off with a cascading riff, one which accelerated and escalated in tempo and pitch, a defiant laugh in the face of overwhelming odds. No longer were they faced with trials and tribulations, but a calamity in truth, one which might well end in death for them all. There was no fear in her melody, no doubt or dread to be found, for this was a song of triumph and glory, but also a reminder of trials and tribulations past. Every Warrior here had overcome the odds to arrive here today, for they were all the Mother’s Champions, blessed by the Heavens Above to become Her soldiers in the war against the Defiled. That war was here now, and it was their duty to stand and fight, but Luo-Luo’s song was here to remind them that they did not stand alone.

The melody took on the aspects of a more familiar tune as Luo-Luo played an adaptation of the second movement of Rise to Glory, except this time, she focused not on her own story, but on Falling Rain’s. This was a man of humble origins who rose to prominence in service to the Empire, and now he was here in service to the Mother Above. There the Uniter stood in all his unholy depravity, having brought the army to its knees with a single compelling command, yet Falling Rain stood tall and responded with open contempt, for not even the Father Himself could bring the Mother’s Chosen Son to his knees. Now, the Father’s foul army of profane miscreations was poised to slaughter the Imperials to the last, and while Falling Rain was fighting with everything he had, he could not win this battle alone.

For no man, legend, or even Divinity stood alone, not here in this battle for the fate of the Empire itself.

These were the emotions Luo-Luo instilled into her song as she improvised a new melody from the foundation of the original, one which was technically inferior. The notes themselves had become little more than an afterthought however, for this was not a melody played on its own, but one supported by the music of the world itself. The clash of steel, cries of pain, shouts of triumph, and whimpers of despair, all this and more came together with the sounds of Luo-Luo’s zither to convey her vision of Falling Rain. Legate. Leader. Hero. Warrior. But above all else, today, he was the man who would lead the Empire to victory against the Enemy.

There was something different about her music today, a quality Luo-Luo only noticed thanks to Lord Husband’s efforts. While his Natal Soul helped her bridge a connection with the Heavens themselves, she noticed that she didn’t need the connection to convey her Will in any way, shape or form. No, the music itself did that, simple notes she plucked into existence with her fingers and nothing else. Any Chi she utilized was merely to make her song audible to all, but she didn’t need an audience to communicate with the Heavens, for music was the language of the soul itself. That’s why the animals so loved to hear her play, even the fearsome Rakky and cowardly Kukky Concealed nearby, who she only now noticed because of how her melody connected her to them in spirit, if not in mind. Pong Pong was here too, hiding in Lord Husband’s hair and emoting a warm impression of appreciation that bordered on affection, all too pleased by her musical contribution and happy to express it. This connection was also how she was able to move the heart of the Emperor himself with her music alone, for within that carefully crafted composition of notes was a letter to the Heavens themselves, written in a universal language understood by all.

It wasn’t just music that held this power, for anything and everything could hold within it the language of the soul itself. The cadence of a thousand soldiers marching to war, or the pitter patter of raindrops falling on a rooftop. The mating song of a common robin searching for a partner to love, or the howling wind rustling through the treetops overhead. Clashing swords and shrieking steel, courageous howls and screams of pain, piteous mewls and fearful chortles, all this and more spoke volumes to Luo-Luo as she took it all in, for she sensed in these sounds an objectionable dissonance, one overlaid atop the myriad voices of the Heavens and keenly felt by all. It wasn’t exactly a sound she could identify, but it was there all the same, a wrongness in her music that was not of her own making, for she traced it back to the Uniter himself as he stood and watched the battle unfold from the skies above Shi Bei.

On a whim, Luo-Luo followed her instincts and strummed out a discordant chord, one aimed not at the Enemy, but at the dissonance itself. The reaction was immediate as her notes cut off abruptly, dissipating into sudden silence without warning or explanation as the Uniter fixed his formidable gaze upon her and stopped her heart inside her chest. A moment stretched into eternity as the pressure built up inside her, and she feared she might well pass out and never wake, only for relief to arrive unbidden leaving Luo-Luo to gasp in sweet relief.

Glancing about to make sense of the madness, she saw no clues as to who might have rescued her, for Lord Husband and his protectors were all busy with the battle and no one of any importance was paying mind to Luo-Luo. No one aside from the animals at least, as well as the fearsome Uniter overhead whose steely gaze was still fixed upon her. Putting this mystery out of mind for now, Luo-Luo summoned what little courage she had left to her and ignored the Enemy mastermind as she went back to playing her zither, but she dared not glance in the Uniter’s direction much less challenge him a second time. Instead, she passed along what she’d learned to Lord Husband through Sending as she played, hoping he would have answers to provide, but he failed to even acknowledge her message much less respond in kind. Hardly unexpected considering he had a battle to oversee, so Luo-Luo focused on her music once again and gave herself over to the melody.

Lord Husband would lead them all to victory, of this, Luo-Luo was certain, for the Mother would not so readily abandon Her Chosen Son.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To defeat the Enemy, you must first know the Enemy.

So read the first line of Huang Shaotian’s Three Hunting Strategies, the baseline for almost everything Akanai knew about battlefield tactics and command. In recent days, Liu Xuande’s Art of War had overtaken the Three Hunting Strategies in popularity, but only because the author still drew breath. Better to praise a living genius than fight against popular opinion for a dead one, because the dead would not thank you for your efforts, while Liu Xuande was not only a brilliant strategist, he was also an Imperial Scion with authority second only to little Rain. That being said, Akanai wholeheartedly believed that in time, the Three Hunting Strategies would reclaim its place as the number one treatise on warfare due to its simplicity.

The Art of War was beloved for exactly the wrong reasons, for it went into great detail regarding cutting edge tactics and stratagems to employ, but while these formations and maneuvers were undoubtedly effective, they were also new and unfamiliar. Given time and practice, commanders would soon learn the ins and outs of the Art of War which meant uncovering how to best counter it, rendering it less effective than it was now. Once these secrets were revealed to all, the Art of War would no longer sparkle so brightly, and the Three Hunting Strategies would shine brightest once again.

As one might expect from the title, there were only three topics covered in the Three hunting Strategies, but the author went into great length regarding how to adapt and improvise each strategy for any and all encounters. It didn’t list out all the possibilities for a commander to memorize, because doing so would have been impossible and unwieldy to boot, as perfect recall was not the same as instant recall. Instead it taught the reader how to think and what factors to consider when commanding soldiers on the battlefield, lessons which every commander should learn forwards and back. It was the difference between listing out the strategies in chess and when to apply them in contrast to teaching you how to play chess at a high level. The first was useful so long as your opponent didn’t know the strategies themselves, while the second allowed the reader to devise their own strategies.

Of course, the Three Hunting Strategies was merely a guidebook, and not everyone had it in them to become an outstanding general, but even the best generals were not infallible. A lesson Akanai learned many a time before, and one she learned again here today, for she had grossly misread her opponent. Little was known of the Uniter, save for the fact that the various Defiled tribes had gathered under his banner to wage war on the Empire. His motives were unknown and his methods far-reaching, for traces of his influence could be seen in all four outer provinces so long as you knew what to look for. Yo Ling in the North, Huanhuzi and the Mataram Clan in the West, the Canston Trading Group in Central, these were but the most notable forces nurtured by the Uniter’s attentions, each one a hidden knife prepared decades or even centuries in advance to help bring down the outer provinces in one fell swoop. Looking back on it now, Akanai was amazed the outer provinces were still standing, for if not for a stroke of luck, the North and Central might well have gone the way of the West, leaving the South to stand alone against the combined might of three provinces. Even more impressive were the Uniter’s actions after his plans fell through at Sanshu, decisively abandoning his efforts in the North and Central to instead regroup and attack from the West, a move which might well have worked out if the Spring and Autumn Consortium hadn’t come across little Rain’s book of ideas and discovered the secret of concrete just in the nick of time.

A most formidable foe, this mysterious Uniter, even without including his accomplishments as an exiled Imperial Scion infamous for his inhumane experiments, one whose name was still used to frighten children into compliance nearly eight-hundred years later.

Knowing all this and more, Akanai had pieced together an image of a brilliant and analytical commander, one with patience aplenty and the ability to coordinate troop movements over hundreds of kilometres. That last part was the most frightening, for commanding a single army was as easy as turning a hand, since you only needed to set the beat for them to march and fight by. Coordinating multiple forces in real time on the battlefield was a completely different beast, because any commander capable of such a feat would undoubtedly use it to his or her advantage in the chaos of the battlefield. Chen Hongji had used this to great effect in the Central Citadel, mounting a daunting defense which ultimately cost the Enemy fifty Defiled lives for every Imperial lost, a number which grew weekly as scholars studied and uncovered more from the reports of that fateful battle. When the Uniter revealed himself here in Shi Bei, Akanai immediately began preparing to counter just such an offensive, expecting an intricate and multi-faceted plan of attack that would push her to the limits and test everything she’d learned in her four-hundred plus years of life, a battle for the ages which historians would refer to when teaching the next generation of heroes and commanders.

