However, when the Uniter finally deigned to act, it was not with the forethought and planning of a cold and calculating genius tactician, but the spontaneous impulse of an angry child with no care for cost or repercussions. Rather than spread his forces out to encircle Shi Bei, he sent them at the front wall in a singular mass without a care in the world for tactics or stratagems. Immediately, she knew she’d misread her opponent, because while the Uniter was a masterful schemer, it would appear he was not fond of thinking on his feet, a quality he shared with little Rain. Given enough time and information, Rain and the Uniter both were capable of devising the most intricate of plans that left little to no room for reprisal, but in the heat of the moment, they resorted to more simple solutions. While all things were meaningless before overwhelming strength, Akanai was much aggrieved to know that her defeat would be so unsightly to behold. To make matters worse, she was unable to make it to Mi-Mi and Li-Li’s side to get them away to safety, because she never expected her foe to waste his Half-Demons in so haphazard a manner and leave her no room to respond.

All she could do now was command her forces to counter-attack and sell her life dearly as a near-endless wave of Half-Demons fell upon her like starving scavengers. She was no easy meal however, as the initial wave discovered first-hand, her ax-lance darting out to skewer three Half-Demons in quick succession. A flick of her wrist and effort of Honing cleared their corpses from her weapon, but even this smallest of openings almost cost her dearly as the second wave surged into the gap left behind by the first. Unfortunately for them, Akanai’s husband was in fine form today as his staff swept them aside, breaking chitin and bones with equal ease as he set upon them with a fury unleashed after five decades of forebearance. Oh what a sight he was to behold as his ponderous form danced about with grace and agility unmatched, falling into familiar patterns as man and wife fought side by side on the battlefield once more.

All who dared approach were slaughtered without mercy, yet even killing multiple Half-Demons with every swing of their weapons was not enough to stem the tide of Defiled. The Enemy was determined to drown them in a sea of corpses, and Akanai was most displeased to admit that victory was too far out of reach. The Enemy forces would overrun them in a matter of minutes, if not seconds, and their fate would soon be sealed, a fate she might well succumb to first as Mao Jianghong endured the full force of her thrust without flinching and responded with a chilling lance of ice aimed directly at her midsection.

But where there is life, there is hope. Was that not what she told little Rain all those years ago, when he was but a spindly little child out on his first foray to the city? There was still life in Akanai yet, life in her husband and children as well, all of whom were in fine fighting form as they gave their all to battle. Baatar would never disappoint her, the son she acknowledged far too late but loved all the same. The traitor exile Ankhbayar held the upper hand in their exchange, his powerful physique and sturdy defenses turning every trade into a favourable one as he sought to overwhelm Baatar with sheer volume of attacks. In response, Akanai’s son and Disciple unleashed the Bloody-Fanged Wolf within, a persona of determined brutality and violence that even she would hesitate to engage in close combat against. This was why so many thought him Defiled, for they saw him at his worst and believed him unhinged, but this was a side of Baatar he would only ever show his enemies. You could scour the entire Empire from top to bottom and find no one more loyal and steadfast than he, which was why Akanai had gone to such great lengths to shelter him under her wing. The pup was dangerous yes, but never without reason, and only ever to those who’d wronged him. So long as the People accepted him, she believed he would one day become its most steadfast protector, a staunch guardian and worthy successor for her to pass her mantle onto.

Today, he proved her vision right as he laughed in the face of death and fought with his life on the line to defend the Empire to his last, a Hero and Living Legend she could not be more proud of.

Across the way was little Mila and Li-Li, and Akanai counted herself blessed to have two daughters who loved one another so. They were united even now in the face of overwhelming odds, guarding each other’s flanks rather than trying to make their way to safety because they knew their best chance was to stand and fight. It was all too easy to separate in the press of the crowd, making it more difficult for any guardians to find and extract them, so Mila and Li-Li stood side by side and faced down their fearsome foes without blinking. One stoic and undaunted, the other resigned yet unafraid, Akanai’s beloved daughters readied to sell their lives dearly, right up until the Energy of the Heavens erupted all around them and little Mila unleashed an invisible attack that incinerated everyone around her.

And nullified Mao Jianghong’s icy spear just as its tip pierced through the surface of Akanai’s abdomen.

A split second later and she would have been mortally wounded, but little Mila had done more than just save her mother. The bright-eyed, fiery-haired girl also blinded Mao Jianghong, burning his eyes inside their sockets until they burst like overcooked eggs, and Akanai was never one to waste a chance. Despite their close proximity, she utilized the Void-Shrinking Strike to appear before him and thrust with all her might, but for the second time, her ax-lance failed to pierce her foe’s defenses and glanced harmlessly off the traitor Guard Captain’s sapphire armour.

Twice now, her ax-lance had failed to find purchase against Jianghong’s armour, but twice was enough for Akanai to uncover the mechanism behind his superlative defense. It wasn’t the blue, gem-like armour itself, nor was it any act of Deflection or Domain Plating preventing her from landing a proper thrust. No, this was the work of Jianghong’s Blessing of Ice, one which minimized the friction of his armour and treated her Honed ax-lance like skates over a frozen pond. A soft defence as it were, denying her weapon any ability to find purchase against his armour and thereby causing the majority of its force to be directed away. It would be the same with any piercing or slashing attack, and she didn’t dare dream of grappling with Jianghong, for he radiated an icy cold which sapped away even the heat of the desert sun and warped the air around him as it numbed her limbs to the bone.

But no defense was impervious, and Akanai’s centuries of experience allowed her to instantly pinpoint Jianghong’s weakness. Without need for words or gestures, she simply moved away from the traitor Guard Captain as he restored his sight and sent her husband out to face him instead, while she took up the job of clearing the battlements with her ax-lance. There were rumours aplenty of how she was inferior to the Colonel Generals due to her inability to stand and fight, as every engagement she’d taken part in had seen her utilizing hit and run tactics. It wasn’t that she couldn’t fight toe to toe with her enemies, though that proved true in her clash against Bai Qi, but even against a lesser foe, the Ground Shrinking Strike was simply too effective not to use. Why draw out a fight if she could kill her foe in a single pass instead? This didn’t mean she lacked the ability to brawl with the best of them, but she left such matters to her rough and tumble husband in the past, or the pup in recent times so he could gain experience and one day stand on his own.

And so few remembered the Akanai of old, who first studied the Forms with a lumber axe in hand and only fell in love with the spear after joining the army, which was why her dear husband had crafted her an ax-lance as her first and only Spiritual Weapon.

Holding the polearm in one hand, she delivered an effortless swing more suitable for prodding sheep than slaughtering Defiled, yet six Half-Demons fell in the first pass, and five more on the return swing. Her husband put the full weight of his body into each and every attack, but Akanai lacked his imposing physique and had to rely on the sharpness of the blade instead. A lesson first learned chopping firewood for Old Sumila, and one she put to good use on the battlefield as her foes came apart at a touch of her blade and died as quickly as they arrived so that her husband could fight his duel unimpeded.

And what a duel it was as he hammered his staff against Jianghong’s armour and battered him about like a rag doll, her husband’s unbridled ferocity driving him to astonishing speeds unexpected from a man of his bearing. They called little Vichear the Sword Dancer, but even his graceful movements were no match for Husolt as he danced about the battlements and bashed the traitor Guard Captain to and fro. A wise man would have fled by now, but Jianghong was trapped here the same as Akanai and Husolt both, for the Enemy Half-Demons came in thick and fast with a reckless disregard for safety, both their own and that of their allies.

Despite the dire circumstances before them, Akanai found time enough to check on her children in the chaos of battle, for she was a mother first, wife second, and a Commander of soldiers third. The pup was still holding his own, but little Mila had fallen to her knees, though thankfully there was no sign of injury to be seen. The girl’s Chi was spent it would seem, unleashed in a singular burst when she lost control, but little Li-Li had stepped up to shoulder the Heavens in her place. Such superlative footwork and Movements were rarely seen even in Peak Experts, and Li-Li moved with the grace and confidence of a Warrior with ten times her experience, her hands and feet guided by Insight as Luo-Luo’s music sprung into existence. Immediately, Akanai was put in mind of the boy, who stood unConcealed atop the battlements looking ready to topple over in the breeze, but upon closer inspection, she realized there were forces in play which she could barely even perceive, much less recognize at first glance.

Natal Souls. The boy had unleashed them once more in hopes of turning the tides of war, and it was a testament to how dire the circumstances truly were that all their hopes hinged upon his success. There were simply too many Half-Demons for the forces of Shi Bei to resist, because even if she could cut them down like wild grass, her allies were unable to do the same and would soon fall to the Enemy’s blades. No soldier was an island, no matter how strong they might be, and without support, Akanai and her husband both would eventually be brought down through sheer weight of numbers.

But now, little Rain was giving it his all to match what the Uniter had done with his Defiled, taking Captain-level Talents like little Li-Li and turning them into Peak Experts with help from the Heavens Above.

Think what such help could do to a Warrior of her skill. The statement echoed inside Akanai’s mind and she recognized it as not of her own devising, but a thought inspired by Luo-Luo’s music. The boy had done so much for the Empire, created so many miracles that even Akanai had to admit that Central might well have been lost if not for his efforts. She still didn’t agree with most of his decisions, but she acknowledged his achievements all the same, even if she wholeheartedly believed that he could have done better and relied far too much on luck. Then again, who was to say she was right and he was wrong? While his decisions often defied logic, that also made little Rain’s actions nigh impossible to predict, so perhaps it was time to admit that adhering to the Three Hunting Strategies was not always the right decision for each and every scenario under Heaven. Huang Shaotian was merely a mortal after all, not an infallible god of tactical acumen, so who was to say he had all the right answers, especially after so many years had passed?

The boy had done good work in his life, come far on his own merits, so perhaps it was time to look past his youthful inexperience and trust him to see them through calamity once again.

The Energy of the Heavens converged around Akanai like a too-tight embrace from her adoring husband, and she welcomed it with open arms. She’d heard tales of how it felt to merge with the boy’s Natal Soul, but words failed to do the experience any justice. Even the allure of Insight revealing new Truths she’d been denied too long was unable to hold her full attention as she devoted part of her focus to unravelling the wealth of emotions contained within the boy’s Natal Soul. Little Rain had so much love and gratitude for her, and was oh so eager for approval, hungry for it in the way a starving man hungers for a mouthful of rice. This couldn’t be hidden from her, not with his soul bared as it was, and it pained her to remember all the times she’d bitten back her compliments for fear of giving the boy a big head. She never knew how much he looked down upon himself, how wretched and pathetic he appeared in his own eyes, and if she had known, she would have lifted him into her embrace and showered him with praise every day instead of beating him down every chance she had.

