When he needed someone to build him up, she had taken every opportunity to take apart his pride and confidence. A most grievous mistake, for though he was similar to the pup on the surface, little Rain was a wholly different creature both inside and out. While proud and arrogant to the extreme, the boy’s pride stemmed not from himself, but from another source, a simple truth which Akanai had been too blind to see. The boy’s pride came from his perspective of things, because he dared to dream of a better world and held reality to those same high standards. Rather than accept things the way they were, he decided normal was not good enough and expected the world to change for the better. A kindred spirit to Old Sumila, who never begged or demanded for any help, and instead set out to feed and house orphans simply because she believed it was the right thing to do. Little Rain was the same way, except unlike Old Sumila, he looked down on others for not doing their part and made sure everyone knew it too.

That was arrogance at its finest, believing his vision above all others, a mindset made clear as Akanai merged with his Natal Soul. This arrogance made him seem overly confident, but it was confidence in his vision, rather than in himself, and she’d done more harm than good with her lessons in humility. Despite having achieved so much, little Rain still believed himself inadequate and incapable, which was why he was so delighted to have secured her help in these dark times, when in truth he was the one helping her. Oh what a fool she’d been to ruin so promising a seedling, for in the throes of Insight, she realized just how differently things could have turned out if little Rain had confidence enough to step forward and shoulder the Heavens himself. A mistake which could be rectified with time and love aplenty, but she feared she might not ever have the chance to make amends as the Energy of the Heavens surged up from within and her Path revealed itself before her. It was her fault little Rain was too fearful to act himself, so Akanai would bear the burden of failure herself and shoulder the Heavens in his place.

No matter the cost, a thought she kept firmly in mind as she took her next step, one made with the pride and confidence of a Warrior born.

Zhenni's Music

Chapter Meme
