He was surprised in a happy way. They were taking care of the rats. Most of them were even neutered. This was a maintained resource, and seeing the rats run to the caretakers inside the space, looking for treats and to play, did more for Ezekiel’s estimation of Star Song than anything else he had seen in the last few days. This was especially true after hearing the warnings of the Rat Master.

The Rat Master was a stern older man with a big white beard and long hair, named Toix, who said, “You will be given a rat that is already sedated, along with enough potion to keep him or her under for an hour, as well as an emergency healing potion. I will be monitoring your first experiment to ensure that you know what you’re doing, but past that, Loremaster Xue has already vouched for you, so next time you can come on your own and get what you need. We know that occasionally the rats die due to student failure, but if you don’t do everything you can to ensure that doesn’t happen, then I will do what is necessary to ban you from this resource.” Toix said, “Happy, healthy rats are easier to work with than caged, stressed animals, and you will ensure that they stay happy and as healthy as you can make them.” He glanced at Xue, and a darkness passed over his face, then he looked to Ezekiel, and said, “We’re losing a lot more rats than usual. Do ensure that you are not abusive to our Healing Magic helpers.”

“I would never want to harm for the purpose of harming, Master Toix,” Ezekiel said.

Toix narrowed his eyes at Ezekiel, but said nothing. He led them to a smaller room on the side. In moments, a door opened between the main rat room and this side room. A young woman brought out a sleeping rat on a tray with the rat in the main box and two small potions in two slots of the tray. She set the specimen down on a table in front of Toix.

He was a beautiful specimen of white and gold fur, at twenty centimeters long, with the tail twice again that length. He was on his back, belly up, with the back half of his body sitting in a layer of blue potion. The tray was designed to hold the rat’s head out of the potion, but to keep him partially submerged in it at the same time.

Toix said, “Blue is for sleep and numbing. Keep the rat in a layer of potion that deep, and he won’t wake up, or feel a thing. Red is for healing, in case you make a mistake. If you make a horrific mistake, grab one of the rat keepers on duty, and they’ll be able to heal your mistake.” He asked, “Do you need tools?”

“No,” Ezekiel said, psyching himself up for what he was about to do.

“Fine.” Toix said, “Don’t harm too deeply. Go ahead. I’m watching.”

With his lightform active, Ezekiel…

Got to it.

A little slice against the abdomen….

… Nothing? Okay. A little deeper. Hmm. Hard skin. Slice a little strong—

Toix said, “I appreciate the restraint, but a sharper knife causes less pain than a dull one, and these rats all have a great deal more Health and Vitality than normal rats.”

… Ezekiel honed his lightform to a sunbeam edge.

Red spilled out from a shallow, half-centimeter deep wound. Ezekiel gasped as he breathed in, and then he focused. He applied [Healing Word] to the wound. Nothing. Ah. He forgot to shape the spell first.

… And he forgot to hold the wound together.

Right.

White light held skin and the barest bit of muscle together, while keeping hair out of the wound. Magenta [Healing Word] sunk into the sleeping, numbed rat, directly shaped to the sliver of flesh that had been parted.

Something shifted inside the wound as magenta light soaked in. Cells regrew. The rat healed. A tiny scar appeared, and Ezekiel let go of the holding light, releasing the wound. Then he went back in with his light and checked. Yes? The wound was gone? Okay? Was it actually gone, though? It was.

Ezekiel stepped back. “Is that… It?”

Toix bent down, inspecting. Xue held back; a small smile on his face. Toix cast a [Cleanse] upon the wound, only, and half of the scar came undone. Ah. Cancers.

Ezekiel paled.

Toix said, “Small cancers are hard to see. Keep going until that doesn’t happen. Don’t [Cleanse] the whole rat, either; just the wound you cause. The potion we use to keep them asleep and numbed is technically a poison, and every time you [Cleanse], some of the potion vanishes from the rat and more soaks into his skin, keeping the rat under and dropping the level of potion in the tray.” He pointed at the blue liquid at the bottom of the tray, that the rat rested in. “Observe how the level has dropped, slightly.” He picked up the blue bottle, and poured a little into the tray. “Keep it at about that level. There’s a mark. Keep it there.”

Ezekiel had already seen all of that, but he said, “I see. Thank you for your instruction.”

Toix stepped back.

Ezekiel stepped and looked down at the rat.

With magenta [Healing Word]s in his lightform, he got to work.

Thirty minutes later, there were still mistakes. Cancers still bloomed. He caused a dozen different small stomach wounds, but each one held the same problem; they wouldn’t heal correctly. Ezekiel added blue potion to the rat’s bath, keeping it under, but he could tell the rat was having problems. It breathed harder, for one. Its little chest went up and down hard whenever Ezekiel inflicted a wound, or tried to heal it.

Ezekiel was pretty sure his problem was his magenta mana altering.

Ezekiel stepped away from the rat, saying, “Please assist in the final healing, Master Toix. I cannot seem to get it right. I need to study more before I come back here.”

Toix had been silently staring and brooding as he watched Ezekiel injure his rat, but at Ezekiel’s declaration, he raised his head, and then nodded, approvingly. He said, “I doubt you need to study, for I’ve seen disciples with much less skill enter these halls and come out as master Healers. You only need more practice. Come back some other time and we’ll get you a new rat.” He reached over and tapped the rat twice; the first spell healed all of the rat’s wounds, and the second returned a brilliant shine to the rat’s coat and body. He picked up the tray and said, “This one can get some pampering and rest before he’s released back in the main room.”

Ezekiel bowed, saying, “Thank you, Rat Master Toix.”

Toix waved him off, and took the tray with the rat into another room.

- - - -

As they walked through the hallway, side by side, back to Xue’s office, Ezekiel said, “That was enlightening. Is that how you learned your specialty?”

Xue wore heavy black and red robes, while Ezekiel wore a similar style in magenta and white. The disciples around them all wore greys, while professors and Elders wore other styles. It was rather easy to tell who was higher class than everyone else.

Xue said, “Somewhat. I was a similar special case as yourself. I awoke my aura at a young age, and thus the normal Healing Quests were unnecessary. But let us continue this conversation back in my office.”

There were a few people in the hallway eyeing them, openly, and a few trying not to eye them, so Ezekiel went along with Xue’s request. Xue was acting a little squirrelly, though. It was an odd look on the man.

A minute later, they were back in Xue’s office, and sitting on the couch where they had taken tea.

“You were doing well with the rat. You simply need to do more, to get a proper feel for it.” Xue asked, “But you talked of needing to study more?”

“A lie.” Ezekiel said, “I know the problem. If I am allowed access to the rats on my own, I will likely overcome that problem.”

Xue said, “Your current value to Star Song is inestimable and there is little chance that you are going to abuse the rats, therefore you will have access to the Rat Room whenever you wish. Rat Master Toix is not happy with our current rate of rat consumption for the chelation experimentation, but the lives of people are worth more than a million rats, and this truth includes whatever gains you will reap on your own.” He added, “Give me a time, and I can make it happen.”

“Thank you. Then… I would like some time in the Rat Room, after our session is over.”

Xue nodded. “It will be done.”

Ezekiel asked, “As for injuring and healing myself… I think I am ready for that, but I am loathe to drop my defenses. Do you have any insight into solving this problem?”

“Yes.” Xue said, “An antirhine-core knife. It won’t break your [Personal Ward], but it will weaken it and also open a hole in your defense, allowing you to cut yourself without dropping your defenses. I have extra, if you wish.”

Ezekiel smiled, saying, “I would like that. I accept. Thank you.”

Xue lifted a hand toward the set of drawers under the large mirror on the wall. A small one near the bottom opened, revealing a thick-walled glass jar filled with clear liquid and a dozen stiletto knives, each of them black and weighty. Ezekiel had noticed them before now, due to their partial absence in his mana sense, but he did not think they would actually be used for cutting oneself without breaking a [Personal Ward]. Upon thinking about it for more than the barest second, though, of course such knives would be useful for someone who needed to break their skin all the time to work with Blood Magic.

But from what they looked like to his mana sense, Ezekiel had considered that the knives were actually weapons, and not tools. They looked rather specifically breakable; as though they could be stabbed into a person and then broken off, leaving behind an antimagical wound.

They probably could do that, too.

The whole jar of knives came floating out, and onto the table between them.

Xue reached forward, uncapping the jar, releasing the scent of alcohol into the air. He plucked out a knife with his hands and set it in front of Ezekiel, saying, “A small gift. I haven’t needed to use one in a long while, but they have all sorts of uses.”

Sure they did.

The center of the knife blade was anti-magic, but the grip was not. Ezekiel picked the knife up by the grip and tested its weight. They were heavy, but it would be child’s play to pick them up the non-lead end with [Telekinesis] and swing them around, or to use them in combat. He set the knife down in front of him.

Ezekiel said, “Thank you.”

“I have more if you lose that one.” Xue said, “They’re not overly expensive or difficult to make, but they are rather cumbersome.” He picked up one of the other blades out of the jar, sending scatters of alcohol onto the table. He exposed his opposing forearm, saying, “They’re sharp, though.”

He sliced through his forearm. Ezekiel’s eyes went wide as vibrant red blood gushed out of the laceration like Xue had opened up the neck of a suspended cow, and not his own comparatively puny arm. In a pair of beating seconds, a red orb the size of a basketball hung above the table and Xue’s arm stopped bleeding. He had healed the wound shut with the barest bit of magic.

The red orb hung there for a moment.

Xue gave Ezekiel a questioning look.

Ezekiel returned his own questioning look.

A tension passed, unremarked by Ezekiel.

Xue turned the orb to broken black dust that swirled away into the mana. A quick [Cleanse] from the Blood Mage cleaned up the blackened blood that was real.

Xue said, “There is some discomfort, but pain isn’t a real problem once you can heal away that pain the moment after it happens. You will end up with many scars while you are learning, but they’re only flesh wounds, and soon enough you will be able to remove those scars yourself.” He said, “But for now, if you will permit, I wish to go back to what you were saying earlier, about ‘you know what your problem is’ with healing the rats.” He asked, “Do you wish to enact a [Privacy Ward] for this conversation? Because I do not think the problem you think you have is the actual problem.”

Ezekiel considered, then cast a [Sealed Privacy Ward] into the room. The spell was disrupted around the small knives, but not enough to prevent the casting, or to break the spell. Ezekiel was sure that some duration was gone, but that might have been the full extent of the disruption. He clipped Paul and Tiffany in the spell, but they were at the very far edge of it.

Erick asked, “It’s not the magenta color altering?”

Xue said, “I am sure that is a small part of it, but we have many disciples in Star Song who try to get away from their base mana color, and they can learn Healing Magic almost as well as any other.” He continued, “No; I think the problem you have is nuanced in a different way. I would not presume to speak of what an Archmage might know, but I do know a fair bit about this school of magic; Do you know of Elemental Healing?”

Erick said, “Yes. Elemental Healing is the pure Element that creates and reinforces life. It is closely linked to Elemental Blood, and also Elemental Mercy.”

“Do you know of Healing Magic, as it relates to Elemental Healing?”

“… I read some, but I am sure I am wrong. Please start at the top.”

Xue nodded, then said, “This particular story starts long, long ago, back in the Old Cosmology. It is a short story, but it is vital to understanding how Elemental Healing and Healing Magic are different.

“Elemental Healing brings forth raw life from the combination of Water and Light, but people back then were combinations of all the Elements. Back then, to expose a person to raw Healing was to turn them into abominations. Even today, the same result holds true, though most of those exposures are easily caught by [Cleanse] and ended before they have a chance to take a person over from the inside out, breaking down the natural barriers to core formation and thus turning a person into a monster of the worst kind.

