The instructor relaxed visibly. “Then, after that, I think we will need a day without you, to compile the first ideas. We can begin testing them the day after?” He hesitated. “I can assure you, Mistress Tala, I will be overseeing the entire process, along with several other experts, and we will have a truly spectacular result.”

She smiled. “That sounds wonderful. Thank you.”

Tala waved to the group as she departed. Rane walked out with her.

“Hey.”

She glanced his way. “Hi.”

“Are you still mad?”

She frowned. Mad? Oh! Right… She sighed. “No, Master Rane. It isn’t worth the effort.”

He grunted at that. “Well…I’m glad.”

She shrugged.

“So…what are you up to today?”

“I’ve got a lot going on, today.”

“We could grab lunch? You’re looking a little pale…” He shook his head. “Sorry, that’s not really relevant.”

I guess he noticed my missing iron salve. That was fine, she wasn’t trying to hide the fact. She shook her head, in response. “I really don’t have time.”

He seemed to deflate a bit.

With effort, she kept from either sighing or rolling her eyes. “I’ll have more time tomorrow, but just a bit.”

He perked up. “Lunch, then?”

She quirked a smile. “After whatever crazy assessments they come up with? I’ll probably need it.”

“It’s a plan, then.” He smiled.

“Sounds good.” She glanced ahead, to the archway back out onto the training grounds. “I really do have to go, but thank you for asking.”

He smiled and waved her off. “See you, tomorrow.”

* * *

Ok, Tala. Avoiding it won’t help. Let’s get this over with.

Tala held herself stiffly upright, as she walked into the Caravanner’s Guildhall, marching straight through to one of the main desks near the back of the atrium.

“Good morning, Mistress. How can I assist you, today?” The young man, sitting behind the desk, smiled warmly at her.

“I’m Mistress Tala. I was informed I needed to meet with a senior guild official?” Come on, come on. This is not what I want to do… No. She needed to be here. This had to be dealt with.

“Mistress Tala…” He looked through a large appointment book on the desk in front of him. He turned the page, beginning to frown. “Mistress Tala… I’m sorry, I’m not seeing you in the collated calendar. Who is your appointment scheduled with and when did you schedule your appointment for?”

Tala hesitated, then felt herself coloring. “Oh… I didn’t know I needed to schedule it. I was simply told one was needed.” Whenever I was ordered to attend a disciplinary meeting, I had to go right away, and I was seen right away… This, apparently, was different. I have to schedule my own session to be reprimanded. She almost snorted a laugh. I guess, I should have expected that.

The young man checked a few more pages, then looked up, apologetically. “It doesn’t seem to be here, and no Senior Official is available, today. Who were you supposed to meet with, again? Perhaps, I can get you in tomorrow.”

Tala opened her mouth to answer, then closed it. I have no idea.

The young man seemed to understand. “I see. That’s more than fine.” He nodded, consolingly. “I’d recommend reaching out to your Guild handler, or point of contact, and ask them to schedule the required meeting.”

Tala nodded, feeling incredibly embarrassed. “I’ll… I’ll do that. Thank you.”

“Happy to assist, Mistress. I wish I could have done more. You have a good day.”

* * *

Ten minutes later, Tala had shaken off her embarrassment and was again walking the streets of Bandfast, this time heading towards the Constructionists Guild. As she was walking, she realized that the pace of her reading was much faster than expected. She could now read much faster than even on the recent caravan trip.

I guess the enhancements made my movements easier, freeing up more of my mind to focus on reading? It was as good a reason as any other she could think of.

The books were a masterwork in-and-of-themselves, at least the one she was currently referencing was. It contained detailed schematics of each organ or organ system as they were discussed, coupled with cleverly rendered schema, illustrating their three-dimensional nature, along with how they would accomplish what they did. It was, unsurprisingly, incredibly detailed on the how. If Tala didn’t understand what, and how, the magic was supposed to work, it wouldn’t function. In the worst case, it could malfunction and destroy the parts of her body inscribed.

I didn’t really expect to delve back into anatomy and physiology so deeply, so soon…

She’d always preferred physics, hence the nature of her offensive spell-forms, but the work Holly would be doing now was incredibly dependent on Tala’s second favorite subject, just as she’d suspected it would.

I’m just glad that I already had specific interest and knowledge in the muscular-skeletal system, along with the vascular, or I’d have to have done a bunch of research before even yesterday’s inscribings…

She sighed. It was fascinating, and Holly had gone out of her way to make the writing engaging, but it was still a dense subject matter.

How did she even have time for this?

Tala supposed that the general overviews would be common to anyone getting any given organ inscribed, so those would just have to be copied over.

And it’s not like I’m the first person to have my organs enhanced. This is probably just an amalgamation of those techniques, slightly modified for my particular make-up.

She hesitated, even stopping in the middle of a stride. Wait… how did she know the exact dimensions of all my organs to make properly shaped spell-forms… She placed a hand on the back of her neck.

How much is this script analyzing and recording?

She thought back. Holly said that it would monitor everything about me… She groaned. Well, I did understand what it would do…I suppose I just didn’t assume it would be literal…

She sighed, continuing on her way and returning most of her attention to the current portion of this book.

Tala finished the first subject in her list-to-review by the time she reached the Constructionist Guild’s local office. Closing the book with a satisfying thunk, she tucked it into Kit and looked up at the beautifully designed façade. Rust me, they really didn’t spare on the expense of this place.

While highly detailed, the elements were tastefully interwoven to give an overall inviting, if humbling, atmosphere. Tala smiled as she walked to the large front doors.

There weren’t a lot of other patrons at the moment, but that made some sense. This guild didn’t have as much to do as the Caravanners. Though…are the Wainwrights a subsidiary? That made sense, and most guilds worked in that way. Guilds of guilds…ah, society. How wonderful your complications.

She found herself grinning.

As she stepped across the threshold, she felt a tingle in her keystone, indicating magic had been directed her way, and a wave of power pulsed out from behind her. There was no specific spell-form to it, but it had the overpowering sense of an infrared aura. Did the door just scan me and announce my classification?

An attendant appeared, entering from the side. “Mistress, how can we serve you today?” His eyes glanced to Terry, and there was definite curiosity, but he didn’t comment beyond his initial question.

Tala pulled out the sheet that Lyn had written up for her. “Hello, yes. I was sent here by Mistress Lyn of the Caravanner’s Guild. She said I should ask for Master Boma?”

The attendant paused, power rippling over his face as he looked at her. “I apologize Mistress, but Master Boma usually does not attend to the needs of those below Archon…” He was clearly torn. “Mistress Lyn sent you, you say?”

Tala nodded.

“Very well, let me check with him, and see if that name changes anything for him.”

“Thank you.”

“You may find it more comfortable to wait in there.” He pointed off to one side. “There is a waiting area through that archway, and you’ll find refreshments available, while you wait.”

With a smile and slight bow, the man turned and went back the way he had come.

“Well, Terry, let’s see what refreshments they have for us.”
