“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Perhaps not as much as that, but you are correct that the value is significant. You may repay me by continuing to be who you are.” He turned, kneeling to sift through the remaining pieces. Ameliah made a sudden movement behind him, and he tensed involuntarily.

It had long since occurred to him that with the armor, the bow, and the skills to back them up, she would be stronger than he was. Not yet, perhaps, but soon enough as she continued to train. If she turned against him, he would have no way to stop her. The risk that he was wrong about her was so low that it was barely worth mentioning, but he felt the threat hanging over him all the same. He couldn’t help it. Not with her standing right behind him and out of his sight.

It was perhaps one of the harder things he’d ever done, but he forced himself to relax.

No betrayal came, of course. No death.

Tallheart stifled a sigh. Lilly would have cursed at him, seeing him exposing the back of his neck to anyone, let alone a human with the power to harm him. Lilly had mellowed slightly over the years, but she had never learned to trust. In her fiery youth, she might even have killed him for making equipment for Ameliah and Rain in the first place. It was a betrayal of their cause, or so she would have believed. Of course, back then, when the deaths of their families had been fresh and raw, he would have believed the same.

“What is it, Tallheart?” Ameliah asked, oblivious to his dark thoughts, but not to his hesitation.

“Nothing,” he lied, selecting the next piece of armor and standing to face her, carefully hiding his expression. “I merely thought of a more practical way for you to repay me.”

“Name it,” Ameliah said. “Seriously. I owe you.”

Tallheart grunted. “Whenever Rain asks me a question, you will create a distraction.”

Ameliah’s eyebrows shot up, then she covered her mouth, completely failing to contain the laugh that burst through her fingers. “That’s all?” she managed.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, nodding seriously.

“That’s no repayment. I’d do that for free. Wait, do you mean, like, any question? As in, ‘Hey Tallheart, what do you want for lunch?’ or…”

“Any question,” Tallheart confirmed, allowing himself to smile. Some wounds could never be healed, but having friends helped. These humans were his, no matter what Lilly would have thought.

Ameliah smirked at him conspiratorially. “Deal.” She looked over at Rain, and her smile slowly faded. She sighed deeply, then, running a hand through her hair. “You really think he’ll be okay?”

“He will be fine,” Tallheart said, his voice incomparably steady in contrast to his thoughts.

“How can you be so certain?” Ameliah asked softly, looking back at him.

Tallheart didn’t reply, shaking his head slowly. Because I need him to be.
