Rain held fast to the dragon-headed prow of the longship as it crashed through the tumultuous waves. The smell of salt was buried beneath that of terror, the crew behind him hauling at the oars to the beat of the drum. Rain, however, felt no fear, cackling maniacally as the icy spray tried to tear him from his perch. “Come on, you cowards! Forward!”

He pointed with his drinking horn, his knees bending to absorb the impact as the ship broke through yet another enormous wave. Their speed was increasing now, driven by the rowers and the growing current. He laughed, thumping his bare chest with the horn, the smell of beer briefly overpowering that of salt as it sloshed over him. He took a deep drink, then cast the horn away and took his other hand from the dragon head to raise both fists to the sky.

“Captain!” Tarny screamed from behind him, his voice filled with fear. “The edge! We need to turn back!”

“Ha!” Rain barked out a laugh at the joke, the wind whipping at his wild hair. The ship crested one last, enormous wave, then began rushing down the other side. There were no waves beyond it, only falling water. He pointed forward, up to the sky. “Goooo!”

The ship broke free of the waves as its momentum carried it across the rim of the world. The clouds broke, and sunlight made a rainbow of the salty spray as they began to fall.

“Captain!” someone else shouted. It might have been Ameliah.

Rain’s stomach clenched as the ship began to tumble, and then he saw the rocks. “No!” he gasped, his eyes widening. “This isn’t the way it is supposed to be! We were supposed to soar!”

The jagged spikes of rock below grew larger and larger, the speed of their fall increasing. Fear wormed its way into his heart, then, and he covered his face with his arms, just before the brutal, splintering impact.

Rain lurched up from his pillow, gasping and clutching at his chest. Disorientation washed over him. His body felt…wrong. His fingers… His fingers were… He looked down, seeing a white arm that ended in a stump. An arm that was not his own.

Rain lurched up from his pillow, gasping and clutching at his chest. There was a clang as his armored palm smacked into his breastplate. Rapidly, he became aware of the flickering light of a fire and the acrid smell of burning vegetation. Before he could look around, something slammed into his shoulder, hard enough that he had to brace himself against the ground with an arm or fall over. He looked down, spotting a green, fist-sized object rolling away from him. A sasu.

“Don’t do that,” Ameliah said. “You scared me halfway to the hells.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “You missed his head.”

“I wasn’t aiming for his head,” Ameliah replied.

Tallheart grunted. “So you say.”

Rain looked up to see his friends staring at him, seated across from him around the fire. There was a Ranks board on a log between them, and it looked like they were in the middle of a game. Ameliah had her helmet off, her blond hair appearing reddish in the firelight. “Bad dream?” she asked, looking back at the board.

“What…” Rain said dumbly, raising a hand to his shoulder. Who throws a dire lime? He flicked on his HUD, seeing that it was three in the morning.

He sighed, letting his arm fall. “It felt so real.”

Ameliah laughed, taking one of Tallheart’s pieces with her own. “Well, you are certainly a dreamer. It makes sense that you’re good at it.”

Tallheart retaliated without hesitation, sliding a piece clear across the board and deep into Ameliah’s territory. “Outranked.”

“What?” Ameliah said, looking up at him, then back at the piece. Moments later, she cursed. “Damn you!”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “It is my victory, and thus, your watch until the dawn.” He looked over to Rain, the firelight glinting in his pale gray eyes. “Thank you. If you had not distracted her, she would have seen the trap.”

Rain blinked. “Happy to help.” He looked down at his hands, struggling to remember. He’d been working on the airship in his soul, but then he’d stopped to rest for a minute, and then… “Shit.”

“What?” Ameliah asked, busy collecting her pieces.

Rain shook his head. “I fell asleep.”

“Yes, we’ve been over that,” Ameliah said.

Rain blinked, then held up a hand. “No, inside my soul. I fell asleep when I was inside my soul.”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow at him. “Didn’t you say that could be dangerous?” Her smile faded, and her voice became more serious. “Why would you take the risk?”

“I…didn’t mean to,” Rain said with a sigh. “I shouldn’t have made that sofa,” he muttered.

Ameliah laughed. “Well, it looks like it turned out okay, so—“ Suddenly, she stopped speaking, moving faster than Rain could follow. There was the thrum of a bowstring, and he felt the wind of the arrow as it rushed past his cheek.

Your party has defeated [Scarlet Fatbird], Level 8

Your Contribution: <1%

3 Experience Earned

“Shit,” he swore. Detection fired, and three signals appeared in his mind, less than ten meters away. Immediately, he switched to Radiance, not only to see what he was up against, but also to strike at it at the same time.

In an instant, the spell spread to its full range. The entire area within twelve meters was bathed in the light of day, as if someone had switched the sun on like a spotlight. Not all of the light came from Rain, though a good portion of it did, rolling off his armor in golden waves. Radiance also amplified light that was already there. The campfire blazed like a star, as did everything even remotely shiny in the clearing—reflections of reflections of reflections, building upon each other as they were amplified by the magic. The pile of iron ingots near Tallheart’s anvil was painful to look at, but it was nothing compared to the fire, which in turn was nothing compared to the thumb-thick beams of golden light that were spearing outward from Rain’s torso.

He was forced to close his eyes, his sleep-addled brain having failed to consider just how much Amplify Aura and Channel Mastery together would boost the spell’s brightness. He was nevertheless able to identify the monsters. They were more Fatbirds like the first, judging by the shrieks.

“Hey!” Ameliah shouted. “Warn me first! Gods, that’s bright!”

Over ten seconds passed, and Rain cracked open his eyes the barest sliver. He watched in pain as the beams tracked the monsters, searing into them mercilessly. The birds were scrambling, trying to reach cover and failing spectacularly, seemingly blinded. They doubtless had greater Light resistance than he did, but unlike him, they were being targeted by the magic directly. He was just suffering through the mageburn.

Eventually, one of the birds did manage to make it behind the shelter of Tallheart’s anvil, but the beam targeting it immediately snapped to the ingot pile, reflecting from it to strike the monster from a different angle. The beam would lose some power to mana absorption from the metal, but it would regain it as it traveled through the overarching field created by the aura.

Rain had run tests. There would be no escaping the fury of the light.

A few more seconds passed, and a trio of chimes sounded in Rain’s mind.

Your party has defeated [Scarlet Fatbird]x3, Level 8

Your Contribution: 98%

1176 Experience Earned

He dropped the spell, the reflections vanishing in an instant and plunging the camp into darkness. Rain forced his watering eyes open, spots dancing across his sight as he used Detection again. The scan came up clear. They were safe.

“Well done,” Tallheart grumped. “Now I am blind.”

“Sorry,” Rain said, waving away the dialog and rubbing at his eyes as the afterimages danced across his vision. “I just reacted.”

“Well, it’s better than freezing us or setting us on fire, I suppose,” Ameliah said.

Dimly, Rain managed to make out her form as she crawled over to him. Upon reaching him, she rapped her knuckles against his forehead. “Idiot.”

Before he could respond, she brushed his hair out of his eyes, then kissed him in the same spot. He felt healing spread through him, and his vision cleared instantly.

He found himself staring into her eyes. “Thanks,” he managed.

Ameliah smiled but didn’t pull away. It was clear what she wanted, and she was going to make him be the one to do it.

Rain’s eyes flicked to Tallheart.

“Do not mind me,” Tallheart said, staring at them blatantly. “I am blind.”

Rain looked back at Ameliah. Ah, screw it. He moved in, and her smile widened just before his lips found hers. He made it a good kiss, too, determined to show that he was over his shyness, though he could feel Tallheart’s eyes bearing down on them the entire time.

“What is happening,” Tallheart said mildly. “Describe it to me.”

Ameliah broke away, laughing. “Oh, be quiet,” she said, searching about for the sasu she’d thrown at Rain. “You aren’t blind. You’ve got more Light resistance than the both of us put together.” Hefting the fruit, she whipped it in Tallheart’s direction.

Tallheart didn’t move, letting the sasu strike him directly between the eyes. “What was that?” he asked as it bounced to the ground.

“Damn it, that’s twice now,” Ameliah muttered to herself. “Why won’t that thing explode?” She shook her head, then gave Tallheart a flat look. “You aren’t fooling anyone.”

“Is someone speaking?” Tallheart replied. “It seems that I have gone deaf as well.”

Rain smiled. He felt…happy. Just happy.

Then his stomach growled. Loudly. He realized that he could smell the sasu, the sharp odor of the fruit telling him that it hadn’t survived the collision with Tallheart’s face unharmed after all.

Ameliah laughed at his expression, then made a show of looking around. “Depths. Did anyone else hear that? I think there’s a sick bear down here.”

“Damn it,” Rain muttered. “I guess I missed dinner, huh?”

Ameliah laughed again. “Come on, let’s fix that before your funny noises attract whatever monsters missed the light show.”

As the first pulse of moss-light swept up over the edge of the trees, Rain looked up from the Ranks board. He flicked on his HUD, checking the time to make sure it wasn’t a mistake. It wasn’t. It really was dawn. They’d been playing for hours, but it had felt like minutes.

“You’ll never beat Clubbs if you let yourself get distracted like that,” Ameliah said softly, moving a piece.

Rain looked back down, then grinned, recognizing the trap. The board was in nearly the same configuration it had been two games ago. He moved his Defender to block, smiling smugly as he made the move she’d pointed out to him before. Not this time.

Immediately, Ameliah reached across the board and slid her Mage down a single square. Rain stared at the piece, sitting on its own in a section of the board seemingly unrelated to their current clash.

Why did she…? I can just take it… But then… And then she’ll… Shit, when I moved my Defender… Shit!

Ameliah covered her mouth, quaking with silent laughter. She glanced at Tallheart, who was still asleep, then whispered to Rain, trying to contain her mirth. “Congratulations, you played yourself.”

“I should have never taught you that line,” Rain whispered back, shaking his head. She used my memory against me. She made it look like she was trying the same trap as last time so I’d move my Defender. He looked back up at her. “That’s it, you’re too good at this. I’d like to win more than one game in five. We’re switching back to chess.”

“Fine,” Ameliah whispered, getting up and stretching. “Tonight, though,” she said in a slightly more normal voice. “I’ve got training to do.” She glanced again at Tallheart as she stooped to collect her bow. “Should we wake him, do you think?”

Rain shook his head. “Let him sleep. If he wanted to be up, he wouldn’t have disabled his alarm.” He gestured over toward the lava lake. “Let’s go over there.”

“If we’re sparring, we’re going to wake him up either way,” Ameliah whispered, handing Rain his helmet.

“Nothing so strenuous,” Rain whispered back with a smile, accepting it. “I’m still a bit wrecked from yesterday. I’ve got a new spell to try out, though.”

“Suppression?” Ameliah arched an eyebrow, and Rain nodded. “Great, I can feel the headache already.”

“It’s not like I can use it on myself,” Rain said, but then he tilted his head. “Actually…”

Suppression (1/10) Exp: 0/800

Increase mana costs for all entities by 25.375 mp (fcs)

Range: 2.03 meters

Cost: 1 mp/s

“Huh,” he said, slipping on his helmet as he inspected the skill card he’d just summoned. “Maybe I can. It just says entities. I’m an entity, and I figured out how to Immolate myself, so...”

“Has anyone ever told you that you’re a maniac?” Ameliah said.

“Oh, come on,” Rain said, smiling, hearing a soft clink of metal on metal. “I’m sure there’re Guilders who’ve come up with crazier training methods.” He looked up to see what the sound had been, then blinked.

“I didn’t say Guilders weren’t maniacs too,” Ameliah said, struggling to remove her heavy iron breastplate. “Help me with this.”

“What are you doing?” Rain asked, raising an eyebrow before his brain kicked into gear. “Oh, right. Metal. It would absorb the magic. Good thinking.” Hurriedly, he moved to help.

It took a few minutes to free Ameliah from her shell and to adjust the straps on her quivers so she could wear them without the bulky armor. Once she was all set, they left Tallheart behind, still somehow asleep. They moved just far enough away to avoid disturbing him, but not so far that they’d be unable to save him should some monster decide that a slumbering cervidian would make a tasty snack. Rain wasn’t all that concerned. Tallheart would be fine. It was Ameliah that he was actually worried about. Without her armor, she didn’t have any defensive skills to protect her. Even with the accolades, she was vulnerable.

“Okay,” Ameliah said at a normal volume, seemingly unconcerned at being without any protection. She adjusted the bow hanging over her shoulder. “Suppress me, maniac.”

Rain smiled, pushing aside his concerns as he tightened his grip on his shield. If anything attacked them, he’d be able to deal with it, or at least be able to tank long enough for Ameliah to fill it with arrows. It was nice to feel needed for something other than his mana for once.

“What?” Ameliah asked, smiling at him.

