Rain shook his head, not bothering to explain. “Here we go.” He reached for the unfamiliar skill, dialing the power way down with Channel Mastery before activating it. Nothing seemed to happen. He glanced at his mana, then at the auto-summoned skill card to check the level.

Suppression (1/10) Exp: 0/800

Increase mana costs for all entities by 2.5375 mp (fcs)

Range: 2.03 meters

Cost: 0.1 mp/s

“Well?” Ameliah said, arching an eyebrow.

“It’s on,” Rain said. “There doesn’t seem to be a visual effect. You don’t feel anything?”

Ameliah shrugged. “Nothing. Unless you count the lack of Winter, that is. Have I mentioned I miss Mana Sight?” She slipped her bow off her shoulder, then drew an adamant-tipped arrow. The metal darkened, vanishing from view as wisps of black smoke thickened into a roiling fog, veiling the entire arrow in shadow. She held up the smoking arrow, waving it around and leaving curls of darkness in its wake that quickly dissipated. “Nothing. You didn’t exempt me with IFF or anything, did you?”

“No,” Rain said, thinking hard. “Huh. Why isn’t it— Oh. Dur. Arcane Resistance. Damn, you’d think with all these stats, I wouldn’t need coffee to get my brain going in the morning.”

“You’d think,” Ameliah said.

“Yeah, yeah,” Rain said, returning Channel Mastery to neutral.

Suppression (1/10) Exp: 0/800

Increase mana costs for all entities by 25.375 mp (fcs)

Range: 2.03 meters

Cost: 1 mp/s

“There, that should be six points above your Arcane resistance now, assuming it is one-to-one. Try it again.” He paused, then hit himself in the forehead with a clang. “Shit. Your bow is metal. I didn’t think of that, either. And the arrows. They aren’t saturating or anything, are they?”

“Doesn’t feel like it,” Ameliah said. She shrugged, and the smoke concealing the arrow cleared. “That was me, not you. I just canceled the buff. Recasting now.”

The smoke returned, and Ameliah’s eyebrows rose slightly. “Okay, that was something.”

“What did you feel?” Rain asked excitedly. “It didn’t hurt or anything, did it?”

“No,” Ameliah said, shaking her head. “It just felt… I’m not sure.” The smoke cleared again as she canceled the spell. “Give it more power.”

“Amplifying,” Rain said, boosting the spell as high as he could without resorting to Aura Focus or messing with the ring. He’d had to disable his macro layer to bypass the safeties on IFF, and he didn’t feel like it was worth the effort to boost his Focus manually. Not for a test.

Suppression (1/10) Exp: 0/800

Increase mana costs for all entities by 144.13 mp (fcs)

Range: 1.33 meters

Cost: 18 mp/s

He took a step closer to her, making sure that she was in range. “Okay, that’s about as good as I can make it and still watch what you’re doing. It should take about 144 extra mana to activate things, minus 19 from your Arcane resistance. Give it a go.”

Ameliah nodded, then looked back at the arrow. Immediately, she furrowed her brows. And a faint distortion became visible around her. Pale white lines in the air, streaking down like rain.

“Okay, now that’s something,” she said, looking around. “The skill doesn’t want to activate. It feels…heavy. I’m going to push harder.”

Rain nodded, holding his breath. After a moment, the shadowy cloud around the arrow sputtered back into existence, the white lines from Suppression vanishing simultaneously.

Ameliah inhaled sharply, staring at the arrow. “Wow, yeah. You were right about the mana. It took around… Rain? Rain, what’s wrong?”

Rain was clutching at his chest, a look of ashen horror on his face. When Ameliah had activated the buff, he’d felt a terribly familiar sensation, one that he’d experienced only once before. A sense of pressure, as if he was about to burst, and then of being dunked into icy water as the pressure vanished.

[Rain-King!] Dozer sent, terrified, having woken from his slumber and swiftly begun to panic. [Shaking! Danger!]

Rain stumbled, then sat down hard rather than trying to arrest his fall.

“Rain!” Ameliah shouted, casting aside the arrow and rushing to him.

He looked up as she knelt in front of him. Their eyes met, and he felt a flash of connection.

Linksight. Clearer than it had ever been.

He pressed a hand to his chest, futilely trying to block the imagined hole through which his soul was gushing out into the world. “Oh no…”

Tallheart stood at his anvil, hammering at a curved adamant pauldron, but without skills and far too lightly to affect the metal in any way. He was not trying to alter its shape, for it was already as perfect as he could make it. In truth, the final alterations had been completed for some time. He was stalling. He had needed the time to think.

With a deep sigh, he shook his head, returning his hammer to its place at his hip.

Enough.

Taking the pauldron with him, Tallheart walked silently toward where Ameliah was sitting. Rain was prone beside her, still armored, but covered by a blanket and with his head propped up on a pillow. Ameliah was unarmored and resting her head in her hands, her hair veiling her face.

Tallheart couldn’t read her expression, but he didn’t need to.

As he came to a stop beside her, she sighed and looked up tiredly. “Hey.”

Tallheart inclined his head in greeting. “How is he?”

Ameliah grimaced. “No change.” She reached down to a metal bowl sitting on the bare earth and removed a wet cloth, wringing it out before dabbing it across Rain’s forehead through his open visor.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, frowning as he watched the useless gesture.

“Do you think it would be okay to send a Message now?” Ameliah asked, looking up, her expression pleading. “It’s been hours.”

Tallheart shook his head slowly. Rain hadn’t immediately fallen unconscious after he’d collapsed. His current condition was deliberate. He’d needed a while to calm down, but once he had, he’d asked that they not disturb him before going to inspect the damage. The fact that he had not returned from within his soul meant either that he was not finished with the task, or that he had found himself unable to return.

A Message would not help in either case. At best, it would only be a distraction.

Somewhere in the trees, a Deepcat yowled. Tallheart looked in the direction of the sound sharply, and Ameliah shot to her feet beside him, reaching for her bow. Silence returned almost immediately, but they stood their ground, waiting. When it became clear that the monster wasn’t coming imminently, Tallheart allowed himself a sigh. The Deepcat would come, or it would not. They’d suffered more monster attacks today than usual. He was beginning to think that it was not a coincidence.

He looked back at Ameliah as she let herself flop back to the ground. “Do not fear for Rain,” he said slowly. “He has doubtless become distracted and forgotten that we are here.”

“But—“ Ameliah began, but Tallheart interrupted her.

“You have sat idle long enough. Leave Rain to his work.” He gestured with the pauldron toward where he’d piled the rest of the armor next to a small boulder. “Come.”

“But…“ Ameliah tried again, but trailed off in a sigh, finally looking away from the trees. “Fine.” She threw down the cloth, muttering under her breath. “Not like I’m doing any good here.” She closed Rain’s visor much more gently, then got to her feet to accept the pauldron. She barely glanced at it before she looked back at Rain. “I just don’t understand why it happened. It was barely any mana at all.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I have been thinking about that.” He turned, walking away. He knew she would follow, so he didn’t bother to look back at her as he continued. “Why is an unconscious person more difficult to heal?”

“What?” Ameliah asked from somewhere behind him.

Tallheart said nothing.

“Okay, don’t explain,” Ameliah said, the sound of her footsteps telling him that she was following. “Fine. I’m not sure what this has to do with Rain, but for healing to work, you need the patient to accept it. People can’t do that if they aren’t awake.”

“And what if a person does not wish to be healed?” Tallheart asked. “Can you do it by force?”

He heard Ameliah stop, and after a moment, he turned to look at her, seeing a pained expression on her face. He frowned. I am a fool. “I apologize. I should have chosen a different example.”

Ameliah sighed, raising her hand to rub at her eyes. “No, it’s fine. I can’t blame you for not knowing what not to say when I haven’t told you about…” She trailed off.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Still. I apologize.”

“Don’t worry about it.” Ameliah shook her head, then looked up. “Yes, you can force healing on an unwilling patient. You just need to suppress the patient’s soul with yours. For healing, you need to honestly believe that you’re helping them for it to work. You need to override their perspective.” She grimaced. “I’ve…seen it done.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, turning to walk beside her. “I will ask no further. The example has served its purpose. Now, another. If someone wished to afflict you with Malaise, could you choose not to resist?”

“Oh. I see where you’re going with this,” Ameliah said, coming to a stop beside the pile of armor. “When he used Suppression, it put our souls into conflict.”

“Yes,” Tallheart said simply, turning to look at her.

“So then I’m the reason—“

“No,” Tallheart said.

He raised his hand, his index finger extended. “Rain’s soul was already broken. It was repaired, but we do not understand how or whether the repair was complete.”

He raised a second finger. “Rain increased his level rapidly, triggering the leveling process multiple times through unnatural means.”

A third finger went up. “He ranked a defensive skill from one to ten within the space of a single day.”

A fourth. “He has been pushing himself to the point of physical exhaustion and then beyond. Far beyond.”

Tallheart finished with his thumb. “He has been abusing accolades and fueling the changes to his body by dining on the flesh of monsters.”

Tallheart looked down at his hand, all five fingers extended, then grunted, raising his other hand. “Do I need to continue? Hmph. I suspect I do not have enough fingers.” He shook his head, then knelt to sort through the pile of armor. “This was not your fault. If your clash had not triggered it, something else would have soon enough.”

“So I should blame Rain for being reckless then?” Ameliah asked. “For over-training? How’s that any better?”

“You do not understand,” Tallheart said, gesturing for her leg with a greave held in his other hand. “Allow me to think. I will try to find another way to explain.”

Ameliah set down her bow and moved over, and Tallheart began helping her get into the armor piece by piece. They continued in silence for some time. It was only after the backplate was in place arching over her shoulders that Ameliah raised her hand to stop him.

“You’re right,” she said. She gestured around to the trees. To the molten lake of lava. To the outcropping of stone and the cave that led to depths unknown. “Look where we are.”

The Deepcat yowled again, but neither of them did more than glance at the trees.

Ameliah shook her head, continuing. “If we were playing things safe, we’d still be on the surface. If we were playing things safe, half the people in Vestvall would die come spring.” She sighed. “You heard what Rain said. There isn’t enough wood to keep the fires lit, and they’d need to go farther and farther to gather it. Even if we somehow solved that problem with our light bulbs, they’d need to go out to tend their fields or starve over the coming year. It’s not sustainable. We need to get them out of here.”

The Deepcat screeched again, closer now. A bush near the edge of the clearing rustled.

“Would you stay out of this!?” Ameliah yelled, whipping her head in that direction. “Either come out here and die or go back to the hell you came from!”

The bush rustled again, then exploded in a shower of leaves and blood as the boulder they’d been standing next to obliterated it, along with the hidden monster.

“Thank you,” Ameliah said, looking back at Tallheart as he lowered his arm and bent to retrieve the breastplate. “As I was saying, pushing ourselves like this is a risk, but it’s necessary. We don’t have the luxury of taking it slow. He had no way to know how near he was to the edge, and it wasn’t like either of us realized the danger either. Hells, I’m doing half the same things he is. My soul could tear too at any moment, but even knowing that, I don’t feel like I can stop.”

“Raise your arms to the sides,” Tallheart said. Ameliah complied, and he continued speaking as he worked. “Make sure to say these things to Rain. You know that he will blame himself for his injury, but you are correct, and he is not. What we do is not without risk. I should know.”

Ameliah grunted as Tallheart pressed the breastplate firmly into place. The metal plate interlocked with the backplate with a satisfying click, forming a nearly impenetrable seal around her torso.

Satisfied, Tallheart took a step back. “How is the fit?”

Ameliah grasped at the collar of the breastplate with both hands, pulling it down and twisting it this way and that. “It’s a bit tight across the chest.”

Tallheart frowned. He’d always pitied human women for their inconvenient anatomy. He was a poor judge, but he believed that Ameliah was slightly more afflicted than average, even for her race. He knew better than to say anything. It was not something she could change, no more than he could saw off his antlers. He had thought he’d left sufficient room, however. “I can make an adjustment,” he said slowly, shaking his head. “Hmm. I have seen some human women wearing armor that imitates their form, but I assumed you would not wish to trade durability for vanity. If I was wrong about that, I can—“

“No,” Ameliah said with a snort, lowering her arms. A small measure of the tension had drained from her face. “Please, no. As funny as it would be to see Rain’s reaction to that stupidity, this is actually a perfect fit. I just needed to get everything in place. It’s still a little snug, but that’s how it should be.” She took a deep breath, then breathed out and bent, touching her toes. “Amazing. It doesn’t limit my mobility at all.” She stood again, looking him in the eyes. “Thank you so much, Tallheart. I don’t think I’ll ever be able to repay you for this. This armor has got to be worth…a lot. Like, a barrel full of Tel, a lot.”

