Which meant that the Supreme Families were confident enough to act in spite of the risks, so they would only dispatch assassins who were well-trained and well-equipped. Falling Rain had kept one of his assassin’s swords, but had not thought to bring their corpses away as well, and all evidence of the scuffle had been removed in the short time since. According to Kuang Biao, the three dead assassins had not been Peak Experts, but all three possessed Domains, and only dumb luck and the Guardian Turtle had saved young Rain’s life. Against such powerful enemies, young, untried Experts were of no use, no matter how talented they might be. Charok, Alsantset, and even Tenjin, the celebrated Fire-Bird of Sinuji, none of them should have been here, for swords did not have eyes and the Emperor’s love of young Talents did not afford them much protection when they went against Imperial interest.

Glancing at Kyung, Min Gyu tried to remember how old the half-cat was. Forty? Fifty? The boy had been a gift from... some fool or the other, a sort of backhanded insult to insinuate his lack of heirs was due to some twisted perversion, but while he’d done his fair share of picking flowers and trampling grass in his younger years, he’d simply never met a woman he cared enough about to marry. Unlike young Charok, Min Gyu had placed the Martial Dao above all else, and even now, he didn’t regret it, but he also couldn’t lie and say he had no regrets at all.

It was all Yan’s fault for pointing out that Kyung was as much Min Gyu’s Disciple as Kai had been, perhaps even more so since the half-cat was always at his side. He only taught Kyung because he was also teaching Kai at the time, and his disciple needed a proper sparring partner to train against...

“Kyung,” Min Gyu Sent, studying the young man who he helped shape into the fine Martial Warrior before him. “If we are attacked, you are to prioritize your own safety above all else. Should I fall, you are not to avenge me, or waste time retrieving my corpse. You are to follow Baatar’s orders as if you were one of his soldiers, until such a time as Yan comes to retrieve you.”

“Yes Master.” Though his tone and expression were impassive as always, Kyung’s cat ears flattened against his skull and his tail lashed about in agitation, no doubt cursing himself for being too weak to aid his ‘Master’.

An ugly word, now that Min Gyu thought of it, and so on a whim, he Sent, “Yan calls you big brother, so from now on, you may call me grandfather as well.”

“Yes Grandfather.”

There was no change in the half-cat’s mannerisms, which made Min Gyu think Kyung didn’t care much about titles. Or maybe he hated his master and was unhappy at having to call his tormentor ‘Grandfather’. “Do you envy your half-sister for her place amongst the Bekhai?” Min Gyu asked, before he could think better of it. “For the love and family she’s found there?”

“Yes and no,” Kyung Sent, looking directly into Min Gyu’s eyes, a rare display from the deferential half-cat. “I do not envy her place amongst the Bekhai, for it is better here, at Grandfather’s side.”

But he envied the love and family she’d found. Of course he did. Who wouldn’t. “Well,” Min Gyu Sent while giving Kyung a pat on the head. He’d done this thousands of times before, so why did it feel so awkward now? “I’m sorry.”

There was no reply, and in truth, Min Gyu wasn’t sure what an appropriate response to such a pitiful apology would be, so he simply went back to looking for Concealed assassins and hoped the awkward ambience would simply disappear. After another minute of stifling discomfort, Min Gyu focused on Baatar and Sent, “What’s taking so long? Is the boy insisting on bringing his pets?”

“Our initial plan is unviable,” Baatar Sent back. “The Guardian Turtle’s presence will give it away.”

Damn it. Of course. Why hadn’t he thought of that? Well because he wasn’t in the habit of accounting for devoted giant turtles. “So what now?”

“We move out in the same order as before, but we place the boy in the second carriage, with me.”

An option they’d ruled out on the way over because it was too obvious a choice, but since obfuscation was of minimal use, the centre was the best place for Rain. Still... “I suggest we switch positions and have the boy ride with me while you take the vanguard. The centre is safest, but your presence makes the boy’s position too obvious, whereas I am the outsider and least likely to be trusted with his life.” Min Gyu had volunteered for the vanguard, where his Blessing of Wind would be of the most use, but the circumstances now demanded otherwise. “Are the others still lost in Insight?”

“Yes.” After a short pause, Baatar Sent, “We will do as you suggested. Open the carriage doors. I will bring the boy out shortly.”

“I will guard him with my life,” Min Gyu Sent back, and miracle of miracles, he actually meant it.

“Thank you.” That was it, but the Bekhai hoarded their words like a fishwife hoarded coin, used only when absolutely necessary and with great reluctance. Not two seconds later, Baatar leaped over the towering bamboo stalks and landed softly on the ground in between the three carriages, carrying a bundled Falling Rain in his arms, wrapped in a thick quilt to hide his face and torso. Having prepared for this well in advance, the Death Corps swarmed in around Baatar with quilts and jackets raised overhead, using the chaos and confusion to confuse anyone Scrying on their position. In this, Rain’s diminutive frame worked to his advantage as he and two similarly wrapped Khishigs stealthily slipped into the shuttered carriages and simultaneously slammed the doors shut. With their precious cargo in place, Kyung flicked his reins and set the six-horse team to moving, winding in and around the other two carriages until they finally settled into a proper formation. Baatar and Charok rode at the front, Min Gyu and Kyung in the centre, and Husolt and Ghurda held up the rear, all while surrounded by an imposing squad of quin riders with bows drawn and arrows ready.

Their convoy left the Death Corps far behind, since their cattle-drawn wagons couldn’t keep up with the carriages or quin riders, and someone had gone to great efforts to Conceal the Guardian Turtle while she moved, but otherwise, their convoy made for a formidable sight. Truth be told, he would’ve been much more confident if Akanai were here with them instead of lost to sudden Insights from entering the grove, but he knew how rare and precious each Insight was to a warrior Akanai’s age. He’d also be lying if he said he wasn’t curious to see how his garden back in Yantai measured up to the Medical Saint’s bamboo grove, but now was not the time for indulging idle curiosities. The Medical Saint was truly a man of many talents, and Rain a boy of many mysteries, untouched by the magics of Divination and Natural Balance. Technically, it wasn’t magic, but rather a careful, harmonious arrangement of nature which interacted with the natural Elements and brought an area into Balance, done so using measuring devices, mathematical formulas, intricate interactions, and more, but to Min Gyu, it all sounded like magic by another name.

Focus. Still standing in the driver’s seat, Min Gyu sent Wind Chi billowing out in search of Concealed enemies. Though he found none, he continued searching at irregular intervals while the Bekhai scouts ranged ahead and conducted searches of their own, though how effective they might be at uncovering Concealed foes remained to be seen.

But not for long.

The response was subtle and almost went unnoticed as his Wind Chi brushed over the hidden assassins, a dozen of them lying in the grass less than a hundred metres up the road and well within his range of detection. The clever killers had escaped notice for so long because they’d covered themselves in blankets of dirt with the grass still attached, but had just removed them while still in Concealment because they were ready to strike. Any warning Min Gyu gave now would be too little too late, which meant someone intimately familiar with Min Gyu’s detection skills had warned them in advance, and the only person who could’ve done so was his old friend written rival, Zhang Jun Bao.

So these were the Legate’s assassins then, here to sell the story of Falling Rain’s falling out. How novel, but Min Gyu suspected the Legate would not lose much sleep if his people ‘accidentally’ succeeded.

As he opened his mouth to shout a worthless warning, the Bekhai outriders lifted their bows and loosed their arrows, then all that was left of the assassins were still corpses and quivering shafts. Jaw dropping in disbelief, he stood stock still as he came to grips with the one-sided massacre he’d just witnessed, unable to tear his eyes away from the carnage while his carriage rolled past. Replaying the incident over in his mind, he realized Charok had been the first to raise his bow, and the rest had simply followed suit, aiming their arrows in and around the same area as Charok’s. The amber-eyed father and cook had placed his arrow right through the throat of the centre-most assassin, while the other archer’s shafts were not so neatly placed.

...Meaning Charok was the only one who’d spotted the assassins. The others merely took their cue from his actions to loose their arrows in the same general direction, and in doing so, turned the tides on a deadly trap before their enemies had a chance to spring it. Twelve Expert assassins, with years of training and a Spiritual Weapon each, rendered worthless by fifty something odd savages with bendy sticks and string.

Feeling suitably humbled by the young warrior’s perception and Bekhai archery, Min Gyu redoubled his scouting efforts and uncovered another ambush not five minutes later, this time with almost a full minute to spare. Sending a warning to Baatar, the half-wolf responded with a concise, “Acknowledged,” and carried on riding without a care in the world. A half minute later, Min Gyu was about to Send something again when a thunderous explosion sounded in the distance. Mother knows when he’d had time to loose it, but Baatar’s short sword landed heavily amidst the assassins and sent them scurrying out from the ditch they were hiding in, only to be ridden down by twenty Bekhai Experts appearing out of Concealment. Min Gyu hadn’t even known they were there, meaning they’d been at least a kilometre away when he first uncovered the assassins, yet the quins weren’t even breathing hard after their breakneck sprint. For the second time this trip, he quietly raised his assessment of the Bekhai Khishigs by a few notches and their chances of survival against the Imperial Clan. Between their speed and range, an army of these Khishigs could easily take on a force four or five times their own, more if their enemies were unarmoured Defiled.

One of the riders approached to return Baatar’s weapon, and then their journey continued. With Min Gyu’s help, they uncovered and dispatched two more ambushes, as well as a third without his help before arriving at the Citadel gates an hour later, bringing the butcher’s bill to sixty-three dead assailants and seventeen injured Bekhai, the worst of whom rode through the gates on his own with more shame in his grimace than pain.

A formidable bunch, these Bekhai, but Min Gyu was still wary of their foes. “Five ambushes,” he Sent to Baatar as soon as they were safe in his manor, which he claimed was impenetrable to Eavesdropping, Scrying, or other means of surveillance. “Five Supreme Families. You’d best keep the boy heavily guarded and on a short leash, because I shudder to think what forces they’ll throw at us once they’ve had enough time to prepare.”

“He is safe where he is,” Baatar replied, and something in the man’s embittered tone put Min Gyu on edge. Turning around, he opened the shutter to the carriage and peered in, only to find an unfamiliar Khishig staring back.

Mother in Heaven. “All this trouble just to leave him at the grove?” Had he known, Min Gyu would have stayed there too, but he supposed that was why Baatar kept quiet.

Baatar shrugged ever so slightly, which more than anything showed how tired he was. Five brief, and explosive encounters might not seem like much, but remaining vigilant for an entire hour had taken its toll. On Min Gyu too, he realized, as he leaned against Kyung for support. “The boy insisted. He found a new pet, some sort of oversized rodent Taduk refused to let loose in the grove. I could not leave the boy trapped in close confines with a wild Spiritual Beast, so there was no other choice.”

The blood drained from his face even as he cursed himself for not noticing. The Medical Saint’s guards must have Concealed the Divine Turtle as she lay in wait outside the grove, which would’ve been much easier than doing so while she ran after the convoy. Min Gyu just assumed she was too slow to keep up, like the Death Corps guards, who likely never intended to follow in the first place. Mother in Heaven, was he so old that his mind was starting to slip? “...So what? We do this all again tomorrow?” A hint of desperation leaked into Min Gyu’s Sending, one he didn’t much like but couldn’t help. He was too old to do something so stressful and tiring again so soon, but if Yan needed him, he would be there.

