RIVERWALL

The Allwarden-Airenne University couldn't get built fast enough.

That was the thought running on repeat in the back of Marshalla's mind as she tried to wrap her head around David and Niala's latest madness.

An aetheric life form! They had created a saint's damned artificial life form!

Oh, sure, at first she and her colleagues who had arrived in Riverwall had thought it was some sort of mana construct, somehow bound to a physical object. A sort of golem, like Jordo.

They had been very wrong. Buddy had a soul. It didn't make sense. It didn't feel possible, but there it was. On a whim, she'd investigated their two previous creations more closely: Heartsong and Light's Hope.

Those had... sort of souls as well, which was insane all of its own. Objects didn't have almost-souls.

Dr. Haagan had asked for a few days of rest after that. Marshalla completely understood, and truth be told, she'd been tempted to sit down and let the world-shattering revelation percolate a little.

She didn't have the time for that, though; there were experiments to be done, and frontiers to be breached! Even if, realistically, her own research had gone far beyond any reasonable boundaries quite a while ago.

With Niala's cooperation, they had gone and run all the tests they could on Buddy, and had been sorting and compiling the results since then. In the meantime, the pair had decided to create a second aetheric falcodrake, this one named Valeros.

From their telling, the process wasn't guaranteed; they had needed three more attempts before they managed to repeat the feat. Niala had said that as if it had been a monumental failure.

Because, apparently, having a 33% success rate when creating a full-fledged artificial life by feeling your way through the process was shameful. Of course it was.

She sighed, getting her thoughts back onto the report in her hand; Buddy's readings and results.

David and Niala thought of him as an arcanae; a mana-based incarnation. The limited data they had regarding such beings seemed to indicate that was close, but not exactly it.

The main difference being that an arcanae had no actual physical body unless they manifested. In Buddy's case, the mana core meant he had a permanent presence on this plane. Further, its soul wasn't merged with its mana.

If anything, Buddy was closer to Leviathan in its nature, but even then it wasn't the same. Thus, they were calling it aetheric life; a new kind of entity, which was not something she thought she'd encounter during her life, even less having it happen three times.

So many questions and potential...

Given that Niala was the one who dictated the shape and overall capabilities of any such creature she and her husband created, was there any potential limit?

Could they create a machine? An aetheric auto-car? Would it have a soul? What if she tried to shape a human being? An egg? Could it be hatched? Was it possible to weave reproductive capabilities into such creatures?

She sighed. The university couldn't come soon enough. Until then, she'd have to keep using this converted warehouse.

ALLWARDEN RESIDENCE

“What about weapons?” David asked.

Niala, sitting across the low table from him, shook her head. “I don't want to. Tools, companions, but not dedicated weapons.”

He shrugged. “Alright. I was just curious. After the blast grenades, I don't intend to keep going that way.”

“Thanks,” she said, smiling. “So, that's the... aetheric life process. I think the failures are due to linking them with a mana core. It's a near thing every time, and I can feel the mixed mana losing its coherency when I stretch it too far.”

She tapped a pencil against her lips. “That also means the size and power of the constructs we can make is limited, because my manaphaging won't let me accumulate an infinite amount before it starts devouring.”

David shrugged. “It's still plenty powerful. Marshalla said that Buddy and Valeros were made of pure compressed mana. Any physical attack would feel like hitting a rock, and only naval-grade strum cannons were an actual danger.”

She leaned back. “Yeah, I know... still, that's most of one of our abilities covered, even if I'm sure there's plenty more to learn.”

Picking up her notebook, she kept going. “The next combo you wanted to try was alchemy and your remote imbuements.”

“It feels as if they'd work together, considering what we learned about alchemy.”

“Hmm... maybe,” she looked up at him. “Do you have an idea you want to start with?

He lifted his shoulders. “Anything. I just want to see if I can pass on my imbuements to someone through a potion. Iron Body and a fortifier, maybe?”

She smiled. “Worth a try.”

The concept of imbued potions was straightforward; Since David could impart and maintain his imbuement on an object, he figured doing so to a potion during its brewing process might leave behind an imprint of the imbuement.

Niala went and prepared several fortifier potion bases, with David imbuing them at various stages of their brewing. They quickly learned that, yes, David could imbue the potions. Unfortunately, he was imbuing the potion, and not its ingredients. The Iron Body effect made Niala's potion refuse to boil, or decant, or even just be mixed with the liquid, taking the consistency of dough.

It was more than a little interesting, and probably warranted more experimentation, but it wasn't helping with what they were trying to accomplish. That day ended without any progress, and so did the next three.

The idea was looking like a dead end; no matter at which step they added his imbuement, the result was always the same; the ability was applied to the medium, or to one of its ingredients, but never to the potion itself.

They even tried transferring David's imbuement to the vessel, which turned Niala's beakers nearly indestructible but little else.

They needed a way to have the effect bleed into the potion, preferably through one of its transitional phases, but whatever imbuement David tried ended messing up the brewing process and little else.

Niala went still, with only her ears twitching.

A transitional phase that doesn't need manipulation to leech its effect...

She shot up from her stool and marched to a small bookshelf filled with reference books. Pulling her father's guide on managing ghost effects, she returned to her workstation.

David watched her go, tilting his head. “Did you figure something out?”

She opened the book to the relevant section and flipped the pages, searching. “Maybe. The ghost effect; the way an alchemy container will accumulate imprints of an effect before passing it back to whatever potion it's holding at the time.”

“That's going to help?”

Her ears waggled. “I think! If we add your imbuement to the vessel when the effect triggers, it might inject your ability into the potion. Here!” she exclaimed as she found the table she wanted.

Holding up the book, she showed its contents to David. “See this chart? It's my Dad's compiled research into the ghost effect. With it, we can determine exactly when it's going to trigger.”

Putting the book back down, she read through the data, committing the numbers and times to memory. “We just need to synchronize your imbuing with the ghost effect.”

She finished reading through the table, put the book aside, and used a blank page to do some calculations. Factoring in the beaker's weight, the volume of liquid she was using, the type of potions, the number of ingredients, and several more parameters, she arrived at a figure: seven.

Seven batches of fortifiers and the beaker would be “primed” to trigger the ghost effect. For this recipe, that meant adding a light intoxication effect, mimicking the consumption of a few beers.

She could work on getting more beneficial ghost effects later.

They went and brewed seven batches, and prepared the eighth. At her signal, he imparted Iron Body to the beaker, and Niala proceeded with the rest of the recipe.

She found herself holding her breath as she neared the triggering point, and then... nothing.

David's imbuing remained in place. No flash of light or energy. The ghost effect didn't have any visual indicator, obviously, but she had hoped something would have happened.

So far, there had always been a burst of sparkles when they made a new discovery!

Ears folded back, she completed the brew, poured the potion into five phials, inspected one and failed to see any signs of something new, then slumped on her stool.

David walked up to her and put a hand on her shoulder. “You think it didn't work?”

She glanced up at him before returning her sight to the five phials. “I don't know.. I'll need to run tests to make sure, but they look like normal fortifiers, so-”

Something bumped into her leg. She looked down to see Lychee awkwardly trying to climb up her dress. She frowned. “What is it, girl?”

The bumblemoss took the attention as encouragement and redoubled her fruitless efforts to scale Mount Niala, who narrowed her eyes at her pet before bending down and picking her up.

The lively moss, once up on her mom's lap, strained to get up on the table, toward the five phials with the “failed” fortifiers. “What's up with you, Lychee? Do those smell really good?”

David quirked a brow. “She's always been very excited by new potions...”

Niala's ears slowly rose up. “...So these might not be normal, then,” she said as she glanced back at David, who shrugged.

She got up, put Lychee back on the floor, the bumblemoss seeming to act betrayed as it went still and looked up at her mom.

Niala winced an apology at her before turning her attention back to the potion.

They couldn't exactly drink it and hope for the best, as David had done before. That meant one thing: tests.

The couple decided to create a few more experimental potions, pairing David's imbuements with similar recipes:

Strong Arm with a strengthening potion.

Quick Step with a quickening potion.

Energy Burst with an energizer.

Niala then ran each new concoction through every test and analysis she could conceive. The strange, and slightly concerning, part was that she could not detect any additional effect present in the potions. Only Lychee's obsession with them indicated that something was different.

Otherwise, as far as she could figure out, these were safe to consume. The last step was to have someone drink them. David offered, but was denied. As callous as she felt, Niala didn't want to hear it; someone else, a volunteer, was going to be the guinea pig this time. At the same time, she didn't actually want to put anyone's life in danger.

That left one candidate: Papo. Even if the little rat's body disintegrated, he'd be fine thanks to his nature as a Luce, a being that inhabited a body but could exist without one.

Papo agreed right away, saying he was happy to help, and the three of them met up in one of Niala's laboratory's reinforced rooms.

They started with the first potion: the Iron Body-Fortifier combo. Niala poured a size-appropriate portion into a little cup, and picked up Papo from atop his golem body, setting him down on the table.

The immortal rat scurried up to the cup and tipped it back, drinking it all.

David and Niala stared at him. He stared back, whiskers twitching.

Niala's ears wiggled as her tail swayed. “How are you feeling?”

“I am “feeling” fine, friend Niala. However, friend Gerat is loudly proclaiming that this potion has greatly enhanced us.”

David leaned forward. “Enhanced how?”

Papo turned his head toward him. “Friend Gerat is insulting you for being ignorant, but that is rude. From what I understand of friend Gerat's mildly incoherent rambling, the potion has fortified my body, as is normal, but to a greater degree.”

The rat tilted his head. “There seems to be a magical effect overlaid on the potion's effect. Friend David, could you try crushing me under your fist?”

David shrugged, lifted his balled hand and slammed it down on Papo. The rat, instead of flattening into a roadkill pancake, ballooned a little before popping back to its usual shape.

Niala squeaked in surprise. “What was that?! That was strange!”

Papo looked himself over before turning to face the catkin. “Friend Niala, it appears that your new potion is very effective. You said you had more to test? My body is operating nominally. I believe it can be used to test further infusions.”

“Ah- Alright, Papo, if you're sure...” She said before retrieving the next sample: Strong Arm mixed with a strengthener. Pouring a dose in a new cup, she handed it to the rat, who bowed its head and drank its contents.

Again, no outward effects were apparent. Papo tested his tiny legs by stomping them on the table, then looked up. “Friend David, could we try the same test once more? Please attempt to crush me.”

David nodded and drove his fist down on the rat, with maybe a little bit more force than the previous attempt. His eyes widened in surprise as Papo's outstretched rat arms stopped his attack cold.

Niala clapped her hands. “Wow! Papo! That's amazing! Do you- do you think you're good for the next three?!”

As David lifted his hand away, the rat looked at Niala, its whiskers dancing contemplatively. “Friend Niala, I believe I am. Friend Gerat is clamouring for a mana potion, but I believe that would be unwise. I have strong suspicions he would attempt to subvert the sanctity of your house.”

He stopped for a second before continuing. “Friend Gerat is angry and says he is not speaking to me anymore. Do not worry, friend Niala; this has happened a hundred and twenty times already. I believe this is friend Gerat's way of expressing his disagreement with me. He will eventually converse with me once more. I am ready for the next potion.”

They fed him the Quick Step – quickening mix next, and watched amazed as the rat zoomed around the table, almost a blur to their eyes.

Energy Burst – energizer went next, and Papo found himself able to jump three times as high, fling himself several meters horizontally, and run even faster.

Niala spent a few bells running tests on Papo's body, looking for any sign of degradation, pain, or damage. Everything came back clear, and she had to admit that the potions were likely safe to consume, at least in single doses.

As a final test, David brought the rat out into the training yard and went for a few bouts of sparring with him.

Even though she witnessed it, Niala's brain had a conniption trying to understand how the little rat managed to suplex David.

So did all the curious spectators.

The next day, as Mayor Caleb ran through the town guard's report, the rumour about the Allwardens creating rat super-soldiers had him stop and stare before sighing and moving right on.