At least Night strictly forbade them from participating in the… well, he used the word “debate,” but Ranthia wasn’t that polite. It was probably one of the stupidest, pettiest arguments that she had ever seen.

The crux of the inanity was that the elven ‘elites’—a group of ten elves that seemed to, collectively, wield less than half the maturity and common sense that Avyna possessed—were offended that the Legions had dared to craft a plan without inviting them to provide one. Not that they were able to proffer a single unified strategy themselves—they were arguing just as viciously with one another as they were with the rest of the Coalition.

Ranthia was all too used to being in a room (or tent) full of hotheads that considered their middling intellect and vague notions to be a gift worthy of the gods themselves, yet somehow the elves managed to raise the bar on arrogance. Each had his or her own idea of the ideal strategy, which ranged from absolute gems like “the rest of you may sit back and watch my back” or “we should remain on standby until the rest of you have failed” to something almost actionable, like “we should draw the twins to our position and crush them in a single engagement” (seriously, it wasn’t a bad idea, aside from the tiny detail that they had no way to actually draw the five remaining twins to a location of their choosing).

But as time passed, something strange happened. Ranthia had no idea how, but the elves seemed to—one at a time—reinvent the original plan (more or less, and often far more crudely) while remaining convinced that it was their own idea. Ranthia wasn’t sure who was responsible for convincing them or how it was done—and she was pretty certain that the elves figured out that they were being manipulated at some point yet remained too obstinate to admit it or back down—but, at last, the six days of arguments came to an end.

The plan didn’t emerge unscathed, of course. Instead of two elves to one non-elf per group, things ended up far less balanced. Several people from a variety of species that (allegedly) weren’t quite able to equal a twin got tacked onto groups too, which severely weakened their safety measures against unexpected heavy hitters from the shimagu. As far as compromises went, the end result was worse than the original, the changes really didn’t benefit anyone, and entirely too many people seemed inordinately smug about the entire ordeal. But at least from there, everything else went smoothly.

Within moments of meeting her assigned ‘team’, Ranthia rescinded her thoughts about things going smoothly.

“<You can’t expect me to work with her!>” Problem #1 was probably the shortest elf Ranthia had ever seen, with tall, spiraling horns that almost made up for it. She was dressed in armor colored like a brilliant sunset and carried a polearm that was tipped with an oversized ax-head as though it weighed nothing. [Warrior – Gale], [Warrior – Mountain], and [Warrior – Mantle] with levels ranging from 1229 to 1050.

And no, she wasn’t talking about Ranthia—that would have been less idiotic.

“I agree, this crude barbarian is unsuited to teamwork. You should place her with the dwarves.” Problem #2 was giving Problem #1 significant side-eye while she spoke. She was dressed in an ornate, silvery getup—and it was so over-the-top elaborate that Ranthia couldn’t even begin to guess at how the woman put it on. There were finicky straps, buckles, and connectors practically everywhere she looked, even before the accessories came into play. [Mage – Gravity], [Mage – Mantle], and [Mage – Dark] with levels ranging from 1201 to 1137.

The two elves had started to spit fury from the moment they were assigned to the same team, and Ranthia doubted either woman was aware of the rest of the group. They were too busy trading barbs and trying to argue for a change.

“It’s been, what, over a thousand years since the two of you spent a few centuries together? Get over it already and just work together for a few minutes. It’s not like this fight will take long; one little skirmish and we’re done.” The elf that the two ex-lovers blamed for being placed on the same team waved them off before he quickly moved away, loudly stating that he needed to prep his own team.

The only thing that the duo seemed to agree about was that Ranthia and every other member of their team were nothing more than deadweight. Which should have left Ranthia in charge of the other lesser combatants that were assigned to their team, but every other individual on the team was an elf. …Which meant an elven woman with red-orange hair garnered the attention that Ranthia failed to capture and was trying to coordinate the rest, as they followed the still-arguing exes from the great hall.

At least it shouldn’t be long until we deploy. Ranthia consoled herself with a bit of optimism while she followed.

“Hey! You should have told us that you’re immortal too! I mean, what are the odds, both beautiful women I meet from your country are immortal?”

The man—thankfully—remained a respectful distance away, but Ranthia found herself struggling to place the male elf that was offering a (charming?) smile her way.

“As if it’s a surprise that their warlike society applies more pressure to seize. It worked for Kiyaya, after all.” Another elf cut in, a mug of alcohol in his hand.

Ranthia knew she had met both men, but where? It was probably Coalition City, since Ranthia hadn’t interacted heavily with the elves in any of the caravans that visited Remera. She needed to place them to even begin to respond to the non-greeting they’d given her, but her memory seemed to refuse to cooperate. The silence stretched from merely ‘rude’ to ‘awkward’ while Ranthia spun her wheels, increasingly frustrated with herself.

Then they left the central fortification, and a comically oversized wolf—bearing a winged serpent on its back—bounded over.

Ranthia might have struggled to place where she recognized the men from, but the animals provided all the context she needed. Her base assumption had been wrong; she hadn’t met them in Coalition City—they were the trio of elves that she met in Remus! The ones that were trying to find Sentinel Dawn!

“So… does that mean the wolf found her immortality after all?” Ranthia finally spoke into the silence.

“Yup, seized all by herself! Awarthril was so happy that I managed to get her to volunteer to drink an entire barrel of one of my most ambitious experiments. …Tragically, it turned out to be legitimately delicious.” The elf with the mug offered a forlorn shrug, though he didn’t lose his grin.

Egg? Ranthia somehow doubted his name was Egg, but that was what her memory was trying to supply.

The wolf—large enough that she stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Ranthia—seemed to be over her grudge. She barely even spared a glance Ranthia’s way, before she fell in after the duo.

…Which meant the copper-haired elf that was leading the group was probably the wolf’s bond.

“Wait, weren’t one of you planning to leave?” Ranthia asked, once she remembered that tidbit.

“Eh, after we found out that we couldn’t count on Elaine’s help, Awarthril convinced me to stay. We’ve been… doing what we can to seek opportunities to gain levels, even with other elves trying to tell us what to do.” Egg(?) explained.

“You mean what not to do.” The flirt interjected.

Ranthia could have sworn the winged snake signaled its agreement with that sentiment.

“Once this skirmish is done, you should join us! I’ll tap one of my best barrels and we can swap tales. And if you get overwhelmed, you can always fall back behind us. I don’t know who the third elite for our group is, but that duo can’t be counted on. I heard Vellarinne actually left an elf behind in shimagu territory once!” The mug-carrier subvocalized—quiet enough that even Ranthia strained to hear him—before he raised his mug her way and sped up to catch up with his group’s leader, followed by the flirt and the companion bonds.

…Right, well if everyone seemed content to underestimate Ranthia, all she needed to do was to step up when the time came. She had faith in her Skills—and her skills—and was confident that she could prove her worth.

All she had to do was wait for the battle to begin.

If Ranthia was more honest with herself, she wouldn’t be surprised that she wasn’t being treated as an elite combatant by anyone on her team. Even the support team each had levels that slightly outclassed her own, but she was a Sentinel with solid class qualities—even before Xaoc’s divine influence over her third class. Unfortunately, she was the only human in a flock of elves.

But it wasn’t like anyone was focused on her. Instead, they waited out the remainder of the day as they watched the ongoing battle through clever gaps in the wall. The final version of the plan called for them to deploy once it was dark—to press every possible advantage over the parasites that used unwilling hosts. It wasn’t a moonless night, thank Xaoc, but the first quarter moons wouldn’t offer much light.

Even the elves seemed to be tense after hours spent in final preparations while they watched men and women die in senseless conflict. The mass melee wouldn’t even matter—the whole of the Coalition was poised to strike, and the lives that were spent in those final hours gained them nothing more than a veneer of normalcy that (allegedly) kept the shimagu complacent. Ranthia was somewhat relieved that the elves seemed to hate it too, but their shared loathing wasn’t enough to change the reality of the situation.

Once the sun began to set, they—and the other groups—entered the steel-plated tunnels that extended beneath Spearpoint and followed them to trenches dug behind the combat lines. Each group stopped at its appointed sector, and… waited, in horrific proximity to the endless tide of blood.

“Go.”

The word travelled throughout the trench, carried and directed by someone’s Skill. It was even subdued, as though there was a fear of the shimagu overhearing.

Which was absurd, because the trench promptly became a roar of activity—an impossible to ignore spectacle that was illuminated by the flashiest Skills Ranthia had ever seen. Dazzling arrays of color sought to convert the night to a vibrant mockery of daylight as each group surged out of hiding and sought their way through—or bypassed—those that had fought for their lives against the shimagu hordes.

Problem #1 was the first to exit the trench—she moved faster than Ranthia could follow. Before Ranthia even escaped the trench, the elf was already amidst the shimagu forces. Blood and viscera bloomed around her like a flower, as the woman rushed ahead, outpacing everyone.

Problem #2 rose into the air—completely and fearlessly exposed as a target—before a wide swath of shimagu-infested ogres and humans were lifted into the air and brought together. Once they were in close proximity, Dark-encased metal spikes erupted through the press of bodies, skewering and shredding the lot. By the time Ranthia had quaffed her combat potions and reached the area where the shimagu line had been, the woman let the ruined hosts drop and began to collect her next group.

The woman with the oversized wolf kept pace alongside Ranthia and most of the other elves, though Egg (still presumably not his name) stayed behind, along with several other extreme-range capable support personnel to deliver death from afar. As expected, the shimagu army didn’t just buckle under the pressure from so many elites—it collapsed. On every front, the parasites did their best to fight, but their best just wasn’t at the level of those that carved through them.

Ranthia had silenced her notifications, outside of new Skills being offered and personal kills at level 512 or higher. Because if she hadn’t, the wall of army kill notifications would have probably left her insensate. Several dozen shimagu and their hosts died every second, with others left broken for the Coalition army to finish off. [Warriors] carved death and destruction. [Mages] exchanged their mana for absolute devastation. [Rangers] delivered lives to Black Crow with almost every move they made. There were even teams of dwarves moving platforms that contained deadly siege weapons, like the instruments of annihilation that protected Remera, using their strength to keep the bulky equipment advancing at speed.

Ranthia had expected the initial momentum to fade as they carved through the shimagu ranks, but contrary to her expectations, almost no one slowed down. In spite of everything, Ranthia found herself struggling to keep up. Each group had its own pace, but no matter where Ranthia looked, she saw little more than displays of exceedingly competent violence or the gory remnants of what had once been an army. The elves had called the final battle with the shimagu nothing more than a skirmish and—horrifically enough—it was looking like they would be correct.

And yet, even minutes into their surprise onslaught, there was no sign of a twin on any front. The warier members of the teams were calling out that something was amiss, but there was enough raw momentum and enough bloodlust driving their progress that their warnings failed to slow the aggressive push.

