In Sentinel Grey’s room, Ranthia read the reports that were provided and prepared herself. The current state of the war, the might of the Coalition, and the Legion’s strategy for finishing the war—all condensed into a set of eight scrolls. Allegedly, the Coalition had fifteen counters for the shimagu twins: ten elves (inbound from Coalition City), three Sentinels (Pierce, herself, and Solace with her support team), and two dwarven [Battlemasters] that were already present. There was a longer list of personnel that could fight a twin in a group or with a favorable matchup—and, oddly, Night only appeared on that list—but the final strategy wanted those assets directed at breaking the shimagu army. Those that could fight the twins directly were to form highly mobile groups of three, spearhead the offensive, then break away to intercept and eliminate the twins as they appeared. The strategy even called for support teams that would follow each trio to provide beneficial Skills, healing, and alchemical supplies.

Honestly, it was a solid plan. It would allow them to use their overwhelming advantages to their fullest and it capitalized on the absurd mobility that classers like her possessed. Ranthia hadn’t expected to like the plan, but it was genuinely well-crafted. Even if a twin (somehow) bypassed each of the leads, they had defensive assets that could stonewall them long enough for one of the trio units to notice the signal and respond. There were even plans in place for the secondary teams to step in if unexpected twins emerged.

Also, Ranthia found herself distracted by how… strange a feeling it was to read about the numbers of people that were involved. Spearpoint had more combat-ready personnel than the populations of almost every city that Ranthia had ever seen. War had forced her to escalate her concepts of battle to encompass hundreds, then thousands of active combatants. But this was a bridge too far; she couldn’t even imagine it.

And the more she tried, the more pointless it felt. They uprooted so many lives, just to try to end a roughly similar number of lives. All because the shimagu insisted on viewing their fellow intelligent beings as hosts to use and discard. And Ranthia couldn’t believe for a moment that the same view truly applied to all shimagu; undoubtedly, it was just a handful of horrible people that held power over their culture and their information and fed them lies, even as they fed the bulk of their population to their war.

But the war would soon be done—and those that had caused it would, at last, face the consequences for their actions. Xaoc willing, that would be all that it took. Not that Ranthia expected peace to come easy, but they only needed one brave shimagu to rise up and take the first step. The rest could follow.

But first, the Coalition needed to have a meeting, because what was war without meetings?

The great hall. The name evoked a set of expectations of both scale and lavishness, and—as usual—reality fell short of her expectations. All said and done, Ranthia was mostly certain that the so-called great hall was a bit smaller than the nameless room in Ranger Headquarters. The closest thing to décor was a poorly carved Remus eagle over the door, and a few banners and standards from those present.

But where the room was spartan stone furnished using hastily conjured wood, the people that filled it brought enough ornamentation and color to make up for what the room itself lacked. Legion Generals, Legates, and other important officials wore elaborate decorative armor of polished brass, resplendent with golden phalerae, necklets, and armbands, with precious coronas decorating their hair. With their pristine capes of crimson, they looked ready to parade about a city to enflame the hearts of men and women.

Instead, they marched to their seats within the room.

The Sentinels—aside from the [Healer]—chose to eschew their capes, at Night’s request. They wore their combat-ready armor and carried their preferred weaponry into the meeting. It was a statement—one that even Ranthia could discern—that they were there to see the war done. Her peers that had support teams (except Beast, as hilarious as it would have been to see the crowds react to his literally monstrous team’s presence) had them line up behind them, though they weren’t allowed to carry their weapons into the room.

The dwarves kept themselves in distinct groups, depending on which city-state they hailed from. Their armor was beautiful, but it was meant for war—there wasn’t a single undamaged piece on display in the room. Their [Battlemasters] were armed, but no other dwarf carried a weapon—which was somewhat surprising, Ranthia had watched dwarves carry their weapons to squat over a latrine. With enough dwarves gathered, it was clear that each city-state seemed to favor a slightly different alloy of metals for their armor, giving each a subtle similarity that extended beyond design aesthetics.

No two centaurs present were quite dressed or equipped the same way. One woman was even nude, aside from the helmet she wore. …Granted, centaurs probably had a different view on nudity than she did due to the somewhat unique structure of their bodies. Either way, some were ready for war, others looked more casual, but none of them were adorned with pointless ornamentation.

Unlike the gnolls. Many amongst their representatives seemed to be trying to outdo Remus’ Legions. There were some more practically geared individuals present, but many of them were adorned with elaborate dyes and sparkling jewelry with prominent gemstones. …Though Ranthia didn’t miss that several of the gemstones glowed with an unnatural light—Skills that had been imbued from a variety of elements.

The minotaurs were represented by only eight individuals. Massive beings of corded muscle, each clad in a matching off-white robe. Their only ornamentation came from their horns. Some were dyed, but most had elaborate metalwork mounted on them in an effort to bridge beauty and lethal utility.

There were other representatives as well. A dullahan clad in what seemed to be mithril sat, flanked by eight blatantly obvious bodyguards. Four nagas with freshly oiled flesh and scales were openly people-watching while they waited for things to begin. And a group, roughly two dozen in number, of unfamiliar beings—possibly dragonlings, given the descriptions Avyna had supplied during her lessons—occupied a distant corner of the room, openly gawking at anyone foolish enough to meet their gaze.

Elves took up the majority of the space in the room though, not by how many there were, but by how much space they chose to occupy. Each was beautiful or handsome in his or her own way: some were dressed in gleaming armor—metals unlike any Ranthia had ever seen—that bore the obvious glow of enchantments, some dressed in fine clothing that would suit some grand social event, and others clad themselves in well-made yet blatantly casual clothing. Many elves laughed and joked amongst themselves, though others projected boredom or people-watched with indifference.

And then, with one minute left until the meeting was supposed to begin, the world turned white.

“Do not be alarmed.” An unfamiliar voice audaciously requested.

“Solace?” Night’s voice sounded unnaturally faint, and even with the man seated just a few seats away from her, it felt as if she couldn’t figure out where his voice came from.

Level difference aside, he reacted before Ranthia could even parse out what was going on. The room had been filled with some sort of Mist. None of Ranthia’s Skills seemed to be alarmed and even with how thick the Mist was, she could breathe just as well as she could before it suddenly arrived. It was warm, but that seemed to be the extent of its interaction with her.

“Not me. Whoever did it hijacked mine too though.” The [Healer]’s voice barely even reached Ranthia’s ears.

[Vision of the Void] struggled with the fog. If the Skill wasn’t already capped, Ranthia suspected she would have gotten a few levels as she pitted the Skill against something that should have been easy to see through. There was undoubtedly a Mist classer involved, but—

The absolute Mist thinned, returning sight, but their world was still hazy with what remained. Several classers throughout the room were on their feet. The dwarven [Battlemasters] had their weapons in hand. Amongst the Sentinels, Beast and Gravity looked ready to throw down, but Night was seemingly calm in his chair—if she ignored the fact that his hands were resting on the handles of his knives.

Ranthia wasn’t quite on her feet, but she was tensed up—ready to launch herself at any problem that necessitated a lethal response.

And walking around as if none of it mattered was a being wreathed in Mist.

“My apologies for startling you all. I have come to perform a security check before I allow the true delegation to arrive.” The voice came again as the being made a soothing gesture.

Ranthia had missed the effect the first time, but the strange voice wasn’t speaking Creation—or, at least, they weren’t only speaking Creation. The words seemed to come in a multitude of languages simultaneously, though it was effortless to pick out what she understood. Even then, she had only noticed because she realized the enigmatic being had spoken using both Creation and High Elvish. That had to be some sort of System-inspired nonsense, but for once, Ranthia hadn’t a clue about how it could have been possible. It wasn’t like a Sound classer could read their minds and direct the preferred languages to each individual—that was outright impossible.

Ranthia tried to direct [Divine-Touched Identify] at the being, but the Mist seemed to disrupt her Skill. While the stranger meandered around the room, Ranthia pitted [Vision of the Void] against the Mist. She had to know what they were dealing with, self-professed benevolence aside.

About the same time the being stomped the floor—eliciting a displeased grunt from Sentinel Grey—Ranthia finally broke through.

[Mage – Spatial] level 2873, [Mage – Celestial] level 2696, [Mage – Gravity] level 2618.

By every last god and goddess!

“Adequate.” The being announced, before they reached forward and leisurely moved their hands as though they were parting drawn curtains.

And effortlessly ripped through the fabric of reality.

Through the newly minted portal, ten elves entered the room, before the mysterious Mist-clad entity passed through the portal, sealing it shut as they went. The moment they departed, the Mist vanished.

…Which was all the more confusing, because that horribly powerful being hadn’t actually possessed a Mist-aspected class!

It was only then that Ranthia finally realized that, of all the myriad reactions in the room, there was one group that remained conspicuously silent. A few of the elves that had already been present showed signs of distress, but they had—to a man—fallen silent as soon as the Mist appeared. Even with the entity’s departure, they seemed collectively cowed.

Unlike the newly arrived elves.

“Sorry about the Warden’s theatrics, but some of us are actually important.” An elven woman dressed in a gleaming breastplate—that had to be one of the magic metals Ranthia hadn’t seen before—announced, not bothering to hide her amused smirk.

With that abominable explanation hanging in the air, the new arrivals—the so-called elven elites—took their seats. Ironically, not a single elf among them even came close to the level of their security detail. Sure, the lowest among them sat at the level one thousand twenty-four class up tier, and they ranged up from there to ‘just’ more than twice Ranthia’s own level. But none of them had even reached level two thousand forty-eight, which made it harder to feel impressed with them after what Ranthia had just witnessed.

Which reminded her—after she composed what she needed to convey, Ranthia caught Night’s eye and flashed him a series of subtle Ranger hand signs to inform him about what she’d seen from the mysterious ‘Warden’. Night simply offered her a barely perceptible nod in answer, before he looked toward the elves.

And, at last, the meeting got underway. It began in fits and starts as people recovered and remembered what they needed to do—and, unsurprisingly, it began with an incredibly tone-deaf speech from one of the Legion generals that tried to frame the pending end to the war as a Legion success—but they got underway.

And the finely crafted plan was promptly tossed out the proverbial window.

The meeting stretched for six days while people argued. And Ranthia sorely wished those words meant that they did something sensible, like enduring six days of scheduled meetings. But no, instead, for more than 146 hours, there was at least a small group of people in the great hall carrying on their arguments. The size of the argument swelled and receded as people came and went, but it was never silent in the great hall.

Night requested at least two Sentinels remain present at the ‘meeting’ at all times then left Sentinels Grey and Sage to figure out the shifts—while he and Sentinel Silence vanished for the entire duration of the argument. There were serious perks to the power and authority he wielded.

But at least Ranthia was never stuck on a duty shift alongside Sentinel Solace. Beast surprisingly behaved himself without saying a word while she was stuck with him. But Ranthia was less convinced that the [Healer] with the intense stare would have just sat quietly and witnessed the spectacle of interspecies ‘cooperation’, not with Ranthia present.

