The shimagu were up to something. The elves were outpacing Ranthia’s best efforts. The scale of death should have been terrifying. There were a lot of reasons that Ranthia should have struggled with her inner turmoil—that she should have been in distress. But no matter how she should have felt… her heart sang. She wasn’t a mindless killer, but it was good to be back into the thick of battle. Without Avyna, the peaceful days had felt stifling. Each and every day had sorely tested her patience. It wasn’t a lust for blood though; she just wasn’t meant to quietly sit idle. No matter what she became, she was an Adventurer—she needed to venture out.

She hated the idea of others dying, just so she could pretend to live a peaceful life.

Ranthia couldn’t keep the smile off her face as her dance carried her to the occasional shimagu that made it past Problem #1. After all, each parasite she culled brought them closer to the end of the war. The shimagu had to have a breaking point. They just needed to find it!

The groups spread out as they tore deeper into the shimagu army. It wasn’t part of the plan, but the fastest among them were outpacing the rest, and the groups as a whole were moving at dramatically different speeds, exacerbating the issue. But that was fine, it gave Ranthia more opportunities to engage with the enemy.

The copper-haired [Warrior] and her wolf vanished and appeared in misleading places as they carved their own path. The flirt rose atop a small platform of Lava as he rained molten death on the shimagu just outside of their group’s reach. Other elves conjured moving barriers to intercept ranged Skills, conjured material, and arrows while they loosed artillery spells ahead. A Decay classer pranced forward, as though he was at ease, merely touching any shimagu soldier he passed—leaving them to succumb to the deadly curse he bestowed upon them.

They were almost halfway through the shimagu army before the first twin made her appearance. An ogress stepped forward from one of the densely packed shimagu bases. The intel stated that she was a powerful ranged threat, favoring single lethal shots at slow intervals. But the intel was clearly incomplete.

Because with every step the ogress took, she grew in size. By the time she stopped, she towered over even the fortifications at her back. And the bow she lifted was grander than any artillery Ranthia had ever seen. The moment she nocked an arrow—larger than most trees—the woman’s bow and arms blurred as a Mirage replicated them, making it impossible to tell where she was aiming.

Ranthia’s perception was at its limits, as she pitted [Vision of the Void] against the Mirage. The ogress moved casually, but it was only a casual speed by their standards—Ranthia had mere moments to figure out where she was aiming.

Even Spearpoint base probably couldn’t withstand such an impact unscathed.

But the ogress wasn’t aiming at Spearpoint. The true arrow was pointing almost directly at her!

“Incoming!” Ranthia screamed her warning, a moment too late, even as she threw herself to the side.

The ogress released her arrow, and the air itself split and deformed.

Problem #2 was the intended target. The woman made a desperate grabbing motion toward the arrow and somehow wrenched herself above its path in an instant. But that was all Ranthia had time to witness, before the shockwave slammed her into the ground and sent her bouncing. There was no time to form another image, Ranthia just did her best to roll with the impacts and protect herself.

She wasn’t the first back on her feet, but she recovered faster than most. She was battered and bloodied, but nothing was broken.

Not everyone was so lucky. The arrow had enough force behind it that there was a groove left in the rocky terrain—even though it hadn’t even touched the ground. Her group was left scattered and vulnerable, which meant she needed to get moving. There was a rock jammed into her armor, and she tried to pluck it out while she checked on her group. They didn’t have a [Healer] attached, so she needed to find which (if any) elves needed her potions to keep—

“Serondes!” An outraged shriek drew Ranthia’s attention, just in time to watch the last dregs of the lava platform splatter to the ground.

…The blood that covered her armor wasn’t her own. And the fragment in her hand wasn’t rock, it was a piece of horn—one that perfectly matched the flirt’s.

In an instant, an elf—one with a higher level than she possessed—hadn’t just been killed. He’d been torn to shreds. His experience, stats, and classes hadn’t even mattered.

Even as outraged reprisals reached the ogress, including a spiky-haired elf immersed in a glowing red aura that was flying in with his fist cocked back as though he was planning to punch her, the other shimagu twins emerged from the shimagu bases and made their presence known.

Ranthia had gotten so caught up in the elven momentum that she’d allowed herself to forget just how terrifying the shimagu twins could be. Six classes, unified in a single body. They were already deadly, but the twins that remained had been honed by decades of war—with most of those years spent as the sole hope for the ambitions of their kind.

And with their arrival, the promised ‘skirmish’ turned into a true war. One that was resplendent with every horror that the word could promise.
