Instead of continuing, my subdued beloved decides this is the time to stop talking and eat her noodles, slurping them up while staring off into the distance and obviously lost in her thoughts. Long seconds pass as we watch her empty her bowl in a single gulp, without stopping to chew or breathe. Her food finished, she holds her chopsticks to her lips in thought and asks, “Earlier I said Fire and Air is Light or Lightning, but what separates one from the other?”

Most of this stuff is going right over my head, but I think I know the answer to this one. “Probably the ratio’s involved. Light is probably more air and less fire, while Lightning would be the reverse.” Shrugging, I ask, “Right?”

“Close enough,” Taduk replies, absently reaching to pat my head, but while I would normally be all too happy to let him, I can see the poop dirt under his nails. “Though not entirely correct. If it were simply a matter of ratios, then there would be no need to differentiate between the two different Blessings as one could switch freely between the two, and no reason for Esoteric Blessings to be unable to manipulate their base Primal Elements. Of course, some argue that there actually isn’t a need to differentiate, and that the classification system is over-complicating the matter from the start, but there’s no need for you to delve so deeply into the subject.”

“...So maybe it’s not the ratio in use, but rather the concentration and configuration of the combined Blessings which form an Esoteric Blessing. Smoke is probably Air, Fire, and Earth, with Air being present in the highest concentration and Earth the lowest, which means...” Muttering to herself more than sharing with the rest of us, Mila doesn’t finish her sentence and rushes back to her spot on the path, ostensibly to go meditate some more.

Didn’t even say thanks for the meal or flash her fierce and lovely smile. I feel neglected and unloved. Then again, last night I forgot the date for our wedding, so I suppose this is well deserved...

Noticing Yan and Luo-Luo trading sheepish glances and Song already following on Mila’s heels, I stifle a sigh and wave them away. “Go on and meditate. I’ll be fine. The Martial Dao waits for no one.” Yan’s grateful smile almost makes it worthwhile, though she spoils it by sticking out her tongue, so I glower and add, “But if you’re going to wave your weapon around, wait until after I’ve left with Lin-Lin and the animals. I don’t mind being abandoned for work, but if you think I’m gonna sit around and wait until you’re finished, then you’ve got another thing coming.”

Taduk turns down my invitation to come along, but to my surprise, the hidden Guard Leader accepts, even though I only offered to be polite. Whatever, she’s a quiet, reserved sort and Lin-Lin doesn’t seem too put off by her veiled bodyguard’s unConcealed presence, especially since the taciturn woman would’ve probably been following us anyways. I don’t really understand her at all. At first, she was stuck to Lin-Lin like glue, but after her run in with Pong Pong and his Aura of Crippling Despair, Guard Leader stuck close to Taduk’s side and has been there ever since. She didn’t even come out when Lin-Lin followed me to the front lines, so I’m guessing she’s having a real issue dealing with whatever emotions Pong Pong dredged up.

Poor Guard Leader. Depression sucks, and I wouldn’t wish it on anyone, but maybe an afternoon of fun activities will cheer her up. Together, we lead a train of floofs out to explore the farm, and it isn’t long before Lin-Lin breaks out the kites, and I’m only too happy to join her. It’s almost magical how her enthusiasm for life and adventure just grabs you by the scruff of the neck and drags you along for the ride. In an hour or two, I’ll remember I’m a grown ass man who shouldn’t run laughing across a field while pulling an elaborate dragon-shaped kite behind me, but here and now, in this moment shared with my beloved little wifey, I’m having fun, and nothing else matters.

With good winds and plenty of practice, we soon have eight elaborate kites fluttering in the wind, and when the local kids come out to watch or say hi to Ping Ping, I invite them over to play along. Several concerned parents try to politely decline for fear of my floofs or even fear of me, but Lin-Lin’s winning smile and Ping Ping’s polite waves are more than enough reassurance for most. While my wifey shows everyone the ropes, including an all-too serious Guard Leader, I make small talk with the parents out of a deep-seated need to garnish all my good fun with a dash of suffering. Rather than the families of the Sentinels living on the farm’s periphery, these are the local farmers themselves, most of whom worked here for the previous owner and accepted my offer of continued employment. There’s not much to talk about since Luo-Luo has everything well in hand, so all they really need to do is plant beets in the fields and keep away from Taduk. However, being the busybody that I am, I ask about their living arrangements and daily lives so I can figure out how to possibly improve them and feel like I’m doing something with my life.

Honestly, I’m not as generous and charitable as people think. I just hate seeing people suffer, so I make an effort to ensure the people I see aren’t suffering. I’m motivated by the need to not feel shitty, rather than out of any underlying desire to do good for the sake of good. Maybe Kuang Biao is right, and I’m arrogant enough to take responsibility for matters beyond my control, but this is different. If things work out, these people are going to make me a buttload of money, so the least I could do is make sure they’re warm and well-fed.

After promising to build a proper road to the river, I’m reminded of yet another reason for my visit. Leaving Lin-Lin to play with the shrieking children and their billowing kites, I set off to see the river for myself, with only Kuang Biao, Ping Ping, and Mama Bun to keep me company and a packed, burlap bag slung over my shoulder. While the Death Corps guard follows closely in my shadow, Mama Bun bounds this way and that to explore her surroundings, her nose twitching furiously every now and then as she stops to dig a little in the dirt. Maybe the soil smells different around here, or she’s found a new type of grass she really, really likes, but regardless of the reason, the sweet bunbun ambles about to examine anything and everything which crosses her path.

Upon arriving at the river, Ping Ping wades in with a squeak of delight, even though it’s almost too narrow for her to fit and certainly not deep enough for her to dive into. You wouldn’t know it from looking at her though, as the giant turtle settles into the water with a satisfied squeak. Maybe it’s because the water is actually flowing here, unlike the still waters of the lake inside the Citadel, so I make a note to see if I can get permission to bring her out into the moat running along the western side of the Citadel. I already tried once and Dad said the moat was too crowded with ships and transports, but if Ping Ping wants to sit in flowing water, then I’m gonna get her flowing water to sit in, even if I have to build her a waterfall with my own two hands.

Idly hoping the Central Citadel has a place she can swim in, I put down my bag and pull out a box of freshly caught shrimp and a bucket of lively crabs. “Lunch time!” I call, even though I feel a little silly doing this with Kuang Biao around. He can’t be trusted to keep a secret, and I’d really rather not think about how he reports my actions to the Legate, or anyone else for that matter. Well, such is life. “Today only, an extra large box of shrimp!”

Sailing out of the water in a graceful arc, Pong Pong lands neatly atop his lunchbox with mouth open and eyes wide, alternating between squeaking and honking as turtles are wont to do. Tiny as always and more adorable than ever, his beautifully patterned shell shakes back and forth while he does a little happy dance over today’s massive offering before finally deigning to acknowledge my presence, if only to tap his clawed arm against the box to demand I open it now. All too happy to see him, I let his poor manners slide and set the box on the ground before removing the lid, and the tiny, gluttonous turtle dives in with reckless abandon, a sight which is amusing, horrifying, and oddly exhilarating all at the same time.

Not gonna lie, I miss the little guy. He might very well be the smartest of my pets, so it’s hilarious to see how he reacts to things. I wonder... does the Legate suspect anything about Pong Pong? I mean, the tiny turtle is smart and speedy, but he’s never really exhibited his phenomenal cosmic powers in any obvious ways.

You know... aside from that one time when he nearly killed me and four Peak Martial Experts out in Nan Ping Bay, but no one besides those involved know anything about it, and somehow I doubt Gang ‘pour my fucking tea’ Shu and his underlings would care to share information with the Imperials.

The river bubbles and gurgles as Sir Inky surfaces to say hi, and I reach over to give his bulbous brown head a light scritching in greeting. Wrapping two tentacles lightly around my wrist to keep the current from washing him away, the oddest of my pets bobs in place and enjoys the attention while I settle in for Pong Pong’s lunchtime matinee. “Sorry I haven’t been around lately,” I say, holding one shrimp in place so it’s easier for the little turtle to eat. “I’ve been busy with the war and whatnot. I came back a few days ago, but this is the first chance I’ve had to make the trip. I don’t know if you heard, but some weird stuff happened while I was in Sinuji, and now I have to go on another trip to attend some stupid banquet, so it might be awhile before I come back again.”

Maybe I’m imagining it, but it feels like Pong Pong is watching me while I speak, almost as if he understands. I doubt it though. Chances are he’s just wondering why the weird soft-skin is making so much noise while he eats, but he’s still a good listener. “A lot of good people died there. Hell, it’s a damn miracle I survived myself, but I have no idea how. A primal, instinctive state of Balance, according to Monk Happy, but I don’t entirely believe it. Then again, these days I have no idea what to believe, but apparently I need to believe in something for things to work out. Weird right?”

Done with my rant, I settle in on my heels and enjoy this moment of peace for as long as I can. After a few minutes, Sir Inky grows bored of being scritched and pulls himself up along my forearm to inspect the bucket of crab. Cautiously reaching in to pull one out, he watches my reaction as if to ask, “Is this for me?” Unable to contain my smile, I nod as if he might understand the gesture and wince as he crunches into the treat with an unrestrained joy found only in children and animals alike. Those children back there with Lin-Lin are having the time of their lives, and so are Sir Inky and Pong Pong. This is a level of contentment which can only be seen in children and animals alike, an unrestrained joy and zest for life which is reserved solely for the innocent and naive, a complete focus on the here and now which lets them find so much joy in the moment and I envy them for it.

I can’t be like that. I always have something to worry about. Right now, I’m concerned about my dwindling finances all going into Runic Cannon research and hoping this sugar beet business pays off, while also keeping an eye on that weird shadow in the rushes because it might be hiding a Concealed assassin. Being the paranoid bastard I am, I lob a rock at the shadow just to be sure, and it’s a palpable relief to watch it sail through the air and splash into the water without smacking into something unseen along the way.

One can never be too safe.

I wish I could be as happy and carefree as Ping Ping, Pong Pong, or Sir Inky. Lin-Lin is doing life right, and I’m fortunate enough to share in her joy and animation, but it never lasts. Already I’m wondering what I would’ve done if that shadow had been an assassin. Run and screamed most likely, while praying Kuang Biao can kill the assassin before the assassin could kill me. I hate being so helpless, but my Martial Dao is so tangled and messy I don’t know where to start. The Legate’s old Beardy Divinity made a weird comment about my Dao, in how swearing service would be in direct conflict with it and ruin my value, but I don’t really get it. How would it ruin me? Because I wouldn’t be motivated to work? I mean, motivation is easy, get stronger or die. Can’t be more motivated than that, so why would a lack of motivation ruin my Dao?

