More to the point, what is my Dao? It’s vital I figure this out before moving on, because if I run into a dead end, meaning something my Dao cannot progress past, then it will be difficult to backtrack and pick up from an earlier point. People don’t change, not without effort, and changing your core values and beliefs is the hardest of all. What’s more, the Dao is different for everyone, and today’s conversation about Insight made that clearer than ever. Luo-Luo’s Dao obviously has to do with music and dance, while Song’s seems closely tied to poetry and the Forms. Yan’s Dao follows the Divine Wind, and Mila’s... well Mila’s is a mystery still, but I doubt it’s anything like the others. What’s worse is none of this helps me identify my Dao. What is it? Logic and reasoning? Doubtful, considering I have no idea how I pulled off most of my greatest successes. In fact, I’d even say I’m more successful when I ignore ‘how’ to do something and focus on ‘what’. Guiding? Just throw your sword, 4head. Aura? Think emotional thoughts and share them without words, easy peasy. Chi Tea? Steep in a tub, and blammo. Domain? Reject the world and make your own place in it.

There’s no ‘how’. Only ‘do’.

Maybe that’s how animals use Chi. They don’t question things, they just do them. Maybe they see Chi as a natural extension of their physical selves, rather than some magic and mystical power. It helps them do what they can already do, just better. Bears need to climb? They Lighten themselves to help it along. Wildcat needs to hunt? Concealment will do wonders for their success rate. Hare wants to eat poultry? Cloud-step your way into the skies and snag yourself a duck.

Yea, Cloud Chaser Hares don’t really fit the mould...

Then again, maybe I’m onto something. Even though roosters can’t fly, they have wings and feathers, so Kukku could probably soar through the air if he Lightened himself a bit. I doubt he’d be as graceful as a regular bird, but I bet he could at least hover around for a bit, if he really tried. Thing is, he doesn’t try, because he’s a rooster who spent his entire life knowing he can’t fly. Then there’s Ping Ping, who can manipulate Water, but only in a limitend fashion. She doesn’t conjure Water tentacles to lash out at her foes or a flowing river for her to swim in, but she can spit water bullets and redirect water currents to spin quins around, because to her turtle brain, those are natural interactions she can do without Chi. There’s nothing mystical about spitting water or affecting the current, because she can do that normally, but Chi just makes her better at it, which is faith in a twisted sort of way.

Maybe that’s what everyone means by follow your Martial Dao. Find what fits for you, and follow it through to the end.

So what is my Dao? Where do I fit into this world?

...

Newsflash: I don’t. I’m a statistical anomaly, a metaphysical hiccup, a fly in the ointment of the Mother’s grand work. This is not my world, nor will it ever be, so maybe that’s why Balance feels like a struggle instead of a warm embrace, or why I don’t get the same Insights and Awakenings as everyone else. The Mother loves all Her children, but I’m not one of them, am I?

Okay. Mystery solved. Great. Now what?

...

No idea.

But...

I’ll worry about it later. For now, I’m going to take in the sights and enjoy the moment. Once Pong Pong and Sir Inky are done with their meals, I’ll head back and see if Lin-Lin wants to go rickshaw racing, or give quin-rides to the kids brave enough to try. After that, who knows?

I’m tired of always wondering why I’m unhappy. Today, I’m just gonna go be happy, and there’s nothing anyone can do to stop me.

“Move!”

The world blurs as my body sails through the air, tossed to one side like a sack of clothes. Instincts and training kick in and I go with the flow, tumbling across the dirt path and going head over heels to land neatly on my feet. Turning around with my hands raised to defend me, I see Kuang Biao’s flashing sword trading blows with three unknown assailants, all of whom are dressed like peasants and move like Experts. “Run!” Kuang Biao bellows, only moments before one assailant breaks away from the fight and charges over to take my life while his companions keep my only guard busy.

...

Well so much for today being a happy day. You’d think that after all these years, I’d have learned to stop raising flags and tempting fate...

Chapter Meme
