No matter the occasion, I love sitting down for meals with family and friends, and doubly so when I cooked said meal. There’s something deeply satisfying about providing for my loved ones and seeing them enjoy the fruits of my labour, a fact I was only recently reminded of when Lin-Lin asked me to make dumplings for an afternoon snack. Meals aren’t just about acquiring sustenance, they’re also a time to fulfill the basic human need of social interaction. People eat and smile, chat and laugh, take time out of their day to hear about how others are doing, and it’s just a good time all around.

Usually. Today, as we all partake in our meal here in Taduk’s garden, there is no joy or satisfaction to be found. Chopsticks clacking against bowls and intermittent sips and slurps are all that fills the empty silence while I do my best not to take it personally. They’re all distracted for good reason, like my eccentric teacher Taduk. So obsessed with his Spiritual Plant garden, he not only refused to take two minutes to run off and borrow some gardening tools, he also insisted we have our meal here in this shit-strewn field so he can keep an eye on his newly planted seeds, bulbs, shoots, and grafts. It’s an impressive effort considering he pretty much seeded 90% of the garden while I was off cooking, but I can’t help but be mildly annoyed by his strange and unconventional thinking. For one thing, he knows he has a pest problem, but he refuses to wait until after I’ve caught the offending culprit to start planting again, so now he’s so anxious about having his efforts wasted that he can’t tear his eyes away from the garden. We even had to fence away the bunnies to keep them out of his garden, because he kept having a conniption every time they looked sideways at one of his precious seedlings. It really puts a damper on the whole affair, because even though the rabbits seem happy enough munching on veggies in their pen, I’d much rather have them hopping around freely than confined to a small area which I’m not in.

Not gonna lie, it’s mostly the last part. Besides, Taduk’s going to have to leave his garden untended while we go to that stupid banquet anyways, so even if he builds wooden planters and sets up a strong wire mesh, something will still eventually steal the fruits of his labour when he’s not looking. I hope it’s not mole-rats again, I’ve had enough of those ugly bastards for a lifetime, Demonic or otherwise. Also, I appreciate that Taduk is working hard for my sake so I might recover that much sooner, but he’s been so busy with this garden that I haven’t seen him much since I came back from Sinuji. He leaves before breakfast and comes home for dinner, then it’s straight to bed and repeat.

So I guess I’m trying to say I miss my Taddy...

Then there’s Mila, Yan, Song, and Luo-Luo, all of whom are as distracted as my teacher, though for a different reason. While I was trying to convince Taduk to stop digging through poop-strewn dirt with his bare hands, the four of them slipped away to go meditate in the grove. At first, I thought it was some weird, unfunny prank, because it seemed kind of rude to block the only way in and out of the garden, but before I could call out and ask what was going on, Guard Leader stepped out of the shadows and scared me half to death. Apparently, the four meditating ladies found something unusual about Taduk’s little grove and were collectively parsing through their individual Insights. It’s cool and all, but I can’t help but feel extremely jealous of their staggering good fortune. I mean, here I am struggling to define my Martial Dao and unravel the mystery of using Chi with a shattered Core, while everyone around me has a direct line to the Mother Above so She can whisper secrets into their ears.

There are days when I reflect on my pessimistic attitude and think, “You know what? You’re wrong. The world doesn’t hate you. Stop being so dramatic.”

Then there are days like today, in which my suspicions are totally validated and I can rest easy knowing that I’m not an idiot or a failure, I just can’t succeed because the world genuinely hates me.

Seriously, what gives? Where’s my sudden Insight? Mila called this grove a ‘place of Enlightenment’ where everything sits in natural Balance, so why don’t I feel anything while sitting here? It’s not fair...

I guess I’m just feeling vexed because things aren’t working out like I’d hoped. Today was supposed to be a day off, a chance to relax after yesterday’s never-ending stream of social ordeals, and I was looking forward to spending time with my beloved betrotheds. I figured I’d cook lunch while they kept me company, and then we’d all head out to fly kites or race rickshaws or something and have a grand old time. Instead, I had to ask Taduk to carry me out of the grove like a sack of potatoes because I couldn’t use the only path out thanks to Yan waving her sword/axe/fan thing around willy nilly. Then I got to trudge off to the kitchen and cook lunch by myself, because Lin-Lin had to stay behind and watch the floofs while also helping Taduk tend to his precious garden.

Okay, to be fair, I did turn down Sorya and Anrhi when they offered to help, but even though I’ve known Jorani’s charming half-sisters for a while now, we’re not exactly friends or anything. Besides, I don’t feel comfortable spending an extended amount of time with them alone in an enclosed space. It’s not because I don’t trust myself around attractive women, but I just don’t want to make forced small talk or partake in other forms of social interaction. Yea, it’s silly to intentionally avoid people then turn around to complain about having to cook alone, but I’m allowed to be irrational and illogical, because that’s part and parcel of being human.

Unable to take the stifling silence any longer, I swallow a mouthful of rice noodles and delicious braised pork (which no one besides Lin-Lin has complimented) and ask, “So... what’s so special about cultivating here? Like how is it different than normal?”

After a brief pause to consider the question, Luo-Luo is the first to reply. “This one found it much easier,” she says, glancing fondly at the only exit as if wishing she were there now instead of eating a delicious meal which I spent two hours slaving over a stove to prepare. “Balance came as easily as breathing, as if it were the natural state we were meant to exist in, but that was not all. This one heard a symphony hidden within the whistling wind and rustling leaves, the drawing of breath and the beating of heart, with light and shadow dancing to this beautiful and almost imperceptible tune.” Sighing while lost in fond recollection, Luo-Luo’s bowl of noodles dips dangerously low and almost spills out the side, revealing that she’s barely eaten a single bite even though I’m already on my third bowl. It’s delicious, so if they won’t eat it, I will. “It was majestic and sublime, a place of transcendent Divinity and palpable spirituality where this one felt closer to the Mother above than ever before.”

All this praise for a dirt path in a grove, and she can’t say one good thing about the noodles. Besides, what’s so special about easy meditation? I used to do that too...

Truth be told, hearing Luo-Luo’s description makes it difficult to be upset about Taduk’s idiosyncratic ways. Not gonna lie, I was a little miffed when he told me he bought an entire bamboo grove and had it transported and transplanted over just so he could have a little privacy. Most people would’ve built a fence, but not Taduk. Maybe he was Inspired to do so, or maybe he just got lucky, because my teacher looks as confused as I am, which says a lot. “It doesn’t make sense,” he mutters, his mouth full and eyes constantly scanning his garden. “I just threw the stalks down wherever I fancied. How could it bring about such wondrous results?” Briefly looking away from his garden to look at Luo-Luo, he asks, “Are you sure you weren’t hallucinating? I know you children like to play with pharmaceuticals sometimes...”

“If so, then we all were, Sir Medical Saint. Hallucinating, that is, and I for one have not used any pharmaceuticals.” Respectful as always, Yan bows her head ever so slightly when addressing Taduk, even though he’s already gone back to watching his seeds and bulbs. Yan is this polite with Mom and Akanai too, but not with Dad, which is odd because I remember her being this big Bannerman fangirl. Either way, it’s weird seeing her behaving so prim and proper, but she doesn’t notice my mocking smile and continues with her explanation unaffected. “My experience differed in detail from Luo-Luo’s, but the end result was much the same, as if Balance were thrust upon me rather than sought out and obtained. There was more too. It felt like the Divine Wind was moving through the grove for the sole purpose of guiding me, repeating the same lessons it always shared but only... not in more detail, but in a more... personal and intimate manner. A one-on-one lesson if you will, wherein the topic discussed remained unchanged, but the manner of delivery seemed tailored to my experiences and understanding.”

Taduk offers a non-committal grunt of acknowledgement, but no further thoughts of theories. Knowing cultivation and the Martial Dao is a very personal matter, I refrain from outright asking Song to share her experience, but either she feels comfortable enough to speak about it or she sees my curiosity as an implicit command. “This one heard no music and felt no Divine Wind,” Song begins, as matter of fact as ever. “However, this one fixated on a single poem, Bamboo in the Rock, and...”

Song’s experience feels closest to my own, based on the Forms and their physical use, with no real ‘supernatural’ weirdness aside from her brain fixating on a single poem. It can easily be explained considering it’s a poem about bamboo and she was sitting in a bamboo grove, which isn’t really much of a leap in logic. As for her take away from the whole poem, that’s up for debate, because while she thinks the poem is about adapting to one’s circumstances and always striving to better oneself, I’m pretty sure the bamboo in the poem is a metaphor for hardworking commoners subsisting in harsh conditions, and how even the lowest born peasant should stand tall and take pride in their familial roots.

Then again, what do I know about poetry? What does anyone know?

With the other three having given their answers, everyone naturally turns to Mila, who sits there with a smug, complacent expression pasted across her adorable freckled face. Lost in a haze of Insight and understanding, I’m not even sure she heard our discussion, but when Lin-Lin asks her point blank what her experience was like, Mila smiles and answers, “Insightful. Wonderful. I never entirely understood why Auxiliary Blessings and Esoteric Blessings were so different, but after meditating in the grove, I think I get it now.”

“...What’s an Auxiliary Blessing?” Judging by everyone’s incredulous stares turned in my directions, it seems like this is yet another piece of common knowledge I should already know, but I’m long past being ashamed of my ignorance. “And Esoteric, while we’re at it.”

For once, Mila doesn’t answer my question with a snort, and it’s a pleasant change from the usual. “A Primal Element is one of the base four, Earth, Fire, Wind, or Water. An Auxiliary Blessing is comprised of two Primal Blessings, and gives the user access to three Blessings in total. Metal, Wood, Sand, Ice, Lightning, and Cloud are the most common Auxiliary Blessings, but there are others which can result from the same pairing. For example, Fire and Wind form Lightning, but can also form Light, but one Blessed by Lightning is not the same as one Blessed by Light. It’s a complicated topic which scholars have debated for thousands of years, but with Blessings being so rare, it’s difficult to come up with a proper classification which they all neatly fit into.”

“...Do I have an Auxiliary Blessing? You know, since I Awakened twice?”

“No,” Yan replies with an exasperated roll of her eyes. Where’s the respectful and deferential girl who was talking to Taduk earlier? Seems like she just upped and disappeared. “Or rather, you may or may not have an Auxiliary Blessing, but your two separate Awakenings have no bearing on it. Until you showed up, everyone only Awakened once, regardless of their Blessing.”

Haha, I’m so quirky and different, not like the other Martial Warriors. “Got it.” I think. I have the Blessing of Water. Probably. Or at the very least, I am Water adjacent. This would be so much easier if I’d gotten my Awakening information package, but it’s been years and I still barely understand how it works. The most I could do was condense water on my sword and turn regular water into Chi Tea, but even then it’s mostly me fumbling around in the dark. Maybe I’ve got an Auxiliary Blessing in the form Wood and Water to make Tea, but that sounds so... blasphemous. If I’m going to Awaken to a drink, it’ll be Coffee or riot. “So what are Esoteric Blessings?”

“They are a catch all term for Blessings which don’t fit under Primal or Auxiliary Blessings.” Almost as an afterthought, Mila adds, “Like Shadow, Sound, or mine.”

Or Tea and Coffee? I don’t even know anymore. Also, I knew Mila had a Blessing, but to this day, I’m still not sure of what. It’s not Smoke, like Guan Suo, right? That would be terrible. I don’t want my sweet wifey to be addicted to the pipe.

