Alden rose from picking up a particularly sharp fragment of the rock. “Why is that a good thing?”

“Because you’re learning better auriad and authority control than you would from most books for beginners. It’s slowing you down in one way. You’d have studied a larger number of spells with a children’s guide. But this book’s doing a better job of preparing you for what you’ll be able to cast in a year or two. She must have thought getting your auriad technique ready for adult level spells was a higher priority than giving you a large collection of simple ones. I agree.”

“Me too when you explain it that way.”

Alden looked toward the old house. He had a hundred questions about that, a thousand about the spell they’d just performed, an infinite number about magic itself…

“Why does magic work?” he asked.

“Wizards from different times and places would give different answers,” Stuart replied. “<<Abundance>>—the potential for all—lies within or beneath or above everything that exists. It is the reason even stone may not be stone. It is the reason we may change the position of a keda bean.”

“Potential for all?” That sounds positive. Except… “Doesn’t that describe chaos?”

“Yes. But not quite. Chaos, as you and I understand the word, is more like an error in how reality responds to abundance. I think. I don’t know everything someone like Father is allowed to know. But I know corruption wasn’t a significant hazard for ancient wizards, and the word that has come to mean ‘demon’ once described a much less harmful <<phenomenon>>. Abundance is presumably primordial. Chaos seems to have become a problem relatively recently.” He looked over. “Proper discretion has hidden much, and you should consider that what I’m about to say is based on nothing but my own observations, which are youthful and ignorant. I wonder if maybe a long time ago a wizard who was trying to manipulate abundance stumbled into a terrible mistake. And we now live with its aftermath.”

“You think one wizard might have broken the whole universe?”

“It’s incomprehensible, but I do wonder… ”

“And I was so proud I helped you break a rock.”

“Alden, you should also know that the kind of teleportation that led to the discovery of Earth seems to be particularly bad now. The travelers of old found new worlds that way, but in our time it…either destabilizes places or it happens to find unstable places more easily. It’s most likely the first. I have studied enough to be sure of that.”

“You said once that the wizard who discovered Earth could have been looking for the solution to chaos.”

“They might have been. Some people favor traveling in search of a savior. Others want to find more worlds to form Contracts with because a stronger network of Contracts has its own benefits.”

“Likely spreading chaos in search of an unlikely cure for chaos then,” Alden said. “That’s not right.”

“No,” Stuart agreed softly.

Alden tucked the rock into his pocket and brushed off his hands. “Maker of Narrow Ways—it will let you discover new worlds without that same risk?”

“One day it might.” Stuart looked at the bean. “Not all that soon. It’s not the reason I chose it really.”

“It’s a good option to have, though. Is it okay if I aim my cutting spell at some of the flowers climbing that tree over there? The book suggested using it to cut down fruit in orchards. Flowers are similar enough.”

Stuart blinked. “You can aim at whatever you want.”

Alden’s auriad slid down his wrist and wove through his fingers. There was something else he wanted to know. Maybe now was the best time. They’d been casting together all day. Their closeness was closer than it had been.

It’s not like I can find out by keeping quiet. Not keeping quiet has been working well for me this weekend.

“I’m not sure exactly what I’m expecting, or if it’s all right to just ask this like it’s any other question… ”

“I’ll tell you everything I know about chaos.” Stuart sounded solemn. “It’s not enough yet, but you should ask.”

Oh. He’s still on that.

“Good,” said Alden. “I should obviously know what you do if I’m going to be fighting with you. We don’t have to go deep into demonic theory or what exactly happens at Matadero this afternoon, though. I’ve been wondering…are we…is there a chance we’re compatible? Like Emban wants with Ryada. Like Esh-erdi has with Lind-otta. Could we have a partnership like that, or is there too much of a gap between you and me?”

Stuart took a step back. In both ways.

“It’s not the kind of thing knights casually ask each other!” Alden said. “I’m sorry. I thought since Emban’s whole squad was formed for them to try to find those partners it was something normal enough to just talk…forget it. Forget I said anything. You bring it up if you ever want to. But you don’t have to want to. Ever.”

Stuart had stopped doing the closeness. He’d reeled back like the question was a punch. Alden had clearly committed a dreadfully embarrassing social crime, and despite his nerves, he really hadn’t seen it coming. They’d already agreed to such life-altering things this weekend that a question about this had seemed to fit in.

I wanted a realistic idea about whether or not it was even an option for me. I should’ve waited. Figured out more through clues.

“Forget— ” he said again.

“It’s a normal thing to talk about!” Stuart blurted.

“It is?”

“Knights and people who will be knights talk about bonding and who they hope to find compatibility with all the time!” He was nodding too much.

“If they do, then why did you react like that? You scared me.”

“Nobody talks about it with me. About me. I wasn’t expecting…and I didn’t realize you were thinking about it at all. You have many other matters on your mind.”

Alden watched him fidget with whatever he had in his tunic pockets. He was smiling.

Not upset then. Just shocked.

It was odd that he would be shocked, from Alden’s perspective. But he supposed if they traced it all the way back to the problem of everyone in the right age group rejecting Stuart’s choices, there was something there to explain it.

“I’ve been curious ever since you told me about it before the Here-to-There,” he admitted. “And of course I’ve wondered if we could manage it together. You’re the knight—almost knight—I’m closest to. Brothers on the same path. Who else would I be hoping for that kind of partnership with?”

“That’s natural!”

“I know it is. Or I thought I did until you ran away.”

Stuart sprang toward him, and the closeness returned. “We’ve been uncommonly comfortable with each other,” he said quickly. “Our interactions have been few and shallow. However—”

“Was the combined casting we just did shallow?”

“Relatively shallow.”

Relative to what?

“Few and shallow, but wonderful to both of us,” said Stuart. “Whether we can be to each other what Esh-erdi and Lind-otta are isn’t something I can tell. I want to say yes, but it’s a long way. Difficult for most. The sameface twins seem close to achieving it, but not that many who begin the journey together finish it. And it’s not as if I have personal experience. As for the gap between the power of my authority and yours… ”

Stuart’s hesitation then was a palpable thing.

“Too much?” Alden asked, trying to hide a sting of disappointment and keep his tone matter of fact.

“Not if we were determined. The gap can be bridged. Esh-erdi proved any gap can be bridged. Nobody may ever exceed him as far as that goes. Lind-otta is much older than him. When they met, she was also much more powerful.”

“So it doesn’t matter that much?”

“It does matter,” said Stuart. “Because it adds strain to something that’s already hard to do. To complete the full bond there can’t be a gap in power, even if there was one at the start. So as the two knights grow closer and learn to hold each other’s spot in reality, a remarkable thing happens. One begins to wait, and—”

Stop right there, thought Alden, wincing. One waiting is good enough. Don’t finish that.

“—the other speeds up.”

“I would be the other.”

“You would. As we deepened our bond, your power would grow until you caught up to me.”

“How fast would the affixations be coming?”

Stuart shook his head.

“Not as fast as Esh-erdi’s did, but…I suspect you would have a very bad year in your future. We can’t truly know how it would be. We would have to deepen with each other to the point where it’s happening. Then it would be happening, and we’d find out if we could endure it or not. If we waited a few years before we tried, maybe you’d grow more quickly than me on your own and close some of the gap. Or it might turn the other way, with the gap gradually widening.” His smile gained a bitter twist. “I wish I were weaker. That’s not a thing I’ve often wished for. But thank you for considering me even for a moment, my friend. I would have enjoyed seeking that kind of bond with you, too.”

Alden digested that for a while. “So you do think we’re compatible enough to try, but you’re opposed to it.”

“Of course I’m not opposed,” Stuart said slowly. “However, I’m not the one who would endure the worst of the difficulty.”

“Wouldn’t you be sharing most of it with me? Holding each other’s spots in reality, lending each other authority, using each other’s skills in some ways, enduring bindings together to make them easier…somehow? You indicated that was part of it. And keeping each other from death for a time.”

“I don’t think we’d experience some of those benefits until we were finished with the process,” Stuart cautioned.

Alden scratched the back of his neck. “It’s weird saying this because it sounds so much-much…but after the way this weekend has gone, I feel like I could handle an extra affixation or two. If it’s for something like this. You might have emboldened me too much for my own good by being so accepting. But if you’d like to try it, too—”

“I would!” Stuart said. “I agree it’s a very good idea!”

Then he toned the exuberance down again to say, “Though, of course, you may change your mind after—”

“Stop that,” said Alden. “You’re as bad as…some person who kept being self-deprecating in the supply library. I know what I’ve suggested and who I’ve suggested it to. We’re talking about something special and good. If you’re excited, be excited. I am.”

“You are.” There was too much of a gleeful Artonan trill in those words for Alden to be sure if they were a statement or a question.

“I—”

I am.

He was. But at that moment, his stupid bastard brain fell on top of a problem it had just found.

If I deepen a bond with Stuart, he’ll come to completely understand my skill. Completely. He’ll know. Asking to go through with this is a way of deliberately revealing my skill’s true nature to him. I’m not allowed to intentionally reveal that.

I promised.

The gremlin was pleased he’d remembered his duties in its simpleminded way.

The tattoo had no feelings. It was just a cold, unforgiving, relentless mistake.

Alden flinched away from the existential closeness, even though he didn’t want to. He tried to cover for the sudden retreat by saying he needed to focus on the spell that would cut the flowers.

Instead of focusing, he was close to panic. And that made things so much worse because it kept him from thinking his way around the issue. Finding words to make sentences to create delays instead of lies—he needed to do that.

Instead, he heard himself confusing Stuart. Then distancing himself. Babbling a bit.

Lying.

Lying more smoothly so that Stuart wouldn’t look so upset. This had been a great day, and now Alden was ruining it for him out of the blue.

Lute needed help with Victor, he said. Cat emergency. The message had just come.

It was too bad that their weekend would have to end here.

Less than an hour later, he teleported directly into his apartment at Celena North. He said hello to Lute, who was drowsily eating cheese puffs on the sofa with a content and healthy cat.

Alden liked both of them a lot.

He wasn’t happy to see them.

******

******

“Ro-den.”

Stu whispered the word. It fell on an empty summonarium where Alden had been standing a breath ago.

He sent himself back to where they’d been and started walking.

There were some things an art’h could only do at the old house.

*
