Ali looked over at Calen, who paused thoughtfully and then spoke, “I’m an explorer at heart. I love discovering new places and hearing the stories of dungeons and ruins. The ruins of the lost city of Dal’mohra are the greatest find in recent memory. I’m actually jealous that you got to explore it already.”

Surprised at their passionate answers, Ali responded, “Then, perhaps you all can teach me how to be a better teammate?”

Mato coughed in amazement, “You… really?”

“Ali, I’m sure we will all learn a lot from each other,” Malika answered. “How do you plan to better amazing?”

“Malika, please.”

“Miss Aliandra, I am extremely stubborn about my opinions, especially when I’m right. Fine. I hear you. We can talk about it,” Malika teased.

As the conversation moved on to lighter subjects, Ali focused a little more on savoring the extraordinarily delicious food that came and went in endless courses until even Mato sat back with a groan, declaring that he needed a bigger belt. During a bit of a post-dessert lull in conversation, the waiter approached her.

“Excuse me, my lady,” he said and waited for her to acknowledge him.

“What is it?” Ali asked. She had never been addressed as ‘my lady’ before and she wasn’t quite sure how to respond to his excessive politeness. Just Ancient Mistress, she thought, and that had made her uncomfortable too.

“It’s but a trifling matter,” he said. “Your dress is quite sensational. In fact, several of the other patrons insisted on interrupting your lunch to inquire where you were from and where you acquired such finery. I informed them that they were not to disturb you, but, if it pleases you to share, I would like to inform them accordingly.”

Ali looked down at her dress, suddenly remembering that she was wearing something significantly more elegant than her usual outfits. Malika had come up with a remarkable response earlier, and Ali racked her brains to come up with something clever.

But in the end, she decided to stick with the simple truth.

“Oh. It’s my first time in Myrin’s Keep,” she said. “I don’t mind sharing if it will make them happy. Our outfits were all designed by Lydia Avery, a Tailor who has just opened a shop called Lydia’s Allure on Artisan’s Row.” She offered him the opportunity to inspect the dress. “She’s quite talented, don’t you think?”

“Indeed, my lady,” the waiter said. “Thank you for your indulgence.” As he turned to leave, Ali noticed an almost imperceptible smile flicker across his stoic face.

As soon as the waiter left, Malika turned to Calen. “See?”

“No, what?”

“This is a very expensive café, popular among the high crowd. Everybody who wants to be somebody dresses up to come here and show off. To be seen. Our outfits, on the other hand, look extremely expensive, but understated. Particularly Ali’s. She looks like she could buy the entire restaurant as easily as the appetizers but is trying to dress down – to be incognito. It’s extraordinarily devious. Those people out there cannot hear our conversation so they must be dying to know who we are – they’ve all been surreptitiously glancing at our table the entire time.”

“We haven’t eaten particularly much or expensively, but when Ali gave up the name, the waiter probably made more in tips from all the curious people than our entire bill will come to.”

“Oh,” Calen said, realization working its way across his face.

Ali hadn’t even considered the situation at all – not even noticing the other patrons – and was astounded that Malika had figured it out in an instant. She shook her head slowly. It’s all just a cunning scheme, I would never have imagined.

“Your mother said to tip well?” Malika asked.

“Yes, how much do you think I should leave?” Calen asked.

“We should leave before he brings the bill. Just casually drop the gold in the center of the table and we’ll walk out.”

“Before – really?”

“Yes. It will be memorable, trust me. All the people watching will see the gold and the stories will spread like wildfire. Your mom’s going to be a busy lady, Calen.”

“A whole gold?” he wheezed, looking as if the coin had just stuck in his throat.

Malika inclined her head. “Trust me, and put that nose high in the air, my friend, as you loudly compliment the fare on our way out.”

Leaving Laurel’s Café was almost more exciting – in a clandestine way – than the experience of eating at the best place in town.
