“You idiot brother of mine! All you've done is bring me heartache.” Cho Jin Sui quivered before his angry older brother Kai, too ashamed to lift his head, holding the report in his hand. As soon as they had arrived, Sui had set upon his merchant contacts to discover the identity of the Major General, and the news was dire. “Do you know what you've done? That woman is known as the Herald of the Storms, a lauded hero, with a medal bestowed upon her by the Emperor himself!” A crash sounded as Kai vented his rage on the heavy, hardwood furniture, reducing it to kindling in his fury.

“I am sorry, brother. I did not know, I would never endanger you knowingly, brother. I will make things right, I swear to you. I can give them gifts, coin and slaves, appease them.” Sui babbled before his brother, pleading for forgiveness. How could he have known the barbarians were led by a Hero of the Empire from more than 50 years past? Kai had whipped Li Song so fiercely, she was still on the brink of death even days later. She would compete as she was, a punishment set out by Kai.

“You will do no such thing!” Kai's meaty palm grasped Sui's chin, lifting him to stare in his face. “Listen to me, little brother. You have caused me no small inconvenience this time, directly aligning me against an enemy I did not even know of. I will not have you add to it by lowering your head before those worthless savages.” Kai released him, and he fell back, quivering in fear. They were close, had always been close, and Kai had never laid hand on him, always protected and looked out for him, but Kai was angrier than he'd ever seen him. “I forgive you for this, but the wine is spilled, little brother. Although she is more formidable that I thought, I have connections of my own, and some backwater whore of a general will not stop me. I will tear that damned insufferable brat to pieces, and have that slut kneeling at my feet in chains. First, I want those brats humiliated and beaten.”

Kai left him his instructions and strode out, leaving the city on military assignment. Sui calmed his nerves, smoothing his clothes, instructing the servants to clean up the mess. He had made a grave error, insulting the Herald like he did, stirring up a hornet's nest. He feared for his brother, that he would bite off more than he could swallow. Their opponent was formidable, and even should Akanai leave the city like Kai, the devilish brat was fearsome as well. He shuddered at the memory of the tyrannical young warrior who stood above his defeated foes, daring seasoned soldiers to fight him with his glare, the savage glee with which he pummeled his opponents into submission, laughing as he strode through the chaos, trying to reach him. Scurrying off into the dark, he made his way towards his contact inside the Canston Trading group in order to set Kai's plan into motion.

I spent way too much time on the crappy map. It isn't even all that useful for now, or even for awhile.
