na tie the other end securely on her side giving the rest a secure balancing rope to use.Not so much for coming across but just in case they had to leave very carefully.The snakes hissed angrily all at once. They didn’t seem to like the rope nor their use of it to circumvent the bridge.“Just because we have to play along doesn’t mean we have to do it like fools,” Grosh muttered at the red eyes of the demons. Most likely, it was the Dungeon that was being annoyed. No matter how basic of a mind it may possess... No one liked to think they were clever and then got proven wrong.One they were all across, Grosh almost appreciated the Dungeon’s single minded focus on Snakes. No monsters made this place dangerous but also not as bad as it could have been.The next room was a ‘nest’ so to speak. The biggest number of snakes yet covered the floor and walls before a mighty scale-covered door. Canu threw more bottles and fire erupted. Oils spread their fire quickly. Snakes burned by the dozen. The fumes not healthy in a cave but they all retreated to the water room and idly chopped or shot at any snake that slithered up the tunnel.Once the air was semi-decent to breathe, they braved the room slowly.Hewn carefully seemed to grow more confident as more snake bodies crumbled around his feet. He grinned and looked around.“This Dungeon isn’t so bad. Maybe we can find a way to harvest the snake skins? Can’t healers make powerful antidotes with venom of a snake?” he asked brightly. Grosh ignored the question and Canu hummed.“Depends. Some venoms are too toxic to really work well. But snakes are hardly a unified or simple species. Even if I did milk a snake, the substance wouldn’t last too long outside the dungeon. I would need a drop or some treasure to give the substance a lasting effect,” Canu said quietly.“We kill a lot of snakes, yet to see anything drop,” Jorna commented to the group.“Critters don’t often have the potential for treasure. Monsters usually do the lifting in that area,” Grosh said calmly. Hewn scowled.“So this Dungeon ripped another potential to help our village out of our hands. I hate this place,” he complained and leaned against the wall like the arrogant youth he was.Grosh saw it before he could react.The dark grey wall suddenly moved and a grey stone snake that had been biding its time lashed out and bit Hewn on the neck.The woman beside him pierced the snake with a well aimed arrow. Hewn screamed as he fell.“It burns! It burns!” he moaned. Grosh dragged him by his feet to the centre of the room as Canu bet down to take a look.“Stop panicking. Let me see!” she snapped and Jorna grabbed Hewn’s arms to help. The blood leaked out of his neck. Canu stripped a bandage and sighed.“The wound leaked the venom out on its own. Blood is clean. He’s just being dramatic,” she sighed and Hewn shivered as she pressed a balm into the wound as she wrapped it up.“Hewn, don’t touch anything. I swear to the Horned Wolf I will remove your hands myself,” Grosh warned. He didn’t need more people dead. Hewn was barely of age to join this trip and only because he damn well begged Grosh for a week straight. Honestly, the kids tenacity wasn’t bad. Shame he was a bit better suited raising bees or helping plants grow. Fine professions but being a Hunter had its lure to the young ones. Hewn nodded weakly and Canu helped him stand. Her medical skills a secondary gift to her love of crafting magical potions. The boy would need to leave soon but they would do it together as a group. Splitting up was a fool’s choice at this point.“Cliff Winders. Water snakes, and now these rock snakes. More than I hoped but not as bad as I feared,” Grosh muttered. He still didn’t see anything worth it in this cave beyond snakes. How can one Dungeon be so obsessed over one thing?Weren't these places supposed to be filled with treasure and lures?Why did his village have to be cursed with the only Dungeon that made death?He pushed open the door. The heavy thing was covered in rippling snake skin. Smooth and sleek as his hand pushed on it.The space beyond showed that Grosh had it all wrong.The Boss room was like an ancient ruin. Made of rough stone and covered in long fallen pillars and ruin. Many deep holes had been made in the walls and floors that led to who knew where.The ceiling draped down with long vines that made the place feel old but not dead. From the middle of the ceiling a large White snake slowly lowered itself down, fangs exposed. The liquid that dribbled down from the fangs hit stone and hissed violently.But Grosh couldn’t focus on that entirely. His eyes were drawn beyond. To the end of the room.Because on the far side of the room two important things were visible. The back was was like a shrine. Clear cut stone steps lead up to an altar with a ten-headed snake statue leering down at the person who would pray there.The simple table made of stone took up all the space.One, was the Dungeon Core. It had yet to make a room for itself beyond the Boss room. It sat inside an oddly large golden chalice. The chalice was a beautiful thing with curving depictions of a snake devouring the sun stamped into its side.Even from here... Grosh could feel the magic coming off it.The core sat in the chalice like an egg in a cup. The Dungeon Core had not found a pit of Cliff Winders as it’s first meal.It had devoured... become one with this magical object that must have been buried here by Grosh’s ancestors. A magical item that the core used as it’s pedestal.The Magical item had in turn slowly merged into the core, becoming one with it. This explained a lot. It also gave Grosh a mad smile as he saw now how he would save this village. First, he had a to kill the large White Snake. It’s form diving into a nearby tunnel to play the ambush game with them. Snakes were all the same.His village had hope. Cores with access to old magical items were of great worth to the kingdom.Whatever this chalice was... it was now a symbol of hope.If... they made it out alive.Grosh raised his spear and leapt forward, the Hunter blood flowing through him.Fire and venom rained down. The young were wounded and the old fought.But as the sun set... he was home. He was grinning like a wild beast at his shocked wife.“Get the PeaceKeeper... he needs to get the Taxman here so I can rub his smug face in this,” he ordered. Holding up a vial of a dark golden liquid he had collected from the Chalice of the Core. Canu had almost wet herself when she studied it. He grinned as Hewn swing his new Serpent Sword, the tip hissing ever so slightly.The Village of Woodedly would survive. The Snakes had made it so. The Chalice of the Snakes had the answer!Grosh watched as his people cheered and even the growls of distant monsters could not dampen the spirit of the Hunters that night.
