Unless those soldiers happened to be Oath-Sworn Death Corps of course. Last night, after waking from his slumber which had Ping Ping so concerned, Rain declared he was ‘pulling out all the stops’ for this counter-attack, and only now did Song understand. There on the fields of Central stood tens of thousands of Death Corps, their intense devotion and genuine admiration almost palpable as they saluted as one to greet Rain’s carriage. Eyes gleaming brighter than their blackened steel breastplates, they watched him step out of the carriage beside the makeshift stage with fervent anticipation, radiating zeal and courage even as they fell to one knee before him, their polearms grounded with the blades pointed towards the Heavens in a show of perpetual vigilance. Gathered here was every Death Corps Guard in the Outer province, save for Orange One and a thousand of her comrades who were still in the Citadel to keep Luo-Luo safe. These Warriors here might well be Rain’s most passionate admirers, for he represented something they might well have long given up.

Hope.

There, standing before them, was a man who was once a slave much like them, and had risen above his status to become Legate. Even without their Oaths, Song suspected most of these Death Corps would die for Rain, because while the rest of the world saw them as slaves and property, he treated them like the Warriors they were. Song knew the Death Corps talked amongst themselves, though they rarely exchanged words where others could hear them, but not only did his initial Death Corps guards tell all their comrades what sort of man Falling Rain was, many saw it for themselves firsthand when he stepped back to save the life of a nameless Death Corps guard, and they loved him for it. So many other Imperial Scions would have pushed onwards without care for the lives of slaves, but now Rain had their love and gratitude for treating them like people, rather than property. A minor thing to have, the gratitude of slaves, but Rain would probably appreciate it, and profess unworthiness at the same time.

A shame the Death Corps were not bound solely to him, like Song was, else they too might be as fortunate as she.

Lifting Princess out of the wagon, Song hugged the weasel-bear tight and inwardly laughed at how much things had changed. When they first met, she feared Rain the most out of any of the People, but now, she counted herself fortunate for falling into their hands, and even more fortunate to be his. Sister Mila, Yan, or Lin-Lin were every bit as kind, but Rain understood what it was like to be a slave and worked hard to ensure Song was given as many choices as possible and knew her work was valued and appreciated. Of course, this initially threw her off and she was still sorely indecisive in too many ways, but thanks to everyone’s efforts, she was slowly getting better with time. Now, she rode in his honour guard not out of obligation, but by choice, and if given the option, she felt that these tens of thousands of Death Corps would choose the same.

It wasn’t the same as true freedom, but being given the chance to follow one’s heart’s desires might well be the next best thing.

The Death Corps aside, the overall mood of this reinforcing army was one of subdued opposition, and regardless of the reasons, Song saw it as a portent of things to come. If Rain could not win over the hearts of his officers, he might well cost the Empire this war by setting out with the reinforcements, but that was the only way to bring the Death Corps along. Luckily, Rain was nothing if not charming, as evidenced by a familiar face which appeared at stage side, the corpulent Bulat atop a bantam of a white racehorse that seemed barely able to hold his weight. “Hey there bossman,” he began, reconsidering his flippant greeting beneath the weight of Kuang Biao’s glare and double down on insolence. “Heard ye were riding out to war again and figured ye could use a hand. Don’t worry about the district, me Ma and Dei An got things well in hand.”

Barely slowing as he exited his carriage, Rain embraced Bulat as best he could while Ping Ping ambled around their ankles with wide-eyed delight. “Glad to have you with me,” he said, genuinely delighted to see his old crony, but then he frowned and asked, “But why? There’s no need for you to feel obligated to be here, and I won’t think any less of you for sticking with retirement. You’ve more than earned the right to get fat and live the good life.” Pointedly looking Bulat up and down, he added, “Though maybe not this fat. Moderation my friend, and maybe go for a run every now and then. Your poor horse looks utterly exhausted, and that’s after what? An hour’s ride from the district?”

“Don’t ye worry about Little Hero there. He’s tiny, but tougher than he looks, and he lives to run, he does.”

Bulat’s non-answer made Rain break out into laughter, and Song saw how sorely needed it was. Though he often projected arrogant confidence, only those closest to him knew how uncertain and pessimistic he truly was. Being Legate was no blessing for Rain, but a burden he shouldered unwillingly. If he thought someone else would do a better job, then he would be the first to nominate that person as his replacement, but alas, politics would not tolerate anyone else wearing the mantle of Legate.

Which might well have been why Shen ZhenWu picked Rain as next in line for command. There was truly no other option.

“Here,” Rain said, fishing out the thousand-man commander token from his sleeve. “That’s yours. When we link up with Hongji’s forces, you’ll take over for Mister Rustram.”

“Why? Something happen to him?”

Fear and concern flashed across Bulat’s features, but Rain waved his concerns away. “No, I’m promoting him to Major. He deserves it, seeing how he pretty much ran my retinue for me, and you’ve always been his first choice for number two.” Patting Bulat on the arm, Rain nodded in casual dismissal before heading up onto stage, signalling for everyone else to stay behind. Only Ping Ping followed him onto the small, elevated platform, where he greeted the thousands upon thousands of Imperial Warriors with back straight and head held high. “Hello,” he began, the word ringing with that curious tone which told Song he was Orating, though the mere fact that she could hear his quiet words clear as day from so far away would have clued her in regardless. “I am Falling Rain, standing in for Shen ZhenWu as Legate. Two and a half days west of here, a half-million of our comrades are fighting for their lives all across the second line. I will not lie: they are struggling to hold.”

Honest, humble, and emotionless, Rain’s speech thus far left much to be desired, but after a long pause to let his words sink in, he continued. “Our purpose here today is not just to reinforce our beleaguered countrymen, but to fulfill our duty as Martial Warriors. For too long, the Defiled have plagued our spirits. For too long, the Defiled have tormented our people. For too long, the Defiled have threatened our borders, and now they stand poised to strike at the heart of the Empire itself.” Pausing once more to draw breath, Song felt herself breathing in sync with him, having forgotten to do so under the deluge of emotion which accompanied his words, brimming with righteous indignation at their most troublesome foe. “This I cannot abide.” His fierce scowl gave way to a determined glare, which lent heavy weight to his words, and Song believed he would march out alone if need be, to do what needed to be done. “Today, marks a turning point in our war against the Enemy, one the people of the Empire will remember for millennia to come, so mark this date well, and know my words for truth. Today, we come together, not as denizens of East, South, West, North, or Central, nor are we here as commoners and nobles, or even as slaves and citizens of the Empire.” Stopping to cast his gaze across his captivated audience, he said, “Today, we come together as Warriors of Heaven, united in one purpose, to defeat the Defiled and strike a devastating blow against the Father Himself! Today, we march out not to defend our borders, but to attack the Enemy and drive them back from whence they came. Today, marks the first day in our holy crusade against the Defiled, for we will show them the errors of their ways and teach them the meaning of regret. Though our enemies dare call themselves the Chosen of Heaven, I know that the true Chosen sons and daughters of the Mother are gathered here before me today. March with me, Warriors, and together, we will show those hateful pretenders how true Chosen of Heaven fight!”

His part said, Rain marched off the stage and back to his carriage, the thump of his boots booming in the deafening silence. Then, someone in the crowd thumped their shield, and in the next moment, the plains of Central came alive as every soldier, officer, slave, and noble cheered, stomped, and applauded for their Legate, wholly united in purpose for what might well be the first time in history. As for Song? She had no choice but to follow him thanks to her Oaths, but as she stated before, being free to follow her heart’s desires was the next best thing to true freedom, which was something that would forever be out of her reach.

There was a time when that final realization might have crushed her, but here and now, Song was truly happy to be alive.

Chapter Meme
