“Xuande is riding out with me,” Rain replied, pressing the token into Luo-Luo’s unwilling hands. “Where he can learn tactics firsthand. His idea, not mine. As for the others... can you imagine Jian Xianhe or the other two being diplomatic when working with anyone besides me? Xuande is humble enough, and as much as I like the other three, you have to admit, they do have a tendency to strut around with this ingrained arrogance that can rub certain people the wrong way.” Song’s lips twisted into a grimace, not because of Rain’s use of what could only be a lewd idiom, but rather in sheer disbelief that he did not recognize the hypocrisy in his declaration. As if he had any right to call someone else ‘arrogant’, when he himself was the most arrogant of all. It was clear he believed the Empire rotten to the core and needed to be rebuilt from the ground up, and as much as Song hoped his reforms would find success, the pragmatic part of her refused to believe there would ever come a time when slavery or oppression would no longer exist.

Simply put, it was all part and parcel of human nature. Perhaps Rain was correct in saying might did not make right, but the strong would always thrive, while the weak could only hope to survive.

After a long round of assurances that she would not let him down, Luo-Luo timidly embraced Rain who accepted the hug with an awkward, stilted expression. Why he was so conflicted about Luo-Luo, Song could not say, for it was clear he was enamoured by her beauty and she was more than happy to be with him. Then again, perhaps it was out of loyalty to sister Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin, though how a man with two wives and one betrothed could be unfaithful with his concubine was a question best left for others to answer. Hopping onto Erdene’s back, Song patted the eager quin and kept her from bolting out the gates before guiding her to a slow trot next to Coto and Gakai’s wagon and reached out to give Princess a soothing pat.

Only for the weasel-bear to latch onto Song’s wrist and forearm with all four paws and refuse to let go.

With a long sigh of capitulation, Song rode with her arm outstretched next to the wagon while keeping a close watch on Rain through the windows of his carriage, and saw he was already lost in heated debate with Teacher Du sitting at his side. No wonder Sister-in-Law Sarnai chose to ride her quin instead, for as much as she doted upon her beloved son, the contents of Rain and Teacher Du’s arguments were too much for most to bear. It was amazing how Rain understood the Dao so well that his words could affect even Mama’s Path, and even more amazing how Teacher Du could hold firm to his Path in the face of Rain’s absurd, yet somehow sensible claims.

Though Song was content to keep to her Path and progress at her own pace, she would be lying if she claimed she wasn’t curious to know what Rain and Teacher Du were debating. They discussed the Dao every day now, and Song wanted to know what progress they’d made in determining the Dao of Animals. If grumpy Jimjam didn’t have a Core or Spiritual Heart, how was he utilizing the Energy of the Heavens to Lighten himself so easily? Could Song do the same? How wonderful it would be to control Chi without conscious thought, so she spent many an hour studying the animals for signs of Chi usage and more clues, but Lightening aside, there were no obvious tells. Sarankho liked to sharpen her claws on logs wrapped in heavy ropes, but a single glance was enough to tell she most certainly wasn’t Honing them. Banjo and Baloo were easily the strongest of all the pets, but as far as she could tell, their strength was rather mediocre if one judged by their size, unable to win a simple game of tug of war with Tate. She even went as far as to test her Aura on Princess, but aside from growling as she ambled about in search of the source of her concern, the weasel-bear didn’t react in any other noticeable manner, and the moment Song rescinded her Aura, Princess went right back to eating her honeyed treats.

Stroking the clingy weasel-bear’s cheeks, Song hoped there would come a day when Princess or any of the other animals in Rain’s menagerie followed in Ping Ping’s footsteps and ascended to True Divinity. Not because she wanted the animals to become powerful protectors, but because Guan Suo had seemed so miserable as an Ancestral Beast, yet seemed so happy as the red panda, chasing his tail and playing on swings when he thought no one was watching. The same could be said of all the other beloved pets, and as an added benefit, Ping Ping Condensed her Aura after becoming a True Divinity and delighted in sharing her Loving Aura with everyone she met. Would Princess do the same, or was she merely with Song because she offered safety, comfort, and sweet treats? What about the bears and wildcats, or the quins and laughing birds? The streets were rife with rumours that all of Rain’s pets were either already Divine Beasts or prospective ones, and Song could only imagine how wonderful it would be if that were true.

Even though she found no signs of Heavenly Energy manipulation, she did enjoy watching the fledglings learn to fly, their awkward, bumbling movements paling in comparison to Roc or Kipi as they soared through the air. It put her in mind of seeing her students Demonstrate the Forms, executing the movements in a way that wasn’t exactly wrong, but at the same time was utterly riddled with flaws which she had difficulty explaining with words. It did help her progress her own Martial Path, since seeing so many flaws made her more aware of her own, and while the children and fledglings were darling to watch in action, she looked forward to the day when both her students and the fledglings learned their respective Forms well enough to execute them properly.

Outside the Western gates, Rain’s army awaited his presence on the fields of Central, and it was truly a sight to behold. Mama’s Sentinels were already ranging westward to fulfill their duty as scouts and skirmishers, while Central light cavalry stood ready on either flank to reinforce them. A smattering of Royal Guardians sat atop their majestic, black-maned lion mounts off in the distance, so intimidating when grouped together that they had to ride well away from everyone else. The infantry was the most numerous of all groups present, arranged in neat, rectangular formations, with some over a hundred men wide and at least twice that in length. Central’s infantry made for a less inspiring sight in their colourful, mismatched uniforms, lacklustre armour, and bright, eye-catching banners, but Song saw both desperation and determination in their eyes as she rode past them to the front. While they might not be the best infantry the Empire had to offer, they would fight with all their hearts, for they knew better than any the stakes at hand with the Enemy now knocking on their doorsteps.

Their reactions were telling as Rain’s carriage rolled down the line. A good number of soldiers fell to their knees and prayed to the Mother above, though Song wasn’t sure if their piety was directed to the ‘Mother’s Chosen Son’ or the Divine Turtle herself, whose head was stuck out the window with mouth wide open in delight. Scattered amongst the pious were a number of soldiers saluting the carriage as it passed, and still more who bowed their heads with a single fist over their hearts, a show of respect to the man they believed would lead them to victory against the Defiled, or at a bare minimum, a man they respected. Hard not to with tales of Rain’s plucky courage spreading like wildfire ever since he told the Bristleboar Divinity to fuck off, and even Mama grudgingly admired his courage in private while lambasting him for an empty-headed fool in public. A necessary measure to keep Rain’s already massive ego from growing even larger and crushing him beneath its weight, but thus far, it did not seem to be working.

Leave it to Rain to first deny one Colonel General’s plan for lack of support, then reject another for being too risky to carry out, only to put a third plan into motion that for all intents and purposes was a copy of the first two, save for a few minor additions. As far as Song could tell, Rain completely forgot or overlooked the contributions of Colonel General Nian Zu and Colonel General Shuai Jiao, and was intent on giving all the credit to himself and his war council, which as of yesterday included the Imperial Scion and Clerk Liu Xuande amongst their ranks. Rain was not doing himself any favours by snubbing two Colonel Generals, but Mama would talk some sense into him soon enough, of this, Song was sure.

If not, then the third and most numerous group of soldiers present might take issue with Rain’s leadership, and perhaps his continued existence as well. While the pious and the respectful soldiers were firmly in his camp, they were few and far between, for almost three-quarters of the gathered soldiers paid no mind to Rain’s passing, a grave breach of protocol considering that as Legate, he was technically the highest ranking Officer in the outer provinces. If it were Shen ZhenWu in Rain’s place, the soldiers would all be saluting, if not kneeling as he passed, but for Rain, most simply either ignored him or watched him pass by without action. Song could see Kuang Biao and the Death Corps itching to teach all those offenders a sound lesson, but she knew Rain would never allow it. Respect was earned, he would say, not given freely due to status or rank, which ran counter to everything Song knew to be true, but there were other good reasons to show mercy. Not all of the disrespectful soldiers were doing so out of malicious intent, as many could be ignorant of protocol or simply doing as their comrades were, but those soldiers were supposed to take their cues from their Officers, who by and large were nobles who looked down on Rain for his slave heritage. Many of those Officers belonged to families or factions who only barely supported Rain even at the height of his popularity as Minister of Finance, and perhaps were outright antagonistic when he was Number One Talent in the Empire, but now they had ‘good’ reason to resent him. In their eyes, it was an affront to fate, karma, and the Heavens for a mere slave to be raised to the seat of highest power in the outer provinces, and while they would not dare openly disobey so long as the Imperial Clan stood behind him, Rain himself wasn’t certain they would support him for much longer.

It was all a convoluted mess of politics Song barely understood, but these were the facts as she saw them. Shen ZhenWu had either conspired with or made use of the Bristle Divinity to have his guardian, a Divinity from the Yang family, killed. Yang Jixing’s guardian, a Liang family Divinity and somehow related to Shen ZhenWu, either encouraged Jixing to pursue Luo-Luo or didn’t properly advise him, and quite possibly allowed him to die at the hands of a Wraith as well, thereby securing a large advantage for the Liang family in whatever Imperial Clan conflict the Supreme families were embroiled in.

This was where things grew complicated.

According to Rain, Shen ZhenWu likely expected the People to rebel, but since Rain’s actions were technically legal and there was no proof tying him to the Defiled Wraiths, the former Legate was now in a bind. He could either continue working with Rain and find another opportunity to be rid of him, or Shen ZhenWu could follow through with his initial plan and have Rain and the People declared as rebels and traitors. The former meant admitting defeat and having a tribal former slave as his second in command, whereas the latter meant going to war with a man who had a well-known and much venerated Divine Turtle at his side. On her own, Ping Ping was powerful indeed, but what she represented was far more powerful: the true Mandate of Heaven.

If karma and fate were so intrinsic to life itself, why would a Divine Creature support a rebel traitor over the ordained Emperor? Any child born to the Imperial family must be blessed by the Heavens, and doubly blessed to rise above the others to become the next Emperor, yet Ping Ping chose a low-born, ill-fated, former slave of a savage over the supposed Chosen Son of Heaven itself. If this narrative were to gain traction, then it was possible the People’s rebellion would not be confined to the People, and perhaps even extend to the entire outer provinces themselves. Even if the nobles didn’t care to rise up with Rain, the common people of the Empire might choose to support him, which would cause widespread strife they could ill afford even in the best of times. With the Defiled on their doorstep, slaves and commoners were working themselves to the bone and dying in droves to keep the Imperial Army fed, armed, and in good spirits, and a farmers’ rebellion had a better chance of bringing the wall down then an army a million Defiled.

It was a fact as old as time itself, for hungry soldiers would not fight.

