As dawn broke over the horizon and soldiers of the Central Citadel readied to ride to war, Song scrambled about the courtyard to ensure no pet was left behind.

The bears were the least of her problems, happy to lay in the wagon with their deer-bone treats, while Sarankho could be trusted to hop in on command. Aurie and Mama Bun were off with Rain somewhere, and Blackjack was with Lin-Lin as always, but the rest of the pets were more troublesome to deal with. Princess was also in the wagon, but in obvious concern as she sat upright and watched Song to ensure she didn’t go too far. Looking adorable in her bright red ribbon bow and frilly checkered dress, the weasel-bear held her treat untouched while emitting a low, concerned rumbling, no doubt remembering her unpleasant wagon trip with the hunter who first trapped her. Much as it pained Song to leave her in such distress, she couldn’t carry the weasel-bear into battle, so Princess would just have to get used to riding the wagon and being separated for long periods of time. Though it was still up for debate as to how well Princess could see, Song made sure to remain within sight as she strolled about the manor courtyard collecting the sleeping laughing birds. Roc was an able guardian who kept his flock together throughout the boat ride from the Northern Citadel to Central’s, but it was still early in the day and the avian patriarch had his head tucked beneath his wing while perched atop the carved wooden turtle roof of Rain’s carriage. Without him to keep the birds in line, a handful of the fuzzy fledglings had to be relocated from the tiled roofs and barren treetops to a more mobile roost, just in case they fell asleep between now and when Rain set out.

Every time she secured one of the fledglings, Song’s heart warmed as the little laughing birds yawned and blinked in her hands, only to immediately go back to sleep once they saw it was her, with some even nuzzling her fingers to beg for scritches. There was something incredibly satisfying about having this level of trust with another creature, so utterly content to place their lives in her hands. Truth be told, Song hoped to one day trust Rain like this as well, for then she might truly relieve herself of all concerns regarding her slave Oaths, save for the one preventing her from travelling too far from his side.

Then there was Jimjam, who refused to leave his treetop perch and even batted at Song’s head when she went up to fetch him, a cantankerous grouch even on the best of days, but particularly bad this morning since he didn’t get much sleep after last night’s excitement. This wouldn’t be too much of an issue if the rabbits would stay in the wagon instead of hopping out the first chance they got, thereby leaving Song unable to focus on Jimjam. Every time she placed one bunny into the wagon, two more would hop out, and it soon became an endless chore of chasing and corralling the rabbits into the large, open-topped vehicle. It would be much easier to keep them contained inside Rain’s closed carriage, especially after he had ‘bunny bucket seats’ installed along the sides for just this purpose, but she worried he would be the first target in a Wraith or Demon attack. Aside from Mama Bun who was always in his arms, Blackjack who was inseparable from Lin-Lin, the red panda who was inseparable from Ping Ping, and Ping Ping who could take care of herself, Song was determined to keep all the other animals safe and sound in Coto and Gakai’s wagon.

Perhaps Mama was right. Song wasn’t getting paid enough to deal with all these ‘shenanigans’, and there really was such a thing as too many pets.

After chasing the rabbits around for a quarter-hour, Song was almost ready to give up when Rain returned to the manor from his meeting with his war council. Utterly oblivious to her trials and tribulations, he greeted her with a simple “Good morning”, while Aurie bounded over to give her a happy little headbutt and Ping Ping ran a slow circle around them. “You’re looking tired today,” Rain said, seeming more chipper and energetic than ever, “But I suppose we’re all short on sleep lately.” Glancing around the manor, he asked, “Is Lin-Lin up yet, or should I go wake her?”

“I’m up hubby.” Her quiet, subdued reply barely audible over her titanic yawn, Lin-Lin shuffled out of her room with Blackjack fast asleep between her ears. Almost tripping over Ping Ping as she came down the stairs, she all but fell into Rain’s embrace with a pout. “It’s too early to be awake,” she complained, burying her face in Rain’s armour, only to reel back with an adorable scowl in search of a more comfortable place to rest her head. Puffing her cheeks up in discontent, she unfurled her ever-present white silk scarf to use as a makeshift pillow before collapsing against Rain like a sack of rice. “Don’t wanna walk. Carriage please.”

Grinning like a fool but wise enough not to speak, Rain lifted Lin-Lin into his arms and carried her into his carriage, only to emerge shortly after to let the veiled Guard Leader take her place by Lin-Lin’s side. Sister-in-Law Sarnai was also present, clad in ornate Sentinel leathers, which signalled her intention to ride her quin rather than sit in the carriage. This only reinforced Song’s decision to keep the animals in a wagon, as Guard Leader’s first and second priorities would be Lin-Lin and Rain respectively, so she couldn’t be trusted with the animals’ safety. The issue was, one word from Rain and all Song’s hard work would be for naught, but thankfully he didn’t second guess her decision. After greeting the gurgling bears with a pat on the head and cooing at indifferent Princess’s ribbon, Rain turned to Song and handed her a rectangular jade token with the words, “Thousand Man Commander” inscribed on its face. “This is yours if you want it,” he said, carefully choosing his words so as not to inadvertently give her an order and instead offering her a choice. “You don’t need a rank or even have to take part in the fighting, but if you want the job, it’s yours. You can pick whether you want to command Death Corps or Sentinels, or you can attach yourself to my honour guard and fight there, but under Kuang Biao’s command. I asked if there was any job he’d like, and he requested that one, so... yea.”

In Song’s eyes, this wasn’t even a choice. “I will join your honour guard,” she said, without giving the token a second glance. A thousand Death Corps or Sentinels would be better served if commanded by someone else, someone capable of acting independently from Rain if they should become separated. If they were fighting from a static position, Song wouldn’t hesitate to take up command, but they were heading off into a chaotic, mobile engagement on the open plains of Central, where it was entirely possible for adjacent units to get cut off completely from one another, and Song could not afford to risk it.

Besides, she couldn’t afford to have more responsibilities on top of looking after the animals, which would be a full-time job all by itself. They would likely be better off leaving all the animals at the Citadel, but not only did Rain insist on bringing them, Luo-Luo couldn’t be trusted to care for them all by herself since Lin-Lin was determined to come along. The Imperial Servant was hardworking and conscientious to the extreme, but she treated the animals like cute, living decorations to love and adore, which they were, but it also took discipline to train and control them. One only needed to look at the obese, overfed Noodle to know Luo-Luo was an unsuitable pet owner, but the snake loved her dearly and had yet to warm up to anyone else.

Left on her own, Luo-Luo would soon find herself powerless to keep the animals in check, and Rain would no doubt return to a manor full of broken beams, scratched up surfaces, and excavated tunnels aplenty thanks to bored bears, curious wildcats, and enterprising bunnies. Granted, she would have help from Sorya and Anrhi to keep the animals in line, but the twin handmaidens were too flighty and careless when caring for the animals, prone to making minor mistakes like brushing the same bunny twice and leaving another ungroomed or not making sure all the animals ate their fair share instead of letting the most aggressive ones hog most of the food for themselves. There were certain standards of care Song expected when it came to the animals, and there was no one she trusted to fulfill them besides herself, not even Rain.

Accepting her refusal with a casual shrug, he tucked the token into his sleeves with a smile and said, “Well either way, I’m glad to have you watching my back, Martial Aunt. I’ll handle the rest of the animals, so you can rest or whatever.” Technically, since he was calling Mama ‘Mother-in-Law’, Song was now ‘Sister-in-Law’ instead, but she personally preferred Rain’s choice of address more since it implied seniority. Leaving Rain to corral the rest of the rabbits, Song went to bid Luo-Luo farewell and hoped Rain remembered to do the same without prompting. The tired Imperial Servant stood dutifully to one side with her hands clasped and eyes hopeful, but Rain mostly ignored her to go collecting the rabbits, who all but hopped into his arms.

How unfair of the bunnies to play favourites like this...

Clasping Luo-Luo’s hands and meeting her eyes, Song offered her a warm nod farewell. In return, Luo-Luo responded with a beautiful smile before pulling Song into her surprisingly strong embrace. “Return safely,” Luo-Luo whispered, and only now did Song realize the taller woman was trembling with fright. “That is all I ask.”’

Surprised by Luo-Luo’s display of affection, Song didn’t know how to respond except to nod and say, “Okay.” They spent a fair amount of time together, but the same could be said about the rest of Rain’s household, and while she was fond of Luo-Luo, she didn’t know the other cared so much about her in return.

Unsure how to fix the now awkward situation, Song turned towards Rain and saw him loading the last rabbit, sweet, slow George, in with the rest of his brothers and sisters, all of whom were hopping about in search of a cozy place to rest instead of leaping down to the grass like they had when Song tried the same. Glancing up at the tree, Rain made eye contact with Jimjam and pointed at the wagon and said, “Come.” Inadvertently using his gift of Oration, Song felt the single word almost wrench her off her feet until she convinced herself the command was not for her, but Jimjam happily obliged by leaping down from the tree and into the vehicle with two, airy, Lightened hops. For his efforts, he received an affectionate hug and a headbutt which had him rumbling with delight. “Good Jimjam,” Rain cooed, while Song stewed in jealousy and wonder at how Rain could pull off such a feat. “Who’s a smart kitten? You are!”

How unfair for Jimjam to play favourites. Song would just have to win the grouchy wildcat over again...

In the exact same fashion, Ping Ping looked into the treetops and squeaked urgently, but rather than coming down from the tree, the red panda ambled out of a nearby bush which still had most of its greenery. The red panda valued concealment over height when it came to choosing where to rest, and while the cherry tree back in the Northern Citadel still had a tangle of dense branches to hide in, the tree in their borrowed Central manor was sparse and trimmed to look more refined and elegant in springtime. Now, with winter fast approaching, its bare, leafless frame made for a desolate sight, but the wildcats and Blackjack alike still enjoyed lording over the others from on high.

Leaving Ping Ping to herd the red panda onto the carriage, Rain sauntered over to also bid Luo-Luo farewell. Much like Song, Rain took both of Luo-Luo’s hands and looked her in the eyes, though he smiled whereas Song forgot to do the same. “Well,” he said, glancing over at Song as if in search of support, so she remained rooted in place by his side. “I’m er... heading off to war now. I’ll be counting on you to hold down the fort while I’m gone, so uhh...” Reaching into his sleeves, he pulled out Song’s token again, before reaching in again and rummaging around. “I hate these sleeve pockets. So uncomfortable and inconvenient. Ah, here we go.” Pulling out a second token, he handed it to Luo-Luo and said, “Now you’re officially in charge of my duties, with regards to both Minister of Finance and Legate. If anyone gives you trouble, just wave this in front of their faces and you should be fine.”

Unlike Song’s token, there were no words on Luo-Luo’s, only a chiselled representation of the Divine Turtle in all her majesty. It was more or less the same image Rain had stamped onto his War Bonds, and Luo-Luo gasped in surprise when she saw it revealed, though the significance was lost on Song. “Lord Husband,” Luo-Luo began, drawing away from the token without accepting it. “This one is merely an Imperial Servant and unworthy of such honour. You should present this to Liu Xuande or Jian Xianhe instead, or even Guan Yunchang or Zhang Yide.”

