ent."Because I- wait, no, that was an actual compliment! What's your name, sweetie?" Estal said to Deo and parts of her hair began to frost over as Poppy's skin turned dark blue."Technically, humanity isn't classed as monsters," Mr Jones coughed, feeling very strange around Miss Estal. Something about her was upsetting his sensibilities as a teacher."Technically, squirrels for the fourth time shouldn't be a pass mark," Grim said back in a flat tone."...Carry on.""I decided humanity and its many fellow race-beings are indeed the greatest monsters of this world. I know of no other creature that would profit off imprisoning their own kind," Grim said and Estal examined her nails."Fairies, they legitimately get power ups by contracting their enemies into eternal servitude," she pointed out.As a demon, Mr Jones could only think very impolite things about the Fae. They and demons stepped on each other's toes a lot.A custody battle in court was nothing compared to when a demon and a fae both stake a claim on the same human. He and Ghu had to give each other a wide berth or they broke out into hisses at each other on the street, it was very unprofessional." Seahags imprison others of their kind and turn them into meat farms. Sometimes Goblins can get pretty nasty-" Estal continued to list."Anyway," Grim said through gritted teeth.Estal looked around the classroom and instead of boredom or amusement, Mr Jones was alarmed to see that Miss Estal instead had a look of pain and loss which she hid quickly behind a veneer of vapid boredom....No, the boredom was also real, but that didn't matter.A space of learning had scarred this woman and that was causing the unease in Mr Jones.As Grim continued to talk about adventurers and their bloodlust for treasure, Mr Jones casually asked Estal something in a quiet tone."Did you graduate from a magical institute?" he asked and to his relief, she nodded. If she had also flunked then Mr Jones wouldn't be able to help but chain her to a desk and help her with vigorous lessons of the world."Full honors, but I didn't chase higher academics due to... personal issues," Estal said with a curled lip of something dark in her eyes."Besides, I'm glad I left. The road taught me a lot more than old books," she mused and Mr Jones was pleased to hear that. Learning was always import-"How to apply lipstick on horseback, the correct heels for swamp dungeons versus skeleton crypts, and how to tell a one-night stand bard from blossoming heroes who want to turn me into a woman that he'll never actually romance but will string me along as he marries another woman and has ten kids. That last one was a hard lesson," Estal admitted."That was harsh. Love can be a tricky thing to navigate," Mr Jones managed. Life skills were important and he had to cling to that as he felt the urge to weep."It's fine, I think this other girl actually grew up with him and had the same problem. Way worse for her," Estal said with a long look into space."And how did you find your school years?" Mr Jones asked and Estal's expression turned stoney as she eyed the teacher as if just 'fully' noticing him."If I could burn memories in a brazier and warm my father's corpse over it like a spit roast, I would," she said succinctly and Mr Jones reached for a pen."What is the name of this 'institution'?" he asked, feeling a flicker in his old bones that hadn't risen in a long time.Every Demon of Knowledge valued learning and facts. Such places that freely gave knowledge and housed it were akin to places of worship to Knowledge Demons. To think that such a place could cause such distaste in a clearly talented student was watching a temple priest push children down stone steps in an effort to impart 'wisdom'.In fact, the reason Mr Jones was even 'here' in this world was the fact he was so offended by one act of stifling education that the facility became a propaganda machine. Jones has sold his name to that...monarch to have binding laws put in place.All that had really cost Mr Jones was the location of the 'sword of the gods' and he was free to go, but never go home.Mr Jones was pretty sure his 'name' was still somewhere in the queen's old chambers like so many other crimes."No point in going, you'd need approval of the Archmage whose personal power provides protection over it. You need the miserable old man's permission to even set foot in the place," Estal said with a sigh.But... the Archmage wasn't a miserable old man. That was a fact and now? Mr Jones knew it was true!The power of Knowledge Demon was to know the truth of a matter but it was a little binding in the fact Mr Jones couldn't ask himself the truth of any matter. He was a watcher and fact-checker, not the asker.He just needed to find someone to casually talk about the new Mage in charge...His classroom opened and a pair of goblins stood outside. Estal let out choking noises as they looked around the classroom as if it was a personal place of torment for small creatures.Pulling out what looked like a card, one of the goblins began to read."'By the request of the Great-no wait, humble, yes humble, Delta! The one known as Mr Jones, at least it's not Doctor Jones because I don't want that song stuck in my head, to come visit my abode, no wait that sounds smarmy, my little home. Please come very soon, better to be vague, and understand this is an important matter, like very important, so I beg of you to come soon. Shut up Nu, I told you to record this and you better not miss a word," the goblin finished."Hi Gob and Hob!" Deo waved."The mushroom queen has come for my marbles," Estal rocked back and forward on her heels with wide-eyes.Mr Jones was curious and wanted to go right away but he couldn't just...An idea!A wonderful and delicious idea filled his mind."Deo, fetch the School wagon. We're going on a field trip," he said, standing up suddenly. Deo stood and looked confused."The one pulled by the bulls who can only be seen if you've suffered second-hand embarrassment or the one that pulls itself but its wheels moan like people in pain?" he asked after a moment.Mr Jones smiled."The third one. It would be a shame to waste Grimnoire's hired help," he said and Deo looked wide-eyed as the class sat up."What's the third one?" Estal asked slowly and Mr Jones' smile stretched his face and the reality of the classroom shifted to something darker for a moment."We call it the 'Lunch Lady'."
