Caesar’s grin didn’t reach his eyes. “I told you: because I know who you are. I know what you’re about. You defied the Gens Aemilia, spat in the faces of nobles twice your size. I have contacts in the capital. I know you’re trying to become a Champion. I respect that. Takes will. But let me ask—are you really ready to do anything for it?”

Lily’s voice stayed steady.

“Yes.”

He nodded slowly, then glanced at Sabinus, sprawled by the fire.

“Then here’s the deal. I’ll release you. You’ll be free to chase your dream, start your legend. There’s only one price.”

She tensed, dreading the answer.

Caesar rose to his feet, casting a giant’s shadow.

“Kill him.”

Lily’s mouth went dry.

“What?”

“Kill the heir of the Gens Cornelia,” Caesar said, pointing at Sabinus. “That’s the price. Right now. Or neither of you leaves here alive.”

She shook her head, numb. “You can’t be serious.”

He stepped closer, towering over her, the fire glinting in his eyes.

“I’m dead serious,” he said, removing Sabinus’s dagger from his belt and handing it to Lily. “The Gens Cornelia has sent thousands to die for nothing, hoping a handful will claw their way to greatness. Nobles use peasants as cannon fodder and call it ‘service.’ It’s a lie. Sabinus—he’s next in line to sell that same lie. To send more kids to die because his family needs glory. You want to change things? Prove you’re not just another selfish little noble, chasing power for yourself. End it now. Kill him. Or you both die here.”

He folded his arms, waiting.

“Decide, Liliana Claudia. Show me if you’re willing to pay the price for your dream, or if you’re just another one of those nobles looking for a free meal, too lazy to get their hands dirty for a greater cause. I won’t let anyone who’s not prepared to do anything have a shot at becoming the Pope and plunging this God-forsaken country into an even deeper hell.”

Lily stared at the blade in her hand.

The fire snapped and hissed.

Sabinus, still unconscious, lay oblivious.

The bandits watched, silent and grim.

The only sound was Caesar’s quiet, unrelenting voice.

“So, Champion. Show me what you’ll sacrifice. Is your dream worth more than his life?”
