Tenebrae exclaimed, “It’s not legendary magic! He’s not that accomplished! This is disgusting. I’m…” His voice trailed off, as he stared at the target dummy, narrowing his eyes.

Jane smiled as she said, “It’s not [Time Stop], but it’s a start!”

“How do you think that one would work?” Erick guessed, “Speeding up yourself to the point that the rest of the world looks like it isn’t moving?”

“That was my guess, just now, which you just now updated based on what you just did.” Jane said, “Before today I would have thought [Time Stop] was actual Time Magic. Not some stretch of heat magic, or whatever.”

Tenebrae stared at the target dummy, offhandedly saying, “[Time Stop] is Time Magic and it is restricted by the divine decree of Phagar.” Tenebrae glanced at Jane then turned to Erick. “You postulated that ‘cold’ was the slowing of ‘particles’, which you just tangled out of Altering to Ice in order to create Elemental Slow… You also said that ‘heat’ was the speeding-up of particles, did you not?”

“… It was a little different than that. I said that ‘cold’ is particles moving relatively slower than oneself, and ‘heat’ is the opposite. For example, when you touch a ‘cold’ object your own heat leeches out of you depending on the conductivity of the object in question, which gives you the sensation of ‘cold’. The sensation of ‘heat’ is when the object in question gives energy to you, instead.” Erick said, “Generally, though, the particles in hot objects move fast, and the particles in cold objects move slow.”

Tenebrae squinted at Erick; his eyes flickering grey.

After a moment, Erick added, “It’s considerably more complicated than that when it comes to ideas of time or Phagar or whatever, though, but space and time are inextricably linked. It makes sense that you can come to Time magic from a different direction than through Elemental Time, if such a thing even exists.” He said, “It’s not in any of the Elemental books I ever read.”

“Hmm.” Tenebrae said, “Interesting. No lies...” He looked away, adding, “All magic is linked to all other magic. You can come to many spells in wildly different ways. The connection between Time Magic and Elemental Ice is one that many people play around with, but few ever reach the depth of such workings to create a [Stop] effect. If there is a way to speed oneself up through Elemental Fire, then… Such a spell would be the career-creating work of one lucky or smart individual.” He added, “Such a person might get slapped down by Phagar, or at least get a visit from the God of Death and Time.”

Jane asked, “What would you call such a spell? I always called it [Haste], and the larger version is [Time Stop].”

Tenebrae instantly added, “[Alacrity] is the spell I am referencing. I know not of this [Haste], and I doubt you could get to [Time Stop] without Phagar’s approval.”

“Lots to think about!” Erick stepped back, taking the focus off of him as he said, “Anyway! Jane? You’re up.”

Tenebrae looked to Jane. He nodded.

Jane breathed deep. She said, “Okay!” And then she stopped. “Uh. One second.”

A shadow flickered from her feet, zipping down into the Castle like a very, very long arm. As that shadow came back, it brought with it a stone and an elaborate wardlight attached to that stone. Jane grabbed the stone and studied the lightward briefly, before setting it down on the ground beside her.

She stepped away from Erick and Tenebrae. She cast.

She stepped left.

A dark copy of her stepped to the right, and backward, and forward.

The forward copy walked off the edge of the Castle wall and promptly fell down, down, down, toward the Forest below. It hit the [Air Shield] and was ripped to pieces. The backward copy teetered over the inner edge of the wall and splattered on the courtyard, turning into shadows. The right one kept walking.

Jane, however, had stopped walking after just two steps. She turned, and winced as she read the air, and watched her copies fall. The right-moving copy failed in walking and tripped itself. Jane winced again as that copy rolled off the edge of the wall and followed the forward-copy toward the [Air Shield].

It splatted. Its shadows dissipated on the [Air Shield].

Jane said, “Ah. Damn.”

Tenebrae said, “The basic functionality is there except your execution was off. Your scaffold is correct. Now work on the ornamentation.”

Jane nodded, as she tore something out of the air. Erick watched as a tiny piece of her soul vanished, leaving a repairing hole where it had been.

Jane said, “Thank you Archmage Tenebrae. I will do better.”

“Of course you will.” Tenebrae walked off, saying, “Now, I must see to some day drinking. It seems your father cannot stop himself from harming every part of me and I wish to forget some of this interaction.”

- - - -

Erick checked the Imaging at the Twin Trees before dinner.

As far as he could tell, according to the glowing map, the trees around the Twins were normal trees. The Twins themselves were denser than the rest, but otherwise they were normal, too. The only thing odd about them was that they were twins, all the way down to their roots, and all the way up to their canopies, both of which tangled together in intricate patterns.

But Erick’s Imaging only mapped the first three meters below the surface, and the first 15 meters above the surface. Ophiels manually confirmed the similarities in the canopy. Erick wasn’t sure how far the mirrored similarities continued below the surface. So he had the Ophiels recast the Imaging a good fifty meters up, above the Forest floor, and focused on the root systems.

The second Imaging would run all night while Ophiel kept it safe. It wasn’t hard for Ophiel to keep the space safe; he had done so already. All it required was some [Animadversion]s to take care of the few natural magics of the local wildlife and some [Merciful Suffocation]s to further dissuade any beasties from trying to eat the feathered [Familiar]. The inability to breathe without experiencing pain and the inability to injure the thing causing that pain was a good, mostly-humane combination, in Erick’s opinion.

Over the course of the day, Erick had occasionally been pinged by Ophiel. Something had attacked them, trying to get to the large glowing space beside the Twin Trees. Over the course of the day, Erick had watched as many types of animals failed to injure Ophiel or to disrupt the Imaging.

Cats fell from the trees, their claws glowing with power in attempts to [Strike] at Ophiel. Those cats touched silver thorns, slipped off of Ophiel, and left that brief encounter covered in small, bleeding scratches. Then they got facefuls of gold-white gas which injured them every time they tried to breathe. Those cats ran away, trailing glowing mists, escaping from Ophiel in every direction they could race. [Merciful Suffocation] ended when the target was out of Health, so Erick wasn’t worried about accidentally killing the cats, while the more injured ones got a few [Healing Word]s cast at them, as they fled. Erick wasn’t in the business of overly injuring animals, after all.

Ophiel mostly dodged all the other attacks that came for him, though. The cats had been the major exception. Wolves were easily seen before they got close enough to attack. They got face-fulls of [Merciful Suffocation], too; even the ones sneaking up from the sides. That was enough to send them racing away.

When a massive spider came down from above like a mountain climber rappelling down a cliff, drawn by the rather radiant [Cascade Imaging], that spider hocked a loogie made of white webs at an Ophiel. That attack webbed around an Ophiel’s thorny shield before instantly bouncing away, into the dark.

Then the spider received its suffocating welcome. With white-gold mist trailing around its entire body, the spider skittered back up the tree trunk, back up to the middle trunk-space.

But when monsters came around, Ophiel’s welcome was much more deadly.

A Lesser Armed Sloth raced forward, through the trees, right into a near-invisible web of taut molecules; a [Hermetic Shredder]. Claws broke a few severing wires, but it was not enough. The remainder cut the oncoming monster, like a trip through a laser grid. Cubed, julienned, and rough-cut pieces of that Lesser Armed Sloth tumbled through the gloom. Ophiels pushed the mess away from the scanning area. Animals were hungry, after all. No need to clean up all this meat right then.

The next time Erick was pinged for a monster attack, there were Monstrous Ghouls coming toward the Imaging. Erick had read of these monsters before, and what he read was what he saw. Monstrous Ghouls were an undead-type monster that inhabited the bodies of Furred Rockers and person-sized spiders and something that resembled an otter, but they were all the same undead. They went right for the remains of the sloth.

Erick was not too happy about that. He had felt bad about chasing away the cats and the wolves, and yes, even the spider. They were not monsters, after all. Monsters were not deserving of his sympathy…

Erick realized what he was thinking the second he thought it.

Maybe some monsters were deserving of sympathy. The shadelings were, after all.

Through Ophiel’s eyes, he looked down upon the remains of the Armed Sloth and at a trio of cats that had started to scavenge from the left side of the pile of meat. He turned toward the Monstrous Ghouls that had come in from the right to also scavenge.

He decided to experiment.

He waited for the undead to attack the living, or vice versa.

The undead saw the living cats and attacked, en masse. Erick had Ophiels shoot out Merciful Suffocations—

Ah. They didn’t care. Undead. Duh. Erick forgave himself; he had never faced undead like this before, except for that one time over in Odaali, and that didn't really count. He had forgotten that they did not breathe. The spell did draw the attention of the ghouls away from the cats, though. They ran toward the Ophiel. When the undead groaned toward Ophiel, the cats heard, and took off in the opposite direction.

Erick focused on the undead coming for Ophiel. For his first experiment, he erected enough [Quick Wall]s to make attacking the Imaging area almost impossible for the land-based undead.

The undead did not care. The glowing orbs in the air had attacked them and they wanted to tear apart those glowing orbs. The ghouls attacked the [Quick Wall]s in front of them, breaking through rather fast, so Erick just cast more… And then he cast more, and more. And more.

Erick watched for five minutes, stopping the undead advance, but not actually damaging them.

The undead were not stopping their attack.

So much for that experiment. Undead monsters were incapable of not-attacking, just like the books said.

Erick filled the air on his side of the [Quick Wall]s with [Hermetic Shredder]. When the undead broke through again, Erick did not recast the Walls. The undead raced onto molecular wires, meeting the same fate as the Lesser Armed Sloth.

Erick plucked out rads from the wiggling undead bodies, killing the undead. He pushed the remains into the meat pile.

When more monsters came, they came for Ophiels, or to investigate the Imaging, or to prey upon the animals that came for the meat, or for the meat itself. Erick tried to dissuade every encroaching monster from the first three targets, just as he did for the animals, but where animals learned that only the meat was fair game, the monsters seemed incapable of learning.

By next morning, and after being woken up every hour, it seemed, the meat pile was very large, and the root-system Imaging was mostly done.

Erick cleared up the meat pile with [Cleansing Flame] over breakfast, an hour before it was time to investigate the Imaging and the Labyrinth, too. He didn’t need violent wildlife hanging around while he personally studied what the Imaging had revealed.

- - - -

Erick walked through the air, light splashing under his feet as he explored the illuminated root system. There was something here besides just what he was seeing, and what he was seeing was that the Twins were mirrored underground as well as above. He already knew this, but now he saw the full extent of the mirroring.

The major roots of the left tree went left, while the right tree’s roots went to the right. There was little tangling of large roots between the two trees, almost as if both of them had been planted on mirrored, opposing cliffs, instead of right next to each other on the same Forest floor.

The only exceptions to this phenomena were amongst the smaller roots. Anything less than a few centimeters in diameter was a mess of growth that grew in whatever direction it felt like growing,

While the larger roots were mirrored systems that grew away from each other, the smaller roots in that small space between the two Twins, directly under the [Gate], took on a rather peculiar pattern.

Erick saw the pattern. He memorized that pattern as easily as he had replicated Van Gogh’s Starry Night with a single cast, back in that art supply store. He saw how swirls of roots obviously moved mana around like the Twin Trees were some sort of living enchantment.

But he didn’t understand any of it.

There was no known language in that pattern; Erick checked rather thoroughly for Ancient Script, and then all the other languages he had learned since coming to Veird. Gargantual, the language of the Orcols. Inferni, the language of demons, and thus the base language of the Incani. Karstar, the language of Angels, and thus the language of many humans, but more accurately the language of human nobility in several parts of the world. Ecks, which was actually a blend of Karstar, Inferni, and many other languages, and the main spoken language of most people on Veird.

There was no language pattern in the patterns of the roots under the [Gate].

There was a pattern, though. An enchanted pattern, was Erick’s guess. Not a gridwork pattern, or a basic enchanting pattern, but with a bit of expansive mana sense, and knowing what he was looking at thanks to the Imaging, Erick could feel the flow of mana through the roots, and the trunks, and the air. There was a system of mana movement here, for sure. That system likely gave rise to the magic in this space, but whatever that system was, it was beyond Erick, for now.

Tenebrae hovered not too far from Erick, his robes and small parts of his body wisping away under the effects of his [Greater Air Body]. He glanced toward Erick every now and then, but he mostly studied the glowing root map, too.

Everyone else was watching out for threats from the outside.

