Tenebrae received Erick in the tea room. The sky outside sparkled with stars and the brilliance of the three full moons. Hot tea curled steam into the air as Tenebrae poured himself a cup. He did not pour Erick a cup; Erick had to do that himself. Which he did.

Tenebrae started, “You disturbed the Labyrinth.”

“Did you know it would draw Ophiel toward an active Gate if I used a Domain?”

“I know that’s not what happened.” Tenebrae said, “What happened, was this: You tried a Domain. Monsters came. You survived those monsters by inflicting damage and not being overly damaged yourself. Or rather, Ophiel survived the tribulation. Then Ophiel was pulled toward the active Gate.” He sipped his tea.

Erick frowned. “That’s… a marginally more correct list of what happened.”

“I have a question for you, Erick. Do you want to get involved with the dragons? Or do you want to learn how to make a Gate? The two options are not necessarily linked. In fact, choosing one might mean that you cannot acquire the other. The dragons that live inside the Labyrinth do not like people poking around at their Gates. But, if you are strong enough, you can bend that entire society to your will, and they will help you acquire the knowledge of the Gates. They’ve lived there for a long time, after all.”

Erick narrowed his eyes at Tenebrae. “What is your deal, here, Tenebrae? Are you getting something out of this that you’re just not telling me?”

Tenebrae seemed to weigh his options. Slowly, he spoke, “I… failed the Worldly Path long ago, when I was offered a choice that was not a choice. But I never stopped wanting [Gate]. That was the entire goal of my Path. When I fell off of it, I was lost. But I went back to the chalkboard. For twenty years, I chased down every [Gate] lead I could find.

“I met sycophants of rulers, with contracted [Gate]-mages who had completed the Worldly Path by paying points. When I could, I trained them in proper enchanting and proper magic. Often, I had to murder them, or their patrons, when they came to me looking for more than I was willing to give.

“I spoke to the Angel and the Demon of Oceanside, to ask them for their [Gate] magics. I quested and Quested for both sides for a decade, when they needed me. But still, they could not help me to understand [Gate].

“I visited the Orrery of Rozeta, in the Splinter Mountains, and reached untold heights of spellcasting, and yet, still, I could not fathom [Gate].

“Finding a Gate from the Old Dragonkin civilization was something I failed to accomplish on the Path. Afterward, I searched in my spare time, casually scanning the Forest as my Estate flew across the land.

“When I was on my Worldly Path, these things were just pieces of the puzzle, but after I fell off the Path, I tried to pick up the pieces, to see the grand design of it all, but all I did was retread old roads. It got harder and harder. And then, I got lucky. My Scans revealed the hidden [Gate] we walked through today; those twin trees. Fate and Ritual could not find that [Gate], but hard work could.

“I stepped in there with my Domain active, for I run that thing all the time even when I conquered other Visions, for why would I subject myself to the whims of a Vision? Why would I ever lower my Domain? I experienced a tribulation, likely the same as you. I survived, of course. Then the Labyrinth moved me to its very center and pushed me through a [Gate].

“I landed in the middle of their city. There was… confrontation. When the dust settled, they offered the opportunity to study their Gates and their [Gate]s, if I brought them what they wanted from this outside world, for despite all my power, I am not what they are looking for.

“I am not a Wizard, and they care nothing for Archmages. The power of this world is not their own. It is poison to all of them. While they are inside the Green Labyrinth, their Dragon Essence is… Different. While they are out here and fully contained by the power of the Script, they are subject to Idyrvamikor’s Curse; they are dangers to everyone they know.

“But Wizards can break this curse, and allow more of them to leave that place.

“I could not give them what they wanted, and so, I was banished. They gave no knowledge and I had no opportunity to steal any secrets. All I had was a quest from them. ‘Find us Wizards!’ they demanded. And so, I searched. I never found any. They never gave me any more answers. Since you say you are not a Wizard, and everything I have subjected you to tells me you are not lying, the same fate awaits you.

“And so, people like you and I must steal what we want from the Gates lying around in the Labyrinth, or else we will have to deal with the dragons.”

Erick sipped his tea. He sat back in his chair.

Tenebrae sat back, too, as he waited.

Erick glared at the older archmage, but there was no true anger in his expression. “Why are you continuing to scan me?”

“Because I think you’re lying to me about being a Wizard, and my leading you here would obligate the dragons to fulfill an old promise and hand over tome upon tome of [Gate] creation and Gate construction.”

Erick’s tone took an edge. “Are Wizards cows for the slaughter?”

“No, dumbass.” Tenebrae scowled, as he set his teacup down with more force than necessary, spilling tea onto the table. “A Wizard can break a dragon from the Curse, but they can only do it while they’re alive. This is not sacrificial magic.”

Erick saw through that lie. He said, “You’re guessing it's not sacrificial magic. You don’t actually know that, do you?” That was just the kinder interpretation of what Erick saw. The more accurate interpretation was that Tenebrae was directly lying.

“I know what I’m talking about!” Tenebrae said, “They have living Wizards in there! It’s one of the only places in this world where Wizards aren’t murdered on sight! They’re treated like royalty!” He practically shouted, “I have met them!”

… All of that seemed truthful.

Huh.

Erick wondered at himself; did he read that body language wrong? Or the micro expressions? Maybe… his ‘lie detector’ wasn’t all that great? Or maybe he had gotten over sensitized. Tenebrae set his ‘lie detecting’ senses off a lot, after all.

Erick tried, “My mistake, then. Maybe it is as you say.”

“Damn right it is!”

“Sorry. I have zero experience with Wizards and the idea of them weirds me out.”

Tenebrae seemed to accept that. He cooled down. He said, “I know of no Wizards. The Headmaster always gets to them first. And so, I am forced to avoid the dragons and steal their [Gate] secrets.” He stared at Erick, asking, “Unless you have a secret Wizard that we can go capture and throw at the dragons?”

“I do not, and I wouldn’t do that, anyway.”

Tenebrae frowned, then nodded. “If we get caught and are forced to deal with them and with the Wizards therein, you will see that my suggestion of capturing and handing them a Wizard is not whatever foolish evil thing you are imagining. You are thinking of Blood Ritual cults and such, no doubt!” Tenebrae huffed in annoyance. “Wizards the world over all live in fear of the Headmaster for no other reason than that the Headmaster kills all the Wizards out there, which is a fair fear. That Old Dragon is truly dangerous if you are not an approved person. But I tell you now, that if you ever find a Wizard, and if you bring one here? You can get almost anything you want. All the dragons want is to be free of their Curse.”

While all that seemed fascinating, Erick contemplated what it would mean to erase the Dragon Curse. To break that Curse would be to unleash a whole new immortal population onto Veird, each of which had the ability to reach high, high levels, each of which could theoretically be a match for the Headmaster’s power.

It seemed like a bad idea to release dragons onto the world.

Erick asked, “If the Curse was gone, would the dragons fight the Headmaster to become the Second? The collateral damage would be… immense.”

Tenebrae lied again, “They’d just go into hiding.” And then he told the truth. “Even dragons die to a boulder to the brain. Killing is not hard, Erick. The Script ensures as much, both inside the Green Labyrinth, and in the world out here.”

Erick blinked a few times. He poked at the lie, asking, “Why would they go into hiding if they didn’t need to?”

In a huff, Tenebrae poured himself some more tea. “They’re hiding now, aren’t they!” He spilled the tea as he said those words. He scowled at the spill, then ignored it. He looked to Erick. “What say you? Which path are we taking? The one where you steal from dragons? Or the one where you talk to dragons and fail to get what you want, exactly like I have for years upon years?”

Erick asked, “Why not both?”

Tenebrae froze. He suddenly laughed, then laughed again. He breathed deep, smiling. Then he frowned, and scowled, saying, “No. Even with the two of us. No. Impossible. Foolish. No. Inside their part of the Green Labyrinth, they are practically unassailable. We will not do that. We will journey through the Labyrinth without the use of Domains and without partaking of any tribulations, ensuring that we do not alert the dragons. We will find those Gates and you will see whatever you need to see.” Relaxing a little, he added, “I have taken my own notes over the years, which you had already rejected once, but when you have done enough exploring on your own, you will look at my notes, and then you can help me to make [Gate].” As an afterthought, Tenebrae added, “And I will do the same for you.”

Erick said, “When I propped up my Domain in the Labyrinth, a pair of pink-green-white eyes appeared, and then a large smile. And then the tribulation happened. What was that about?”

Tenebrae flinched, but he controlled his flinch. Mostly. He lied, “That’s how it always is when you test the Labyrinth.” Then, he spoke the truth, “The Labyrinth looks upon you and tests you back. And since we would crush any test, we would then be dragged before the dragons! Hence, we do not confront the Labyrinth!” With his fuse already short, he demanded, “Your answer, now!”

Erick said, “Hiding and stealing.”

“Good.”

- - - -

Erick got back to the rooms. He gave an abbreviated, telepathic report to Poi, Jane, and Teressa, then he asked them for their opinions.

Teressa sent, ‘I’d rather confront tribulations head-on. But that’s not viable here, is it?’

‘No. Passing a tribulation would put us before the dragons.’

Jane smiled, saying, ‘Then we must be more sneaky! Anyone know how to make a [Shadow Clone] spell that can run off in wrong directions and draw monsters away?’

‘Never even considered that idea.’ Erick sat up straight. ‘How would you even… I’m going to have to consider that idea. It has to be linked to Elemental Illusion, I would think?’

Poi sent, ‘Time for sleep, anyway. Work on the magic in the morning. It sounds like we have a full day of downtime, anyway.’

Jane asked, ‘Tenebrae would know how to make a [Shadow Clone], wouldn’t he?’

‘Probably,’ Teressa sent.

- - - -

Over breakfast, Jane asked, “Archmage Tenebrae. Could I ask you a magical question?”

Tenebrae looked up from his pancakes as he poured caramelized cactus syrup on them. He set the pot of syrup aside, and regarded Jane. He said, “Sure. A small one.”

Jane smiled, then turned as serious as her happy heart could let her. “I have been considering a [Shadow Clone] for a while. Is there a best way to do this?”

“[Shadow Clone] could mean many things. What are you wanting this spell for?”

“For evasion tactics and minor hits versus large monster targets. Perhaps something that I can send running in one direction while I run the other.”

“Then this is a good spell to progress your understanding of gridwork, as it is a low-tier spell.” Tenebrae nodded. “There are many paths for this magic to take, but broadly, you can either have a few expensive clones, or many, many useless clones. 1500 mana cost clones, or 150 mana cost clones. Or you could pick a middle path. The proper spell is actually called Replication. With your Prismatic Class, I suggest you forgo this [Shadowy Replication] idea you have and instead attempt to work in Illusion, with [Illusionary Replication]. It’s a more difficult spell to create, but it’s still only tier three, which is doable through gridwork. You could even try it at Tier 2 if you wish to work in the remaking of [Shadowshape] and [Lightshape] into [Illusionshape] for every attempt at this type of spell, so you can try again every single day.

“To make this Replication, you start with [Conjure Force Elemental], Mana Alter for the appropriate Element, and the appropriate Shaping spell. This is the low-quality version, but if you get a ‘limit of 10’ on this version, you have failed. From this starting point, you apply [Strike] or [Conjure Armor] or anything else you wish to apply, and for that increased cost, your summon will have those— What is with that expression? I’m sure you can do this! All you need to do is do the gridwork.”

Jane had been highly attentive, but then she briefly frowned as Tenebrae mentioned ‘summons’. She said, “I don’t like the idea of summons… They’re not… going to grow up like Ophiel, or Rocky, will they?”

“Ah.” Tenebrae nodded in understanding. “I see. This problem. No. [Illusionary Replications] will not grow with you unless you add [Telepathy] and [Scry]. Adding those to the spells already listed will bump up the tier to four or five and thus you will have semi-permanent summons that might grow into real beings in forty years, or so. Just stick to tier 3 for your [Illusionary Replications] and you should be fine. It’ll be like killing a slime every time you cast this spell and create a very basic soul, but that is nothing to worry about.”

“What about leaving out [Conjure Force Elemental], completely?”

Tenebrae frowned. “[Conjure Force Elemental] is the basis of every rudimentary summon spell, and what you want to make is a summon spell. Get over your inhibitions and make the spell the correct way.” Tenebrae continued, “But as I was saying… Where was I?”

Jane supplied, “[Conjure Force Elemental], plus Altering and Shaping, and then adding [Strike] and whatever.”

