“Yes.” Tenebrae said, “Altering is for the base summon, but Shaping will turn that mass of empowered Element into a better facsimile of yourself. Empower that mirror of yourself— Ah! Yes. Include [Rebound] in the first layer of your spell in order to give the Shaping something to Shape into and to make the whole working a lot less complicated. That way you can designate a target and the spell will copy that target. That’s a neat little trick. I had almost forgotten that. So: a four or five spell combination at tier 2. There’s some difficult gridwork for you, but wholly possible.”

Jane bowed at the table, saying, “Thank you, archmage.”

A quick smile passed across Tenebrae’s face, keeping mostly hidden under his beard, as he said, “You should consider making a Replication of each Element, but I suspect that if you make a good Illusion-based one, then you will not use any of the other Elemental versions. That’d be a five-spell combination. As I said: You need to turn [Shadowshape] and [Lightshape] into [Illusionshape] inside that first combination, unless you want to make that spell beforehand and bump the whole creation up a tier, and thus it will cost you ten days to remake it if you fail the first time. The gridwork to make a tier 3 is easier, in some ways, but larger and thus more time consuming.” He paused in thought, then said, “Eh! That book I gave you will steer you right. Once you have the basic forms down, all gridwork requires is properly executed methodology.”

Jane repeated, “Thank you, archmage Tenebrae.”

He waved her off. “We’ve got downtime. Have some fun with magic while we wait for the Labyrinth to calm. We’ll try another attempt tomorrow morning since your father set it off only 10 hours ago, and I am not going to go into any Twisted Vision at sunset.”

After breakfast, Jane hit the books. She didn’t come up for much, but she did make time for Tenebrae-enforced meals, and bathroom breaks. Erick liked that Jane was so industrious with her magic, and he liked that Tenebrae forced everyone to eat together. Erick even managed to ask his daughter after her magical progress without upsetting her, which was something Erick had rarely been able to do. Erick couldn’t help but feel some deep gratitude toward the older archmage, and for not the first time, he saw one possible future for himself.

He fervently hoped he would never have to experience the older man’s tragedy for himself, whatever it was.

- - - -

Erick did not go into the Green Labyrinth.

He did, however, stand just outside of the Twin Trees and their mutated space. Tenebrae stood beside him, along with a few Rockys. Poi and Teressa stood further back, while Jane was even further away, her eyes trained on the Forest, while Ophiels flitted about through the gloom. It was just past noon above the canopy, but it was barely twilight down here.

With his senses peeled to the max and a few Ophiel helping him, while they weren’t scouting for approaching dangers, Erick studied the [Gate] that made up the start of the Green Labyrinth. Tenebrae watched Erick.

Mana sense allowed one to become one with the mana, and to see the world as the mana saw the world. This sense could be focused in multiple ways. Focus it enough in certain ways, and one unlocked the ability to purchase some top-quality Sight spells from the Script. [Blood Sight], [Mana Sight], [Future Sight], [Witness], and [Soul Sight]. Get all of them, and one could purchase [True Sight].

Erick gazed upon the [Gate] with every single Sight available, switching as needed, trying to uncover something he hadn’t seen before.

Nothing helped him to understand what was happening in that liminal space, except that the mana was basically ‘ambient’ everywhere except for when it crossed a fuzzy threshold between both trees. Even around the outsides of the trees, the mana was ‘ambient’; it flowed with the natural world. A breeze moved it around, or the growing power of the trees of the Forest drew it upward, or the moss on the ground swirled it down into the ground.

At that fuzzy threshold, the mana went in one direction: into the Twisted Vision.

The threshold was most present at the Forest floor. Ophiel confirmed that the ‘[Gate]’ fuzzed out the further one got from ground-level. Ambient mana stopped flowing into the shifted space somewhere around meter 35, but from meter 10 to 25, there was still some ‘draw’ that pulled the mana into the Twisted Vision.

When Erick started inspecting the opposite side of the entrance, he saw nothing; the Forest beyond was perfectly normal, and the [Gate] was non-existent from this direction. He could even see Poi standing there, on the other side. But an Ophiel next to Poi could not see Erick on the other side of the [Gate].

Linking his own mana sense to the mana sense he was getting from that Ophiel was like seeing an impossibility. The mana flowed normally; the mana flowed into the [Gate]. Erick got an instant headache. He dismissed the multiple mana senses and his headache retreated.

Tenebrae suggested that he send an Ophiel through, or step through himself.

Erick stepped through the opposite side of the Gate.

Briefly, the entire [Gate] vanished, like he had disturbed a reflecting pool. Over the course of five minutes, the [Gate] reestablished itself, slowly; the ‘reflecting pool’ calming down enough to resettle into the space. Ambient mana flowed, once again, through the entrance to the Twisted Vision, like a river finding a new exit toward the ocean.

Erick stood back, stumped.

Tenebrae asked, “What do you see?”

“I see a [Gate] that connects to a slightly different but mostly the same reality as this one.” Erick said, “That can’t be the secret to [Gate]. I took a [Gate] once, and I know I did not shift into a different reality… Unless the multiverse theory is true and this is just how [Gate]s work? They do not connect one part of the world to another? They only connect realities to realities? Am I not in the same Veird as the one I fell to?”

Tenebrae looked at Erick, then looked off at nothing; thinking.

Erick continued to investigate the Gate and the [Gate] therein.

Tenebrae eventually broke Erick from his investigation, saying, “Interesting theory. I don’t agree with it. The Vision beyond this Gate is controlling that whole space with a very powerful Domain. That’s all that you’re seeing. The Vision is not actually on the other side of the twin trees, here. It is on the other side of that [Gate]. It only looks like it is connecting to another reality because that is how Visions are; they’re tricksters. Duplicators.”

“… Okay. I can get behind that idea. It’s not a separate reality beyond the [Gate], but an application of a Domain.” Erick gazed upon the [Gate], and then he turned his eyes toward the twin trees. “Have you ever poked at these trees?”

“Scans; yes. Very little actual poking, and I will not allow you to poke or take samples, either.” Tenebrae said, “They’re just copied trees as far as I can tell. I scanned all the way from the top to the bottom, too.”

“Fair enough.” Erick looked to the older archmage. “I’m going to Image them.”

“Non-damaging?”

“Particle Spells are physical spells, but this one isn’t damaging, as far as I know.” Erick said, “I can test it, first, with a smaller working. In fact. I will do that.”

Tenebrae nodded.

Erick held up his hand, shifting his [Greater Lightwalk] into a sphere upon his palm. With a thought, he shifted that light into radio waves. The sphere blinked out of sight. Nothing happened to the Twin Trees or the [Gate] between them.

Tenebrae gave a sudden sigh of relief.

Erick did too. “And now, the actual scan.”

With a few quick steps, he moved away from the Twin Trees, each of which was at least 10 meters wide. He gave himself forty meters of space from the entrance to the Vision, for this was going to be a large spell. Ophiels, Jane, and Teressa, moved with him, to make sure he was protected from every angle.

Everyone knew that this would likely alert monsters. It was a very flashy spell, after all.

“Just do it!” Tenebrae said, seeing Erick’s problem and eagerly waiting for the actual Imaging.

Erick shaped a [Cascade Imaging] into the air above, being sure to exclude stone from the Imaging.

A bright white orb took hold of the gloom, shoving back the darkness as it showered the air with bright white glows that raced off in every direction, then came back in like sand settling on the bottom of a pool. Ahead of Erick, between the orb and [Gate], a white mist flowed out of the air. Moments later, that mist began to carve away from itself, revealing an exact copy of the trees, except twenty meters in front of the trees, and completely penetrable.

And since it cost nothing and could easily image over a rather large area, Erick included four other nearby trees in the effect, creating ghostly copies of those trees in the air between them and the Imaging orb.

Erick had Imaged trees before. Most normal trees were uniformly denser than a person, except for a person’s bones. Bones were usually denser than trees. The trees of the Forest were all as dense as bones. The trees of this entrance to this Twisted Vision were even more dense than that. A great lot of the Image that appeared out of the mist was solid white.

But this spell could run for a hundred minutes, gradually refining itself as it went, and could be renewed with a cast at the same location. If the spell ran long enough, Erick would be able to see the entire inside of every nearby tree, from ground level to twenty meters up, without harming anything.

Erick had time.

And he wasn’t getting any further with mana sensing or Sighting the trees, so he ended his investigation here, leaving his [Cascade Imaging] to run as needed. Everyone hoofed it back the way they had come.

A trio of Ophiel remained at the site so that they wouldn’t need to come back the long way each time. One couldn’t just lightstep to the entrance of the Green Labyrinth, after all. If the entrance to the Green Labyrinth wasn’t approached properly, then you wouldn’t find it, and part of that ‘proper way’ was to arrive on foot; no blipping allowed!

And besides that, Erick wasn’t about to let some monster come by and break his Imaging with some odd monster magics, or whatever.

If this didn’t work, he’d make a [Cascade Imaging] but with X-rays.

… Or maybe all he would have to do would be to Mana Shape [Cascade Imaging] into x-rays.

- - - -

When Tenebrae had mentioned to Poi that Elemental Ice was capable of inflicting Slow, Erick had filed that idea away in the back of his mind. Being chased by large monsters brought that idea back to the forefront. Obviously, he should have a Slowing spell of some sort!

Aside from Eduard, of the Mage Trio back in Spur, Erick had never really seen anyone use Ice Magic, and Eduard never showed off much of his spells, so while Erick waited for the Imaging to finish, he read about Ice in the Esoteric Elements book that Jane had brought along. Jane’s conversation with Tenebrae over breakfast had also given him some ideas about Illusions, but those were rather unformed ideas. Ice. Illusions. Hmm.

Erick considered what he wanted.

There was a temptation to throw a good ten ideas together into one.

Elemental Slow. Illusionary diversions. The stickiness of ooze. The slight intelligence of conjured elementals. The ability to pump out a good hundred of these at a time.

… Anti-[Dispel] tactics. Either something that would prevent [Chain Dispel], or something that an enemy could [Dispel], only to make the attack worse. Was that possible? The obvious solution would be to include a bit of an [Illusion Domain] into his working, probably though an aura, but Erick would need to make such a Domain first and that wasn’t happening today. Erick put the idea of an actual solution to [Dispel] on the backburner, too; that was too complicated for now.

… And then he separated out his desire for Illusions and Slow, too. He’d work on Illusions later. All he wanted was a Slow spell.

Now! If he was making a Slow Particle spell, he’d start with some ideas of gravity and the nature of time itself, and he would surely do that eventually. He could even ping Phagar to see what he would say about all of that. But for an Elemental Slow spell, he would work with Elemental Ice, for now.

Putting together the actual spell took less time than it took to figure out what he wanted.

Erick stood upon the staging area atop the southern wall of the Castle. He held his right hand forward and channeled mana through the idea of Ice, producing a prominence of white splinters that brought a mist from the air as they sang a song of endless stillness. It was the uncaring dark of winter. The solidification of an iceberg. The slow march toward permanence, and the uncaring death of all things.

With his Ophiel around him, he refined that chaotic rush toward the absence of life into something else. Something less deadly. Something less damaging. Splinters of mana became a mist, which then became a glow, which then became a faint orb of white light that completely engulfed his hand and his arm up to his elbow. A phantom sensation of cold had filled his entire being while he worked on this transformation of an idea, and now, at the end, he knew he had it right. Cold had become just stillness. There was no pain. No end. There was only calm.

He added Mercy to the mix.

Mercy and Slow went together like cream and coffee.

With Ophiel holding together the sounds of his working, Erick added another spell; a simple [Force Bolt]. And then he added another working; a bit of Variable Cost, for Variable Damage, but in this case, for Variable Effect.

He pointed at a target dummy made of cloth and hay positioned twenty meters down the Castle wall, and cast.

A white bolt surrounded by a nimbus of white light zipped forward, fast as it could go. It struck the dummy like a ball of cloying mist, soaking into the straw dummy. Frost flashed across the target and soaked into the stone wall underneath. Tiny icy burs spread over everything in a three meter space.

A blue box appeared.

Slowing Bolt, instant, long range, 15 mana + Variable

An ethereal bolt of mist inexorably strikes a target, inflicting Slow for a Variable length of time.

Very high Variable costs may inflict Stop.

“Oh! Neat.” Erick handed out the blue box. “Is [Stop] what I think it is?”

The two members of his audience lost their shit.

Tenebrae threw up both hands, saying, “What the fucking shit is this shit! Break it all to dust— [Stop]! You made [Stop] at tier 2? Fuck you, idiot-savant brain-addled— Fuck you!”

Jane just stared, and then she laughed like a half-crazy person. “You made [Stop]! Isn’t that a legendary—”

