So what does this mean? To do what we do, Martial Warriors defy the Heavens and seize Heavenly Energy to use for ourselves. A fanciful concept, but it’s the indisputable truth, so why not take things a step further? Closing my eyes, I reach for Balance and step into my Natal Palace, where I am immediately set upon by a horde of Spectres, their whispered lies and forceful demands growing more persistent of late. I’m guessing it’s because not only do they all know what’s to come, a big chunk of them also know they missed their chance to take physical form with Pudge, which I suppose is the end goal of all Spectres. Infect a host, turn them murderous, make them surrender, and blammo. You got yourself a spicy Demon, though I’m still not entire sure what their motivation is. I know they’re born from despair and suffering, and Mahakala called them ‘itinerant souls seeking to break through the barrier of existence’, but that doesn’t exactly tell me much.

Breathe in. Breathe out. Focus on what matters instead of stressing about what doesn’t. You came here with a goal. Complete it. Don’t let distraction bring you to ruin.

Following my advice, I ignore the Spectres and take in the sights of my multi-faceted Natal Palace while calming my mind for the trials ahead. At the centre sits my plain, white bedroom with its comfy bed, goblet of Heavenly Energy, ceiling of carved heroics, and panoramic view, the seat of power in my domain much like Pong Pong’s coral bed and Yo Ling’s throne. While not as daunting as their choices, a bedroom suits me perfectly, because even though I am merciless to myself in my pursuit of strength, I would happily give it all up if not for my neuroses and mental trauma. Better to lie in bed and dream of heroics than live through them myself, but in this murderous hellhole of a world, there can be no peace without strength.

My Natal Palace is filled with places which remind me of what I’m fighting for. To the east sits Taduk’s underground cottage, and in the west, my favourite cliff-side perch across from it, each one positioned just as they would be in real life, albeit with the addition of two Keystones, the first aid kit for Healing and giant feather for Lightening. Mila’s forge sits alone in the north with my two most used Keystones, the shining star for Reinforcement and the hammer and anvil for Amplification, while the south sits empty and uninhabited, as I cannot support more real estate and have yet to come up with a new Keystone to put there. All together, this forms my Natal Palace, and though I cannot deny its effectiveness, it feels... lacking. Though I know it would have never worked out, I still miss seeing the village when I look out the windows, which I suppose is why I always set myself apart from it, in real life and in my Natal Palace. It’s okay though, because now, my home is where my family is, and so long as they are safe, then nothing else matters.

On that cheery note, I sit crossed-legged on the bed and open myself to the Energy of the Heavens, holding fast against the torrent threatening to sweep me away. A turbulent river, raging windstorm, blazing inferno, and destructive earthquake. Violence, yes, but there is peace too, beneath the waves and in the eye of the storm, or in the aftermath of the cleansing fire and shattered earth, the power of Creation and Destruction intertwined so closely together it’s almost impossible to separate one from the other.

In a word: Balance.

The people of the Empire speak only of the warm embrace of the Mother and the Defiled submit to the Father’s demands, but why should I pick sides? I don’t care for all the theological bullshit. Perhaps there is a Mother and a Father, a force of good and evil watching us from the Heavens, but if they brought me here as a piece for their game, then they can fuck off. I refuse to play along and I reject them both. I will not surrender to the Father, nor will I accept the Mother. Instead, I will forge my own Path. It is not a choice I make lightly, but since Martial Warriors are already acting in defiance of the Heavens, then why shouldn’t I take it a step further and defy the Deities residing within them?

No more of this mystic mumbo jumbo. Forget good and evil, there is only creation and destruction with no morality to muddy the waters. Heavenly Energy is an enigmatic force of nature, but people have been taking advantage of nature since the dawn of humanity. Whether it be working with fire or harnessing the wind, taming a horse or cracking the atom, humans have always bent nature to their will, so I will do the same. Instead of treating it like an ineffable power, I will uncover its secrets and use it to my benefit and the benefit of humanity. Energy is energy, regardless if it’s electric, kinetic, potential, Heavenly, or otherwise. The only difference is how to use it, but the first step to using energy, is to control it.

What I do now while gathering Chi can hardly be called control. I struggle, I endure, and I survive, so things must change, but how? I can’t control Heavenly Energy, but if Chi is Heavenly Energy in a different form, then it stands to reason what works for one will work for the other. I know how to control Chi. I may not understand it, but that doesn’t matter so long as it works. For awhile, I wondered which was better, Intent or Visualization, but the answer doesn’t matter when you can use both.

The Energy of the Heavens rages and coerces, abuses and nurtures, but I remain undaunted and bend it to my will by Visualizing my Intent.

No surrender and no embrace, I will not go with the flow, nor will I resist.

I contain and control.

I am the dam which stops the river, and I am the wall which blocks the wind.

I am the forge which contains the flame, and I am the drill which pierces the mountain.

Faced with my oppressive demands and unyielding resolve, the Energy of the Heavens seethes and intensifies, but I persevere as time passes. Seconds, minutes, hours, I don’t know how long it takes, but I keep at it until the Heavenly Energy turns docile and... impartial, is the best word I can come up with, filled with no whispered promises or tempting demands as it submits and transforms into Chi. Where I once offered invitation and Heavenly Energy flowed into my Core to fill a vacuum, I now draw it in much like I Devour Spectres, by opening the void to the world and (sigh) sucking it in to become mine. Faced with this information, an epiphany strikes, and I realize something I should’ve figured out a long time ago. The void is my Core. That’s why Martial Warriors have access to near infinite Chi inside their Natal Palace, because it sits inside the Core! It’s a closed system, and since energy cannot be created or destroyed, anything you do using Chi inside the Natal Palace will eventually revert back to Chi. Zero net loss.

Yeah! Science, bitch!

...Honestly, seriously surprised it worked, and it raises a whole host of new questions. Not bad work though. I fixed a flaw I’ve lived with for more than two years now and also stumbled across a mundane insight into the mechanics behind Chi, but there’s still more to be done.

Yesterday, I would’ve had to hold Balance and meditate to gather Chi, but now I merely have to think and it appears, surging into my Core as if I were demonstrating Purity. Freed from the need to concentrate, I let the Chi gathering continue in the background and turn my attention to Spectres, but only now do I notice they’ve fallen silent and still. Suspended in the void, they watch in what I can only describe as abject horror, remaining frozen even as my Spiritual Water washes out and consumes a few hundred of their peers. Usually, this is when I’d call it a night, but unsettled by their unusual behaviour, I convert Chi into Water Chi and Water Chi into Spiritual Water, a process which is slow going and requires all my focus to sustain. Though it takes hours to cleanse the Spectres, I continue until every last one of the them has been turned into Heavenly Energy and deposited into the goblet, unable to rest easy with an audience of frozen spirits sitting within the void.

That’s not a good sign... but let’s be fair: if what I did horrified the Spectres, then it can’t be all bad.

...

Right?

Chapter Meme
