On account of our early return from patrol, there wasn’t enough room for us in the nice, cozy fort, but I actually prefer camping out on the exposed plains. The hot Central summer is winding down and autumn looms around the corner, but the temperatures are still higher than what I’m used to, so it’s much more comfortable out here than it would be crammed into a sweltering, dirt-walled room next to a hundred more just like it. Large as Fort Sinuji might be, it was built with defence in mind rather than comfort, so yurt life is almost luxurious in comparison, especially if you’re not an officer. Sleeping four soldiers to a yurt is far better than twelve to a room, packed in shoulder to shoulder like a tin of sardines.

Ooh... Tins. Food preservation. I should write a letter to Diyako, the sooner we get tastier food on the front lines, the better. No wait, glass jars would be easier than tin cans. We haven’t figured out how to make the clear glass needed for telescopes and eyeglasses, but clouded glass will work fine for jarring.

While grinding the ink, I ponder over the significance of my arrival in this world for the umpteenth time. Most days, I prefer not to think about it because it reminds me of all the modern amenities I’m missing out on, like indoor plumbing and air conditioning, not to mention the existential horror it dredges up. Was I brought here for a reason? Am I bound by fate to carry out a purpose? Am I a piece in some cosmic game of four-dimensional chess? Were my memories intentionally preserved or is all this a freak accident?

Will I ever know the answers to any of these questions?

Most recently, I’ve started worrying about the unintended and unforeseen consequences of my actions, which is silly, because by definition, there’s nothing I could have done to stop them from happening. Still, I wonder if my ideas are upsetting the natural order of things. Will there be consequences if I break the status quo and enact radical change and progress? This wasn’t a problem before because no one cared about my ideas, but since introducing my book and being crowned Number One Talent in the Empire a mere four months ago, I’ve noticed a myriad of issues cropping up in its wake.

Take paper for example. Although the material now sees more widespread use and the value of literacy has risen, I’ve yet to hear of anyone opening schools or offering cheap reading lessons, so the divide between the rich and the poor will only grow instead of shrink. Paper walls are no longer a luxury for the wealthy and are now trending with the poor, and coloured paper decorations have taken the cities by storm. Forgery is on the rise, with enterprising thieves using replica seals on false orders to steal from illiterate guards and warehouse workers, and while woodblock printing presses have yet to appear, I’ve seen plenty of lewd and elaborate woodblock carvings used to stamp pictures which are then sold for a few coppers apiece. Though not as detailed as the painted fapping materials favoured by the nobility, it’s a huge step up for commoners who previously only had their imagination to work with.

So I guess I am making the world a happier place, just not a better one...

The worst fallout from my efforts is how the military wants everything in triplicate because paper is so cheap. Not only do I need to send a copy of my written orders and requests to my superior in Sinuji and high command in SuiHua, I also need to keep a copy to cover my ass. My once spacious yurt is now cluttered with chests filled with stacks of reports, orders, and correspondences, though most are written by Rustram and Silva, as my writing is barely legible and I have a tendency to ramble. I’m much neater if I use a pen, but Luo-Luo doesn’t approve. Though she likes the concept of using pens, she thinks the resulting calligraphy is too ‘prosaic and soulless’, which isn’t entirely wrong, but is totally stupid. I mean, who cares if my written characters are ‘uninspired’ or ‘lack elegance’? At least they’re legible, unlike what comes out when I use a proper brush. It’d be easy to ignore Luo-Luo if she tried to browbeat me into using a brush, but the alluring temptress has long since learned to get her way through guilt. I’ve developed an immunity to fake tears and tantrums, but when she quietly sighs and slumps down like a defeated dog, it makes my insides twist with guilt as if I were a complete monster for using a pen.

Luckily, Luo-Luo is in SuiHua and this letter will go straight to Diyako who doesn’t care if my writing is elegant. Keeping it short and sweet, I detail my thoughts as they come without caring for structure or reason, as I find my ideas are more comprehensible when I don’t think too much, else I get hung up on the details I don’t understand. Like for starters, I don’t know how glass jars keep food preserved, but I know a sealed container helps. A metal lid which screws on is probably too much to ask for, but an unbroken wax seal will probably work just as well. Oh, coloured glass candle holders would probably be popular with the nobility, though I supposed this is more Luo-Luo’s wheelhouse than Diyako’s. Fuck, guess I’ll break out the brush and write her a letter too, especially since she’s due one and I need cattle armour. At least I won’t have to find a trustworthy courier to deliver the letters, as Tenjin and Jochi’s escort can bring it with them when they set off for SuiHua in the morning. I was horrified when Mila mentioned all our letters had probably been intercepted and copied, but mostly because I’m ashamed of my calligraphy. Even Tate has better writing than I do, but I can’t get the hang of using a stupid brush.

It doesn’t make any sense. Brushes are for painting, not writing. Get it right!

After penning letters to Diyako, Luo-Luo, Lin, and Mila, I write one to Mom and Dad asking how they are and telling them about my recent run in with Gulong and everything which preceded it, including Ji Yeon and Ji Jing. I also mention Colonel Hongji’s advice, though I leave his name out just to be safe. Better if he has plausible deniability so he can safely cut ties, especially if my suspicions are correct. Regardless of who’s helping the Situ Clan in secret, the whole thing is so far above my head I wouldn’t even have noticed if it wasn’t for the good Colonel, so I leave it up to my parents to decide my next move.

Honestly, this is almost as bad as the alternative. I’m a grown-ass man running to mommy and daddy when things go wrong. It’s disgraceful, but at least this way they’ll have fair warning of the dagger hanging over our heads.

Finished just before it grows too dark to read without candles, I hand the bundle of sealed letters to a Death Corps soldier and ask him to pass them to Tursinai. She wasn’t too happy about being put in charge of the group going to SuiHui, but I could tell Tenjin was grateful. Tursinai is far more liable to take risks when he isn’t around and I know he wouldn’t sleep easily knowing she was out here with no one to watch her back. I figured I owed him as much, considering this is the second time he’s been injured while serving in my retinue, and even though Orgaal is right about it not being my fault, I still feel liable. Truth is, if we broke things down to absolute numbers, Tenjin is far more valuable a warrior than I am, what with being a twenty-nine year old Awakened Expert who’s so much stronger than his peers it boggles the mind.

Then there’s Tursinai, two years younger and lacking an Awakening, but that doesn’t stop her from beating Tenjin with one hand tied behind her back. Hell, I’ve seen her give Gerel a run for his money, and he’s supposedly the top dog amongst his generation, though I don’t see why. Alsantset and Charok are almost his equal, so baldy doesn’t really stand out from the crowd, but no one denies it. Still, it says something about his personality when the Bekhai treat him like a social outcast despite his strength, which makes me feel a little better about my almost exile.

No one likes me because I’m weird and shy, but they hate Gerel because he’s a jerk. Granted, we both almost turned Defiled, but they disliked him before that came to light, whereas I was at least tolerated.

With my letter writing out of the way, I ask the Death Corps to prepare a cold bath while I practice the Forms beneath the darkening sky. Having been placed in reserve, there is a literal army between my retinue and the Defiled, so I can set those problems aside and get a full night’s rest, provided I’m tired enough to sleep. Unfortunately, Song stole the floofs after dinner which leaves me alone for the night, so I’ll have to make do without a cuddle buddy. I could sleep outside with Ping Ping, the cattle, or the quins, but as a member of Imperial Peerage, I’m supposed to cultivate an image of grace and nobility. The Legate got his panties in a twist when I referred to myself as ‘this one’, so I’d hate to hear what he’d have to say if he hears I’m sleeping in the field with animals.

Even though he’s probably to blame for my current political predicament, there’s no sense in actively antagonizing the Legate. Hongji flat out said the Justicars uphold the Emperor’s justice, which means someone with Imperial clout saved Ji Jing from a date with the hangman. I figure either the Legate did it to keep me in line, or one of his supposed enemies has taken the field and claimed the Situ Clan for their own. A rook to deal with my pawn, as it were, but what the Legate’s enemies don’t know is I’m merely a distraction, a sacrificial piece to protect his new protege Yong-Jin, winner of the First Imperial Grand Conference and the plainest, most boring man I’ve ever met. Sure, he rocks a mean man bun, but I’ve seen statues with more emotion than the twenty-three year old Senior Captain and Awakened Expert.

Tenjin claimed Blessings have nothing to do with personality, but I gotta say, the Blessing of Wood fits Yong-Jin’s wooden personality to a T.

Displeased by my lack of focus, I buckle down and start the Forms anew, holding to Enlightenment while searching for Insight, but there is none to be had tonight, which isn’t too surprising. I’ve always been a skeptic, and even though I have solid proof that Insight is real and have even experienced it first hand, a small part of my brain still can’t believe in a mystical data download from the Heavens and thinks there’s a better explanation out there. What it might be, I haven’t the slightest idea, but it hinders my progress along the Martial Path.

Yet another purpose Baledagh served, having no trouble with Insights because he was a ‘native’ believer from this world, two things which I will never be. It’s one thing to say things like ‘accept reality’, ‘follow your dreams’, or ‘love yourself’, but not so easy to do.

This is fine. Seeking Insight isn’t the only reason to go through the Forms, it’s a full body workout in thirty minutes or less, and performing them for three hours straight is gruelling to the extreme. I’m tempted to have a set of weighted armour made for myself, but using Mom’s training methods would be disrespectful to Dad. Face and whatnot, though why this specifically would result in a loss of face, I can’t say. It’s one of those concepts which you can only understand with experience but have no basis in fact, and I have a whole lot of experience making people lose face.

Weary and dripping with sweat, I trudge past the fancy wooden partitions and say hi to Ping Ping looming above the bathtub, eagerly awaiting the results of my watery meditation session. Peeling off my sweat soaked clothes, I grit my teeth and pour a bucket of cold water over my head, reminding myself this is a choice since I am well within my rights to have a hot bath, but I don’t because I enjoy suffering and need to check my privilege. Soap and lather comes next, and I try not to look too closely at the disgusting grime which sluices off, as it will undoubtedly turn my stomach to think about the sources. When I finally feel clean enough for the tub, I slip in and smile at patient Ping Ping, who squeaks in contentment now that the waiting has almost come to an end.

Though not as enjoyable as a hot bath, a cold soak is still good for the soul, so I take a few minutes to organize my thoughts and relax my body, ready to test the theories which I’ve developed since my moment of clarity before the battle with Pudge.

Chi is Heavenly Energy which has been branded by an individual. We gather it into our Cores, and so long as it remains inside, Chi will stay as Chi and never dissipate unless used or released. If set free into the world, then Chi turns back into Heavenly Energy because that is its natural state, for Chi is merely borrowed, not owned. This is stuff I learned on day one, but sometimes, when you’re stuck on a difficult problem, it helps to go back and review the basics.

