, looking around the screen for the missing button.Her five tokens turned one at a time, and each one made her chuckle, then giggle as the last two turned off.Delta bent over cackling.Team name generated: The Good, the Ugly, and the Wicked.Lord Mushy, Jeb the Troll, Wyin, Bob the Worm, and Jack the Kobold.Sending Team and Dungeon Avatar to the North-West to the Crown Archipelago. First Dungeon will be the north-most Island.Now beginning Conquest with ‘Alumen Wave’ Dungeon.Delta smiled, then felt herself being yanked into the Mana Veins of the world with a scream, stuck on a rollercoaster with no railings or safety harnesses.She didn’t even have time to explain the mission to her monsters!---Wyin was buffing her ‘nails’ when a flash of light overtook her.In her place was a dull-eyed replica that stared at the door ahead with endless patience.---Replica-Jack stared at the smut shrine before it and began to pray as it was designed to do.It also began to design bombs every few minutes. As it was programmed to.---Replica-Lord Mushy began to place a pot on every surface it could with a ‘Lali-oh’ and a ‘how do you do?’ to itself.---“A bit unlike my Bob,” Rale said as the Replica-Bob floated on the surface of the waterfall pond like a dead trout, occasionally wriggling like live bait. The crabs were having a ball, spinning its body like a log.---“He’s… amazing,” Fera gasped as the Replica-Jeb Troll not only successfully cooked toast, but made good tea as well.“I don’t know. I kind of like Jeb normally. He sings songs,” Nina said as she washed endless dishes.“Less troll soup pots to clean,” Fera grunted at her. Nina couldn’t argue with that.Still, the replica reminded her far too easily of her own condition when she was spread ‘too thin.’“Take a break, Quee can let you back out if you need to go back to town,” Fera said as she turned to a tiny form helping near the stove.“King Jellagon, you’re burning the edges of the eggs,” she scolded.The little slime gurgled, and Fera sighed, feeding him the eggshells to cheer him up.---Delta held her hands to her face.“I got mana-bugs in my eyes,” she wailed.“Where… are we?” Jack asked aloud as Lord Mushy greeted everyone with a pleasant hum.“I have legs,” Wyin said in horror. She moved unsteadily around on something akin to wooden peg legs with little stubby toes. Bob looked around, now the size of a python rather than a massive creature.“Hello! I am here!” Jeb cheered, still his normal size. He looked around, and Delta finally noticed where they were.“On no… I’m back to mining at night,” Delta whispered as all around them, geodes of what looked like aluminum glittered in a decorative entrance. Said entrance was a massive gaping crack in the wall. Salty-looking water came up to their ankles, and signs of erosion could be seen on some of the geodes. Jeb leaned over and snapped a geode off like Delta would pluck a berry off a bush.It crumbled in Jeb’s hands, barely more than a surface construct.Delta opened her mouth, but she clutched her head as something began making gutteral screeching in her mind. Delta couldn’t quite translate what it was saying since a lot of it was just making noise for the sake of it.The young Dungeon was essentially bellowing ‘Food. Intruders. Food’ on a loop. Delta flicked the connection, and the shrieking cut off abruptly to be replaced by a stunned silence.“Now, none of that. My name is Delta. Do you have a name yet?” she asked kindly, broadcasting mostly with her Mana.The response took a long time.“Food?”What was Delta really expecting?“Okay, Foodie. Again, my name is Delta. Delta,” she stressed.“Dood?”“Delta? We have company,” Wyin said, sounding annoyed. Delta looked into the corridor beyond the crack in the wall to see scuttling crabs with geodes as shells.“Oh, that looks like a functional monster! Well done, Foodie!” she praised. Seconds later, Wyin kicked one, and the shell was so eroded that it shattered into pieces and the monster exploded.Delta stared in shocked horror.“I barely touched it!” Wyin whined, hands up to ward off a lecture. About ten more came scuttling towards them, and Bob slithered forward, rounding them all up in a coiled grip, having to endure feeble smacks and bites to avoid crushing them all.“Foodie, these monsters aren’t working. They’re too soluble,” she explained.“Food! More!” Foodie responded. This was getting her nowhere; if she just had access to its menu-Her mana surged forward, and Delta felt the whispers of a warcry. It didn’t take long to get a feel of everything.Seven floors. It had seven floors.Delta fell to her knees.“How am I your senpai?” she asked, feeling insecure for a moment. The core was found, and it was a grayish color made up of the same metal decorating the entire Dungeon. Her mana just sort of bashed past the bosses with alarming ease.A gray screen flickered next to her orange one.“Danger!” Foodie cried.“Of flunking Dungeon 101, yes,” Delta said as she hit no on the ‘consume core’ option without even needing to think about it.Dungeon: UnnamedTheme: Saltwater. Metal.Floors: 7Potency: weak.Delta just had to pretend she was grading homework or staying back after class to help a student understand something they clearly were struggling with.“Me. Die?” Foodie asked, and Delta patted his core gently.“We say ‘not today’ to that rubbish,” she said, and the other core seemed content to accept what fate might come to it. It didn’t even try to move its bosses towards her. It didn’t even think to try.“Let’s see if there is… aha!” she grinned as a sort of history screen appeared. Foodie’s first items that it consumed were displayed at the bottom.Consumption:Sea water.Aluminum (extreme rust)Broken Rusty SwordSalt crystals (dried)Delta sent a curious pulse to the Dungeon and its immediate surroundings. Foodie was located on one of the crown islands, inside a tide pool cave where the ocean closed in for hours, protecting Foodie until the tide receded.Likely Foodie didn’t plan on that but just got lucky.Scrolling through the list further, she did notice a sudden intake of more unique materials. Leather, glass, paper, furs, and… biological substances.Foodie was a discovered Dungeon. She sent a mental image of a person to the Dungeon, and it didn’t recognize the image of a man or woman.Out of sheer effort, it managed to send back an image of something… very not human. It looked like a scribble on paper more than a clear image, but Delta got the impression of two arms, two legs, a long tail, a ridged finned back, and a bulbous head.“Jack, do fishpeople exist?” she asked, feeling like she was uttering three different offensive statements at once. Jack looked over from where he was licking salt crystals curiously.“Sure do. They used to be monsters like we Kobolds, but people are freaks, and now we have seeds in every kind of life. Don’t know which one lives around here, but we got Naiads, Merfolk, Sahagin, Deepkins, and more,” he said casually.“Jood?” Foodie repeated.“Jack. His name is Jack,” Delta corrected with a small smile.She found the crab monsters and the first floor upgrades.First floor: The Salt WoundUpgrades:Geodes of Aluminum will periodically form. It will take a long time for them to be harvestable.Flowing Sea: Ankle deep water will constantly flow outwards from the boss room.Sea Air: torches and fire don’t last as long.Monsters:Geode Crabs: Weak-shelled crabs that aim to cut veins.Salt Bat: Bats that will dissolve if made wet. Their bite is agony.Boss: The Tyrant Shell: A massive crab that has absorbed enough pure geodes to make a solid defense. It can spew pressured salt water to knock people back. A massive flaw crack at the back of the shell makes it a weak point.Traps:Three pitfalls filled with waist-deep water.One slip-rock.“Foodie, this floor needs work,” she pointed out and Foodie let out a cry of denial, seeming to hold the seventh floor closer where most of its stockpiled resources were being automatically allocated.Automatically… allocated.Delta would just turn that off.Foodie immediately snapped it back on.Delta narrowed her eyes and turned it off.Foodie cried and turned it back on. Delta yanked it back with too much force, and the symbolic switch snapped off with such force it literally flew off the menu.Both Dungeon Cores stared at the broken switch. That was when Foodie let out a keening noise like a terrified puppy.“I barely touched it!” Delta cried, and Wyin shot her such a dirty look that Delta flushed.Foodie was now in a single constant stream of keening in such panic that it wasn’t listening to Delta anymore.What did Delta do when she was in a panic?Oh!“Look, Foodie! A mushroom!” Delta said with a smile and held up a Gutrot. She wouldn’t actually feed it to the Dungeon, but a shiny new thing did make it go quiet.“Mushroom!” Jeb cried with delight. The shaking knocked Delta off her feet, and the mushroom went flying deep into the corridor.Three seconds passed, and Foodie spoke more clearly than he ever had before.“Bad, food. Die. Want. No, More.”“You get used to them,” Delta said distantly, her eyes going faint.“I listen. No more. Bad Food.” Foodie whispered.Delta tossed it a Tasty Mushroom, causing it to shriek in panic until it dissolved.“…Oh.”“Good Dungeons who make better first floors get good mushrooms. Bad Dungeons that make bad life choices get bad mushrooms,” Delta said, deciding to go with it. New Dungeons were between puppies and toddlers.“Want more. Good. Shrood.”Delta was not looking forward to the equivalent of teenager Dungeons who were sure they knew better than her.Delta’s first mission was to help Foodie adjust one thing at a time.Like making its monsters not explode due to its own Dungeon theme.---Dungeon Network 2.0 now at 1%Key Core: Delta is 146% stable.Chance of success: above average.Delete old Network?Key core: Silver status unknownY/N?Sis declined for now. It’d cause too much chaos if she deleted the old network just now. Silver… Sister just didn’t know what had gone wrong. He had been progressing Dungeons to a new level, and his sudden departure had caused tons of new Dungeons to begin to decline in efficiency.It was what led to Delta being hastened into place.His madness played a huge part in the corruption of many old Dungeons. Without him as the lynchpin, code crashed, logic burned, and good cores went insane. Many depended on Silver to speak to each other.Many ended up locked up in their own heads, and Sis was so ashamed she didn’t try to help them. She had been… was still… such a stupid child.Brother wanted to end them before it got worse, but Sister held on. She clung to the idea that a solution would be found.Sis hurt so many people, and now? She had hurt many more Dungeons.Sister looked down at her chair. She never relaxed in it, never allowed herself to recline into its power.She did not deserve it, and as soon as the time came… she would no longer allow herself to be in the same room as it.A good throne deserved a better god.Sister looked at many of the screens before her, covered in mushrooms and gibberish.Delta had been one of the good ones, and Sister put all her love and faith in the woman. She was just so tired of hurting people and this was her chance to be a hero in a story for once. Just once.She tried to sit closer to the edge of the throne and a mushroom popped up under her knee, shifting her back. It made her blink.“Excuse me,” she said to it apologetically and tried to shift to one side.An armrest made of vines and bright red mushrooms formed and Sis felt weird having a place to relax her arms. Her joints had been a been sore for a few millennia.One of her screens flashed.Delta Network 1.0 supports all.---“I’m not depressed,” Brother warned the mushroom as it continued to follow him around the core.“I’m suitably gothic with style,” he corrected and returned to his fishing pole. A tiny mushroom was growing on the tip of his fishing rod.“…I shall name you Godbert,” Brother announced.----
