This was an issue.Delta had perhaps gone too far.“I don’t even want to know how you managed this,” Nu typed out on his screen, and he read as very agitated.“I was just trying to fix the flooding weakness of the Mushroom Grove,” Delta said helplessly as all around the grove, tiny white mushroom domes rose up. Mushrooms had long stopped being an issue for Delta, but these ones?These were different.Slowly, one side of the mushrooms fell forward like a ramp, letting energetic little blue people exit out into the false rain she was using in this experiment. They reminded Delta of a certain group, but the similarities didn’t last long as they began to absorb water like sponges. They were technically a type of sentient spore from the mushrooms that when they got wet…The cute little blue person closest to Delta bent onver and began to rapidly increase in size to a small gremlin with a long dirty white sock hat and serrated teeth. They let loose keening noises and took to the mushrooms, climbing them like demented monkeys as they sought more moisture.It was fine until they drank the rain dry and the only sources of moisture left would be any invaders.You have created Blue Cap Mushrooms! These mushrooms are harmless until an abundance of water is introduced to their ecosystem or they are fed after midnight. Since time is abstract, any time is after midnight except for midnight itself. As water vampires, they will drain all enemies of fluids. Their natural predator is the Dust Mummy, the driest creature in the land except for <insert Fairplay employee’s name>’s mother after a night on the town.“Was she always this hostile to Fairplay?” Delta asked Nu, who shrugged.“She’s been practicing a bunch of emotions. You missed the whole ‘hangry’ saga.”The Blue Cap demon spawn cackled and knocked each other out of the mushroom trees with glee. Some grabbed Gutrots and were feeding them to some other poor Blue Cap.They had a vibe, and Delta was 75% here for it.Still, that was fire and water dealt with. If they introduced ice, then Delta was just going to have to give them the win at that point.“Gutrots can survive near sub-zero temperature.” Nu pointed out.Delta would give them the win.Moving to the goblin fort, she paused as she saw Cois doing something. He was using his staff to draw a long, complicated symbol into one wall. It didn’t look like his normal fire rune, but far grander and slightly like a coffee drink brand.“Cois, what’s that-” Delta got out before Cois tapped it and the whole thing began to glow. Something akin to a vacuum cleaner powering up sounded out as a sudden breeze filled the room.Cois’s face began to flap back, exposing his goblin teeth as he tried to grin, but the building wind was becoming a wind tunnel. Delta had just made her avatar totally immune to that kind of physics. While she was wearing a professional skirt, it was still a skirt nonetheless.The gust gained so much power that Delta could feel an actual drop in her ambient mana.Cois held up his staff, and the gray winds began to gather into an orb that started to crack his staff visibly.“Now, before I can’t hold it!” Cois said, and Delta turned her head to see Billy being braced by Numb as he drew an arrow.The arrow flew, pushing the monk and archer back with such force that Delta winced, but the arrow flew true, and something amazing happened before her eyes. The arrow pierced the wind orb, and a massive hurricane flew down the tunnel, sending Blue Caps screaming in panic as it raced through the grove, mud flying as it careened through the platform room, then the spiders danced the ‘oh lord, it’s coming’ dance as the wind finally slammed into her entrance room and up the stairs.---“Enough, I will be entering the Dungeon now,” the Fairplay warrior told Kemy, who tried to think of a reason to hold him back.The man took one step down into the Dungeon proper with a smug smirk.Screaming horrible blue creatures, three spiders, and a dollop of mud slammed into him before they were pulled back into the dungeon, and the man was sent hurtling over the treeline across the field.There was a pause.“I’ll wait as long as the lady with the suggestive staff says so,” someone said, and the crowd shifted backwards as one.Kemy smiled.Her staff was very suggestive of Delta’s love and kindness!---“We can call it the ‘Transitional Homing Ordnance Technique’!” Cois said once he’d peeled himself off the nearby wall.Delta sipped the coffee she made up of her mana, a very long and slow sip.“How about we have new runes and brands inspected before we use them?” she said, and the three goblins turned to her with wide eyes.“That sounds like bureaucracy!” Cois said, sounding utterly aghast.“It ‘sounds’ like not accidentally creating a blackhole that consumes all life by messing with the code of reality,” Delta replied flatly. Cois looked frustrated as he looked around at the many failed runes he had made in the ground. Some just didn’t work at all, and many were failed efforts that were more ‘fizzle’ than ‘bang.’“I just like the way runes work,” he finally muttered.Delta blinked, then opened Cois’ menu.Cois: The Pyromancer Romancer.‘Can’t be bad for the environment if toxins also get burned up’Cois has three evolution paths unlocked.Diplomat: The most elegant of goblins. Can speak with such grace that no one can make the first attack on this monster until it makes an aggressive move. This creature can also convince summons and/or pet monsters to disobey their masters.The Tribe Spirit of Fire: This goblin has cast off his earthly flesh to become an ever-burning fire spirit that is magic itself. Able to ignite healing in other goblins or terrible burning curses in enemies, the sight of this monster is one of goblin legends.The Rulebreaker: A goblin who has glimpsed the impossible and took it for himself. Able to understand basic runes and some complex ones, this goblin sees the world not as a simple here or there, but a now and forever.Delta told Cois of his career options. He gagged at diplomat, drooled at fire spirit, but went quiet at rulebreaker.“Can I have time to think?” he said, surprising Delta. She had never heard Cois sound so… quiet.“Of course, you don’t have to change at all if you want that option,” she reminded the goblin kindly. Perhaps other Dungeons would just force the most optimal, but Delta had ‘optimal’ strats in place already.If someone ever made it to King Jellagon easily? Then Delta could make hard choices…She turned to Billy and Numb, who looked a little dazed from the wind attack.Billy: The Dark Smile in the Shadow‘I won’t stab you in the back. I prefer seeing your eyes when I go deep’Billy has two evolution paths!Assassin: The most feared type of goblin by evil. This monster can not only blend into any environment, it’s a unique monster that can follow a single target to another floor and remain able to do full damage to them regardless of mana levels. Will he appear on the fifth floor? The tenth? Only he knows… but don’t worry, your vital organs will know soon.The Fel Beast: Drowning in their victim’s blood has allowed a portal to a dark dimension to open in their heart. These goblins look normal until they are pushed to their limit. At the point of near death, these goblins transform into a massive creature of bestial power that commands shadow weapons. These creatures are hunted by many religious sects.Goblins had a lot of evolutionary lines. Delta supposed they were the punching bag mobs for most stories, so it only made sense they developed the habit of getting dangerous quickly.“Assassin. Sounds more fun,” Billy said with a pleased smile. Delta nodded and purchased the upgrade and blinked as Billy was cocooned in an orange orb that floated in the air.Billy’s evolution will take two days. Guard the monster well, or be forced to restart the timer.Numb poked it, and it floated off to the side with nothing anchoring it. Delta was a little stumped, this hadn’t happened before.“The more you evolve monsters, the more it takes to get them ready. It’s why most Dungeons work downwards, not outwards. New floor comes with simply better monsters than most evolved ones,” her companion explained as if this was common knowledge.“Most Dungeons are dumb. I’m proud of my edgy goblin. He’s got a diploma in ‘ass-kicking,’” Delta crossed her arms, chin held high.“Shame you can’t teach them how to be crazy,” Nu said dryly.Before they could argue, a new screen appeared.Would you like to engage in Dungeon Conquering?“What does that do, though?” Delta asked, confused. A massive map began to unfold within Delta’s Dungeon, showing a simplified picture like the one on her third floor. Three symbols were instantly glowing. An orange circle which she knew to be herself, a castle-icon that rested just above a golden circle.Slowly, much smaller dots began to flash up, and Delta stared at the various Dungeons in proximity.Dungeon Conquering is usually a project undertaken when two Dungeons expand in close proximity and fight over space and resources. However, due to your superior means of growth, the System would instead allow the use of Mana Veins to allow you to transport a group of select monsters to act as ‘adventurers’ to other Dungeons, allowing you to ‘educate’ them as you go while also claiming any loot they would normally drop to augment yourself further.“Seems a lot of work when I’m drowning in a to-do list so large it would make a corrupt government blush,” Delta said, sounding unsure.One of the dungeons available for invasion has fish monsters as an introduction mob.“And your point?” Delta asked slowly.They chose desert as their theme.Delta stared, and her left eye began to erratically twitch.“That sounds bad, but I really-” she tried to step away.Another has a security door in front of their first floor boss, but forgot to lock it with a key. Another has goblins as a mob, but they’re all archer classed.Delta leaned on a wall with one hand, breathing with some difficulty.“No… work… too much…” she heaved.One Dungeon has a two-headed ogre as a boss. However, their boss room ceiling is so low it can’t actually move to defend itself.“Alright, I’ll consider it. How many of these Dungeons need help? Display them as a pink circle or something,” Delta waved the box off with a sigh.Roughly 15 are displayed now. These are Dungeons with ten or less floors to their name.That wasn’t so bad-“Wait, how many Dungeons are around in total?!” Delta asked, confused by the numbers she was hearing. The map blinked, and Delta felt her mouth drop. She expanded the map to show the whole thing as pink stars kept blinking into existence.“That’s a lot of Dungeons,” she swallowed once. Her own Dungeon was in a weird ‘void.’ Delta was the most isolated Dungeon in the whole map!And… Delta was the superior Dungeon? Of all of these markers?“Nu, do you want to handle the rest of the first floor while I try to get a handle on this?” she asked her friend, and Nu hummed.“I am good at crushing armies or making them, so either one suits me just fine,” he reported. Delta gave him a side eye, but there was one more thing she wanted to do.“Numb, stand still!” she beamed and opened his menu.Numb: The Kind Fist‘It’s not that I want to hurt you, but you make it hard to do otherwise’One possible evolution available!Perfect evolution discovered!Goblin Hero: A fistfighter that oozes justice. The most human-looking goblin of the lot, this fighter can literally punch evil in the face, such as liches, ghosts, and more. When protecting others, this goblin seldom loses. However, an alarming amount of romances do seem to occur around him.Numb seemed excited.“I have the power!” he cried before he was engulfed in an orange orb. Cois sighed.“Idiots,” he said fondly as he began prodding the two orbs towards Fera’s bar and beyond, hiding them under Maestro’s loving care.“Go be an invasive species to someone else. I’ll finish tuning up the Storeroom and the bar,” Nu said, dismissing Delta as if she was now in his way.Delta smiled and patted his screen.“Make me proud,” she beamed, and the screen eyed her.“I am not one of your sad students. I don’t seek your approval,” he sniffed. Delta turned, and Nu appeared in front of her.“However, when you return to such glory? You will be aghast that you never promoted me to this job in the first place. I do this for me, not you. Me… not you,” he stressed.“I am unimportant to your rise as the tyrant of this world. I will now fade into the background and not cause any disasters,” she mock-saluted.“I’m glad we understand one another… don’t take too long on your journey. I will need someone to handle these Fairplay imbeciles before long,” he said dismissively and vanished.“So, Sis… how does this conquering thing work?” she asked aloud, and a new screen opened.Would you like to select a team or use the random team filler, pulling from all floors?Unauthorized content usage: if you discover this narrative on Amazon, report the violation.Delta eyed the first button that promised careful selection and optimizing and the other button which was covered in confetti and sparklers with question marks.Delta stood there long enough that Cois’ rune let out one more gentle breeze, causing dust to kick up around her feet and a tumbleweed to dance past.“Well, the random button is more exciting,” she argued with no one in particular.She pressed the random button, and the screen began to glow and shake. It cracked and exploded into five tokens, each one golden and shiny!“Seasonal legendary pull!” Delta threw her hands up, hyperventilating.“Where’s the double roll for 20 bucks? Gimmie the deal!” she said