“How many is a bunch?” Ren asked, and didn’t stare at her breasts when they moved close to his face, despite the temptation to do so.

“Fifty.”

“Oh, no.” Ren said and closed his eyes. “They couldn’t have picked a worse time.”

“What do you mean?”

“The reason I’m here.” Ren said and opened his eyes. “The Chancellor read my book.” He said. “He wanted to know where the camp was.”

“That’s wonderful!” Laurelia said. “They’re coming to rescue us!”

Ren shook his head. “Unfortunately, I don’t think they are.”

“WHAT?”

“He didn’t contact me directly to answer the plea I made on your behalf.” Ren said. “The friend I had deliver the book asked for the information.”

“Oh… oh no.”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “That was my thought exactly.” He said. “I think he’s sending the Guardians of the Land to clear you out. Permanently.”

“What… what…” Laurelia started to cry. “What do we do?”

“I won’t let them kill you.” Ren said.

“How are you going to stop them?”

“I stopped them before.” Ren said. “I’ll do it again.”

“But… but you’re just one man.” Laurelia said. “I know you can get scary when you want to, but…”

“You haven’t seen anything yet.” Ren said. “I was going to ask for volunteers to help defend the camp…”

“That won’t work.” Laurelia said. “If it is the Guardians that are coming, no one will raise a hand against them.”

“I’ll have to handle it myself then.” Ren took her dirty dress and stored it, then took it back out and hung it up. “I’d ask you to wake everyone up, but it honestly doesn’t matter if they are awake at this point or not.”

“What are you going to do?” She asked.

“I’m going to stop them from getting to the camp.” Ren said. “If Nikaia or Telaka had been here, I could have used their help to make some barriers; but as it is, I’ll just do what I can with what I have.” He turned to the tent flap and started to open it.

“Ren.”

Ren turned around and looked at her, and she wiped her eyes. “Yes?”

“I… I’m sorry.”

“For what?”

“I really wanted to meet a little person.” Laurelia said. “It didn’t matter who it was. I... I’d have wanted to kiss them.”

“Oh.” Ren said. That kind of hurts.

“I didn’t realize how great you were at the time.” She said. “You risked your life to help us, gave us clothing and food, and then somewhere to live.” She sighed. “Now, you’re going to fight our countrymen to stop them from killing us, even though we’re not a danger to them anymore.”

Before Ren could react, she took him into a one-armed hug. She was propped up on her elbow and his head went over her shoulder, and one of her breasts pressed against his chest. He hugged her with one arm around her neck, and the other around her shoulder.

“If we somehow live through all of this… I… I’d be honored to have you meet my mother.”

“Even though I’m a little person that’s not supposed to exist?” He said, half-jokingly.

“Ren, if… if you use your magic to make yourself bigger again... and then made me smaller…”

“You want to kiss a little person again that badly?” Ren asked without any inflection in his voice. Laurelia heard the angry tone that he didn’t use, and she tried to stop herself from crying.

“No, I want to kiss you.”

“Isn’t that the same thing?”

“No.” Laurelia said. “I’ve already fulfilled my childhood fantasy to kiss a little person.” She smiled. “Now I want to kiss my friend.”

“If we live through this, I… I’ll think about it.” Ren said.

Laurelia let him go, looked him in the eye, and nodded. “Go out there and kick their asses.”

Ren smiled. “I plan to.” He said and opened the tent enough to get out. “If I’d realized this attack was a possibility, I would have tried to set up better defenses already.”

“I know you would have.” Laurelia said as Ren stepped outside. “Good luck.” She said as he closed the tent, then she watched him as he ran out of sight.

*

Laurelia glanced down at herself, and saw that she had been quite excited to have Ren pressed against her like that.

What is everyone going to think? Laurelia thought as she pulled the blanket back over herself. I explained the first kiss as wish fulfillment, but how do I explain that I want to do it again? She grinned. Or how I want to do more than that. She started to laugh. And with a little person, too!
