115

[First of all, this is not my fault, Boe. I sent my warnings out to the boater members, then I went to follow up with Laura. I aborted because she was in the process of following up with the Velras. And it sounded like she was asking them for money in exchange for being mind controlled, so I guess she’s not as worried for herself as I was for her. Pissing off one of the richest S-ranks in the world for the sake of people who don’t want help seems like a bad call, so my efforts in this matter are now complete. As long as nobody shows up at my apartment to murder me. If the next time you talk to me I say, ‘Manon is my friend. Aulia is my new mom. Hazel and I are seeing each other,’ please send help.]

It was nearly four in the morning, and Alden had just gotten in bed. He couldn’t decide if there was a point in trying to sleep once you were this far into the next day, but going through the motions seemed like the responsible thing to do.

He read over the message, then he added, [I don’t think they recognized me at Laura’s, so even if they know I’m involved, maybe they don’t know I know they’re involved. Or something. Don’t worry. Do detach yourself from the cat. Talk to you soon.]

As he was pulling the sheets up around his chin, he received a text message from Haoyu asking if he was asleep yet.

[I’m not,] Alden replied.

[I don’t think I can sleep. I’m going to be downstairs in the common area.]

Does he want company or is he just informing me because it’s a weird hour? Alden wondered.

He yawned.

Guess I am tired. I wonder if last night’s sleep even counted considering I spent a portion of it trapped in a school counselor’s office with the System.

His white noise machine was lulling him with fan sounds. His bed was exactly the right temperature. He tried to think of how to phrase a text so that Haoyu would know he was willing to stay up but not necessarily eager to do it.

Alden closed his eyes. Maybe…

Six hours later, he woke to sunlight seeping around the edges of his curtains. He debated the merits of just staying in bed for the rest of the day. When was the last time he’d had a completely lazy Sunday?

Is that even a thing I can do anymore?

Keeping busy had been a coping mechanism since the moment he arrived in intake. And there was plenty to keep busy with.

He braced himself and checked his inbox.

No messages from the boater. No accusations or questions. Nothing.

Maybe I really am done with that shit?

Emotionally he was anyway. Finally. He’d done what he set out to do. If anything else happened because of it, he’d just have to react when it came up.

Did that mean he could he eat unhealthy food and lie in bed until Monday?

Well there’s some unavoidable prep work for gym tomorrow. And Lute wanted to go out with the girls…he might not be in the mood for that after last night, though. Fine. But the comfort food is happening no matter what.

He put on his flannel pajama pants and his slouchiest t-shirt to solidify his intentions to be a normal lazy guy on a normal lazy Sunday.

When he exited his room, the apartment was quiet. “Just me and you, Sunny?” Alden asked the polar bear head.

He stretched his arms, smiled, and placed an order from a diner he’d spotted a couple of weeks ago. It was a retro postcard of a restaurant—aqua vinyl seats, chrome detailing everywhere, and a jukebox playing pre-Contract hits. Not much like the neighborhood diner he’d frequented with Boe and Jeremy. But he’d read the menu online, and it was hitting all the right nostalgia points.

He set himself up at the kitchen table with his laptop to wait on the arrival of his feast. When Haoyu entered the apartment an hour later with a basket full of laundry in his arms, Alden was just tucking in to a mountain of golden hash browns with onions two ways—some caramelized and others cut into thin slivers and batter fried for extra crunch. There were sauces. He was happy.

Then he looked at his roommate. Haoyu didn’t look as cheerful as usual. “Haoyu! Sorry about earlier. I fell asleep in the middle of texting you to tell you I was sleepy.”

“It’s fine. I figured it was something like that.”

“Do you want some hash browns?”

Haoyu started to shake his head, then he eyed the tall mound in front of Alden. “Maybe. Let me set this down.”

He returned without the laundry basket. Several bites of potato and quite a lot of the sticky sweet miso ketchup sauce disappeared into his mouth before he said, “Would it be wrong to buy a car and hit Lute’s family members with it?”

“I understand the sentiment, but that would be murder.”

His roommate stuffed another forkful of potatoes in his mouth. “But is murder always wrong?” he muttered.

“It depends on which species you ask. We humans tend to think it is.”

Haoyu stabbed the potato mountain. “What they did to him was despicable. And I don’t even mean the eye, although that’s bad enough. Of course I wondered why he hadn’t replaced it, but I thought maybe he was scared of having a magibionic implanted. Since that’s not it, there’s obviously some added complication for injuries sustained while Aulia was polluting causality on a nationwide scale.”

“Global,” said Alden.

“What?”

“It’s not like I understand it, but the Gloss probably has global impacts. You were eavesdropping, so you heard me mention…”

Haoyu was blinking at him.

“Maybe you didn’t catch that part,” Alden said awkwardly. “And…now it’s weird if I don’t explain. During the first half of the luck chain, someone traded a B-rank Chainer class assignment to me right before I was scheduled to come here for Hannah Elber’s funeral. Getting that class for Hazel was the main reason for the Gloss. The person who had received Chainer from the System wasn’t here on Anesidora, and neither was I. Lute’s family basically jumped me the second I landed, and by the end of the day, I had one and a half million argold.”

“You should have asked for more,” Haoyu said flatly. “You should’ve bankrupted them.”

“I asked for way less than that. My sense of what these things were worth wasn’t great. Even if I’d been trying to hurt the Velras monetarily I think I would’ve undershot it.”

“If it works on a global scale then she sucks even more,” Haoyu said emphatically. “Whenever anyone does something like that, it makes Avowed look bad. When one of Anesidora’s leaders does it?”

He’s an emotional eater. Alden watched Haoyu shovel more fried potatoes into his mouth. He was glad he’d ordered an indulgent quantity.

“Lute’s mom and his grandmother…” Haoyu was speaking between bites. “When he was telling the story he was saying things like, ‘I should have expected them to trick me after everything else, right? I was stupid to trust them even a little.’ And I was just sitting there thinking, ‘No, you weren’t stupid. You were at a vulnerable point in your life and they took advantage of you. They’re monsters, and you should get a restraining order.’”

He stabbed the potatoes again. “But you can’t say something like that about another person’s family if they haven’t said it themselves, can you? I know Lute hates Aulia, but I don’t think he blames his mom nearly as much as he should. I was so furious about it I couldn’t sleep. And he only slept two or three hours. He took off early this morning saying he had something to do, but I bet it was because he was still upset from seeing her yesterday.”

And Haoyu doesn’t even know what she was doing when we saw her.

Alden slid another plastic cup full of sauce across the table. “It’s not simple to comment on other peoples’ family situations,” he agreed. “They’re so personal, and there’s no way for you to see it from the inside.”

He’d never once appreciated an outsider saying something harsh about his aunt, even if he was angry about the exact same things they were judging her for.

“I went to a pre-selection advice session in eighth grade,” Haoyu said. “After Lute had left school. He transferred to CNH really fast after taking Chainer. I’m not sure it was even a standard acceptance window for Arts students. Now that I’ve heard his story I wonder if he wasn’t just trying to get into a dorm and away from them all as fast as possible.

“At the session, there was a panel of people telling their own selection stories, and one of them said the only choice more life-altering than your class was who you married. And Three-eyed Rhoda—”

They really did have some cool people connected to their school, thought Alden. Three-eyed Rhoda was a famous Adjuster who could cast deconstructive spells on things from miles away as long as she’d seen and marked them in the past few hours.

“—said marriage was so much less serious. ‘You can’t divorce a class. You can’t have a talk with it and ask it to change how it treats you. You can’t go stay in another room to get some alone time. It’s part of you.’ I think the other panelists thought she was putting too much pressure on us because they tried to tone it down with what they said next. But it’s still true. I don’t get to un-be a Brute now. If I ever have doubts, I’ll just remind myself that I took my time and made the best decisions I could. And even if I got tons of help from other people making up my mind, they were completely my decisions. Lute doesn’t get to have that.”

He’s not wrong.

“I almost said something myself,” Alden admitted. “I wanted to comment on how twisted it was that they woke him up in the middle of the night to do it.”

“I know.” Haoyu lowered his voice. “That was…”

“Being yanked out of bed like that? There was absolutely no reason for it except to confuse him and make him feel like it was urgent. Like making a decision right then and there was an emergency. If they’d waited and had a calm conversation about it in the morning, he wouldn’t have freaked when Aulia pointed out that Hazel could still get S any minute and take the opportunity away. He knew it was unlikely, but they had set him up to panic in every way they could.”

They both fell quiet.

“These are really good potatoes,” Haoyu said finally. “Did I eat half your breakfast?”

“They are good. Don’t worry about it. I ordered more than I could handle on my own anyway.”

Haoyu sighed. “And the Gloss didn’t do him any favors here at CNH. Kon was telling me about it yesterday. A girl’s pet died in class while the wordchain was in effect—”

“Whoa, wait! I was under the impression the art kids didn’t like Lute because he thinks he’s better than them at a ton of stuff and he doesn’t…make efforts to hide it. They also seem to think he’s using luck magic to cheat at auditions or something like that.”

Haoyu nodded. “I heard he called one of the most popular third years a hack, and he tested out of all the high school music theory classes because he knew how many nose hairs Mozart had or something.”

That sounds likely, thought Alden.

“But about the pet story—according to Kon, there was a Wright girl Lute had a really obvious crush on, and her friend had a pet alien that she was allowed to carry with her to classes because coaxing it into laying eggs was a project that had been approved by one of her instructors. It looked like a guinea pig crossed with a platypus, and it was the mascot of one of the biggest first year science classes. They even had a pet feed that played at the front of the room beside the instructor’s lecture notes.”

That sounds completely adorable. “I don’t like where this is going for the platypig.”

“You definitely don’t. On the first day of the Gloss, someone got distracted while they were using a skill, and even though they were all the way across the lecture hall, the effect hit the platypig—”

Alden slapped his hands to his ears and shook his head. “Nope. That’s enough. No mental images.”

“The platypig is no longer with us,” Haoyu said simply.

“How was that good luck for Lute?”

“He was sitting right there, and he was comforting the pet owner. He wrapped the body of the deceased up in his scarf so that she wouldn’t have to see it. The girl he was crushing on thought his handling of the incident was gentlemanly I guess. So she asked him out. He must have realized what was going on, and he turned her down. Then when people found out about the Gloss and did the math…”

“It could have been a coincidence,” Alden said in a doubtful voice.

“Nobody can prove it wasn’t.” Haoyu’s tone was equally doubtful.

“And he didn’t do it. It sounds like Aulia performs the Gloss, and she just takes the rest of the family along for the ride whether they want to go or not.”

“Everyone knows that. Or at least suspects it. But if you think about how many things moved to make that one girl suddenly think Lute was dateable when she hadn’t thought it before, it is uncomfortable. They’re probably going to try to make it illegal now that Aulia’s off the High Council.”

“For her to cast that wordchain?” Alden asked.

“Dad thinks so. They’ve tried a few times, but it’s never gotten off the ground. Power bans are so unpopular. And Aulia’s always finding examples of things the past two Gloss uses might have been responsible for that were good instead of bad.”

Lute needs to go on a character repair campaign.

Haoyu was taking in the rest of the scene at the table. Alden’s laptop was there, and strands of paracord, looped and tied in different ways, lay beside it.

“You were trying to prep for gym, were’t you? And I sat down and vented at you. I’m sorry. I just…”

“Want to run over some Velras with a car.”

“That.”

Alden smiled. “It’s fine. I was finalizing my tool choice.”

