“You are going with the cord, then.”

“I am,” said Alden. “I messaged Foxbolt since she’s in charge of approving it, and she just got back to me before you walked in. She says even though they’re limiting me, they’ll let me be flexible within the category of weapon I’ve chosen. Any type of rope or line, varying weights on the end, different carrying methods—things like that.”

He looked down at the loops of cord he’d tied.

“I’m glad to be practicing with it. I’ve thought of things I want to try for defense, maneuvering, and rescue. For offense…I’ve maybe got an idea. If we’re still playing Kill Klein.”

“I heard from one of the second years that he’s still doing that game with them a lot. Apparently, once a few people actually manage to lay hands on him, he ups the difficulty.”

“I want to make him use more of the gym at least. It’s disheartening to be in a ten-on-one battle where the one doesn’t even have to run very far.”

“The Instant Corners skill is phenomenal,” Haoyu agreed. “I knew it would be. I’ve seen it a ton watching Brute Arena because S-rank Agis love it. But actually being face to face with someone using it is something else. You’re always thinking, ‘Yes! I’ve got him now…nope, not even close.’ I asked Mom what to do about it.”

“What did she say?” Alden asked.

“She said I need to think more about basics instead of combatting specific skills at this point. She thinks I should focus on learning to read tells.”

“Like in poker?”

He nodded. “Most people have a tell or two associated with their skills. Lots of them are deliberate actions, to get the user in the right frame of mind. But some are accidents. For Boxing Gloves, I didn’t want to start high school having to say ‘Activate Boxing Gloves!’ out loud because that’s a little embarrassing. So I practiced until I could do it without that, but I started automatically clenching my fists every time. I’m working on stopping it.”

“So Klein probably has a tell when he’s about to use Instant Corners.” Alden fully intended to find it and use it against him.

“Well, lots of professional heroes get rid of their known ones as ruthlessly as they can. They’ll even hire Sways to help them ditch whatever the habit is. But Mom says even if he’s gotten rid of his real tells, he’s probably showing off fake ones for teaching purposes. She says Big Snake should be, too, in the Offense sessions, to train our eyes.”

Alden took the last bite of the hash browns then shoved the to-go container aside. “I wonder what my own tells are? I doubt I have one when I’m just preserving something, but maybe when I’m about to activate or deactivate the preservation?”

“We can study our footage from gym together and try to find each other’s habits if you want.”

“I do.” Alden stared down at the paracord he’d been practicing speed tying. “Maybe not today. I was trying to have a lazy Sunday and I’ve already come up with six weekends’ worth of tasks for myself. And that’s just related to learning to use rope.”

“I’ve always wanted to lasso someone.”

“I just watched a video of someone using a lasso. I’m pretty sure I could get a cow with one after some practice, but Instructor Klein doesn’t move at cow speed.”

Haoyu laughed. “What if cows moved at Klein speed?”

“I’d head to a safer planet.”

It was two more hours before Lute came home. When he arrived, Alden and Haoyu were both working in their bedrooms at their desks with their doors open. And periodically…

“Are you two mooing at each other?” Lute asked from the hall.

“No,” said Haoyu in a completely neutral voice. “Of course not.”

“Why would we be?” Alden was doing a much worse job of keeping a straight face. “I’m practicing my new wordchain signs. And trying to figure out how to make useful supplies really fast out of cord. We’re both being product—”

“Moooooo,” said Haoyu.

Alden cracked up, and Haoyu was only a second behind him.

Lute stared from one of them to the other. “How did you get this weird this fast? I was only gone a few hours.”

“We were talking about cows with superpowers,” said Alden.

“Did you get lunch?” Haoyu asked. “Alden just ordered a bunch of pastries from a vegan bakery.”

“No,” Lute said. “I’ve been really busy. Alden, are you continuing Operation Cottontail?”

Alarmed, Alden shoved his chair away from his desk, rolling backward in it until he could see Lute more clearly. He was standing with his back to the opposite wall in the hall so that he could talk to them both at the same time.

“What’s Operation Cottontail?” Haoyu asked.

“Nah, man,” said Alden. “After yesterday, I’m satisfied. Good deed done. The only thing I missed out on was that one convo and clearly that one convo wasn’t going to go well. And…you know…”

Your mother was there. Almost definitely working for your grandma. I’m not going anywhere near that again. “I’m having a lazy Sunday.”

“You were practicing your Self-Mastery wordchain when I walked in,” Lute pointed out.

“That’s lazy for me. There are fruit tarts coming. And cookies covered in dark chocolate.”

“Hello??” Haoyu said. Alden heard his desk chair rolling, and a moment later he had wheeled himself out into the hall beside Lute. “What kind of operation?”

“A completed one.”

“But it was something worthy of a code name?”

“No. Lute gave it a code name on his—”

Lute interrupted them. “I was just checking in case you wanted more information.”

There was a long pause. Lute was watching him. Haoyu’s head was whipping from one of them to the other like he might be able to decipher the situation if he read their expressions fast enough.

“I…want to eat cookies,” Alden said.

“It took you a long time to decide.”

“Cookies.”

Lute shrugged. “Anyway, I was just going to tell you that during the course of Operation Odin’s Revenge this morning, I pursued one of our suspects—”

“There are suspects?!” Haoyu exclaimed.

“And she had a very similar conversation to the one we overheard last night with another person who is presumably a member of that group you were interested in. So this is just Odin letting Cottontail know. In case he needs to know.”

“Dude,” said Alden, “what the heck are you doing?”

“You inspired me.” Lute held a hand to his chest. “And then our talk last night inspired me even more. Operation Odin’s Revenge is my new hobby. Its goal is singular, but difficult. I am going to get the grandwitch arrested. For some illegal thing she’s done. Somehow.”

Alden stared at him.

Haoyu stared at him.

Sunny stared at all three of them from behind his hot pink sunglasses.

“That’s craz—”

“Can I help?”

“Haoyu!” Alden protested.

“Of course you can, Haoyu,” said Lute. “I don’t have permission to tell you about Alden’s completed operation, but mine isn’t really going to intersect with his anyway. That’s what I decided this morning. It’s too hard to pin crimes on Aulia through those people, Alden. She’ll just shift the blame to the mini crime lord, won’t she? Plus, a big organized group of people being involved and the crimes being at least partially conducted on the Triplanets makes it too complicated.”

Alden assumed Manon was the ‘mini crime lord.’

“But since I’m sure Aulia’s doing other terrible things. I’m going to find one and get proof. And tell everybody.” He smiled in satisfaction.

Haoyu looked extremely intrigued.

Alden didn’t see how this could possibly be his fault, but it felt like it was his fault.

“Okay,” he said slowly. “I support your desire to…imprison your grandmother. But how serious are you about this? Because it sounds pretty dangerous, and you should value your own life. We only get one. Don’t die doing something that’s not worth it. And…don’t take risks you wouldn’t want your friends to take with you.”

I’m so glad Boe isn’t here to hear me trying to paraphrase him right now. Why are they looking at me like that?

Haoyu looked like he’d just seen the world’s cutest puppy. And Lute looked like he’d run across the same puppy when it was doing something dumb—attacking its own reflection in a puddle maybe.

“Alden, you’re really worried about him!”

“You’ve been mooing at him for too long,” said Lute. “It’s made him nervous. I’m talking about exploring locked closets in my own former homes and talking to my own relatives. I’m not going to die.”

Alden felt incredibly embarrassed for a few seconds, and then slightly less so as he reassessed the threat level.

“Wait. You guys, it was an overly strong warning, but I do have a point. Lute’s grandmother isn’t going to be happy if she figures out what he’s doing, and—”

“Good,” said Lute.

“No. Not good. What happens if she gets really mad at you?” Alden said. “Not ‘my grandson is annoying me’ mad, but ‘Lute is a legitimate threat to my freedom’ mad. She could seriously fuck up your life.”

“No,” Lute said dryly. “You think so?”

“I think you’re really angry,” Alden said. “You should be. But you should still think for more than a few hours before you go against the Anesidoran mafia and you should value your life and all that other stuff I just said. It was fine advice!”

“I don’t think we’re quite worthy of being called a mafia…”

Haoyu looked at Alden curiously. “What the heck did you guys do without me yesterday?”

“You know what, I’m not going to talk about it out loud. I will text you. From now on, all conversations about this sort of thing happen in privacy booths or in our heads.”

[Alden: Look. Here. Talk here if you’re going to take on the mafia together on a nice Sunday afternoon when there are baked goods coming.]

“Wow. You really are one of the fastest mental texters I’ve ever seen,” said Haoyu. “That was an entire paragraph. With a custom font.”

“That’s the annoyed font.”

“You’re including yourself in the group chat, too, though,” Lute pointed out.

“That’s because I care about what happens to you, stupid. Don’t run off half-cocked because I led you into a crazy situation yesterday and accidentally exposed you to…that emotional dynamite.”

“Actually,” said Haoyu, “even though I want to run over your grandmother with a car—”

“You do?”

“We were talking about it earlier. But even though I want that, I do agree with Alden that you should be careful. What was your plan anyway?”

“My plan was—”

[Alden: Put it in the chat! This chat! Right here!]

They both blinked at him then lifted their hands to start typing. Alden sighed and let his neck fall back to stare up at the ceiling.

I’m trying to turn over a new leaf here…and now Lute wants to put Aulia Velra in prison. Personally.

He tried to think of how he would ever explain this to Boe if he got involved.

It might not actually count under our copycat heroics agreement since Lute’s motivation is revenge and mine would be—

[Haoyu: Operation Odin’s Revenge is a fun name. I need a codename. Can I pick it myself?]

[Lute: My plan doesn’t actually sound that great now that you’re making me write it out. I don’t think I really know how to buy a device that will silently blast a hole in the wall of Aulia’s office. I’m sure it’s shielded like the panic room and the other safe spaces.]

[Lute: And I get to pick the codenames. You can pick the codenames for your own operations.]

[Haoyu: I want to help, but I don’t want to do anything actually illegal, all right? My parents would be surprised if I shot someone’s office with a magic cannon. But not in a good way. Our activities need to be more moderate than that.]

[Alden: I would like to remind Lute that he made fun of me just yesterday for having a mission. I would also like to point out that people trying to sneakily search multiple private locations probably shouldn’t leave giant holes behind them to let everyone know where they’ve been.]

[Lute: So you are helping, Cottontail!]

Alden rolled his eyes.

He got a little more work done while the two of them texted each other spy plans. They were both toning it down and down again as they talked, so he was feeling a lot less concerned that Lute was about to do something crazy.

The bakery delivery arrived, and while he went downstairs to fetch it, he scrolled through the chat. It looked like Lute had decided on a much more gradual fact-finding approach. He was talking about attending more family gatherings and actually paying attention to “Velra shit” while he was at them instead of avoiding everyone.

[Lute: I’ll need to make it look like I want something from Aulia. So she won’t be as suspicious. It sounds dreadful. Maybe we should reconsider the merits of blowing things up.]

Alden carried the bakery box back up to the apartment, sniffing it more than was necessary.

“Hey,” he said, when he walked in. “Snacks.”

Haoyu sprang up from the sofa, and Lute wasn’t far behind him. Alden grabbed a miniature cherry tart and ate it, watching Lute Velra thoughtfully.

“I’ll go with you,” he said.

Lute was licking the lemon coconut filling out of his own tart shell. “What?”

“I’ll go with you to a Velra party. You know Aulia would love it.”

[Alden: I’m not going to do anything illegal or explosive either. But I could be a good distraction for your grandmother if you wanted to sneak around and talk to other people without her paying attention to you.]

“No,” said Lute. “I can’t ask you to do that. I know you’re trying really hard to avoid her and her brand of crazy. I—”

