“Of course. They will be paid by level, so anyone below Level 10 will be paid according to this chart. By task, yes? Also, they must have insurance for injury or death. According to this chart…”
The Guildmaster had all kinds of bits of paper. The Drakes and Gnolls grumbled over them, although Selys, looking at the paper, thought it was a small amount of money for someone losing…a limb? She winced.
“How likely is this?”
“If building is done properly? Not likely, Miss Shivertail. But it is an expensive undertaking, as you can see.”
Zess threw down his pieces of paper with a hiss of annoyance.
“We can either fund part of the new section of the city being built or pay for it all ourselves? And can we charge rent as we please on our land?”
His tail lashed angrily. Selys glared at him.
“Assuming it’s not for poor Drakes and Gnolls, sure, Zess! Guildmaster Okr, I’ll buy this section of land here.”
She pointed at one of the auctioned spots on the map. The other Gnolls and Drakes bristled.
“You can’t do that! It’s going to be auctioned!”
“Okay, then put me down for the auction.”
Selys smiled sweetly at Rekka. The other Gnoll glared back. Okr made a little note, covering a smile as he did. Selys looked down at the map and shook her head. She looked around as a shout caught her attention.
“Build the walls! Yes! Payday!”
A group of Gnolls and Drakes were celebrating at the desk. They must have been very pleased by the pay they were getting, because they were high-fiving. The landowners looked aghast, but Selys just grinned. She could see dirt and dust on their clothing. They must have been collecting their pay.
A new part of Liscor was being built. If you walked out around the walls to the west, you’d be able to see it. Already, the foundations were being laid. Buildings were going up, out of necessity as much as haste! The new wing of the city would have to be built and enclosed in walls by next spring. And there needed to be room for all the families coming here for work!
“It’s the Antinium who’re fastest. But would you want to live in a place they built? Let them do the sewers and outer walls, I say. If it wasn’t so expensive to buy land and hire enough workers—I’ll have to hire some Humans.”
Selys heard a conversation between two of the Drakes standing next to her. She grimaced.
Part of funding Liscor’s expansion was selling off parts of the new area to, well, anyone with money. The Council had funds from the army, the city’s own revenue, and gold from both the Antinium and the Walled Cities, but it still wasn’t enough. Not, at least, to fill the city with all the grand plans they wanted. So they’d decided to sell areas of the city to private citizens.
It would be their land, adding to the apartments and other establishments the wealthiest landowners owned at this moment. It would give them more property if they were willing to spend, and they were willing to spend, despite their numerous complaints. And because Selys was rich, that number included her.
She wasn’t sure how she felt about that. But she had money, and this was an investment. No—it was the future of Liscor. Selys just didn’t like that she was rubbing shoulders and tails with a bunch of people she’d always considered high-class snobs. She sighed and took a few steps away from Zess and the others. The males were also very interested in courting her newfound wealth.
A conversation caught Selys’ earhole as she took a few steps back to ignore the quarreling group debating at how much the workers would be hired with Guildmaster Okr. A group in line, the same family Fals had seen at the gate, were nervously talking with some Humans and Drakes in line.
“So there’s paying work? We came from Esthelm—not far—but we heard someone was from as far as Remendia! Is there really that much gold to be made?”
“Oh yes. Steady work too, if you can keep up. Liscor’s going to be a third again as big if we follow these designs!”
A Gnoll woman standing in line grinned at the anxious parents and flexed one arm. The parents looked relieved, but one of the Drakes standing next to her cast a glare over her shoulder.
“Not if the Antinium take all the work. They’re out there, stealing our jobs—”
The Gnoll reached over and smacked her friend.
“They’re laying the foundations, and the sewers. You want to dig through all that dirt, Hesna? Be my guest, yes? But the Council made it so we all have work.”
“You mean, Councilmember Lism made sure of it. Councilmember Krshia wouldn’t have—”
A loud chorus of boos and growls from other Gnolls and a few Drakes in the line shut up the angry Hesna. The Humans looked around, wide-eyed, as a Gnoll growled and thrust a furry finger at the Drake.
“Keep politics out of it! The election is over, yes?”
Most of the Liscorian citizens agreed. Hesna turned red as Selys grinned ruefully. People were still talking about the outcome of the election. The Gnoll who’d been speaking to the Humans turned back to them.
“Sorry. Anyways, there is room. And places to sleep, yes? Outside the walls.”
“Outside?”
The family looked horrified and the Gnoll hastened to reassure them.
“You’ll see! It is right in the new section of the city. There are apartments that have been made for all the new workers. The city, it is full to bursting, yes? But there is already a temporary wall. Twenty feet high! The Antinium made it, and the apartments. Quickly, too.”
She glared at Hesna. The Drake rolled her eyes.
“The Antinium? You mean, the bug-men, right? Are they…what’re they like?”
Some of the Humans looked like they were regretting their choice to come to the city. The Gnoll and Drake exchanged looks.
“The Antinium? They are fine, yes? Just don’t ask Workers anything. Especially not their names. There will be an orientation. And the Antinium are fine. You will barely notice them.”
“But are there bugs? In the apartment? Or is it…”
“Buggy? Not at all. They were very clean, actually.”
The Gnoll [Builder] grinned. Some of the other Gnolls and Drakes chuckled. The Humans looked relieved. But that only opened the floodgates to more questions. Selys smiled as they began pelting the other Gnolls and Drakes in line with queries.
“So—there’s a Hive under the city? And that’s safe?”
“About the spring rains…”
“Is there anywhere to play? I can’t have the children running about the city or going outside, not with all those Shield Spiders and those horrible…rock…crabs!”
“Is she here? I mean, the [Innkeeper]? I was hoping to stay at her inn.”
Selys looked around. The husband of the family from Esthelm was talking to the Gnoll. The [Heiress] drifted closer as the Gnoll blinked at him.
“The [Innkeeper]? We have many, yes?”
“Well, yeah. But I mean…her. The one from—what’s the inn called? She was at Esthelm.”
The man was getting flustered. He turned to his wife and then back to the Gnoll.
“The young woman. Human? She runs an inn around here. I was told it’s fairly famous. And she’s a bit—off—”
“The Wandering Inn?”
The chorus came from every Drake and Gnoll in line. The Humans looked around. But Liscor’s citizens were nodding. Some smiled, some rolled their eyes, exasperated. But they knew the name.
“So it’s here? I asked, but someone said it’s not in the city.”
“It’s not. It’s just on a hill. Eastern gate. You can’t miss it.”
That worried the mother and the family intending to seek it out.
“It is safe? I’ve heard all manner of things about that inn. They say the [Innkeeper] ousted Commander Deint. She started a coup. Is that true?”
“Hah! I’d believe it.”
One of the Drakes laughed good-naturedly. A [Foreman] from Remendia blinked.
“That can’t be true. I heard about that inn, but the ‘magic door’ was closed in Celum, or so they said. There’s not really an inn around here that has one, right? Right?”
He looked around. The Drakes and Gnolls just grinned at him. One of the Drakes put a clawed hand on his shoulder and the [Foreman] jumped.
“Magic door? My friend. That is the least of what that crazy Human does.”
“So you all know her? You’ve met her?”
Selys smiled as the Humans asked questions. Most Gnolls and Drakes shook their heads, but a few spoke up. One Gnoll, a headband tied around his furry head, nodded.
“I’ve had a few dishes at her place. You know, she’s invented a bunch of rare foods? She’s a genius, that one. She makes new foods, and she plays that game. Chess. She’s beaten our own [Strategist] at it!”
“No she hasn’t. That’s just a rumor. He teaches her.”
Another Drake shook her head, looking put out. The first Gnoll snorted.
“She’s not a genius. She’s insane. Totally insane. She keeps Goblins in her inn, did you know? A bunch of them, in her basement.”
“I thought that was dead bodies. She’s a [Necromancer], too.”
“A [Necromancer]?”
The Humans were horrified. The Drakes and Gnolls began arguing.
“No she’s not! She employs a [Necromancer]. But her [Barmaids] are undead.”
“No, no. They’re the Goblins. She’s got like, a dozen of them.”
“She’s not right in the head. I thought all Humans were like that, but apparently she’s weird, even by Human standards. Sir, can you spit blood at will?”
“Me? No!”
The [Foreman] looked alarmed. One of the Drakes nodded wisely.
“Ah, well, she can. It’s like a breath attack. She’s one of the Oldblood, except Human.”
Selys covered her face. But she listened, with delight and chagrin. So did the newcomers to the city.
“They say she killed the Goblin Lord.”
“She fought off the Face-Eater Moths. And Skinner. Her inn’s survived the Raskghar! I heard she tore one of them apart with her bare hands.”
“She beat a Minotaur at arm-wrestling. She’s got a punch to prove it. Swear to it. I saw her lay out a fellow one time—”
“She owns a pet bee. And she was a [Thief]! We expelled her from the city, but there she is. An [Innkeeper]. Credit to her, I say, all things forgiven.”
“Absolutely mad. Quite charming. Good singing voice too. But absolutely mad.”
“Do Humans have testicles? I’m asking for a friend.”
At this, Selys had to laugh. And her laughter made the line go silent. People turned to her as Selys approached the Human family. She saw the two girls hide behind their parents. But Selys smiled without showing her teeth, and saw two faces peek at her. She addressed the parents, who might have never really talked to a Drake before. The Gnolls and Drakes of Liscor hadn’t known many Humans before Erin, after all. And there were still misconceptions.
“Excuse me, but if you want to visit the inn, why not stop by after you finish up here? It’s opening today. Reopening, I should say.”
The news caught everyone off-guard, not just the Humans. One of the Humans, the [Foreman], turned to Selys.
“So it’s true? The inn’s back? But I heard it was destroyed.”
One of the Gnolls laughed.
“You can’t just destroy The Wandering Inn! It’s more than just an inn! It’s like a—part of the city! Where would we be without that crazy Human? It’s a symbol. A metaphor.”
Hesna shook her head.
“You mean, a mushroom. You just can’t get rid of it. Those Humans keep coming back…”
She grunted as the Gnoll elbowed her in the stomach. The Humans looked warily at the Drakes and Gnolls. They were new to Liscor. And Selys sighed, seeing a few very Lism-esque glances. But then she smiled. She turned back to the Human family and shook her head.
“The Wandering Inn was destroyed. But it’s back. It’s just a little different.”
The listeners looked at her. The wife glanced at her children, and her husband, and cleared her throat.
“How different, exactly?”
 
——
 
There, on a hill, sat an inn. It had been destroyed, or so the rumors claimed. But that had been two weeks ago. A short time. Or a long one. Because for all that time, the inn had been closed. But now, today, this moment in fact, it was reopening.
The first visitors were already lined up outside the magical door that would let them into the inn. Because who wanted to walk even the short distance to the inn? But the magical door wasn’t working just yet. Like the inn, it had been out of commission these last two weeks.
Fals found himself waiting in line behind a female Drake. He glanced at her, and the Humans, Gnolls, and Drakes standing around her. He recognized the very same family from Esthelm. Then Selys. She blinked at him.
“F-Fals? Wait, do I have that wrong?”
“No. It’s Miss Selys, isn’t it?”
They shook hands. Selys smiled as she gestured to the line. There was a long one! It stretched down the street. Fals glanced at it. Then around.
“A lot of people are waiting. Is the door open? I heard it was broken and that the inn was closed. Hey, is Erin alright? I heard a lot of things. And the Horns…”
He trailed off. Selys smiled, but a bit sadly.
“They’re all okay. At least, I think so. The Horns are north, actually. They’re going to Invrisil.”
“What?”
“They took one of Erin’s door-portals north. They left about a week and a half ago. Sorry, did you come here for them?”
Fals sighed.
“No. I just—I wish I’d had a chance to talk to them. I’m just glad they’re alive. I thought maybe I could see them, but the door—”
“Oh, right.”
The Drake grimaced. She twirled a ring on one of her claws.
“The city took it after the inn collapsed. They needed it to clear the Crelers from the Bloodfields. And the inn was broken, so it was in the city.”
“Oh. So there were Crelers?”
Selys’ eyes glinted.
“Yes. I’ll tell you about it. Or let someone else do that for me. I wasn’t there. I saw the aftermath, though.”
Fals shuddered.
“But Erin’s alive? She didn’t get hurt?”
“Not from the Crelers. I hope we’ll see her soon.”
Selys sighed. Fals wanted to ask more, but an impatient voice called out from behind them.
“Hey! What’s the hold up? I want ice cream! I haven’t had any for two weeks! Look at my paw! It’s shaking!”
A chorus of voices rang out in the line. Selys saw a few people opening and closing the door experimentally, but nothing happened. Fals pointed and she shrugged.
“The door should be opening soon. I was told it was going to the inn today.”
“So is the inn rebuilt or something?”
“Yup. The Antinium put it up. Well, it’s still in progress, but apparently they got the most important bits up. We just have to wait…say, why are you in Liscor?”
Fals patted his backpack.
“Delivery.”
“Ah.”
The two turned back to wait. And the Humans, Gnolls, and Drakes waited in line, patiently and impatiently, all wanting to see the familiar, or the mysterious [Innkeeper], the owner of The Wandering Inn.
