But the first visitors to the inn weren’t coming from the magical door. Rather, they were walking. The two proceeded from Liscor’s eastern gates, travelling down the hill into a small valley, up the grassy slopes. They were talking. Well, arguing.
“That jerk. Captain Z is always getting on my tail. So what if I like to add a bit of humor to my work?”
“You threatened to stab a child in the knee.”
“I didn’t threaten! I suggested I might. Anyways, she wasn’t on the list, so what’s the problem?”
“Besides excruciating and long-lasting mental trauma?”
“Hah! That’s not real. Wait, is it?”
“Do you still dream about the time your tail got run over by a wagon?”
“Ooh. Oooh. It still stings! Don’t remind me about it. Anyways I’m not that bad at my job! And she can’t dock my pay!”
“You are the most inept [Guardsman] I have ever had the misfortune to work with.”
“Hey! You’re not perfect, buddy!”
“I am not your buddy. We are coworkers.”
The two figures toiled up the hill. Well, they didn’t toil very hard. But they did have to balance the huge doorframe between them as they climbed. Relc glared at Klbkch.
“We’re best buddies.”
“I find this statement difficult to accept.”
Klbkch stared back impassively. Relc waved one claw, easily carrying his half of the magical door.
“Don’t be a lizard, Klb. If you’re not my buddy, who is? We’re partners, and a team! You can’t spell team without me. And…without I. Wait, how does it go again?”
The Antinium sighed.
“We are a team, but calling us ‘friends’ or ‘pals’ or ‘chums’ is a painful stretch in my opinion.”
“Huh? Why’s that? Klb, buddy, you’re wounding me.”
“I am increasingly reluctant to tie myself in a familiar way to you, Relc. Mainly due to your ineptitude and lackadaisical attitude at work, which is earning you the derision of our coworkers.”
“…But we’re best friends. Klb! You have to stick by me! I’m your only friend! Name one other friend than me!”
The Antinium paused as they carried the door to the waiting inn. He glanced up at the wide hill and shook his head.
“Erin.”
“…Name one other friend.”
“…Jeiss?”
“Aha! See? You don’t have anyone but me! Jeiss hates your guts.”
“He does not. We maintain a cordial working relationship.”
“We’re best pals, Klb. You can’t be pals with Erin. Erin likes everyone. Anyways, what would you do without me?”
“Enjoy my life?”
Relc kicked at Klbkch, but he missed as the Antinium twisted out of the way. They stared at each other. Then Relc jerked his head towards the inn.
“Let’s just get this door up there, huh, coworker?”
“Yes.”
The two headed up the hill. There it stood. The Wandering Inn. Relc peered up at the front of the building. He paused. Klbkch felt him edging left.
“Stop that.”
“Huh. It looks…different. Doesn’t it, Klb?”
“The design is fundamentally changed, yes. Were you not aware of this fact despite me repeating it to you several times throughout the week?”
“Klb, Klb…I don’t listen to you all the time. Ow!”
Relc glared as Klbkch kicked him. Then he went back to staring up at the inn.
“Strange. It looks…strange.”
Klbkch turned his head. And even the Antinium Revalantor couldn’t find a snippy comeback to that. As the two made their way up the hill, they looked at The Wandering Inn.
Aesthetically, there wasn’t much wrong with it. The inn’s solid stone foundation turned into thick walls, forming the base of the inn. And the first floor, three times as large as it had once been, was already done. Stone had been neatly piled up, and then cemented into a hard mass. Wooden beams joined wooden structure as the inn grew taller.
The inn wasn’t one building, the two [Guardsmen] saw, but a compound. It wasn’t solidly roofed, but rather looked as though one central building would be connected to several smaller ones when finished. As it was, the inn was wide as it was tall. And figures were crawling on the roof.
“Ants.”
“Workers.”
Klbkch corrected Relc reprovingly. The Drake was pointing out the Workers busily constructing a second floor. The Antinium had already built several rooms; Relc and Klbkch could actually stare up into one as an Antinium laid the flooring. More were busily covering a roof with fluted tiles. But what drew the eye was a little tower that had been built on the finished roof.
On the hypothetical third floor—which was also in construction—someone had nailed together a few boards very haphazardly, and with scavenged wood and determination, made a ramshackle tower. Both Klbkch and Relc saw a little Antinium Worker happily standing in his perch. He waved at them and Relc waved back.
Some things never changed. But as Relc approached the front of the inn he realized some things did.
“Look. Double doors. Fancy.”
He poked the large wooden doors, reminiscent of a castle’s doors. In fact…Relc squinted up at the inn in progress. When it was done, it would rather be like a castle. Without spires or battlements, but with….inner and outer parts. The keep waited within.
“Huh. Hey, how did Erin pay for all this?”
“The city granted her funds due to her inn’s part in subduing the Crelers. I believe there were also donations from concerned private citizens. And the Antinium have also taken this job on at slight cost.”
“Aw. You’re so nice.”
“Do not touch me.”
The two laid down the magic door. Relc sighed as he rubbed his left arm.
“That thing’s heavy!”
“You bet me you could drag me on it all the way here. Do not blame me for your bravado.”
“Well, I lost. So…shut up. Say, did anyone say where the door should go?”
“Right inside, to the left. In the entryway.”
“The left? Why not the right? Weird.”
Relc shook his head as he pulled one of the double doors aside. Klbkch did the same, and Relc jumped forwards.
“Hey! It’s me! Where’s the f—”
The Drake paused. Then he recoiled and stepped backwards. And he couldn’t say why at first. Klbkch had a different reaction; his hands instinctively went to his sword’s hilts. The two stared into The Wandering Inn.
It wasn’t the common room they found greeting them past the double doors. No—what they found was a narrow…passage. Or ‘entryway’ would be more appropriate. Because it was too narrow to really be a room. Rather, it was a long, open stretch of space flanked by walls on both sides which led up to another set of double doors. The hallway was just…a hallway. There were a few gaps along the walls, as if someone had forgotten to fully close the walls, but that was all.
A hallway surrounded on three sides. Just a hallway. But something about it made Relc distinctly uneasy. He glanced up towards the double doors, and then at the magical door. There was space for it along the left wall.
“Just here?”
“Yes.”
Klbkch was just as wary as Relc. The two [Guardsmen] wrestled the magic door in place along the left wall. There. It would allow visitors to enter the inn at the same time as regular guests. But in that case, why make people walk down this hall to get to the proper inn? It was hidden behind the second set of doors.
Relc didn’t understand. It made no sense. Right until he turned and stared at the narrow gap in the wall. It was…an opening. Although he saw what looked like faint shutters on the other end. What was—
Then Relc realized what it was. His scales crawled and he elbowed Klbkch.
“Hey. Is this…?”
“Yes. A kill zone.”
Klbkch nodded to the arrow slits. Relc peered at one and realized how thick the wall was between him and the gap on the other side. He glanced up—saw a faint outline freshly cut in the ceiling.
“Klb, buddy, do you think that’s a murder hole?”
“…Yes.”
The two [Guardsmen] edged out of the way of the faint, concealed outline in the ceiling. It could have been just a thin trap door. Or…if you were being highly suspicious, it might be a narrow opening through which someone so inclined could pour boiling oil down. Or acid. There were a number of those openings in the ceiling. And—Relc narrowed his eyes. This room was very solid. And now he looked, the door at the far end was very secure. He could imagine making this a choke point where one or two people could hold back…
“Hey, Klb. Didn’t you say one of your uh, Workers designed this inn?”
“Along with Miss Lyonette. Yes. Belgrade. He is fairly adept at making traps.”
“Right.”
The two [Guardsmen] hesitated. They walked forwards. Neither of them liked being here. Even if it was the inn—and it did not look like the inn at the moment to Relc—they felt instinctively that they were surrounded on all sides, easily flanked. Relc peered at the shut arrow slits. Then at the ceiling.
The inn was very quiet. The Drake passed by another opening in the wall. Put a crossbow or bow there and you could hit him from either side. And there’d be acid pouring down from the ceiling. Come to that—why was the magic door along the far wall? Maybe—
Something leapt on him. Relc screamed and whirled, spear in hand.
“Gaaaah!”
He nearly stabbed the furry, white shape tackling his legs. Nearly. But he saw Mrsha and stopped. Klbkch had nearly unsheathed his blades as well.
“You little rascal! Where did you come from?”
Relc’s heart was pounding out of his chest. He stared at Mrsha. The white Gnoll grinned up at him. She punched Relc’s legs, raced about him on all fours, and then held up her paws. She waved one paw, made a gesture where her paw closed and opened wide. It was her way of saying ‘hello! Tricked you!’
Mrsha, the white Gnoll cub giggled at the look on Relc’s face. The Drake raised his fist.
“Why, I oughta—take this!”
He punched. Klbkch staggered as Relc hit him in the shoulder. The Antinium caught himself, stared at Relc.
“Why did you do that?”
“I had to punch someone!”
“No you did not. I am extremely angry.”
“Where did you come from, though?”
Relc ignored Klbkch’s wrath and turned to Mrsha. She hadn’t come through the double doors; they’d closed behind them. The magic door? No. Relc looked around and frowned at Mrsha. The Gnoll was giving him the smuggest look he’d ever seen on a Gnoll’s face.
“Hey. You little scamp. How’d you sneak up on us? Answer me!”
Mrsha gave Relc a very Goblin-like shrug. But her eyes twinkled. Relc raised a fist.
“Don’t make me punch Klbkch again!”
“I will stab you first.”
For answer, Mrsha pointed. Relc looked as she pointed behind her, and then made another gesture where she covered her eyes and peeked.
“I have no idea what she’s saying. Do you know what her sign language is, Klb?”
“Hm. Cover eyes. Peeking. Don’t look? No—ah. Hidden. Secret.”
Mrsha nodded excitedly. She pointed and Relc saw her scamper over to a piece of wood near the entryway. His eyes narrowed as she pushed on it. Then he saw the cleverly disguised—
“Door! Look, it’s a door!”
Klbkch nodded. Mrsha disappeared through a hidden door. Relc realized there were two, one on each side of the entryway. He looked around.
“Of course! So they can get at the door. But if they don’t like who’s coming in…arrows! Boiling curry! Evil Gnoll cubs!”
He waved his claws at the cleverly-designed hallway. Klbkch eyed the closed secret door. Mrsha had swung it inwards. He went over and pushed on the section of the wall. Nothing happened. Klbkch tried harder. Relc thought he heard silent laughter coming from behind it.
“I believe the door is able to be barred from the other side. Clever.”
“Yeah. Unless you do this! Hah!”
Relc charged into the secret door. Klbkch heard a thud, and an alarmed sound from behind the wall. Relc picked himself up from the floor.
“Ow.”
“Erin’s Skills appear to be in effect. And you appear to be an idiot.”
“Klb. I don’t appear to be anything. Wait. That’s some tough wall.”
Relc rose, rubbing at his head. More relaxed now, he looked around. The double doors at the far end had opened, and a warm glow greeted him. The Drake inhaled and smelled…sawdust. But also, warm food. He grinned.
“Klb, do you remember when we first came to this inn?”
“I distinctly recall it was another inn, set further to the east. But yes.”
“Strange. Feels like a lot’s changed. A lot.”
The Drake nodded. He just looked around for a moment. Then he smiled.
“Alright. Let’s open that door!”
He strode over to the door to Liscor and yanked it open. A magical portal appeared, quick as thought. Relc saw a huge line of Drakes and Gnolls and Humans. He grinned at them.
“Hey! Look at—”
“About time! What took you so long, you lazy bum? We’ve been waiting for over—”
Relc slammed the door shut. He turned to Klbkch.
“Let’s toss the door down the hill.”
Klbkch only sighed and pulled the door open. Then he turned and punched Relc in the shoulder.
“Ow. Klbkch, that hurts my feelings.”
 
——
 
And here they came. Relc and Klbkch in front, Selys pushing with Fals behind. Not just them. New visitors, like the workers from Esthelm. But more.
“Hey! Is the inn open again? I’m so hungry. Erin! Are you there? Ooh. Free snacks!”
Relc’s voice echoed ahead of the others as he made his way down the hallways, pushing Klbkch back so he could be first into the inn. And behind him followed a crowd. Drakes, Gnolls—and then adventurers.
A Garuda, fluttering through the door and blinking suspiciously at the arrow slits. A blue-scaled Drake who nodded approvingly at the very same and eyed the murder holes with worry. A tall, furry Gnoll with a bit of gray in his step and a cat riding on one shoulder.
And then a Centaur, trotting ahead of a nervous young Human woman holding a magical staff. A female Minotaur. Behind them, a harrumphing Drake glaring about, followed by a Gnoll [Shopkeeper] who looked ready to toss him back through the doorway. Not all were friends. But most were.
A bevy of Antinium followed the crowds, polite Workers and a few Painted Soldiers, gleaming. Among them, a giant a few inches taller than the rest, marked by yellow droplets of paint. An Antinium who smiled and clasped lower hands together in prayer.
Conspicuous among them were the faces who weren’t there. There was no half-Elf, no sniffing [Necromancer] or woman with silver arms. Or Antinium with only three arms. But then someone opened the side door, adjusted a setting on the magical dial, and a Stitch-girl stepped into the hallway with a Hobgoblin.
She was carrying a flask of bubbling liquid she was offering around for people to sample. The Hobgoblin had a guitar on his back. They joined the crowd slowly coming through the doors. And though some knew what to expect, the newcomers looked up.
