“It brings us straight to Liscor. It was marvelous! Our [Miners] could bring ore straight to Liscor! And they brought a bunch of gifts. There was this Drake a while back—and the [Innkeeper] of course. The one that owns the door. Did you know she kicked out Commander Deint?”
“Who? I’m sorry, I hadn’t heard.”
“Our leader! Well, I say leader, but he was more like a [Tyrant]. No one could do anything about him, or rather, no one was going to. I didn’t really think how bad it was, but that [Innkeeper] marched in here and well, got rid of him! It was like magic!”
Fals had little interest in the politics of a single city like Esthelm. But the [Receptionist]’s description rang all kinds of bells in his head. He leaned over the counter.
“By ‘that [Innkeeper]’, do you mean a young woman? Around my age?”
“That’s the one. The owner of the inn. The Wandering Inn. I hear it’s a strange place. Filled with Goblins! Imagine! I’d never visit, even when the door was working. Goblins were the ones who attacked Esthelm. Them and the damned Goblin Lord. Although…”
The [Receptionist] shuddered and paused. She glanced out the window. In the direction of the plaza with the statue. Fals coughed.
“There aren’t that many anymore. I’ve actually been to the inn. I know the [Innkeeper].”
“Do you really?”
Another wide-eyed look. The [Receptionist] was all too eager to chat. But Fals was glancing out the window. He had to run, so he smiled apologetically.
“I’d love to stay and talk, but the door’s actually giving me a job.”
The woman’s face fell.
“Oh, that’s right. I’m sorry, I know you City Runners are always out and about. I suppose the door is why we’ve been getting more of you. It’s been inactive, right? For the last two weeks! But then—you heard what happened?”
“Oh yes.”
Fals inhaled. Word had spread in Celum as well as everywhere else. The [Receptionist] shuddered.
“Crelers. And the inn’s gone. Destroyed, or so they say. But then, I haven’t been to Liscor. Lots of folks are heading down there, though. There’s work to be had. Say—could you ask when the door will be working again? I mean, if it’s not broken? It would be nice to walk around another city. Assuming there aren’t too many Goblins in Liscor, of course.”
“Absolutely. It’s my first time heading back that way myself. Thank you, and stay out of the heat!”
The young man smiled and headed towards the door. The [Receptionist] waved him off.
“Good luck! If you’re coming back this way, please stop by! We have a few messages heading north and if you could take it to at least the nearest Runner’s Guild…”
 
——
 
South the City Runner ran. From Esthelm, through the winding channel cut through the mountain range that was the High Passes. This was the only safe route by land towards the southern half of the continent. And it was a long road.
Not so long now, though. Fals knew Esthelm was only a stone’s throw away from Liscor so he ran hard and reached the natural basin where the Floodplains began after two hours. From there, he slowed.
Liscor awaited. But the path there was difficult. The road that led to Liscor went up and down, following the natural hills and valleys that were formed by the Floodplain’s annual rains. And there was some danger here. Fals stuck to the road, but he kept an eye out for Shield Spiders and worse, Hollowstone Deceivers, known as ‘Rock Crabs’. Also, because he was getting tired. And the Floodplains were large, for all they were a basin sheltered by the mountains.
But there it was. Liscor, a city set on a small hill. The walls were far higher than Esthelm’s, to keep the flood waters out. And as Fals ran from the north, he saw a small shape on a hill to the east. He knew the inn well. But even from afar, it was…different than he recalled.
Crelers in the Bloodfields. Something had happened at The Wandering Inn. Fals knew what had happened at the Bloodfields. Adventurers had fought an Adult Creler which had emerged with an entire nest of the horrors. And they had won. Even now, he recalled the name of the team credited with bringing it down.
The Horns of Hammerad. Fals smiled. He had been terribly worried for them, but news of their victory had been just as astounding. Now, he wanted to see them.
And the [Innkeeper] that Esthelm still remembered. But as Fals approached Liscor from the winding road north, the hill disappeared from sight behind the walls. And Fals was more distracted by the queue at the gates.
More people had come down the road before him this morning,and that was an unusual sight. Normally, it was just [Traders] and [Merchants] who came to the city. It was a rare traveller who would try to pass through the Bloodfields at this time of year. Yet now, Fals found a line at the northern gate. He saw nearly three dozen people lined up, the first being interviewed at the gate by a Drake [Guardsman].
The waiting people were workers. Not Antinium Workers, but Humans, like Fals. They’d come down the northern road like him. And they were here for…what?
“Purpose of entry?”
The Drake on duty yawned as he leaned on his spear. He was a huge fellow that Fals thought he recognized. The family nervously standing in front of him stammered an answer as a whole. The Drake paused.
“Work? Oh, more of you. What’s with the kids?”
He eyed a pair of scared girls hiding behind their mother and father, both of whom looked like [Miners] or [Laborers] of some kind. The mother shushed them.
“We’re here for jobs. We’re [Builders], sir. We heard there was good paying work, so we came down.”
The Drake picked at his teeth with one claw.
“Aw, more of you? Well, there’s not many places to sleep. But yeah, I guess there’s work. Fine, fine. You want to go down to the uh…”
The two parents, who’d been brightening, paused. Relc paused. He scratched his head, held up a finger, and sidled over to the Gnoll who was doing the same job next to him.
“Psst. Tkrn. Where do they go if they want work?”
“The Mason’s Guild! Right down Tellshale road!”
Tkrn growled at Relc. The Gnoll looked exasperated as he waved his people in line through. He was working a lot faster than Relc. Fals, and several other people in line, eying the two [Guards] at work, quickly switched to Tkrn’s line. Relc sighed. He went back over to the family and waved at Tkrn.
“Right. What he said. They’ll find you a job and houses. And stuff. Now…oh wait!”
He blocked them as the family tried to scurry past. Vaguely, Relc reached for a sheaf of parchment.
“Let me just make sure you’re not a wanted criminal. I have a list. And illustrations, see? If you look like anyone on this list, I get to stab you. Probably through the knees.”
One of the girls squeaked and the father protectively shielded her, growing pale. Relc rolled his eyes as Tkrn glared at him.
“Don’t worry! It’s only adults. Oh, wait, there’s a kid on here. Hm. Hm. Nah. You’re not on the list. You’re almost free to go.”
The family relaxed, then stiffened at the ‘almost’. Relc smiled as he leaned on his spear.
“Just one last question. On a scale of one to a hundred, how well do you think I’m doing my job? One hundred being the best, obviously.”
The two parents looked at each other, dumbfounded. Tkrn shook his head, exasperated. Then a roar echoed from behind Relc.
“Senior Guardsman Relc!”
“Oh shit.”
The Drake whirled and saluted. Watch Captain Zevara herself strode up to the gates. She glared at Relc.
“Hi, Watch Captain Z.”
“Senior Guardsman, you are the worst, most incompetent guardsman I have ever had the misfortune of working with! And you!”
Zevara pointed at the family and moderated her tone as one of the girls hid behind their parents. The Drake coughed. She looked around, and tried to smile.
“Um. I’m terribly sorry for my [Guardsman]’s performance. Please, go on ahead.”
She ushered the family through the gates, offering apologies. The wide-eyed family watched Zevara go and the twitching smile she tried to keep on her face. When they were gone, Zevara grabbed Relc.
“Can’t you do a single job right you—”
“Hey! I was just asking for—ow! Watch Captain! That hurts my feelings!”
Bemused, Fals watched as another Gnoll took Relc’s position and the people waiting were checked in within a matter of minutes. The Gnoll, Tkrn, blinked when he saw Fals.
“Ah, City Runner, yes? Sorry, this line was for the immigrants. Travellers. City Runners can pass. We should have waved you through. Or someone should have.”
He turned and glared at Relc, who was still being chewed out by the Watch Captain.
“Oh, really?”
Fals was a bit put out by that. Still, it was only a few minutes. Tkrn looked past him at a group of wagons headed his way. He sighed and Fals offered him a sympathetic smile.
“Busy day?”
“Not by half. Hrr. Have we met?”
The Gnoll sniffed politely at Fals. The Human paused.
“I’ve been to the city a few times. I’m actually bound to the Runner’s Guild to make a few deliveries. You wouldn’t happen to know a…Miss Raekea, would you? [Blacksmith]?”
“Ah! You mean Councilwoman Raekea. She’s no longer just a [Blacksmith].”
Tkrn puffed out his chest as Fals blinked. The City Runner started to smile as Tkrn explained.
“She won the election. She is on the City Council, so she is not always at her forge. You could drop off anything she needs to see at City Hall. It is more convenient than her home or shop, yes? Just go straight.”
“Thanks. Oh—and I’m actually here for another reason. I saw the inn from afar. The Wandering Inn. Is it open?”
Fals was almost afraid to look. He’d heard it was destroyed. Tkrn paused, and Relc looked around.
“The inn? It’s open.”
“Really? But I heard it was destroyed.”
The young man saw Tkrn smile. Watch Captain Zevara left off haranguing Relc with a sigh. The Gnoll nodded to Fals, and pointed east, although the walls blocked it from view.
“It was. But it’s reopening today. You came just in time.”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn. The family of Humans who entered Liscor already knew its name. Travellers from further north hadn’t heard of it. But those who had come to Liscor, who found themselves queued up at the Mason’s Guild to see if rumors about well-paying jobs in this Drake city were true, found themselves talking.
Not all of them were Human, but most of the new arrivals were. Some Drakes and Gnolls here to sign up for work looked in disgruntlement at the Humans, some of whom had come as entire families, others alone.
“Why are they coming here? Can’t they find jobs in their own cities?”
One Drake was heard to complain loudly, prompting nervous looks in the queue lined up at the desk. He was more well-to-do, and his function wasn’t as a potential worker, but a client of the guild.
He, and a group of Drakes and Gnolls were conferring with the Guildmaster of the Mason’s Guild. It was an ironic statement, made doubly so because some of the Gnolls looked disgruntled too. One of them, female, her fur combed and scented, frowned at the applicants.
“Is there enough space to house them all, I wonder? And surely it is true that there isn’t that much gold to be had, yes? This is our city. Not a Human one.”
Ironic indeed. Some of the younger Drakes and Gnolls in the group were nodding, but one of the Drakes bit her tongue on a reply. It seemed this Gnoll had forgotten that her kind had come nearly a decade back for the same reason.
The Guildmaster had not. Guildmaster Okr, a Gnoll who was both [Mason] and [Guildmaster], gave the younger Gnoll a reproving glance—when she wasn’t looking. His voice was brisk.
“Humans, Drakes, or Gnolls, we could use the paws—or hands or claws, yes? I’ll put them up in the apartments. It will be uncomfortable, but they will be building their own homes.”
“I just don’t understand the logistics of it.”
The Drake who’d been first to complain grumbled. Now, the female Drake who’d frowned spoke up.
“Maybe they’re here because we’re offering more silver than anywhere else, Zess. A few more silver pieces per week is a lot, especially if they’re high enough level to earn it. And we need the workers, don’t we?”
The Drake paused and flushed. He nodded to the female Drake.
“Of course, Selys. I’m only wondering if there would be uh, incidents. You know.”
“No. Do you mean between Drakes and Humans?”
Zess paused. He looked down at Selys Shivertail. There was all the makings of a trap in her smile and tone and question. The Drake tried to think on his feet and metaphorically fell flat on his face.
“Or Gnolls or Humans. I’m just concerned.”
“But why would they have a problem? Do Humans cause more trouble? Or would it be Drakes and Gnolls causing trouble? Or is there just a problem with hiring Humans?”
“Well…”
There was no good answer to that. Zess bit his tongue, wisely, and everyone else paused on a reply. Guildmaster Okr looked vaguely approving. The female Gnoll huffed, but most of the male Drakes and Gnolls hesitated to earn Selys’ wrath.
They were all wealthy. You could tell that by their clothing, and just their attitude. The clients of the Mason’s Guild, who were here to hire the very workers applying for a job, were individuals who had money by inheritance or deed. And the newest among them, Selys Shivertail, was a face.
Niece to Zel Shivertail, the fallen hero known as the Tidebreaker. Even the Humans in line knew that name, and they stared at her. Granddaughter to Tekshia Shivertail, Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild. And—this was a new title—most eligible bachelorette in all of Liscor.
Selys was rich. She was an [Heiress], and right now…peeved. She sighed, but Guildmaster Okr got the group back on track.
“The Council is willing to let you subcontract my workers, yes? But be mindful—in your purchased lots of land, you must still accommodate the streets and sewer work already laid down. And your works must fit within the [Architect]’s overall designs.”
“But we have to pay for our own [Builders] to make what we want? And workers? That’s a lot of the burden on us, and for what?”
One of the Drakes grumbled loudly. He was the son of a [Landowner]. Guildmaster Okr sighed through his nose.
“Those are the Council’s orders. Now, if you would care to bid on the auctionable land…?”
He gestured to the map. Selys saw the Drakes and Gnolls look at each other sharply. For all their complaints, they eyed the plans for a new city like a hawk. Selys glanced at the lines of workers.
“Can you quote us how much we’re paying each worker, Guildmaster Okr?”
