[You have slan [Brawler Bear] Level 11]

[XP Acquired]

Once the job was done, I didn’t consider the fact that carrying the bear without  Strengthened Constituion or being able to fly would be a problem. I’d gotten so used to being able to well, use them, that I’d neglected that.

So the only thing I could do was eat my fill and dig for the important parts to feed to the fish. Even then, I could only carry so much.

After pecking at it for a while, I took out the belly fat, core and brain, then ate as much as I could before rushing back to the lake.

Carrying all of those hings in my beak was a herculean task to say the least, but I managed.

“Lord Fire Bird, you’re back!” The little fish called to me from within her lake, all the items the cultivators had safely stored away in the storage bags. “What did you bring me?”

I didn’t reply, but instead threw the meat, brain and core inside her lake. She immediately started breaking the meat into bite sized pieces, eating them as she did so. The scene was a little funny, but also interesting.

A koi fish of all things gained sentience, somehow levelled up to at least five and has become my subordinate. Fate was a funny thing, but also very flimsy.

While I was deep in thought, the little koi fish’s voice sounded in my ears. “Lord Fire Bird, what is this round thing?”

“That’s a core. Push it against your head and absorb it. It’s a beast core, but it should still give you some good stats.”

“Eh? Is that so? Alright, I’ll do as Lord Fire Bird says then.”

And so she did. The little koi fish dove to the bottom of the lake and absorbed the core, turning into a useless gray stone.

“Well, what did you get?”

“Uh… it says I got one strength. Is that good?”

“Mhm, that’s… well, that’s not bad.” I said, squinting. A single stat point? That was strange, no XP and no Qi either. That wasn’t something I was accustomed to. Sure, there were times when the cores gave me more or less, but never only one stat point.

Could it have something to do with me being a Phoenix?

I wouldn’t know the answer to that question unless I asked Mother.

Wait… Mother!

I’d completely forgotten, I’ve been gone for more than four days. If she wasn’t worried sick she would be turning the forest over trying to find me!

Jumping to my feet, I instructed the little koi fish to keep the bags in the lake and also told her to grab one of the blue crystals and to place them within. If she was hungry, she could eat what the cultivators had, but I would come back soon to fed her.

“If I don’t return in three days go back to the river and fend for yourself. I’ll come look for you. If something does happen and I don’t return, let us meet again if fate allows it.”

“Lord Fire Bird, what are you saying?!” However I didn’t rest to answer. While I wished I could take the sky, all I could do was run as fast as my tiny legs could take me and hurry toward the nest.

I had a bad feeling.

A really, really bad feeling.

The way to the nest was way longer than I thought. Not being able to fly was a huge inconvenience. However, what other choice did I have?

The terrain changed fast in front of me, turning into a blur thanks to my high stats. Whilst I was tiny, I was at least fast, strong and agile. Pair that with Phoenix Reflexes, and I moved through the forest better than any feline ever would be able to.

When I left for the nest, the sun was midway through the sky, when I arrived at our tree, it was already beginning to set.

I hastily climbed up the way I did so many weeks back, clawing my way toward the safety of Mother’s feathers.

However, she wasn’t there. The nest had no signs of being used in the past few days. She definitely went out searching for me.

Mother, please be safe.

I could only pray and hope, but the bad feeling taking root deep inside my gut bloomed into a thorny vine that wrapped around my heart.

I waited. The sun set, then it rose, and then it set again.

I couldn’t sleep, I couldn’t eat or drink. Mother hadn’t returned yet.

When the sun rose on the second day, I heard the wild flapping of the wings, and looked toward the horizon.

I didn’t need to squint to see that it was Mother, hurrying toward the nest.

The happiness in my heart got extinguished as soon as it appeared, because behind her chased half a dozen cultivators.

I looked at the ground and saw another two dozen, and Mother’s sharp, panicked screech echoed inside my mind.

“Little Flame, there’s trouble, run!”
