Only the Shade, Hollowsaur, made monstrous cows, but even his cows weren’t viable in the larger world. The only monstrous species of cow that ever survived to become a true breed of ‘monster cow’, were the unicorns, and that was only because of [Aura of Freedom], which prevented capture, and [Beautification Aura], which prevented anyone from being able to see or realize that the cow was in their presence.

This was not for the world’s lack of trying to breed better, different cows, though. As Jane got to know the herd of Clan Pale Cow, she realized that there were a lot more cows out there than she ever guessed possible.

Jane walked alongside Amasar and a few other cowherds, on the northern flank of the herd. The cows mooed, calling out with happy sounds, while young ones played amongst the crowd, tousling each other with their nubby horns. The wind whistled through the grasses, and the chilly air smelled of cow. It was not a bad smell, but it wasn’t a great smell, either. It was certainly not the smell of horses.

Cows were cute, though, so Jane could be a cowherd for a while. This might be fun!

Amasar pointed to a yellowish cow that was dappled with orange. “What is that one?”

Jane had gone through orientation for the last hour, which mostly involved Amasar talking about cows and telling Jane about the breeds they raised. Amasar had already told Jane that she probably wouldn’t be able to ride today, and for not a week more, at least, but they were here, and Jane was ready to ride if the opportunity presented itself. Perhaps proving herself as a good listener would be enough to let her get on a cow, with everyone else.

Jane answered, “A dappled cow; one of the milkers. Great for cheese. Runs from a fight. Minor air control powers. Needs to be defended.”

Amasar nodded once, then pointed to a light brown cow with short horns.

Jane answered, “A possible breeding bull, but too young to challenge the reigning patriarch. Don’t protect him from the reigning bull. Defend from all other threats, like all the other cows. Possible stone powers, so probably not a good breeding bull, anyway.”

“Correct. Good assessment, too.” Amasar pointed to the young pair of male cows, butting heads. Both of them were blonde.

“Immature bulls.” Jane said, “Protect from the main bull, but not too vigorously. Air aligned, so good breeding stock.”

“Correct.” Amasar asked, “What must we do if monsters attack?”

“If it is a small incursion, allow the herd to be bloodied. Allow the herd the chance to defend themselves, first.” Jane said, “But any monster the size of a cow must be rebuffed, hard and fast.”

“And why do we do it this way?”

“Because the herd is an organism that must be cultivated, but to defend them from all danger is to make them complacent, and when the monsters do show up, some will die, for sometimes the monsters are too fast. The cows will die if they don’t understand that they are always under threat from monsters.”

Jane almost wanted to add, ‘And isn’t that a poignant message against integration if I ever heard one’. But she did not, for these people were not here to hear her opinions on politics, and she was not here to give them. She just wanted to get on top of a cow and feel the wind in her hair as they rode off into the sunset, or at least raced a good kilometer upon the open plains.

But from what she was seeing, Pale Cow’s cows were more of a ‘barely mobile food storage system’, than ‘powerhouses on four legs’. Which was pretty much on point for ‘what is a cow’, so Jane only had herself to blame for that unrealistic outlook on what guarding the cows would mean.

Amasar nodded. “Correct. Let us test to see if you are good on cowback, and when we ride north, you will ride with us.”

Jane’s heart skipped a beat, but she calmly said, “Ah? I’ll be able to ride today?” She glanced to the other cowherds in the group. Other people were surprised with Amasar’s announcement, too. Jane turned back. “I was under the impression that I could not.”

One of the other cowherds, Iroki, said, “It is one year of learning and caring for the herd and then another year of learning how to fight as a group with the rest of us before anyone is allowed to ride in front of the clan. We are the spear, Amasar.” He glanced to Jane, then back to Amasar, saying, “She can tend to the milking and the cheese yurt like everyone else at her level.”

“I’m fine with learning how to make cheese.” Jane said, “I love cheese.”

Amasar said, “I am the herd leader. I enforce the rules. Jane will ride out front, with us, and let no one countermand my order.”

Iroki frowned, then said, “It will be as you say.” He looked to Jane, then disregarded her.

The other cowherds were similarly miffed as Iroki, but none of them said a single word.

Amasar ignored the brewing discontent in his midst, and turned to the herd. “We call out to our mounts and they respond as they are wont. If a cow responds to you, you will learn to ride. If not, you will not. The caravan departs in two hours.”

And then he whistled to the herd, a long, shrill sound that he split into warbles. The call carried on the wind, into the mass of cows. The animals perked up. Some of them disregarded the whistle, moving away from the cowherds, but others raised their heads above the crowd, and bleated into the air. Those ones moved forward.

Those ones to first respond were also the closest ones to Amasar and the group, for they had been quietly trailing Amasar and the other cowherds this whole time. They wanted a ride, and they knew where to be to get it.

Amasar explained, “Cows are smart. They take a bit of training in the beginning, but the ones who want to ride will come forward, and the ones who do not will go away. We do not name them, for that is bad luck. Do not name the cow who comes to you, if such a miracle occurs. All outsiders do that, and we cannot allow this.” He stepped away from the other cowherds while holding out a hand toward the approaching cows. He clicked his tongue and two of the cows rushed toward him, with a light blonde one winning out over the light brown one. The light brown one went to the other nearest person, who happened to be Iroki. Amasar petted the one who came to him, while speaking to Jane, “Accept the one that approaches, like this—” He scratched the chin and face of the animal, moving his hands to the side, scratching the neck, as he, too, moved to the cow’s side. He reached the middle of the animal, and then hopped on, carefully easing his weight down onto the animal’s back. He bunched his hand in the ruff of blonde fur on the cow’s neck. “And that is all there is to it. We train them all from birth to—” The cow under him mooed lightly and began to amble, but Amasar clenched his hand, and his legs, and the cow stopped. He admonished the animal, saying, “We train most of them well enough.”

Jane was entranced. She watched as riders took their mounts, and as more and more cows ambled out of the herd, hurrying, as if realizing that there wouldn’t be enough riders for them if they didn’t rush forward and claim a person.

Except none of them came for Jane. Well. One did, but the cow sniffed at her and then turned away. Within minutes, every cowherd was atop a cow, and all the other cows were already walking away; miffed that they didn’t get a rider.

Jane felt a tension in her chest that she hadn’t felt in a long time. It was a sickly sort of feeling. A small feeling. A feeling of minimization. Ah, yeah. She was crushed. How silly was that? She was sad that the cows didn’t like her? Well of course they didn’t—

Jane said, “Ah. This is why you must work with the cows for a year before riding, isn’t it?”

Amasar frowned a little, as he confirmed her theory, saying, “I had hoped that they would just accept you, but they have not. My apologies, Jane.”

Iroki looked vindicated, sitting there atop his own cow, but his voice was not smug, as he said, “I work in the cheese yurt every morning. You will need to wake up earlier in order to participate in the milking, to get to know the cows. As you learn of the cows, they will learn of you.”

Amasar said, “You may head back to the caravan. We have rounds to do before we leave. Find some stragglers and bring them back.”

Jane turned and bowed to Amasar, saying, “Thank you for your instruction.”

And then she turned and walked back the way they had come.

Amasar, Iroki, and the others, tapped their cows, and the cows responded with crashing hooves that ripped up the grassland, and propelled them forward. The wind raced through their hair as the cows let loose their power.

They moved a lot faster than Jane had expected them to move.

And Jane was just a milkmaid.

… On the way back to the herd, Jane realized that it was all kinda funny, actually. She knew she was more than a milkmaid. She was so very, very much more than that. But sure! She could milk some cows! She had expected to do that, anyway. She could even learn how to make some cheese. She had never done that before. It might be fun! If nothing else, it was another skill to add to her resume, not that anyone used those here on Veird. Heh.

Jane giggled to herself, while cows mooed all around her—

Oh. Wait.

Did Amasar do that on purpose? Did he try to make himself look like he was doing well by her, and then, by extension, doing well by her father? But then again… He did say that he knew the cows would not go to her, but that he would try anyway.

Jane was probably seeing shadows where there were none.

Their first night in the caravan had been rather welcoming, but it had been a rote welcome. No one wanted Erick or any of them there, but Clan Pale Cow was more than willing to be neighborly. The problem was that Clan Pale Cow, like most other grass traveler clans, simply did not approve of the open use of magic.

But Jane was a Polymage, and her father was an archmage.

So a bit of cultural dissonance was to be expected! But they were traveling the world right now. This much was fine, and besides that, Clan Pale Cow was doing their very best to be welcoming. Jane could only do her best, too.

- - - -

Teressa felt strange to be here. How did she even get into this scenario? They were going after dragons, but now Erick was trying to be a part of a grass traveler clan? And sure, Teressa understood the connection that Erick was trying to exploit, to force the dragons out into the open, but still…

This was weird, wasn’t it?

It all felt so… surreal.

The Worldly Path was involved, for sure, but still…

Teressa suddenly realized, halfway through her talk, that she barely understood how she had gotten to this place, and thus she stopped talking.

Life was weird, sometimes.

Weird, and kinda wonderful.

The smallest child of the group asked, “What’s a Moon Reacher!”

Teressa came back to the moment, surrounded by twelve kids, each of them looking up to her like she was a strangeness that they could not wrap their heads around. Part of their attention was locked to her because of the Blessing of Aloethag, but Teressa had mitigated much of that by wearing a veil. Most of their attention was, thankfully, focused on the lesson that Teressa was trying to give, but Teressa had lost the thread of her focus as the unreality of the moment finally hit home.

She played off her momentary lapse, pitching her voice low and full of terror, as she spread her arms wide, and said, “I lost myself for a moment there, children. Maybe there was a moon reacher nearby.” Some of the children recoiled a little at that. Some of them just went wide-eyed, and even more attentive. “Those monsters are some of the Darkest evils in the world, though you would never know it to look at them. With their long, bendy arms and tiny hands, they rise above it all, and cloud your mind as they reach down as though from the moons, to pluck at your flesh and your thoughts.” She used one hand to mime the plucking of her own fingers, folding the finger down after she ‘plucked’ it. “Pulling and ripping off limbs, laughing at you from up above, you will never know what killed you and your entire party unless you are trained to exacting detail. It is the small things that let you know that you are under attack.” By now, she had folded over all the fingers of one hand. “If they plucked off my fingers like this, I would think that I had lived my whole life without those fingers. But here is the detail: I would know something was wrong, because I used my sword in this hand, but how could I hold a sword if I had no fingers? It is this detail that alerts me to the wrongness of the moment; that there might be a moon reacher exuding their [Thought Fog] all over the place.”

The kids were absolutely entranced. Some would probably have nightmares, but nightmares were better than death; one needed to know of the Darkness if they were to overcome it.

Their teacher, an older man by the name of Vorilo, held great disapproval in his eyes as he sat there in the back of the room, watching over Teressa’s lesson on monsters of the world. But he didn’t say anything; he knew this was going to be a difficult lesson. Talking about monsters always was. The two of them, along with Clan Leader Niyazo, had talked earlier about what Teressa was going to say to the kids, to fulfill her obligation to support the clan while she lived with them.

Teressa opened her hand, showing her fingers as still there. Some of the kids gasped, and Teressa had to fight off a smile because it would throw her off her tale, no matter if the kids couldn’t actually see her smile through her veil.

Kids were so easy to entertain.

Teressa said, “Depending on how I was positioned in a group, I would have two responses. If I was here, with my boss, Archmage Flatt, and we were to encounter some Moon Reachers, then we would slay them all. Aside from all our other defenses, Ophiel has no mind with which to Fog, and so, we would know the problem even if all the rest of us could not see the problem.”

Vorilo cringed.

The kids loved the idea of fighting the moon reachers, of killing the problem. Some of them even started slashing the air with imaginary swords. But this was not the correct solution for the vast, vast majority of people. Teressa needed to adjust what she had said.

And so, she continued, “—But looking to slay moon reachers is not the proper response for anyone who is not prepared for them. The best solution is to run away, to live to fight another day. This is always the correct solution when you are under attack from an assailant you cannot comprehend.”

The kids did not like this. Some even voiced their displeasure with ‘But why!’ and ‘I’m never running from a fight!’.

