With knife in hand, Nirzir Void Song stood over the corpse of her enemy and stared down at her own defeat.

She cried a little.

Waveni, her current instructor on the ‘fine art’ of cooking, also stood over the corpse of Nirzir’s defeated enemy. The older woman frowned at the mangled onion. Then the old woman laughed, loud and boisterous, and said, “Looks like you ain’t never done this before, girlie!”

“I’ve chopped an onion before!” Once. Literally once before. “But this was different.” She wiped her eyes with the back of her sleeve, saying, “And it never made me cry so much. I swear, I can do this.”

Waveni and several other nearby cooks laughed at that.

After breakfast, which had been so much better than the stew— The stew was good! But Nirzir knew she would be eating that stew a lot, and she did not look forward to that.— Nirzir had inquired after learning to cook, from the cooks themselves. Waveni had taken an instant liking to Nirzir for her desire to help, and so, here Nirzir was, in the kitchens between mealtimes, learning how to make the stew that she was already dreading. And she was failing at this very first step. Chopping onions shouldn’t be this hard!

A little while ago, Waveni had shown Nirzir how to chop up an onion, properly, and then told Nirzir to try. The old Cook’s onion was perfectly minced to pieces no bigger than her pinky fingernail. Nirzir’s onion was chopped unevenly, with each piece varying from thumb sized to fingernail-clipping sized.

Waveni chuckled and glanced to the mountain of onions left to chop, sitting in a large stone bowl to the side. There had to be a thousand onions there! And then she laughed louder when she looked to the empty stone bowl that was meant to hold the final chopped product. Nirzir stood in between the bowls, with her own table, and her own cutting board, and her own problems.

“My oh my! You have a task, if’n I do say so.” Waveni smiled wide, saying, “You’ll learn eventually. Just try not to cut yourself. I got faith in you, girlie, so go on, and keep chopping!”

Nirzir Void Song knew of the philosophy about cooking. She knew the recipes to some of her favorite foods. She understood the ideas behind feeding a hundred people from the same pot. But what she didn’t understand was the idea of not using magic to chop, or to mix, or to do anything except for heating, and even that was kept to a minimum. Mostly, they burned wood to heat their ovens, but Nirzir could tell there was magic in those metal boxes, stirring the air, or something.

And so, with knife in hand, and knowing that even if she slipped, the knife they had given her was very much not sharp enough to actually injure her, Nirzir said, “I can do this.”

Waveni smiled, then swiped off the mangled remains of Nirzir’s onion into the final product bowl, saying, “It don’t gotta be perfect on your first try, but I expect near enough to perfect by the thousandth onion. Just remember, you gotta chop off the roots and the head and take off the outermost skin, too. Can’t be getting that trash into the stew.” She walked away, saying, “Keep at it!” And then she gestured at another mountain of vegetables, saying, “And then you can move onto the white root!”

Nirzir paled a little. She cried a little. She told herself it was mostly the onions.

A crazy question struck her in that moment: Why would anyone create vegetables that made you cry when you cut them! Some sadist archmage, no doubt. Erick wouldn’t make something like this, for sure!

That, and many other questions filled Nirzir’s mind as she proceeded to learn how to handle a knife. It was much more difficult than learning how to handle a [Flying Sword] spell. She had skill with magic! She had no skill with this… this mundane shit!

… But she would learn, dammit. She would learn.

Apparently, Erick liked cooking—

And let’s just ignore those slippery, flighty feelings. Think instead about how living a life without magic could lead one to more power than any other public archmage to ever come before! (Except for the Headmaster; he didn’t count in this scenario.) Erick had flown to the top of the world, to become a dominant power. And he built his entire base on the basic building blocks of this New Cosmology. He spent his entire life doing things the mundane way, listening to the world around him, and paying attention to the details. And if that was all it took to become an archmage, then others would have come first, and so, there was something special about that man.

Maybe there was merit to the mundane, beyond the obvious.

Or maybe it was just as simple as what everyone in her family had said: Once you learn about the mundane, then you can learn how to make magic influence the mundane, and end up with massive multipliers larger than ever before. It was all about forming the spell just exactly right, like drawing a perfect circle with a sweep of the hand, or telling a person the exact right thing they needed to hear, or parrying a sword with your own and then counter attacking…

It was about holding the knife, just right, to inflict the maximum amount of change, using the least amount of power, so that when you did use all of your power, the stroke of the knife would be massive.

But maybe the truth of Erick’s power was more how Nirzir imagined it to be. Maybe there was something more important than mundanity. Maybe, the most important thing was about doing the right thing, at the right time. Maybe, the best magic came about from connecting with others, and from not retreating from the world.

All magic came from everyone, after all, so therefore it made sense that it was easier to connect to magic when you connected to others. Maybe, the truth of it all was that mana liked connections. You never heard about archmages past when they make their grandest magics, or after they set themselves up for life with their small deeds done out of sight. (Again, the Headmaster did not count.) Erick was obviously just getting started with his grand deeds, and everything he did was more impressive than the month before.

And it was very nice when he came into her room last night and made her a bed just like his—

Nope.

Put those thoughts away, Nirzir. Remember what Poi said.

She cleared her mind. She focused.

And so, Nirzir chopped onions, slipping every so often, but learning how to hold the knife better each chop. If it wasn’t for her spellwork she would have lost thumbs and fingertips, many times over.

Waveni came by after Nirzir had gotten through twenty onions, and saw that Nirzir was having trouble. “I know you ain’t used to this life, but I see you trying, and I like that.” She glanced around, and noticing no one nearby, leaned in and whispered, “You can use magic if you keep it small. I won’t tell if you don’t.”

Nirzir felt a great appreciation for the older woman in that moment. She said, “Thank you, but I want to do it correctly, and that means no magic.”

Waveni broke into a wide, happy smile, followed by a laugh. “Good for you! We’ll make a Cook out of you, yet! How many levels you got, girlie? You need it, I can get the guardians to get you in on some monster kills.”

Nirzir felt even more appreciation for the woman. All of Clan Pale Cow seemed to be a lot more welcoming than she had expected.

But she couldn’t take that offer. Nirzir said, “Thank you, but my brothers took me out for some monster kills almost a year ago. I’m already Classed.”

“Well you just work on them onions, then.” Waveni said, “We want to have the ingredients in the cauldron before we hitch up the cows and get traveling again. I reckon we gots about three hours before that happens.”

Nirzir nodded—

She readily asked, “Do you eat things other than stew? I liked the fried bread this morning!”

“Oh my yes!” Waveni laughed, and the other nearby Cooks joined her. “We eat more than stew. We even had rice last night, though I prefer it the way I make it— nothing against your man, though. What’s his name? Poi?”

“Yes; that’s his name.” Nirzir did not say how every meal should have good rice, and that rice didn’t count as ‘other things’, and that the way Pale Cow made rice was an abomination. Seriously! Who boils rice in a bucket and calls that ‘rice’! But Nirzir held her tongue.

Waveni smiled, saying, “We make everything you’ve ever had! Dumplings, pies, pastas—”

An older man exclaimed, “Curries and steamed rice! The boiled stuff can’t compare!”

Waveni turned on the man. “You cook rice your way when I’m dust, and not a moment sooner! You understand me, Jorn?”

Jorn just laughed, and he wasn’t the only one.

Another older woman called out, “You better be grilling up some vegetables we [Grow] at the next riverside, Waveni! I ain’t [Grow]ing you no more onions, lest you do!” She added, “And you best not be grilling me onions and calling it done!”

“You quit complaining, too.” Waveni told the woman, “Onions are a perfect food! Fills you up and goes with everything. You like them too.”

“I just want my grilled squash, you hear.”

“Aye! I hear you.”

And then a different cook spoke up about grilled meat, and how grilled vegetables were terrible, but the other older woman wasn’t having it, which then cascaded into everyone speaking about their favorite foods.

Waveni smirked, and while everyone else spoke of specific dishes, she said, “We’ll have all of those harder-to-make meals when we get to Ooloraptoor and settle to a single place for a while, but when we’re traveling, stew is what we eat. Gotta have a well balanced dish for when people get injured fighting the monsters, because healing takes a toll, and having a good hearty stew is necessary.”

“Oh. Right.” Nirzir said, “That makes sense.” And then she decided to take a chance, mostly because Waveni had said that she could use magic if it was easier, so therefore, Waveni probably didn’t mind magic that much. Nirzir just had to keep it small and quiet. Nirzir whispered, “If people need healing I can help. I have those spells.”

Every nearby person went quiet for a few moments in the wake of Nirzir’s words.

Waveni flinched, hard, and then she tried to pass it off as though she hadn’t, by saying, “Don’t worry none about that. Just chop chop chop like you do. We’ll make a Cook out of you yet!”

Nirzir knew she wasn’t the most socially adroit person, but even she knew that she had fucked up.

Ah. Oh well.

… Eventually, conversations started up again, though now, Nirzir had her mana sense active. She might not have the range and ability with that skill that some people possessed, but she certainly noticed that the people around her watched her like she was going to poison their food, or something. She definitely noticed the tiny [Cleanse]s that were cast on the onions when they were taken away to the big cauldron, too.

Well wasn’t that a bit disappointing?

But… Then again, what did she expect? These people were nice and welcoming, but they were insular, too. They were humoring Erick and his entourage by allowing them to help out around here, all to keep up appearances, to allow Clan Pale Cow to dominate their ‘debates’. They were just using Erick for his power, weren’t they?

Nirzir felt a bit angry at that. These people were just as illusion-faced as everyone back at home. This was exactly the shit she was trying to get away from. This was the shit that made her want to crawl into a hole and never come out. She had tried not to let her anger show and she was mostly successful, for as onions came apart under her clumsy cuts, some of the tears rolling down her face were tears of quiet anger. Nirzir was pretty sure that it was hard for other people to tell the difference.

- - - -

Jane loved horses.

A corollary to that love, was the unicorn. There was a part of Jane that was very, very excited that she could transform into one of those mythical beasts, but she kept that part of herself on lockdown for a dozen different reasons. Only a few of those reasons had to do with what unicorns had been on Earth, but those reasons were ingrained in Jane, and thus, she could not rid herself of them.

And NO, she did not like My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic. Of course, she had seen several of the episodes… Okay! She saw every single episode! She loved that damn show! But too many weirdos liked that show, too. Some of the people she met in college who watched that show were perfectly fine, but the others were not. Horses were not a sex thing for Jane. She just liked the idea of escaping the world on horseback. Of shootouts with the Law. Of wind flowing through her hair.

But since there were no horses on Veird, and since spiders were pretty damn cool (and much more versatile), Jane was more than happy with her spider-heavy Familiar Form catalogue.

And besides that, unicorns were a bit different on Veird than they were thought of on Earth.

On Veird, unicorns were horrible eaters of children and enslavers of minds. There was absolutely nothing good about them except for all of their innate abilities. [Aura of Freedom] was magnificent, and always usable outside of the unicorn form. [Light Sculptor] and [Beautification Aura] required a horn to be incorporated into the body, but that was easy enough, and rather innocuous, if you did it right.

And in lesser ways, ‘unicorns’ were not actually ‘unicorns’, at all, for they had absolutely no relationship to horses at all. Fun fact! Veird unicorns were actually an offshoot of the cow, mutated into a powerful, lithe form, and then imbued with Light. Horses didn’t exist on Veird. Everything that was a horse was simply an offshoot of the cow. The unicorn’s actual name was ‘orolos’, which meant ‘cow of devouring light’, but translation being what it was, and since orolos looked very much like unicorns, ‘orolos’ were ‘unicorns’ for all intents and purposes.

Jane didn’t really care for cows, but they were as close as Veird got to horses, and they were cute, in their own ways.

She could never see herself as a [Cow Polymage], though, and for multiple reasons. The main reason was that cows were a prey species. Most variants never survived outside of the herd, and herds were usually overseen by people, and the people didn’t want cows rising up and killing their caretakers. There was a vicious cycle of breeding going on there. But even the baseline cows were not that great. Cows had limited range of movement, and they were slow. A herd could not defend itself from outside threats, which was why guarding the cows was just as important as guarding the caravan.

