Vorilo relaxed a bit, but he was still on edge.

With a relaxed, yet directed tone, Teressa singled out the kid who spoke of never running. “Boy.” The boy instantly looked to her and his eyes went wide, for Teressa was purposefully glowing her eyes with grey light. The effect wasn’t much, but it would be visible through her veil for at least this single child. “Know your limits before you encounter the unknown. Know when to run, and make sure everyone else also knows when to run.” The boy just stared, going weak in the bladder a bit, but otherwise doing okay. A bit of terror now is worth a lot of saved blood later. Teressa relaxed her eyes, and turned her face back toward the whole group, saying, “Learn how to fight and how to live while you are safe, and surrounded by loved ones. Don’t make other people sad because you lost your life fighting what you knew you should not fight.”

Vorilo nodded, but remained silent.

And then Teressa went off script, a bit, “Until a year ago, I thought I knew everything there was to know about fighting. I was a tank, protecting Spur in the army, holding the front lines against Ar’Kendrithyst and the Shades—”

Vorilo paled at the mention of the world’s oldest enemies. All of the kids were stock still, watching Teressa speak of Evils, and likely feeling rather odd about it. Their own parents never spoke of these things. Most of the world never spoke of Ar’Kendrithyst, except to talk around the problem.

Teressa was not about that.

She said, “But then I met Erick, and I gained a new appreciation for certain things. Like magic. I learned so much, and I can do so much more than what I was able to do before. You should learn everything you can, and you can protect your loved ones, too. Learn how to expand your senses into the mana. Learn aura control. Learn the sword, but above all, learn the shield. And don’t shy away from the smaller magics. They will save your life. That’s why Rozeta shares the magics made by one person, with every person.

“But don’t think you have to go large to protect your brother, or your sister, or your parents, from the evils of monsters and the Dark. There is no need for anything more than the smallest power, wielded properly. My boss made his magic out of the smallest parts of all. Tiny, invisible particles that make up all the world around us. He mastered that magic, and used that magic to kill all the Shades, and a million other monsters, including all the moon reachers of the Forest of Glaquin. Hundreds of thousands of monsters, all dead, at his hand. All because of him.”

The kids remained enthralled the whole time Teressa spoke.

Vorilo almost interrupted when Teressa went off script, but he refrained. At the end, he even looked a bit… hopeful, perhaps?

A boy, one of the most energetic of the lot, asked in a small voice, “Is he really from another world?”

Vorilo readily spoke up, “We’re talking of monsters and how to prepare against them. Think not of archmages, children.” He added, to Teressa, “It would be nice if you told them that moon reachers don’t live around here.”

While some kids complained—

Teressa said, “Your teacher is right. It is important to know the types of monsters out there in order to defend against them, but knowing how to defend and being able to defend are two different things. I can help you with the former, but with the latter, you must look to your elders and your own people.”

Vorilo smiled a little at that, then he stepped away, returning to the back of the room.

Teressa said, “One of the weakest monsters inside Ar’Kendrithyst is the shadowolf. They are muscle and bone and exposed flesh, wrapped in shadowy mange. They stalk through the kendrithyst crystal, hunting in packs, looking for easy prey. It is easy to get overwhelmed if you do not have the magical and martial power to fend them off, but they are only level 10 to 15, and they are stupid. Like the most basic of monsters, shadowolves come straight at you, with only one or two circling behind for a flanking strike. Their tactics are standard, and if you’ve fought one, you’ve fought them all.” She dropped her voice, saying, “But woe to thee if you should meet a pack of wolves that are overseen by a shadowcat. These dastardly felines are an abomination of shadow, and they lace their hundred-meter long tails into the skulls of lesser monsters, controlling them as one would control a hundred puppets at once.”

The kids were wide eyed.

More than a few would have nightmares, for sure, but that was fine.

Teressa talked of monsters, and the kids learned through their terror, just as she had been taught herself… Well. Mostly. When Teressa was younger she had been taught the best magics to use against certain monsters, right alongside learning about those monsters for the first time. If it was up to Teressa, she’d include things like ‘Shadowolves burn real good, so be sure to use Flaming spells on your weapons’, and ‘Even if you can’t cast much magic, you must have [Teleport], and you must always be able to cast it at least on yourself in case of an emergency’. These were facts that these kids should know, but which were kept from them.

But at least these kids wouldn’t be coddled behind walls like the Highlands did to all of their people.

It’s too bad most of them would never learn about magic, though.
