Erick channeled mana through [Plasma Cutter], then through Mana Altering for Fire, then through [Conjure Weapon], then through [Telekinesis]. [Plasma Cutter] was a combination of all of those spells, but picking out the ‘Plasma’ from the rest was a difficult task, not unlike isolating a background rhythm from a song, that was also repeated in the main chorus, and also a part of the lyrics. It was actually too much for him, on his own. So he summoned help, dismissing some of the superfluous Ophiel from Candlepoint and resummoning them to his side.

Ophiel’s help was immeasurable. Once they got going, Erick was sure he couldn’t have done this without them.

The four part song of [Plasma Cutter] came apart under Ophiel’s perfect pitch, each piece of the spell vibrating the air around each Ophiel. Erick discarded the sounds that did not fit ‘Plasma’. Then he moved on to the next part of picking apart Plasma.

With two Ophiel singing before him, one in chorus with itself and Mana Altering for Fire, while the other sang of something purer, both less percussive destructive and higher energy, Erick was sure the second sound was pure ‘Plasma’.

Ah, this was magic. It was nice.

Erick folded the sounds of Plasma into [Force Bolt] and [Force Wave], gifting parts to each Ophiel around him, guiding the VCVD sounds in there as well, like adding a reverb or an echo chamber to the magic; something to pulse the power high, then even higher, but to keep it all contained to a small Bolt, that would then release in a wave, in the target. Agile and easy going, yet containing as much energy as Erick wanted to put into the working. Maybe even enough energy to turn anything it touched to Plasma.

Ophiels’ songs rose to a crescendo, as each feathered [Familiar] caught the harmony all at once, and the idea crystallized.

Erick didn’t even point. The spell took hold in the air between him and his Ophiel. It was a speck of white that flowed warmth into the breeze, as it lazily, rapidly, curved through the air like a cart at the top of a rollercoaster, dropping toward its stone pillar target, almost happily, leaving a rush of wind in its wake. It missed the target, but curved, almost impossibly, spinning around the pillar once before it was inexorably drawn down to strike.

It struck.

The stone pillar was a small one. Only five meters tall by two meters wide, and only a football field away. [Force Bolt]s would normally do nothing to anything of that size. [Force Wave] was a lot better at affecting a target of that size, but this spell had erred more to Bolt, than to Wave.

The bolt of white plasma splashed across the surface of the pillar, causing a minor explosion as a half meter section of stone blasted from the whole, sending chunks of rock to the sand below.

A blue box appeared.

True Plasma Bolt, instant, long range, 50 mana + Variable

A bolt of plasma inexorably strikes a target, imparting 2x Variable heat energy.

High Variables may lead to odd effects.

Erick said, “Ah ha! [True Plasma Bolt].” He turned back to Kiri. Her eyes were already wide, as he handed her the blue box, saying, “Inexorably strikes a target. I guess ‘True’ and ‘Inexorably’ are higher key words than ‘Pure’ and ‘Unerringly’?”

Kiri blinked at the box, saying, “That second part is worrying.”

Teressa looked over Kiri’s shoulder, reading along with her. She asked, “How much mana was that?”

Poi, who was wide awake now, rapidly said, “Please step behind the [Prismatic Ward] before you launch a full powered one.”

Erick smiled at the three of them, as he took a step into the dense air, saying, “About a hundred mana. But now that I have the box, Clarity and 10% reduced spell costs comes into effect.” He paused. He hummed, “But not for Ophiel, I guess.” He turned back toward the pillar, and stuck his hand out of the dense air, saying, “I can spend 4000 and achieve the same effect as Ophiel would—”

Poi said, “Use Ophiel! On a pillar a good kilometer away!”

“Oh fine.” Erick lowered his hand. With a thought, all four Ophiel joined him in the dense air, as he summoned a fresh [Familiar]. The newest Ophiel flew out into the sky, gaining distance. With a little control and direction, Erick guided him to find a target—

There! A mimic; tall spiky crystal, sitting on top of a low dune, just past another low dune. He couldn’t see it from his current position, but the monster was far enough away that the spell shouldn’t reach. Erick guessed two kilometers, distant. That was far enough. Erick smiled, as Ophiel cast, with 99 percent of his mana, leaving just enough stability in his form for Erick to watch a half second of the spell’s emergence from the manasphere. The wind and heat of the white dot destroyed Ophiel.

Erick’s vision returned to his body. He watched, transfixed, as the space where the Ophiel had been became a disharmony of burning atmosphere and casual lightning surrounding a sparking white dot; a flashing white spider of power that zoomed to the ground like the world’s most dangerous toddler. It touched down behind the intervening dune before Erick could raise a [Scry] orb to watch.

The explosion was visible enough, anyway.

Fire pulsed into the air. Lightning arced. A shockwave passed through the world, rumbling the ground under Erick’s feet, like someone had dropped a meteor just beyond the horizon. And someone had. Sort of.

“Holy—!” Kiri cut herself off as she summoned a Sunny that instantly blipped away.

Erick did the same with an Ophiel on hand, to see the destruction.

The crater was not that big. Maybe only a meter deep and a few meters wide. Bits of blackened, half-melted sand, littered the area, but there was nothing else. The mimic was gone, completely. Erick searched the surrounding area, trying to find some crystalline spike or some other remnant of the mimic. But there was nothing. He came back to himself.

Kiri was already back to herself. She looked to Erick, and simply said, “You obliterated it.”

Erick thought back to Syllea’s dice, rolling ‘Air’ as much as it did. He said, “I think… I would say I vaporized it.”

Teressa smiled, saying, “And also fried and burned and turned to ash.”

“The lightning and the fire were side effects of both the particle soup nature of the spell, as well as the energy involved.” Erick looked to the spell box for [True Plasma Bolt], saying, “I don’t think I could have gotten a better result if I had gone the Particle Spell creation route. This is a really clean spell.” He turned to Teressa. “I never asked, but can you go through a [Witness] slowly, to see a scene as it played out, exactly?”

“Of course.” Teressa eyed the area where Erick had killed the mimic, saying, “Want a scene of it?”

Erick smiled. “Yes.”

“Kay. One sec.” Teressa blinked, rapidly, as she settled onto her feet, balancing herself, breathing normally, then slowly. Her emerald eyes turned grey, the same color as her [Conjure Armor], as her short blonde hair tousled on a breeze that was not there. For three seconds, she stopped blinking, and stared into infinity. She came back to herself just as fast, blinking again. She sighed. She looked to Erick, saying, “There’s some degradation because of the mana involved, but here you go.”

Teressa formed a telepathic connection between them, showing him what had just happened, but from a much nicer position, and all slow-mo. [True Plasma Bolt] was quite pretty from this angle. If there was degradation somewhere, Erick didn’t see it.

Lightning wreathed the white-dot bolt as it flew into the center mass of the mimic. Parts of the mimic burned well before the bolt struck, either from electrical flickers, or from pure radiant heat. But then the bolt struck. The white dot seemed to soak into the mimic, flickering even more lightning as it sunk into the barely moving beast. Here was where the degradation started. Parts of the image were simply not there, like scattered blind spots. Erick still saw more than enough, though.

White light flashed from the center of the monster all the way to the crystalline white-blue leaves, causing the interior to cloud, then bubble, then burn with bright white fire. White fire turned yellow, then orange, then red, fast, flashing from the inside out. Steam erupted from every structural weak point. Plant matter turned to kindling.

The mimic exploded from every bit of itself, at the same time.

Erick came back to himself

Teressa smiled, saying, “That’s a powerful spell.”

Erick agreed, “It’s a proper Shade killer.”

Kiri said, “I think I need to go back to the chalkboard… and the books. Are you going to make any more spells?”

“… Not right now.” Erick said, “I want to get dinner started.”

- - - -

On the dark steps leading up to the only round roofed building in Candlepoint, an envelope had appeared on the ground, on the top of the top step. The first time someone noticed it was in the evening, when the clouds above turned the afternoon to twilight, but before it got truly dark. Maybe the letter had appeared between shifts, when almost everyone was asleep. Or maybe it had appeared between the blinks of one of the guards on the scene, who had not truly been awake until the full sun had waned to something less.

It was a well made envelope, slightly off white, like bone, perhaps. It was obviously hand crafted to some degree, as the grain of paper fibers was visible in the envelope. It was not unadorned, either. Black triangles, that some might call open fangs, and other, less knowledgeable people might call simple lines of triangles, had been printed around the full edge of the envelope, in black ink. That same dark ink had been used to write the name of the recipient in the center of the letter, in beautiful calligraphy.

The letter now sat in Mephistopheles’ office, surrounded by the powers that had arisen in Candlepoint.

Ava flicked a hand at the letter, saying, “What’s the big deal? It says ‘To Erick’. Burn the damn thing or give it to him.”

Zaraanka said, “It is not a simple letter.” She sighed. “It is a problem.”

“Obviously!” Ava imperiously said, “But this ‘meeting’ is inane. This letter is not our problem.” She added, “Not directly, anyway. But I can put a few clues together. I assume, from your reactions, that this is from a Shade?”

Valok and Slip watched the proceeding, silent.

Zaraanka, her grey eyes wide, said, “Yes.”

Mephistopheles explained, “These letters go out every year, to every Shade, officially requesting their presence at the Spire, for the official celebration of Shadow’s Feast. If an invited Shade does not go, they lose face. To put it simply: Overt predation against them becomes the norm.” He gestured to the letter, saying, “This is addressed to Erick. He is already a target. If we give this to him, he will… I don’t know what he’ll do. If he’s smart, he’ll stay away. He might be smart.” Mephistopheles said, “But if he doesn’t go, and since he is Untouchable, they will come for us. Knives in the shadows, or worse, just to prove how much power they have. So...” He looked to the group. “We need to convince him to accept this invitation.”

Valok spoke up, “No.” He stared at the letter. “Burn that shit.”

Mephistopheles said, “We knew something like this was coming. We all talked about this—”

“I did not,” Ava said.

“You weren’t here yet,” Mephistopheles said.

“That does not matter. I can guess what your ‘talk’ included.” Ava added, “Do not summarily include me in your schemes for self-preservation, Mephistopheles. If we do this against our benefactor— If we capitulate to implied threats, we prove that we cannot be treated as people capable of working against Ar’Kendrithyst—”

Mephistopheles slapped his hand against the table, next to the letter, saying, “There is no ‘working against Ar’Kendrithyst’! You don’t remember a damned thing, do you? How old are you? 200? 300? You forget your time working in the Dead City because it was too much for you to remember. But it happened. OHHHhh! Believe me! It happened. It happened to all of us. I remember.”

“You are both correct.” Zaraanka stared daggers at the envelope. “But we were already doomed when this whole Candlepoint plan came about. We should burn the letter and attempt to distance ourselves from Ar’Kendrithyst as much as we can. Some of us will survive.”

Mephistopheles said, “The Shades won’t even harm him. Physically, anyway. This is their opening move against him.” He looked to Ava, but caught everyone with his words, “We all knew this was coming, even if you weren’t part of the meeting. If you didn’t recognize this possibility, you don’t deserve to be in this room.”

Ava scowled, saying, “My decision is to burn the letter.”

Slip spoke for the first time. “You say that because it’s not your eternal soul on the line, Ava. You’re not a shadeling anymore.” He added, “I don’t think they would overtly harm him, either.”

“You’re wrong.” Zaraanka said, “They will, and no one will see it coming.”

Ava almost spoke.

Mephistopheles cut Ava off, saying, “You’re free to tell him whatever you want to tell him. I’ll just be telling him the full, complete truth of the matter, as I work to get him to accept this invitation.” He added, “Besides! No one has looked inside, yet.” He flipped the letter over, revealing an intact black wax seal, still undulating with securing spells. “The seal is intact. Maybe it’s good news?”

Zaraanka laughed; a dark sound.

Silence descended upon the room.

Valok said, “I think he should go.”

Ava sharply inhaled, turning to the man. “Valok! I thought you were his friend?”

