Ahh, magic was wonderful.

He almost wanted to cast [Tree of Light] upon the spreading underwater greenery, but not every spell was useful in every situation. [Tree of Light] was good for trees. Not so good for underwater grass. He had asked the people at ‘Healer’s Light’, too.

… But they hadn’t said it was a bad idea, either.

Erick cast [Tree of Light] upon the grass.

Three seconds later, Erick canceled the spell. The grass had turned bioluminescent, looking like bright green ribbons floating upward in the water, and that was it. It didn’t expand, it didn’t enlarge. It didn’t [Grow] like it should have grown.

He cast [Grow], and the grasses began to expand, once again, more grasses growing up from the sands below. Ideally, he could [Grow] it for several hours, helping it to expand to a good kilometer. From there, he could come back every day, and continue to [Grow] the magical plant. Eventually, [Grow] would fail to expand the grass’s borders. It would have reached a maximum size of a few dozen square kilometers, and it would then have to seed on its own. More patches of million fish grass would then pop up here and there in the lake, over the course of months, and years, as it took that long for flowering grasses to get lucky, and for one of their seeds to actually take root. According to the size of the lake, the people at ‘Healer’s Light’ had said that he could expect five new patches of million fish grass per year.

But that would all take too long.

With another thought, he had an Ophiel on the surface call the platinum rains. Silver flashed in the night sky, high above the surface of the lake. Soon enough, liquid silver turned that wavy surface into a glowing ink. With [Watershape] guiding the flow and a few Ophiel to help him along, Erick directed that platinum water into the million fish grass. He didn’t have to direct those waters for long.

The grass exploded in growth, tripling in size, gobbling up the rain water, spreading in every direction, practically leaping up from the sands to stretch meters long into the surrounding waters. In half an hour, it had spread across the whole sandbar, and into the deeper parts around that higher land. In two hours, meter-long flowing grasses had covered a dozen square kilometers, stretching from the shallows of the coast of Candlepoint, to racing further northwest. And then it stopped growing. Here and there among the grasses, some strands began to thicken with nodules inside. Those grasses split, releasing seeds that floated away on the waters of the lake.

Erick smiled. He cut the rain. The sky remained cloudy, for [Control Weather] made it so, but the million fish grass eagerly consumed the platinum clouds left in the lake, spilling more seeds into the surrounding waters. Maybe one of them would take root, but probably not, unless it got very lucky, or some skilled, hidden alchemists in Candlepoint decided to help it along.

Erick rejoined Slip, who had watched the whole thing from the shore. He joked, “Don’t you have crimes to stop?”

Slip gave Erick a conspiratorial, good-humored eye, saying, “The secret is to be scary, then you have much less work to do.”

Erick smiled to himself. “How are those books working out for you? I’m only through some of them, myself.”

“Mephistopheles is reading them all. I hear he is in communication with Justine?” Slip waved a dismissive hand, saying, “They are working it out. I am just the muscle.”

“Well, thank you for your service.”

Slip bowed, then rose, saying, “It is I who must thank you. So thank you, Erick. We would all be dead if not for you.”

Erick’s fears reignited. But he had Ophiel nod, professionally, then released his control. That Ophiel blinked all over as he rearranged his eyes and his wings, before soaring upward, back into the sky to keep an eye on Candlepoint, along with all of his other selves.

- - - -

Erick sat up. It was late. He patted his shoulder, and the Ophiel on the nearby perch hopped onto his shoulder, singing a happy song, glad to enjoy the ride.

Jane looked up from ‘Esoteric Elements’. “This is an interesting book.”

“Let me know if you figure out how ‘Shadow’ is supposed to work, or how you get Shadow from Light.” Erick said, “I can make the spells, but I still don’t understand them.” He asked, “Have you tried using your [Lightwalk] to empower your [Shadowalk]? That’s another thing I don’t get.”

Jane smiled, saying, “I’m still working on it. Are you headed to bed?”

“… I probably should. Good night, Jane.”

She stood up and walked to him, giving him a hug. “Good night, dad. I love you.”

Erick hugged his daughter tight, saying, “I love you, too.”
