It was a nothing song, made by Erick and Kiri and Ophiel each contributing to the recording. Erick got the medium sounds, Kiri got the highs, and Ophiel supplied the deep bass. And it all came through.

Kiri said, “I can’t really tell the difference between 38 and 37.”

“I can,” Erick said. “And yet...”

Bah! This wasn’t great. It wasn’t perfect. But he would have to settle for this mechanical sound. This thing was a purely analog machine, though, so this was as good as it was going to get.

Kiri said, “I thought the last three machines each sounded good, too.”

“Yeah…” Erick said, “It’s not going to get better than this. Not with the level of what I know, anyway. I’ll have to experiment with magnets and electricity another day.” He looked out the window. The sun was a few hours till setting. He asked, “What does everyone want for dinner— Oh wait! Teressa? Teressa?”

After a few moments, Teressa poked out of her room. “Dinner?”

“Yes. Your great-aunt’s place. Is it open? Want to go?”

“… Yes.”

She did not sound very sure of herself.

Erick asked, “Is it actually her place?”

“Yes.” Teressa said, “I checked. It also isn’t very popular because… It’s not.” She offered, “How about I just go say ‘hi’, and then we pick somewhere else to actually eat?”

Erick said, “That’s fine, too.”

- - - -

Teressa was right. This place wasn’t very popular at all. The day was practically into the dinner hour, and the diner only had a dozen people, with room for a dozen more. The little restaurant wasn’t in the best location, being on the outskirts of Wyrmrest’s District, so maybe that was the problem? There was certainly more than one item on the menu, but it all seemed to be different types of curry, so at least it wasn’t as bad as Teressa had made it out to be. Sure, the only thing for sale was ‘stew’, but there were a dozen varieties.

The place smelled like curry and fresh bread, and that was fine by Erick. Maybe they would eat here? That would be fine. Jane certainly seemed to perk up as she caught the scent of something incredibly spicy on the air.

But as soon as Teressa stepped inside the place, the idea of having a simple evening fell through.

An elderly orcol woman behind the cash register saw Teressa and her mouth dropped open. She yelled, “TERESSA REDNAIL?!”

The entire restaurant turned to see Teressa.

Teressa, with her green face flushing darker, said, “Hello, Auntie Arathani. Yes. It’s me.”

The woman shot out from behind the counter, shouting, “Oh my dear child!” She ran right at Teressa, her billowing dress, white hair, and body flopping as she ran, arms wide, right at Teressa, crying out, “You’ve finally come back to the Forest!”

Teressa caught her great aunt in a hug, not bothering to correct the woman as they shared a private moment, in a public space. But when Auntie Arathani’s face was buried in Teressa’s chest, Teressa frowned, and Erick saw it was going to be a difficult conversation.

Arathani pulled away, saying, “Let me look at you!” She grabbed at Teressa’s arms, marveling at her muscles, and then at her face, marveling at her eyes, saying, “You’re as big and as strong as I remember!” She finally realized that there were more people than just Teressa, as she boggled down at Erick, Kiri, Poi, and Jane. With a grandmotherly voice, she said, “You all look like you could use some food! Come! Sit!” She grabbed Teressa’s hand, dragging her toward a great big table, saying, “You and your new adventuring group is always going to be welcome here, Teressa, my dear child.” She giggled and laughed, saying, “I’m so glad you’re finally better!”

Teressa’s momentary good cheer evaporated like it had never been. But she put on a strong face and said, “They’re not… I’m not...” She changed her mind about whatever it was she was going to say, and said, “I have good news, Auntie Arathani.” She pulled out the kill notification for Perri, the Witch, and handed it to the older woman.

The old woman blanked as she saw the notification. And then she touched it, like she was touching a tombstone, which, in a way, she was. Her voice became a whisper, “Is this… Is this hers?”

A man came out from the kitchen, looking concerned, asking, “Arathani?”

“Yes; this is that Shade’s Kill Notification.” Teressa said, “I got it from the man who killed her. The Witch is—” Her voice hitched. “The Witch is dead. The bitch who killed our family is gone. There’s not even ashes to piss on.”

Arathani blinked out tears as Teressa spoke. She breathed hard, as the man from the kitchen came over and put his hand on her shoulder. Arathani grabbed his hand with one of hers, while her other gripped the Witch’s notification like it would fly away if she let go.

The man looked to Teressa, asking, “I didn’t believe it, but it’s true? The Shades are really dead?”

The entire restaurant was silent. Some of the people watched Teressa, Arathani, and the man. Most looked away. But as the seconds ticked by, some of them noticed Erick. One of them recognized Erick for who he was.

“They’re mostly dead, Uncle Yogdrick.” Teressa said, “Seven Shades of the city still live, as well as the ones that were outside of Ar’Kendrithyst during Shadow’s Feast. But the Witch is dead, for sure.”

“Yogdrick.” Arathani stood up straight, and turned to the man who was her husband, saying, “Let’s break out the good brandy.” She rounded on Teressa, “You must stay the night— Have you had dinner yet? We have dinner! Eat here. All your friends, too!”

Teressa started, “Uh—”

“We’d love to!” Erick said, wholeheartedly, right as—

Jane said, “We’d love to.”

“Yup,” Kiri said, as Poi added, “Sure.”

“I guess we’re staying for dinner, Auntie,” Teressa said, “But we already have a place to stay.”

“Fine fine. Good.” Arathani wiped a tear from her eye, as she rushed Teressa for another hug. With her head on Teressa’s shoulder, she told Yogdrick, “The brandy, sweetie.”

“Right!” Yogdrick headed back to the kitchen, repeating, “Right.”

Erick sat down to a large, empty table, along with everyone else, except for Arathani and Yogdrick, while Teressa fielded questions from her great aunt like a woman deflecting [Force Bolt]s. ‘How did you get this notification?’ ‘How can you believe it?’ ‘What have you been up to?’ But what finally broke the camel’s back, was an event that took a few minutes to become fully realized. It started with some guards in wooden-looking armor taking position outside of the restaurant's doors, which Arathani did not notice right away, because some people asked for their bill. That forced Arathani to give up her line of questions for Teressa, to give the people their bills and send them on their way.

It was then she noticed the guards. She put her hands on her hips and demanded to no one in particular, “What are those two doing outside my diner? Standing there like that! They better not stop people from coming to my diner!” She almost went to walk out the door, to confront the guards, but—

Another trio of patrons needed their bill. And then all of them did. Arathani was suddenly apologetic to all the people leaving, for some of them hadn’t even finished eating yet. But they all paid their bills as quickly as they could. On their ways out, more than a few people glanced at Erick.

One of them said to Arathani, “Congratulations on your family reunion.”

Arathani said, “You don’t have to leave because of that!”

“It’s for the best,” said the man. He bowed to Erick, saying, “And thank you, sir.” The man rapidly left, following the rest of his small group.

Arathani turned to Erick. “What was that about? Do you know Rupar?”

“Never met the guy,” Erick said.

“Then why—”

Teressa sighed, almost too quiet to hear, then said, “Auntie. I haven’t actually introduced my friends yet.”

“Oh! Where are my manners! This Triumph of Light has me all aflutter with that news from Spur and now you’re showing up at my door! It’s been a strange week so far.” Arathani stood straighter, then glanced around, saying, “And where is that husband of mine with the brandy! Whatever.” She came back to the table, saying, “It is such a pleasure to meet you all. Are you all part of Teressa’s new adventuring group? Would you like something to drink before we break out the brandy? Tea? Or water? Beer?” She gestured at the suddenly empty restaurant, saying, “Looks like we have some room for a proper reunion. And you can tell me what you’re going to do with your life, now that your vendetta is done!”

Teressa winced, then said, “Auntie Arathani Wyrmrest, I’d like you to meet a few people.” She gestured around the table, saying, “Poi Fulisade, my Squad Leader.”

Arathani paused, narrowed her eyes a little, and said, “Uh. Squad Leader? Hello, mister Fulisade.”

Poi nodded. “Ma’am.”

Teressa continued, “Kiri Flamecrash, a private in Spur’s Army.”

Kiri nodded. “Hello.”

Teressa rapidly said, “And Jane Flatt, also a private in the Army, and Erick Flatt, my assignment and boss and friend and the person who gave me the Witch’s Kill Notification.”

Jane calmly smiled, saying nothing, as Arathani’s eyes bugged out and she temporarily stopped breathing.

Erick said, “Hello, Teressa’s great-aunt. I must say that the smells in here are quite nice.”

And then Arathani narrowed her eyes again, and almost spat at Teressa, “That’s not a nice trick to play on an old woman, Teressa! If you were twenty years younger I’d tan your hide—”

Erick spoke, drawing Arathani’s ire, saying, “It’s true, ma’am. The Witch is very much dead, and unless she has a back-up body and soul somewhere —which I wouldn’t put past someone like that— she’s gone. Even if she did come back, she wouldn’t be a Shade anymore, which means she’d be a normal criminal, with much less power.”

“… Oh.” Arathani said, “And here I thought your eyes were just…” Her voice trailed off.

Yogdrick had paused just as he came out of the kitchen doors, holding what was likely a large bottle of liquor. When Erick finished, Arathani breathed a bit, then she walked over to grab the bottle from her husband.

She started pouring glasses, not looking at Erick, as she said, “That is quite a tale.” She quickly finished pouring seven shots, drank one of them right quick, and brought the bottle and the glasses to the table, adding, “I’m not partial to believing fantastical things, like all the Shades are dead, but I can certainly believe that the Witch had a back-up body like in those stories about necromancers and shit.” She set the glasses on the table, and took one for herself. “So what do you all want for dinner? On the house, for sure.”

Teressa relaxed, then managed to get out, “Whatever’s good, Aun—”

But the front door opened, ringing a bell above the entrance as it moved. An elderly man with slicked-back white hair walked in, dressed in a green robe with white gems studded on the fabric. This was why the guards were outside the door. Erick was wondering if that small action was a friendly hand from Wyrmrest to prevent another incident like what happened at Boxed Light, but those guards were actually clearing the way for an important person. That was Erick’s second guess at why the guards were there.

Arathani saw the man, and her lips turned into a hard line. She bowed, right as Yogdrick also bowed.

Yogdrick said, “Welcome to our restaurant, Chieftain Wyrmrest.”

The Chieftain spoke, “Thank you for welcoming me into your place of business. Now, if you don’t mind, I would perchance speak with one of your guests.” He looked to Erick, asking, “Sir Archmage Flatt. Would you mind speaking with me for a short while—” He gestured to the side of the room, toward an empty table, saying, “Over there is fine with me, if it is acceptable to you.”

“… Certainly.”

- - - -

Erick sat at a table across from a man he had never met before, but who was apparently a big-wig around here. He’d have to be, with a title like ‘Chieftain Wyrmrest’.

Erick began with, “So what’s your actual name? You can call me Erick, by the way.”

The man put on an easy smile, and said, “Peron. Thanks for taking the time to meet, Erick. I apologize for interrupting a family moment, but it is my hope that this should only take a few minutes. It is regarding the plan for the annihilation of the Moon Reachers and a few other monsters out in the Forest.”

Everyone at Teressa’s table went silent. They were already whispering to each other, with most of that whispering being between Arathani and Teressa, but now there were no sounds at all, except for Jane shooting back a shot of Arathani’s brandy.

Jane went, “Woo! That’s strong!” And then she tried to restart their own conversations.

Erick was thankful for that. He focused on his own conversation, which suddenly seemed like either a suddenly appearing [Force Trap], or a bridge to a better future. He asked, “Is there some part of this plan that needs amending? Or something? I already said I wouldn’t do it without everyone’s agreement and assistance, but I hope that everyone chooses correctly. Now that the monster-makers and the Shades are mostly taken care of, a targeted extinction of certain monsters might actually work.”

