Peron said, “Theoretically, I and many of my compatriot Chieftains approve of this targeted extinction event. Theoretically. But it has come upon us too fast, and we really would like to be more cautious about this sort of thing. None of us want to be responsible for clearing out a predator from the Forest, only to have worse things take over, and for the best solution to those new problems to be to reintroduce Moon Reachers from another continent.” He added, “Those creatures really are some of the world’s best predators. But. Barring all of that… Is this something you could actually do?” He rapidly added, “Not to disparage my own intelligence network, but hearing is different than seeing.”

Erick saw where this was going. He asked, “Do you have some smaller targets that you wish gone, first?”

Peron’s smile was purely political, as he said, “We do have some smaller targets. The Cult of Melemizargo. You’re just as capable at finding people as you are at finding monsters, unless I am mistaken.”

Erick suddenly said, “No. Nev— Wait.” Erick stopped talking, and winced. “Sorry.” Erick said, “That was a reaction. Not my answer.”

Peron slowly nodded, once. He waited for more. His politician face never shifted from anything other than calm listening.

Erick said, “I don’t want to hunt people. But I will hunt for them and allow your people to take care of them, if, and only if, you can prove their murderous intentions, or a history of such. I will help you to hunt down the worst offenders; Hunters, murderers, terrorists. Those sorts of people. I will not help you to kill simple cultists. And yes! Before you say anything else, there are simple cultists. Some of my people in Candlepoint are simple cultists, because Melemizargo was there for them, when no other gods were. And yes, I fully understand that it was Melemizargo who did what he did to the people of Candlepoint, but some of the people of Candlepoint still revere him, and all they usually do is leave out pastries on darkened shelves, or light tiny candles inside dark rooms. That is the full extent of their cult activities and I have no doubt that this is the full extent of the cult activities of many of the people of this city and land. A lot of cultists get into that worship just to ask for a way forward in the night that doesn’t end with their death, or for trials to grow stronger. Not all of them make monsters or war or horror.” He thought for a second, then added, “That’s my answer. It’s probably not my full answer, but that’s my answer for now.”

Peron had listened, his face betraying almost nothing. Erick could tell that he didn’t like his answer, though. There were some deeper, more hateful emotions buried under that professional facade, and they were buried deep.

Peron said, “I was not aware that you were a cultist yourself.”

Those were fighting words, but Erick would not rise to them.

“If you see every peace-loving person as an enemy, then we are going to have a rough time.”

“I want you to kill Treant, too.” Peron said, “He’s to the north east, right now, on the edge of Steel-Branch’s territory.”

“… Oh?” Erick had an Ophiel rapidly lightstep in that direction, as he said, “One second.”

In a matter of moments, Erick found Treant.

It was hard not to. The man was surrounded by bloody, 300 meter long wyrm corpses, gathered in a massive pile with tails and heads and flayed spines twisted and splayed out all across each other, in the center of a large clearing within sight of Steel-Branch’s steel-and-cloud canopy. For some strange reason, the entire arrangement reminded Erick of a plate of multigrain spaghetti. The blood and gore even looked like a meat sauce, if one were to look at it all from very far away. It was surreal, actually.

...Or maybe Erick’s stomach rumbled at all the good scents currently around him, and his mind went somewhere weird. The scents around Ophiel were certainly not good at all. Erick remembered that smell from when he hunted wyrms with Teressa, Poi, Kiri, Jane, and Rats. It smelled like a sweetened movie-theater dumpster.

And yet, there Treant stood, right on top of it all, calling out toward Treehome, repeating the same phrases over and over again, “… me, Treehome! I ask for forgiveness! I ask for a task to earn that forgiveness! Hear me, Treehome! I ask for forgiveness! I ask for a task to earn that forgiveness! Hear me, Treehome!…”

His voice was full of hurt. Glowing white tears streamed down his face, turning pink as they mixed with blood. He had lost his bark-like skin somewhere between the last time Erick had seen him, and this time, but the rest of him looked the same. Black hair. Short kilt. Brown skin.

And then he spotted Ophiel, for Erick made no attempt to hide him.

Treant’s raw voice turned toward Ophiel. “Erick! What can I do to make amends?” He instantly added, “You owe me! You did this to me! And I gave you those Stat fruits! Help me!”

Erick spoke through Ophiel, rapidly saying, “I don’t have time for a therapy session with you right now, and I will not speak on your behalf. Not yet. And besides! I have no experience with helping people find forgiveness after they’ve murdered hundreds of thousands of people. There’s just no coming back from what you did right now. So why don’t you just keep doing good in the shadows, and maybe that will eventually outweigh the bad. In like, a hundred years. I don’t know. I’m not the one that you wronged. Not really. You got a Divine Quest, right? Just do that.”

Treant listened, and then he collapsed to his knees. He cried, silently, his shoulders shaking.

Erick recalled that Ophiel, and returned to his own senses. He looked to Peron, and said, “Good luck with that guy. If he becomes an actual problem, then… We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it. I think he’ll just murder more monsters, though, and that’s a win for you guys.”

Peron silently regarded Erick.

Erick waited.

Peron said, “Every single person he harms is on your head.”

“Then every single person he saves is my joy, too.” Erick said, “I knew what I was getting into when I Blessed them into Empathy. You’re merely reaping the main benefits. So unless this posturing is for someone else’s benefit, then I would appreciate a bit more honesty and forthrightness. Is ‘chieftain’ a political appointment, or a familial thing?”

Peron’s mask did not slip. Had Erick hit the right mark? This guy was good at keeping a straight face.

Erick called over to the other table, asking, “Is Chieftain a political appointment?”

While everyone else’s mouths suddenly shut, Poi called back, “The designation of ‘Chieftain’ is indeed a political appointment. Peron won seven years ago, and is up for reelection this year. He has won the last three times in a row, but it’s been close each time.”

Peron sighed, almost too quiet to hear, or see.

“Thank you.” He turned back to Peron, saying, “You wish for a win? Then how about you help me take care of the terrorists, Hunters, and murderers in your town, instead of trying to tackle the Shade in the area who is rather misguided in his helping, but he’s still helping.” He added, “I’ll have to see the files myself, as well as talk to your Guardmaster, while using a truthstone. If that’s okay with you?”

Peron said, “I need Treant dead, Erick. You just aren’t understanding. But that is okay. For now.” He stood up, and Erick stood up with him. Peron said, “You’ll have your lists, and your interviews with Guardmasters. Truthstones are acceptable. I’ll even command my people to open themselves up to whatever Mind Mage probes you demand, so that you understand that we are not lying, or demanding something unreasonable when we ask for the eradication of the Cult.” With hard eyes, Peron said, “I wouldn’t send an archmage against unnecessary targets, Erick. I hope you can understand that I only have the best interests of my people in my heart by the time the long-term prognosticators come back with the long-term monster eradication plans.” He put a hand on his chest, and bowed ever so slightly, saying, “Thank you for meeting me on such unexpected notice, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick copied the man’s gesture, and said, “Thanks for coming to talk to me, Chieftain Wyrmrest.”

The Chieftain left the diner. His guards outside followed him. The trio of them stepped down the street three steps before they all vanished in a star-filled blip.

Arathani rushed the restaurant door. With a turn and a click, she locked the entrance, saying, “Holy gods! So many important people today! I’m all frazzled.” She turned to Erick, asking, “You okay? What am I saying! Yes, you’re okay. Sorry about that—” She fell into what was obviously an old standby mode, asking, “What can I get you to drink?”

Erick smirked, saying, “A beer.”

“A beer for the archmage!” She rushed toward the kegs on the side of the room, where she started filling a drink, and mumbled, “A beer for the archmage. Never thought I’d say that.”
