If looks could kill, I'd be dead right now. Reel increases his speed and vaults over the fallen tree blocking the path, leaving me behind. “Hey! I can’t move that well right now!” I shout over the tree.

In a flash, Reel is back on top of the tree trunk, offering me a hand up. I take his hand and jump. Between my leg strength and Reel's Strength stat, I quickly make it on top of the tree and over to the other side. I give Reel a big, goofy smile.

“What?” He challenges.

“I could’ve walked around, but thanks for helping me anyways.”

Reel’s face muscles slack into a disbelieving grimace before he charges off in a huff.

Oh, this is too good!

“Can’t you move any faster?” Reel exclaims from a little ways in front of me.

"No, but thank you for matching my speed," I respond, trying really hard not to laugh.

“AAAAAHHHHH!” Reel howls like an enraged animal.

Ever since we left the clearing this morning, every jab, joke, or insensitive statement Reel's thrown at me, I've somehow turned it around into a compliment towards him.

And he hates it!

“You howl so beautifully; you know that?” I say in a singsong voice before bursting into hysterical laughter.

Reel skids to a stop and turns to me, brandishing one of his enchanted daggers. "One more word, and I'll cut your tongue out!"

I just jog past him, continuing to laugh.

The two of us run a little longer before the sun starts to vanish behind the trees, and we decide to make camp for the night.

Reel takes the first chance he can get to leave and gather firewood. I use my hands to dig out a fire pit in the snow. Using the rocks nearby, I make a platform for the firewood; that way, the water won't touch the burning timbers if the snow melts.

Reel makes it back with an armful of wood. I sort out which timber pieces are best for starting the fire and which will burn through the night.

Turns out lighting a fire without magic is more challenging than I remember but having superhuman strength more than makes up for the loss. You can twist a stick pretty fast when you have over 100 in your Strength and Dexterity stats.

Now we just need something to talk about over the fire. I know, "Hey, Reel. You were amazing today, how do you…"

Before I can continue, Reel flicks his wrist, and one of his daggers is embedded an inch from my leg. "I liked you better before you blew yourself up.”

"You know I'm just messing with you. Can't you take a joke?" I admonish him. Leaning to my side, I easily pull his dagger out of the ground. His blade has a mana gem in it, meaning as long as it's charged, the enchantment is active, so I can see its runic structure without using up any of my mana.

Just like my mana obscuring necklace, the runes inside Reel's dagger are beautifully intricate, so much so I’m sure the runes are top tier 3 or maybe even tier 4.

“Stop analyzing my dagger and hand it back.” Reel complains.

"If you like it so much, you shouldn't throw it away, finder’s keepers, loser’s weepers.”

"What?" Reel looks at me, confused.

"It means I'm missing a dagger, and this one happened to fall into my lap, or next to it technically." I playfully stick out my tongue.

“Funny, at least you aren’t complimenting me with every word.” He holds out his hand.

I carefully hand him back the dagger, unsure what it’s enchanted with. “Sorry for messing with you all day. After dealing with you on the way to Drey, I was happy to learn your weakness finally." I poke fun at him. "But seriously, what's your deal? It was mostly a bunch of small compliments; why would that make you uncomfortable?"

"People don't usually compliment me when I'm working unless I make it quick." Reel flashes me a smile while showily flipping his dagger around.

“Does that mean people are just jobs to you?” I ask.

Reel flips his dagger through the air, catching it before he shrugs at me. "Don't take it personally; I'm the same with Kervin and his lot. I need to be able to follow any orders the boss gives me, and I can't let friendships get in the way of that."

"Like what Mr. Grey said about silencing Kervin?" Reel chooses not to answer my question, so I ask another. "Is that why you can’t even have a friendly conversation with me, for the same reason?”

“It’s unlikely we’ll ever be in that kind of situation.” Reel gracefully sheaths his dagger.

“Are you saying that because I’m valuable, or because soon I’ll be stronger than you?” I tease.

Reel gives me a confident smirk. “A bit of advice, don’t underestimate people like me. Levels don’t help when your opponent doesn’t play fair.”

“I’ll keep that in mind,” I tell him.

An awkward silence falls on us, and we pass the time staring at the fire.

“Hey, Reel?”

“Yeah?”

“You report everything to your boss, right?” I question.

“The important things, yes. Certain things he doesn’t need to know.” Reel truthfully answers, not that it’s much of a secret anymore.

"Then, that means you're going to tell him about yesterday?" I hesitantly ask.

“Yes,” he immediately responds.

“Even the part about how you weren’t there?” This time he doesn’t answer. His hesitation is the opening I need, “I have a proposition for you.” I offer.

Reel looks at me critically. “Nothing bad,” I try to decrease his skepticism.

“And what is it you’re suggesting?” Reel questions me.

“I want you to downplay the danger I was in.”

Reel seems unsure of my request. “Why would you want that, and what’s in it for me?”

"There are two reasons why I don't want your boss to know how close I was to meeting the goddess of death. The first is my image." Reel raises an eyebrow at me. "I'm sure you've mentioned to your boss my level and some of my skills. Having him think I'm stronger than I am will keep him off of my back."

“And the second reason?” Reel folds his arms.

"I don't want him to worry." Reel's eyes widen when he realizes what I mean. "If word gets out that I almost died going back to my village from the closest city, I’m sure he’ll assign more people to shadow me. And gods help me if my mother hears about it, she’ll never let me leave the village again.”

"All of those reasons sound great for Silver Herd. We can better watch you, and you'll be confined to the village, and it won't be by our hand.” Reel chuckles at my problems.

"Good for Silver Herd, not you," my response stops him from laughing. “How much trouble will you be in when your boss finds out you almost let me die?” Reel's eyes widen slightly; now, he's properly listening to me. "You underplay what happened to me, and I'll keep it a secret you almost let me die. That way, neither of us get in trouble."

Reel turns his head away from me, so I can't see his expression. “I’ll think about it,” his voice cuts through the silent air.

I pick up a stick and poke at the fire. Sending a quick glance up, I notice Reel still hasn't turned back to face me. "Hey, Reel," I try to get his attention, but he doesn't look at me. "I have something to ask about you saving me yesterday.”

"For the last time, I don't need your thanks,” He snaps at me, finally turning his head in my direction.

“I wasn’t going to thank you again,” I flatly tell him. “I was wondering how much of my fight did you see?”

Reel’s expression doesn’t give anything away. “I told you. I arrived after the explosion and pulled you out of the crater.”

“Then why haven’t you asked me any questions?”

“Because I know you wouldn’t tell me anything.” Reel candidly answers my question.

He looks sincere, but I know Reel better than that. "That wouldn't stop you from trying. You wouldn't leave me alone the entire trip to Drey, even though I ignored almost every one of your questions. The only thing I can think of is that you arrived earlier than you said. I'm curious, was I conscious when you pulled me out of the crater?"

“Would knowing change anything?” Reel asks me.

“I guess it wouldn’t,” I lower my head, casting my gaze back into the fire.

“Does that mean you won’t ask me?”

"I won't because I know you wouldn’t tell me anything.” Answering the same way he did, I look up and give Reel a smirk.

Reel's lips curl up into a light smile. We both share a quick laugh about our situation. Both of us are trying to get information out of the other. Both of us are trying to survive in a game played by bigger people.

Reel stops laughing first. “You want the first or second watch?”

“I’ll take the first. I think I might have slept a little too much last night.”

"Alright," Reel nods his head in understanding before tightly wrapping his blanket around his body. As soon as he lays on the ground, his eyes close, and his breathing evens out.

He fell asleep fast; I wonder how long he’s been up for? I’m sure he stayed up all night to watch over me, meaning it’s been at least two days since he last slept. I wonder if he’s still paying attention to his surroundings; if I reached for his enchanted dagger, would he wake up?

I set aside the idea of robbing the sleeping assassin for later and try to make myself comfortable.

I'm surprised how much my opinion of Reel has changed today. Despite me bugging him throughout the day, he never retaliated. Sure, Reel threatened me multiple times, but that was just for show. If he wanted me to leave him alone, he would've brought up the men I killed.

I can't say we are friends now, but I think there is a new sense of respect between the two of us.

It sucks now I know he isn’t all that bad of a guy.

I used to hate him on principle, which made avoiding his questions easier.

I need to be careful; no matter how my opinion of Reel changes, I need to remember, it's his job to gather information about me and report it to his boss. I send a sidelong glance at Reel’s prone form. I don't know what Reel learned about me, but I hope to use the information he gathered to mislead his boss rather than report my fight's grim details.

Reel wouldn’t be able to escape punishment if he reports the situation exactly as it happened. No matter how annoying Reel can be, I’d prefer the devil in front of me to the one hidden in the shadows.

I finally manage to get into a good position and enter a meditative state. While absorbing small amounts of mana, I keep a close eye on the woods around us. I'll make sure nothing bothers Reel while he's asleep just like he did for me.

General Emily Pitz Point of View:

"The daily report, Cristopher," I ask my steward while staring out the keep's window. In the distance, I see Scholl's campfires flickering into existence as the sun gives way to the night.

“I’m sad to report more conflicting reports, general.”

“How so?” I question him.

“Scholl’s forces have pulled back their forward line, yet they continue to launch siege spells even though they can’t reach our walls. They send raiding parties when our supplies arrive but retreat before any real damage is done. Scholl isn’t known for long engagements, and yet they’re digging themselves in and building fortifications along their ranks. It’s almost like they’ve given up and are only putting up token appearances.” Cristopher reports the troubling news.

“Have they received any reinforcements?” I ask.

“Our scouting teams report regular supply trains arriving at their camp but no new soldiers.”

“No one wearing a feathered hat?”

Cristopher shivers, “Thankfully not. The commander who took over Scholl’s forces after you slew his predecessor has been seen directing troops and appears to still be in charge despite losing most of his forces to your last skill.”

“Any word on our reinforcements?”

“We received word from the capital that multiple forces are being sent to reinforce us. The closest will be here in three weeks.” Cristopher happily reports.

“And my specialty arrows?” I ask.

"Your order was sent to the Stone-Kin, and we received word that it was accepted, but we haven't received a reply when they might be finished." Damn, that's terrible news. I don't let Cristopher see my agitated face. It doesn't mean anything if the order is accepted; if they didn't quote us a delivery date, it means they haven't started, or they're having trouble with the materials.

“Regarding your other order, we received a letter from the owner of Silver Herd, Giovanni Turrini, that it should be here in under two weeks.” Cristopher’s news brings a slight smile back to my face. “Furthermore, the items we purchased from the merchant Kervin, deemed good enough to enchant, are nearing completion. Squad leaders have been notified to report anyone they think competent enough to wield an enchanted weapon.”

“Good,” I respond. “And the special arrows we received?”

“Divided amongst our best archers,” Cristopher reassures me.

“They know not to use them, correct?” I send a stern look at Cristopher.

"Yes, general," Cristopher nods in reassurance. "They're aware of your orders to save them for the next big battle. Everything is moving smoothly, general.”

“And that’s the problem,” Cristopher understands what I mean. Everything has been going too efficiently as of late. We've repelled every one of Scholl's offenses and have decimated their numbers, and yet they haven't retreated. They even started using tactics they aren’t known for.

Scholl's forces are meant to move as one, being spearheaded by high-leveled army members. Even after I killed most of their high leveled warriors and commanders, they still tried to take the fort using the same formation.

Scholl should’ve retreated through the canyon the day after I slaughtered so many of their forces. The only reason they would have stayed is if they came up with another plan, one that we haven’t seen before.

Three weeks, I tell myself.

