Gods, my head hurts!

I roll onto my side, only to roll back again when my body tells me that it didn't help. Turning once more, I cringe when the skin of my arm touches something freezing. The sudden cold sends a biting sensation through my muscles, breaking my mind out of its haze. With my head clear, images of me raising my hands to activate my spell run through my mind.

The blanket wrapped around part of my body suddenly becomes more confining than comforting when I remember what the bandits said they would do to me. I go to activate Mana Skin for protection but stop when I feel my mana pool relatively empty.

With Mana Skin out of commission, I switch to Sense Mana and scan my surroundings for any bandit survivors.

I’m still in the clearing the bandits attacked me in. The blanket I was resting on is next to a small fire, and my pack is nearby with my sword resting up against it. With no bandits within sight and Sense Mana telling me no one is hiding nearby, I start to calm down again.

Did I set up camp before I passed out? The last thing I remember is feeling the shockwave tearing through my first layer of Mana Skin and the blanket of fire that enveloped my remaining shield afterwards.

Reliving the moment in my head, I’m surprised my plan worked. I reinforced Mana Skin until its mana expenditure would be higher than it was worth. Then I used almost every remaining bit of my mana to overcharge my flame spell. The plan was to reabsorb mana from Mana Skin slowly so that I wouldn't pass out from mana exhaustion, but with my fuzzy memory, I don't think it worked as I wanted it to.

I glance around the camp one more time. Even if I managed to stay awake, it should've been impossible for me to set up a campsite afterwards.

I don't have time to ponder further what happened because someone just entered my mana sense range. Fumbling over my exhausted limbs, I reach for my sword. I draw my blade in time to hear a familiar voice coming from the tree line, “Finally awake, huh.”

“What the hell are you doing here?!” I exclaim. I slowly re-sheath my sword and place it back up against my pack.

Reel’s eyes widen in confusion for a moment before his face returns to his usual casual expression. “I was sent to watch over you on your way home. I found you in that crater over there.” He points to the spot I activated my spell. The area around the crater is a muddy mess devoid of any snow.

“You were tailing me? Then where were you when I was surrounded by those…!?” I remember the bandit leader’s sickening grin and how I killed all of them. I wrap my arms around my body and dry-heave. I can’t be sick to my stomach because I haven’t eaten anything in over a day and a half.

Reel's shoes make crunching noises in the snow as he approaches me, but I stay doubled over remembering how I cut a man's head off. "Water?" I look up to see Reel offering me a waterskin. I take the offered waterskin and start chugging its contents, missing Reel mumbling something about explaining again off to my side.

After I drink every drop of water, I hand the empty waterskin back to Reel, who explains why he wasn’t there to help me. “After you left the city, you ran too fast for me to catch up to you. Hearing the loud noise, I burned through my Stamina pool and arrived soon after the explosion. I fished you out of the crater after I realized you somehow survived.”

“You set up the campsite?" I don't know why I asked such a stupid question, but I don't want our conversation to stop for some reason. The second blanket wrapped around me makes sense now; Reel must have given me his.

Unlike the usual snarky Reel, he doesn’t comment on my superfluous question; instead, he motions to the crater. “I just finished cleaning up your handiwork. Everything was a mess after your spell, but I have all the remains buried in the woods.” It didn’t even occur to me that there should be remains scattered across the clearing.

I feel the need to thank Reel but being reminded of what I did has me hang my head again.

“Don’t tell me you feel bad for those pieces of shit.” Reel’s statement makes me look up at him. “You know what they were going to do to you, right? They would have killed you after each of them had their way with you, the same thing they’ve done to no doubt countless others. Do you honestly believe any of them deserve your guilt?" Reels powerful eyes bore into mine, demanding an answer.

“I don’t feel bad,” I stammer out. “That’s the problem. I should feel some guilt after killing eleven people, but I don’t.” I glance down at my hands. “What does that say about me? After I told Mr. Grey everything I did, it only took me a minute to decide to kill them all.”

"So, you feel bad about killing, not who you killed?" Reel questions me from above.

I nod my head.

"That's fine," Reel explains with a straight tone. I look back up at him. "Every warrior justifies killing in their own way. Taking a life is a fact many in our world have to face. It’s the excuses we give ourselves that decide if we’re heroes or monsters. If you don’t feel bad about the men you killed, you honestly believed they deserved to die.”

“What gives me the right to choose?” I solemnly question Reel.

“Who better to choose?” Reel grins at me. “They wanted your life. They chose to attack, to take the most precious thing you own. You had all the right in the world to judge them, to defend yourself. You don't want to kill, that's a noble stance, and you have the right to follow it. But chances are you’ll have to kill other people in the future, and you can only hope your conscience is as clear as it is now. Always remember to do what you feel is right.”

I’m astounded by Reel’s speech.

“Also,” Reel continues. “As long as you feel bad after killing a person, you’ll know you aren’t truly a monster.” He reassures me.

“What’s your reason for killing?” I can’t help but ask Reel.

His passive face warps into the same look he had after I used Sense Soul on him when we first met. “I don’t need a reason; I am a monster.”

My instincts tell me to run, but I hold his monstrous gaze until his passive expression returns. He looks slightly disappointed by my lack of a reaction.

Reel turns on his feet and starts walking back to the tree line. "I'm checking the perimeter one more time. Eat something, and we'll pack up and go when I return." He says without looking back at me.

“Thank you,” I call out before he enters the trees.

Reel stops walking for a moment. "I don't need your thanks," he responds before stepping into the forest. The wind blows from his direction, bringing Reel's faint voice, “You don’t need to thank me twice.”

When did I ever thank Reel? Was I really passed out when he found me? I don’t think he would tell me after he just tried to push me away.

Reel called himself a monster, but I don't think Silver Herd would tolerate a wild beast amongst their ranks. Whatever his reason for killing is, it's his decision, just like I decided to kill rather than roll over and die. I'll mourn the act of killing, but I refuse to lose sleep over the bandits who tried to rape and murder me.

I slowly stand up, pulling Reel’s blanket closer around me. I'm wearing a jacket, but I'm used to having Mana Skin regulate the temperature around me. Grabbing my dried rations from my bag, I huddle closer to the small fire.

My entire body feels sore and stiff, refusing to move correctly. I guess that's what happens when you survive an explosion at point-blank range.

While nibbling on some jerky, I look up at the sky. The sun looks like it moved back across the sky, meaning it has been at least a day since I fought the bandits. Reel said he just finished cleaning up, so I guess I was out for 16 hours or so.

Reel said he’d be back soon, and there's one more important thing I need to check before he returns. I pull up my status page.

LV: 64 Experience: 85,416/ 550,734

Health: 2,049.33/2,090

Stamina: 611.82/1,403

Mana: 271.08/1,010

Vitality: 209.00

Endurance: 80.17

Strength: 132.00

Dexterity: 125.00

Senses: 60.64

Mind: 62.83

Magic: 101.07

Clarity: 75.79

Status Points: 10

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV74), Blacksmithing (LV67), Axe Skills (LV55), Hammer Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV51), Mining (LV48), Chanting (LV48), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV41), Cooking (LV38), Dagger Skills (LV31), Wood Carving (LV31), Acting (LV31), Sword Skills (LV28), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV61), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV46), Hammer Arts (LV40), Axe Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Lower Price (LV20), Increase Price (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV11), Steady Hands (LV10), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV1),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV60), Mana Manipulation (LV55), Precise Strike (LV37), Double Strike (LV35), Weighted Strike (LV27), Flash Step (LV19), Contract (LV5)

Tier 4:

Mana Skin (LV51), Inject Mana (LV50), Mental Resistance (LV48), Extract Mana (LV28), Magic Blacksmithing (LV20), Empowered Spell (LV7)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV33)

Increased Skill Levels

Running (LV74) 3,700exp

Chanting (LV48) 2,400exp

Trading (LV40-41) 4,050exp

Acting (LV31) 1,550exp

Sword Skills (LV27-28) 2,750exp

Double Step (LV61) 6,100exp

Lower Price (LV18-20) 5,700exp

Sword Arts (LV11) 1,100exp

Mana Manipulation (LV55) 8,250exp

Weighted Strike (LV27) 4,050exp

Flash Step (LV19) 2,850exp

Contract (LV3-5) 1,800exp

Inject Mana (LV50) 12,500exp

Mana Skin (LV50-51) 25,250exp

Mental Resistance (LV48) 12,000exp

Empowered Spell (LV3-7) 6,250exp

Skill Experience: 100,300exp

Crafting Experience: 743exp

Fighting Experience: 68,891exp

Total experience Gained: 169,934exp

I ignore the fact I leveled up and focus on my fighting experience. Killing eleven men, and almost dying in the process, only gave me 68,891 experience. Is that how cheap life is in this world?

Breathing out a sad sigh, I distribute my status points to help with my recovery. I put three points into Vitality, three points into Strength, three points into Dexterity, and one point into Magic. The vibrant wisps of energy explode from my soul and nourish my tired body.

Even if I only put a single point into Magic, it's enough to mend a significant amount of damage to my mana network. If I use short bursts of Extract Mana to pull in ambient mana, I can further increase my mana recovery time. Hopefully, by the time I make it back to the village, my mana pool will be almost full, and the damage from the mana exhaustion will be almost fully healed. But until then, I shouldn’t use any of my spells or Mana Skin.

Feeling my body and mana network recovering faster, I can better look at my skills that leveled yesterday without worrying about the rest of the trip home.

Trading, Lower Price, and Contract all gained multiple levels after I made a deal with Mr. Grey. Running and Double Step leveled up after my running for hours on end yesterday. The rest of my skills leveled after the fight.

“Did you level?” I hear from across the clearing. Looking over, I watch Reel walk towards me.

Usually, his question would earn him a sarcastic comment, but I feel generous towards the man after pulling me out of the flaming crater. “I made it to level 64.”

Reel looks surprised I answered him and probably even more so that I gave him an exact number. He rubs the back of his head, “I wasn’t expecting you to answer, did the explosion scramble your brain?” He teases.

“Maybe?” I smile at him, making him more uncomfortable. “Thanks again for rescuing me.”

Reel pauses mid-step and narrows his eyes at me. "Stop thanking me already; I was too late to help anyways. Are you ready to go?" He tries to change the subject.

“Give me a minute,” I ask.

My pack is still roughly in one piece, but I need to retie the straps I cut. I pick up my blanket from the ground and shake it out before stashing it away.

Reel takes off a small pack and stretches out his hand towards me. Unwrapping myself, I fold his blanket and give it back to him. “Thanks for letting me use it,” I tell him.

Reel growls in annoyance, snaps the blanket out of my hand, and then proceeds to stuff it into his pack. It's surprising how light he can travel; besides the gear, he's wearing, he only has the blanket and a single waterskin tied to his pack.

Next, I pick up my sword and examine it. My sword was caught up in the blast, but thanks to its mana nature and the scabbard being made out of fire-resistant materials, they both only have a few nicks. Reattaching my sword to my hip only takes a second, but I can't find my dagger anywhere. “Hey, Reel. Do you know where my dagger is?”

Reel shakes his head, no. "It's in a scrap pile hidden in the woods. It was too mangled after the explosion to be salvaged." Damn, that sucks. Reel notices my disappointed look, "Something special about it?"

“It was the first thing master made for me. The knife has been with me for years now.” I sigh with disappointment.

“I’ll have Kervin pick up the scrap pile when he heads this way again and bring it to you,” Reel offers.

“Thanks,” I tell him as I swing the heavy straps to my pack over my shoulders.

“Whatever,” Reel whines again. I’m starting to notice Reel can’t take a compliment; he’s either been pissing everybody off or staying silent so much that I didn’t notice it before. I don’t think anyone has had a single conversation with the man that wasn’t an argument during our entire trip to Drey.

We start walking across the clearing towards my village, and I decide to test my theory. "I never realized what a helpful person you are," I say, walking next to him.

