In three weeks, reinforcements will arrive, and Scholl will have no choice but to retreat; we just need to hang on until then.

????? Point of View:

Gods, I love the smell of the battlefield!

The charged atmosphere is positively pulsing with waves of mana!

It makes me want to charge the fort right now!

It takes everything I have to restrain myself; I can’t have my existence here being revealed yet. That surprise will come later.

I stroke my grey beard, careful of the feathers I have adorning my facial hair. I had to take them out while traveling with the supplies, but I can proudly display them in my tent.

I hear the tent flap open and get a fresh whiff of the battlefield. "How are the plans proceeding, Tellis?" I don't bother looking at the intruder; only one person is allowed inside my tent. And I want to meet the assassin who can kill me.

“Everything is proceeding as instructed, Master Pacore. When reinforcements arrive, we’ll be ready to take the fort within a day.”

"Does everyone still believe you're in charge?" I ask while stroking my beautiful beard.

"A few people were asking questions, but I took care of them. No one knows you're here." I look over at the kneeling man, and he quickly casts his eyes down, avoiding my gaze.

“Impressive; it's nice to see your dedication to the cause remains, despite your failings." Tellis gulps loud enough I can clearly hear it. "Continue as you have, and I'll see to you getting a promotion."

“Really!?” Tellis’ face is equal parts disbelief and excitement. “But the men I lost?”

“Irrelevant,” I exclaim. “Little was known about General Pitz when you took command. She’s known for hunting magical beasts, and you couldn't anticipate her skills. Despite watching your former general die at her hands, you were the only commander who volunteered to take over his position, knowing quite well you probably would fail. Why do that?" I ask the still kneeling man.

It takes him a moment to collect himself enough to answer me. "Someone had to take charge; Scholl cannot lose this war," he loudly claims.

“And that is why I’ll see you have a promotion. War has a great tendency to bring out the hidden talent in people. Stand up." Tellis immediately hops to his feet. "Continue the preparations. In two weeks, the fort will be ours."

"By your will, Master Pacore the Deathless.” Tellis salutes me and leaves my tent.

Subordinates love to use my title but rarely understand what it means. I’ve earned my title after a century of battle. The Goddess Ebeon has tried to claim my soul countless times, but I've walked away stronger each time I’ve avoided death.

I hope General Pitz doesn't disappoint me. It would be a shame if I came all the way here, and I don't get to see the color of my own blood; it's been so long since I've seen it last.

I wonder if it’s still red?
