Debby walked down the street toward the Gate Network, thinking about what came next.

For all purposes, ‘Debby’ would vanish to the world—

—Godsdammit. Stop overthinking—

The ground under her feet would not vanish, though. The walls of House Benevolence would remain. The sky above, with its crisscrossing lines of light and dense node network would remain. The world would go on.

But Debby would become a piece removed.

Hopefully this Worldly Path she was on would actually help her with this Quest. It was Fate Magic, right? All the others were on the Worldly Path, too, because Jane had originally thought that Fate could only help this situation, and now there were 6 ‘Janes’ on the Worldly Path, and all of them had begun to differentiate—

—Abigail was probably on the Path to become a mother; a part of Jane which wanted children and love, above all else. But how could she find love when her father was the practical king of the world? Suitors and boyfriends would always be suspect.

Beth was on the Path of exploration; a part of Jane which Jane had mostly abandoned, because what else was there left to explore on Veird except for nuances of space and time. Apparently Beth didn’t feel that way, because she loved delving perhaps more than any of the rest of them. There were always new places to explore in the Dark.

Candice was on the Path of murder; a part of Jane which Jane had tempered and held in check. But Candice was not Jane, and Candice loved ripping and tearing and giving into that impetus to annihilate for the good of them all. At least she was capable of directing herself properly. Debby looked at Candice these days like she was a little bit crazy for her antics, like when she tried to slurp down the insides of a monster while she clung hard to the monster’s back, her fangs deep inside the thrashing beast.

Emily was on the Path of governance; a part of Jane that wanted to follow in her father’s footsteps. All the rest of Jane’s parts had been embarrassed that Emily was willing to actually go that way, for following their father was like accepting his help… But Debby also wanted a dick, and that was weird, too, so she could do what she wanted, just like the rest of them.

Jane was on the Path of Balance, or whatever that meant. She would go back to Adventurer City after this was over, if she survived. Whatever the case, all of them had made a pact behind her back to make sure that Jane survived this, if only to keep their father not-insane and happy—

Debby was on the Path toward Magic, and she loved it. But it had brought her here. It had brought this Bracelet onto her wrist. It had brought this Static to her eyes and to her thoughts. She remembered too much. She saw too much. She remembered nothing, under a tide of time.

She did what she had to do.

Debby walked into the international Gate checkpoint, and spied upon the world.

Ten Gates lay before her, beyond a line that was moving fast, for this close to House Benevolence they had the absolute best of the best guarding and sorting this traffic. Debby had her little Delver’s Badge under her shirt, and the people on duty mana sensed that, and so the ground under her feet turned green with wardlight, just like it turned green under all the others walking by—

One guy’s feet turned red. Some guards asked him to step out of line and he walked out of line just fine, but looking dejected. His papers weren’t good enough, or something.

Debby continued forward, her eyes open toward the Gates ahead.

She did not head back to Dungeon Island.

She went elsewhere.

- - - -

She had to get away from it all before she took the next step of her Path, and so she had chosen here.

A desolate mountaintop on an island in Archipelago Nergal, 10,000 kilometers removed from House Benevolence.

It was a normal sort of place, rocky and green, while all the land beyond the mountain was tropical forest and deep, white beaches. There were monsters, of course. Most of the big ones were inside the dungeons of the island, while the smaller, more opportunistic monsters crawled here and there, trying to eat each other. They didn’t come up the mountain, though. Stone elementals crushed everything up here, while Air elementals tossed living things off of cliffs, to have them fall to their deaths.

Debby had cleared out a small part of the mountain top for herself. It was just her, the sun overhead, and the shadows among the rocks. She called out to those shadows.

“Hello, Melemizargo. I’d like to talk now.”

The shadows whirled and stood up. The Dragon God of Magic was not a dragon right now; he was just a shadow of himself, floating in the air like a particularly short winged lizard. He still gave off an air of menace.

“Hello, Debby. Ready to be a Paladin, like you always wanted?”

His tone was light. His words were not.

“I would ask you, please, to lay out the terms once again.”

Debby recalled perfectly the terms, but she was in 758 different times and spaces right now, and her mind could only hold so much. She was struggling.

“Prudent.”

Melemizargo’s word echoed in the sky—

And suddenly Debby was only here, only now, grounded in this time and this place.

Melemizargo’s shadow took on a deeper quality as the blue sky above turned dimmer, the sun vanishing behind nothing at all. Shadows prowled the land, and Melemizargo’s shadow became more than that. He was still not fully in this place, but he was closer.

“The terms are thus: I grant you the power to See, and you use your own power to Change The World How I Desire Until I Am Done With You. My primary Desire is in the form of a Quest for you to find the causes of the Red Static, and then report them to me. If that Quest should bring you back to Erick Flatt and Ascendant Mountain and the Sundering Search, then so be it, but I am not sure it will.

“If you choose to do this, I will charge you with Fate Most Demanding. I will gift unto you the power to be Unseen and Unknown and Untouched by all Magic and Masteries aside from those you choose for yourself, or those you fail to use my protection adequately against. You will never again gain a reprieve from the pain of that Bracelet, for it will forever become a part of you. But you will gain power to stabilize yourself when you are wearing it, as I am stabilizing you right now.

“I will See through your eyes at my whim.

“I will hear what you hear. Sense what you sense. Know what you know.

“You will strike with the power of My Claws.

“You will mold possibilities with the power of My Words.

“The Script will be lost to you, but don’t expect Rozeta to come calling, for you are already half-Unknown to her and all others through the machinations of this Red Static. You will become isolated until the time that you find out what is causing this Red Static, or else you will die trying to discover the cause.

“I will demand things of you, Debby, but nothing that you wouldn’t be comfortable with doing if I explained my reasonings well enough. However! I will not always explain myself, and you must follow through regardless. Failure in my demands might be catastrophic.”

Melemizargo stood resplendent and Dark, his body half shadow and all menace, hanging in the sky in front of Debby like a dream of impending death sized to the mountain underneath Debby’s feet. He leaned down, his white fangs shining in the Dark, like his eyes, like his claws, like the white-inferno tunnel leading down into that endless maw.

“If you disobey enough, or at times when I most deem it necessary, I will take control of you myself, and you will become a watcher of your life until I decide you have learned your lesson.” He pulled back, and his voice was softer, “I do not desire to hurt you, but you must understand that this is a serious issue, Debby Flatt. The Red Static must either be eliminated or solved for. Either outcome is good enough. Do that, and your Quest will be over. If you should succeed, I will leave you with all the power I will grant you, and none of the restrictions.”

Debby hadn’t been able to think clearly whenever she wore the Bracelet, but she thought clearly now.

“I have questions.”

“I have patience for some questions.”

“Are you causing the Red Static?”

“No, I am not,” Melemizargo said, narrowing his eyes and moving closer. “Don’t be impertinent.” He backed up a fraction, but Debby still felt his hot breath upon her face as he said, “To answer a few other of your questions before you get rude about them:

“I am not going to ask you to harm the people you love or anyone else that doesn’t deserve it. I am not going to ask you to sabotage anything that does not deserve it. I and the people I have influence over are not going to destroy this world or any other… Unless it needs it, but certainly not without finding homes and security for all these people and other living things that exist here before such destruction should occur.” He stared again. “And that is the extent of my promises to you. Keep in mind, Debby, that I wish this to be a fruitful joining, and that I value your father’s presence much too much to put you into too much danger. But the danger you get into yourself is not something I will be able to fully protect against.

“Make your choice.”

Debby had choices; many of them, in fact.

She made what she thought was the best one.

Debby took a knee, bowed her head, and said the words that Melemizargo had asked her to say the last time she had been in this position, “I pledge my life and my soul to the Dark. May my loyalty be rewarded, and may I walk forever in your welcoming shadow.”

“I accept your pledge.”

Darkness descended.

- - - -

The sky was a tangle of tendrils and white eyes.

Debby-Jane stood upon a black field of Everything.

She was nude, save for a black mark upon her left wrist like an oily shadow. That flickering shadow held silver letters that briefly appeared and then vanished, spelling out a power of Memory, vibrating through the cosmos, touching upon something much greater than itself, and then solidifying down into a not-simple Bracelet—

A woman stood in front of Jane-Debby. She had a black shadow on her right wrist. It was a mirror to Jane’s own oily shadow. The woman was not a mirror to Jane at all. She was pale blue. She was incani, or maybe demi. She was also red and violet and green and yellow and orange and the simple color of a person, all those other colors spreading out to the left and right.

She held out her hands, cupped and waiting for Jane’s own.

Jane grasped those hands and fractured into a thousand versions of herself. She was Abigail, Beth, Candice, Debby, Emily, and a hundred other names never chosen. She was a man, she was a woman. She spread out left and right in countless colors.

And she was also just Jane.

The other woman was just herself; just a pale blue incani, with a fading smile.

She let go.

- - - -

Jane woke up under the bright sun, breathing deep, prismatic light effervescing away from her and her core, her entire body already disconnected from the Script in a way she was intimately familiar with. But this time was different. This time… There was no going back. She couldn’t bring up a Script interface, and she couldn’t change anything about her in that normal way. Maybe a properly-made dungeon could do it, but no. This was her life now…

All strings except Melemizargo’s had been removed.

And she felt pretty damned good about that.

Her mind was clear for the first time since she put on the Bracelet. Everything was still in deep focus, and Jane felt that she would remember a lot about a lot if she wanted to take the plunge over that cliff, but here she was, stabilized at the top of the mountain, overlooking it all instead of drowning in memories and her past.

She was still physically on top of a mountain, too; the same mountain where she had started talking to Melemizargo. With open eyes she faced a bright sky, and she… She felt different. She had been Debby and now… She was just herself. Debby was just a persona she had been wearing for a while, and now Debby was gone. She was ‘just Jane’ again. And that felt great. No need to hide herself anymore, to pretend not to be Jane because she was, and had always been, Jane.

A Jane of a different color, but not really.

Jane sat up.

Disconnecting from the Script had some side effects. All of this had some side effects. But the disconnection was the most noticeable.

Prismatic light flowed away from Jane’s skin like a thick fog, pushing away at the Red Static still lingering in the air, still trying to find purchase. Well then.

That was a waste of mana. With practiced control, Jane pulled her mana into herself, and began filling up her core with mana, ready to be used to cast her magic. As the Red Sparks settled down onto her skin and her body, they began to dissipate instead of latch on…

Jane wasn’t quite sure what was going on there, as she watched the sparks with her mana sense and her eyes turned inward. The controlled mana in her body seemed to be tricking the red infection somehow, and within minutes, the Sparks were gone.

Huh.

Anyway. Jane controlled her mana to refill her core instead of spilling everywhere, because she would have to be conservative with her mana from now on. No longer would the Script supply her with endless regen based on her ‘Focus’ stat. No, only her natural production mattered, along with whatever mana she could steal from the cores of others, eating them as would a Shade or shadeling to restore their mana.

At 550,000 mana per day, though, she was probably good for normal expenditures of power, especially when she wove Elemental Mystical into her magic, to drop the 250 mana cost of a full-body [Polymorph] down to something like 50 mana. And that’s not even taking into account whatever powers Melemizargo had given her.

One of those powers was clear from looking at her left wrist.

The Bracelet had been transformed. What was once a shackle of black, rusted metal, with tiny silver inlays that had been scratched to hell, was now a black ring tattoo of an adamantium bangle. Tiny silver writing held inside that blackness, inside a diamond of silver something on the top center of the tattoo, but it was too thin and broken for anyone to read. Jane knew what it said anyway.

‘REMEMBER’.

Well she certainly remembered, alright.

Time to try out some magic.

Jane focused on her hand and tried a partial-[Polymo—

