Technically, that was a non-answer in several ways. She had said ‘Red Static’ which always got a response, and that’s what Jane was seeing. But tying that response to other things, like asserting it was the Script’s fault, was just asking for a purpose-made false positive, in order to cause people to attack the Script. But if this enemy was against the Script, then shouldn’t it try to make the Script give a false positive? To drive enemies against the Script for it?

This was just another non-answer in a long line of non-answers, but it was one Jane had wanted to test again, because now she could See rather well.

Melemizargo whispered, “If you confront it directly you’ll never get a definitive answer.”

Jane allowed the Static to dissipate before she spoke again, “The Script and the agents of the Script erase the memories of people in order to hide the causes of the Sundering.”

… No Red at all that time.

Huh.

Well actually. Jane hadn’t mentioned ‘Red Static’ or anything like that at all. So this was… An expected answer? Maybe? Was this good news?

Jane doubted she could ‘20-questions’ her way to victory, but this was a good start. Melemizargo swished behind Jane in what might have been surprise for whatever reasons, but she couldn’t tell. The Dark Dragon was not really there at all, except in her mind.

“It was a surprise, if you must have a name for the emotion I felt in that moment. You’ve got a nice little experiment going here. It has produced zero results, though.”

“It tells me the Script is not involved in the stuff—” At the implied mention of the Static, flakes of Red shimmered in the air around Jane before falling away, unable to touch her. “… And that statement I just made tells me that this shit is kinda ever-present—” More red sparks. “—even when I’m not referencing it directly by name. So it’s worse than any particular fairy or god.”

“But you know this already... though it does appear you’re more cognizant of what you’re doing this time.”

“If you want to watch and let me stumble through the basics, I welcome the audience. But if you want to give me the answers then that will work, too.”

Melemizargo chuckled, and then his ephemeral presence lifted from Jane’s shoulders and vanished into the mana. When he was as gone as he could be, Jane continued.

Jane thought. She said, “The Red Sparks are a god’s work.”

Out of the sunset sky came a deluge of red, sparking hard and clawing harder, grabbing toward Jane like the grip of a lightning deity, and yet finding nothing. The Red took a minute to clear, and it did not clear much at all. When her eyes and senses were no longer filled with red, Jane realized a few things.

It had been maybe an hour till sunset when she had said that question, when she had asserted that a god was behind the Sparks.

And now, Jane looked west, and the sun was higher in the sky, and Red Static clung to absolutely everything in the immediate area.

She had gone back in time. Maybe an hour this time?

Not too surprising.

This always happened when she poked too hard at the anti-meme. It was only due to the Bracelet that she was able to retain any information at all about the aborted future. Ever since she put on the Bracelet, she was fully cognizant of everything in her immediate area, and that included nearby aborted timelines. Now, with her mind clear, though, Jane thought about that a bit more, and also about what an Atomic Wizard War would really look like. She concluded that ‘REMEMBER’ was pretty damned Deep Magic.

So far, Jane knew of only one absolute trigger and a few lesser triggers for the Red Sparks’ worldwide [Return]… For it had to be worldwide, right? Or maybe just against everyone in the local area of the Spark event. Jane wasn’t sure about that part, actually.

One: ‘A god is doing this’. This caused an instant [Area Return].

Two: ‘Rift Magic and other dimensions are involved’. This did not cause an [Area Return] unless it was stated in a bunch of different ways and with a bent toward learning about how to fight the anti-meme. Her father just talking about basic Rift Magic and Rift Magic being studied in schools and what [Gate] and Fairy and the Dark actually were did not cause Red Spark events at all. All of that moreover fed into—

Three: Anyone talking too much about the anti-meme in a way that might actually reveal the anti-meme. Jane had not identified the exact vectors of what was ‘off limits’ aside from god-involvement and Rift Magic, so all her other experiments were under this Number Three until otherwise proven separate.

From previous tests, Jane knew that Red Static would stick around in the immediate [Area Return] area, ensuring that whatever had caused the localized area [Return] would not encroach upon the Red Sparks again.

The Red Static would actually alter probability and even thought patterns to drive people away from talking about it.

Really quite infuriating.

Her father was making good progress in uncovering the anti-meme on his own, though. For whatever reasons, he would talk about shit and Red Sparks would gather, and he’d go on different tangents and the Red Sparks would fall away, and then he’d go back to talking about stuff close to the Red Sparks again. It was the only way that any of them had even thought to bring up the possibility that there was an anti-meme in the first place.

So… Good job, dad.

… Jane suddenly had another question. She stepped away from the Static-covered mountainside, heading west to get out of the area of effect. She avoided a few larger stone elementals and once again stood in the sun, in a stony land free of Static.

“Benevolence is causing the Red Static.”

A pattering of Red filled the air, but no more than what would normally happen when one referenced the Red Static phenomenon.

Which was good.

But ultimately didn’t tell Jane much of anything at all. None of these experiments did; not really. Jane had ‘crossed off’ many different major forces on Veird, and yet she hadn’t really done anything at all. Every triggering event could be a smoke screen; misleading positives.

Maybe a god wasn’t involved at all. Maybe Rift Magic was just a red herring.

The only things Jane truly knew for sure were:

To speak of it causes it to happen. Which means something very, very large, and able to hear everything that happens with regard to its domain of power.

It causes people to not recognize it.

It didn’t matter where she did these experiments, for all places produced the same results. Inside a no-Script place or inside the Dark or even inside Fairy; there were no changes in results anywhere. There were a few places that Jane had never been, though, but she doubted Rozeta would allow her in the Core of Veird now that she was a Paladin of Melemizargo, so that experimental space was right out. She could see about making a space-trip past the Script, to try her luck actually past the Script with that ship that’s hidden somewhere by the Inquisitors of Rozeta.

That sort of poking around might go bad real fast, though.

Anyway.

Less absolutely-true facts were thus:

It probably had a worldwide domain of power, as evident by the anti-Rift Magic talk; it didn’t want people breaching its domain. It probably had a space like Benevolence or Fairy that existed alongside the reality of Veird, and it attacked from there.

And the Script and its people were not responsible for the Red Static.

There is some physical/atomic connection linking the Red Static, this New Cosmology, and maybe the Sundering all together.

“But the Sundering was Primal Lightning,” Jane said, looking at the sky, and seeing no Red Static. She added, “Primal Lightning is not Red Static.”

Red Static gathered like it normally did; soft and ephemeral and not really there at all.

Jane tried, “Primal Lightning is Red Static.”

Red Static flowed in small bits and pieces.

“… Now that one feels like a red herring, too,” Jane mumbled.

And then she turned to air and light and began stepping across the world, leaving behind the place of her transformation and acceptance of Darkness. Ah… Man. Her father would be absolutely pissed if he knew what she had done. All of her other selves would be angry at her, too, because accepting Melemizargo’s offer was a last ditch effort that they were saving for the apocalypse. This was sort of like the apocalypse, though, and Jane felt it was a good use of that offer, which is why she had chosen to accept this offer right now.

… What would Solomon say? The same thing? Anger all around? Probably. Solomon was trying to be different from ‘Erick’, but he was faking it too; he was her father, through and through, just like ‘Debby’ was still ‘Jane’, but of a different color.

- - - -

Jane hopped across islands, heading through the Archipelago to the east, avoiding major settlements and node networks and magical protections on her way to her goal, the Gate Network connection at Storm’s Edge. She had come through Storm’s Edge to get to the remote island where she had become Melemizargo’s Paladin, and she would return through Storm’s Edge in order to start her search anew, at House Benevolence, and Candlepoint. She wasn’t sure why she wanted to start at House Benevolence, but it made sense to start at the center of Veird’s Gate Network. Maybe someone suspicious, or something, would walk through the Gates to get where they needed to go, for all the world went through her father’s Gate Network.

Turned out she didn’t have to go all the way back there to start her search.

Turned out her suspicions about Fate were spot on.

Here, at Storm’s Edge, a clue walked through the Local Area Gate Network, into the city of Sininindi, right as Jane was getting ready to leave.

He was shaped like a skinny man with red hair and freckles, with dirt on his clothes and mud on his boots. That was what he looked like to everyone else; completely unremarkable, even if his hair color did stand out a little. But to Jane, who could See, Red Static held in the man’s eyes and in the air around him like a cloud. He was a focal point of the Red Sparks.

Fate had obviously intervened to make this happen…

Or maybe there were lots of people like this Red Guy? Jane sure as shit hoped not. The Red Guy didn’t seem menacing, but all those angry Red jolts around him certainly did. The guy himself seemed no more anxious than anyone else traveling through the Gates for the first time.

Jane backed up, out of line, and Melemizargo’s power wrapped around her even before she knew she needed that power. She became Unseen, Unheard, Unknown. None of the detection magics prevalent near the gatehouse caught her as she vanished from all normal senses, which allowed her to slip away from the line and focus on the Red Man. But there was a problem.

Jane did not vanish from the recent memories of the people she had been around. Guards readily noticed the sudden vacancy in line and called out about ‘who was pulling shit now!’ and muttering curses about the Storm Prophecy and increased security. People in armor and priests in robes swarmed to where Jane had been standing, to poke around at that space and to ask questions of people in front and behind of Jane’s spot. Those people could only say that Jane had been there, and now she was gone; they didn’t see her leave.

Melemizargo’s Shadow had also disturbed the entire manasphere in order for Jane to make her escape, which was not her intention, but which happened anyway. Melemizargo had done that, for sure, to make sure no one could see her in the recent memory of the manasphere; he was looking over her shoulder right now, his claws resting upon her. That major disturbance was probably why the guards were swarming so hard, actually; they couldn’t even check the recent past to see who had disturbed the line.

Jane, meanwhile, stood to the side, completely unnoticed by anyone, though they were surely looking.

Everyone muttered about the Storm Prophecy, with a few glancing toward the posters on the walls that spoke of that fated issue. Those posters had a start-date maybe 40 days away at the earliest, or 100 days at the latest. The numbers were in the air, though, so the guards were on the ground in force.

They stopped every single person coming out and going into the gatehouse.

But the Red Spark guy, who seemed incredibly suspicious to Jane, got through the sudden blockade because of those very same Sparks. The suspect fumbled his words at the guard accosting him, causing the guard to get more angry. Out came the manacles, but just as a threat for the moment. Tears encroached in Spark Guy’s eyes, while Sparks flickered off of him the whole time, soaking into the guard—

And the guard blinked a bit, dropped his voice, and told Spark Guy to get going. Just like that! Dismissed. As the Spark guy nervously adjusted his backpack and hoisted his luggage in his right hand, that guard went right onto the next single person in line, but when that second person rapidly devolved to sobbing under the guard’s sudden tirade, the guard got even more angry. A probably-innocent bystander got sucked into the system, wrapped in manacles and set aside for questioning. They were not the only ones to fall victim to Jane’s sudden vanishing in line.

… Ah. And here came the major Priests and Priestesses of Sininindi. That one right there was Tiza Nindi, the owl shifter Grand Priestess of Sininindi who hated Erick. She flickered with golden lightning and tendrils of the same, and Jane suddenly knew that she had to escape while she could.

To touch that golden light was to touch Sininindi herself.

Spark Guy got going, too, rapidly leaving the scene as fast as probably-mortal feet could carry him, all the while spilling Red Sparks everywhere he walked, into every person. The gatehouse and everyone looking his way got a lot of Sparks, but there was no end to that cloud, and with the still-full power of the anti-meme, Spark Guy entered the streets of Storm’s Edge.

Why had he been running so fast? Had he seen Sininindi’s power reaching for him, too? Had he noticed how his Red touched the gold, and the gold got a little lost?

Who knew!

Red Guy hurried away from the gatehouse, and Jane followed.

