Claws appeared in the place of her final joints, her hand becoming like that of a dragonkin with especially large claws, each of those claws shiny black while the skin on her fingers grew black scales. Jane’s eyes were a little wide at that. It had been an easier transformation than she was used to. It had been less like she had molded her flesh into something new and more…

“More like I pulled possibility from the side, into this reality— oh, wow. Okay,” she said to herself, gasping a little bit at the end as she fully realized what she was doing.

Jane had made a deep study of her father’s recent multiversal theories of magic, but she hadn’t truly gotten it until that moment. It was like she had been adding 2 + 2 into 4 her whole life just because she had been told that it worked that way, but she didn’t understand it until now. It was simple, truly. All magic was simple. All magic was just pulling possibilities from Elsewhere into Here.

“Like feeling infinity between 0 and 1 and picking out the exact right number to solve for reality.”

“That’s a more apt expression of magic than the first. Really now. 2+2?”

Jane winced. “Ah. Are you just… There now?”

Melemizargo was not around at all. Not visually. Not within Jane’s mana sense. But she had gained a new sense; she could feel his presence there at her back, watching over her, his clawed hands upon her shoulders like a phantom feeling.

“Correct. I’ll mostly leave you alone, of course, for that is how Fate Magic works best, and you are on the Worldly Path. As time moves on, and your scope of Sight increases and you learn more of your powers, you will learn all that I cannot teach you directly. To that end, you will move among the mortals and among the important places of this world, and you will discover the cause of this Red Static.”

At the naming of the enemy, the enemy appeared like 1492 gnats of various size and ferocity, buzzing at Jane and then passing her by to vanish back into the ether.

… Jane was thrilled and surprised that they didn’t stick around, that they had slipped past her that easily. It got a lot harder to think when they lodged themselves into her brain. And now that her brain was her own, she had more questions.

“I have a few questions, Melemizargo. Why me?”

Jane knew most of his reasoning, but she wanted to hear those reasonings again, to know if she knew the whole story.

From Melemizargo’s tension on her shoulders and the failure to produce an answer, Jane got the impression that he did not want to interfere too much. He wanted to let Fate take its course and for his personal presence to fade away.

But instead, he spoke,

“I have not chosen you because you are your father’s daughter. All the other Janes are for that, for helping with the Sundering Search. I would have preferred if this arrangement did not happen to you, because your death would be a setback with my dealings with your father. But you are the one who picked up the Bracelet and you stuck with it. That means something, Jane. At its least meaning: you have a resonance with this Red Static mess, and this Red Static is what I believe is the root cause of my previous insanity. Where your resonance started, I do not know. Where that resonance ends, I do not know. But I am glad that it happened with you, because you might actually be able to share and expand on the understanding I already have of this menace. We’re going to find out what all this means, together.”

As Melemizargo spoke, Red Static descended, and Jane was a bit flummoxed by his answer.

“That is not what I expected,” Jane said, waving away the Red Static, and instantly regretting it.

Red sparks stuck to her when she actively touched it. Melemizargo and Jane both watched her right arm, as the Static crawled across her skin. Her own mana, under that skin, eventually dissuaded the Static from sticking around. Like mosquitoes finding prey that had nothing to give them, the little bastards flew away.

“That’s not what I expected either,” Jane said, watching the Static float afar, to vanish into the manasphere.

“It tends to do that, but you were unable to notice it until now. I expect a great deal more revelations like that to take place now that you are actually working with me, and now that you are properly attuned to the Bracelet.”

Jane hummed, not quite satisfied at all with this relationship, and for a lot of different reasons.

“My dear Jane. You are important because of what you have done and where you are going; not because of who you are related to. That fact is rather more a detriment if anything should happen to you. I would have rather someone else gotten the Bracelet, but I will take you for this task, since you are here. Honestly would have preferred you staying with your fathers for the Sundering Search; that’s what our original arrangement became, after all. This Red Static stuff is completely beyond what I expected from you, or from the Sundering Search, though I am glad to see that the two are… Maybe connected. All we have right now is circumstantial evidence to that effect. But I am eager to see what you can do!”

Jane felt her face redden. She got to her feet, her gaze cast wide across the oceanic horizon. “You’ve already got me under your claw; further buttering is nice, but not required.”

“I will do what I want, and you will do what I want, too. There. How about that?”

Jane chuckled. “Much more expected.”

“Take some time and get to know yourself outside of the Script, and then go exploring. I’m too tempted to stay and tell you everything I have discovered, but that would influence your Path to the Truth too much, and you might end up not solving any problems at all. We will talk later.”

Melemizargo began to step away—

“Wait. Before you go…”

Melemizargo sighed.

He waited.

Jane had a lot of questions, but Melemizargo’s desire not to overly influence her Path had been heard and understood. She still wanted one series of questions answered, though. “How does Particle Magic and this Bracelet relate to each other? Why did Particle Magic bring you back to yourself? Does this Bracelet do the same? Somehow?”

“Ahh… A complicated topic with a simple-yet-deep answer that will probably be unsatisfying to you because all I can tell you are generalities, because that is all that is left of that time, because when Wizards go to war, the world goes wonky.

“You know of Atomic Magic, yes?

“It is a well-kept secret, but you are close enough to your father that you have heard of this before, and yes, I see that you have. That is the history of that Bracelet. The Mind Mage Wizard who made that Bracelet also made Atomic Magic, all in the pursuit of freeing her fellow slaves down in Continental Nergal, all those centuries ago. She blew up a continent filled with slavers and slaves alike and almost destroyed the world, and that Bracelet right there is the only surviving bit of Atomic Magic from the subsequent Forgotten Campaign. And yet, that’s not the truest Truth.

“The story is rather complicated and confusing for mortal minds to comprehend beyond that bit of pseudo-factual information, so we will move past that story for now, and focus on the Bracelet. This is a fine thing to do, because the Bracelet is not really Atomic Magic at all, so the Relevant Entities and Mind Mages never caught on to this little bit of their not-quite-Forgotten Campaign. The anti-meme also latched onto that Bracelet in a constant, yet failed attempt to erase it from the world, so that’s yet another reason why no one really thought about it overmuch; anyone not specifically wearing it was always constantly infected by the Red. The only reason people know about the Bracelet at all is because the Bracelet composes that Wizard’s entire existence. She put most of herself into that Bracelet to remind her why she did what she did, so she would never forget the horrors she caused, and thus the world would never forget.

“A side effect of that bracelet is the revelation of the anti-meme.

“As for what Particle Magic, the failure of Atomic Magic, the Bracelet of Memory, and the Red Static all have to do with each other… I do not know, for sure. All I know is that the Red Static exists in this place, and I could not recognize this New Cosmology as anything at all until Particle Magic came along and taught particles to the mana. Perhaps if Atomic Magic would have been less destructive, more instructive, and not been Banned and Forgotten, this whole series of events that unfolded with your father and Particle Magic might have happened several centuries ago. I might have ‘woken up’ all the way back then and realized what I was doing, and what was being done to me and to this world. I might have seen the cage and the liferaft.

“But that is not what happened.”

Jane stared at the black line upon her arm, her eyes wide as she recognized the last remnant of a nuclear holocaust for what it was. That was too large of a horror to truly comprehend, even with the Bracelet’s power, though. So Jane tried to think logically. She asked, “Can you… Can you copy the Bracelet and… I don’t know. Give it to others? A lot of others?”

“I appreciate your thinking of solutions, but that is a Wizard artifact made with the creator’s very soul and the deaths of millions. Its capabilities are far beyond what any normal artifact is capable of at all, and I do not make artifacts myself. I’m also not in the habit of telling good Wizards to kill themselves to make trinkets that the Red Sparks would make them not make, or in killing that many people just for the side effect of a possibility of making another object like this. Talk to the faeries if you want to fuck over Wizards in that way, but you’ll just end up making enemies of everyone.” Melemizargo said, “I’m trying to do less of that these days.”

“… Heard and understood.”

Jane felt a nod in the air behind her and the light touch of claws lifting from her shoulders, along with a great movement felt at a great distance.

Melemizargo moved on.

After a long moment of nothing…

Jane started practicing her Polymorphing—

Okay. Full spider right off the bat. Black band remained around her left pedipalp.

That was both incredibly fast, and not disorienting at all. Her father’s multiversal understanding of magic was… Very helpful, apparently. Magic was easier when you understood more of it.

“… Wait a fucking second.” Jane looked at the air, and said, “Multiversal understandings of magic. Riftwork. Extra dimensions—”

Red Static crawled out of the world itself, trying to find out who was talking about the important topics that it didn’t want talked about. Jane let the red rain fall past her body, undisturbed. Two minutes later, the red fall was done and gone.

“God damned fucking Red Sparks probably fucked over all my trials of magic, didn’t they the fucking…”

Jane cursed some more, and more Red Sparks descended, like annoying bugs.

Eventually, Jane practiced her [Polymorph] magic in silence, getting a feel for herself once again, as she tried not to think about how that fucking Red Static had definitely screwed up her entire approach to magic her entire life.

… But it seemed her father was able to get around that restriction a little bit. And it was getting easier for him every time.

Well that was actually really good news, wasn’t it.

Jane smiled as she continued practicing.

- - - -

“… Very smooth,” Jane hissed to herself, after she had become a flying rivergrieve with ten spider legs and 37-to-46 snapping Force jaws that extended out all around her and bit at everything. With 39 eyes pointed in every direction and then doubled and tripled up in some spaces, and a brain capable of processing all of that, Jane moved on to her voice. “Okay…” She changed her voice to her normal voice, while still in her abomination form, “Okay. Okay. Testing. Testing.”

She flicked a splash of intent at the world.

And a mirror popped into existence, twenty meters wide, gilt with the most fantastic gold and diamonds and otherwise that Jane could imagine, and hovering in front of her, showing off her body. She would have called that conjuring the easiest magic she had ever done, if everything else she had done in the last day hadn’t also been ‘the easiest magic she had ever done’.

And yes, the Jane in the mirror was an abomination. Exactly what she wanted.

There was one problem, though.

Her newest form was very, very red.

Jane’s magic was kinda prismatic most of the time, but it verged toward shades of red whenever it was forced to take an actual shape, like with her skin, or scales, or claws, or eyes. Or all the ‘gems’ of that giant floating mirror. Even the gilt-gold edges of the mirror were kinda reddish.

Jane transformed back into a person.

And she was a red woman. Why was she a fully-red woman? Jane had not intended that at all.

… Though she was a very hot red woman…

Who was spilling out prismatic color from her skin like a shimmery thickness in the air.

Okay. Jane was still spilling excess mana out of her body and her body was not 100% under her control. It seemed that her control and her mana expression were worse when she was smaller in form. She needed to relearn everything.

Ten hours later, at the dawn of a new day, Jane was once again herself, and yet not at all.

Tanned skin. Red hair. Bright red eyes. Her bright red nails were a surprise, but one she chose to keep, since normal keratin was not very good for anything at all, and the Elemental Stone-laced claws of the common rock devourer were rather good for most daily life. It appeared her particular shade of rock devourer claws were red, and though the shape was changed to fit her nails like normal human-nails normally fit, they would stay red. Which was fine. Jane was in a different sort of ‘human woman’ Familiar Form from normal, too, but that was perfectly fine.

She had to do another test of the Red Static before she set out, though, because this next test would determine which direction she took. As her thoughts formed in her head, and as she formed her exact test, she felt the shadow of Melemizargo’s Sight upon her.

Jane spoke to the sky, “The Script is the cause of the Red Static.”

The air flickered with redness which tried to touch Jane and yet failed to find purchase.

But not much Red at all.

