At first the street urchins eyed Red Guy as an easy pocket to pick, the overpriced vendors demanded he buy something, and the street women called out to him, wanting him to spend some of his money at their fine establishments. All normal stuff. But then his Sparks touched those people and they ignored him. Urchins wondered why they were in the middle of the street, prowling, when they should have been at the sides waiting for the next mark. The vendors were shaking cucumbers at thin air. Ladies of the evening were lifting their skirts at nothing.

One Mind Mage walking through the streets, minding his own business, noticed how people suddenly unnoticed Spark Guy, and that was all it took for the Red Sparks to latch onto that Mind Mage like a swarm of toothers spotting a cow that had fallen into the water. That touch of Red was worse for the Mind Mage than it was for everyone else, which was… sort of normal for the anti-meme and Mind Mages. Jane felt there wasn’t that much ferocity in the Red against the Mind Mages Jane had infected herself.

Hmm.

The Red Sparks absolutely swarmed the Mind Mage and the guy lost track of everything he was doing.

Red Guy kept right on rushing through town, trying to get away from the oddness he left behind, because yes, he had noticed what he was doing, and that scared him. Perhaps he wasn’t doing it on purpose?

Perhaps.

Jane considered Melemizargo’s decree. And then, with a casual flick of solid shadows, Jane stopped the urchins from picking the pockets of the dazed Mind Mage just long enough for the Mind Mage to recover, and to see what the urchins were trying to do to him. Those urchins were all well fed; they weren’t stealing to survive. They were just brats, trying to steal from whoever they could. Jane did not feel bad at all for letting them get caught.

Jane left that drama behind as she hurriedly caught up to the Spark Guy, shadowing him down golden-hour streets as he tried not to run, but he clearly wanted to. Running would probably draw too much attention? Maybe. He seemed to be heading north? North east, anyway.

Where was he going?

Jane tracked the man north, then east, then north again.

All the while Spark Guy exuded his red infection across the world, and people ignored him, as though he were a Moon Reacher walking through their midst—

Jane shivered at that old, buried memory. For a moment she was cast back in time. She was that young girl in the four-poster bed deep underground, near the Forest of Glaquin, where she had been staying for days while she had been hunting flame slimes in her waking hours. She recalled seeing fuzzy silver boulders and trees and feeling wind at her back when she went in and out of her base, never knowing how close she had come to death. And then those long arms and tiny hands reached into her room, deep, deep underground, to grab at her—

Jane stepped away from the Red trail for a moment, shadows wrapping tight around her as she hid in a dark alley and all the world closed in.

She breathed.

After a moment she was ready to pursue the guy again. It wasn’t hard to find his trail; he left Red Sparks wherever he went and that power lingered. Jane adroitly avoided stepping in the red, weaving her shadowy form through the spaces between the not-snow. In two minutes she had caught up to the guy.

This guy was not a Moon Reacher. Obviously he wasn’t. He also wasn’t using a Moon Reacher’s [Mind Fog] ability, or else the Mind Mage from earlier would have caught on to the guy and stopped him hard, so he wasn’t a Polymage either. Jane wasn’t too sure what the guy was, except that if she hadn’t seen the Red Sparks all around him, she would have thought him a perfectly normal guy. A bit gangly, a bit awkward, a bit wide-eyed tourist, too. But normal—

The guy passed through the northern wall of Storm’s Edge, through extensive detection magic, pinging it hard but the Red Sparks surrounding him pinged harder, passing into the detection magics that surrounded the city, and then rapidly flowing through those magics like drops of light momentarily stretched out into lines. That power was certainly aiming for whoever was monitoring those magics. The guards on the wall didn’t care that the guy went through, and whoever was monitoring the area didn’t care, either.

They certainly watched all the other people go in and out of the city. This was the pilgrim path to the Blue Temple, and to Everbless’s Cove, and there were a lot of people going and coming from that direction, even now, at this twilight hour. Each person walked through those detection magics and sent off a tiny ping through that power.

… And Jane had to go through, too.

Jane knew that those detection magics were highly tuned to shadow because of all the recent problems. Storm’s edge had even reinstated the old anti-Cult laws, and anyone found using certain magics like Jane’s [Greater Shadowalk] were instantly considered a Cultist and captured or killed on sight. ‘Killed’ was the more realistic interpretation of those laws, though. From what Jane recalled, she knew that House Benevolence’s lawyers and Storm’s Edge’s lawyers were still ‘in talks’ about all that overreach, but that wasn’t going to go anywhere; the Church of Sininindi wasn’t willing to talk at all, and those were the people who maintained the defenses around this land. Whoever was behind those detection magics the Sparks Guy had just walked through had to be at the Lighthouse of Storm’s Edge, watching for shadows to make their move anywhere at all in the city.

… Jane could obviously just switch to [Greater Lightwalk], but that felt… Wrong. Less safe, actually. Perhaps Jane could simply trust the shadows surrounding her? Shades were known to go anywhere they wanted, after all, and maybe Paladins of the Dark could do the… same...

A gentle weight gripped her shoulders.

So this was what it meant to be a Paladin of Melemizargo, eh? She could violate any sanctum she wanted, no matter if they were tuned to her current powers.

“Yes.”

Jane walked through the detection magics of the wall of Storm’s Edge and they did not notice her passing. No ripple of power went out through the sheets of power invisibly encircling the entire city. Nothing pinged.

Jane took a moment and continued to Look at those surrounding magics for a little while, to make sure she was truly in the clear. And she was.

She probably could have managed that before this whole Paladin-of-the-Dark junk, but it would have taken an expenditure of [Prismatic Domain] and that probably would have been noticed. She certainly couldn’t have done that with just her normal [Greater Shadowalk].

Under a purple, twilight sky, Jane followed the Spark Guy across the pilgrim’s trail. Her mark and the other pilgrims came and went all along the actual trail, with most hurrying to get back to town before the sun fully set. A lot of people seemed to have been out here just to catch sight of the sunset, which had been pretty nice, all things considered.

Jane stepped on the long shadows of blades of grass, not actually stepping on the trail itself, because when she looked at the trail she saw golden light. It was a path laid by prayers to Sininindi, and to step upon it would probably be to come under Sininindi’s gaze. Jane wasn’t sure if that would be a bad thing or not, considering how the goddess of Storm and Sea and her father had been getting along rather well recently, but the church of Sininindi and her father were not on good terms at all. Jane didn’t want to take the chance, so the grassy path was her path of choice.

She wasn’t sure how —exactly— she was Seeing all of this divinity or Knowing what it all meant without needing to be told. Logical deduction was the major component, yes. But there was more than that. Melemizargo was probably to blame for her ‘Insight’ into what she was Seeing.

But who was to blame for the Spark Guy?

Jane followed until the sky was dark, and the pilgrim path was lit with light from unknown sources, and Spark Guy was the only one still on the path, making his way toward the Blue Temple and Everbless’s Cove—

Tendrils of gold began to fill the air, like streamers of lightning laid out across the world.

Melemizargo’s claws tensed on Jane’s shoulders.

Jane Knew she could continue her pursuit if she avoided all of Sininindi’s power, but that would become impossible within another ten minutes when they actually got in sight of Everbless. The twilight sky to the north was already filled with golden lightning and golden clouds. How much of that was real, though, and how much was it Melemizargo’s Sight? As soon as Jane had that thought she felt a tension inside of her that she didn’t know existed. Instantly, she knew it as Melemizargo’s Sight, and she had been walking around with her ‘third eye’ wide open.

She shut that eye now.

The light of the Pilgrim’s Path vanished into the night. Jane was suddenly alone in the world. Melemizargo had stepped away, like how he stepped away when Inquisitors came calling, looking for Cultists and finding none, because the Cultists could cut themselves off from Melemizargo’s power whenever they wanted. Well that was certainly a question no one had asked, but which Jane was thankful for knowing.

Anyway.

The sky ahead was not filled with gold, but instead with normal thunderheads raising high into the sky, sparking white and blue here and there—

Jane opened her Sight again, and everything returned to different types of glows. She had been nowhere near Sininindi’s power, and she still wasn’t. Spark Guy was different.

Jane watched Spark Guy walk ahead, down the illuminated path, spilling Red Sparks into the air. A thread of divine power, like soft lightning, hung in the air, purposefully drawing him forward. For a moment, Jane thought that Sininindi was behind everything, but three seconds passed, and Spark Guy drew closer to the ‘come hither’ divinity. Just like it had happened back at the gatehouse, and just as those Red Sparks spilled into the divine path laid by countless pilgrims, Red Sparks flowed from him straight into Sininindi’s power, corrupting the divine lightning.

But unlike all other observers of the man, Sininindi’s call was not dissuaded, and the Red Sparks did not grow in ferocity or density. Instead, the man seemed to walk easier, and the Red Sparks seemed to have little effect on the thread of divinity.

… That was enough information gathering for now. Jane wasn’t going to confront anyone on the level of a divine. Not when she could do a lot more information gathering as she was. Melemizargo’s claws let up off of her shoulders, and she backtracked fast, back to the gatehouse, back to her original plan of searching for leads at Candlepoint, the center of the Gate Network.

She had a lead now. Now, she just needed to find out who the Red Guy was, and what connection they had to Sininindi.

She also had to figure out why she felt she knew the guy…

“But I can’t place him,” Jane said to the Dark. “I think I met him… recently?”

“The Bracelet is rather well made but we’re up against High Wizardry, and you will need assistance and time to fully Remember and See; to fully integrate with the Bracelet. Currently, the best sort of help is best delivered to yourself by your own investigations. Just like how you realized your father is slowly fighting off the infection, you are now fighting off the infection, too. That takes time, and good decisions.”

Jane softly said, “My father has been fighting it off for a long time, hasn’t he.”

“Yes, and he has fallen to it several times over in the past. I believe it never got any solid hits on him for many different reasons, but all of those reasons are theoretical and unprovable at my current level of power. Aside from gods and the entire world taking a very strong view of him, which solidified his presence a great deal and made him rather Unforgettable to the mana itself, Erick has always been on a Path of some sort, and Fate is stronger than this anti-meme. But the anti-meme did win at least once that I know of: That whole [Onward] business. That miscast of Wizardry was surely this anti-meme interfering with his spellwork, taking him off of the board for a long while.”

Jane had to stop in her tracks when she heard that explanation.

In a normal alleyway of the streets of Storm’s Edge, Jane asked Melemizargo, “Has it ever killed anyone? Have we forgotten people?”

“Yes. Absolutely. When required and when people are at their lowest, and they are therefore rather forgettable by all of the world, sometimes the Red takes them. Like a predator eating the slowest, sickest of prey. The homeless, mostly, but people do care about even those who have lost their path, so those people fall prey less than you would think. The victims of cut supply lines are a big issue, for when no one remembers you, you are easy to disappear. The Mind Mages have several memetic threats enclosed in areas that they are forced to keep separate from the world, and so they fall prey to the Red Sparks a lot, and they misattribute their losses to what they are guarding.

“When you see a splash of Red in an area where people should have been, and yet there is no one, that is where someone either triggered the Red, or they were eaten.

“Only one person a day, though. Maybe two. Not many. You’d never see it unless you looked at the world from my sort of scale.

“But at the same time, the Red doesn’t like to make itself known in that way. I think it only eats what it needs to eat. It derives much more pleasure from its other main form of torture.

“The Red steers people toward committing acts of horror against each other. Not all horrors, not by a [Long Bolt]. Only the ones that truly matter, that can cause destruction and misery on a massive scale, or which are easily done with a twist of delay here or there. That, it does most perfectly. That, I think it enjoys. There was more than one reason why I allowed my Shades to be purged, Jane. All of them were quite infected, and through them I was infected as well.

“I’m better now, and so is my Clergy.”

Jane breathed deep. She glanced at the sky filled with darkness and clouds, where faint golden glows held far, far above.

“It’s going after Sininindi, isn’t it.”

Red Sparks filled the air like bugs crawling out of the very fabric of space and time.

Jane let them wash over her and leave her behind, their search coming up empty. Melemizargo said nothing, for he Watched over her shoulders the entire time.

