Debby left her father’s office in House Benevolence and walked down the white, eternal stonewood hallway like a woman without a future, because that’s the sort of future she had right now. Nothing. Her family wouldn’t remember her once she started poking around at this Red Static thing too much. Once she got deep enough into this anti-meme mystery shit—

Debby tried to keep her anger in check as she thought about what came next.

No one would know what she did if she failed.

Something worse might happen than memory wipes and other magics if she succeeded.

But she would try to succeed, no matter what it cost her.

Debby had no way to know how this would play out, but it felt like it would play out poorly. All she had were the 76 experiments she had done with her family and with others in the last 3 weeks, 4 days, 7 hours and 38 minutes, since she started wearing the Bracelet of Memory full time. It had been a trial.

All those arguments half-started and half-finished with her sisters, only to watch them go side-eyed and dismissive, and sometimes walking away from conversations halfway through, like they didn’t even know Debby had been talking to them, which is exactly what had happened. They didn’t know. The Red Static intervened and stole that from them.

All those arguments with her father showed that he seemed to be the only one capable of understanding her without needing to be told the whole story, but even he wasn’t immune to this Red Static. All of those talks with Fallopolis and Goldie and even Fairy Moon… Talking with the first two had ended the same way, which Debby didn’t want to deal with Melemizargo talking to her again, not this very moment. Talking with Fairy Moon had caused the fairy to rage, to try and kill Debby, so Debby needed to tell Fairy Moon a whole lot more, abandoning the experiment just so that the anti-meme could erase Fairy Moon’s memory of Debby for her, to end that threat before it could get worse. It had worked.

But Debby didn’t do experiments with powerful people anymore.

She had tried talking to the gods three separate times. Rozeta, Phagar, and then Melemizargo one final time. Melemizargo wasn’t someone she wanted to deal with at the moment. As for Rozeta, Rozeta’s blue boxes and the visit to a Registrar had seemed like a win, but then she walked out of the office, on a mission to talk to her father, but her father had had no idea what she was talking about, and a revisit to the Registrar had been an exact same repeat of the previous conversation; all hopes and sounds-like-this-could-work, and then nothing, like she simply hadn’t spoken to Rozeta at all. Phagar’s people and his church were simply empty every time Debby came around, the divinity in the air seeming non-existent. She pursued Phagar until a replica of herself stepped out of the air, and told her that he would not help her kill herself. Debby had explained that she wasn’t there for that, and that she wasn’t that much of a battle junkie, and every attempt at talking about the Red Sparks hit a wall of misunderstanding. Phagar just didn’t hear what he wasn’t capable of hearing.

And so Debby had abandoned those pursuits.

Debby knew what she needed to do, and she would, but not right now—

—Oh gods. Why was she thinking about everything again? She knew why. The Bracelet made her think of everything all the time—

—because everything was going to go away or change, and she wasn’t ready for that right now. Her home in Adventurer City, which wasn’t really hers anyway. The people she knew down there, and everywhere else; Sitnakov, and Priest Andri, her friends at Adventurer city, Hizogard, Danaro, Lyrical...

Sure, she wasn’t the original Jane, and she had decided that if she should wake up and not be Jane that she would get over that loss of history, but this time was different. This time she wouldn’t be able to pretend to have a connection to her previous life. This time was different.

Because all of that would vanish.

Debby had done tests. She knew what she had signed up for when she went into her father’s office and finally succeeded in telling him something. For the last three weeks, since before they had spoken about Avandrasolaro and then through the angel’s [Reincarnation] and subsequent installment at the island next to Dungeon Island, Debby had worn the Bracelet of Memory. Because of this Mind Magic artifact, she could remember what no one else could. She could see the Red Static. She could—

—Couldn’t get away from the static. She couldn’t get away from her own thoughts. She used to be a person of action, but now she was a thinker, locked to the past, thinking about the salad she had four years, five months, three days, seven hours, twenty four minutes, three seconds ago, with that guy who had the zit on his left ear and—

—ask people about it.

And sometimes people forgot who she was until enough evidence piled up about who she was and—

Zolan was in the hallway, her father’s Castellan of House Benevolence, and he looked at Debby like she was a person out of place. Because that’s what he was seeing, no doubt. The Red Crackles, like floating snow, floated around the Bracelet around Debby’s arm, and around her head, attaching her to everyone who saw her or thought of her or—

—Focus, Debby. Focus. Here. In this moment. Focus.

The Red Crackles lingered upon Zolan.

They were everywhere.

They increased when Debby pursued the truth, and decreased when she stayed away, and she had pursued the truth rather strongly back there.

“Pardon me, young lady, but I don’t believe that you shou—” Zolan was working some magic internally, no doubt. Book Magic, probably. It was one of the few things that could counter the Red Snow, but that took a lot of time and failed anyway most of the time. And yep, Zolan fired up his memory banks like a proper Book Mage and looked at Debby again. “Ah. Apologies, Debby. I must have thought you were someone else.”

To play along with the misattribution of Zolan’s forgetfulness was to disperse the Red Snow upon the man, and clear up his life, to allow him to remember more of what he should remember.

To say something like ‘you got some anti-meme magic on you, eh?’ would instantly antagonize that anti-memory magic, causing even more memory and time loss, among other problems. Debby was rather sure that she had caused her father to miss a good ten days of existence in the last 3 weeks, ever since she tried to get him to understand. That was one of the reasons she had to leave. She was ruining his and everyone else's lives, even without them knowing.

So Debby said, “It’s the red hair, I’m sure. I’m thinking of changing it to something else.”

Zolan accepted Debby’s allowance of the social faux pas. “A change is good sometimes.” He wasn’t even aware that the Red Static around him was vanishing with every word, as he asked, “Do you know which resource your father is going after next? I would like to plan around that, if I could.”

“I think it’s the Life Seed for Tiktik and Fangorl, but don’t quote me on that.” Debby said, “Something about helping the wild parts of Quintlan be healthier, with fewer slimes and such. Trying to restore proper ecosystems.”

Zolan went, “Ah! Well that is as good a choice as any…”

Zolan said a few more small words and Debby reciprocated, as one does with people who are not quite friends, but who are very much still important people who you plan on seeing again and again, here and there, if fate would allow.

—Fate might not allow—

The Red lingered slightly, but it would vanish in the next few hours, or however long it took. The only reason it was there at all was because Debby couldn’t help but mentally notice the Red in the corners of her eyes, and in her mana sense. Once she moved on, that Red Static would vanish completely, to fade back into the background, unseen and unfelt until it recognized the information it had to censor. It was always active around her now, though.

Like she was an infection the red snow was trying to fight off.

If she didn’t poke at the Static, then the infection-response lessened—

—and she wasn’t so backed up in memory—

—But she was going to poke at the red static pretty hard.

Debby moved on, and wondered how long it would take for people here to forget her. Three days? She had pursued this Red lead for one day and came back to find no one had remembered her until she reminded them, and then their memories kicked in. She had done that twice more, but the fourth time she had done that she had stayed away for a day and a half, looking for red static answers, and it had taken her a full hour to remind people who she was.

Her father had always been first, and then, like light spreading, others remembered her…

Debby stepped out of the hallways of her father’s offices, into the main hallways of House Benevolence. The place was looking rather great these days. People were everywhere, going about important business. There were transportation deals between men in suits and magitech industry talks between mages wearing robes. Women talked with other women at a table down on the main food court floor, with a platter of 8-Star food between and—

—an assortment of books fighting each other for space on the table, as the women spoke of authors they wanted to commission and stories they loved. It was a book club that was actually quite famous in certain circles of the world, and which Jane-Debby had heard about some other time and now she was looking at them and Remembering—

—for they determined who was the next big author in the industry.

Debby sighed a little as her brain practically overheated as she remembered every single book that was on that table, and how she had read three of them. A headache loomed, and Debby knew she shouldn’t have walked this way to get out of House Benevolence, but she had wanted to walk this way. To see, once more.

The Bracelet of Memory did exactly as Poi said it did, but it was worse than ‘not being able to forget’. That was such a simple way to describe what this thing did to her that in its simpleness, it was wro—

—Jane-Debby sat upon a couch in her offices of Adventurer City, thumbing through the book in her hands, feeling excited for the next page, making herself not use her mana sense and Book Magic to read the whole damned thing at once—

Debby was simultaneously there, in the past, and here, in the present, making her way through House Benevolence’s main atrium. She was also in 1831 other parts of her life, remembering all the faces around her as she saw them and the creases in coats and the way that old guy over there was hobbling because he had an old scar acting up and there was [Reincarnation] paperwork in his coat—

Debby breathed.

She remembered everything.

She was simultaneously scattered across 1907 timelines now, with only this timeline here moving under her own power. Everything else was a memory. Nothing was able to be affected, except her feet in front of each other. She moved as best she could.

Debby put one foot in front of the other, told a concerned guard that she was fine, and then told that same guard that same statement another 47 times in her memory as she walked out of House Benevolence…

And then her mind reached a breaking point, as it always did—

—Scattering. Breaking. Harming and healing. Cracks faded and wholeness returned, but cracks reappeared, ready to open up once aga—

—She cackled a laugh, and memory faded. Timelines set aside until she needed to pick them up again, blood freely flowing from her nose, eyes, ears, and all the rest of her body. Blood seeped up from her very skin, like sweat. Her internals were riddled with red static, but it was passing, and Debby remained.

She was not dead yet, and a bit of total body trauma would not kill her. Her core was intact. Red Static invaded her soul, trying to tear her apart from the inside because she knew too much and it could attack her through that knowledge, but she remained. A little bit of soul trauma was nothing right now. She wiped away the blood and [Cleanse] and Healing Magic took care of the rest.

Red static retreated, soaking into her brain and into the flesh of her wrist, but the Bracelet remained, ensuring none of that power soaked too deeply. It was present, but it was not affecting her.

Another thread of thought picked up, though.

Mind Mages couldn’t read her thoughts right now, which was a bit of a problem.

Debby stood under the sun once again. The congested pathways of House Benevolence were absolutely filled with people and some of them were Mind Mages, if those tendrils coming off of their heads were any indication. Debby watched as a Mind Mage woman walked by, guiding her child by the hand into House Benevolence, talking about ‘going to see daddy at the bakery’. Both the woman and little boy had tendrils coming off of their head, and both of them touched Debby, because Mind Mages did that instinctively. They certainly didn’t mean anything by it.

Like a connected circuit, both mother and boy touched Debby’s mind, and Red spread.

You’d think getting such an obvious mental attack would set them off, but it was the opposite. Both mother and child instantly yanked their tendrils back, both of them acting a bit dazed, the woman faltering and the boy almost stumbling, but then the infection settled down. They were past Debby. They went about their business like nothing happened at all, not even acknowledging that Debby existed.

Which was a problem sometimes.

Mind Mages instinctively ignored Debby when she was deep in the Red. Poi completely ignored her until her Static level was very low, and then suddenly she became a visible, recognizable person again, and Poi recalled all he knew of her, like she had always been there. Once, he had forgotten to make dinner for 9, but then he remembered and Erick solved the problem with [Duplicate], so there was no problem at all.

Luckily, Mind Mages weren’t prone to altering the surface of the world as her father was sometimes, otherwise Debby might have found herself in dangerous situations. There was a reason [Invisibility] was outlawed in most societies, and not just because it could easily be abused. It only took one person running out into a busy road while invisible to make everyone realize the other reason why [Invisibility] was bad. Debby had learned that lesson herself, but not through this Static mess or through [Invisibility], but through [Polymorph], back when she was calling herself Jane—

Debby moved on.

As soon as she got away from the Mind Mages and this anti-meme was allowed to settle down, it would settle down. And then Debby could get on with the search once again.

