Right up until it’s all over and I return to my cot, where I stare at the darkness behind my eyes while praying that the nightmares will not haunt me this night. They’ve slowed down in recent years, largely due to support from my loving wives and adoring floofs, but less is not the same as none. It’s not just the killing and dying either that gets me these days, though that’s bad enough, but now there’s also all the regrets and what if’s to fill my head, awake or otherwise. What if I’d turned left instead of right, or what if I didn’t stop to rest that one time, or what if I killed that Champion faster, then what might have changed? Could I have killed more Defiled? Saved more Imperials? Was there something I missed? A trap to set, a stratagem to play, a weapon to develop, something, anything to further stack the deck in my favour, and possibly do more than I did?

That’s the worst part of war I’ve experienced thus far, but the real kicker is this: I know war can be so much worse.

Zhen Shi showed me as much, during our clash in JiangHu. The mines couldn’t break me, because I care not for my own suffering, so he made me watch as the people I loved suffered instead. Now there was a torment I could not ignore, because I love my family and friends far more than I love myself. Much as I fear death, I have always been ambivalent about my own survival and well-being, because at the end of the day, I don’t like myself all that much. I love my life though, what with all my friends, family, and floofs, and I wouldn’t trade it for the world, but that just means I have so much more to lose, which is exactly what I fear the most.

Forget the what if’s and maybe’s. What happens when, not if, but when I go out there and screw something up and get someone killed? I would never be able to forgive myself, especially if it’s someone I care about. That’s why I went with this plan of massed Natal Souls, because I knew this was how I could absolve myself of all guilt. Can’t make any mistakes if you don’t do anything at all, not personally at least. My Natal Souls are the ones out there doing all the work, which means any mistakes are on them, not me. The pain, the misery, the fear and regret, this is how I avoid it all and more, by delegating tasks to someone else, even if that someone else is just me by another name. My Natal Souls are going to die regardless, so what does it matter if they suffer a little in the process? Better than me personally bearing all those burdens for as long as I live, because I know I am not cut out for it.

Because I’ve done it before, and I cannot stand it. My merry band of cripples started at close to a hundred and dwindled down to a mere seven. Dastan’s retinue went from fifty-seven Warriors and today, I’ve lost three more and am only left with four. The kindly Sentinels who volunteered to join me, the conscripted Mother’s Militia, the reformed Butchers, the drafted Corsairs, and more, so many have died under my command, too many names for me to remember. There’s one particular group of deaths which bother me most, a subject I’ve never touched on before, and one I’ve ignored for some time now, but no more. In JiangHu, I became something akin to a god. Not all-powerful, not even close, but powerful enough to decide the lives and deaths of who knows how many individuals. In came the Irregulars, men and women who took up arms against the Enemy despite knowing they were sorely outmatched. How many of them died trying to save me and my family? How many of them threw themselves at literal Demons based on faith alone? I could have stopped them with a thought, set them to running for the hills in reasonable fear, and even pretended to try as if I could trick myself into thinking I’d done all that I could, but there’s no hiding the truth. I let those poor, helpless, under-trained and overmatched mortals throw themselves at murderous Demons in droves, all so that I and the people I loved would have a better chance to live.

A decision for which I can never forgive myself.

Who am I to decide who lives and who dies? Yes, it’s human nature to value friends and family over strangers, but I am not some nameless Warrior on the battlefield. I am Falling Rain, the Legate of the Outer Provinces, meaning the Irregulars were there on that battlefield because of me. They made the choice to be there, but only because I gave them the option, tempting them with the dream of being more than a mere commoner like a fisherman tempts fish with a hooked worm. I knew innocent people would die because of this, but I told myself it was the only way to win this war, by getting crossbows in the hands of commoners to tip the odds in our favour. A blood price I was willing to pay, and the real irony? The Irregulars were all too happy to give their lives for me, because they thought I was the only one who cared about them. I did and still do, but not enough to save their lives at the cost of my own, which is really just the scummiest part of all. When the chips were all down, I balked and showed my true colours, a yellow-bellied coward through and through. I didn’t want to die, so I let others die in my place, and the guilt haunts me even now. That’s why I helped the survivors become Martial Warriors, because they think they owe me a debt they can never repay, when I am the one who owes them more than they could ever know.

And so because I cannot trust myself to make these hard decisions again, I sit here, hidden within my Natal Palace and separated from the action by my PC. In this way, I can pretend I’m insulated from any and all responsibility as my Natal Souls go out and make all my mistakes for me, which in turn absolves me of all guilt and culpability. The simple logic of a petulant idiot who refuses to learn from his mistakes, because how is this any different from blaming everything on Baledagh or Brother?

Alas, my Natal Souls are none too keen about taking the fall, because as much as I love taking blame for things outside my control, I absolutely loathe being blamed for mistakes I didn’t make. Bunch of assholes is what they are, can’t even die and leave me to be happy in ignorance, but mostly because they know they’re in the right and I’m a smug, sanctimonious prick even in the best of times. “That’s stupid, why would you do it like that when you can do it this obviously better way?” Even when I’m right, I can still say things the wrong way, which I tend to do so very often.

Well, no use bitching about it now, so might as well make list of things to do next.

Deal with fallout from confessing to Li-Li. Fuck.

Be a better husband to all your wives. Difficult, but doable. And necessary, because you’re a shit husband. Also, just because they’re strong independent women who don’t need no man, that doesn’t mean they wouldn’t appreciate it if you showed up from time to time, dumbass.

Be more filial. Not a big ask really. Take Mom shopping, talk shop with Dad, offer to look after the twins while Alsantset and Charok go out on a date, stuff like that. That’s really all it takes.

Go back to studying Healing with Taddy. You just gave up once you figured out Panacea, but Taduk loves teaching, you love learning, and you both love spending time together, so why not?

Be better to Luo-Luo. Don’t let your short stature and inferiority complex keep you from giving her a chance. Though it all started as her trying to make the best of a bad situation, it’s clearly moved beyond that now.

Be good to your friends. Be good to your supporters. Be good to those who hold you in high esteem, because even if you feel like you don’t deserve their loyalty, they’ve made their choice, so you might as well try and live up to expectations.

There’s so many more life lessons my Natal Souls want me to learn, but a real-time Sending from Yan takes precedence above all else. “Hello my love.” Focusing in on her livestream feed, I see her standing atop the battlements like the heroic Warrior she is, covered from head to toe in blood and gore yet looking valiant all the same. More impressive is her billowing Domain manifesting itself in reality as a swirling maelstrom of wind, which is new and exciting. “I see you’re doing well. Sorry I can’t…” While making small talk and taking in just how large a mistake I might’ve just made, I study her Wind Domain with the utmost interest. It’s not that she Developed a Domain and filled it with Wind Chi, but rather she brought her Natal Palace out into reality. This is her bringing the metaphysical realm closer to the physical one using her own body as focal point, like she is the overlapping part of a Venn diagram of the physical and metaphysical both.

But… how? It’s her Natal Palace… and her Domain… but not her Natal Palace and not her Domain at the same time. Her Core positively coursing with Chi and usable Heavenly Energy both, surging all throughout her entire body and out into her Domain like a tornado centred around her, a working of Chi mimicking Air yet also drawing in air which mimics Chi and Heavenly Energy.

…You know it’s bad when even I can’t understand my own observations. Put another way, the soldiers around Yan can see the wind whistling through her hair and rustling through her clothes, but even if they were standing shoulder to shoulder, they wouldn’t even feel a breeze. Yet the moment Yan Wills it, the gale-force winds from her Natal Palace will manifest themselves around her in a radius that stretches much farther than most Domains. I won’t really know until she pushes herself to the limits, but from what I can glean from the VoD of her battle is that her Wind Domain stretches at least five metres in all directions. That’s one incredible feat considering most Domains are measured in centimetres, though I have yet to really measure mine and compare. No, now’s not the time to compare Domains, except I want to know how she did this for reasons which should be obvious.

So fixated on unravelling the mysteries of her Domain, it takes a moment for her warning to register, and even longer before I realize she’s probably right. Though she might well be the least scholarly of the women in my life, Yan is as smart as they come and no slouch when it comes to discussing the Dao. Energy cannot be created or destroyed, meaning that even though I am a font of Heavenly Energy, there must be some cost associated to the creation process, else I would be in violation of the laws of physics. Too late for regret now though, because I’ve already chopped up my soul and parcelled it out, so we’ll file this concern away for now and deal with it later. After telling her as much, I give Yan my best and let her go back to what she does best, while I go back to parsing through the deluge of information crashing in from all sides.

And then the mother of all packages pops up out of nowhere and slaps me across the face with a meaty thwack.

Figuratively of course, but the Sending is so dense and revelatory it takes me a good half-second to make my way through it, and even longer to put everything together in a digestible manner. Turns out the info dump is from my Natal Soul General, so chock full of interesting theories and observations, much of which I’ve sort of noticed but have yet to really think through. So intrigued by the prospects of Blessings, Daos, Chi flow and more, I only belatedly catch on to the whole reason why my General sent this, because he’s about to do something stupid and doesn’t want all his insights to go to waste.

“Don’t!” I Send, even as I watch him tug at a metaphysical thread without any care or caution only to immediately disappear from my senses. Not just my eyes and ears, but also my Spiritual Senses, save for a vague awareness of his presence somewhere… muddled. Can’t tell if he’s close or far, left or right, alive or dead, or anything else, just that he’s… there, but not there, sorta. Muttering all sorts of obscenities directed at my idiot self, I pick out a powerful Natal Soul with nothing better to do and promote him to General in his predecessor’s absence, making myself clear in no uncertain terms that I expect him to make better decisions. Updating him with all the latest news, I turn my full focus to uncovering where my first General ran off to, not because I’m concerned about his life, but moreso because I’m worried he won’t die.

Seriously, the last thing I need is for a goateed version of myself showing up to get in my way. Mostly because I would look terrible with a goatee. Just god-awful. Even if he wasn’t an evil twin, I’d have to kill him just on the basis of his crimes against facial hair, and he’d probably thank me for it.

