I see Defiled killing men and women without mercy. Mothers killing their children to spare them the suffering. Husbands killing wives to do the same, before throwing themselves off the walls in hopes of a quick end. A lucky few find it, but there is no escape for most, as the Enemy tears into the panicked populace with the glee and fury of a starving wolf. Their deaths are slow and painful to the last, drawn out over hours if not days, and the sheer joy their suffering elicits from the Defiled only goes to show just how broken they really are. The details are mercifully obscure, but the general essence of what transpired is clear as day, a festival of pain and despair devoted to the half-crazed Spectres, broken fragments of disincarnate souls who crave anguish and suffering because it makes them feel whole again.

Make no mistakes, the Spectres suffer in tandem with their prey, but they gladly accept their suffering because it reminds them of their continued existence…

This is the working that plagues Meng Sha so, a veritable living Rune etched into the Void itself using the movements of the Spectres themselves, one slowly spewing out the despair and suffering of the harbour’s former inhabitants among many other things. Plans within plans and schemes within schemes, Zhen Shi set this trap long ago, first carrying out his gruesome and torturous ‘art’ only to destroy it all before bringing in new commoners to sacrifice, which was enough to trick me into believing his forces had only just begun the slaughter moments before I arrived for the first time.

And now, his trap is sprung and he has one of my Natal Souls in hand to boot. Every fibre of my being tells me I will die if I step out into the Void to face him, for I am unable to Devour all those Spectres before they tear my soul asunder. All I can do is watch and wait as he looms over my lost general, but all is not lost, for I know my enemy well.

Zhen Shi would not be Zhen Shi if he doesn’t take a moment to gloat, meaning I might still find an opportunity to strike. The details of a plan escape me, but I will not despair, for if there’s one thing I know, it’s that where there is life, there is hope.

Chapter Meme
