Shaking off the unexpected quasi-suicidal impulse, I tuck it away to be explored sometime never and navigate over to where I last saw my General, hovering somewhere innocuous around the middle of the fort where I immediately sense a wrongness in the world. It’s subtle and only diminishing with time, something dissipating into nothingness within a span of time so small I don’t even have a suitable unit to denote it. Rather than barrelling through like the idiot my General is, I set about searching for other points of interest around Meng Sha similar in nature to this one. A single pass turns up nothing, and so does a second, but as I am about to start a third scan, I feel a pulse emanating from where my General disappeared, one that swells and recedes like the tide crashing against the shore. So that’s it. There’s a wrongness here, but not all the time, one that comes and goes in pulses so faint I wouldn’t even notice if I wasn’t right on top of it. The next time it arrives, I’m ready and waiting, and I follow the pulse to uncover its trail, which brings me all over Meng Sha in a dizzying, circuitous route that has no rhyme or reason in my eyes. It starts in the centre, goes out beyond the walls, circles around the shoreline and repeatedly turns in on itself, going this way then that without any warning or reason, yet in a manner which fills me with dread and trepidation.

My General went looking for Spectres, but he found this… pulsing pattern of wrongness instead, one that is poking out in reality just enough for me to notice, but no doubt has its roots in the Void. Where Yan brought the metaphysical into the physical, I feel like it’s almost as if the reverse were true here, with something drawing the physical into the metaphysical before regurgitating it back out into the world around us.

Something tells me that poking my head into the palpable wrongness is probably a terrible idea, mostly because I can still sense a muted spike of panic and regret emanating from my lost General. I’d be less worried about all this if I didn’t have empirical evidence of Zhen Shi using my Natal Souls to help empower his people. And those were just piddly Natal Souls from JiangHu, one of a veritable million with just enough Heavenly Energy to operate, but my General is a custom creation. The whole point of his existence was to make all the hard decisions I didn’t want to, and deal with all the guilt and empathy that comes with it, so I had to gas him up, so to speak, to ensure he wouldn’t… use himself up feeling all those emotions. This means my General was not a fragment of a fragment like the ones from JiangHu, but a big, beefy Natal Soul just chock full of as much Heavenly Energy as I could spare, and I supposed whatever constitutes a soul as well. If one of those piddly Natal Souls from JiangHu was enough to help Bai Qi Awaken to the Blessing of Sand, I shudder to think what Zhen Shi could do with my stupid General. All of which means I need to do something right quick, but I can’t just make the same mistake he did and walk right into what I presume is a trap, but what other choice do I have?

Maybe I just give up here and write it off as a loss. I mean, if he does come back as an evil twin, then at least I can finally kill myself.

A cold nose and loud bark shake me from my thoughts as I find myself staring at a heckin’ concerned Buddy. Seeing me come to my senses, my sweet doggo gives me a huff of muted discontent followed by the tiniest of doggy kisses, as if to let me know he’s none too pleased about what I’ve done but still loves me all the same. Giving him a quick kiss back, I turn and find Lin-Lin still seated in my lap, but poised around my arm and resting on my shoulder in a bent posture that only she could be comfortable with, all so I can use the mouse and keyboard without her getting in the way. “What happened hubby?” she asks, her adorable features drawn in concerned consternation. “Buddy just bolted up and got right in your face for no reason.”

Feigning disorientation as I scramble for a suitable answer, I glance sidelong at my monitors and see all three screens just dotted with all manner of perspectives, each one so tiny I doubt Lin-Lin can even see what’s going on. Filling her in on the important bits, I outline how I lost my Natal General and need to find him again without touching on my darker thoughts, which I’m guessing is just a result of the Aura-like working pervading all of Meng Sha. The pulsating wrongness is somehow linked to it, I’m sure of it now, but my first priority is recovering my Natal Soul and all the usable Heavenly Energy contained within.

“Mm,” Lin-Lin intones, curled up against my arm with her cheek pressed against my shoulder, just melting into me as if her bones are made of rubber. “If it’s too dangerous to go there from the physical side, why don’t you just approach from the metaphysical side, ya?”

The question reaches the tip of my tongue before realization strikes, and I turn to look out the window in surprise. I mean…why not? My Natal Palace is already in the Void, and whatever wrongness I’m sensing must be nearby, seeing how my physical body is also in MengSha. If the Enemy is bringing the physical out into the metaphysical, then it stands to reason I could probably just look out into the Void and see them there, and if not, well… can my Natal Palace move through the Void? Probably not, seeing how it’s stuck to my soul, which in turn needs to stay with my body, but there’s nothing stopping me from glancing out the window.

In the blink of an eye, I bring Buddy and Lin-Lin down to the lakeside, right next to the empty Healing Fountain Keystone I’ve only used once. Before progressing any further, I stop and look at Lin-Lin while trying to come up with the best way to phrase this. “Would you have to step through the Void to return to your body?”

“Mm, probably not?” Clutching my arm oh so tightly, Lin-Lin’s expression tells me she knows exactly what I’m thinking, and there’s no way I’m getting rid of her that easily. “I need skin to skin contact to get here in the first place, so that’s probably how I get in, rather than straight through the Void itself. I don’t think anyone goes that way though, not purposely, since a soul leaving a body means it dies, ya?”

“Makes sense.” Meaning her route to get here would start at her soul, move to her body, then to my body, before arriving in my soul, assuming that’s how it works. I also should be real careful about sending her away in the future, because I wouldn’t want to accidentally launch her into the Void, which as I experienced first-hand is most unsettling. “Which is all the more reason for you to go back where you’ll be safe.” Though it pains me to say this next bit, I can only grit my teeth and bear it. “I’m about to do something that could be dangerous, but I won’t be able to concentrate if I know you’re here and in danger.”

“Meanie.” Biting my arm ever so gently, she transitions over for a hug and a kiss before uttering a sigh of defeat. “Fine then. Love you hubby,” she says, resting her cheek on my chest and peering up into my eyes. “I’ll watch over you from outside, but you be careful, ya?”

“Love you too, and I feel safer already.” I can’t really respond to that last part, because careful would be giving up my Natal Soul for lost, something Lin-Lin picks up on without fail. Pinching my cheek in reproach, she waves goodbye and disappears from sight, though a quick trip back to the PC tells me she’s still fast asleep on my chest. Smiling at the sight of her slack and contented expression, I glance at the rest of the battle and see that not much time has passed since I dumped everything onto a new General, though it does seem like he’s doing a better job than the last guy. Weird how we’re all cut from the same cloth yet are so inconsistent when it comes to getting shit done, but it might not be a fair comparison. New General has more information than captured General, so maybe he’s doing better because he’s building on the foundation his predecessor started.

Or I dunno, maybe it’s all just luck. Will Falling Rain succeed at any given task? Flip a coin and find out.

A growl from my side snaps me back to reality, and I lean over to give Buddy a pat on the head. “Good dog.” His huff in retort sounds like an affirmation to my ears, and he leans in as I study the lake and horizon. There was a time when I had a tear in my Natal Palace, a window out into the Void due to my Shattered Core. I fixed that, but kept a window where the tear was for posterity’s sake, which has since relocated it to the depths of the Sea. Mostly because a giant black hole in the sky was not what I wanted to see every time I looked out the window. I could move the window back, but I’ve an inkling that doing so would not be in my best interests. Not because it’d ruin the view and bring down property values, but because one really shouldn’t remodel their Natal Palace as often as I do. It’s only just occurred to me, as I considered moving the Void window just now, but given how I know the Natal Palace sits in the Core which is part and parcel of the soul, then it stands to reason that remodelling my Natal Palace is quite literally rearranging my soul. Even if my soul was like clay or play-dough, I would assume that ‘cementing’ a fixture in place like we do with the Natal Palace comes at some sort of cost. More conservation of energy and whatnot, which in turn suggests that remodelling would also come at a cost. I’m reminded of the time I tore down my Natal Palace and rebuilt it anew prior to the Legate’s Contest in Nan Ping, and how Shen ZhenWu noted I’d ‘diminished’ since our last meeting. He even specifically mentioned how my Natal Palace had ‘notably regressed’, which I now believe was his way of offering assistance and showing off his vast knowledge at the same time. When I tried to be flippant, he told me I’d paid a costly price for a change of view, an offhand remark I never really considered until just now.

If there is a cost associated with remodelling the Natal Palace, why have I never felt the aftereffects of paying it? Because of Blobby? Or because I lack the ability to sense the cost I’m paying, like a man without nerves can’t feel pain? Something else to look into when I have time, but right now, I have a window to peer out of and a Natal Soul to go save.

Plunging into the water with Buddy at my side, I idly wonder why I didn’t just teleport us to our destination, but then the darkness of the Void rises up to greet me and I understand. I’d forgotten how disorienting staring out into nothingness can be. For a moment, I forget which way is where and what direction is any, but then my mind makes sense of the nothingness and everything clicks back into place. I once stepped out briefly as Baledagh, just to know what the experience was like, because I’d imagined Brother throwing him out there in a pique of rage. I said it was unpleasant, but that doesn’t begin to describe it, for the vast nothingness stretches out in all directions while simultaneously pressing down on you in the same way. You are nothing, small and infinitesimal, yet you have nowhere to go, for the Void has you within its grasp and is slowly crushing the life from you.

But I’m not out in the Void. I’m just here for a look. Stay on task and everything will be alright.

Using my connection with my lost Natal Soul to orient myself correctly, I gaze out into the abyss and the… well no, I don’t get the whole ‘abyss gazes back’ bit, but it does sound cool and all. There’s… a glow, almost, not a visible one, but it is warm and illuminating all the same, draped across me from behind regardless of where I turn and keeping me safe from the hidden dangers lurking about. There is another gleam in the distance, but this one is ugly and wrong, like a lightbulb emanating light in just a slightly different shade, though here in the Void, the lights all emanate darkness save for the glowing presence behind me. Close to the wrongness, I spy a glimpse of movement somewhere out in the Void, though I cannot for the life of me tell if it is close or far away. It’s faint, just a hint of motion in the darkness, a black blur moving across a black surface that is almost invisible save for the perception of motion, and the more I look, the clearer the movements become. Without need for conscious thought, my eyes fixate on the movement and my window to the Void shimmers to bring it into focus, revealing a cloud of moving darkness where I previously only saw a tiny blip. Closer and closer my vision moves in, like shifting through multiple lenses on a high-powered telescope, until finally I can make out what is moving in the Void, and what I see there makes me wish there was bleach for my eyes to cleanse me of this horrific sight.

For there in the Void stands Zhen Shi, a giant among men, clad in his golden robes depicting all manner of horrific acts, but he is not the sight which disturbs me. Nor is it the tiny Natal Soul he holds firm in his hand, my lost little idiot caught fast in the Enemy’s grasp. No, what terrifies me so is the scene set around them, one I am not sure my Natal Soul can see, for there are all manner of Spectres lingering about whilst twisting and turning in unsightly patterns. There is no way to describe their movements except by the sense of sin it evokes, a reviling motion that runs counter to everything life and love could stand for. It is not where they go or how they move that disturbs me so, but the glimpses of truth I see within those actions, a grisly assortment of gruesome and ghastly acts that took place in reality only to be mirrored here in the Void.

