Everyone loves to shit on management and administrators for being bad at their jobs, but it ain’t easy being the boss.

Correction: it’s ain’t easy being a good boss. The bad ones get to slack off and play hide the salami with the secretary, but a good boss? Even I don’t know what a good boss does, because I too am terrible at my job. Leadership is hard, which is why I delegate all leadership duties to good leaders whenever I can. Alas, now I must pay the price for my indolence, because the buck stops with me. Seeing how they possess the same memories, experiences, and general thought processes as I do, I went into this plan thinking my Natal Souls would be more than capable of making good decisions, or at least decisions I would agree with, but a few seconds into our grand efforts has already proven me wrong a thousand times over. Then again, I probably should’ve seen this coming, because I am nothing if not an asshole, and a contrary one at that when it comes to dealing with people in positions of authority. Doesn’t matter if I’m both the worker and the authority figure at the same time, and in many cases actually makes it worse, because familiarity breeds contempt. Being the reckless and irresponsible shit-stains that they are, my Natal Souls are all more than happy to act first and think later, because their limited lifespans lead them to believe they’ll face no consequences to their actions. Which is entirely true, and I hate them all for having figured it out so quickly instead of focusing on something less detrimental to my future like their collective imminent demise.

Okay, that’s a little too dark, even for me, wishing my veritable clones would be more concerned about their mortality and limited lifespans rather than resolving their regrets, especially considering their regrets were technically mine to begin with, or at least would be my regrets if I were in their shoes.

Cursing the poor decisions which brought me here, I struggle to come to terms with the fact that I have no one to blame but myself. That being said, it’s actually kinda cathartic to direct my hatred and grievances outwards for a change, even if the recipient is just another version of me. For this reason alone, I dedicate a few moments to cursing at my various existences while suffering from the consequences of my own actions. Their collective decision to do as they please and leave me holding the bag is bad enough, but my Natal Souls also have no care or consideration for the fact that I am grossly outnumbered as I sit here in my Natal Palace and cannot possibly micromanage every last one of their efforts. I mean, that’s why I made them all in the first place, to help me handle all the important tasks I couldn’t manage on my own. Each and every single one of them is a free-thinking, independent agent with no real restrictions at all, so really, they should be more than capable of handling the tasks I set for them without me having to hold their hands.

Well… no limits aside from their inability to create emotions causing any emotions felt to consume the Heavenly Energy that they’re comprised of, which in effect leaves them with a limited lifespan. Kinda a dick move, I know, especially considering how terrified of death I am, but given how the plan is unfolding, this is clearly a sacrifice I and all my Natal Souls are willing to make.

To my surprise, there’s little to no anger or hatred from my Natal Souls, or at least none stemming from the fact that I sent so many of them out to die. Instead, I’m treated to a whole lot of disdain and verbal abuse hurled my way as they become cognizant of just how fucked things really are in Meng Sha. Normally, I would blame myself for everything that’s gone wrong, but my Natal Souls being aware of the fact that they’re Natal Souls has led to them blaming ME instead. Technically, it's still me blaming myself, but the harsh truths and somewhat facetious rebukes hit harder when they come from other versions of myself. It’s not the same as internalized castigation, because not only am I hearing these rebukes for the first time, they’re also personal enough to target my greatest weaknesses and insecurities, while remaining just impersonal enough to feel like they’re coming from someone else. Within seconds of setting out, I am inundated with a barrage of Sendings and scoldings from mostly well-meaning Natal Souls, each one contacting me because they feel they’ve stumbled across something of the utmost importance that I need to hear now. It’s all a matter of perspective however, because to the Natal Soul on the beach, the looming threat of Demon Gen demands more attention, but the same could be said for the Natal Soul helping a young Captain who is currently fighting for his life on the battlements against odds he cannot hope to overcome.

It’s not that either one of those Natal Souls are wrong about the need for urgency and assistance, but the problem is, they’re the solution I sent out to deal with that very problem in the first place, so reporting it back to me does nothing except annoy and frustrate me.

The worst part is how disorienting their Sendings are, because my Natal Souls are not trying to talk to me in words or even images. Much like how I was able to converse with Lin-Lin at the speed of thought due to our close familiarity, my Natal Souls are just dumping their life’s experiences on me en masse, leading to an information overload I am struggling to parse through. It’s like living thousands of moments all at once, except those moments are all taking place in synchronous time, which is confusing and disorienting to say the least. The biggest problem is that even though I’ve enjoyed some small success in regards to Refining my mind and soul, allowing me to multi-task and process parallel thoughts to a minor degree, there are thousands upon thousands of Natal Souls out there, and only one lowly little me.

Seriously, everything would be fine if my Natal Souls just kept their discoveries to themselves, or failing that, cared enough about my mental well-being enough to pass their messages along through the PC instead. I don’t entirely understand how this Keystone works, but I do know it allows me to distance myself from the action and process multiple perspectives at the same time, to say nothing of the ability to store and play back information at the literal speed of thought. As my Natal Souls, they know all this as well, because I knew it before creating them, but much like me, they’re a bunch of assholes who think they’re the centre of the fucking universe. Thus, their problems must be the most pressing problems around, because there’s no way they’re just playing a small part in a large effort. No, they’re all the heroes of their own stories, which means I, the bossman and Prime Soul, must immediately drop all things and cater to their needs.

To be fair, they probably also know that I’d ignore any message sent to my PC until later, because I’m not great about reading and replying to things like checking email, voicemail, or really any sort of asynchronous communication. I don’t like being social, so if I can ignore it, why not?

A bunch of narcissistic jerks is what my Natal Souls are, which does not paint me in a pretty light, but at least I do what I can to solve my own problems myself. What’s happening here is what would happen if I had no sense of personal responsibility, and it is a terrifying prospect to watch unfold. The Natal Soul confessing all my feelings to Li-Li is bad enough, but then I have to hear about how I’ve been neglecting Mila as well, which just makes me feel that much worse because I know it’s true. Here I am pining over yet another woman when I can’t even properly cherish and support my wife, which just makes me a terrible husband and human being all around. This is just the icing on the cake as every Natal Soul on the battlefield feels that their unique experience is vital in some way as they Send what can only be described as their last will and testament. Hearing one or two would be heart-breaking, ten to twenty devastating, but thousands of them coming in all at once is just infuriating to the extreme. I am discovering first-hand just how true the old adage really is, that one death is a tragedy, but a million deaths a mere statistic, because I am fast becoming immune to the deaths of my Natal Souls.

Which is really a shame, given how noble and heroic their sacrifice really is, though I can’t say I’m not relieved to know they’re actually dying instead of going rogue or worse.

A harsh but legitimate take on my actions here today, so I do my best to work through all these thoughts, feelings, and memories while triaging the various crises to find something that actually demands my attention. It’s not that I don’t sympathize with my Natal Souls and the various trials and tribulations they’re going through, or see value in the personal lessons they’re deriving from the experience, but the whole point of creating an army of Natal Souls was so I wouldn’t have to personally oversee each and every last detail of what they’re doing. I even have a Natal Soul assigned as the General in the field, his sole purpose being to handle the bulk of the micromanagement, because I knew my Natal Souls would feel more confident on the job if they knew they had someone overseeing them. Alas, each and every one of them feels that their case is special and demands my immediate attention. Well, they’re fucking wrong. I can’t give every soldier and Irregular my undivided attention. I can’t afford to listen to every sob story and heroic act, while saving the dying, comforting the grieving, and consoling the scared at the same time, because I am but one man, one too weak to carry all these burdens by myself.

That’s why I made the Natal Souls do it. Because they’re gonna die anyways, which means they’ll be freed from all their doubts and uncertainties.

The truth strikes me like a hammer to the gut and forces me to re-examine my now seemingly selfish motives. This is just my cowardly way of placing even more layers between myself and the action, because then I can rest easy while watching everything unfold from behind my PC monitor. Once again, I’ve come up with a new method of insulating myself from responsibility and keeping myself from getting emotionally involved in all this, a means to protect myself from the anger, pain, loss, and despair that comes part and parcel with war.

Don’t get me wrong. I love the Martial Path. I love Demonstrating the Forms and finding new ways to perform the Movements in an order I haven’t tried yet. I love meditating and feeling the Energy of the Heavens surge into my Core and wash away all my worries and fatigue. I love Condensing my Aura and sharing my emotions with my friends, family, and floofs, or discussing the intricacies of the Dao with anyone who will listen. I love sparring against friends and pushing my limits, diving into the sea and submerging myself beneath the waves, Cloud-Stepping high into the skies only to come crashing back down to land lightly in the water. All of which and more would be impossible without my dogged pursuit of the Martial Path, and yet still tertiary to the true purpose of cultivation.

Martial Warriors cultivate in order to build up the strength they need to defend humanity from the Defiled. A tale as old as time, and truth I hate more than anything else.

War is hell. There’s no two ways around it, because that’s the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I cannot see myself ever coming to love war, not unless I become an entirely different person altogether. War is necessary, and I will be amongst the first to take up my sword if needed, but I will never love war the way Dad does, or thrive in war like Yan, or even learn to accept war as a way of life like Dastan. These are the dyed in the wool soldiers who live and breathe bloody conflict, unable to live any other way for varying reasons. For some, it is the thrill of the hunt, a heady intoxication you can find nowhere else, and others, it is the honour and prestige that comes with victory and success, while still others fight because they see it as their true calling.

Me? I fight because I must, and because I am egotistical enough to believe that if I were to stay home where it was safe and sound, my absence would be the sole reason for every death and defeat suffered on the battlefield.

Psh. As if.

I am damn good at what I do, and my efforts have made a difference, but I alone am not enough to turn the tides of war, much less win it outright on my own. I am but one man with sword in hand, so even if you take all my contributions on the various battlefields to date, my efforts would pale in comparison to what I’ve done away from the battlefield. Cast iron, concrete, War Bonds, Panacea, Runic Cannons, and more, these contributions are of far more value than my personal kill count or even that of my retinue, and yet still I feel compelled to take up my sword and stride out to battle, because I believe I am just that special. It’s a sickness, I know, but also a compulsion, because on the battlefield, the problems and solutions are always the same. An Enemy stands before me, and I must kill or be killed, a black and white conflict in which I do not need to think.

