Erick wanted to smile. But all he could do was say, ‘Thank you for being okay, Jane.'

‘… what happened?’

‘What happened with you?’

‘Some stuff. But we’re fine. You don’t sound fine.’

Erick breathed. He said, ‘There’s a lot that happened since you helped with my Class Abilities. Yesterday, I got my first magic item, a nice ring for plus-10 Strength, and then today I made some diamonds using this workaround of the Infinitesimal Ban, and I think Frontier is planning on killing all of Kal’Duresh with Daydroppers. Silverite isn’t sure if the reverse is also true.’

‘Oh boy.’ Emotions like a person sitting down, flowed through Jane’s connection. She sent, ‘Tell me about this Daydropper stuff, first.’

‘It’s like this...’

Erick talked.

After a while, Jane understood Erick’s day, and Erick hoped, most of his problems.

Jane said, ‘What do you want to do about these undetectable Daydroppers?’

‘I want to kill them all, obviously.’

‘… that’s really not obvious to me, Dad, which is probably a good thing. Right now people aren’t treating you like a player. This is one of your greatest strengths, if you can leverage it without actually making a move.’

‘I’m not a player?’

‘No.’ Jane waffled back and forth, then said, ‘Well. Yes. But not directly. You’re a deterrent and a defense mechanism. You do not want to be seen as a player.’

Erick let that lie, and continued, ‘I see a lot of problems to solving this Daydropper crisis. One: Withering does not target monsters with 5 mana rads; it only targets those with 10 mana rads. Some daydroppers must be slipping under the radar, like the smaller slimes do. So, do I try and increase that radar and risk the spell targeting people? Or do I find some other way? Compounding this is that these Daydroppers are already invisible to the Divine Scan, probably because they’re behind antirhine.’

‘Combine your Domain with a close-range, powerful scanning spell. Something that can punch through antirhine.’ Jane added, ‘Or you could just call it lead.’

‘… I don’t think it’s possible for anything to pass through lead, least of all magic, so there’s no getting around this restriction.’ Erick paused. He said, ‘Maybe I could add something to the Domain that makes it eat through lead shielding. Like how I did with random chance striking CO2 into C and O2.”

‘Even if you did, it’s probably under a [Weather Ward] by now. The only reasons you found anything at all, was because they dropped the [Ward] so you could test their defenses. Kal’Duresh was probably also testing your ability to test them.’ She added, ‘If that is indeed what is happening here.’

‘Shit!'

‘Even if you did manage to use this work-around you discovered with the Infinitesimal Ban to use some lead product to strip away lead shielding… I don’t think you want to go using this functionality on an attack spell. It seems fine on a spell that concentrates something onto an item, though.’

‘… Give me ideas, Jane, not more problems.’

‘Here’s a major solution, then: This isn’t your war. Stay out of it.’

Erick frowned.

Jane continued, ‘Or. Ask one of them gods for help. You seem to be getting along with them.’

Erick almost told her about the offer to become Phagar’s Champion, but he wasn’t about to put that out into the world, even to discuss the idea with his daughter. Not today, anyway.

‘They have their side of things, we have ours. Got another idea?’

‘Start beating people up until someone falls out of the woodwork?’

Erick frowned, but sent, ‘I love you, Jane.’

Jane laughed through the connection, then sent, ‘I love you, too, Dad. Now talk to me about these diamonds. I would love to see a six-inch diamond.’

Erick smiled, then sent Jane an image of the diamonds in front of him. After she ooh’d and ahh’d, only half sarcastically, Erick started talking about enchanting, and about his Class Quests, while keeping Insight purposefully vague.

As the sun set, the conversation wound down.

Toward the end, Erick asked, ‘Do you remember what sapphires and rubies are made out of?’

‘The same thing. Aluminum Oxide. AL-2 O-3. Everything about the red or the blue are just inclusions, but I forget what those inclusions actually are. It would be hard to find aluminum, either way. I don’t think you need those gems though; just create a color mask. Use a [Special Ward] to absorb every color except red, or blue, or whatever.’ She added, ‘Or better yet: try to create a something that increases every stat, all at once.’

Erick was floored by multiple parts of Jane’s reply. ‘A color mask! Duh! But... Are there All-Stat items? I haven’t seen anything like that in these books. They all talk about single Stat, singularly enchanted items.’

‘There also wasn’t Particle Magic until you came along. So. Ya’ know.’

Erick laughed, sending, ‘I'll test it out.'

‘It’s getting late, Dad. I love you. I’ll think about the daydropper problem. Call you later.’

‘I love you, Jane. Talk to you later.’

Erick broke the line of intent between them. And then he grabbed his enchanting textbooks, and started reading from the very beginning.

- - - -

Around midnight, Erick got to his first practical exercise.

And right there, in a colored box beside the text for the first practical exercise, was Jane’s idea for a [Special Ward] color mask, written as a tip for the beginner enchanter, to keep costs down. Erick smiled at that. He would have to tell her tomorrow. Erick whipped out 50 mana, and the entire room filled with the proper red color for Strength enchanting: Crimson. Not a red light, though; just a color mask.

Erick picked up one of his smaller diamond fragments, around a centimeter across, and began [Stoneshape]ing it into a sphere inside his Handy Aura, constantly turning the gem around and around, seeing his work from all sides, gradually shaving away everything that wasn’t a perfect sphere. After a few minutes, Erick thought that what he had created was close enough to what the book required; this was beginner enchanting, anyway.

Erick transferred the spherical diamond to his actual hand. The gem was about one centimeter across, and in this red [Special Ward], the gem appeared red. Erick focused on his—

He still had his Strength Ring on. He should take that off; the books all warned of wearing enchanted items while trying to enchant other items. If he took it off fast and put it back on before the False HP vanished, then it should maintain its resonance. Erick took off the ring and set it aside, so that it wouldn’t interfere with imbuing a resonance into the gem in his hand.

And then, on a whim, he threw a 500 mana Absorption [Ward] into the air, which produced a 2000 point shield throughout the room. Better safe than sorry.

... Erick hoped he didn’t become some paranoid archmage. From what he’d heard about other archmages, paranoia seemed to be a recurring theme.

—Erick focused on the gem in his hand, creating a link between his own Strength Stat and the gem. He opened his eyes to Meditation, and tried to feel the resonance, somewhere inside of him, inside of his Strength. In a way that was completely counter intuitive, but was listed by the textbook, Erick pushed a point of mana through his Strength Stat.

Nothing.

He tried two points of mana—

...mmMmmMmmM...

Oh! Erick felt that; it was like a tiny hum in the center of his self, but not in the center of his physical self. The hum came from elsewhere. The hum probably came from the Script, itself.

He pushed more mana through his Strength. Another hum touched his entire being, like the sound of a muted television, or fluorescent lighting. Erick set a path for his mana, then started a stream, through his Strength, through his hand, into the gem in his palm. His hand glowed red, and if he wasn’t in this red [Ward], Erick was sure the glow would have been white; the color of his own magic.

The glow soaked into the gem, skittering around the inside, maybe even finding equilibrium.

Erick cut his stream of mana and the red [Special Ward]. The diamond was still perfectly clear in the light of the sunlight orb up above. Erick picked up a blank iron ring setting that he had already made with [Metalshape], and with another application of [Metalshape] and the careful placement of the diamond, Erick had a diamond ring. He put it on his finger.

According to the textbook, this was a rousing success!

But Erick felt a little underwhelmed.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 4,257,054,608/10,233,415,500

Class: 3/6

Points: 16

HP

873/660

600

MP

900/900

6000 per day

Strength

20

+2

[22]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

30

+0

[30]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Not bad for his first try. Erick took off the ring he made, and put on the ring he had bought from Ruby’s Reds.

- - - -

The next morning, Erick went right back into his tower and read more about enchanting. In particular, one aspect of the previous night’s enchanting bothered him: Was white mana predisposed to an easier time creating Stat enchantments?

After a bit of careful reading, including some parts of the textbook he had skimmed over last night, he discovered that, no, the color of a person’s mana did not matter for enchanting purposes, because the very act of flowing mana through a Stat or Skill changed the color of a person’s mana. Color did matter for the longevity of a Stat enchantment, but anything besides a perfect color match didn't matter; perfect matches lent a Stat enchantment to lasting indefinitely.

Erick took his Strength ring off, and set it to the side.

Erick [Metalshape]d the diamond from last night out of its metal ring. He placed the spherical diamond on his open palm and flowed mana through his own Strength Stat, into the diamond. A muddle of all different red lights came out of his palm, soaking into the gem. Crimsons and carnelians, maroons and scarlets, like a tiny crash of every kind of red, from vibrant to subdued, from pink to near-black, all soaked into the diamond.

The diamond vibrated. Erick didn’t have time to understand what was happening. The diamond shattered in every direction like an m-80 detonating in his open hand, carving hundreds of points of damage from the [Ward] Erick had put in the room last night and stinging like a mother-fucker. Erick flinched back, hard, leaping away from his seat, holding his hand. Teressa appeared at the doorway.

“I’m fine!” Erick said, stopping Teressa from rushing into the room. “Ouch.” He unclenched his hand, slowly, flinching at the lingering pain, saying, “Bad enchant. That’s on me.”

Teressa nodded, staying out of the room, but remaining in the doorway.

Erick looked at his hand. There was a bit of blood, but not much.

And then he stood up straight, holding out his hand. He strung mana through the rest of his Stats, in order, producing prominences of light out of his palm, like he was holding rainbow fire.

Strength produced a small radiance of every red.

Vitality was also red, but a shade more orange.

Willpower shone brilliant blue, like the sky and the ocean and blueberries all at once.

Focus radiated blue, but more teal, and a bit lighter all around.

HP radiated Strength’s colors, but shifted deeper, like someone had turned up the contrast. HP Regen was a heavily contrasted version of Vitality. Mana and Mana Regen followed this same trend.

“Huh.” Erick said, “Neat.”

Erick’s next experiment was flowing mana through both Strength and Willpower at the same time. It worked, sorta. Out of Erick’s palm came every color of magenta, purple, and violet under the sun. Another experiment with this new magenta light and another prepared diamond instantly caused another explosion, but Erick and Teressa were both ready for it, and the [Ward] in the room had already regenerated to full. Creating an All-Stat item was going to take some skill, and some time, and it might even prove impossible, but creating enough Willpower and Focus gems to complete his Class Ability Quest might only take another day or two.

Erick looked over his workbench and put his 10 Strength ring back on. He might not be able to make a plus 30 Stat gem, but he could certainly string together fifty of the smaller ones. For Erick's immediate needs, the enchant would only have to hold a moment, anyway. He would feel a lot better about his ability to defend himself when his daily [Ward] was worth 5800 points and could regenerate a thousand points every 5 minutes.

Erick packed up his enchanting books, tomes, and some diamond fragments into his shoulderbag; it was time to head out to the farms.
