Cocking an eyebrow, he gazed at the marbled bisected torso.

She quieted.

“Fourth, subject designation will be restricted to my judgement only. This will be the case in perpetuity, but may be revisited once onboarding is complete. In general, it should prevent any more confusion when it comes to situations like this.”

Kairon went through a mental checklist of the major revisions, remembering the last one. “Oh! And of course, your actions cost us. You will owe the city personal restitution debt, payable in gold, essence, or equivalent asset valuations. The fine print of which is, as usual, notated cleanly in the revision. I suggest you review it as well. Since you are clearly unable to do so at the time of this agreement, I’ve gone to the trouble of preparing some recommended repayment plans for you.”

With interest, of course. The rate was in footnote 4B. Clearly visible, if she looked.

The city lord paused, letting Sythara take all that in. Those amendments made up the stick of his plan. To really emphasize that, he made an instinctive tug on Sovereign Eye.

A notification appeared.

Accept pact amendments with Sythara The Unraveler? — Yes / No

Below it, a full revised copy of the text came into being.

She grit her teeth, staring in dismay at the new pact.

Kairon revelled one final time in the satisfaction of it all. He was fairly certain he saw more than one bead of sweat trickle down the demoness’s forehead.

Alas, his deviousness had its limits. At the end of the day, he cared more for managing Sythara than disciplining her. She had unique talents, skills, and knowledge that he wanted for his city. Throwing it away when it could be reined in was purely wasteful.

She just needed a firm claw to guide that crazed scientific pursuit. And for that to work, Sythara needed not just the stick, but the carrot too.

“Now then, before you go off agreeing to this, listen to me carefully. I do not want a void councilor I must always watch. I want a partner. Someone that can lead our city’s research, and aid us in our journey to revolutionize our way of life. To that end, you’ll see in the altered agreement that I’ve added specific criteria to your onboarding. It will no longer be an arbitrary goal, but a set of real milestones.”

The city lord had thought long and hard about this. He decided that, to maximize her performance and loyalty, this was the most likely method.

She flipped through her own glowing parchment, coming to the new list at the end. “Three months minimum time adhering to all onboarding requirements, successful operation of ritual circle, and approved experimentation oversight pilot.” The demoness hissed. “What is this pilot?”

He nodded. Good. The fact she didn’t complain about the first two items means she realizes just what this means.

“You’ll find it referenced in the addendum. Essentially, a proper experiment under my oversight. I want you to show me that you can responsibly use city resources for something that interests you. As a scientist, I know that your own pursuits will always be paramount. So, I want you to prove to me that this is not mutually exclusive to your role here. Perhaps even show me that the two are one and the same. Parallel, as it were.”

“Which means?”

“Which means you come to me with a proper hypothesis, method, materials, and risk assessment of a topic of your choice. I approve it. And you bring me back the results. Do this, and that box is checked. Complete the other two requirements, and your onboarding is complete. I’ll give you real freedom, real authority, real power.”

He held up one claw. “But. There will still be a measure of oversight. Nothing invasive, mind you. Weekly reports, quarterly performance reviews, and an annual revisit of our agreement according to my purview.”

The demoness just sat there, going through it all. She flipped through the rest of the pages, eyes going left to right as she read.

When she finished, she set the parchment down and stared at him. “What’s this final section? The post incident action list?”

Kairon clicked his tongue. “Oh. Glad you brought that up. To finalize today’s mishaps, I need to be convinced it truly won’t happen again. So you’ll be preparing me a mandatory incident report, complete with this lovely little report called a root cause analysis.”

“A root what?”

The demon sighed. “You better sit. I’ll walk you through it.”

In the corner of the room, Veron’s stoney form watched silently on. Expressionless eyes witnessing a dealing of its own unwilling making. And, just like the bond he had with the metal grate below, it witnessed the growing one between demon and demoness.
