Oh! He was inside a Privacy, so nothing happened, of course. Or maybe there was some interaction between Fairy Moon’s necklace erasing his worldline and the manasphere history of everything he touched. Hmm. Well. Something to investigate, but whatever. Erick [Stoneshape]d the broken bits back into the table, repairing back to how it should be, and reconsidered if he wanted to wear this necklace at all. If it was interfering with [Mend], then maybe not. But… People would see his core if he took this off...

Anyway! Back to his rocking body! Erick smiled at himself, because having this sort of physical strength was a draw, for sure…

Erick mentally pulled back, attempting to reevaluate all of his thoughts.

People didn’t like monsters, therefore, Erick probably shouldn’t be a ‘monster’ most of the time. Plus, a core was actually a vulnerability, but, his Normal Form’s physical brain and such was just as much a vulnerability as a core. A brain was on the edge of his body though, when compared to a core which was center mass. Sniper-types tried to aim for brains to score a Critical, but often missed, while most other types and general auto-targeting spells, like [Force Bolt], all went toward center mass; toward the core/heart area.

Erick wasn’t quite sure if he could survive missing a head. He wasn’t an orcol. But then again, he wasn’t a human, either. And, he had a core, which was where his soul was anyway. As long as his soul remained, the body could be healed, right?

Or was that wrong.

That was probably wrong.

Moving on.

There was no need to have a core to make magic, while under the Script. Leaving aside all the physical boosts that accretion gave a person, a core was only necessary when the Script wasn’t there, or when the Script had a hard time reaching, like in places such as Ar’Cosmos. In almost all other places, the Script was there to assist in all ways. If Erick ever went back into Ar’Cosmos it would be too soon, so therefore he would likely have Script access for the foreseeable future.

… He would likely need to go into Ar’Cosmos for some shitty reason, wouldn’t he.

… And eventually, Erick would need to get used to having a core.

But perhaps even more than that, the Script was an assistant, and one day the training wheels would be coming off. Not tomorrow, and maybe not even in 50 years, but in 100 years all bets were off. When new worlds opened up, the Script to come next could take any form at all, and so the only truly reliable way to cast magic was to have a core.

And besides that, Erick was a Wizard.

He needed to understand all the foibles of living with a core. All the weaknesses and strengths. The goal, after all, was to fully transform into a mana crystal of his own making while simultaneously retaining a normal, functional body; a Paradox. When that happened he would have a core without having a core; like he was now, but as a cohesive whole, and without the Script supporting and dictating how his two halves were split.

Once he managed to put himself together in a cohesive way and achieve a fully crystalline self, like how the Shades apparently were, no one could influence his mind or his soul or any part of him without his consent. Physical damage of all sorts would remain a problem, but all the more dangerous magics would be solved.

No more mind control.

No more fairy problems.

“I suppose... I’ll be this for a while,” Erick mumbled to himself, as he looked down at his hands, and at the corded muscles of his forearms. He made two strong fists—

Benevolent lightning danced across his fingers, flickering out from inside his body before settling back below his skin. The white sparks left not a trace in their passing, except in the widening of Erick’s eyes.

“… It’ll take some getting used to.”

He didn’t notice how his eyes flickered with white lighting, but he would soon enough.
