Erick ignored that trauma, and considering which spells to Favor, though with his Intelligence and with the Script helping, his mana costs were already next to negligible. And so, since there were no needs…

Yggdrasil got a Favoring, because he deserved one, of course. Ophiel already had a Favoring so it was only right for Yggdrasil to get one, too. [Gate] got a Favoring because of course it did. [Pristine Benevolence] got a Favoring, too. Erick had never Favored [Greater Lightwalk], it seemed, but it wasn’t like he had needed that Favoring, anyway. Now, though, with [Pristine Benevolence] being weird and new, a Favoring there might actually matter in the most extreme of cases, though Erick couldn’t think of such a case at the moment. The last thing to get a Favoring was… Nothing, actually. Erick couldn’t think of anything else he had that needed another 25% cost reduction.

The Favored Abilities could just stay there, too.

Lastly, he selected the Class Quest for Mental Defenses. Because, duh. YES, he was going to pick that one. Of course. But then, as the Quest popped up, and then a secondary prompt appeared, Erick was suddenly not so sure that this would work out how he had wanted.

Class Ability Quest!

Achieve tier 3 Mind Magic.

Reward: Mental Defenses

Caution!

You possess no mind magic capabilities!

The Quest <Mental Defenses> might be impossible for you.

“Well fuck,” Erick said.

… Well. Not a total loss. With doubled Health he would be more resistant to Mind Magic. Theoretically. According to what Quilatalap and others had said, anyway.

Erick moved on, selecting his next option with which to fill the space created by Double Mana and Double Mana Regen getting absorbed into the singular Lesser World Warden.

It was Mana Shield, which would split any damage received between his Mana and his Health. With how high he expected his Mana and Health to be after he finally activated his Class Abilities in his Other Form, taking a hit to the deep resources of his Mana in order to have double effective Health, seemed like a good idea. The only way he was in danger of dying these days was from some sort of concentrated…

Attack. Spell. Mind mani—

From quite a fucking lot, actually.

Erick’s thoughts began to spiral as he considered all the danger looming all around him, threatening to drown him, to kill, to take away everything, to leave him in a world of ash and death. Dragons burning the horizons. Fairies leaping out from behind cabinet drawers with knives in their hands and lulling words on their lips. Shades with swords made of voids, sticking those voids through his chest and cutting off his arms.

Erick breathed deep.

He breathed deep for a little while.

Then he looked back to the blue boxes. He rapidly spent some points to flush out his Other Form’s Willpower and Focus, trying to get through this bookkeeping while he still had a chance, and as fast as he could. He then simply spent 9 points to reactivate his Class Abilities, and then he got the Quest for Mana Shield.

Mana Shield was a rather simple Quest since it was a very basic ability; cast a [Personal Ward] worth 10,000 defense.

Well.

It was simple for Erick.

For a normal mage, just starting out with 20 in Willpower and the x3 Skill for 600 Mana, and with Clarity and a Favored [Ward] for 25% costs, they’d normally only be able to get a [Personal Ward] worth 1,200 defense, since [Personal Ward] was a double cost magic. But for a real mage, middling capability, with Scion of Willpower and 50 Willpower for 6,000 Mana, a similarly fully-powered and Skilled [Personal Ward] would be worth around 12,000 defense.

A world of difference.

It was why a lot of mages went for Scion of Willpower, because ten times as much [Personal Ward] defense was a lot.

Life versus death for most adventuring mages. Do you survive a swipe from a monster and live to reposition, or not? Do you just die? Are you able to get back home and hug your parents, or your kids? Or do they burn a painting of you, because they had no body to burn? Do you—

Ah.

Spiraling thoughts again.

Erick stilled himself.

Then he spent a meager 900 mana, and with his effective 3% mana costs via Intelligence, produced a 15,000 defense [Personal Ward]. As that white glow settled into his body and vanished, two things happened. The stacked [Unbreakable Form] that had suffused his body, providing him with 500 points of absolute defense, vanished; you could only have one [Personal Ward] active at a time.

And a blue box appeared.

Class Ability Quest Complete!

Cast a personal ward worth at least 10,000 defense. 1/1

Reward: Mana Shield

And then Erick spent a point on that Ability, to activate it in his Other Form, because, of course, the Script was meant to help people; not monsters. Monsters could unlock Abilities if they were sapient, but they had to spend a lot of extra resources to actually gain those Abilities. Erick smiled a bit at that. He also grinned as he took in his Other Form’s Status. He was looking robust—

“Whoop!” Erick said, applying a point into a thing he had told himself he would do, and then almost forgot. “And Scion of Balance, for a double multiplier in every…” Erick’s voice failed him as his selection finalized and a sudden wooziness took hold. He mumbled, “Oh. Right. This is a stressful… adjustment...” With airy words, Erick whispered, “Right.”

And then he crashed to the floor.

- - - -

Erick sat up.

“Hello, Erick,” Rozeta said, as she moved around glowing white runes upon a blue wall the size of a standard chalkboard. She was in her human-shaped white wrought form and wearing a snappy white pantsuit. “I’ll be right with you.”

The sky was a blue expanse. The ground was a solid white cloud, and Erick had just sat up from that ground. It was as soft as a very firm bed and a part of him wanted to lay right back down, but he did not. There were no walls. Rozeta’s blue chalkboard just hung there, while she clicked and dragged runes around, as one would move a single ball around in a vertically-aligned ball pit. Erick tried to understand what he was seeing, but there were too many runes and they were layered too deep to make any sense of them.

He couldn’t be here, anyway. He had no time to waste.

What if something happened—

“We’re time-dilated, Erick,” Rozeta said, while still dealing with her runes. “Normally, the choosing of a Scion is a chance to greet a god that suits you and to gain some insight into what might be the rest of your life, but you’ve already done a lot of that and I’m exceedingly busy at the moment. And so, much like that time when you gained all those New Stats back at Last Shadow’s Feast, let’s do that again, okay? I’ll watch over you while you adjust, however you need to adjust. Your body is already done, by the way, but mentally…” She glanced his way. “You can take as much time as you want.”

Erick instantly collapsed back on the soft, yet firm cloudy floor. He felt some emotion adjacent to relief that he couldn’t quite put into words. Relief, and also thankfulness, probably.

Rozeta returned to her work, while her voice drifted over him, “Feel free to conjure some of your favorite foods from Earth, or anything else you wish to conjure. This is effectively a dream space half under your control.”

Erick remained flat on the floor, softly breathing. He sat up, “Do you have any movies from Earth? Any of the new stuff?”

“Nope.” Rozeta said, “We’re not actually connected to Earth at all, but you could watch a movie that you’ve already seen before. It’ll be an approximation cobbled together from your memories, but since your memories are rather good, it might be close to the original.”

Erick had hoped…

He wasn’t sure what he had hoped for. He did not want to go back to Earth. He also knew that Veird was not connected to Earth at all. Maybe there had been a movie coming out that he had wanted to see, but which his fall to Veird had prevented… Though. No. That wasn’t it, either.

Maybe he just wanted some normalcy.

Or to sleep.

“I want to sleep for a while, and know that I’m actually safe.” Erick asked, “Can I do that, here?”

“Absolutely.”

A bed lifted Erick out of the clouds. Perfectly-sized pillows and warm-looking comforters materialized out of the intangible white mist all around. Erick smiled at that, chuckling a little. And then he covered himself up. He was already wearing pajamas, too, so that was perfect.

Rozeta didn’t look away from her chalkboard as she said, “Your body will only be out of it for moments, but if you wish, I can ask Sitnakov to station himself nearby. The man is truly repentant.”

Erick had a hard time believing Sitnakov was actually sorry, but…

Maybe he was.

“Sitnakov can show up when I wake up.”

Rozeta said, “Sure thing. I’ll let him know. Also: Phagar has some Time Magic tricks that will allow you to do this yourself. Speeding up one’s own time is difficult, but should be easy for yourself.”

Now that made Erick feel a lot better. Better enough to chuckle a little. Erick smiled to himself as he said, “Time Magic with Phagar was already on the list, but it’s just moved up a few notches.”

Rozeta glanced backward at Erick, smirking, then she returned to her duties, saying, “Good luck with Time Magic. You should be very good at it.”

Erick nodded, feeling sleepy. Then he looked over to Rozeta and tried to understand what she was doing. “Good luck with… Whatever you’re doing, too.”

“Mostly soulwork and mana wrangling.” Rozeta continued doing what she was doing, saying, “A lot of mana wrangling. Do you want to know more?”

Did he want to know more?

Well… Yeah.

Erick blinked to try and clear his eyes. The chalkboard now looked like an open window into a world of fractally-floating marbles, each spinning into and on the others in continuous spirals of transformation and recombination. In some places the spirals and movements were too complicated for the marbles to handle, and some of those marbles broke off to float free among all the rest. Rozeta was plucking those free floaters out of the sea of marbles, to place them back where they had to go, or to put them into a new spiral she was starting off to the side. Erick blinked a bit, and the whole vista of an ocean behind the chalkboard transformed back into a mishmash ball pit, like the one Jane had used to love when she was a kid, until someone peed in the ball pit and she got all wet. They never went back to that place, afterward. It closed down a year later.

… Erick wanted to know what was happening, but whatever Rozeta was doing with the ocean of fractal marbles was too much for him right now

“Maybe later, Rozeta. Thanks for the offer, though.”

Rozeta nodded, and continued doing what she was doing.

Erick put his head down on the pillows. He heard Rozeta wish him a good night, but he was already asleep.

- - - -

Ten hours and ten moments later, Erick awoke with his face planted on the stone floor of his mage tower. He blinked a bit, and then he got up and stretched. And he felt fantastic. Once again, and in a way that would likely never get old until he had done it a thousand times already, Erick was amazed at how nice his body moved, and the wonder that was physical Stats.

His first action was to check on the Ophiel around him, but when he saw nothing untoward outside of the Privacy he had cast into his mage tower, he moved on; back to what he had been doing before he selected Scion of Balance. He checked his Status.

And he wondered if he would ever have a reason to switch back to his Normal Form.

Erick Flatt

Protean, age 0

Level 65, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 1.08e15/ 2.77e15

Class: 10/10

Points: 27

HP

3635/14,400

41,040 per day

MP

2,845/26,760

41,040 per day

Strength

92

+28

[120]

Vitality

91

+28

[119]

Dexterity

92

+28

[120]

Constitution

91

+28

[119]

Perception

103

+28

[131]

Willpower

195

+28

[223]

Focus

195

+28

[223]

Intelligence

104

+28

[132]

Favored Spell Waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Like, sure, his Normal Form had a lot more Mana Regen with Lesser World Warden, but this Other Form had over 14,000 Health. Around 11,000 more Health! And since Health was a barrier against the most dangerous of magics, like Soul Magic and Mind Magic, with this, he was a lot more resistant to that stuff!

Theoretically.

Fairy Moon didn’t seem to care about Health when she worked her Mind Magic, tho—

Like a bolt of lightning from the blue, Erick had a thought.

The very second he had stepped into that [Gate] of hers, had his Health vanished? His Health had still been there when he was inside the Twisted Vision, but maybe, in that specific case, inside that springtime tunnel of pink and green and white, Fairy Moon had pulled him directly into the part of Ar’Cosmos where his Health didn’t matter. Perhaps?

Something to think about.

Most people only had 600 Health, max. That wouldn’t protect anyone from the kind of magic that was truly dangerous, though, but warriors, with 12,000 Health, were expected to shrug off most dangerous magics unless they lost a lot of Health, first. Theoretically, with 14k Health, Erick should be as ‘immune’ to mental and soul attacks as a strong Scion of Strength warrior! Hopefully.

Another sudden thought occurred…

Did he want to remain in this Other Form? More than only when needed?

14,000 Health meant a lot more Health could be spent on spell costs, too, through Blood Mana. His Normal Form only had around 3,000 Health. As a ‘monster’ Erick effectively gained 50% more ‘Mana’— Well. This was the primary reason for trying out Scion of Balance, wasn’t it? Having all these extra resources had been the primary reason long before he actually had all these other thoughts about protecting himself from Mind Magic.

But also, in this Other Form, he could keep an eye on his core at all times, ensuring that it was well-maintained. Later, when he figured out a [Blessing of Renew], or something else to allow him to maintain his core without his direct supervision, he could forgo that need. But for now he could check himself whenever.

Plus, he liked being physically strong.

Erick grabbed an edge of his stone table by the window and—

SNAP

The stone edge crumbled and broke as Erick pinched the stone in his hand. That was kinda fun. He cast a [Mend] on the table—

Nothing happened.

… Nothing happened?—

