What’s left of it. Ali had to remind herself that it was gone several times a day. It simply didn’t feel real sometimes. While killing the monsters, and undead, destroying the dungeon, and liberating her home gave her a sense of purpose, it was hard for her to recognize that even after they succeeded, at best she would have liberated a pile of ancient broken stone. Her home was gone – gone for millennia now – and without the people, magic, books, and everything, all she would have liberated would be a ruin. A curiosity for the explorers, archeologists, and historians of this age.

“Do you want a cookie?” Mato said, rolling back up to sitting.

“Are you for real?” Ali asked, perking up.

“I have chocolate chip cookies in here,” he said, rummaging around in his pack, before producing his incredible treasure. “Just chocolate, or chocolate with nuts?”

“Ten of each!”

“Huh. Even Ancient Mistresses should start with one.”

Making a great show of begrudging the action, Mato dropped a chunky cookie onto her palm. Ali bit delicately into the chocolate goodness, sighed so hard she physically shuddered, and then before she could even blink, it was gone, and Mato was chuckling.

“Hey, I found something down below!” Calen said, returning suddenly, catching Ali’s attention with his unexpected excitement.

“What is it?” She looked up to see him shifting quickly out of the shadows as his magic faded from his shrouded form.

“Aah, you’ve got to see it!” His motes of light sprang up from his hands floating upward toward the ceiling, filling the room with brightness as he eagerly beckoned to them to follow.

“Catch,” Mato said, tossing him a cookie which he snatched out of the air with a deft hand and a raised eyebrow, but when he realized what he’d caught, a grin crossed his face.

Ali levered herself up to standing wearily and decided that walking might be less work than using her barrier magic. She followed Calen down the long winding stone stairs he had found at the back of the room for much longer than she would have liked, before emerging into a dark room with a polished stone floor.

No dust, she thought, observing the small detail before Calen’s lights floated out into the giant expanse of the room, and what she saw took her breath away. As the lights reached the distant walls, they revealed rows and rows of reddish-black steel shapes gleaming with the characteristic dark of Eimuuran steel. Everything at ground level was gone, stripped bare, but hanging from the walls, beyond the reach of the undead, the glory of the finest work of Dal’mohra’s legendary forges was still proudly on display.

“Wow,” Malika exclaimed quietly, staring at the rows and rows of halberds, swords, daggers, maces, axes, and armor. “Can you imagine showing this room to Thuli?”

“I think he might have a heart attack,” Mato answered, chuckling as he stepped deeper into the armory.

In that moment, Ali felt a small surge of pride rekindled within her. Her home might be lost forever, and her path forward unclear, but even the ruins of what had once been, still held the power to impress her and her friends. Tiredness forgotten, she walked into the room and summoned a large barrier in front of Malika who was staring up at the equipment displayed well out of reach with a look of longing on her face.

Ali hopped onto the barrier and invited Malika to join her, enjoying how her expression suddenly changed to excitement as she suddenly understood what Ali intended. With a simple gesture of her reinvigorated will, she flew them both up to the displays and stopped within reach of a set of beautifully crafted longswords. With clear reverence mixed with excitement, Malika lifted one off the wall mounting and turned it over in her hands.

“This is incredible,” she whispered.

***

“Ali, do you want any of this gear for your Grimoire?” Malika asked. They had spent half an hour flying around the armory collecting whatever Malika had wanted, and now they were sitting on the floor in the middle of the enormous armory surrounded by an array of weapons and armor, carefully organized by type and function. Eimuuran steel to one side, bone weapons and armor to the other.

“Isn’t this all quite valuable?” Ali asked. She had expected Malika would want to sell most of it.

“Yes, it is. I’ve been discarding the poor quality and broken stuff and even just keeping the good items – only, I’m out of storage space. Even all this bone equipment the dungeon created is at least masterwork quality. Anything you can learn and make later is another piece I don’t have to carry back. And it will make you stronger, too.”

“I don’t have any free chapters, but I can learn the swords, armor, and shields at least,” Ali answered. That would cover quite a lot of the gear Malika had collected, and hopefully, between the four of them, they would be able to carry the rest. At least, committing the shields and plate armor to her Grimoire would take care of most of the heaviest stuff.

Variant: Eimuuran Steel Scimitar added to Imprint: SwordVariant: Bone Shortsword added to Imprint: SwordVariant: Steel Bulwark added to Imprint: Shield…Variant: Eimuuran Steel Cuirass added to Imprint: ArmorVariant: Bone-studded Leather added to Imprint: Armor

Ali’s imprints exploded with new information, and as the runes flowed into the inscriptions, her magic manifested more and more pages, growing the size of her Grimoire visibly as she deleted hundreds of kilograms of steel and bone. What remained were the vambraces, helms, sabatons, and weapons she had no imprint space for – and several items that were of unknown level – higher than she thought she could learn at her current skill level.

“Thanks, Ali, that’s much better,” Malika said, beginning to divvy up the most valuable remaining gear to each of them so they could help store it all, the majority going to Mato who had both a mundane pack and his storage ring. “We really need to get you two the upgraded guild ring soon. It’s supposed to come with a lot more storage capacity.”

“Let’s do that tomorrow,” Mato agreed. “I need to stop by Thuli’s and get some repairs for my armor.”

“There’s something strange over here,” Calen called out, interrupting the conversation. “I can’t quite make it out.” He had his small dagger out and was poking and prodding at an unremarkable section of wall and scrutinizing it closely under the light of his magic, and presumably with his potent perception skill.

Curious, Ali walked over to join him, but she couldn’t see much of anything strange.

“I don’t see anything?”

“Look at this,” he said, jabbing his dagger at a different section of the wall than the one he had been examining, making a clinking, scraping sound as the metal blade stabbed tiny chips and scratches in the polished stone finish.

“So?” Ali wasn’t quite sure what he was getting at with this demonstration. Maybe I’m just too tired.

“Now look at this part,” he said, repeating the same exercise on the section of wall he had been studying so intently. The sounds were the same, but when he dusted the wall with his hand, Ali suddenly saw what had caught his attention. Something was off about the entire wall, the dagger had left no marks, and even besides that, it seemed that the polished stone looked just a tiny bit too perfect.

“I saw something like this in the library,” Ali said, her interest suddenly piqued. Focusing on the ambient mana, she noticed a similar lack of mana flowing through the space before her – an effect so subtle that she had simply not noticed it before Calen had drawn her attention to it with his dagger experiment.

“That one was a very sophisticated illusion, it even masked the mana signature…” Ali trailed off as she focused her deconstruction magic on the unusual area of the wall. As before, her magic seemed to shimmer and disappear as it came into contact with the wall, as the illusion suppressed her sight of her own magic. After a few seconds, the space around the wall twisted impossibly and then snapped back to reality with a puff of disrupted ancient mana and a sense of shattering an invisible magical formation.

The plain, unadorned section of the wall was gone, and in its place was an exquisitely crafted door of the same marble as the wall. Not seeing any further magical formations, Ali reached out and tried the handle, but it refused to budge.

“Here, let me try,” Malika said, stepping forward with her fancy lockpicking tools already in her hands. For someone who ostensibly didn’t enjoy burglary, Malika was certainly getting a lot of practice with her lockpicking today. It took only a few moments of poking and twisting before the door made an audible click and swung open with a loud grinding sound – and fortunately, no explosion this time.

Beyond the doorway lay a small dusty room filled with stone tables and alcoves – many of which stood empty or filled with indistinctly shaped piles of dust that may once have been something on display.

However, not everything had succumbed to the passage of time. On the wall were a couple of pieces of armor, a shield, and a few weapons that gleamed with the characteristic color of Eimuuran steel, but there was an additional swirl of unfamiliar black mana that Ali had never encountered before telling her that there was something different about these pieces.

“What is this place?” Ali asked. The armory had not been one of her common hangout spots, and so she had absolutely no idea what they might find in the regular space, let alone some secret vault hidden by an illusion and a locked door.

“I think it’s the secret operations armory, or something similar,” Malika answered.

“What do you mean?”

“Most governments have spies and covert agents for secret work. Probably this place is for their equipment. The gear in here seems tailored for specific purposes, and not the kind of stuff you might advertise to the general public. Here, look at these.” Malika drew her attention to a set of daggers arrayed on a stone table, and as she brushed some of the dust off, Ali saw the gleam of the metal and the black wisps of mana that seemed to hungrily absorb any light that fell upon them.

Eimuuran Darksteel Dagger – level 25 (Shadow)Masterfully crafted from Eimuuran Darksteel, this dagger has been enhanced to cloak your attacks with shadow magic enchantments.Damage: Piercing, Physical, ShadowAdditional Shadow damage on hitMana: Cloak your dagger with obscuring shadowsRequirements: 88 DexterityOne Handed – Dagger – Eimuuran Darksteel

“Darksteel?” Ali asked, examining the blade. At least her identify told her what the unfamiliar mana was.

“Everything in here is Darksteel – it’s a type of metal that is ideal for shadow magic enchantments. And the craftsmanship is excellent. Here, let me show you.” Malika picked up one of the daggers, and with a little infusion of her mana, the blade, hilt, and even half of Malika’s arm was instantly shrouded by an ever-shifting cloak of shadows that warped as she waved her arm back and forth, making the blade impossible to pin down visually. Even with her mana sight, Ali struggled to track it.

“It’s an assassin’s weapon,” Malika said. “Not that I would endorse assassination, but they should be very good for your rogues, especially attacking with ambush from stealth.”

Hopefully, my rogues have enough dexterity to use these, Ali thought, examining the blade after Malika handed it back to her. At least there were several of them and the level ranges overlapped with at least her highest-level rogues.

Variant: Eimuuran Darksteel Dagger added to Imprint: Dagger.

Ali looked up to find Malika staring at a black metal-bound staff hanging on the wall.

“You ok?”

“It’s nothing,” Malika said, brushing off a thought. But then she seemed to reconsider and continued. “It’s a perfect monk staff. My dad used to use staves, and he would have loved something like this.”

Ironwood Staff of Shadows – level 37 (Shadow)Crafted from a single bough of Ironwood and bound with Eimuuran Darksteel, this staff has been enhanced to cloak your attacks with shadow magic enchantments.Damage: Blunt, PhysicalAdditional Shadow damage on hit+10% chance to blockMana: Cloak your staff with obscuring shadowsRequirements: Dexterity 130Two Handed – Quarterstaff – Ironwood

“That has three enchants on it!” Ali exclaimed. She had heard of such prodigious feats of crafting, but she had never personally seen such a thing.

“Yes, this is a very valuable weapon. It's an uncommon grade item.”

“You should take it if it reminds you of your father,” Ali said. She had her father’s shrine, and silly as it sounded, simply having something she could touch that reminded her of her parents had helped her manage her feelings – feelings of being disconnected from her family and the safety of her past world.

“My skills all require me to be unarmed,” Malika said, her hands finally reaching for the staff and lifting it from its mounting on the wall. “But I’m sure Weldin will give us enough money to pay for a whole lot of potions.” She turned and grinned at Ali before storing the staff and moving on to the next display.

“Why is so much of this room just dust?” Ali asked as she watched Malika collect up the few remaining pieces.

“Government secret ops probably employed a lot of rogues, and most of them don’t have the strength for plate armor. The bulk of what was in here was probably leather, and that doesn’t last as long as enchanted steel.”

This was an aspect of Dal’mohra that had been entirely outside her awareness growing up. The idea of a secret force of rogues carrying out missions in the shadows seemed scary. It immediately called to mind several – admittedly popular – stories of deception and corruption in the urban underworld as spies and agents vied for influence and power with the tools of intrigue and murder that Ryn had recommended to her. Ali shivered, glad that she had not had to deal with anything like that in real life.
