Mato eagerly watched the Skeletal Wyvern circling lazily above the stone ruins drawing slowly closer, a barely visible swirl of greenish mist trailing from its wings. According to Ali, it was a manifestation of its poison mana – a toxic aura – and the reason he kept being poisoned just by being close to the monsters.

His anticipation was entirely due to his desire to test out his new Swipe: Battle Master advance, and Calen’s ready acceptance of his proposal of a field test. They stood amidst the strewn rubble of what had once been a large building, now completely destroyed, in an uncommon moment of quiet – the lull between the bouts of mad chaos and destruction when they charged through the undead-infested buildings.

“Ready?” Calen asked.

“Yup!” he said.

Calen stepped up next to him, nocking a long arrow to his bow. In a single smooth action, he drew and fired, sending a trailing chain of light flying into the dark sky. Despite seeing it so many times, Mato was yet again impressed with his friend’s accuracy. The arrow flew true to the mark, and the magical chain entangled the powerful wyvern snarling its bone wings, instantly drawing taut and dragging it toward the ground.

“Nice shot,” Mato observed.

The wyvern shrieked and struggled against the magical bonds, circling lower and lower as the grappling chain of magic reeled it in. Mato shifted his form and as soon as his foe touched down, he charged – his magic accelerating his mass into the wyvern with a crash. While it was bigger than he was, he definitely had it beaten in sheer weight. I don’t have to fly, he thought as his impact knocked the wyvern back several feet. It immediately reared up, slashing him with its talons before being dragged back to the ground by the chain.

You have been afflicted with Poison+3 Poison damage per secondPoison – Duration: 10 minutes. Count: 1

As soon as the toxic miasma touched him, he felt his life begin to drain, and simultaneously an immediate sense of enhanced mental focus as Battle Trance activated from the damage and his stamina began to regenerate.

Perhaps the ‘trance’ part of the name isn’t just flavor, he thought. It was almost as if the world around him was suddenly muted, holding its breath, drawing himself and his opponent into an almost startlingly enhanced clarity. He was still getting used to the mental component of his Battle Trance, and he had been surprised to find that the skill was very liberal with what it considered to be a valid trigger. Seemingly anything that damaged him would trigger it – including poisons, or damage he transferred to himself with Arboreal Sanctuary.

He refocused, spending health and mana to maximize his opening attack. His Swipe struck the wyvern under the left wing, staggering it as the bone armor fractured and splintered under his powerful strike. One thing was for certain – with the enhanced mental clarity, he had to watch out for overthinking during battle.

He settled in, focusing his mind on his potent battle senses as his skill warned him of the vicious tail strike just in time for him to block some of the damage. He attacked again, working to build up his restoration and tear through as much of the monster’s armor as he could.

The wyvern retaliated with a spray of green poison from between its bony jaws. He had long since given up on trying to avoid that attack, simply taking the increase in poison damage, and relying on his Brutal Restoration and high vitality to endure it.

Your Poison has increased to 2.

As it was the focus of his test, Mato noticed the exact instant when Calen’s chain disintegrated into tiny motes of light, drifting softly into the surrounding darkness before fading away. The skeletal wyvern clearly noticed too and immediately spread its bony wings and launched itself into the air with a dismissive screech.

I wonder how… Immediately, he sensed the opportunity as his Swipe: Battle Master skill pulsed in his mind. He reared up and swiped downwards feeling a shocking rush of power and momentum in his strike. His clawed paw slammed into the wyvern, tearing long gashes across the bony flank, and slamming it back to the ground to the tune of a painful grunt. Instantly, dozens of tough, gnarled brown roots attached to the stone sprang up and entwined the wyvern’s legs and tail, even growing in through its ribcage, preventing it from fleeing.

Awesome, now you can’t ignore me anymore! Not even the belated realization that he had missed an opportunity to use the overpowering strike to fuel even more of his Brutal Restoration dented his elation at being able to face his foe on an even footing.

The wyvern roared in frustration and lashed out, striking Malika with its tail. Mato transferred most of the damage from the attack to himself using his Arboreal Sanctuary skill, and as he did, he felt his Swipe: Battle Master trigger again. Not questioning it, Mato retaliated instantly, this time fully empowering the strike with both Brutal Restoration and Bestial Combat, striking the wyvern on the wing and shattering the bone in a spray of splinters. His restoration magic spiked sharply from the sheer power of his attack, and more roots sprang from the stone, tangling with the wyvern’s legs, ensuring it could not fly away.

Yes! I love this skill!

Undead were not reputed to be particularly smart, and the skeletal wyvern was no exception, persistently trying to escape and allowing him to finish the battle quickly with a few powerful, well-placed retaliatory strikes.

“Wow, that was impressive!” Ali said, congratulating him. “You killed it by yourself, and so quickly.”

“The roots make it a very strong control skill,” Calen said, thoughtfully writing in his notebook.

“That strike looks incredibly powerful,” Malika said. “Did you forget to enhance the first one?”

“Yup,” Mato answered as he transformed back so he could speak. It had been such a novel trigger for the skill that he had simply seized on it in the moment and forgotten his two support skills. But every single one afterward he had spent the health and mana gladly, for the sheer power and effectiveness of the attack. “And it has a high crit rate, the killing blow was a crit and it felt like cracking an egg.”

“You don’t have that much dexterity for crits, though?” Calen queried.

“It seems to use strength, more like a crushing blow than a precision attack.” It was about the best way he could explain how the attack felt when it landed. His power had been enhanced as if his strength had suddenly doubled, and the bone under his paw had shattered like eggshells from the impact of his strike. He had certainly not been thinking about the exact perfect location to hit, focused only on hitting with all his might.

Mindful of new notifications, he said, “Give me a second.”

Your group has defeated Skeletal Wyvern – Undead Dragon – level 31.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 31.+10 attribute points.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 16.Swipe has reached level 21.Brutal Restoration has reached level 21.Bestial Combat has reached level 21.Battle Trance has reached level 3 (+2).

Identify has reached level 8.

Perfect! The sound of his level notification chime was the perfect adornment to an excellent fight. While most of his skill increases were the results of long hours slogging through the ruined buildings, rather than this single solo challenge against a skeletal wyvern, Mato felt a certain satisfaction at the timely synchronicity. He quickly distributed his ten points as evenly as he could among vitality, endurance, perception, and wisdom.

Dusting off his hands, he cracked his neck and said, “Right, what’s next? Undead pancakes?”

“Yuck,” Ali said pointedly.

Malika snickered, “I vote we fire the cook.”

It’s a good thing he’s so loud, Malika thought, reflecting on her situation, once again fighting deep inside one of the buildings.

The problem was that she couldn’t see a thing. Calen had his crazy eyes that could see in almost total darkness, and Mato had his Survival Instinct, which also enhanced his regular senses. Even Ali could ‘see’ using her mana sight. But here she was, stuck in a pitch-dark underground dungeon, inside a ruined, bone-covered building, with nothing more than her ordinary un-enhanced human eyes.

She, an Ahn Khen descendent, was the only person in their group without any enhanced senses. The irony was definitely not lost on her.

Perhaps I should look for a perception skill next, she thought, charging in the direction of the sound of Mato’s roar. Her head cracked hard against the magical wall of bone that some stupid Kobold had cast in the darkness. It was the third time so far – just in this building. She stepped back and launched herself upward, sprinting up the side of the wall with two rapid steps and vaulting into a flip over the top and the darkness beyond.

A sudden flicker of red flared in the dark and she instantly got her bearings. Landing lightly on her feet, she slapped Mato’s flank with a hand as she sprinted past him and his cozy huddle of skeletons, healing him back to maximum.

“I got the Fire Mage!” Mato, of course, couldn’t answer her, but she knew he adjusted his strategy when she provided him with more information. She punched the mage, and by the light of its firebolt, kicked the two other skeletons lurking in the darkness before turning and sprinting back to where she could hear Mato dragging the skeletons up the stairs almost as if they were leashed to his bear tail.

She punched again, hitting the skeletons beside Mato, adding Soul Strike, not because she needed to kill them, but more so that she could make out the stairs by the flash of her magic, and not trip and fall on her face again.

He’s poisoned again, she realized, dropping another heal on Mato. She would have to watch him a little more closely when they finally reached the top.

Malika burst out of the stairwell onto the rooftop, and into the beautiful light cast by Calen’s magic, with a horde of skeletons and Kobolds on her heels. Much better! Suddenly able to see, she quickly scanned the monsters for any particularly dangerous variants, but this time there were no healers – neither the holy nor the death kind.

“Fireball!” Ali called out, and simultaneously steel lightning nova totems landed by her feet in the center of the monster group, while an intense red glow lit the jagged stone of the rooftop.

Malika slapped Mato again, erasing the damage his restoration had not been able to cope with before she dodged sideways out of the path of Ali’s magic. She took a moment to sweep a skeleton’s legs out from beneath it before crushing another bony ribcage with a satisfyingly crunchy elbow strike. While it staggered, she kicked it squarely in the sternum, knocking it backward into the path of Ali’s next Fireball.

Bone fragments flew and gobs of fire rained down as Malika dodged back in to heal Mato, using her Divine Step to accelerate her run so that she would take less damage from the lightning novas. She landed her heal with a quick touch and then healed herself as she dodged out, just in time to avoid the brunt of the second fireball. One more round, and she was stepping over the charred and burnt fragments of skeletons and corpses as they crumpled, smoking to the ground.

“Easy!” Mato said, transforming back to his regular form.

Easy for you, you didn’t have to run into a bone wall in the middle of the darkness. She smiled though, because he was right, this was getting a lot easier with practice.

And with level-ups, she added, hearing her chimes go off.

Soul Monk has reached level 28.+10 attribute points.

Soul Strike has reached level 16.Healing Mantra has reached level 17 (+2).Perfect Body has reached level 14.Martial Artist has reached level 12.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 15.Divine Step has reached level 15.

Every level counts! Malika divided six points evenly into endurance, perception, and wisdom, dropping the remaining four into dexterity. Thirty’s coming, just got to keep pressing on, because I don’t want anyone using me like that ever again! Realizing what she’d just thought, she pressed her fist against her mouth. Forget them. They’re dead, remember?

No, there was no instant heal for that kind of pain.

Ali collapsed to the stone floor, propping her back up against the polished stone wall beside Malika. She was bone-weary, in the kind of numb haze that came from continual focus and concentration and hours of continually powering spells with her mana. She would need to take the time to resummon some of her minions if they were going to continue, but she desperately hoped they would decide to go home and get some rest. Either way, the summoning could wait for a bit.

The end of the ring had seemed so close, so they had decided to press on and finish it – but the fighting had gone on for hours, drawn out by an influx of undead from the unexplored underground basements as they passed. By the time they had reached the ruined armory, she was spent.

“I’m done,” she wheezed. She had made several mistakes in the last battle, and it had cost over half her minions, making the battle last substantially longer than it would have otherwise.

“Me too,” Malika answered, sounding at least as tired as she felt. Mato just grunted from his spot lying on the stone, and Calen was nowhere to be found, having vanished to scout out the building. Ali had no idea where he found the energy.

It was an achievement, though. Beyond the ruined walls of the armory, seen through the shattered window frame, Ali could make out the jagged edge of the granite foundation of the city ring where it had been snapped clean through, causing about a third of the entire structure to vanish like some gargantuan monster had simply taken a bite out of the city before slipping back to whichever eldritch realm it called home. Reaching the end of the ring meant they would be able to take a break, and when they returned, they planned to tackle the third and final ring.

“I hope the dungeon doesn’t respawn everything while we rest,” Ali sighed. The city was so different now – almost unrecognizable compared to her memories – a broken dark ruin filled with undead and monsters. A dungeon that needed culling before they could even liberate the remains of what had once been a vibrant city full of life, magic, and learning. Her home.

“Me too,” Malika said, clearly too weary to summon more words.

