With the day already well advanced, they decided to wait until the morrow to begin their investigation. The evening was spent refining their plans and coming up with some potential scenarios of how things could pan out, just as a brainstorming exercise to keep an open mind.

David and Niala were surprised to learn that Sybil and Sammie had done quite a bit of investigative work, both before and during their Azure Guard employment.

They and David traded a few anecdotes after dinner, with Niala slurping all of the delicious stories and consigning them to her hyper-curious brain. She particularly liked David's run-in with a band of mercenaries who had misplaced their good-luck relic, a wine bottle that had survived a drunken bar fight where the bar itself had ended up with three new doors and not a single usable chair.

In the end, he had found it hidden in one of the soldiers' rooms, who had been planning to make himself an armour out of it. His plan had been to break the bottle and sew the parts into an undershirt.

He admitted that he hadn't been able to break the bottle yet. The company's sergeant had then used the bottle to beat up the soldier a little before assigning him to outhouse digging for a week.

As far as David knew, the bottle remained unbroken to this day.

The gang turned in early, electing to remain aboard the airship for the night. While it wasn't as comfortable as the villa, it was a lot more secure, and David suspected that the case wasn't as clear-cut as Emile wanted them to believe.

Murder stories involving nobles never were.

The story they were told was that Hugo Landretti had been found dead a week after being ousted from the company, hanged in one of the Landretti family's secondary properties. He had apparently gone there alone, ordering not to be disturbed.

Given his fall from grace and the crippling debts he had accrued under the family name, the popular conclusion was suicide. Emile said that he, too, had believed so at first, until he investigated the scene himself, even hiring a private investigator to confirm his suspicions.

According to him, there were carefully hidden signs of struggle in the small house where Hugo had sequestered himself. Things that would only be apparent to people familiar with the building and who looked closely.

Suspecting foul play, he widened his investigation and learned that a few figures had been seen entering the house on the eve of the discovery of his father's death. One of those figures had been identified as Raoul, a well-known member of Sebastian's retinue who was a bit of a right-hand man.

To Emile, the case was clear; Sebastian had silenced Hugo so he wouldn't speak out on his schemes that had driven the man to squander so much of the company's money, resources, and reputation.

The group's task, then, was to figure out if any of this was true.

They spread out after a quick breakfast, going around town, speaking to everyone involved or aware of Hugo Landretti's life and death, which turned out to be quite a few people, even if only tangentially for many of them.

It was Niala's first time following her husband around as part of an investigation, and she loved every moment of it. Unlike her bumbling around when she had asked around Riverwall about the missing citizens, David was moving according to a plan.

Or at least, that's the impression he gave. He started from the “inner circle”, as he called it; the ones most closely related to the events, which was the family members and house staff for the most part.

Unlike her, who had written down everything she had been told back then, he was parsing the replies, only writing down what he considered critical information, but more importantly, noting down the people's relations to one another.

When she asked, he explained that he intended to compare the stories of those who knew each other. According to him, people lied all the time, and usually, it wasn't even intentional. They just liked feeling important, and added small details to their stories which were, in fact, their personal guesses and theories. To get to the actual truth, you had to piece together the bits that everyone agreed on and discard the rest.

He took the time to show her his note-taking technique, refined over close to a hundred similar jobs, and he did so with a huge smile on his face.

She knew why; he was just enjoying showing off to his wife, and she enjoyed it just as much, or tried to. There was one small nail on her heart that she couldn't get rid of; David loved being a free courier. It was more than evident, just watching him go about, assembling the puzzle like a little kid sticking his tongue out as he moved each piece into place.

And he had given that part of his life, this source of joy, for her.

Her heart beat just a little bit faster as that thought formed. She gave him a smile that could melt candles, and he returned it, just happy to see his wife beaming at him like that, probably thinking she just liked his explanations.

By the saints, her husband was just so adorably clueless sometimes. Somehow, she managed to control her intense urge to jump on him and smother him in kisses.

The questioning continued all morning, after which they returned to the Golden Innocence for lunch, with Niala picking up a few of the local ingredients to try and experiment a bit.

She prepared a sort of flat bread sandwich, prepared with spicy pickled vegetables and dried meats infused with wine, with a specialty mayonnaise made with a blend of valley-specific spices.

By popular, and pleading, demand, she ended up making a second serving for everyone. The first thing they did afterwards was buy out the ingredients from the local vendors, especially the spices used in the mayonnaise, and store everything away in a cargo cloth.

With that very important and critical task completed, they returned to their self-appointed murder case, with David expanding the net to the “middle circle”: people who knew the inner circle.

That took a bit longer, given that it represented a much larger group, but each interview also went a bit faster, since these people didn't know as much.

It was also at this point, after having gone through around half of the middle circle, that David had begun frowning.

He didn't explain why right away when Niala asked, saying it was just a hunch for now, and that she'd probably notice it herself after they'd gone through a few more interviews.

And she did. It clicked in place soon after.

David had told her that very morning that people tended to embellish their tales a little, so they were expecting to have small, but frequent, variations on the stories they were collecting.

There had been such discrepancies within the inner circle, but among the middle circle, they were almost absent. Or rather, everyone who shared the same inner circle link had nearly the same information.

At first glance, that made sense; they had the same source of information, right? But they both agreed that there should be more; a husband working as a guard wouldn't give the same recount of the events to his wife as he would to his drinking buddies or siblings. If anything, he would at least exaggerate a little with his male friends and emphasize different points within his household.

There was none of that. The core of the story was exactly the same within each group.

She looked at her notebook, ears wiggling, before pulling her eyes up to him. “Why do you think their stories are so uniform?”

He rubbed his chin. “Past experiences say that the inner circle were given a script.”

“As in, they were told what to say?”

He nodded.

She closed the book and looked up at the sky, the tip of her tail flicking. “I guess the question, then, is why, and if it means they're lying.”

“Hmm, it wouldn't be a straight lie, too easy to see through, usually. You just need one piece of evidence to the contrary. I expect it's to hide one part of the truth.”

She looked at him and cocked her head. “So... Hugo really was murdered, but not by who Emile said? Or he wasn't murdered, but he wants us to think he was?”

David raised his shoulders. “Either or, or even something else. Right now, we just know that the inner circle's stories can't be fully trusted. We should still finish the interviews, and then move on to the outer circle, and then the outliers.”

She blinked. “I guess the outer circle means those twice removed from the inner one, but the outliers? People who don't know anyone from any circles?”

He smiled. “That's exactly it.”

“Isn't that a whole lot of people?”

“Yep.”

“...But everyone in town heard about Hugo's death, from what we heard so far.”

He grinned. “Yep.”

Oh...

Her shoulders slumped, but he didn't notice. He had already turned around to go meet the next person on the list.

A weak smile drew across her lips.

It was, all things considered, a very David approach to information gathering: just brute force it.

Sammie had seen this scene a hundred times before; Sybil doe-eyeing grown men into blabbering idiots. It wasn't his time to act, so he just stood there, in the corner of the room, staring blank-faced into the distance.

They had spent their morning going over the small house where Hugo Landretti had been found dead. Or, rather, they watched Jordo do that. The death had been a few years prior, and any evidence was probably long gone. Their very biological senses weren't going to really spot anything.

To Sammie's surprise, the arcane golem did find something that could have dated back to the event: a small shard of wood from the edge of the seat of a small wooden bench. It had been wedged between two floor planks and had found the bench it belonged to, even pointing out the minute indent on it where the shard belonged.

The kind of damage a wooden bench would suffer if you were up on it and knocked it down, like one would do when hanging themselves.

The wooden bench certainly could have been knocked over at any point since or prior. Hopefully, the incident report in the town guard's archive would help them figure out if this bench was involved or not.

Something they were now trying to get access to, with him in the corner and looking pretty, and Sybil giggling at the guard captain's stupid jokes and looking prettier.

Sooner than he had expected it, though he had never doubted Sybil's charms, the captain agreed to have the file on Hugo Landretti's death retrieved. Emile Landretti would have to give his approval, and the file would need to remain within the guard station, but those weren't really issues.

Soon, the two of them, in addition to Jordo, were in a small meeting room, the folder opened on the table, with each one reading a part of it.

The report stated that the death had been ruled a suicide, with no obvious signs of foul play, and with many witnesses having reported Hugo being in a foul and dejected mood in the days prior. The events preceding his death were also marked as corroborating evidence.

Furthermore, from the description and the sketch of the scene, the wooden bench really had been the one found lying on the floor at the time of Hugo's death.

Emile said that the hanging had been a cover-up and that his father had been forcibly hanged by someone. It was possible that any would-be assassin would have thought to knock over the bench as part of the setup, but it was still a bit suspicious.

The last entries in the file indicated that the case had been reopened four days after the initial findings, at Emile Landretti's request, to investigate the possibility that the hanging had been staged. As evidence, the various scuff marks and covered signs of struggle had been pointed out.

The follow-up investigation had actually identified physical damage to the room and even noted some signs of tampering with the scene. Ultimately, they were rejected from the case, with the justification that there was no way to confirm the time and date at which the damage had occurred.

While Jordo compiled and reviewed everything a few dozen times, Sammie kept spinning the last page of the report on the table, eyes unfocused.

Sybil bent sideways, inserting her face into his field of vision. “I know that look. There's something you don't like.”

He blinked and looked at her. “Yeah. Emile seemed pretty convinced his father had been murdered, right?”

She straightened up on her chair and nodded, her long ears flopping. “Yeah. He made it a point to tell us over and over.”

“Right, and yet he only asked for the guards to investigate one time.”

She pursed her lips. “You think he would have insisted more?”

“Maybe, maybe not. We'll have to ask around, see if the town guards are considered incompetent. If they are, then it would make sense; why waste effort? If not... then he would have pursued other means.”

Sybil put a finger to her cheek. “Hmm, he said he'd hired a private investigator at the time...”

Sammie moved his head up and down, not saying anything.

“Come on, spill it out,” she said.

He frowned. “It's just... I don't know. We need to compare notes with the Allwardens.”

“Sammie!”

He groaned. “I'll give you my theory, and if you think it's true, you'll run with it and start making trouble!”

She recoiled. “No I won't!”

He lowered his head and levelled his gaze at her.

The bunnykin met his stare... and averted her eyes. “I probably won't.”

She flicked a glance back at him. He hadn't taken his eyes off of her. She grimaced and threw her arms up. “Fine! I promise not to let your gut feeling make me figure out what the truth actually is and then step on all the feet so I can get to dispensing justice faster!”

He stared harder.

“What?! Isn't that what you wanted to hear?!”

“I'm really annoyed that you're fully aware of what you usually end up doing.”

She scoffed, crossed her arms, and looked to the side.

Slumping on his chair, Sammie flopped a hand away. “Fine, whatever. I get the feeling that the whole death and following events were done according to a script with check boxes.”

Sybil froze, her head slowly turning back toward him.

His face fell. She had that twinkle in her eyes. “No. No! You promised!”

She wasn't listening anymore.