"You have good instincts," Cale said. "It takes a lot of mana to alter the weather, and even more if you want to create a magical storm. Those are almost never self-sustaining; if you want to keep one going, you need a mana battery of some kind."

"Some of our elders said the same," Kazza said. "It is why we searched so desperately within the flickerant nests. We thought perhaps the battery was hidden there. But we could never pierce deep enough, and they did not think it likely that the storm was fueled by multiple batteries."

"Normally, that would be pretty unlikely," Cale agreed. "And you can't engineer the circumstances for a storm like this to be naturally fueled by the environment. Not usually, not easily, and certainly not without sacrifice."

By the time he finished saying those words, a bitter edge had slipped into his tone, and the others noticed. Kazza narrowed his eyes. "You suggest not only that it was created intentionally, but that someone was sacrificed to do so?"

"Think about what you felt within the storm," Cale said. "Pain, anger, fear, and a desperate need to be whole. Correct?"

"Yes. I had assumed those were echoes. That the spell was attempting to complete itself, even now."

"Close." Cale smiled humorlessly. "There's a type of sacrificial blood magic that can be used to force a self-perpetuating magic such as this. It's horrifically cruel to the point that I've seen even dark lords decry its use. But it does create an endless, self-perpetuating magical disaster, tuned to do exactly what you want."

Cale began to pace, and the sandstorm around them grew as if in response to his agitation. "Imagine, if you will, your soul being torn apart. Scattered across the land, but forced to stay alive and conscious through an application of dark magic. You're in pain because of course you are—you can feel every broken piece of your core. What would you do, in this situation?"

The others all stared at him, but they were beginning to see the picture now. Leo and Damien both looked horrified, while Flia's fists followed his own and clenched in anger. Kazza said nothing, but Cale could see his breathing quicken.

"You'd try to put yourself together," Cale said. "You can't really think properly when you're a few scattered pieces of your own soul. You'd have maybe a few fragmented memories of the last few seconds of your life, and overwhelming, endless pain. The only thing you know is that the pain will stop if you put yourself together, so you try to pull all those pieces of yourself back, and while you do that, the mana from your disintegrating soul is leaking all over the place."

"Creating the Aspect Cascade," Kazza muttered. His claws dug into the sand, and Cale only nodded.

"The Aspect Cascade is a single, unfortunate soul, screaming for help in the only way it can," he said. "And that scream has settled into everything around it. The flickerants picked up most of it because they were intentionally positioned to, but in their own way, they're actually trying to help. They're hearing this mage screaming to be put together, and so they're trying to help put him together.

"Thing is, you can't just shove pieces of a soul together and hope for the best. You need to be able to heal the cracks, and you need a body for that soul to reside in. Whoever this mage is, they know just enough to know how to do that—"

"Which is why the storm was moving like that," Flia said in realization. "You said it looked like a summoning ritual mixed with life magic. The life magic is to heal the soul, and the summoning magic is so there's a body there to hold it. Or to summon the pieces of the old body and then heal it."

"That's horrible," Damien said, looking sick.

"It is," Cale said. "And it's not even the worst part, because you know what? That ritual would have worked. It's a very, very high tier magic, but if the flickerants collected enough mana, it would have put this mage back together, saved their life—or at least bring them together enough to die in peace—and the Aspect Cascade would end. But it hasn't succeeded, even after all this time. Any guesses why?"

"Because the flickerant queens are a weapon," Kazza snarled. He was practically shaking with the tension that thrummed through his body, and he shot to his feet, unable to stay seated. "They are harvested, and the wards in their tunnels are to protect against others stealing their bombs before they are ready."

"And by harvesting the queens, the ritual never has enough power to be completed," Cale finished. "Instead, it gathers just enough pieces and heals this mage just enough that their soul doesn't entirely disintegrate into essence, at which point the core would be useless. It is tuned to allow just enough leeway to keep the cycle going.

"An endless disaster," Cale said, and this time he couldn't quite keep the building rage out of his voice. "Kept going by a needless atrocity, all to build a weapon designed to cause more pain and death and push others to the same extremes. I've seen this before. I've seen this too many times. This is the type of shit—"

He cut himself off before his fury overwhelmed him, and his apprentices stared at him, worried. Even Kazza had forced himself to relax, his concern overriding his anger for the moment.

This was the type of thing Cale had been unable to escape during the Planar Wars. Over and over again, mages would justify to themselves great horrors and greater atrocities, all for the sake of victory against their enemies.

And each and every time, it fell to him to rectify it.

"What are you going to do?" Flia asked quietly, studying him.

Just like that, all the anger drained from Cale, and he felt very, very tired. He had hoped that era was over. How many more times would he have to do this?

It changed nothing, he supposed. He stepped back outside and turned toward the Aspect Cascade, then drew his power to him.

Most of the time, he enjoyed wielding his power. This was the one time he didn't. Gathered and shaped in the right way, he could build a weapon capable of erasing every last trace of a soul.

"What I have to," he said finally.
