Choosing that approach, I flew off towards the warp travel center. Though a lavish luxury, I decided to burn through credits for the added hours offered. As I approached, several queues of dungeoneers and craftsmen lined up at the currency exchange center. In their armored arms, they held eldritch parts for credits, other lines turning those credits into delicious meals, raw materials, or new gear.

Micky acted as one of the heads of the operation, and before leaving, I walked up to him. I raised my hand to the line I cut in front of.

"Sorry, everyone."

Most people bowed out of respect as if I ruled them with an iron fist. A few gawked in wonder or even anger. I had no time to inspect every emotion, so I turned to Micky.

"I wanted you to know about the new ring requirements directly."

Micky raised his hands, his pale face even paler than usual.

"Oh, don't worry about that. I already turned it in after getting a solid amount of crystallized mana. It, uhm, it was an overwhelming gift, and I was glad to be able to give it back."

I took a breath.

"Good. I'm sorry you couldn't keep it."

Micky had a soft smile on his freckled face.

"It's probably for the best. It was like having a ton of gold in the house. We were asking for trouble."

I stepped away.

"I can't stay, but it was good seeing you."

He bowed low.

"You as well, guildmaster."

At a certain distance, I turned back. Peering at the line of customers, I stood a little taller. Springfield finally reached a point where we could buy materials from the galactic market, and people oozed over the various selections on display throughout the city center. An absurd part of me envied them.

I never used armor or weapons since the early days of the system. It looked like a lot of fun to try and find the perfect gear, as did chatting about the specifics with their group members. It was a point of connection I lacked. As I paced to the warp station, a strange, unearned sense of melancholy welled up from within.

An architect remodeled the entire enterprise, turning the bare bones and basic into the novel and futuristic. Glass walls stood tall, held up by gravitation and kinetic augments. Unlike most glass structures, this one lacked any bracing, so a single sheet of glass composed the entire structure. This gave light an unimpeded entryway into the expansive room.

Well, aside from a few shifting patches of shadow. Gentle as a dappling lake, the upper roof rippled from shifting mana constructs. They created rippling light as if we moved underwater and stared up at a crystal clear patch of the ocean. Ebon halos crossed the floor and over people's faces, and the shifting sheen of the sun enlivened what would've been a dull, governmental structure.

Other forms of mana constructs swam about, mainly fish and other sea life.

Glowing, semi-transparent corals attached along the glass, and they created a feast for the eyes. In fact, some magical architect even constructed a gradient that shifted the coloration from pastel teal to a dark azure. It fed into the sandy mixmash that interlayed with the ground.

In all regards, it stunned me.

Walking inside, the crowd scurried about, busy as ever. Of course, I stalled the entire building, my form looming and menacing as a rogue eldritch. In their awed regard, I passed the crowd, stepping up past the group and to a receptionist. The woman openly gawked, and the expression was out of place on her face.

She had the side of her head shaved and her hair dyed fuchsia. A few piercings across her face gave her an edgy, punk rocker look, but her aghast expression gave away what she really felt. Beside her, an eldritchian squirrel skittered about. It cuddled up to her as she gave me a salute.

"I-it's an honor, Mr. Harbinger, sir."

I tilted my head at her Schematized outfit. She wore the blues and grays common to the AI's members, and it was my first time seeing a human use the uniform.

"Are you working the station?"

She gestured to the desk.

"Oh, absolutely not. I'm helping operate this specific queue. I'm here to help people with where and when they want to warp. This station would be way more than I could handle."

I observed hundreds of people running around.

"Yeah, I'd imagine it would be a lot for anybody."

I looked at my messages.

"Do you think I could get a warp to Miami? There should be a warp station there now."

She put one hand over the other, giving a professional smile.

"You realize the normal charge of 30,000 credits will still be applied, correct?"

"Of course."

"I'll arrange it."

I scratched my head before looking through the glass walls of the station. In all directions, I found prosperity, and my other planets and people would share in this. It gave levity, a realization as uplifting as a rousing speech or a father's pride. I sent more messages to Plazia, and the hivemind gave me the details about the Spatial Fortress's arrival, from where Schema would send it to when.

It included mentions of the expanding eldritch threat. Apparently, one of the roaming eldritch on Blegara had found an energy source to feed on, which allowed it to expand rapidly. Plazia would give me more details whenever I arrived to handle it, but the good part was that the monster was caged up and no longer spreading further. It also expanded along an unpopulated portion of Blegara.

If I guessed right, an eldritch found one of these spatial tears and consumed its energy to mutate and evolve. While not overly deadly, these creatures set off Schema's alarm bells. The AI always fought hard against evolving variants of eldritch as they spelled doom for entire solar systems, not just planets. It left me with a lot to do. I took a moment to square away how much time I had left before the fortress assaulted Blegara.

With a bit over three months to spare, I got a handle on my message requests. Reading through them, I plotted out a series of coordinates. This created a flight path I'd take across our settled territory. I waved my hand at the receptionist.

"Can I prepay for a series of visits?"

"Of course. How many?"

"Hm. Thirty."

The receptionist froze in place, her expression fragile as glass. She took a steadying breath before she clicked and clacked onto a virtual kiosk in front of her. The squirrel pretended to type on its own keyboard, too. She smiled, her professionalism returned.

"Aaaaand done. Anything else?"

"Not right now, but thanks. Cya."

"You too, sir."

She saluted me, and so did the squirrel. It was beyond adorable.

I jettisoned myself out of Springfield, and I followed the beginnings of my settlement line. Starting at the tip of Florida, I had no time to even observe the heart of Miami or appreciate its delapidated beauty. It had devolved into a partial swamp by now, but many still lingered in the marshlands. Before anything else, I constructed my classic town setup alongside the barrier. I left a blue core in this city alongside a set of dual-cored golems.

It took about half a day, and I shuttled to Tampa next. Once more, I dashed through the process, unable to soak in anything aside from where and how my town's setup needed to be. Each settlement passed by in a daze, one blurring into the other. Orlando. Jacksonville. Atlanta. Charlotte. Nashville. Houston. Dallas. Austin. San Antonio. Phoenix. Las Vegas. LA.

I passed the largest towns in the US, each of which varied and held entirely different circumstances. Despite their variety, I never experienced them. Instead, I dashed around like a coke addicted madman as I established beachheads across the US, Northern Mexico, and Southern Canada.

As with the Shattered Spires, I gave them copies of architects, vanguards, wardens, and executive golems. I could only manage because of my wake's expansion in abilities. I could build them faster by simply saturating an area in the Rise of Eden before shifting to Perfection's Providence. Those golems and cores ensured a firm, established defensive force should something apocalyptic fly in.

Lehesion, for example.

These waypoints allowed my current settlements to expand far faster. It would still take years to cover the smaller, more disparate towns, but for now, this was enough. By the time I finished the fifteen largest metros in North America, a bit over three weeks had passed. By now, I lacked the time for anything aside from reinforcing the Great Lakes region.

I followed the edge of the Great Lakes while constructing cities in the newly settled towns dotting the massive body of water. Unlike the major cities, I kept these constructs simple. Most of them lacked a blue core, but they all had a monolith that gave buffs, communications, and shielding. I left a pair of golems in each town as well, ensuring some measure of security against invading forces.

Elysium, in other words.

While not a perfect plan, it was a solid start. It also let me upgrade a smaller town in less than an hour. Within the week, I crossed Lake Michigan, Lake Superior, and Lake Huron while settling in most of Lake Erie. During my last week before Blegara's cleanse, I finished settling the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River.

Lastly, I had time to contact Helios and build cities in the Grand Canyon, a few of its dungeons, and around twenty lunar settlements for the albony. In an utter reversal, the Grand Canyon changed into something mirroring an oasis. The skeptiles genuinely understood large-scale, persistent magic rituals, and that mastery reflected in how they managed their environments.

Along the edges of the colossal canyon, water poured from a plethora of springs, each one creating a waterfall draping over the now lush stone walls. Hundreds of fish native to the skeptile's homeworld flooded the amassing ocean, and odd fruit trees grew in all directions. In fact, the entire canyon held vegetables, prey, and fresh water.

It was the cradle of the skeptile's burgeoning civilization.

The skeptiles congregated in a vast river dotted with islands settled by the lizards. They loved this place, and they took nothing for granted. I wished the sentiment reflected in the albony, though the moon made the Mojave look like a paradise by comparison. My cities ameliorated that concern, though resentment bloomed in the minds of the albony.

They couldn't help but compare their situation to the other races on my planet.

Other aspects fueled the flames of their scorn. The albonys' lunar colonies required blue cores at a minimum to guarantee protection from the elements. This made them expensive to make, but they eased their transition by orders of magnitude. The worst of this transition was Shalahora's cleansing. He helped filter these people, and he found a significant portion of their populace infected with Hybrids.

It left a solemn air over all of them as I passed their settlements. People had families ripped apart as Shalahora and his summons inspected their psyches. Oftentimes, entire groups of albony exploded into hybridized tissue when caught. In those crises, battles were waged across the lunar encampments like battle royales.

Despite the tragedy of the circumstances, it was Shalahora who suffered most from this culling. While efficient and deadly, he despised the work. He eliminated anything Elysium threw our way, but the albony only saw a dark, shadowed reaper in Shalahora. They whispered names that omened his coming, from The Executioner to The Last Shadow. In the end, he swallowed the little light left for the albony in his wake.

Helios smoothed the situation over, ensuring the populace understood how necessary the cleansing was. Regardless of our reasoning, it left a bitter taste in my mouth. Elysium forced me to resort to a police state centered around mind magic. Hell, I despised that concept, let alone the actual execution of it.

The alternative was even worse. If we hadn't cleared the populace, the albony would suffer a silent, psionic takeover. It was a proposition the albony understood all too well, given how long they'd fought Elysium. I had little time to comfort them as we had a month left before the Spatial Fortress's arrival. I wasn't willing to cut it closer, and I used one of the lunar settlement's warp drives to reach Blegara.

By then, I experienced location fatigue. As I arrived at Blegara's capital, Saphigia, I found the hivemind's base within seconds. He carved it into the cityscape, a colossal pyramid jutting from the seafloor to just over the sea's surface. That upper island only left enough room over the waves to hold a statue of jagged, dark teeth.

In the depths below, Vagni worshipped towards the pyramid using their many open courtyards. Or were they seayards? Either way, the Vagni as a whole had changed since I last visited. More socialized and civil, they built more advanced homes and practiced meditation on their roofs. All those who practiced were facing the colossal pyramid, their gazes never faltering. A mana signature pointed at the religious edifice, letting anyone know where to meditate. Or pray. I couldn't tell the difference, but such was life.

As my curiosity piqued, I jettisoned through the water as a dark needle before propelling into the temple. Within, many insects guarded the vast labyrinth, their forms covered in a glowing basalt armor. Different colors carried different powers, from glowing orange symbolizing heat to bright blue leaving ice behind them. No matter the power composition, all the insects maintained basalt pillars across their backs and shoulders.

The pillar aesthetic maintained itself through the grounds, from the supporting pillars to the shoulder pauldrons on the statues here. The insects cleared my path until I entered a room at the center of the pyramid. Bathed in light from above, the open space held all of Plazia's plans.

