Bioluminescent algae smothered the rooftop, their glow the source of light for the room. A few beetles cultivated the area, and these algae clustered around draping lines of kelp dotting the area. They flowed with the water like strands of the sun, their brilliance mesmerizing. The ancient, carmine stone towered in all directions, contrasting the dull, gray basalt.

Hundreds of insects ran around in the lower room, many of them bowing to the basalt throne at the room's center. Plazia sat there, his form drenched in a primordial aura of mana and majesty. He leaned against one of his hands like a lazy king, and the insect minions walked up as if facing a god.

They connected their minds to his in order to transfer information, and Plazia took it all in stride. It was an intrinsic difference between us. Unlike my pale imitation, Plazia had been born as a hive mind. He manifested it with an ease I lacked, not needing mental tricks to interact alongside many entities at once. He simply did, and speaking with a dozen of his minions at a time came as naturally to him as swimming did to a Vagni.

As I walked up, the hivemind raised a hand. His insects stopped their scurrying, and they turned toward me. After making a path for me to walk, they waited. Plazia and I telepathically linked, and I stepped up to the basalt throne while looking around. I thought over as if speaking,

"Huh. Remind me whose planet this is?"

Plazia cackled through the water. It was like a nightclub's music from the outside, muted but still clear.

"I assure you that you are still its sole retainer. I am a prime minister at most."

His insects return to managing the planet's affairs. I creased my brow.

"Right. It would seem you've managed to make a religion around yourself. You certainly have the ego for it."

Plazia rolled his fingers across his throne.

"The one I've centered it around isn't me."

My armor smiled its teeth of jagged metal. Plazia steepled his hands.

"They worship you, Harbinger."
