Replace the agent in a seat with a new one, keeping every declaration the
seat states.

THE NEW AGENT IS A NEW AGENT. An agent is a model working from one continuous
memory, and a reset makes a new one, so a fresh id is minted rather than the
old one carried over. Nothing of the old agent's context comes across: this is
what separates a reset from `ops seat resume`, which puts the SAME agent back
on the session it was bound to with everything it held.

THE SEAT IS THE SAME SEAT. A seat is a place an agent works from, and its name
SPELLS what it is, so the same persona, domain, role, principal, task and flex
compose the same name and the new agent sits down under it. The task, errand,
initiative, on-call standing, start mode, registration account and the seat
above are all read off the seat and stated again on the new agent.

WHAT THE SEAT STATES IS READ BEFORE ANYTHING IS STOPPED, because the stop takes
the seat's page and a declaration not read by then is gone.

A STOPPED SEAT HAS NO PAGE TO READ. A seat's page stands while an agent is present
in it and goes when none is, so where nothing stands the seat's LAST COMMITTED PAGE
in the memory repository is read instead. A deliberate stop commits the removal, which
is what makes a stopped seat's declarations committed by construction rather than by
luck; where they were never committed there is nothing to read and the reset refuses.
That page is found by the AGENT'S OWN ID rather than by name, and the `id:` it carries
is checked against the agent being reset — a reset is addressed to the seat and the
name is what persists across it, so a later seat that took the same name would read as
this one unless the id said otherwise. Where neither the standing page nor history
states a domain, a role and a principal, the reset refuses rather than guessing.

THE TARGET IS REQUIRED and defaults to nothing. A seat resetting itself would
take the turn issuing the command with it, and there would be nothing left to
answer. A seat that wants to come back
as itself runs `ops seat resume`; a reset is somebody else's to run.

Resetting a seat whose subagents are working is REFUSED: they run inside the
process this ends and go with it, and nothing reports what they were doing.
Wait for them to return, or pass --force to end them with the seat.

A HEADLESS SEAT COMES BACK ON ITS ERRAND. The errand is what a headless seat
was sent to do, so it is handed to the new agent as its first turn. An
interactive seat comes back idle, detached under its own name, for whoever ran
the reset to attach to.

Default stdout (TSV, one line):
  <agent_id>\t<name>\t<start_mode>

--json stdout (stable shape):
  {"agent_id": ..., "name": ..., "start_mode": ...}

Note: `agent_id` is the NEW agent's; `name` is the name the kept declarations
compose, which is the name the old seat held.
