The man in red armor, Harridon, was supremely flustered by Erick’s words. But he was also filled with a mirror of Erick’s own righteous indignation, and beaming hope. He stepped forward to the central podium, while Glorida and Bobbi followed closely. Glorida and Bobbi began casting lightwards into the air, but faltered after casting the first ones. Everyone looked to the woman in yellow and the fishbowl-head guy, as the two of them looked at their own hands, uncomprehending—

Erick spoke, “The time dilation of [Expanded Hasted Shelter] means you get one Script spell every 60 seconds; for every minute that passes in here, only one Script Second passes out there. All this really means is that we have ample time to talk, so do what you can, as you can. Feel free to learn aura control later, if you want to cast magic outside of the Script Second.”

A lot of people in the audience had no idea what the fuck Erick was talking about; ‘casting outside of the Script Second’. But Erick saw as they experimented with their own tiny spells to confirm his words; light flickered inside hands and under desks, and eyes went wide. Those people would be asking others about all of that later.

A lot of other people in the audience were slightly perturbed that Erick would even be spilling minor secrets like that. That section of people mostly included the wrought from Stratagold. The wrought of House Benevolence were unaffected by Erick’s casual release of important, yet semi-hidden information.

The people from Gambler’s Rest understood what Erick meant by his words; but the time dilation thing caught them off guard.

Glorida and Bobbi both changed tactics, with Bobbi’s clear-colored aura stretching out of his body and forming crude lightsculptures. Glorida frowned at that, but she attempted the same, using her slow, yellow aura to conjure a map in the air. It was a much worse attempt than Bobbi’s. She rapidly erased it.

Harridon, meanwhile, had been talking, “I have been asked to give an overview of the Dicers and our war effort against the nobility of the Sovereign Cities. As Wizard Flatt has said, our war ended when the nobles of the Sovereign Cities assassinated our leaders in peace talks—” Before he had spoken, he had been distracted by the severity of Erick’s own emotions, and that had caused him to falter slightly, but he caught up to himself in that moment. An endless rage began to shine through his calm voice, like a banked hearth given fuel for the fire, and stirred to life once more. “Wellwisher, our former leader, and his second, Soriila, were invited to a neutral location, outside of Killtree. The other side of that meeting was King Killtree, and King Charme, along with representatives for Queen Pearl, King Curio Sook, and King Curio Xaro. Our side had three more representatives, to make for an even meeting.

“We did not seek a [Zone of Peace] from the priests of Koyabez because it works at 75% effectiveness against Domain magics, and four people at that meeting had Domains active.

“They stayed on topic for two hours, as our demands were listened to and then modified by the nobility, and compromises were reached. After a few more hours of discussion, the war likely would have ended, and peace would have happened. We would have created a sixth Sovereign City on the coast between Killtree and Charme.

“And then, in the middle of talking about trade routes, King Charme and King Killtree decided that they had seen enough.” Harridon’s eyes flickered red as he tried to control his anger and mostly succeeded. “The both of them had been participating in the talks well enough. But for half an hour, they had gone disinterested. We didn’t know what we were looking at until they decided to stand up and kill our people. They locked down the space with Domain magic and overpowered our leaders. Killtree took Wellwisher’s head, and Charme took Sorilla’s heart. They murdered our people, and then handed out one head to each of the five Cities, along with lightsculptures of the other four. Those heads and magics are still on display at the kingdoms of the five Cities.

“That’s what they do over there. Thousands of Dicer heads are held on display in their grand mansions and palaces, as trophies of how many of our people they have killed. But not just our people. They do this for every powerful person they kill. Those heads will stay on display for a year.”

Had…

Had Erick heard that right?

Yes. He had.

Erick’s mind went blank with fury. All he could do was listen.

Harridon continued, “But the worst part were the lies.”

Like Harridon was lancing an infected wound he had never before gotten the chance to lance, Harridon ripped open his soul and bared all the evil that the Sovereign Cities had committed. He spoke of campaigns of hatred against the Dicers, with wanted posters plastered at every Adventurer’s Guild and Mage Guild and otherwise, listing crimes that they did not commit. Stories from bards in taverns. Stories yelled in town squares that were complete lies. He spoke of how the world knew the Dicers as ‘empowered by Darkness’, due to the Elemental Dice that Shade Toymaker had made, which started their whole rebellion. That initial Elemental Die story was true, but like anything that came from the Shades, it was how the magic was used that made it evil; not the magic itself.

And then Harridon spoke of truly evil acts of physical violence perpetrated by mayors and barons and guard captains against women, and men, and how all those acts of horror were shown to the world as ‘acts by the Dicers’.

It was hard to believe the depravity of the Sovereign Cities. And yet...

Erick easily believed every word out of Harridon’s mouth, for he could tell Harridon was not lying, and Erick had seen much of the squalor of the Cities himself. Main cities, with wooden slat-board houses everywhere! Unpaved roads. Stone noble mansions. The rich, high on the hills, and the poor living in the dirt, in the rain, and the mud. Jane had gotten a much more personal look at that place, long before Erick showed up and cleared out a ballooning spider horde before it descended upon Killtree. The stories Jane told painted the nobility as either complete idiots, or purposefully malicious, and it was hard to tell which one was more true.

But now, ‘purposefully malicious’ seemed to be the most correct version of events.

By the time Harridon was done talking, he had spoken of the Dicer’s entire rebellion against the Sovereign Cities and peppered that speech with specific examples of what the various cities were doing that the Dicers wanted changed. He had spoken of specific battles fought against conscripted soldiers, who were only there because that was the only way they could Matriculate and pull themselves out of the mud. He had spoken of assassinations attempted in order to circumvent the need for a war. Behind him, Glorida and Bobbi had conjured tens of images of maps, and horrors taken from memory, and examples of why the Sovereign Cities needed to end.

“— and why,” Harridon ended with, “You cannot trust them to honor a peace treaty, or to even come to a peace talk honestly. You can only end them, as we tried to do, and yet failed.”

A few people in the audience were fired up and ready for a war that was worth fighting, for all the right reasons. One of those people was Erick. Others included Teressa, and Kiri, and all the other Dicers in the audience, and all the Elites from Oceanside, and most of the people from Ar’Cosmos. The people from Ar’Cosmos was a weird addition, but Erick noticed that bloodlust in their eyes, for sure.

Others were more worried. That seemed to be the normal reaction.

Erick stood up, in the silence following Harridon’s speech. All eyes turned to him, as he said, “So I’m ready to kill them all.” He looked upon the suddenly worried, relieved, and resigned faces of the people of the Greater Candlepoint Area, asking, “But will someone speak for some lesser solution? Anyone at all? Multiple people are welcomed to speak to all of us here, and to start a dialogue. I will attempt peace if it is the best solution decided here, and then accepted by me.”

As though people had spoken outside of Erick’s Sight, which they had, a few eyes glanced toward one person in particular.

And Zolan stood up, saying, “I would speak for something smaller than unilateral genocide.”

Erick gestured to the podium.

Everyone watched as Zolan began walking forward.

Harridon and his people vacated the stage, looking rather joyful. They all knew that whatever Zolan was going to say would not change Erick’s mind. By the time this meeting was over, their failed revolution would reignite and sweep across the Sovereign Cities with all the wrath of a Wizard.

… Erick had some hope that Zolan could change that, though.

Erick did not want to go to war with the Sovereign Cities. He would, though, especially if they actually had threats they could back up. There were a few ways Erick considered that they could actually hurt him… But vanishingly few ways that Benevolence wouldn’t pick up on, first.

Such an attack would have to inherently be anti-prognostication, anti-Sightable, and anti… Well. Anti-magic. So lead was high on the list of possibilities. Some sort of lead dust dispersal in the air? Maybe. What… Like a thousand tons of the stuff, turned to dust, and scattered across… Yggdrasil and the Gate District and Candlepoint, and all the other Yggdrasil in every other part of the world? … Eh. Not likely.

Some sort of artifact from Ar’Kendrithyst’s Armory? Something taken from that place in the ransacking of the days following Last Shadow’s Feast? … More likely.

Something like the Amulet of Non-Presence? Fairy Moon still had that. But...

Other people could make some of those, though, right?

… If someone could make those, then they could make enough of them that they could rope others into their Non-Presence group, if those people looked like they were willing to actually go up against Erick.

The Soul Spears from the Chelation War which had almost killed Erick would be a pretty good way to attack him again, if someone actually did that right this time. Luckily all of Ophiel and every Yggdrasil was now wearing an [Animadversion] shield, along with other protective magics. Erick would not be caught off guard again by a soul-targeting spell like that.

Of course, Fairy Moon could be involved in this herself, directly. But of course, that meant that all of his people could be in on this, too. That was a bit too much paranoia for him, though. At this moment in time, anyway.

Erick glanced around the room as Zolan took the stage. He wondered…

Were any of them plotting against him?

… Probably not.

Erick looked up to Zolan.

Zolan began, “To understand the Sovereign Cities, one must first understand the notion of complete independence. Everything about those many smaller cultures stems from there. They do not help their neighbors, for that is an insult to their neighbors. They do not help their children, for that is an insult to their children. They do not accept help from the nobility, for that is an insult to their own self.

“The second thing to understand is that the nobility purposefully keeps this myth of independence going strong.

“Some of the nobility propagates this myth because that is how they were raised. Some, because they know this myth is what keeps their opposition divided. It is impossible to tell who is actually a true believer of this notion of supreme independence, and who is using this culture to their own benefit.

“Almost all the larger noble houses are the second type; the users. That is how they got large in the first place; by recognizing the truth that people are stronger together.

“Almost all the smaller businesses and vendors and producers are the first type; the used. That is why they remain small.

“Anyone of the small groups who choose to ignore this myth and reach for the hands of their neighbors are ruthlessly exterminated by the larger groups. Sometimes, though, a small group can manage to break out of this pattern, and become a new force. The Dicers almost managed this but they ultimately failed.

“This culture is why registrars are ‘illegal’ over there. I use that term loosely, for registrars are not actually ‘illegal’. They are legal when the people in power use them, for every single person in power is required, by law, to Matriculate.

“The majority of commoners see Matriculation as an acceptance of the Dark into their lives. They don’t like magic. They don’t appreciate mana. They don’t want to Matriculate. This is a gross simplification, and I can already see the Dicers shaking their heads, and others among the audience going wide-eyed at how this could possibly be possible.

“I see you asking, ‘How is it possible that people could think of the Script as evil?’, and that answer is complex and yet simple. In a simple way, many different cultures on Veird have this idea, because this idea is one ingrained into the world by the Dark.

“In another simple way, and with regard to the Sovereign Cities in particular, this is the result of the nobility controlling every part of their nation. In a complex way, I can point to the fact that without widespread Matriculation, and the ability to easily read that comes with that Matriculation, that most people cannot read over there. And so, the nobility hires bards to go to taverns and town squares, to shout the news in storied verse. Everyone who wants to know what is going on will go to those taverns and town squares, and under the watchtowers of the nobility, they will talk to each other about everything. Approved stories get passed around. Unapproved stories do not.

“I could say more on that, but we’ve all heard Harridon speak on that.” Zolan continued, “I will, however, say that what you have heard today is Sighting the Sovereign Cities in the worst possible light.

“In a better light, but without discounting that they have declared war on this land:

“The nobility of the Sovereign Cities works together to push back the monsters. This is first and foremost the duty of the nobility in any part of the world. Almost everything else is secondary to ensuring a safe living space. Variations on this stance would also describe the wrought, and Oceanside, and every other nation on this planet.

