“Yes, the Sovereign Cities fight amongst each other, causing death and violence and other horrors, but to change that would require changing their entire culture, which is not something one can do with a [Precision Strike], or with any violent spellwork. One might as well tell Nelboor to stop fighting. Or the dragons to stop fighting. Or the Quiet War to end…” Zolan frowned. “But then again, those are some of our very goals here at the House.” And then he looked out to the audience, and said, “I have decided…

“I have decided that to continue speaking for the good of the Sovereign Cities, would be antithetical to what I believe. We have the capability to end certain horrors of the world, and so the problems of the Sovereign Cities are one problem we can, should, and must end.

“I don’t believe that complete violence is the answer, though.”

As everyone else held concern or vindication or confusion on their face—

Erick spoke, “Violence solved the problem of the Shades, and this whole idea of ending the Sovereign Cities would be erasing one of the greatest lies told by Melemizargo in his insanity; that the Script is evil.”

Zolan said to Erick, “The nobility of the Sovereign Cities are not Shades.”

“I have ended face stealer threats, and monster threats, and cult threats, all through violence.” Erick said, “Even Koyabez says that sometimes violence is the answer.”

“And if you use violence as the head of a state, violence will be used against you,” Zolan said, his words clipped, disbelieving that he even needed to say those words. “It sets a bad precedent that when idiots threaten you, that you murder them. They are idiots, Erick. They are stupid, stupid people, pissing into the wind to assert dominance, not realizing that the wind will fly back in their face and turn them and their whole empire to sand.”

Erick frowned. “Have the Sovereign Cities ever sent a threat of war against the wrought? Against Oceanside?” He scoffed. “Against Ar’Cosmos, or Ar’Kendrithyst? I’m trying to pull a lot of separate people together here, and I will not have this ruined by idiots, and especially not idiots who kill people at peace talks.”

Zolan easily said, “They have sent letters of war against Ar’Kendrithyst. And then a Shade came into the Cities and beat up their highest level warriors for a good ten days, feasting and partying while they did so. It was the Shade of War, about 250 years ago.”

… Huh.

Erick did not think Zolan was lying, but it was nice to see a few nods around the room confirm Zolan’s crazy story. Harridon’s lips narrowed, and Bobbi whispered to Glorida about the Shade of War only happening 235 years ago; not 250.

Zolan continued, “The Cities sometimes send letters of war against Ar’Cosmos, too. They have worked with the Dragon Stalkers out of Oceanside quite often when they do this, in order to try and suss out whatever dragons might be living inside the Cities. I think it has worked once, though I am unsure how often they have tried that, so it could have worked multiple times.

“They have sent one letter of war against Oceanside but the Headmaster took care of that, and it was long before my time. I don’t know the particulars of that, either. I believe the particulars of that are what caused the Headmaster to use you to end the ballooning spider threat against Killtree, for he did not want to go himself.

“If they have sent letters against the wrought, then I am completely unaware of those.”

Erick was stunned, again. With a scrunched face, and full in disbelief himself, Erick asked, “So this was what? A stunt? A publicity stunt by them to make their leaders… What? Look good against ‘the evil Wizard in the tower?’ or some other such shit?”

“No. Absolutely not.” Zolan said, “The upper echelons of their nobility are absolutely capable of murdering thousands of people at once, if they wanted. However. This might simply be a starting tactic to get you to come to the table in certain ways. I would talk more in private about specific capabilities, if you would allow it.”

Erick scowled as he tried to make sense of what he was hearing. After a moment, he said, “Thank you, Zolan, for your expertise. We will talk later.”

Zolan bowed, then stepped off the stage.

Erick asked, “Would anyone else care to talk about the Sovereign Cities? I would have more opinions. Personal stories of your own experiences there would be helpful, for I am, apparently, simply not experienced enough with them to make any sort of broad decisions right now.”

All three Dicers were suddenly worried that maybe Erick wouldn’t avenge them.

Erick added, “Raise your hand, or whatever. Who wants to talk n— You. Bobbi. Go ahead. Take the stage. I would hear from Mephistopheles next, and then you from Stratagold. I believe your name is Merulia?”

Merulia nodded. She was a human woman of pale copper-like metal that almost looked like flesh-tone skin. She also wore actual clothes instead of her metal as clothes. Erick suspected she was a hellite/demonstone blend of some sort, but he wasn’t 100% on that.

Bobbi was on the stage, and he started talking.

He spoke of war crimes both large, as in the murder of prisoners, and small, as in the savaging of captured soldiers. He spoke of his life before all that, when he wanted to be a farmer, like his father and his father before him, but how he needed [Grow]. So he signed up for Matriculation, and the army. His first years in the army had him murdering villages of people who were ‘building outside of noble control’. At the time, this was perfectly normal to him, but what wasn’t normal was how the army operated. All his life Bobbi had been independent and true to how a proper man should be. But then the army had everyone on schedules, and working toward a common good. He had rebelled hard against all that in the beginning. But then he saw how well the army worked, and how poorly the ‘housing rebels’ fought; that’s what the army always called the people who made houses of stone, like it was wrong. ‘Housing rebels’.

His first real wake-up call came when they marched on an old woman’s house in the middle of some woods. The old woman had been supplying a town with medicine for an outbreak that [Cleanse] could have solved all on its own.

The army made their unit assault and kill the old woman.

And the story continued.

Erick listened. By the time Bobbi was done, Erick wanted to kill every noble in the world.

Bobbi got off the stage.

In a small surprise, Burhendurur was the actual next person to speak. The incani-like man seemed like he had something rather important to say, and so he had asked Mephistopheles and Merulia to give way. They obliged.

Burhendurur began, “We should murder every single king and queen of the Sovereign Cities and install the Benevolence Dragons over there as caretakers, alongside the rebels of Gambler’s Rest.”

The audience looked on, wide-eyed at that sudden declaration.

Burhendurur continued, “Zolan was right about the Sovereign Cities sending letters of war against Ar’Cosmos. This happens every so often; once every 40 years, perhaps. Every time such a declaration comes a dragon or five gets outed in the Cities, and then gets put down as they try to fight over desolate lands, for the Sovereign Cities are very good at killing dragons, for Dragon Hunters can overcome all the innate physical defenses of [Dragon Body]. The Cities have lots of Dragon Hunters, for the Cities are something of the birthplace of the Dragon Stalkers, though the main offices are now in Oceanside.”

Erick really did need to speak more to Kirginatharp.

But for now, he listened.

Four hours and many presentations later, Erick knew two things for certain.

One. That the Sovereign Cities needed a change.

Two. That Erick would be that change.

- - - -

People went their separate ways in order to prepare for possible war with Domain-empowered individuals. There had been some deep unease with that, for a thousand different reasons. One of the largest reasons for that unease was expressed most succinctly by the wrought, and at the very end, by Aisha.

Aisha had said, “The killing of people with Domains is an awful thing, for everyone is needed in the war against the monsters, and especially those who have already proven themselves as capable against the Darkness. It is a deep, deep shame that the Cities have chosen this route.”

Stratagold and Oceanside would be confronting the Sovereign Cities on behalf of Erick and Candlepoint.

Ar’Cosmos, on the other hand, would be preparing to go to war right alongside Erick.

But for now...

Five minutes after the main meeting broke, Erick stood with Zolan, Mox, Burhendurur, Raingorl, Aisha, and Volaro, inside another meeting room. A much smaller space, this time. No one was actually seated yet, either, for Erick had told them that this wouldn’t take long.

Erick said, “I’m sure we all have about a hundred things to do right now that we never thought we needed to actually do. I was prepared for war two and three months ago, but apparently, it’s happening now, and in ways I never expected. And so, I have gifts for everyone. A while ago —I can’t pinpoint exactly when— when it first appeared that things were going well, and that none of you were secret enemies, I had decided to wait until the Triumph of Light to give you these gifts.” Erick reached into a small ring of Benevolence lightning and pulled out a large white wooden box, that was actually six smaller boxes. Each one was Privacy’d, so there was no peeking before the real reveal. There was a lot of curiosity, though. Erick began handing out the boxes, which he had already labeled, to their respective people. “When this Shadow’s Feast business began, I decided to give these to you before that day. But now that we’re at war, you can have them now.” Erick canceled the Privacies.

Since everyone had mana sense, they saw their gifts before they opened the boxes. Zolan breathed in a little. Mox went solid. Aisha’s eyebrows went up. Raingorl looked pleased. Burhendurur and Volaro were concerned, and for good reason.

Erick said, “The white wood ones will work in Ar’Cosmos, but the fully diamond ones will only work on Veird, though the diamond ones are considerably stronger. Use whichever ones you want and give the others away, if you want. Or save the unused set for a dark day.”

Burhendurur’s countenance shifted entirely; he had been worried about getting an item that wasn’t compatible with the nature of Ar’Cosmos, where normal magical items didn’t work. He smiled as he popped open his gift. Four rings sat inside. Two of them were made of white wood, with prismatic-white blood-based inscriptions like raised sets of diamonds on top. The other two were [Exalted Rain] platinum-covered diamond rings, filled with Statlight. Everyone got the same set, but with rings sized to their own fingers. As they all began opening their gifts, there were a few unasked questions.

Erick answered them before they were asked, “They’re Strength, Vitality, Willpower, and Focus rings. The wooden ones give a total bonus of +50 for wearing both. The silver ones give +80. You can mix and match if you want, but I suggest no more than one ring per hand; that’s about all the enchanting resonance that those parts of a body can handle. Aisha, you could probably take all four rings into your body somewhere, but I’m still not sure how wrought work with enchanted items. If you break them, I can make more, so experiment if you want.” Erick said, “None of the rings have Intelligence, Dexterity, Constitution, or Perception. If you want one of those Stats, ask and you will receive them.”

Burhendurur and Volaro suddenly had trouble deciding which rings they were going to wear. Three of the other four had no such problems, slipping silver rings onto their fingers.

But Aisha wore the wooden rings, strangely enough, saying, “The metal ones rub off on me so I prefer Yggdrasil wood. Thank you, Erick.”

There were more ‘thank yous’, each of them deep and true. All of them seemed to be avoiding the subject of the New Stats, though. Erick still smiled a little, though, happy that he could give gifts like this to his people.

Continuing to smile, Erick said, “Think about if you want a New Stat; I mean it. They’re useful! I can probably [Reincarnation] you, Zolan, Mox, and Raingorl, if you decide you don’t want your first pick. But for Aisha, Burhendurur, and Volaro, that probably won’t work. I’m not even sure if [Reincarnation] will drop those New Stats, anyway. I’m rather sure that if you take 2 New Stats, that you will still turn shadeling. A [Reincarnation] can fix that, though, for sure.”

Burhendurur shook his head a little, marveling at his new rings briefly before saying, “No New Stats for me. The power that comes with them is not something I wish to invite that far into my soul.” He bowed his head a fraction. “No offense meant, of course.”

“None taken.” Erick said, “But anyway: think about the New Stats for a while.” He changed the subject, “Okay! So. We’ve got a war to win, and I don’t even have a general. You’re not up for that, are you, Burhendurur?”

Burhendurur said, “Absolutely not. I can defend, but I do not want armies of undead heralding the strength of House Benevolence out into the world, and I doubt you would either, once you calm down. It is understandable that you are angry at the Sovereign Cities, but creating an army of any sort is the wrong move right now.”

Everyone except Volaro looked at Burhendurur as though he was suddenly a different person.

With a scrunched face, Erick asked, “You don’t want the Cities purged of their nobility? But you spoke for that?”

Burhendurur frowned at that, saying, “I suddenly feel as though I desire a working ‘House Benevolence’ a lot more than the rest of you. A defensive war is fine. An offensive war is not. Let them come and break themselves upon our power… Though that is pretty dangerous so— And I know how this sounds, but I am going to say it anyway— perhaps if Quilatalap wants to keep ready with some [True Resurrection]s?” He shrugged. “Not a bad idea!”

Erick had no idea what to really say against that.

Zolan spoke up, “I do not want House Benevolence to have a standing army. That is my actual concern. It looks bad.”

