“… Yes. I suppose…” Erick said, “I suppose…” He shook his head. “Let’s try for peace, first. I have [Zone of Peace] even if it’s not perfect and Yggdrasil is currently casting that magic all across the Greater Candlepoint Area, anyway, so whatever plans the Sovereign Cities have need to be… I don’t know. Antirhine clouds dropped down from high above? Parasites? Amulet of Non-Presence assassins? Some sort of other, physical way to assassinate me and others? Domain magics don’t work so well against a [Zone of Peace], but they’re still half effective; it’s why the Dicers didn’t bother with trying to get a [Zone of Peace] for their meeting with the royalty of the Sovereign Cities.”

Aisha said, “They still should have tried to get a [Zone of Peace]. Even if swords still work inside that magic, even if Domains can partially shrug it off. They still should have done that peace talk right.”

“I agree with Aisha,” Volaro said.

Almost quizzically, Aisha looked up at Volaro.

Volaro continued, “But I also think that using [Zone of Peace] when talking to Domain holders is like using a thin Platform to cover an Abyss; whatever sort of peace talks you have will simply be trapped in non-obvious ways.” The Carnage Dragon in an orcol body said, “So you should not have peace talks. You should find and assassinate every single king and queen and the next thirty people in line and watch the Cities implode. Nothing else needs to be done.”

Erick was not the only surprised person at the viciousness in Volaro’s suggestion.

Volaro added, “Or, you could [Blessing of Empathy] every single person in charge and let them sort themselves out. The Blessing way is likely the best way to avoid bloodshed, and would, no doubt, go down in history as one of the most beneficial soul-scourings ever, if you manage to pull it off. In addition to that, perhaps, as Burhendurur suggested back in that meeting, you should command the Benevolence Dragons to go deal with sorting that place out. It would give them something to do, at the least. One thing you should not do, though, is let the Dicers decide how this all plays out.” Volaro said, “While I am growing fond of the various judges and clerks of Gambler’s Rest, I don’t believe a single person from there should be put in charge of that nation. When it comes to judging in cases of abuses of power, they heavily lean toward the punitive side of the punitive/rehabilitative scale, and by a lot. If the Dicers would have actually won their rebellion, and I don’t mean sued for peace, but actually won—

“If they had won, the streets would have turned red with the blood of nobility, and then you’d get about 50 years of even more atrocities and a triple or quadruple overturn of nobles, leading to the very same situation that already exists over there.” Volaro said, “Historically, this is what happens when you solve nation-sized problems with violence.” He looked to Erick. “And not to put too fine a point on it, but you solved the problem of the Shades, and now we are here.”

A sword through the gut would have hurt less.

But Volaro was telling the truth.

As everyone else in that meeting looked either amazed that Volaro had actually come out and said that, or angry that he had done that, Erick just felt a bit numb.

As though knowing that his words would have achieved that result, Volaro nodded, then lessened his words, saying, “Millions dead, but in a hundred years, we’ll have whole new worlds. The Dark is not insane anymore. We have a new House of Ar’Cosmos. Dragons don’t have to hide. The Fractured Citadels are rejoining civilization, or at least one is. Tens of thousands of face stealers and killers dead. Hunters the world over eliminated. All the major killers and horrors of Songli ended. A Gate Network! Taking back the Crystal Forest. Clearing the Forest of Glaquin of horrific monsters. Helping refugees all across the world.

“House Benevolence has its roots deep in carnage, but through carnage, anything is possible, including remaking the entire world into something better.” With his eyes shining red, Volaro said, “Perhaps the Cities need a similar change, so let’s not kid ourselves in what such a change truly means.”

And again, no one spoke.

Eventually Raingorl said, “The Sovereign Cities are cursed to be shitholes.” He looked to Erick, saying, “Figuratively. There’s never been any proven, actual curses upon the land. We’ve looked.”

Zolan said, “Raingorl and Volaro bring up good points.” He said to Erick, “The Cities are a land of a million people, scattered across an area half the size of the Greensoil Republic. If the Sovereign Cities actually do attack, then the response cannot be overly punitive, but, since the outcomes of this war will determine the future of House Benevolence as much as any other action you have taken, the end result of this cannot be anything less than a long-term, secured peace. Which means traditional war and suing for peace will not work.”

Erick sighed a little. “You’re right, of course. I cannot expect a traditional war to end nearly as nice as I need it to end... So how about Stratagold, Oceanside, and Ar’Cosmos, trying to come up with some sort of longer-term solution?” Erick said, “Or maybe all of this shit is a stunt of some sort, and nothing will happen. Either way, I suppose we need to open a dialogue with these people. Zolan, please set that up, and also let me know when Kirginatharp wants to talk. Burhendurur, on defense. Everyone else, get their appointed spaces ready for a possible war. Let’s get to work.”

And so they did.
