Matt just blinked at his wife, letting the moment linger before he snorted. “I hope the market crashes and they lose their shirts holding the bag.”

Liz laughed and pulled him into a hug. “Honey, I know you have a lot of pressure and responsibilities because of your Talent but you aren’t compromising your beliefs or the integrity of the guild with small things like ordering a lot of blank skill shards before the news goes out. If you went as far as the other three then maybe, but I know you aren’t going to stop the research, so there is nothing wrong with allowing yourself to save that little bit of money.”

Matt pressed a kiss onto her helmet but didn’t contradict her. He felt he needed to be better than that, but he was also not going to stress too much about something already done.

He did, however, truly hope the trio of Allie, Aiden, and Lila lost their money in the scheme. Same went for any of the other Ascenders that ended up getting pulled into it, because he knew there was zero chance they managed to grab even a small portion of the other Great Powers' blank skill shards without notice. That was unless they enlisted the help of the local Ascenders to do the heavy lifting.

Their little chat was interrupted by Rah walking over the surrounding few hundred miles free of zombies.

“While interesting, I’m going to need to figure out how I’m going to handle this more compacted essence before I do much more.”

They had figured something like that would happen when they initially talked about delving, so taking his cue, Matt grinned and stepped forward. “Then see why I love this rift so much.”

Creating a platform out of the ground, Matt pulled it up slightly. They could have just flown, but he knew Liz would sandbag and try to ruin his clear speed if he didn’t carry her along. Currently she had the fastest Tier 26 rift completion thanks to a lucky mouse rift when they were still on the path having a incredibly short path to the boss.

She immediately proved his prediction true by pulling out two chairs for herself and Rah, who just seemed thoroughly confused but took his seat.

Throwing the platform forward at his best possible speed, which was just under his top flying speed, Matt fired [Mana Beam] with every iota of mana he wasn’t spending on moving the platform.

Not that the last ten million mana per second or so did much, given the degree of diminishing returns he was hitting. But it was the principle of the thing.

Given that they were in a same-Tier rift, none of the monsters stood a chance and essence rushed in to be split between himself and Liz.

They offered to cut Rah into the split but he declined, saying his spirit was already full and, until he figured out the form of his next stage of advancement, any essence was useless.

It took almost a week, but the monsters didn’t stop crawling out of the ground and Matt didn’t stop firing his [Mana Beam] or dragging them towards the rift exit.

When they arrived at the boss, they did stop and introduce it to Rah, who used the experience of fighting the stronger than normal and better-skilled monster to top up his spirit with rift essence before they left.

The glass knife was actually one of the more valuable rewards the rift dropped, by the low standards of undead rifts at least, as it had the effect of killing undead easier. Its durability left a lot to be desired for its Tier, but it was a decent backup weapon for anyone delving such rifts and sold fairly well.

Moving to the next rift, Rah split off despite their offer to show him a few more typical rifts.

Understandable but unfortunate, as he wanted to figure out his cultivation system and how he could use rift essence instead of ambient essence for a greater power boost.

That was a problem Matt had never considered, and seeing Rah fully stuck and unable to advance, he was grateful he had their Realm’s method that required just compacting the essence together and squeezing.

He did hang around near the rift in a portable house he had bought as he worked to better take advantage of a rift that he could pop into to get some essence without waiting or screwing over a managed rift.

For their actual sustained delving spree, they were going to go to Aster's ducal capital, but she needed more time to free herself from her responsibilities, and so they were going to get some delving done in local rifts.

Liz demanded they enter one particular rift on the other side of the continent, citing that he owed her for dragging her through the zombie rift half a dozen times over the years.

Matt acquiesced but knew he made a mistake as he saw her grin slip through multiple times as they waited for the rift instance to cycle.

Spider centipedes that swarmed like crazy in the caves they had been dropped into.

Liz was in love with the rift and demanded they delve it between every other rift until Aster finished up.

Matt naturally refused out of principle as he chased after an army of Lizzes who were flowing forward, killing the weaker than normal enemies with minimal effort. He got so desperate to do anything that when they entered a larger than normal cavern, he used [Portal] to get ahead of the swarm.

[Dragonflame] washed over thousands of spiders and Matt grinned as the essence started to pour into him, but his expression turned into a frown when he felt a dozen Lizzes jump into his flames and start to absorb them.

A passing Liz blew him a kiss. “Thanks, honey.”

Having gone from carrier to carried felt terrible, and Matt chased after the horde, calling out, “At least share the essence! I can’t get good angles with the tunnel's twists and turns.”

He only got a raspberry for his efforts and had to settle for following after Liz who, like a vacuum, easily killed anything they encountered in an ever-growing wave of blood and ichor. There were so many bodies she didn’t even bother converting everything to ichor beyond what she needed to max out her clones.

She even dedicated a phoenix Liz to sit on his shoulder and chirp and coo at him as it pointed out the places ambushes or other traps had been hidden, rubbing in the fact he was being carried after just showing off in the zombie rift.

Matt’s only retort was, “This is only a Tier 27 rift. We’d be more efficient if we Tiered it up.”

A Liz shouted from in front of them, “No way am I letting you risk this rift de-aspecting! Tier this rift up and I’ll think mean thoughts at you.”

Matt let out a small puff of mana. “Oh no, I added too much mana into the rift. Whatever shall I do?”

Phoenix Liz bit his ear in revenge and Matt shot her a dirty look. “That's not nice.”

A human Liz joined him with a mock glare. “Says the man trying to ruin my new favorite rift. You need to get on figuring out how to make these rifts en masse. If we can make horde rifts like this, we'll be Tier 27 in just a few years.”

Matt moved to retort but both Lizzes glared at him. “And don’t say you don’t know the mana types that go into making these types of rifts. I know you keep track of that kinda stuff, rift boy.”

“Rift boy? Since when did I get downgraded to rift boy?”

“Since you threatened my new favorite rift. Act like a little boy, and I’ll treat you like one.” Both Lizzes put their noses into the air in exaggerated motions. So much so that phoenix Liz nearly fell off his shoulder.

“Can I at least be a rift adolescent?”

“Nope.”

“Liz, there is no way to recreate this rift at our Tier. If it were Tier 5, I might be able to manage it, but there’s no way to keep a rift from deaspecting twenty seven times, even if I knew the mana types that formed this style of horde rift which I really don’t I’m not sure we could keep get lucky enough to keep it from deaspecting. Shit, I wish we were that advanced.”

In an overly deep voice, Liz shouted, “I don’t want to hear excuses, rift boy. I want results!”

Matt’s composure broke first with a snort that made all of them laugh.

Jokes aside, these rifts, while fun to blow off steam, weren’t good to delve all the time and they both knew it. It may be good essence per hour, but they were so easy that even with the Tier difference, they taught a lot of bad habits and no good ones.

Advancing in Tier for them was about pushing their limits, not just gathering more essence. Blindly chasing Tier was a good way to backslide in relative power, and throughout history there were many peak and pinnacle elites who had fallen into mediocrity by doing so.

Matt’s hope of being able to help with the boss was dashed when it was an even larger swarm of monsters fueled by an overproducing queen ant sort of thing that didn’t last long enough to do anything interesting. Liz simply slammed a large portion of the rift’s blood at it the moment they entered its cave.

The delve wasn’t a full clear, far from it, but with the mini bosses and boss monster having a large portion of the total essence, they were more than happy with the results.

When they exited the rift, Aster was waiting for them.

“I can’t believe you snuck in not one but two rifts without me. That’s fucked up, guys. I call dibs on the first ten, no fifteen, no twenty rifts rewards.”

Matt didn’t back down and shot back even as he hugged her. “And it's more messed up that you let Allie know about the blank skill shards. Serves you right.”

“Yeah, making a ton of money does serve me right, thank you. I added my own money to the pot. Venture ended up being a joint mobilization by nearly everyone in the Ascender chat. If you ask nicely, I'll consider giving you an allowance.”

Matt threw up his hands. “I’m half tempted to drop the news now just to cut everyone else off.”

Aster poked his puffed up cheek. “Hey, you're getting five percent of the profit. So is Rah. Yeah, we’re besties now and he lets me call hi—.”

Seeing their expressions, Aster sighed. “Damn it. I was late for that, too? Ugh. Into a rift. I wanna kill something.”

“Don’t you have rifts for us to delve on your world?” Matt rolled his eyes at the suggestion.

“They won’t be ready for us for another month, so we have time.” Aster shrugged in a way that was a little too casual.

Though while he could tell she was up to something, he couldn’t figure out what and didn’t mind delving a few more local rifts.

They entered the nearest free Tier 28 rift, which was a newly Tiered up rift that had deaspected and needed to be cataloged. Additionally since it had lost its fire aspect they would need to calculate if it was worth keeping as they didn’t want too many non fire rifts on the world making non fire essence which if too many could threaten to deaspect the world itself.

Also it was the closest thing they had to a new rift, and they were excited to delve it. Once they fully buffed themselves and prepared for an actual challenge, they cautiously entered the rift.

According to the reports, the rift had spit out bipedal-like creatures they would have called minotaurs except they were a normal size instead of hulking ten-plus foot tall creatures. That, and the fact their horns were made out of mana stone, which might be valuable.

Being at a two Tier disadvantage meant the fights were actually making them sweat, with the creatures being incredibly durable and nearly immune to energy-based attacks.

Their mana stone horns absorbed all magical energies, stored them, and unleashed them on death or when they reached some threshold.

That meant a lot of Matt's kit was rendered ineffective, but Liz and Aster, both preferring physical mana types, were less impacted.

Not that he minded too much. It gave him more experience fighting with his sword and he was making revisions as he fought, subtly tweaking the shape of the runes in the mana stone filling the blade to better fulfill its role as mana conduit.

During one of their breaks, Matt and Liz both looked at the horns to see if they could make an effective alchemy ingredient or enchanting material.

Matt was pretty sure they would make a pretty good material to make talisman ink out of, but he couldn’t be certain until he spent a few months testing the possible formulas, which needed more space and supply than they had brought in with the portable house. Talisman ink wasn’t necessarily rare, but finding out something that every rift monster had was a useful ingredient might make this rift a keeper instead of one to destroy.

To add to that, Liz even thought the horns, after being processed and ground down, could make a good catalyst ingredient for potions and pills.

Their interest was increased when they found one of the mini bosses was a mutated version of the standard creature and shot out mana stone spikes like a demented porcupine.

It was unlikely, but if they could domesticate these monsters and breed the rift madness out of them, they might make a half decent stable herd. So long as they didn’t domesticate into an intelligent creature, as it was always possible they were one of the rare few who could become inherently fully sapient instead of just sentient, assuming they could breed the rift madness out of them at all.

They were even tempted to turn their quick delve into a full clear, but they had already spent two weeks in the rift just rushing to the boss, and didn’t want to spend the decades it would take to fully map it out when they could just offer the job to one of the many delving teams living on Palustris.

Making such a discovery was a good start to their delving, but not one they encountered in the next rift, which was more standard with simple bears to fight.

Angry bears that adapted to their environments and wielded vast elemental powers, but bears nonetheless.

