“Yes, and he stole an item we needed to complete a quest.” Dana said. “When we go back in tonight we're going to look for him.”

“If you need a hand, let me know.” Ren said.

“Can we do that? Ask for help?” Gretchen asked.

“I don't see why not.” Ren said. “I'm pretty sure I won't be allowed to directly interfere, since my own Trouble recipe would probably activate; but, I'm sure I'll be allowed to show you where he is at least.”

“That would be awesome!” Dana said. “If we can get that item back and finish the quest before the scheduled update tonight, we can relax for the rest of the night before classes tomorrow.”

“Classes?”

“We've got Chem-lab first thing in the morning at the college, 2 periods off for lunch, then classroom work for the afternoon.” Dana said. “The labs are always fun, but the classwork sucks balls.”

Gretchen snorted a laugh. “It's not that bad.”

“Says Miss Smarty-Pants who already has a 3.8 GPA.” Dana said. “If you weren't my best friend, I'd hate you so much for that!”

Gretchen laughed. “You're a 3.6 yourself, you skank.”

“Do you know how many extra classes I'll need to take to get up to you?” Dana asked. “Six!”

“...and who's fault is that because they wanted an extra class off every day, just so they could relax in front of the boy's dormitory?”

“That salient point is irrelevant to this discussion.” Dana said haughtily, and Gretchen laughed.

“Sure, it is.” Gretchen said and leaned close to Ren. “She wears short skirts so she can give the guys that walk by a bit of a thrill.”

“No way.” Ren said and looked at Dana. “Is that true?”

“N-no.” Dana turned her head to look the other way.

“Now I don't feel so bad about getting to see such pretty pink panties.” Ren said and pointed to Gretchen. “Say that five times, fast!”

Gretchen took in a huge breath. “Pretty pink panties. Pretty pink panties. Pretty pink panties. Pretty pink panties. Pretty pink panties!”

Ren laughed, then Gretchen did, and Dana had to laugh, too.

“All right, all right.” Dana said. “You can stop teasing me about it.”

Ren reached out and touched her arm briefly. “Thanks for not getting angry that I saw them.”

“Well, it was kind of my fault that you did.” Dana said. “I could get mad at myself, but what's the point?” She smiled. “You said you liked them.”

“I really did.” Ren said with a reassuring smile. “Assuming you dressed up for today's party, I'm wondering what you normally wear.”

“Ren!” Gretchen exclaimed, and he chuckled.

“It's the next logical question.” Ren said.

“What are you wearing right now?” Dana asked.

“Lime green silk-like boxers.” Ren said without hesitation. “I don't know if they're actually silk, but they sure do feel like it.”

“R-really? That's what you're wearing?” Dana asked, surprised.

“Yeah, they're comfortable, and they're also my last pair.” Ren said. “I've been too busy to go to the east side mall to buy some more.”

“The east side mall?” Dana looked at Gretchen and saw her surprised face. “They wouldn't happen to be from Jacques, would they?”

“Yeah, they are.” Ren said, a little surprised. “They do great custom alterations there, so I've gone there a few times already.”

“You must know Lily, then.” Gretchen said, and Ren nodded. “Dana, do you think...”

“Elise is the redhead she told us about, and Ren is the guy in the wheelchair!” Dana said. “Oh, wow! What a small world!”

“Lily used to go to college with us.” Gretchen said before Ren could ask about her. “She used to work at Jacques part time, then went to full time when she graduated last year.”

“No wonder she's so good at her job.” Ren said. “She's an old pro.”

“She always had a knack for it.” Dana said. “We get stuff from her, too.”

They went quiet for a moment, then Ren smiled.

“So, what kind of underwear do you normally wear?” Ren asked Dana.

“All different kinds.” Dana said. “It depends on the day and how I'm feeling.”

“Hmm. Well, if I had to guess, when you're feeling pretty, you wear something like what you have on today.” Ren said, and Dana's face went red again. “When you're feeling sexy, I'd say you go for a whale tail or even a thong.”

“That's... actually a really good guess.” Dana said.

“When you're feeling a little off or don't care, I'd say you go for....” Ren grinned. “...granny panties!”

“I do NOT!” Dana gasped and Gretchen laughed.

“Granny panties!” Gretchen covered her mouth to stop from laughing and Ren laughed.

“I do not dress like my mother on my off days!” Dana huffed, and Gretchen couldn't help herself and laughed.

“I'm sorry, I couldn't resist.” Ren said and touched Dana's arm again. “We won't judge you if you do, okay?”

“I. Do. Not!” Dana exclaimed and Gretchen laughed and laughed.

Ren turned to Gretchen. “What about you? What do you wear?”

“You might not judge me; but, I plead the fifth, your honor.” Gretchen said, and he laughed, too.
