The demon snorted. “Gotta remember your ghost privileges, kid.” She turned again to the other side of the river. The Aurelia Woods continued beyond the shore, and she noted a particularly tall, thick tree that stood out among its brethren. The trunk looked very wide and sturdy. The gears in Pyre’s head began to turn. A quick scan of her stat sheet revealed that [Weight Manipulation] was off cooldown, and her body felt fully solid again now that [Regeneration] had finished healing her wounds.

“Sorry, I should’ve thought of this earlier,” Callan was saying. “If we head south now, I think we can reach the bridge in half an hour?”

“Nah, I’ve got a better idea.”

Focusing, Pyre grew a thick piece of bone from the center of her body. She stopped when it was about half a foot long, formed a ligament on the end, then grew a connected bone that was roughly the same size as the first piece. She kept up with this pattern, steadily forming a long chain of bones and ligaments. Once the pseudo-rope was long enough, she squinted at the big tree on the other side, then stretched her flesh back and chucked the chain across the river with all her strength.

The bones soared over the rushing water, finally smacking into the tree trunk and winding around it a few times. Pyre gave the bone chain an experimental tug, and it held firm. She grinned. She was getting a lot better at aiming this thing.

Throughout this whole process, Callan’s face looked increasingly concerned.

“Uh, what’re you—”

“See you on the other side, kid.”

Without another word, Pyre activated [Weight Manipulation], lowered her body weight as much as possible, then leapt into the air while focusing on reabsorbing that chain of bones.

Just as planned, each time the demon absorbed a bone link, it pushed her further and further across the river, aided by the momentum from her jump. The wind rushed past her, and she was vaguely aware of Callan yelling something behind her. On her part, the weightlessness was exhilarating—oddly familiar in its exuberance. Her grin was so wide that it was practically splitting her flesh apart as she rapidly approached the other side of the river.

Seconds before she could crash into the tree, Pyre yanked the remaining bone chain away from the trunk and twisted her body in the air to aim at the ground beside it. She warped her body into a neat ball of flesh, eyes and mouth tucked safely away in the center. She activated [Impact Absorption] just as she slammed into the earth.

[The skill [Basic Impact Absorption] has leveled up! Lvl 2 —> 3]

Compared to her first giant fall in Fred’s hill, this was significantly less painful. Between her higher constitution and skill level and the fact that she hadn’t been nearly as high up in the first place, she only felt a brief shockwave pass through her body when she made contact with the earth. She did hear something crack, but it was just the ground below.

Slowly, Pyre stretched her body back out and peered around. She was met with the sight of the giant tree she’d seen on the other side of the river, now up close and personal, and the western half of the Aurelia Woods. Behind, Callan’s ghostly form was rapidly floating across the water as fast as he could. The demon laughed.

Oh yeah, she thought to herself. That was definitely better than crossing a bridge.

Pyre collected the rest of her flesh into a clump, pleased that she was, indeed, mostly uninjured. The few damaged parts would easily be healed with [Regeneration]. The tree she’d latched onto had even managed to stay intact save for a few cracks and bits of broken bark, and she gave it a hearty whack. Good tree, that one.

“ —re you crazy!”

Callan had finally caught up, it seemed. Pyre turned to the ghost, who was panting a little from his speed-hovering.

“Hey, it worked didn’t it?”

“What if someone saw?”

“Then they’d probably think they were hallucinating,” she pointed out. She’d been moving so fast she would’ve looked like a blur soaring across the river anyway. The demon gestured behind them. “Anyway, look.”

Poking out above the forest canopy, Pyre could just barely make out the tops of buildings rising in the distance halfway between the mountains and woods. Even from their current position, the city’s size was obvious. There was only one place it could be.

They’d finally reached Magrath.
