

“Maybe he just guessed.” The voice said. “He's pretty smart. Maybe you let something slip before.”

“I don't see how.” Guard Number 12 said. “This is the first time I've talked to him.”

No one said anything for a few minutes.

“Okay, maybe a quick review after lunch...”

*

Ren and the others went to the living room and got comfortable, and John and Officer Holly sat together. “So, you took my advice.” He said to Officer Holly, and she took in a sharp breath.

“H-how...”

“I thought the familiar hand-holding was a bit odd, since people that don't normally hold hands always act a little awkwardly when they do.” Ren said. “It seemed natural to you, and now you're sitting a lot closer to each other than police partners normally do.”

Office Holly sighed. “You're not even trained in this and you picked up on it right away.”

“I don't have police partner training, that's true.” Ren chuckled. “I've had quite a bit of practice with how couples sit together, and if they are comfortable with each other or not.” He explained. “You two are more relaxed than you were the last time I saw you.”

“Why do you think that is?” John asked.

“John!” Officer Holly exclaimed.

“I just want to see if...”

“You've had sex, probably just before coming here.” Ren said, and nearly everyone gasped.

“How did you...” Officer Holly started to ask and stopped talking.

“You gave it away.” Ren said. “If you'll forgive my impertinence and the unintended implied insult, you are much more appealing right now.”

“Wh-what?” Officer Holly blinked her eyes at him.

“I'm not sure how to describe it, actually.” Ren said. “It's... well, after a woman has sex, she... becomes sexier?” He looked at Stella and she nodded for him to keep going. “She's less inhibited and more sure of herself, and she knows... not believes, knows... that she is sex incarnate and could have any man that she wants.”

No one said anything in response and Officer Holly stared at him intently.

“People say it's pheromones, or confidence, or some other thing; but, what actually happened was that you rocked someone's world, and that's pretty damn empowering for a woman to do. Either consciously or subconsciously, you want everyone to know you did it.”

“That's the best description of the feeling I've ever heard.” Elise said, and everyone turned to look at her. She stood just inside the living room and Ren saw that she had left off her suit coat and only wore the pants and peach-colored blouse. Her long red wavy hair was in a mass behind her shoulders and framed her face perfectly.

“Hey, beautiful.” Ren said with a huge smile. “Look at you!”

“Wh-what? What is it?” Elise asked and looked down at herself, and her hair flowed around with the movement. “I didn't miss anything, did I?”

“No, I'm just reminding everyone that you embody the feeling I was just talking about, all the time.”

“I...” Elise's face flushed bright red. “I do not.”

“I believe Mr. Ramirez would have to disagree.” Ren said, and everyone turned to look at John. His face was red and his gaze was firmly on the floor.

“I only looked for a second when Ren said to look, I swear.” John said, and everyone laughed. Officer Holly leaned in close and whispered in his ear, and he shook his head. She whispered something else and John sighed and nodded, then she sat back with a big smile.

“How exactly do I report an officer under suspicion of extortion?” Ren asked with a matching smile.

Officer Holly chuckled. “You can't prove anything, even in the court of public opinion.”

“I think that's enough joking around.” Barbi said to get everyone's attention. “You all know why we're really here. Let's talk about this situation with Ren.”

After a bit of a lengthy discussion with input from Elise this time and expert opinions from two members of the police force, John and Officer Holly agreed to look into the backgrounds for both Mr. Hastelbeck and Illonzo the Illusionist, and any possible connection they might have with Ren. When that was done, John and Officer Holly said they should leave, and everyone walked them to the front door.

Ren congratulated them on becoming a couple for real and said he hoped that they enjoyed it as much as they both deserved to. John wasn't sure how to respond to that, and Officer Holly was a bit choked up by the sentiment and couldn't respond to it, either. They managed to say goodbye and left with the promise to text when they found out anything.

“I really need to get to work.” Elise said when she looked at the clock and saw it was getting close to 9 am. “I'm behind by almost the whole morning.”

“I need to figure out what to do with all the things I got from the station.” Barbi said.

“It's getting close to when I need to log back into the game, too.” Ren said, and then the house phone rang and Lisa picked it up.

“There's a big delivery truck that wants to drop something off.” Lisa said after talking to the guard at the gate.

“What company?” Barbi, Elise, and Ren asked at the same time, and they chuckled.

“USPS, and the delivery is for this address; but, the name says Moajon, whoever that is.”

“Ha ha!” Ren said and looked at Barbi. “It's the action figures from the show.”

“Tell him to let it through.” Elise said, and she went over to the door to tell the security guards there was a delivery coming. After only a few minutes, half a dozen large and opened boxes were deposited in the lobby by the security guards.

“Thanks a lot Number 8, Number 3 and Number 5.” Ren said as they passed by him, and he saw the guards jerk minutely as he called each of them by their designations. When the front door shut, Elise touched the top of his head.

“Are you having fun, Sweetheart?”

Ren looked up at her. “It must be driving them nuts that I can do that.”

Elise chuckled. “Will you let them know how you're doing it?”

“Maybe.” Ren said and grinned. “If they ask.”

Elise bent over and kissed him, and then they heard Lisa squeal as she dug through one of the boxes.

“I assume you found the special rare figure that's one in a hundred?” Barbi asked and Lisa held it up. It was Ren wearing his High Elven Court Uniform and not his Travelling Clothes.

“Sweet.” Ren said. “It's amazing they can get so much detail on these little things.”

“That reminds me.” Barbi said. “I need to call them and transfer the proceeds from going to the television station to Ren's business account instead.”

“What? Why?” Ren asked.

“You own it all, of course.” Barbi said.

“I do?”

Barbi nodded. “When the station broke the contract, they lost the co-ownership of the rights for everything, not just the remaining episodes of the show.”

Ren stared at her with his mouth open.

“Yes, it's all yours.” Barbi said. “I was pretty angry that they cancelled the show; but, I think it's going to work out much better than I thought it would, and definitely in your favor.”

“But... if they don't air the show...”

“Don't worry about that.” Elise said. “I'll talk some things out with Barbi first, then we can try to arrange to air the remaining finished episodes on the show's main website.”

“Can we do that?” Ren asked. “I mean, we don't have the setup for that, do we?”

“Not yet.” Barbi said and smiled. “I was going to start trying to sell your other show idea to another network; but, if we can somehow manage it ourselves and air it on the subscription service instead...”

“Oh, man.” Ren said. “I just realized something.”

“What's that?” Barbi asked.

“The last episode they aired was where I fell into the bottomless pit.” Ren said with a grin. “Now the network cancelled the show.”

Elise and Barbi both gasped at that, then Barbi started laughing.

“That stupid network bastard!” Barbi said as she laughed. “The fans are going to crucify him and the station for cancelling the show on a cliffhanger like that!”

Ren, Stella, Lisa and Elise started laughing, too.
