Mila moved her lancer forward to take a guardian, at the same time denying the Monarch several avenues of escape. “Check.” Leaning back, she smiled to herself as she watched Song stare at the board, her expressionless face calm and steady, but her lashing tail gave away her inner frustrations. Any sign of emotion was an improvement, her previous apathy beginning to fade as her desires and personality emerged from behind the shell that she had constructed out of necessity. She was more relaxed, no longer always tense and ready to flee, and would happily eat her meals without asking for permission or seeming uncomfortable eating at the same table as other people. Mila was looking forward to the day Song began to speak out on her own, but despite her optimism, she knew it could take years, as it had for Rain.

After Song moved out of check, Mila quickly responded, moving her skirmisher into position. “Check and mate.” Song looked at the board silently for a few moments before she began resetting the board, putting the pieces back into place. Mila took the opportunity to offer some more advice. “You need to think ahead, Song. You make good singular moves, but you don't take into account the follow-up. You are also too easy to read, always taking the 'optimal' choice of not losing a piece, when in fact sometimes it is better to trade with your opponent. A lancer for a skirmisher, a chaplain for a pawn or a guardian for anything besides a pawn, these are favorable trades, but you choose to shy away from them.”

“Sorry Master, this slave is failing to understand the concepts and wasting Master's goodwill in teaching her.” She lifted a hand to smack herself, but expecting it, Mila quickly stopped her.

“You are learning very quickly Song. I am simply offering advice, you are not failing me. Maybe we should take a break and stretch a little, then head off to bed. The day grows late, and we can play again in the morning. How does that sound to you?” There had been little else to do the past few days, Mama had left all the cadets and younger Sentinels at camp with the soldiers, and only the elites were allowed to ride out. It was horrendously boring.

Her heart ached a little, watching Song hesitate to answer, unsure of the 'correct' response and fearful of making the wrong one, but Mila waited patiently, showing nothing but a smile to the agitated girl. Despite being older than her, Song was quickly becoming like the little sister that Mila had always wanted, someone to look after and teach, but Mama and Papa had always been too busy to adopt another child despite her pleas for a sister when she was young. Of course, instead Mila had taken in the sweet Lin as a substitute, spoiling her to no end. Nodding, Song finally answered, “As Master wishes.”

Taking that as consent to walk around, Mila stood and stretched her body, her arms raising towards the night sky as she made a tiny grunt while Song mimicked her adorably. They had played for hours, Song's dedication to the game rather impressive, seeming to enjoy the strategic challenge, although she wasn't very good. Mama had suggested the game to her, both as a way for Song to play, as well as learn. Although her combat skills were superb, her forethought was lacking and Song was easily outmaneuvered in duels. Had she been better able to think ahead, Rain would have been thoroughly defeated by her in their exchange at the restaurant, an event that seemed so long ago now.

At the thought of him, Mila glanced over at his tent, seeing nothing but the closed flaps and Yan sitting outside the entrance, still meditating. At first, she had been a little jealous at Yan for sharing a tent with Rain, but after a day of seeing how much help he needed, Mila had thanked the Mother that Yan was willing to help him without complaint. Mila had plenty on her plate already, looking after Song and helping Alsantset as her aide, if she had to help Rain eat every day as well, she would have been at her wits ends.

Although his arm was now healed, he still needed plenty of help and Mila wished he would accept more. He insisted on eating without aid today, and the sight of him sitting in the grass, his bowl held between his knees was already shaming enough. Worse, he would take his chopsticks in his fist and lean forward putting his lips to the bowl to shovel rice into his mouth, a sight even children would have found disgraceful. However, he had looked so happy that she had kept quiet, Alsantset doing the same and simply turning away to ignore the sight. Yan had spoken out about it, but that had only devolved into a competition of who could be more vulgar, the two of them were so similar at times, sharing so many of the same maddening qualities.

Looking up at the moon, she guessed the time to be past ten, Rain having gone to bed early as he did each night. Despite his insistence that he was healed, the encounter with the Demon had taken its toll on him both physically and mentally. She had caught him staring several times, a wistful look in his eyes as he gazed both at her and at other various women, the pervert. Just how many women had that degenerate married in his dreams? It seemed as if every woman he knew dredged up painful memories, so he worked to isolate himself, practicing by the river and not the open grounds at the top of the hill with the other Sentinels and soldiers.

At least some good had come of it. He used to always shy away from people, an invisible barrier around him that kept others away, stepping back when approached or standing when sat next to, but now he seemed more relaxed and comfortable around his family and friends, a silly smile upon his face when spending time with his sister, or eating with his friends, more willing to share a seat or be hugged. Alsantset was thrilled that he would now allow her to embrace him without pulling away or being exhausted, taking every chance to do so.

And then there was the charming smile and rakish glint in his eyes when he had said she was 'too damn beautiful', something that had set her heart to pounding and often thought of when alone. Of course being Rain, he had immediately ruined the moment, but she still cherished the memory. He had married her, albeit only in a dream, but at least it told her that he was interested in her, and not just seeing her as someone to answer all his questions. She pretended not to notice his longing stares, even though it felt like they made her face turn beet red, simply enjoying his attentions.

Gingerly stepping in front of Yan, Mila furrowed her brow, unsure of if she should wake her. It was always dangerous to interrupt someone who was deep in meditation as it was always a risk that you could ruin their concentration and cause them to lose control. This was especially true when someone was using a Spiritual Ring, and Yan's control was still unsteady, as evidenced by her grave expression as she cultivated.

Taking no chances, Mila found an older Sentinel to come help wake Yan, and a short moment later, the foul-mouthed girl was cursing and grumbling, her face twisted in annoyance as she brooded wordlessly. Thanking the Sentinel, Mila sent the man off before turning to Yan. “Don't be rude, you're pushing yourself too hard. I told you to have someone watching over you. Come, let's go wash up and sleep, you can start again in the morning.”

“Quiet. Thinking.”

Rolling her eyes, Mila stood with her hands on her hips, patiently waiting for Yan to finish her deliberations, tapping her foot silently. After a few minutes of waiting, her patience wore thin and she asked, “What are you even thinking about? You were meditating all day, you had plenty of time to think.”

Shooting her a dark glower, Yan was silent as the two of them locked eyes, Mila remaining calm and in control. She reminded herself that Yan was only frustrated, difficult to deal with at the best of times, and to not take this as a personal affront. After a few long moments, Yan capitulated, deflating as she went from angry to petulant. “I don't know.” Standing, she brushed herself off and headed towards the stream without another word.

Shaking her head as she followed after, Mila asked, “What do you mean you don't know? Talk to me, Yan.”

“'I don't know' means I don't know.” Stomping her feet as she moved, Yan continued to speak. “There is something wrong with how I cultivate, but I don't understand what the problem is. Every time I wake from meditation, I remember nothing of my time spent, only feeling tired and frustrated, knowing I've forgotten something important, but no idea of what.” She snorted and began complaining about Rain, and how he felt 'refreshed and invigorated' after meditation.

Mila's eyes widened as Yan spoke, but she quickly hid away her bewildered expression and took Yan in a hug from behind, lifting her from the ground and spinning in a circle, ignoring her attempts to struggle free and laughing. Putting her down, Mila turned her so that they were facing one another.

“Are you mad, woman? What are you doing?” Yan blustered, trying to look angry, but Mila could see a smile was creeping onto her face.

“Calm down, grumpy. You're working too hard, which can be detrimental to your progress. You need a break to allow your core to stabilize and your mind to refresh, have some fun and laugh a little. Balance, Yan. One day, no meditation, minimum. We'll see how tomorrow goes.”

“What? No, I don't have a day to waste. I'm not talented like you and Rain, and I'm being left behind as things stand. I am nothing without my strength, so I must continue to become stronger.”

Poor girl. Mila took her into another hug, this time without resistance. “Silly idiot. You have plenty to offer, a sweet and kind soul with a prickly nature. Let go of your fear, it weighs you down and you are meant to soar through the sky, a carp leaping through the dragon gate.” Giving her a wink as she pulled away, she added, “Trust me Yan.” Ignoring her questioning stare, Mila skipped away, happy for her friend. It seemed that Yan was close to a Spiritual Awakening, and if that happened, then she would quickly rise in strength and laugh at these silly fears of being left behind.

It would be nice to have someone to chat with and share notes on the experience.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“...Brother, can you not hear me? Are you unwell?”

Cringing at his constant questions, I lift my head from my now human hands, no longer bear-armed, looking at his face as he squats down to be on my level. “Yes, yes, I can hear you.” I've already tried breaking out of here, but nothing is happening. This may be a dream, but I'm stuck here for now, it seems.

Giving me a smile, he nods. “That is good.” Pausing, we look at each other in awkward silence before standing in tandem. Unable to think of anything to say, I look around at the bleak, vacant landscape, stretching as far as the eye can see. Maybe I can spruce the place up. With that thought, we are now sitting on comfortable, padded, red leather chairs, in a room exactly like the sitting room at my home in the village. The chairs are modern, but everything else is exactly as I remember it, sunlight shining through the paper screened windows, the hardwood floor polished and gleaming, with simple, unadorned furniture around the room, our two chairs facing one another.

“Incredible brother, I have tried to do something like this, but it takes so much concentration I can only hold the image for a short time.” Looking defeated, his disheartened eyes bore into me as he slump in the chair, his arms mangled and broken, hanging at his sides. His words fill me with pride for a moment until I realize that he is me, complimenting me, for being better than myself. Next level self-flattery.

Pointing at his arms, I ask, “Why are your arms all broken? You don't actually have a body.”

Hanging his head down with shame, he hesitates for a few seconds before muttering, “I cannot fix them. I do not know how. … Please brother, it hurts so much, could you fix it for me?”

“And just how am I supposed to do that?”

“...I do not know. The same way you do this, I would imagine.” He moves his head as if gesturing around us at the room, his eyes large with pleading.

Well, might as well give it a shot. Standing up, I motion for him to come close, and lift his broken left arm, sympathizing as he winces in pain, a small sound escaping him. “Sorry, my bedside manner is kind of lacking.” The bones are poking through is some places, and his arm feel like shards of pottery in a leather bag. Concentrating with my eyes narrowed in thought, I imagine his arms fixed and whole.

Before my eyes, his arm straightens out, the bones receding back into the skin, feeling whole and normal. Flexing his arm, he stares at me in open adoration as I move onto the other arm, fixing it as easily as the first. If only regular healing was this easy. “Any other problems?”

“My chest hurts and I have a throbbing pain in my side.” Skipping ahead, I simply imagine him hale and healthy, injury free, all health signs full red and topped off. Looking satisfied, he jumps back into the chair, sinking deep into the cushioned leather. “Thank you, brother.”

Taking my seat as well, I decide that I need an animal to pet, something furry, fat, and docile. A large gray rabbit with floppy ears hops into my lap, and I stroke his fur as I watch the other me. I need a name for him. I'm going to name this rabbit too... his name will be Fluffy Bunnykins. The rabbit, not other me. “So... You're here.” He should have a bunny too. A brown rabbit hops onto his lap, waiting there to be pet.

