Other me looks at the rabbit in his lap and makes a face, the same face I make when thinking about taking a shit in the latrines. “Yes, I am.” Shifting the rabbit off his lap and onto the floor, he looks at me and salutes, bowing his head. “I apologize, brother. The Demon was stronger than I anticipated.”

“Oh was it? I didn't notice.” My sarcasm seems to strike a nerve with him, his face going scarlet red. Holy shit, I hope I don't blush that much, his cheeks are cherry red as he pouts. His emotions display prominently upon his face, anger, turning to shame, then back to anger, and finally, reluctant acceptance.

“The ancestors told me that we could kill it and I felt their strength flow into me... but the Demon still struck me down as if I were a child.”

This poor, crazy idiot. “Well, at least we both learned a valuable lesson: not to listen to the voices in our respective heads.” Chuckling to myself, I try to ignore the insanity that is my life, petting Mister Fluffy Bunnykins.

“I cannot understand why they would lie to me, but I will find some way to make them pay for what they have done to us.”

Great, he's going to make war on the voices in his head. Crazy bastard. “... Just pet your bunny and stop talking to me. We're just going to sit here quietly until I wake up and this is over. No more voices in my head, understood?” The brown rabbit hops back into his lap, turning its head to look up at other me, demanding to be pet.

Giving his bunny a reluctant pet on the head, other me relaxes slightly in his chair, his hands running through the soft, thick, velvety fur of the bunny. “I do not believe that it will be that simple, brother. I too am confused as to why we are split in two, separate and unequal.”

I guess he isn't going to shut up. What an ass. “Sounds like way more than two if you count your 'ancestors'. How many of them do you hear?” I'm not sure if I actually want the answer to that. Please don't be crazy.

“Countless brother, their voices ever-changing, I would not be able to tell if the same one spoke twice, the lying bastards.” The face he makes does not fit with the image of him petting the bunny, broody and upset. He looks exactly like I do but once again, I'm amazed by the differences between us. Even sitting in his chair, seemingly at ease, I can sense the tension just below the surface, ready to explode out in violence at a moments notice. His hand smacks down on the rabbit, roughly brushing his hand through its fur, and were it a real animal, I feel like it would be squirming to escape his grasp.

There is nothing gentle about him, his gaze steely, his voice hard, even his breathing seems powerful, his chest and shoulders moving perceptibly with each slow, measure breath. If I saw him on the streets, I would likely avoid him for fear of upsetting another arrogant warrior. Dressed in a vest of leather and fur, he looks every bit the tribesman with his exposed shoulders, chest and stomach, looking more ripped than I could ever be, hard muscle covering his body, where mine is softer, less defined. It's all the sweets I think, sugar is terrible for my figure. We continue to sit across from each other, rabbits in our arms, quietly assessing the situation.

Other me is first to break the silence. “While soft, it is unseemly for us to have rabbits as pets. They are weak and frail. If you insist on tiny creatures, why not hares?”

Great. Another hare supremacist. “What's the difference? Long ears, tiny nose, little cotton tail. Same animal.”

Frowning at me, he begins to lecture. “Rabbits are born blind and helpless and will remain so for some time. They spend their lives hiding in their burrows, helpless should a predator dig into their homes. Hares are born with open eyes, able to fend for themselves soon after birth, living above ground, open and free, struggling with all their might to survive.” He continues to pet his rabbit as he looks expectantly.

Hmm... I think I owe Taduk an apology. I guess there is a difference. “Okay then... What's the physical difference?”

Holding his rabbit up, he inspects it, trying to spot the differences. “...I am not sure. Longer ears and feet, perhaps?”

Rolling my eyes, I focus on his words, trying to picture a hare as opposed to a rabbit, and the creature in his hands changes. “Better?”

“Good enough.” Looking satisfied, he returns the animal to his lap, petting it roughly. “So what are we to do?”

“I already told you what I'm going to do: pet my bunny, wake up and forget all about this.”

“... and what of me? Am I to remain here forever, living my life in the void?”

Ideally, you wouldn't exist. Keeping that thought to myself, I simply shrug, not wanting to agitate the crazy bastard. “What's it like here anyways, when I'm awake?”

“Dark. Boring. Time passes and I am unaware, but sometimes I see glimpses of our life through our eyes, and I realize how long I have sat idle.” Hmm. Bummer. Before I can offer condolences and attempt to wipe him from existence, he continues speaking. “I know that you are stronger than me, but I can offer aid.”

“From your ancestors? No thanks, I've seen what they can do.”

“Even if they do not offer strength, they can offer guidance. I saw you practicing the Forms.” Putting his hare aside, he looks around for an empty area. Shrugging, I stand as well, carrying my rabbit to the door and opening it to the courtyard of our home. I can always try to 86 him after he makes his case. Striding to the center of the courtyard, he begins to move, his body demonstrating the Form I was trying so hard to perfect, Prancing Stride and Rising Step, but that isn't all. His arms move as if holding sword and shield, an overhand smash followed by a vicious upwards slash, another set of Forms, making it four in one. “That is what you were attempting, was it not?” A smug grin sits on his face, and an urge to slap him across the face boils in my chest, but I quickly suppress it. Can't be hating on myself.

“Do that again please.”

At my request he performs it several times, but all of my questions are met with shrugs, other me unable to delve into any technical aspects of the movements. When asked how he knew the movements, he answered “I just … felt you moving, and then I knew how to properly perform it. The ancestors guide my movements and they can guide you too, brother. Perhaps their words cannot be trusted, but these physical movements are a tangible benefit.” That sounds like Insight to me, just knowing how to fight without understanding. Has he been taking all my Insights? This thieving bastard. No, no. We're the same person.

Standing in silence, I watch as he continues to move about, fighting unseen enemies, a real warrior, graceful and savage, powerful and brutal. This is no performance of the Forms, but a demonstration of skills, one that rivals watching Adujan or Sumila, an impressive display. He is me, and I am him, but we both have knowledge that the other lacks. Maybe he's some repressed personality of mine and I actually can fight that well, but I'm being held back by my mentality. That's always been my weakest point, my hesitation to kill and reluctance to go all out, always thinking of another way out, but this Rain seems to have no qualms in that regard, the warrior I aspire to be.

Assuming that he had taken over while I was fighting, anger issues and voices in his head aside, he seems useful. While he doesn't understand the Forms, that just means that I don't either, but we can work together on that. So long as I remain in control and skeptical, everything should be fine. He looks at me expectantly, waiting for my reply. Walking up to him, I extend my hand for him to shake. “I lead, you follow. I am the one in control. Just remember that, and we'll work well together.” It would be better if he would just... be me and we could combine, but until I figure out how, this will have to do.

An angry glint shows in his eyes, but it is quickly hidden. I'll have to keep an... eye, I guess, on the bloodthirsty bastard. He takes my forearm in his hand. A fitting gesture, I have a faint recollection of gladiators shaking hands like that. “The pact is made. We are one brother, and I will do whatever I can to see that we survive and become stronger, until none can rival us. The world shall tremble when they hear our name.”

Dramatic, but it suits him.

Plus, I would kind of enjoy that.

Falling Rain, Hero of the People, Champion of the Empire.

That'd be nice.

Chapter Meme
