A new figure entered the morning melodrama, because why wouldn't things get worse when a student attempts the job of faculty? Mira Delacroix, a Hessalonian exchange student, got in Davos's face. As if shocked by her sheer audacity, Davos let go of Kalin.

"Creed, it's breakfast, must you bring this inside? There's a perfectly good tournament this week if you're in need of a pissing match."

"Stay out of it. Fucken Hesser." A gasp went through the now-quiet hall. Everyone loved a good fight.

"A fight in the commons concerns everyone in the commons."

"It's not a fight, just a polite conversation amongst friends, right, Kalin?" He bared his teeth like a shark, ready to strike out.

Kalin shoved Mira's arm aside. "I don't need a Hessalonian missionary to fight my battles. Especially not against blockheads like Davos."

Mira flinched back, and that was all Davos needed to charge ahead. He moved back, grabbed Kalin's shirt, and threw a fire-enchanted punch dead center into Kalin's chest.

I picked up my tray and tea, but Finn did not.

And just as I predicted, the magical blow sent Kalin flying into our table, and he came sliding across in a graceless sprawl that obliterated Finn's breakfast. I hid my laughter behind a sip of tea: Finn sat in front of me, porridge dripping from his ears, face covered, and bits of sausage stuck to his collar. A moment later I replaced my food.

"You could have warned me."

"I said to pick up your plate."

"You didn't say why!"

But Davos wasn't done. He stepped forward, hand out, signet ring sparking as he wound up for a second spell. This one wouldn't be a punch. The mana gathered in his fist; the flame was heavier, hotter, and aimed at someone already burned.

I didn't think. I flicked my wand under the table and said a quiet, "[Trip]."

[Trip - Enchantment]

Cost: 4 mana.

Ties, tangles, or fuses nearby lacing, cordage, or binding material on a target.

Davos's boots locked together mid-stride. He went down like a felled oak, his spell discharging harmlessly into the stone floor, where it left a black scorch mark. The hall erupted in chaos. Half the students were on their feet, wands, talismans, or other catalysts out, food forgotten.

I discreetly repocketed my wand before catching up to Kalin, who hadn't even flinched at Davos's fall. If anything, he seemed enthralled at the prospect of an easy target, the other man still struggling to get to his feet.

"Kalin." I said it sharp enough to cut through the yelling and screaming. He turned back half a glance, and his eyes found me. But what simmered there was almost enough to haunt even my apathetic heart. A year of being shoved, insulted, and ignored by everyone and everything that was supposed to protect him, and the summoning circles dancing around his hands were the only things that could give him a voice. Things were going to get worse. Fuck, fuck. Why does everything always get harder to deal with?

"Don't. The faculty are already on their way. You summon anything, and you'll be the one expelled, not Creed. You know that."

The circles just pulsed brighter as he turned to face the still-fallen man.

"Kalin. Please."

He didn't listen. Nobody ever fucking listens.
