While a single pellet was unable to pierce through Runic Armour, the sheer volume of projectiles was enough to drain even a Peak Expert of all his Chi should he try to resist a hail of grapeshot point-blank, and they spread out so quickly that the corpses formed a neat little triangle with the mouth of the Cannon at the tip. The cannoneer himself was already long gone, reloading and repositioning to unleash death at another gate, but as the Enemy recovered from their shock and awe to rush forward into the breach once more, a second cannoneer arrived to put them in their place for the second time inside of a minute. That was Hongji’s hand at work, coordinating the timing and positioning of these invaluable weapons right down to the second to keep Bai Qi guessing. In a battle this frantic and chaotic, it was all but impossible to lock down a single Cannoneer, not without risking valuable Peak Experts who might well be slaughtered the second they made a move. Throughout the course of the siege, Nian Zu had watched how Hongji traded moves with the Lord of Martial Peace, and while the results said they’d both matched evenly thus far, Hongji was mentally going toe to toe with a veritable Living Legend and brilliant tactician while at a disadvantage in almost every traditional metric imaginable.

Meaning that all else being equal, Hongji was undoubtedly the superior commander between the two and quite possibly the greatest military mind alive, a truth no one could deny in good faith.

The results of which could be seen now, from Bai Qi’s silence and lack of presence upon the battlefield as his rattled Chosen slowed their advance to a crawl. Their hesitance was evident to all, struggling to decide if they should charge in to support the fearless tribesmen or hold back and let the suicidal foreigners soak up the cannon fire for them. In the days to come, military ‘analysts’ and armchair Generals would likely look at this exchange in a vacuum, the breach of the gates and the unveiling of Cannon Grapeshot, and conclude that Bai Qi was not deserving of his reputation. The ‘obvious’ correct answer was for the Traitor General to spur his troops ever forward and keep their momentum going since there were only so many Cannons to go around, but it was not so simple a decision to make in the heat of the moment. Oddly enough, the Lord of Martial Peace was a commander who highly valued the lives of his soldiers, not because he cared for their well-being, but because he expected to trade their lives for the highest profit possible. One of his greatest victories came from leading five-thousand Imperial soldiers to kill a hundred thousand Defiled, and this was the standard he held himself to, twice that of what standard Imperial doctrine deemed reasonable, and Mother knows what his standards were for fighting other Imperial soldiers. Regardless of what his expectations might be, Bai Qi had clearly failed to meet them, and now, after fifteen days of bitter fighting without making any headway or progress, the seeds of doubts had not only been planted, but were also beginning to sprout.

The reveal of the Runic Cannons meant Bai Qi could no longer hide Wraiths or Peak Experts amongst his rank-and-file without considerable risk of losing them to grapeshot, as even the Half-Demon armour was likely not enough to protect them. More than one of the vile monstrosities had died after being struck by a cannonball, though Hongji had soon forbidden the cannoneers from targeting the Enemy elites since he deemed it was a waste of ammunition to just kill one, singular Peak Expert. Nian Zu might not have made the same decision, for the allure of killing elites was tempting indeed, though statistically, Hongji had more than likely made the right choice. The man was nothing if not brilliant, and Nian Zu was more than ready to offer him a place in the North should Shuai Jiao ever bare his fangs at the man most likely to replace him, though many would argue that this had already come to pass given the complete and utter lack of reinforcements from Central.

Nian Zu only hoped that Yuzhen was unharmed by all the politicking about, for she was not one to remain quiet in the face of a threat. If she’d been harmed by that snake of a politician, then he was more than willing to take Du Yi’s place and demand bloody and vindictive justice on his behalf, for the old fart would sooner see the world burn than let his daughter come to harm.

A matter for another day however, as today, Nian Zu was focused wholly on survival. That was the key to victory here in Shi Bei, outliving the Defiled hordes pouring in from all sides, though to be honest, he was more than a little amazed that the Imperial forces were still holding strong. Again, most of the credit belonged solely to Hongji, while the lion’s share of what remained should go to the various members of the Spring and Autumn Consortium. Quartermaster General Cao Cuo’s new and improved supply lines meant Shi Bei had enough food and water to last another week if need be, and they only ran out of ammunition because it couldn’t be produced any faster. Dame Cixi drew up the plans for Shi Bei’s vast array of improvements, including the various corridors of trapped areas between the new concrete wall and the city’s original sandstone fortifications, which was largely the reason why Bai Qi’s forces took the time to tunnel through the blocked gates in the first place rather than making a new opening in the wall instead. Not only would he risk losing troops to pitfalls, buildings rigged to collapse, and other devious traps, but the inhospitable terrain would prevent him from massing his forces for one, concentrated push against the inner city. Then there was Stonemason Gwangjong who oversaw the construction himself, else they might never have completed the outer walls in time, not to mention how it was his idea in the first place to block up the gates with concrete blocks. Once the fighting started, the Stonemason even joined his labourers on the front lines to ensure the work was done as quickly and efficiently as possible without sacrificing structural integrity, and Nian Zu wholeheartedly believed that the Empire would be lessened by the loss of any one of the three brilliant minds listed above.

Luckily, Quartermaster Cao Cuo wasn’t here in Shi Bei, but the other two were stuck here alongside their trained scribes and labourers who represented a wealth of practical skills that would be difficult to replace. In the event the Enemy overran the walls, Hongji had tasked several elite retinues with ensuring the members of the Spring and Autumn Consortium escaped unscathed. There was also a smattering of other civilians present in Shi Bei, mostly staff the city could not do without, but thankfully, the bulk of the Western prisoners of war had long since been moved to Meng Sha and shipped away in secret to a destination only known by a select few, though Nian Zu suspected it would be somewhere isolated in the North. As heartwarming as it might be to save so many lives, it was difficult to disregard the sinking sensation of future repercussions to deal with, whether it be former prisoners turning Defiled and causing a full-blown outbreak in the North, or the Emperor condemning them for ignoring the Imperial Mandate expressly ordering them to blockade the West and treat all refugees as Enemy combatants.

A mistake that, cutting off the West so quickly, Nian Zu realized this now. Tactically, it’d been the right move and he even agreed with the Emperor’s rationale at the time, but having seen the irreparable harm caused by the Enemy in the two years since, he wished he could step back into the past and do something for the poor, beleaguered people of the West. What’s more, even though this crusade West was an ill-advised move, liberating four harbours and two cities had won Legate Rain the heart of the Imperial peoples, an outcome he no doubt never expected but worked out in his favour nonetheless.

And now that bumbling boy was something akin to a Divinity, simultaneously stronger and more vulnerable at the same time.

Turning his attention to the young Legate, Nian Zu studied the boy’s expression in depth. His clear amber eyes emanated dark fury as he stood upon the wall in plain sight, daring the Enemy to attack him once again after the last attempt almost cost him his sister’s life. Foolhardy is what it was, leaving himself out as bait in so obvious a manner, especially considering how little there was to be gained, but Nian Zu suspected that Hongji would go along with whatever mad scheme young Rain proposed while Baatar refused to set his boy in line. This was why Nian Zu never wanted children of his own, because it turned reasonably intelligent people into slavering incompetents whenever their children were involved. They would all be better off if the boy would hide himself in Concealment to strike at his foes with his flying weapons and Spiritual Rifle, which he used to fire off what could only be described as Chi bullets whenever the mood struck him. Every now and then, he’d kill a Wraith long before they reached him, but Nian Zu noted that the corpses were appearing closer and closer to his position on the wall before melting away into the sands, consumed by the hidden Demons no doubt lingering nearby.

Another reason why the young Legate ought to be kept safely out of harm’s way. The fact that he could conjure tidal waves and kill a Divinity was impressive to be sure, but it meant nothing so long as the Treaty held true. His real value came from the fact that his presence alone was enough to keep the Enemy Demons at bay for fear of being Devoured, so even if he sat in Concealment and didn’t so much as lift a finger for the rest of the siege, he would have done far more than his fair share in battle today.

Unable to make rhyme or reason of the young Legate’s logic, Nian Zu resisted the urge to lecture Baatar about what to do and instead turned his attention to the battle at hand. Hongji’s thorough preparations never failed to impress as the sequence of events unfolded as if every step had been planned out in advance, a true master-class in deception on the battlefield. In response to the grapeshot Runic Cannons, Bai Qi chose to risk his elites in open battle rather than continue hiding them amongst his rank and file. Though they might still be susceptible to cannon-fire during the approach, they would be safe from those devastating weapons of war once they made it into close combat, which resulted in many a Peak Expert Cloud-Stepping directly into battle. A risky move that, one usually which was usually avoided due to the fact that approaching at such high speeds left the Peak Expert with little time to react to unforeseen threats, of which Hongji had left plenty scattered about.

In the fog of battle, it was almost impossible to distinguish a lowly private-first-class from a Brigadier so long as both were dressed the same, and Hongji used this to great effect here. Any ranking Officer without a retinue of their own had been ordered to dress in standard issue gear, and now, after fifteen days of bitter fighting, the sown seeds of preparation were ready to be harvested. As the Chosen Peak Experts alighted upon the frontlines, the majority were cut down where they stood by Experts and Peak Experts in disguise. In a direct, one on one fight, those Chosen Peak Experts might well have put up a good fight against their Imperial counterparts, but two hands could not block four swords, especially if one was wielded by a foe of comparable skill. Finally, Nian Zu understood why the young Legate had forbidden the Imperial forces from engaging in duels, because on the surface, refusing had seemed like a losing proposition. A series of duels could have bought precious time for the defenders of Shi Bei, minutes or even hours to rest and recuperate while watching the greatest Warriors of the Empire trade blows with the traitors who spurned them. This battlefield was home to the greatest concentration of Peak Experts and Living Legends in a thousand years, so Nian Zu was more than confident they would come out on top in a series of duels, especially considering both Baatar and Akanai had proven themselves more than capable of matching Bai Qi in single combat.

The young Legate had declared that all Enemy Peak Experts were open game, and now, Nian Zu understood what he meant. Why partake in a fair duel when you could instead slaughter them without reprisal in the chaos of battle? Many of these disguised Officers would have been called upon to duel the nameless Enemy Peak Experts, revealing the trap long before it was sprung, but again, it wasn’t entirely clear if the young Legate had planned for this eventuality or if things just happened to work out in his favour like they almost always did. No matter, but Nian Zu gave thanks to the Mother Above for having been born a hundred years earlier, if only so he wouldn’t have to compete with Her Chosen Son, Falling Rain.

