All across Shi Bei, hidden Imperial Peak Experts revealed themselves to strike down Chosen and Half-Demon elites before withdrawing to blend back into the crowd. Major Vichear of the Khishigs, Du Kang Bin of Central, Broken Blade Pichai of the South, these were but a few of the faces Nian Zu recognized as he cast his Scying gaze across Shi Bei, and the havoc they wrought was beautiful to behold. Difficult to say how many Enemy Peak Experts died in the next minute, but it had to be dozens at the very least, slaughtered where they stood before they realized they’d delivered themselves to death’s doorstep. Though the Enemy could afford such losses, there was no doubt in Nian Zu’s mind that Bai Qi was grinding his teeth in frustration as he gave the order for his elites to withdraw, for Warriors of this calibre could not be so easily replaced, unlike with full-fledged Demons. Perhaps there was a way to mass produce Half-Demons, for there were thousands of them at the very least, but not all possessed the strength of a Peak Expert, though most were comparable to Demon Slayers at the very least.

To everyone’s surprise, Bai Qi’s next move was even more aggressive than the last, proving to them all how he earned his name as the Lord of Martial Peace. Two dozen Peak Experts appeared at the southern gate, Half-Demons all, led by none other than Mataram YuGan himself. As they led the charge, the hidden Imperial elites revealed themselves to strike back, only for a second wave of Half-Demons to make their presence known solely to counter them. Time slowed as Nian Zu spotted Han BoHai amidst the Imperials, his hulking frame covered in eight Spiritual Weapons too obvious to be hidden by anything outside of Concealment, but he’d shown himself regardless of the risk. A losing gamble that, for Nian Zu’s right-hand man was a powerful Peak Expert in his own right, but far from able to match the Mataram Patriarch.

A fact which was immediately proven correct as their first exchange sent BoHai reeling back while YuGan’s subordinate followed up with a thrust that would undoubtedly claim the Northern Dreadnaught’s life.

Nian Zu moved without even thinking, Cloud-Stepping over and throwing his mace in a desperate effort to save his closest comrade, a man with a shared history of conflict with the Clan and Society that raised him. They were kindred spirits, BoHai and he, brothers in exile who bonded over the blood of the Enemy, and there was a time when Nian Zu had hoped BoHai would succeed him as the Shield of the North, but the bearish man never learned how to put aside his rage and enmity. Given the chance, BoHai would go to war with his older brother in a heartbeat for control over the Han Clan, a battle which would not end well for anyone involved.

Their conflict would soon be put to rest it would seem, for even though Nian Zu had reacted immediately with all haste, there was no doubt in his mind that he would arrive far too late to save his nearest and dearest friend.

The Shooting Star flew towards the Mataram Half-Demon even as his spear lanced out towards BoHai, but the difference in speed was far from enough to make up for the disparity in distance. Mentally prepared for this grievous loss, Nian Zu almost missed seeing what took place before his eyes as the Half-Demon froze ever so briefly and lost all strength and impetus. The dark-steel spear hurdled forward on sheer momentum alone, dragged down by the weight of its immobile wielder behind it, a moment of hesitation that lasted less time than it took to blink an eye, yet made all the difference in the world. The Shooting Star struck true and pulped the Half-Demon where he stood, the armoured frame exploding in a mist of gore and viscera that washed over Nian Zu as he arrived a half-second later with Runic Shield raised to block the Mataram Patriarch’s follow up attack.

Steel chimed and the world lurched as the air shot out from Nian Zu’s lungs. In his dazed fugue, he wondered just where in the Father’s Maw that charging elephant had emerged from, only to belatedly realize that there was no elephant at all, and the Mataram Patriarch was just that damned strong. Coming back to his senses, he pushed off of BoHai while they were still flying back from the impact of YuGan’s powerful thrust, only to crash headlong into the second follow up from the fearsome Clan Patriarch. An intended outcome, he rationalized, for surely the combined force of their momentum was less than the force of an all-out strike from his foe, though it was difficult to gauge in his rattled and possibly concussed state. The Runic Shield was still intact and his bones unbroken behind it, which was a conflicting surprise given how his entire left side was screaming in sheer agony. Calling his mace back to hand, he grimaced as YuGan’s spear smashed it aside as he drew back for a strike, one which was far less powerful than the previous two thrusts but still enough to send Nian Zu staggering away.

So shaken and unnerved by his foe’s relentless assault, he didn’t even think twice when the idea came to him and just acted on instinct instead. Gritting his teeth with a rumbling growl, he squared up behind his rounded shield and charged headlong into his opponent’s chest, a move that by all rights should have killed him. There were so many options for Mataram YuGan to counter; a low sweep to the leg, sidestep into a delayed but well-aimed thrust, or even a backstep which would see him impale himself on the spear, any one of these moves would have won him the match if not killed Nian Zu outright, but then, miracle of all miracles, the Mataram Patriarch froze in place a second time, his entire body involuntarily tensing up for the briefest of moments and utterly destroying his flow, rhythm, and momentum.

Which allowed Nian Zu’s nigh suicidal shield charge to connect with full force.

Unfortunately, this was a Runic Shield rather than a Spiritual one, meaning he was unable to Amplify the strike, but even as he lamented the lost opportunity to deal his foe a most devastating blow, he wondered, “Why not?” Even though he couldn’t directly channel his Chi into the Runic Shield to Amplify the impact, he had a Domain, did he not? Everyone else was learning how to Domain Plate, a skill which had thus far eluded him, but there was no harm in trying. The first impact was gone and spent, but since following through would only push YuGan away, Nian Zu might as well draw back and try to deal a second blow in quick succession. Easier said than done, for this had to happen while he was sprinting full-speed ahead. Not an impossible feat for a Peak Expert, but his abs and lower back would not thank him for trying. Covering his Runic Shield with his Domain, he envisioned them melding together like sugar in tea or dye staining into cotton. Then, in a moment of Insight, he not only Amplified the strike, but he also Guided, Lightened, and Reinforced his Domain-Plated shield while Honing the edges to cut clean through the air resistance and speed his charge along.

And as he crashed into Mataram YuGan a second time, he combined all of the Chi skills above with Reverberation to make his Domain-Plated Runic Shield oscillate at speeds invisible to the naked eye, emitting countless pulsating shockwaves of destruction which shredded apart Demonic Chitin, flesh, and bone in the blink of an eye. Now, he had become Shooting Star Nian Zu in truth, with his body and Domain at the core of his titular skill as he battered the Mataram Patriarch to a pulp in a single, transcendent blow that combined six of the eight basic Chi skills into one. That was the true secret behind his Shooting Star, not the process of utilizing those six skills in tandem, but combining them together to become something greater than the sum of their parts.

Never one to waste an opportunity, Nian Zu held onto this sensation for as long as he could while blasting past the corpse of his defeated foe, propelling the Shooting Star ever forward into the Enemy ranks in a one-man cavalry charge that pulverized every Chosen and Half-Demon he collided with. His calves and quads screamed as he tried to stop, but the skill pulled him ever forward straight through the tunnel and out the city gates, killing with every step along the way and wondering how in the Father’s Maw the Wedded Exarches had ever maintained control of their heading. His boots dug a deep furrow in the blood-stained sands as he slid to a stop a good fifteen metres outside the concrete walls of Shi Bei, and try as he might, he could not muster the strength to Cloud Step back to safety. For long seconds, he stood there and glared at the Enemy army before recalling his mace to hand, for if he were to die here, then he would do so with honour and dignity, but thankfully, he heard the boisterous din of Han BoHai smashing his way through the Enemy ranks to reach him.

So shocked by Nian Zu’s dynamic entry, none of the Defiled made a move against him. A few seconds and an eternity later, his right-hand man arrived with no less than seven of his famed fifty. “Damn you, Colonel General,” the big bear of a man huffed, feigning as if he were out of breath to hide his burgeoning laughter. “How do you expect me to go around calling myself the Dreadnaught after all that?”

“Wisecracks later,” Nian Zu Sent, and something in his tone alerted BoHai to the severity of the situation. “Withdraw now. I’ve thrown my back and torn the ligaments in my legs, among other things. Carry me out of here if you have to, but do it quick.”

Within seconds, he found himself back in the Healers’ tents with Healer Lishan Suzhen fussing over him and being all liberal with her hands on his bared and bruised chest, but he paid her no mind as he Scryed over the battlefield. Once might be a coincidence, but twice now, he’d seen Peak Experts freeze in place for no discernable reason at all and now he needed to know why. Gerel was the first Peak Expert who caught his eye, the Demon Reaper locked in close combat with a Mataram Clansman named the Crimson Reaper, and though the young Bekhai Warrior seemed outmatched at first, Nian Zu saw his foe freeze up at just the worst timing to cede Gerel the upper hand. It happened again as Situ Chi Gan traded blows with the Whirling Dervish Mataram Minzhe, the old goat eager for a rematch after fighting to a draw in Meng Sha. A dozen exchanges took place in the blink of an eye and neither of them gained an advantage, but then the loathsome Half-Demon froze just like all the others only to be cut down in a single blow by the strongest Situ Clansman alive.

It was so faint and subtle Nian Zu would never have noticed it if he wasn’t expressly searching for the clues, but as the battle escalated and Peak Experts clashed all across Shi Bei, the Enemy combatants would inevitably be struck by some inexplicable attack that caused them to freeze in place ever so slightly. In most cases, it wasn’t enough to decide the battle outright, such as in Du Min Gyu’s duel against a horned Half-Demon that looked far too much like his adopted grand-daughter to be mere coincidence, but even then, the significance of these unseen attacks could not be denied. The Enemy elites who survived were flustered by the unknown assailant, while Imperial morale soared to new heights as famed Warriors cut down their foes in droves and seized the momentum of battle for the first time. After fifteen days of non-stop fighting, the defenders of Shi Bei were able to see the light of victory once again, a faint and distant glimmer of hope, but there nonetheless.

Was this the work of friendly Divinity, tipping the scales in their favour? If so, then Nian Zu prayed their efforts went unnoticed, for despite the extraordinary results, he feared that the consequences of his or her actions might be too much for the Empire to bear.

Chapter Meme
