As the Enemy smashed down the gates of Shi Bei, Nian Zu raised his Runic Shield and readied his Shooting Star for glorious battle once more.

Having served the majority of his career at the Northern Wall, he was no stranger to long, drawn out sieges, but thus far, everything he’d seen from Hongji had filled him with the utmost of respect. If only the man had been born in the Northern province instead, then Nian Zu would have long since taken him under his wing to raise as the next Shield of the North. Not that Baatar was unsuited for the role, only that Hongji exceeded him in every metric available aside from personal strength. Considering his record of achievements in the last two years, Chen Hongji might well become the next Living Legend of Central, for his tactical acumen was second to none, and his mastery of the Ethereal Palm was awe-inspiring and imposing indeed. What it lacked it power, it more than made up for in versatility, as this technique of Domain manipulation was now spreading like wildfire amidst the soldiers of Shi Bei, but none learned faster than the pioneer of the skill himself. Every foe who approached him was shoved, tripped, clinched, or struck by an invisible attack, which didn’t seem like much, but it was always difficult to deal with the unexpected, especially in a high-speed battle between Peak Experts. Though still lacking in many ways, Hongji was a reliable Warrior and outstanding commander who remained cool and composed under pressure, showing no signs of cracking even after fifteen long days of siege warfare which he spent reading and countering Bai Qi’s tactics with ruthless efficiency and effectiveness while taking part in the fighting without missing a beat.

In contrast, Baatar was… a more emotional Warrior than Nian Zu first realized, one prone to rash and hot-headed action despite his aloof demeanour. When they first met, he seemed like a cold and stoic individual who fought with the fury of ten men, a fierce and cunning commander who knew how to best utilize the soldiers under him and would stop at nothing to achieve victory against the Enemy. While all this still held true, Nian Zu had since come to realize that the half-wolf was not cold at all, but rather a man of passion and instinct who merely never showed it, someone beholden to his emotions and willing to throw far too much away in service to them. It showed in his response to the Wedded Exarches deaths, wherein he flew into a rage and set out to avenge them before almost getting himself and his retinue killed. Only Akanai’s presence kept him alive, and many of his comrades were still recovering from injuries taken in that ill-advised offensive, and Nian Zu shuddered to think what might’ve happened if she had not been ready and waiting.

Granted, Baatar’s passion was hardly a flaw, all things considered, especially given how loyal and devoted he was, a quality which greatly endeared him to the soldiers under his command, but Nian Zu’s issue stemmed from the fact that Baatar’s loyalty lay not with the Empire itself, but with the people he held dear. For his family, he would rebel against the Emperor in a heartbeat, and past events showed that each and every single member of Akanai’s Khishigs would join him, alongside a good number of the countless soldiers and Officers whose hearts he’d won over, like Jia Yang and Han BoHai.

The man was a leader born, but his precarious loyalty was not a quality which inspired confidence in a man whose sole duty was to hold the Northern Wall no matter the cost.

Perhaps Nian Zu had erred in choosing Baatar as his successor, for he was no better than Han BoHai, too impassioned and zealous to become the reliable neutral pillar that the Northern Province so desperately needed. In South and Central, the bulk of their Warriors enlisted in the Imperial Army, the former because they were the most united Province of all, and the latter because rank and prestige were seen as a sort of currency and honour among the populace of the safest Province in the Empire. Up north however, most Warriors were kept close to home as part of the Imperial Defense Forces, because most of the province was still wild and untamed with many a threat lurking about. For this reason and many more, the Imperial Army lacked the manpower necessary to guard the entire Northern Wall unaided, to say nothing of the various palisades and fortresses dotted all across the various mountain pathways. Thus, each year, the Marshal of the North would make a call to arms requesting the various powerhouses of the provinces dispatch a miniscule fraction of Warriors to aid in the defense, a call which went answered because the factions of the North knew Nian Zu could be counted on to hold the line and never use the drafted soldiers under his command for personal gain.

A fact which would not hold true once Baatar took over entirely. Whether a Warrior was part of the Army or the Defense Forces, once placed under a military officer’s command, disobedience was punishable by death, and while Nian Zu liked to believe that Baatar would never intentionally make things difficult for the Warriors serving under him, the various factions of the North would be hard pressed to trust the man at his word and willingly send their best. Even with the full force of the Society and the Khishigs behind him, the half-wolf would find it difficult to defend the full breadth of the Northern Wall all on his own, for no amount of skill or expertise could ever make up for a grievous lack of manpower.

With all this in mind, Nian Zu had long since realized that Akanai would make for a far better successor, though in her case, perhaps it would be better to call her a replacement instead, for she was already more qualified for the position than he would ever be. Despite that same willingness to rebel against the Empire, she was far more reasonable than the Disciple she’d raised, to say nothing of her Grand-Disciple, the young Dragon and Legate of the Outer Provinces, Falling Rain. At least the boy had youth to blame for his failings, though in retrospect, Baatar wasn’t nearly as old and mature as his years would imply, for even though he had more than eight decades of life behind him, he still had four more centuries left to live. When compared to a human with a lifespan of a hundred-and-twenty years, Baatar’s proportional age was comparable to a youth of twenty-four, which did much to explain the presence of such impulsive tendencies when he should have long since grown out of them. Before, Nian Zu saw the longer lifespan of a half-beast as a boon, for it meant Baatar was capable of holding up the Heavens for at least the next two centuries provided he didn’t fall in battle, at which point he would still have plenty of time to raise a successor of his own. Alas, this was not the case, but it was too late for regrets now, and Nian Zu hoped his decision had not sealed the fate of the Northern Province.

Unlikely, given how even if she wasn’t his successor, Akanai was hardly the type to stand around and do nothing while her Disciple faltered and failed so grievously as to doom an entire province, to say nothing of the contingent of Ancestral Beasts backing the Khishigs from the shadows. There was also Legate Rain and all his recent personal, social, and technological advancements to consider, as Irregulars and Runic Cannons would go a long way to help securing the North not just against the Defiled threat, but from wild beasts and bandits alike. It was possible Nian Zu was just being dramatic in his old age and everything would work out for the best once his chosen successor took over in full. Even if it didn’t, he wouldn’t be around anymore to see everything go to shit, so why worry about something he couldn’t fix?

Especially considering there was a good chance he and most Warriors of Shi Bei would die here today, rendering all his concerns moot.

Having long since run out of traps and tricks to keep the Enemy away from the gates, Nian Zu stood and watched as the Defiled hacked their way through the wooden doors, iron portcullis, and the thick concrete slabs behind them. Every gate in the city had been sealed with concrete the second they sighted the massive army which had come to lay siege, forcing the Enemy to either ascend the walls in order to fight or funnel outside the gate entrance. The latter made it that much easier to rain bolts and cannonballs down upon them from afar, and trap even more under the tunnels with no room to move or retreat. After fifteen days of fighting however, the Enemy had finally managed to mine their way through most of the blocked tunnels and would soon come pouring into the city itself, where it would come down to bitter hand-to-hand combat in the plaza to keep them from overrunning the Imperial forces in full.

It started out as a trickle of combatants squeezing their way through the openings, a mere handful of tribesmen and Chosen at a time who were easily dealt with by Nian Zu’s waiting soldiers, but the more industrious Defiled stayed behind to continue widening the gaps in the barricade so more of their brethren could come pouring in at once. Casting his gaze across the city through Scrying, Nian Zu spied many a similar scene playing out at the other three main gates, and the Imperial Army stood ready to stem the tide in a desperate, last-ditch effort to hold, but thankfully, spirits and morale were both still high. All thanks to Legate Rain’s domineering arrival atop a tidal wave no doubt, though Nian Zu was still annoyed the boy had wasted so much effort on a showy entrance instead of wiping the Enemy army out in one go.

To be fair, the boy had a good reason for not doing so, namely the fear of breaking the Treaty invoking reprisal from the Enemy Divinities, but Nian Zu could not help but grumble about the waste. The Medical Saint was a far more reasonable sort, one who was surprisingly also a Divinity yet knew how to make use of his power in a way that would not violate the Treaty outright and render the surrounding lands uninhabitable for centuries, if not millennia. A second round of restorative rain would be most welcome right about now, but the afternoon sun was still shining brightly overhead with nary a cloud to be found, so the Imperial Army would have to hold Shi Bei with naught but grit and determination alone.

And a little bit of cunning as well.

All across the city, the Defiled broke through the barricades and came streaming through in droves to do battle with their foes. Having long since handed overall command over to Hongji, Nian Zu only needed to wait and watch as the Enemy forces crashed against the line of staunch Imperials stationed outside every gate entrance to hold the Enemy at bay. While the blocked tunnels were not visible from a cursory Scry, the gate courtyard designs were known to all, a simple square with high walls overlooking the courtyard on the left and right and only the way forward left open, largely negating the Enemy advantage of numbers and forcing them to fight man-to-man without the ability to encircle their foes. Some of the crazed tribesmen tried to leap over the ancillary walls, but there were Imperial soldiers waiting atop those angled battlements ready and waiting to spear anyone who dared show their heads. The majority of Chosen however were too weighed down by their armour to even attempt such a feat of Lightening, not without nails driven into the concrete to use as foot and hand holds like they had on the outer stretch of the walls. As such, the only thing left for them to do was to march headlong into the teeth of the Imperial Army, but even as they fought to push their way forward, Nian Zu smiled in gleeful anticipation of the slaughter to come.

One on one, the armoured Chosen were typically superior to the average Imperial Soldier, but Chen Hongji was a devious tactician who’d quickly learned the best way to use the Runic Cannons to maximum effect. Ear-shaking roars rumbled all across Shi Bei as those weapons of war sounded once more, loaded not with solid cannonballs like before, but with canvas bags filled with a cluster of iron spheres which Legate Rain called grapeshot. When Nian Zu first saw the wagons laden with canvas bags, he thought the boy overly optimistic and more than a little foolish for regarding provisions more important than ammunition or Peak Experts, but then BoHai explained what the bags really contained and how effective grapeshot had proven to be in testing.

A description which paled in comparison to seeing a cloud of blood billow into existence as hundreds of iron projectiles tore their way through the Enemy ranks.

