“Fine,” Paul grumbled, drawing a gnarled wooden club and stepping forth. “We’ll do it her way.”

Three sets of judgmental eyes were all it took to get Laura to similarly give in, drawing a one-handed axe and joining Paul in front. Amanda fell in behind them as Liam and Edmund took up the rear.

“Nice speech,” Edmund whispered, truthfully impressed the boy had finally turned his skill at prattling towards something useful.

“I should hope so,” Liam muttered back. “I spent hours practicing it.”

Opting not to humor him any further, Edmund drew his sword and followed the others deeper into the dungeon. This first floor really did look the spitting image of a cellar, only absent the barrels and shelves one might expect to find. Smokeless torches burned along the walls, casting flickering shadows along the wood-lined walls. It was to these Edmund paid particular attention.

“First floor, alright,” Paul snorted from up ahead. “If that’s not the most obvious trap I’ve ever seen…”

Edmund followed his gaze to find a foot-sized flat piece of granite embedded in the floor, directly adjacent to a rather suspicious inch-wide hole. The gray stone stood out like a beacon against the brown packed-earth floor, calling even more attention to its threatening nature.

“I guess anything less obvious on the first floor would break the fairness accord,” Laura said.

“Just don’t step on it,” Amanda snapped, “and pay attention.”

Liam spotted the mobs first. “Guys!” he hissed, calling the party to halt. “In the corner.”

Six chittering forms stood huddled together in the shadows of the chamber’s far left corner, each no smaller than a large dog. It wasn’t until a wormlike tail swished out into the light that Edmund knew what they were.

“Rats in the cellar,” Liam said. “Original.”

“Giant rats in the cellar,” Amanda corrected, her voice echoing just a little bit too loudly against the wooden walls.

Six ferocious hisses rose up in response.

“Shit,” Amanda swore. “Weapons up!”

“My weapon is up!” Laura yelled over her shoulder.

The rats charged.

Amanda threw out her hand, and a bolt of ice shot through the air to meet the stampeding beasts. It missed. “Shit,” she cursed again.

Everything went wrong at once.

The two rats in front both leapt at Laura, baring their six-inch incisors with a threatening hiss. One of them collided with the blade of her axe, cleaving its own skull in two with the force of its momentum.

The other didn’t.

The force of the collision knocked Laura on her back, the giant rat landing on top of her as its claws dug into the rags she wore and the skin beneath. By the time Liam plunged a knife into its left eye, it had already sunk its incisors into Laura’s throat.

Paul, meanwhile, managed to survive the initial charge by wildly swinging his club back and forth, warding the rats away for a precious moment. Held at bay for a brief second while they pondered the deaths of their two mates, the four remaining rats fanned out in a threatening semicircle, pounding their tails into the packed earth menacingly.

They stood still just long enough for Amanda to finally land a hit, her ice bolt burrowing deep into the neck of the nearest rat. It collapsed to the floor with a gurgling hiss.

“Hey!” Edmund stepped forward, brandishing his sword as he tried to divide the rats’ attention. It worked. One of the creatures leapt over the rapidly dissolving corpse of its compatriot, bounding across the dungeon floor to leap at the under-leveled Edmund.

He caught it on the tip of his blade.

All thoughts of triumph lasted less than a second as the dead rat’s momentum carried it forward, knocking Edmund backwards and pinning him beneath its weight. In his fall, the hilt of his sword slammed into his ribs, and a horrifying crack echoed through the floor. Dull agony spread through him in waves, mercifully muted by the adrenaline coursing through his veins.

As Edmund struggled to get out from under the weight of the dead rat, Paul and Amanda warded off the other two. Twice Liam tried to get in to land a blow, but twice the beasts rounded on him and forced him back. Still, the rats failed to break through Paul’s defenses, and it was only a matter of time until Amanda stopped missing her Thrax-damned ice bolts.

When she finally did land another hit, it wasn’t one she wanted.

The budding mage threw her ninth ice bolt at a leaping rat in the same moment Paul stepped forward to swing his club. The spell struck him in the back of the hand.

Paul dropped the wooden club with a bloodcurdling scream, an agonized cry that lasted only long enough for the two rats to overwhelm the now-unarmed adventurer. He hit the dirt in a whirl of fur and fury, thrashing about for a scarce few seconds before his cries too were silenced.

“Shit,” Amanda cursed. “Shit shit shit shit shit.” Panic took over. Extending both hands, she launched a flurry of ice bolts at the two rats. What few projectiles from the wild volley actually hit struck bone and muscle, wounding the nearest rat but failing to deal lethal damage. Two seconds later, the barrage came to an end. Amanda’s voice quaked with primal terror as she yelled, “I’m out of mana!”

She turned to run.

The rats were faster.

By the time Edmund managed to wriggle his way out from under the dead rat covered in blood and matted brown fur, he found the two surviving rodents tearing into Amanda’s back. She died screaming, face down in a pool of her own blood.

Liam took the opportunity to dart in, landing his second killing blow of the fight as he planted his knife in a rat’s neck while it brutalized their dead party member.

Only one remained.

It hissed in unbridled fury, swishing its tail and baring its fangs at this upstart that had dared slaughter its kin.

Edmund jerked his head back and forth in a panic, searching desperately for a weapon. His sword still sat buried in a corpse, its hilt trapped beneath the giant rat. Laura’s axe and Paul’s club had both already dissolved to feed the dungeon, along with the bodies of the delvers that had brought them.

The last surviving rat snarled a deadly threat at the two adventurers.

Liam laughed.

“C’mon then!” he jeered. “By my count it’s five kills us and three kills you.” He twirled one of his daggers in his hand. “We’re winning!”

Unarmed, Edmund could only watch in heart-pounding terror as the rat leapt at Liam, but the boy darted to the side, lashing out with the knife in his left hand. A line of red appeared along the rat’s side.

Again the rat pounced and again Liam dodged away, landing a superficial hit in the process. At the back of his chest, somewhere behind the throbbing of his broken rib, Edmund felt a glimmer of hope begin to take shape.

“You’ll have to be faster than that!” Liam taunted. Once more the beast leapt, and Liam drew blood and laughed and danced back.

Directly onto a foot-sized slab of flat granite.

Edmund watched it all with his heart in his throat, the events unfolding as if in slow motion before him. He tried to warn him, tried to cry out, but the words died on his lips. It was over the moment Liam set off the trap.

The stone sank an inch into the earth as Liam’s weight hit it. Behind him, a wooden spear, little more than a long, sharpened stick, shot from a small hole ground. It struck him at the base of his skull.

Edmund gazed on in abject horror as Liam’s body twitched twice and then stilled for good. His face still held the thin smirk and taunting gaze it had in life.

The rat snarled in victory.

Edmund’s heart froze.

His sword still lay trapped beneath a dead rat, and without a weapon he bore no chance at defeating even a lone, injured rodent. In a bid of desperation, he dashed for Liam’s corpse, hoping to grab the boy’s daggers before the dungeon claimed them.

He was too late.

The two blades dissipated into a puff of smoke, followed shortly by Liam’s body.

Most of it.

The dungeon left his head impaled upon the spike, his mouth turned up in that mocking grin and the remnants of laughter glimmering in his lifeless eyes.

The Eternal Depths was taunting him.

It was there, with a giant rat still hissing at him and the derisive eyes of his friend staring into his very soul, that something deep within Edmund, something that in retrospect had never been quite right to begin with, finally snapped.

For a brief, terrifying moment, he stood beyond fear. Beyond doubt. Beyond even the unending rage he felt towards the Eternal Depths. For those few seconds, his ribs didn’t hurt, his heart didn’t race, his lungs didn’t burn, his tears didn’t fall.

Taunting the dungeon had been Liam’s last mistake.

Taunting Edmund would be the dungeon’s.

Even as it thought to deprive him of weapons, in its jeering it’d provided him with exactly the weapon he needed. Edmund’s hand shot forward, grasping the wooden pike just below where it entered Liam’s head. He held it tight as it was slick with blood.

He gave it a sharp kick, breaking the spear at its base and freeing it from whatever mechanism had propelled it from the floor. With a swift and brutal swing, he sent Liam’s head flying from the tip and rolling across the cellar floor.

The rat charged, sluggish from its wounds but still backed by more than enough force to take down a level one adventurer with a broken rib.

But Edmund was ready.

Painful as it was, his injury had taught him a lesson. Instead of holding the spear out in front of him, he braced its butt against the cellar floor, holding the shaft close as the rat drew near. It wasn’t until the beast was airborne and thus unable to change its path that Edmund tugged the spear into position and jerked aside.

He dodged the brunt of the rat’s pounce, but even as it impaled itself on Edmund’s spear, the beast’s claws raked across his chest, tearing through his ragged shirt and drawing three red lines where it passed.

Edmund collapsed.

As he hit the ground, an invisible bell chimed a single time, signaling the floor had been cleared.

Edmund paid no attention to the door that swung open on the other side of the cellar. He ignored the worn wooden chest that rose from the floor. He didn’t read the message behind his eyelids alerting him that he’d unlocked a new Aspect.

He leaned over on his hands, and he retched.

Every dry heave sent fresh waves of agony from his broken rib as his empty stomach tried and failed to conjure up anything to expel. For uncountable torturous moments he sat there, the stench of the blood and fur that covered him sending him into a new cycle of retching whenever he tried to catch his breath until at last it overtook him and he fell onto his back.

The pain of his ribs and his clawed-up chest washed over him, mingling horrifically with the churning of his stomach and the maelstrom of emotions that assaulted him now that adrenaline had finished its work and left him exposed. He stared, with eyes unblinking, up at the dirt ceiling as he breathed in and out in short, shallow breaths.

He lay there for some time as his one ability, the pittance of health regen from his Aspect of Perseverance, began its work. It would take hours, but he’d be in fighting shape soon enough.

On this deadliest day, the dungeon had reaped four young souls before their time, but hard as it’d tried, it hadn’t reaped his. And now, however long it took, whatever tricks and traps unfathomable monsters it threw at him, nothing would stand in his way.

He would have his vengeance.

The Eternal Depths, greatest and most powerful dungeon in all of Linaria, keeper of the lost Book of Dranicath, host to the Eighth Infernal Legion, slayer of Indleroth the Dread, would at last feast upon its just desserts.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, injured, alone, and newly level two, was coming for it.

Edmund Montgomery AhabAspects Unlocked: 2Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance Level 1 - Gain limited health regeneration.
