Kairon watched, breath held, as everything slotted into place. For just a moment, a presence erupted from below. One that he knew all too well.

Violet light flickered underneath the contingent of imps and warriors. From it, a power surfaced.

The plane.

Everything in the world seemed to go still. It was as if the imps halted, the wind disappeared, and the night froze.

Boney, mid pounce, simply stopped moving. As if gravity itself didn’t matter. His skin began to glow, wisps of red and gold illuminating it in the night. His body turned a heated crimson, then a burgeoning gold, and finally a mix of the two. Jaw locked open in his defiant cry, the imp that Boney once was tore apart with a grotesque tearing sound. Flesh unraveled, limbs elongated, and tissue bubbled.

A white, skeletal protrusion skewered itself from Boney’s torso. It took Kairon a moment to realize that was his spine. Like a tree, it reached upwards until it was nearly a meter taller than the warrior himself. Once it stilled, flesh and tissue crawled up along it. Gaps were filled, muscles were inflated, and what once was red, shiny skin with natural bone plating melted away. New, black and red fur grew outwards. In moments, what once was a wrath warrior had altered into a demonic wolf.

His clawed hands trembled, before exploding into a mess of viscera. Before that could fully register, new, wicked red claws grew. And grew. And grew. Like some kind of wolverine, his newly evolved form came with enormous, razor sharp claws half as long as his arms.

That whip of red and gold energy still swirled around the floating demon, moving faster and faster. There was a rending noise, and Boney’s face was raked by four invisible knives. When they were done, a quartet of gouging claw marks were left behind. Only now, they pulsed. One moment, the marks glowed red, the next gold. A sign of the power within.

His face elongated, growing a snout, wolf like ears, and fur like the rest of his body. A body that, by now, was entirely covered in thick fur.

Near the bottom, his feet were now large, dexterous paws with thick talons on the end.

Wrath warriors had natural bone armor for protection. So too did demonic wolves, it seemed. But different.

With a sickening pop, Boney’s new armor grew. Across his chest, a network of amber glowing bones drew outwards. Once they reached his stomach, they stopped. They created a skeletal cage. Thinner than the bone armor of the wrath imps, but far more flexible.

For a moment, nothing more happened. Kairon was fairly certain the process was done when the golden energy pulsed a final time. Along Boney’s shoulder, where he once had the same natural bone armor of his brethren, something else was being born. An entity in its own right.

Mid evolution as he was, Boney’s mouth was still agape, locked in that eternal cry. Next to it, a second maw grew, a twin expression of righteous fury like its night seeking brethren. With a demonic roar that was far louder than anything Kairon had ever heard, it bore itself directly into Boney’s upper shoulder. Skeletal teeth bit into the night, a trio of oversized horns pressing upwards. At their crest, an axe like scythe of bone angled skyward. When it finished, a massive pauldron, part maw, part armor, and part axe was made.

A moment later, reality resumed. Only now, Kairon had lost a wrath imp.

In return, he’d gained a demon.

And what a demon he is.

Dear oh Dear. That is quite impressive! As the light and presence of the plane diminished, the city lord marveled at its work. He didn’t move his vision, just taking in the sight of his new friend until the darkness fully returned.

In his claws, a blue parchment appeared. It took Kairon’s brain several seconds to catch up. When he finally regained his senses, he tore his gaze away and looked downwards, studying the glowing paper in his claws.

Boney The Night Caller, huh. Given the training and environment he’s been put through, that makes sense. The demon breathed in sharply, trying to make sense of what happened.

I knew treating the imps differently would have an impact, and could tell their connections had been growing. Boney, Nod, Shiny. They’ve all grown.

But now… If they’re all going to grow this impressive. He barked out a short laugh. Paladins were going to be the least of his worries with allies like this.

Grinning, he studied the pact that came along for the ride.

“Wait… It’s… just this?” he asked aloud, his smile fading.

Kairon was left speechless. The pact that had come with Boney’s evolution was almost entirely blank. All except for a singular line.

‘Pactee is of the domain. As such, all rights, obligations, and allegiances vest solely in the domain holder, Provincial Demonic City Warden Kairon.*’

And, at the very bottom, a single footnote, labeled as 1A:

‘Dissolution is not applicable under any circumstances—pactee has no valid plane of origin for such an action.’

This was… unexpected. Not just the incredible evolution, but the minimal contract… Kairon added a mental note to amend that shortly. While the current version certainly left any kind of betrayal off the table, it still had much to be desired. Especially if Boney’s evolution was as significant as it seemed.

On a whim, he tried sliding his claw over the edge of the parchment. Nothing.

No overleaf.

Which made sense, when he thought about it. Mainly because there was no mention of it in the barebones contract. Yet, it left him wondering.

Just who made this thing?

He’d felt the plane. But this agreement appeared vastly different than any contract he’d held from a demon so far.

Uncertain of the implications of that, he let that dwell in his mind and instead turned his attention to the mass of warriors headed back his way—his newly evolved demon at their head.

***

The demonic wolf prowled at the front of the lines of warriors. Now that everyone was calming down, glowing orange eyes looked with wonder at the newly evolved demon. He was proof that imps weren’t just imps. That, if fate aligned and the plane approved, an imp could become a true demon.

As he made it within speaking distance, he gave Kairon a fang-toothed grin.

Sweeping one paw underneath his stomach, Boney replied with a short bow. “Hello, master. I hope we performed to your satisfaction.”

He sounded nothing like an imp. More like a hunter. If Veron had been born a wolf, Kairon thought he might sound like this.

Throwing his head back, Kairon let out a bark of laughter. Striding forward, he ate up the distance between him and Boney with ease. “Boney, my loyal warrior, I am more than satisfied. Your master is very impressed. You not only showed the city your true strength tonight, but the very plane itself.”

Swishing out a claw, he grasped the massive pauldron on Boney’s shoulder. “By the looks of it, the plane not only approved, but reveled in it. You are no longer an imp, but a true demon. Raise your head, and let the world know it to be so!”

Tilting his head back, Boney let loose a ghastly howl. This time, a primal undercurrent rose with it. On his shoulder, the maw opened, joining his call into the night. A duet of rage and twilight sang into the sky.

Behind Boney, eleven cheeks glowed. Every Red Claw tilted their head back, howling in turn. A dozen voices, all joining in a song of war.

A red hue—far more subtle than Boney during his transformation but still yet visible—erected around each of The Red Claws. It seemed that when their pack leader called, their inner wrath answered. In fact, now that Kairon really studied them, he noticed that they too had slight changes. Their bodies were slightly more elongated, their bone armor slimmer, and muscles more toned.

As the howl grew, they dropped to all fours, their muscles tensing and bodies becoming more feral. They didn’t evolve, but the aura of wrath leaking from them was unmistakable.

I didn’t just gain a demon. I gained a pack.

Walking up to one of the Red Claws, he grabbed the arm of one and held it up in the moonlight. As the howls died away and the warriors turned to observe him, Kairon took in the sight. They paled in comparison to Boney, but each of the eleven Red Claws now had longer, more wolverine like talons along each hand.

“Fascinating! It seems the plane saw fit not just to name Boney, but to instill some of his strength in the other elite claws.”

“They are the pack, master. The pack grows as one.”

Kairon turned around, still reeling at Boney’s new appearance. “You know, this is going to take some getting used to.” He looked up, taking stock of the late hour. “Come. Let’s return for the night. On the way back, you can describe to me what you know of your new power.”

As they made to leave, the other warriors trailed behind in awe. One thought was more clear than any other on each of their expressions.

Can I become a demon too?

***

“Explain again,” ordered Shiny. He was sitting in front of the hearth in the brood rookery, claws drumming on the stone. It was late. Too late to be awake. But Shiny didn’t mind. The brood was always growing. Besides, wrath was gone. They were playing outside. Shiny had been greatly amused at their squabbles and screams. He and his brethren had snuck to the windows carved into the first floor walls, watching the silly warriors run about. Seeing Boney whack them was fun too.

Not long after, they decided to march outside the city. Shiny wasn’t sure why, but who cared? Less wrath for tonight. That meant more city for him!

He decided tonight would be a good night. He could stay awake and have the place all to himself! Besides, someone needed to watch matters while Master was away.

Clod gulped. “Well boss. DR came in. This morning… They checked hearth. Checked stairs. Checked walls.”

“And good? No issues?” asked Shiny.

“No issues boss!” confirmed Clod. “Then went upstairs. Checked beds. Checked walls again. DR loves walls.”

Shiny just sighed. DR didn’t love the walls. They loved sturdy walls. They were checking to make sure no imp had damaged them. Not that Clod understood that. Shiny liked Clod. But he knew what he was good at, and it wasn’t thinking.

“Okay, okay. That enough.” Shiny held up his claw. “But stash. They not look?”

“Purple grub?” asked Clod, far too loudly for Shiny’s liking.

Shiny slammed his arm down, banging it on the stone. “Shh!” he hissed. “What I tell you?”

Clod grimaced. “Sorry, boss. The…” He struggled, before getting the phrasing right. “Non-Food Overstock.”

“Good.” Shiny shook his head. The rest of the room was empty, save a half dozen imps playing stones in the corner. Shiny could have had them sleep, but he didn’t mind. He liked company this late.

He was about to move on when Clod said something stupid again.

“But… But it food,” muttered Clod.

Shiny rolled his eyes. “No it not. Not food. Not on sheet,” he corrected. “Sheet not say. So… It overstock. That mean more. More than show. Get it?” He studied Clod intently, making the point clear.

Clod’s expression varied several times, thoughts churning through his little mind. Then, finally getting it—or so Shiny hoped—Clod nodded. A satisfied grin grew on his face.

“Got it!” Then, as if it only now hit him, Clod spoke up again. “Should add sheet?”

Shiny closed his eyes. He made a note never to let Clod speak to Nod alone. Or anyone from DR. That would be… risky.

“No. Forget sheet,” he said in exasperation. “Go wake Sing. And Bean. Need talk.”

“Yes boss!”

He watched the brood imp dash away, incidentally kicking over one of the stones being thrown mid-game in his haste. The other imps gave him dirty looks, but one glance from Shiny was enough to turn their heads right around.

Good. Who wanted to mess with the boss?

Shiny inched forward, allowing the crackling flames to warm his calloused claws. As he did, he thought. What Clod told him was worrying. Nod was smart. Not as smart as master, but smart.

Why would Nod and the DR imps ignore the stash? They weren’t stupid. Shiny was expecting a confrontation with Nod about it.

But he ignored it. Why?

By the time Clod returned, two more drowsy imps in tow, Shiny had his answer.

“They know,” he mused.

“Huh?” asked Sing.

“They know!” Shiny said. Standing, he began pacing back and forth in front of the fire. Behind him, the trio of imps lined up, sharing concerned glances.

“Er… boss,” said Clod. “What know?”

Shiny paused. He spun around, pointing one arm out. Towards the city.

“Nod knows. DR knows. And…” His little orange eyes nearly shimmered. “You know what mean?”

Bean winced. “Means trouble,” he grumbled. The little farmer let out a breath, a worried expression taking root on his face.

“No. Means master know.”

At those words, the trio of imps nearly fell over.

“What?!” shrieked Clod.

“Oh no!” said Sing.

Bean had begun to chew on one of his claws nervously. “Shiny! This bad!”

He slapped his claws together. “All you! Calm down. You not understand. If master know. Mean… Mean he took action. Mean he decide.”

The other imps were shaken. So much so it took nearly ten seconds for one to finally speak up again.

“D-Decide what?” asked Sing.

“Decide brood strong! Decide he approve.”

Sing gasped. “Master likes overstock?!”

Shiny put his claws on his hips, nodding in confirmation. “Master likes overstock.”

Sing and Clod breathed out in relief, both seemingly entirely satisfied with matters again. If master approved, what was the issue?

Unfortunately, Bean wasn’t quite convinced. “Shiny…” he said slowly. “Have you talked master? Discussed this?”

Shiny put a claw on Bean’s shoulder. “What I tell you? We… middle management. Master has lot. Can’t worry about all.”

“Well, yes but…”

“Tsk. You not see. Overstock small issue. And master… Only care about big. We can’t waste time. He hates waste. No?”

Bean pondered that. Shiny could tell. The little crease in his forehead was a sure sign. Unlike Sing and Clod, when Bean thought, he actually thought. Not about stupid things, but smart ones. Mostly.

“Listen, this not why woke. Tonight, brood is alone. Wrath gone. And… have problem,” proclaimed Shiny.

“What wrong boss?”

“Wholesale not working. Only brood use grub. But we have supply. Bean holes deeper. Bring more in.”

The trio in front of him rubbed the back of their necks, uncertain what to say.

Finally, Bean cleared his throat. “You think too much? Thought wanted more…”

“No, no. Issue not supply. It demand. I met Fang. From Wrath. But say wrath not need. They eat ashroot. Why need purple? Stupid wrath. Not understand how tasty.”

The more he spoke, the wider the other imps’ pupils got. Like the relief he poured on them was now gone.

However, to their credit, none of the three said so. They knew better. And they trusted Shiny.

“So… What do?” asked Bean. “Maybe stick to brood?”

Shiny nearly choked. “Just brood?! Why?! Market is bigger! No… Dumb idea. Listen, supply not issue. I told you. It demand. But we can fix.”

“How?” inquired Bean again. Always the most curious.

“Remember when you try. Grub looked weird. Then taste… And boom! Must eat. It be same with wrath.”

“So we feed Fang?” asked Clod.

“No. Better idea. We have extra supply. And wrath gone. So…” Shiny let his little impish fangs stick out. “We give samples!”

***

The wrath warriors stumbled into the rookery, eyes bloodshot and bodies filthy. None even tried to clean off. They just ambled towards their cots on the second floor, eager to rest. Master had said they could sleep late tomorrow.

Only, as the wrath approached their beds, they found each wasn’t empty. Rather, a small surprise awaited them.

“What that?” asked one warrior.

“You put there?” accused another.

“No! You must—” began another, only to pause. A third warrior between the arguing duo was sniffing the purple grub. Then, to their shock, he shoved it inside his mouth.

“Huh?”

The two warriors observed in fascination, argument forgotten.

Chewing finished, the third wrath licked his lips. “If not want… I eat!”

Moments later, the other two ate. Around, similar scenes were playing out. Scores of warriors, tired to the bone, found a midnight snack waiting.

That night as they finally collapsed to sleep, two desires warred in their mind.

Becoming a demon, and eating more of that delicious purple grub.