Taking the news with stately aplomb, Tongzu smoothed out his robes, his heart heavy and resigned. It seemed fate was conspiring against Sanshu, the Defiled so well hidden among his soldiers they could come and go as they pleased. Though he knew every second counted, he wasted precious heartbeats composing himself before repeating Sovanna’s report aloud, coming to grips with harsh reality. All their struggles were for naught, their plan to delay no longer possible. With a fleet of ships and rafts, destroying the Bridges was a futile gesture. Sanshu was doomed.

Mother have mercy on us all.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Hold as long as you can. I will arrive shortly to assist. The Mother watch over you Sovanna.”

The Magistrate’s Sending was short, succinct, and did little to reassure her. With a deep breath, Sovanna hefted her mace and bellowed, “Look lively me bullies, the Magistrate’s a comin’ and I’m angling fer a raise.” Her joke was largely lost in the din of battle, but it didn’t stop her from repeating it as she moved down the line. The area before her was quickly turning into a charnel pit as the Butcher’s lived up to their name, carving away at her defensive line in a frenzied effort to reach the bridge behind her. Marching over the corpses of their comrades, the Defiled charged in waves, rotating their warriors while giving her bullies no time to breathe.

Swinging her mace whenever a target presented itself, she idly wondered why Yo Ling was so determined to break through her lines like this. If he’d bothered waiting a few minutes longer for the ships to arrive, then he’d easily take the bridge with fewer casualties. Hell, with so many ships, he didn’t even need the bridge, capable of ferrying his Butchers across to wherever he pleased.

Whatever. Sovanna lacked any training in tactical warfare, so perhaps there was some nuance she didn’t understand. Perhaps Yo Ling was blooding his troops, or after days of standing around, the famed Defiled blood-thirst had taken over. It didn’t matter, her bullies were tough, but they were no match for this unending Defiled assault. With every crash of bodies, her bullies crumbled bit by bit, and in minutes, her line broke as her bullies fled, the Defiled holding at the bridge to consolidate.

Turning to join her guard’s exodus, Sovanna wept as she spied the boats arriving just in time to seal their escape. Shouldering her way to the front, she raised her voice, easily heard amid her silent bullies. “Form up ye worthless craven louts, I ain’t going down without a fight. We’ll show these Butchers what the guards of Sanshu are made of.” At least she would die as the Guard Captain of Sanshu.

It was something to take pride in.

Studying the new threat, she grimaced at their shoddy appearance. The Butchers behind her, they were the elites she supposed, armed and armoured like a proper army. These new Butchers were worlds apart. Few wore armour, though nothing more than a cuirass or breastplate. Most wore shabby leathers or dirty rags, with no two dressed alike. Still a fearsome looking bunch, and dead was dead, so in the end, what did it matter?

Disembarking from their boats, they marched towards her line in a disorderly mob, much like how she imagined bandits to behave. Steeling herself to fight, her legs trembled as the lead bandit roared, his voice booming as it echoed from the walls for all to hear. “Make way!” His wild white hair and scraggly beard made him look like a beggar, but his massive battle-axe was instantly recognizable to all who lived around the city, his name used for decades to scare crying children into silence. Channelling enough Heavenly Energy that even Sovanna could sense it, Gao Qiu roared once more. “Move aside or be moved ye worthless scags! The Crossbone Corsairs are here to hunt Butchers!”

More out of desperation than logic, Sovanna shoved and prodded her bullies aside, pressing them against the manor walls as an army of cheering Corsairs ran past. His voice rising to the night skies, Gao Qiu howled in challenge. “YO LING! Wretched cur, come out and meet your fate. The Red Devil of Sanshu comes to take your head!”

The tide of bandits soon ended and Sovanna stared at their backs in disbelief. Glancing at her soldiers, she saw her astonishment mirrored in their eyes. Shrugging, she gathered her bullies before composing herself to craft another Sending. “Err, Magistrate. Good news this time. I think.”

Chapter Meme
