While the result wasn’t perfect, it might take thousands of years before Zac stumbled onto such a flourishing market again. Besides, Zac wasn’t sure he’d dare bring the Centigrade Constellation’s materials when he left the Left Imperial Expanse. This way, he still got to keep most of it without having to worry about hidden traps. Zac did keep the Cosmos Sack, though, as it indeed proved capable of storing Void Treasures without much issue.

Zac had also finished the negotiations, and he swiftly met up with the two parties he’d chosen. One was called Great An Conglomerate, one of the most powerful local mercantile factions. Their influence even surpassed Founding Families like the Whitecrest Consortia on the Left Imperial Expanse. However, they lacked the history and connections to expand to other regions of the empire.

The attendant they sent was one of their most promising talents. More than wanting to nurture a standout cultivator, they simply wanted to send a businessman to the Mercurial Court to get in contact with the sealbearers. They didn’t seem to hold great hopes for the plan, but they had the money to spare.

The Imperial Army bought the second slot. Zac didn’t know if it was to mess with the Imperial Magistrate, but the army’s offer was even higher than Great An’s. Each side would supplement a Peak Quality Early C-grade Natural Treasure that could be used when forming Inner Worlds. The army’s C-grade treasure was Conflict-attuned, while the Great An had sourced both Order and Death-attuned treasures after investigating Everit Draom. Zac naturally picked the latter.

In addition, the two sides would provide a number of supplementary Peak D-grade items. The attendants were also required to assist Zac in potential group missions, though they wouldn’t have to help Zac in his day-to-day.

The Imperial Magistrate couldn’t or wouldn’t provide an equivalent Life-attuned item to complete the set. Instead, they sent him a special supplement that would help improve the Inner World’s quality. It was an auxiliary treasure like the flower Kristvan Wendimar had prepared for his daughter.

It was deep into the night when Zac returned to his manor, tired but satisfied. He’d accomplished all he’d set out to do and more. Before today, Zac had less than a fifth of the necessary materials to break through to Peak D-grade. Some of those items were average treasures Zac would prefer to keep as spares. Now, Zac had almost two-thirds of what he needed, and he’d even taken tangible steps for his Inner World.

The haul couldn’t really be compared to the opportunities he’d seized following the threads of fate, and they wouldn’t mean much to Iz Tayn or Kaltosa Lu. Still, the treasures were the basic building blocks a Mortal couldn’t progress without. They were also better than what could be found on the frontier. Zac hoped his companions wouldn’t rush straight into the Outer Courts and miss out on the huge opportunities that waited just outside the gates.

The only setback of the day was that none of the parties were willing to hand over the C-grade treasures up-front. Zac only managed to leave with a small deposit. The attendants would only offer up the real payment when Zac brought them to the Mercurial Court. Whether that was even possible remained to be seen. The [Peregrine Gondola] could very well take him to a ruin on a desolate island.

Zac spent the rest of the night whittling down the last of the hostile Dao while Esmeralda recovered her reserves of Spatial Energy. They emerged at the crack of dawn, as ready as they could be for whatever came next. A completely different view greeted them. Zac first thought the city had been shrouded by a morning mist. When he left the courtyard’s barrier, he understood that couldn’t possibly be the case.

The Transformation Docks were flooded by so much Imperial Faith that the whole city looked about ready to ascend.
