Apprehension rising, Matt sat down on the indicated spot and opened his memory of Leon’s speech knowing they might be his last thoughts. Carefully, fighting his every instinct, he lowered all his spiritual defences.

Then JR spoke above him.

“Matthew Moore né Alexander.”

***

Liz saw the change happen immediately.

That was obvious by the appearance of a ghostly Matt, but his body language shifted.

Titan.

Even before merciless eyes opened, Liz knew which personality had taken primary with the removal of Matt.

“How do you feel?”

She couldn’t help but ask, despite dreading the answer, knowing Matt would want to know.

Looking at his hands, Titan frowned imperceptibly. “Hollow. Like a toy with all the stuffing removed. All that’s left are my bones and skin. Or that’s how it feels upon first impression. It's… fading slowly but that’s an awareness thing. Pieces are still gone.”

Her phoenix self nearly pecked the raven as he exacerbated the issue by laughing. If she’d thought it had worked, she’d have done it, screw the consequences. But she’d rather not embarrass herself for zero gain. “I’d expected Titan to be dominant but I’d also hoped for a surprise. Still, being correct means my models shouldn't have any issues. Any problems, Titan? Hmmm?”

Titan’s head turned to face JR in a slow move Liz normally only saw on the battlefield and it set her on edge.

Liz had heard most of Matt’s worries about who he’d be post removal of his name but she now had her answer.

Titan, with all that entailed.

In Matt’s battle mode even a simple head movement had turned into an unspoken challenge, but Titan’s words were what truly surprised her. “Does it please you to irritate me? Is a rise out of me your desired outcome?”

She didn’t miss Manny’s clone’s eyes focused on Matt but she held her tongue.

JR didn’t. “And what if it does? Do you have a problem with that, Ascender Titan?”

The raven’s use of his Empire title was strange but her bird self was more focused on his body language. As a bird herself, that Liz had a better read on birds than most people, and while he only appeared mildly interested, her intuition told her that was a lie.

A massive one.

Instead of growing angry, Titan smiled as he stood up and walked in front of his name projection and studied it. He continued ignoring the Tier 50’s question for so long, she was confident he wasn’t going to reply at all, but he did after taking his fill.

“I do.” The two words felt like glass in the silent room but he didn’t stop there. “You stand at the peak of a realm. Having talked with Rah, I believe I have a better understanding of why you all seem to treat everyone weaker than yourself as disposable.”

When Titan didn’t continue, JR eagerly played his part. “Oh, and why is that? Please do tell.”

“It's complacency.”

That answer shocked Liz. From their reactions, Manny and JR hadn’t expected it either. Aster seemed to be the only one who wasn’t surprised, but then again Liz wasn’t entirely sure she’d heard a word that had been said at all.

While far from a new concept to her, she’d never thought to hear Matt say such a thing to a Tier 50s face. Then again, he hadn’t.

It was Titan without Matt to ameliorate and she suddenly realized how much scarier that was.

Finally looking at the raven, he continued. “You seem to forget your advantage is age and the willingness to stall your advancement. Yes, you can kill me with a thought and I can’t stop you. So go ahead and do it.”

When he wasn’t killed on the spot, Titan snorted as if disappointed. “It's said in Tier 100 Realms cross-Realm travel is possible and everyone seems to believe it. If that is even remotely true, I’ve never understood why every Tier 50 seems so confident their lead time will survive another fifty Tiers? Even if you disregard that, how many of your previous rivals are waiting for you and hoping you ascend to their Realm? It seems so… short sighted.”

Laughing, JR circled Titan as if he’d never seen him before, his interest undisguised. “Well, there it is. I thought you were a true anomaly, Ascender Titan, but no. There. It. Is. That’s the arrogance and pride we normally see. I thought you didn’t have it at all. How interesting that you packaged it up and shoved it all into Titan. Most embrace it. They earned it after all. Why wouldn’t they get to enjoy the fruits of their labor? How very intriguing.”

Titan didn’t reply, glaring at, or maybe just watching, JR.

Even ostensibly neutral, Liz was so used to certain expressions on Matt’s face that seeing Titan’s more combat oriented reactions outside of those situations was deeply discomforting. She’d die before she let any version of Matt know how much that bothered her but she needed to face it.

She’d made up her mind about two seconds after he revealed his initial fears about the process of removing his name and wasn’t changing it now. No matter the truth, her version of this vacation would be purely positive.

It was the only thing she could do.

JR on the other seemed to think it was a game but that only proved Titan’s, and Matt’s, point as well. He simply had the tact and social graces to know that saying such a thing came with risks.

However, rather than continue the verbal spar as she expected, Titan looked away from himself and to Liz and Aster.

“I’m self aware enough to realize that I won’t make good company for the remaining time but I wanted to share something. I know I— the previous me, feared what emotions I, Titan, might feel but his absence didn't take them away. However it does amplify emotions core to this identity.” Smiling at them, he nearly melted her phoenix form. “The main emotion I can feel is love for you two. Everything else, even anger and rage, are like the thinnest of sheets while my love is part of my very bones.”

Before Liz could unpool several of herself from the puddles they’d made, he declared his intentions as he sat back down and closed his eyes. “Let’s try being Quill instead.”

***

Quill opened his eyes and took a moment to take stock of… everything.

Things were… strange.

Quill was a mask. An identity spun up to play a role. Now… His thoughts weren’t altered, yet he felt… strange.

A side effect from the large part of himself missing? He didn’t know. His brain was… foggy. Thin might have been a better word. It was hard to think about such circular things without falling into the abyss of his missing self.

Thankfully, as with Titan, things started to settle down, though the process was agonizingly slow. Looking down at his hands, Quill carefully rubbed his pointer finger and thumb together, letting himself feel the heightened sensations.

His initial reaction was to make a joke but the instinct felt hollow.

Like the rest of himself.

Where Titan had been metaphorical skin and bones, Quill was somehow less. He was…

Quill didn’t quite have the words to express how he felt. Taking several deep breaths, he finally opened his eyes.

Seeing his wife— he was married to Liz! How cool was that?— Quill kept his focus inward.

“Well this isn’t quite as fun as I’d hoped but it’s not that bad either. I feel… mildly fake.”

Laughing, Quill rubbed his nose, instinctively playing the moment down seeing their concern, but he didn’t stop, knowing they deserve to know. “Whereas Titan still felt like a normal part of myself, I can feel Quill is a bit more… artificial. I can definitely work with this though. I’m at least feeling all of my emotions like normal, so that's fun.”

Liz shared a look with Aster, prompting his bond to speak for the first time since they’d arrived.

“Yeah, this is the one. Even as fragmented as our connection is at the moment, I couldn’t last a year of constant combat mode in the back of my mind. I’d have gone stir crazy.”

Quill knew what she was talking about. Their bond was a spiritual bond but like a sandwich that had been together too long, removing his name had taken pieces of their bond with it. That sensation hadn’t been pleasant, but thankfully Titan had processed most of the existential horror that came with being able to see one's core identity, their name, manifested in reality.

Luckily, theirs wasn’t a new problem.

Sitting directly on the ground, Quill calmed his breathing and started meditating to quiet any distracting thoughts. Once he was appropriately calm, he turned his attention inward, trying to reconnect with his body.

Because ultimately even with his name removed he was still…he was still…what was his name!? He’d known he’d not know his name, that’s what it being taken means, yet no amount of preparation could stop the shiver of existential terror that went down his spine as he realized something.

With as much casualness he could force, he turned to Liz and asked. “I just want to test something, what’s my name? My full name I mean, not Quill or Titan.”

Looking as concerned as he felt, he watched as her mouth formed each syllable. “Your name is『　』.”

The question made JR laugh but it also explained what was going on. His name was gone, and with it his understanding of self. Of course he couldn’t comprehend his own name.

It took a few more moments of forced casualness that he knew fooled nobody present, but he managed to collect… himself.

Yes, himself. Quill, he, was still himself. Or at least his own body. It was his body because it was a part of himself, just as Quill and Titan were parts of himself.

He was subletting an apartment from… himself. Quill liked that example but he didn’t let himself look into it too deeply. He needed to finish moving in and settling down.

Refocusing on his body, he started from his ears and one by one moved each muscle all the way down to his toes. There he moved his way back up, taking his time and not rushing the process.

Quill didn’t suddenly feel connected to his body, but there was noticeable improvement and that was good enough for him. He’d settle in later. It was high time to take care of Aster and Liz.

Opening his eyes, he grinned as he used the side of a single foot to stand up from his crossed legged position. “I gotta say, full me has forgotten some of the cool things he can do as a Tier 30. I’d have snapped my ankle trying to do that maneuver at Tier 1.”

Liz smiled but Aster’s expression was smaller and more reserved. He felt her grasping at the fragmentation of their bond like someone trying to crawl through wet glass, but didn't want to bring it up if she wasn’t going to.

Instead he fell back on an old favorite, deflection. “It's better than Titan at least, but I apologize for any gaffs I might cause. Some will most certainly be on purpose but what can I do?”

JR took that moment to interrupt. “Before we start digging for any deeper personalities, why don’t you look over the schematics. I want to ensure you can… assist post-name removal. Knowledge shouldn’t be affected but you never know. I would never have any problems but I can't speak for what Max is teaching you.”

Quill desperately wanted to comment that Tier 50 was just trying to get a rise out of him but held himself back. He wasn't a Titan who was supremely confident in his abilities, he was Quill whose initial instinct was to make a quip.

Looking over the information, Quill found it both new and old. Old because he remembered everything, given he’d just looked at it a few minutes ago, but it was also new.

Quill, the mask, was a seasoned talisman master, and through his eyes things looked slightly different. Not enough to change any of their plans, JR was a better crafter than Quill could ever be, and his full self wasn't that much better, but Quill noticed a few things that he hadn’t paid particular attention to. Nothing major but enough to make him realize he needed to take everything in with new eyes.

Wanting to show off a little, Quill created a simple light talisman on a small sheet of mana only a hair thick.

“Good enough?”

Seeing JR’s sly side look, Quill didn’t blink, admitting to nothing.

Snorting, the raven continued. “This will work, this will work nicely. Okay, now go away. I need to prepare your name, then we start working. I’ll guarantee you four months but before six I’ll start the initial process, which will officially signal the start of our work. We’ll need to meet at least once a month afterward at a minimum, but until then you are free to concentrate on the business you still haven't started.”

Ignoring the snide remark, Quill didn’t bother arguing. Instead, he took a moment to say goodbye to the Manny clone. He knew even if his previous self was there, he wouldn’t feel like arguing either. There was no point.

That, and where previous him was only just willing to play along, Quill wanted to. He may have been a mask, but he had also been a way to cut loose during the stressful public moments he never liked handling. Those aspects hadn’t been dulled over time. He not only had several much better ideas than the initial uninspired plans, but he also had a name.

Quill’s Quality Quintessentials.

His full self…no, that was getting ridiculous.

Why did it have to be so annoying to work around not knowing his own name? They were his own thoughts!

He needed a better solution.

A nickname? Prime?

That felt too lazy and he didn’t like the implication he was lesser, nor did his Domain. No matter if he was a mask, he was still himself.

If his full self didn’t want to deal with the consequences of that, he shouldn't have envisioned Quill with an ego.

