He needed something to call his previous self. He wanted to use his birth family name, but found that technicality hadn’t been as convenient as he’d hoped. Following that line of logic, he found something he did like.

Blake.

His father shouldn’t mind Quill borrowing his name to think about his previous self.

That worked.

Blake might have had too many options that he felt overwhelmed, but Quill had exactly one: talismans.

Not only had Madam Renaissance created something that deeply intrigued Blake with the permanent talisman enchantments, Quill had his own ideas. Many were taken indirectly or directly from Titan Torch’s inventions, or the previous inventions that had occurred while they were exploring chaotic space. There was so much room for innovation between both aura enchanting and high Tier runes that a decade or two exploring taslimans seemed like a blast.

Finding profit in the corporate battlefields wouldn’t be easy but with entirely new products, he hoped things would be easier. He, Blake really, already had several ideas, so they weren't starting from nothing.

They both really liked the idea of a new type of tracking tasliman inspired by Madam Renaissance’s latest weapons.

Rosemarie led them out of the secure room before vanishing to return to whatever work she’d been doing when they arrived. That struck Quill as strange but he couldn’t quite put his finger on why.

Cato did similar things for him, but something about the situation felt off. Not dangerous per se, but he knew there was undercurrent, another game being played where he couldn’t see it.

Casting [Portal], Quill froze.

Instinct had led him through the casting, and when he thought about it, he still knew everything Blake did. But if asked if he knew it would work before casting the spell, he wasn’t sure he could have said yes.

Running through his spells, Quill found anything without a frame of reference to his younger Tiers mentally blank. Not gone, and not irrecoverably as he’d proved, but blank, as if he’d never used the spells before. Focusing back on the [Portal] he created, he was quite sure the casting wasn’t as smooth as he could have managed an hour ago.

It was very interesting and, once he confirmed he wasn’t mentally blocked from his own skills, kind of cool. It offered a new way to look at and improve upon his skills and he sent off a message to Luna asking for a plan.

She’d be tickled to know he was still serious about his training. Best of all she was a Great Power away and the repercussions were Blake’s to deal with.
