Chapter 488

The moment of truth came faster than Matt was prepared for. Only two weeks into their stay, JR informed Matt he'd finished preparing the various materials and Natural Treasures earlier than expected. It was time to officially get started on his armor by ripping his name out.

Matt couldn’t avoid it any longer without backing out. The thought made a tiny part of him want to find an excuse, any excuse, to avoid the meeting but he cast the [Portal] the moment Liz and Aster signaled they were ready. He’d been locked onto the coordinates for the last twenty minutes since the message had arrived.

Seeing a familiar older woman already waiting for them, Matt nodded silently to Rosemarie before realizing he needed to introduce Liz and Aster. Midway through, he realized she very obviously knew who they were, and that he’d mentioned her to both of them, making the entire moment unnecessary. He didn’t embarrass himself further by changing his mind midway but he did send a nice note to Luna for her insistence on political training from a young age.

Shaking himself, Matt followed her into a familiar laboratory where a raven was already perched and waiting for them next to a slightly illusionary Manny.

“Good morning, you three. How surprising to see you all. I’d expected one, but no matter. You’ll get a show; so good, I’m inclined to charge you.”

Phoenix Liz fluttered over, landing next to the similar sized raven, inspecting the other bird.

Far from displeased, JR waved a wing, bringing the four of them in and shutting the door behind them, though his full attention was on phoenix Liz. “Well, maybe not. One of you has good taste in form at least. You’ll find many a perch through the office, make yourself at home.”

Splitting his attention, he looked at both human Liz and Aster simultaneously. “As for you two, find a corner to stay out of the way I guess. Gasp quietly if you must. Clapping and other exclamation’s of appreciation may be done at full volume. If you don’t understand what’s going on, feel free to clap. There is a good chance I’m doing something impressive.”

Matt turned to the Manny clone who tapped his eyes. “I’m here so the main body can watch. Don’t worry. I can arrive instantly should it be required but otherwise I’m a silent observer. Everything is up to you at this point. I’ll back you up.”

Nodding to Manny in silent appreciation, Matt looked back to the other Tier 50.

The raven waved at the far wall, not wasting a moment. “Your armor. I believe I’ve reached what I can call a final design. I await your approval so we can get started. I need to prepare our final material.”

Hopping sideways past phoenix Liz, JR gestured for Matt to hurry along.

More occupied with the several fairly large changes, Matt started with the things he didn’t like. “Why did you remove the sight enhancements? Those were pretty high on my wish list. A lot higher than other things I see you kept. And don’t say because you are taking my name. I read all of the provided documentation and I’m confident it can replace any of the effects you seem to have replaced.”

Opening sub menus, JR brought up a new projection off to the side, allowing Matt to see. “I’m glad you did your reading. Well done. So few clients even attempt to understand. I removed the sight enhancement along with all of the perception and mental enhancements, as I’m sure you've noticed, because I needed the spiritual space. I did say I made some changes.”

Trying to drown the growing apprehension, Matt kept sifting through everything.

JR hadn’t removed the functions because he’d lost his mind. No, he was trying to explode Matt’s.

“Growing the crystallized structure through my brain can not be safe.”

“‘Through’ feels like a misleading choice of word, if accurate in the context. Around is much better, yes? Encasing, maybe? Through? No, not quite.”

Flapping next to Matt and landing on nothing, JR’s barking laugh grated. “What did I say about doubting me?”

Rather than waiting for a reply, he continued while looking positively smug, “The entire point of this is to take advantage of how fragile the brain is and how well protected it is. Even for you it's a high value area, so it's one of the last you’ll let get destroyed, which is why it's the last to be built. If we are already growing additional abilities, why not save the enchanting space and simply boost your brain directly.”

Looking at one of the other projections, Matt consulted the list. “That’s pretty far down on the growth pattern.”

JR didn’t try to shy away from that and nodded. “Yes but hopefully unlike your arms or legs once it's grown you’ll never need to do so again.”

Seeing he’d won, the bird strutted as he played presenter. “One of my finer works, if I do say so myself. Once the armor is embedded and fully spread through your subdermal, it will start to shunt any excess mana generation into growing the additional effects. Do take note that because of the setup, damage to the underlying crystalline structure will need to be fixed before any additional growth can commence. That's a fundamental order of operations even I can’t circumvent.”

Matt easily accepted that, having long expected it. Correcting foundational damage would always be a higher core priority than expanding. Any other design philosophy and he’d have started getting worried but he had hoped JR would have been able to give him the ability to choose. Flexibility was a sacrifice he had to make if he wanted to manifest his very important skills in his chest; stability had to be the priority.

That was why the armor’s baseline effects, the ones that would be immediately active upon stage zero’s completion, centered around his casting stability instead of physical enhancements. In fact a large portion of the armor was dedicated to his spirit, not that such was apparent from the blueprints but that had been intentional.

Stabilizing his spirit was difficult but that was what made the armor so special. At its core the armor was there to enable what he could already do.

Going through the relevant documents, he carefully looked for any hidden changes in that most important area, his skill manifestation, but found none. Where JR had taken liberties with the growing features, removing and replacing as he saw fit, he’d only improved that section of the design, with none of the features being altered.

Seeing the core functions of his armor were still what he needed, he let himself look at what had JR’s interest so firmly.

He wasn’t disappointed.

The first additional power the armor would grow would be outward. Filaments of mana would weave themselves together, creating literal skin deep armor. JR’s numbers suggested that once the first stage had fully grown it would be like always having the first layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor] running at half power.

At no cost.

Additionally, JR had taken great pains to ensure that the armor could take advantage of his Intent’s ability to concentrate his mana. That would further bolster the first layer's defenses, but the first stage wasn’t over there.

As a partial step, his eyes would be reinforced, preparing to be tied into the later mental boosts. At the same time, his armor would form mana conduits on his hands, his entire back, and the back of his thighs.

Disregarding everything else, the enhanced mana pathways would give him an immediate boost to his combat power and he was happy to see it so high on the list. Better yet those enhancements would be further boosted by his manifested skills, leading to an even greater increase in power.

Matt almost didn’t dare to imagine it, fearing nothing could live up to his expectations, but his analytical side didn’t need any help to reach the same conclusion.

The following steps were all inward.

In fact, the second step didn't enhance his body in any way. Rather, it was a simple race to his bones, going through as little muscle as possible in as many places as possible. Once contact was made, the mana crystals would spread and encase them, increasing his defence bone by bone. Once complete, the cumulative effect would bring the armor's defensive power up to the full

Ultimately that was still only a preparation for the next phases.

That was where he couldn’t follow the effects.

After fully enhancing his bones, his muscles would be sandwiched by layers of his growth armor, allowing JR’s madness to shine. Infiltrating his muscles from both sides allowed JR to concentrate several effects he’d managed to rip out of Natural Treasures. Together it culminated in an effect Matt thought could appear in something like a Domain or Talent.

As the mana fibers grew denser, they would enhance his base physical cultivation abilities. First his strength, then his durability, regeneration, flexibility, and then, finally, his proprioception, with the earlier enhancements becoming more complicated with each deeper stage. That would mean each new enhancement would come with a small but noticeable boost to the previous stages but that was only the passive effect.

JR laughed, seeing straight through him. “Yes, Matthew, I copied various mana based biologies for parts. Obviously. But don’t worry, this won’t be inheritable in any way, shape or form. I’d have already started selling slots if I could make an item that could be bred like livestock.”

Left unsaid was that all of the previous stages, all of the boosts, were only foundations for the next stage. Once complete, the mana filaments would facilitate Matt’s various physical empowerment spells by multiplying the baseline effectiveness of his physical boosting spells. Combined with crystal stabilized spells allowing him to spend more mana without destabilizing them, [Archmage’s Presence] and its brethren would see a significant uptick in potency the moment the effect finished growing.

It was only then, after his body was fully developed that the armor sought to boost his senses and mind, the two remaining aspects of physical cultivation. It was those changes that initially caught his eye due to the knock-on effects. Growing mana crystals around and through his muscles might not be pleasant, though JR promised he wouldn’t feel it thanks to a tertiary side effect of the name integration, but the damage to his brain could prove lethal.

JR, in madness or genius, chose the fifth stage to improve Matt’s brain. The schematic even took account of the [AI] modifications he’d been working with Max by not tampering with the brain itself.

“This is incredible but what are the downsides?”

Matt immediately felt both Liz and Aster’s relief as he asked the question, making him realize how long he’d been inspecting the diagrams.

“If your brain does get destroyed, it's going to take that much longer to get those functions back. But it's a bad habit for anyone to lose their head regularly. Gamble enough and the odds eventually catch up. I’ve seen far too many people learn the hard way, there is always an exception.”

JR wasn’t wrong but he also hadn’t brought up the spiritual aspect of the armor that would be doing as much work as the physical side.

The armor itself was nice to have, extremely nice to have, but the true magic lay elsewhere. Deeper and hidden from all but the most careful observation, masked behind the physical changes.

Inside his very spirit.

Matt had thrown out the almost insane idea of manifesting skill structures into reality once during their initial brainstorm on the armor as a dream goal. It wasn’t a serious suggestion, not really. At least, he didn’t expect any substantial progress but JR apparently had taken it as a challenge and seemingly succeeded.

Using the impossibly tight connection created by being a growth item and having it host a part of his name, the armor could weave itself through any skill structures his spirit held, reinforcing them. That would let them handle far more maximum mana and mana throughput before the minor deformations from mana pressure started to crop up, while also giving him a baseline to build off of.

Looking at specs, Matt was both delighted and mildly disappointed that JR had taken his research on the helical reinforcement structures and ran with it, instead of coming up with something else. The result was a strange, positively organic looking structure that he’d never have been able to design. A positive side effect of the integration also meant the armor could regrow from his very spirit should it manage to be physically obliterated.

The armor was everything he’d asked for and more. He’d not only be stronger in every way, his mana transfer abilities would improve with the higher Tier [Item Link] integration, and manifesting his skills into reality would further boost everything the armor did.

Matt didn’t think he could say no at this point.

And that was his problem.

Looking at his wife and bond, Matt asked, “Anything I’m missing? Any last minute warnings I need to be aware of?”

Aster shook her head, her ears twitching, “Nothing stands out to me. I’m kinda jealous about all the additional power this thing is giving, so I wanted you to know that. I figured you deserved at least one win today.”

Her playful feelings helped settle him, as did Liz’s firm hug.

Taking and squeezing his hand for a moment she smiled up at him. “It will be fine. Ten, even twenty years as Titan or Quill will be okay. I love every version of you and will be here in case you do need something.”

“Thank you.”

It was all he could say but the other two didn’t hold it against him.

