The man nodded slowly, his face drooping with suddenly revealed exhaustion. “It is. But the choice is always the same. Either you do nothing, or you do something. We cannot fix this world with a single act, so we bide our time and seize the opportunities to make small improvements when they appear.” He lifted his glass in a loose gesture toward Brox, visible for a moment through the crowd as he spun another man across the grassy hillside. “The alternative is to curl inward and pretend that whatever you choose counts as virtue.”

Nathan nodded slowly. The feeling of the hollow pit hadn’t subsided, but it was accompanied by the warm feeling left behind by the drink. “All that’s left is to try.”

“Indeed. Your greatest victory might be bringing us old fools some hope, and rallying us back to the cause.” The jovial Questor said self-depricatingly, the jovial appearance emerging once more. “We’ve fought this battle before; we can guide you through the moves as needed.”

“Thank you,” Nathan said. “For the drink, and the talk. And not using any skills on me. I know you have them.”

That caused Colborn to guffaw. “You don’t scan as the sort to appreciate it. Remember why you act, but also that your life must be more than duty to the cause. Otherwise, you will crumble to dust.” He raised a hand in farewell, leaving Nathan behind holding an empty glass.

Nathan looked down into the dregs of the green liquid that remained before looking up at the Questor’s departing back. He wanted to trust in Colborn’s words, to believe that the Questor was supporting Nathan as much as possible. But everything he’d just heard boiled down to one simple suggestion.

Don't expect to fix the problem. Let me handle this. That’s what he said.

Colborn - and Sarya - wanted to take over the Conclave from Nathan and the Heirs. He didn’t think it was malicious. They didn’t trust Nathan and his friends to handle the politics and were going to angle for small, incremental changes to Davrar.

I can’t even say for certain that they’re wrong. But I'm not sure I agree.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 7282/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 829/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
