His words seemed to make the frogs think as they conversed a little longer, throwing glances at him here and there. Not too long after, the Shaman once more addressed Jake.

“Okay, we have chosen to temporarily believe you are not here with any nefarious motives, but that does beg the question: what is your motive for coming here? Is it truly simple exploration, or do you have some grander objective in mind?” the Shaman asked another very valid question.

“It’s truly just exploration; however, I will not hide from you that there is a good chance others like me will also come to this place, with my experience setting a strong precedent for how they may act here in the future,” Jake said, aware that what he said could definitely be viewed as a veiled threat.

“I see, that makes me conclude that while your presence here is as an individual explorer, you may ultimately end up representing a greater force,” the Shaman nodded, thinking for a few moments before addressing him again. “With that in consideration, we would like to courteously extend an invitation to visit our home. I believe conversing there will be not only a lot more comfortable but also significantly safer.”

Jake smiled beneath his mask, a little proud of himself for having successfully maneuvered this interaction into an outcome that wasn’t a fight. Granted, he had been lucky that the frog people were incredibly polite and friendly, while definitely also on the smarter side. A lot of these humanoid monsters who acted civilized turned out not to be, but these frog people definitely seemed well-developed socially.

“I’ll gladly accept that invitation,” Jake said with a nod.

“Excellent, now please, let us not speak with such space between one another anymore,” the Shaman said.

Jake nodded and proved his words about being elusive true a second later, stepping down three times in quick succession, appearing right in front of the frogs, who seemed a little taken aback by his speed.

“You certainly didn’t oversell your prowess in the movement arts,” the Shaman said in a friendly tone, bowing its head slightly. “I would speak more, but let us return first. I am certain the Oracle would be more than happy to personally meet you.”

“Lead the way,” Jake said, definitely looking forward to seeing how these frogs lived. Oh, and if they had tea. Definitely sounded like they had tea.
