“I see the way he looks at you.” Stella said. “There's some sexual tension there, no doubt about it.”

Officer Holly looked at Ren. “I have no sexual interest in him at all.” She said. “Especially after learning about what he does in the game.”

“I meant your partner, not Ren.” Stella asked. “What did you learn about what Ren does in the game?”

“His personal maids.” Officer Holly said. “He does his personal maids.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes. “Why would you say that?”

“Oh, come on!” Officer Holly said. “Everyone knows personal maids are legal prostitutes!”

“Hold on.” Ren said and sat up straight. “It's legal in the game?”

Officer Holly shook her head. “So, you thought it was illegal and did it anyways.” She sighed. “I wanted so badly to give you the benefit of the doubt, and I had hoped that...”

“Shut your mouth!” Stella said, and Officer Holly stopped talking. “You have no right to judge Ren, and you have absolutely no right to tell him what he can and can't do!”

“Excuse me.” Officer Holly said. “I'm a police officer, so I'm the perfect person to judge when a crime is happening.”

“You're apparently really good at jumping to conclusions and not gathering all the facts, too!” Stella said.

“Hey, what's all the shouting about?” Detective Ramirez asked as he came into the living room with a folder in his hands.

“Your ignorant partner is trying to give Ren the riot act for committing a crime that he didn't do.” Stella said.

“He just admitted he thought that personal maids were illegal!” Officer Holly said. “Why aren't you giving him the riot act?!?”

“Holly...”

“No, John.” Officer Holly said. “This... person... needs to know her place.”

“Get out.” Ren said and stood up. “I was willing to give you some leeway where the maids are concerned, mainly because I've been trying to figure out a way to get them out of their contracts before anything happened; but, when you talk to someone I love like that, you don't deserve to be looked at, let alone listened to.”

“Now wait just a minute.” Detective Ramirez said and glanced at his partner. “This is all just a misunderstanding...” He could see Officer Holly was fuming and wanted to punch something.

“Oh, I haven't misunderstood anything.” Ren said, and let his own anger show. “Your judgmental and ignorant partner accused me of a crime. Sex with prostitutes I believe.” He scowled. “We've never had sex, although I have touched and played with them; but, I did that to please them and to keep them happy, and delayed them wanting to sleep with me.”

Officer Holly's anger faded as Ren's words registered.

“For you to come here and accuse me, then tell Stella that she should 'know her place'?” Ren chuckled. “For your information, and I want to make this clear.” He said, and gave the police a stern look. “Her place is right here, by my side, to defend me from people like you.”

“Hey, now.” Detective Ramirez said. “There's no need...”

“Yes, there is.” Ren said, and took a deep breath. “It's you that needs to know your place.” He said. “How long has it been since I was attacked? How long have I been waiting for you... and your partner... to give me hope?” He looked at the detective and back at Officer Holly. “How much longer must I wait for you to come to me and say, 'Hey, we caught them. You can rest easy now, and you don't have to worry anymore'?”

Neither Detective Ramirez nor Officer Holly Stonewall could answer that, and they felt just a little bit smaller because of it.

“I guess that means it's going to be a while.” Ren said when they didn't respond, and sat down. “I'd thank you for stopping by and accusing me of prostitution, and in a virtual game no less; but, I honestly don't think thanking you for that is a good idea.”

Officer Holly opened her mouth to speak, and her partner touched her arm.

“We're sorry for upsetting you.” Detective Ramirez said and handed Ren the file folder. “I hope you'll accept this as an apology.”

“What is it?” Ren asked, but he didn't open the folder.

Officer Holly was going to tell him to open it, just so she could gauge his reaction to seeing a copy of all the evidence they had gathered so far. John pulled her away and put her behind him instead.

“It's something that won't hold up in any criminal court.” Detective Ramirez said. “But... with all those lawsuits flying around... maybe... just maybe... if it came from you...”

Ren still didn't open the folder, and he smiled at the detective. “This I can thank you for.” He said and glanced at Officer Holly. “I know I shouldn't ask you for anything else, Detective Ramirez; but, the next time you decide to visit, can you leave your partner in the car? She's a little too upsetting for me to be exposed to, especially in my current condition.”

Detective Ramirez nodded wordlessly and turned around.

*

Detective Ramirez stopped Officer Holly from talking with a shake of his head and a firm grip on her arm. He led her out of the living room and out the front door, then shut the door behind them. Officer Holly shook free of his grip and turned on him.

“What the hell was that all about?” Holly asked. “How could you let him talk to me like that?”

“Because you were stupid for bringing it up in the first place.” John said and walked towards his car. “How could you just accuse him like that?”

“I didn't!” Holly said. “When the personal maids came up...”

“Oh, god.” John rubbed his face with a hand. “Why didn't you just keep your mouth shut about it?”

“Excuse me?”

“Holly.” John sighed and opened his car door and looked at her over the roof of the car. “Do you think he's ever going to talk to us again, let alone cooperate with us now?”

Holly took in a deep breath to calm down. “We are trying to help him.”

John laughed and got in the car.

“What's so funny?” Holly asked as she sat in the passenger seat.

“At what point, in anything that either you or I said in there, did he hear that we were trying to help him?” John backed the car out of the driveway and drove down the road to the gate, while Holly sat in silence beside him. Just like Ren's questions, she couldn't answer that one, either.
