The closer I get to the center of town, the more consolidated the groups of hunters become, approaching the dry fountain.

I properly adjust my Qi barrier to the level of mana output I felt around Fin and test out my new [Bind] skill a few times just to see how it works and get the hang of its abilities.

The hand I'm able to summon is much darker and denser with mana. It seems like it's similar to my mana manipulation skill, but with the sole purpose of holding things in place. The legendary perk that shapes it into a movable and adjustable hand gives the skill a bit more flexibility, letting the caster hold and move objects, but overall, it is more of a defensive or utility skill than anything else.

I'll most likely only be using this on far lower mana control levels than myself, using it in full-out battle would not be optimal usage. However, if I make the mana dense enough for hunters to see, it can be a very intimidating floating purple hand.

I think about testing out my other 5 skills my body double obtained from the dungeons, but they may be a bit too flashy to use in the center of town while I'm in disguise.

As the center square comes into view, I put these ideas to rest and meet up with all of the other grunts that serve this Boss. At first, I'm a bit worried I'll have to talk to some of them and am not sure if Fin was friends with any of these other grunts in particular, but the odd scene I stumble upon puts my worries to rest.

Three of the men are already here, but they stand with their hands by their sides and look at the fountain with solitary stares, and none of them say a word to one another.

Raze pops out of an alley nearby and gives me a nod with a grin, but doesn't say a word, keeping his head down and finding a place to stand next to the fountain in silence.

Hesitantly, I do the same, standing about 3 meters away from a random level 334 man dressed in shiny armor and an assortment of colorful magic rings with a legendary swordsmanship skill. He sports a bright red flag on his waist.

I know full well how unique and powerful a skill like this is. It gives the user exact critical hit lines if used right, but again, this man's mana control is nearly non-existent. He's recently been given an upgrade crystal and power-leveled too.

As all of the other higher-level grunts of the Crimson Dagger show up, they give off the same readings. Every one of them has max upgraded skills and are all nearing or over level 300, but don't seem as strong as they should be.

Once the final grunt gets in formation, the entire square is filled with 10 of us surrounding the fountain on all sides. No one says a word; they all just stare straight ahead. Some have stacks of papers in hand, while others have them in their pockets.

A few look nervous, while some look excited, and others just don't show any emotion at all.

Then, I feel the ground begin to shake, hear a mechanical noise, and the center of the fountain begins to glow white.

The mana shielding below the fountain cracks open, and I can finally begin to sense what's inside.

After a few seconds, it looks as if it's filled with white energy, and the center of the fountain disappears in the white glow.

The mana-imbued energy is very immense, and it feels just like what I sensed last time Fin and Raze disappeared from my radar.

As the bright white light dims, what is left in its place is equally as intriguing. A spiral metal staircase has opened up in the center of the city and it leads down into the mana-shielded bunker I sensed before.

Portions of the shielding are now available for me to sense on the inside and outside, so I take this opportunity to do a full scan with my All-Seeing Eye. It's incredibly dense, similar to that of the Galeheart tower's shielding, so it makes sense why I'm unable to see through it.

However, I'm positive it's not unbreakable. With enough Qi infused in an attack, I'm sure I could break this barrier down with ease if necessary.

One by one, the Crimson Dagger Grunts walk inside. The tunnel goes down about 30 meters and is well lit with bright white lights.

I follow in line without saying a word in the middle of the pack.

Once the last person in line follows, I hear the same mechanical mechanism close the fountain above and a wall of mana shielding cover it up from the surface.

It's thick enough to block all my senses from the outside world, but I'm not too worried. My curiosity is more piqued than ever now that there's this much advanced security here.

We all make it to the bottom of the stairway and find ourselves standing in an empty white box of mana shielding. It looks very similar to a replica of the inner portion of the Titan's Domain, just about one quarter the size, and there's hardly any ambient mana in the air. Only a small amount coming off the mana-shielded walls.

There are the metal spiral steps at the back of the room that lead up to the now blocked-off surface, and nothing else in the room at all.

The men begin to line up against the side wall, so I follow and play my role, taking out the notes from my back pocket just like everyone else does. We all wait against the back wall and stare forward, waiting for something to happen.

There are 4 grunts to my left, and 5 to my right. Raze is two spots away from me on the right, with only 1 other man in between us. He's closer to the stairs.

Almost 5 minutes of silence goes by, only to be drowned out by the low hum of the energy in the room before something finally happens.

The back wall we're all staring at opens up in the shape of a rectangular door, and a figure in a large suit of red armor walks out.

Printed on the chestplate is an even darker crimson logo of the knife that is on everyone's sashes. Locked to his sides, he has two bright red daggers in holsters ready to use.

Head to toe, the figure is completely covered in heavy gear, and I can't help but do a full appraisal, inspect, and All-Seeing Eye scan.

________

[Lv. 589]

Active Items:

[Crimson Daggers of Speed][Blood Bonded][+130% Speed][+122% Agility][Poison Attribute] [??? Access Denied]

Active Skills:

[??? Access Denied]

Buffs:

[??? Access Denied]

______________

The armor he wears is fully imbued with the same analysis-blocking enchantment that Lith and many of the Sector Leaders wear.

At the small amount of mana control I'm letting out, the only thing I'm able to see is the figure's level and the daggers that are seemingly not affected by the protection enchantment. He wears them as a prize for all to see, it seems.

I'm positive I could see through his defenses entirely if I boosted my perception but don't want to give myself away just yet. This figure is high enough level that I assume they'd be able to sense if I let out any extra power.

A deep echoing tone calls out from the red armored helmet as he turns his head to the guard closest to the stairs, then carries his gaze over everyone else in the room for a few seconds before landing on the last person.

"Good. Everyone's here. One at a time, let's see the morning results."

He walks over to the man closest

to the stairs very slowly, then comes to a halt just in front of him with outstretched hands to accept the papers from the shaking hands of the grunt.

Then, takes almost a full minute flipping through the sheets of papers before nodding one time.

The moment he does, the man in front of him lets out a relieved sigh, and he begins to walk up the stairs.

Echoing footsteps trail down as he makes his way to the top, and the Red Suit of armor takes the notes from the next man in line. As the footsteps stop, I sense the man just waiting up above at the top of the stairs looking up at the ceiling, but it doesn't open up.

A few more seconds pass before the Boss nods again, and the 2nd man in line moves to the exit.

It repeats exactly the same for the 3rd in line as the boss gives him a nod, and he makes his way up the stairs to wait with the others.

Next, Raze confidently gives his papers to the Boss with a slight grin on his face as the armored man reads them up and down. Moments later, he responds while reaching into a small compartment on his waist.

"Quite the interesting find there, Raze, good work."

A gold coin flips in the air toward him as the armored man nods and continues to walk to the next man right next to me.

Raze catches it and hurries up the stairs in the same manner as everyone else.

Just a few moments pass before the guard to my right is sent up the stairs, and the Red Armored man looks at me.

I hand the papers over and immediately get a response before the Boss even looks at the notes.

"No ghost hands today? Fin, what's the special occasion?"
