“I doubt it,” Alan said. Did he have any allies he could reliably call upon? Not really. He had treated everyone like stepping stones, leaving them behind once it was convenient. Always moving on to the next stage searching for better opportunities had allowed him to level at an insane pace, but did not leave time for any real bonds to form.

Keeping friends can be more work than making them, Nu noted.

“Anyways, I joined the guild and went to the Academy,” Alan continued. “There I was introduced to my second AI, Lambda, accessing the data vault with creative ability use.”

You freed me using a bug exploit the Weaver gave you that has since been patched, Nu laughed.

“Is there a data vault in the Academy? I’m only aware of Volta—the treasure planet that becomes available once you complete your training,” Analyst Woods said.

“There is, but I’m not sure how much I can divulge,” Alan said.

I assume the Chancellor, Cerberus, is another entity you don’t want me to talk about, Alan sent. They are a rank S AI, right?

Correct.

“And you were able to control two AI how?” Analyst Woods leaned forward eagerly.

Alan smirked. “That information will cost you.”

She tapped a finger on the desk and then sighed. “Continue your account, I will find out eventually.”

The Machine Overlord ability is not so easily gained, Nu sent.

“And now, finally, we reach your return to Earth and the financial crime of the century!” Suresh said.

“Yes. At the request of Thiago, who commissioned the Black Rose guild, Kitana and I returned to Earth to aid the Legion of Man against the United World Government,” Alan said.

“What ship did you take, and who was its captain?” Woods asked.

“The Titan led by the Ultihaxlard Pharaoh, the same ship that took me from Earth to Khersath and that I would eventually steal during the Haxlard Crusade,” Alan said.

Woods glanced at Suresh, who nodded. She frowned.

That doesn’t match up with their records, Nu noted.

Odd, the instance of reality that I remember must have diverged during the Haxlard Crusade then, Alan thought.

“Anyways, once I arrived on Earth I reached New York, and met Icewolf, who it turned out was the mastermind behind the entire market crash operation—“

Analyst Woods raised a hand, turning to look at Agent Suresh. “Under the World Secrecy Safety Act, any information from this point on is confidential. Any deliberate leak will be considered an act of treason. I don’t care if you make a quick buck off inside trading, but this is a matter of national security.”

“What? Divulge secrets? Trade with an unfair advantage? I would never!” Suresh held a hand to his heart.

The United World Government is not so united after all, Nu sent.

“Icewolf lead the operation? You are sure of this?” Woods asked.

“Yes. The only other top-level player I’m aware of that may have been involved—other than the players I mentioned previously that were in the Tutorial with me—was Gaia, Daisy’s mother.”

Woods’ eyes flashed. “Gaia, ironically enough, is now governor of Luna, the Moon’s city-state. According to records she lost as much as anyone else on Doomsday, though she did have a massive sell-off scheduled two days later. Her explanation for the entered trade as she was making preparations to move against the Haxlards.”

Alan closed his eyes, trying to remember the details of the events.

Tell the truth, but try to paint yourself in a positive light, Nu sent.

“We moved early. My only role in the operation was supposed to be the hack of the New York Stock Exchange. I was just following orders. Icewolf had invited me into the Game and made a convincing argument that the UWG at the time was not acting in humanity’s best interests. The data suggested Earth would fall under Haxlard control.

“I wanted to change that.”

“You thought that the Legion of Man was going to save us? Now I’ve heard everything,” Agent Suresh said.

“Was I wrong? Earth will come under Haxlard control in a year, will it not?”

“We can’t all nuke a mothership—the Three control thousands of planets with life and are living gods who could destroy our solar system,” Suresh said. “The harm you caused to the economy far outweighs any possible good.”

Huh? I don’t remember nuking anyone besides the Emperor, Alan thought.

Inquire further, Nu suggested.

“I think we’ve established I am me. Before we proceed any further and I provide more information about the Doomsday Hack, I want to know what you have on me, including my movements and actions.”

Analyst Woods shook her head. “Such data is sensitive and may reveal sources you are unaware of. I cannot provide it.”

“I may be able to assist,” Agent Suresh said. “If you are able to provide a verified, complete account of the Doomsday Hack: who did what, where, and when, I may be able to convince my superiors to provide our data.”

Alan looked between the two. “Do you not share the same database, the same chain of command?”

“It is complicated,” Analyst Woods said. “While we all work for the world government, nations retain a degree of sovereignty, including intelligence apparatus and armies, similar to the now defunct European Union. And while I took a college course to understand the EU, I am afraid that it would require a graduate degree to comprehend the United World Government—especially as it mutates on a monthly basis.”

Suresh scoffed. “It isn’t that complicated. After Pakistan nuked India in-game and we returned fire it was determined that on Earth borders would remain static to avoid the complete destruction of the planet. Then, however, the Western world united to take over the Moon once its power crystal mine was discovered, just as Russia and China colonized Mars for its mines.

“The two resources worth exporting to the wider universe are people and energy—and both were quickly dominated by the leading nations. The rest of us developing countries are left to fight on Earth over scraps as everyone else looks to the stars.”

“Technological developments and ample resources have been provided to every United World Government member state,” Woods said. “It is the misuse of such blueprints and funds that have led to the current status quo. A war between nuclear powers leads to a catastrophic loss in overall assets—an obvious conclusion that India thought they could bypass with an alpha strike.”

“Lies, and more lies,” Suresh said. He took a breath and looked at Alan. “Suffice it to say information is not shared freely and we all find ourselves serving multiple masters. Now, General Icewolf—he was with the Legion of Man? My understanding is that he was instrumental to the faction’s defeat, and that is what fast-tracked his promotions.”

“Yes, while other members of the team failed their theft of the Federal Reserve, we had caused enough damage that we were allowed onto the Legion of Man’s space station orbiting Mars. From there, Icewolf betrayed them,” Alan said.

“Kitana joined him. I, however, remained loyal to the Black Rose guild, while Icewolf tried to force me to sign a literal Contract of Servitude. I resisted, failed, and died, and was thus labeled the terrorist and mastermind behind the Doomsday Hack.”

“That is quite the story,” Analyst Woods said.

“Yes, but I don’t think that was everything,” Alan said. He thought back. “Events may have played out very differently if the Federal Reserve heist had been successful, or the Legion of Man had been in a stronger position. While Icewolf may have been on the UWG’s payroll the entire time, I believe he did not decide to become a double agent until it was truly to his benefit.”

“And you have such insights into the general’s mind because?”

“It’s what I would have done,” Alan said. “And because Icewolf is, in fact, a triple agent. The Empire backed his entry to the Game, the Legion of Man, and the Black Rose guild.”

Maybe that’s what Operation Phoenix is about: bringing Earth under Empire control, Alan thought.

“What proof do you have? What actual, actionable intelligence can you provide?” Woods demanded.

Do you have an in-game recording? Alan asked.

Yes, but it only shows Icewolf upset with bureaucracy and division, willing to accelerate change, Nu replied. I hold no record before you re-entered the Game.

“I have a brief clip of an encounter with the general, but no smoking gun,” Alan said.

“This all makes little to no sense,” Analyst Woods said. “The training scenario will soon conclude. The Ashes of Humanity as a faction is falling apart as we speak. They have concentrated forces in Washington D.C., New York City, and Tokyo, Japan, and that is it. Everywhere else will soon be back in UWG hands.

“You have been honest with me so I will provide a recent update—they are fighting hard over control of the maglev line between DC and NYC—and no one has any idea why. Do you?”

Alan shook his head. He didn’t even realize a new high-speed rail system had been built. “What’s the status of Japan? What have they been up to?”

“Technological advancements: mainly building robots and faster bullet trains,” Analyst Woods said. “The Japanese Self-Defense Forces have kept to their assigned task—the defense of Japan, though a Mechanized Assault Force has been built. They’ve developed ties to the Institute in the Academy System.”

“I don’t know anything about what’s going on there,” Alan said.

“Moving on then; what happened after the hack?” Woods asked.

Be vague, Nu sent.

“I respawned back on Khersath, at the Black Rose guild. I went on an expedition into the Abyss Labyrinth and then tried to delve deeper into Cyberspace. I ran into an entity that eventually forced me to give up my original AI, Eve. The Haxlard Crusade occurred, the guild fell apart, and I sacrificed myself to kill the Emperor. That’s all I remember.”

Woods frowned. “That does not match up with our records.”

“That’s all you have? Come on Alan, you can do better than that,” Suresh said. “An ‘entity’ in Cyberspace?”

Do NOT mention Omega. The AGI-turned player could have eyes and ears everywhere, Nu sent.

“Do you not understand the inherent dangers of Cyberspace? You die there and you’re permanently brain-dead,” Alan said.

“Oh, we know,” Analyst Woods replied. She stood up and placed both hands on the table. “That is why I am here, actually. While interesting, all of this information is hearsay and anecdotal at best. You have demonstrated yourself to be one of the strongest players in Cyberspace, and the United World Government needs you, Alan. Humanity needs you.

“For the past few months, our experts in Cyberspace have been vanishing at an accelerated rate. We have hundreds of players in comas. Your past connections with the Revenants, with the Archivists, you don’t need to tiptoe around them. We know and we need them.

“Everyone is concerned about Earth, but our beginner’s protection extends to our digital space as well. You were one of the primary suspects… and perhaps still are. There are too many unknowns.”

A new quest popped up:

Missing Pieces:

Locate the missing people of Earth in Cyberspace. Find out more about who or what captured them and why.

Option: Appeal to the Administrators for aid.

Penalty: ???

Reward: ???

Time Limit: 1 year

Threat Level: ???

“I have not entered Cyberspace, and have no plans to explore it at my level,” Alan said.

Agent Suresh nodded again and then tilted his head quizzically. “Repeat that.”

“I have not—Wait, I did enter a capsule and my Home, which I suppose, technically, is Administrator-controlled Cyberspace,” Alan said.

The agent’s ability is more potent than I thought—he picked up on the actual truth instead of what you believed to be true, Nu sent. Or maybe the ability examines your subconscious... What’s something you think is true but is factually false?

Huh? I can’t think of anything like that, Alan sent.

I suggest a sports team fact. People are often deluded about those, Nu sent.

“Team Liquid is the best esports team of all time,” Alan said.

“Excuse me?” Analyst Woods asked.

Alan stared at Agent Suresh. “Was I lying?”

“Yes, that was a false statement.”

Bah, this experiment didn’t work. You knew it was a lie in your heart, Nu sent.

Alan had a sudden thought. “I experienced real death, and was resurrected.”

Suresh’s eyes widened. “True, true, but how can that be? The Administrators have banned all cloning and any attempts to copy a person’s consciousness.”

“There is another layer to the Game,” Alan said, continuing to stare at Agent Suresh. “The Authorities control all and know all. They—“

Suresh clutched his head. His eyes began to bleed. “Stop, STOP!”

Analyst Woods backed away from the table, eyes darting to and fro. “What the fuck was that?”

“That was me trying to ascertain the true nature of the Game,” Alan said. “I am on your side. On humanity’s side. I thought that I could level up to such great heights climbing the tower that is the Game—that is life—that I could then reach down and pull everybody up with me, but I failed.

“Instead I left more and more behind. My home. My family. My allies. Maybe even myself. And I don’t think that I found what I wanted at the top—nothing worth all the struggle and sacrifice.”

Make more connections.

“I need to build my own tower, one with a base so strong it will never fall. I will not lose the Game again. Join me on the path to ascendance.” Alan reached out a hand to Analyst Woods.

She looked at him like he was crazy.

Never go full messiah, Nu sent. Besides, that was probably all gobbledygook to their ears. They aren't high enough level.

