Al blinked long, then said, “My son is fine. His team is keeping watch over him, as he would have done for them.” He added, “We are not talking about Savral. We are talking about what you did for Aloethag, and what she enabled to happen between you, me, and Mog.”

Erick frowned, saying nothing, trying to understand what was happening.

“Gods above, I almost feel like your teacher again.” Al continued, “In the process of adding blood to the Red Ocean, you have become a part of the Red Ocean. Since you are not an orcol, most of that does not matter. But it does open a certain part of yourself to the rest of us.” He asked, “What do you think happened last night?”

“I went to the bars with Teressa to celebrate her Quest completion...” Erick looked at Al. “None of that happened, did it?”

“I’m sure you did go to the bars. But I was asleep in my bed upstairs. When I was out in the city this morning, I talked to Mog. She was also asleep last night.” He breathed deep. He said, “Starting from the beginning, here is what you must understand: The Rage is not an affliction. It is a part of us, like a leg or an ear, but it does not exist individually. It is an ocean in which every orcol existence flows together. Some call it the Dreaming. I was raised to call it the Red Ocean. Orcols are naturally born with this part of themselves connecting them to everyone else in their tribe, while larger individuals form the basis for rivers between communities. Some say that the Red Ocean is a variation of the power of the Mind Mage, and that is likely true. But for us, it is a community bond. A bond that has been usurped by Aloethag.

“For her part, she stabilizes the Red Ocean, to ensure that when one person Rages, the rest of us don’t follow them to War. Some see her as Evil for doing this, for taking our power for herself, but most see her as an unfortunate necessity.

“But because of her position and power, she is able to induct others into the Red Ocean. I’m sure you can see where this is going.” He asked, “How much blood was your Quest for?”

Erick suddenly felt like he was in very deep shit. He said, “Ten million.”

“Ten million?!” Al stared at the ceiling. He repeated, quieter, “Ten million… I guess she saw an opportunity, so she took it. You’re going to have weird dreams for a year, at least. I’ve already spoken to Mog. She’s shoring up her own defenses, and I will do the same. I assume it was Teressa who Raged? She got the same Quest?”

Erick felt a profound embarrassment. What had he actually done? He muttered, “Yes.”

Al said, “Good news: Unless something awful happens, she won’t have to worry about the Rage for ten years.”

“What’s the bad news?”

Al huffed a small laugh. “You’re going to have Red Dreams for a while. There likely won’t be a repeat between us three, now that Mog and I are on the lookout for such a thing. As long as you don’t have any strong feelings toward any other orcols, then that will be the extent of your problems.”

“Sorry.” Erick said, “I thought I was at the bar, and… I don’t remember most of it.” He said, “If this was my fault, I really did not mean to do that to you—”

“Stop. It wasn’t you that did this. It wasn’t anyone, really. Even Aloethag isn’t truly to blame, though she does bear a large part. All she did was give you the key, and you, unknowing, used it.” Al looked a bit uncomfortable, as he said, “Just… don’t think about it, too much. Every orcol goes through this when they’re younger. You’ll get a handle on it soon enough, and since you’re not an orcol, your connection to the Red Ocean will fade over time. It’s not a big deal if you don’t make it a big deal.”

Erick suddenly felt worried, on a fundamental level. “I have to ask: Was this an… an involuntary sex act committed against you?”

Al sighed. “There is a major difference between what is done in the Red Ocean and what happens in the Waking—”

"That's not what I asked. I asked if this was a violation."

Al's eyes went wide. "... What! Gods no!” Al shook his head in disbelief. “Your— our Red Dream happened because everyone wanted it to happen, so it did!” He muttered, “Gods above. The Red Ocean as… That? No.” He frowned directly at Erick. “Don’t say that to anyone else. It was very rude.”

“… Oh.” Erick watched as Al’s face turned a shade darker. “Oh.”

Al had wanted that their connection to happen. And so had Mog. That’s why it happened.

Al said, “And it won’t happen again.”

Erick blanked. Then he joked, “So it’s like orcol puberty?”

Al leveled a frown at Erick. “I suppose, from a certain angle.”

“So that fact you shared about a shaped [Cleanse]—”

“Nope!” Al discarded an unwanted smile, quickly returning to a calm, if embarrassed, facade. “We’re not doing that.”

“Just a simple, consensual sex dream?”

Al said, “And it didn’t mean anything.”

“Well… if it was consensual, then it could happen again. Maybe for real this time, too. I wouldn’t be opposed.”

Al laughed. “I would break you.”

“Gotcha. I just need to learn [Greater Treat Wounds], first.” Erick nodded sagely. “I need to learn that spell, anyway.”

Al laughed again, tearing his sight away from Erick. Erick just watched, slightly smiling, as Al laughed louder, like he needed a laugh. Like he needed some joy in his life.

Erick ruined the mood. “I’m sorry that Savral isn’t okay.”

Al came down from his joy. After a long moment, he said, “Savral was… hurt in the Red Dot attack, but he came back from that. It’s not good right now, but it’ll get better.” He said, “That’s what his friends tell me, anyway.”

“Aside from all of that, how’ve you been?”

“… It’s been rough.” Al said, “Aside from last night’s dream, I probably could have enjoyed going out to an actual bar with you.”

Erick smiled wide. “Then let’s do that tonight!”

“Aye.” Al nodded. “Okay.” He sternly added, “It’s not a date, though.”

Erick smiled.

- - - -

Feeling much better about a lot of things, including his friendship with Al, and a lot weirder about other things, including the Red Ocean, Erick made his way back to the Mage Guildhouse to pick up some books. The orangescale librarian, Tamarim, had gathered nine books to fulfill Erick’s triple request. Three on enchanting Grand [Prestidigitation] Stoves, one on the weather of the Crystal Forest, two on the weather of Veird, and three on auramancy. All of them were normal publications put out by the Arcanaeum Consortium, so Erick did not have read them there in the library, like a normal student of the arcane arts. He bought them all for a few hundred gold, total, and took them home.

Back home, he put on a pot of coftea, and sat down in his library to read.

After a while, Poi showed up.

“Sir.” Poi said, “Ballooning Spiders are dropping on Kal’Duresh. The Baroness is requesting your assistance with [Withering].”

Erick immediately closed his book on weather and set down his coftea. “Tell her that help is on the way. What about Spur, though?” He began summoning Ophiel. “When will they drop here?”

“Eventually. You will be informed when it happens.”

“That’s fine.” Erick had an idea. “Ask the Baroness if they’re okay with a bit of unconventional weather magic.”

Ophiels popped into the air, twittering in flutes. They were excited to be out and about. There was work to be done!

Poi looked to the air. After a moment, he came back to himself. “They already have Wind Mages working on diverting most of the swarm to outside the walls, using [Nature’s Fury] and other assorted spells. She is authorizing the use of [Withering], and nothing else.” He looked to Erick. “I think she thinks you’re talking about [Call Lightning].”

Erick almost spilled his coftea in surprise, “You ‘think’ that? Did you just offer an interpretation, Poi? Oh my gods!” Erick joked, “I must report you to your betters!”

Poi frowned.

Erick smiled. He said, “Let her think what she wants. Tell her I just want the opportunity to try something that might work well.”

Poi eventually answered, “She says to go ahead.”

Erick smiled.
