“By-By all means, drink as much as you'd like. I'll send for more.” The words slipped out of Jorani's mouth as he did his best to ignore the charred corpses littering the area. “Food too, if you'd like. Maybe a change in venue so as not to spoil your appetite?” Stomach churning at the smell of burnt flesh, he prayed to the Mother that Ral would get away. Chey was smart, she'd see that idiot out of this mess.

“Ah, calm yer self lad. If I wanted ye dead, we wouldn't be talking, now would we? I'd have called the thunder down atop ye and been on me merry way.” Arriving at his side in the blink of an eye, Lei Gong clapped him on the shoulder and led him out of the tent. “Truth be told, that is why I came here. Soldiers have it hard enough, ain't no call to be soldiering hungry. Arrived two weeks back and found ye sending everything north and west, so I followed it. No sense letting good supplies go to rot, got plenty of warriors waitin' on it.”

“Honoured senior, I'd never take from the Imperial Army. I've nothing but the utmost respect f- ”

“Don't grovel boy, just listen.” Lei Gong dropped all pretense, Sending his voice into Jorani's mind. “Yer working fer Major Yuzhen, ain't ye? A clever one she is, stealing from the Council to feed her soldiers. It's what those rat finks deserve, reap what you sow is what I say. Er, no offence to ye. Most of my best soldiers were half-beast, and I'm proud to have served with them. High time more of em took office, I'm all for it. Ye need to be more careful though, those corpses back in yer tent are Council spies, carrying compasses that can give away your location, maybe some of the loot too. I'll teach ye how to suss em out and nullify them.”

Relief flooded through him and if not for Lei Gong's iron grip, Jorani would have collapsed on the spot as his legs turned to jelly. Swallowing the lump in his throat, he spoke in a quiet whisper, without denying Lei Gong's guess. True, his actions benefited the Major, but he didn't work for her. “Thank ye kindly honoured senior, this one -”

“Bah, enough with the honoured senior, I ain't that old!” Lei Gong roared loudly and everyone turned to stare. The tension ratcheted as he huffed, his pale, wrinkled face red as an apple. Laughing boisterously, he brought Jorani into an embrace. “Yer Hangman Jorani of the Mother's Militia, ye call me Lei Gong, no need for formalities. We're all comrades, ain't we?” The old man's voice sounded in his head once more. “Now where's the food, we've plenty to speak about. Yer running a shit-show around here and anything worth doing is worth doing right.”

His fear dissipating, Jorani ordered food and wine and another tent erected. An Ascendant, the Lord of Thunder, Lei Gong himself, just publicly claimed they were equals and was here to advise him, perhaps even help. His Militia was close to 1,500 strong and now counted an expert warrior among their ranks. The common people thought him blessed by the Mother, and he was fast becoming a believer.

Who knows, maybe afterwards, he'd see if Ulf's lovely wife wanted to have a roll in hay. It was worth a try, with the way things were going, it seemed his luck was at an all time high.

What's the worst that could happen?

Chapter Meme
