After a few more minutes of searching, we fish my foot out of a puddle while the bristleboar looks on, still ineffectively trying to free his weapon, now kneeling, his stump tied off with his belt to stop the bleeding. With no options but to wait and see, he stares venomously at me while I crawl out towards my corner. Alsantset beams at me, relief and confusion warring on her face, while Lin smiles and waves as I approach, bouncing adorably in place as she strives to catch my attention. Other me waves back, a shy smile on my face while I inwardly groan at his actions. “Please don't wave at people with my severed foot. It's in poor taste.”

“Ah, sorry brother, I'm unused to ... well everything aside from fighting.”

“Yea... we'll work on that another time. Don't make eye contact with Akanai and sit down facing the bristleboar.” I think I'll let him deal with her ire this time, I can't handle being on her bad side anymore. See how he likes digging latrines with a spoon.

Reattaching my foot is a simple process and thanks to the division of labour, I can focus on healing while Other me keeps an eye on my opponent. A short, 15 minute break passes in the blink of an eye, my leg cramping in pain but able to bear my weight. I survived, now all that's left is to kill the piggy, get off the stage, give Alsantset a big hug, and survive my punishment. “Hey, give me control, I'll kill the piggy with a throw.”

“No need brother. I'll handle this.” The devilish grin breaks out across my face once more as I stalk carefully towards the downed bristleboar, my weapons held up at the ready. God, I don't want to struggle for control of my body, not at such an important time, so he better not fuck this up. My opponent leans feebly against his embedded sword, his head hanging low and body slumped, and I silently pray that he is unconscious, making this a simple kill. Looking at him now, his heavy armour battered and shredded, one foot pulped and the other dismembered, I feel a twinge of sympathy for the bristleboar. In the end, he's only a slave, with no ties to my tormentors, and it isn't right to hate him because he's a bristleboar. Unfortunately, knowing that changes nothing, as irrational hatred can't exactly be reasoned with.

The battle ends anticlimactically, the bristleboar truly unconscious from blood loss. A simple thrust through the heart of my helpless opponent ends the match, my second victory. Holding my bloody sword up high, Other me celebrates the hard-won fight, earning a smattering of cheers from the Sentinels. I can't really blame them for not being overly enthusiastic, that entire fight was a clusterfuck of epic proportions, making my first victory seem like pure luck. At least now I can wrap myself in something waterproof and watch the rest of the matches.

Distracted by my thoughts of warm clothes and hot food, I'm too slow to stop Other me spinning to face Jia Yang, my sword pointed in challenge at the imposing warrior. “Two victories I have claimed, but I am not satisfied with my disgraceful display. Send me another slave to kill, so that I can regain my honour.”

“What the fuck are you doing?!” My mental voice turns into an unmanly screech, unable to believe his stupidity. “We barely fucking survived, and you want to fight again?” Seizing control from him, I struggle to keep the panic off my face, seriously considering just exiting the stage and pretending I didn't say anything.

“Hmph.” I can almost see the pout on his face, his nose raised high in defiance. “We share wealth and hardship, glory and shame. I refuse to be known as the one-legged fool who rolled around in puddles and won through luck. I promise you brother, we can win at least once more, especially if you continue your efforts. It will be easy, I have a plan.”

...

Well, Other me is kind of OP and the challenge has already been given. Knowing Akanai, I can't just step off the stage after offering challenge like that, but she also won't be too happy that I opened my fat mouth in the first place. On the left we have hammer, and on the right is anvil. Resigning myself to my fate, I return control to other me, trying to not think too much about the punishments in store for me. “Alright, let's hear your plan.”

All I need to do is be the big hero, and Akanai won't want to punish me.

Easy enough, right?

Chapter Meme
