Oh, he was sure that learning the new skills was helpful. He was even sure that learning from such a young age in such a structured environment might make them more mature and tempered, leading to better skill modification abilities; but it was a lot of work for ultimately nothing unique. All advantages that could be pulled from the Tier 0 skills, even ones that could be easily expanded into a sect's trump card, seemed replaceable.

Determination and perseverance could be taught in other ways, and unless the sect techniques could be improved beyond their already prodigious heights, it would have to be a massive upgrade to make the effort worth it. The same could be said for any kind of rigorous training they could undergo, which being sect elites, they would have undergone anyway.

At least the effort, if directed at normal disciples who otherwise might never get their hands on a super rare skill to start modifying into a sect’s technique, would make sense to cover resource scarcity. But the sects in question had unhesitantly taken their best and brightest and shoved them into their nascent skill making program.

It was that conundrum which had everyone on edge, Matt included. Though the other part of him wanted to know if they had succeeded in creating wholly new Tier 0 skills, or if they were just something as simple as a framework for self creating a higher-Tier skill.

Except, that was all they seemed to be doing differently than a normal sect elite training camp with more security, which was why everyone was trying to peel back the veneer of the place and see what was truly hidden underneath.

Matt had some speculation and it wasn’t necessarily good, but given the attitudes of the Sects, it wouldn’t surprise him if he was correct.

The sects in question might not have figured out as much as the inter-Great Power spy community had given them, and might just be using a generation of elites to test a half-baked skill modification regime, perfectly willing for the children to kill themselves trying to build impossible Tier 0 skills.

Most spy reports dismissed the possibility as too wasteful, as the five sects in question could have used non-elite disciples for such a task after all, but Matt wouldn’t put it past the sects in question.

They were some of the highest-Tier sects and ferociously fought to get to their rankings, and were probably all too willing to sacrifice better quality test subjects for faster or better results if they thought it would keep them a step above their rivals.

Only time would tell, and Matt had enough on his plate that he could only shrug and hope he remembered to check in and see how the experiment turned out once it was over.

Not that the Sects were the only ones experimenting with Tier 0 skills, but no one had made as much progress as them.

Even the dwarves he had hoped might figure out a method to make [Physical Empowerment] scale had been slamming their heads against that wall, just as his own researchers had been.

If there was a way for that skill to scale, it was elusive as a dream half remembered.

The Corporations were the only other one to publicly announce any Tier 0 skill of note, and it was a dead-simple skill structure that wasn’t really a skill in the traditional sense at all.

[Item Link] as it was being called in the Empire, was more a transfer rune than a skill, but combined with a paired magical implement, it allowed for stronger, faster, and more mana-efficient magical items. It created a bit of a stir in the community because they had made both the Tier 0 skill modification, as well as the rune that was needed to be added to magical items, available at a pittance.

The problem, however, lay in that the rune and the spell were so simple, it was basically impossible to improve them without making it so the linkage failed. Meaning the pair was only good for the first five Tiers or so before they became a hindrance instead of a boon.

That wasn’t useless, but it pretty much only stabilized the offensive magical item market all across the Realm with the new stronger items and much easier skill, offering people the choice of spending years making a single Tier 0 skill or just a few months and buying an enchanted weapon.

[Item Link] was actually quite ingenious, and he wished to poach whoever had come up with the idea. The new skill allowed a magical item to use the cultivator’s spirit to help cast the spell in question, meaning the strength of the runes used in the item could surpass the typical limits inherent to their material.

It wasn’t necessarily a massive boost, less than a Tier even at the single digit Tiers, but it was the higher-Tier versions that Matt and every other immortal were waiting to appear.

Everyone suspected that they existed and were being used on the Paladins to upgrade their armor, but the Corporations were vehement that no such advanced version had been developed.

The major limitation of the [Item Link] was that it had to go into the core spirit to actually be an upgrade, and few at their Tiers would be able to squeeze a skill out of those precious skill slots.

Matt actually didn’t mind that development, as he had never had a vendetta against magical weaponry and was happy low-Tier crafters had a resurgence of business, given what they had been working on for Tier 0 skills.

In the intervening years, Titan’s Torch had developed two new Tier 0 skills in line with their methodology of helping the low Tiers.

One was what Matt considered a magnum opus of helping the low Tiers. Though it had less of an impact than he hoped for, despite being well received.

[Lullaby] placed the caster into a restful sleep without falling into a deep sleep that might otherwise prevent them from reacting to outside stimuli. The team who designed it had even managed to make the cooldown of the skill fourteen hours, which would prevent most cases of abuse. There was also a provided modification that let the skill act as an alarm clock, though it was more complicated than the rest of the skill twice over.

It was basically a full-on replacement for sleep aids, and should have replaced them entirely, but many felt it was too much work for something they would rarely, if ever, want.

The insomniacs across the Realm, however, were ecstatic at the new skill and Matt was sure more than a few had hardly slept while creating it.

Given its place inside the caster's spirit, there was no resistance to the spell, and as far as they could tell, there wasn’t really any way for the body to create resistance, unlike some outside sources like medication or enchantments.

Not that it was a failure. [Lullaby] was a success by any metric with a higher percent adaptation than any of the single first five skills, but Matt had half expected the entire Realm to be using the skill just a few years after it was released; and when his expectations weren't met, it felt like a letdown.

The second, entirely new skill developed was a combat utility-oriented skill called [Lesser Obscure] that acted like a smoke bomb cast at the cultivator’s feet. It wasn’t smoke, but rather the skill created magical particulates that would obscure both mundane vision and some magical senses, like spiritual sense, making it easier for delvers to dodge attacks or disengage from bad fights.

It was quite the versatile skill and both mages and melee fighters had been making it their second or third skill to create since its release.

Sadly, it was also already being used by criminals all over who would do something illegal and then cast the spell before running away or blending into the confused and befuddled crowds, abusing its obscuration effects to hinder the local law enforcement.

There was even a popular modification for the skill that allowed the caster to change the color of the skill, which had made its creator very wealthy. Not that the creator wasn’t already wealthy, but billions had bought the modification in the first months alone, and pretty much everyone who got the skill paid the two hundred thousand credits. While the public only knew that the creator was a company like many others, Titan's Torch had identified the creator as one Selena Hendricks, a Tier 8 who had also created several other skill modifications. While her other modifications had been of more limited commercial viability, she had already made herself a very wealthy individual, even by immortal metrics.

Matt wanted to recruit the woman, but she had reportedly turned down all other offers and so they were biding their time, having already made their interest clear. She would contact them if, or when, she wanted to, but recent events had given Matt a different outlook that probably should have occurred to him sooner.

Given her age, putting her birth just a few decades after the initial reveal for the Tier 0 skills, it was entirely possible she had gotten a Talent for such skill modifications.

While Talents were random as far as anyone could tell, trends were sometimes noticeable. Sometimes, popularity led to more Talents of that type, as seen several times in the past when new innovations or technologies came about. Matt was personally hoping that the duchy would see a bloom of aperology Talents, but so far, they hadn’t seen much of that type despite putting out feelers for such.

Since Selena had so far refused to come forward or take any offers, Matt could only wait. Even if she did have a Talent for skill modification, she wouldn’t be the only one, and those were the type of people he and Liz were trying to recruit with their new program.

Which was Matt’s next meeting that he should have been at five minutes ago.

Thankfully, he and Kees had settled how they wanted to handle the patent issue and they were able to speed through the rest of the recap.

Checking his [AI], Matt winced as he saw Vincent and Liz were waiting for him to finish up.

Stepping next to them, Matt said, “Sorry. Kees and I got chatting about stuff. Okay, new students.”

Liz flicked a finger at Matt, and he felt his [AI] ping even as she eagerly waited for a response. “We’ve made a shortlist. What do you think?”

She had been hesitant at first to start their own academy, but once they had gotten started, Liz had taken the reins and was more invested than Matt was, which was why he felt bad showing up late.

Matt made a noise to let her know he had received the message and started going through it.

The list was anonymized as was their procedure, only showing their reported Talent, Tier, an age range, reason for signing up in less than one hundred words, and general level of wealth.

It wasn’t that they weren't willing to sponsor an older person to immortality, but even in their duchy, it would be hard to choose only two hundred people who had good enough Talents to allow them to join the school, and so factors like age were important.

Even their already curated list was nearly five hundred people and Matt groaned, knowing removing even a hundred of these people would be a battle, let alone three hundred.

Sorting by age, Matt immediately saw a Talent that was hard to pass up.

The sixty to seventy year old Tier 3 had a Talent that let them graft any plant onto another and a Tier 3 which made the effects of such grafting better.

The very obvious use case for such a Talent was for plant-based Natural Treasures, which was confirmed to work according to them and a Tier 1 Natural Treasure.

According to their reason for joining, their spouse had left them, which caused them to reevaluate their life and their choices, which was why they had advanced to Tier 3 and wanted to continue.

Matt wanted to find a reason to decline them, but struggled to do so, given how useful their Talent could be.

Natural Treasures were finicky and the one they had tested was more like a pseudo Natural Treasure than a true one, with a strong permanent effect, but was only able to be grown in hyper-specific environments. While the requirement that a Natural Treasure couldn’t be cultivated or created wasn’t exactly a hard rule, it was a good guiding line. Herbs that had special effects and could be grown in greenhouses were generally too weak to fall into any but the pseudo category, but there were a few full Natural Treasures that proved the rule by being an exception.

That the Talent worked on even one of those pseudo Natural Treasure’s meant it was a fairly strong Talent and something to invest in.

The problem with someone of that age and Tier was that they would need to be carried through a few Tiers rather quickly to add a buffer of lifespan, or they would have to pay a specialized Tier 45 healer to physically de-age them. Such a thing was out of even Matt and Liz’s budget’s, as such people were always in high demand due to higher Tiers having descendants stuck at the Tier 14 threshold without a Concept of their own.

While there were few people like that being created nowadays, such cultivators were still numerous from previous generations, and their combined demand on the healers capable of such healing was near constant, making that a less-than-ideal solution.

While the school wasn’t against carrying, their goal was to make self-sustainable graduates, which meant people who could safely delve at their own Tier. So if they accepted the person, they would need to pay for a professional carry to get the person to Tier 10 or so as quickly as they could absorb essence to buy themselves some time.

Moving onto the next, Matt found the situation slightly easier, given they were independently wealthy and could afford their own carrying service should they really desire to Tier up, which made them correspondingly easier to cut.

Letting his eyes speed up, Matt found that while most reported fairly strong Talents, the stand outs were few and far between, which tracked with Matt’s general understanding of the Realm itself.

