Lots of people with Talents for minor effects that were generally beneficial.

The one exception he saw was a twenty-something Tier 3 who reported that both their Tier 1 and Tier 3 Talents were detrimental.

That struck a chord with Matt, who had once believed his Tier 1 was cursed. But according to the report, the person in question couldn’t hurt another being in any way shape or form as far as they could tell.

True detrimental Talents were rare but well recorded, and Matt believed they might have found such a person, which made him want to give them a hand up. If the Realm didn’t want to help them and they were still willing to push themselves hard enough to reach Tier 3 when unable to fight, Matt was willing to give them a shot.

Still, their decisions weren't easy.

Almost immediately, Liz showcased another older-than-ideal person who reportedly could fish in their own personal pocket dimension. Not only were the fish they pulled out comparable to some of the weaker Natural Treasures, they all had remarkable tastes and magical effects when cooked properly. The introduction even reported that the person in question had fished up an actual Natural Treasure, though it was unverified.

There was a report that they had such a Natural Treasure they shouldn’t have been able to get their hands on, but weirder things had happened with rift rewards, making it possible that it was just an embellishment.

Even if they ignored that, just the specialty fish they caught were of incredible research value, let alone to a skilled cook.

Matt knew Aunt Helen would be interested in such a person, and so threw them on the list, even if he did so with a painful wince as that was one more slot of their two hundred.

Eventually, they did get through the list, but it was a slow and painful process.

It also inevitably ended up with Matt thinking about the other academies in the Realm.

He didn’t have the best impression of them, but knew they were a general positive.

It was, however, risky stepping on their toes in such a big way, which was part of the reason they were limiting their first year to just two hundred.

The academies might take Matt and Liz’s opening of the school as an attack. It wasn't, but it easily could be.

Matt didn’t want another enemy, but he also wouldn’t change his plans just to appease people who didn’t like how he and Liz did things.

Only time would tell. And thankfully, they had quite a lot of that.
