Devious thoughts aside, I take a few minutes to explain my search plan to BoShui, who readily agrees with all my suggestions. After sending our people out in groups to search the surrounding areas, I follow Jester Wang to Yo Ling’s manor, caring nothing for the various storehouses and barracks in between. I mean, sure, there’ll be things of value to plunder, but I doubt they leave all their coin sitting around behind a locked door. There has to be a treasury, a hidden room hiding all of Yo Ling’s personal goods, and where better to hide it than in his own house?

Sitting atop the highest hill, Yo Ling’s manor is a sight to behold, a curious mixture of elegance and function. At twice my height and complete with moat and drawbridge, the spotless white-stone walls wouldn’t look out of place on a fortress, a necessity for any Bandit King. After Gerel leaps over the wall and lowers the bridge, the double gates open to reveal a massive white-jade statue chiseled in the likeness of a young Yo Ling. With two eyes and a well-groomed beard, dressed in full armour and mace in hand, the dastardly bandit almost looks heroic.

Once you get past the outer defences and garish choice in welcoming decor, Yo Ling’s manor shows its charm. For a murderous bandit, the man had good taste. Lining the paved walkway are smooth, rounded rocks of similar size, fit together in an uneven and oddly satisfying manner when compared to the straight, undeviating pathway. The overall effect turns his entire courtyard into a massive rock garden, and I can only imagine how beautiful it’d look if all the grass were trimmed. The outside of the buildings are all red-lacquered wood, with gracefully arched roofs and sturdy, stone-carved foundations. Peering through the open doors and windows uncovers a myriad of artworks and extravagances. Vibrant porcelain vases, decorative jade vessels, masterwork calligraphy scrolls, vivid, breathtaking paintings, and more.

Okay... I now officially regret inviting Zian and the others along.

Maybe I can convince them to donate everything to a museum, then rob it blind in a year or two.

The rest of the day is spent in a frenzy of activity, packing everything onto the wagons and sending it back to the barges. I’m not sure we’ll even have enough room on the ships, we might need more than one trip to bring everything away. Walking hand in hand with Lin, we take our time appreciating the sights and secretly pocketing a few small items for ourselves before clearing everything out room by room, leaving only destruction in our wake. Stones and couches overturned, walls and bookshelves torn apart, every pillar and floorboard is checked and rechecked for hidden compartments as our appetite for treasure continues to grow. Even the drapes and cushions are taken away, repurposed into padding for the more fragile treasures.

As night falls, I gaze upon our work from Yo Ling’s balcony, unable to come to terms with my newfound wealth. Though I’ve yet to find anything hidden away, the treasures on display are enough to make a hundred men wealthy, much less eight. The Guard Leader is surprisingly adept at appraising works of art, often able to name the craftsman before seeing a signature or stamp. I suppose I should gift her something after all this, though I should ask Lin if it’s appropriate before I do. The last thing I need right now are more wife candidates, and even if I did, the Guard Leader is nowhere near the top of the list.

Breathing a sigh of contentment, I glance around Yo Ling’s room before we go, left untouched for now. I thought about sleeping here, but who knows what sort of nasty business went down on those sheets. No thank you. Spying a bookshelf, I head over to peruse the collection, curious what a bandit king reads. Histories and poetry make up the bulk of the books, along with a solid selection of military and weapon manuals. Running my fingers over the spine of each book, I ignore Gerel’s growing impatience because why not, while BoShui looks on the verge of falling asleep on his feet.

Whatever. I’ll come back tomorrow. Still a full day of looting ahead of me, so might as well get a good night’s sleep. As I turn away, my elbow bumps a bookend and I react instinctively, darting to catch it before it falls. Freezing in place, I turn my gaze back to the bookend, still sitting on the shelf, unmoved by the impact. The bookend couldn’t be more ordinary, an L shaped block of wood stuck to the bookshelf, incredibly out of place amongst the riches and splendour of Yo Ling’s manor. All the other bookends are the same, and even the shelf is stuck against the wall.

“Interesting,” Gerel says, studying the shelf thoughtfully. “A hidden door?”

“Perhaps you twist or turn the bookends in a certain order?” BoShui adds his two cents, finally showing an interest in the proceedings. “My uncle has something like that.”

“Fuck puzzles.” Grabbing an armload of books, I toss them onto the bed. Quickly catching on, everyone pitches in to help empty the shelf, with all thoughts of sleep fleeing at the prospect of riches. After chopping the bookshelf into kindling, we carve into the stone wall behind it to reveal a hewn stone stairway leading down into the depths of the island. Grinning from ear to ear, I glance at everyone and ask, “So, who’s up for a little cave exploration?”

This is going to be so much fun...

Chapter Meme
