Kessiah gritted her teeth, straining out her words, “And what did Daniel do to me?”

The mouths hissed, “This inferior creature rejected you and your body. He treated you like a freak. The dirty earthling tried overpowering you and dominating the group. It is time to take back control.”

I frowned as I spread out my arms, “What the fuck are you talking about? That...that’s so stupid. I was trying to survive. I didn’t control anyone.”

The voices seethed at her, “Now he dismisses your own thoughts. He is a filthy back worlder who thinks he is above you. Like a snake, he will strike the moment you turn your back to him.”

I roared back, “If I had a problem with Kessiah, I would tell it to her face. Hard to do when you’re covering her with your ugly ass, so fuck off already.”

The mouths hissed as Kessiah laughed underneath the mask. The eyes squinted at me, “You taste of dirt, little lamb. You hold no sustenance. You are less than even a worm. I’ve peaked through this remnant’s mind. She believes you are inferior as well, nothing more than a lesser being.”

Kessiah grabbed the edges of her helmet, “Stop peeking through my head. These are my thoughts. Mine.”

I rolled my eyes, “Yeah, sure. Kessiah definitely thinks I’m some monkey on a backworld. That’s why she hit on me and gave me a spacial ring.”

The mouths mumbled something, but I slammed my gauntlets together. The clang overwhelmed their voice,

“Enough talking. How about we fight like monsters instead of fighting like lawyers.”

The eyes squinted at me. Hatred dripped from their voice as they spoke,

“We are a monster. You are trash.”

I dashed towards Kessiah as she struggled against the influence of the eldritch. Even with her resisting, the eldritch and her Blood Arts made her movements like tidal waves. The sheer speed and strength of them were far faster than her old ones. Even with their wild, unstable form, her first strike caught me by surprise.

Her fist crashed against my face like a rock slapping against the back of your head. I dragged ten feet back, my feet digging me into the ground. My helmet was ruptured, exposing my mouth. My silver blood leaked from my torn cheek. The mouths on her helmet smiled,

“Well then, walking dirt...you can’t even fight us with her resisting.”

I condensed event Horizon over the skin of Kessiah, instead of all throughout her. The finesse strained me a bit, but killing her wasn’t the plan. I would peel that monster off her and make it suffer. The monster didn’t want to play nice, then neither would I.

I clenched my teeth, breathing out. Blood squirted out from between my teeth, dripping down my chin and neck. My cheek regenerated before I wiped the blood off my face. I molded my helmet back onto my head as I rolled my shoulders. I walked towards the eldritch, cracking my neck,

“Trust me. I’m just getting started.”
