Allie grinned as she looked around for confirmation. “That gave me about half a Tier’s worth of essence unveiled. I’m willing to bet that everyone got the same amount. I also got a small improvement to my converted essence.”

Despite not getting that second part, Matt was happy for them, hoping he’d get such prizes once they surpassed their accumulated Genesis Energy.

Shoving past him, Allie tossed Aster out of the hole, earning herself an excited yip before she clambered out with Liz hot on her heels and Matt following behind.

Matt was just happy to leave the desert now that everyone was past the Tier 2 threshold.

***

Rah watched the terrain change unnaturally rapidly in the moonlit night as the caravan trundled along. As he kept an eye out for any new predators now that they were leaving the inhospitable desert, Rah mulled over the realization he had come to during the last fight.

He could admit when he was wrong. Usually internally, but he’d never been the type of person who couldn’t apologize when he did verbally express something he felt remorse for.

However, his willingness to admit when he was wrong didn’t make him perfect by any means.

A part of him, the prideful part that kept his feet moving down the causeway of life, had wondered if the nigh mythical Ascenders could truly live up to their reputations. Cultivation reset strange realms had been notoriously difficult in his own Realm, and that reputation hadn’t seemed to change by ascending.

Being something of an oddity himself, the Unsparing’s crew were far more willing to talk to him casually than most. And while he had kept his mouth shut, he hadn’t quite understood why the crew had been so thankful for the Ascender’s teams to be willing to take them through the strange realm.

Yes it was nice the command team wasn’t willing to hang the rest of the crew out to die, and Rah didn’t need the crew telling him the Ascenders were the exception that proved the rule to know they were impressive.

Yet they blew his already high expectation out of the water all the same.

While he couldn’t say for sure, Rah doubted most of the groups who had entered the strange realm had taken over fifty hangers-on, all a Tier higher and with less combat prowess, which made him afraid of the eventual scaling.

When Captain Stenson tentatively brought up that aspect of the strange realm, showing the Ascenders that he and the crew wouldn’t be upset if the command team wanted to run it alone, neither team seemed interested in taking him up on the offer.

Rah being the weakest of the ‘leadership group’, as the crew called them, wasn’t going to suggest otherwise, but he had been worried for his own sake that they might be unable to progress at all with the difficulty spike so many entrants would cause.

However, seeing the Ascenders in action proved him wrong on both accounts. Which was exactly why he normally kept his opinions to himself unless he was confident about the words that crossed his lips.

Once uttered, some words could never be retracted and that was a lesson he had learned the hard way.

Seeing the Ascenders fight firsthand, in bodies that weren't truly theirs, he was shown an additional facet of why they excelled. Another reason everyone in this Realm seemed to chase upon their heels instead of overtaking them.

Where the more average crew members needed to group in threes and fours to take down one of the roaming light monsters, the Ascenders threw themselves at the monsters even when they were outnumbered.

Such risky moves should have cost them their lives, or at least limbs, but instead they cut their way through their opponents with unerring precision and ferocity before immediately moving onto the next.

Matt, having chosen his physical core, suffered the worst, with only the simple enchanted weapons. But even with that, his kills weren’t that much slower than Susanne’s despite the disparity in weapons.

While Rah rarely got to see it, normally the limits on their power reinforced how deep the normally affable man’s foundations really were.

Zack, on the other hand, terrified Rah.

While normally standing idly in the fights, conserving his now very limited mana, when Zack did act, it was almost always a lethal move. Whether he blew a spell up in the enemy’s face or guided a spell that might have otherwise missed its target to a weak spot, any time he acted, a monster had died.

Having rarely encountered pure mages of the type in his Realm, Rah was glad the man was a friend. Because having a spell taken over mid-flight and redirected back at the caster was a horrifying prospect he’d watched play out over and over.

Not that Allie was much better.

Liz had tried to tempt him into a bet on whether or not the teleporter would choose her magical or physical core, but Rah refused the sucker's bet of physical cultivation. There was no way the teleporter would do anything except strengthen her main skill given her previous actions.

Not that having a weak physical body hampered her any more than not having access to her Talent did.

Like the assassin he was sure she could be, and probably was, Allie appeared in the fights for only an instant at a time. When she teleported into position, her dagger was already moving with full force, and the moment she retracted the blade, she was gone once more.

Limited by her mana pool without her Talent, Allie picked and chose her targets more than normal, but she was still effective.

Even Aster and Liz, the two locked in their bloodline bodies, still managed to have more of an impact than any of the crew.

Liz was nearly single handedly protecting their heads while also offering the best scouting services any low-Tier could ask for. Given how many ambushes she had prevented, combined with their lack of spiritual perception range, she might have been the most important person on the team, even without her ferrying of goods between groups.

Aster, on the other hand, had the much harder job of keeping them all safe in the moment to moment combat. And despite her limited methods, managed it better than the healers.

The two healers might have been her biggest fans thanks to her efforts saving their meager spell casts.

Rah knew he wouldn’t do much better than the crewmembers without his Ascension improving him so foundationally, but that was part of why he had been so eager to enter this strange realm. It was also why he hoped the Ascenders could make the difference for the larger than normal group and at least carry the group to Tier 5 or so.

Anything more would be wonderful, but if they made it that far, he’d be ecstatic.

Seeing how well the two groups did made that selfish part of Rah regret not entering in with a smaller group.

That was a thought he wasn’t particularly proud of, but such thoughts didn’t rule him.

Not that having the crew was without its positives.

For all that it made the strange realm harder, they were still competent Tier 30s. In fact, two of the maintenance crew had been the ones to crack the more advanced enchanting method that Susanne’s weapon used, which was why they had spent their days out in the desert under the scorching daylight.

In retrospect it was obvious, but to make the fully light-based weapons they needed the light energy sources everything in this strange realm ran off.

Having chosen his magical core, Rah didn’t need the upgraded weapon as he still had access to his Talent and his core spells allowed him to create his own weapons and armor.

Why some people had their Talents but others didn't, Rah had no idea. He was simply grateful that he got access to his at all as it let him fool around with the local enchanting method more than most thanks to failed attempts at enchanting with his Talent didn’t use any resources beyond his own mental energy.

Sadly, while the enchanting method needed to harness the strange light dust was interesting, the logic was so twisted, he doubted there were any ways to recreate this in the real world.

According to everyone else, that was normal enough, but Rah still pondered the lessons held within those tangled logic webs.

In fact, he had several new ideas for rune variations inspired by the methods used here.

He had tried to share his findings with Zack and Matt, but it had been less fruitful than he had hoped. While the two of them would happily talk about the new runes or the logic of how he got there, the moment he tried to talk about the strange realm’s original runes themselves, they seemed to lose interest.

It was his consideration of that oddity which made him realize something he now couldn’t get out of his head.

The Ascenders were young.

It seemed obvious in retrospect, but he realized why he sometimes felt out of place with them.

Logically, he knew they were less than a thousand years old, but they didn’t normally act like it.

They normally behaved like seasoned immortals who had long since learned how to navigate forever. At other times, they caught him off guard and this was one such time.

Rah believed part of it, maybe a large part, boiled down to the fact the Ascenders had both the martial might and societal respect that few challenged them relative to their ages.

His early years had felt like an endless string of challenges as he struggled to make headway. Those experiences had tempered him.

The Ascenders reminded Rah of competent heirs from large organizations mixed with the most successful and ruthless independent cultivators from his Realm. Not the common wanders, rather the types who rarely had to deal with new trouble because they had climbed over a mountain of bodies to reach their positions and weren’t afraid to do it again.

Most died when they ran into something or someone truly out of their league, but the ones who survived had a presence around that ensured few bothered them.

It was absolute confidence that stemmed from their personal power.

That same power was what had caused Rah to miss the obvious.

During the voyage out into chaotic space, it was understandable for people to go head down and work on something for a decade. There was little else to do during the downtime and so it was the perfect opportunity to catch up on projects or rest as the cultivator saw fit.

That was normal according to Rah’s lived experiences.

The same went for rifts; having learned about them and delved many himself, Rah understood why the Ascenders rarely delved the same place twice. Complacency kills more often than anything else, and getting into a routine when it came to combat was asking for trouble.

Rah understood working during the safe moments of a typical delve same as he did when traveling.

Inside this strange realm, he had expected the Ascenders to be as interested as he was.

The crew were.

Almost all of them met up in the early evenings and traded information they learned about the strange realm as they kicked off their journey. Even the ones occupied at the time found time to circle around the group and chat for at least a few minutes daily. It was a simple exchange of information, a little jovial interaction that Rah believed was vital to a society of immortals.

On the other hand, the Ascenders were so young and so powerful, they hadn’t yet realized that these moments, the slower ones with friends, were the things that made them full and complete people.

It wasn’t the battles and the fights, at least not alone. Healthy people needed more than that.

Rah had learned that lesson the hard way, and saw little reason they needed to go through that themselves.

There were times when Tier and distance were important, but there was no reason to brush off inspirations derived from the strange realm just because the magic wouldn’t work outside.

Rah didn’t think it was arrogance, not inherently even if their actions were, but rather the result of them still being so damn young.

They all still had multiple avenues of growth with no outward roadblocks. He suspected they had never truly slammed into the wall where they couldn’t progress in any fields.

Rah had met many people who, when they hit that wall and finally came up for air, found their lives empty and hollow, having only gone through the motions of life instead of living it properly.

Such revelations had ended more than one life of someone Rah was fond of, and he didn’t want to see that happen to his friends.

Relatively new as they might be, he considered the six of them true friends, which was why he was so confused about the whole situation.

He hadn’t met them often, but all of the Royals, especially Emperor Emmanuel, had seemed to understand that truth. While it was possible the Emperor had some way to mitigate the risk of the Ascenders burning themselves completely out, Rah doubted it .

The Emperor lamented missing his weekly meal with his wife, which told Rah everything he needed to know about this Realm's views on immortality.

It looked like to him they were simply waiting for both sets of Ascenders to burn themselves out and then offer advice the older immortals were clearly already doing.

That was the only thing that made sense, considering Liz had grown up with two of the Royals in question. They should have learned this lesson long ago.

The smartest answer would be to mention his concerns to King Leon or Queen Mara privately, so he didn’t overstep his bounds as a foreigner. However, they were far away, and he didn’t think Allie would appreciate being used to herald in her own shortcomings. Combined with the timing of his realization, the two reasons ensured that idea wasn’t on top of his list.

Some people might need to learn such lessons the hard way, but it seemed pointless for them.

Rah acknowledged he might be wrong, but he didn't think they needed to run into that wall to learn that lesson.

