While the mages had been instrumental at the start, it was the fully enchanted physical fighters who carried the last few Tiers. Whatever the strange realm did to their new bodies, the physical cultivation enchantments seemed to scale with the strength of the light monsters, ensuring the weapons kept up with their foes, unlike their own cultivation.

With every physical cultivator armed and armored, they made it through nine more biomes, advancing to Tier 9 before they finally called it and permanently halted the caravan by telling the current leader they were done. Having lost more than half of their numbers against the Tier 7 rat boss, they had known they were gambling to push another Tier, but with a near unanimous vote by the remaining crew, they pushed ahead a final time.

What remained of the crew had been killed, taking out the Tier 8 checkpoint skeletal knight and leaving only the seven of them battered and bloodied to defend the caravan on the final day. Due to the requirement of having everyone alive at the next Tier to advance, it was only a single day of effort.

Not that they made it through the boss fight unscathed themselves.

As Matt found himself ejected from the strange realm, he smiled as he looked at his physical cultivation core.

His first five Tiers were golden Genesis Energy, but Tiers 6 through the middle of 8 were now a deep purple color that shimmered like light passing through water. Being so close to the center of his core, the power was multiplied by both the Genesis Energy below it and the normal essence above.

Seeing the difference between entering and exiting, Matt felt every mile walked without his Talent had been worth it.

What made Matt even more happy was his Power.

In the nine months they spent trudging across the strange realm, he had managed to fully excavate his Power.

All of the channels were now available to him, even though he didn’t dare use them all at once. He didn’t have anywhere near enough willpower to risk that, nor could he balance that many boosted parts of himself at the same time.

Finally, Matt inspected the bonus to his body given by the secondary reward.

It was impressive; the quantity, or possibly the quality, they had been awarded was more than any of them had expected, even accounting for their larger than normal group. It wasn’t a scaling reward, the improvement of his physical body was flat and static, unable to grow but that didn’t make it weak. Rather that portion of the strange realms reward would only remain relevant until Tier 35 or so before he outscaled it.

Seeing everyone's excitement, Matt looked outward.

Scanning a crewmember who he knew had died early, Matt saw that their purple converted essence was slightly less concentrated. Their converted essence was less dark purple than his was, possessing a more violet hue, but the difference wasn’t too large.

Best of all, they still had nearly seven Tiers of essence converted. The early death had cost them a little, but the added bounties they had collected at each stage of the journey had mitigated the worst of the losses.

That made Matt consider how far the truly exceptional Corporation teams might have gone. Ultimately, he didn’t see how they could have made it too much further than their run. The scaling of the strange realm was simply absurd. Additionally, most teams didn’t linger at anything but a break point, so most elites would have run it at Tier 30 if not higher.

Mulling over everything they had experienced, Matt was fairly confident no one had been able to do higher than Tier 10 without a Talent that broke the strange realm.

Not that he cared too much. He was pleased with their result and not much else mattered.

Unit per unit, Genesis Energy did more to help Matt, but his new purple essence was no slouch. Concentrated by every boss they killed and every ruin they looted, it was quite a bit better than the initial reports had indicated.

Given that converted essence was one of the few things that scaled better the farther one climbed, Matt was excited to have nearly a third of his tiers' were now converted into something other than monster essence.

Few could claim that, let alone have the best conversion and a top contender combined.

He was giddy to have a go with someone, preferably Remi since the pinnacle elite was a dick, but they didn’t have any time to waste on side objectives. Not yet anyway.

Once the corporation running the strange realm saw they had exited, they were immediately but politely hurried along.

After checking that their ship hadn’t been tampered with while they were inside the strange realm, they left. They still wanted to hit a few other strange realms before they needed to teleport back to the breachpoint.

That, and they still had to prepare for their upcoming return to the planet.

It would be rude to show up empty handed.
