Chapter 454

Hunkering under a tarp in a hole that had long since filled with sand around his still form, Matt waited, not even blinking more than he needed to.

The caravan had to circumnavigate a small mountain range to leave the desert. Once past their desolate embrace, they would enter a scrubland that would eventually turn into a forest.

The caravan leader had repeatedly warned them about the strength of the monsters they would face once they left the barren desert.

Both the warning and the knowledge that the caravan would be slowly circling around terrain those on foot could cover more directly allowed the most combat-capable of them to venture out.

As they had learned the hard way, for every attempt at enchanting, they needed to kill one of the light creatures.

Once they cleared the monsters still attacking their shielding, ten of them had ventured out.

Matt was ready to attack any monsters chasing their bait.

Hearing a call from above, Matt saw a pair of rounded fox ears poke themselves out of the sand a few dozen feet away.

A moment later, Aster wiggled the rest of the way out of the sand and Matt followed her example.

As he got a better angle, he could hear sharp cries and he took off in a dead sprint.

His efforts were thwarted by the loose sand, but his cultivation had returned enough that he was nearly Tier 2, which let him keep Aster and Susanne in his sight even as they pulled ahead.

Being on four legs gave Aster an advantage that was second only to Liz, who lazed about on the hot updrafts when not fighting, giving them aerial surveillance.

Susanne was able to outrun Matt since her boots were from her family, letting her run in the desert unabated. They hadn’t given much weight to the rumors, but the moment Susanne stepped on the loose sand, her boots magically hardened a portion and turned it into sandstone, ensuring every step was perfectly firm.

In and of itself, it was an interesting method to solve an undoubtedly annoying issue, but like all of the enchantments usable by the physical cultivators, the boots burned their bodies’ energy to power themselves. As the mages needed to spend their mana carefully, the fatigue the enchanted items left could be lethal.

So far, they hadn’t figured out a way to bypass that limitation, so useful noncombat enhancements were being set aside in favor of preparing for the longer expedition.

With each day they traveled, they gathered more and more energy, unlocking and converting more of their cultivation bases.

Finally cresting the final hill, Matt launched himself off a small cliff. Rolling to burn off most of his momentum he bounced back into his normal sprinting stride without slowing.

Activating the enchantment implanted in his wrist, Matt slashed out with his nigh weightless blade.

As it hit the golden insect-like body, the energy drain spiked. Instead of lodging in the monster's flesh as his metal blade would have, it cut through cleanly. The solidified light that composed the monster parted before the energy blade with only the burst of increased energy drain from Matt’s sword to mark its passage.

Ducking a twisting slash from a large creature with scythe-like mantis arms, Matt aborted his cut to its abdomen. to kick at a nearby spider creature instead. Aster’s wave of frost landed a moment before Matt’s foot did, and the monster shattered like a crumbling hollowed out building.

That move opened Matt up to the scythe light monster, but one of the crew members that was good with a bow put an arrow in its chest, distracting it. That bought Matt enough time to turn his blade back towards it.

Aggressively lunging, Matt body slammed the creature, driving his sword forward with a grunt of effort.

The sand under him gave way and the two tumbled down the sand dune. Matt only took a few glancing blows from the flailing scythes as the creature died.

Jumping back to his feet, he relaxed as he saw the last monster fall and Liz circling in a pattern that indicated there weren’t any other threats around.

Looking down at the light creature, Matt reached down to his waist and uncorked a bottle all of them now wore. Like the caravan leader's bottle, it absorbed the light creatures' corpses like a vacuum. Unlike the caravan leader's horn, which could hold hordes inside, Matt’s bottle could only hold a single monster.

Shaking the bottle, Matt looked at the golden sparkly sand, enjoying the visual for a moment before putting it away and getting back to work.

Seeing they finished cleaning up, Liz swooped down, landing on top of a dune, and they loaded the three filled vials into her vest made for this purpose. Four more monsters wasn’t enough to satisfy the crafters, but it got them closer to their goal of having a physical cultivator on the expedition from the crew with at least one proper enchanted weapon.

If they wanted to leave the forest, they needed everyone to reach Tier 2. Every day they delayed the monsters got stronger, and this was their last large hurdle.

Sifting through the sand, Matt picked up both portions of the arrow shaft. The wood was valuable enough to recover on its own, but the real prizes were the feathers.

Donations from Liz’s early domination of the skies, they only had so many and weren’t confident they might encounter more birds to help their cause. The other object he cared about was the arrowhead itself.

Like the swords, they allowed the physical cultivators to deal damage at range. Even if they weren't as good as the blades, they kept the crew safe and allowed them to participate so they were collected wherever possible.

A cry from the air had Matt looking up to see Liz circling in a new pattern.

It was in her ‘investigate’ loop, but Matt couldn’t be sure what she could have possibly seen in that area already. They had already come from that direction and hadn’t seen anything.

Climbing up to the top of another dune, Matt and the others saw nothing where she indicated.

Seeing their reactions, Liz wiggled her wings incessantly. Unable to communicate beyond that, Matt looked down to Aster who was hiding in his shadow, already panting heavily due to the unrelenting heat.

Cocking an ear and listening to Liz’s cries, the sand in front of Matt transformed into recognizable Empire words as Aster acted as a translator. Without their magic to bridge the gap, those in beast form found it impossible to directly communicate in the methods they were used to, leaving only Aster and a few others with the ability to translate.

“Liz. Says. Something. Vanished.” Matt read out the translation using his bond to ensure he was communicating Aster’s actual intent.

Looking up, Matt found Liz flying away satisfied they were properly investigating.

She’d drop off their vials then continue to scout for them, reducing their danger, but he wasn’t sure what they were supposed to be looking at. It was a sand dune like any other if a bit less sandy.

The sunblasted desert was so barren, there wasn’t much of a threat beyond the sun creatures, but the wandering light monsters were strengthened by their exposure to the sunlight. After noon, they became fearsome enough the team preferred to sleep through that portion of the day.

That seemed unlikely today.

Crawling around the series of dunes Liz had noticed something in, it took her return and aerial perspective to guide them through the formation-created illusions, revealing a small hidden scout’s outpost built into the side of a lone stony outcropping.

Its wards flickered, and the roof had already entirely deteriorated, its flickering being what Liz had noticed from the air.

Aster immediately started growling the moment the illusion fell and they all took that warning to heart.

The sand in front of them shifted until it spelled out, “Wolves.”

The single word was all they needed to know. Instead of rushing forward, they circled up before moving deeper.

Susanne used her boots to climb the side of a still mostly intact wall, throwing them a rope which they used to climb up on.

Inspecting their surroundings, the wolf call was obviously correct. Bones of all shapes and sizes littered the area, some with flesh on them but others long-since cracked open or destroyed by the exposure to the wind and light.

Seeing half busted open crates, Matt carefully perused the closest one careful of a trap.

All he found were weapons.

Rusted to uselessness, but unmistakably swords and short spears, they found nothing else of value in the room.

Rah gathered some of the more intact scraps for later study, but their efforts were halted by the wolves.

As desert wolves, they were smaller than their forest cousins. Except similar to rift monsters, these ‘natural’ creatures were full of inexorable rage that drove them forward onto their blades.

Using a crumbling wall as a barrier, Matt shrunk the size of his energy blade and fought with the other frontliners.

Panting, he struggled to adapt to no longer having access to his mana.

Instead of being irritated by the loss of his powers, he had come to enjoy this restriction.

It pushed him in ways that he normally found hard to do.

Wanting to upgrade his weapon, Matt used this as a way to reconnect with his blade.

As blood splashed, Matt found he missed this more simplistic fighting style.

Returning to the basics of melee-only fighting forced Matt to pull out moves he hadn’t needed to worry about in centuries.

Trading a serious wound for a minor wound was normally an easy decision, given how fast he could heal, but without his mana he was forced to fight perfectly.

Matt couldn’t say he loved the restriction, unlike Susanne, who relished the chance to hone her sword skills. He embraced the opportunity all the same even if with slightly less enthusiasm.

Focusing entirely on his swordsmanship, he narrowed down on his practical abilities.

It was nice to finally give this part of his abilities some time and dedicated to improving. Normally, he struggled to fit such training into his schedule when other avenues offered more power for the same amount of effort. Now, being forced to only use his body gave him a chance to rectify that lack and he wasn’t going to pass it up.

In addition, he found being limited made working on his Power much easier.

At least when it came to pushing his willpower into his physical body. The strange realm couldn’t block him from enhancing those parts of himself he didn’t have but it was simply a waste of willpower. He’d tried more than once, hoping to circumvent the strange realm’s restrictions on his mana pool to no avail.

His physical empowerment, on the other hand, was much easier.

Matt wasn’t sure why that was, but the difference was immediate.

Using that, he worked on empowering his torso and legs at the same time as his arms.

Despite his mental image changing to the much more fitting river of stars, Matt found expanding his empowerment into other parts of himself difficult. It felt more like removing a blockage from a sewage pipe than the smooth mental image of a flowing river of stars.

Flaring his Power in his leg, Matt lashed out, caving in the chest of a wolf when he realized there weren't any more wolves racing at them.

Aster yipped at him as she pawed at the body of the largest wolf, asking for his help in getting to its heart. While the human members of the team couldn’t collect more than meat and pelts, the crew who had chosen to strengthen their bloodline and were in beast form had learned over the last few days that they got additional energy when they ate the mundane creatures' flesh.

Their current consensus was that it was a bit of an exploit due to how normal beast biology interacted with the strange realm’s rules. Regardless of the why, they took the advantage and ran with it.

All of them had been ecstatic at the news, which was why Matt wasn’t surprised when Liz landed and hopped over, fighting with Aster for the remaining hearts.

One of the crew members finished turning the surviving boxes into torches and they immediately pressed forward.

Liz flew off to get more of the crew in case there were more wolves, but they weren’t needed for their spears, rather their backs. They didn’t find weapons inside the looted halls, but they did find a supply area that had bars of refined metals laying around.

Heavy enough that few other groups would bother taking them, the Unsparing’s crew eagerly grabbed the ingots, intending to turn them into enchanted weapons.

Matt instead spent his time searching the rest of the ruins.

They were about to leave when Allie and Aster found a secret compartment where they discovered what Matt could only describe as bottled moonlight.

The bottles looked old but their shells were clear, allowing them to see the ever-moving liquid inside.

Only after they were fairly sure there weren’t any additional traps, Allie reached out to grab the bottles. When her finger touched the first one, all three vanished, leaving them waiting for a trap of some kind.

Allie was about to vent her frustration but her expression froze. However, Matt couldn’t pay her any more attention.

Shivering, Matt felt a new type of energy try to slither into his cultivation base and do something. Except as it ran into his Genesis Energy it failed to do anything.

That sensation of the energy trying to find a way into his cultivation felt like worms crawling down his spine until it spent itself pushing his cultivation further instead of bolstering what was already there.

From the twitches Aster and Liz went through, he was sure they had experienced something similar to him.

Allie and all of the crewmembers Matt could see clearly had the opposite reaction as they sighed in contentment.

“Please tell me you guys got something more useful than the shivers?”

