Upon his initial arrival to this Realm, it had been good to surround himself with such driven individuals. As much as they had rubbed off on him, reinvigorating his aged bones, he wouldn’t feel right if he didn’t say something after having noticed the problem.

That would be a betrayal.

That was why the morally right choice would be to immediately damn the repercussions of disturbing a Tier 50’s plans and bring it up during the strange realm.

Such a drastic move might break the Ascender’s focus, and Rah knew he couldn’t risk the rewards of a strange realm that was this precious, all because he thought he knew enough to interfere with prodigies. Maybe he could if they were alone, but with the rest of the crew’s fates hanging in the balance, that choice felt even more wrong.

Rah had never been a prodigy, but he had been a friend before. After weighing the pros and cons, he decided he’d tell them the next time they got a few leisure days. Probably after they returned to settled space. But he wouldn’t delay it too long beyond that should an opportunity not arise before then. Such actions would turn his goodwill into something else he didn’t like the idea of.

He hadn’t known what to expect given the cultivation differences for this strange realm, but having experienced the first bit of power returning to him, he knew he needed to do his very best in this strange realm.

Such cultivation resets had been something of a fever dream in his Realm, where a mistake as a Tier 1 could block someone's advancement to Tier 15. Everyone knew someone who knew someone else who had been into a place that reset their cultivation. Or that was what they claimed. When pressed, no one could provide concrete information about the mythical effect.

While the Inspiration that led to his Ascension had corrected all of the mistakes he had made in his cultivation journey, it only corrected the framework. It didn't improve upon it.

In his own Realm, Rah had only personally seen a single Natural Treasure that could allow for limited adjustment for allocated essence. Its sale had caused three wars and millions of deaths, but most considered it a small price.

As the people in this Realm didn’t use the cultivation techniques Rah was used to, that aspect of a cultivation reset was lost on them. But he loved the strange realm for that.

Using a tiny bit of the power that revealed his cultivation core, Rah had been changing his cultivation. Nothing major, he didn’t have that level of control in this body even if he wished for it, but when he had taken his first enlightenment pill, he had gotten an idea.

Based on the information passed on from Nahla of Wave’s Rise, Rah had considered condensing his core down to a compact ball like this Realm preferred to do. The power gained from such an action would be undeniable. Like her, Rah didn’t want to give up his life's hard work.

Unlike her, he was willing to do it, but it was his last resort.

Having used his first enlightenment pill to ponder the problem, Rah had a method, but he wasn’t sure if it would work.

Ideally, he wanted to keep his technique. It was personal to him and he had two ideas on how to improve it to a level where he could compete in raw power with the cultivators of this Realm and beyond.

The best answer, a way to cycle fully compacted rift monster essence, seemed entirely impossible. Still, the pill had given Rah a glimmer of another idea.

A risky one, but maybe possible.

Based on Nahla of Wave’s Rise’s original cultivation, Rah was now considering condensing his existing essence while not destroying the empty pathways that traveled through his cores. His ideal outcome would be fully compacted earth-aspected essence replacing those channels. If things turned out as he thought they might, that would still let him pulse power through the pathways of different essence to achieve a similar effect to what he had now, only with the same amount of essence everyone else had.

He ultimately wanted to turn his entire cultivation, both of his cores, into something that might resemble an enchantment more than his original cultivation technique. It was a crazy idea that he would have been ridiculed for back in his own Realm. If it was possible, Rah might be able to blend his previous method and current alternative into something truly unique.

Something singularly his own.

Advancing would become exceptionally harder as he would need a source of elemental essence that was not only the right Tier but the cultivation technique would become something truly personalized. No one without all of his advantages would be able to follow that pathway if such ambitious ideas were possible at all.

That ambition was why Rah didn’t want to risk disrupting the group's strongest fighters with his theories.

No matter his plans, Rah needed them to advance as far as possible so he could improve his earliest Tiers of cultivation.

Drilling through his earliest allocated essence, essence that had been with him since he first started his journey, Rah started building new pathways. New channels for power to flow.

It wasn’t an ideal technique, no new Tier 1 could learn this, rather it was a blueprint based on Rah’s countless years of toil and hardship perfectly suited to what he wanted and needed out of his cultivation.

It was the chance to redo things with his current experience.

That was something Rah wasn’t willing to jeopardize without a good reason even if he disliked how calculated that made him.

Pushing down those thoughts, he peeled his eyes as they entered the forest properly. Trees loomed and their path was made with trampling feet and blades.

***

Only hours after entering the forest, they were attacked by a boar the size of a horse.

Without one of the bloodline cultivators who smelled it, the caravan would have taken devastating losses, but that was why they were waiting in ambush for the second time in as many days.

It took until the sky was lightening for the boar to return, but Matt felt the urge to curse as he saw it.

Five feet at the shoulder was underestimating the behemoth in front of them. Rather than blaming the crew’s report, Matt simply noted the creature had grown significantly stronger over a single evening.

That would be good to know for the next boss.

Not that it changed anything for the boar.

They were going to kill this creature if they could.

They’d actually considered that they weren’t meant to kill the boss at all, and were meant to avoid it instead, but they wanted to at least try, not knowing what rewards it might give them.

That, and it was better to attack on their terms.

The moment the boar stepped onto the designated spot, Matt launched himself out of his pit, his sword already summoned.

Roaring, he was gratified to see the boss turn its gaze at him.

Its tusks glowed with building power, but Matt continued his charge as if he didn’t notice at all.

Sliding under the boar, Matt tried to disembowel the creature.

Instead, the boss jumped into the air, its back arching as it prepared to come down on Matt with its still glowing tusks.

Flaring his Power, Matt punched the ground hard enough to send himself vertical. Once on his feet, he jumped out of the way as the boss slammed into the ground hard enough that several trees fell.

Thankfully, while the opening gambit had failed, the Unsparing’s crew immediately adapted to the back-up.

With five melee fighters cycling in and out of combat, the mages and archers scaled the trees and used the height advantage to rain down attacks.

Susanne nearly hamstrung the boss and Liz pecked out one of its eyes, but Matt felt himself enter a strange sort of calm as he swapped places with one of the crew as Susanne stepped back.

They weren’t in a rush and Matt didn’t race forward as he might have if he had access to his mana. Instead, he kept his place in the defensive line, doing his part.

Matt didn’t mind that though he led the group of four crewmembers.

He’d take the boss’ attention from them as they started to grow overwhelmed while the archers and mages carefully balanced which side was attacking the boss at any given time, ensuring it spent more time trying to track them than fight the melee fighters.

It wasn’t often Matt had to resort to such normal boss strategies, but he knew the theory as well as anyone else.

Implementing it, however, was another topic. Matt found the boss fight strangely invigorating.

It didn’t have anything to do with the fight at all, rather his Power.

Fighting with only his melee abilities resonated very well with his Power, but Matt sensed that was only part of the whole.

His initial gut instincts told him that fighting in melee was easier because he was missing most of his Power. Prodding that feeling, he decided that solution wasn’t correct.

Matt couldn’t put his finger on why until after he was shoved backward due to his blocking a hit when the boss tried to gore the woman next to him. As he was shoved away, he instinctively lashed out, leaving a deep furrow that slipped between its ribs, exposing the boar's lungs.

The only reason he had been able to do so was that for a moment, his willpower flowed smoothly through his arms and legs, with his torso seamlessly transferring power between them.

It wasn’t until that moment that Matt understood why activating his Power had felt so wrong for so long.

As Matt cycled out of the frontline, he let himself ponder over what he had discovered.

He realized he had been negligent with his physical training efforts. Despite wanting to upgrade his sword, Matt had been half considering if he should convert the weapon into more of a casting implement.

That wasn’t wrong if he only wanted to be what his Talent made him, and with hindsight, he realized how foolish that desire was.

While his magic offered easily accessible power with each Tier up, it was also why he was having such a hard time actualizing his Power’s second stage.

It was because he had been neglecting his body in his training efforts.

Like a house left without maintenance, things backed up until they were solid, unable to flow. Looking inward and pushing his willpower through his magical buffing channels, he found it much easier. Instead of carving new tunnels through stone, it was like washing away a small layer of twigs to show a well-used avenue.

He hadn’t been utilizing his body’s advantages to the extent he could have been. Just because his body was stronger than most people wasn’t a reason to not work on improving that aspect of himself.

If he truly ran into diminishing returns of his mana growth and he couldn’t grow stronger by his magic, he would curse himself for not having acted to strengthen his ‘weakest’ aspects when he could.

Wanting to slap himself, Matt’s self-recrimination paused as his attention went from the physical and magical rivers that represented the core of his many available powers.

His Talent.

Most Powers could boost a Talent, but Matt felt a sharp sense of danger the moment he even considered trying to empower his Talent.

Matt couldn’t know what might happen when he tried to empower that most central aspect of himself, but he knew it would be bad if he wasn’t properly prepared.

Stepping back into the fight, Matt worked at unclogging his mental barriers about his fighting style.

Solely relying on his body and his sword, he fought with the others until the boss was nearing its death.

Pushing a burst of willpower into his legs, he launched himself forward as he had at the start of the fight. Instead of leading with his blade, Matt drove it into the ground, halting his forward momentum.

The boss, having seen the attack before, jumped into the air trying to dive on Matt’s sliding form.

Instead, it nosedived into the spikey ground.

Ice, hardened wood, shards of stone, none of them alone did much to hurt the boar, but it was the perfect opportunity for the mages to unleash their fury.

Feeling itself bound to the ground, the boss struggled, trying to pull its nose free from the trap. It tried to retreat, but its brute strength ripped off part of its snout in its struggles, causing it to scream in pain and anger.

Its life ended as Matt and the others front liners hunkered down, letting the archers have clear firing lines now that the mages were done. They waited motionlessly until their duty to protect the others was confirmed by the reward.

With its death there was a burst of energy that brought Matt all the way up to the middle of Tier 2 from the quarter mark.

What was even more interesting to Matt was that his converting energy, the main reward of this strange realm, had improved with the boss's death.

The energy was more concentrated than it had been before.

A purple darker than what had come before.

Eventually, they learned the hard way why there was a reward for killing the bosses.

After failing to kill the boss in their second leg of the journey, but still making it to Tier 3 and being given the option to end their expedition, they had expected a harder second half.

What they hadn’t expected was that only hours after they left the second city as Tier 3s, they were ambushed by the area’s boss monster. Except instead of arriving alone, it came with half a dozen mini bosses, making that first unexpected rematch a desperate struggle they only survived thanks to Allie leading the boss away from the caravan which let them ambush it the next day.

Their best guess was that the strange realm needed to advance time for some reason every time they Tiered up. That idea also helped explain why the cities were old and established, when seconds before they were setting down the first tents.

