Immediately, the mana dissipated as Cassie gasped, staring at something in front of her that Elise couldn’t see. She could only assume that she was looking at the System notification informing her that she had unlocked the Skill Quest. Elise smiled as she sensed Cassie’s happiness.

“Um,” said Cassie after a few seconds. “I don’t mean to be rude, but I think you should eat more. You were… really light.”

“Oh, it’s not rude at all,” said Elise. “Thank you for worrying.”

“Sure,” she said, blushing slightly and turning away. “Do you want to try it on me now?”

“Sure,” said Elise.

Elise was pretty sure she could figure out how to use it on herself, but she had never used it on another living creature either, so she was curious how it would work.

Cassie stood still, relaxing her body as Elise activated {Telekinesis}, trying to lift the other girl off the ground. It was actually more difficult than she expected. Cassie wasn’t heavy, but she was heavier than anything Elise had ever tried to lift before, and even though she wasn’t resisting, lifting up another person still felt completely different to how it usually felt when using the Skill. It was like after months of holding solid objects, she was now trying to grab a liquid.

She had enough mana that she could afford to take her time though, and she fiddled with the Skill, earning a whole level in her experiments until after about a minute, she managed to get Cassie’s feet off the ground.

[ You have discovered a hidden Skill Quest: {Levitate} ]

[ {Levitate} (Skill Quest): Use {Telekinesis} to lift your body for five minutes without faltering. ]

[ Progress: 0:00.0 ]

[ Reward: {Levitate} skill ]

Elise frowned at the description. Five minutes was quite a long time to be using the Skill. Even for those with larger mana pools, it would require a fair amount of mana efficiency. For people like Cassie… Was it even possible?

Elise glanced over at the other girl and noticed that she seemed a bit melancholy, probably wondering the same thing as Elise. She had barely managed to lift a lightened Elise. She couldn’t even lift herself at the moment, let alone hold herself up for so long. Elise felt pretty bad for her.

There was nothing she could do about it though, so after thanking Cassie, she sat down to meditate for a bit to recover her mana before she started experimenting with using {Telekinesis} on herself. Unlike when she was letting Cassie lift her, she did not lighten her body, instead doing it in her normal state. The reason for this was that she was pretty sure she could cheat her way through by just completing the Quest in a smaller form, so for now, it was better to get accustomed to her normal human form.

Lifting herself was much easier said than done though, and she soon had a complete understanding of why the professor had recommended practicing on another person first. Using it on Cassie had been a new and unique challenge, but it wasn’t all that hard. Using it on herself just felt like she was using the Skill wrong. The Skill wasn’t intended for this. All Skill Quests had the user use the Skill in unintended ways, but this was the first time that Elise truly struggled with it.

It took her fifteen minutes to get off the ground, and when she did, she promptly flipped over, barely stopping herself from faceplanting into the ground. From nearby, she heard laughter, and when she stood up, she saw Liam Grane and a few other boys around him glancing her direction. Liam himself was floating in the air, hands behind his head as if this was the easiest thing in the world.

Elise glared at them, and they looked back, as if daring her to say something. She chose not to take the bait, turning around, but as she did, she decided to get a small bit of retaliation.

Behind me! she sent to Liam Grane using {Suggest}.

A split second later, she heard him gasp, then heard a thump as something heavy hit the ground. She turned with an expression of false surprise, seeing him on the ground, rubbing his rear as he slowly got to his feet. In that moment, she realized that perhaps being placed right behind him might not have been a bad thing. This could actually be a very fun class.
