ng off their mana intake with much more gentle void bubbles.---"Usually, it's 'divide and conquer,' but we hear you, mother… we shall force these miserable piles of secrets to become one," Maestro warned as the Agility Unit entered his room, looking like a spider now with tentacles for legs and heat-proof armor."Target. Acquired." it intoned, and Maestro rose into the air, the vines connecting to the Dungeon pulling him close to the ceiling."The song for this battle?" Maestro inquired, then his singular eye blazed red as he faded into the shadows, becoming an undefined mass of vines and noise."A funeral dirge."---Fera put down the rag she was using to clean an already impeccably clean mug. Her pub door was beginning to splinter as something rushed at it. She picked up a bottle off a shelf and poured it into two shot glasses."For you, Cois. No one messes with my boys," she said and downed both of them in rapid succession, her nostrils blowing out steam. Her door shattered, and she reached under the counter, grabbing the boomstick from its hiding space as she cocked it."I wonder if I can make a new spirit out of a machine?" she asked, voice feral.A large metal hand punched its way through the door's remains, and she fired, sending sparks of flame roaring into existence.The monstrous figure beyond was bulky and tough looking, but it had oddly placed sections of heat-proof armor that overlapped badly with the protective weave.Fera leapt over the counter, kicking up a table which flew at the creature hard. She didn't wait for it to hit as she slammed a bottle of booze into the oddly shaped hole on her weapon, causing the crystal-ladened handle to shift from red to green.When she next fired, it was with a hurricane of wind that howled and expanded the lingering flames on the machine's body. The He-Ro unit stumbled back two steps, and Fera began to scream as she fired again and again."Get out of my pub!" she roared.She would either blow this thing to pieces or make sure it learned to fear goblins.---The Agility He-Ro dodged along the stone Pyramid as vines erupted out the ground, breaking stone as all around it, mushrooms grew with open maws, blasting sonic screams at it."Dance! Dance! Die!" Maestro commanded from above in the air."With music, I have wings and the power to fly!" he intoned as the harsh drawn out trumpet slammed into the robot over and over, not having too much effect, it seemed. Maestro soared around the room, pointing his cane at the intruder and causing vines to rush it with crushing intent."How do you think this will end?" he called to the soulless thing. He knew there was no point, but the fact it had no soul didn't negate the fact that Maestro was overflowing with it! He twirled his cane, and the mushroom choir appeared across the wall, shooting balls of mana which crossed the arena, causing only one side of the pyramid to be safe, which the mech barely made it to.It was getting faster…"You sprung my trap card!" he cried, and the 'safe' side of the pyramid suddenly exploded with dozens of vines. From its back, two sharp blades formed, taking up some of its precious armored sections, and it began to cut the vines before they got close."Grow! Evolve! Become a god if you desire! I will feast on your corpse with song and dance all the same!" Maestro roared, his eye blazing."You can be a shining star, but I am the abyss that sings. You see me… and the abyss sees you," Maestro warned as he slammed his cane into the wall, causing the entire room to expand, letting the 'between floor' space become visible.The thrumming orange sea would drive weaker men mad.The mech stared down at the very 'bottom' of the void; a massive dragon on a throne wearing a skull looked up with a dark promise."Dance well, royalty is watching!" Maestroannounced grandly.He raised his cane, and from his back, vines began to disconnect."These were support vines," Maestro said calmly, then snapped his glare to the mech as it rushed at him."But not for me!"He blurred and slammed his cane into the mech, bashing it hard before kicking it across the space."The floors will have to endure without their star for a time. For the first time since I came on air, Maestro's Magnificent Show will be taking a short break to deal with some bugs," Maestro said darkly.All around them, the room rotated and spun, pieces of the wall moving in and out of the between with jarring distortions.The music was now echoing and seemingly coming from every inch of the space."Let's go… dirty brother killer," Maestro intoned, and the two charged at each other.---Yattina looked at the orange water with a sigh.She wasn't sure if she could drink it. Something inside her knew it would be a point of no return if she did.She hesitantly scooped some out with a borrowed goblet and let her fingers dip into the stuff. It made her skin tingle, like a kiss of sunlight.She slowly put the goblet in the well and brought it out near full. Shaking a little, she brought it near her lips, and the smell was like fresh apple pie.The garden felt quiet without the music as Yattina held the goblet a little longer.---Lim pushed through the massive feast hall, losing Poppy as she diverted to some library, and Deo easily kept pace with him.Just as he went to open the massive double doors, a brilliant orange light seeped and bled through the gaps in the door, blinding Lim as the floor shook, making him stumble back.–Yattina remembered being in the large garden, then she was somewhere else.Yattina looked around the odd classroom. It looked nothing like any educational place she had been in before. Everything looked clean and warm, with maps of a strange landmass, posters of theoretical scientific ideas, and even desks with equal standing. The floor was made of a strange smooth substance, and the board at the front wasn't black with chalk but a white one with ink lines.The sun was setting through the windows, and Yattina paused as a see-through ghost of sorts was sitting at the head desk, marking papers and trying to look upbeat.Only three of her seats were filled with students."They're not coming," the girl said with anger designed to cover up heartache."Betty, your parents might just have misread the time or got held back in traffic," she soothed, and the girl shook her head."And I'm the president, Miss D. They're not coming. No one ever comes for me," she snapped and stood up to stalk out the room."She's not wrong. Our parents won't come. My brother is the favorite, and Betty's parents just don't care," one of the boys said in a factual tone that felt… extremely familiar."Adam!" the teacher said with a sigh."My 'parent' is here," someone said with a snort. Yattina turned her head and saw a void in the memory, a void clawing at her skin, eyes, mind, and soul. A maw of teeth and screams.She looked away, heart beating hard."I'm your sister, not your mother, and I offered to let you switch classes," Miss D mumbled."Nah, it's great having at-home-help when the homework sucks," the void teased."One day, I'll be stuck in some basement working with other kids, and you'll have to handle your own stuff," she warned."One day," the void snorted."Oh come on, who doesn't have parent issues here?" the last kid asked, and he looked weedy, like he was stuck between growth spurts. He was building some sort of weapon out of connecting pen tips."Gerald-" Miss D began, and the boy looked at her with a suddenly sad expression."It's just us here, Miss D, come on," he almost pleaded."Sorry, I was doing my best to think of your given name in case your father showed up," Miss D said with an apologetic tone."Gemma, don't you dare hit Adam with that pen sword," she said, and the boy grinned, looking pleased as he undid his hair from a tight ponytail."But he's so fun! He just shuts down and takes it!" the boy known as Gemma said with a smile as he poked Adam, who looked stone-faced.Yattina was drawn into the scene because it was something she had always wanted for herself. A place where her oddness might have been accepted by someone other than her sister. She looked down and found herself shrunken, as if she was a young teen once more.The teacher looked at her, features almost unseeable."Ah, Yattina, come join us! We'd be happy to have you," she said brightly, and one of the desks lit up.It had her name on it.Yattina reached for it. The wooden chair was warm. It felt like home.---"Yattina!" Lim said in panic as his captain laid on the ground foaming orange-looking bubbles out her mouth."It's fine! I also drank it!" Deo assured him as Yattina's body twitched and seemed to be feeling weirdly mana-potent when her fake eye suddenly glowed orange and shifted to a deep hue. The eye was engraved with the odd triangle on the Dungeon's entrance.Yattina started, and she stared up at the ceiling as the whole Dungeon seemed to shake violently."Captain!" Lim said, sweating as the mana was starting to get to him. She turned to him, orange foam still on her chin and with a wild look in her normal eye."Wefe," she said with a raspy tone."Wefe?" he echoed."Global! Globe! Planetary wide communication signals! A round world!" she said, grabbing his arms."What are those for?!" Lim said in panic as Deo smiled at their 'friendship.'"CAT PICTURES!"There was a slight pause before she got an even crazier glint in her eyes."And degeneracy! So much degeneracy!" she hissed.Lim was too confused to argue, and he nearly screamed when a Kobold appeared out of some bushes."Did someone say degeneracy? All hail the mighty Pip?" he said seriously.The Dungeon shook again, and the Kobold shook his head."No time to waste. We need to sneak you all out of Quee's tunnel ASAP," he said, and Yattina looked skywards."Bands of mana, weaving. The floors are connected, but spaced apart, a tiny space contained far away, relative in dimensions," she muttered, her eye glowing."A mushroom that appeared over despair, growing light… corpses come plucking at her heartstrings," Yattina mumbled and then promptly passed out as her body trembled and shuddered."I like her poetry," Deo offered.Lim felt he needed a stiff juice box.
