"Nothing's been able to touch me when I planeswalk. But this, this isn't like that. It's a deep kind of pollution or something. I can't find a version of reality that isn't being torn apart by this stuff."

I winced.

"Damn. I'm the guy that's going to slurp it up then?"

Althea frowned.

"That's not what I wanted, but the others thought you were the easiest solution we had. You've touched this stuff before and in a lot higher densities. I remember it, actually. It's still a scary thing to think about, but hey, if it didn't cripple you then, why now? Right?"

I reached over.

"Thanks for trying to take care of me."

She leaned her face against my hand.

"Sometimes, it feels like I'm the only one who is."

I put my forehead against her faceplate.

"Eh, one is better than none."

She rolled her eyes before taking a seat on the cliffside. She murmured.

"I'll see you when you get back."

I opened my pocket dimension.

"I could just store you in here if you'd like. Seems safer."

A bubble of gravitation passed by us, and it disintegrated a portion of the wall. Althea's eyes widened.

"Heh, maybe that's for the best."

She curled into a ball, fitting into the pocket dimension with ease. Before her head sank in, she narrowed her eyes.

"Don't do anything weird to me while I'm in here."

I put a hand on my chest, a mischievous smile coming over my face.

"Oh, how it hurts me to hear you say that."

She and I laughed before she fell into stasis. She rested while we set out into the distance. Not needing to protect her, I propelled myself with speed and force out of the crater. Chunks of stone spiraled away from my ascent, and I bolted into the hidden hellscape. A buffet of physical sensations crossed over me as the laws of reality caved into vague implications rather than firm rules.

It reminded me of the twisted patches of reality left by the cipher, though the density and scope of these changes exceeded anything I'd ever seen done by the language. As I passed over miles of the twisted landscape, a dark fog settled over everything. As I wafted into it, the fabric of reality bled. It was the only way I could describe it.

Every part of existence faded into something undefined. No rules remained here, every moment different than the last. The lack of continuity left me drifting through everything as if it were a memory or a dream instead of something tangible. But it was undeniable in the end.

The fog seeped into my armor, the metal hungry for a new source of energy. As it sank in, an icy cold sensation pierced through me like frozen needles digging into my skin. The denser the fog, the colder I felt. That density of fog also destroyed the tangibility of all around me.

At times, the distance between two spaces was normal. A second later, I had to spend a minute crossing a few feet. Another moment would pass like an hour, while another hour would pass as a moment. Up became down. Down became in and out. The disorientation grew until I tried to get rid of it.

With my wake, I condensed a space around me, fighting off whatever this corruption was. It bent away, a kind of dimensional lens forming around me. Able to pierce through the veil, I made headway until I reached a vast dark cloud at the moon's far reaches. Here, the changes sank in the deepest.

I made my wake into a point, driving it through the tainted space like a lance through armor. Steady but slow going, I spent an hour getting closer. All the while, my armor drifted away from me. It shot tendrils in the dark to siphon the energy. It loved this stuff, becoming almost drunk on the darkness like a god's first taste of ambrosia. Event Horizon could sap the energy, helping correct the space as well.

It allowed me to speed along before I found the gushing wound in spacetime. In this central chasm, a rip belched out with plumes of interdimensional energy. It sent a chill down my spine, reminding me of when Baldag-Ruhl cleaved dimensions apart.

This was the same kind of split, but it wasn't a clean, sterile kind of cut; this jagged mark would leave a nasty scar. It sat in the center of the darkness like a jagged splintering of reality, stretching out in every direction. As I got near it, my armor trembled over my skin. It drank deep from these waters, ingesting the most delicious of flavors.

It disgusted me, but I allowed it to do this. This energy hadn't hurt me in the slightest, though the effects were as difficult to place as they had been the first time I'd felt them in BloodHollow so many years ago. Taking a moment, I grabbed the edges of the alternate reality, getting ready to heave it away from the moon's surface.

As I did, a voice radiated from the other side.

"One that withstands the blood?"

My armor smiled, and I frowned. The strange voice oozed its words.

"No...A being that indulges in it."
