Other people hauled shipments out of here in the meantime. One caravan shipped out an enormous bulkhead of food, while another carried electronics and wiring supplies. A powerline stretched across the roads, the elegant structures defying gravity. Pulses of mana mirrored pre-Schema powerlines, their intricacy apparent even from a distance.

I raised a brow.

"We're setting up a communication line, and Schema's allowing it?"

Althea shrugged.

"It can hardly keep dungeons together. How's it going to stop us?"

I nodded.

"Huh...Fair point."

We stepped into the city's center. People smothered the currency exchange center, selling off masses of eldritch parts, crafted gear, and old-age memorabilia. Like a parting sea, they let us head up to the warp drive with salutes of respect to both of us before we stepped onto the platform.

Althea suited up, putting on protective gear and changing her physiology. Once ready, she telepathized.

"You ready to head there?"

I scratched the side of my head.

"Through the warp drive?"

"How else?"

"Huh. Schema's people go to planets without an atmosphere?"

"If people are there, then they will come. It's also super easy to make cities because of some perk you have."

My curiosity spiked as I paid our surcharge. The clerk smiled at us before the ionizing mist covered our vision. As it faded, so did gravity. Stepping out onto the moon, I marveled at the encampment.

On a metallic platform, the currency exchange and warp drive rested. That's what we stepped onto. Two dreary and displeased clerks manned the area within vacuum-sealed, radiation-shielded shops. Around us, white rock walls stretched high, the crater being miles wide. A line of quintessence lit the edges of the crater walls, leaving everything bright and exposed.

Along those sheer faces, a series of metal capsules etched into the white rock like steel snakes crisscrossing the expanse. Guildmates eyed us from within their radiation shielding, many pointing at the two of us with wide eyes. Connecting these buildings, many of Torix's undead walked across the moon's surface, dispersing the shipments of goods as they needed them.

I telepathized out.

"Wow. This is way further along than I thought it would be."

Althea smiled.

"Torix had a base on the moon forever ago, apparently. He used a lot of what he learned there for this. For some reason, humans have a fascination with the moon, too. Something about NASA?"

"It was a big deal back in the day. That's before we knew about warp travel."

Althea put her hands on her hips.

"It sounded like a brute force project to me. It's like, you want to get somewhere, so you propel yourself on a rocket. Call me crazy, but that's the craziest solution ever."

I shrugged.

"Eh, it got us here."

"Pshh, good luck getting all the way to Mars or Venus that way. It would take years."

"If we're lucky."

One of Torix's undead cleaned a tunnel's surface. Althea pointed at it.

"Our finicky necromancer also thought the moon would be an easy place to terraform, considering how small it was. I think he called it a different kind of conquering or something. I kind of zone him out when he starts going on really long tangents."

"Ah, so a few minutes?"

"More like hours. I still love Torix, but you know how it is when he gets talking about magic or philosophy."

"He'll talk to you until you're as undead as he is."

Althea laughed.

"Actually, I joked about that being one of his most potent tactics for getting new necromancy materials. He talks things to death."

"How'd that land?"

"He gave me a three-hour lecture on how poor a tactic that really is."

I scoffed.

"Self-incrimination, I tell yah."

Gazing around, I marveled at where we were. I grabbed a chunk of the moon from the ground.

"But I do like that phrasing. A new kind of conquering, one where we overwhelm the elements and not each other...I like it."

Althea nudged me.

"Ready to go?"

I shook my head before stepping up to the settlement's center. I spent two hours constructing, etching, and powering up a city's monolith. Once established, I created a rim of my dimensional fabric around the crater, creating stairways leading up and down the expanse. Once made, I set the blue core into a premade slot, and it isolated us from the moon's void.

Neatly nestling along the cavern's edge, the barrier created a shield that matched the crater's size and proportions. My runes from L-7 came in handy, and air dispersed into the cavern along with air pressure, gravitation regulation, and radiation shielding. Althea pulled her helmet off once the barrier finished establishing a stable environment. She shook her head.

"Sometimes, I forget how much you can do."

I wrapped a hand around her hip. I raised my eyebrows several times.

"Hopefully, you haven't forgotten everything."

She shoved me away, giggling. In the distance, several adults left their isolated vesicles and walked into the earthen environment. Above us, the Earth floated in the distance, the view unlike any I'd ever seen. The stars were dim, the moon's reflection smothering their brilliance. The dark void made Earth all the brighter.

The white stone around us no longer blinded anyone brave enough to gaze at it. A few kids pulled off their helmets, laughing while jumping and running down the cavern walls. Althea blinked back tears. I couldn't blame her. It felt like a miracle.

She blinked.

"Hah. Kids on the moon. I never thought I'd see that."

I raised my brow.

"Me neither, but there's a lot I never expected to see until Schema's system arrived."

She nudged me.

"This wasn't Schema. It was you."

We watched the colonists acclimatize to their lifestyle upgrade along with Schema's clerks. No longer relegated to their capsules, the receptionists lowered their shielding before giving me a nod of acknowledgment. It left a smile on my face as Althea and I hopped over to the crater's edge. The hexagonal energy pads separated us from the brutality of the moon's surface, and we stared at it for a moment.

Althea tapped the shield, the energy rippling like a semitranslucent pool of honey.

"Is this stuff you learned from L-7?"

"Yeah, among other things."

She put her helmet back on and put a hand through the barrier.

"I'm guessing it was hostile there."

"Let's just say the moon is a picnic by comparison. It's why I've been on edge, after all."

We hopped over into the void. As I jumped from one space to another, the same problems cropped up. I couldn't get a good grip on my feet, limiting my power output. The ground held together better because of how much lighter I was, but it still cracked and crumbled underfoot.

The same mobility solutions worked here as on Earth, and my telekinesis gave me the friction I needed.

As I bounded off one foot, a rupture crossed the ground. It stretched into the distance, an omen of what I could do to this celestial body. I had to be careful. Earth was enormous, and my abilities couldn't destroy it. The moon was different, being much smaller and easier to break. A cataclysmic battle might displace this celestial plane, and destroying the moon was the last thing I wanted to do.

As I mentally prepared myself, I marveled at the radiance. The moon wasn't that bright on Earth, but here, it beamed out as if we stood on top of the sun. Althea already visited the place, and she left me eating her dust as she propelled herself around with grappling hooks.

Using two custom ropes, she slung ice picks of bone around her in massive circles. Once the picks were embedded, Althea jerked on each rope one at a time. This let her whip across the ground at nearly supersonic speeds. I kept pace with boring old gravity, my eyes set on her kinetic dance. She met my eye.

"We ground movers find our ways."

I smiled.

"Yeah, that's what I'm figuring out. It looks fun."

"Why not try it out?"

"Huh...Yeah, sure. Why not?"

I created two chains extending from each arm before wrapping them around my forearms. They ended with spiked mauls. I spun them over my head before slamming one into the ground in front of me. The metal gripped into the ground, and a quick jerk later, I flung myself into the air with a measure of grace.

I had to lighten myself to the weight of a feather to pull it off, but we had fun bounding across the moon like Spider-Man and Woman through New York's streets. We laughed with a gleeful abandon, each of us relishing the time together while on a mission for once. A few hours passed like that, each of us chatting away as if we never left each other for a moment.

Closing in on the other side of the moon, the situation changed. Something about the cavernous craters turned alien and eerie. Althea's eyes sharpened, and I matched her seriousness. After a few minutes of traversal, we landed together on a crater's edge. Below, a bus-sized stone sat on the moon's surface.

Like a stick insect, the rock moved while imitating the rock around it pristinely. Six legs skulked around as it raced towards us. Althea threw one of her spikes through the rocky exoskeleton of the creature before flinging herself around it. Her ropes circled the beast before Althea pulled the lines taught.

Like a razored piano wire, the ropes cleaved the beast apart without resistance. Its blue guts spilled out, and it slammed into the wall with a rush of dust. She jumped up before throwing her spiked rope through another alien rock. After impaling the beast, she pulled the rope taught once more as she ran across its length.

She was like a trapeze artist, but she dealt in death, not wowing a crowd. I siphoned the floating dust into a stone for visibility while walking over and putting my hand on the blood.

"So these are the lunar beasts?"

She ruptured another of them apart.

"Yeah. Their disguises are first-rate."

I nodded.

"I couldn't even tell it was there at all. Have we made sure-"

"Oh yeah. There's none of these things anywhere near the lunar bases."

"How do you guys know?"

"Because these things need dimensional energy to live. This one's dying. That's why its blood is blue. It's supposed to be black."

"Well then. It looks like these are moon vermin. Like moon mice. Heh, I wonder if they like cheese?"

Althea put a hand on her hip.

"Probably. I haven't seen anything organic that they won't eat. The colony calls them lunar trojans."

I vaporized the monster with Event Horizon.

"Ah, like Trojan horses but on the moon. Cool, cool."

We headed further out, finding more lunar trojans spread across the ground. Their density and viciousness increased as we got further over the dark side of the moon. Well, the dark side was an expression. It faced away from Earth, but when our side was enveloped in darkness, the unseen half of the moon basked in the sun's light.

We happened to choose a time when the lunar colony and the dimensional rupture were all illuminated. This light exposed how tormented the moon's surface had become. Even a cursory, passing glance demonstrated an unhinged fabric of reality. Gravitation fluctuated at random intensities, at times strong enough to crush bones.

At other times, gravity lessened enough that Althea could hurl herself off the moon entirely. Other spots of the moon brimmed with warm radiation exceeding L-7's permanent glow at the ossuary. Other spots floated as blots of darkness where no electromagnetic waves could pass.

Regions held different temporal flows, some faster or slower, some even twisted. One spot moved time back and forth like a spacetime pendulum. I pulled Althea out of it with my wake, but pieces like that explained why Althea lost an arm. Other areas couldn't even hold gravity; the space warped to the point where it couldn't maintain fundamental laws of reality.

The creatures mirrored this corruption. Their disguises lost their elegance, the jagged, almost geometric creatures like unfinished Van Gogh paintings. They reminded me of the minions Yawm protected his world tree with. Those poor creatures squirmed at us with open wounds, unable to survive this tortured environment yet unable to leave it.

One of them walked out of the void from above, its form entirely black. As it hacked at me, I ducked backward. Its sharpened blade arm cleaved into my dimensional wake, ripping at the dense fabric. My eyes widened before I gelatinized its insides with gravitation. As it fell, I blinked back, a growing unease settling into my chest.

Althea murmured.

"You ok?"

"Yeah, but these things can hit me where it actually hurts. That's a first."

We passed the expanse with careful aggression. I led the charge, and Althea passed close behind. We found more lunar trojans, no longer appearing as stone. They feasted on the radiation and latent energy here. One even tried to indulge in the uncorrupted space around it, like some kind of dimension eater.

Eerie.

In a way, these monsters contained the outbreak since they held energy in themselves, but there was only so much they could do. Helpful or not, I took a scorched earth policy with these guys, killing all of them. As we slaughtered them in mass, Althea fired harpoons for the main damage spike, and Event Horizon destroyed the bodies.

It left us colder. It was as if the mission had finally started, and we entered a dreamland of horrors to accentuate that fact. Near the oozing rupture, reality became a suggestion, and the causal laws constructing our reality disintegrated. Althea stopped along this line, her body half in our reality and halfway in another.

She waved her hands at me, and I got the message. I checked the surroundings for a patch of stability, finding one on a cliffside. Althea walked back onto our plane before she put herself against the cliff's edge.

"So you can probably see why I turned around after a while."

I sighed.

"If anything, I'm wondering why you came this close before."

She shrugged.

