Shalahora's form condensed, his figure looming.

"If that is what must be done...I still don't see why you see the need to do this."

"It's for our future."

"Harbinger...You cannot achieve the psionic ability I've gained. It's something given, not earned."

My eyes opened wide. A psionic storm raged in the domain of my consciousness. Mana sheened in my eyes before my body began to glow. I cooled myself as the grass around me caught fire. In the orange blaze, I smiled at the shadowed Sovereign.

"How about we find out?"

Chapter Begin

Pulling my wake against my skin, time slowed before I sent a horde of Daniels at Shalahora. I didn't even try using finesse since conventional tactics were meaningless against the overwhelming entity. To face him in that domain would be like sending children armed with crayons to fight a samurai.

In a swordfight, the samurai could kill innumerable children. We would turn it into a slog before shoving crayons in his eyes and down his throat. As I predicted, Shalahora killed me as he always had, like a reaper slicing through grains with a sharpened scythe. Twenty minds died in an instant, but many ran over the corpses.

Shalahora tilted his head, killing a group of thirty rushing towards him. Then another group of thirty. Then another. Instead of a small group of animas, Shalahora faced down a small army of psionics barreling his way. I lost control of my body once more as the sheer volume of Daniels dwindled.

I neared a true psionic death, having accepted the lack of memories or feeling as a part of this fighting. It acted as a test. Where did the limits of my sacrifice lie? Like the libation of a lamb's blood before an altar, I spilled my blood until my cup ran empty, leaving a dry, cracking husk.

And more still, I drained from the emaciated shell of my mind.

Shalahora slaughtered the endless mass, his shears sharper than knives. Still, his eyes narrowed over time. I pressed and pushed the Daniels from different angles, making them more difficult to kill at once. I collected them into multiple, blended minds, throwing the disparate mush his way. I mutilated my spirit and soul to disturb Shalahora with a single drop of my mental gore.

After several minutes of the silent struggle, I sent fifty minds at once. I splintered them all, splashing them over the psionic in a rain of my psionic blood. As the droplets fell, I sent another wave of fifty minds from below. They pulped before I regenerated, wielding the final wave of mental slaughter with my reconstituted mind.

In a gush, I unraveled splintered thoughts at him. Shalahora slaughtered the incoming muck, washing away the disparate thoughts and will. Death. Rebirth. Death again. I entered a transient state of will, one grounded by momentum and driven by purpose. During my psionic flood, I found a slight opening.

Darting through the crack, I charged Shalahora's mind. Lost in the sea, the Daniel I sent in died before Shalahora took a step back.

Shalahora's eyes widened.

"You've changed. Good."

I continued the onslaught. After several minutes, I settled into a deeper meditation. My mana production increased. It exploded as I stood still, and my body experienced time at a rapid pace. The army grew in size, seventy Daniel's swarming at once. Eighty. Ninety. They continued pilling up higher as the deathly aura of the hill deepened by the second.

Althea couldn't see the internal battle, but she felt the encroach of death. She crossed her arms as Shalahora began wielding psionic tactics. He couldn't stop all the minds in mass, and more of the entities passed through. They never threatened his mental tranquility, but each attack was a wound to his pride and immutable abilities.

After two hours of extreme pressure, one of the Daniels dove deeper into Shalahora's mind. It gathered elements of memories and not the shallow, surface-level recollections that Shalahora willingly shared. The Daniel saw a world with a shrinking sun. It saw people evolving into monsters as corruption seeped into a dying land. One figure rose above them all.

It was a messiah who stole the burden of his people so that they may survive. Shalahora growled.

"You mongrel."

As he waved a hand, a psionic wave passed over me. It killed my mind to its core. Every residual part was wiped clean, like a nuclear bomb sterilizing an island to glass and ashes. Killed and dangling, my corpse hung on the dimensions I anchored myself to. Even the subtle fall of my limbs tore chasms in the Earth, the ground rupturing from the swing of my feet.

Like a metal puppet without strings, my body rested on the weight of two worlds. Dust rose from the clash of my feet on the Earth. A silence crept over the field of battle. Shalahora murmured.

"Daniel? I, I didn't mean-"

Althea took a step closer.

"What happened to him? Is he ok?"

From the ether, my mind returned.

"Ugh...Yes? Maybe? What just happened?"

Shalahora's eyes widened.

"How have you returned? How...How is that possible?"

I shook my head, trying to get rid of a pounding headache.

"Egh, I've thought this since we started training. If my body can return from nothing, so should my mind."

I pulled the dust around us into a finite point, a stone falling into my hand.

"It's like you said, Shalahora. My mind and body are the same."

As I reached up my hand, Shalahora took a step back. The shadow fell onto the ground, overwhelmed by my return from death. Shalahora gasped.

"You...You're still there after a psionic death. I'm, I'm so sorry. I didn't-"

I waved my hand.

"Let it be. All's well that ends well. Besides, accidents happen. I will say, calling me a mongrel? Pretty rude, though."

Althea raised a hand.

"It was kind of mongrel-ey, though."

I spread my hands.

"In what world, exactly?"

Althea frowned.

"A mongrel is a crossbreed, but it can also mean a cross between different people. I think he said that because you were splashing your mind around like that."

She shivered.

"You were splitting your mind apart and throwing it at him. Ugh."

I rolled my hand.

"Ok, the psionic bloodbath tactic was a little weird, I'll give you that much. And anyway, why would you know about mongrels so much anyways?"

"Because after we met you're family, I wanted to know more about raising dogs."

"Huh. Cool."

Shalahora stared at me, his amazement lingering. Shalahora's words blended with the wind.

"You cannot die...In all ways."

I put my hands on my hips.

"That's the plan, though I doubt I'm genuinely invincible."

I walked over.

"Want some help up?"

I offered a hand. Shalahora grasped it, his titular mass having no weight. He met my eye.

"In all my years of living, across all the planets I've scoured, I have never seen an entity returned from oblivion...And to remain unchanged and whole...It shouldn't be possible."

I waved my hands.

"Is it really that crazy, or are you just scared because you can't kill me anymore, eh?"

Shalahora stared at his palms.

"That's right...I can't kill you. Even if obliterated to nothing, from nothing, you return. An endless creature."

He murmured, his words full of force.

"Infinite."

I shook my head.

"That's actually a skill I just got. Anyways, it's my dimension. That's my true source."

Shalahora waved his hands through my wake.

"And it is a realm I cannot touch."

I reached out my arm, condensing my wake over Shalahora. At a palpable density, Shalahora gazed around himself.

"This is your true form?"

"Close enough. Can you sense it?"

Althea walked up, holding her arm.

"I can't...But, why did you both have to try so hard in a spar?"

I sighed.

"We didn't. I was so excited I put Shalahora on the backfoot for a second, and he really cut me back down to size in an instant."

Althea grimaced.

"You were gone for a second. You looked...Dead."

Shalahora turned, his form dispersing.

"He was...I-I need time to think."

I gave him a thumbs up.

"Alright, take it easy."

As Shalahora faded, Althea frowned.

"You know, from what I could see, it looks like you're just learning how to get slaughtered."

I tilted my head.

"In a way, I am. It allows me to tread closer to death without reservations, and that allows me to access more of what I am. I'm wasting my potential otherwise."

She peered away.

"This cannot be healthy. I mean, like, at all."

I put a hand on her shoulder.

"Greatness never is."

"Is this really greatness, though? It looks like self-torture. More of it than before, which is saying something. You're, like, a professional at self-abuse at this point."

I frowned.

"All progress is a kind of death. We have to let go of who we were to achieve who we will be. My progress happens to be more literal than that phrasing implies."

Althea wrang her fingers.

"It just makes me nervous. Whenever I see you doing this kind of thing, I just want you to stop asap. I can't help it."

The lottery flashed over my eyes.

"It's a choice. I could hide this part of myself from you, and you'd be none the wiser. That's where the phrase, 'ignorance is bliss,' comes from. If I do that, you won't know who I really am. To me, that would be lonely."

Althea's eyes narrowed.

"I don't want that, but each day, fighting like this even when there's no one here to fight...It's a lot for anybody."

"It's as I've said. I die now so that I may survive the fights that will come."

She peered away, her eyes going distant.

"Is that what life is to you? A series of fights?"

I leaned back.

"Of course not. Life is everything in between those fights. I'm making it so that I can keep having those times of peace without everyone and everything getting destroyed. That, and yeah, a few more personal reasons. We've been over that,"

Althea met my eye.

"Do...Do you ever think you're still at war?"

My lips narrowed.

"What's that supposed to mean?"

Althea's face wrinkled.

"It's like, sometimes I look at you, and you're someplace else. I'm wondering if it's from some fight you had, and you're still reliving it. Maybe that's the war with Yawm or Elysium. It could be the fight with Valgus. I don't know, but it's like you never quit fighting. You never left it, and it never left you."

She put a hand on my chest.

"Hm...It's like you're trying to claw your way out of BloodHollow by yourself again. Or maybe even from something before that...I wish I could help you out of it."

Her remarks sizzled against my skin like a hot brand. My eyes hardened.

"The way I've chosen to live has saved us all."

Her gaze softened.

"I know. I'm not saying you need to change. I love who you are. I'm just letting you know what I'm feeling, and uhm, you have me worried about you."

I frowned.

"You know, I worry about all of you too. You're like glass figurines to me."

She put a hand against my cheek.

"Are you going to lock us up in a steel box to keep us safe?"

I put my hand on hers.

"No, but I'm not letting someone walk into my china store with a bull and a bat. That's for sure."

She laughed before squeezing her hands into fists.

"Ok, ok. That's enough of me fretting. I'm becoming a nag at this point."

I raised a hand, a tiny space between my fingers.

"Just a little bit."

She grabbed my arm and swung from it.

"Ok, ok. Come on, let's go on our moon date."

I lifted us up, the hill of death lingering below us. I still didn't understand what was happening there, but it carried a vibe that Torix would probably mesh pretty well with. Leaving the solemn place, we flew over towards Springfield's center, the city thriving. Many citizens filled in the premade homes, and stores opened up along the streets.

Guildmates jumped across the rooftops, having patches of steel planted across them. Every person landed in those places only. Althea read my confused face.

"Those are so that people don't break the tops of the buildings. The metal holds up a lot better over time."

"They're that heavy?"

"It's the same problem you had whenever you started getting heavier than your average person. It's, hm, a strange but prevalent problem. The gravity rings help fix a lot of that, but not everyone can use them."

I watched a man stumble on one of the iron plates before leaving cracks in the roof. They scratched the back of their heads and apologized before leaping away. I smiled.

"So they make landing pads that don't need to be replaced all the time for people that struggle with gravitation?"

"Exactly."

"Huh. Awesome."

"It's not the only thing your legacy changes. Our guild doesn't use power armor anymore. The steel isn't strong enough, and the hydraulics are not efficient either. It's kind of crazy, but people are actually on the lookout for sensory artifacts."

I gawked at the people below.

"Sensory artifacts?"

"Yeah. People move so fast, and with such large bodies, their ability to perceive what's going on lags behind. Intelligence lets them speed up their minds, but their senses can't absorb enough information fast enough because they don't get much perception from your legacy."

I scratched the side of my head.

"So they look for artifacts to speed up their senses. It rounds out their weaknesses."

"It's actually our guild's biggest bottleneck, and Torix is trying to fix it. He's offering specialized tutoring programs just for handling your legacy. It's that big of a problem."

I sighed.

"Man, I never intended on that happening."

She nudged me.

"Hey, cheer up. It's a good problem to have. Our guildmates are worried they'll hurt other people, not be hurt themselves."

In the distance, people hauled off masses of different raw materials onto a hovering platform. Steel beams, bags of concrete, and wood planks covered it, and it sank to a foot above the air. Two heavier set guildmates strapped cables across their shoulders, hauling the goods down the road. They kept going until they disappeared on the horizon.

