“I will, Moore. Don’t worry. That’s on the top of my list. That’s why I’m pitching to the adventurers, actually.”
It was for the money. Of course, Erin appreciated money in any circumstances, but right now she was desperate for as much as she could get. The Halfseekers left her inn with the Horns and the rest of the adventurers. They wanted to talk more with the new adventurers, and most of them had agreed to meet up in the Adventurer’s Guild after they found a place to stay. That news made Selys swear a blue streak and mutter about crowds as long as an ancestor’s tail. She ran off after saying the briefest of goodbyes to Erin.
Suddenly, Erin’s inn was empty. She stared around and saw Lyonette, Drassi, and Ishkr cleaning up with Mrsha dutifully helping. The Redfang Goblins were sitting in a corner with the little Cave Goblin, chattering amongst themselves, and Bird and Klbkch were talking to each other. Aside from that, everyone had gone.
Erin sighed and felt a bit of the mad energy leave her. She looked around and realized that the room was lighter. The sun was rising into the sky, and with it came light. Erin blinked at it and realized she hadn’t slept since the Raskghar attack! She wobbled and sat down at a table.
Only now did she feel exhausted. Only now did she remember last night and let herself give into a bit of the guilt and fear that had been flooding her. Erin rested her forehead on her arm, suddenly too tired to move, but too worn down to sleep.
It was there that Rabbiteater found Erin. The Hob shuffled over, his water cloak swirling around his shoulders. The other Hobs were busy patting Headscratcher’s muscles and pestering Numbtongue to play them music on the mostly broken guitar. But Rabbiteater had noticed Erin’s slump and came over to check if she was dead. She was not, and when she saw the Hob come over, Erin sat up.
“Rabbiteater. Are you okay?”
The Redfang Warrior nodded. Erin eyed him from head to toe. He looked okay. But she remembered him kneeling on the ground, covered in blood as the Raskghar attacked. She spoke softly.
“I feel pretty useless.”
Rabbiteater stared down at Erin. Rather predictably, he didn’t say anything. He hesitated and then pulled up a chair next to Erin. She glanced up and saw his red eyes staring at her.
Goblins had pupils. It was just that their eyes looked uniformly red at a distance. However, Erin had stared at enough Goblins to know that the whites of their eyes were red, as were the cornea. The pupils, by contrast, were the darkest part of their eyes. She saw Rabbiteater’s focus on her now. The Hob waited for Erin to speak.
“You saved me last night. You and the others. If you hadn’t been there, the Raskghar would have killed me.”
Rabbiteater didn’t respond. Erin stared down at her hands.
“You saved me. I didn’t do…anything. I threw pots and pans and knives, and those Raskghar just blocked or ignored everything. I’m sorry, Rabbiteater. If you hadn’t blocked them, they would have gutted me in a moment. I was so scared I couldn’t even use my aura on them.”
Erin remembered trying. She remembered throwing her kitchen knife, watching it slice the Raskghar’s arm, as useless as spit. She’d thrown a frying pan at the Raskghar next, but it had done almost nothing. For the first time, Erin had been acutely aware of her weakness. She was an [Innkeeper]. Not a warrior. And the Hobs had nearly lost a fight against the Raskghar themselves. After a while, Erin went on.
“I was so very glad to see everyone was okay. Even Ilvriss’ jerk face. He is a good leader, you know. He just happens to be racist, arrogant, and hate cake. But he does care about Liscor.”
Rabbiteater nodded. Erin sighed and rubbed at her eyes.
“I can’t believe how unprepared I was. I thought I could do something if I got attacked. But I keep relying on you guys. It’s a class thing. But I should have done more to prepare. I hope you leveled from the fighting at least.”
She looked up. Rabbiteater nodded.
“That’s good. Really. I haven’t slept yet. But I don’t think I will. As innkeeping goes, defending my inn doesn’t seem like it earns me many levels. Anyways, I just wanted to say thank you.”
Rabbiteater shrugged and smiled. That was the Redfang Warriors for you. They were casual—no, modest about what they did. Erin sighed. Then she leaned over. She gave Rabbiteater a one-armed hug, and the Hobgoblin froze. Erin grinned.
“You’re too shy, you know that? You and all the other Goblins.”
Then she got down to business. Namely, the business of defending her inn. Erin’s brows drew together sharply as she thought. The Raskghar would come back. Krshia had told everyone that. The full moon hadn’t even been full yesterday. That meant there would be more nights of attacks. More fighting. Erin was determined that last night’s desperate struggle wouldn’t happen again.
She needed defenses. More defenses than just Bird, that was. It was funny. She’d invested in an Antinium watch tower, Hobgoblin security, and she had two adventuring teams under her roof, but Erin hadn’t yet done anything as simple as setting out some traps. Surely there were some she could buy or manufacture, right?
Erin thought about traps. She thought about boiling oil, pitfalls, giant walls of spikes that swung out, and then thought about how realistic any of that was.
“Mm. Nope. I don’t have the budget for any of that. And I’m on a time limit. What can I put out that’ll really inconvenience a Raskghar coming my way?”
Rabbiteater scratched his head.
“Nail? Sharp rock?”
“Nails? I guess. That’d really hurt, yeah. Sharp rocks…caltrops, maybe? But who makes caltrops? Really? No, there’s gotta be something—”
Erin snapped her fingers together.
“Bear traps! Landmines? Nope. Bear traps. Uh…attack runes? I don’t think I’ve got time to hire anyone for those. So bear traps. They have those in Liscor, right? Krshia knows a lot of [Hunters]. She’s got to have something like that in stock. Hey, Lyonette! I need you to go shopping for something!”
Lyonette looked up, her arms full of empty mugs. She came over as Erin found a piece of parchment and began to write an order on it.
“What’s up, Erin?”
“I need you to buy something pronto. To defend the inn. Go to Krshia and see if she knows where they sell bear traps, okay?”
“Bear what?”
“Bear traps. They have them here, don’t they? Big, spiky things that go snap when something steps on them?”
Erin looked expectantly at Lyonette. The Human girl looked at Rabbiteater, and the Hobgoblin shrugged. Erin’s face fell.
“Wait, they don’t have them?”
“Maybe they do. What do they look like?”
The [Innkeeper] frowned. She turned the bit of parchment over and fiddled with the stick of charcoal.
“Well, they’re like two steel jaws that close on anything that steps on them. I know it’s really cruel to animals, but if I was hunting, like, giant Rock Crabs or something really evil…like a Troll? I’d use one of these. It looks…like this. See?”
Erin sketched out the bear trap on the parchment and held it up. Rabbiteater took the sketch Erin had made and looked at it dubiously. He tilted his head, frowned, and then turned the parchment upside down. That didn’t help.
“Hey, it’s not that bad!”
Lyonette looked at the parchment and frowned.
“It…are those teeth? I have no idea how that thing works. The teeth come together? How?”
“With a mechanism in the center! It’s like—okay, look. You have this thing here, and if you step on it, the trap closes. Over your foot. Or your hand, I guess. Any part of you that lands on the trap, really. Look—does this make sense?”
Erin grumbled as she snatched the parchment back from Rabbiteater. She made another sketch, and Rabbiteater began to see what she was talking about. Well, if she put it like that, it was easy, wasn’t it? Two spiky sides would close on anything that stepped on the little thing in the center. Unfortunately—
He grunted and shook his head. Erin looked disappointed.
“What? Why not?”
Rabbiteater pointed to the blueprints. He mimed the jaws of the bear trap closing on his foot and threw up his hands in surprise. Then he shrugged. Lyonette, who’d been frowning at the trap, came to the same conclusion and put it more succinctly.
“Erin, that trap won’t work. If someone steps in it, sure, it’ll hurt, but unless those blades are incredibly sharp, it won’t do that much damage. I guess it’d do some damage if it snapped really hard, but most times, you’ll just step on that and…well, it might slow someone down.”
Erin was incredulous.
“On a bear trap? No way! Those jaws will snap shut, and you won’t be able to open them!”
“Sure you can. You just pull the thing apart.”
“No, you can’t. See? It has these springs that’ll hold the jaws closed—”
“Springs? You mean…it jumps up or something?”
And then Erin ran into a problem. She paused as both Lyonette and Rabbiteater looked at her without a hint of comprehension on their faces.
“No, not spring. Springs. You know, the spiral things? Very flexible? Holds things together? Bouncy?”
She didn’t do a good job explaining what she meant. But it soon became clear that springs, or rather, the coiled version of springs that went in bed mattresses and so on, didn’t exist in this world. At least to Lyonette and Rabbiteater’s understanding.
“I’ve never seen one of those things before, Erin. You say this is a little metal coil all wrapped up, right? That sounds like very difficult work, even for a good [Blacksmith].”
“You’re right. You’re right.”
Erin groaned as she thought about how hard making a small spring would be. There was no mass production in this world, after all! She tore up the bear trap blueprints in disgust.
“Great! So I can’t defend this inn. Unless they make landmines here? How am I supposed to guard the inn this time?”
“Well, why not barricade the door?”
Lyonette looked towards the door. The Raskghar had smashed into the inn through the door last time, breaking the wooden latch on the door. Erin looked up.
“Well yeah, I could do that. I could put a big honking bar across the door, and maybe the [Reinforced Structure] Skill would hold it, but what about my windows?”
“What about them? We can barricade them too. There’s already shutters on them.”
Lyonette nodded to the glass windows. Erin made a face.
“Yeah, but the shutters are in the inside. Which means that anyone smashing through’s already broken the glass.”
The [Princess] and Hob stared at Erin.
“So?”
“So, glass is expensive! Do you know how much Klbkch charged me last time to fix all that? I don’t want my windows broken in! Plus, those shutters aren’t made to hold out angry Raskghar.”
“Hm. Well, in that case…”
Lyonette trailed off. Rabbiteater frowned at the windows. He pointed to the window and mimed hammering. Erin sighed.
“Yes, Rabbiteater. That’s what we’re saying. But it won’t save the glass!”
Rabbiteater shook his head. He put up his hand and mimed a window. Erin frowned as Rabbiteater stood on one side of the imaginary window and then walked around. He began hammering…on the outside.
“Oh! You mean, put on shutters on the outside! Rabbiteater, that’s genius!”
Erin sat up in delight. That would work! All she had to do was install big defensive shutters on the outside of her inn. She could close them if she knew something was going to hit her inn—and then open them if it was all safe! Lyonette frowned.
“That’s a good idea, Rabbiteater. But putting shutters on the outside also means we can’t open them to look around at something right next to the inn. And that’s dangerous.”
“Right, right. Um—okay, what about this? We put the shutters on the ground floor windows, but leave the second floor open? I’m pretty sure my windows can’t be broken by arrows. Unless, like, it’s Halrac shooting them or something.”
Lyonette looked at Rabbiteater. The Hob scratched his head. Then both nodded. Erin clapped her hands.
“Alright! That’s phase one! Reinforce the inn! Lyonette, we’ll need some good wood, more nails, and maybe another hammer from Krshia.”
“I can pick those up. What’s phase two for the inn?”
“Uh—let me think it over for a bit.”
Erin stood up and paced about the inn. She was feeling a bit better now, and Rabbiteater and Lyonette both went outside to see how much wood the windows would need. Erin walked back and forth, trying to figure out what she could do. She discarded all of the impractical ideas or the things that’d take too much time.
Really, when you got down to it, the only way to defend her inn was to have enough people inside of it with weapons ready in case something attacked. Erin could build traps in her inn, but it would be easier to have something disposable. So she discarded bear traps and thought about potions. By the time Lyonette came back, Erin had a second plan ready.
“Essentially, I want a big box full of potions and alchemy…grenades? Right here. And Bird gets some of his own in case he’s attacked in his watchtower. And I want a lock on the door leading to the tower so he can get back in the inn if there’s a lot of monsters, like the moths.”
It was what she’d already done, except that Erin was doubling down on supplies. She found her money bags and poured gold pieces onto the table.
“We need a bigger defense budget. We should have, like, four Tripvine Bags at all times. And those explosive potions! Octavia can’t make them. I don’t think she knows how. So…we need to go grab some from a better [Alchemist] in the city.”
“She’s not going to like that.”
“Well, she doesn’t have to know. As for the door lock—”
“Not a good idea.”
“Why not? If Bird’s in trouble—”
“A lock’s too much to work with, Erin. And Bird will forget the key. Why not just make it a door bar?”
“That is a reasonable suggestion.”
Both Erin and Lyonette looked up. Klbkch had walked over. He had stayed in the inn, mainly to explain to Bird exactly what a Garuda was and why he was not allowed to talk about shooting Bevussa or any of the Drakes with wings. Klbkch listened to the rest of Erin’s ideas and nodded when she finished.
“All of these additions seem like practical, simple measures that may save your life. I could send a Worker to make the improvements today if you wish.”
Erin waved a hand dismissively.
