Ordinarily, on any other day, Erin would have been thrilled to have an inn full of guests. However, today just wasn’t that kind of day. She was tired, upset, ashamed of herself, and currently understaffed. Erin rushed from table to table with drinks as Drassi, Ishkr, and Lyonette all did the same. She was relieved none of the adventurers from Pallass were hungry, but everyone wanted a drink. They were sitting about, Drakes mainly, but a good number of Gnolls, chatting while the team leaders gathered around a table with Ilvriss and the other bigwigs, discussing strategy.
“Innkeep! Firebreath Whiskey for us over here!”
“Not for me! Rum if you have it!”
“Do you have any mild ales?”
“What about wine? Or…a fruit juice?”
That last came from a feathered bird-woman. Erin nearly dropped her tray when she saw the Garuda. The adventurers of Pallass hailed from the southern part of Izril, which was, again, mainly inhabited by Drakes and Gnolls. But exceptions always existed.
“We’ve got juice. What would you like?”
The Garuda brightened. She asked for Erin’s menu, then chose some grape juice—which was one of the few juices Erin had, really. Fruit juice was expensive! Especially because it had a shorter shelf life than alcohol. Ironically, you could get a keg of alcohol for less than some good old-fashioned apple juice. Apple cider on the other hand…Erin wondered if she could find a nice farm around here willing to sell her fruits for cheap. Didn’t Ryoka say she’d visited a farm once?
She was distracting herself. Erin went over to her bar and filled a mug with juice. Mrsha popped up, surprising her.
“Oh, Mrsha. Do you want a drink?”
The little Gnoll shook her head. She took a mug and filled it with ale. Then she scampered over to a table and offered it to a surprised Drake. Erin watched Mrsha run back. She felt her heart squeeze.
“You are so responsible! Good job!”
She patted Mrsha on the head and watched the Gnoll smile, then hurried back to the Garuda.
“Here’s your drink!”
“Thank you. I’d like to drink, but alcohol goes through me faster than normal. And it seems we’ll be busy soon.”
“You mean with fighting? The Raskghar are gone.”
The Garuda nodded. Her companions, Drakes with wings folded on their backs, blinked as Mrsha ran up with two mugs, slopping a bit over the sides. The Garuda sipped from her mug with her beak. She was strikingly brilliant—her feathers were a beautiful spring green color with white and slightly pink feathers patterning down her arms and legs.
Her entire body was covered in feathers, and her clothing was minimal—like the Gnolls, she wore only enough for modesty. She had a shortsword by her side and carried what looked like a bag of holding at her belt and nothing else. She wasn’t even wearing armor like some of the Drakes who were practically clanking with metal.
“That’s true, Miss. But the dungeon remains. And that’s why we’re here. My team thought about entering it, but that’s not our usual forte so we held back. But duty is duty. Pardon me, I haven’t introduced myself. Bevussa Slenderscale. I’m with the Wings of Pallass.”
“Oh! The Gold-rank team? But you’re…and your name…”
Erin frowned, confused. Bevussa smiled.
“I’m adopted. My people are known as Garuda. They live on Chandrar almost exclusively, but I was abandoned as a chick and taken in by Drakes living in Pallass. Hence the name.”
Erin slapped her forehead.
“That makes sense! Sorry, I’m a bit muddled. I was fighting off giant, angry Raskghar a few hours ago. I’m so glad you’re here. Your team are all Oldblood Drakes, aren’t they?”
She nodded at the others. The Drakes looked surprised that she knew the term for them. Bevussa smiled.
“Correct. We’re a rare group. I got in because I can fly. The others are all Oldblood, as is our, uh, leader.”
The Garuda nodded to the Drake who’d first introduced her group. Erin peered over at the Drake as she stood with the other adventurer leaders at the front of the group. The captain of The Wings of Pallass was tall for a Drake and striking with her wings folded at her back. Erin saw the other adventurers from Pallass giving her some respectful space.
“Wow. That’s cool. Sorry, I’d love to chat more, but I have to keep waiting tables.”
“Of course, Miss…”
The young woman turned and grinned.
“I’m Erin Solstice. This is my inn! Don’t mind the mess! Or the blood. Or the Hobs. We have a sign!”
She pointed at the prominent sign she’d propped up next to the bar. It was the copy of the one some of the adventurers had stared at as they’d entered the inn via Pallass. Bevussa eyed it.
“Huh. This is one weird inn. What do you think?”
She glanced at her teammates. The two Drakes stared at the Redfang Warriors who were doing their best not to attract any attention as they hauled the Cave Goblin—still tied to the chair—to a far corner of the room. One of the Drakes with purple scales and a scar running down the left side of her neck leaned over.
“We were told by that Watch Captain that this inn is unusual, Captain. It even has Antinium in it! Do you think all the inns in Liscor are like this? Or is this about the Antinium entering the dungeon?”
Bevussa grimaced and glanced around. All the other adventurers were busy gossiping. She leaned forwards.
“I told you not to call me that! When we’re in public, Issa’s the Captain, got it?”
“Sorry.”
Disgruntled, Bevussa leaned back in her chair and sipped from her drink. Probably every Gnoll in the room had heard her if they’d been listening in, but it was only the Drakes she was concerned about. She glanced around and then frowned.
“Why’s that Antinium staring at me?”
 
——
 
The adventurers standing around the table were in rapid conference with the officials from Liscor. All of them were team captains, and almost all of them were Silver-rank or higher. A few were Gold-rank, and they intimidated Ceria. She felt squished as she stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the Silver-ranks. Ceria also felt like a fraud as she looked around at the serious adventurers from Pallass.
Each one of them was an accredited leader of a Silver-rank team. Hell, even Pallass’ bronze-rank adventurers looked like they knew how to fight. Maybe the Drakes had a different standard for adventurers because Ceria had never seen so many scars on a Bronze-rank adventurer before. She shifted, stepped on someone’s tail, and winced. It was packed! At least the discussion taking place wasn’t that involved.
Halrac, Jelaqua, Ylawes, and four other Gold-rank Captains stood around the table. One of them, the huge Drake wearing plate armor who was the leader of the Flamewardens, spoke. His voice rasped, and every time he coughed, smoke or blue flames issued from his mouth. He had a lot of space around him, despite the press of bodies.
“We’re honored to help, Wall Lord. And we’ve been apprised of Liscor’s situation. Our teams have studied the recordings of the Face-Eater Moth attack, and we’re aware of the annual flooding. Obviously.”
Ilvriss nodded. The Wall Lord straightened in his chair, looking around importantly.
“And I thank you on behalf of Liscor. As Wall Lord of Salazsar, I personally guarantee all of the bounties promised by the Adventurer’s Guild will be met. Tell me, do you have a plan of attack?”
Halrac, Jelaqua, and Ylawes all shifted, looking annoyed. But the Captain of the Flamewardens nodded decisively.
“We have a clear dynamic to how this dungeon must be conquered. If these…Raskghar are strongest at night, we adventurers must move by day. Our team will enter as soon as day breaks. Until then, we will prepare. I’m told this inn isn’t part of Liscor. Where might we seek lodgings inside the city?”
The Wall Lord grimaced.
“There are a number of inns within the premises of Liscor. They are already quite full, but I personally reside at the Tailless Thief. I will speak with the innkeeper and see if any rooms can be made available. As for the other teams, they may have to seek lodgings with Celum if no more rooms can be found within Liscor.”
“Celum? Isn’t that a Human city a hundred miles north of here?”
The other adventurers were astonished. Ilvriss nodded coolly.
“It is. But this inn is unique. The magic door that transported you all here from Pallass will also transport anyone from Liscor to Celum.”
The adventurers stared at the door they’d entered and murmured. Ceria felt a bit of pride—even the Gold-ranks looked impressed. One of the Silver-rank Captains spoke up.
“Does the innkeeper have any rooms to let here?”
“Sadly, I believe they’re all occupied. By Goblins, no less.”
Ilvriss sighed. He looked around at the adventurers.
“I will remind you all that Liscor is allied with the local Antinium Hive. Furthermore, this inn itself has proven itself…useful, so the laws of Miss Solstice, the Human who owns it, are also to be respected. Aside from that, I am honored to see so many brave souls from Pallass arriving to assist Liscor in its hour of need. I personally wish you the best of luck in your expedition into the dungeon.”
“Thank you, Wall Lord.”
The Flamewarden’s Captain inclined his head, and Ilvriss did the same. The Gold-rank adventurer looked at Jelaqua.
“We have a limited window of time before we commence the dungeon raid. Does the Adventurer’s Guild have any guides or maps of the dungeon, Miss Selphid? Or can we buy the information from your team?”
Jelaqua folded her arms, her tail tangling the legs of the Drakes standing beside her as it lashed.
“Bold, aren’t you? I thought only the Silver-rank teams were crazy enough to go into a dungeon without prepping.”
The Drake met her eyes levelly.
“We’re ready to fight. And my team hardly intends to go in alone.”
“Exactly. We’ve discussed the issue amongst ourselves, and we’ve elected to go in strong. We’ll hit the rift the Raskghar came from. Not as one, but as a united front, yes?”
Another Gold-rank adventurer spoke up. Jelaqua glanced at the Gnoll.
“Your team too? I get that there’s safety in numbers, but this dungeon isn’t something to be underestimated! Fine, if it’s three Gold-rank teams or something…hells, how many are going in today?”
The adventurers looked at each other. The Flamewarden’s Captain bared his teeth and spat a bit of flame.
“Everyone.”
 
——
 
Over a hundred adventurers in her inn. Maybe two hundred? No. Over a hundred. Erin tried to guesstimate the numbers as she ran figures in her head. Guesstimate was a word, wasn’t it? It didn’t sound like it should be one. It sounded…fake.
And they were all going into the dungeon. All at once. Faced with that news, the other teams decided they’d join in too. After all, there might not be safety in numbers all the time, but if an army of adventurers was going in to save the missing Gnolls, you didn’t want to be the one team that stayed behind.
Erin’s stomach hurt as she thought of the missing Gnolls. It hurt harder as she remembered the Raskghar attack. She pushed the feeling down as she waved her hands desperately, trying to attract the attention of the mob of adventurers as they headed for the door to Liscor. They’d already left coins on the table for the drinks. Erin saw Lyonette sweeping them up and wondered how much they’d made already.
“Excuse me! Excuse me!”
They all looked at her. Erin smiled, feeling a bit of sweat run down her back.
“Uh. Hi. I’m Erin Solstice. I run this inn. I, uh, hope you all go into the dungeon safe and sound.”
They stared at her. Awkwardly, Erin fumbled with a jar of thick blue soup and held it up.
“The thing is—I also sell stuff to adventurers. My inn is connected to an [Alchemist]’s shop in Celum, and I sell other stuff! Like magic food. I have this soup that makes you warm—uh, keeps you warm. It’s magic. And I have another dish that makes your skin tougher! Come back and try it! I’m selling it at a discount to anyone that needs it. [Guardsmen], adventurers—anyone!”
She looked at Zevara, who was waiting by the door with Relc and Klbkch. The Watch Captain eyed the blue soup and shuddered, but gave Erin a slight nod. The adventurers murmured, and some came over to try her Corusdeer soup. Erin had a feeling that no one would want that soup when they entered the dungeon, so she willingly gave out samples and answered questions about whether her food would conflict with other magical enchantments and how long it would last and so on.
“That’s one way to do business. I wonder how many teams will buy from you. We’ll be buying some of your Scale Soup before we go.”
Jelaqua strolled over as the press of adventurers broke up around Erin. The [Innkeeper] stared into her mostly empty jar.
“It’s called Scale Salad now, actually, Jelaqua. I finally figured out how to make it taste a little better. The soup still has all those crunchy bits in it, but the salad’s…well it’s still got crunchy bits, but it tastes palatable. If crunchy.”
“Hey, whatever works. I can turn my taste buds off. And I think any adventurer would gargle rocks if it meant they’d survive an arrow to the chest.”
Jelaqua smiled. The Selphid looked at the press of adventurers lined up to leave Erin’s inn through either doorway and shook her head.
“Dead gods, what a mess. I guess this is a good thing but—damn it, I can’t say I enjoy seeing this.”
“What? All the other adventurers?”
The Selphid nodded, looking miserable.
“Competition. I feel like a stomach ulcer for saying it, but it’s true. All these other teams means we’ve got a lot less of a chance of making it big on the dungeon. Saving the Gnolls would be great, but—”
The Selphid shrugged. Erin nodded slowly. Jelaqua and her team—and Griffon Hunt—had invested a lot into this dungeon. They’d worked tirelessly. It had to be hard seeing so many adventurers come in right when they felt like they were making progress.
“I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be. The people come first. And it’s not like they’re stealing anything.”
Jelaqua smiled crookedly. Seborn came over, and Moore edged around all the Drakes.
“Looks like we’re entering the dungeon. How much of that foul soup do you have, Erin?”
“I made it taste better! It’s a salad now—well, it looks like a salad if you squint. I’ll have to make a lot more today.”
Moore rumbled as he bent down, looking serious.
“Just be sure to take care of your inn first, Erin. I heard the Watch Captain speaking to Olesm and her [Guardsmen]. Liscor will be fortifying while the adventurers go in. You should do the same. We will be here tonight, but it would be better if you made some preparations. Especially for young Mrsha.”
Erin nodded seriously.
