“Yes. Oh, and before she left, she gave a speech about how killing him opened some brighter paths, then she mused about maybe killing the rest of them to see what may change.”

“Themiel! Enough! Y-You cannot tell me of a council meeting! Especially not if they specifically forbade it! Y-You cannot say these things to me!”

“Well, I just did. I don’t trust the process right now. However our people have typically done things, something has changed. Perhaps because the Oracle’s visions have turned so dark and fools wish not to believe the truth, but I don’t trust the council. So, Serithe, just help me speak to her privately. I think it’s important I establish a better line of contact with her.”

Again Serithe just stared at him, and he stared back. She lifted a shaking finger to the door and said, “Get out, Themiel.”

“So that’s your answer?” he asked.

“Leave this moment, or I will report what you did here to the council myself.”

Luke’s ears folded down as he looked back and forth between them. Then, finally, Themiel said, “Here, boy,” and turned around.

Once they were back in the hall and the door was shut behind them, Themiel muttered under his breath. “Well, that could have gone better.” Luke let out a soft whine, not really understanding what that was all about, but he could see it had upset Themiel.

But as they reached the end of the hall, a door opening echoed behind them. Themiel turned, and beneath the periodic torchlight, Serithe ran after them. She had one hand gripping her clothes low to pull them up past her feet, and her other arm over her chest as she jogged.

She stopped in front of Themiel, but wouldn’t look at him. “When I heard of Corath, I thought I would see you. After the council questioned you on the mission, after whispers of your new Hell Hound spread through the halls, I kept thinking that you would soon come. I thought that maybe you were just waiting until things quieted down. But you never did.”

“I… I have just been busy.”

“Yes. Hunting, training. Avoiding anyone who might actually care you are still breathing. Corath was a brother to you, I know, but he was a dear friend to me as well. I would have… I would have at least liked to have seen you.”

“Serithe,” Themiel began to speak, but she cut him off again.

“And now you appear at my door, with your Hell Hound, and you ask me to betray my oaths as if I am some hidden passage you just remembered existed!”

“That is not true,” Themiel said. “I do care for you, Serithe.”

She let out a breath, looking away from him once again. Her hand raised up to the black sash around her chest, fingers playing with the bow momentarily. “I will be seeing the Oracle tonight,” she finally said. “I will… attempt to bring you up and try to gauge if she would be willing to have a private meeting with you.” She looked up at him. “Come back to my door tomorrow, and if she has agreed, I will take you to her.”

“Thank you, Serithe.”

“I don’t want to hear a thank-you,” she said sternly. Then she turned and stomped back down the hall, once again holding up her clothes enough so they stayed out from under her feet.

Once her door shut again, Themiel looked down at Luke and sighed. “I’ve… never been very good with women,” he admitted to the Hell Hound.

Luke let out a soft whine.
