He spun on his heels with that same over-emphasized bravado, and reached out to grab her hand as he did so. She allowed it, only because it was so slow and casual it seemed more suspicious to dodge. She did lean forwards, making it so rather than her clawed hand, his fingers closed on her wrist, where nothing would be capable of giving her away.

The words kept flowing from him as he pulled, one question after another. “I hope it’s not intruding, but how exactly did you end up walking here? And why are you all alone? This isn’t the place I would expect to find a girl your age on her own. And that sword of yours seems rather interesting. Is it magic? Or before that, is it yours, or are you carrying it for someone else?”

“Um, uh, I…” Which one did she answer? Could she answer all of them? What lies would endear her the best? What would—

Her train of thought was cut off as he corrected himself. “Sorry, sorry. Let me start with a simple question, something easier to answer. How about a name? Here, I’ll trade you my own.”

His hand released her abruptly as he turned, raising it to his chest and giving a bow that brought his head down to the height of her own. “Durm, professional adventurer in employment of the church. Pleasure to make your acquaintance.”

A name, a name, a name… Wait, her name? He hadn’t been asking about her, though, before he made the question. He had been asking about…

Her eyes fell to her own hip. “…Violet.”

“What an interesting name. I’m not sure I’ve met a Violet before.”

She shrugged. “I didn’t pick it.”

Did people normally name their swords themselves? Apparently not, since he let out more laughter at that excuse.

“Fair enough.”

Then, he turned around once more, and held something up to the wall of one of the stopped beasts, silent. With a quiet grinding of iron on iron, the wall slid open, and a staircase issued out to right before their feet. He offered her a hand, and she took it, careful to not let her claws poke him through the fingers of the glove.

And the rat allowed him to lead her into the belly of the beast, as the door slammed shut behind her.
