It felt strange, climbing the ziggurat. She had left this place a fugitive, and now she was returning as a claimant, in a way. It didn’t matter that she was not of imperial blood. All that mattered was power and legitimacy, and for now she had the most of both. Her feet carried her up the first layers and its many statues of laborers as the ziggurat thanked them for being the base upon which the empire thrived. Then came soldiers, administrators, merchants, artisans, healers, then the leaders of the community: captains, mayors, high level civil servants. Then came the high nobles, high priests, councilors, generals and other leaders whose allegiance kept the empire whole, and whose skills turned the empire into a well-oiled machine. At least in theory.

Viv paused at the edge of the throne room. Solfis was right behind her, heavy feet resting on the stone blocks that formed every gradient rather than on the fragile stairs themselves.

The throne room was just as she remembered. Debris littered the floor right up to the broken roof where a rock had crashed through the ceiling. The fallen mummies of dead bodyguards, still wearing their skinsuits, held an eternal vigil and behind them waited the corpse of the one whose words had once decided the fate of a continent.

//Emperor Miron the Second.

Solfis sounded subdued.

Empty eye sockets measured her, judging. Viv wondered if it was all in her mind, or if something of the old ruler still remained. Many of the most powerful warriors and scholars of the place had managed to move on in a way that prevented their bodies from rising, such had been the case with Irlefen. Perhaps there was more to it.

Viv stepped across the sanctum. As before, no wind howled between the stones. The silence was deafening. She came to stand in front of the dead one, and looked up. Even seated, it towered over the entire room.

[Large skeleton]

Viv waited in case her inspection skill changed its assessment.

It didn’t.

That was it. That was all it said. Viv wasn’t sure what she’d expected but it was more, more than just a pile of bones resting on a piece of rock. After all this climb and the trappings of power, and the majestic sight, she’d wanted… something. Maybe the emperor coming back from the dead to tell her she was the chosen one. That he was proud of her, of what she was trying to achieve. Tell her that the blood in her veins and the mind in her skull were imperial enough to take up the mantle fate had so cruelly robbed him of. She wanted to be blessed by the past and for someone to tell her she was on the right path and was doing a great job and there was nothing to worry about.

It didn’t happen. There was just the skull, the sky, and the woman standing under them.

Viv chuckled to herself.

She was being dramatic, wasn’t she? There were already plenty of people telling her she was doing well. Solfis himself was a Harrakan, and he was mighty pleased with her anyway. It was ok. The height, the monolithic, brutalist architecture, the pointless flattening of the ground, those were all smoke and mirrors. Tricks of the mind to inspire a sense of wonder, of majesty. The emperor wore the mantle of sovereignty and he had become a living symbol rather than just Miron, a man, a brilliant man perhaps, a tall man certainly, but a man nonetheless.

Viv picked up the crown.

“This isn’t what you were hoping for when you became emperor. I am sorry it happened to you. I am sorry you all died here.”

What should matter to her wasn’t the mask of power but the vision to wield it, shaping that power into something that counted. Harrak was an idea. Ideas evolved. It would evolve again with her, and things would be fine. She’d make sure of it.

“Neriad, Enttiku, please guide those souls if they require it, and give these bodies rest if they need it. Thank you.”

She sent a massive amount of mana with her prayer, but only a gentle light replied. A golden candle on a bleak night. Slowly, the skeletons turned to dust until there was nothing left but discarded weapons and empty skinsuits.

“I will care for the living. I promise.”

//The light gods have touched the ziggurat for the first time in too long.

//Would you like me to keep the crown?

“Yes, please, and thank you.”

//You are fit to wear it.

//Once it has been reforged.

//I believe it.

“Thanks. And I will need my hands free.”

//Do you still want to go on with it?

“I would like to find out if we can.”

//Very well.

//I cannot follow you inside of the ziggurat.

//I will be waiting here, collecting the skinsuits.

//Although I believe they are a lost cause.

//Be careful.

“I will.”

***

Viv delved into the heart of the imperial palace. Only the shell of the ziggurat separated her from the black pit of the epicenter, and the horde of necrarchs idling there. She walked down the steps with trepidation because the darkness here was so thick even her elemental eyes failed to see very far. Casting a light would be of no use either; this darkness was not an absence, but a concentration of mana so thick it blotted the air. So pure was the energy that she simply could not absorb it all, and the black pushed against her conduits like an eager child. The sweet pain was an old companion by now, but she had not experienced it since she had turned and the intensity worried her. A part of her thought it should not be like that. The concentration was increasing too quickly.

Down there, nothing was left of the furniture, books, even the bodies had either risen or been reduced to dust. She crossed rooms large and small, only guessing what they could have been used for. The map Solfis had drawn stayed in her mind as she descended deeper and deeper in an oppressive silence.

Finally, she reached her destination: a large, circular room bathed in darkness. Faded engravings on the wall confirmed she had arrived where she meant to go.

The ritual research room.

It was clear, and Solfis had confirmed, that the ritual site was the epicenter, and it was destroyed beyond any hope of guessing what had happened. The ritual research room was still intact, however. If there were any hints as to what caused the destruction of the empire, the answers were here. As soon as she stepped in, Viv knew she had what she wanted.

In front of her waited the most intricate, the most complex piece of arcane enchanting she had ever seen, all laid on the floor in grooves and lines of dull steel, silvery ore replacement no doubt. At first, some of the interlocked lines made no sense but she quickly picked up the trick thanks to her own experience using floating sigils to build three-dimensional spell arrays. The ritual was meant to enfold, some of the segments rising through the air during the casting. It was like looking at a compressed puzzle.

In the suffocating confines of the room, Viv tried to decipher the spell. The glyphs demanded her attention by their complexity but also the elegance with which they’d been arranged. Before her was a masterwork of incredible complexity, the magnum opus of several archmages working in concert. She progressively lost track of time, of the oppressive pressure. The array was such an amazing construct.

For once, her witch tradition gave her an edge since she was familiar with mage techniques yet still understood that each part was a meaningful word in a complex sentence, the arrangement less important than the conveyed purpose.

“A well? Vortex? No no no, it’s a syphon. A harvester. But then…”

She finally reached the part of the spell that gave the ‘target’ parameter.

“Oh.”

Before her and in tiny print was the segment of the ritual that had killed a million souls and set Param back half a millennium.

“Oh. Ooooh.”

The mages had meant to gather mana from the environment, something so common Viv did it with her own purifying monoliths, except… this one was too aggressive and non-discriminatory. Once started, the ritual would snowball until… yes, a cascading effect. A self-sustained explosion until the power gathered couldn’t outpace the energy loss caused by the square of the distance from the epicenter. Essentially, the ritual had drained its attendants of all mana including life mana, then used that energy to reach farther, killing more, then farther, killing more again, until the distance was so vast that the ritual could no longer sustain itself. But… if she was reading this right the energies should have still been connected. And there were fail-safes there, there and… there? It meant that…

Viv’s head swam. She took a step back. Her knees hurt where she had been muttering on the ground, her fingers tracing the corroded lines.

The ritual had reached its maximum range. What should have been a gentle pull over time had turned into an explosion. The collected energy was absolutely massive. Ridiculous. It eclipsed even the capabilities of the gods themselves in that brief moment. The spell existed on a planetary scale, but that was not the most shocking part.

Viv’s back hit the wall.

The ritual that led to the death of the empire. It succeeded.

And the result was there, buried under rubbles protected by a mass of necrarchs.

It had to be.

She would have to return.

She needed to return.

Whoever controlled it, would control the continent. But not yet. Not yet. She had to find a way to use it first.

Her mind returned to Helock, to the floating form of the Chalice where Abenezigel had turned her part-elemental. It turned to the yries and their latest creations.

“I have an idea.”

Viv ran back.

***

Three days later.

The night had set on Kazar and the town hall’s courthouse was the scene of a desperate struggle. Abenezigel, previously a lich and now quite alive, thank you very much, gently pushed on the shoulders of the short mage facing him.

“This is perhaps a little… my dear, you are…”

The mage pushed her hips against his thigh. She was so warm. His callous fingers slid over the softness of her skin, then down, guided by her own hand, to the swell of her breasts. He inhaled the scent of soap and flowers, of her own scent. He gasped, fighting his arousal and losing badly.

“I still have reports to read. My duty… rise to the occasion.”

Her hand darted to his erection. He hissed when she grabbed it, stopped moving. Her delicate fingers traveled up with deceptive slowness and he did not dare move. Her touch was very gentle.

“Something is rising indeed?”

He looked down. His strong hands traveled down her arms. She had this smile, teeth biting plump lips, the eyes half-lidded. Flushed skin. This was the sex face. He was going to have sex. Really good sex.

Something stomped on the ground outside of his window.

In an instant, Abe grabbed the woman and pushed her behind him. She yelped in delight, then in surprise. Something massive opened their shutters from the outside.

A metal head as large as the window itself leaned in. Two green eyes looked into his crimson own.

//GOOD EVENING.

//MY NAME IS THEMIS.

//I AM HERE TO TALK ABOUT GOVERNING ETHICS.

“I assure you, we are both consenting adults and this is, technically, long after office hours.”

The situation turned into a stalemate for a few seconds while the golem processed this piece of information.

//WHAT?

“What?”

***

Yries screeches rose to a crescendo inside of the ‘special zone’.

//I am telling you, there is no need for anger.

//Your solution is simply inefficient.

More screeches.

//Look, wasps are an interesting vector because they are alive.

//However, the supply is limited and difficult to maintain, and long to replenish.

//You need an alternative.

//For increased reserves.

Lak-Nak threw his long arms up, though his anger had abated, and now only resignation marred his owlish features.

//Indeed, but it is a mistake to rely too heavily on mana-based solutions.

More screeches, this time inquisitive instead.

//Chemical solutions.

//Flammable resin, sulfur, bitumen.

//A mix of those.

//Carried via pots, or delivered via pressurized nozzles.

The yries caressed his chin.

//Yes, I know how to make that, though we would conduct testing.

//I am only familiar with the theory.

“Screeeee.”

//I knew we would reach an agreement.

//My name is Eris.

//I hope we can work together.

“Screee.”

//No, I am unaffected by psychotropic substances.

//Thank you for offering, nonetheless.

***

“I am sorry, are you perhaps related to Solfis?”

//Yes, sir knight.

//We only just arrived.

“And you are… carving?”

//Yes.

//I wish to learn how to sculpt those roses.

“I see. You… pretty amazing! The cut is almost invisible!”

//I am very precise.

//Inspiration, vision, and originality will be… difficult to develop.

//But I will endeavor to do my best.

“Roses are good but can you also do more complex forms? Like, say, the naked human body.”

//Of course.

//Although I will face the same difficulties.

“Milady, I myself am flush with inspiration, yet poor in skill. Could we perhaps cooperate at first?”

//That would be agreeable.

“Then let me get my sketchbook. I shall return soon. Do not move!”

//Not to worry, I will use this opportunity to study the works already present.

It took Thalia less than three seconds to study them all, then compare them to her database. There was much to say about the realistic style reminiscent of the late Chirian period of the Imperial School of Fine Arts, however one detail stuck out.

//They certainly seem to dislike clothes.

***

The child watched the massive golem plant the stone slab near the field where his father grew cereals. It was a rather large slab. It made a loud thump when it hit the ground, and then there was dust for a while.

