No sense counting the chickens before they’d hatched, the inner gatehouse still stood before them, this interlude costing him dearly. The arrows and stones flew uninterrupted towards them, so many shields broken and bodies battered, not a single warrior unmarked by their efforts. Exhaustion and desperation in their eyes, he could feel his soldier's spirits flagging from the efforts it’d taken to reach here, along with the pressure which came with knowing there was no retreat. It was either victory or death in the strictest sense, suicide to run the gauntlet again or leap off the precipice and fall almost thirty meters into the plaza. “Comrades, it has cost us much to come this far, a debt I intend to settle with the traitor Mao Jianghong.” Weak cheers followed his declaration, too few for his liking but better than none. “Follow me once more and let us show these cowards how true heroes fight.”

Gathering what little reserves he had left, he lifted Stoneshaper with a grimace, his arm sore and aching from overuse. Leading the charge, he took three more arrows before reaching the enemy, lined up neatly with their spears and shields, and then he was among them. Killing two or three with every swing, he cleared the outer area of enemies with ease, crashing into the door with all his might. It shuddered and creaked, but held firm, his soldiers blocking the arrow slits with their bodies to give him time to work.

Again and again he struck, the door caving in slowly as a mass of bodies held it in place, one Magistrate straining against a dozen traitors, his arm screaming in pain as he gave it his all. The door still standing, his arm dropped to his side as he gathered his breath and focused. Lifting Stoneshaper onto his shoulder, he stepped back and lowered his stance, leaning back for a full swing containing everything he had.

The door gave way before him with a tumultuous crash, crushing the bodies caught beneath it. A cheer went up among his men as they swarmed in, exultant in his accomplishment, chanting his name as they fought. ‘Unstoppable Vanguard Chu Tongzu’, the ‘golden’ part of his moniker left out. This would not do, he’d have to shed all this excess weight and display his brilliance for all to see. Shouldn’t take long, a year, maybe two.

A baleful aura pressed against his own and the fervour cooled inside the gatehouse, a distinct hush enveloping the battlefield. His soldiers spread out along the first floor as the traitors lined up along the second, their bows and crossbows pointed down. Holding his massive great-sword, Jianghong’s laughter boomed from above. “It seems I underestimated the fat slob of a magistrate. I wasn’t sure you’d be able to make it up all those stairs.”

Tongzu ignored the traitorous wretch, focusing on the familiar scarred face beside him. “Yo Ling,” he spat. “So you’re why the spineless dog surnamed Mao turned traitor.”

With a stately bow, Yo Ling chuckled. “It’s true, mine is the hand responsible for all your recent woes.”

Trying to buy time, Tongzu narrowed his eyes, remaining silent as long as possible. “So,” he drawled, elongating the simple syllable, “A traitorous dog meets with a cowardly deserter, working together to take my gatehouses. What purpose could this possibly serve?”

“I’d love to wax poetic and tell you all my plans, but even a child can see you’re stalling.” Yo Ling’s one eye seemed to glow in the shadows. “The city will learn soon enough, though sadly you must die in ignorance. Count it a favour, for all our years as neighbours. Kill them.”

The counter attack was fierce and unstoppable, hidden warriors bursting from the walls and taking his soldiers by surprise. Jianghong dropped to the first floor and charged at Tongzu. The traitor’s sword cleaved through his shield and carved through flesh and bone, his left hand attached by a flap of skin as he shouted in shock. Clutching the wounded limb to his chest, Tongzu furiously defended and retreated, barely keeping hold of Stoneshaper.

Too strong, too fast, Jianghong had been skilled but never to this extent. Helpless before the traitor’s aggression, Tongzu blocked and parried, giving way and stumbling back, taking a thrust to the shoulder, a slice to the chest, a gash across his thigh, wound after wound without answer. “Retreat,” he bellowed, knowing it was futile. “Retreat and regroup, live to defend Sanshu another day!”

Jianghong’s sword feinted a thrust and sliced low, the strength quickly fading from Tongzu’s body. Glancing down, he watched his guts spill out like rope uncoiling. A disembowelling cut, neat and tidy, Tongzu was done for. Lifting his sword for the killing blow, the traitor sneered and said, “A dog am I? Well I always hated working for a fat toad-”

A massive boulder struck him square on, lifting him off his feet before Tongzu’s eyes. Turning towards the source, he saw the wall catapults reloading for another shot, their deadly load killing ally and enemy alike. Guard Captain Sovanna’s Sending sounded in his ears. “Sorry Magistrate, seen ye in a spot of trouble and couldn’t stand by. Like I said, wouldn’t know what to do without ye. Make yer way back to the plaza, a short drop, no need to fear, we’re ready for ye.”

Tossing Stoneshaper off the edge, he gathered his innards in his arms to keep from tripping and staggered to the precipice. Without stopping to look, he tumbled over the side and counted the seconds. He didn’t even get to three before someone caught him, a massive feat of strength and coordination. Could Sovanna be another hidden expert just like Jianghong?

Blinking owlishly at his saviour, he stared at an unfamiliar bald warrior with eyes of amber.

Ah good, a stranger. For a moment, Tongzu worried his judgment had been sorely compromised.

Chapter Meme
