259

******

This is a bad way to kill something.

He was already moving to intercept the demon’s charge. The trip line was preserved, and his steps were light across the unstable ground. He understood how it would play out so clearly that it almost felt like he’d seen it before.

The way one of the bokabv’s legs would break when it hit the line and how its spine would twist in the air. The crack of something else within its body as it hit the ground.

Corrupted dirt and ropes of saliva would fly as it rolled.

He knew it would struggle to rise over and over, its madness and desire to protect the herd it had lost urging it to keep going no matter how badly he’d broken it. Sometime after he and Kibby were long gone from this place, it would succumb to its injuries and the chaos. A gruesome death for a thing that was already gruesomely dying.

I can do better.

His hands were quick enough and accurate enough for a more lethal first blow. His skill would hold for more than one strike if that first one didn’t finish it.

He was stronger. They were going to escape instead of hiding out at the lab. He was going to give this animal, and himself, a tiny mercy in this merciless place.

He moved a little differently at the last instant and aimed his line for the bokabv’s skull instead of the legs. When the demon hit, he didn’t blink or flinch. He kept his eyes wide open and his feet moving.

The bokabv rolled. Dirt and mutated grass showered Alden. He spit a poisonous-tasting clump of it from his mouth as he backed away from the fallen demon. Its final scream hung in the air, but the mouth didn’t seem to be screaming. Blood poured from a deep gash across its head. A chunk of its mutated flesh oozed in the remains of the grass.

“You dead?” he asked.

The chest lifted once, like the demon was taking a breath, and he readied himself. But the huge animal lay there, and no second breath came for a long time.

Alden backed away, never taking his eyes off it until he reached the car. Then he sat there for another minute, watching the still lump through the rear camera.

“Is it dead?” Kibby whispered. Her hands were wrapped around her safety harness as she leaned forward to look closer at the screen.

“I think so, but touching it to check seemed risky.” He imagined the bokabv regaining consciousness after they left. “Can you make a bomb? We’ll make sure it’s over. Nobody should have to be alone in this place.”

“I already made four.” She sounded proud.

“Four,” he said. “That’s a normal number of bombs to keep in our car.”

******

******

A gasp upon waking.

The cold solidity of the metal bunk rail against his palm.

“Good,” he said as he finished collecting fragments of the dream and understood how it had gone. “That one was right. Finally. Rest in peace.”

He breathed deeply in the dark and released the rail as his body relaxed.

When dawn came and his bare feet touched the floor, he thought Earth felt more solid beneath them.

******

******

On Tuesday morning, Alden strolled out of his science exam, satisfied with the ninety he’d earned, and decided the sunshine and the almost warm temperature were good reasons to take a slow flight around campus instead of rushing back to the dorm. Thanks to finals and the approaching holidays, there were some unusual sights to see. Carolers were singing in front of the Wong building, and the student council had set up a stress relief area where people could sit in massage chairs or practice Peace of Mind with a tutor.

When he crossed over to the uni side of Celena North, he discovered that they were having a tacky outfit day. Giant candy cane earrings, belts made of Christmas garlands, and shirts featuring sunbathing elves looked even more garish than they usually would have since he and his fellow high schoolers were still wearing uniforms.

I don’t mind it, he thought, lying on his stomach with his head over the side of the nonagon for a different view. It reminded him of the kinds of things they’d done for spirit week at his old high school.

He people watched, waving at anyone who waved at him.

As he entered uni hero program territory, he spotted a group of students hanging star-shaped lanterns from the branches of trees near the MPE building’s big brother. The second largest superpower training gym on the planet was sometimes called Glass Mountain, due to the appearance of the magic that formed the roof, but the official name was Kynas, an Artonan word that lost a lot of its awesomeness when English speakers translated it as “start” or “beginning”.

It did mean that, but it meant it specifically in the sense of multiple factors coming together to create something new and astounding. Artonans used it to describe the moment when they’d had a world-changing idea or the instant a child was conceived. Whoever had named the building had obviously been suggesting that it would be a place where Earthlings gifted with Artonan magics had epiphanies and began journeys toward greatness.

They’re probably offended that people fixate on the roof instead.

Alden was about to fly on when he realized he recognized one of the college girls decorating the trees. It was Dee, the Adjuster who had stuck with his class while they evacuated the Span.

He dropped lower and hopped off the Nine-edged Son just a few steps behind her. She had her back turned to him while she rummaged through a box of supplies they were using to attach the lanterns and repair broken ones.

“Hey, Dee? I don’t know if you recognize me, but I was with the people on the bus when the Span flooded. And you—”

She spun around with a fistful of zip ties in one hand and a pack of batteries in the other. She had on red and green pajamas. “Wow! Hi!”

“I just saw you and realized I should have thanked you before now,” Alden said. “For staying with us that night. It was great of you to help.”

“Of course I stayed! And of course I recognize you. You’ve got that.” She pointed at the nonagon. “So you’re more recognizable than the average person. How great would that thing have been on Submerger night? Better than flying around on someone’s countertop! Do you do hugs? Handshakes?”

She tossed the batteries to a guy wearing striped socks and sandals before coming over to shake Alden’s hand.

While he gave her a lift on the nonagon up to the higher branches, she explained that as she and her friends had left their ranged combat class last night they’d realized these lanterns they were used to seeing in December hadn’t made an appearance this year. So they were putting them up themselves.

“Everyone’s doing it,” she said. “Finding all the things that were skipped over this year because of circumstances and keeping them alive. The school didn’t cancel the most popular events, like Reindeer Selection, but loads of the minor traditions were going to get left out. And now they’re all back on the schedule because of clubs taking them on at the last minute. So make sure you go to some of the activities this week.”

“I’d love to,” said Alden, zip tying a lantern to a limb. “But I’m pretty busy.”

He was so used to being busy and telling people he couldn’t participate in things. He spent another twenty minutes helping uni students he didn’t know do some decorating before it occurred to him that these were not the actions of a terribly busy person.

It’s nice that today’s like this. I could use more easy ones. Tomorrow…oh, actually tomorrow’s just one final and MPE. But the next day I have to…wait…what on Earth…?

He was surprised by what he’d just realized. And amused at himself for being surprised.

When he made it back to his room, he sat at his desk and opened his laptop to access his schedule. Sorting out the week ahead had been something he planned on doing this afternoon, but it turned out it wasn’t going to be the juggling act he’d come to expect.

Hours and hours of blank time slots greeted him. All of a sudden, Alden Thorn had nothing to do.

He celebrated by casting spells until he couldn’t anymore, then he wore his study earring and read about the summoning spell until his eyelids felt like sandpaper and his brain turned into an ecstatic mush. He didn’t emerge from his room until three in the afternoon, and that was only to get leftovers from the fridge and say hello to Lexi, who was studying for his tests in his favorite chair.

“I thought I was alone here,” said Lexi. “You’ve been so quiet.”

“I’m about to be quiet some more. I’m studying, too.”

Cast, read, cast, feed. I could repeat that cycle from now until January.

Although it was an enticing vision, by evening he was forced to admit that his ecstatic mush might be getting overcooked. He’d been trying to obtain knowledge from a mysterious shape he’d found on one page for ten minutes before he realized it was not a clue Whan-tel had included for the reader but a faint stain from something a former owner of the book must have spilled.

“I’m going out for a jog,” he announced on his way through the living room. The only sign that Lexi had budged in the past few hours was the cup of coffee he was sipping while he stared at his interface. The sound of the bathtub filling was probably proof of Lute’s existence. “Then I’ll grab third meal somewhere. Do you want anything?”

Lexi swiped whatever he was studying aside to look at Alden. “No thanks. Maybe text Haoyu and ask, though.”

“Yeah, I’ll do that. Where is he?”

“Library, skateboarding, North of North, or running around trying to take his mind off things in some other way. He’s not going to say it, but he gets more nervous toward the end of his parents’ trips. And his mom’s supposed to be back on Saturday morning.”

Alden’s eyes landed on their tree. The lights were cycling from a pinkish red to orange. Haoyu’s toilet paper tube Nautilus Needle was still being assaulted by dinosaurs. “Got it.”

“Do you realize you called supper ‘third meal’ just now?” Lexi asked.

“Did I?”

“Yes.”

“That’s because my brain is mush. Nothing to worry about. Do you mind entrusting me with something before I go?”

******

It’s ironic that I gave that “must be nice” Rabbit guy a speech about how I never, ever have free time and then days later, my schedule clears, thought Alden, letting his strides carry him toward the uni gym so that he could find out what the lanterns looked like at night.

One of Lute’s paper polar bears was in the pocket of his jacket, preserved and enabling him to switch between using his trait and a normal jog whenever he wanted.

In my defense, I completely missed the fact that this was coming. And it’s not like I don’t have twenty things I can shove into those blank time slots.

Hindsight showed him all the changes and decisions that had led him here. Some were obvious. Regular classes weren’t held on finals week, and he had studied for his exams early with the help of a magic earring. There were also other things he couldn’t have foreseen, like duels happening yesterday instead of later in the week. He’d intended to spend more time preparing for the fight against Winston, but those plans had been ended by a battle that lasted mere seconds.

And finally, there were a few changes Alden had failed to understand the scope of, even though he’d known that they were happening inside him.

Those are the amazing things.

He could see the peaks of Kynas glowing against the darkening sky. The colorful stars tucked among the leaves of the trees out front looked like mystical fruit.

I couldn’t have free time when I was being driven by fear. Because as soon as I saw some empty time ahead of me, it looked like a spot where I had to slot in all the things I needed to do to save myself from the possibilities that scare me.

He’d had the thought before. It had been really clear to him a couple of weeks ago when he found himself enjoying the first floor of the challenge tower instead of thinking about how he needed to train to keep himself safe.

Tonight, I’m just running because I felt like moving my legs. Earlier, when I practiced the flashlight spell, it was because making light is neat and I like being able to do it, not because I think I’m destined to end up alone in the dark again. Tomorrow, when I ask Lute to watch me practice wordchains or ask Haoyu if he wants to punch my skill a few times, it can be because I want to hang out with them and do some magic, not because I’m afraid I’ll bite it if I slack off for ten minutes.

He might spend the week doing a ton of the same productive stuff he always did, but maybe he’d be doing it without background anxiety that nibbled away at the pleasure. That menace wasn’t with him tonight. And when it came back, it wouldn’t stay forever.

Have I crossed some midpoint now? he wondered. Where the days like this start to outnumber the other kind?

He believed he might have.

The air was crisp. His steps ate ground because he didn’t want to miss his dining slot at Cafeteria North, not because anyone’s life depended on his speed.

Feels good. Feels strong. What is it I do when I feel like this?

“System,” he said, springing over a bench for the heck of it, “set a timer for me. A countdown. Half an Artonan year, minus four days.”

That should be about right. I can adjust it later if I find out the date’s a little off.

The countdown appeared before him, lingering for half a minute before fading. It would hang out with his clocks now and make a reappearance whenever he was checking the time.

“And…” Alden hesitated. “And update me on the hot chocolate situation. Now’s a great time. For me.”

******

Look at me. I’m brave. Stomach of iron. Nerves of steel.

