Alden took a defiant bite of mushroom barley pilaf while he read the System’s answer again. He would eat a nutritious, normal-sized meal while looking at his level up, and he would not barf at the thought of affixation. This was like a training exercise for his guts, both the literal ones and the other kind.

Unfortunately, his literal guts weren’t entirely on board with the vision. He chewed slower.

[Well done, Alden. You’ve grown.]

[Your magical capability is increasing, and overall, you’ve earned 1 new level. The reward options from last month are still waiting. New options have now been added to your rewards list. Would you like to see them?]

Asking for the news when he was in a positive headspace had seemed like a clever way of protecting himself from the surprise leveling notices the System had warned him it might deliver in the future. Now that he was looking at the thing, he was less sure.

He’d requested a number that was fairly irrelevant to him, and he was having more of a reaction to the irrelevant number than he wanted to. He was disappointed that the System wasn’t calling his progress with Bearer a level yet, like last time—plus one to Bearer and plus one that needed affixing. It had just felt better to see the skill level going up simultaneously.

And that disappointment made him realize that some unhealthy wishful thinking had been going on in the most hidden corners of his mind. He could literally feel his own authority, and he knew the growth of the free was outpacing the bound. But there must have been a fantasy lingering inside him that the System would tell him he was wrong about himself.

The balance had tilted toward Bearer’s growth for a while, after saving Zeridee, but his free authority had gone right back to closing the gap. If everything kept going as it was, he could still look forward to an affixation in a matter of months.

The System could have called the skill growth a level if it wanted to. To improve my mood and congratulate me on figuring out some new tricks. But would that really have made anything better, or would I have been mad about it manipulating me?

The System had given him an animated border around the announcement window. A golden cat climbed up one side and batted a ball of yarn that rolled across the top of the rectangle and fell off the other side.

Alden thought it was there to help him maintain his sanity. He wasn’t sure how he felt about it.

I will consume grain and chipotle tofu and look at you, cat.

[It’s sort of a scant ‘level’ on the free authority, isn’t it?] he texted the System after watching the cat go around a few more times. [And if I’d waited a little longer, I could have gotten one on the skill, too. It has grown a decent amount. Maybe I should have let you do what I asked instead of rushing it by demanding you tell me.]

He had asked it to be as kind to him as it could.

[Your response to this level announcement is much more controlled than your response to the last one,] it replied.

I think that was a compliment.

It wasn’t awful to receive one from Earth.

He kept eating slowly while Cafeteria North bustled around him. The table he’d gotten was near the edge of the cluster outside the salad place, and there weren’t many empty seats tonight. He expected some stranger to ask to share with him eventually. That was fine since it would limit the amount of time he could spend on this gut training endeavor.

[Admit it,] he sent to the System. [You’re just saving up the +1 to Bearer because you want to deliver the news through a dream again. Probably while I’m strapped to a dentist’s chair having potion injected into my gums…but I’m kidding about that. Seriously. Please don’t set our next meeting somewhere medical.]

[I will honor that request,] it said.

“Thanks for that.”

“Are you on a call right now? Mind if I sit with you? This place is packed tonight.”

Alden’s gaze flicked away from the System’s message to take in the person who’d come to join him at his table. “Rahul! I just finished a call. You can sit.”

He closed the level-up notice. Mission complete.

The president of The B-list took the chair across from him. “Are you very hungry?” he asked, eyeing the veggie pizza box and chicken sandwich at Alden’s elbow.

“I wish I was. No. This is for my roommates. How have you been? Congratulations on graduating.”

“Finally,” said Rahul wryly. “I’ve had one foot in high school and the other in uni for so long it takes the impact out of graduation.”

Rahul turned out to be the right kind of dining companion to settle Alden’s thoughts.

He was a friendly, grounded guy with interesting opinions and a desire to talk about subjects that were just the right amount of important to keep Alden focused on the conversation without it feeling like work. At one point, he shared that he had been frustrated for much of his high school career about the same things that were currently bothering Max.

“He reminds me of me, and if I’m right about that, he’ll have similar ups and downs. Being smarter than everyone else and working harder than them will get you places. Wanting to be recognized for it is natural, but it can make things rough. There were a few times I felt like I was burning myself alive in front of an instructor while they clapped for an S-rank who’d fallen out of bed and wandered into the gym by accident. I blew up in the middle of second year. I shouted at Ash that I was his student, too, and told him he needed to give me some advice for once.” Rahul took a long breath. His eyes turned toward the fountain. “And he looked at me for two seconds, if that, and said, ‘I advise you to be more inspiring.’”

Alden laughed. “I’m sorry. I’m not laughing at you. It’s just…that’s so harsh! I can’t believe a teacher said it.”

“If I could have, I would have shoved him headfirst into my launcher and fired him at the nearest wall. I still wouldn’t say no to the opportunity if it came along.”

“He’s that terrible?”

“It might not be fair to call him terrible. If I’m honest, he’s in the middle of the pack when I consider the amount of knowledge I gained from classes he taught. But he’s definitely the faculty member who enrages me the most. Because he can come up with brilliant ideas and challenges for his favorites, but if you’re not one of them, all you can do is scramble around hoping you’ll earn a word or two from him that week.” He wiped his hand on a napkin. “Anyway, beware of that and be smarter than me. I’ve wasted too many days of my life being outraged about situations that my outrage has no effect on.”

“I’ll keep it in mind.”

“And let’s see…do give a hundred percent, but know that sometimes as the lowest rank allowed in the program, you’re going to give a hundred percent and fail anyway. Instead of blowing up at an instructor, hopefully you go to The B-list and they remind you to stay on track. That’s the kind of thing the club is supposed to be for. If the current second years don’t destroy it. Or you can call me. Even if I decide to quit Talent Development, I’ll still be right here on campus. I intended to be the cool senior who spends his last year of high school mentoring the new students, but I never got to do it much. So you’d be helping me live out my dreams if you ever needed something.”

If that was his aim, it explained a lot about the direction this chat had taken. Earlier, Rahul had been doling out tips about which teachers had annoying grading policies and how to utilize the school’s flex break option. Students at CNH could take one quarter a year off, as long as they completed enough classes for credit during the rest of the year.

“You’re thinking about quitting the program?” Alden asked, realizing what he’d just said. “But…”

“But what?”

“It’s hard not to root for a Wright superhero who shoots garden gnomes at things.”

“I’m glad you approve of my taste in ammo.” Rahul leaned back in his seat. “I’m transitioning to the uni Talent Development program next quarter like I always intended, but after what happened with the attack on Matadero, I’ve had some…priority realignment moments. Calling them doubts doesn’t seem right because I don’t doubt that I could inspire youth to appreciate science and magic through gnome-assisted crime fighting. It’s an all right goal, isn’t it?”

“It is.”

“But having something serious happen here, at home, is making me take another look at what I want. I could focus on building more launchers, in case they’re ever needed. I could found a new Wright workshop and hang out with people who like the same things I do. And I’m hoping my girlfriend is going to be more than a girlfriend one day. She’s not enthusiastic about me working in another country. So I’m thinking. That’s all.” He looked around the room. “There’s more than one way to live a good life.”

The two of them left the cafeteria together, but they parted ways when they made it outside. Alden was going to hang around in the area because one of the Celena North Christmas traditions Dee had said was an absolute must-see was happening at the cafeteria’s closing time.

“The Lighting of the Waffle Cart,” he said. “She told me it was a huge deal.”

“Of course you need to see that,” Rahul said. “And definitely try to get to this if you can.”

He swiped something across his interface, and a moment later Alden received an image of it.

“It’s my favorite Christmas event on campus. I went for the first time last year, and I was so annoyed with myself for skipping it before.”

It was a picture of one of the notices that appeared on the dorm activities boards.

5th Annual Superhero Snowball Fight

MPE Gymnasium

Sunday, December 23

8:00 PM

“You’ll love it,” said Rahul. “Show up early, put on your gym suit, and cheer as loud as you can for whichever faculty member you think likes you best. If you’re lucky, they might even let you join in.”

******

A few minutes later, Alden waited in the cafeteria’s faux town square with around three hundred others. The lights dimmed. A band of university students who called themselves Punchy and the Sways had been playing by the fountain, and they switched over from their original songs to Christmas music while the eateries closed down.

He watched people who were still in their tacky holiday outfits take pictures with each other. One group was sneaking around the edges of the crowd, depositing stuffed black trash bags as they went. The anticipation was palpable.

A drumroll preceded the arrival of the waffle cart, and everyone fell quiet, waiting for the moment when it was lit. By a single strand of colored lights.

That’s it?

The crowd went wild. Students screamed and hugged their neighbors while the trash bags were propelled into the air by magic and ripped apart to shower everyone with tiny white shreds of paper snow. A girl in a Santa hat grabbed Alden’s arm, pointed at the waffle cart, and said, “It’s so breathtaking! The beauty…the beauty…!” with tears welling in her eyes.

Then she fell to the floor, pretending to be overcome for another minute before running off with her friends to get waffles.

So that was a weird one, Alden thought, picking shreds out of his hair on his way back to the dorm. Finding out about a campus tradition was fun, though. Maybe one day he’d be the third year or the college student, confusing newbies by acting like the waffle cart with its dinky strand of lights was the essence of the holiday.

I could be. That door hasn’t closed.

He was approaching the bench he’d sat on after his final admissions interview, when Klein had told him he had no future as a superhero because one skill wasn’t enough. He almost passed it by, but then he stopped and sat on it, as he had that day, to examine himself.

The skill. The free authority that would be bound into the skill.

One more level. A few steps closer to affixation day.

He pulled up his clocks with a thought. They showed him the time of day on Artonas I and III. There was one for Chicago. One for Anesidora. And now he had the countdown to the next Welcome End.

Stuart’s final Welcome End.

The beauty…the beauty…

Almost as soon as the girl had said that, even while surrounded by people losing their minds over a barely decorated cart, Alden’s thoughts had gone to a much quieter place.

To a spiny, hard thing that would endure harsh waters. And the delicate, jelly butterfly with the glowing blue pulse that would be born from it.

To what Stu-art’h believed about beauty. And life. And power.

I like what he believes. It’s noble. Self-sacrificing. Hopeful. It’s very him.

He wondered if Stuart thought he was the spiky patient creature. Or the life that it protected.

What he thinks about that isn’t the real question, though. It’s what I think about it that matters.

Knowing Stuart, bad people weren’t allowed to be patient creatures at all. The jelly butterfly category wasn’t supposed to be a less important beauty, but a different one. A life like Enyl-tirg’s as she made learning cushions and cared for her neighbors. A life like Rahul’s if he got to spend it dispensing helpful advice and creating a Wright weapon every now and then to protect his homeland.

The Olget-ovekondos of the universe were more like toxins or predators that made the river treacherous.

If the river was closer to perfection, the patient creatures would never have to grow spikes.

Alden closed his eyes, letting the clocks become the only thing he could see.

