That was his terse advice to her after a minute of Durene’s head ringing. Her response was to growl.
“Never.”
The Drake shrugged.
“Okay then.”
His fist hit her in the chin so hard and fast that Durene never saw it coming. [Flash Punch] and…
She fell onto her back, and the Drake approached warily. Durene lay there a second, and a thought crossed her mind.
I need more training. The Drake [Soldier] made her feel silly and slow. He advanced, and Durene whispered as she lay there.
“I’ll get Lapsey out of Pallass safely.”
[Oath of Flames].
Her armor ignited, and the Drake springing towards her broke off with a curse. That moment of wavering was all Durene needed; she grabbed his leg as she sat up.
Instantly, he hit her in the face with a one-two combo, threw an elbow onto her arm, and tried to pivot into a kick to her face. Durene’s head hurt. She felt like he’d dented her armor. She stood, twisted—and then threw the Drake.
“Ah—”
He stared at her for a second, and she saw him flying, eyes wide, over the heads of the civilians. Then he tried to catch himself; he bounced over a roof, grabbed for the tiles—then went over the balcony of the 5th Floor.
“Oops.”
Durene saw the [Soldier] falling, eyes wide, before Esor dove after him.
“[Emergency—”
Durene didn’t hear a scream, only panicked shouting. She staggered, rubbing at her head, then had a terrible thought.
“Normen!”
He was taking on four of them at once! Durene whirled and saw a Gnoll on the ground, two Drakes backing away, bruises on their arms and faces, and the third Drake landing a punch on Normen’s face.
The [Knight] of Solstice took the punch with a grunt, pivoting slightly as it snapped his head back. He raised a fist, and Durene saw the other [Soldier] tense to dodge. He began to spring left, faltered—swore—
Then he swept Normen’s fist aside. The Drake missed the savage kick to his kneecaps, and when he countered, Normen ducked the punch. He strode forwards, throwing heavy punches against the Drake, who lacked the armor protecting Normen. Uppercut, stomach punch, knee to the groin—
It was a brawl, not a fistfight like Durene had been losing. One of the other [Fistfighters] tried to rise, and Normen kicked them in the face.
He was still aglow with honor’s flame. Which was at odds with how he fought. Something was…Durene squinted at the [Soldiers]. They seemed to be faltering.
“Status effect! Status—”
The Gnoll tried to tackle Normen and took the [Knight] off his feet. They were going for a pin when his teeth snapped together, nearly taking the Gnoll’s ear off. Disconcerted, they jerked back, and Normen’s helmet crashed into the Gnoll’s head.
[Bone-rattling Headbutt].
He stood up as the Pallassian soldier collapsed. Someone leapt onto Durene’s back, and she swiveled, grabbing them. She hurled them off her before they could try to choke her; Normen spun.
“Steady. Regain formation. Mobility’s limited—”
The squad of Grimalkin’s [Fistfighters] was backing up, realizing that this was not a regular threat. Durene heard a shrill whistle as one called for aid; she groaned as someone launched into a flying kick that hit her in the stomach.
Then she grabbed the leg, turned, and hurled the screaming Drake off the 5th Floor. There were shouts of horror, and several Garuda dove after the [Soldier].
It was a working tactic. The 5th Fistfighters of whoever-they-were backed away from Durene. She advanced, feinting grabs, then just kicked another [Soldier] when they stumbled in backing away.
The entire area was lit in searing green flames. Normen’s fire was spreading, and the crowd of people calling for the Watch or more soldiers stared as Normen took out three more [Soldiers]. Durene thought she was dangerous, but it occurred to her that she hadn’t ever seen Normen fighting seriously since he’d gained his new class.
[Armor-piercing Low Blow]—his kick made a Drake grimace, despite the block, which turned into a [Flash Blow] that went above the guard. The Drake stumbled and went down; he’d taken a punch to the face and a [Free Elbow] in quick succession.
A grab to Normen’s arm went bad as he threw another punch. A [Heavy Blow] sent the second Drake spinning with a missing tooth, and the last [Soldier] shouted a Skill.
“[Ogre’s Punch]!”
Normen blocked with one arm, rocking back a step, then, as the Drake tried to throw another Skill, Normen countered.
“[Minotaur P—”
A [Knight’s Riposte] was faster. The kick hit the Drake in the stomach, and the [Soldier]’s lunch came out involuntarily. He was mid-spew when Normen decided the honorable thing to do was to uppercut his jaw.
“Watch! Call the Watch!”
“Fire on Floor 5!”
“Is that the Order of Solstice? Why are they fighting [Soldiers]? What did those idiots do?”
By now, the situation had escalated well past a brawl. Normen turned calmly as a group of the Watch coming out of the prison slowed down, aiming crossbows at him and Durene. The [Paladin] was about to suggest they’d done their job and distracted everyone long enough; she didn’t want to know how much damage a crossbow would do to her, armor and thick skin or not.
However, it seemed like fortune was on their side.
“Don’t fire, you idiots! Civilians in crossfire!”
Nerul checked the [Guards]’ advance, and Normen began to stride for the group grimly as they switched to melee weapons with every sign of reluctance. The fire was continuing to spread. Honor’s flame was burning nearly fifty feet around Normen, and Durene glanced worriedly at some of the downed [Soldiers]. They didn’t want to kill the [Soldiers]…
Wait a second. No one was burning. And honor’s flame wasn’t that hot. There was no smoke rising from it either; the flames were two feet high in places, but the [Soldiers] flinching away from the flames literally burning on their chests didn’t seem to be in physical pain. Though they were grimacing.
What were the flames doing? Before she could check, Durene felt water spraying her from above and looked up.
A jet of water arced up, trying to douse the flames, but it didn’t even make the emerald fire die down. Normen kept walking as dizzying little rainbows shimmered around his feet and off his armor.
It was beautiful, and he might have looked like a [Fairy Knight] or some avatar of rainbows and friendship if not for the blood dripping from his gauntlets’, his burned face, and the look of murder he wore.
“Surrender now or—”
One of the [Guards] was aiming a spear at Normen when Durene seized her arm. She picked the young Drake up and felt bad for a second; the [Guardswoman] screamed and seemed Vess’ size and age.
Durene pivoted to throw, and several Garuda leapt into the air.
A hand like steel caught her arm. Durene strained and felt someone drag her back. A leg inserted itself with deftness precisely behind hers, and she looked down at a Drake as big as she was, if not as t—
Grimalkin threw Durene in a single motion, and the [Paladin] felt the entire world rotate until she slammed into something. A wall? The floor?
Wall. She landed on her head and scrabbled around on the ground for a second until she figured out where ‘up’ was. What had hit her? What had hit—
She looked up just in time to see the green Drake, the Sinew Magus of Pallass, putting the [Guardswoman] on her feet. He strode towards her, and Durene sat up groggily.
“Wait—”
She knew him, right? Muzzily, she got up and swung a fist in alarm. Grimalkin caught the fist.
“Stand down.”
“Huh?”
Durene tried to yank her fist back. She could not. His arm felt like an immovable object. Durene yanked again, alarmed now.
She had never, ever run into anyone stronger than she was. She grabbed for Grimalkin’s arm reflexively, and he caught her other wrist. Durene tried to force his arms apart. Then kick him—
He stepped past her again, collapsing her leg as he threw her down; the motion was simple and effortless. When she tried to get up, he let her.
“[—und Spell: Quake].”
She threw a mad punch, and he knocked it aside, then hit her in the chest.
The entire world shook. Durene’s armor rattled. Her bones rattled. She swayed, saw him raise a f—
Grimalkin’s second punch took Durene off her feet. She fell over with a thud that made the audience wince, then cheer. Grimalkin saw Durene’s eyes flickering. She wasn’t out, despite the punch to her jaw. However, Durene wasn’t sure she could take the Sinew Magus on, even if she could figure out where ‘up’ was. Her entire world was spinning in every direction.
“Sinew Magus!”
The explosion of voices made Ser Normen turn. The Watch and the [Soldiers] backed away in evident relief as Pallass’ national hero strode forwards, face grim. He avoided the green flames, eying them suspiciously as he called out.
“Ser Normen. Stand down. You’ve attacked Pallassian soldiers and the Watch. You may get away with mere imprisonment if you surrender now. If not, I will be forced to take you into custody.”
The [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice turned, flames still blazing in surreal, flickering tongues of fire that burst upwards into shards of dying flame.
Or…Durene stared bleary at Normen, and her upside-down view of him made her think, for a moment, that the flames were like green tears dripping down into the sky.
“Grimalkin.”
“What are you doing, Ser Normen? This is not Liscor. You cannot cause a riot. You are no Erin Solstice.”
The [Sinew Magus]’ voice was calm, but his body was tense. His eyes flicked to Nerul, then the Watch and prison behind Normen. Grimalkin’s brows drew together as his analytical mind presented him with a number of scenarios. But he was a son of Pallass first and foremost.
“Stand down.”
“You don’t even know what your city has done.”
Normen’s voice was faraway, tired. Yet smoldering with a growing ire. He turned and raised his fists.
Not his mace. However, the meaning was clear. Grimalkin slashed a claw through the air.
“Lower your hands, Normen. I don’t want to hurt you.”
A strange hush fell, despite the crowd. The Sinew Magus was a guest of The Wandering Inn. Whether or not many here knew it…
Rufelt pushed through the crowd as Felkhr, climbing the stairs after his flight, turned. They stared at the [Knight] and the [Mage] squaring off. Grimalkin’s eyes were filled with reluctance. Normen stared into the depths of the Sinew Magus’ gaze.
“You’re not even going to ask what they did, Grimalkin? Are you a Drake or a dog? I should break the heads of every single [Guardsman] in Pallass.”
“You’re overwrought. Let me cast a calming spell—”
The Sinew Magus pointed and then jerked; his claw burst into green flames. Swearing, he swung his hand, scattering the flames. Normen advanced a step, and Grimalkin swung his fists up.
Now, the air was tense. The two men looked at each other as Normen spat. Flames sputtered up as he cracked his neck.
“Get out of my way or on your head be it. My hat is filled with wrath.”
“You have no right to start brawls and chaos in this city. There are laws.”
“There is also right and wrong.”
The Grandmaster bellowed, and Grimalkin wasn’t the only person who flinched. The [Sinew Magus]’ eyes swung to the [Warden], and they were uncertain for a moment. Then his stance firmed.
“Don’t do this, Normen.”
For a reply, the [Knight] simply took his helmet from his head. He stared into it a moment, then lifted burning eyes to Grimalkin.
He threw his helmet, and the [Sinew Magus] shouted a spell. Then flames were raining down across Pallass.
 
——
 
He was filled with wrath until his hat left his head. Then Normen Callsten was calm. The flames of honor burning across his armor were not hot; honor was not heated.
The [Sinew Magus] blocked the helmet, which exploded like a fireball. Flames rained down, and Grimalkin raised a hand, conjuring a shield to block them from striking the crowd, who scattered.
It wouldn’t hurt them. Normen’s fire wasn’t the bitter cold of sadness, nor the painful blaze of glory. He was the [Knight of Honor’s Flame]—and his fire was the weakest of the Order of Solstice.
Normen wondered how many of them knew it. He lifted his fists as Grimalkin muttered an incantation. When he attacked, the Sinew Magus vanished, closed the dozen feet in a second, and threw a single jab.
Beautiful. Normen could neither block nor react fast enough. He took the jab and nearly went over as his head rang like a bell.
Honor kept him upright. Grimalkin swayed out of a big punch, shoved Normen’s second swing aside, and knocked the [Knight] flat with a leg sweep. He was a skilled battlemage. Normen was a streetfighter.
Honor didn’t make you stronger, faster, or smarter. Normen landed and saw Grimalkin pointing a finger down at him. Web spell—
[The Bonfire Rages]. A geyser of flames erupted from Normen, and Grimalkin leapt back, carrying himself out of the range of them. He landed amongst the scattering of flames on the ground, where [Soldiers] and [Guards] still lay, and glanced down at his feet, frowning. Green flames everywhere; he had avoided them so far, but it was impossible to keep doing so.
Normen rose slowly, shaking his head. Grimalkin hurled two spells at him; webs which burnt away before even touching the [Knight]. Then an overloaded [Arrow of Light] spell. The arrow made Normen’s armor shudder, and he rocked as he strode at the Sinew Magus.
It hurt. Honor wasn’t a shield against anything. It was, perhaps, useless. You could live a life without honor. It could make you do stupid things, like fight the Sinew Magus of Pallass in his own city.
But what was he supposed to do? Turn away? Sevil was dead. A man Normen had not really known. Murdered in open daylight. Who would hold Pallass to account?
Normen could not. He knew it. Rationally, he knew that he could only hope to escape Pallass after this. He was buying time for Jewel and Vess to get Lapsey out of here.
But Grimalkin knew better. Normen tilted his head as Grimalkin began to circle, then stumbled. The Sinew Magus didn’t want to get into range with the [Knight]. Grimalkin frowned at his feet; there were green flames clinging to his boots.
Normen punched his fists together, and green sparks filled the air. The Sinew Magus raised a foot, grimacing, and then he felt it.
His feet didn’t want to move. The flame of honor clung to it, and the ground. It was…sticky? Heavy? The flames clung to Grimalkin, just like the confused [Soldiers]. The [Sinew Magus] couldn’t [Flash Step] away.
Honor didn’t matter if you had none, craved none. Otherwise—it clung to you. It was heavy. And if Grimalkin had believed he had just cause, perhaps he could have shaken the flames loose.
—When he looked up, Normen saw that green fire in the Drake’s eyes. And uncertainty.
