Or she dodged. Durene grabbed the Drake’s arm.
“Where is she? Down the road?”
She was turning, ready to ride hell-for-leather nevermind not knowing much of how to sit a horse. The Drake’s next words drew Durene up, though.
“Down the road? Are you crazy? The Watch took her into protective custody the moment they arrived, miss. She was incoherent. I expect they patched her up and wanted to take witness statements.”
“Wait—”
Durene whirled, and the Drake pointed.
“She’s probably in Pallass, if she has any mind to leave after that. I’d stay in the city forever after a moment like that, or go back home. Just so you know, that’s never—no, there have been a few attacks on the roads of late. Must be from losing General Duln. Now there was a good [General], Dullahan or not…”
Durene rode away from the Drake. She didn’t think of it being rude; her mind was filled, and she shouted.
“Normen! Vess!”
They turned, and Durene pointed back the way she’d come. None of this made sense. None of it made sense, and her eyes were suddenly narrowed.
Strange page in a book. Mysterious [Bandit] attack? And if Lapsey had survived…
Why hadn’t she come back through to The Wandering Inn? Durene stared at the walls of Pallass, and a great suspicion dawned upon her.
 
——
 
“She’s in Pallass? Are you sure, Durene?”
“Positive. None of that makes sense, least of all the [Bandit] raid.”
“How so?”
Vess and Normen were as shocked as Durene to realize one of their two charges was dead. Normen had been set to tear off into the distance, but Durene was convinced something else was at play.
“[Bandits] don’t just slaughter people, Normen. They’re like criminals in your cities.”
“Ah. I always assumed they were more…permanent.”
That was really funny coming from a former criminal, but Normen was a city-boy and seemed to think [Bandits] were below even his breed of…criminality. So was Vess. Durene explained as the two hurried through the 1st Floor with her.
“They rob and sometimes pillage, but a group on the main road? They’d be grabbing valuables or kidnapping at the worst—the [Farmer] didn’t say anyone so much as lost their money pouch.”
Normen’s eyes sharpened, and Vess swallowed.
“Uh, Durene. If it wasn’t [Bandits], that sounds like…”
Normen’s lips turned pale as he pressed them together, and suddenly he was looking in every direction.
“Didn’t you say that Vampires were known to the Walled Cities, Vess?”
“Yeah, but they haven’t taken a stance like all the northern nobles. House Byres and House d’Artien or whatever are shouting about hunts from the rooftops.”
“…Whereas the Walled Cities haven’t said a word. Despite hundreds of them passing south. Then again, Erin let them go via her door. I don’t know how many passed through the door to Pallass directly. Sevil and Lapsey might have been the first. And if someone noticed their red eyes and…”
Suddenly, the Walled City of Inventions didn’t seem so glamorous to Durene. She looked around, then strode over to the first [Guardswoman] she could see.
“Excuse me, we’re looking for someone who was attacked on the road a few hours ago. Lapsey? Do you know…?”
The [Guardswoman] was very helpful in that she knew nothing, but directed Durene to the Watch headquarters on Floor 1, which would know if anyone did. Durene strode into the office, and here was where she sensed the first undercurrent of something she really, really didn’t like.
The Garuda at the desk was as polite, if bored, as could be. He willingly got up to check for a report on a [Bandit] attack and a Human survivor.
Durene saw him casually pull open a drawer, find a few files—then pause. She couldn’t read Garuda body language, but she could tell when he looked up and stiffly told her that the matter was confidential.
“We know the—the person involved. We’re her friends.”
“I’m afraid it’s being handled by the Watch, Miss…?”
“Durene.”
“And we are not simply her friends. We are the Order of Solstice, and those two are under our protection. Were under our protection. We would like to speak with them at once.”
Normen put in softly, and the [Guard] blinked at him, then his eyes widened.
“Wait, those [Knights]?”
His eyes flicked to something on the desk, and Durene reached for the sheets of paper. The Garuda snatched up the file.
“I, ah, let me get the Watch Captain or someone more senior, miss.”
“What’s the problem? Just show us Lapsey. What did you…where is she?”
Durene was trying to keep her voice calm, but she was getting agitated. A suspicion was in her stomach. She glanced at Vess and Normen, hoping the two more familiar with Drake culture would reassure her. But Vess just swallowed nervously. When the Garuda hurried off, Normen whispered in Durene’s ear.
Explanation, condemnation, and warning.
“This is Chaldion’s city.”
 
—-
 
The Watch Captains of Pallass apparently rotated floors semi-regularly, and there were nine, one for each floor, on duty at all times. Which told you how massive Pallass was compared to Liscor.
Today’s Watch Captain for 1st Floor was Captain Qissa. Qissa was a polite Drake. If she knew more than the file told her, she didn’t let on. In fact, she barely glanced at the file.
“Your friend is in protective custody, Ser Normen. I regret to say it’s out of my jurisdiction.”
“Then who can we speak to? Her security is the business of the Order of Solstice.”
“You three are [Knights]…your authority is acknowledged, but not recognized within Pallass, Ser Normen. I can personally say I admired your actions against the Bloodfeast Raiders. But I’m afraid I can’t help with your request.”
The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice stood there, visibly angry and upset, eyes filled with suspicion. The Watch wasn’t alarmed; there were three [Knights], but they were loitering around as the Watch Captain stonewalled him.
It was all as he had said, and the walls had ears that had picked up even his words. This was Chaldion’s city. Pallass, the City of Inventions, had both made and been molded by the Grand Strategist of the Drakes.
But one correction, please. A small one, but one that mattered.
This…was Chaldion’s city. He still lived, but the Drake who had defined Pallass’ leadership for so long was gone. Now, the systems that worked so smoothly had cracks.
For instance, the Order of Solstice should have never been able to find Lapsey’s whereabouts. It was the kind of thing an outside observer or internal one would only recognize by the failures.
The raid had gone smoothly; the two Vampires had been flagged by the [Guards], and the correct action had been taken. But a step off; the raid had been done in broad daylight, with witnesses, and the [Guards] had let the information about Lapsey slip.
What should have happened was that the connection with the Order of Solstice should have also been flagged; the two Vampires should have gone off and vanished quietly, and the Order of Solstice led in circles that never led back to the City of Inventions. There were cracks—and with one crack, one could dig deeper and find the truth.
Now that the Order of Solstice knew that Lapsey was in the city, it didn’t matter if Qissa did her job and refused to offer them information.
They knew she was in the city. More crucially, they knew where, or rather, where she was not.
“Hey, you three. What’s going on with Sevil and Lapsey? Sorry it took so long; Kel made me go through a magical inspection. Now I can go in and out so long as I don’t get more artifacts, but I had Ama check via the [World’s Eye Theatre]. She says she can’t find Sevil, and when she tries to find Lapsey…she just gets static. At least I was smart enough to find you three with it!”
Jewel caught up to the Order of Solstice with a smile, but that quickly vanished as Durene glanced at the Watch House and Normen stopped pacing back and forth.
“Someone has Lapsey. Pallass does. Sevil’s dead. I think they killed him.”
The Gold-rank adventurer stood there a second, blinking at Normen. Then she grinned uncertainly.
“That’s a bad joke.”
Normen just met her eyes. He frowned around the City of Inventions, then jerked his head.
“Come on.”
“What do we do? Search the jails?”
Vess was holding onto one wand as he walked close to Durene; she hadn’t drawn her greatsword or shield, but her fists were clenched. Suddenly, the Order of Solstice was watching every passerby, and it felt like eyes were on them.
Eyes were on them. Normen glanced sideways and frowned at a Garuda reading a newspaper. There was nothing, absolutely nothing to identify the Eye of Pallass watching them, but the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were used to foes in the shadows. He just kept his voice level.
“We leave the city. There is no way to find her if she is here.”
Sensible. The Eye of Pallass didn’t buy it for a second and made a quick call and flagged the Order of Solstice’s wariness. In the times before now, Chaldion or his team would have taken the request and escalated it into a further investigation and countermeasures.
But it didn’t go to Chaldion or even his replacement, Strategist Esor. Instead, it went to…the wrong person.
The note from the Eye of Pallass landed on the desk of Pallass’ new head of security. General Edellein, per his orders.
It wasn’t that the Drake [General] did the wrong thing with that information. Or the right thing in a suboptimal way.
In fact, he didn’t do anything with the information. One of his overworked aides filed the information away for the [General] to review.
He only checked his correspondence after dinner. And by that point—it was far too late.
 
——
 
Sevil was dead. Lapsey was missing. Pallass was behind it.
The Order of Solstice couldn’t have known; the Vampires had given them the slip in the morning, and by the time Durene had woken up, it had been too late.
While they’d had a silly breakfast, Sevil had been dead.
It was their first failure. They had lost members before. They hadn’t stopped Roshal from kidnapping Erin. But this was the first time the Order of Solstice had known there was danger, sworn to protect someone, and completely, ineffectually failed in their defense.
Durene felt sick. She sat in The Wandering Inn trying to figure out how they’d convince the Watch to let them have Lapsey. Antherr was just staring at his hands in shock; Ama was ranting.
“It’s just like Ailendamus. Some noble decides they don’t like you and you vanish. We should have told those idiots to wait for us. Why didn’t they trust us?”
“They just had a dozen [Knights] kill their friends and family, I bet. It’s a miracle they trusted us at all, and that was only because they were desperate. I knew Walled Cities were dangerous, but…”
Jewel murmured as she played with a fork. They had trooped back into the inn, told Antherr and Ama what had happened, and sat down. They had food: croissants and fruit as a snack.
No one had ordered it or touched the food. Ishkr was hovering around with a pot of tea, definitely listening in. Vess poked at a grape and tried to defend all of Drakekind.
“It’s…we don’t know why they were targeted. Drakes don’t just murder people. If it was Pallass doing all that on purpose, it’s their secret agents and stuff. Everyone knows they have them.”
“The reason seems clear to me. Do you have any actual doubts, Vess?”
Normen’s voice was flat. He didn’t seem distressed. He sat there, ice cold, and Durene realized that he was focused like an arrow, unlike the others. Vess shook his head miserably.
“No. But you’re not getting Lapsey back if they’re under lock and key, Normen. It’s Pallass. They have an entire army in the city for security at all times.”
“We have sworn to protect her. We have failed Sevil already. If this were a battle and I feared losing you all, I might suggest some of us retreat. This is no battle. This is…politics. There are ways. If this was Invrisil, I could try bribes or organize a gang. Pallass…”
Normen drummed his fingers on the table. Durene cleared her throat.
“What if we made a public protest? Tell Miss Drassi? She’s friends with the inn, right?”
Vess winced and shook his head.
“In Pallass? On the news? They’ll shut it down. They don’t have to cave to public pressure. And informing everyone Lapsey’s a you-know-what sounds dangerous. Especially if the Order of Clairei Fields gets it in their head the inn’s moving them.”
Jewel nodded.
“They already know. Or Pallass knows; how many of the ones Erin sent south survived?”
Bang. Durene jumped; that was the sound of Antherr hitting the table with a fist. He stood up, voice flat.
“I am useless here. I cannot enter Pallass. Inform me if there is anything I can do.”
“Antherr. Are you alright?”
Jewel turned to him, and the Antinium strode to the door.
“I am unharmed. I must reflect on whether I am worthy of my class.”
Normen spoke as Antherr yanked the door open.
“You’re needed in your class, Antherr. Keep your hat on your head. We’ll tell you if we have any ideas.”
Antherr paused—then looked back and nodded shortly.
“I am ashamed.”
“We all are.”
The door closed, and Durene rubbed at her face. She spoke, her voice halting with a half-laugh.
“Is it…is it bad that I wish I were with Laken now? I wouldn’t change things for the world. But if things had been somehow different—”
She felt stupid, but Ama just patted her hand earnestly.
“If you were with him, you’d just be over there, and we’d be stuck with one less person, Durene. Come on, let’s think. How do we do something about Lapsey? Erin’s theatre isn’t that great; it can’t locate her.”
Normen’s voice was grating and low as the flames on his armor.
“It tells us she’s alive.”
That was true. But you could be ‘alive’ and be in a lot of situations that Durene didn’t want to contemplate. She snapped as she clenched a fist.
“Why is everyone leaping to murder Vampires anyways? Did no one think of talking? And—and why keep her alive and drag her away? What’s the purpose?”
The Order of Solstice didn’t know. They were helpless, at least in the arena of understanding Walled City politics. They needed, Durene realized, someone like Rie who understood political currents. Either that or they needed an army big enough to make Pallass listen to them.
Lacking either, they were helpless. That was until Ishkr, who’d been listening while sipping from a tea cup he’d poured for himself, spoke.
