That rattled the Wistram [Mage] sufficiently. She put a finger to her temple, then relaxed.
“I’m sure the Archmage needn’t be bothered with…he is very aware of Riverfarm. But it’s just another language. [Translation] covers Drathian and all written languages, even old ones. Allow me, Your Majesty. And Wistram will be happy to cast all these spells for a nominal fee with our improved [Mages]—[Translation]!”
She waved her fingers with a flourish, demonstrating that she also had the ability to cast without a wand—and cast what was probably at least a Tier 3 spell without warmup.
Better, in short, than your average [Mage], even from Wistram. Magus Reyna stared down at the book as her eyes glowed a second.
“Aha! It says…this is a spell of…well, it’s not words in a direct, one-to-one translation. I…is this a spell to make someone’s head explode?”
Alevica’s nerves thrilled as Reyna lost more confidence and blanched. Laken sat up; the book was open to the ritual the Hag Queen had used on Oliyaya. All the other advisors drew back as Laken spoke.
“Yes. So they are spells?”
“They’re…spells. Yes.”
Something was wrong. All the woman’s confidence had drained out of her, and horror was coming off her like the scent of rot. Alevica stepped forwards.
“Is there history here? Anything else about Aklat Vunn?”
Reyna was passing a hand over her eyes, which were flicking down the page. As if trying to stop herself from reading, but her lips moved, and she spoke as if she was in a dream.
“The words…are full. They’re not just words. Each one is power. They—they—they sacrificed their own people for each word.”
“Say what now?”
Ram glanced at the book and shied away. He just saw words that burned his eyes and mind, but Reyna saw something else. Alevica’s ears perked up. That sounded like deep magic. The darkest, the kind Belavierr had done. Reyna’s voice rose an octave. She was blinking now, but unable to turn away. Now it was fear roiling from her.
“Millions. They built their words out of dark deeds. To their g—g—I see a world with a black sun. I see when each word was first carved. They built their magic out of blood and bone, and I cannot stop looking. Help me.”
Her eyes. Alevica saw liquid dripping down Reyna’s cheeks. Blood.
Yesel had stopped smiling. Laken hadn’t noticed the blood yet; he was leaning forwards.
“Reyna. Reyna, what’s wrong?”
Wiskeria stepped forwards and wrenched the woman’s head away, so hard she nearly broke Reyna’s neck. But Reyna’s eyes were open wide, and the [Magus] emitted a high-pitched scream.
“They’re in my eyes! The words are in my—”
Laken shouted like someone in a bad horror movie, too slow and too late.
“Close the book!”
Gamel slapped the book closed, but the [Mage] began to shriek now as her eyes kept roving the air. Alevica strode forwards, cursing.
“She’s translated too much!”
“They’re in her memories. It’s like a parasite of the mind; no telling how much she got. Or how dangerous it is. Everyone, step back. If it gets ugly or she starts to babble in tongues or you see any part of her bulging, I’ll blow her brains out.”
Wiskeria calmly drew her wand. Everyone leapt back, and Yesel called out.
“Wiskeria, are you mad?”
“I am not having a portal open in Riverfarm. Alevica, you’ve seen the book. Can we dispel it?”
It wasn’t magic. Reyna was just seeing too much! Alevica bit her lip. Knocking the woman out was an option; she was beginning to thrash and scream now. But what if—
Translation. Eyes. The knowledge was burned in her head—Alevica blinked.
“Reyna! The spell! Cancel the spell!”
The [Mage] didn’t hear her. Wiskeria’s eyes flickered as she understood. Alevica pointed her wand at the [Mage], but she didn’t have enough of her craft right now, and it was [Mage] magic. It was Wiskeria who grabbed Gamel’s arm.
“That’s it! Blind her, Gamel!”
The [Knight] didn’t hesitate. He pointed at Reyna, who was thrashing about on the floor now.
“[Blind Foe]!”
Instantly, the woman’s eyes clouded over, and her scream choked off. She lay there, gasping, then spoke.
“Dispel—”
The [Mage] undid her own magic. Then she lay there a moment. When she raised her head, she was still blind, but she had such a look of terror on her face that Alevica felt bad for her. Then Reyna opened her mouth, and Alevica got to see the most impressive projectile vomiting in her life.
She dodged. The others did not.
 
——
 
Laken Godart took the time to let Nesor come in with a cleaning spell and to give some succinct orders to his court as they filed out.
“Ensure Magus Reyna gets back to her fellow [Mages] with an appropriate explanation of what occurred. All our hospitality, Miss Yesel. No one is to speak of any internal Riverfarm projects again, let alone to Wistram, is that understood?”
The very subdued Yesel and the rest of his court bowed to the [Emperor]. He stood there rubbing his face, and Alevica saw him exhale a few times.
He was as disturbed as she was, alarmed, upset—and a bit smug. When the others were gone, Laken turned to Alevica.
“—And that should put paid to any idiots thinking they can just do our jobs for us. A shame about Reyna, but perhaps it’ll make Wistram take us more seriously. Sorry about that, Alevica. Did you have a decent morning with Cirsa and Malluni?”
Alevica had been about to remark on the dangers of what they were doing—or the fact that the Hag Queens were on par with the oldest and nastiest of [Witches]. The comment about her morning was so banal—but it reminded her, and she hissed at him as she stomped closer.
“Stop doing me favors! Half of Riverfarm thinks you’re courting me after Durene!”
“Well, I’m not.”
“Aren’t you? It seems awfully convenient that you’re practically taking away all my problems whether I like it or not.”
The question bothered him, and Laken frowned, resting on a table that had a map of Riverfarm. Not, incidentally, a map useless to him. Someone had painstakingly made tiny houses and streets so Laken could run his hand across the map and feel what people were looking at.
“I’m not. Truly. I want to help you, Alevica. I owe Oliyaya a great debt as well, and seeing you taking care of Cirsa and Malluni…am I not allowed to do that? I’m having dinner with Yesel’s family some nights, and if I hear any rumors about that, I’ll kick all the gossipers into the river.”
“Well, I’m not Yesel. I just don’t like you managing my life with all your influence. Thallisa, Eloise, Hedag—those are Great Witches, Laken. Them helping is…they’d do that, but this feels like too much.”
“I’m an [Emperor]. It comes with the territory.”
Laken sounded pleased with himself, so Alevica snapped back reflexively.
“Well, no wonder you don’t have friends and Durene left you.”
She felt bad about it, even for her, the moment she felt the guilt flooding through him. Alevica cleared her throat.
“I just meant…”
“No. Wiskeria said the same thing. It’s an easy shot, maybe, but it’s true. I don’t have…peers. I wish I did, actually.”
Laken sat down, and Alevica did too. He spoke absently.
“I can solve most problems by just telling someone to do it. Ironic for a blind man without many skills. The other problems are unique to me: protecting Riverfarm, negotiating with other powers. That’s why I like your project, Alevica. I can help with the translation. I can’t solve it with my class. I’m just one person doing my best. Can you let me do that for a while?”
The Witch Runner sat there and didn’t give him any physical clues as to her mental thoughts. After a while, she nodded.
“…I suppose I can do that. Alright. You said you had a huge hint for me?”
She was rewarded with a relieved smile, and Laken sat forwards eagerly.
“Yes! I figured out another word last night, but I didn’t manage to tell you. Every time I get one right, my head stings. I think I’m figuring out the pronunciation. But it’s not really pronounceable; I’ve been trying all morning, and Gamel thought I was choking. But let me try to describe it and see if you can get the word right in your mind.”
He began speaking, and Alevica kept her face straight, glad he didn’t have [Witch] powers. She scolded herself mentally.
Great. Now you feel bad for him. And you don’t like him. You don’t. Stop it. Cut it out.
She was paging through the book to distract herself when her eye caught a spell at the beginning, squeezed onto the same page with three more. Alevica paused, staring at a word that seemed to correspond with the most basic of spells.
“Hm. Sçæptiŝ?”
Laken looked up, and Alevica tried the word again.
“S-cuh-hae—”
“Try a deeper tone. Almost guttural. Imagine a bullfrog trying to speak.”
“Scaaaep—”
The two were practicing the words, and Alevica gave up on that one and tried the word Laken had figured out in his sleep. It was indeed like a burp or the deepest bass rumble you could imagine for some of the words, combined with harsh, sibilant characters.
“Řoçit?”
“Try more…do you know how to roll your r’s?”
“What?”
Laken demonstrated. Alevica tried for the next twenty minutes.
“R-r-r-r-”
“Rrrrrrrrr. Perro. Pe-rrrrrr-o. Purr.”
Even when she managed that, it wasn’t quite the inflection you put on the first ‘R’.
“It’s not as gentle as Spanish. It’s more like…uh…Czech? But because it’s from the Hag Queens, I think you have to do the rolling ‘r’ about an octave or two below our voices.”
“Well, my voice isn’t going to go that deep.”
Alevica’s tone was hoarse from trying, and she accepted some fresh lemonade from Laken, then nearly spat it out.
“This is sour as shit. What is this?”
“Lemons from one of the fae lands. Don’t you like it?”
“My face is puckering up.”
Alevica heard Laken laughing, and, exasperated, she took another gulp of the sour lemonade—despite the sugar mixed in—and snapped.
“This is hopeless. I don’t even know how you’re figuring out the words in your head! I’ll never speak it!”
It must have been because he had references to sounds in Earth that had the right bass tone; she hadn’t made any magical word ‘click’ in pronunciation, only writing.
Laken stopped laughing and frowned. He let Alevica continue drinking and then nodded.
“You’re right. Maybe it is impossible to say with Human vocal cords.”
He stood up abruptly, and Alevica protested.
“Hold on, don’t give up just because I said that. I say a lot of things like that. You know me.”
“I’m not giving up! I’m just…Gamel? Do we have any honey?”
“Honey?”
Gamel strode over as Laken emerged from his kitchen. The [Emperor] came back, and there was that eager smile on his face.
“Honey deepens your voice. I feel like an idiot. If this was on Earth…what if we used a program, or in this case, something to change what you’re saying? Is there magic for that?”
Alevica opened her mouth. She…didn’t know.
“That’s not normal magic, even for a [Witch]. Wait a second…no. It can’t be.”
“What? Do you think we could ask Nesor?”
“Nesor? Do you think I’m trusting him with my voice? No. It’s…Cirsa. She and the little [Apprentices] love playing tricks on people, right? They have tons of magic to change their voices to sound evil. I used to do that too!”
That couldn’t be the answer. But Laken just grinned, and Alevica, after a few ginger prods from her wand and a drink of honey, tried it.
“How’s this.”
Her voice dropped so deep that Gamel jumped, and Alevica swore the table rumbled. Laken clapped his hands in delight.
“That’s perfect! See if you can make your voice even more…you want that weird ‘vrrrr’ sound that bullfrogs make. It sounds a bit like an electronic device or a motor from my world. Or a lightsaber.”
Alevica had no idea what Laken meant, but she had heard bullfrogs. Now she had the idea, she didn’t try adjusting her voice; she inhaled, pulled air into her cheeks, and tried to make them vibrate with magic.
She imagined she looked ridiculous from how Gamel burst out laughing one time as Alevica tried to combine that with her voice. She made Gamel stand in a corner facing a wall, and she kept going.
“Rrr-roçit. Rrrrrr-ocit.”
Laken was trying too, mostly so she didn’t feel like a fool. Alevica took a breath and tried to imagine one of the Hag Queens saying it. A voice like thunder, gleefully reciting magic from another world. A dead world. She felt her tongue curling, and it felt like she struck a match inside her mouth.
“Řoçit.”
Alevica felt no twinge of pain in her mind. When she had stared at the word, yes. When she had figured out the sound, yes. But when the word spoke itself aloud, it felt like she spat something full of power into the world, unlike craft. No emotion, no stored magic, but a word that itself created power and meaning and force.
“Wh—”
Laken went over in his chair with a crash. Gamel whirled in alarm. Every light source in the room went out in a moment. Alevica was pitched into pure blackness.
“Laken?”
“Your Majesty!”
Both she and Gamel shouted in alarm. Alevica drew her wand, aiming around. What had she done? Had she created anything? Had—
Someone grabbed her arm, and she tried to blast Laken out of existence, but he was laughing.
“You did it! Alevica, you did it! What’s wrong?”
He hadn’t realized the lights were out. Oh. Alevica shakily lit up her wand. Or tried to. After a second, she swallowed.
“Laken? Can you tell where we are?”
“Yes. What, did the lights go out?”
“Yes. The word I spoke took them out. I don’t think it was a full spell.”
“Great! I mean, wow. Need a match or something?”
“Sort of. The light…isn’t coming back.”
“Ah. Oh. I see.”
Silence. Gamel tried to light a lantern with an Octavia firestriker. Alevica tried another [Light] spell. Gamel swore.
“I just burned my—but there’s no light. Are we blind?”
“No? I can see light from the windows…”
“Hold on. Grab my arm, you two.”
Laken grabbed the two of them and was just towing them out of the room, to the doors, when all the lights popped back on. Alevica blinked in the sudden, blinding light and stared at her wand. She stopped Laken, and when she told him what had happened, he grinned.
“That’s magic. We’re casting magic, Alevica.”
She gave him a shaky smile and realized he couldn’t see that either. Alevica swallowed, the word still seeming to burn her mouth.
