“I ask because I do not know. I hear two things. One is that Vampires are an old evil. The second is that they have done little wrong as of now. Yet Vampires attacked House Byres. It is as I have heard Antinium described to me by the Gnolls. We are a people. Yet we invaded Izril and made war upon Gnolls and Drakes and Humans. Where is the correct choice?”
Normen replied, his voice grating and soft.
“We trust our eyes. We trust this.”
He held up a lantern, and it blazed with harsh, green light. Vess’ seemed piercingly painful; a desire for mercy not granted to Lapsey. The Vampire looked up as Jewel lifted the pink flame of glory, which was so small. Yet it grew when she looked at the Vampire, if it could be found anywhere.
As for Ama…blue flames deepened with all the memories in the [Necromancer]’s eyes. Antherr lifted his lantern, and it blazed hazel, then. Glory and honor. A calm flame of determination that refused to wither and die.
“Then I never shall doubt again. How do we protect Lapsey? How do we get her to safety, if there is any in the south?”
“The New Lands. We were going to head south along the New Lands to the coast. As far as we could get. If we had to leave for Baleros or Chandrar or…Sevil thought someone was watching for us. Once we got far away from Pallass, they’d find us.”
Lapsey whispered. She showed them a line running down the map, and Durene nodded.
“This makes sense.”
“Does it, Durene?”
Normen was confused, but Durene had been thinking.
“Vampires aren’t stupid, Normen. They have to be watching out for their kind. I think they noticed Pallass is bad; otherwise, Lyonette would have seen more Vampires coming through. Sevil and Lapsey were on the run so no one could help them. I bet most of them are going south past Liscor on foot. Or through the High Passes.”
“That’s suicide. Even if they are strong and can heal and do crazy stuff. I grew up in the shadow of the High Passes. You think those Gargoyles and Eater Goats are the only bad stuff up there?”
Vess shuddered and shook his head. Durene grimaced.
“Then…they’re all coming south, going past the Bloodfields, then avoiding Pallass’ spies and soldiers.”
“It must be a slaughter. Especially if the Order of Clairei Fields and House Byres know they have to head through Liscor.”
Jewel shuddered. No wonder they’d run into hunters around Celum. Durene nodded, staring darkly at the map.
How dare Pallass do that? She was still angry. But more than that—she glanced at Lapsey. The Vampire woman was distraught, her face streaked with tears—but her red eyes betrayed a wrath behind all that sadness.
Durene realized they’d been talking over the quiet Vampire, and she sat down.
“Lapsey? Is any of this what you want? Getting to the south, I mean?”
Everyone turned to her, embarrassed; they had forgotten she had a will in this. However, Lapsey just shook her head.
“I…Sevil was the one with the plan. He and his family knew people. I don’t. I…now he’s gone. I’m not safe in the north. I know that; they were tracking us even though we moved away from my village twice. We’d get people asking questions about us, and then we realized they were following.”
Trackers. Durene glanced at Normen, who grimaced.
“I’ve met men who can do that. The Brothers have their own experts. The north isn’t safe. But do you have a plan, Lapsey?”
“Don’t ask her that. She just lost her husband. She needs a [Thought Healer], rest—let’s get her safety first, huh? Don’t worry, Lapsey. No one will grab you here.”
Jewel shook her head. But the Vampiress stared at her hands.
“…I can’t go back home. My village wouldn’t take me back if they knew…and I don’t want that. I want to find my people. My people. Then they’ll show me my powers. Sevil was. I’ll get to them, hide, learn to use a sword, and then come back to Pallass.”
Durene’s mouth opened.
“Um. Maybe don’t do that?”
Lapsey’s eyes flashed red as her head rose.
“They killed my husband. First them! Then the Vampire Hunters! Then—”
She stared blankly at a wall, then smiled for some reason.
“Then I’ll hide away somewhere no one will find me and have a hundred children. Be the mother of blood. A hun—maybe a dozen. Six.”
A hundred? Even six sounded like a lot! Normen blinked at this strange turn of desires, shooting Durene a glance. Durene realized that as the person asking about intimacy, she got to handle this one.
“Um. Why children, Lapsey?”
The Vampiress looked up blankly and responded as if it were obvious.
“Because Vampires need children. Especially after all the murder. Sevil says I have hope. And our children would have. I’m not sick, don’t you see?. I’m…important. Sevil and I would have restarted everything properly. If I’d known what Pallass was up to…”
She clenched a fist. Durene’s ears perked up.
“What’s this about being sick? Are Vampires ill?”
For answer, Lapsey eyed Durene, shook her head as if darkly amused—then her body flickered. Durene leapt out of her seat as Lapsey’s prison clothing shifted, tore—and a black wolf landed on the floor.
Normen jerked onto his feet, and the wolf sniffed at Vess, who recoiled, mouth open. After a second, the wolf looked around, then crawled under the bed. Durene didn’t get why until she saw the bed bump as Lapsey hit her head.
Sounding a lot less confident, she called out.
“…Do you have a blanket? I lose my clothes when I do that.”
Normen, Vess, and Antherr all turned around as Jewel thrust the bedsheets down for Lapsey. When the Vampire emerged, she explained.
“It’s my gift. Shifting. You’re supposed to lose it or never have it if you have the curse. But it’s just poison in the wells and groundwater. Sevil could flit across the ground. Mist stepping, they called it.”
“Why aren’t you sick then?”
Lapsey shook her head as Durene wondered how this poison had gotten all over the north.
“I grew up far to the east of Celum. A bit north; along the coast. Apparently, House Byres never came that far, and so the wells were safe. Sevil and his entire family moved there over the winter. Then they heard about the hunts and…”
She sat there, looking lost, and Durene wondered how fast she and Sevil had met if Lapsey had married Sevil. That was, what…four months and marriage?
Well, it wasn’t her place to judge. Durene patted Lapsey’s shoulder.
“We’ll get you to safety, Lapsey, I promise. The inn’s safe enough right now, and we’ll make sure you’re guarded. Did…all the family die?”
Lapsey’s eyes flooded with tears again, and she wiped at them.
“They were so—so happy when Sevil introduced me. They said I’d help revive their kind. We were going to have children! Sevil was so strong and powerful, and he loved me, especially when he found out I was untainted—”
Wait a second. Something about how she spoke made a bell in Durene’s head begin to sound a tiny bit. Lapsey was completely overwrought, but Durene cleared her throat.
“He…checked, did he?”
Lapsey nodded earnestly.
“He said he’d been to dozens of villages to find one without problems. Then he realized this one was clean, and he said he fell in love with me at first sight.”
“Uh.”
Vess opened his mouth, and Antherr covered it quickly. Durene kept her smile up like a shield.
“That’s great. What happened to your village? Did your parents object?”
“No…we eloped.”
Lapsey squirmed a bit, and Durene’s heart sank.
“You eloped?”
“He was kind to me. And magnificent. We’re just a fishing village on the edge of nowhere, and I wasn’t anything special. My family was going to marry me off to this horrible [Fisherman], and I barely had a dozen levels, and then Sevil came into the village one night and…”
Durene stared at Lapsey’s shining eyes and the tears that began to flow again. The half-Troll whispered to Ama as Normen found it harder to maintain his vigil of guilt.
“I think it might’ve been a bad thing for Lapsey to, uh, have been made a Vampire.”
She didn’t like how she had just run into an example of why Vampires might have the reputation they did. Ama glanced at Lapsey, then whispered back.
“What, like some village girl deciding the first stranger to walk into her life and offer her kindness is worth dying over? That’s bad?”
“Yeah, that’s b—hey.”
Durene shoved Ama with a scowl. The [Necromancer] grinned at Durene. The two were smiling at each other when they realized the sniffling had stopped. They looked back, and Lapsey was staring at them, red eyes glowing between her fingers. A horrific scowl was filling her face, and Durene realized that among the many sterling traits Vampires had—hearing was one of them.
“I, uh, I only meant—”
 
——
 
Ishkr was bringing up a bloody steak when he heard a shriek, a thud, and saw the door burst open. Durene went flying out the door, hit the far wall, and slid down, staring as the sounds of fighting came from within.
Durene. Wearing armor. Ishkr had leaned out of the way just in time thanks to his Skills. He saw the half-Troll girl bring up her arms as a furious Vampire leapt on her, claws extended and slashing, biting and—
Ishkr was reaching for an emergency jar of cloves in his bag of holding when Lapsey halted. She caught herself, hands on Durene’s throat, as the [Paladin] held up an arm, and a pair of figures halted.
Colfa and Vaulont had both emerged from rooms adjoining the one the Order of Solstice were in. They, like Ishkr, definitely hadn’t been listening in. When they saw Lapsey had halted her attack, both froze—then swept back into their rooms before anyone saw them.
Colfa backed up through the doorframe, out of sight of the [Knights] and Lapsey, a finger to her red lips. Vaulont just stood in the doorway, like a shadow, listening as Lapsey began apologizing.
“I—I’m sorry. I didn’t mean—”
“I, uh, I’m sorry too? Please don’t bite me.”
Lapsey laughed as she got off Durene. She stared at her hands, then reassured the half-Troll girl.
“I can’t turn you into a Vampire like that. I have to drink all your blood first, then inject my own. And even then, you’d be a thrall. It’s very…”
Colfa’s eyes widened, and she glanced at Vaulont, who was leaning against a doorframe, invisible to Lapsey, but across the hall from Colfa. She mouthed several expletives, and he nodded and grimaced, pulling down his mask.
Ishkr glanced from face to face as the Vampires exchanged looks of deep reservation. Then remembered he was here. He offered Vaulont the steak. Meanwhile, Lapsey was staring at Normen.
“He fought so many of the Pallassians. By himself! I know your Order. It’s famous. Your fire is so beautiful.”
Durene got up, wincing.
“Normen did fight the Sinew Magus.”
Jewel exploded.
“Which was crazy! He’s a guest here. Normen! What were you thinking? Erin likes Grimalkin!”
Normen’s voice was low as he opened the door, pointedly beckoning everyone inside as he stared at the three eavesdroppers.
“I am not Erin. That was a warning.”
“And if he kicked your ass?”
Ama sounded skeptical. Normen glanced at her.
“I don’t think about whether I win or lose when I take off my hat.”
The [Knights] of Solstice gave Normen glances of respect or worry. But Ishkr had been mostly focused on Lapsey. She had given the [Knights] a look of wonder and speculation. He distinctly heard her voice before the door finished closing.
“Do you accept recruits?”
“Huh? Wh—”
They moved back into their rooms, and after a moment, Ama or Vess must have cast a muffling spell. Undeterred, Colfa and Vaulont just produced glass cups and put their ears to the wall. Ishkr just went to fetch another steak. But before he did, he peeked out a window on the second floor.
The grassy hill outside had undead building the new tower, villagers of Rheirgest chatting as they supervised the work, and even a few children playing. Ishkr ignored them. He stared pointedly at a patch of grass that seemed to ripple unnaturally against the wind. After a moment, he closed the window.
Not the regular pests the Thronebearers dealt with. He was sure Vaulont would take care of it. Otherwise…Ishkr decided to make another garlic jar.
Just in case.
 
——
 
While the Order of Solstice tried to calm a very upset Vampire, who didn’t want to have her entire reason for Vampirification and marriage called into question this day of days, other people were getting on with their lives.
Namely, Alevica. She woke up as usual in a chair in Oliyaya’s hut and hoped Malluni and Cirsa hadn’t gotten into too much trouble. She felt at the crick in her neck and decided she needed to get the two some new clothes.
They had about three sets of robes between them. All black; they were mostly the same size, and witch robes weren’t demanding. Oliyaya wasn’t big on wardrobes.
Hadn’t been.
Alevica’s mentor had been big on making what you wore; Alevica had made her boots, her own robes, and Oliyaya insisted you put a bit of yourself into your apparel. But she had never seen the need to accessorize or even get more clothing.
“A [Witch] is a [Witch], and a fancy dress or skirt matters not, Alevica.”
She used to say that all the time. It was one of the lessons Alevica had not taken to heart; she had a wardrobe, and the two girls should have at least enough clothing to not have to go around in the nude or in their underthings when they needed a wash.
Then again, it was doubtful that Oliyaya had seen washing as a necessary component to keeping her robes functional.
After that, lessons. Their teeth are good; I need to get them eating more healthy things. Malluni’s too scrawny, but she hates anything that’s crunchy. Or mushy. Cirsa won’t eat anything visibly orange. So I have to do something about all that.
It wasn’t suffering, not really. It wasn’t fun to have this on her head. All these issues were a problem, and Alevica felt at her money pouch and wished she’d saved a bit more gold over her life.
But she wasn’t going to curse her lot in life or say the two brats were a drag. Why?
Because if Alevica wanted, she knew she could find a [Witch] to take care of the two, arguably better than Alevica could. [Witches] took care of their own. Agratha was but one of the [Witches] specialized in teaching.
That was not the issue. Alevica was no mother. She didn’t have a sense of maternal pride in the two girls. But they were Oliyaya’s apprentices. The [Witch] murmured a spell as she stretched.
 
“When I was young: I did what I pleased. 
Nothing mattered back then; I took my ease. 
Oliyaya was a great [Witch]. 
Her apprentices don’t let her down. 
 
Now I am old: there is great need. 
My mentor is from her burdens freed. 
Oliyaya is a great [Witch]. 
Let her apprentice rise to her name.”
 
