The City of Inventions was as varied as she had imagined, and it was so huge, filled with millions of inhabitants, that it made her knees go weak.
The height from 8th Floor made Normen go pale. Durene didn’t have as many problems with the dizzying heights, but he stepped away from the elevator.
“There’s not much cause for worry in Pallass, Durene. You’re as unique as a Djinni or a Beastkin, perhaps, but you can find a few of those in Pallass as visitors.”
“But I’m half-Troll. Dangerous. At least, that’s what the stories say. No one’s afraid—”
Normen shot her a semi-sardonic glance as he stepped into the elevator.
“First floor, please. Why would they be? They’re in a Walled City.”
It took Durene a moment to realize what that meant, then even longer to process it. Being in a Walled City meant you were safe.
Safe in ways a girl from Riverfarm couldn’t imagine. There were no monsters here, except maybe sewer pests. No [Bandits] attacked; there was crime, of course, but it was individual, and the Watch and army had a huge presence.
This was Pallass, and save for a literal army or an event like the Wyvern weyr—no one had anything to fear.
Durene envied this place. For a moment, she wished she had grown up here. But then again…she had heard Drake laws were strict and unforgiving. The Watch was everywhere, and she could see Pallassian [Soldiers] in their yellow armor too.
Pallass was both City of Inventions and one of the six pillars of Drake supremacy on the continent. Whether Durene knew it or not, her visit had already been logged in channels far above Sergeant Kel’s paygrade.
Pallass saw almost everything that went on in its aegis of power. And it, too, had ideas about what was best for Izril…or Drakes…or the Walled Cities…or just Pallass.
 
——
 
It took Vess a while to catch up with Durene and Normen. When he did, he found them on the first floor, asking some [Guards] about Sevil and Lapsey.
The 1st Floor Bazaar was a sprawling maze of cloth awnings and stalls in a huge central mass; it had once started as an impromptu set of day-traders with their wares, but had morphed into a permanent fixture of Pallass.
“Cocoa seeds! Straight from Baleros!”
“Saffron threads! Mass-grown! Buy them by the pound here or pay a gold piece per gram elsewhere!”
“Faerie Flowers! I have three shoots, the most exclusive item in Pallass! I want to see real bids or nothing!”
Normen was smirking at some of the yellow flowers on display for reasons Durene didn’t get as Vess strode over.
“There you two are. Good thing I asked if anyone had seen a tall, grey Human and a blue [Knight]! Sorry—Jewel is held up, and Antherr and Ama can’t make it.”
“What? Why n—oh. Antherr’s Antinium.”
Durene should have thought of that. Normen frowned.
“Why not Ama?”
“She tried, but she brought Sillias with her. They locked the gates, and Jewel’s getting grilled because of all of her artifacts. They passed me because I had a Luldem Passport, even though that makes me a small-time Drake.”
Vess scowled, though he seemed as keen to stare at Pallass as the rest of them. He peered around as Normen nodded at a [Guard] sorting through pages of a book.
“They’re checking to see if Sevil and Lapsey left. It’s hard to tell.”
“No kidding?”
There were four main gates, and the amount of people entering and leaving Pallass was insane. Each one had to still be checked in and out, and there were hundreds of [Guards] facilitating the process.
That made Durene feel a bit better about Pallass’ opulence and amazing sights; if she had to do this every time she walked in or out of Riverfarm, she’d go crazy.
“—Let’s see. Sevil and Lapsey? No such record, Mister Knight.”
The Drake looked up from the book with a huge sigh. Normen frowned.
“Maybe they’re still in the city?”
“Or maybe they’re not using their real names.”
Vess whispered to Durene, and her eyes widened. She turned to the Drake.
“What about a young man and a woman? Human? They might have—we might have used the wrong names?”
The Drake gave her an appalled look.
“Do you want me to sort by every couple that left the city this morning, miss?”
“Please?”
It was the kind of thing that made Normen and Vess look aghast at Durene. Both men clearly expected the Drake to spit in Durene’s face and throw the literal book at her, but after a moment of locked eyes with Durene, he bent over the book with a groan. Vess muttered to the other two, impressed.
“Wow, I can’t believe he’s doing it.”
“Well, it’s his job.”
The perks of being with Laken was the realization that most people could be prodded to do almost anything. Well, Durene wasn’t sure if that was a good thing, but she also had the suspicion that standing there and reading the book for them was easier than doing gate duty.
“If we can’t tell whether they’re in Pallass or not…we should split up. No, wait. We should have asked Miss Lyonette to locate the two of them using the [World’s Eye Theatre]!”
Normen groaned as he realized the obvious. Durene slapped her forehead too. They weren’t used to having such powerful Skills about!
“I can run up and check.”
“Give it a second, Vess. If they’ve gone, maybe it’s best they go in secret. We stand out like a sore thumb. I just wanted to know what was going on with their situation. Let’s ask Fierre when she’s about if—”
Normen was shaking his head, and Durene was just about to ask how far Normen wanted to go in defense of the Vampires. She had great sympathy, but…they couldn’t fight all those hunters, could they? They were a group of six. The Order of Clairei Fields had hundreds, maybe even thousands of [Knights] across the continent.
However, a huge shift in the bazaar made all three [Knights] turn. The hubbub died down, and someone called out.
“Hey! The Flying Gnoll is taking off again! Outside!”
“Wait! Don’t leave the city without—”
Too late. Everyone in earshot turned and, except for the shopkeepers, headed for the gates in a rush. Durene looked at her friends, then they too hurried outside to stare up at the walls.
Felkhr, the Flying Gnoll of Pallass, was a speck four hundred feet up. Durene saw a group on the walls looking down, waving—but her eyes were drawn to the figure with the hang glider he’d crafted himself, dressed in a blue bit of fabric that stood out against the sky.
—Not just him, Durene realized. As she squinted, she saw four other figures up there.
“Four?”
“They’ve added more fliers this time. Looks like two Gnolls, a Drake, and…a Dullahan? Hah! The armor will drag that idiot down, or they’ll drop their head!”
A Pallassian citizen, a Drake, made the amused remark as several Dullahans stared at her silently. But everyone was breathless, craning their necks upwards.
“I saw him on the scrying orb.”
It was a trite comment for Durene to make, but it was strange to think that this was the Gnoll she’d seen. It wasn’t a bad comment either; several Pallassians gave her approving glances.
“You’re lucky, Miss…Human. Felkhr doesn’t fly every day. He’s training the newest Fliers of Pallass. A national hero, you know. All the Walled Cities want him, but he got his start here, jumping off the walls. I know him personally; talked to him several times.”
A Gnoll sounded quite proud of Felkhr, and Normen snorted quietly as Durene nodded and smiled. The [Knight] leaned over and whispered in Durene’s ear.
“They weren’t so complimentary of him before he succeeded according to Miss Solstice. At least now the fellow’s got the support and adoration he deserves.”
It was true. Whatever his history, now a cheer arose as Felkhr spread his arms—waved down—then leapt from the walls.
Durene’s breath caught as he and the other four fliers dove, but they began to curve as their wings opened, and she saw them cease falling and enter controlled glides almost at once. Applause burst out from below them; Durene’s mouth stayed open, and she pointed up.
“They’re—they’re flying.”
Durene knew flying was possible with magic carpets or wings and she had seen others fliers before; even now, Garuda were actually following the fliers past the walls as well.
But seeing people who should be landbound actually speeding through the air was something else. It made Durene’s heart beat a hundred miles a minute in her chest, and she wondered, for a moment—
Could I fly if I had that wing-stuff on? 
Surely not. Surely she was too heavy. But maybe…Durene looked around and saw countless faces upturned. With pride, wonder, envy, and amongst many, that yearning Durene felt.
“Wow.”
Nothing for Durene captured the City of Invention’s spirit more than that sight of a Gnoll turning in the sky, waving down at the cheering crowds below before doing a loop-de-loop in the air for the joy of it. He kept going, gliding into the distance with the other trainees, who seemed far less inclined to radical moves.
 
——
 
“Well, that was worth seeing. I guess Pallass does invent some stuff.”
Even Vess couldn’t hide his admiration afterwards. Everyone trooped back into the city as the [Guards] herded them inside and resumed entry and exit proceedings. It had to be a problem when people flooded out like that, and more than one [Guard] double-checked some suspicious people that might have slipped in or tried to exit in the rush.
“Hey, Lawrell, get over here!”
“One second!”
The Drake who was checking the book made a show of turning to Normen and the [Knights] to avoid work as much as he could. He was just about to close the book when something caught his eye.
“Sorry, Knights. I don’t think that couple passed through. I might’ve missed them, unl—wait a second.”
He frowned at an entry on what was either the first or last page of the book, then glanced up. Durene raised her eyebrows.
“Sevil and Lapsey? Male, female? Around my age?”
“On foot, I’d imagine. We were going to buy them horses, and I don’t know if Lyonette gave them anything.”
Normen added, and the [Guard] hesitated.
“Yeah, on foot, western gate. At—7:42.”
Durene guessed it had taken the two a while to get through Pallass, and they might have done some sightseeing. She nodded eagerly.
“That’s probably them! Black hair, er, red eyes?”
A glance upwards. Lawrell hesitated, then half-twisted.
“Yeah. Um. Sergeant Golsa?”
“What, Lawrell?”
A scowling Drake turned and stomped over. Durene frowned at the book, and Vess wandered away from Durene and Normen to stare at some of the saffron on display. The [Guards] didn’t notice Vess circling to glance at the book from behind.
The Drake [Sergeant] blocked Durene and Normen from seeing what she was looking at. She and Lawrell conferred a second and Durene cleared her throat.
“Is that the two of them? Lapsey? Sevil?”
“—No, miss.”
After a second, Sergeant Golsa turned to Durene and, to her surprise, closed the book. She gave Durene an unconvincing smile.
“Sorry, Lawrell was checking yesterday’s list. I don’t see any Humans coming through the gates.”
She ran her eyes down a few pages she flicked through fast in an unconvincing manner. Normen frowned, sensing the same thing Durene did.
“But he said—”
“Sorry, we can’t keep prying through the entry logs, even for [Knights]. If you want to enter or exit, we can help there, but we’re swamped. Move along!”
The [Sergeant] gave them a nod and practically dragged the other Drake away. Durene swore she saw Golsa hissing at Lawrell and looked at Normen.
“What was that about?”
He shrugged too-casually.
“It must have been an error. You know how the Watch is. Let’s go ask around then. Or maybe we’ve lost them.”
He motioned Durene away, and they walked into the bazaar, where Vess caught up after a second. Here, Durene realized Normen was suddenly looking sharp and attentive, in his element.
“Caught a glance at the book, did you, Vess?”
The Drake grinned at Normen, and Durene realized the [Grandmaster] had signaled him to move away.
“Yep. Good call, Normen. That idiot [Guard] was getting his foot mashed in under the table. He had the book open to the first page.”
When Durene and Normen gave him quizzical glances, Vess explained as if it were obvious.
“First page. It means someone’s on a list or in trouble. If you’re at the gates and the Watch flips to that…I saw a few descriptions. Red eyes, fangs, western gate. On foot.”
“So it was them. Why were they on a list?”
Normen’s face clouded over, and Vess hesitated. He glanced at Durene, and the half-Troll girl began to get a bad feeling in her stomach.
“—I didn’t see any reasons listed. It just said ‘flagged’.”
“We’d better go to the western gate then. Are we waiting for Jewel?”
Normen checked the mace at his side. Then he turned to Durene and shook his head.
“No. Vess, get us some horses.”
They moved faster now, and Vess had horses for the three of them from a stable within ten minutes. The three rode out from Pallass, hoping to find the two Vampires’ trail as they asked people coming towards Pallass if they’d seen the two.
Durene had thought it would be a hopeless task or one they were far too late to. As it turned out, many people had seen Sevil and Lapsey.
Even still, the Order of Solstice was too late.
 
——
 
“A what?”
“[Bandit] attacks. On the road not ten miles from here. It was horrific.”
A Drake was waving his arms at Durene, as shaken as she was. He was not a mile out from Pallass, and Durene turned her horse around.
“And two Humans were part of it?”
“They were dead in the way. It was a dozen figures on horseback. Hoods and masks—they came down the road like a storm. Arrows flying, demanding valuables—the Watch chased them off, but those poor Humans were right in the way.”
“What happened? Is that normal?”
No one else looked wounded as Durene stared about. Several people did look worried, and they were exchanging the same warnings with people leaving Pallass. The Drake shook his head. He was a [Farmer]; he had a wagon full of Yellats, which was why Durene had felt comfortable asking him.
“Normal? [Bandits] almost never pop up that close to Pallass. They must have been desperate [Highwaymen] or crazed; the Watch were here minutes later. But it was too late. Those poor Humans—the fellow tried to defend the girl and…”
Durene just stared at the Drake as she pictured Sevil’s face from last night. [Bandits]. Ten miles from Pallass.
“They killed him?”
“Shot him a dozen times with arrows.”
The [Farmer] drank some water and spat. Then shuddered.
“Everyone was screaming—the girl was shrieking, and I don’t blame her. I think she got lucky; they took a second shot at her but missed several times, then fled. They must have had bad aim.”
