What a disaster. The door was about to close; it was just waiting for one person who tried to sneak past everyone as Normen strode through. Esor turned his head and rasped.
“You…I’ll hire you for Pallass. Name your price.”
Ishkr froze. He gave Esor an innocent smile that didn’t fool the Garuda one bit as he stepped towards the door. The [Server] bowed slightly.
“I don’t believe you can afford it, Strategist.”
The door closed. Esor nodded to himself.
“I thought not.”
Then he decided he needed to visit Tails and Scales later that night.
No wonder the Grand Strategist drank. But first…Esor had to figure out what the hell the fallout was going to be on this one. He rather feared the Vampires were the least of their concerns; even the Order of Solstice wasn’t the major problem.
The real question was who had been watching Pallass’ amazing display of incompetence. Their enemies? Or worse still…their allies?
 
——
 
The fallout from the Order of Solstice’s showdown with Pallass was considerable, if not directly obvious. You see, the incident got some press within Pallass, but not actual media coverage despite Channel 2’s objections.
However. More than one person witnessed the very public strife between Esor and Edellein and inferred more than just incompetence at work.
“This is Nerul. Hello, Mister Superior. Do I have a moment of your time? Splendid. I had a quick inquiry for you, [Diplomat] to [Diplomat].”
After writing a report and sending it through the more secure channels, Nerul had an even more private call with one of his fellow [Diplomats].
The famously virile Mister Superior was a Gnoll in Salazsar who specialized in contracts. Nerul got to the point.
“I just witnessed massive dysfunction between Strategist Esor—yes, the smart heir of Chaldion—and 1st General Edellein. It seems clear to me that the good 1st General was not handpicked for his position. If I had to guess, the Grand Strategist expected Duln to remain in power or for another [General] to take over. No…you don’t need to confirm that.”
If Mister Superior even could; the High Commands of any Walled City were a bit opaque even to top [Diplomats]. Nerul’s claws drummed on the table.
“…That is not what leads to that kind of systematic breakdown. It felt as though even the Eyes of Pallass weren’t under Esor’s command, and that is the principal domain of [Strategists]. Can you look into something for me, Mister Superior? I don’t need pure confirmation. Just rumblings. Has anyone from Salazsar…or Fissival…or Zeres been giving gifts to the senators in the Assembly of Crafts?”
In a power vacuum, look at who filled the gap left by Chaldion. The [Generals] and military command were hard to sway, but Pallass was a democracy; the [Senators] had the power to influence High Command, at least, some of them. Nerul murmured into the stone.
“Check for a Senator Errif. I know he’s among the top. If you can place him having a dinner, a gift, from Salazs…”
The [Diplomat] stopped. He sat there, listening.
“You’re sure? I see. Wall Lord Mailgest? One of the Last Defenders of the Wall and Eschowar’s old buddy. Very clear. Thank you.”
He put the speaking stone down after a few niceties. Then Nerul went back to drumming his claws on the table. He didn’t do anything as stupid as making a wall with pins and names and faces on it; he didn’t have anywhere secure enough for that kind of thing. But in his mind…
“[Mental Canvas]. Errif. Mailgest.”
Dinner with a [Senator]. Lack of respect for Chaldion’s heir? Most Drakes and even Gnolls wouldn’t like a Garuda with that power. 
If Thrissiam was alive, he would have been a shoe-in. But Edellein? Career Drake. Could just be politics, and he fit all the bills. But if someone had notes…
Oh, Nerul hated it. He hated it because it made sense and it worried him. Drakes had much to fear from their enemies. Like the Gnolls. Or Humans. Or Lizardfolk.
But their biggest foe was always other Drakes. Infighting…Nerul’s claws tapped faster and faster.
This was how Walled Cities died. He bit his lip. Then he picked up his speaking stone and connected to another [Diplomat] in Oteslia. He needed a quick word.
 
——
 
If you had eyes for Drake politics, you noticed the Pallassian problem. If you had eyes for the Vampire situation, you took note of the Walled Cities’ stances.
Lapsey was just confirmation of what was becoming apparent: the door was not safe. Which meant you were now bound for a sea voyage—exceptionally easy to blockade harbors unless you had your own boat, and noticeable—
Or you had to go overland from Liscor. Past the Bloodfields, which were fully active, even if the road stretched onwards. Even then, you were then entering Pallass’ domain from the north.
The fact that the Vampire Hunters of the north and Pallass hadn’t exchanged notes was something to pay attention to. Also of note was the fact that the Order of Solstice had gone to blows with Pallass. They’d made a good showing, all things considered.
Because, the only way that would have ended was in tragedy for the [Knights].
“Even with, what, a hundred aspiring [Squires]? Pallass would have slaughtered them. They nearly did. How many [Knights] does the Order of Clairei Fields have?”
“My count is a thousand two hundred across all Izril, Your Majesty.”
Laken Godart felt at his arms as Lady Rie poured more tea into a cup. He was shivering. Durene had been that close to…
“Suddenly, I am all for armies. Get me options, Rie. Ask Lyonette if she can give me a small loan. A million gold pieces? Find me soldiers.”
Lady Rie nodded, judiciously adding a lemon into the cup.
“The issue is not so much gold as manpower, Your Majesty. It cannot come from nowhere, and Riverfarm would need to spend a year training its [Soldiers].”
“Then find me [Soldiers]. That’s why I gave you land. I will have a word with Gralton.”
“And Lord Yitton? Should I approach him for [Soldiers]?”
Laken hesitated. He sat there, eyes closed, imagining it.
“They shot one of the two in broad daylight. Has no one asked them whether they intend to…have they done anything? What is the point other than a word and a need for blood?”
“Memory, Your Majesty. And they are a convenient threat. Have you noticed something?”
“What?”
Rie sat down and whispered.
“No one is hunting the Circle of Thorns anymore. Now, the onus becomes on who harbors the taint. Thus far, it is a unifying issue. But men and women of conscience may grow sick of what they see soon enough. I would caution you about being the first to put a target on his back.”
The [Emperor] nodded slowly. This all made sense. He was not—ironically—blind to the dangers. Yet…he sat there and imagined what his [Paladin] would think or do.
“I wish I could order her to stop. But I never could. And she would never obey. You don’t have a month, Rie. You might not have a week. Get me an army overnight.”
“Your Majesty? That seems like a…a tall order.”
She laughed uncertainly. Laken had asked and trusted Rie with many things. He sat there, letting his tea cool down, and his head turned to find hers unerringly.
“It is. An impossible one, perhaps. I have counted on you as a reliable subordinate and vassal, Lady Rie Valerund. Just like Prost. I do trust you. If you want me to need you, then prove you can do what I can’t. Now, send for Charlay.”
He sat there, tapping his fingers on the armrest of his chair. After a while, someone tromped into his house.
“Uh. You wanted to see me, Your Majesty, sire?”
Charlay was not that much at ease, but Laken smiled and ushered her into his house.
“Sit down, Charlay, wherever you please. I have a job for the best Runner around, and I’d like you to take on a personal request of mine. I will, of course, pay a premium rate.”
“Me? I mean—that’s me! What can I do for you?”
He leaned back as she excitedly cantered around; a giant horse-woman was sort of terrifying to a blind man. Laken coughed.
“Well…you’re going to be going in what’s essentially a giant circle around Riverfarm. I need you to find every local [Mayor], [Village Head], council, or even the nobility and give them this letter.”
He reached for a stack of identical letters, but cautioned Charlay.
“If they have questions or seem to object—I need tact, Charlay. Don’t lie or be anything other than…you.”
She was actually a very charming, straightforward messenger because she wasn’t good at dissembling. Charlay sat down as Laken cleared his throat.
“So what am I delivering?”
Laken beamed at her in such a way that Dustrider Charlay began to get a bit worried.
“An offer for them to join my empire.”
She swallowed. Laken, on the other hand, had done a bit of math. He reckoned he might get a new noble title to assign to people every time he got a town’s worth of land or three villages. A city? Laken leaned back in his chair.
“For each one that accepts, I’ll pay you a very handsome bounty. Oh, and I want you to take Traffy with you.”
He cajoled Charlay along. The [Emperor] sat there, and his little empire suddenly seemed too small, too constricted. It was rather like hunger, but far vaster as feelings went. Laken began laying his own mental map in his mind.
“Start with the mining settlements. I have all the food I need. I need mines. Or larger towns will do.”
“How do I get them to just sign up, Your Majesty? Seems like a tall order.”
Laken smiled at Charlay.
“First…ask them if they fear [Bandits] or monsters. Then, ask them if they’re hungry.”
 
——
 
And more. You could read more into that brief moment when Normen raised his mace, from his evolving grasp of fire, to the power of Sinew Magus Grimalkin’s soldiers.
You could certainly infer something was going on with the Armored Queen and the hundred or some [Squires] she had sent to Liscor. The fact that one Queen had done this alone suggested the divides between the Hives were widening. You could look into that, Ishkr’s ability to act as a force multiplier, or even the fact that Liska could open any door she wanted.
Sergeant Kel had certainly noticed that. You could be a Watch Captain Zevara, who had a frank conversation with Watch Commander Venim about the role the Watch played in activities that were not in accordance with the law—and how he pointed out that the Watch was in accordance with the law. It was just Pallassian law.
If you were Lyonette, you might notice that Watch Captain Zevara had this conversation with Venim because a [Maid] had apparently left a note for the good Watch Captain about thirty minutes before the standoff in Pallass.
And if you were Mrsha, you could observe that a standardized uniform at school meant you had to wear it every day, another sign of the growing tyranny of the education system, now funded and run by Shassa Weaverweb, who was, for some reason, not going back to Oteslia.
Whilst all these people made these smart, prescient, and true observations about the world, there was one thing in the entire event they did not observe:
The tears of a Vampire.
 
——
 
Lapsey was burnt, despite Jewel’s best efforts, and microblisters were popping up on her arms and face. She scratched at them as she wept.
“You should have let me kill them.”
“They would have killed you.”
“I don’t care! Give me a sword. I’ll—”
She tried to get up for the umpteenth time, but Durene pushed her down, and despite the Vampire’s strength, she was too exhausted and distraught to do more than flail a bit before relaxing. She sat back, and tears ran from her eyes.
“We didn’t do anything wrong. Not to them! Not to anyone! We were getting married. Sevil told me they hated his people. He told me I’d look over my shoulder for the rest of my life. I thought it couldn’t be that bad.”
The Order of Solstice was not celebrating their victory. They sat or stood in a room upstairs as the Embraim-[Squires], each claiming to have a piece of his lantern, were fed below.
They had to deal with housing that many Antinium. If they could even all become [Knights] of Solstice. They had to discuss the Pallassian issue.
But at this moment, Normen simply knelt there. Head bowed.
“Please get up.”
Lapsey begged him. The [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice did not. He knelt on both knees, flame of honor extinguished, his burned head facing the ground, eyes closed.
“We—didn’t trust you. We didn’t want to draw more attention. We thought Pallass was safe.”
“Where were you going?”
Durene wished Rivel were here. The one Vampire among them, the ‘squire’ they had inducted to save his life, had never truly been a [Knight]. At least, not yet. But he would have been able to explain and empathize with Lapsey.
There was no other Vampire here.
Not Fierre.
Not Colfa.
Not Vaulont.
They stayed away. At first, Durene thought they didn’t know; then the truth became obvious. Too many people had identified Lapsey. Associating with her would murder any of her kind.
The Vampire was new to her species. Newly…made. She whispered, brushing at her black hair.
“I don’t know. I don’t know if Sevil knew. Half the families are trying to hide, the other half—running away. Because the north is filled with poison, and now they’re trying to murder everyone. But there’s no safe way south.”
Vess was staring at the grey flame of mercy.
“So there are more?”
Lapsey nodded hesitantly.
“Yes, but—they can’t go south. There are hunters on the roads making people pull their hoods back. That’s all they have to do, or watch for anyone moving by night. The north is poisoned, but if you run, they’ll find you. And they keep searching.”
“We have to do something. Pallass can’t get away with this.”
Ama punched a fist into her hand. Vess had a piece of tissue stuck up one nostril. He wasn’t badly hurt; they’d only knocked him down when he tried to stop them from grabbing Lapsey. He gestured at the tissue as he replied.
“Oh yeah? What are we going to do, fight all of 1st Army? All one hundred Antinium down there could fight with us and we wouldn’t beat Hectval’s army, Ama. We could take on maybe two companies. Then we’d be dead.”
Jewel pointed out the obvious as she stared out the window.
“We’re [Knights]. We fight smaller battles, like adventurers. This is a war. We have to do what we can.”
“And we are on the side of Vampires?”
The question drew Vess’ ire. He glared—then blinked at Antherr, who sat, polishing his armor. Normen’s head rose, and Antherr met the green glare of honor with his implacable expression.
