Mistake two: he wasn’t getting orders from the top, and Nerul was pushing him directly to respond in real-time with little information.
Mistake three: he tried to argue against Nerul with facts and logic.
“Diplomat, this isn’t a Salazsarian matter. And I cannot comment on anyone we have in protective custody. I’m going to have to ask you to step into my office and have a private word. I can summon a [Strategist].”
Nerul boomed over the poor Watch Captain like a thunderstorm of umbrage, and his voice grew louder just as a Garuda with a curious box-like device stepped into the room. She had an odd jacket, which read ‘Wistram News’ on the back, and Durene’s lips twitched.
Liska had gotten the door for them.
“A [Strategist]? Are you mad, man? She needs a [Thought Healer], a [Mortician], sympathy, and someone to hold her hand! Are you telling me that the Watch’s first reaction to someone being attacked on the road is to lock them up? I am telling you, some idiot [Guard] too busy slapping his tail against his balls decided she was a problem and locked her up. This is a stain on Pallass’ reputation and the Watch! The last thing we need is for someone to catch wind of this and—dead gods!”
He turned theatrically, saw the news crew, and threw up his claws.
“Nothing to see here! Move along!”
Nerul made a show of trying to block the Order of Solstice with his body, and both he and the Watch Captain turned a shade paler.
“This is Channel 2 of Wistram News Network. We’re just investigating a tip off about an attack on Pallass’ roads? Within ten miles of the City of Invention?”
The Garuda gave Nerul a long look that said she thought she had a story, and she activated the scrying orb that was mounted in a box on her shoulder. Nerul tried to dance out of frame.
“Watch Captain Menlir was just resolving the issue. Nothing to see here, miss. Menlir, the Order of Solstice is a [Knight] order, and this is going to go wide in the hour if you don’t get her—every Terandrian ponce with a feather in his helmet is going to be on this story like a flash! It’s about chivalry and such! Tell them to fish her out from wherever she is.”
“Is something the matter? Did I hear something about someone being held against their will?”
The Watch Captain was trying to get someone to turn off the camera. He barked, face paling.
“This is a Watch matter! Diplomat Nerul, the authorization is—”
Nerul pretended not to hear as he held up his claws.
“It’s purely a matter of misunderstandings. Diplomat Nerul, Salazsar. You haven’t bought good gems unless they’re House Gemscale! Listen, this isn’t a news story, miss, so why don’t you turn this scrying orb off—it’s not about racism.”
“What about racism?”
The Garuda focused on Nerul’s face, and he swore under his breath. Nerul looked right, left, then tried to shoulder-charge Captain Menlir into his office.
“Excuse me, excuse me, no comment. Captain Menlir, if you’ll step into your office with me?”
He slammed the door shut, and Durene’s jaw hurt from trying not to grin. She enjoyed the moment—until she remembered Sevil was dead. Then she clenched her hands and instinctively reached for the hilt of her greatsword.
When she saw people staring at her, she almost let go, embarrassed. Then she caught herself and drew her sword an inch from the scabbard. The [Guards] reached for their weapons. Durene locked gazes with one as she waited.
 
——
 
Inside the office, Menlir regained some composure, which wasn’t bad for Nerul. The [Diplomat] knew he was on a time attack.
Even though he’d put Channel 2 on the story and he had lodged urgent complaints with Pallass—he didn’t have Salazsar to lean on, or public opinion.
Once High Command got wind of this one, it was likely they’d do whatever they pleased and hang any pressure Nerul could exert. Once Salazsar heard why that poor Vampire was in custody, they’d back Pallass in a heartbeat.
In truth, Nerul hadn’t known if this was the right thing for him to do. This was a military affair, and he was a [Diplomat]; his job was to back his city, and his city was anti-Vampire, even if they weren’t at the front of any decisions.
On the other hand, Ilvriss was tied to Erin Solstice, and Erin Solstice was an asset the City of Gems needed, whether they liked it or not. Nerul had done the math and decided it was worth the attempt.
“Diplomat, I don’t know what you’re thinking, but if you’d let me explain, that individual is a sanctioned enemy of Pallass. She was apprehended and put in custody, and the clearance is Class 4.”
Above Menlir’s grade and above Nerul’s unless the [Diplomat] had a really good reason. Menlir didn’t look happy, but the Dullahan knew the rules.
Nerul leaned over, and instead of his loud bluster, he adopted a low, intense voice as he put a hand on the Dullahan’s shoulder. That was a faux-pas in Dullahan culture, but Menlir had grown up in Pallass, and besides, it let Nerul loom.
“And I am telling you that, Class 4 or not, whichever idiot put her on a list did not think about the fact that you have an angry [Knight] Order who wants her best interests. Now we have the news and foreign powers looking into the matter. What kind of fool takes someone into protective custody after surviving a bandit attack?”
Menlir was chewing on his mustache, and the Dullahan whispered back.
“I don’t make the rules—”
“I don’t care who makes the rules. Those [Knights] are not going to let the matter rest. Unless you want a full-scale riot in Pallass, you’ll get her out and return her to them. Get on the damn speaking stone and explain that to whoever’s got her.”
“She’s a Class 4—”
“I am trying to save Pallass from a diplomatic incident!”
Nerul’s bellow might have bypassed the silencing charms on Menlir’s office. The Drake grabbed Menlir by the shoulders and shook him, shouting in the Dullahan’s stunned face.
“This is my exact job! Don’t lecture me on public image and I won’t tell you the law! You’re lucky they came to me for help! You have five minutes before this becomes a news story. Suppress the news crew, get the girl out, and I’ll keep this from becoming a bloodbath!”
The truth was a powerful thing. Nerul didn’t lie once; Menlir was lucky that they’d come to Nerul for help. Because he sincerely doubted the Order of Solstice was going to let this lie.
Class 4 prisoners. Dead gods. It was one thing to put Raskghar into that kind of thing, and Nerul was still wondering what had happened to the children. But this?
This was sloppy. This was stupid. He saw Menlir stagger back and let the Dullahan think before raising a speaking stone to his ear.
Menlir had to convince someone this was an issue. Nerul put pressure on the Dullahan not by continuing to rant or making a theatrical show of checking outside…he took a seat, leaning forwards on his knees, and stared at Menlir.
Poised, tense, as if ready to move. As if each passing second were a countdown to a detonation, because it was. Just not in the way Menlir thought.
“They don’t want to release her.”
The Watch Captain spoke after one minute. Nerul bounced to his feet and grabbed the speaking stone.
“—that [Diplomat] to drop the issue. This is—”
“[Assert Authority]. Listen to me. You are about to disclose Pallass’ entire anti-Vampire operations, you mule-brained idiot. I am escalating this issue. Get your superior, now, and authorize the release.”
“Who is this? You can’t—”
“This is not the moment to quibble with the most famous [Knight] Order on Izril! This is one Vampire! Get another! I don’t care what intelligence you think you can get from her, walk away before you endanger the entire operation!”
Get another. There had to be other Vampires in Pallass’ aegis that had been impounded. Nerul had not mentioned that to Normen. That was the aspect of diplomacy he chose to assert; the nature of the bastard he had to be.
The Order of Solstice could win this fight. No others. The idiot on the other end tried to argue with Nerul.
“This is a security channel. Put this stone down and tell Watch Captain Men—”
Nerul dropped the stone, yanked out his personal one, and spoke into it.
“Diplomat Nerul, Salazsar. I am requesting emergency upgrade Scoliphax-Iridium-Hecta-4526. Put me through to a [Strategist] on a diplomatic emergency. Recommending immediate action; Watch Captain Menlir is apprised of the situation. Remove your [Tactician] on communications. Respond.”
He turned to Menlir, and the Watch Captain stared at him as a voice chirped back.
“Diplomat, you are being escalated now. Please clarify?”
Nerul lived for the way his heart pounded in his chest, and he felt like he breathed fire with the words he shot across Pallass’ networks. But he was still racing.
Pallass really had lost a step with Chaldion. Still, there were truly competent people in the Walled City. He hoped he didn’t run into any of them. Or any magnificent incompetent.
What would Chaldion have done? He would have let the Order of Solstice escort the two damn Vampires all the way to wherever they wanted to go. And impounded a thousand more in secret.
Nerul didn’t always like Pallass, but he knew the Drakes needed good leadership. Manus was too war-focused; they did what they did best, but they had less competency in other areas. Fissival was all about magic, and Oteslia had good sorts, but they had a lot of internal politics weighing them down. Salazsar was all infighting too, but it had some good leaders. Zeres…the Serpentine Matriarch of recent years wasn’t her mother or grandmother or great grandmother.
No city was perfect, but Chaldion had been a loss, even if he was a bastard that deserved lead weights and a toss off the walls. What Nerul feared wasn’t just incompetence; he feared competency of the wrong kind moving into the vacuum.
He was just getting his way and explaining his position to an alarmed [Strategist], who was okaying his decisions, when his speaking stone buzzed.
“—in five minutes and I’ll meet you there. Thank you.”
Nerul was about to stride out the door and tell the Order of Solstice to hop to it before someone smart caught onto his play. He switched channels absently.
“Nerul, I’m busy. If this is—”
“This is Wall Lord Eschowar, Salazsar.”
The voice was coming through on a secure connection, admitted via the Drake spell networks. Nerul froze as he heard the old voice of the Drake, sharp as a bolt of lightning. He hadn’t sounded like that since Nerul had been a boy.
“Wall Lord? I was just—”
Real sweat beaded down Nerul’s neck as the Wall Lord spoke calmly.
“Free the Vampire. You have clearance from Salazsar in an official capacity. Make one report via the secure channels. Tell me who responds fastest. I want an analysis on High Command.”
“—Yes, sir.”
Nerul spoke shortly, and the speaking stone went dead. The Drake swallowed. Then he began to run.
 
——
 
Durene hadn’t seen people move this fast since Laken had lost his temper and shouted at them. The moment Nerul had come out the door of the office, he had a location.
“5th floor. They’re meeting us in five.”
“What’s going on? This is Channel—”
Watch Captain Menlir almost tackled the Garuda, and in the chaos, the Order of Solstice followed Nerul. The Drake kept up a brief monologue as he ran, panting.
“Dead gods, I hate running—we have to move. I pulled every lever I could. Pallass is convinced this is a diplomatic incident, but High Command might be onto us.”
Durene lifted nervous finger.
“Is that bad?”
“It’s bad if they disagree with me and revoke what we’re doing! Come on! Elevator to 5th Floor! Emergency diplomat on the move!”
Nerul charged into an elevator, bypassing an entire line of outraged citizens. Durene tried to squeeze in after him, but only Normen and Vess shouldered through; Jewel cursed, looked at the line, and pointed.
“This way!”
They ran for the central staircases instead. The two [Knights] charged down the steps, attracting a lot of attention and snappy comments. A Drake skateboarded past them, pursued by two [Guards], but the two were the fastest-moving people around beside that.
Durene’s lungs hurt after running down four entire floors of Pallass, and she looked right and left, wondering where on the huge floor—
“That way!”
Jewel pointed, and Durene wondered how in the vast city Jewel knew where to go. Then she saw the pink flame on Jewel’s hand tugging her. Was Normen doing that?
By the time the two caught up, they found themselves at Pallass’ prisons, and someone was being led out by a full squad of [Guards]. The moment Durene saw Lapsey, she felt a surge of fury in her heart.
The Vampire was in a weird piece of clothing that bound her arms up behind her back. She had chains on her arms and even a mask on her face. She wasn’t even walking; they were wheeling her out on a little stand, and her eyes were blindfolded.
“[Diplomat], this is all secure. We need to have some assurance that—”
“I will make sure everyone keeps their mouths shut, [Warden]. Did you torture her?”
A Drake glanced at Durene as Jewel yanked the eye covering off Lapsey. Vess was sawing at her bindings, and the [Guards] were staring at the [Knights] with ill-concealed surprise. And distrust. Were they the ones who’d attacked Sevil? Normen stood there, hand on his mace’s hilt, staring at them.
“No flames.”
That was all he said to Durene. No honor in anyone here. Vess’ head rose, and his eyes flashed.
“Nor from me either. Nerul’s got some. No one else.”
The [Warden] was hissing at Nerul.
“That is exactly what—”
“Do we need a healing potion? You are not in charge here, [Warden]. I am. We’re escorting her out of Pallass.”
“No healing potion needed, [Diplomat]. Just interrogation at this moment.”
The Drake bit off a crisp reply, and Nerul turned.
“Get her out of here. I will meet you on 8th Floor.”
“Lapsey, it’s us. I can’t get this jacket thing off you. Can you…?”
Vess was sawing at the fabric, which might have been enchanted. Durene didn’t bother with the knife and seized the jacket with both hands. She heaved; the fabric tore with a loud sound, and one of the Drakes grimaced as the Vampire began to flail. Her eyes were wild and terrified. She tried to bite as Jewel removed the mask.
“Don’t touch me! Don’t—”
She stared at Durene, recognizing the half-Troll girl. Jewel grabbed Lapsey’s arm.
“Let’s go. Can you walk?”
“They killed him. They—”
Her voice was hysterical. Her red eyes were rolling as she jerked around in her restraints, making the entire trolley rock slightly. Durene felt horrible as she looked at Lapsey. Then her fury rose.
These [Guards] are going to pay for this. Normen just glanced at the upset Warden.
