“I’m no expert. But I think everyone treats Vampires much like Trolls in the north, Durene, or Goblins. Threats on sight. As for Pallass—my guess is they didn’t expect to kill Sevil. They might have thought he’d survive the arrows. What they’re doing now, if I’m any judge, is interrogating her and adding her to Pallass’ special forces.”
The Order of Solstice glanced up. Normen stopped staring at the little lantern at his side. Everyone turned to the [Head Waiter], and Durene’s mouth fell open.
“What? How do you know that? What special forces?”
Ishkr scratched at his chin.
“I’m no expert, but I’ve read a few reports. They did it with the Raskghar. Remember the prisoners? Have you ever seen any of them? No? Well, they’re somewhere, and Pallass is ‘training’ them. My guess is as anti-Gnoll specialists, but they’re really careful never to bring them up. Most people have forgotten about them completely. Lapsey might turn into one of those operatives. Either that or they’ll dispose of her if they can’t use her, or they’ll turn her loose in the north to cause trouble.”
He sounded utterly convinced of these facts, and Normen sat up sharply.
“How do you know that, Ishkr?”
The two looked at each other, former employee and current of Erin’s inn. Ishkr gave Normen a nod.
“Guesswork. And overhearing a few conversations with Chaldion’s people. Most are good with secrecy spells, but they leave files around. Plus, even if they’re magically sealed, I can open them up.”
This was a revelation to everyone. Ishkr offered the teapot around and poured Ama a cup. She gaped at him.
“…What? How?”
“If it’s enchanted, I throw a rock at it. Or a spoon. It breaks the enchantment or sometimes destroys the document.”
The [Server] saw Ama’s look of utter disbelief and raised a paw.
“[Magic-Piercing Throw]. And [Avoid Danger: Inn]. Those two tend to keep me out of trouble even if there’s a failsafe. I have Skills, everyone. But this Lapsey situation is bad. Chaldion wouldn’t ever have allowed it if Erin was here and he was still in charge.”
He had a big frown on his face. Ishkr leaned on the table, thinking out loud.
“If Lapsey’s a captive, you need to lean on Pallass. Miss Lyonette can’t do it directly; she could get Ilvriss to help via Salazsar, but they won’t like her using the door, which is her only bargaining chip. Without Chaldion, that leaves either Saliss or Grimalkin as residents of Pallass with any sway.”
Normen nodded.
“Saliss was my thought. If we ask him…”
Another shake of Ishkr’s head.
“He’s not a military leader. I doubt it’ll work. And Grimalkin takes orders. You could try, but I have an idea. Can you give me…thirty minutes?”
“Sure. Can we help?”
Durene scrambled to her feet, heart inflating with hope. But Ishkr just waved her back.
“Just have some tea and write down the exact time that Lapsey was attacked. And the Watch Captain and [Guards]’ names that you spoke to, if you can. No promises. I’m not Erin. Miss Lyonette? I’m taking a thirty-minute break!”
He hurried off. The [Knights] sat there, blinking at this sudden help. But Durene felt suddenly relieved, and she saw Normen’s tight expression and posture relax.
“He’s no Erin. But he did learn from her. Durene, who was that first Drake we spoke to?”
They bent over a piece of paper as they waited, and Ishkr was actually back in eighteen minutes. He popped into view behind the bar, and Durene stared at him.
“You know, Gamel’s the [Eye of the Emperor] and he can do all kinds of weird things with his eyes. See long distances, through walls…”
“Wait, he can? Pervert. Remind me never to get undressed in Riverfarm.”
Ama covered her body protectively, and Durene reassured her.
“Don’t worry, he’s loyal to Tessia. Besides, Laken can see everyone anywhere, and he says it gets old.”
The rest of the [Knights] stared at Durene, and she paused to let that statement bounce back to her and went on as she turned red.
“—What I mean is, Gamel is getting powerful. He can blind anyone in a fight and stuff. Because he’s Laken’s personal [Knight]. But Ishkr is Erin’s [Server]. He just teleported four hundred miles.”
Vess blinked.
“Yep. Well, maybe he came back through the door first?”
The Gnoll gave them a little, innocent wave, and Jewel glanced at Normen. Both shook their heads.
Normen whispered to the others.
“There’s no way he got anywhere in Invrisil and back in eighteen minutes. Then again, he can slide anywhere he wants. And apparently break Drake code magic by throwing spoons at it. Can he do anything else?”
Vess scratched his head.
“He can clean really fast. And produce your order in a second.”
Durene narrowed her eyes.
“Anything else?”
The [Knights] stared at Ishkr suspiciously. Suddenly, the Gnoll seemed a bit too bland and charmingly normal. He was, in fact, entertaining a request from Mrsha and Visma at this moment.
“Ishkr, can you clean our uniforms? We just got them for school, but someone tripped and fell when we were coming back, and they’re all dirty! While she was playing football with Ekirra. We hafta go now!”
Visma shot Mrsha a dirty look and showed Ishkr a set of four cute uniforms for Ekirra, Mrsha, Visma, and Kenva, which had a lot of muck on them. Ishkr tsked.
“That’s a problem. I don’t have a cleaning Skill for clothing. But wait a moment…Rosencrantz has one.”
“[Clean Apparel]. But he can only clean…”
“I’m on it. Normen, you’ll have a visitor in ten minutes or less. Rosencrantz!”
The Order of Solstice watched Ishkr vanish. They turned to the door, but no one came into the inn that seemed to be for them; just a few [Necromancers] of Rheirgest. Before a minute had passed, Ishkr was back.
“Here you go, Visma. Be careful not to get them dirty.”
“Yay! You’re the best, Ishkr!”
Four stacks of neatly folded and immaculate clothing were in Ishkr’s arms, and the children rushed to put on their school gear. Ishkr went back to cleaning the bar with a smile as Durene narrowed her eyes.
“Can Rosencrantz clean four uniforms with a Skill?”
“No. That Skill only works on himself if I recall right. Maybe he levelled up after the Solstice? Everyone did.”
Normen peered at Ishkr, who glanced innocently their way. None of the [Knights] bought it.
“Everyone did level—didn’t you get a Skill for your armor and mace, Normen?”
Jewel turned to him, and the [Grandmaster] looked embarrassed as Durene sat up.
“You didn’t use it in the fight.”
“It’s an upgrade Skill. [Forged By Deed]…the magic enchantment wouldn’t do anything against the Rock Elementals. I’ll show you later. You didn’t use your [Oath of Flames], Durene.”
“It only works if I promise to do something, and it sets my sword and shield on fire.”
Ama grumbled as she drank her tea down.
“I feel like we’re weak against fireproof enemies. Or things made of rock.”
“Isn’t everything weak against giant rock-people?”
Vess tried to smile at Ama, but they were all tense and waiting, at odds with Ishkr’s relaxed attitude. What had the Gnoll intuited? Well, when the door opened and Durene saw the answer stride in, adjusting some official-looking robes, she saw Normen slap his forehead.
“Of course.”
He stood up in relief, and Durene stared at the purple-scaled Drake. She nudged Jewel, who had a faint look of recollection on her face.
“Um. Who is that?”
“Diplomat Nerul. Salazsar. I hear you have an issue for me, Grandmaster Normen? I’ve been doing quite a lot of high-level diplomacy today. Ishkr briefed me, but I’d love to hear the rest in the garden? This one seems like it could get ugly, and I’m strictly here in an individual capacity. I can make a stink, but we’re going to have to move fast, decisively, and have all our eggs in a line.”
The Drake was overweight and had a reddish tinge to the scales around his nose slits, which Durene took to be the Drakish equivalent of a drinker’s blush, but he moved like a brisk storm as Normen stood up.
“You can help us, Diplomat Nerul?”
“As a favor to the Order of Solstice? Of course! For a chance to tweak Pallass’ nose? I don’t need authorization from home to do that. But come, come. Answers first.”
They vanished into the [Garden of Sanctuary] as Normen strode for the door and Durene sat up. She gave Ishkr a huge smile, and he winked at her. When Nerul came out the door barely ten minutes later with the notecard of names and times, tucking it up his sleeve, the Order of Solstice followed him to the door to Pallass.
Predictably, Ama got detained at the checkpoint again.
 
——
 
Durene, Jewel, Vess, and Normen all followed Nerul out of the checkpoint as Ama raised hell with Sergeant Kel. Rather to Durene’s surprise, she noticed Ishkr tagging along as well as the other Gnoll. His sister, Liska.
“Wh—how did you two get through the checkpoint?”
The [Knights] were on the day-list, and Nerul had flashed his passport and gotten instant clearance, but were Ishkr and Liska just on the list at all times? Liska smiled smugly at Durene and her brother.
“It’s a door. I’m a [Doorgnoll].”
“Yes, yes. Now get lost. This is serious business, Liska.”
“Eat shit, Ishkr. I’m gonna watch. You can’t even get through a door without me.”
Liska sauntered down the 8th Floor, and Ishkr stormed after her, arguing with his natural weakness: siblings. Nerul was adjusting his uniform, which proudly showcased a badge with Salazsar’s insignia. He muttered to himself as he strode along.
“She might be able to open any door she wants, but the checkpoint isn’t that incompetent. Anyone see how Ishkr got past them? No? Nevermind. Alright, leave the talking to me. This is a raid. We move in and out, no fuss, no fighting until the target’s secure. Until she’s out of Pallass, this all reverses the moment someone with more authority than me comes along. If you do act, do it without getting yourself killed, but get in the way of those in charge.”
Durene’s back itched, and she glanced around the calm streets. Her voice rose slightly.
“How, exactly?”
“Be haughty [Knights]. In my experience, that gets away with a lot. Do honorable-ish things. I’ll signal you if I’m in trouble. Until then, silence and look imposingly upset.”
Durene could do the upset part, and imposing. She pointed towards the elevators.
“Should we find the Watch House on the 1st Floor and the Watch Captain on duty? Qissa, I think her name was.”
“No need. She’s not in the know. Anywhere will do, and here we are.”
The [Diplomat] knew where he was going and what to do in Pallass. He led them unerringly down the street, following signs that led to what was on each floor of Pallass: the Watch Barracks.
8th Floor’s Watch Barrack was smaller, probably due to the more residential crimes and duties as opposed to the largest floor and so many entries and exits. Nevertheless, a Watch Captain was on duty, and the [Guards] were milling about the Watch House.
Nerul entered, marched past the desk as a friendly Gnoll called out to ask him if he could be helped, and was halfway into the Watch Captain’s office before the alarmed Gnoll tried to stop him.
“Wait, wait! You can’t enter there! What’s wrong with—”
Durene didn’t know the Dullahan Watch Captain, a serious-looking man with a mustache, but she felt a bit bad for him as he jerked and sat up with outrage. He opened his mouth to snap as well, but Nerul turned and bellowed with a roar that deafened the [Guards], criminals, and everyone else.
“How dare you touch a [Diplomat] of Salazsar on official business! Is this impeding Salazsarian affairs? I’ll have your badge! I lodged sixteen [Messages] with the city already; can’t I get a single response, or do I have to do it myself? You’re lucky I’m taking this case, or you’d have a hundred angry [Knights] banging on your door by the end of the day, ready to shove their collective lances up your behinds!”
“Huh? Wh—”
The [Guards] turned and spotted the Order of Solstice, who tried to stand straighter. Durene tried to seem impassive and not smile, and Normen had a very good glower on his face.
“What’s this about, Diplomat? Salazsarian business? Guardswoman, let him through.”
The Watch Captain was not happy to have a [Diplomat] barge into his office, but one glance at the Order of Solstice and he was on his feet. However, Nerul didn’t enter the office but spoke loudly, to the room, glancing at the sun outside and then at Normen.
“I’m trying to be fast, Watch Captain…”
“Menlir.”
“Menlir, thank you. And you may be assured that I have told the Order of Solstice they have no authority within a Walled City, but they’re rather agitated. [Knights] and their honor. I’ve managed to talk the rest down from storming the gate, and I assured them this is all a mismanaged event. But I need the poor lady your idiots arrested out here now so they can know she’s not being held captive or in chains.”
Nerul inflected ‘captive’ and ‘in chains’ in such a way as to hint that if she was at this moment, she had better not be when she was brought out. Whomever she was.
There were several citizens in the Watch House, and they glanced at each other with as much confusion as the [Guards]. The Watch Captain, on the other hand, took in Normen, whom he recognized, blinked at Durene, and then developed the worried look of a superior fearing incompetence among the lower ranks. Especially when said incompetence meant he might be in trouble.
“Diplomat, are you representing Salazsar officially?”
“Only semi-officially. Salazsar would hate to think the Watch was mistreating visitors to the City of Invention. But I’m sure this is all a misunderstanding. I need Lapsey, Human, released and in my care now.”
The Watch Captain stared at Nerul, then picked up a speaking stone.
“One second. Can I seek clarification on…Watch Captain Menlir to all channels. Do we have a Human in custody? Lapsey? I have a situation on 8th…”
He listened to something that made his brows draw together with the same expression that Durene had witnessed on Qissa’s face. But before he could get more, Nerul spoke in a carrying voice.
“I’m sure this is all a huge misunderstanding. The poor girl was involved in a [Bandit] attack down the road. Her partner was slain—a day after his wedding! And she’s here in…custody? Hence the mistake. The Order of Solstice is personally responsible for her wellbeing.”
The Watch Captain was getting a different story, but Nerul was informing the audience what he believed to be true. Menlir’s eyes were flicking around, and Durene was trying to count the mistakes.
Mistake one: he’d not gotten Nerul into the office. Everyone was listening.
