“Get her moving, Vess.”
The Drake grabbed the trolley and began to move the Vampire as Durene and Jewel kept working on her bindings; Lapsey tore one arm free and scrabbled at her bindings, hissing.
“Wait, the sun!”
Lapsey shrieked as Vess began to run her towards the nearest elevator. Durene cursed and looked around, plotting a way up to the 8th Floor through the shade.
Meanwhile, Nerul was having a silent shouting match with the [Warden]—which he was winning—and Normen was looking in every direction.
For a moment, Durene thought they’d get away with it. Then someone flew downwards, shouting.
“What is going on here? Who—the Order of Solstice?”
Strategist Esor landed hard, cursing, and Nerul spun.
“Ancestors damn it. Esor!”
He moved to block the [Strategist] from the Order of Solstice, but Strategist Esor, whom Durene had never met, gave the entire scene a sharp look. His eyes found Nerul, and he snapped.
“Diplomat, you are out of line!”
“Am I? Or are you people idiots?”
Esor wavered as Nerul tried to body-block him. The [Warden]’s eyes narrowed.
“I was told this came from the highest channels, [Strategist]. I objected, of course—”
“It comes from me and Salazsar. Normen, get Lapsey out of here. Esor, calm your feathers and appraise the situation.”
“I didn’t receive a report about—and why is the Order of Solstice here? What’s going on? Where are the Eyes of Pallass?”
Esor seemed disoriented, and he glanced around. Durene jumped as a shadow moved, and a Drake hurried forwards.
“Strategist, we forwarded the reports—”
“Is this not approved by High Command then?”
The [Warden], Esor, and Nerul were all occupying different levels of authority. Esor was being whispered to by Nerul, and his gaze was focused, dismayed, as the Eye of Pallass tried to talk in his other earhole.
The [Warden] was direct. He stared at Nerul, the [Knights], and his eyes narrowed.
“In light of this, I object to the overriding of protocol. [Guards], take the prisoner back into custody while we sort that out.”
“Overruled!”
Nerul barked, and the [Guards] hesitated, but the [Warden] shot back.
“You are a foreign [Diplomat]! Seize her. Strategist, this is a Class 4 prisoner—”
Esor was barking at the Eye of Pallass, and the [Spy] was having a hard time defending herself.
“Why is the Order of Solstice involved? Who didn’t flag this in the Eyes? We have clear protocols in place that Chaldion himself instituted!”
“Sir, we flagged it through all the correct channels.”
“It didn’t come to me. It must have gone to—Edellein.”
Esor began swearing. Durene would have loved to puzzle this all out; it seemed like dysfunction that she was well familiar with Laken. Someone or some system was failing and causing havoc on the scale of an entire nation. However, the [Guards] were moving forwards.
“Halt!”
They were quick; they surrounded the trolley in seconds, and one grabbed Vess as the Drake reached for a wand. Jewel tensed, looking to Normen. The [Knight] put a hand on his mace as Nerul whirled to bellow at everyone present.
Durene reached forwards to stop the [Guards], and one drew a sword on her. Her skin prickled; she tensed and saw a pair of Gnolls watching her from an alleyway. Ishkr and Liska? The [Server] had a mug he was preparing to throw—
Then Lapsey exploded out of her straightjacket. Jewel and Durene had torn the fabric enough to get one arm free. The Vampire had done the rest.
Durene had been prepared to rescue Lapsey from her cruel abductors, even been steeling herself, darkly, for torture or worse in the hours Lapsey had been kidnapped. She supposed she’d expected a tearful bride traumatized beyond belief.
What she and the [Guards] were not prepared for was a whirl of claws and fangs that leapt on the first Drake [Guard], bit through his leather armor and into his flesh, and then shredded his leather gear as Lapsey began to beat the Drake with her fists.
“Prisoner loose! Prisoner loose! Get her off—”
The [Guards] reacted in a moment. One reached for their friend, who was screaming, and Lapsey kicked—Durene saw Vess duck, then twist and stare as the Gnoll flew over his head.
Dead gods, she’s strong! Durene tried to pull Lapsey off the Drake she was savaging. Another [Guard], a higher level one, barked.
“[Freeze, Criminal]! Now, gr—”
He ran forwards into a flying headbutt. Lapsey began kicking him as he fell down, then punched down awkwardly at his body. She didn’t know how to fight, Durene realized. She flailed, even windmilling her arms as she punched at the Drake. But her strength and fury were enough; she hurled the [Guard] aside and went for a third.
Lapsey almost impaled herself on the sword the [Guard] had drawn. Durene yanked her back and tossed her at Vess.
“I’ll kill you! I’ll—”
“Hey! Stop fighting! Stop—we have to get you out of here! Jewel, help!”
The Gold-rank adventurer tried to wrestle Lapsey back, but even with their combined strengths, Vess and Jewel could barely hold the Vampire back. Durene saw the Vampire lunge, mouth open and revealing sharp teeth—
The [Paladin] made a judgment call and chopped Lapsey in the forehead with one hand. Hard. Frankly, harder than she would have hit a regular person. But the Vampire was unnaturally strong and tough, and she blinked, went limp, and Durene barked.
“There. Get Lapsey upstairs, you two.”
The Vampire blinked at Durene, then seemed to see more [Guards] trying to get after her. Durene swung her tower shield off her back; she swung it around, making everyone else dodge back, then tossed it at Jewel. The adventurer raised it like a makeshift umbrella, and Vess pointed.
“The elevator. Come on—”
They backed up as Lapsey hesitated, then turned. Without a word, she let Vess and Jewel hurry her away, but her eyes were on Durene. Watching her with anger and grief too large for words.
Durene got that. She gave Lapsey a short, unsmiling nod. Then slowly turned.
“I said halt!”
The [Guardsman] not taken out by Lapsey’s attack had just finished checking on his colleagues’ wounds, which were thankfully shallow. He strode after the trio heading for the elevator.
Durene grabbed his shoulder and shoved the Drake back. He went stumbling backwards, and his buddies, six of them, whirled.
“What are you doing?”
Durene wondered that herself. She stared at her hand, and it made a fist. Then she glanced at Normen. She was wondering if he’d give her a look of disapproval or orders to control her temper or do something smart instead of the stupid plan she had in mind.
Instead, he gave her an imperceptible nod and smile. Durene hesitated—then she raised her voice.
“I am Durene Faerise, Knight of the Order of Solstice! And you, sir, are no sir, because you have mistreated the woman under my protection. Instead of taking care of her, you arrest someone attacked by [Bandits]? I’m…I’m honorably upset at you!”
Her voice rose until it was a shout. People already staring at the odd scene turned to Durene. The Drake gaped at her.
“What?”
He had clearly never met a [Knight]. He eyed her armor with vague recognition, then tried to stride past her.
“The [Warden] said halt! In the name of—”
He was glancing at Durene again, wary of a grab, but she didn’t grab him. Instead, Durene was busy tugging off one of her gauntlets. Then she hit the Drake in the face with it.
Lapsey, standing in the elevator, raised her head. Jewel and Vess, fumbling with the controls, looked up. Ishkr winced. Liska sipped from a milkshake.
The Drake [Guardsman] wobbled.
“Agbh.”
He made a funny sound and clutched at his face and teeth, which were bleeding. It occurred to Durene that when people slapped each other in the face with gloves, they probably did it with leather gloves or silk, not pieces of metal.
“What are you doing?”
The other [Guards] bellowed at her and reached for their blades. But Durene just put her gauntlet back up as the Drake staggered upright, drawing his sword.
“I am affronted. Honorably, that is. I challenge you all to a…bout of fisticuffs. In the honor of Lapsey.”
“What? Arrest her for impeding a [Guard] and—”
The outraged [Guard] with the bleeding mouth turned to his fellows, which was a mistake. Because Durene’s next action was to punch him in the face.
Ooh. Durene felt the impact and saw the Drake’s head snap back. She tried to remember when she’d last been in a fight with her fists. She’d been eleven, and one of the teenage boys in Riverfarm had picked a fight with her.
Back then, she’d hit him hard enough to make him puke and gotten shouted at. This time—the Drake rocked back, fell over on his tail, and stared at the sky, eyes rolled up in his head.
“Yaiss!”
One of the [Guards] shouted in horror. The others stared at Durene.
“You are attacking a [Guard] of Pallass!”
“No, I’m being honorably mad. Have at you.”
Durene eyed the sword the nearest Gnoll was waving at her. Then she thought of Sevil. Dead. Lapsey’s terrified face. And the fact that she had armor on.
The second punch had a lot of impact behind it, but Durene still didn’t hit them…
Like she thought they deserved. Even so, the Gnoll did that thing where he fell over and didn’t get back up. His helmet was dented in a bit, and Durene wondered if they weren’t good at taking punches. She’d seen bare-knuckle fights in Riverfarm, and they went on a while unless one person really landed a good hit.
“Drop your weapon! Drop your—”
The other [Guards] began shouting at Durene as they backed away from her. Then they realized her ‘weapons’ were her fists. One bumped into an azure [Knight] watching the rest of the Order of Solstice get away. The Drake spun, and Normen caught their blade with his own gauntleted hand.
“I think, sir, that Durene speaks for the entire Order of Solstice, as it were. Our honor is offended. Diplomat Nerul? You did your best. These are purely the consequences.”
Normen spoke to the [Diplomat], who put his hands on his cheeks theatrically and sighed. Then Normen drew his head back and headbutted the Drake [Guard] in the face as hard as he could. Durene strode forwards. She was not always smart or clever, and she didn’t know what to do a lot of the time and assumed other people knew better than she did.
But in this moment—she believed in her heart of hearts that the right thing to do was to give every [Guard] and the [Warden] the beating of their lives.
And that’s what she began to do.
 
——
 
A brawl had begun on the 5th Floor. Well, it started out as a massacre.
The [Guards] accompanying the [Warden] were fighting two [Knights] in armor. They had swords, but Nerul had a voice, and he was screaming at them that, if they killed either [Knight], it would be a diplomatic incident.
So they tried fists, truncheons, batons—and found that when you tried that on an angry man with green flames or a giant half-Troll woman in armor…they were a lot harder to subdue than your average, unarmored drunk.
Esor flapped around, demanding all sides stop, but Durene and Normen demolished the squad of seven in seconds. Durene took a bit longer with the [Warden].
“Put me down! Arrest her! Arr—”
She threw him at a bunch of [Guards] racing out of the prison. They slowed down, and Durene raised the Fist of Honor—which she had used to break at least a few noses. She was filled with not so much righteous wrath as just wrath.
She had never considered anyone in more just need of punching than the Watch reluctantly approaching her. Unfortunately, that was when things got hairy. Because Durene had forgotten a crucial fact.
“Hoi there! Someone’s beating down the Watch! Hey, 5th Fighters, get over here!”
“Soldiers.”
Normen spoke as he stopped kicking a Drake in the groin. Durene spun and blinked as a bunch of really burly Drakes ran towards her. They were dressed in civilian clothes, but they had that straight-backed posture and shaved neck spines that said [Soldier] to her.
“Back off. I’m fighting a duel of honor.”
The lead Drake had bright, pinkish scales and a tattoo of some kind of clenched Drake fist on his arm. He gave Durene a blink.
“Put down your fists, miss. This is a safe city.”
“This is an affair of honor, sir. These fellows deserve it.”
Normen punctuated that with a stomp on a Drake’s fingers as they tried to reach for their sword. The crack made the [Soldiers] wince, and the one in front put up his fists with a sigh.
“On my break too. Come on, lads.”
Nerul had been watching the brisk scrap with approval, but he raised his voice urgently.
“Alright, that’s enough. Stand down, Durene, Normen!”
The two [Knights] ignored him. Lapsey wasn’t out of Pallass yet by Durene’s count, and she raised her fists as the first Drake moved towards her, keeping his stance low. She had armor on, and big as he was, she was bigger.
“This is the least of what is deserved, Diplomat.”
Normen growled, and Durene saw the flames of honor burning bright on his armor. Four Drakes and a Gnoll were spreading out warily around him; only one was after Durene. She felt a bit insulted; it was a squad of five. She threw a punch as Nerul shouted.
“Yes, but those aren’t [Guards]! That’s—”
Durene’s punch missed the Drake, who leaned out of the way, pushing her fist out of line. Then he grabbed it. Durene felt a pull on her arm and stumbled as the Drake heaved—then the world rotated.
“Huh?”
All the air left her body as Durene hit the ground with a crash of metal. She stared for a second, then tried to roll up. Someone hit her in the face with a knee, and she stumbled; she punched, missed the pink Drake, who hit her in the chest, the stomach, and then the face again.
“[Armorpiercing Blows].”
It hurt. A lot. Durene swung a fist and missed. She kicked; the Drake captured her leg under an armpit, then kicked her other leg as she flailed. Down she went, and then the Drake sat on her chest and began to punch her.
“Get off of—”
Durene threw the Drake off, to his clear surprise, and he rolled upright as she staggered to her feet. Her head was ringing. She threw a wild punch as the Drake lunged and took her down a third time.
“—The Sinew Magus’ trainees.”
Nerul sighed and covered his eyes. There was no mistaking the distinctive [Soldiers] of Pallass’ army that fell under Grimalkin’s care. Durene tried to get up as the Drake pinned her arm and tried to wrench it up; she heaved and threw the Drake off of her again, but he just blocked one punch and gave her a return kick.
The bewildered half-Troll girl had never run into someone who practiced fighting like the 5th Fighters; the Drake kept coming at her, and she felt like she was hitting air. If she tried for a grab, he’d tackle her, and if she got on the ground, he’d jump on her and begin punching her.
“Surrender.”
