New magic. Suddenly—her little pet project with Laken felt a lot more consequential. Now she had the hang of one word…she wondered what else she could say. She and Laken began to try the other words, but only Alevica had managed the weird cheek-trick, and despite three hours of practice, no more words magically appeared.
“This is it, though. You have one word.”
“Even if I can only say it once in twenty-four tries.”
Every time the lights went out, it took about three minutes for them to come back on. And that was one word in a series of one spell that Alevica was pretty sure had something to do with darkness. Or maybe…eating light? There were any number of concepts that ‘Řoçit’ might correspond to.
She and Laken ended up talking so much that they had dinner in Riverfarm, chatting practically past Yesel and everyone else staring at them. Cirsa and Malluni didn’t bother them; they were feverishly making a potion under Thallisa’s guidance, and Alevica only broke away when Rie came to fetch Laken.
“I hate to interrupt, Witch Alevica, but His Majesty and I have a bit of work to do—”
The [Lady] gave Alevica a peeved look, and Alevica tried to croak a response back. Then she saw everyone staring at her and pushed her chair back hurriedly.
“I’m done for the day anyways. See you, Laken. I might go for a delivery tomorrow, actually.”
“What? But we’re just getting—what is it, Rie?”
Laken got up, clearly annoyed, and Alevica backed away. Even if he and she agreed nothing was going on, she was not going to get involved in this drama. Cursing, she stomped over to the Runner’s Guild and raspily demanded a delivery that would take her out of Riverfarm at least a day or two.
Laken was only so happy to help with Cirsa and Malluni; he could deal with her being gone. Besides—now that she’d figured out the clues, Alevica reckoned she could study the spellbook at her own leisure anyways.
Much to her annoyance, she found her two apprentices were already tucked into bed by the time she had finished arranging her delivery tomorrow and had gotten some food for the road. Alevica stomped over to her chair, then realized someone had added a second bed downstairs in her cottage.
“Damn [Emperors].”
She hopped into bed, glaring, and then yawned. Alevica drifted off, still feeling the rumble of that word on her lips.
Her enemy’s magic. The magic that had killed Oliyaya.
Power worth having. Steal it from them, my apprentice. Alevica just bet Oliyaya would say that. Her eyes squeezed shut, and she put an arm over her face.
The Witch Runner kept her voice quiet so she didn’t wake the two younger [Witches] with any sounds. For a while, her shoulders shook, and she held the sobs in her mouth like a spell she could never utter.
Then she slept, wishing bitterly she had never had cause to learn new magic or be anyone other than the selfish Witch Runner. But like always…that voice that had neglected her for so long spoke into the silence of the night with words and a tone no one had ever deciphered fully.
For it disagreed.
 
[Outworld Translator class obtained!]
[Outworld Translator Level 5!]
[Skill – Basic Proficiency: Speech obtained!]
[Skill – Defy Solecism (Daily) obtained!]
[Synergy Skill – Mind Shield: Eldritch Inscriptions obtained!]
[Skill – Tongue of Deikat Vunn obtained!]
 
When Alevica awoke in the dead of the night, it was in a cold sweat. She sat up and said:
“Oh.”
The word made the house rumble.
 
——
 
The moment she had made sure Cirsa and Malluni had breakfast and would report to Eloise, Alevica rushed over to Laken’s house.
He wasn’t there, but people cleaning the place told Alevica that Laken was holding court. So off to the ‘throne building’ Alevica went.
She had a lot of thoughts as she strode around Riverfarm, first of which was that seeing a walking wicker man was really, really strange.
It was sweeping the streets and had a small crowd of people watching it from afar. A walking wicker man. Not an Elemental. Not a Golem.
A familiar. To be more precise, a Witch’s Familiar. There wasn’t just one; three had popped up in Riverfarm alone. Two were sweepers. One stood in the fields and attacked any bird that tried to eat the crops.
Familiars and Elementals. On any other day, Alevica would focus on that.
However! She had levelled up, and her first other thought was that she couldn’t tell anyone her class without giving away important secrets! Good thing she already had an anti-appraisal ring, but her Skills!
A [Synergy Skill]? And…and the [Tongue of Deikat Vunn]?
Think like a [Witch]. The new class was great. Alevica had pulled out a dictionary from Riverfarm’s library and looked up what ‘solecism’ meant; it made sense, even if it was less impressive than she’d thought. But Deikat Vunn was a hint.
It should be Aklat Vunn. Unless Aklat meant something else. Or Deikat is a lower version of that? Could be either one.
She couldn’t wait to ask Laken about all of it and speculate with him. However, Alevica doubted he had the [Translator] class; he was an [Emperor]. Smaller classes didn’t really pop up with the monarchy. Though she could hope.
Alevica was hurrying to break the good news to Laken, so she didn’t pay much attention to her surroundings as she strode down the main street. Thus, she nearly tripped over Traffy, who was directing traffic. The little Law Elemental screeched at Alevica, who was jaywalking, and a Snow Elemental, which looked like a cute little Snow Golem…that could fly…made a tinkling sound.
Elementals. Like the old days, just walking about. Alevica held up her hands as the little lantern with legs flashed bright lights in her face.
“Traffy. Traffy! I’m not in the mood for—I will kick you. Get lost!”
The tripod legs scuttled after her as Alevica growled. Then she realized something.
Wait a second. Traffy was plain iron with three little openings—a ‘traffic light’ as Laken had called them. This was a walking lantern with one central ‘eye’ that was flashing a bright blue. And it had a little…hat…
“What the—?”
Alevica remembered Charlay bragging that she was going on a big job with Traffy as a mascot. Then who was this?
A second Law Elemental made a shrill, whistling sound, and someone with a larger version of its hat looked over. Alevica saw one of Riverfarm’s new [Guards], a woman with a hat, blow a tentative whistle.
“No crossing the street without a light, Miss Witch!”
The Watch had arrived. Alevica stared at her eternal nemesis; the woman had a baton, a navy blue cap rather than a helmet, and lighter clothing than the armor some Watch members wore.
They must have been dressed like that because Laken didn’t expect the same levels of crime as some cities. It certainly made them look more like officials than jumped-up [Warrior].
Alevica still hated them on sight. She aimed a kick at the walking lantern, which scuttled aside. The [Guardswoman] shouted.
“Sireny! Attacking a member of the Watch is a crime!”
“Bite me.”
Alevica shouted back over the outraged wail from the little Law Elemental that had doubtless led to its name. Or rather, she tried to shout ‘bite me’.
What instead came out was a croaking bellow that made both members of the Watch scuttle back in alarm. Alevica put a hand to her mouth, then spun and kept running.
Her new Skill wasn’t active all the time, but it was like a second…layer of speech under regular words. If Alevica wanted, she could shift the way words came out, and each word became different. Unique. She imagined a frog’s throat inflating in place of her own, and controlling how it should move was uncanny. Disturbing.
And frankly, exciting.
I’ve done it. I’ve cracked the code. Or rather, I can now pronounce all these damn words! I just have to figure out how they sound, and now I can say them!
“Laken! I’ve done it! I—”
Alevica burst into the throne room and halted. The [Emperor] looked up from where he was sitting on his throne, and Alevica got a full glower from everyone present. But what drew Alevica up short was the sight of some familiar faces.
Durene, Normen, Vess, Jewel, Ama, and Antherr all stood before the [Emperor] of Riverfarm. The Order of Solstice had a petition, and Alevica understood quite clearly why Laken hadn’t bothered her this morning, despite their huge triumphs of last night.
His love had returned. Only—it seemed like she’d brought problems.
“Alevica, I will speak with you momentarily. Forgive me, Ser Normen.”
The [Emperor] inclined his head, and the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice shifted uncomfortably.
“Not at all, Your Majesty.”
Laken sat back on his throne, posture good, but his face was pained, and Alevica felt anger, uncertainty, and frustration radiating off of him like flames from a fire. It was at odds with the literal flames shining off of Normen, Vess, and Ama.
Mercy, Honor, and Sadness. No glory? All of the [Knights] were bubbling over with emotion. Guilt, regret, fury—Durene was like a lighthouse of it, only surpassed by Normen and Ama—
Something bad had happened. Alevica began listening as she strode over to the other [Witches]. Eloise wasn’t here; she was taking care of the children, and she kept seeing a lot of Typhenous. That old man was on his way out, but the [Tea Witch] seemed to have taken pity on him.
Mavika was there, and she glared at Alevica.
“Witch, be mindful of your courtesies and obey the law here.”
Alevica just stared at Mavika, Mavika, telling her this.
“Oh yeah? And what are you going to do about it? Fine me?”
Mavika hesitated. Then she calmly stomped on Alevica’s foot so hard that the Witch Runner felt tears come to her eyes.
Laken ignored the sounds of Hedag separating the two as he sat there, head tilted upwards, a huge frown on his features. When he did move, it was to shake his head, and his voice was regretful. But direct.
“—I cannot oblige your request, Grandmaster Normen. I am committed to giving the Order of Solstice as much aid as reasonable, but—”
“What? They’re being hunted down, Laken! You can’t turn Lapsey away!”
Durene burst out, voice raised, and Alevica’s head turned. Who now? She glanced at the other [Witches], and Mavika touched her two canines.
Oh. Vampires. Alevica frowned as Durene strode forwards, and someone barked.
“You are in the presence of His Majesty of Riverfarm, Paladin Durene! Even if you are a [Lady], you must adhere to decorum in front of the [Emperor]! Mind your manners.”
Durene halted, flinching, as Master Ram shouted in outrage. For a moment, she quailed; then she balled her fists.
“Laken doesn’t need a [Lady] to curtsy to him and speak nice, Ram. I’m his [Paladin], and I’m a [Knight] of Solstice. Lampsey needs our help. Vampires do! If they’re getting slaughtered as they cross the border—where else can they go? Laken, you took in Goblins!”
“I did.”
The [Emperor] was avoiding turning his head towards Durene, as if he were afraid of meeting her eyes, despite being blind. He spoke, voice husky.
“I am sure Lady Rie would agree if she were present. This is harder than Goblins, somehow. Vampire Hunters are combing Izril, Durene. They will not stop, and I have it on good authority both north and south regard Vampires as a dire threat. Worse than Goblins—save for a Goblin Lord arising—ironically. I have already angered many by establishing the Goblinlands. If I were to hide Vampires here, the truth would come out. And then I would make Riverfarm a target it cannot afford to be at this moment.”
“But it’s the right thing to do. You do the right thing, Laken. Each time.”
He flinched at that. Oh, this was good. Alevica wished she had some popcorn. Right now, the object of Laken’s regrets and love was here, and he still did love her. But he had a duty, and the two forces were fighting it out inside him.
Actually, she felt bad for him. Durene was so hepped up on her righteous fury she didn’t see how this was going. Even so, maybe it was necessary; Laken shook his head.
“Riverfarm has made stands of principle. Rightly and wrongly, Durene. But it cannot survive numerous noble houses coming to blows here. I am willing to make that stand for Vampires. Not shelter them.”
“If you hid them—”
“The truth will come out, Durene. And when it does—even if we have an army, we do not have a [Spymaster]. I am not going to have a dozen Drakes burning down the Unseen Empire like last time!”
Laken shouted at Durene to the astonishment of all present. He stopped, and shame from him washed over Alevica a moment later, but Laken just sat back hard against his throne.
“The answer is no. I will render any aid short of that, Ser Normen. But Lapsey will not find haven in my lands. Vampires may pass through unabated as they did when Erin sent them south. If I am pressed, even by Lord Yitton, my ally, I will state my position: I do not see the danger nor the reason to kill these people. But I cannot force the position against the entire north and Pallass.”
His tone was like someone sharpening a knife.
“Yet.”
There it was. Alevica breathed out and saw the [Witches] arguing silently; a few looked unhappy, but Witch Thallisa, who was already in the court somehow, just tipped her hat silently.
“Goblins and Witches. If he collects the full deck, this little experiment of an empire folds.”
She murmured, and Alevica had to agree. Even the Order of Solstice were nodding grimly, probably prepared for this. Normen bowed his head, but Durene stood there, vibrating with fury.
“Coward. That’s cowardly, Laken. I thought you would always stand up for people.”
“Knight Durene, hold your tongue.”
The [Emperor] was saved from having to answer by Normen barking. Antherr and Jewel came forwards to drag Durene back. She argued with them fiercely as the [Knight] took his helmet off and bowed.
“I apologize for Knight Durene, Your Majesty. She’s worked up as a fellow—woman gets.”
“I quite…understand, Ser Normen. No offense is taken, and in light of our previous relationship, I will let the matter slide. I do regret that I cannot offer you anything more.”
“Passage is enough, Your Majesty. In truth, I would have hesitated to ask it of you, the inn, or anyone else if Lapsey’s kin continued to flee. One or two may be doable. Ten, a hundred…”
“They are coming for Vampires with nothing but slaughter on their mind. I understand that, Ser Normen. What I need…what I request the Order of Solstice to find are answers. Why? What deeds were committed that have led to this unceasing hatred after so long? Perhaps a resolution can be found, but until then, I suggest Vampires are safest outside of the north, and if they are in the south…as far away from a Walled City’s influence as they can get.”
