On that, at least, Laken and Normen agreed. The [Grandmaster] bowed, stepped back, and Alevica saw the court murmuring and coming forwards to consult with Laken. More Vampire troubles.
Laken was turning to Alevica, a question on his face, when the Witch Runner realized something. She leapt to her feet, abandoning one of the chairs the [Witches] were sitting in.
“Burn my hat—I have a delivery to make!”
She’d completely forgotten. And today of all days! Alevica cursed, realizing that her number one ‘helper’ who could take over for her, Charlay, was gone. She was in such a rush and Laken was so busy with the Vampire issue that she didn’t even get to tell him about her new Skill.
Well, it’d keep.
 
——
 
The thing about being an Alevica was that you were not a Wiskeria or an Eloise or even a Hedag. What did that mean?
It meant that weighty decisions like the fate of Vampires—which Alevica was sympathetic about; having people just murdered for no good reason was bad—the Unseen Empire, and all that?
She didn’t need to be part of it. Even Hedag was more involved with decision-making than Alevica. She didn’t always put her foot on the scales like Eloise or Wiskeria, but Hedag was there. Heck. Thallisa was getting involved.
But Alevica wasn’t important enough. She didn’t have to be. She could fly off and not wonder how Laken was handling letting down Durene or what was going to happen next.
She was a simple [Witch] and Runner. Like Ryoka…no, wait. Like Charlay…wait, Charlay was working directly for Laken and trying to recruit entire cities…
Alevica had just come to Riverfarm for Oliyaya. She wasn’t part of it. She didn’t want a piece of the court like a noble title.
She liked to keep telling herself that so she didn’t forget.
Thus it was that the Witch Runner leapt onto her broom and flew northwards again, once more heading straight up the continent on a stupid delivery for gold she didn’t really need if Laken was helping with her two apprentices.
At least she had filled up her hat…but her magic was draining at an alarming rate. It was still enough for a flight just west of Reizmelt and then back, if she used carriage services.
In truth, Alevica’s flying was very limited. What she actually did was leave Riverfarm, head to Invrisil, and take a carriage north on one of their cheap runs towards First Landing.
Her plan was to disembark at Reizmelt and fly to her destination, then come back and hitch a ride south to Invrisil. That would keep her flying within her magical means. A three-hour flight east and west, rather than the entire way. She definitely had enough magic for that, but it meant sitting in a carriage for most of the day.
It was hellishly dull. Alevica didn’t consider travel that fun outside of flying at the best of times. Normally, she slept or annoyed her fellow passengers, but Alevica couldn’t see the point at the moment. A few were introducing themselves; there was a [Scribe] who had new employment up there, a [Trader] who did the commute regularly, a mother visiting a son…
Alevica had too much energy to sleep, so she tried sounding out the word from the book in her head.
‘Řoçit’ was the word she’d managed to say. Alevica was convinced she could replicate it, but it didn’t do anything other than make the lights go out. On the other hand, there was another spell that seemed to have a definite effect. And it was only one word long…
Sçæptiŝ. But Alevica didn’t feel like alarming the guests or getting tossed out of the carriage by practicing the magic. So instead, she stared out the window and listened to the most inane chatter of her life.
None of the passengers were discussing the Vampire situation. They were all about the New Lands or the magical carriages and Wistram’s new advertisements for their magic.
I suppose this is what normal people consider important. If they don’t know about Vampires…it was funny to hear what they regarded as important.
“My word, yes. Reinharts everywhere. It’s like they’ve all decided to come off holiday. They’re very…imposing. I wouldn’t get in their way if I were you. They’re the Five Families, of course, but there are rumors. Still, perhaps it’s for the best. Everyone makes much of Magnolia Reinhart. Of course she’s an impressive woman! But all this ‘peace with the Drakes’ talk…”
The [Trader] was having an animated conversation with the mother and [Scribe]. The [Scribe] was more cautious about airing his views.
“I…wouldn’t know about the Reinharts. I just work in the Scrivener’s Guild, and the nobility are excellent clients one and all. I will say that Lord Tyrion’s absence is quite notable. He sailed to Baleros, didn’t he? Chasing the love of his life?”
“It’s so romantic! The Wind Runner.”
Alevica snorted into her hat quietly as the mother clapped her hands together. The [Trader] looked disgruntled.
“That can’t be it, Miss. A [Lord] of the Five Families doesn’t just go sailing off to another continent. Even for love. Besides, the Wind Runner is always mobile.”
“Who better than the Lord of House Veltras to catch her?”
The [Scribe] was on board with the romance. The [Trader] huffed.
“Well, Lord Tyrion had best learn to ride on water, because if he’s really in Baleros for the Wind Runner, he’s wasted a trip. She completed a delivery in Izril’s south yesterday.”
Hm? Alevica raised her hat, and the other two protested.
“That can’t be.”
“I have it on the Merchant’s Guild’s authority myself. It was just an entry in the ledgers; they note who does what. It was a Prelon delivery. Basic…but I did note the name.”
Ryoka in southern Izril? That had to be a mistake, but Alevica filed it away to tell someone. Laken might care. It seemed like there was some useful information here.
Well, that was the highlight of her carriage trip. Whereupon Alevica got out of the coach in Reizmelt, hopped on her broom, and sped off on her delivery. She was getting paid well for it; not many Runners wanted to risk her destination, and Alevica flew through the air, trying out new words.
“Scaeptis. Scaeee—”
Her voice rumbled as she tried to get it just right. It was almost right, Alevica could sense it. But it was damn cold up high, and maybe it was messing with her lungs because it wasn’t quite right. Also, Alevica kept scratching the back of her neck and turning around.
She had the uncanniest feeling on the back of her neck, and when she checked her boot, she remembered that her anti-malice charm was broken. But all Alevica saw was open pastures of horses and boring fields when she looked around.
“Maybe [Bandits].”
They usually avoided taking potshots at her, but she could sometimes tell when she was flying over one from the stares she felt. Alevica eyed a lazily circling Griffin in the distance and banked away from it.
There were threats in the air. Lightning, airborne monsters, getting hit by a bug in the eye at top speed—oh, and some idiot [Hunters] thinking you were a bird.
Whatever. Alevica went back to practicing until she reached the borders of her destination. Then she saw the reason most Runners refused to deliver anything.
About sixty [Maids] and [Butlers] were camping along the edge of a wall in progress. They were having tea, standing around, with neat tents set up as if they were having a retreat. One look told Alevica whose they were: only Magnolia Reinhart’s servants would be loitering out here in such odd style.
And only her servants went around armed to the gills with artifacts. The servants were quite relaxed, though they spotted Alevica the moment she spotted them. They didn’t move or stall her passing…but the Golems and armed [Soldiers] did.
“Halt in the name of House Terland!”
Barely a thousand feet from the servants’ camp, a bunch of Golems assembling a wall halted, and Alevica swerved, cursing, as a glowing beam of light illuminated her. One of the Golems was tracking her!
“Hey! I’m a Runner, you idiots! On delivery!”
“Descend. Now! House Walchaís is under the protection of House Terland!”
Cursing, Alevica dropped until she landed and held up her hands. Small wonder Magnolia’s servants hadn’t advanced; even the Griffin and possible [Bandits] didn’t want any part of the small army securing the border to House Walchaís.
Lady Bethal Walchaís’ lands. The traitor’s lands.
Alevica stomped towards the leader of the Golems and [Soldiers], who gave her a suspicious look. But she flashed her Runner’s Seal, and he could confirm she had a damn package. Not for Bethal Walchaís, by the by.
Alevica had some standards.
“Look, it’s just a bunch of parts from the Dwarves. Something for spinning wheels? All kinds of stupid metal.”
A bulk order, but one that hadn’t been able to get to House Walchaís due to this blockade until Alevica had taken the request. The surly [Lieutenant] let her through after a moment.
“Mind your manners, Runner.”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Alevica flew off with another glance at the servants. They hadn’t moved when she’d been intercepted. They just stood around, chatting, looking completely at ease. But from the way the Terland soldiers watched them…
The moment they leave, I wouldn’t want to be Lady Bethal, her famous [Knights] and her husband or not.
Alevica had heard that House Terland had interceded to save Bethal, but it seemed Magnolia Reinhart didn’t forget or forgive easily.
 
——
 
The rest of House Walchaís seemed normal enough, if somewhat tense and hungry for news. Alevica wasn’t used to being warmly greeted, what with the hat and robes, but the [Mayor] of whatever town this was herself came out to thank her for the delivery.
“Lady Bethal—well, her sister, excuse me, paid for these wonderful spinning devices you put on the wheels. New from the Gnolls! It’s dreadfully hard to get anyone to deliver to us. No one bothers the foot traffic, but the Runner’s Guild and Driver’s Guild barely take any requests.”
“Yeah. That would probably be because they’re scared spitless of Magnolia Reinhart. Lucky for you some of us like gold. Glad I could be of service. Thanks for the money. Got anything for the way back?”
They did, but getting it out of the woman while delivering sparse updates on the news was draining Alevica’s nearly-empty teapot for social interactions. She tried to extricate herself from the town as fast as possible.
Only one thing made her stop, near the end, as the [Mayor] was walking her out of the deserted Runner’s Guild.
“Please tell the other Guildmasters that we earnestly would like deliveries. This…unpleasantness between the nobility shouldn’t interfere with commerce.”
“I think you’re out of luck. It’s more than just a grudge between Bethal and Magnolia.”
Someone was going to die for Bethal’s actions, and it had better be Bethal. The [Mayor] avoided Alevica’s pointed glance and murmured.
“It’s so tragic, though. Lady Thricia has returned! However it may be, it is her. She’s as young as she was when she was a girl, and I…well, Lady Ulva Terland was here herself, and many of the nobility, to see the miracle. I cannot argue that much will change Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s mind. But I can at least pray it will be so. Would you like to offer a prayer, Witch Alevica? For the road, the wellbeing of House Walchaís, or anything else? We have a shrine.”
“…Pray?”
Alevica had been about to get on her broom, but she swiveled around at the odd word. An alarm began to ring in her head, and the [Mayor] smiled in the way of someone with their own new thing to show.
“It’s just a small shrine. Over here. I’ve shown all our new visitors it, not that we have many, ha, ha…but they’re in every holding of House Walchaís. It takes a moment to get your mind around it, though. But you can even get a new class!”
“A class?”
Alevica turned, and the [Mayor] beamed.
“Yes! I, myself, didn’t get one, but there’s a mother in this very town. Poor woman; she lost two babes from miscarriages, and it’s helped her make peace with it greatly. And an, um, a young man who works in the graveyard. Peculiar, but everyone does pray. Especially in dangerous lines of work.”
The [Mayor] pointed, and Alevica’s toes began to itch. Down one of the main streets in town was a kind of altar, a flat wooden top of black wood set under a little half-roofed alcove.
“The Skills are marvelous things, Miss Witch Runner. Truly. I could wish for a class like that if I wasn’t a [Mayor]. One heals any scratch you have, like a potion! Another—well, the [Farmer] says it helps with the culling of animals. Difficult work, you know. But there’s some benefit, I’m sure…”
Alevica barely heard the woman. She was just focused on the small structure, barely larger than a door. The simple, served roof sheltered the midnight altar, where some flowers and even a simple stone bracelet had been placed, and a few melted candles.
It wasn’t much. No one had left great gifts like Riverfarm’s own totems, but it froze Alevica solid. Especially when she saw the simple title affixed over the statue of three women.
 
Three-In-One. 
Kasigna.
 
A shrine and prayer. Alevica had never seen the like, never heard of it in all her days. It reminded her of witchcraft to summon spirits or commune with elementals. But when she thought of the Solstice—she knew.
 
——
 
Alevica didn’t remember what happened next. Well, not fully. She came back to her senses after the [Soldiers] tossed her over the wall they were building. She got up, bruised and panting.
She had attacked the altar and tried to burn it down until the [Mayor] and the Watch had pulled her off of it. Alevica had been dragged away by one of the Rose Knights and a Golem, screaming curses until they got her over the border.
“Those idiots. Those—”
She was panting, wild-eyed—and she might have done something stupid that would have gotten her killed. A Golem was facing her, eyes glowing red in its metal face, and it had an arm-mounted crossbow pointed straight at her.
“Miss Alevica? I think further action would be unwise at this moment. Would you care to withdraw and leave the rest to us?”
A refined voice spoke up, and Alevica saw a [Maid] with a frilly headdress curtsey to her. The Golem switched targets, but Alevica’s haze of fury and panic cleared as she saw several servants around her.
“Rain tonight. May we offer you a drink and some shelter, Witch Runner?”
A [Butler] unfolded an umbrella just as the first few drops began to patter down. Panting, Alevica got up. She looked at a cup of tea one was proffering her.
“I—no. I—I need to get back. To Riverfarm. Thank you.”
