Laken Godart, Emperor of the Unseen Empire, took a nap after his morning of chaos to receive two announcements. The first was gratifying, if worrying.
 
[Emperor of Farmlands Level 37!]
[Skill – Empire: The Changing Citizenry obtained!]
 
“…Voluntarily, I would hope.”
He had to assume that was what had led Mister Ram’s hair to change and Councilwoman Beatica to grow feathers. Sometimes, it seemed to Laken that Skills he possessed were already active before he heard the notification. Sleep was just when he became conscious of them.
Then again, maybe you had to adopt the opposite approach: the fae might have caused some of the pronounced shifts in his populace and the world had decided to ratify that with an actual ability.
Either way, Laken was not so cruel as to force his citizens to shift their bodies unnaturally. He was that petty—but he rather suspected Beatica would be the first to jump Margravine Mavika’s domain for anyone else’s.
Laken awoke ready for the rest of his day corralling worried people. He was prepared for a crowd to still be there despite his nap, but as he emerged, he ran into the second announcement. This one was also gratifying, if worrying.
“Witch Mavika, I may be a humble [Gigolo] without much to my name, but upon my class, it would be my honor to marry you.”
“Huh?”
Laken Godart emerged from his cottage to find a tableau. Well—tableau implied silence. A bunch of [Witches] laughing themselves sick and a stock-still audience of people was an interesting contrast.
Witch Mavika was perched on a roof, trying to avoid a young man professing his love to her on bended knee. Laken leaned over.
“Gamel, am I dreaming?”
“No, Your Majesty. It’s been like this for the last hour.”
“…What. That fellow there. He can’t be more than twenty. Does—why does Riverfarm have—[Gigolo] is a class?”
“I think he’s new to Riverfarm, Your Majesty. He may just be a traveller. And he’s not the only one.”
The [Knight] and [Emperor] resumed listening as a second suitor made his case. How did they even have wedding rings…?
“Margravine, I am a [Bird Watcher]! Nay, if you’ll have me, a bird lover—ack! Aieeeee—”
That last bit was the sound of Mavika kicking someone off the roof and them hitting the ground and beginning to scream. She snapped around, her voice a hiss.
“I am a Witch, not some [Lady] to be courted! Leave me be or suffer my wrath!”
“Ah, but you’re a [Lady], Mavika.”
A new voice called out, and Mavika turned her head, her tone dripping with venom.
“Thallisa.”
The wind blew. No, wait—Laken’s skin didn’t register anything. But the wave of heads turning and the current that rippled across the clothing and buildings and ground—
What was that? The [Emperor]’s head snapped around as he felt a shock course across one arm and his body like a jolt of electricity.
Then a [Witch] was there. Laken didn’t recognize her. She was a tall woman with an even taller hat, which she tipped in what Laken took to be a theatrical manner.
Her voice was filled with sardonic amusement, but Laken could barely hear it. The moment the [Witch] appeared, his heart had begun to race, and he heard someone singing in his ears.
Paris, France, 2012. A younger Laken Godart had been waiting in one of the larger plazas, bored out of his mind and upset; he was waiting for his mother, and she was thirty minutes late and had just sent a message saying she might be delayed even longer due to a traffic accident.
He’d sat there, disconsolately bitter and unwilling to do anything other than sulk. Then he’d been assaulted by a blast of sound as a band began to play. It seemed he had been inadvertently present for a performance by a pop band, perhaps for self-promotion. Or maybe an organized event.
The first moments of hearing that female singer blasting music into his ears had been terrifying, exhilarating, and shocking.
—The same song was playing in Laken’s ears right now. For a moment, he flashed back to the moment, and his heartbeat spiked in his chest. Then he was once again in the present.
Faint cries and shouts of surprise said that Laken wasn’t the only person to have that experience. The [Witch] tipped her hat up.
“I have arrived. Good morning, Your Majesty. I am Witch Thallisa indeed. I greet my fellow [Witches], and I offer a gift to the patron of [Witches]!”
She swung one arm up, and Laken realized something else. Thallisa had a cape. She swung it now, and something fluttered towards Laken.
Gamel caught it in one hand as Laken recoiled. The [Emperor] took a second to make sure it wasn’t actually an attack or dangerous before reaching out.
“…You certainly have a way with entrances, Witch Thallisa, was it? What is this, if I may ask?”
“Why, merely a Cape of Voices, Your Majesty. Made from fox fur.”
Laken reached out as Gamel shifted
“Your Majesty—”
Fearlessly, Laken felt at the surprisingly soft cape. He raised his brows.
“An artifact? You needn’t have provided a gift, Witch Thallisa. The pact stands for all [Witches], though I am grateful and intrigued. What does it do?”
“Thallisa. Begone. We do not agree, Your Majesty.”
Mavika was glowering, but the new [Witch] ignored her. She tipped her hat again.
“The cape is simple, Your Majesty. Wear it and animals will understand your words. Not perfectly; they are still animals, and a squirrel has no notion of advanced math no matter how much I explain it to them. ‘Tis a small gift for an [Emperor] who is said to commune with beasts and folk alike. I am the Witch of the Eightnight Coven. I seek the hospitality of your lands.”
“Granted. Of course. But if Margravine Mavika has a quarrel…”
Laken glanced at the [Witch], and Thallisa chuckled.
“We disagree on everything from animals to justice. Mavika believes crows should be crows and [Witches] should be isolated and aloof. I believe the opposite.”
“She is a meddler.”
“—Which is why I am delighted to see you’ve taken my position, Mavika.”
Thallisa laughed, and Mavika made a low noise in the back of her throat.
“I am a Margravine such that [Witches] will have land fully of their own.”
“If the result is what we both agree on, why quibble? But you shouldn’t harass your suitors so, Margravine.”
The two [Witches] began sparring, completely ignoring Laken after a moment. He surreptitiously put his cloak on, despite Gamel’s objections. It wasn’t that warm in the spring’s morning, and instantly, he felt his throat itch a bit.
“Hm. Is it working? Can anyone hear me?”
One of the Sariant Lambs, omnipresent around Laken, gave him an unimpressed look.
“Mraaabra. Loser. Mehee—”
Laken heard a cute mewl and simultaneously—his head snapped around. The Sariant Lamb jerked—stared at him—then galloped off in alarm.
It wasn’t perfect; it sounded like half-gibberish, but had he just heard—?
Thallisa was laughing. At Laken’s expression and Mavika, who was squawking back at her.
“A noble class is befitting of a [Witch]! It is isolation and power. I have not betrayed my beliefs! These suitors are inappropriate!”
She sounded defensive, and Thallisa waggled one finger.
“Oh, Mavika, your view on nobility is as old and one-sided as your witchcraft. Isolated? It is purely noble to marry and start vast bloodlines. I wish you the best of luck, Margravine Witch Mavika. I shall begin crafting my wedding gift posthaste.”
Then she curtseyed, which Laken imagined was a deep cut to hear Mavika’s cry of outrage. Witch Thallia retreated, and Gamel whispered.
“She’s one of the [Witches] on par with Witch Eloise and Hedag, Your Majesty. Another ‘Great Witch’. I would have introduced you, but…”
Laken had rather undercut any event this morning. Witch Thallisa seemed to be greatly amused; she glanced his way and tipped her hat, and he nodded as he whispered back.
“Specialty?”
“Hex magic and potions, Your Majesty.”
“Hm. Potions are good. Hexes…”
Laken hoped she was at least cordial. From how she interacted with Mavika, it seemed like the two had a rivalry, which might mean more [Witch] strife. Thallisa gave him the impression of a heckler.
He was smiling to himself as he turned to some of his advisors.
“Wiskeria, not off to inspect the rest of Riverfarm? Rie’s already gone.”
The [Witch]-[General] was largely unmoved by the chaos of the morning. As one might expect of Belavierr’s daughter, she sounded like she was only grudgingly impressed.
“Turning land over to the fae is either a brilliant move or dangerous. You’re playing with their rules, Your Majesty. I suggest no one violates any laws of hospitality—or miss any tithes.”
Laken nodded, growing a tad bit serious, but his heart was still light and amused. They all deserve it.
“More to gain, more to lose. I have a list of people I should like to elevate, actually. I thought Eloise or Mavika would be more…interesting than you. But gaining more noble titles to give out is a priority for me.”
“I quite understand, Laken. I wish you had informed me about this, as your [General], though. I had a dream about dying, which made me worried when I heard about all the changes. I thought it was some kind of attack, and I had the army ready to go until you announced it was your doing.”
Wiskeria folded her arms. She sounded less-than-pleased, and Laken waved an airy hand.
“You know me. I’m sometimes erratic. Such is the nature of [Emperors]. I thought my citizens liked me being very much the ruler they wish me to be.”
The [Witch of Law] paused, and her voice grew a trace annoyed.
“I can tell you’re amused by this, Laken. And spiteful. I would remind you my job is to be the commonsense voice in your ear and your [General].”
“Meaning?”
Laken smiled, and Wiskeria shrugged.
“Meaning I may not know much about relationships or even ruling, but I can tell when someone’s getting a fat head. Your subjects are upset. Some contrition would be appropriate, least of all when they reckon with a Goblin…[Lord].”
“Ah, yes. That will need clarity, or at least, the brackets being written down when it’s announced.”
The blind man was in too good a mood to worry about the consequences. He smirked.
“Send for Raidpear at his earliest convenience.”
“He’ll kick you in the knee again if he sees you smirking.”
Wiskeria warned flatly. Laken gestured at his broad, vindictive smile.
“I’m afraid the smile and smugness comes with the crown. Not that I always wear one.”
“Oh, really? I have a good idea on how to fix that.”
The [Witch] adjusted her hat, then spoke in a carrying voice.
“Durene’s not coming back, Your Majesty. Even if you make her a [Duchess].”
Heads turned. Laken felt someone knock his smile off his face with a club. He’d almost forgotten…he turned to Wiskeria heavily, rubbing at his chest.
“…Thank you, General Wiskeria.”
“Anytime, Your Majesty.”
Laken’s foul glare only made Wiskeria tip her hat upwards.
“I will forgo a noble title since I already have a [General] class. But if you are giving away the auspices of empire to your vassals, may I have forty acres of land? Some of the forests Mavika doesn’t control or maybe the swamplands would do.”
“What? Why?”
The question threw Laken. Wiskeria answered casually.
“Well, because it would be an income. And I could also let [Witches] live on the land rent-free. [Generals] do own property. I am also allowed to do with the land as I please, aren’t I? I may raise a monument to Traffy, or laws, there.”
Laken stood there, flummoxed, and Wiskeria tipped her hat again.
“Giving land to me would also incentivize some other [Witches] who’d like the same. They’re merely guests in Riverfarm. If they own land, they have duties to you.”
“A smart idea. Why don’t I give land to Hedag then?”
Laken was still smarting from the Durene comment. Wiskeria chuckled.
“Well, because you’d reward one of your most loyal vassals first. And I’d tell the other [Witches] what you’re up to.”
In the silence, the [Emperor] scowled and muttered.
“Pick your forty acres, then. And there will be requirements for anyone who owns land; you can’t just leave it fallow. You get to work out sufficient laws for the [Witches]. And other vassals.”
He expected Wiskeria to balk, but she just unstoppered an ink pot, pulled a scroll out of her bag of holding, and a clank of parts heralded the Elemental of Law, Traffy, striding over. Wiskeria sat down in the street.
“I was just about to do that. Thank you, Your Majesty.”
Laken stomped off, reflecting that you could never just have a victory with [Witches] about. Then he wondered where Durene was right now.
“A month. No, two weeks. Gamel, make a note for two weeks from now. Three weeks? Two weeks and a bit. Twenty days.”
“Sire?”
“I’ll have dinner with Durene then. Two weeks is a good amount of time. She made her choice, but it’s not as if it wasn’t hasty. We can reconnect. On neutral ground that doesn’t remind her of—book a restaurant in Invrisil. Not too fancy! In fact, she hates stares…find one with excellent taste. Potatoes? She loves potato dishes. Actually, make that Liscor. And book the entire restaurant.”
“Yes, Your Majesty?”
Laken was thinking out loud.
“No, wait. By ourselves is too much.”
“So don’t book the…”
“Book the entire restaurant but fill it with other people. Couples. But don’t use Riverfarm people as actors! See if you can get Antinium or Drakes or…”
The [Emperor] wandered off, already trying to figure out the best tactics. As he did, a Centauress in the crowd nudged a [Witch].
“Hey, Alevica, is it true that Durene broke up with Laken?”
“Yes. Don’t touch me. Get lost, Charlay.”
Charlay the Dustrider whistled.
“Wow. And this is what happens when someone breaks up with him?”
She stared at the falling snow in the distance, Mavika’s continuing marriage proposals, and the other oddities in Riverfarm like a Snow Elemental and what looked suspiciously like a Rock Elemental squaring off with Traffy.
Charlay nodded to herself.
“People should break his heart more often.”
It was a pithy, non-serious, common comment about the Emperor of Riverfarm. What Charlay didn’t realize was that Alevica wasn’t the only person to ignore her words. A number of hatted women watched the [Emperor] walk off. And the look on some of their faces, such as Eloise or even Hedag, wasn’t amusement.
It was…concern. The [Emperor] had done amazing things. He had done arguably good, interesting, unique things.
They could also sense—
He was alone.
 
——
 
When Durene Faerise woke up, she kept wiping at her eyes. Her head was befuddled from all the drink of last night, and yet she knew where she was the moment she woke up.
