Suddenly, the sixty-some servants made Alevica feel a lot better. Maybe they couldn’t enter House Walchaís, but they could keep people from wanting to move in and out. Now, Magnolia’s trade war against Bethal made sense.
This is bad. I have to tell Laken. 
How much damage would those shrines do? The [Mayor] didn’t seem…a new word appeared in Alevica’s head.
That pious. But how many did that woman need until she’d be back? Only a few hundred? Or millions?
Either way, Alevica leapt on her broom and began to fly back as the rain began to pour down. Frantic, now. She was so distracted that she just made a beeline back towards Reizmelt. And she didn’t see the danger coming until it was right on top of her.
 
——
 
The storm clouds were nasty, but no lightning was coming down, and Alevica was soaked despite the little charm she’d used to try and cut the rain. Still, she’d kept an eye out for danger; flying branches, something from below. She’d done this job as a Runner long enough that even filled with worry, she was alert.
However, Alevica had made the mistake of many people: she’d forgotten to look up. In her defense, ‘up’ was just the storm clouds above. Aside from them spitting rain, Alevica had seen nothing above her head.
Only something flying truly high up could have hid above the clouds, even the closest ones. No regular monster could do that. A Griffin couldn’t, or even most Wyverns.
That was why it was really unpleasant when a Griffin did come out of the sky with a scream that gave Alevica a second’s warning before it almost grabbed her.
“Kissing toads! What the hell—”
The Griffin aborted its dive and twisted up unnaturally fast as Alevica did an aileron roll. She cursed, drew a wand, and fired in one motion.
The charges of the Viltach-made wand were a piercing arrow spell. Alevica aimed for the wings, but the Griffin dodged; she fired a dozen more, and they should have pierced the right wing.
Instead, they bounced off. The Witch Runner’s eyes went round, and then she heard a shout.
“[—erring Throw]!”
Something hit Alevica in the chest, wrapped around her, struck her shoulder, and she felt herself plummeting downwards, off her broom, arms immobilized.
What—what was—
A bola, a throwing device that was two weights attached to a cord of rope. It was encircling Alevica, and she lost her wand as she struggled to break free.
“Catch her, Hircas!”
The Griffin screamed and dove as Alevica saw the ground spinning beneath her. The [Witch] reacted with pure instinct.
“Broom, to me!”
Her broom swerved out of the air, and Alevica pivoted until she was falling boots-first to the ground. She tensed—landed, and shot away from the Griffin, whose claws closed where she had been a moment ago.
Alevica stood on her broom, fighting to get the damn bola off her as a voice cursed in surprise from overhead. It was a good trick; Alevica thanked Oliyaya for teaching her to tie the homing spell to her boot soles.
You can’t get me that easily! But that begged the question—who was after her?
A [Bandit] with a Griffin? A [Bounty Hunter]? Griffins were notoriously hard to train. Alevica twisted her head and saw a Griffin, a big one, wearing armor and a figure sitting on a saddle aiming something else at her.
Alevica drew her other wand and blew the bola out of the sky with a miniature bolt of lightning. Her other wand was gone, and Alevica was flying too fast to recover it. Damn, damn, damn—
“I’m a Runner, you idiot! A Runner! Back off if you’re a [Knight]!”
That was Alevica’s guess; only a [Knight] could afford armor and proper gear. However, the Griffin just dove again, and Alevica caught sight of a young woman pivoting towards her.
She had a helmet on, lined with fur, and two glass goggles on her face. Alevica couldn’t make out much of her features, but she did see a smile like the Griffin’s; an expression of a predator on the hunt.
“Give up, [Witch]. You can’t outrun a Griffin in the skies.”
The Griffin was unnaturally fast. It had to be benefiting from Skills; normally, they had trouble regaining altitude, but this one just swooped upwards. All of Alevica’s normal tricks avoiding the bastards weren’t working, and she juked left as it went higher.
It’s going to dive again, and I don’t know if I can dodge that and the bola.
“I am a citizen of the Unseen Empire! Back off!”
Alevica used her other card in desperation. But the laugh from above made her blood chill.
“I know you are. You’re the ally of the Stitch Witch. Surrender and I won’t hurt you. I’m after Witch Wiskeria.”
Oh fuck. Wiskeria and her mother? Those damn—
A bolt of lightning decided now was a great time to come down, and Alevica finally saw the last piece that put everything together. An insignia was drawn on the Griffin’s armor and the rider’s own gear. It was crude, stylized, but Alevica could guess which nation had a Griffin on it. As for the rest?
The Wing of Shame. Kaliv’s disgraced [Griffin Rider] unit. Wiskeria told me about it once. Bandits, murderers, people seeking redemption. All following their leader, the famous, immortal, disgraced Griffin Prince.
“Aw. Shit.”
That made sense for who it was. Alevica wondered how likely it was she could talk this idiot out of their attack. But she could feel a thirst for vengeance coming off the rider as well as significant ire and that feeling that she had gotten from Laken this morning.
Feels like love. Great. Someone’s going to try to uncurse the Griffin Prince the old-fashioned way.
Alevica doubted hacking Wiskeria’s head off would stop the curse on the Griffin Prince; you’d have to do that to Belavierr several times, if you could even kill her that way. But she doubted non-[Witches] understood the problem. Regardless, Alevica would have really preferred for Wiskeria to be the one dealing with this right now.
The Griffin was flying high overhead, fearless of the rain, and Alevica was waiting for it to begin another dive when something streaked past her face. An arrow.
The rider was taking shots at her! 
“That’s it. I’m boiling her blood in her veins.”
Alevica kept juking as she grasped her good wand and prepared for a counterattack. She didn’t care about the reasons; she cared about surviving and not being either captured or killed in this stupid revenge game.
Her wand was actually of little use in the air; lightning needed to be grounded to be truly effective. The Griffin looked like it had magical resistance or spell reflection as a Skill.
So a high-level [Rider], and she’s got [Unerring Throw]. 
Curse time. Nothing like a good curse. Can’t see the enemy? Curse. Wearing magical armor? Curse. Alevica just needed a feather or something…
Or the bolas. A wicked smile made Alevica stop trying to untangle herself from the damn bola that had cracked her shoulder.
Return to sender. Classic curse magic. Throw it back twice as hard, and even if you had curse protections, you didn’t have bola-to-the-face protections.
Alevica began to chant.
“Bola, bola, fill with wrath. By my pain and by my craft! Fly back wicked bola and greet your sender. Rightly, unrightly, end her!”
She reached for the power in her hat to juice the bola up with as much malice and suffering as the stupid [Griffin Rider] deserved. Then Alevica faltered. She felt at her hat with one hand.
“Oh. No—”
Her hat was almost empty. When had—?
My craft isn’t working. I should have fixed it. All the power she’d stored in there from Riverfarm was almost gone! She didn’t have enough power for a curse spell. She barely had power for another ten minutes of flight!
Alevica’s confidence vanished. She fired her wand up, sending arcs of lightning into the air and making the Griffin dodge—then scream as Alevica dove towards the ground.
Forest. I need a forest! Suddenly, Alevica’s faith in her ability to fight back or even keep dodging in the air was gone. Without magic, she only had her wand’s charges, and she was up against a [Warrior] and a damn Griffin.
At least the rain gave her some cover. Another arrow hit the ground, and Alevica thanked her lucky stars that the archer didn’t have [Pinpoint Shot]. She heard a shriek from above and twisted her broom, racing it left at a ninety-degree angle.
The Griffin had to abort another dive with a squawk of alarm; Alevica was flying a foot over the ground, and she’d executed a turn that the animal couldn’t keep up with. She heard a shout.
“[Unerring—]”
This time, the bola didn’t hit Alevica. Mostly because she had reached into her bag of holding and tossed a pillow out. The bola hit the pillow, and Alevica raised two objects in her hands. Crossbows.
“Get lost, you idiot!”
She fired, and both bolts went wide as the Griffin flew upwards. Cursing, Alevica reloaded and fired again, but her shots went wide again. Aiming at a target in the air when both of you were moving at speed?
The [Rider] seemed to understand aerial combat better than Alevica. The Witch Runner hadn’t fought many enemies in the air. On the other hand—Alevica ran a serpentine pattern then dove over the edge of a small hill, refusing to give the Griffin any space to nab her.
She was more nimble. Stalemate, in short.
Until Alevica’s magic ran out. The [Witch] was playing for time, now, and distance, so she fired her crossbows again, to make the Griffin Rider think she was intent on fighting.
Please give me a forest. Any forest! I need to signal for help then hide. Can Griffins track by scent? I can do something about that—
There was never a forest when you needed one. Izril was filled with damn trees, and not one gigantic forest appeared in front of Alevica as she wove her broom through the rain.
She did get a swamp, though.
 
——
 
Alevica ran out of power eighteen minutes into her chase with the Griffin Rider, but she timed it well. She was flitting across the water, and under a small copse of trees. The Griffin was flying overhead, tracking her, when the [Witch] vanished. She had flitted under a branch, and she didn’t continue onwards.
Obviously, the [Griffin Rider] instantly swung her Griffin back and descended towards where the [Witch] had been. But when she hovered there, the [Witch] was gone.
“But she was flying…”
Then the trick became obvious as the rider saw some objects lying in the swamp. Namely, a hat, robes, and a broomstick, all abandoned.
A decoy! The [Witch] must have bailed off her broom at some point and made her clothing look like she was still flying from above. The rain had muffled and hid her—cursing, the [Rider] shouted.
“Find her! Hircas, find her before she warns the others!”
Screaming, the Griffin took to the skies, and the two combed the marsh, but the thick waters were rippling and flooding with the rain. After nearly two hours of searching, they had to fly away in frustration.
Only then did Alevica surface, collect her hat, robes, and broom, and stop breathing through the wooden straw she’d luckily had in her bag of holding.
“Idiots.”
Like hell a real [Witch] would abandon her hat. Then again, Alevica had been nigh-impossible to spot from above in the water regardless. The swamp had saved her.
She still hated it. She was covered in filth, freezing, and out of magic. She’d been trying to suck as much anger and frustration out of the [Griffin Rider] as she could, but it wasn’t much.
“I really am out of my craft. How much magic do I have?”
…Thirty minutes, maybe, with that recharge. Great. Alevica glanced at the sky, then took off, flying as covertly as she could. She had to gain ground on the [Griffin Rider]. Then call for help. The problem was…she had no idea where the hell she had ended up.
Near Reizmelt? There’s a swamp there. If a monster pops out, I am so dead.
Alevica had a wand that was almost out of charge and two waterlogged crossbows. She’d tried to save them, but she’d hid underwater; it had flooded her damn bag of holding.
Avoidance was her only strategy. Alevica flew fast as she dared, wondering if it would be better to use her craft to call for help.
The ribbiting in the swamps decided her. There were Wailer Frogs about and worse monsters still; she’d take her chances on getting to a settlement.
She thought she’d ended up south of Reizmelt, more or less close to the same town she’d passed by earlier this week. Vaunt and the realms of cheese. But this swampy land…
Alevica was flinching from what she thought were wings overhead when she came across, of all things, signs of life.
In a swamp.
Flickering lights that were definitely torches or lanterns; Alevica’s eyes picked out cleared ground, and she gasped in relief.
“A village! Yes!”
Swamp people. But people who might let her hide away, even if she had to buy their help. Alevica had no idea who wanted to live in a swamp. Ogres? Bah; she doubted they were more than a collection of water-loving eccentrics.
As Alevica flew closer, she realized that was one option. Or…another?
What if they were a group of people who wanted to stay hidden at all costs? A group of people with long, pointed fangs, say? Alevica’s stomach dropped as she realized the reason she was seeing so many lights in the middle of the rain was because it wasn’t just a few watch-lanterns. Nor was it a party.
Figures on horseback were riding back and forth, and the flames were growing as Alevica dropped to the ground in the swamp and froze. She heard shouting, screams of terror, and her eyes picked out, for a second, green armor. 
A [Knight] charged across the ground, torch in one hand, lance in the other, far too fast even for a regular horse on the gallop.
The Order of the Clairei Fields. And it looked like they were setting fire to the entire damn village. Alevica saw houses covered in green mold, camouflage against the treeline, smoldering as voices cursed.
“They’re heading into the swamp! Don’t let them get away!”
“Call for the other hunters! Send word to Hunter Delanay; it’s a swarm of them! Watch your backs!”
The air was filled with malice. Alevica tried to put it in her hat, but it was foul and black. Filled with both panic and hatred. There was terror too—the [Witch] crouched on the shore, water turning to muck, heedless of her robes and boots sinking.
“Insane.”
She’d heard they were hunting Vampires, but this was a step far above just combing through the villages. They were razing the entire place! She counted at least a hundred figures on horseback. Worse—the screams of terror didn’t rise. They fell silent, and Alevica felt the hairs on her neck stand up.
The shouting continued, and more hands began to ignite the buildings, soggy wood or not. Alevica saw the [Knights] and other hunters spreading out purposefully, creating a net around the village. They were combing the ground and undergrowth, even plunging into the water.
