Calescent threw up his hands and covered his eyes. Since his hands were covered in his deathspice, he just howled at the ceiling.
“She isn’t real!”
A laughing Asgra wrote something down and slapped it on the counter. Elia picked it up as Normen read over her shoulder.
 
Order #31 — Dvled Egg bowl. Velan the Kind was right.
 
“You is come back. Order 29!”
Elia wandered away, holding the piece of paper as far away from her as possible as Asgra slapped an order note on a bowl and shoved it forwards. The tray of jello wobbled as Durene saw a blue jello tower with whipped cream mounded on top of it. So precarious was the tower that it looked like it’d fall over at any moment, and the boy who lifted the tray up held it very nervously.
“Wait. You can ask for a jello tower with whipped cream and they give it to you?”
An incredulous voice sounded, and Sammial Veltras gave Mrsha, Visma, Ekirra, Kenva, and Chimmy a superior look.
“That’s right. Because I’m an important guest. Come on. I will share it with you.”
They hurried him into the theatre, out of sight of Lyonette just before she came striding downstairs. She waved at Normen and Durene with a harried smile.
“Good morning, you two! I hope you had a splendid night—I’ve taken care of your two guests already. They send their thanks. I’m so sorry, but I have business with…”
Durene was relieved the two Vampires had Lyonette’s hospitality. The [Princess] smiled, then turned and hissed.
“Asgra! Calescent! Are you two adding things to the menu?”
“No…”
Calescent took his hands down from his streaming eyes, and he and Asgra gave Lyonette innocent smiles. She raised her eyebrow.
“Really. Then why did I see the ‘Fortress of Doom’ cake being eaten by some of Rheirgest’s villagers? Made out of brownies? With red cherry sauce for blood? Tiny bones and bodies made out of sausage?”
The [Chef]’s chest puffed out.
“Must be some other talented Goblin [Chef], Miss Lyonette.”
“I’m allowing this order window that Imani suggested because it works and it’s faster, but no off-menu items, you two. You have a nearly unlimited food budget, but even an idiot can tell you’re spending too much money on what you’re selling.”
The [Princess] pointed at her eyes, then at Asgra, and the threat seemed to work because the Cave Goblin nodded meekly. Then rolled her eyes when Lyonette’s back was turned.
Calescent sighed. He was having a bad day. He’d spiced his eyes, been told he couldn’t make all kinds of crazy food, and Elia Arcsinger liked his most diabolical spices, even if it turned her red-faced and she sweated like a piece of bacon in the summer. He smiled at Normen—then his face fell.
“No. Not you two.”
The half-Troll girl was slightly hurt. She thought he liked her.
“What? I loved your breakfast, Calescent. Can I have another fish? With two—three potatoes?”
Calescent looked like someone was yanking teeth out. He took a pre-made fillet—then lifted a basket of fries.
“What about french fries? Mashed potatoes? Potatoes au gratin? Potatoes with salt on them?”
“Just potatoes.”
The [Chef] stared at Durene, then put three potatoes on the side of the plate as if he were committing a food war crime. Durene took the pre-made plate with a smile. She didn’t know what he was getting so worked up about.
“We’re going to be on the road today, Calescent. Could I get some snacks? Some of those gingerbread fellows would do a treat.”
The [Chef] smiled at Normen, or he tried to. He produced a fresh-baked tray of gingerbread cookies, complete with frosted buttons and eyes, and raised them. A few even had tails or looked furry; a splendid accomplishment with dough. Normen eyed them, then he coughed.
“…They’re a bit naked, aren’t they?”
Asgra and Calescent looked at each other, then at Normen’s meaningful glance. Slowly, Calescent produced a tube of black frosting and drew a hat on one of the gingerbread men’s heads.
Instantly, Normen picked it up and took a bite.
“Fresh and delicious as can be, sir. Can I get fourteen for the entire group?”
“Yah.”
Asgra and Calescent watched Normen eat the gingerbread hat man and then stared at each other.
Some of the guests were so weird. 
After a moment, Bird came over, and Calescent strained a bunch of Acid Flies he’d been deep-frying with a great sigh of relief.
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice had a routine, Durene learned. As they waited for Sevil and Lapsey to get up, she observed the activities the members got up to. Normally, she just arrived for the action, having to split her time between Riverfarm and Laken.
But after a leisurely breakfast, Antherr got up and headed into Liscor. He checked on the Free Hive a lot, and he had friends in the Beriad.
“They are still engaged in Liscor’s 2nd Army, so I wish to spend as much time with them as possible. I will also train with some of the aspiring [Squires]. Even if they cannot join us. Jewel, will you come with me?”
He was one of the more gifted members of the Order of Solstice with a blade. Calruz had taught Antherr well, and Jewel was the only person better with her rapier. The two headed into the city, and Ama produced a spellbook.
“Then I’m studying with Rheirgest’s people until the time comes. They have really interesting techniques, and I want to upgrade Sillias to dodge more. Those stupid Earth Elementals clobbered him!”
Vess didn’t join Ama in studying from a book like Durene assumed he would.
“Don’t you study magic, Vess?”
“Me? Nah, I’m more of a spontaneous spellcaster. I think I’m technically a [Sorcerer] or a [Wizard].”
“How do you train then?”
For answer, Vess lifted his wand.
“I just shoot spells at targets and try to make them bigger and stuff. I’m working on [Fireball]. Seems fitting, right? Hmm—pah!”
He frowned at his wand, then flicked a slow-moving ball of flames. That instantly earned him a shout.
“Outside, please!”
Vess scurried out of the inn as Lyonette gave him a glower. That left Normen and Durene, and he confessed his morning was mostly sorting through [Messages] to the Order of Solstice or trying to figure out where they were going to build their headquarters.
“What if we just settled somewhere nice and scenic? A plateau?”
“It can’t be ruled by any noble or city, and it should be defensible and have access to a road in case the door goes down.”
“…Okay, that’s harder. You said you wanted the High Passes, but…somewhere near a road and the High Passes…”
They were putting their heads together, and Durene was glancing out the windows to check the time. She wondered if the Vampires would be down at ten o’clock. Everyone had woken up late and taken their time with breakfast, but the couple could lie in as long as they wanted as far as Durene was concerned.
However, Lyonette kept glancing at Normen and Durene sitting together, and she came over after a few minutes of the two working.
“Durene, I don’t mean to interrupt, but how are you feeling after, um, last night?”
She knew what had happened; most of the inn knew from Durene’s drunken talk with Chaoisa and the small party afterwards. Durene gave Lyonette a weak smile.
“I’m…not happy, but okay. Thank you for understanding, Miss Lyonette. I’ll pay for my room—”
Rather to her surprise—or not, given Lyonette’s finances—the [Princess] waved the idea away.
“Oh, no, hang the cost. I hope Laken is doing alright?”
“I hope so, too.”
He had to be. He was the [Emperor]; Durene imagined everyone would be helping him feel better and giving him work. Lyonette nodded a few times.
“So all is well? Did I see Antherr and Jewel going to Liscor? For travel supplies?”
“No, just practice, Miss Lyonette. We’re set to go; we’d have to rent some horses for the day, since Chaoisa’s wagon can’t be transported to Pallass, but we’re set on supplies.”
Normen patted his new gingerbread hatmen, and Lyonette gave him a puzzled look.
“So…you’re just hanging around here?”
“Until Sevil and Lapsey come down, yes.”
Durene had the faintest inkling something was wrong, but that became full-blown worry as she saw Lyonette’s brows knit in sudden alarm.
“Come down? But…I checked them out of their rooms this morning. At dawn.”
“Huh?”
Normen and Durene blinked at her. Lyonette hesitated.
“You asked me to get them Grade 1 Passports to Pallass, remember? I put them and you on the daily list—”
Durene blinked, astounded and hurt.
“They already woke up? But we agreed to escort them—”
“They didn’t want to be a bother, and they were insistent. I think they wanted to beat the, uh, light, and they were nervous about being—”
Normen leapt to his feet with a curse. He called out.
“Vess? Ama!”
The Drake sat up with a groan; he’d heard.
“They’re already in Pallass?”
“Yes, they were getting horses! Oh no, I should have realized—that’s why you were all hanging about!”
Lyonette stood, flustered, and Durene looked around for the other two. Normen just turned.
“Can you find the other [Knights]? Tell them to meet me in Pallass! Durene, perhaps they took their time finding horses? At the very least, we can ask and see where they’re going!”
He strode for the hallway, and Lyonette shouted after them that she’d find the other [Knights]. Durene’s heart beat faster as she headed for Pallass. The two Vampires had left! Didn’t they trust the Order of Solstice fully?
Would you? She had to admit—it was a fair point, but Durene wanted to help them. She only hoped she and Normen could catch up. Then she realized something else.
“I’ve never been to Pallass before.”
Laken and she had never gone since The Wandering Inn had been connected to Riverfarm only relatively recently. And Laken didn’t like being in foreign cities where he was blind and at risk. Normen turned to her, and despite the stress on his face, he smiled.
“You know, I’ve never had a proper look around myself.”
 
——
 
Pallass, the City of Inventions, did not disappoint. It took a few minutes to get to Pallass; despite Liska moving them to the front of the queue, they had to reckon with the first obstacle of any visitor to the city, regardless of their intention:
Gate-Sergeant Kel.
The scowling Drake sat behind a small window he could inspect new visitors to Pallass from. He made each one present documents, checked them off a list, and barked at them until he was satisfied. Only then would a squad of [Guards] raise a portcullis and admit the visitors one at a time.
You had to stand in a waiting room filled with advertisements for activities in the city. There were even a few books, but the queue wasn’t bad in the morning. Normen went first, and Durene saw him enter the chamber where Kel began barking questions.
She got nervous, especially when she realized she was a half-Troll in a Drake city—but when she entered the room, the Drake only hesitated a moment.
“Name and papers.”
“Um. Durene Faerise. Here are my papers.”
She passed them through a slot, which snapped open. The Drake read from them.
“Place of origin?”
“Uh. Is that where I’m born or…?”
“Where do you owe allegiance or reside? If you’re outside a city, list the nearest city as well.”
“Er—Riverfarm. The Unseen Empire.”
He scratched at the papers, eying Durene with what seemed more like curious appraisal rather than hostility. Durene saw a few [Guards] staring at her then looking away when she glanced at them.
Are they going to bar me for being half-Troll? She was worried about the reactions she got from Invrisil, Celum, or just…Riverfarm. But the Drake seemed to be going through the routine.
“You’ve read the rules in Pallass? Specifically no littering, no disruptive events without prior permission, no importing of insects, unstable alchemical ingredients, or magic without a disclosure…we’re reading basic enchantments on your gear.”
“Um. Yes?”
“Alright. For the purposes of my documentation…can I confirm you’re, uh, a Troll?”
Durene turned red. Here it came.
“Half-Troll. But I—”
I don’t eat people? She hesitated, and Kel spoke.
“—You are on the list of approved demi-humanoid species, miss. I will add a provisional subsection to this passport. If anyone gives you trouble, show them this.”
“I am? Approved demi-humanoid species?”
Durene was so astounded she barely saw the papers come back with a stamp on them. Kel gave her a patient smile.
“Trolls, Ogres, Cyclopes; even Giants with huge provisional permits. That’s not to enter the city; they’re allowed to sit and trade. I pulled the books open. Just in case I needed them. There’s even a fifteen-page provisional form on Goblins for some reason…and not just as [Slaves].”
He stared at Durene with confusion that almost matched her own, then cleared his throat.
“Next! Welcome to Pallass, miss.”
 
——
 
Normen was waiting for Durene and getting looks for his beautiful armor as she stepped through. Durene instantly got looks as well; a Gnoll sniffed at her, and a Garuda flew down to stare, then flapped away excitedly.
However, no one screamed. Durene was baffled, but Normen just smiled at her.
“Let’s hurry to the first floor. But we might as well take a good look at Pallass while we’re here. No trouble with Kel?”
“No…he didn’t even bother me about, y’know, being half-Troll.”
Normen’s smile just widened fractionally.
“I thought not. He’s a stiff sort, but he knew Erin, and she liked him. She has good taste in folks.”
They began walking across the 8th Floor, and Durene stared at Dullahans and Drakes, Gnolls and Garuda, and even a few Humans clearly visiting. Most of them stared back with astonishment, and she saw a Drake walk straight into a light pole, but no one was afraid.
Just curious. Repulsion she expected, but even that was second to…
“They’re not afraid. They’re just curious.”
She didn’t get why. That was until Normen waved a hand to take in Pallass.
The walkways and roads were beautiful, smooth stone, beyond even Riverfarm for the way they had been carefully cut and set into the ground. Every building that Durene saw had glass and bright metal in it. No all-wood houses; magic lightposts and buildings packed together seemed claustrophobic to Durene, but it was also expensive.
So this was a city to rival Invrisil. When Durene caught her first sight of the city, an inverted pyramid with each descending floor larger than the last, she gasped. When she saw the elevators moving up and down, the smokestacks filled with different colors from the [Alchemist] huts, the water flowing up along the walls via a set of powerful waterwheels, and the giant metal foundries—
