The Wandering Inn, third floor, listening to Chaoisa’s muted snores from next door—having just broken up with Laken. Now a full-time member of the Order of Solstice.
She was relieved, as if a great weight had been lifted from her shoulders. She believed it was the right call, and her fellow [Knights] and Chaoisa had supported her.
She was amidst friends. Real friends who had backed her decisions and never asked her if they were right or wrong. Durene felt better, truly.
The [Paladin] kept wiping her eyes, then rubbed her tears on her blankets. She hugged her knees, and for a while, she cried. Not because she had regrets; of course she had regrets. But she thought she was still allowed to be sad.
“I really liked him. I loved him.”
She thought she always would. Whatever came next. Durene sat there as the sun rose and then exhaled.
Now what? When she got up, she was excited to find out the answer. Yesterday had gone Durene of Riverfarm, the [Paladin].
Today, Durene of the Order of Solstice arose. Much the same as the old one. But different.
Always a bit different. She kept glancing at herself in the mirror as she dressed. Trying to figure out what was changing.
 
——
 
“I think I need my own flame, Normen, everyone. What do you think it should be?”
Later that morning, everyone was having one of those quiet breakfasts after a night of too much liquor. Normen was chewing his cereal slowly, as if trying not to make it crunch too hard.
“Fire?”
Jewel looked up and thoughtfully inserted a poached egg into her mouth. She slowly sucked out the insides, then ate the rest. It was a fairly disgusting maneuver, if talented; she could eat without a plate or her hands.
“I took on glory, for now. It makes sense; I could change it, but Ama’s got sadness. There aren’t many other flames. At least, none from Erin that we have access to. Do you know of any other ones, Normen?”
Ama was eating toast with all the crusts cut off. She had dumped them all on Antherr’s plate, and he was dipping them into his pottage, having apparently traded the bread for more crusts.
Durene noticed this kind of thing because these eating habits were a bit weird. Not that she hated it; she liked her friends being odd. Now, Normen was eating cereal and drinking coffee. Which was totally normal until you realized he had put water in his cereal instead of milk.
A horrified Mrsha had come by to steal food, or pretend to, taken one look into Normen’s bowl, and tried to give him a pitcher of milk. He’d handed it back. Now, the [Grandmaster] scratched his chin thoughtfully.
“I’ve seen a lot of Erin’s fires. I wouldn’t touch black or invisible flames of rage or hatred with a ten-foot hat. There’s pink and blue for nostalgia, and hazel’s determination. Glory and honor. But aside from hope…it’s hard to say. Happiness? Purple?”
Durene listened intently; she had never seen these other flames and said so. Normen nodded.
“They’re rare to see out of Erin. Hard flames, even for her, I think she told me once. If you wanted to take any on…”
“I dunno. Am I that hopeful or…happy? Determination I could do, but that feels like you and Antherr have covered it with honor. What do you think, Vess?”
“I think you all eat weird. Durene, why are you eating potatoes for breakfast?”
“They’re good. I like them.”
Durene defended herself with a frown at the Drake. The [Spell Knight] gave her a look of horror as she bit into one.
“But…raw? Unpeeled?”
“I washed ‘em. It’s less work for Calescent.”
Durene couldn’t say why she liked raw, cold potatoes so much. She didn’t mind cooked ones either, but a few of those on the side with a hearty, ‘regular’ breakfast and she was happy. She was a big girl; it wasn’t disruptive to get a potato or two.
Vess shook his head. Then he stuck his tongue out, poured ketchup onto his tongue in a vertical line, and then took a bite of hamburger.
“You’re all weird. I love you guys, but you’re weird.”
The other Knights of Solstice stared at Vess in silence for a while. Then they all went back to eating. Vess replied to Normen as he repeated the trick for another bite of hamburger.
“I don’t think Durene’s gotta embody those emotions. I’m ‘mercy’, but I don’t feel merciful all the time. Mercy was shown to me, and I guess…I guess I did it, a bit, but I’m not living up to it. It’s aspirational for me.”
He looked guilty for a moment, and Durene recalled the story of how he had met Crusader 53. Vess seemed merciful to her, but she took his point.
“I don’t know if I aspire to be hopeful or happy, though. I’d like to be both, but…”
Normen was nodding, patting his mouth with a napkin.
“It’s a difficult thing, as it were, Durene. A fellow can make up his mind in good time. But now you’re with us, you’ll have plenty of time to get a feel for the fire you want. It might come upon you at random. It did for me.”
With a smile, he patted the lantern at his side, which held the old ember that Mrsha had given him on his fateful trip. Normen finished his bowl and looked about.
“Speaking of which, where’s Mister…Sevil and—who was the lady?”
“Lapsey. They might be sleeping. They were on the run for hours before they met us, apparently. Why don’t we get a full tale from them as we escort them south from Pallass? They’re bound for the coast, apparently. Or some place they don’t want to tell us.”
Jewel murmured, and Normen nodded. Durene leaned forwards, and so did the Order of Solstice. This was their first official task beyond escorting Rheirgest.
“So they’ve got a base of you-know-whats. They’re in hiding in southern Izril?”
Ama frowned at Normen, and he nodded.
“It seems so from the few things Mister Sevil mentioned. I could ask Fierre or…others, but I’d rather not involve them, and it sounds like they’re not as connected at the moment.”
“We’re talking about Vampires. Just making sure.”
“Yes, Ama. And trying not to mention the name.”
Normen sighed and nodded at Ama, who relaxed. Durene glanced around.
“Should we have a secrecy spell or something on? Laken has them all the time.”
Normen grimaced.
“I don’t own anything that convenient, do you? No one saw fit to donate secrecy spells to the Order of Solstice that I saw.”
“Oh. Right. Well, can we get them made up?”
“Maybe I could put a word in with a contact of the Brothers? I don’t want to…Jewel, do you have adventurer contacts?”
“Hm? Yeah. Good secrecy spell? Renewable? It’ll set you back about four to eight thousand gold pieces.”
When everyone else blanched, Jewel stopped eating eggs and salad and sighed.
“Right. I forgot we’re not working with adventurer budgets. Damn.”
They were a bit unorganized. They really should have started with a base, and Durene said so, but Normen shrugged again uncomfortably.
“I have offers from dozens of [Builders] who’d do the work for free or for a song. I haven’t chosen a good spot yet. I don’t wish to place it near Miss Erin’s inn, but the keep should at least connect to her door. I have too many choices. North? South? Both feel…partisan. We can’t start training and arming recruits until we have that—”
“And money. Don’t forget money.”
Jewel put in, and Ama nodded.
“Yeah, do we get paid?”
Normen looked increasingly wary about all these questions that Durene hoped he had answers to.
“A stipend per month. Making money will also matter. We cannot live off of donations alone.”
“How do we make money?”
“I was thinking that, if we fought monsters, we would have the remains processed at the Adventurer’s Guild. Each [Knight] would be responsible for that. If it’s [Bandits], well, stolen goods must be returned. But anything we cannot trace back to the victims…”
“Wait. Is your entire plan to finance the Order of Solstice…robbing [Bandits]?”
Durene laughed, and Normen gave her a serious nod.
“It’s a viable strategy to the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Aside from that, we hope for goodwill and benefactors like The Wandering Inn. But I am, again, more concerned with Sevil and Lapsey’s situation. I propose we help them, but not directly make contact with whatever enclaves are out there. The last thing we need is to draw more attention, and I understand they are in danger of dying in the north. The south is barely more hospitable. Vess?”
Normen turned to Vess, and the only southerner cleared his throat.
“Yeah. I was just telling Normen that if the, uh, V-words are in the south, no Drake city is going to like them. They can probably hide away if they keep their noses clean, but I did a bit of digging in Pallass’ library, and turns out, the Walled Cities might have long memories too. The, uh, V-people got around.”
Durene groaned.
“Great, so Sevil and Lapsey will be in trouble in the south too?”
“If they are, they’re not likely to be under as obvious an attack. Plus, there are Gnollish lands where Drakes would refuse to go. If they get to their people, I imagine they might be safe. I imagine…they might be headed to the New Lands. Out of danger of any power in Izril, at least, directly.”
That made sense. Durene sat up a bit as she imagined hundreds, no, thousands of Vampires fleeing and gathering together.
“I hope they make it. Erin helped hundreds, but there are thousands more.”
“Hah? What?”
Ama stopped chewing and feeding Sillias bits of toast the cat undead chomped down and then spat onto the floor. She turned to Durene with everyone else. Normen blinked.
“Thousands? I thought most had fled.”
“Nope. Why did you think—? They’re all over the north.”
The rest of the [Knights] hadn’t heard what Laken had; when she recounted the attacks on the Vampire hunters and how entire villages had vanished overnight, Normen grew a worried look.
“I thought we escorted most of them. If there are thousands—and entire villages would be that—then how will they get south?”
Jewel counted the limited options.
“By ship or through the High Passes—I imagine most will pass through The Wandering Inn. I hope Miss Lyonette can handle any trouble that arises. Let’s ask our couple about that. That might be one of our first big battles, Normen. We need to be ready if the Order of Clairei Fields or anyone else bothers the inn.”
He developed an even more worried look, and Durene swallowed.
It’d be sure nice to have Wiskeria and an army right about now. She realized she’d left Laken’s empire and all the benefits of his power…things might get harder for her with only her fellow [Knights]. But they could do this.
“Okay, so let’s scout out somewhere cool on our trip south. I know a few old [Necromancer] haunts. You guys like living in marshes or bogs? We do that all the time. Or we find an old keep, fix it up, and we’re set.”
Antherr raised his hand as he ate.
“I would also like to volunteer that we have a number of recruits who wish to become [Knights] or [Squires], Normen. Many Free Antinium have expressed the desire, and I have even received a ‘notice of application’ from the Armored Queen. Though she has not provided any [Knights] in person yet.”
Normen looked slightly overwhelmed by everything. He coughed hard into one fist with a rasping sound from his damaged lungs.
“I do not want any recruits until we have a keep or location at the least, Antherr. We lost Herove and Zanze when they were unprepared…even Embraim and Halrac, skilled as they were, needed support. First, a southern trip to any sites. Then northern. Then we settle a headquarters. Within two weeks at the latest. Agreed?”
Everyone nodded, though it wasn’t a vote. Durene was a bit worried because Normen didn’t seem as comfortable as Laken with all these big decisions.
She went back with him for a second helping of food to ask how he was feeling. They lined up in front of the kitchen, where Calescent had installed a small window that he could serve people directly through and participate in the common room experience.
“Normen, are you certain about the headquarters plan? It takes a long time to build stuff, even with a team. I’ve seen Beycalt work, and she said towers or keeps could take years, even with Skills.”
She only wanted reassurance, but the look he gave her was slightly panicked.
“I—am not an expert in managing organizations or building, Durene. I’m just a fellow who’s decent at fighting. I’m in over my head, to tell you the truth. I don’t know why I became a [Grandmaster].”
“You’re brave, that’s why! I just think we should be organized about this.”
Durene tried to reassure Normen, and he nodded.
“Yes. And if there were anyone with experience in management or building, I’d cede choices to them.”
She and he turned to look at the group.
Ama, the foremost expert in the group, had led an unsuccessful cult of less than ten [Necromancers].
Antherr had been born a year ago as a mute Soldier all his life before the Order of Solstice.
Jewel had operated a three-person Gold-rank team, which was promising! She just didn’t have any grasp of ‘regular money’ after paying adventurer prices.
As for Vess…Durene liked the former [Soldier], but she had had to help him set up a tent while they were camping. She sighed gustily.
“It’s a lot of work. Laken always delegates the work off to experts like Rie or Prost…you have to keep double-entry bookkeeping on your finances. As for building, you subcontract, but you need a trustworthy team and to look over their shoulders! Everyone’s happy to build wherever Laken points; he learned really quick to start asking questions, or they’ll build on bad ground just to please him.”
Normen gave Durene a long, appreciative look.
“You seem to know a lot about it.”
“Well, I’ve listened to Laken do it all the time.”
“I see. Then…I appoint you as our manager of finances and construction.”
“What? Me?”
Durene’s yelp made several people in line jump. But Normen’s eyes had lit up with relief, and Durene realized to her horror that a half-Troll farmgirl had more experience than anyone else in the Order of Solstice.
They were doomed.
Durene was protesting to Normen, who assured her that she was just a consultant, but one he could trust, as they waited for food. Ahead of them, a half-Elf trying to avoid their attention stepped up to the window.
The Goblin [Chef] and Elia Arcsinger recoiled from one another as they stared at each other. The [Chef] scowled. Elia blanched.
“Is a lie. You didn’t eat my devilspice eggs.”
The [Spice Chef] stared at the deviled eggs with a coating of red dust on top. Elia licked her lips and avoided staring at him as she thrust out her tray.
“Another bowl, please.”
