Grimalkin knew what his city would do. So. Normen raised his fists.
A lesson.
“[Ironskin]. [Impact Shockwave].”
—Like a horse kicking him. Normen staggered. He threw a punch as Grimalkin tried to sway back.
[Flash Blow]. Blocked with a grimace. [Free Elbow]—Grimalkin’s head jerked, and he threw a punch that sent Normen’s head spinning.
[Bone-rattling Swing]. The Sinew Magus grunted. He kicked, or tried to; his leg was heavy, and Normen barely pivoted before a [Knight’s Riposte] made the Sinew Magus’ eyes widen.
[Barrier of Air]! It blocked the [Armor-piercing Low Blow]. The [Brutal Headbutt] exploded the magic, and Grimalkin recoiled slightly.
A wave of attack Skills, even for a [Knight] of Normen’s level. The two locked eyes as Grimalkin dragged a fist back. Three spells were bound into his arm, which swung like the wrath of Pallass.
“[Arcsinger’s Downfall: Wallbreaker Hammer].”
Normen’s punch aimed for Grimalkin’s gut; the Sinew Magus saw it coming and intercepted Normen’s fist with his own.
The air split with a shriek that Normen heard a second before he lost his footing and tumbled through the air. He slammed against something—the ground—and rolled before getting to his feet. The collision of Skills and magic had thrown him, but aside from the tingling in his fist, he was fine.
When he looked across the flaming sea fire, he saw Magus Grimalkin staring at his arm. He had barely moved; Normen began to charge. Then stopped.
Bemused, eyes filled with taut pain, Grimalkin slowly maneuvered his bent arm a fraction. [Ironskin] or not—a cry arose dimly in Normen’s ears.
Arm broken. Not a bad break. The Sinew Magus stopped trying to correct the damage and looked up. He barely winced as his good claw glittered. He braced, unable to move with the green flames now burning all the way up to his chest, and Normen strode forwards.
The [Grandmaster] bent down and picked up his helmet. Slowly, he put it on his head. Then he turned away. The green fire around him died down. Limping, he walked over to where Durene was sitting up groggily. Normen reached down for her and hauled her up with effort; she blinked incredulously at him.
“Let’s go.”
Normen turned. His head passed over downed [Soldiers] or [Guards] or the people staring at him. His eyes swept across them all.
Filled with honor. Honorless. A mix of everything in between. Curious honor. Straightforward virtue and an elbow’s glow of it.
The [Knight] met Grimalkin’s eyes. There was nothing scary about honor. Nothing to be gained from having it. But if a man should fear anything about honor, it was this:
He should wonder, each day, if he had lost his. 
“Message delivered. Let’s go. Stop me if you wish, Grimalkin.”
The Drake eyed the burning man and hesitated.
 
——
 
Durene wasn’t sure if all the Watch and [Soldiers] would jump them as Normen’s flames died down. She was breathless.
This was crazy. And bad. Normen had just broken Grimalkin’s arm. But it seemed like he had calmed down; his flames were gone. Nerul strode forwards, no longer smiling but whispering.
“Alright. Everybody get to an elevator and then we run while they still think we’re in the mood to throw hands.”
He tried to drag Normen and Durene away, and the crowd backed up as the two [Knights] came their way. The Watch shifted, as if to intercept, but when Normen’s hand inched towards his mace, they hesitated.
Grimalkin was watching them like a Golem, unmoving, and he didn’t seem inclined to keep fighting. For a moment, Durene thought they’d be able to get away without further fighting. Then she heard a bellow.
“Stand down. Stand down, all of you! General Edellein is arriving!”
Durene whirled, and she heard a groan from Nerul. Normen said nothing, raising his fists, until he turned, and then she heard an oath from his mouth.
“Piss on my hat.”
A squad of heavily armed Drakes and a [General] in bright-yellow armor, also a Drake, were marching towards the standoff. And they were dragging someone with them.
Vess had a black eye. He gave the other two a thumbs up, despite the two Drakes dragging him forwards. Edellein barked as he saw Nerul, the [Knights], and the downed [Guards].
“Everyone here is under arrest in the name of Pallass’ 1st Army! Including you, Diplomat Nerul!”
The Drake gave Edellein a supercilious glance, and Nerul raised his claws.
“General Edellein. Are you mad? I’m a [Diplomat] of Salazsar.”
The [General] was steaming mad. He glanced at a set of notes that a [Strategist] was holding up, then narrowed his eyes.
“You and these [Knights] are under arrest for attacking soldiers of Pallass, freeing a criminal under false pretenses, failing to adhere to the chain of military command, and disrupting the peace! We are reclaiming the V—the prisoner now.”
“Oh dead gods, you idiot—let her go! She’s out of Pallass, and she might be in Riverfarm or Invrisil right now! Do not cross the jurisdiction of Liscor, let alone any northern city!”
Nerul barked back, and Edellein’s eyes opened wide.
“She is a prisoner of Pallass. Class 4! I have sent a squad after her. You, [Knights], surrender and you may only face a week in jail. Resist and the penalties will be far worse.”
They were going to grab Lapsey? Vess had gotten to the checkpoint with the others when they grabbed him. That meant there was only Jewel and Ama on the other side, and Antherr if he came back. If they fought in the inn—
Normen had the same thought as Durene. He pointed at Vess.
“Let our [Knight] go. We started a fight for the honor of a civilian imprisoned for no crime whatsoever, General Edellein.”
The Drake [General] glanced around as he heard murmurs from people watching. He seemed to realize they had an audience and flushed. He hissed at his [Soldiers].
“Clear the streets. And who are you?”
“Normen, Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice.”
Normen had learned something from Nerul already; his voice was carrying, and Durene bet people had already identified him based on his armor. He stood there, burning proudly, and Durene saw the Garuda [Camerawoman] from Wistram News Network.
This was becoming an incident. Edellein’s eyes flicked sideways to the news crew, and he adopted what might have been a conciliatory tone. For him.
“I will sort out all these allegations momentarily. But this is my city. I am [General] Edellein of 1st Army. Stand down, Grandmaster.”
“Let my [Knight] go.”
Edellein paused.
“I don’t think you heard me. Stand down. You are outnumbered in the City of Inventions.”
“No.”
Durene and Vess stared at Normen as he calmly drew a mace. And it occurred to both of them that he might be the most radical and hotheaded of their entire group. Edellein stared at Normen incredulously. Then he motioned.
“Don’t hurt him badly.”
Several of his [Soldiers] stepped forwards as the 5th Fighters drew back respectfully. These were Drakes armored head-to-toe in plate, and behind them were Drakes who had potions in hand. Steel and alchemy; Pallass’ specialties. They seemed loath to waste the potions on Normen, though.
The [Knight] gave them one look and spoke, and Durene realized why he hadn’t used his new Skills yet. They didn’t work on Rock Elementals. But people?
“[Enchantment: Acid Coating].”
Green liquid began to run across his Demas Metal armor. More pooled across the head of his mace, forming a globule of liquid that defied gravity as he swung his mace up. Just like his famous fight with Elia Arcsinger…but more acid.
A lot more.
Even the bravest of Pallass’ [Soldiers] halted at the sight of a [Knight] in acid armor. Durene heard one of them mutter.
“That’s the [Knight] of Honor’s Fire? What the hell is honorable about that?”
“There’s nothing honorable about the fight, sir. Only what it’s for. Let Vess go, [General].”
Edellein was staring at Normen with chagrin, but not dismay. He lifted a hand.
“Archers, kneecap.”
A dozen bows snapped, and Normen jerked, pivoting, but too late. The arrows struck him in the knees, targeting the vulnerable joins of armor, and the green flames on his body died down a hair. Edellein blinked at Normen. The flames of honor rose until they burned two feet off Normen’s body. Then he raised his mace.
“[The Bonfire Rages].”
A plume of green flames shot down from above, sending everyone, even Durene, running back in alarm. When she lowered her hands, she saw Normen standing in a blaze of green fire, the very color of his wrath, his disappointment, his guilt. The flames burned over him a dozen feet into the air as the [Knight] waited in the fire.
A single skeleton slowly rose to its feet, lifting axe and shield, eyes glowing with the same green. Durene reached for her sword as the 1st [General]’s eyes narrowed. He swung an arm up as Ishkr grabbed Nerul’s arm. Where had he come from? Had he been watching and—
Edellein shouted as Nerul bellowed almost at the same moment.
“Take them down.”
“[Cease Fire]!”
Nerul’s bark was aimed at the [General]. Edellein’s arm jerked down, but the rest of the [Soldiers] moved forwards. Ishkr pointed, and Durene heard him say:
“[Group Action].”
Durene felt the will to draw her sword and to punch the nearest [Soldier] to her drain out of her body. Her hand went limp; Normen lowered his mace only slightly; everyone else relaxed instantly.
A Drake ready to punch Durene dropped her hands with a grimace; several [Archers] pulled the arrows from their bowstrings, and Nerul turned to Ishkr with a look of astonishment. Edellein gaped at the [Diplomat].
“What level are—?”
“Halt! Halt! I am the leading [Strategist] of Pallass, and I demand everyone halt!”
Esor flapped down, panting, voice ragged, and Durene saw the pink Drake she’d tossed over the balcony jogging back towards the crowd. She was relieved about that. Esor landed between Edellein and Normen, clutching at his chest.
“Halt…oh, good. 1st Army, Watch, stand down. Order of Solstice, you have five minutes to exit the city. No charges raised at this time. Do not return any time this month. Diplomat Nerul, get out of the city, now.”
“They are all under arrest!”
Edellein roared in outrage, but Esor raised his voice.
“Belay that! General, a word, if you please?”
To Edellein’s clear astonishment, Esor dragged him to the side; well, tried since Edellein was in full armor and Esor wasn’t that strong. Durene stared at Normen. The green flames around him were dying, and she edged over to Vess. The [Soldiers] were holding him uncertainly, but they let go of Vess and backed away as Durene raised another Fist of Honor. She heard, quite clearly, Esor hissing at Edellein.
“General, unless you want every Brother of Serendipitous Meetings in a hundred miles of Invrisil to start trouble in all the Pallassian-aligned cities, let them go. They’re [Knights]. They will not relent. Our operations are going to be uncovered now unless we let them go.”
“They attacked—”
“This is not worth the political expenditure! The Order of Solstice is beloved! Turn on your damn suppression spells!”
Esor clearly realized they were being overheard and glared at Edellein. The Drake’s face went blank. He leaned over as he twisted something on his finger, and the last thing Durene heard was—
“You will never countermand my authority in publ—”
Then they were hidden by a swirling veil of smoke. Durene looked at Normen, who wore a full grimace as he helped Vess up.
“Are you hurt? Did they get Jewel?”
“No. Let’s get out of here before that guy changes his mind.”
“Too right. Let’s run!”
Nerul dashed past them. The [Soldiers] hesitated, but with Esor and Edellein having it out in private, they had to obey orders, and their current ones were to let the three go. So Durene began to run; she didn’t want to fight that pink Drake again.
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice was almost at the 8th Floor when Edellein finished his argument with Esor. The Drake [General] appeared with his personal bodyguard in a flash of light just past the checkpoint, and Durene, clutching her side from running up three flights of stairs, groaned.
“Oh…come…on.”
The furious Drake was conflicted as he strode forwards, clearly wishing to arrest them and clearly having Esor in his ear on why that was stupid. He must have known Pallass looked bad, and perhaps he was thinking of a parting shot of some kind.
He might have gotten away with it too, if not for the fact that Liska strode up to the closed checkpoint doors and pointed.
“[Open Says Me]!”
The portcullis shot up to the curses of the [Guards], and Liska dashed through the door with a grin. Vess was hot on her heels, and Durene and Normen were hurrying to get out of Pallass as Edellein strode forwards with a face like thunder.
“Halt! Where is the prisoner? My squad—”
Esor flapped onto the 8th Floor, looking even more dead from all this physical exertion than Durene. He actually landed on his face, then sat up.
“I…told…you…”
General Edellein was about to stride into The Wandering Inn when he stared through the door. He stopped. Not because he feared Peggy, who had a crossbow drawn and resting on her knees, or Jewel or even Ama and Antherr, who were barring the way, weapons drawn and blazing.
No…Durene imagined the 1st General of Pallass was brave enough to take on the entire Order of Solstice with his bodyguard. However, a hundred or so Antinium lined up in the common room of the inn, each one armed head-to-toe in bright, pink armor?
Each one wearing a sigil of flames on their chest? Durene stared as a hundred copies of Embraim, armed head-to-toe in armor, raised their weapons.
“What the—”
A hundred Antinium or more all ready for a fight. Edellein halted and said pretty much the same thing as Durene, only with a bit more pith. Esor gasped in his ear.
“Armored…Antinium. They arrived this morning. Order of Solstice recruits. Following the late Knight Embraim. The Armored Queen has more in training.”
Edellein stood there as the Order of Solstice headed through the door. The 1st General shivered and then snapped back at the Garuda.
“More with classes? They have to be stopped. They are gaining too much ground.”
The Garuda just shook his head pityingly. For Edellein, for Pallass.
“We are the nearest Walled City to Liscor, General Edellein. We are facing the north, Gnolls who will not have our side, and every other nation in the world seeking the New Lands. We cannot fight a coalition. Let them go.”
The 1st General stood there as Esor’s voice rose slightly. He turned his head, glaring at Edellein’s personal bodyguards and people. Esor knew how to work a privacy spell. The mostly Drake command under Edellein stared at Esor in quiet horror, and the Garuda coughed and clutched at his chest.
