She felt the weariness leave her. Not completely; she’d missed the final rhyme on the last sentence, and more importantly, she hadn’t chained her craft to any sympathetic magic or invoked any real power beyond what lay in her hat.
…Which was over half empty already. Damn. Alevica cursed, but as she stretched, she felt energy hit her like a triple helping of Eloise’s wakeup tea.
Her shoulder popped, and Alevica swore, but she rotated it and suddenly all her stiffness was gone. Alevica twisted a bit, then raised her voice.
“Cirsa? Malluni? You’d better not be running amok or I’ll drown you in the well! Breakfast!”
She didn’t hear the giggles or scamper of feet and cursed. So this morning was hide-and-seek, eh? Let’s see how much they laughed when she dangled them by the legs out the second-story window!
“Who am I kidding? They love that.”
Grumbling, Alevica stomped upstairs, but she didn’t sense them anywhere. Resigned, she cast a locator spell.
“Malluni.”
Where one went, the other went. Alevica closed her eyes, tossed one of her wands up, and caught it blind. The tip of it was pointing straight out the window.
“Oh, you have got to be—”
Alevica stomped outside, already feeling the beginnings of a bad day coming on. If the two had begun pranking Riverfarm’s people, Alevica would have trouble. She strode outside, flipped her wand again, and felt hope.
Wait, the wand was pointing at her home, just down the road! Maybe the two had woken up and…Alevica’s smile vanished.
Decided to cook for themselves?
Smoke was rising from the chimney, a lot of it. Alevica began to run without a word. Cooking was really bad.
Malluni and Cirsa were too young! Malluni could be trusted with some things, but Cirsa had been burnt in a fire. She could handle flames—until one sparked or spat, in which case, she’d go fleeing. If they did that with oil or firewood or a pot of hot water—
“Are you okay? What are you two doing?”
Alevica burst into her house, wands raised and ready to extinguish a grease fire, and she saw [Chef] Moldierre raise his hands and back away from the pottage he was serving Cirsa and Malluni.
“M-my pardons, Witch Alevica! I was just feeding the two girls.”
“Huh?”
Alevica lowered her wands as the man backed up in alarm. She saw the girls eating the pottage, happily dipping their fresh bread into the bowls. They had eaten a lot, to judge by the waves of satisfaction coming off them.
“What’s going on? What are you doing here?”
Moldierre was the personal chef of Laken…wait a moment. The [Chef] gave Alevica a nervous smile.
“His Majesty, ah, suggested I make something suitable for the girls this morning, Witch Alevica. He personally dined with them, and I understand I am to prepare a meal for the two for breakfast and dinner? I would be delighted to oblige any requests you have.”
“Laken did what?”
Cirsa grinned, exposing a mouth full of food. Alevica wobbled, and her stomach growled.
“I—thank you. I suppose I could accept that.”
“Very good, Witch Alevica. I do have to be preparing His Majesty’s lunch, but if you wished me to pack up the pottage or…”
“No, I can, uh, eat it.”
“Then I will leave you to it!”
The [Chef] strode towards the door, then paused and poked his head back in as Alevica stared at the pot of food.
“Oh, and I should say that Miss Yesel and the [Tailor] will be here in half an hour about the clothing.”
The other shoe dropped as Alevica turned around slowly.
“What [Tailor]?”
 
——
 
Miss Yesel was no [Witch], but she was a mother, and getting two girls to hold still so they could be measured for clothing—then getting some clothing they would wear that wasn’t a [Witch]’s robe—was something Miss Yesel did quite well.
Alevica helped, but she actually had time for a breakfast not scarfed down in between getting the two girls to eat and not run off, and she was trying to plan out the next part of the day.
An error, as it turned out, because no sooner had the [Tailor] left with promises to deliver the clothing tomorrow than someone knocked on the door.
“Witch Alevica? Witch Cirsa, Witch Malluni? I am Witch Thallisa. An old friend of Oliyaya’s.”
A familiar [Witch] swept into the room. Alevica was so startled that she barely had time to tip her hat.
“Thallisa! What brings you here today?”
“Teaching. You two apprentices—upon your feet. Show me your best magic.”
Cirsa and Malluni shot to their feet, as surprised as Alevica by their obedience. Malluni covered her face, then showed a horrific, twisted visage of a night ghast, a thing of nightmares. Cirsa blew through one hand she made a small circle with, and a small gale rattled the roof.
Thallisa nodded approvingly.
“Sight and sympathy. Not bad. Oliyaya trained you two as a pair. You two appear healthy enough. By your leave, Witch Alevica, I’ll give them a lesson in brewing potions. I have no doubt you’re quite able to teach them, but it is my specialty.”
Witch Thallisa had once brewed a cure to the Griffin Plague in the north years ago. There was no arguing with her expertise; even old Oliyaya would have said she was as good at curses. Oliyaya’d given Alevica lessons as a girl, but the Witch Runner spluttered.
“I…I won’t object, but what’s this about?”
“His Majesty of Riverfarm asked me to lend my time as part of what I offered him. I obliged, for Oliyaya’s sake if nothing else.”
“Laken!”
Thallisa turned and gave Alevica an amused look. Cirsa and Malluni giggled, but Thallisa clapped her hands together.
“None of that. Now, you two are to run into the forests. Stay away from trouble and gather to me the three most valuable herbs or ingredients you can find. Whatever you bring me, I will teach you to brew and use my greatest Skill to make a potion you shall keep. You have until the first rooster crows the evening watch. Beg favors from other [Witches] and they may teach you what to search for or where to find it.”
The two girls wore expressions of delight and avarice—then, when they hesitated, Thallisa checked the rising sun theatrically.
“Well?”
They ran, and Alevica’s mouth stayed open.
“You did that to me when I was a girl.”
She remarked faintly, and Thallisa favored Alevica with a smile.
“And it worked because I made you a potion that fixed all of a shy [Witch]’s teeth. Why would I use any trick but what is valuable? If they are wise, they will beg lessons from Eloise and the others, and they will remember everything they find today. Incidentally, Eloise has agreed to teach them tomorrow, and I understand Hedag the third day. It seems this [Emperor] has arranged a number of favors for you.”
It did indeed. Alevica’s head was spinning, and she was alternating between painful nostalgia, overfullness from three helpings of pottage, and anger. And a bit of relief she was determined not to let Thallisa sense.
However, she underestimated the Great Witch. Thallisa adjusted her tall hat and gave Alevica a smile.
“I had heard the [Emperor] of Riverfarm had a lover in a half-Troll girl. My, how quickly he switches affections. Are you representing all of witch-kind for us? Because I have an aphrodisiac I could lend you in the name of relationships.”
“Thallisa. He’s not interested in me!”
“I am sure sending his [Chef] here is purely altruistic then.”
Alevica colored, and Thallisa laughed, then inspected the home.
“He’s had someone clean this place. I’d watch out for someone trying that with Oliyaya’s hut. If she moved all her junk in, it’s likely to curse the poor [Cleaner] who tries to help out there. I will be by later for some things she swore to give me when she died, if that’s acceptable. I wish I had been there to face those women. But truly, I didn’t think this place was worth moving to, let alone dying over, until I came to visit.”
She turned, and Alevica caught a moment of regret and sorrow from Thallisa before it vanished under the [Witch]’s tall hat. Alevica stood there bleakly.
“I couldn’t do a thing.”
Thallisa flicked Alevica’s hat with a finger.
“I doubt I could have made a difference. An entire coven managed to hold one of those ‘hags’ at bay. Oliyaya was one of the eldest; it’s only right she took the curse. If only Belavierr had half her decency. Califor should have remained instead of the Spider. There was a [Witch] I could admire.”
Even speaking another [Witch]’s name could be dangerous. Alevica flinched a bit, but Thallisa had a reputation as a plain-speaking [Witch] with a sharp tongue and a sense of humor—and that was among other [Witches].
“Is Laken trying to take away all my work? It’s not romance, Thallisa. It might be chivalry and the thing men do for a woman in need.”
“Of course, Alevica. I would never lecture a fellow [Witch] on what she knows.”
Thallisa said that with such a straight face Alevica glared, but the [Witch] just sat down at the table and helped herself to some pottage.
“I would caution you on reading that book of magic. But revenge is something I know full well. By your leave, I’ll approach those Hag Queens later and do my inspection. If no one objects, I’ll take the one that killed Oliyaya.”
“You want to inspect them? Be my guest; everyone’s careful. What are you going to do with her body?”
Alevica blinked, and Thallisa’s smile was cold and contained under her hat. A magnificently tall hat, meant to show off, and because Thallisa liked how it looked. It was stitched piece by piece from the hats of other [Witches], the fabric covered with a charm to make the material seem glossy and ordinary, because Thallisa believed no one but [Witches] deserved to see her hat for what it truly was.
“Witch Quiraka and I have come to honor Oliyaya’s wish. We’ll make a handbag out of the Hag Queen’s flesh.”
Alevica shivered as Thallisa sat there, her craft leaking from the brim of her hat, filled with the accomplishments Alevica had not achieved for all her prodigy. And all the success Alevica feared to grasp.
 
——
 
“What are you doing, Laken? If you think I want all this help—”
Alevica thrust open the door to Laken’s home. It was more like a mansion; she strode in furiously, saw Laken was consulting with Ram, Beycalt, and a dozen other advisors, and turned on her heel.
“Ah, Alevica. Can you wait for fifteen minutes? Ram, let’s finish the official subdivisions of Riverfarm and not quibble over markers yet.”
Laken spoke up as every head turned to Alevica, and she sensed it.
Speculation, faint outrage, jealousy—normally, she’d drink it in. But oh no. She was not getting into Durene’s seat and having one half of Riverfarm poking her about how to swallow bananas properly and the other half vying to replace her.
She did not like Laken, nor was she slavering to get to know him better. In a way, it was sort of sad; it was obvious to Alevica that no one was going to organically meet the [Emperor] and get to like him on his own merits with this lot around him.
No wonder all the rulers are either as mad as loons or have their heads up their own asses.
As it so happened, many people knew about Laken’s translation attempts with Alevica. Even if they thought that was code for something else. But Laken was just wrapping up his meeting when the topic was brought up.
“Your Majesty. If I may, I heard about your efforts with Witch Alevica on the, um…other languages issue? I believe I have something of a solution, if you’ll hear it.”
Here came Miss Yesel, fully vying for a ladyship of her own. Laken had been turning towards Alevica, but he faced Yesel, brows raised.
“You, Yesel?”
“Not me, Your Majesty. Rather…if you’ll give me five minutes? I believe our good [Mage] is waiting…Ram, would you get her?”
The man hurried out as Yesel explained.
“Wistram has sent a representative to the Unseen Empire. Not a permanent one, but they wished to set up their Mage’s Guild.”
“And they’re stretched. What of it?”
“Well—I inquired, and they said they would be delighted to cast [Translation] for us. It’s very common when Drakes and Humans share a city. Different writing systems, you see. And while I am sure Witch Alevica is doing her best…”
Alevica sat up in her chair and glared at Yesel. Then wondered why she was glaring.
[Translation] was a spell? She wasn’t up to date on [Mage]-magic. It made sense; [Mages] had a spell for everything. But she felt a flicker of annoyance in her chest despite the excitement Yesel’s words provoked. Maybe it was the smug expression the woman had.
However, Alevica’s annoyance was echoed by a wave of it coming off Laken, though his face never changed. That made Alevica…feel better. Annoyance and disappointment.
The idea someone would wave their hands and make all the careful studying and work Laken and Alevica had put into this project redundant stung. However, Laken wasn’t an idiot. He nodded tightly, and Yesel took that as a compliment, beaming.
“Your Majesty of Riverfarm! I’m Magus Reyna of the Terras Faction of Wistram. I am delighted to meet you, and Archmage Eldavin sends his warmest wishes for further cooperation. I understand I can begin that in some small way here?”
The [Mage] was from Wistram indeed. They radiated confidence, disdain, and boredom as they introduced themselves. Alevica saw the woman glance her way, but the disdain only increased.
Typical [Mage]. She sounded Terandrian and probably thought anyone outside her class was incompetent at magic. Alevica reluctantly went and fetched the spellbook with her kitchen tongs from her house. She put it on a table and warned the [Mage].
“Don’t touch it.”
Everyone in the room shuddered and recoiled at the sight of the hide-bound book, but the [Mage] just waved a hand over it and then flipped a page or two with her fingers.
“Don’t worry, Miss Witch. It’s not an artifact. My…these words…”
Her confidence drained a bit, and Alevica stared at the woman’s fingers.
“Well, your fingers haven’t fallen off. Hey, Laken. The book’s not immediately cursed. If you die in the next few days, can you let us know?”
“…What is…? This isn’t magical writing. But the words—”
The [Mage] could tell there was some kind of magic here, but she couldn’t sense it with her spells. Idiot.
This was Hag magic. Hag lore. It didn’t read like regular spells; until the words were said out loud or the curses activated, you’d see nothing.
Laken was disinclined to give the woman a full breakdown of what the book was. He spoke crisply.
“I believe you said a [Translation] spell would clarify what the words are, Magus? If you would like to know what the book is, I suggest asking Archmage Eldavin. If he is somehow unaware, he may, of course, petition me for a further explanation.”
