Mrs. Hamilton pushed open the doors and walked into the conference room. The group was an unusual one, with Huang Li, Annie, and Zone 1’s Resident Super Suit superhero, with casually ruffled blonde hair and a rakish smile. But even his expression was tinged with some sourness, considering the seriousness of the occasion.

Huang Li wasted no time, tapping on the map laid out on the table in front of them; this was the task force assembled by the world council. His eyebrows pinched together in concentration. “Now that we are all here, let’s discuss the specifics. Are there any problems with the containment perimeter?”

“None so far,” Supersuit, whose name Mrs. Hamilton didn’t know but who resemble a Thad or a Chad, clicked on the electronic display and zoomed in on the area around West Providence. The entire city was covered with a flashing red aura, with the Northeastern portion had a solid maroon covering a puzzle-piece shaped chunk. “But as you can see, the municipal authorities tried to cover their original blunder by being extremely broad in the secondary quarantine zone. The whole city is cut off from the outside world. No travel in or out, although we have firm communication to some of the security agencies who work with senators to indicate there are portions of the city that remain stable. The story in the East and North regions of the city are more difficult to ascertain.”

“We have a few tourists going through Zone 1,” Huang Li added, referring very obliquely to the tracking Skill Zone 7 used on its permanent residents. “Obviously, the citizens learned very quickly about the problem when forces began to set up barricades along the roads and manatech railways. And several possess enough power to resist the average infected. Working together, the people are putting up a wooden blockade. If one of the powerful members of the original Orchard Squad doesn’t barrel through, they will hold out.”

“For now at least,” Annie squinted at the map. “There are a lot of residential neighborhoods in the North. Ghost’s observational drones said that the infected Squad Leader is sweeping through those areas, infecting as many as he can. These buggers aren’t great at coordination, but those with stronger Willpower can be effective leaders. A wave is coming South soon to gobble up the rest of the city.”

“But that’s why we’ve been called in,” Supersuit made a fist and pounded the table. The electronic map flickered. “Look, I know the odds aren’t in our favor-”

“No speeches, please,” Annie groaned. “Here, let me cut to the chase. We just go in, beat up some infected people, and get out without physical contact. No need to make a big deal out of it.”

Rather amusingly, Huang Li also nodded seriously along with Annie’s objection. “We should not waste any more time. All it takes is a single powerful individual to have a moment of foolishness to a new threat to be born. Considering all that we still don’t know, we must act with due alacrity.”

Supersuit seemed genuinely disappointed he didn’t get to make a moving speech, but was at least professional enough to move past it quickly. He directed a sharp glance at Mrs. Hamilton. “Any results on your end?”

She shook her head grimly. Even she didn’t like having to deliver this report. “None at all. After capturing a weaker infected, we tried all sorts of images or Skills to try and drive that mauve light out of the host; all failed. It’s just that much more powerful than us. Exposure for powerful individuals… well, Paolo forcefully volunteered for the task and is now taking up the attention of two of Donnyton’s strongest Squads just to restrain. Essentially: don’t get touched. It isn’t deadly, but we don’t have a cure.”

Even now, Mrs. Hamilton felt somewhat disgusted with herself that she had almost believed Paolo’s bravado and hadn’t prevented him from initiating contact. She was going soft, now she wasn’t concerned with running Donnyton any longer.

“Tch, should have all been archers,” Annie flashed a smile. No one else really acknowledged the teasing as they filed outside of the room and headed to the transport chopper waiting for the group. They boarded with quick steps. And the pilot seemed to know both the import of this mission and the strength of the passengers, because its manatech thrusters engaged as soon as Supersuit had stepped into the vehicle and wrapped a large hand around the metal bar by the door.

With a whoosh and a huge discharge of glittering mana exhaust particulate, the chopper turned skyward. Once it was right below the low grey cloud cover, it really let loose, causing Annie and Huang Li, who hadn’t sat down in the seats onboard, to sway and almost stagger. Mrs. Hamilton couldn’t help but be impressed; at least in Manatech, Zone 1 continued to doggedly make strides forward.

Yet with that fool leading the Zone… Mrs. Hamilton shook her head slightly.

As they approached West Providence, Annie abruptly swore with her usual creativity and verve. The three others looked at her in confusion. Even Mrs. Hamilton couldn’t quite follow the White Huntress’s acute senses and figure out what had caused such a string of expletives. But about ten seconds later, she discovered a familiar aura in the middle of the infected Zone.

The familiar aura stood very, very still.

Mrs. Hamilton pushed herself up from her seat. “You two, continue on as planned. Looks like we have a variable inside the quarantine. Annie and I will… make sure this doesn’t become a larger problem than it already is.”

The other two nodded. From the shrinking distance between Huang Li’s eyebrows, he also sensed something. Supersuit sent a communication to the pilot, who opened the doors, allowing the thunderous noise of the helicopter blade and the thrusters to wash over them. With her hair fluttering around her, Mrs. Hamilton hopped out of the manatech vehicle. Annie followed with a graceful swan dive, spinning out into the air and drifting downward with all the serene grace of a cherry blossom petal.

Mrs. Hamilton wove a web of thin lines into a parachute, landing lightly on the ground. Annie just crunched into the ground into a slanted crouch, before straightening and tossing her hair over her shoulder. Her eyes went instantly to the broad-shouldered man standing with his back to them, looking out over the very still and empty streets of this small suburb.

The man’s long red hair swayed in the wind. Mrs. Hamilton cleared her throat. “Lucifer. What a strange location to be taking a walk.”

He pivoted slowly on his heel, clearly savoring the movement. When he faced the two women, Mrs. Hamilton’s heart sank. His eyes were positively sparling with the mauve tint. Annie instantly hopped backward to create some distance, but Lucifer didn’t immediately attack them, as the infected usually did. He simply observed them, pulses of mauve energy going across his body. His powerful image rolled off him, seeping into the surrounding space.

“He’s still conscious?” Annie tilted her head to the side.

Lucifer cleared his throat. “Do you understand anything about the essence of the mauve image?”

Mrs. Hamilton’s mind worked quickly, waiting for the usual ferocity to take over. Yet Lucifer just waited for their answer. She pursed her lips. “The mauve image infects the user through touch. Once inside the body, it causes the conscious mind to go into a dream-like state, while the instinctual impulses of the infection take over movement of the body. The nightmares seem targeted, related to the individual’s worst fears. Are you trying to say you overcame your fears, Lucifer? Can you help us against other infected?”

“Close, but not quite,” Lucifer grunted. From the glint in his eyes, the answer was intended to also cover Mrs. Hamilton’s optimistic final query. “You know, I’ve been down for a while. Depressed, even. After the Alpha Cosmos tournament. I had no idea… how far I was from the top group of fighters. And I wouldn’t have even noticed the potential of this shit if several of the members of the Orchard Squad were originally from Franksburg. I watched all of Ghost’s footage over the past several hours, as they spread out. And you know… their images are improving.”

“You infected yourself purposefully? To get stronger?” Annie sounded incredulous.

“It’s not fears,” Lucifer ignored Annie, his eyes still on Mrs. Hamilton. “It’s about taboos. What do you refuse to consider? What paths won’t you take? What shadowy thoroughfare do you fear? To some, this is indistinguishable from their darkest demons. But for me… for me who has pursued his own Path so doggedly…”

Lucifer drew his saber. He looked at the sleek, gleaming weapon for several heavy moments. Then he shook his head. He almost seemed disgusted. “Well, I was narcissistic. I thought these hands- But to deviate seemed impossible. To step off the eternal pursuit of Lucifer Slash and find some help? No, never. I couldn’t bear to use another’s improvement to get an advantage. And now- Perhaps it will weaken my long-term potential to do this, but I need to try something else. This… isn’t enough for me.

”I desire power.”

His image suddenly spiked. The air around Lucifer was filled with rippling waves of mauve fire. More and more condensed around his saber. Mrs. Hamilton manifested her own image, the grey spider spinning a wide web around her body. Color slowly drained from her face; she could feel it already. Lucifer’s image had definitely sharpened since she had last seen it.

“With this infection, I set down my pride. And who else to borrow from than the most powerful human alive?” Lucifer grinned at them, his eyes glassy and mauve. He raised his weapon. “The First Tree… Suffers only Sabers!”

The ground erupted with mauve blades, demolishing almost the entire block.

*****

Randidly pressed his hand against the cool wood and pushed open the door. The material felt light and insubstantial, flickering against his hand as he touched it. He couldn’t quite put his feeling on the source of the feeling, but his heart began to palpitate.

As he walked forward, he felt his body shrinking until he was his teenage self. He looked around and saw the cool blue countertop and cramped refrigerator of his father’s apartment after the family had split. A single coffee cup sat in the sink and a stack of deconstructed pizza boxes was folded next to the trash can.

The sleek television Ezekiel Ghosthound had always insisted on updating to the new iteration every six months sat on the squat wooden entertainment console. His unassuming grey couch, its cushions thoroughly wrinkled from constant use, sat empty in the middle of the room. Randidly continued to pivot.

After a few seconds, he began to frown; the apartment was empty.

He opened his mouth to speak and hesitated, unsure of what to say. In the end, he settled for an awkward-sounding “Father?”

For a few seconds, there was absolute silence and Randidly had some strange worry that this memory would somehow be a dud. Perhaps he made a mistake to follow that strange twinge in his stomach and walk over to the Ezekiel door before the Ace one. But then the familiar, if slightly tired sounding, voice filled the room. “Ah, you made it. You’ll be wanting a memory, then?”

Randidly continued to pivot, looking around him. The apartment remained empty. His forehead creased in annoyance. “Where are you? I can’t see you.”

“Huh, how strange,” Ezekiel’s voice answered. Then Randidly heard a snort. “Well, if you cannot see me, I guess… I guess I did it. I got out of this hell.”

Now Randidly really scowled. “Okay, look, I get that this emotional monster inside of me isn’t very fun to deal with. Especially now that it seems intent on wearing mother’s face. But… I figured you of all people would be especially happy to share negative memories of her. You always told me-”

“It’s not that, son,” Ezekiel answered, just as awkwardly as Randidly had said father. Randidly continued to spin, trying to catch some sight of his quarry even as it began to make him dizzy. “What I’ve escaped isn’t this memory game- hell, I’m just a memory myself. But if you cannot see me… I must be gone. I’ve died.”

“You…” Randidly finally planted both feet on the ground and stopped spinning. He swayed. “You’re… dead?”

“A father like me…” Ezekiel sighed. The voice was as hollow as the empty apartment in which Randidly now stood. “Well, it’s not like you need me. Look at all you’ve accomplished! If I was around… I’d just be in the way. Good luck. Oh, but don’t worry, I have the memory for you. Just… don’t be too hard on Emilee, alright? She only wanted the best for you.”

Randidly just stared blankly ahead, still rocked from the fact that his father had died. Died apparently on purpose, without telling him.

Stuck on the fact Randidly had studiously ignored his father for several years.
