The gel stopped the bleeding. As the red bubbles touched his skin, they dispersed into his muscles. Wherever they dispersed, the pale muscle would turn from pink to red. The doctor finished putting the gel onto the Eltari before pulling out a few bandages. These weren’t cloth bandages though. They were like transparent food wrap.

The doctor wrapped the plastic stuff over the gel, locking it against the skin. He only did this to places without any skin. Once he finished that, he stepped away from the bed. Grabbing a saline packet, he hooked up a needle towards Hod’s arm. Once the saline was set, the doctor paced back behind the pharmacy counter and pulled out a blue vial.

He attached it to the saline packet, coloring it blue. Once he finished, he sat back into a chair, his sigh muffled through his intercom. He gave me a short salute,

“I’m going to be able to tell my kids one day that I saved a friend of the Harbinger. What a day.”

I turned around, no one else in the medbay. Surprised at how empty it was, I glanced back at the doctor, “Thanks, but I’m wondering...why isn’t anyone here?”

The doctor looked around, “Oh yeah, I guess that is weird isn’t it? It’s crazy how crazy stuff can be, but then I won’t even notice until someone points it out. Makes me feel out of place.”

I tapped the edge of the cot, “What’s that crazy stuff?”

The doctor hit the side of his helmet, “Oh wow, sorry about that. I just never thought that I’d be seeing the Harbinger in person. Still kind of nervous. Anywho, Torix sent all the other doctors out with the active teams. Some of the followers have been coming really close to camp. They’ve almost found us a few times.”

The gel on Hod’s wounds turned into muscle, veins, and whatever else he needed. I looked at Hod as the chatty doctor continued,

“So the big man himself divided us up. The vast majority of the entire camp is attacking the quarantine or setting up checkpoints. We’re going out on a full assault.”

Hod’s breathing stabilized. I wondered if I could use some cybernetic enhancements in the future. It might be another way of giving myself a boost. Making a mental note of it, I turned to the doctor,

“How are you being supplied?”

The doctor tapped the edge of his helmet, the glass plate over his eyes popping up. Parts of the helmet folded back, uncovering an old, smiling face, “By eldritch that the necromancer controls. You’ve seen the beetle colony I’m guessing?”

“Yeah.”

He leaned towards me, keeping both his hands up,

“They haven’t only been making tunnels. Torix has been having the beetles expand into several places outside. They’ve been clearing out forests and farms, gathering the legion some supplies. Now they’re carting those supplies for us as we move forward. No one’s going hungry. We’re well fed and well rested.”

The doctor shook his head, “All this time I thought he was sitting around while we did all the work.”

The doctor leaned back into his chair, a cheeky grin on his face, “Boy was I wrong.”

I frowned, “So was I. Thanks for letting me know all this. It’s good to get an idea of how the troops see the situation.”

The doctor stood, reaching out a hand, “It’s good to see the Harbinger has a soul and can even bring people to a doctor.”

I grabbed his hand, giving it a firm shake as I stood. The doctor met my eye, “All we need from you is to kill whoever Yawm is. We’ll handle the mess you leave behind. It’s what we do.”

I nodded back, “That’s all I need.”

I walked out of the hospital, leaving Hod in his care. I didn’t really know how long Hod was going to be out, so I sent a message to Torix. It explained what had happened and how the follower was trapped in the rift. I even included a little bit of my own thoughts at the end about what I thought we should do.

Considering how many troops Torix was juggling, doing a bit of thinking for him was a favor. As I waited for a reply on what to do next, I ran towards the outer edge of the forest. My plan was to work on developing my next mythical skill. This one wouldn’t be as technical as Volatile Carnage either.

As I reached an open field in the forest, a message appeared in my inbox,

Torix Worm, of Darkhill(9:17 A.M. 11/28/00) – While I doubt Etna will remain within that rift forever, disabling her for any length of time is a great boon for us. Of all the followers, she was creating the greatest disruption in our current campaign.

For now, let Hod rest up until he’s back on his feet. Three days should give him the appropriate recoup, both on a mental and physical level. Once Hod’s fine again, find and destroy the last high danger rift. That will be the last dungeon that’s about to burst out. With those out of the way, we can focus on culling Yawm’s forces.

You exceeded my expectations as well. Capturing Etna in the rift saved hundreds of the legion. If we are fortunate, she might even go insane on that desolate world. Either that, or maybe even starve.

We can only pray for such good fortune.

I closed the message, sighing out with relief. Having to travel back would have been a waste of time that I didn’t have. Not wasting anymore of that time, I stepped into the center of the forest clearing. The light green grass opened up a plain about the size of four city blocks. At the edges of the plain, a line of trees created a clear, clean outline of the area.

It was perfect playground for what I had planned. I pulled out my obelisk before writing a blueprint for my next mythical skill. It would be a fusion of Phaser, Meteoric Rise, and Earth Glider. I already came close to using the skills together during my chase and fight with Etna. Polishing my usage of the skills might result in them coming together.

With that in mind, I charged my runes. The mana shot through my system like adrenaline, a rush of energy coming with it. Once the runes reached their cap for holding the energy, I urged the mana into them. As the runes saturated, the air around me hummed. I ran up and unleashed the force into a kinetic field, making sure to disperse the impact.

The ground rippled as I shot into the air. Once high up, I morphed my armor and prepared for my descent. By the time Hod woke up, my goal was to be faster than him flying. Once I was, I’d turn myself into a three ton bullet. I was sure smashing into someone at that speed would kill most things, monster or not.

Once I got this next mythical skill, it would be time for making a legendary one. As I reached the peak of my jump in the air, I turned towards Springfield. The suburbia bled into the cityscape and yellow forests. The quarantine zone wasn’t a straight circle anymore. In several places, the forcefield stopping the insects had caved into the zone. We were winning.

At the center of it all was the gray haze covering the world tree. Within that gray cloud, a green radiance peaked out from within. At timed increments, pulses of the tree sent out earthquakes. They came with greater and greater frequency. Now they were an hourly occurrence, something no one even stopped and wondered at. They were the norm now, and the reason for them was clear.

He was coming.
