“You seem to be deaf to the magnitude of your circumstances. You won’t hear words, so I will show you.” Master Jevin leaned forward, toward the paralyzed, entirely bound elf. “You have no idea what I have learned through the millennia. I could strip your very foundations from you, force you to begin clawing for power from the bottom yet again.”

There was a flexing in the magic, and Eskau Meallain shivered.

“I could tear your concept free of your soul and leave you as magically inept as the average ungated human.”

Her eyes widened, but she was unable to otherwise react.

“I am older than your precious House, and I am not to be trifled with. It is only the civilization of gated humanity that stays my hand. Your punishment has been determined, and I will not countermand that ruling, but if you cross the line again, I will not let the trespass go unanswered.”

There was a sudden lessening, an outrushing of magic, and the room was as it had been.

The tendrils of power that had seized hold of Meallain were gone, and the four of them were simply sitting around a table, drinks and food before them as if nothing magical had occurred.

Eskau Meallain was breathing heavily, her cheeks flushed and pupils dilated. Her gaze was locked on the Reforged, an odd mix of fear and reverence plain across her features.

After a tense moment, she performed a seated bow. “This Eskau hears the words of her Revered elder and understands. I will not claim false regret, but I do wish that it could have been otherwise. You have my word that it will not happen again while peace remains between our peoples.”

Master Jevin grunted, reaching for his tea. “See that it doesn’t.”

Tala’s very spirit was trembling in the wake of the exchange, and she’d been on the sidelines.

What Master Jevin had done was so, so much more than a mere act of power. The comparison was like the difference between dumping ink across a page and writing an original poem.

Sure, the first took more ink, but that was hardly the point.

Master Jevin had just composed an original piece on the canvas of Eskau Meallain’s very being in an instant, and Tala doubted if the elf would ever forget it.

The Reforged took a lingering sip before smiling slightly and nodding. “Very well, then. We won’t spend more time on this unpleasantness. Tala?”

Tala jerked, almost spilling her coffee. “Yes?”

“I believe you had something that you wished to discuss?”
