For the rest of history up until today, [Teleport] has remained the same: a difficult spell, purposefully made that way, that only shifts for those who truly know what they’re doing, or for Champions. Erick had no real idea what he was doing, and he wasn’t about to become a Champion; not today, anyway. His only hope of progressing on this spell would be to use some knowledge from Earth. Maybe.

Erick conjured a thin wall of stone, maybe an eighth of an inch thick. He put his hand on the wall, and imagined a tunnel from his side of the structure, to the other; a hole, a [Gate]. [Teleport] merely put him on the other side of the stone. He turned around to look at the wall. He frowned. He tried again, and again. And again. Nothing changed; he just [Teleport]ed from one side of the wall to the other.

As the sun began to set, Erick summoned two [Teleporting Platforms], then set them vertical and apart, like two doors separated by five meters of air. Both of the platforms were completely identical, right down to the ‘teleport’ symbol carved in white Force into the stone. Erick pressed his hand against one, and cast [Teleport], imagining a tunnel connecting him from one platform to the other. Erick popped out of the air next to the other platform, with no blue box, and no [Gate] summoned between the stones.

Erick channeled mana through [Teleport], revealing a second white hand that trailed his original as he moved his arm through the air, like he was seeing double.

He hummed. He activated [Detect Intent Aura]. Twilight became a snowstorm as Erick channeled mana through [Teleport]. He saw his own hand, and the secondary hand, exactly as he had seen them without [Detect Intent Aura], but with the aura, the brightness of the secondary hand was more than enough to overcome the snow in his vision. Erick slammed his infused hand against one platform, imagining the second hand going all the way to the other platform, still hovering five meters away.

Imagining the second hand moving did nothing.

Erick expected that. But he had another trick up his sleeve. Erick had played around a lot with [Teleport]. He had gotten more than enough skill with the spell to ‘halfway-activate’ the spell; to choose the destination without actually appearing there. Upon choosing the destination —the second [Teleporting Platform]— the second white hand vanished. Erick frowned. He lifted his hand from the platform and chose a different destination, one right next to him. The hand appeared in the air beside Erick. Okay. That made perfect sense. Obviously he couldn’t see the secondary hand when it was out of sight. Duh.

With a little bit more testing, Erick discovered that he could ‘control’ the white hand by adjusting his own [Teleport] destination. Occasionally, he overshot his ‘half-cast’ of [Teleport] and actually [Teleport]ed, but mostly, Erick learned a bit more control. Soon, he was wiggling white fingers, while his flesh and bone fingers stayed still. And then he realized what he was doing.

Erick moved the ‘target’, exactly as if he was choosing a destination for his [Teleport].

“Oh my gods,” Erick said, disappointed in himself. “The duplicate hand is the destination. Right. This is what I am proving to myself, isn’t it.”

Erick cut his [Detect Intent Aura]. The snow over his sight vanished, and so did the control he had over the white hand, or rather, the controlled white hand vanished, only to be replaced with the normal, uncontrollable second hand he usually had when he channeled mana through [Teleport].

Erick turned [Detect Intent Aura] back on. His ability to control the white hand came back. Or, no; that was wrong.

He flipped his detecting aura on and off, and quickly came to a conclusion: while he was channeling mana through [Teleport], the white hand was the destination, but he could only see that destination when his detecting aura was active. Otherwise, he just saw the normal, secondary white hand that was normally present when he channeled mana through [Teleport], that he had no control over.

What was [Teleport], exactly? Did Erick simply switch places with the ghost whenever he used it?

That had to be it, right?

So how the hell did [Gate] work? It sounded like a tunnel, but… maybe it wasn’t?

Erick dismissed one of the [Teleporting Platform]s, and turned the second one horizontal. He sat down on the edge of the second one and stared out into the twilight sky. He had missed the sunset, the sky was already dark. Ophiel fluttered to the platform, and nuzzled against his side. Erick patted the tiny guy, and thought.

Soon enough, Kiri came outside, saying, “Dinner is ready.”

Erick hopped off the floating platform, and went inside, still thinking. After dinner, he wrote down his thoughts, and went back to studying. After studying, and seeing nothing in the text that lined up with his own experience, that was enough for one day. He went to sleep, feeling slightly unfulfilled.

- - - -

A knock struck the door to Erick’s room, and then again.

Knock! Knock!

Erick managed to open his eyes just in time to see Poi open the door, and Ophiel leap into the air. Ophiel trilled in flutes at the unexpected disturbance, his feathers flaring out. Erick silently agreed, as he sat up in bed.

“Sir.” Poi eyed Ophiel as he said, “A Blood Cloud has been spotted in the Crystal Forest, about 150 kilometers north of Spur.” He added, “You’re not expected to kill the monster, but it is being offered to you as the second line of defense.”

For five seconds, Erick processed Poi’s words. The first thing that came to him was that he should have been much more worried about being woken up; they could have been under attack. Erick’s heart pumped hard, as visions filled Erick’s mind, of dark spiders in the shadowy corners of the room, and blood on the floor.

After breathing out the tension, Erick said, “Okay.” He added, “I remember that one. It was in Mog’s notes.” He extracted himself from his covers, and said, “Okay. I’ll kill it. Where is it right now? Has anything already been done? Wait.” Erick paused. A cold pit opened up in his stomach. “You said ‘second’ line of defense. What happened?”

Poi said, “The Blood Cloud will reach the city in five hours. The city has already tried to turn it away, but with all the new people in town, organizing a kill squad is a lot more dangerous than Mog expected. Several rookies went out and got themselves killed, thinking their long range spells were long range enough. Now people are arguing.” He added, “Mog is hoping that you can just ‘deal with the thing’, sir.”

Erick sat on the edge of his bed, and thought. He said, “Maybe I should reposition for this. It’s faster and cheaper than summoning seven Ophiels, which I’m going to have to do anyway.” He blinked hard and forced himself to wake up. [Teleport]ing over the ocean at this hour? Crazy! Erick stood, saying, “Nope. No repositioning.” He sat back down and summoned five Ophiel, almost bottoming out his mana. As soon as they came into being, Erick strung the six Ophiel he had into pairs, and sent them [Teleport]ing across the ocean. He looked up at Poi, and now at Teressa and Rats who stood behind Poi. “Hello, you two.”

Rats said, “We’re here if you need us.”

Teressa nodded, her grey armor glinting in the light. “We have mana potions, too.”

Erick said, “Thank you. I’ll let you know if I need them.”

Erick Meditated, his mana returning quick enough. Ophiel was already somewhat positioned across the ocean, so Erick helped him get into the proper positions. Soon, Ophiel formed a chain that stretched all the way to sands north of Spur. Erick let his mana come back to him as he hopped the easy [Scry] connection between his [Familiar]s, making sure everything was okay.

Erick came back to himself, and asked, “Poi? Where’s the monster? Precisely?”

Rats stood in the doorway while Poi sat in a chair opposite Erick’s bed, inside his room, with lines of intent radiating from his slightly bowed head.

Poi came back to himself, lifting his eyes to look at Erick. He sent, ‘Here’.

An image of the battlefield came to Erick.

- - - -

Three moons hung near-full in the cold sky; pink, silver, and white. They bathed the Crystal Forest in light enough to walk the sands without worrying about monsters in the dark, for there was not much darkness down there; not tonight. But up ahead, this fact did not hold true.

A single cloud loomed in the distance, but it was not like the silver, wind washed, barely-there clouds that sometimes naturally appeared over desert. It was dense and tall and red.

The Blood Cloud hovered hundreds of meters above the land, but dragged lines, like cables, across the sand. The cables touched upon Crystal Agave, and did nothing. The cables touched upon mimics, and wrapped tight around the suddenly struggling monster. The mimics flailed, but one after another, here and there across the land, the cables pulled the mimics upward, into the seething mass of red light and air, high, high above.

The Blood Cloud was hungry, and it had already taken Ophiel an hour to get into this position, and for Erick to regain enough mana for a fight. The monster was only four hours away from Spur, now.

Ophiel trilled out violins into the brilliant night sky, as chill air threaded over his many wings and hundred eyes. A blip of white flashed in the air beside Ophiel, revealing another Ophiel. They looked at each other, briefly, before focusing their many eyes toward the monster up ahead.

The second Ophiel flew forward, racing against the wind, directly at the indistinct, red cloud.

He slammed into raised tendrils that only appeared after they had been touched. As they wrapped around Ophiel, squeezing, they burst from the inside out with small spikes all along their lengths, trying to inject poison into Ophiel’s body.

A flicker of [Endless Plasma Wrap] trailed out from Ophiel’s tangled body, seconds before the tendrils dragged him into the red mist above.

A brilliant white flame spread among the clouds but it did not get far, for that illumination revealed the creature for what it truly was: a collection of gas bags that were invisible most of the time. One death spell sent one monster falling to the ground, trailing white flame as it crashed to the sand far below.

[Endless Plasma Wrap] was not the solution, here, but it needed to be tested, anyway.

Blood Clouds were horde monsters, like small blimps all crowded together, each with several tendrils each a kilometer long, and each naturally invisible and hidden in a red mist, until they latched onto something. They captured meat on the ground and incapacitated it with the help of their kin, only to drag them up, up into the sky, to a hundred eager maws. They captured meat in the air, too, with invisible tendrils floating out ahead of the horde. If something got within a kilometer of the horde, it was food.

So the solution was simple, really.

Ophiel hovered in the path of the horde. A white sphere of light surrounded him, as thick air spilled out into the night sky. The core of the [Domain of the Withering Slime] held in the air while most of the actual spell fell to the ground, but at an extra push, the ground-bound spell lifted up, into the Blood Cloud, over the gas bag monsters.

A dense, echoing keening filled the night. The red cloud transformed into a bumbling, shaking, floating landscape of red meaty spheres each four or five or seven meters across. Tendrils thrashed wildly, as monster after monster deflated. They were old birthday balloons left out in the living room for too long, and now they were coming down, one right after the other. They crashed to the sand, bodies piling up, tendrils going slack. Thick air swirled as [Cleanse] after [Cleanse] burst around the downed monsters.

Five minutes was all it took for Ophiel to deflate the Blood Cloud out of the sky. Soon, the sands of the Crystal Forest were layered with tendrils and dried out monster.

Ophiel flew around, looking for stragglers, layering the land and sky with his aura.

Here and there, more blood bags dropped from the air. They were at the edge of the effect and trying to escape under their natural invisibility. Or at least they were, until [Domain of the Withering Slime] caught them, and killed them.

Ophiel flew around for a little while longer, but could find no more monsters.

Not wanting to leave all this organic material around for the mimics to feast, Ophiel dropped down to the ground, and began layering [Cleansing Flame] among the piles of corpses.

Soon, a four kilometer bonfire of clean burning monster lit the northern skies of Spur with a bright white glow. In minutes, all the evidence that there was ever a Blood Cloud at all were the small rads scattered across the land like diamonds on a beach, glittering in the moonlight.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

Poi stood from his chair, silently nodded at Erick, and walked toward the door to Erick’s room.

Erick stopped Poi before he could leave, saying, “Those kids didn’t have to die. What stopped Mog from calling sooner?” Erick felt a hole in his chest, as he asked, “Should I have stayed in Spur and searched for each and every one of these monsters before I left?”

Rats frowned, saying, “It’s our job to provide a home, not solve every damn problem out there.”

Before Erick could object—

Poi said, “Blood Clouds don’t happen unless the entire cloud is at least level 50. If those kids had managed to kill several, then they would have gained enough levels to gain a Class. They would have instantly become true adventurers.” He said, “It is not okay that those kids died, but they chose to attack the Blood Cloud, ahead of all planning and coordination. As Rats said, sir: The function of Spur’s Army is not to defend people from themselves, but to defend the homeland. While it is sad, those kids’ deaths are on them.”

Erick said, “Very well. Can you tell Mog I’m glad I could help? In the future, we now know that it will take about an hour for any response to happen, so plans should be made accordingly. I can’t change that. Not yet, anyway.”

Poi nodded as he stepped out of Erick’s room, saying, “Of course, sir. I will let her know. Good night.”

Rats saluted at the doorway, and closed the door.

Erick stared at the closed door for a minute.

He dismissed all of the Ophiel except the one in his room. That last one remained on the extra pillow on Erick’s bed. Ophiel trilled in tiny violin sounds, his eyes blinking open as Erick continued to remain upright. But when Erick laid down, back to his sleeping position, most all of Ophiel’s eyes shut.

Erick stared at the ceiling for a while before he managed to fall back asleep.

- - - -

Morning came, and so did breakfast, and classes.

