Kibby had assured Alden Joe was the guy to work for if you were a scientist interested in chaos and demonic energies. It was a field of study often limited to the wizard class, but Joe apparently didn’t enjoy working with other wizards.

“Someone who treats their own species well while behaving as if a member of another one is a disposable tool is not a good —————.”

Role model, maybe?

The knight used more unfamiliar words than Kibby did. He guessed he’d just gotten used to his roommate’s vocabulary.

When what Alis-art’h had said finally registered, Alden’s eyes widened.

Oh, she’s really mad I’m here, he realized.

He’d definitely gotten angry vibes from the Quaternary right from the moment he walked into her dome and collapsed in front of her. But he hadn’t been sure if she was inconvenienced by the presence of two dirty injured people, upset she’d almost crushed Kibby in what appeared to be an intense magical terraforming project, or just upset in general that something unexpected had happened and she’d been ill-informed.

“Ro-den did tell me it was dangerous to pick berries on Moon Thegund,” he said.

It was kind of funny to Alden that he had to keep talking about berries with someone who knew for a fact that he’d been sent here to rescue Joe’s assistants. During his first round of medical treatment, Kibby had described him as Saint Alden the Savior of the Lab to everyone in the dome. After all, she didn’t have any contract tattoos preventing her from telling people the full story. She’d even embellished it a little in his favor before she’d realized that Rrorro was going to take good care of him regardless of whether or not he deserved it.

“Nobody forced me to come here,” Alden added.

The knight’s expression was unyielding.

“I am sure he told you everything you needed to know before you agreed and that he had your best interests at the front of his mind,” she said caustically, slamming her cup down.

Alden jumped. He was certain the cup would have shattered if it hadn’t been made of wood.

“I am sure he did not throw an ignorant young teenager at a problem of his own making like a —————-!”

She’s gonna kill Joe.

“I’m all right,” he said hastily.

“You are literally moments away from dying horribly.”

Alden dropped his fork. He didn’t mean to. His fingers just let go without his permission. He winced.

Alis-art’h’s face paled.

“Uh,” said Alden. “I meant I’m all right…emotionally?”

It wasn’t untrue. He didn’t know why he was okay with the situation, but he was. Maybe it had something to do with the fact that he’d been sure on some level, for a very long time, that he was going to die here on Moon Thegund. He wanted to go home so badly, but it had been ages since he really believed himself when he imagined doing it.

Probably that’s the opposite of being all right emotionally, he thought.

But it didn’t change the fact that he somehow felt like he’d won just by making it here.

The silence that fell in the room was awkward. Might as well lean into it.

“So moments away from death? How many moments? Should I eat faster?”

He tried for a smile. Alis-art’h just sat there staring at him.

“Kibby says my jokes are bad.”

She pushed her plate away from her and sighed. “Not bad. I enjoy ———— humor usually. But it’s depressing coming from an Avowed in your situation. I will remove my protection from you this afternoon. I am not skilled enough to fix what is wrong with you. I would be prolonging things pointlessly if I tried, and I would risk ————- you. There are very few people who might be able to help, and the Triplanets cannot ——— any of them. They are all assigned elsewhere. I…I did look into it…”

Ah. Okay, thought Alden, staring at a small round fruit that looked like a candied apricot. It’s this afternoon.

“The fact that you survived for this long in even a low-level corruption environment at your age and rank shows natural talent,” the knight said. “The same talent my brother detected in you, I believe. But it is not enough to earn you extraordinary help. I am truly sorry.”

“It was already good of you to stop cleaning up the moon so that you could take care of me.”

Alden assumed that was why he hadn’t gotten to experience the daily dirt smashing phenomenon up close since he arrived. Alis-art’h had stopped working as soon as he got here.

“Do not thank me,” she said, looking away from him to stare at a mirrored dressing table. “My kindness is ————. The best thing I could do for you would be to ignore my task here, maintain my ———— on your presence, and travel with you back to Artona I, where the Contract can probably save you. We might make it.”

She still wasn’t looking at him. “But that would take months. Delaying the cleansing of the corruption and the creation of a Contract here, one stable enough to allow all citizens to teleport and receive aid from the rest of the universe, would cost lives. Probably too many to be ————— by your own future potential.”

Alden wondered if he should have specified that he would prefer to have something between the loving lie and total honesty. It did hurt to know there were salvation methods that wouldn’t be used.

“The only recourse left to you is the emergency teleportation option on our ship,” Alis-art’h continued. “It would not be safe for someone as weak as you even under normal circumstances. In your situation, even with the Mother Planet as an ideal and relatively close destination, I do not think you will survive the trip.”

Alden looked up from his plate. “There really is a teleporter?”

She finally turned back to him. “Yes? Did you think I made it up?”

“I thought you were just trying to make me feel better.”

“I was. It’s a bad option. But it does exist.”

Alden felt something stir inside him. He hoped it wasn’t hope. That seemed like a very dangerous emotion at a time like this.

“And the Contract on Artona I can help me?”

Crap. It was definitely hope. He tried to crush it back down, but he felt his heart rate pick up.

“It’s ideal for Avowed to return to their home Contract for skill assignment. Especially in situations like this. But the Mother Planet is the second best choice.”

“That sounds like a good plan then,” Alden said, wondering if he looked excited. He hoped he didn’t look excited. It was entirely the wrong thing at this moment.

You are probably going to die, stupid. You were fine with it ten seconds ago. Focus on the stuff you need to get done.

What was that stuff again?

Kibby would be fine.

“Oh. Yes. Can I make some kind of a…legal request saying who gets my possessions if I die?” He didn’t know if Artonans did wills. The System actually had options for listing your beneficiaries, but Alden hadn’t had the time or the inclination to set that kind of thing up. “I got summoned a couple of hours after I agreed to the Contract, and then I was busy. So I never thought about it seriously.”

Alis-art’h closed her eyes for a moment, and when she opened them again, her facial expression had smoothed into something more neutral.

“I can be the ————- for any sort of contract, magical or legal, you wish to make,” she said. “Naturally I will see to it that your requests are honored.”

Great, thought Alden. Kibby and Boe can have their share of my Argold all at once. But Aunt Connie should probably receive inheritance money in installments.

Jeremy could have Alden’s non-monetary stuff. His parents were rich, and he was the kind of person who got nostalgic over mementos.
