He tried to stifle a sob, but Erick still heard him.

Teressa chimed, “What’s ‘day’?

“It’s when Veird turns to face the sun, and light pours across the land.” Erick looked around. He asked, “Anyone know where Poi is?”

“I know!” Teressa smiled wide.

Erick waited.

Erick asked, “Where is he?”

“He’s out talking to Killzone!”

Rats dropped about five plates and a pan of his egg rice, muttering curses before the pan and plates crashed against the stone floor, then yelling curses as they hit. The whole tumble took less than a second, but Erick saw that it broke Rats all over again. Rats tried to hide his tears, but he couldn't.

“Oh! Fun words!” Teressa asked, “What do they mean?”

“Expressions of displeasure.” Erick stood and walked over to help Rats.

Rats was kneeling in the mess, staring at scattered rice and fluffy egg and broken stoneware. Erick flashed a [Mend] with Mana Shaping X. Plates flowed together; the chipped floor where the pan had crashed restored itself. Another flash of [Cleanse Aura] cleaned up the mess, and wiped away the tears streaming down Rats’ face.

Erick knelt down to gather up the plates, the pan, and then when those were on the counter, he knelt next to Rats, and said, “You’re okay. We’re okay. Right now, we’re fine. You did nothing wrong.”

“Please don’t…” Rats breathed hard. He said, “I did many things wrong… sir.”

“We both fucked up quite a bit, but that’s okay. We’ll do better.”

Rats looked up at Erick. “You did more than any of us. If it weren’t for you...” He looked to Teressa, who was humming some nonsense song as she played in the table spices. “If it weren’t for you, we’d have suffered grave losses tonight. I’m sorry I wasn’t… I wasn’t here.”

Erick held his hand out to Rats. “I tried to run away from my duty, too. But I’m here now, and so are you.” He smiled as Rats took his hand. “So up, up!” Erick pulled the man upright, 20 Strength making Rats as light as a feather. “We’re okay. And we’re going to do better. You and I are both going to do better.”

Rats nodded. A tear fell from his face, but he rubbed it away, and went back to making breakfast with a fresh set of eggs and another pot of water for more rice.

Erick went back to the table and sat with Teressa.

Teressa asked, “What’s running down his face?”

“Just some tears, Teressa. They’re an emotional response to… heightened emotions.”

Rats laughed, and this time it sounded real.

Erick made plans in his head until breakfast was ready, answering Teressa as needed, then he ate, making small talk with Teressa and Rats. Jane woke up just in time for Poi to walk in the front door. While those two talked over the remaining eggs and rice, Erick made more plans. He cleared a few things with Killzone, via Poi, and then it was time to start the day. The sun still hadn’t risen, but it was time to start the day, anyway.

The first thing he did was go into the garden, and by the light of a few [Special Ward]s, he used [Grow] to create some caffeinated, bitter-sweet coffee facsimiles, out of some tea-bush seeds. Ain’t nobody got time for coffee seed drying or roasting, and Erick wasn’t sure of that whole process, anyway. He wasn’t even sure if he could get caffeine out of [Grow]. This whole thing was a grand experiment, so tea transformed into not-coffee would be good enough.

As the bush grew, Erick plucked the fresh green shoots with his flight aura, then he took those leaves and muddled them inside a mortar and pestle he conjured out of the ground with [Stoneshape]. The crushed leaf mush went into a pot of hot water, and soon, Erick had a cup of not-coffee in his hands. A [Cleanse] indicated the concoction was not toxic —no thick air came up from it— so he drank some down.

He had made a bitter tea. It was not coffee. So he started again, this time roasting the leaves in a [Temperature Ward] first. The result this time tasted almost exactly like coffee. He had two cups. Jane had three. They savored the drink, sitting on the second floor porch, watching the sun come up over the city walls, half an hour after it had come up over the horizon.

As their 31st day of life on Veird dawned, Erick felt a familiar caffeine rush. He gave Jane a hug goodbye, then headed out to the farms.

Poi followed close behind. Teressa and Rats came too, but Rats was only in charge of keeping Teressa out of too much trouble. Erick smiled at them; it was kinda funny to watch a 5 foot 5 inch redscale dragonkin try to keep up with an 8 foot tall orcol, as that orcol went everywhere, investigating everything.

- - - -

A major part of the new farms were four massive silos and three large warehouses, each with enormous threshers. They were built just out of town, a few hundred feet from the walls. Roads had been carved throughout the whole farmland that led to these granaries. The geographical center of the farms might have been the temple, but this was where everything happened.

Erick strolled up to the granaries. After some directions from a farmer he didn’t know, Erick found Krakina and Apogough talking over some raw wheat.

“We can take the loss—”

“Sell to other people! Portal does not deserve our bounty!”

“We can’t do that, Krakina. We’re contracted—”

“They are breaking the contract first!”

“Eh-hem.”

Apogough and Krakina turned. They stared at him like they were trying to decide if he was a hallucination, or not.

Erick asked, “Is something wrong?”

Apogough said, “I can’t believe you’re here, after what happened.”

—At the same time Krakina threw her arms wide and rushed Erick in a hug, saying, “You are unhurt! We have heard! Spiders! Awful beasties. Clambering through our city like they have power over us.” She broke away. “I am so glad you are safe. And you even killed one! Marvelous.”

“Was anyone hurt?” Apogough asked.

“Yes.” Erick turned to see Teressa picking apart some wheat. “Decapitated. But recovering. I did not know you can do that.”

Apogough and Krakina looked past Erick.

“No. Not everyone.” Apogough said, “She looks okay, though. Standard inquisitiveness… Any physical problems?”

“Not that I’m aware. So. Are the mimics around here a problem today? I’ve got a new spell that I want to use to kill about a thousand of them. A show of force, as it were. One that is also useful.”

Apogough and Krakina frowned, silently thinking.

Poi said, “Silverite has agreed with Killzone’s judgment that a show of force is both necessary and desired. We are informing you of what will happen, and if you have any suggestions, we might listen, but this is not us requesting your permission.”

Erick frowned, but said, “What he said, but nicer. Sorry.”

Valok had walked into the warehouse somewhere in the middle of all that.

Valok said, “We can organize a retaliation instead of a harvest, today, if the powers that be decide we need to do that. Mimics got into the eastern fields last night. They managed to push half a mile in before the guards caught on.”

“The fields are too big to defend every night.” Apogough said, “We might have to give up the ground that we can, and deal with the damage in the morning. You don’t have to do this, Erick.”

“You’re wrong.” Erick said, “We’re going to kill every mimic for at least three miles in every direction. In one hour.” He turned to Krakina, “I got a flight spell, too.”

Valok and Apogough went silent.

Krakina put on a brave face, saying, “Let us see this new flight spell, and this new [Withering]!”

- - - -

In the desolate lands directly north of the farm, Krakina took to the air with the practiced ease of a WeatherWitch. She looked for all to see like she simply chose to switch from walking, to hovering, to sitting back in the air, her wings extended, gently keeping herself in whatever part of the sky she wanted. Poi took flight next. One second he was on the ground, the next he was in the air, precisely, exactly.

Erick activated [Flight of a Thousand Hands Aura]. He gripped the very air and hovered high, 10 yards up, 20, 30, higher still. Fifty yards into the sky, Erick kept pace with an advancing Krakina.

“Ha ha! You fly strange! But you fly well!” Krakina’s words carried to Erick’s ears on the desert winds. “Ha ha! I wish you would have created this flight thing before you created [Withering]. I wanted to take you out to see your [Call Lightning] fry some mimics! Whatever your new spell looks like, it cannot be as good as lightning!”

“It gets the job done.”

“So does walking everywhere! But flying is so much better! Ha ha!”

Erick ‘flew’ forward, hearing Krakina’s words but focusing on the land below.

Flying was amazing, now that he had a moment to appreciate the view, and the pure freedom of the skies.

The greens and browns and blue standing water of the farm extended all below Erick, like a splash of life on an otherwise dead land. But it wasn’t dead. From up here, Spur was a termite mound, studded with colorful people, in the center of a vast country of sand and blue-white crystal spikes. To the south was Ar’Kendrithyst, and they were probably watching him right now. Erick had spotted two [Scry] orbs, both of them white surrounded by black, and popped them both.

Erick turned to the lands north of the farm. He breathed. He prayed. He Shaped a [Withering], dropping a ten foot tall, three square mile blanket of death, that edged the farms and extended off into the distance. Erick paid attention to where it stopped; that would be the line to drop the next one.

This whole scenario was strangely similar to his first experiment of Shaping [Cleanse] into the bottom of the Sewerhouse’s settling pools.

Fourteen notifications popped. Erick, Poi, and Krakina watched the land sputter up thick air here and there. [Withering] leveled to 6. 6 minutes was way overkill; 1 minute inside a [Withering] was more than enough to kill a crystal mimic.

The breeze blew across the land, through the sky, and across Krakina, Poi, and Erick, but it did not move them; all of them had [Airshape] in their flight spells. Poi looked excited, like someone was laying out presents for him for Christmas. Krakina… Krakina looked much less enthusiastic.

“Did anything happen?” she asked.

“Yes. 14 mimics died. Look for the thick air, like you get from a [Cleanse].”

“… oh.”

Erick Shaped another [Withering], dropping the spell directly north of the previous one. More notifications popped as more thick air joined the breeze, but most of the spell’s effects were too far away to witness.

Erick said, “That’s about 6 square mi— 15 square kilometers, cleared of mimics.” He pointed left, to the west. “I’m moving that way and doing the same thing, as mana allows.”

Krakina turned to him. She had nothing to say, but her eyes glinted with fear. She nodded.

“[Withering] is keyed to only affect anything with a 10 mana rad or more, inside of them. It doesn’t work on people.”

Krakina faked a smile, and nodded. But she didn’t say anything. That’s how Erick knew it was a fake smile.

By the time Erick had cast [Withering] number 12, the last of the set, directly facing Ar’Kendrithyst, he had spent over 3600 mana on [Withering], 1800 on [Flight of a Thousand Hands Aura], and taken about an hour to do the whole thing. He had covered 90 square kilometers with [Withering]. 112 adult mimics, and nothing else, lay dead at his hand, each of the mimics counting for 95% Participation. Phagar, the God of Death and Time, seemed to approve.

Krakina did not. She wasn’t talking. She wasn’t laughing. She was scared.

Erick didn’t approve, either, but what he had done was necessary. Erick went to the temple in the middle of the garden, turned on [Exalted Storm Aura], and checked out his Status. His numbers had certainly gone up, but no matter how much he tried to [Cleanse] himself, he still felt dirty.

He put 5 points into Willpower, then closed the screen and waited for his mana to fill. It didn’t take long; not with 50 Focus and Scion of Focus. Erick renewed his [Personal Absorption Ward], this time for 730 damage.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 35, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 860893359/1493035200

Class: 6/6

Points: 3

HP

444/444

444

MP

750/750

6000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

25

+0

[25]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Withering 8, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP

Purge all water from all monsters in super large area, dealing <damage> every second. Cleanse the land around every monster killed in this way.

Particle Mage Only.

Exp: 2200/3400

Search: Swift Movement.

Swift Movement 1, 5 HP per second

Move faster.

Purchase Swift Movement for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

Erick did not buy a healing spell. Instead, he just used [Swift Movement] as much as his Meditation induced Rest state would allow; Resting also turned HP regen per day into per hour.

But he didn’t move much. All he did was stare out onto the green fields, watching the platinum rain…

This was enough stress right now.

- - - -

Valok said, “Hey, Erick.”

“Hello. What’s up?”

“You can have a day off. A few days, even.”

Erick sighed. “Is Krakina scared of me?”

“Yes.” Valok said, “But this is not about that. We want to try for a full day of rain. If we need to use next week’s timetable to do it, we will.”

“Okay.” He tried to joke, “But I expect some entertainment!”

“… We can see about getting some… Dancers? Books?”

Erick wanted to laugh that off, but he couldn’t. “Sorry, Valok. That was a joke. I can entertain myself. When do you want to do this?”

“In four days. We’ll expand the farms a bit and feed the cows and water the plants the old way. Then you come and we do a full day of rain.”

“So why did just you come to tell me this?”

“… Krakina is high strung and Apogough is keeping her company.”

“Was there something wrong with killing mimics? They’re a plague, aren’t they?”

“Yeah. They are.” Valok turned and walked away.

Great.

“Put it on the schedule, Poi! Four days, then I get to find some way to stay awake for 24 hours. Good thing I invented coffee-tea. 'Coftea'? Maybe..." Erick said, "If the monsters are watching then they’ll probably attack then.”

“Affirmative, sir.”

- - - -

Erick begged Al off of their night of drinking.

So, Al brought a keg and they got drunk together at Erick’s house. Al spent the night in the guest room.

It was a much better night than the one that came before.
