When wavering between the Farsee Court to the east and the Anima Court to the west, Galau ultimately set course for the latter. For an aspiring Array Master, he knew his soul was on the weaker side. He’d worked hard on plugging that gap since escaping the Centurion Lighthouse, but nurturing one’s soul was a slow and often thankless job. Galau figured that if any place could provide some shortcuts, it was the Anima Court.

To think that he couldn’t even pass the preliminaries, barring him from the right to challenge a Soultaker of Ultom and gaining access to the Anima Court. The test even left Galau’s soul damaged. Thank the stars he’d passed through the area on his way over and that he had heard of Grandma Pimsi’s farm. Otherwise, his problem would have been greater.

Nevertheless, healing his soul only brought him back to square one. The Anima Court’s pillar peeking through his window felt so distant at the moment. Was he kidding himself? He fled the Daedalian Court before he stepped into the inner region. Now, he found himself out of his depth in a foreign land.

It wasn’t just an issue of the greater challenges posed by the outermost memory domains of the trial. Galau had managed to take some shortcuts to maintain a pace that exceeded his strength, but he’d also taken a major detour. There were dozens of sealbearers who’d already reached the area. The worst of them had already entered that terrifying soul that housed the Anima Court, but there were still plenty of outsiders scouring the area for opportunities.

Was he better off backtracking to a safer latitude?

Galau slapped his cheeks and muttered to himself. “Get a grip. She’s off igniting halos while you’re sitting around moping.”

Sure, he was weak and surrounded by danger, but so what? His start in that damn lighthouse was much worse. Could he really give up on this land of opportunities just because of some profiteering outsiders? He still had his strong points, and the Inner Region was growing more impressive by the day.

There were ruins, relics, and enough memory lanterns to last a lifetime for those who’d made it this far. It was like the Left Imperial Expanse was in the process of shedding its false exterior, exposing its true appearance to the universe. There had to be some opportunities that suited his needs. Galau had already seen one trialtaker sneak into the Anima Court by borrowing the identity of a Soultaker of Ultom. Why couldn’t he do the same?

There had to be more than one memory lantern with a complete seal, and none of his current identities were irreplaceable. If his time in the lighthouse taught him anything, it was maintaining a healthy balance of patience and boldness. If one month in the Inner Region wasn’t enough to qualify him to step through the Anima Court’s Soulgate, then he’d train for two. Hell, what were a few years to a Hegemon?

This wasn’t the time to lose his composure. It was time to start plotting a course. For starters, those scientists holed up in the factory could surely use some assistance. Why else would a memory domain appear in this out-of-the-way corner?
