After harvest we had a small celebratory meal together with the rest of the hamlet. Simply making it through this year had been cause enough for us to party. Our harvest had been good, all things considered, and a few of the foods needed to be eaten anyway since they didn't store well. A number of older chickens were slaughtered. They added much needed meat to our diet, and made way for fresh stock.

Word arrived not long after harvest that the age of men required to serve in the army had been expanded, it would now include almost every adult man able to hold a spear. Some like Barro had been exempted, as their work was vital to keeping everything running. Those under the age of adulthood were not called, there seemed to be some kind of taboo there about those too young going to war. This was not altogether unexpected, but it was still a heartwrenching event for everyone.

That day my father took the boys aside to have a conversation with them. He had some instructions for them should anything go wrong, ones that he choose not to share with me. He did tell me that I was to trust them though, that they would take care of me.

I wept as both dad and Mystien left, sad to see those that I cared about so much going off to fight. Mystien was kind enough to leave me with a number of his books, and strong admonitions to keep studying.

What was unexpected was that three days after they'd left, a mass of soldiers moved into the village, gathering up everyone from it and all the hamlets to the village hall.

A man in elaborate armor walked before all of us, looking harshly out at the gathered crowd.

"Where are they?" he loudly questioned, nearly yelling.

"Every single one of the men from this town called to join the army disappeared, all of them. Do not expect me to believe that none of you knows anything about it either, that would be impossible. So tell me where they are, and do it now." Stunned silence greeted him.

"I will find them. Right now every home, every barn, every shed, field, and scrap of woods is being combed for those men. If you tell me where they are, only the leaders will need to be executed. The rest will be spared so long as they agree to serve their duty."

Nobody said anything. The silence stretched on for minutes as he looked out at us. It actually seemed that nobody knew.
