“If you hadn’t come along—we already lost Dassa. We’d given up hope anyone would come.”
Tally was red-eyed as she hugged Ryoka. Levil gently pried her off. He met Ryoka’s eyes.
“We owe you large for doing what you did. Not just for the potions—if you hadn’t blasted the frogs with sand, we might have lost either way. We’d like to pay you—”
“No, really, you don’t have to. I mean, you already paid me. And it was a lot. The Runner’s Guild gave me the reward for helping with your friend. I can’t ask for more.”
“Are you sure? We’ve got the bounty on the Wailer Frogs. Look, we could give you—”
Ryoka stopped Levil.
“Please, no. I did my job. I was happy to do it. I’m—I’ve got friends who’re adventurers. I know what it’s like.”
The Pithfire Hounds looked intrigued.
“Really? Anyone we know?”
“Uh, they’re a Silver-ranked team. The Horns of Hammerad. They work down in Celum mainly.”
Levil turned and looked at his companions. The others shrugged. Bram frowned, and so did Madain, who was clearly eavesdropping as he cleaned a table, but no one spoke up. Levil shrugged.
“Horns of Hammerad? Never heard of them I’m afraid. They’re Silver-rank, right? Ah, right. Well, we’re as common as rats I’m afraid. But we’ll spread your name to the other teams. It’s…reassuring to know there’s at least one Runner who’ll answer emergency calls.”
The look he gave her was questioning. Ryoka nodded.
“Anytime. Anywhere. I can’t promise I’ll be in the area, but if I get the request, I’ll answer it.”
Levil smiled.
“Thanks. Now, can we buy you a drink? We’d love to talk if you’re not busy…? And I’m dying to know how you cast that wind spell. I’m a [Pyromancer], by the way. That’s our party. Fire and dogs.”
Ryoka hesitated. But she knew there was the right thing to do and the anti-social thing. So she nodded and took a seat. And to her surprise, she enjoyed herself. The Pithfire Hounds were down-to-earth, good adventurers who didn’t truck about with dungeons, complex missions, or traps. They hunted down their prey, smoked it out, and killed it. It was a good job—unless you ran into a monster group you weren’t prepared for, like Wailer Frogs.
“We had no idea they were in the area. They were way further south of the marshes than they should have been. Damn things. If I’d known they were there, I would have flooded the caves with smoke. But we went back this morning and destroyed their nest. Still, this was not worth the job with Lamont out.”
Levil sighed. He seemed cheerful, for all his friend had multiple broken bones. Lamont was alive when all was said and done. The Pithfire Hounds were most torn up about their dog, Dassa, who’d been killed by one of the frogs.
“It’s so dangerous. Adventurers die too, but dogs—we try to keep them out of the fighting if it looks bad, but Dassa charged right in. Saved us from getting swarmed in the first few moments.”
Ryoka listened to the others talk. She shared a drink, two, and then the Pithfire Hounds decided they’d taken up enough of her time. They excused themselves, stopping again to shake her hand.
“If you need anything—call on us. We’ll be about Reizmelt, and not just to check on Lamont. We’re based around here. We’ll see you again, Miss Wind Runner?”
“Definitely.”
It was easy to smile as she met Levil’s hot handshake. The [Mage] had unusually warm hands, even when he wasn’t casting spells. He nodded at her, and the party followed him out. Ryoka sighed, looked over, and saw Madain staring at her. He raised a key in one big hand.
“I’m locking up for the day.”
To his credit, he hadn’t pushed the Pithfire Hounds to leave, and he’d refrained from adding more than a few comments about himself through their talk with Ryoka. But he was clearly ready to go hunting. Ryoka hesitated. Fierre had already left, being too nervous to stay and chat with the adventurers. But Ryoka was too tired to find her.
“Oh. Can I sleep inside? I’ll hop out a window if I need to.”
Madain hesitated. He eyed Ryoka and seemed on the verge of refusing. Then he grunted.
“Fine.”
He stomped over to the door. He paused with his hand on the doorframe as he yanked it open and looked back.
“Good work, by the way. Wailer Frogs suck.”
Then he shut the door. Ryoka heard him lock it. She grinned wearily, walked upstairs, and passed out.
 
——
 
In the afternoon, a Street Runner woke Ryoka up. He threw rocks at the Ryoka’s closed shutters and shouted at her until she opened them.
“If Madain catches you scratching his inn, he’ll cut you. And I’ll let him. What do you want?”
She growled down at the Street Runner. It was the same boy who’d gotten her for the Pithfire Hounds. He grinned up at her, completely unabashed. Ryoka realized she was wearing only her bra. She eyed the boy, but didn’t close the shutters.
“Spit it out or I’ll jump down there and poke you in the eyes. What’s your message?”
The Runner nodded. He cleared his throat.
“Miss Griffin? Mister Prall wants you to know your order’s ready. He wants you to pick it up today. And you’ve got a package waiting for you at the Runner’s Guild. They won’t let us handle it.”
He scowled, put out. Ryoka rubbed her face. Prall’s order? Oh, right! And something at the Runner’s Guild? A delivery for her. And by ‘us’, the boy meant Street Runners. Which meant the package had to be worth something. Ryoka’s heart began to beat faster. Was this…?
“Wait one second. I’ll be down in—”
Ryoka reached for a shirt. And pants. She came out the window a minute later, her clothing rumpled. The Street Runner looked up as the wind slammed the shutters closed. He whistled. Ryoka rubbed at her eyes. She could have used more sleep, but on the other hand, she’d sleep well tonight.
“Thanks. Uh—here.”
She fished in her belt pouch and handed the Street Runner a tip. A few copper coins. The Street Runner grinned.
“Thanks, Miss Wind Runner! Say, do you think I could get a Skill like yours?”
“Uh—well, it’s a rare Skill. And you need…a magical class to get it. I’ve got a rare variation of my class.”
“Aw, magic, huh?”
He looked disappointed. Then shrugged.
“See you later, Miss!”
With that, he took off. Street Runners were always delivering messages for coppers. Ryoka was glad she hadn’t had to start at that level. She sighed, tried to untangle a bit of knotted hair, and got to work.
Her first stop was Mister Prall. He was a [Blacksmith] of Reizmelt. One of them. Blacksmithing was a good job, especially in cities. Adventurers ran through edged weapons fast, and there was always work making pots, utensils, repairing stuff, and so on. So even a low-level [Blacksmith] could find steady work.
That made hiring one expensive. But when Ryoka had first come to Reizmelt, she’d had Teriarch’s money. And while she’d spent some of it on protective charms, alchemist gear, potions, and so on, the majority of it had gone to two projects. The less expensive one by far had been Prall, and even that had cost a fair bit.
The [Blacksmith] was waiting when Ryoka jogged up. He had three barrels full of her goods, and he looked tired. Ryoka didn’t blame him. One look in the barrel told her he and his four apprentices had been hard at work. It was filled to the brim with her order. Prall took care not to touch his goods as he accepted the other half of his payment from Ryoka, counting the gold pieces. He nodded.
“Thirty-six…thirty-seven. That’s it, alright. Thanks, Miss Griffin. I’d not charge so much for this much work, but I have to say it’s earned. I’m sick of working iron, and if I have to forge one more of these things—bah. It’s done, and as fast as you wanted. Do you want to count to make sure it’s all there?”
One look told Ryoka that he’d toss one of the sharp objects at her if she said yes. Ryoka shook her head.
“I’m fine. Thanks so much for doing this.”
Prall just shrugged.
“Ah, your coin’s good so don’t worry. I’m just tired. And figuring out the design was interesting. As for the forging…it’s the kind of work I’d leave to my apprentices, honestly. If you want more, I’ll have one of them do the rest. But this will do. How do you want to carry it off? You can have the barrels for what I’m charging you.”
“No need. I’ve got a bag of holding. Uh, but I might need to borrow a glove?”
Silently, Prall found one for her. He even helped shovel the sharp iron objects into the bag of holding as Ryoka held it open. He was more impressed by that than Ryoka’s gold.
“It must be a good bag of holding. Cheap ones don’t let you grab things at will. And really cheap ones you have to reach into. You sure it can hold all this?”
“Definitely. And—yup, I can grab what I need just fine.”
Ryoka pulled out some crumbly dirt. Prall eyed it.
“You have odd things in that bag of holding. Then again…I heard about the Pithfire Hounds. Nice work, Miss Runner. You planning on using these the same way?”
Ryoka blushed. Had everyone heard the story?
“Not in the same way. But they’ll definitely stop anyone from catching me.”
“No doubt about that.”
Prall nodded. He looked at the barrel and how much they had left to shovel into the bag of holding and turned and roared for his apprentices. He let the three of them fill the bag as he and Ryoka relaxed.
“There’ll be adventurers who might want to use that. Mind me selling them, or is this a secret? Because if it is—it’ll cost you.”
The [Blacksmith] was a practical man. He offered to keep the design secret for a fee. Ryoka mulled it over and shook her head.
“It’s easily copyable. And it’s not like I can pick up every one. In fact…damn, I’d better make sure I don’t leave these around, shouldn’t I?”
“Unless you want every traveller and Runner on the road to kill you, I would.”
Prall nodded. So did one of his apprentices, who’d stepped on one of the objects by mistake. Ryoka shook her head. Another invention to add to the list of things she’d brought to this world. But as far as deadly weapons of war went…this was dangerous, but not as bad as trebuchets. And she needed these. Any edge to keep her alive.
Secret weapons in place, Ryoka bade farewell to Prall. She then headed straight for the Runner’s Guild with a great deal more anticipation.
Heads turned when Ryoka entered the guild. A murmur sprang up. Ryoka slowed as she looked around. City Runners and Street Runners eyed her. It was a familiar scene. She’d experienced it in Celum and the Runner’s Guilds around there. But this time it didn’t feel…as bad.
“Wind Runner! Good job with the adventurers!”
A Runner called out. Ryoka had no idea what her name was, but she waved back.
“Thanks! I just got lucky, though!”
Some of the other Runners came up to say hi. For the first time, Ryoka introduced herself and caught a few names. Mintal, Caawl, Oberfex—she smiled and said hi. It was something she’d never done before. And that was enough.
“Miss Ryoka? We’ve got a package for you. Given that you work here, I thought you’d be back soon enough to let it wait.”
The [Receptionist] at the desk smiled at Ryoka. The Runner smiled back. She hesitated.
“Um…it’s…Alime, right?”
“That’s right.”
Alime smiled at Ryoka. She handed the Asian girl a small box. It was neatly sealed and smelled of sandalwood. There was no need for a covering; it had been sealed without a lock until Ryoka touched it. Then it sprang open. A Runner sighed enviously, and Ryoka stared into the box. She blinked. Her mind went white for a second, and then she slowly reached down and lifted something out.
The Runners and [Receptionist] who were sneaking peeks at Ryoka didn’t see what she picked up. Whatever it was, it was small enough to hide in her hand and be transferred to the bag of holding. But they had no doubt that it was a magical good. The box alone said that plain and clear. A Runner’s trinket of some kind. Ryoka said nothing. She blinked a few times and then saw something else in the box. A hand-written note. The writing was neat and plain.
 
To Miss Ryoka Griffin. Your product, as ordered. The challenge was mostly in keeping to the design, but I enjoyed the commission nonetheless. Please refrain from sending a return message unless you have more business for me.
-Hedault, [Enchanter]. Invrisil.
 
Ryoka read the message twice, then put the note in the box. Both were useless now, but she tossed them in the bag of holding to find a place to dispose of them later. She’d probably burn the note. Just to be safe. The [Receptionist] smiled at her.
“Anything else?”
The young woman looked up. She felt her hand tingling. Felt a jolt of adrenaline, almost like pain, run through her stomach. Her exhaustion was gone. Outside, the wind had gone still. She reached into her bag of holding with one hand and found the object. She gripped it and nodded.
“Yeah. I’d like to request something. I’m a City Runner. But I’d like to be included in Courier listings.”
The [Receptionist] blinked. The other Runners who’d heard turned around.
Courier listings. That meant that Ryoka would be included on a list of anyone willing to take Courier-level requests. She could be asked to deliver something by name, even if she wasn’t allowed to take Courier-only deliveries. The [Receptionist] wavered.
“That’s…I’ll amend the list and inform the other Runner’s Guilds. A change will be put out at the end of the day. Is that what you would like, Miss Ryoka?”
Are you sure? But she didn’t ask that. Ryoka nodded.
“I would. Thank you. And I’ll take whatever delivery you have right now. Farthest—or hardest.”
She was vibrating. Her right hand was clenched so tightly that Hedault’s creation was digging into her palm, threatening to draw blood. The Runners were watching her. The [Receptionist] looked through her notes. She paused.
“We do have something. All the way to Baepr. But it’s quite, quite—”
“I’ll do it.”
“Are you sure? This one has a counter-bounty on it. The Silversmithers do not want this delivery to reach the Mage’s Guild, and they’ve put a bounty on it. There may be [Bandits] as well as other groups—”
“I’ll do it. Please, give me the package.”
The [Receptionist] was about to protest, but she met Ryoka’s eyes. Slowly, she led Ryoka to the warded back room to collect the delivery that had arrived in Reizmelt by guarded caravan and nearly failed to get this far. Ryoka inhaled as she saw a bar of gold, not as perfect as the gold that lay in the gold reserves of other countries, but gold nevertheless.
