“Okay. So you’re all good people. Then why not come out? Why hide?”
“Byres. Silver swords. It’s not worth the risk. We keep to ourselves, stay safe—it’s better this way. That’s what Dad says, and everyone agrees. But sometimes people find out and we have to scare them quiet. Or make sure they don’t talk. Like you.”
Fierre leaned over, scooting her chair towards Ryoka. She leaned on the girl’s shoulder. As if the wine was suddenly having an effect.
“Normally, mother makes them forget. That’s why I brought you here. But rarely—it’s never happened with my family—we meet someone who can know about us. Then we teach them a sign so they can find more vampires. We call them Flesh Friends.”
“Really?”
“No. I made that up.”
Fierre laughed, and Ryoka did too. The vampire girl leaned against Ryoka. She was cold, but soft. She smiled up at Ryoka, and for some reason, Ryoka’s heart skipped a beat.
“We’d be good friends, don’t you think? I’ve always wanted to talk to someone who wasn’t a vampire and knew who I was. I wanted to talk to you, but you were always busy.”
“Really? About what?”
Was it getting warmer? Fierre grinned.
“I wanted to know about the bare feet.”
“Oh. I just like running barefoot. Uh—”
It was warmer. Ryoka was flushing a bit. She shifted, to get a bit of room. Fierre just scooted over, hogging Ryoka’s chair.
“If mother and father agree, you’ll get to leave here knowing our secret. Then I could talk to you about all my secrets. You’d be the only person who knows who I am. Wouldn’t that be nice? We could be…friends.”
The look Fierre gave Ryoka implied a much more physical type of friendship. Ryoka blinked rapidly. What was going on? She was certain—fairly certain—that she wasn’t attracted to Fierre. Or she hadn’t been. Until right now. Now, she was definitely and severely interested in Fierre’s pale lips, her body. Fierre rested a hand on Ryoka’s arm.
Her touch was cool and electric. It sent a shock running straight down Ryoka’s spine as Fierre gently touched her arm. Ryoka felt her heart beating way too fast. She tried to pull away, and her mind finally put two and two together.
“You’re—charming me. Stop it.”
Fierre laughed.
“Didn’t you say to give it my best shot? Well, I am. Are you…interested?”
Ryoka was, very. Fierre tilted her head and gave Ryoka a pointed smile. For some reason, that was the most appealing thing in the world. Ryoka swayed. Her head dipped. What was she doing? She wasn’t attracted to Fierre! Or girls! Okay, it was a spectrum of liking someone, but—
“Would you like to be friends? I’m terribly interested. And don’t worry. I won’t bite.”
That last line nearly pulled Ryoka out of it. But the look Fierre gave her dragged Ryoka right back in. And closer to Fierre’s lips.
Don’t do it. Her mind was telling her not to take that kiss, and for more reasons than just that Fierre was trying to make her do it. Ryoka tried to resist, but Fierre’s seduction was a lot harder to fight than her mother’s command. She tried to will herself to stop, but Fierre’s face was on a collision course with hers.
Pull away. What would Erin do? What would Erin do? What would—
“You and I could find a space together. Or close the door—”
The vampire girl was smiling wickedly and running a hand up Ryoka’s arms. She leaned forwards, and her face froze up. She inhaled—
And then she sneezed on Ryoka. That broke the spell quite effectively. Fierre wiped her nose, coughing as Ryoka jerked backwards in her seat. Ryoka felt all her attraction towards Fierre vanish—she wiped her arm, and Fierre scowled.
“Damn it. Stupid cold.”
Ryoka was panting. She stared at Fierre as the vampire girl fished around for something. She came up with a potion and drank a mouthful. Her coughing subsided. She looked up and met Ryoka’s eyes. The two stared at each other. Fierre grinned.
“Well? I don’t know about you, but I’d say that worked.”
The Runner opened and closed her mouth a few times. She blinked at Fierre, who was giving her a challenging, half-mocking grin. Daring her to say anything. Ryoka looked at Fierre, gulped, and then slowly spoke.
“I think we are going to be best friends. Or I’m going to have to kill you.”
And the vampire girl laughed.
 
——
 
Ryoka had been awoken in the Drakle household closer to midnight than not. And it was into early morning when they exited the kitchen, laughing, a bit drunk on wine, but mostly good spirits. Fierre stopped Ryoka in the hallways and grew a bit more sober for a second.
“I was supposed to tell you about vampires. But you knew almost everything. Even more stories than Bamer. Are there really tales about…Dracula and vampires where you come from?”
“More than you could know.”
Fierre looked at Ryoka. Without telling her where she was from, Ryoka had told her about Earth’s legends. Most of which, it turned out, were fairly accurate—you could get a seducing vampire who preyed on virgins and offed anyone trying to get rid of him—he was called an asshole and a criminal.
Fierre had enjoyed the stories, and Ryoka had confirmed it. She liked Fierre. Vampire Fierre was forthright, honest—and if she didn’t like what Ryoka said, she’d poke Ryoka in the stomach. She was quite, quite strong. And Fierre seemed to like her too, as odd as that was. Now, the vampire girl looked…thoughtful.
“You really just wanted to know if I was a vampire? To talk to me?”
“Yeah. I mean, it wasn’t the greatest plan, but I was sleep-deprived and a bit stupid. And we were in the sunlight. If you really freaked out, I probably would have bought a wagonload of garlic and some silver, but…I just wanted to know. To be friends.”
Ryoka shrugged. Fierre looked at her, mouth slightly open, showing her fangs. It was how she smiled when she was happy.
“I’d like that. Okay. I’ll see what I can do. I need to talk to my mother. She won’t want you to leave, but if I can convince her you’re trustworthy—”
“We can be Flesh Friends?”
Fierre snorted and then tried to cover it. She turned.
“I’ll be back. You can go wherever you want. Just don’t go into the bull’s pasture. Or leave the plateau. Or wake up Bamer. He’s sleeping.”
She turned and vanished down the dark hallway. Ryoka, who’d grown used to the dim lighting by now, yawned and looked around. She was feeling tired, despite having had an arguably long nap thanks to Fierre. Melatonin and all that. She thought about waiting in the kitchen, but Ryoka didn’t handle sitting and waiting well. So she wandered the keep instead—for about a minute.
“Cold feet, cold feet.”
The inside was too chilly for Ryoka, so she hurried outside into the grass. The sheep were all asleep by this point, even Fluffles. Ryoka walked quietly around them, staring at the wooly forms, and then noticed a few animals were up. The cows. A dark figure was tending to one of them. Ryoka wouldn’t have noticed, but the metal on the bucket Himilt was milking the cow into shone in the moonlight. She wandered over.
“Um. Hello.”
Himilt looked up, and the cow turned one big head and gave Ryoka a watery look. Both cow and vampire seemed quite calm in the moonlight. Himilt nodded.
“Hello. Fierre’s told you all about us?”
Ryoka leaned on the fence, watching as milk squirted into the bucket.
“Mostly she just told me what you weren’t. I knew a lot of legends about vampires—uh, from my home. But there are quite a few differences, apparently.”
“Mm. Such as?”
The vampire’s voice was calm. He looked like a farmer right out of Ryoka’s imagination—except for the pale skin, red eyes, and neck. It was bulbous, and Ryoka eyed it with a growing certainty about why that might be. But she made no comment.
“Uh, I thought vampires were technically undead. And that you couldn’t get sick. Or eat food, really.”
“Well, you’re partially right. Food doesn’t do much for us. A vampire can eat all day, and the food mostly goes in and out. Blood’s what we need to live. As for sickness and being undead—we’re not the vampires our ancestors were.”
“Really?”
Himilt’s hands were rhythmic. The cow seemed to be enjoying the milking. Ryoka noticed more getting up. She understood, in a way. If Himilt wanted to do his work out of the sun, the cows had to change when they woke up and went to sleep. He replied calmly, turning his head.
“Not at all. We don’t drink the blood of people. Some of us were famous necromancers. Stronger vampires who burned up in sunlight like kindling. They were probably closer to your stories. But the Drakle line has been born vampires. We give birth. Rarely do people marry into the family.”
“Like your wife.”
The hands paused for a second.
“Yes. Colfa was an exception. But mostly, we marry between ourselves.”
“Um…how many of you are there?”
Ryoka wondered if inbreeding was an issue. Himilt just shrugged in reply.
“I couldn’t say. Hundreds? Not thousands. There are clans of us scattered about. We know each other. Not that the Byres or any adventurers of today would find us—most of the time. I trust you understand why we keep to ourselves?”
“I do. And you have my word I won’t tell anyone, Mister Himilt.”
“That’s good to know. Colfa was worried after her gaze and voice failed on you.”
“Does she work on the farm with you?”
It seemed at odds with Colfa’s grand act, but Himilt nodded.
“Normally, she doesn’t wear that dress. She’d be out here, but she’s talking to Fierre. I believe they’re deliberating what your fate—I’m sorry, thine fate, should be. She’ll agree to let you go, I'm sure.”
“What would you have done if you decided you couldn’t trust me? Hypothetically speaking.”
Ryoka had to know. Himilt looked up, still milking the cows.
“We’d probably have to find a way to keep you silent. Since Colfa couldn’t use her gaze, we’d turn to magic—or spread the word and try and find someone with a stronger gaze.”
“You wouldn’t kill me?”
“We’re not monsters.”
The word was a quiet rebuke. Ryoka flushed. Himilt shook his head.
“My wife has never killed an innocent soul. [Bandits]? Yes. Monsters? Of course. And wolves, bears…but she has a soft spot. I’m lucky to have met her, you know.”
“Uh huh.”
Ryoka felt embarrassed as she always did when someone older than her talked about love. Himilt looked up at her, and his voice was calm.
“Miss Griffin, I’m not sure where you’re from to hear so many legends about vampires. But I won’t ask. Secrets should be respected, and I trust you to keep ours. But I have one warning. It’s not made in malice, understand, but I have to say it. Reveal my daughter’s secret or put her in harm’s way and I will find and kill you.”
The words travelled a little ways in the grassy pasture and faded. The wind carried them away, so only the Runner girl heard. She stared at Himilt. The vampire didn’t reappear behind Ryoka in the blink of an eye, or intimidate her with some superhuman feat of strength like lifting the entire cow over his head. In fact, all the while he never stopped milking the cow in front of him.
But he met her eyes. And that was enough. For a brief moment, Himilt looked up and something else looked at Ryoka. Not a farmer. Not a Human. It was ancient and terrified the mortal part of Ryoka. It stared at Ryoka as it knelt, milking the cow. And then it was gone, and Himilt was back. He looked back to his task as if nothing had happened. Ryoka shivered. Himilt had more of the true Vampire in one glance than all of his wife’s pretenses and airs.
“I promise.”
“And I don’t doubt your word. Good folk shouldn’t, so I apologize again for saying it.”
Himilt stood up. The bucket was full, and the cow seemed happy. It wandered off. The vampire nodded.
“They should be done talking by now. If not, let’s surprise them. Miss Griffin?”
She expected him to lead the way to the gates. But instead, Himilt jumped. It was a graceful movement. He leapt up and landed on the other side of the fence, bucket in hand. And somehow, though the milk sloshed slightly, not a drop of it fell to the ground. Himilt gave Ryoka a slow, pleased smile. And she grinned at him with awestruck delight.
The two walked back towards the keep. They didn’t say much. But Himilt did pause a little bit in front of the faded stone. He pointed up at it.
“This is our home. Not our first home. The Drakle family moved about for thousands of years. We’ve changed names. Lived in the open or the past. Now there are only a few of us left. Ryoka Griffin, look upon it.”
He turned, setting the bucket down. And again, the farmer changed. A tall figure stood with his back to the keep. Ancient, worn stone grew taller. A pair of red eyes looked down at Ryoka. The wind stilled, and Ryoka looked up at Himilt. A vampire with old eyes stood proudly, chest raised, poised.
He held his hand out and swept it slowly across the ruined, overgrown estate. And she heard his voice, saw his feelings in every line of his body.
Look. Here, amid the ruins. Here I am. Here we are. See what we are. What we were.
The shadows seemed darker around him. Grander. But Himilt cast no shadow. He looked down at Ryoka. He was a farmer. And happy with it, or so it seemed. But he was also a vampire. And though he had changed to live, he had not forgotten. In his way, he was more of his ancestors than Colfa could ever be.
Grand, humbled. A past glory reduced to this. No—wait. That wasn’t the point. Ryoka looked past Himilt. He didn’t seem merely sad. His outstretched arm took in his fields. The placid animals. The past had changed, become something new. And it was his.
There was nothing to say. But Ryoka knew something of immortals. So she bowed. Slightly, a courtly bow. And the vampire smiled. He turned away and picked up his bucket. By the time Ryoka straightened, he was Himilt the farmer again.
That was how the two found Colfa and her daughter. Himilt and Ryoka were smiling and talking about cows. Apparently vampirism affected animals very differently. Made them dangerous. But magical cows were nice.
“Ahem. Mine husband. Hast thou entertained our mortal guest?”
Colfa looked severely at Himilt. He looked up.
“I have, my dear.”
Suspiciously, as if she suspected Himilt of rolling in the mud just to make her look bad, Colfa eyed Ryoka and her husband. But Ryoka only nodded politely.
“Your husband showed me the grandeur of your estates, Lady Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle. I am honored to be your guest and humbly beg your forgiveness for my temerity earlier.”
She gave Colfa a very proper bow. Himilt and Fierre both rolled their eyes a bit, but Colfa looked delighted. She straightened and smoothed the dress.
