She looked up at Ryoka with an upturned nose. Ryoka reflexively elbowed her. Fierre just laughed. Ryoka shot her a sideways look.
“I bet it also makes it hard to hang around people like Madain, doesn’t it? Given that you could probably twist his arms off.”
The vampire girl tried to look innocent.
“Who, me? I’d never try. I’ve thought of it, but—I’m not sure I could, honestly. He was a good adventurer, and I’m not that strong. I can lift a sheep, but tearing heads off or punching holes in the wall isn’t easy.”
“Yeah, but he can’t do that.”
“I’ve seen him punch straight through the wall of his inn.”
“Oh. Crap. Remind me not to make him angry. So you, what, hide among Humans to earn a living?”
“Pretty much. I’m good at it too, aren’t I?”
“Er…”
Fierre glanced up at Ryoka.
“I keep my teeth hidden, I stay out of the sunlight, and I don’t ever show anyone that my shadow’s missing.”
“Yeah, but it’s still sort of obvious if you know what to look for.”
“Really?”
Fierre looked put out. She glanced sideways at Ryoka.
“No one’s ever found out I’m a vampire, though. And I’ve had to survive a few sticky situations. Corrupt Runners trying to do me in, monster attacks—I was even mugged by a gang of [Thieves] once.”
“How did they taste?”
The two started giggling. Fierre put one hand on Ryoka’s shoulder to steady herself.
“I don’t drink Human blood! Really, I don’t!”
“Why not? Are you afraid of making more vampires?”
She shook her head.
“We can control that. It’s not like sucking blood makes new vampires. If it did, we’d have vampire sheep instead of live ones. No, it’s way too risky. Bite marks look distinctive, and if you get spotted—my family’s sworn never to drink blood from people. Ever.”
Ryoka frowned. She kept one eye on the grass, watching out for sheep poo as she walked around with Fierre.
“Then how do you survive?”
“Animals. Obviously.”
Fierre pointed to the next pasture. Cows were resting at night. But again, some were up and awake. Apparently having nocturnal owners meant the animals became semi-nocturnal themselves. Ryoka eyed them.
“You suck their blood?”
“That’s right. Or we harvest it so we can move around. I get blood in bottles each week from the farm. It’s cow’s blood mainly. Sheep too. Pigs, goats…we get a lot of blood from pigs during the slaughter, but cows are bigger so we can bleed a bit more from them.”
“Bleed?”
Ryoka had an image of bleeding animals in a slaughterhouse and shuddered. But again, Fierre shook her head.
“Don’t worry, it doesn’t hurt them. And they’re used to it. We only take a little bit each week, and we have lots of animals to keep up the blood supply.”
“Huh. So wait. You said vampire sheep. Does that mean—”
A loud baaah interrupted Ryoka. She jumped and saw a familiar white shape heading straight for her. The sheep that had so rudely interrupted Colfa appeared, baahing and staring up at Ryoka and Fierre. It approached the vampire girl. Fierre bent and rubbed its head.
“Hello there, Fluffles. You’ve been a bad sheep, haven’t you?”
Ryoka stared.
“Fluffles?”
Fierre looked up and grinned wickedly.
“That’s right. Fluffles the Sixth. He’s mother’s favorite. You can pet him if you want. I was about ready to die laughing when he came in and ruined mother’s performance.”
“That was something alright. I was about to wet myself before he started baahing. So your mother and your father are [Herders]?”
“That’s right. Except without the class.”
“Oh. Then what’s their class?”
Ryoka looked up, curious. Fierre made a face.
“None. Vampires don’t earn classes. We can’t level up. Mother lost her classes when she became a vampire. Old Bamer thinks it’s a way of keeping balance. Imagine if a high-level [Warrior] were a vampire.”
“That makes sense. Hey—guess what? I don’t have a class either.”
Fierre’s eyes widened.
“You don’t? Are you crazy? How are you doing that wind thing, then?”
Ryoka felt a bit insulted. She straightened, and Fluffles the Sixth went off to find more hands to scratch his head.
“Hey, you said you don’t have a class.”
“Yes, but I’m a vampire. You’re Human. I’ve met people who don’t want classes. They’re odd, odd sorts. I should have known you were one of them.”
The vampire looked challengingly at Ryoka. The Asian girl opened her mouth and sighed.
“Okay, you’ve got me there.”
The two laughed again.
“So why don’t you have a class?”
“I…just don’t trust classes that much. I don’t like the idea of being defined by my Skills or what leveling does to you.”
Fierre nodded.
“That’s fair. It does change you. I’ve seen it happen. Myself, though, I wish I could level up. Skills are wonderful, aren’t they?”
“They are nice. I could use a [Runner]’s Skills, but…is that why you’re an opener? Because you don’t have Skills?”
A low sigh escaped Fierre’s lips.
“Partly. It is hard to earn a lot of money if you don’t have levels. Opening’s a good job because I can fake having Skills that protect me against poison or a lot of traps. Not that I try to get hit by spells, by the way. But it’s saved me twice when there’s been contact poison on the envelope. Vampires are really hard to poison. But I work other jobs as well.”
“I noticed. How many jobs do you have?”
The girl began ticking them off on her fingers. Ryoka looked around and spotted Himilt walking towards the barn, hole in the keep apparently fixed. He was quite quick—so was Fierre. Even walking, they moved faster than normal, as if permanently sped up.
“Let’s see. I work as an opener for Runners. I buy and sell information—but I’m not that well-connected. I help Miss Kelysta out in her shop, mainly by grinding poisonous herbs and so on. I’m a part-time laborer, I do grave digging if the [Gravedigger]’s back is shot. Sometimes I help with building, I’ve earned money as a butcher, and I’ve got experience as a barmaid…”
“Sure you don’t want to add being a Runner to that? You could probably make a good living. At least as a City Runner.”
Fierre hesitated.
“I’d do that, but then I’d have to run at night. Sunlight’s bad for me. Plus…it’s not good to attract that much attention, you know?”
“Right. Can’t let anyone find out. Uh—why’s that so bad? Because people will hunt you down?”
The girl scowled darkly.
“Not most people. Most people don’t even remember us. But a few groups do. Ever heard of the Byres family? They’re famous vampire slayers. So are the Veltras and Terland families. If word got out there were vampires, we’d be hunted down and adventurers would be collecting bounties on our heads.”
“Not exactly ideal.”
Ryoka agreed mildly. She opened her mouth to ask another question and heard a rumble. So did Fierre. Both girls looked at Ryoka’s stomach.
“Sorry. I haven’t eaten much. Since someone decided to knock me out.”
At least Fierre had the decency to blush.
“Sorry. Why don’t you come inside? We’ve got food.”
“I don’t eat blood.”
This time, Fierre elbowed Ryoka, and the taller girl doubled over and clutched at her side.
“We’ve got real food too. Come on.”
This time, they circled the keep and went in through the kitchen. There were a lot of doors and not a lot of locks. Or any, rather. Not even a deadbolt. Fierre looked around the slightly dusty and unused kitchen and began rummaging around on the shelves.
“We’ve probably got cheese, bread…no fresh meat, sorry. Mother doesn’t keep much in the larder except to entertain guests.”
“I can’t imagine why.”
Ryoka heard a laugh. Fierre frowned into a cupboard and then turned and shouted.
“Mother? Where’s the food?”
“Look in the upper pantry, daughter of mine!”
A loud voice echoed back down the hallway. Fierre looked and pulled out a hairy piece of cheese. Ryoka took one look at it and shook her head. Fierre scowled.
“It’s got mold on it! I can’t give her that! Remember what happened last time?”
“Go into the storeroom!”
“Sorry. Wait one second.”
Grumbling, Fierre went into the keep. She came back moments later holding a slice of cheese and a bottle. She handed both to Ryoka.
“Here. Some wine. And cheese. Don’t worry—it’s fresh.”
Ryoka blinked at the fare, but she accepted both. One sniff confirmed that the food was indeed good, and she set to with vigor. Two bites in and Ryoka’s tongue caught up. Her eyes widened.
“This is some good cheese!”
“Isn’t it? We make it here.”
Fierre grinned proudly.
“We raise cows, like I said. Not just for blood. My family sells milk, makes cheese—we earn a lot of money off of our pigs too. Eggs, wool—it’s good money.”
“I’d pay for this cheese. You want some?”
Ryoka offered it to Fierre, but the vampire girl waved away the cheese before pouring herself a cup of wine. Ryoka had forgotten the vampire part and asked about it. Fierre just shrugged.
“I can eat food. I just don’t need to if I have blood. And with food, it has to come back out.”
“Thanks for sharing.”
“You’re the one who does it all the time. Not me.”
Fierre smiled.
“I am a vampire. I don’t need to sleep as much—although I get tired during the day, I don’t need to eat anything if I have blood, and I heal up really fast.”
She coughed into her hand. Ryoka eyed her.
“But you do get sick.”
“Well, yes.”
“But aren’t you…dead? Or, er, undead?”
“No.”
The girl sat up instantly, looking cross. She shook her head vigorously.
“We’re not undead. That’s a myth. If we were undead, why would we need to drink blood?”
“Um…”
That was a good point. But all the stories Ryoka had ever heard had pointed out vampires as being distinctly dead. She stopped chewing for a second and eyed Fierre.
“Do you mind if I check your pulse?”
“No. Go ahead.”
Fierre let Ryoka touch her neck. To Ryoka’s surprise, she had a pulse, albeit very slow. Her skin was cold to the touch, but, Ryoka had to admit, it was just cold. Not exactly the chilling touch of death.
“See? We’re not undead.”
“Nope. You’re more like a lizard. Ow!”
Fierre prodded Ryoka under the table with one finger. The Runner girl yelped. Fierre smiled.
“We’re alive. I wouldn’t have this stupid cold if I wasn’t. But like I said, we heal quickly. Although we do get sick quite often…Bamer thinks that’s a curse.”
She rolled her eyes. Ryoka didn’t. She was thinking of the rash she’d seen on Colfa’s arm. But she didn’t bring that up.
“So you’re an immortal vampire—”
“That’s just what mother says. We die.”
“Fine, a powerful vampire—”
Fierre grinned.
“—who works multiple jobs to do…what? Save up for high-quality cow’s blood?”
The grin on Fierre’s face faded.
“No. I’m just supporting the family. I send most of the money I earn back here. It’s not that we don’t earn a lot from our business, but every bit counts, you know?”
Towards what? But Ryoka had sensed Fierre didn’t want to say just yet, so she nodded.
“So you stay at Mad Madain’s because…”
“It’s cheap. And he serves his meat bloody. It’s convenient for me, and he doesn’t ask questions.”
“Fair enough. So you’re just an everyday, hardworking vampire girl helping make ends meet. What about your mother?”
“She’s…different.”
Fierre fiddled with her empty cup. She noticed Ryoka’s stare and flushed.
“Okay, she’s very different. She likes being a vampire, alright? She was Human—before father turned her.”
“You mean…”
“She married into the family. She’s a Lischelle. Hence the name. We’re just the Drakles, but mother insists on calling ourselves Lischelle-Drakles because she thinks it sounds better.”
“And no one gets suspicious at the last name ‘Drakle’?”
“They just think it means Drake.”
“…Fair. Okay, so your mother just met your father and they…fell in love?”
“That’s right. He only revealed he was a vampire when they were in love. And she begged to be one. For years, apparently.”
“Huh.”
For some reason, that was the least surprising bit to Ryoka. If vampires ever came to Earth, her Earth, they’d have no shortage of followers. And it also explained why Colfa acted like she did.
“So the Lischelles know your family are vampires? That’s a lot of trust.”
Again, Fierre shook her head.
“Oh, no. None of them are vampires except for mother, and they don’t know she’s one. She keeps it secret. And we’re lucky in that sense. Mother’s name really helps our business.”
“Really?”
“Yes, definitely. The Lischelles are famous [Shepherds], [Beast Tamers], [Herders]…they’re practically royalty among the farming communities. Dad always said he got lucky marrying Mom. She agrees.”
Fierre rolled her eyes. Ryoka sat back.
“So you don’t enslave people with hypnosis, prey on the innocent, or create more vampire thralls to control the living. But you do have the power to do something, don’t you? Your mother tried it on me.”
This time, Fierre paused and looked away.
“That was—domination. Yeah, we can do that. It works best on animals, but mother’s gifted, apparently. She can control people. Even make them forget things. It didn’t work on you, though. Why is that?”
“Maybe because I had a charm?”
Ryoka showed Fierre one of her Runner charms. The vampire gave them a dismissive look.
“Charms don’t work on the vampire gaze. It’s not an enchantment, so the charms can’t block them. Try again.”
“I’m just stubborn, then. I’ve had people try and charm me before. It never works.”
“Really?”
Fierre gave Ryoka an appraising look. The Runner sat back.
“Give me your best shot.”
The vampire studied Ryoka and then shook her head lightly.
“No thanks. I don’t practice my gaze. It’s risky if you get found out, or if you meet someone who can resist. I want to live a healthy, long life, thanks.”
“Until you’re, what, eight hundred?”
“Forty would be nice.”
Ryoka laughed. But Fierre didn’t. She smiled and reached for the wine bottle.
“There’s a bit about vampires you don’t know, Ryoka. A lot of it’s sort of true. Bamer says we used to prey on people and control a lot of Izril—until we were nearly wiped out, that is. We don’t do any of that anymore. And we’re not immortal. Some of us can live into our sixties, or even eighties…but never longer.”
“What?”
It sounded like a joke. But the convivial expression, helped by the wine, had left Fierre’s face. She looked into her cup, and then drank it down.
“Nothing. It’s nothing. We just have shorter lifespans, that’s all.”
She grinned at Ryoka, showing her fangs. The Human girl hesitated.
