“It has to get to the Mage’s Guild. Don’t even bother stopping at the Runner’s Guild. [Thieves] may try and take it. And there’s a bounty—a hundred gold to anyone who stops the delivery. And the gold bar. Are you certain?”
“Positive.”
Ryoka lifted the gold bar. Or rather, she managed to lever it up enough to slide it into the bag of holding. The [Receptionist] nodded.
“Go. Take the back door out. I’ll stop all the Runners from leaving for ten minutes.”
Just in case one of them leaked information that Ryoka had the delivery. The girl nodded.
“Thank you.”
She walked out of the guild. The City Runners watched her go. One of them raised a hand.
“Good luck.”
“Thanks.”
She was very still in the street for a moment. Then she slowly breathed in and out. The [Receptionist] and the other Runners watched her.
At this moment, Ryoka could outrun anything or anyone in the world. She looked down again at the thing Hedault had wrought, and the air was still around her. Ryoka began running, a jog at first. And then faster. Faster.
She ran. Out of the city, through the gates, down the road. And her mind was calm. Blank. Ryoka ran. It didn’t matter how far. Baepr was hours away. The sun was beginning to set in the sky. But Ryoka ran. Faster and faster. And her hand was closed on the cold thing in her hand.
 
——
 
The [Bandits] found her on the road, two hours to Baepr. They must have scrambled to get into position because they burst out of hiding from a distant hill. Men and women with bows and three horsemen. A [Mage] too.
There weren’t many people on the road where they set their ambush. At the sight of the [Bandits], the people immediately took cover. A caravan guard spread out to block the wagon. But the [Bandits] were aimed only at Ryoka. She looked at them and slowed.
Strange. The lead rider wavered as he saw Ryoka Griffin stop. She was the Wind Runner, wasn’t she? But the wind was unnaturally still right now. And she’d stopped. He was aiming for her with a lance. But she didn’t even look at him or the horse he was riding. She was staring down at something in her hand.
Ryoka looked down at the thing she’d commissioned from Hedault. It shone as she held it up to the light. Cold. Beautiful. Blue. She looked at it, and her heart beat painfully in her chest.
Shimmering ice. Ever frozen, magical ice carved into a shape. A flying little faerie, a statue. Carved and enchanted. Caught forever mid-smile, mid-laugh. It froze Ryoka’s skin. It burned and chilled to the touch.
The wind rose. Ryoka looked at Ivolethe, at the figurine, and then she looked at the [Bandit Leader]. He saw her smile.
The wind blew. Dust rose from the bag of holding at Ryoka’s side. The [Bandit] cursed and rode at her. A gale whipped up, throwing dust in his eyes. His horse reared and turned. He cursed again. And Ryoka Griffin ran.
“Shoot her!”
The [Archers] were racing forwards. They took aim and loosed with their short bows. But the wind caught the arrows and sent them flying astray. The [Mage] raised a hand and pointed.
“[Sleep].”
Nothing happened. A charm at Ryoka’s side flashed brightly. The [Mage] cursed and pointed.
“[Stone Dar—]”
He hacked and coughed as the dust storm blasted him. The [Bandits] shielded their faces, swearing. The [Bandit Leader] pointed at Ryoka desperately.
“Ride her down!”
He and two others rode after Ryoka. She was running fast. So fast that even on horseback they gained slowly. But they did gain on her. Pace by pace. She looked back once, twice. The [Bandit Leader] leveled his lance. He saw Ryoka reach into her bag of holding and braced. But she didn’t hurl an alchemist’s weapon at him. Instead, she began spilling something onto the ground behind her. Metal flashed.
The [Bandit Leader]’s eyes widened as she hurled one of the things at him. He dodged it and saw a metal mess of points fly past his face. And more were landing on the ground, sticking upright.
Caltrops.
The [Riders] saw the flash of metal and swerved out of the way instantly. Ryoka was relieved; she didn’t want to harm the horses. But it was for horses, carriages, and anything else chasing her that the caltrops were made. The [Bandits] swore as they dodged out of the way. The dust storm circled back around Ryoka. It picked up the iron caltrops, and then the [Bandits] began screaming.
They stopped following her after a minute. Ryoka kept running. She ran faster and faster as the wind dropped the dust and caltrops. She’d have to tell the Runner’s Guild about the hazard. Or maybe—
The wind blew harder. The caltrops funneled back towards Ryoka. Then dropped. Not yet. She didn’t dare go back for them, so she left them and shouted a warning at the first traveller she found. And she ran on. When she tired, when her lungs burned or the wind slackened, she just had to look down at the image of Ivolethe and feel the biting cold. That was enough.
It wouldn’t be, later. But in this moment, now, it was enough. The wind howled around Ryoka. Hedault had captured Ivolethe perfectly. It had cost a small fortune, all Ryoka had, to commission the piece out of Everfrozen Ice. In truth, Hedault had probably done it to her as a favor. It didn’t matter.
It was enough.
 
——
 
That night, Fierre was sitting alone in the Huntress’ Haven. She was eating the wing of the bird Madain had caught, pretending to enjoy it while really just focusing on the yet uncooked part of the meat. She wiped her running nose on her sleeve, coughed, and looked up.
The door had opened. A Runner limped into the room. She was sweaty, dirty, half-dead. But triumphant. She walked over to the kitchen and served herself. Another Madain efficiency. Then she came over and sat down at Fierre’s table.
“Hi.”
“I didn’t think you’d be back today.”
“I wanted to keep running.”
Ryoka coughed. Fierre silently poured her a cup from the pitcher of water. Ryoka drank, let Fierre fill her cup, and drank again. She coughed and then spoke.
“It took me a while to get back. I did the delivery, but I had to hide out for a bit. Usually, no one holds a grudge for a delivery, but [Bandits] are a different matter. The adventurers who went after them didn’t find the group. And I had to pick up some, uh, pointy things.”
“I heard all that. And you got the delivery to the Mage’s Guild in Baepr. Really quickly. It’s all the buzz in, uh, the circles I talk to.”
“Really?”
Ryoka just smiled wearily. Fierre nodded. She looked at Ryoka. Fidgeted. And then she burst out.
“It’s weird, having someone know your secret.”
“It is. But you’ll get over it. And it’s not a bad thing, right?”
The girl looked at Fierre. She smiled. She was tall. Her hair was black, but her skin was far from Fierre’s perfect paleness. She was different. A Runner. Fierre hesitated.
“This won’t change things, you know. Business is business. I can’t help you for free.”
“I don’t want you to.”
“And if people think I am helping you instead of other people—”
“It’s okay, Fierre. We’re just…friends.”
“Friends?”
Fierre savored the word, like an exotic treat. Ryoka nodded. The word was unfamiliar on her tongue as well.
“Friends. I’m just someone to talk to. And someone who can order you bloody steaks without it being suspicious.”
The vampire snorted, and then she smiled.
“Okay. And I’ll be the one who tells you you’re drooling a bit.”
Ryoka wiped her mouth.
“I’m hungry. And tired. And my feet hurt. And my legs.”
Fierre sniffed the air.
“And you’ve burst some blisters on your feet. You should heal those.”
“Now who’s drooling?”
Laughter. And food. Ryoka ate ravenously. Fierre leaned back.
“Okay. Friends. And I won’t tip the scales for you. Much. But, uh, you should know that there’s some attention on you.”
Ryoka looked up.
“Really?”
Fierre nodded.
“You are the Wind Runner. And people are hearing your name. Thanks to the little kids.”
“Little, mud-throwing monsters.”
Ryoka leaned back and groaned, wondering if she could use the wind to conjure more food rather than have to get up and grab it herself. Fierre nodded.
“Maybe, but you owe them. Because of that, people are looking into your past. And you’re…slightly noticeable. You know what I found out?”
“Tell me.”
The vampire girl closed her eyes and recited from memory.
“Ryoka Griffin. Possible connection with Magnolia Reinhart, inquired after by a Wall Lord of Salazsar, destroyed a Runner’s Guild in Celum…”
“That wasn’t my fault. And I didn’t destroy the guild. It just got, uh, snowed in.”
“…short career. Surprisingly short, but you earned a City Runner’s level from merit alone. And you completed a delivery to the High Passes. However…around here, you are an unknown City Runner, and your speed and defensive rating is way below most Couriers.”
“I know.”
Ryoka sighed. Fierre raised one finger.
“But…you’re reliable, you have a reputation as being honest, and you do have a title. And between you and me? After this job, you might be getting more offers directly. People who’re willing to take a risk will go to you. It’s dangerous, but that’s how City Runners become Couriers.”
Ryoka opened one eye.
“Sounds like I’m a Runner you should get to know, then.”
“Maybe.”
Fierre gave her a toothy grin. No one was watching. Ryoka smiled as well. Then she suddenly frowned as if she’d had a thought.
“Hey, you’re…connected, right? You don’t just deal in Runner’s information. Could I hire you to find something for me?”
Fierre raised one eyebrow.
“Money can get you anything. A lot of trouble if you ask the wrong questions. But go on.”
The Runner hunted around. She found her money pouch and pulled out some of her day’s earnings. Fierre blinked as Ryoka offered her ten gold coins.
“How’s this for finding someone? Or a group of people?”
“You must want them pretty badly. This will do. I might have to get more, but I’ll take this on faith. I’ll need names and descriptions.”
“You’re all heart. I don’t have descriptions. I do have names. Three of them, although there are more. It’s a group of kids. My age or younger. Possibly working as adventurers. Rose. Imani. Joseph.”
Fierre hunted for a bit of parchment, then decided to give up and memorize everything. She tapped a finger on the table.
“That’s not enough to go on.”
Ryoka nodded.
“You’ll find them somewhere in Magnolia Reinhart’s estates, or at least under the protection of her people. That should narrow it down.”
Fierre paused.
“That’s…Magnolia Reinhart’s strictly off-limits for a lot of things. You know that, right?”
“Right. Don’t worry though. You won’t get in trouble for asking.”
That was probably true. Fierre mulled it over. She looked at Ryoka. Friend. She didn’t know if she could trust Ryoka entirely, to be honest. She’d met her, abducted her, and they’d talked. But Fierre liked the girl. So she took a risk.
“Okay. I’ll ask about. Now tell me, what was that run like? And what did you get from Invrisil?”
She saw the young woman grin. And though Fierre didn’t know where Ryoka was from no matter how much she’d offered for the information, though she’d been unable to find more about this girl who was a ghost who’d appeared last year, she thought she could trust her. So Fierre hoped. Hoped…she’d made a friend.
 
——
 
My feet hurt. I’m Ryoka Griffin. I sit in Mad Madain’s inn, listening to him drink and talk with his few customers. At another table, Alber is eating silently. Maybe he’s wondering how Fierre and I suddenly became friends. I’m a bit hazy on that myself.
I don’t know if I can trust her. I don’t know if what I’m doing is wise. I don’t know—but I do know one thing.
It’s in my belt pouch. I reach for it as I tell Fierre about the run, drinking from my water glass. I should get more of that chicken or whatever it was that Madain shot. My feet hurt. And my legs. But I can feel it. Smooth as glass. Cold. But so familiar.
Oh, Ivolethe. I’m so sorry. And thank you.
I clutch the little icy figurine, cold as pain. But there’s less sadness in me. Truly. There’s so much to do. So much. A world of possibilities.
Rose. Imani. Joseph. If Fierre can find them, all the better. They may still be at Magnolia’s mansion, but I’ll bet they’re gone. I have something I need from them, and they might need something from me. Will Magnolia object?
The wind. I’m thinking of hang gliders, wing suits, even parasails now. The icy figurine hurts. And it’s so familiar I want to cry.
My new friend might have AIDS. Vampires exist, and they’re dying. Disease and rot and sunscreen.
I want to see Teriarch again. And this time talk to him like a person.
Someday, I will run like the wind. But not today. Today, a girl who might be my friend is grousing about alchemists and silver powder. She pauses to cough now and then. And she’s looking at me. Uncertainly. And I think—her face is a reflection of my own.
So I smile. And I sit back in my seat. The spring air is cool. And a breeze blows into the inn, carrying the smells of a new year with it. I relax. Today was a good day. But tomorrow awaits, and the day after that. I have time.
We’re only just getting started.
