Ryoka had no experience with kidnapping. Which was a fair statement to make. It was weird to think of anyone as being experienced with being kidnapped. She vaguely felt like there was a class she could have taken, though, or a few tips she could have memorized from some online self-help article.
After all, it felt like Ryoka had been kidnapped at least once. But not really. Let’s see. Magnolia? Not really a kidnapping so much as a forced meeting. But it was close. Teriarch? Again, no, but being enchanted had a few parallels. Az’kerash? Again, it had a lot of similar qualities. Being interrogated and having fingers broken by Venitra was close…but not the same.
So this was new. How about that? And by vampires, no less. Or was there an entire species of Vampires? Ryoka had spotted four, plus Fierre. Five vampires. That was really bad if they were about to suck Ryoka’s blood. On the other hand, they hadn’t while she was passed out.
That was a good sign. In fact, Ryoka had high hopes she wouldn’t die. Because while she was no expert on abductions, she was slightly experienced with dealing with creatures of myth and legend. Dragons, the fey—vampires weren’t much worse, right?
The other reason Ryoka was hopeful was that she was lying with her back to the coffin, she could hear the vampires talking, and they hadn’t noticed she’d woken up yet. That meant they probably couldn’t hear her heart beating—if they could, they’d be able to tell it was racing a mile a minute. They were talking to each other, their voices…well, fairly normal.
There was little inflection to their accents. Not that Fierre had ever spoken with the stereotypical vampire inflections. The other voices Ryoka heard could have been from anywhere—with one exception.
“…and what if she does talk? Should we threaten her or just…get rid of her?”
“I didn’t bring her here to kill her.”
A male and female voice were arguing back and forth. Fierre and someone else. A third vampire, older, his voice a lot more gravelly, spoke next.
“You shouldn’t have brought her here at all, Fierre. If you dealt with her properly—”
“I wasn’t sure I’d be able to safely. I stay at an inn run by an adventurer. I thought Mother could help me. She’s the best at this.”
“It might not be necessary. Fierre, has she threatened you? What did she want?”
A third voice, steadiest and most confident of the lot. Also, older and male, his voice a lot more gravelly. If Ryoka had to analyze by the timbre, she’d guess there were three male vampires here, all of different ages. One was old, another young, and the third middle-aged. That was just a guess, though. Fierre’s voice was uncertain as she replied to the middle-aged one.
“I…don’t know. She just identified me and promised she wouldn’t tell anyone. But—”
“Why don’t we wake her up and hear what she says?”
“Okay. But no one scare her. Rivel. And if we need to, Mother, would you…?”
“If thou callst on me, my offspring, of course I will comply. But thy sire is correct. Let us first know this mortal’s intentions.”
And there’s the odd one out. One of the voices, the only female voice beside Fierre’s, was distinctly vampirish. As in, eastern European, Slavic, I-just-walked-out-of-Transylvania, Dracula-style accent and way of speaking. If Ryoka hadn’t known better, she’d have thought that was coming from some kind of hardcore vampire wannabe. From the real thing, it was…still cheesy.
But they were vampires. And Ryoka had seen them move. There was something fluid about the way they moved. Graceful, in a way that Humans weren’t naturally. And Ryoka still wasn’t over her first discovery. Fierre was a vampire. Vampires existed in this world.
How about that.
The discussion had reached its conclusion somewhere above her and to the right. Ryoka heard light movements. And then she sensed eyes on her. She held still, praying she wouldn’t be found out.
“Anyone want me to grab a bucket of water?”
A voice. Immediately shushed. Ryoka heard a pause. And then a voice, low, sultry, and echoing in the dark space.
“Awaken, mortal.”
Ryoka opened her eyes and sat up. She couldn’t help it. There was something in the tone that went beyond mere force of personality. Some kind of command that reached into Ryoka and moved her body against her will. It was familiar, almost like Magnolia’s Skill—but different. Where one was a Skill, this was instinctual obedience.
At first, it was dark. Ryoka’s eyes caught a glimmer of moonlight, shining down from a slit overhead. A window. And then she took in the room.
She was sitting in an open, wide room. Tall, grand. Filled with open coffins. Smooth, worn stone. Open caskets to place bodies in. And she was lying on one. On top of one, rather. Ryoka felt her back aching slightly. She blinked, looked around—there was no one standing around her. Then she looked up and saw them.
Vampires. Five of them. Two stood in the rafters on wooden support beams. An old male vampire and a younger looking one. The older one was coughing quietly, the younger one just watched Ryoka. And below them, standing on the ground, were three other vampires.
Fierre, no longer wearing the dark clothing that normally concealed her face. Her hair was raven black, her skin unnaturally pale. She looked young, as did the two who stood behind her. A man and a woman, both who looked no older than their early thirties. But they felt older. And it was the woman who’d spoken.
Graceful, tall, her dress some dark red and black fabric that nearly blended with the shadows. By her side stood a man in rough clothing. He too was a vampire, but his neck was…odd. Puffy, the skin bulging outwards. But like his wife, he had red eyes and that unnatural stillness about him. All of the five vampires held still for a moment. Ryoka stared at them, heart beating. And then the woman moved.
One hand rose. Pale fingers splayed outwards in a grand gesture towards Ryoka. The female vampire kept her chin raised as she approached, gliding across the dark room.
“Mortal. You trespass in the halls of my family. You speak to one not of mortal ways. We are the children of the night. Vampires.”
Her lips rose in a slight smile. Her voice echoed through the room. The woman stopped in front of Ryoka and looked down.
“I am Lady Colfa, Mistress of House Lischelle-Drakle. And thou art?”
Everything about her screamed vampire to Ryoka. And the entire air wouldn’t have worked except that she was one. In her totality. She looked flawless in the moonlight—and yet—Ryoka’s eyes travelled to her right arm. She’d spotted a rash there, hadn’t she? The female vampire noticed the look and turned so her left side was facing Ryoka. She gave Ryoka a dark look, and the young woman’s heart began to beat faster.
“I’m Ryoka Griffin. I, uh, didn’t mean to intrude. I mean neither you or your family harm, Lady Colfa.”
Ryoka spoke quickly. Her mouth was dry. Her mind racing. What was the best angle here? What did they want? They sounded like people, remember that. Even if this Lady Colfa was noticeably different. Was she the sire of the others, perhaps?
You’re dealing with ancient and powerful beings here. Even if they seem surprisingly normal. But vampires don’t necessarily think like we do. Be careful. Don’t offend them. What would Erin do?
Probably offend them. Don’t do that.
“Ryoka Griffin. A City Runner. A traveller who delivers messages. One who is everywhere and nowhere. Who may not be missed.”
Colfa bent her head, inspecting Ryoka. Her eyes were slightly red, and they shone as she bared her fangs slightly in a sinister smile. Ryoka kept very still.
“Mortal. Know that thy presence here is borne only lightly. Mine kindred suffer you only for one reason: you uncovered the true nature of our offspring. How?”
She’s got sharp teeth, she has no shadow, and she keeps out of the sunlight. But Ryoka didn’t say any of that.
“I—I’m just familiar with vampires. That’s all. I didn’t mean any harm by it. Look, I won’t tell a soul—”
She tried to move, swing one leg off the coffin. Colfa’s eyes flashed, and Ryoka stopped. The lady vampire tapped one lip with an unpainted nail.
“No, you will not. And whether you leave this place is entirely up to our disposition.”
“Look, if I could convince you I don’t mean any harm—”
“Harm? You think you could harm us?”
Colfa turned, quick as a snake. Ryoka froze again. The female vampire bent, inspecting Ryoka like an insect. Ryoka tried not to lean back. Why didn’t she carry any garlic in her bag of holding? She could have at least put a few wooden stakes in there! She swallowed. Colfa had another smile on her face.
“You could harm us as likely as you could fly, girl. But we could harm you. Easily. And unless you beg, unless you prove your sincerity and give us reason to trust you, you may find another purpose for the coffin on which you sit. Now, tell me or perish, foolish mortal. Once and for all, for what reason didst thou—”
“Baaaaah.”
Ryoka’s heart nearly stopped. She jumped, looked down, and recoiled. Something was down there! It was staring up at her with big, black eyes. Its round…woolly…body was…
A sheep poked its head up over the side of the coffin and stared at both Ryoka and Colfa. Vampire lady and Runner girl stared at it. The sheep stared at them and then baaahed again. Loudly.
“What the f—”
A surprise sheep was not one of the things Ryoka had expected. She leaned back as the animal looked from her and then to Colfa. For the vampire’s part, she looked shocked. And then annoyed. She hesitated, then flicked one hand at the sheep.
“Shoo. Begone, grazing beast.”
Colfa turned her head, pretending not to notice it. The sheep wandered over and butted her in the shin. It began to rub its head against Colfa’s dress.
“I said, begone.”
Colfa pushed the sheep away. Quite gently. The sheep baahed quietly and refused to go. The vampire shot a quick glance at Ryoka. The young woman had no idea what expression was on her face, but it was frozen there.
One of the other vampires coughed. It looked like he was hiding a smile. The old one sighed, and the other vampire on the floor, the one with the awkward neck, moved forwards. The sheep turned and approached him, still baaahing. Ryoka caught a glimpse of Fierre’s face, a mix of chagrin and embarrassment. The vampire in the rough clothing bent, patted the sheep along the head, and then spoke quietly.
“This way.”
He gently urged the sheep out of view. Ryoka watched him disappear out of the room. Through a hole in the wall. Moonlight shone through, revealing a grassy pasture outside. The vampires and the Asian girl watched the sheep disappear, and then all eyes turned back to Colfa. The Lady of House Lischelle-Drakle hesitated and then decided to pretend that last moment hadn’t happened.
“Mortal Runner—”
She eyed Ryoka and seemed to give up slightly. Lady Colfa frowned, and then her tone grew more direct.
“Tell us your intentions, Human child. What purpose did thou have in seeking my daughter out? Was it to extort her for some riches or personal gain? Did you seek to become vampire yourself? Know this gift is a rare and powerful one, not to be bestowed upon any who merely ask it. Tell me why you accosted her.”
That was a sheep. Ryoka’s mind couldn’t get over that.
“I—I just wanted to know if she was a vampire. That’s all. I don’t want to become a vampire. And, uh, I don’t want anything from Fierre. I just wanted to know…if vampires were real. That’s all.”
Ryoka looked up. Fierre was staring at her curiously. Almost hopefully. The other two vampires on the rafters exchanged glances. One of them, the younger, spoke.
“Sounds good to me. Why don’t we let her go?”
“Silence.”
Colfa cast a withering glance up above. The young male vampire folded his arms discontentedly. Lady Colfa shook her head.
“The safety of my daug—my offspring, Serafierre, is not one to be taken lightly. I require more proof of your goodwill, mortal.”
She looked directly at Ryoka. The young woman shook her head.
“I don’t know how I can prove my goodwill.”
Colfa’s lips quirked into a smile again.
“No? I have one idea. Serve me, Runner. Swear to obey me and mine kin. As a thrall to our house, eternal-bound. Obey and you will go safely. Say it.”
Her eyes flashed. Uh oh. Ryoka felt an immediate compulsion to say yes. To obey and agree to be their thrall, whatever that entailed. She opened her mouth, hesitated, and then closed it.
“No. I’m sorry, but no. I’ll swear not to reveal your secrets. But not to obey you.”
Colfa blinked. Her red eyes wavered. For a second, she looked behind her, up towards the rafters. The old vampire sitting there shrugged. Colfa turned back to Ryoka with a frown.
“I am a creature of the night. Vampire. Immortal of blood. You will obey me. Swear it.”
This time, whatever she did was stronger. Ryoka felt an urge to agree, to say yes. She fought it. And maybe it was the experience of meeting both Teriarch and Magnolia, but she managed to resist whatever Colfa was doing fairly easily.
“No. Sorry.”
“You will obey!”
Colfa snapped and upped the pressure in her voice and eyes. Ryoka gritted her teeth.
“No.”
“Colfa—”
“Mother—”
The old vampire spoke up at the same time as Fierre. Colfa ignored them. She was angry now. She put all of her energy into her next words. They echoed around the empty room, and Ryoka felt something pulling at her mind.
“I am a vampire. Immortal. Obey!”
Immortal. Ryoka thought of Ivolethe. And Teriarch. She looked up. And her fear turned into anger. Immortal?
There had been no wind in the room or outside. Barely a breeze in the still air. But at Colfa’s last words, dead air came to life. Wind blew through the room and outside. First a gust, and then a howling, whistling current through the opening in the wall. Colfa half-turned, eyes widening, and the other vampires including Fierre cried out.
Ryoka swung herself off the coffin and stood. Colfa turned to face her as the wind blew at her dress, pulling at her hair. Ryoka reached for her belt, gripped a bottle in one hand. She looked Colfa straight in the eye and shook her head.
“Obey you? No. I have met true immortals. And they are nothing like you.”
The wind blew at Ryoka’s hair. It circled the room, whipping up dust, blowing at the vampires. And then it was still. The vampires looked around. The young one spoke uneasily.
“Magic?”
