“Well then. Since thou hast shown thine sincerity, I judge my daughter’s trust in you to be founded. Mortal Runner, you may go with the forbidden knowledge of our existence—so long as you swear to keep our secret on pain of death.”
She fixed Ryoka with a menacing look. Ryoka nodded, keeping her face straight.
“I do swear, milady. It is a compact most sacred, which I shall honor with every bit of my mortal heart.”
That last bit was probably too flowery even for Colfa, because she shot Ryoka a look. But she nodded.
“In that case, go. Return to where you came hence with the knowledge of what you’ve seen…unless you’d like to sleep first? We have extra beds.”
 
——
 
The Drakle estates lay at the top of a plateau, uphill. It was a good spot, although as Fierre pointed out, it sometimes meant they had to lead the herds down the slopes to graze.
“Not to mention how hard it is to get a wagon uphill in the mud. But it’s nice.”
“It is. And I like running downhill. Which way’s Reizmelt?”
She and Ryoka stood at the top of the hill. The wind was blowing strong, and though the sun had yet to rise, the sky was lighter. Fierre pointed.
“That way. We’re hours away. As the vampire runs.”
“And the Runner?”
“Well, if you can keep up, we’ll be back by midmorning.”
Fierre shot Ryoka a challenging grin. The Runner blinked in surprise and then smiled.
“How the hell did you get me out of Reizmelt and all the way out here without me waking up? In secret, no less?”
“Easy. I put you in a wheelbarrow and put a cloth over you.”
“Wait, that worked?”
“Yup. The [Guards] know me. They probably thought I was hauling something. And then I jumped over the walls with you when they weren’t looking. That was harder since you’re heavy.”
“And you ran with me all the way here?”
That would have been a challenge if Ryoka had done that to Fierre, and she was shorter than Ryoka by a good bit. Fierre shrugged.
“It did take the rest of the day.”
“And I was asleep the entire time?”
The vampire girl smiled sheepishly.
“You did wake up. Twice.”
Ryoka felt at her throat.
“Ow.”
“Don’t worry. I was careful. Now, do you want to go? I can’t run as fast in the sun. And I’ll be in trouble if I’m out of the shade.”
“Sure. Let’s go.”
Ryoka began running down the hill. She took off, having been stretching while Fierre was chatting. She heard a startled exclamation from the girl. But Ryoka was already gone.
And the wind changed. It followed Ryoka, and it whistled as it raced down the hill. Ryoka’s legs blurred as she sped up, trying to keep up with gravity. She heard a laugh and looked up.
A pale shape leapt down the hill. Fierre didn’t bother to run. She just bounded down the hill, pushing off rocks and flipping through the air. Ryoka looked up and saw Fierre wave at her. The vampire disappeared down the hill. Ryoka gritted her teeth and ran faster.
Down from the hill and into the grass. Ryoka hit the road, and there she was. Lounging, pretending to sleep. Ryoka ran right past Fierre and kicked some dirt at her. The vampire leapt up and raced after her. She caught up in twelve seconds, and the two locked eyes while running.
Ryoka went into her top-speed sprint. The wind howled behind her for a moment, and she lost Fierre. The vampire girl’s eyes widened. She caught up—with a tad bit of difficulty. Ryoka kept the pace for ten seconds. Twenty. The wind was urging her on. Her legs were screaming to stop.
One minute. The fastest minute she’d ever run, thanks to the wind. Then Ryoka slowed, panting. Fierre nearly overshot her. She slowed, and Ryoka saw a glimmer of sweat.
“You’re not bad!”
Fierre turned and ran backwards, mockingly grinning at Ryoka. She jumped backwards, stumbled a bit, and then turned forwards. Ryoka inhaled some stinging cool air into her lungs.
“I hate you.”
She laughed and heard Fierre laugh too. The pair of them ran together, Fierre leaping, not bound by gravity. And when she ran, though she had poor form, it was as if she was skating across the ground rather than running. Graceful, wonderful. And Ryoka ran with her, every step calculated, the product of practice and form.
That was how they ran through the night while the world was slumbering. The sun kept rising. And then the first ray struck the ground. Ryoka didn’t stop running, but Fierre paused.
She slowed, sighed, and covered herself up. Ryoka saw Fierre glancing over at the sun as she tugged a scarf into place around her neck. Ryoka slowed as well, and the two progressed to a quick walk.
“Do you need to cover up?”
“We’re not walking into the sun. But I’m tired, and it’s harder to run. Besides, I shouldn’t run in the day.”
Fierre looked disappointed. Ryoka just shrugged.
“We’ll jog then. Or walk if you want to. I can keep going. How about you? Need a stamina potion?”
She offered it to Fierre. The girl slapped it out of her hand. Ryoka grabbed for it and missed, swearing. Fierre leapt and snagged it out of the air. She handed it to Ryoka, who blinked at her. Fierre winked.
“I’m still fast. I get slowest at midday.”
So they jogged. Fierre was only too happy to grouse about sunlight to Ryoka.
“It burns us if we’re out in the open. I can get a sunburn just walking outside for a few minutes. Apparently, it was even worse for old vampires.”
“Does it help if you have an umbrella? What about, uh…something on your skin?”
“Like mud? Dad says he did that one time when he was desperate. And umbrellas work, but I can’t really explain needing it, can I? Besides, even with an umbrella, some sun gets through. And I can’t explain getting a tan.”
“No, that’s true…”
Ryoka tried to remember how sunscreen was actually made. That would be something interesting, wouldn’t it? Her mind was racing with all kinds of questions about vampires. And as it happened, they had the time to talk. All the time to talk about silly things. And it wasn’t just Ryoka asking the questions.
“So if you stepped on a nail…”
“That’s my worst nightmare. Rusty nail into bare feet. Or glass. But—look, it doesn’t happen.”
“It has to have happened once.”
“Twice. Ever. Glass is something you can spot. The same goes for metal and other stuff. Dog crap…yeah.”
“That’s disgusting!”
“Three times. And it was all the fault of the owners. Look, the worst thing I ever stepped on was a snail. Once. But nails? Never. And even if you had a normal shoe on, a nail would go right through that, wouldn’t it?”
“True. I stepped on a nail once.”
“How’d that feel, then?”
“Well, vampires don’t feel pain as much as regular people. And it healed up soon after I pulled it out.”
“…I hate you even more.”
“Want to become a vampire?”
“No thanks. I like sitting in the sun. You do know that moonlight’s actually sunlight, just reflected off the moon—er, moons, right?”
“What? That sounds silly. Besides, I can handle some light. Like the shade. It’s just direct light that’s a problem.”
“Okay. Garlic?”
“Hate it. I’m allergic. Dad gets hives if someone so much as brings it into the same room.”
“Gotcha. Uh, silver?”
“It burns. It’s one of the reasons I can’t do alchemy full-time. And it makes me itch if there’s too much of it around.”
“Wood stakes? Through the heart?”
Fierre paused and gave Ryoka a look.
“Would you survive a stake through the heart?”
“Point.”
The girl shrugged.
“We can’t heal if something’s stuck in our bodies. I suppose that’s why. Yes, wood hurts. Silver’s still worse.”
“How about crosses? Holy water?”
“Holy what? And why would a cross bother me? Is that some kind of weapon?”
“Hmm. Never mind.”
That was interesting. Maybe there was a faith component involved. Ryoka didn’t doubt it. She continued down her list.
“Can you…turn into a bat? Mist? And how about entering places uninvited? Crossing streams of water?”
Fierre shifted uncomfortably and shaded her face with one gloved hand. She already looked slightly tan as the sun rose higher.
“Mist…maybe Bamer would know if that’s possible. He’s the oldest vampire I know. I’ll ask him next time I go back home. As for the rest…I don’t like doing it, but I can. How do you know so much about vampires?”
“Stories.”
“Does your country have an obsession with us or something? Because mother’s bad enough.”
“Oh, believe me. If you met some people…you wouldn’t even have to charm them. They’d be begging you to bite them and pull them into your boudoir. You have one of those, right? And they’d expect you to talk like this. With ve accent, you undershzand? Zuh clazzic mark of zhe vampire.”
“Hahaha! Stop that.”
“Vhat? Vhy are you svo angry? I’m just—hey!”
Fierre suddenly grabbed Ryoka in a headlock. Ryoka wasn’t expecting that and was too slow to pull away. She couldn’t. Fierre was shorter and slimmer—but she was strong.
“Gah! Get off!”
Ryoka punched Fierre in the side. The vampire didn’t so much as budge. Ryoka didn’t want to hit her that hard—and then she remembered. Vampire. So she drew back, belted Fierre in the side—and nothing happened. Ryoka blinked and then tried to sweep Fierre’s legs. The girl staggered, and it was Ryoka who fell down.
“Oops. Sorry.”
Fierre bent and helped Ryoka up. The Runner girl stared at Fierre.
“That was embarrassing.”
Another shared grin. Ryoka rubbed at her neck.
“You’re a lot more physical than I thought you’d be. You’re so reserved.”
“Well, I have to be. But I’m not, so cut out with that stupid accent. I grew up with a lot of brothers, so I’m used to fights. Vampire fights.”
Ryoka imagined what rough housing would be like with a vampire’s strength. No wonder the Drakles lived in a stone keep.
“How many brothers do you have? Rivel’s one of them, right?”
“That’s right. He’s the only one who stays at home. The others…well, I have one who moved away.”
“That’s two. Not exactly a lot.”
Ryoka grinned. Fierre’s face fell.
“I—had a lot of brothers.”
“Oh. Sorry.”
“It’s fine. It was a long time ago.”
But it wasn’t fine. The two began walking now. Ryoka could see Reizmelt in the distance. But she was looking at Fierre. This was the heart of it. After a while, Fierre spoke.
“You noticed my mother’s rash, right? On her right arm?”
“I did. Like I said, I didn’t know vampires could get sick. That’s why I had my doubts you were one at first. I thought you were acting.”
“No. We get sick. Miss Kelysta’s always giving me free potions because of it. They help, they really do. But it costs a lot, so even though we make a lot, it goes to potions. Expensive ones, sometimes. Mother’s not the only one. Bamer’s sick most of the time, but it’s not often bad. But my father—”
“I noticed his neck. I thought he was born like that.”
Fierre breathed in and out slowly.
“No. The neck and other things happen to vampires as they grow older. It gets worse with time. It’s…a thing that happens. Bamer calls it a curse. The neck, the swelling—that happens. Not just to vampires, but that started about six years back for Dad. We just get sick more easily, that’s all. Mom’s had that rash for ages, Rivel’s healthy, but he used to get terrible fevers. Bamer’s coughed all his life. I got sick last month.”
“And it hasn’t cleared up?”
Fierre shook her head.
“It’s not as bad as some illnesses. I just…shiver sometimes. And cough. I’m healthy, mostly. But vampires don’t live long.”
“Because of the sickness?”
“It’s always something. Something gets you. A bad illness. Or—or something goes wrong and they start going mad. Sometimes it’s like Bamer and you just get…weaker. But that’s the price of being a vampire, right?”
Fierre looked back at Ryoka. The young woman bit her lip.
“All the children get sick?”
“Not at first. It gets worse over time. But we do get sick more often. More and more.”
“I see. Tell me one thing. Was it always like this?”
“Not in the past. That’s what Bamer says. But centuries ago it started. He thinks the Byres family cursed us after we went into hiding.”
“After you stopped preying on people and started drinking animal blood.”
“Yes.”
Ryoka bit her lip. But she said nothing because it was just a suspicion. But a big one. Fierre walked on in silence. After a while, they began to chat again and pretended that the last conversation hadn’t happened.
And they reached Reizmelt at midday.
 
——
 
“Your face is tanned.”
“Shh. Don’t draw attention to it.”
“Or your shad—”
Ryoka yelped as an elbow struck her in the side. She pushed her way into the Huntress’ Haven, Fierre at her side. The inn was still open, but it was, as usual, completely des—
“There she is!”
Both girls froze. A group of five adventurers were sitting inside the inn, talking with Mad Madain. And a large dog was sitting at their feet, licking a plate clean. It got to its feet as the adventurers turned. Ryoka recognized them at once.
“Miss Wind Runner!”
“You’re back. Had a nice night out?”
Madain gave Ryoka a leering grin. Then he looked at Fierre with a frown, clearly not sure if that applied to her. She waved.
“Hi, Madain. I’m going up to my room. I’ve got to get to work.”
She edged quickly towards the stairs, clearly nervous of the dog. It was sniffing at her and looking wary. None of the Humans noticed. One of them with fiery tattoos running down his arms strode over.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin?”
“Yes. You’re, uh—the adventurers, right?”
Ryoka was blanking on their names. She’d just met them. It felt like yesterday. And it was. No, was it two days ago? They others all got to their feet. The [Mage] held out his hand.
“We didn’t know if we’d meet you here. You were gone yesterday by the time we got back to the city. We wanted to thank you in person. We’re so grateful for what you did.”
“Oh, there’s no need—”
Flustered, Ryoka shook her head. But the young man gripped her hand tightly. He met her eyes.
“Thank you. Thank you. I’m Levil, Captain of the Pithfire Hounds. This is Keima, Tally, Bram, Ullica—the dog’s Makki. And you met Lamont. He’d be here, but it’ll be at least a week before he can walk, even with potions. But thanks to you, he’s alive. Without you, none of us would be here.”
He indicated his team, who came forwards. Ryoka saw another [Mage], Ullica; Keima, a woman with an axe; Tally, who had a bow; and Bram, who kept the dog from jumping on Ryoka. They all insisted on thanking her to her face and shaking her hand. Red with embarrassment, Ryoka tried to downplay what had happened. Which only made things worse.
