Colfa didn’t respond. She was staring at Ryoka. And the pressure was still there. But Ryoka was resisting it. It wouldn’t work, and she could see the vampire was growing angrier. She was ready for Colfa’s next move. Prepared to fight and run, however unlikely it might be. But to her surprise, a voice interrupted the stalemate between her and Colfa.
“Colfa. It’s not going to work. Let the Runner go.”
The female vampire looked back. The vampire with the odd neck was standing in the opening that led outside. He looked at Ryoka and then at Colfa and shook his head.
“Your domination won’t work. And she has magic. The Runner has said she won’t reveal our secrets. She came to learn about us. So let her.”
“Himilt!”
Colfa’s voice snapped. Himilt, whom Ryoka thought might be Colfa’s husband, shook his head again.
“What other choice is there? Fierre, we’ll let you explain.”
“But Dad—”
Fierre protested for a second. Her father gave her a long look, and she subsided.
“You shouldn’t have abducted her to begin with. Tell her and we’ll see what happens. Unless anyone disagrees? Rivel? Bamer?”
He looked up at the two vampires sitting above him. Both shook their heads. The younger one, Rivel, looked slightly bored. Bamer, the elderly vampire, stared down at Ryoka with a frown but said nothing. Himilt nodded. He turned to Ryoka. And to her surprise, he walked over and held out a hand.
“My apologies, Miss Griffin. We’re wary of guests who know who we truly are. Welcome to our home. I am Himilt Drakle—”
“Lord Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle.”
Colfa hissed at him. Himilt sighed. Ryoka saw he had farmer’s clothing on. She hadn’t noticed at first, what with him being a vampire, which took higher priority, but he was a vampire dressed like a working farmer. His clothes were a bit muddy, and he smelled of the outdoors. His hand was callused. She took his hand, and he gave her a gentle squeeze. Himilt sighed again.
“I’m Lord Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle. This is our family home—”
He received an elbow to the side, quick as lightning, from his wife. The vampire barely reacted, but Ryoka felt the shock of the impact through their handshake before he let go. That had to hurt.
“—ancestral estates. Please excuse Fierre abducting you. She will explain who we are and answer your questions. You will not be harmed here.”
He looked over at his wife, as if seeking confirmation. She was scowling, and Ryoka noticed that she didn’t have lipstick on either. Her nails weren’t painted, and the grand dress Ryoka had thought she’d been wearing was actually cotton, not silk. In fact, it looked slightly rumpled. She turned towards Ryoka and tilted her head back. Her voice was imperious and still very traditionally vampiric.
“Mortal girl, you abide here by the grace of our goodwill. Should it run out, fear for thy life. Our daughter of fangs will escort you. Heed her every word with care. We shall meet again.”
She turned and swept away from them. Towards a door at the far end of the room. Himilt nodded and retreated. Ryoka watched them go, feeling very, very confused. The other two vampires looked at each other and stood up. The younger one waved at Ryoka.
“Hi. I’m Rivel.”
He leapt to the ground, a good ten feet, and landed lightly without so much as flinching. Then he leapt nimbly out through the hole in the wall. He’d been wearing farmer’s clothes too.
The older one was slower to move, but when he landed on the floor, it was without so much as a wince. He looked at Ryoka, shook his head, and then complained to Fierre and everyone in earshot.
“Why are we up so late? I need to be awake in the morning, you know. I’m going back to sleep. Tell me if we’re killing the Runner or what when I wake up.”
He followed Colfa through the door. Ryoka stayed where she was. She looked around and saw the last vampire standing awkwardly by herself. Fierre looked around desperately, as if hoping one of the older vampires would come back. But they didn’t. She looked at Ryoka and gave her a desperate smile.
“Uh, hi.”
Ryoka stared at her. There were a lot of things she could say, many of them stupid, some of them inflammatory. But that wasn’t the way. So she put aside what she’d just seen and witnessed, gave Fierre an awkward smile, and raised one hand.
“Hi.”
 
——
 
“So you’re a vampire.”
“Yes.”
“And your entire family are vampires.”
“That’s right. I’m, um, sorry about choking you—”
“Oh no, I get it. Can’t let other people find out about vampires, right?”
“That’s right. I panicked. Most people don’t remember vampires, but the ones who do don’t remember us fondly. I thought you might be trying to threaten me.”
“I said I wouldn’t tell anyone.”
“Yes, but—sorry. Anyways…yeah. We’re vampires.”
“Uh huh.”
“…”
“…So what’s it like?”
“What? Oh, being a vampire?”
“Yeah.”
“Oh, you know…”
As conversations went, this one was awkward. Ryoka thought she knew uncomfortable, but talking to Fierre was establishing a new benchmark. She and the vampire girl sat awkwardly on a stone coffin, half staring at each other and half looking at their hands and around the room in embarrassment.
Ryoka coughed. There was dust in the air, stirred up by the wind. Fierre waved some away from her face.
“Sorry about that. We don’t clean this place often.”
“Oh no, it was my fault. It’s, uh, nice in here. Is this your family crypt or something?”
Fierre looked mildly surprised and amused.
“What? No. We don’t use this place except to store stuff. In the coffins.”
“Not to sleep in?”
That came out before Ryoka could help it. Fierre blinked at her.
“No. We don’t sleep in coffins. I have a bed.”
“Oh. Right. I mean…obviously. Vampires don’t sleep in coffins. It’s just that in legends…I mean, I only know legends, which is why I asked.”
“We don’t sleep in coffins. Not these ones, at any rate. They’re made of stone. Very hard and uncomfortable. I guess we could, but this place hasn’t been used to store dead bodies in centuries. It used to be, but my family bought the land here ages ago and cleared everything.”
Ryoka paused.
“Your family bought this land? I thought they were your ancestral estates.”
Fierre shrugged and scratched her neck uncomfortably. She’d taken off her scarf and her heavy, thick clothing. She looked like a normal girl now. With pale skin. Red eyes. And fangs.
“That’s just what mother likes saying. This place has been in the family for…sixty years? But that’s about it.”
“Ah. Right.”
More silence. The two looked at each other. Ryoka took a few breaths. They’d never get anywhere tiptoeing around.
“So you’re a vampire.”
“I am.”
Fierre took a shuddering breath. She was breathing hard, as if this was the most exhausting thing Ryoka had ever seen her do. She looked up and met Ryoka’s eyes for the first time.
Vampire. Creature of death. Blood feeders. Masters of the night. Only, that was what people said. And reality looked different. Fierre was slightly scrawny. She looked like she was in her teens. Her clothing wasn’t the color of midnight—it was worn, nondescript. She didn’t sleep in a coffin.
But she was a vampire. Fierre took another gulp of air.
“Wow. You’re the first person—the first non-vampire I’ve ever met who’s known I’m—ever. You know?”
“No. Not really.”
Ryoka saw Fierre look up. Suddenly, she laughed. So did Ryoka. They laughed, and some of the tension in the air drained away. Just like that.
Wasn’t that easy? Suddenly, Ryoka felt silly. Of course they were like people. If they weren’t, she would have been dead already. How else could Fierre have blended in so well? Ryoka laughed and then coughed harder as more dust entered her lungs. Fierre grimaced.
“Hey, you want to get out of here?”
“Fine by me. Um—where are we?”
The vampire girl leapt off the coffin. She pointed towards the door that her mother had gone through.
“My home. Come on. It’s not much, but I can show you around. This way.”
Ryoka followed her out of the room full of coffins and through a door of plain wood. It looked…recently installed. The masonry was crumbling in this keep or whatever Fierre’s family had bought. The hallways were dark and cold underfoot. Ryoka shivered, hopping from one bare foot to the other. Fierre noticed.
“Sorry. We don’t keep many lights on. Vampires can, uh, see really well in the dark. And we don’t get cold.”
“I noticed. You said your family bought this place? What was this, a castle or something?”
“It used to be. A big one, too. But it was already mostly gone by the time it was bought. Now it’s just the keep and some ruins left over. We’ve been working on it now and then, but there’s never enough time—oh.”
She turned left. Ryoka stopped as she saw Himilt, the level-headed vampire, holding a trowel and standing in front of a hole. In the wall of the keep. It led straight outdoors, and Ryoka saw tall grass outside. The vampire was industriously applying a coat of dark grey mortar to the stones and repairing a hole in the wall. Fierre looked embarrassed.
Colfa was appalled. The vampire appeared in a blur of swishing red and black, hurrying towards her husband.
“Himilt! What are you doing?”
The vampire looked up and replied mildly.
“You’ve been telling me to repair the gap in the wall for years. I’m finally doing it.”
“Yes, but here? Now?”
Colfa shot a meaningful glance at Ryoka. Unperturbed, her husband spread a bit of mortar on the stonework and plopped a stone into place.
“It’s the best time, isn’t it? First the sheep wander in, now this. If you want to give me a hand, I can do it faster.”
“We have a guest.”
“Um—this way.”
Fierre led Ryoka back, blushing, though it was barely noticeable on her face. Ryoka tried not to laugh.
“Those are your parents? Or your sires?”
Fierre shook her head.
“Don’t you start. My mother’s the only one who talks like that, you know. She even put on a dress to impress you. They’re my parents.”
“Vampires can have children?”
The girl looked back at Ryoka. The Runner girl paused.
“Sorry. There’s just so much I want to know.”
“I can see that. Yes, we can have children. But we’re not—I don’t know what you’ve heard, but we’re not like mother acts.”
“But you are vampires. Immortal. Quick. And strong. You managed to choke me—I wasn’t expecting that. I hit you, and you didn’t so much as flinch.”
“Yeah. I didn’t expect you to do that. It hurt a bit.”
“A bit?”
Fierre looked back at Ryoka as she pushed open a door. She grinned toothily.
“Just a bit.”
A change was coming over her. Gone, gone was Fierre the quiet girl who was afraid to show her teeth. She began walking faster, talking more animatedly. She was in her home. And she’d told Ryoka the worst. What could happen next? In a way, Ryoka realized, she’d been the one who was more scared between the two. After all, Ryoka had met a Dragon. Fierre had never so much as told another Human being who she really was.
“Look. This is home.”
Fierre led Ryoka towards a door and threw it open. Rather than continue into the rest of the keep, the walls and, indeed, the entire structure just…stopped. Ryoka saw a few broken walls, some flooring partially consumed by grass, and then just nature. She looked out and saw it.
A pasture. Sheep, greyish-white and thick in their winter coats, lay together, slumbering in the grass. Little lambs, both male and female, were protectively shielded by their mothers, while a few oddly nocturnal sheep were up and about, grazing on the first bloom of spring. A fence boxed them in, and beyond them lay a barn, another pasture where cows slept. The open sky—and below, a large, rocky field full of grass and boulders, along which a dirt road wound.
They were standing on a plateau. And this ruined castle, Fierre’s home, stood on top. Ryoka looked around and backed up from the keep. She looked up at it. It was a decaying mess of a building, but someone had taken the time to repair many of the gaps with fresh stone and mortar, roofing the top, and the keep was grand for all that.
Once, it had been a castle. Now, pedestals of stone were scattered around, the broken walls used as part of the fencing keeping the animals in, overgrown by grass. It was a peaceful, peculiar sight. Ryoka turned her head and saw her standing there.
Fierre. The girl looked at her. And there was something urgent in her posture. In the way she moved. She took a few steps forward and then turned to face Ryoka.
“This is my home. And you were right, Ryoka. I’m a vampire.”
She flinched, as if saying that word aloud was frightening. But after the world failed to strike her down, Fierre’s back straightened. She looked around. And then she grinned at Ryoka.
“I’m a vampire.”
She leapt up, and it was as if gravity had vanished for her for a moment. Ryoka looked up, and Fierre landed on the faded stone pedestal. Another leap and she touched the wall of her home. She clung to the wall and then kicked off again. Higher, landing on the roof of the keep. She looked down at Ryoka, and her eyes sparkled the tiniest bit red. White teeth flashed, and Ryoka felt a jolt in her heart.
“Wow.”
Fierre jumped, and she flew through the air, farther than the world’s greatest Olympian long-jump. She landed on a pillar of stone, waved her arms at Ryoka. Spun. Jumped again. She soared through the night, laughing in the moonlight. Showing off. Delighted to just be. A creature of legend.
A vampire.
 
——
 
Somehow, unaccountably, or perhaps accountably, they liked each other. Perhaps it was because they were both similar—despite not appearing so at first glance. But when she could be herself at home, Fierre delighted in, well, being a vampire. She was proud of it and all too willing to show off the inhuman agility and strength that was a hallmark of her kind. She could lift a sheep—carefully—over her head, leap phenomenal distances, and see perfectly in the dark.
And Ryoka was Ryoka. Pride was in her nature, but she’d learned to work at being personable. With Fierre, she didn’t have to. The two walked around the pasture as Fierre pointed out the livestock her family raised and tended. She’d grown up here before moving to the city to earn a living.
“I’m actually twenty-five years old.”
“What?”
Fierre gave Ryoka a toothy grin.
“Oh yes. Vampires don’t really age. We can if we want to, or even get younger. But we don’t have to grow old.”
“Then why do you look like you’re sixteen?”
“Because it’s easier to pretend to get older each year. I was even younger when I first came to Reizmelt. Which is hard, because I’m old inside. For instance, I’m older than you.”
