Rain scratched his beard, thinking out loud. “The codes aren’t set up to handle that. Awakening works on a credit system, and we have rules to stop rich dickwads from buying their way in. We’d need a council vote to get around it, but I don’t see that as an issue, given what you’re offering.” He glanced at Vanna. “What do you think? I’m sure no one would disagree, given what’s to be gained.”

“I also decoded a recipe for some fairly delicious butter scones, if that makes a difference,” Emerton interjected with a tiny smile. “It too could be yours.”

Vanna chuckled. “Well, I wasn’t convinced, but now I am. To answer your question, Emerton, yes, you’ll end up with more than enough credits to bid for a slot. Don’t worry about the vote. It’s more about formalizing the precedent than deciding anything. Forget the accolades, you’re bringing us fifteen awakenings. You’re going to be swimming in credits.” She glanced at Rain. “I’ll handle it quietly today as we march. It should be trivial to get a majority. Emerton, I’ll get you the list of priority classes a little later.”

“Priority classes?” Emerton asked. “Wait, did you say fifteen?”

“It’ll be in the orientation,” Vanna said, leaning back quickly. Her tone became urgent as she continued at a normal volume. “Hakim and sons, incoming.”

Rain frowned, then straightened to see Lord Hakim and his sons indeed approaching. His frown turned into a predatory grin as he saw the envelopes held in their hands, though he quickly hid the expression. “Apologies, Emerton,” he said. “It appears that I have more applicants to process. I’ll find you before we leave today, and we’ll settle up. Until then, if anyone asks about the items we discussed, you tell them that you already gave them to me. Particularly if the person asking is named Mahria.”

“Right, Vanna already warned me about her,” Emerton said, glancing between Rain and the approaching nobles, clearly wanting no part of it. “Good luck with Hakim.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, nodding to Emerton as the man hastily retreated.

“Oh, this is gonna be good,” Val whispered, rubbing his hands as Hakim and his sons came to a stop.

Rain shot him a look. You’ll give it away!

“Good morning, Rain,” said Lord Hakim, oblivious to their exchange. He held out the envelope he was carrying, and after a moment, his sons did likewise. “I know you prefer it when I cut straight to the point, so I won’t waste time on frivolities. They said we should bring these to you.”

“Good morning,” Rain replied in a civil tone. He accepted the envelope from Lord Hakim, then gestured to the table as he sat. “Place the others there.”

Not bothering to inspect the seals before breaking them, Rain began grading, finding what he’d expected. With each ‘perfect’ score he verified, he wrote a number atop the test, then stacked it to the side. Once he was finished, he kept his face expressionless as he rose, then offered the pile to Lord Hakim.

They didn’t even try to make it look convincing. Hells, not even for the ‘favorite color’ question. All four of them picked blue! I don’t care if it’s one of their house colors. So is silver. One of you pick that. Seriously, glue must be a delicacy in the Hakim household.

“Ah, perfect scores all around,” Lord Hakim said, barely even looking at the graded tests as he passed them out to his sons. “Well done, everyone. As expected of our noble house.”

“What language is this?” the youngest Hakim whispered, looking at his paper and receiving a helpless shrug in response from his nearest brother.

“It says one hundred percent,” the elder Hakim replied, nodding sagely. “Ascension uses a special code to simplify mathematics. All down to the genius of their leader.”

“It says seven hundred, actually,” Rain said, ignoring the shameless flattery and pointing to the first digit he’d written atop Lord Hakim’s page. “Sorry, my handwriting can be a bit sloppy.”

It wasn’t. Not this time. Hakim clearly couldn’t read the numbers any better than his sons. He might have done a bit of research, but he was still stuffed utterly full of shit.

“I…pardon, Rain, but I do not understand,” Lord Hakim said, looking down at the digit Rain had indicated. “Seven hundred percent?”

“No, seven hundred Tel,” Rain replied simply.

He waited, watching as first realization, then horror, spread across Lord Hakim’s face.

“Exactly what you paid for the answers, was it not?”

Val broke, doubling over and howling in laughter, stumbling, then leaning against the table for support. All around, work stopped as people looked to see what the commotion was.

“You…!” Lord Hakim spluttered. “I didn’t— This is a mistake, I…”

Vanna placidly offered Rain her fist, keeping her face entirely composed. Rain—having considerate difficulty doing the same—bumped it. He turned back to the Hakims, then flicked his fingers at them in a shooing motion. “Go on, then. Off with you.”

“I… I… I… AHHHGHG!” Lord Hakim gnashed his teeth, apoplectic with rage. He struggled for a few more moments, then whirled on his heel. “Come!” After a moment, his sons followed. They at least had enough self-awareness to hang their heads in shame.

Only then did Rain break, covering his eyes as he tried to suppress his laughter. He had an image to maintain.

Vanna was less restrained in her amusement now that the game was up. Her laughter joined Val’s, making it even harder for Rain to keep the giggles inside. He quaked silently for a good thirty seconds, but eventually, he forced himself to take a deep breath, then wiped at the corners of his eyes.

Damn, I needed that.

He beckoned. “Val.”

“Yeah?” Val managed, still struggling to master himself.

Rain jerked his head in the direction the nobles had gone. “Ghost them for a bit, yeah? Feel free to step in if it looks like they’re going to do anything stupid.”

Val barked another laugh, then clapped Rain on the back. “Smart thinking. It would be my pleasure.” He cracked his knuckles, then faded into invisibility. The spell failed to mask his continuing snickers as he padded off through the trees.

The Empire didn’t attack that day.

Nor did they attack the next.

When they camped that night, it was the first time no monsters assailed their perimeter. They didn’t stop keeping watch in the nights that followed, however, nor did they stop setting up the generator. People had grown accustomed to sleeping in the light, and Rain wasn’t about to rush them in abandoning the habit.

Days passed, each starting with Detection to make sure no one had been left behind. Samson steered them southward, following Emerton’s instructions. The man didn’t have anything as convenient as a map to the lair; he just knew a vague direction, distance, and the landmarks to look out for on the way. If Ameliah hadn’t been able to scout from above with the telescope, they’d have been in trouble.

Despite growing tolerance to Velocity, the pace of the group actually decreased compared to the first day. Part of that was due to the reduced fear that the Empire was following them—Ameliah’s scouting went a long way, there—and part of it was due to the increasing ruggedness of the terrain. Mostly, though, it was just that the average townsperson wasn’t conditioned to march from sunup to sunset for days on end, no matter how much magical assistance they received. They had old people. Pregnant people. Kids.

Morale was good, though. Those that hadn’t joined Ascension rallied around Mayor Graymond, leaving just the small groups that had chosen to stand with the Hakim and Urs families.

While those two continued causing Rain no end of grief, it was nothing compared to the stress that came from the nebulous threat of the Knives. Only the council and a few others knew about that. They’d decided to keep it quiet for fear of causing panic.

Rain was sure that the constant worrying would have left him as a wreck by the week’s end if not for Ameliah. She was handling the whole situation much better than he was. A great weight seemed to have been lifted from her chest once she’d told her story. She seemed happy, somehow, despite the constant fear of death and the weight of the responsibility she’d taken on. Rain wasn’t blind, though. He could still see tension in her posture when she thought he wasn’t watching, and he knew she was having headaches from the amount of mana she was using. Thus, he started making a point to massage away whatever tension she had each night. She allowed it, but only under the condition that he allowed her to return the favor.

It was nice.

The threat of the Knives meant they had to keep their armor on, so these evenings weren’t as relaxing as they could have been, but it was nice.

Tallheart was clearly stressed too, but he worked it out in a different way. Each night, when they stopped, he would set up his mobile forge, then work for hours after the sun had set, hammering aluminum into swords. Aluminum wasn’t the hardest metal, so it would never hold an edge as well as steel, but it was light and they had plenty of it. Tallheart did admit that part of his reason for using it was to build his familiarity with its intrinsic rune, which he said was the path to discovering whether there was a deepened version.

Rain was trying not to get his hopes up.

It was still exciting enough without that tantalizing prospect. Tallheart had destroyed all of his first attempts immediately after finishing them, calling them failures and embarrassments to smiths everywhere. The last three blades, though, he had judged worthy of being stamped with Ascension’s symbol. He’d given them to Ellis, who had finished them by adding wooden handles with leather wrapping.

The final, durability-enchanted aluminum longswords weren’t bound. They were in Ascension’s common armory now, to be rented out to whatever company member needed them. As time went on, no one would need to carry table legs to battle ever again.

Unless they wanted to. People were weird.

The day after Tallheart finished the third sword, Ameliah finally spotted one of the landmarks on Emerton’s list. It was an old, abandoned hunter’s shack, fallen to rot, barely visible from above at all thanks to the trees encroaching on its clearing. It was a miracle that she’d seen it, all the more fortunate in that Rain had been close to calling off the search and angling them back northward. With the trail found, it was easy enough to follow Emerton’s directions, and within another two days, Samson called an early halt, much to everyone’s excitement.

“It’s just ahead, there,” the Freelord said, leading Rain past the edge of the camp as people busied themselves setting up to stay a while.

They wouldn’t be lingering long—in and out, that was the plan—but despite Rain’s best efforts, knowledge of the lair had escaped from the meetings discussing the class slots. Thus, everyone knew why they’d stopped. For most, the prospect of resting sore feet was more exciting than whatever wonders lay inside, but not within Ascension. The bidding had been fierce.

Samson led Rain to a cave in the side of a hill, guarded by a pair of Aspirants, then inside. The passage wound for no more than a few dozen meters before the light of a fire ahead became visible, and then, Rain was standing before the blazing barrier, like a wall of flame. This lair was Heat-aspect, obviously, and rank nine according to Emerton. There were more guards posted here as well. Lyn and Mahria were lounging near one wall with their boots off, holding a private conversation. Jamus, in contrast, was standing right next to the barrier, alert and ready.

“Hey Jamus,” Rain said, laying a hand against the barrier as Jamus nodded in greeting. He watched the lair’s rank and depletion status appear, the numbers drawing themselves from ash on the flaming surface. The magical envelope was pleasantly warm, and from this close, he could hear it like the gentle crackling of a fire. “Anyone go in yet?”

“Carten is in there now,” Jamus replied. “Don’t worry, it’s safe enough, and he knows better than to leave the entrance.”

“There may be more ways to access the lair than just this passage,” Samson explained. “The last thing we need is anyone getting any ideas. If a full team managed to get past us, we’d be locked out, so I want to leave at least one trustworthy person in there at all times.”

“And you chose Carten?” Rain asked, a grin spreading across his face.

“Oi!” Carten shouted from beyond the barrier. His voice was muffled but perfectly understandable. “Did’ya ferget I can hear ya from in ‘ere?”

Rain’s grin widened. “Nope.”

Jamus chuckled. “Yes, we picked Carten. He’s the only one besides Mahria who was comfortable with the heat.”

Rain glanced over at Mahria, who was giggling at something Lyn had just said. Yeah, Carten’s the better pick. At least she’s stopped bothering me now that she’s got what she wanted. He looked back at Jamus, then turned to Samson. “Right. I’m going in. Carten can help me clean up. Jamus, make sure nobody tries anything here. Samson, gather up the first group of winners and get them ready for their blue. Make sure they don’t forget their rings.”

“I’ll see to it,” Samson said.

“Shiny,” Rain replied, lowering his visor and stepping through the wall of flames.
