Mato grinned at the dramatic, brilliant evidence of the critical healing spell and the shield proc that resulted from Belmar’s potent skill as his health shot up again. He shifted his stance at once and sidestepped to control the distance, drawing Kryostria closer to the wall as a burst of hundreds of icy skulls exploded from beneath her wings, flying off into the giant cavern. He ignored them, trusting Calen and his archers to take care of the spawns.

Instincts prickled, raising the hackles on the back of his neck right as Kryostria opened her maw once again. Ice burst forth, an unstoppable avalanche of power that pinned him to the wall of the cavern, blasting him with chunks and slivers, while the intense cold began to claw its way into his bones.

You have been frozen.

His body seized up. His muscles froze, and all he could do was stare at the specter of the enormous Dracolich looming down at him, wearing fury prominently upon her undead visage and leaking great gusts of white condensation from her maw. The brutally cold gusts rimmed her blackened fangs with gleaming sheaths of ice.

“Now,” Mato said.

A ringing shout echoed out through the chamber. The air shivered and warped from the power of the soul magic that tore into Kryostria, ignoring all her physical armor to rip at the core of her essence. The great Dracolich roared and spun, lashing out with talons imbued with potent ice magic, but her vicious strike met a shining mithril shield. An enormous crack rang out, matched with a shimmering blast of power – the unmistakable sign of a successful Critical Block.

“Smooth,” Mato told her.

Mithril boots crunched as the downward blow shoved the unbowed Sabri knee deep into the heavy ice, but she simply lashed out with her sword, taking a perfectly timed opportunistic strike at the massive monster lashing out at her.

Smart tanking, Mato thought, admiring Sabri’s skill and forethought. She had circled behind Kryostria so that when she took over, the breath weapon would be aimed even further away from the struggling raid, and she had thought to bring Havok too, clearly understanding the situation in greater depth.

While under normal circumstances, Mato would not have spent the Critical Block recharge so early, when implementing an emergency tank switch which hadn’t been discussed with the healers in advance, any damage mitigation that bought a few seconds for the healers to react was worth it in his opinion, a testament to the instinctual awareness of the Ahn Khen warrior.

The principle of least astonishment, he recalled from when Vivian had explained it. Tanks who surprised their healers would quickly find themselves without a healer – or dead.

In the meantime, he was forced to sit there in his own personal ice cube, while the damage from Kryostria’s aura ticked away at him, but from the variety of healing magic spells that were landing on him, it seemed the raid was quickly recovering from the surprise and ensuing chaos of the pull.

Gromm roared his War Cry, raised his foot and brought it down with all the force of Earth Breaker. The ground buckled, rippling away from him for more than thirty feet in all directions, and the echoes of his cry bounced back from the battlements behind him. Every Ghoul, Wight, and Death Knight was knocked off their feet, leaving only the giant flesh abomination still standing – but it was already in tatters, hanging on by strands of sinew and dead skin. And he had a plan for it.

He swung low and the mithril blade of his axe bit deep into the undead abomination’s left knee with a sickening crunch, and as the monster stumbled and toppled, Gromm turned his momentum into a whirling backhand strike. Right as his blade cut the monster’s throat, it flashed with brilliant holy light.

You have gained Azryet’s Wrath.

The patchwork abomination’s head separated from its body as the holy magic blazing from his axe sizzled into undead flesh.

“Thanks for the damage,” Gromm chanted as the monster’s death fed him, making his muscles swell with new power.

“Thanks for the damage,” Galeth echoed, finishing off a Death Knight beside him. “Now, what are we going to do about that little visitor?” The big warrior gestured with his holy sword to the giant siege monster crawling its way across the battlefield.

“We kill it,” Gromm said. Galeth was not a follower of Azryet, as far as he knew, but wielding the Dragon God’s blessed sword counted, in his opinion.

“We’re not going to reach it in time,” Galeth said. “And what about the others?”

Gromm grimaced at the sight of the Blind Lich weaving a third crawler out of shadows and darkness. “We’ll worry about that after we kill the first one,” he said.

“Right,” Galeth said, and then he yelled in alarm as something enormous burst from the Lich’s unholy portal and went cartwheeling across the dirt.

The monster that rose from the heap towered over the Death Knights. Its leathery skin was dark purple and seemed slightly translucent – like it wasn’t quite there. It leaned forward, opening a fang-filled maw and roared at the dead scurrying about around its feet and raised a glaive so large, Gromm wasn’t certain even he’d be able to wield it.

“Is that… a Pit Lord?” Gromm asked.

“Whatever it is, it’s going to get mobbed,” Galeth said. Just as he said it, every undead monster in the vicinity turned and swarmed it. But the moment the first Death Knight’s sword connected, the Pit Lord burst into a thousand detonations of hellfire, incinerating everything in its way. From within the inferno, it roared in triumph and the sky began to rain fire, lighting up the siege crawler like a pyre.

With a giant leap, the Pit Lord launched itself onto the crawler with its glaive whistling through the air.

“Aah… the heck?” Galeth grunted, but he was interrupted by the strange portal bulging wider and a second Pit Lord bursting through.

Gromm just swore in surprise. “Allies?”

“Those are summoned Mana Echoes – I think someone is looking out for us,” the witch in the skies called down. “Look, it’s going for the other crawler.”

“How about we leave those to them, then?” Gromm suggested delicately as he watched the second Pit Lord incinerate a broad path through the lesser undead to reach its prey. “We shouldn’t hog all the enemies.”

“Right…” Galeth said, hefting his sword and glancing about for a fresh Death Knight. “Wouldn’t be polite.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
