Grants the condition: Devotion.

“By the gods!” Frikara exclaimed as the beam of light faded. She tried to touch where it was, but her hand met nothing but air. “Ren, I... I can feel you.”

“I... I...” Ren didn't know what to say. His plan had succeeded and Frikara was no longer under contract to him; but, now they were bound in a completely different way.

“No, don't be scared!” Frikara said and kissed him, then started to move her hips again. “D-darling, you... freed me... and... by the gods!” She finished and took several breaths, then kept moving. “You gave me... Regeneration.” She said, and he felt how utterly happy she was.

“F-F-Frikara!” Ren exclaimed and finished.

Frikara finished again herself, and collapsed on top of him. “Thank you!” She said and kissed him. “Thank you so much!”

*

Officer Holly had carefully tracked Princess through the streets, and then she felt uneasy when she reached the street Ren's house was on. She had only seen a single guard as he patrolled this end of the street, and had avoided him easily.

It's time to try a spell, I think. Officer Holly thought, and did the invoking gestures that her instructor had taught her, whispered the chant of the Detect Undead spell, and waited.

Officer Holly felt her personal Aura expand out to cover a 100 foot circle, like water poured out on the floor, and then she gasped as an undead splashed through it and the feeling gave her a sharp poke in the side.

I can handle one undead skeleton. Officer Holly thought confidently, and then another one entered her Aura. The feeling poked her in the belly this time, and she wasn't sure what to do. Realistically, all she could do was wait; so, for the moment that was what she did. The longer she concentrated on the spell, the more information she gained about the undead as they passed through her Aura.

As Officer Holly waited, she discovered there were 4 different ones moving around in the same pattern. Her body shook of it's own accord as she discovered they were all the same ridiculously high level, Level 60; and they had identical armor with high Protection, and enormous Mana reserves.

I am so glad I didn't attack that first one. Officer Holly thought in relief. I'm only Level 10, and it would have killed me easily!

It took her a few minutes to recover from the shock of realizing the overwhelming strength of the threat, then she remembered what her instructor had told her if she ever came across an undead foe that she couldn't handle. It only worked once a day, and she was told to only use it in an emergency.

This is definitely an emergency. Officer Holly thought as she took a deep breath and let it out, then she clasped her hands together and prayed.
