I don’t like looking at my status. There’s so many… numbers… and words. So many decisions to make. I find it paralyzing! Which is why I often make the tactical decision to not worry about it for long periods of time, but at this point, I am well overdue to take a geez at it.

All I’ve been doing for days upon days is running through spell practice, and while I can definitely tell that I’m improving, which is nice, I’m also incredibly bored. So bored, in fact, that taking a look at my status now seems like a perfectly legitimate use of my time. I should probably try and mutate a few things as well while I’m at it. There’s a rather large amount of stuff that hasn’t been mutated at all since I reset it, and it’s time to dive in at the deep end.

Holy moly there is a lot going on in there. I can remember when I was just an insignificant little insect, with hardly anything in my status and life was simple. Now I feel like I need a degree in myself in order to work out exactly what’s going on in there. Perhaps it’s a good thing that my last evolution was outsourced to someone who knew what they were doing….

My eyes are quickly drawn to what I’m currently working on, i.e. my Omni-Elemental Magic and Gravity Magic. Turns out both of those are getting rather close to another upgrade, which is exciting. I wonder what sort of elemental goodies I’ll get with the next rank of that particular Skill? Goodness knows what sort of headache-inducing magic I’ll get from gravity ranking up. The Singularity is already more than I can handle.

Looking at my mutations and body parts, it’s almost amusing to see my entire acid-producing set of organs reduced down to a single, unmutated entry. However, it isn’t funny. Not in the slightest.

That thing scares me.

I’ve got to get some of my other reset organs mutating, along with the things that were made mutable. My nervous system is now mutable, which is nice, but it still sits completely unimproved. I think the eventual plan was to try and find a fusion with my sub-neural network further down the line, but it won’t happen if I don’t mutate the thing.

I’ve also got three sub-brains and my coordination cortex that have been reset, and I haven’t touched them in the slightest. Considering the trouble I’m having with spellwork right now, getting some upgrades there could really help me out.

And why the heck is my Pure Core recorded as Marked by the Chal? What in the name of heck did they do to me?!

I could ask them, but they’re still infant snails, I doubt they could tell me even if they wanted to. Sheesh! I didn’t ask for a choir of snails to sing through me all the time, but I got it anyways, apparently. Thankfully they’ve been quiet lately, so it hasn’t been as much of an issue.

I mean… there really is a heck of a lot of mutating to do. Absolutely nothing is fully mutated right now. I’ve got a bit of Biomass to spend, so I may as well get to it.

I think I’m going to start with the sub-brains. All three are sitting at plus zero and it makes me feel bad for them. Previously, my sub-brains were mutated to specialise in handling Mind Mana, because once I learned how to create mind constructs, that was literally all they did.

After all, it’s not the sub-brains handling the Omni-Elemental Construct, or manipulating Gravity Mana, it’s the constructs, so mutating my sub-brains to specialise in anything else is a complete waste of time.

So that’s what I do. At +5, I specialise them in Mind Mana, then enhance it at both +10 and +15. Across all three of my sub-brains, that’s a significant investment of Biomass. I want to get all of my body up to +15 soon, so I’ll hold there for now and turn my attention to the Coordination Cortex.

Reforged into Radiant Dynamo, the cortex has been engineered for one thing and one thing only: speed.

Its purpose has always been to facilitate communication between all of my brains so that they can better work together, and now it has the bandwidth to handle my souped-up brains.

To make sure I stay ahead of the curve, I find a speed-focused mutation, increasing the processing speed of the cortex, and lock it in all the way to +15. I’ll be able to do fancier things with it next time, but for now I need to make sure it can do its fundamental job properly.

What’s next…

Name: Anthony

Level: 47 (Mythic) (VIII)

Might: 781

Toughness: 753

Cunning: 468

Will: 371

HP: 1506/1506

MP: 2352/2352

Skills:

General:

Grandmaster Excavation (V) Level 17; Grandmaster Grip (V) Level 31; Master Stealth (IV) Level 2; Tunnel Compendium (V) Level 35; Unyielding Mind (VI) Level 29;  Grandmaster Stamina (V) Level 78; Unseen Dash (VI) Level 60; Master Efficient Movement (IV) Level 35; Grandmaster Observance (V) Level 34; Advanced Manifold High-Focus (VI) Level 34;

Mana:

Advanced Mana Craft (VI) Level 101; Divine Condesed Mana (VI) Level 37; Divine External Mana Manipulation (VI) Level 80; Mana Hoarder (V) Level 63; Multi-Layered Mind Magic Affinity (VI) Level 46; Extended Directed Mana Sensing (V) Level 80; Master Healing Magic Affinity (IV) Level 40; Advanced Omni-Elemental Affinity (VI) Level 138; Master Mana Masking (IV) Level 32; Master Force Magic Affinity (IV) Level 40; Master Barrier Magic Affinity (IV) Level 40; Grandmaster Gravity Magic Affinity (V) Level 64; Grandmaster Mana Dismantling (V) Level 8;

Pet:

Far-Flung Pet Communication (IV) Level 38; Core Crafting (IV) Level 20; Pet Growth Speed (I) Level 5;

Defensive:

Divine Exo-Skeleton Defence (VI) Level 111; Flicker Dodge (VI) Level 93; Grandmaster Endure (V) Level 80; Expert Mandible Parry (III) Level 20; Precognitive Agile Defence (IV) Level 40;

Offensive:

Guided Acid Shot (V) Level 12; Grandmaster Precise Shooting (V) Level 16; Starcrusher (VII) Level 65; Expert Chomp Combo (III) Level 15; Spear Charge (III) Level 9;

Mutations:

Senses:

Purified Focal Eyes (Unsullied Crystal) +15; Prescient Ripple Antennae +35 (Twilight Filament);

Defence:

Horizon Intensifying Compression Carapace (Gravity-Compressed Diamond) +35; Regenerating Amp Displacer Inner Carapace Plating (Boson Agitating Crystal Flesh) +35;

Physical:

Enduring Legs (Graviton Splinters) +15; Vicious Injecting Vorpal Mandibles (Gravity-Compressed Diamond) +35; Momentous Regeneration Network +15; Widespread Soothing Pheromone Gland +35; Expanding Discerning Compression Stomach +35; Musculature (Neutron Fibre); Cortex-Infused Instantaneous Sub-Neural Network +35; Enduring Hardened Tendons +30; Hastened Vestigial Limb Incubator +15; Nervous System;

Acid:

Fused Acid Complex (Deleterium Shard);

Mental:

Coordination Cortex (Radiant Dynamo); Will-Forged Crushing Gravity Well Main Brain +35; Sub-Brain (Stormforce Array); Sub-Brain (Stormforce Array); Sub-Brain (Stormforce Array); Sensory Processor;

Mana:

Feasting Unending Gravity Magic Gland (Resonant Well Stone) +35; Accelerated Might Infusing Collective Will Vestibule +35 (Soul Crystal); Grand Empowering Communal Spirit Nave (Soul Crystal) +35; Vast Impregnable Starborn Altar of Self +35 (Soul Crystal); Everflowing Well of Living Waters; Concentrated Harmonic Core +30 (Mark of Chal); Highly-Efficient Mind Construct +15;

Species: Endless Paragon

Skill points: 496

Biomass: 422