It was the little things that let Erick know this place might look lower class, but it was very, very high class. Beer never spilled; it flowed all the way out of the cup, but then flowed right back in. Sawdust, ostensibly meant to make it easier/safer to clean up and walk around drunk upon, had no beer spills, or blood, or even vomit. It was perfectly clean, and kept that way, because no one vomited, or maybe those messes were simply cleansed away when they happened. The stuff behind the bar was all boomingly magical; it was like looking at artifact level enchanted stuff, and worse… Or maybe just like looking at resons, now that Erick realized how he was thinking, and what this place actually was. There were multiple floors to the place, and as Erick looked up through the open-air center of the bar, to the upper floors, he saw the floors extend up to infinity, or maybe just 10,000 or so. Hard to say—

“Hello! Is this your first time here?” asked a pleasant looking young woman wearing simple barmaid’s clothes, but a barmaid from some other world. She had a weird, ‘art fashion show’ sort of look to her, but only in small ways, from the cut of her collar to the white tunic which held up her ample chest like a corset. “I’m going to assume it’s your first time.”

Erick smiled, and said, “Yes. Sorry if I was staring. Everyone is very different from back home.”

The young woman smiled kindly, then said, “How about a first drink on the house, then. Come on over here.”

Erick easily followed the woman to the bar.

She went behind the bar and grabbed a cold mug, asking Erick, “We’ve got all sorts of flavors. Name it and we got it, and if we don’t have it, we can get it. Your free beer is gonna be one of the cheaper options, though.”

Erick chuckled, then said, “I’d like 5% alcohol on something even-bodied. Not dark, not light. Something that you’d drink with a nice sandwich. I’d also like to know what they actually cost, because I’m a bit lost on that and none of your prices are labeled.”

The woman nodded as she smiled, then she turned to the seven beer taps behind the bar. She gripped one of them that was a dark beer, but she didn’t pull that one. She moved it to the right, and, like the wall wasn’t a solid wall at all, she spun the entire beer tap selection like a frictionless treadmill toward the side. Beer taps appeared and then disappeared as that part of the wall, and that part of the wall only, slipped on by—

She grabbed a handle, stopping the treadmill and pouring the beer in the same motion. She had picked out something called ‘Simple As’, and it looked and smelled exactly like the kind of beer Erick wanted. It took a lot longer to fill the cup than Erick expected it would, though.

She said, “This one is called Simple As, and it’s about that complicated. Currency here is a bit different than where you’re from, no doubt. You don’t seem to have any money on you, unless buttons can be traded for money?”

“Ah? No.” Erick looked at his platinum buttons. “… Well. They could be, I suppose. I wasn’t planning on it. I assumed metal wasn’t useful here at all.”

“Ehhhh… That’s a bit reductive. It’s useful. Just not in this particular land. We price things in resons here.” She finished pouring the beer and handed it to Erick. “Let me know if you like it!”

Erick was sure he would. He took a sip, and it was just about the best beer he had ever tasted. It reminded him of simpler times, before he was the Wizard of Benevolence, back when he was simply the Particle Archmage. That time of drinking beer with Al at the bars of Spur certainly didn’t last nearly as long as Erick wished it could have.

Erick smiled, and held the beer in his hands, saying, “It’s fantastic.”

“I can usually pick out a proper option, so I’m glad to see I haven’t lost that touch.” The woman said, “As for prices: a small cup of Simple As is 1 reson, which is just the size of the cup. Simple As is a middle-of-the-road beer, but as for where it lands among our total options, it’s on the very low end. That’s a deep cup in your hands right now, which is 10 resons for Simple As, because it’s 10 cups of beer. Endless cups are 5 resons for the cup itself, and then whatever you drink from it is added on. Drinks are paid for when-served. Endless cups need to be prepaid. Food and such is paid for when-done.

“You’re very good about keeping your power to yourself, which is appreciated. Some patrons are not that together, so please be mindful of others.

“Fighting in the bar is forbidden.

“This is my absolute domain, and I reserve the right to deny service to anyone I wish.” The woman said, “I’m Lyra Vonaldar; the owner of the Black Crystal Tavern. Nice to meet you.”

Erick nodded. “Ah! Nice to meet the owner so soon. I’m incognito right now and very much enjoying it, if that’s okay.”

Lyra raised an eyebrow. And then she flicked the air.

The space around them became impenetrable. The rest of the bar vanished. It was just Lyra and Erick, hanging out in the middle of a violet black void.

The owner of the establishment said, “It’s fine to be incognito, but I don’t allow anyone into my business if I don’t know who they are. If you agree to that and tell me your name, then you can stay. I certainly won’t go blabbing your name all over the place; that you can trust, just like you can trust me to keep this place organized and peaceful.”

“Erick Flatt,” Erick said, without reservation.

Lyra’s eyes went wide. And then she calmed. “… Huh. Okay. I knew you were a big deal, but not that big. In that case.” She reached up behind the bar, to the shelves of special drinks, and she pulled down the shelves like she was moving a different treadmill downward. The lower options vanished into wherever they went, and more and more high-class options appeared as upper shelves manifested. She went all the way to the top, where a staggeringly gold bottle of something very large and expensive sat on the top shelf, but she didn’t go for that one. She went for the second-to-the-top shelf, grabbing a violet bottle of brew. She popped the cork on that one and the impenetrable air of the protected bar space filled with a soft call toward great times and good memories. It was like the entire atmosphere of the entire bar crammed into a liquid form. She poured herself a small shot glass of violet swirls, and then poured one for Erick, too. “A taste of Homey Heavens. A welcome to the neighborhood.”

Erick took the small shot glass, wondering at—

Lyra said, “To good times.” And then she downed hers.

Erick downed his—

For a moment, Erick was sitting down with everyone he ever loved for a nice meal and a good vacation, but from several different times in his life. There was Jane, trying her spicy wings down at Enduring Forge. There was Teressa, serving a whole roast cow at Festival that one year. There was Poi, with his fish dishes he made for a different Festival. There was Ophiel, with his purpleberry pie inside Benevolence, and right beside him was Quilatalap, also with his purpleberry pie. There was Yggdrasil, sitting at the bar with him, nodding.

The memory faded.

Erick breathed deep the faint smell of Elsewhere.

Erick chuckled, wiping away a small tear, saying, “To good times.”

“It’s nice to meet you, True Wizard of Benevolence,” Lyra said. “Got a name you’d like to be called on your tab?”

“Erick is fine, I suppose. I’m not one for lying very well at all.” Erick gestured at the violet brew. “How much does that one cost?”

“Not for sale. Only to be used for special occasions. Other than that, a billion resons a sip.” Lyra said, “We have thousands of ‘Erick’s, so no one will really know who you are until you use your full name. Most won’t even know then, but I like to keep apprised of gigantic local matters.”

Erick chuckled. “It’s only one new sun out of however many there are up there. 14? 15?”

“14 visible ones. The rumor is that 7 or 8 exist outside of Margleknot’s Sky, but sometimes that number is as high as 11. That red/blue one here in this sky only looks like two suns sometimes.”

“Every time I learn more, I have to reevaluate my idea of how big this place is.”

Lyra smiled. “That’ll never stop. As an example: I heard your inclusion into the resurrection line has already dropped the average wait time from 10.05 years to 9.87 years. Or at least that’s how the maths are mathing right now. The various warlords will likely increase their attempted captures of new lands, though, so that number will go back up to 10 years soon enough. They like to plan their campaigns around how long their people may or may not be dead, and 10 years is the accepted rate of how long they’re fine with people staying dead.”

Erick sat stunned. “… Fucking hells. In one breath I hear a good thing and in the other breath it’s open season for warlords to warlord more.”

Lyra grinned wide, saying, “That’s the kind of reaction I expect from a truly good man. It was very nice to meet you, Erick Flatt. I know all the best gossip around the Black Crystal District, so come around and share a drink with me sometime if you want to know some esoteric shit, or if you have any good stories of your own to tell. I can help you make connections based on what you choose to share.”

Erick paused. He asked, “I’m looking to permanently kill the dragon that has current Fae Enclave control over my world. How do I go about doing that?”

“A thousand resons.”

Erick held out his aura and dropped a thousand resons into a single amber sphere. It glowed like a sun, there upon the wooden counter.

Lyra gathered up the trinket, disappearing it into the palm of her hand. “You’re going to have an easier time finding capable people to help you if you look outside of Margleknot. Everyone inside the Grand City has an agenda, while most people outside of the city only want to get here for the power that this place might bring them out there, and those outsider agendas are much easier to work with than the complicated things of this land.

“You’re already spilling out Benevolence to the multiverse, so see about shifting that Benevolence with some Fate magic and other sources of controlling futures in order to find people to help you build your case against Nothanganathor out there in the rest of the universe. Gather them. Raise them. Use them here in Margleknot and then send them back home better for the exchange, or bring them with you to Veird when you go back.

“Whatever happens with the Fae Enclave, you’re going to need warriors to truly extol the virtues of your case against Nothanganathor.

“As for looking for help inside Margleknot, you might seek out the Wraithborne Tower and ask them for help finding good lawyers— I know this option disgusts you, for the Good of you is written in the very suns of Margleknot, and your disgust at this option is there upon your face, but the best lawyers truly do work for them.

“Or you could trust your Benevolence to try to pick people from the Waiting Room for you. Resurrections-on-the-cheap is always a good way to get help. The standard agreement for that is that you hire them for the years they would have needed to wait in line, and after that they’re free to go. You can offer better rates than the standard contract, but only the desperate would take you up on that because you would look suspicious. You don’t want desperate people working for you.

“Make sure whoever you hire is soul shackled, otherwise they would simply skip out on their debts— And yes. I can see that disgusts you, but that’s how it’s done. If you have a better way to make people pay their debts in an infinite world, then you can go ahead and invent that and change everything.

“The Celestial Observatory is a place you must go, but don’t expect much from them. Shadow already went to them long ago and they absolutely refuse to work with her on anything at all. They might work with you, but probably not, because of Shadow.

“Shadow is the main proponent trying to save Veird from Nothanganathor’s clutches, but while she can help you in some ways she is wild magic and she has burned many gates trying to control and rescue the remnants of her previous universe. Use her or not. It’s up to you. She’s waiting upstairs.

“And finally: Don’t make enemies before you make friends. As I said earlier, everyone in Margleknot has agendas with everyone else, and we’re all near enough to true immortals that pissing anyone off has a way of backfiring on you a long way into the future. Countless immortals have come here and been ostracized for their actions, and thus they have no influence at all. Shadow is touching that line right now.

“Nothanganathor made many, many friends before he became the Arbiter of Veird. That’s how he got there.” Lyra finished, then said, “That’s about what 1,000 resons will buy you. I hope it was helpful.”

It had been very helpful, actually.

Erick said, “You confirmed a lot of the plans I already made and added some nuance that I needed to know. Thank you. You must have some sort of fateful decision making power?”

Lyra smiled. “I do; just like all the other Old Dragons of this land. To answer your next question is another thousand resons.”

Erick deposited another thousand-reson crystal on the table.

Lyra swiped it up, saying, “My agenda is to have a bar that my friends can eventually find without error, as long as they ascend high enough. They’ve all died ten thousand times and been reincarnated ten thousand different ways, but they’re all still out there in the universe. They’re still existent, and thus hope remains. I know this because they’re all still tied to me, and I to them. I try to nudge things to make it easier for them sometimes, but sometimes they go up against too large of odds, or they’re too far away, and so they die and are reborn again in some other time and place.” She shrugged, putting the violet bottle back up on the top shelf, saying, “And so, I wait for them to join me.”

Erick felt his Lightning Path open wide.

He held out a hand and conjured a reson crystal that was not exactly gold. He set it on the counter, saying, “Good luck to your family.”

Lyra paused. And then she reached out to the resons. It was not a normal golden color. It was slightly white. She hesitated. And then she swiped it up. It vanished. “… Thank you.” She asked, “What does it do?”

“I’ve no idea.”

Lyra chuckled, then she dropped the barrier between here and everywhere else, saying, “Good luck, good sir.”

Erick picked up his beer and nodded. “Thanks for the welcoming beer.”

Erick walked away—

