… Maybe it was really hard, actually. Erick had no frame of reference for that difficulty. This was still the gift Erick was going to give the platinum dragon, though.

Once Erick was done with that, he went to see some of his messages gathering by his front gate.

He plucked out the best messages according to his Lightning Path and rapidly gained another appreciation for the vastness of infinity. Problems abounded; the work was literally never ending.

Erick jotted down the top 103 problems, each of which might incur reson costs from ten thousand resons, to ten billion, or trillion. Erick had no idea. There were several ‘reconnect a lost world’, like Abarial. There was a major request to ‘Please contribute to the resurrection cost line’, which was 1000 resons per person, and which usually had a person waiting 10 years before a resurrection. There was ‘The Celestial Observatory wishes to speak with you!’, which was something that Erick would actually be following up with later.

But first, Erick went and knocked on Lionshard’s door.

- - - -

Lionshard looked at Erick’s gift.

The guy himself had left not an hour ago after a rather nothing-conversation regarding the new sun in the sky and his Reson Gathering spellwork, and after handing over a curated list of problems he wanted his new sun’s power directed toward. The list was great. Lionshard thought that Erick was way too soft of a touch, though. If a simple message and explanation of a plight was enough to get him to help then…

Well.

He would be drowning in work and burning out way too fast.

Lionshard had tried telling him that he was taking on way too much work for not enough self-benefit, informing him about mana costs and such, and how one sun was not enough to solve any of these problems, but Erick didn’t want to hear it. And so, Erick had left, and Lionshard had set up solutions to the problems that Erick had given him, setting the systems of Margleknot to direct resons in those directions…

And now he was here, looking at Erick’s gift.

It was a Renew symbol, but for reson generation. It was a LOT better than Lionshard’s current conversion rate of 50 Fate mana to 1 Reson, but only if he used Benevolence mana for it, of which he had none. The conversion of Fate to Benevolence was… adequate, as he had explained to Erick. This Reson Gathering did not change the universe at all, but it was certainly a boon for Erick’s goals, and Margleknot was certainly already using as much Benevolence as he could, just to get these same conversion rates.

Lionshard wondered if Margleknot would be changing his publicly available conversion rates anytime soon. Would his 10-to-1 rate become 9-to-1?

Probably not. Margleknot would simply be getting a bit more efficient, behind the scenes. The system would work marginally better. Margleknot’s overall, real conversion rate was 9.97-to-1, and only because certain non-mana powers of his allow him to do that. Maybe his real rate would go to 9.94?

Erick’s rate was firmly at 9-to-1, though. He could become a very successful banker, if he wanted.

Lionshard was both jealous and incredibly happy for Erick.

After extensive testing, and after some proper mana altering and frameshifting, Lionshard had managed to eke out an 11 Fate to 1 reson conversion using Erick’s machine.

Which was phenomenal, for him.

But Margleknot’s conversion rate was 10 to 1.

So this didn’t actually help him at all.

Lionshard would continue to use Margleknot’s banking system. He had explained that to Erick who seemed to have taken that news okay, and also some other, odder way. At the mention of Margleknot’s bank, Erick got too chaotic to read. Lionshard let that bit of weird chaos go in order to get back on topic. ‘No’, Lionshard had explained, ‘Thank Margleknot (‘Yggdrasil’, Lionshard supposed) you have not upset Margleknot (the city) as much as you think you have.’

It was a good thing that Erick hadn’t upset the Balance too much…

“But this is touching a fate too large, for sure. And yet, Benevolence is in response to Malevolence, so is this a Balance shift at all? … Yes, it is. Malevolence was never that strong, but Evil has been rather stronger than Good for a long time. So this was… a good thing?” Lionshard was having trouble reading that particular Fate. “… Whatever the case, people are going to be shifting toward Benevolence cultivation, for sure.” Lionshard hummed as he inspected his gift. After several minutes, he decided, “This is really too extravagant of a gift. I need to give him something better in return… What, though? What could possibly be better than this? This is… A lot of money, as soon as I deign to hire someone to make resons for me cheaper with this. I would need to raise someone to power, though that shouldn’t be too hard. As for this artifact itself… Well it’s archival grade, for sure. I’ll have to put it on a pedestal, I think. Where should it go?”

Lionshard hummed and thought.

He had been meaning to organize the Margleknot archive section anyway. This would be a good new centerpiece? Yes. That worked.

“But what gift to give Erick in return?”

Lionshard thought, and thought, and thought, and eventually Guided Fate toward a good decision for himself.

“Ah. Clothes and food— Or rather fabrics and directions of where to find food he would like. Yes. That’s a better idea.”

Lionshard opened his messaging book and found an old standby.

“Hello. I would like to place an order for moonglow, sunglow, darkglow, and lightglow base fabrics, and a wardrobe of suits and various other clothes to fit the new Father of Margleknot… Yes, this is a real order. Yes, this is actually Lionshard calling you— This is still Lighthold’s Weavery, yes? I know I called the right number— Sure. I’ll hold.”

Lionshard frowned a little. Was Lighthold’s going downhill? No, surely not. Lionshard would have called someone else if they were. Lighthold’s was still one of the best tailors in all of Margleknot, right? Right. When had he ordered clothes from them last, though? … Oh. 3,551 years ago. Ah.

That would explain why they didn’t know it was him.

… Maybe he was too much of a hermit—

“Ah! Hello, Lighthold— Oh. You’re his son? Oh he passed? Ah. I’m sorry to hear that. 1,500 years ago? Ah. I have been out of current events for a while. My condolences. Can you still do— Ah! You can? Wonderful.” Lionshard smiled. “I have a big order for you. Yes, for the new Father of Margleknot. He got me a gift and I need to get him one, and I thought of clothes, and I thought of you— Your father, but I look forward to your work, too. So that’ll be moonglow and...”

- - - -

Erick stood on the grass of the lands of his property and asked the air, “I have a bank account?”

Words appeared.

You have an account which is only accessible here, in Margleknot. Your current balance is: 0

Current income: 167b per day

Current expenditures: Max.

Time till finished: <∞

If you want to pay for anything at all, you can stop funneling resons into the projects you have lined up and then pay for something, but your personal reson wallet is more than sufficient for common needs. Paying off the resurrection costs for people is a never ending process. I’ve devoted 50% of your income to that, and the rest to the lineup of needs you’ve already handed over to Lionshard.

“… Huh. Okay.” Erick said, “Thanks, Yggdrasil!”

The words in front of him bobbed, and then vanished.

Erick turned around and went out the gate of his front property, stepping—

- - - -

— onto black crystal roads. English-looking black crystal buildings lined both sides of the wide, black road. Steep roofs and balconies were everywhere, with little signs in curled script hanging off of black crystal bars above doors. People walked to and fro, headed here or there. That place over there was a bar. That place over there was an apartment building. There was a messenger office, which Erick assumed was for sending out letters like the stars he had gathered by his front door. There was a grocery. A spice store. Clothing store. There was a lot, and all of it looked high-end.

Prices ranged from 1 reson to 3 resons to a few more esoteric currencies for the odder items. A piece of clothing in that store that looked like a cloak made of Illusion cost ‘1 favor’, which was both interesting and telling. There was a bit of a barter system going on, but most transactions were done in resons.

Erick was glad he had made his wallet, even if Margleknot already had an automagic banking system.

Erick widened his senses a little, extending his sight up through a little pseudopod of aura. The city stretched out before Erick, and behind him. He had stepped through a black archway on the side of the road, and into a land of powers and so very many different races of people. He saw winged people and orcs-but-blue and people made of rocks and people that looked human but who had long ears— Ah! Some sort of elf, Erick imagined. Maybe they were astraelif, the ‘cosmic people’, and whom most would consider the dominant race of this cosmology.

Some people looked at him like he was strange, and then went about their days.

Erick loved that.

He was just another guy— Ah. He had forgotten to put his horns away. Or shrink down some. Ah. This was fine? Sure. This was fine. The city seemed full of horned people, or people with oddities and whatnot. He was pretty much average-sized right now, it seemed… Except for when it came to those really short people over there, moving in a group. They looked like goblins but with seafoam green skin and bodies like tiny supermodels. Kinda weird.

Erick went to find the Black Crystal Tavern, just to see what Shadow was up to. She might be mad, which was fine. In his defense, he had been busy getting his house in order. His house was still very much not in order at all, but that was fine, for now.

Erick stepped onto the road and walked down the way, only now realizing that he didn’t have shoes.

… Eh, the centaur guy over there didn’t have shoes, either, and neither did the lizard people buying bread in that bakery over there. Some of the astral elfs didn’t have shoes either… but those people looked like bums in dirty clothes and with dirty faces— Actually, the dirt on their faces was applied artfully, and their clothes only looked ripped and with shredded edges. That was on purpose.

Erick probably looked more like a bum than those guys...

Oh. Shit. He did look like a bum.

Erick smiled.

He loved this even more. He was just a bum going on a walk on the town! This was great.

Erick strode down the side of the street, walking with traffic to a place outlined in Yggdrasil’s Guidebook. The edge of the Old Dragon district was rather only a few kilometers wide, at the widest, but it was incredibly long. How long? Tens of thousands of kilometers long. And yet it only looked 4 kilometers long.

To the left of this black crystal land stood mirages of houses beyond ephemeral gates. To the right were gates leading to mortal lands. Here in the middle, in this infinity of length that looked 4 kilometers long, were repeats of businesses, but no repeats of houses or apartment buildings. People lived wherever they wanted, and they could visit the same bakery every day if they wanted, but the bakery over there was repeated in this same ‘4 kilometer length’ of the black crystal district over and over and over. Did they really visit the same bakery every day if they chose the one right next to their house? If they chose the one right next to their house, then yes. If they picked a different one, on one of the other iterations of the Black Crystal District, then that question was not so easily answered.

‘The Bakery’ —which was named exactly that, simply ‘the Bakery’— only looked like a normal bakery in a single building in a normal location with a footprint several tens of square meters large. In truth, the Bakery was actually a multi-dimensional bakery that existed alongside the entire length of the black crystal part of the Dragon District. It had a few thousand employees, and every repeat of the edge of this Dragon District was just another expression of the same building.

If Erick walked down the far edge of the place, he would end up behind himself and in a different sub-layer of infinity, and find slightly different people living in a slightly different ‘same district’.

The only way in which it was not a simple 10,000 kilometer long repeating place, was that if you wanted to meet a specific person, and if they wanted to meet you, then you just agreed to meet ‘at the bakery’ or ‘at the Black Crystal Tavern’, and you would be able to do exactly that. If you walked with the intent of finding a bakery that wasn’t crowded, you would end up there in 4 short kilometers, at the longest. If you wanted to see a big crowd somewhere, you could do that, too.

It was all about walking with intent.

And so, Erick walked with intent, down the road, ignoring the first Black Crystal Tavern he came to, looping around to the next sub-layer, to walk by the bakery once again.

And then he found the Black Crystal Tavern.

Shadow peeked out over the railing overhead, spotted him, and yelled out, “Took you long enough! Get up here! I’ll buy you a beer.”

Erick chuckled. “Sure, sure.”

The Black Crystal Tavern was a place of ‘adventurer ambiance’, as they would have called it back on Veird. Or ‘delver ambiance’, these days, with the dungeons and all. That first phrase was still hard-indoctrinated into the lexicon of many different people back home, though. This place would have suited them all well.

Wooden structure. Cozy, inviting lighting. A bard playing soft music on a fiddle on stage. People in coats and nicer clothes sitting in booths, drinking beer or wine and talking in low voices, or cheering with each other and eating food and spilling beer… Except no beer got spilled.

