Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Soul: 32.5m per day / 376 per second , [Darkness Level = 2.19x Ascension baseline]

Body: 207

Mind: 304

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+376, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.8m/∞, ↑ [+128, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+124, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+124, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: ??? [???]

- - - -

Erick stood on the balcony of his house in Margleknot, under a sun-filled sky.

One more sun held in that sky today, as compared to yesterday. That was Erick’s Benevolence Sun… or at least that’s what he was calling it in his mind. Anyway.

Message stars continued to pile up by the gate to his house like explosions of fireworks.

He would get to the starscape of messages soon enough, and all the rest of all the tasks he had set for himself, but first he wanted to do a few things to make the rest of this time easier.

Resons were the uber-currency of Margleknot, as far as Erick knew, though he was rather certain that many places took many other currencies. For the average person, 1 reson was 1/1000th a resurrection, and that seemed way more important than buying bread for the day, especially if people only made 1 reson a day, or something like that. Erick honestly did not know. ‘How many resons does a person make per day?’ was among the many, many questions that he simply didn’t know, and hadn’t really thought to ask anyone when had been asking those questions. Whatever the case, resons could be ‘used up’, and ‘go dry’, like Erick had been back there at the final casts of [Reson Gathering] up there on that sun, which meant they were limited.

And therefore smaller currencies must exist, because bartering ‘this’ for ‘that’ simply wasn’t viable… as far as Erick knew. Maybe smaller economies in Margleknot did bartering? Large economies did not barter, for sure… right?

Erick truly didn’t know.

He needed some experience with the economy, but first he needed a ‘wallet’.

He already had a ‘wallet’, technically. Resons naturally existed inside people, where they naturally accrued based on personal drive and desire and ‘reasons for being’, sticking alongside everything else that made a person a person.

He also had a way to force production of resons, through [Reson Gathering], and throwing [Renew] at the gatherer.

Now, to make all the rest of this easier, Erick needed his mana-to-reson generator to be an internal system that slipped more resons into his very being and which allowed him to ‘open the tap’ and pour out crystallized resons on command from, like, his aura? Erick wasn’t sure about that. But. Yeah. That sounded good.

Okay! Basic logic solved for.

Now to make it happen…

“I think I know what sort of gift I want to give Lionshard for his help, too.”

Erick went inside of his house to sit on a pillow in his mage tower. The Malevolence Beast was still alive on the first floor down there, but it wasn’t doing anything. It remained locked down, and that was good enough for now. Maybe Erick would do something with it later? Maybe not.

Anyway.

Erick sat down on the third floor of his mage tower and peered inside of his soul.

The entirety of his Status, in Benevolence crystal form, floated before him. It was made with Book-shaped Benevolence and other Elemental crystals, and it was a lot more complicated than an Escher painting. Still understandable, though. [Reson Gathering], his new spell which he had made, floated right over there. It was a multidimensional button he could press which did many things, all at once, all of them completely unlike most of Erick’s other spells.

Ignoring the complexity of the spell itself, and frameshifting to make that vision so, Erick saw the spell shift into a simple Renew-symbol that was not simple at all. It became a web-like construction made of many filaments that coalesced into most-of-a-circle, with stretched-out tendrils going everywhere. All of that central construction was focused on the break between the ends of the symbol. The spellwork would take in mana from the space around it, and make resons in that crack.

All of that looked good.

Erick frameshifted again, looking inward to himself, and to the symbol, and he saw more filaments connecting the two. Erick had frameshifted to see how his body connected to the spellwork, to see how mana got from inside to outside, and into proper shapes. This, then, was some of the way in which Erick used his own resources to cast this spell.

[Reson Gathering] was not a spell that was cast using mana, though. Or at least not fully. It was a spell made of Benevolence, and Erick saw where his mana fit into the spell, but there were only 9 bits of Benevolence in there. [Reson Gathering] was primarily a spell cast using resons.

Tracing those reson lines...

Oh.

Erick saw a forgotten memory that he had heard about a long time ago, but which never really came up, for various reasons.

Inside of his soul, inside of his physical body, and inside of his mind, were shadowy lines of power that connected to the space that used to hold the core in his chest. Those shadowy lines were his mana channels, and yet, they were not.

In his ascension, Erick had become a fully crystallized being and also a person of flesh and mind. His original core was gone. The mana channels that his body used to have running alongside his veins and nerves, in a shadowy duplication of his circulatory and nerve system, were gone.

He had never used them anyway. The Script and basic physical biology did that better.

Quilatalap had spoken a few times about how mana channels in the Old Cosmology were useful for keeping the body intact, and for exploring one’s aura, but they were an obsolete system from the Old Cosmology. Those old channels were what one used to balance oneself and rid oneself of unwanted mana. Now there were blood and nerves and a digestive system that emptied out concentrated mana from the body in order to prevent monsterization. The Script did aura exploration a whole lot better, too.

The old mana channels still existed, though, because they were a very important part of how things used to be in the Old Cosmology. Inertia that large could not be denied.

Erick had completely ignored his mana channels when he ascended, though.

But since he had desired to keep the same sort of body, here were some mana channels that he never used, reappearing again in an unexpected way.

His actual body did not have mana channels. Erick checked himself out in the real world for a good four minutes to make sure of that. And yeah; he had no mana channels.

But his spellwork thought he had mana channels.

The reson ‘wallet’ of his body was all throughout his soul, mind, and body, but [Reson Gathering] seemed to be attached to the lines of his former mana channels just a little bit more than all the rest of his crystallization. Even as he watched the spell inside of him, as he gazed upon its connection to his resources, he watched those possible connection lines of his soul and his spell shift a little, like the moving of a target. Those movement lines flowed alongside the spaces that would have contained his mana channels just a little bit more than they flowed everywhere else.

Honestly, if Erick hadn’t checked out this whole reson-wallet problem, looking for a way to stuff more resons into himself, then he probably never would have noticed this about himself. Or at least he wouldn’t have noticed until some unknown time down the road.

… The memory of mana channels inside of his crystallized self were… something.

Erick wasn’t sure if they were a weakness or not.

They were a foible; a way of being and doing that didn’t need to be that way, but which simply was.

They were how his spells activated; where the resources for them came from, when Erick wasn’t directing that power himself, through his aura. When he had his aura out he could make magic happen anywhere inside his aura, because his aura was him. Otherwise his Mana, Health, and Psyche, remained inside of his body, growing denser and denser over time. His mana channels were…

“Not really important now, actually.”

Erick considered why he started this exploration of himself in the first place.

He wanted to make a system to hold extra resons in his body. Did he need to figure out his obsolete mana channels? No, he did not. Might be something fun to learn eventually, but he didn’t really care about them, and his Lightning Path was telling him that whatever he was observing right now wasn’t important at all.

So Erick ignored his ‘not-mana-channels’, and went back to his [Reson Gathering] spellwork.

He copied the spell inside of his body. That took some doing, but he got it done, and now he had two of the same spell.

The second one automatically hooked into his everything exactly as the other one had, sending filaments out into his Soul, Body, and Mind. The basic form of the spell was exactly the same as the other one, and would produce a reson-Renew outside of his body, wherever he wanted it to be.

Erick came back to himself, breathed for a moment, taking some time to let time pass, because if he fucked up this next part he wanted to be able to easily return to this time period, and a larger break meant easier targeting for [Return].

And then he delved back into his Status.

Taking the second [Reson Gathering] into his control, Erick plucked at the ‘logistical’ filaments that would have created an exterior gatherer, drawing all mana inside of the gatherer and making resons, clipping all of them off. Now he was left with a [Reson Gathering] that only took from his own body.

It only took in 9 Benevolence and a bunch of resons, though.

Erick restrung the spell, adding logistical filaments to the reson production, and then stringing those ‘exit points’ all throughout his entire body. Those exit points for resons weren’t really there, and Erick wasn’t really doing what he seemed to be doing. This was all conceptual, frameshifting soulwork, but it should work exactly as he intended it to work.

And now he had a spell that was inside of him, that took his resources and made resons and put those resons into his own Status.

Erick already had a part of his Status which could measure those resons, too, and which could keep track of some of those resons.

All the plumbing was there inside of him to let him just… hook up this new part and see what happened! But that seemed like a dangerous step.

So Erick came back to himself and took another break, giving himself another ‘save point’ to come back to if he messed up…

Erick considered.

His Status had Book Magic in order to allow him to classify stuff inside of himself. Did this mutation of [Reson Gathering] work right, in that classification, Book Magic sort of way? Erick called up his Status box for this new spell, to see if that part of his Status worked like he imagined it would.

Words appeared in the air.

Reson Wallet, permanent self-enchantment, ?????

Make a reson gatherer inside of your soul and turn on the money. 9 mana to 1 reson.

Unintended side effects? Probably.

Erick grinned at that, and then he laughed.

“It worked! … Probably.”

Erick had a think.

“… It’s fine? It’s fine.”

And then he went back inside his soul.

With careful touches, Erick made a ‘tube’ of resources from his Darkness, which went to his Status, and then he hooked up a connection from his Status to [Reson Wallet], and then back again. The tap was not turned on. This was just getting the starting stuff ready.

Erick wondered if he had created a New Stat. ‘Reson Wallet’. An odd name for a Stat, for sure.

Erick pulled out of himself and checked his Status.

- -

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Reson allocation rate: 0%

Soul: 32.5m per day / 376 per second , [Darkness Level = 2.19x Ascension baseline]

Body: 207

Mind: 304

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+376, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.8m/∞, ↑ [+128, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+124, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+124, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: ??? [+???]

- -

Erick smiled wide. “OKAY! Wow. That worked. Okay. Good.” And then he chuckled nervously. “Now to turn on the tap—” He paused.

He thought.

“… does this count as a New Stat anyway? Can I… quantify this? Find out how many resons I have baseline?”

… He thought.

“No. Resons are simply not quantifiable; not really. That little bottom readout isn’t ever going to be right, either, just like how the Darkness level is incorrect. I have no idea how to measure Darkness, and no clue at all how to measure resons. Darkness is only estimated based on the initial start I had when I ascended, and just to know how far I have come, or if anyone tries to steal my Darkness. Resons are similarly unknowable, but I can certainly count out how many I might create from here on out… Probably.”

… Probably.

Erick nodded.

And then he went back inside of himself and turned on the tap.

Just a little bit!

Erick watched as mana flowed from his Darkness, through his foundational Stats, forming the basis of his crystallized self, and then to his Status, forming the simultaneous layer of his entirety. That’s where it struck his [Reson Wallet], and changed. White became gold and then flowed back into Erick’s Status, and into his everything.

… It seemed to be working. Nothing was breaking.

His little reson-creation system system could be recognized, removed, and remade at a moment’s notice, though. This set up… seemed okay? It seemed okay; yes.

Erick watched the reson system for a little while, watching Benevolence flow out from his everything, into a part of his everything that made goldish-resons, and then flow back into his everything, the resons fitting in smoothly with everything else. The resons were slightly gold colored, but when they slipped into Erick’s soul, mind, and body, they became nothing once again. They were there, for sure, but they weren’t knowable.

Which was exactly what Erick had wanted.

Okay! Good.

Erick came back to himse—

Well this is not ideal.

Erick was crusted over with golden crystal. It was 5 centimeters thick in some places.

Erick checked parts of his status again.

- -

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 33%, 31%, 31%

Reson allocation rate: 5%

Soul: 32.5m per day / 376 per second , [Darkness Level = 2.19x Ascension baseline]

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+361, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.8m/∞, ↑ [+124, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+116, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+116, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 1 [+19 = +2] Warning! Improper storage.

- -

