Erick moved like an unstoppable force covered in ice. Resons broke to the ground like so much amber, shredding Erick’s already-mangled clothes even further. As he moved, gold crystals broke away from uncomfortable places, and fell in sheets from his thighs and chest and back. Resons continued to fall from his skin, pushed out of his body like manifested honey that rapidly hardened, even as he moved around, like a continual rain of golden sand.

Erick mentally flicked off all reson allocation and the gold dust stopped. He shook out his hair and rubbed the resons from his eyes and other places, and then he put his hands on his hips.

He though—

“Ah! Maybe the mana channels can have a use after all?”

Erick went back into his soul and mucked around for a while, first figuring out how to add mana channels back to his body, or at least something like mana channels, and then actually doing that. Surprisingly, as soon as he started moving intent around, forming paths within his body to create what had been uncreated, the filaments from his [Reson Wallet] began to shift to those mana channels. By the time Erick was 10% of the way done with his channels, having only really started on the cavity in his chest where his core used to be and a few main channels down his torso and to his extremities, the channels began to reappear on their own.

Mana flexed inside of Erick.

Darkness twisted, filling his body with shadows of power.

Resons trapped in his flesh like gold dust between cells spilled out of his everything, filtering into pathways that did not exist anymore, but which sprang into existence when they realized that’s what Erick wanted.

Erick’s mana channels regrew all the easier for it—

[Reson Wallet] snapped to his mana channels, directly placing its main generative body in the space of his body and soul where his core used to be, and Erick allowed it. It was all conceptual, anyway. His body, soul, and mind hadn’t changed at all.

But his paradoxically existent and non-existent mana channels did reappear, and when the channels to his brain truly regrew, that was when Erick let the whole thing take over on its own.

Erick watched as a forgotten part of himself regrew from Darkness and gold, and then the Darkness faded and the gold filed into place, vanishing from sight once again.

Erick checked himself out in the real world, and mentally turned on the tap.

White gold flowed into the shadows of his core space, rebuilding a part of himself that Erick had lost in the ascension. But also not. That white gold flickered and faded inward, becoming one with his Body, Mind, and Soul, turning invisible once again. His actual core never regrew. The process of reson creation was like a continual glittering that reflected within all of his new mana channels, like some sort of fiber optic light show.

- -

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 33%, 31%, 31%

Reson allocation rate: 5%

Soul: 32.5m per day / 376 per second , [Darkness Level = 2.19x Ascension baseline]

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+361, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.8m/∞, ↑ [+124, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+116, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+116, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 9 [+19 = +2.1]

- -

So that seemed to be working now.

And now he had 9 resons! Or at least 9 that he knew about, plus however many he had innately, or whatever.

This was good.

… Erick turned the tap 100% to resons—

Golden crystals shattered out of his body, crashing out in every direction, breaking the third floor of his mage tower and a small part of his house.

Erick turned the flow back down to 5%.

The flow turned normal.

Erick spent the next several moments extracting himself from his crystal prison, scattering gold out and away from his house, and then he took a few minutes to rebuild the mage tower with his Authority. Nothing was truly damaged, either physically in the real world or metaphysically inside of Erick’s soul, which was great news.

Erick went outside of the castle, onto the open ground with the grasses and the moss on Yggdrasil’s root, to test out various percentages of reson conversion, going up slowly from 5%.

At 10%, Erick’s core and mana channels were filled with a continuous swirl of gold-white light, like a constant roil of lightning-fire, that escaped his mana channels and core and began to show up inside his flesh. He had millions of Health preventing actual damage to him, though, so that golden outpour only manifested when it actually escaped his skin. Or when it exited other, more easily exitable areas.

Erick didn’t think too much about that.

At 11%, the lightning-fire easily expanded past his skin, manifesting amber in sheets that fell from his chest and thighs and all the other parts of him.

Erick turned the flow down to 9%, and kept it there, because 9% seemed good. At 9% Erick’s core-space turned into an illusion of a gold-white core, and his mana channels appeared more ‘ephemeral’ than ‘firework’ or ‘lightning’. Maybe it was a slow strobe light? Yeah, that worked. No actual reson manifesting, though; all of that stuff went into his Status, exactly like it should.

He was now at 3.75 resons per second production, at a cost of 33.75 mana per second. He wasn’t sure what he could do with resons, aside from spend them and probably cast magics with them…

Hmm.

Erick waited till he had a thousand resons, which didn’t take very long at all, and then he controlled his aura to add… hmm. 6 resons? Yes. Erick added 6 resons to [Fireball] spellwork and flickered the flames upward—

A sun of fire replaced the entire sky overhead, burning, incinerating—

Erick rapidly threw dispels and siphon at the magic, drawing it back, pulling it inward, erasing the flames as best he could, and then when that didn’t fully work he slammed his Authority around the magic, condensing it from a contained nuclear fire down to Fire-aspected resons that rapidly decayed into nothing.

Erick had accidentally carved away the upper half of his mage tower. He had accidentally done a lot. He burned away a good several square kilometers of green away from Yggdrasil’s white root, and set the surface of the lake to boiling. Yggdrasil’s actual root was just a little blackened. Seemed fine? Sure. Seemed fine.

Erick looked around and said to himself, “Okay! That was a mistake. What the fuck did I just do?”

He thought.

He did it again, but this time he did a much more controlled creation of fire.

A tiny ball of pure white heat unfurled in front of Erick. It was like standing on the surface of a sun, or inside of a blast furnace. Yggdrasil’s root blackened. Erick’s Health took a huge, continuous hit, but he had millions of Health in the tank so this was nothing to be worried about. Even Yggdrasil’s damage was only surface deep. And so, Erick stared at the fire, and tried to understand it—

“Ah ha!”

It reminded Erick of something he hadn’t felt in a while.

It was the Red Dot.

This, then, was magnitude 9 Fire Magic; the instantiation of True Fire.

Erick sent his Mana Siphon-laced tendrils of Benevolence into the ball of fire and soaked the damage, pulling out the power of the thing he had created. Embarrassingly, or maybe worriedly, Erick took a while to break down his ‘White Dot’, which showed him the power of resons.

It seemed that resons were like ritual magic.

This was singing-at-the-mana levels of power.

So.

A lot of power.

And now Erick had...

- -

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 32.9m per day / 380 per second , [Darkness Level = 2.22x Ascension baseline]

Body: 208

Mind: 306

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+345, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.8m/∞, ↑ [+118, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+104, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.7m/∞, ↑ [+104, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 2,187 [+34 = +3.8]

- -

“… I have 2,187 of these, in addition to whatever I already had. Wow, those pile up fast,” Erick said... But then he looked at the rest of his Status. “And my Darkness went from 2.19 to 2.22, which means that I either significantly grew my Darkness by doing this act, or this was residual growth from the sun in the sky and all of Margleknot knowing me now... Really hard to know— But my Body and Mind went up, too? How did… They were at 207 and 304… How did they go up?”

Erick looked inside of his soul and saw resons soaking slowly into his Stats. All of his Stats. They weren’t just disappearing like they were into his Soul, Mind, and Body... And mostly Mind, actually. That’s where almost all of the resons were going. Resons liked being inside the mind? Sure. Nice thing to know. Kind of expected, too. Other than that, the resons were sticking around for a fraction of a moment longer inside all of his entire self. They were empowering his Base Stats.

For some reason.

Erick told them mentally. ‘No. Stop that’.

And that worked.

The resons began rapidly disappearing into Erick’s everything once again. They still mostly went into his Mind, though. Resons were reasons for being, after all; they were consciousness manifested, among other ways of calling them.

It was still surprising that telling them how to act got them acting properly once again, though.

Erick pulled out of his soul.

He checked his Status, and it looked good. The property was a right mess, though. Exposed roots. Burned moss and grass. Broken castle.

Erick washed the land with his Authority and fixed everything, taking care to make sure the land was stable and the castle was good and the waters were fine. There were still quite a lot of crystallized resons everywhere, but Erick tried waving his Authority at them, hinting with a bit of Intent that Yggdrasil could take that away for his own use—

Words appeared.

Thanks, Father.

The golden crystals sunk into the white root and then vanished from sight and sense as the power flowed away, off to wherever it was these things went. To all the rest of Margleknot and beyond, Erick expected.

Erick tested releasing resons next; not casting with them.

He held out his hand and willed open the mana veins that went to his palm, almost like he was channeling mana, but different. Gold-white crystals erupted up and out of his palm and halfway down his forearm, shredding his flesh. Blood spurted. It was rather uncomfortable, but not too uncomfortable. Erick shook out his hand and let the resons fall all around him, then he plucked out a few stubborn crystals from his palm. Flesh mended. Skin healed. No actual damage had been done, aside from a few hundred points of Health.

Not enough to worry about.

Erick tried using his aura to exude the resons, instead of channeling them through his veins.

With a white glow around his hand and a comfortable channel, Erick deposited a gold-white sphere of what might have been ‘1 reson’ into his palm. The white rapidly vanished from the gold, leaving behind a somewhat mundane-looking amber-like sphere about the size of a small egg.

Erick held it up to the light and witnessed unfiltered brilliance.

It was difficult to understand exactly what he was seeing, but he knew Possibility when he saw it. There was fire and lightning and healing and void all inside this little bit of reson, but there was also undiluted purpose. This little thing felt like it was a rock at the top of a hill. If it fell this way or that it would be the start of an avalanche that could change the world.

Or maybe it was simply a really good cup of coffee. A cup of brew that you remember having on vacation at some seaside cafe even ten years later; a memory that keeps you going when you least expected it to crop up.

With a small grin, Erick tried swallowing the reson with his aura, taking it back into himself—

The reson uncreated itself as it flowed into Erick’s body and settled down with his Self.

So that was that!

Erick wasn’t able to do that with Benevolence crystals… But then again he had never tried outside of the Script.

Huh.

Erick released Benevolence next, trying to make a simple crystal. That worked, and soon Erick held a meter-long length of glowing white Benevolence about as thick as his forearm that shimmered prismatically. He tried absorbing the crystal through his aura, as simply as he had absorbed the resons, and the crystal ended up in shards inside his hand and flesh. So yeah. That didn’t work.

When he used Mana Siphon on it, though, that worked. Of course Mana Siphon worked on mana, though.

Erick checked his soul and saw that [Reson Wallet] had hooked into his body a lot more than Mana Siphon had, which probably accounted for that oddness there…

Interesting.

Well.

Moving on.

Erick went around with his aura and sucked up the resons that had erupted from his flesh earlier.

Feeling really good about all of his new payment system options, Erick decided it was time to get back out there. First thing he needed was, again, clothes.

Erick plotted out a little garden space and then grew a cottonfruit plant with a bit of [Grow]. Soon, fibrous, long fruit pods dangled from branches, and Erick plucked them. Transforming wet cottonfruit into actual clothes was as easy as using his aura to press, dry, string, and then weave. He went rather fine with the cloth, going slow and probably with a bit too much perfectionism, because he was making clothes that he hoped he could wear more than once.

Once he was clothed again in white and black and bits of platinum, Erick made himself a whole lot of Benevolence-soaked platinum in order to create a proper gift for Lionshard, to thank him for his assistance with a bunch of stuff. Turning his right pointer fingernail into a dragonclaw, Erick began carving power into the platinum, turning mana-soaked metal into a ring of [Renew] about a meter across. A little while later, with the [Renew] systems working, Erick imbued the ring with [Reson Gathering].

The ‘Ring of Reson Gathering’ glowed a subtle white as it hovered there where Erick had put it, due to some stabilizing Force Magics.

Erick threw some basic Benevolence mana at his creation and shards of gold crystal spilled out of the empty space at the top of the circle. Good. It should work with all types of mana, too, but to be sure about that, Erick Altered his mana to a mishmash of Elements. The ring transformed a shower of random mana into gold resons, but the conversion rate… Seemed to be less than Erick’s Benevolence could do…

Oh.

This was actually a big deal. Conversion rates outside of Benevolence were not great.

“… This is fine? Lionshard just needs to Alter to Benevolence first, and it can’t be that hard, right?”

