The entire vibe of this confrontation had undergone a rapid shift as the Arachnec not only spoke far more words, with a less intimidating presence, but even seemed to have decided they were now going to work together.

Jake was really unsure if he liked this progression, and it didn’t get better when the Arachnec spoke again.

“I shall allow the Venusians to escape as a courtesy, and in return, I ask that you accompany me back to the Nest,” the Archweaver said, sounding polite, but Jake really didn’t get the vibe that this was something he could refuse.

“What if I had other plans?” Jake asked, wanting to at least see how far these Arachnecs would go. With the combination of Wings and Moment, he remained confident in escaping from this situation despite the overwhelming disparity in power.

“I ask that you delay them,” the Archweaver said in a firm tone. “Do not make this difficult for both of us. Our intent is to treat you like a guest, not a prisoner, but not following me back would be an unacceptable outcome.”

Jake frowned as it definitely sounded like they were trying to take him prisoner right now, making him unconsciously flare his aura, eliciting a small response from the Arachnec.

“You believe that you can escape me. I’m unable to gauge your true capabilities, so I won’t rule it out as a possibility. But there is no need to try. We do not intend to treat you like an enemy. If we wish to go beyond the Boundary with your help, the inevitable conclusion will be you leaving this world. You may be temporarily inconvenienced, but we shall strive to make up for any slights and compensate you duly.”

The Archweaver seemed sincere in its words, and Jake considered the situation before eventually just nodding, apparently now about to be a “guest” of the undead spiders he’d spent the last month killing.

He had no idea what the situation would lead to, and worst case, he could drag out time and teleport to the Seat of the Exalted Prima in about two months. Either way, one thing was for sure... this entire diplomatic mission in Venus had turned into an incredibly messy situation real quick.
