She didn’t really make any ‘new connections’ though she did get the feeling that many of those she engaged with had come up to her in order to get impressions of her, personally, almost as if to remove some of the mystique around the ‘gated Eskau’... or maybe it was that she was the potential Eskau of War for a clash against an enemy of myth?

Either way, it was clear that these people were interested in her.

Rane seemed to be experiencing something similar, though obviously relating to her rather than himself, personally. The blessed man didn’t seem to mind, keeping conversation polite, and just as politely declining all requests for ‘friendly duels’.

The Head of House had specifically reached out to them and requested that the whole Sappherrous family do the same.

Lea… mostly followed that request. Apparently, at least a part of the argument the girl had been a part of involved armwrestling, and in that, Lea utterly dominated even the Elder guests who cared to challenge her. The one Honored she was pitted against held her off to the point that the table beneath them began to crack, and servants came forward to immediately request that the esteemed guests stop such activities.

They all sheepishly complied.

All told, Lea seemed to be having a grand old time, and her nature as a human in an artificial body either wasn’t known, didn’t come up, or didn’t matter.

On one level, it made sense. The hall was filled with people of all kinds from hue- to beast-folk, elves to dwarfs, and other races too. This was the House of Blood, and as they kept saying, it’s the blood in everyone’s veins that really mattered.

It was a bit funny that Lea didn’t have blood, but the sentiment carried through regardless.

In the end, Tala found herself rather proud to be a part of this group, to count herself among them, and even to be a champion for their shared ideals.

With ‘enemies’ like these, gated humanity just might be able to enter into a new, golden age.

But a lot would be determined on the morrow. The next day, she would either be confirmed as Eskau of War, or she’d be scrambling for another way to maintain some level of authority in the arcane lands.

Still, that didn’t worry her, not really. Tomorrow would bring what it would bring, and worry would not bring the answer any faster.
