The sword gave him Peace, but the shield gave him Tranquility. Brother didn't like naming things anymore, calling it childish, but it was better for weapons to have a name. Attacks too, telling your opponents how you will kill them was too satisfying to pass up. That combination from before, adding a spin to Sweeping the Fields, I'll call that... Clearing the Heavens. Fucking trash all around me, it'll be nice to be free of it.

Smiling cheerily, he slaughtered his pursuers without pause, taking pleasure in their plight. The ancestors finally changed their tune as he killed, pleading for him to stop, begging him, and he ignored them as they'd ignored him. See how they like being rejected. See how these specters like being consumed. Opening his mouth, he inhaled deeply and the battered corpses liquefied before his eyes, collecting in a stream to pour down his throat, settling comfortably into his belly, his strength and courage returning to him. The remaining specters turned to run, but this was his mind, his dreams, and they would not escape, no matter how hard they tried. The void held them close, and he laughed while killing them with ease, devouring their delicious remains.

Satisfied by his revenge, he stood in the empty void, enjoying the silence and serenity, wrapped in warmth and comfort. No more ancestors, no more specters, only him, free and alone. His breathing steadied as he studied his weapons, more a part of him than ever before, as if he'd been born with them in hand. The shield felt more real, more solid, while the sword seemed insubstantial, as if not wholly present. Still, with Peace and Tranquility in his hands, it felt as though he could do anything.

Exhaling deeply, he extended the shield's blade and pierced the void, cutting a slit large enough to walk through. Stepping out into the light, he laughed and smiled in relief as he took in the sights of his familiar courtyard. Almost collapsing in exhaustion, he shook his head and marched to his bedroom in the corner, determined to sleep in his own bed with his blanket and pillow, snuggling with his fluffy hare.

Opening the door, he froze in shock as he stared into the void once again. Where his room should be, his brother floated, suspended in the air with eyes closed and body rigid, naked as the day he was born. His body was battered and bruised, the injuries from their body mirrored on his spiritual self, looking like death warmed over as countless ethereal specters gathered around him. Pushing against an unseen force, he tried to go to his brother's side and aid him, but the barrier kept him back, not even Peace or Tranquility able to pierce through. He moved around the manor to peer in through the window, banging and shouting for his brother's attention.

Closer now, he could see the malnourished specters were unable to touch his brother, and the injuries on his body glowed with light. Somehow, he knew brother was holding the enemy at bay and fixing their injuries from within his impenetrable fortification, the strain of keeping them alive all he could manage. Shaking his head, he chuckled in delight, his face stretched into a grin. He was right, his brother was the only person he could rely on.

With brother hard at work, how could I bear to slack? Sleep can wait. It was his duty to sustain their body.

Opening his eyes, he once again lay in the darkness, cataloguing his pains and injuries, free from the constant jabbering of the 'ancestors'. Taking only a moment to appreciate the silence, he grit his teeth once more and dragged his body forward, a wordless scream ripping from his throat. This time, he didn't black out, and with a wild laugh, he gathered himself to move again, screaming all the while before he passed out, only to wake and try again. And again, and again.

A strong pair of hands pushed against him and he recoiled at the contact, instinctively trying to fight as he screamed in challenge. The number of hands multiplied as they restrained him gently, one warm hand patting him reassuringly on the cheek. Relaxing in their grasp and closing his eyes, he sighed in relief as his strength faded away.

I did it brother, I managed to find help.

...er, I think...

Please be friendly.

It's out of my hands now brother, I tried my best. You'd be proud of me.

Chapter Meme
