She looked startled. “You mean just talk to it?”


“Sure. It’s worth a try.”


He wanted to remind her that being summoned came with bucketloads of problems and risks. But she knew. She’d agreed to the Contract. She’d gotten the speech. She was aware the person she was talking to had almost died on another planet recently.


She must really, really miss her family.


“Hey, the fireworks are amazing, aren’t they?” he said. “I’ve never seen anything like them. I heard someone on a light-up bicycle say the best view is supposed to be from the bridge, and people on light-up bicycles usually know what they’re talking about. You want to go there together?”


She blinked. Her face softened, but she shook her head. “Thank you, Alden. That does sound like fun. But I’ve got plans for tonight.”


He watched her go. She ate the basil leaf she’d plucked.


That’s a good sign, isn’t it? Angrily throwing the leaf on the ground would be bad. Eating it is more positive.


Possibly, he was trying a little too hard to read a girl’s mind via her interactions with an herb.


A few seconds later, when he stepped through the door into Garden Hall, he received the [Welcome Home] message and a notification that something had been delivered for him earlier.


There was a mailroom on the ground floor beside the laundry. He headed there and squatted down to reach the low postbox the notification had indicated. As soon as the door swung open with a squeal, he recognized the sky blue fabric and frayed straps of the backpack he’d worn in middle school.


Aunt Connie?


She hadn’t mentioned sending him anything the last time he’d called her.


He pulled the backpack out, and upon realizing that it smelled like his old bedroom, he couldn’t help but sniff it a few times. His aunt had wired the main zippers shut with the twist-tie from a bread bag. When he got the backpack open, he smiled.


Now it’s a lot more like being home.


“Alden! How’d the club meeting go?” Haoyu asked when he entered their apartment. “And what’s that?”


He was in the kitchenette, holding a bag of oats in one hand and a slow-cooker instruction manual in the other.


“The B-list was fun. Instructor Plim is our advisor, so that’s going to be really helpful. I put a hundred kilos of sand in my suitcase and threw it at the club president’s junk cart. And this is my wombat.”


He held up Wummy. “My aunt sent him. With four jars of hot giardiniera. The fireworks are different than I was expecting.”


“Are they? I’ve seen nonmagical fireworks shows on movies, and they do always look simpler. Lute’s going to go see the volley. Lexi went to buy earplugs so that he can sleep early.”


“The volley?”


“The Apex Wright workshops and the F-city Wright workshops have barges set up on either side of the bridge, and they take turns firing off all of their best magic missiles and fireworks. It’s the most popular thing to do. There are also some festival events in different neighborhoods. There’s a street closed to traffic and entirely covered in rangoli near Nilama Marina and a big temple that’s always decorated.”


“Are you going out?”


Haoyu groaned. “I know I shouldn’t,” he said. “Tomorrow’s my first official day of high school, and I want to make a good impression on my instructors. And we just had Kon’s party. But if you eat a healthy breakfast, it makes up for staying out late the night before, doesn’t it?”


He held up his oats. There would be oatmeal in the school cafeterias in the mornings for sure. But Haoyu seemed to have taken his mother’s doubts about his plans to cook for himself personally.


“Sounds logical. Can I come with you, or are you meeting friends?”


Maybe if you’d grown up watching competing teams of Wrights blasting magic at the night sky, you could casually plug your ears and go to sleep like Lexi. But Alden didn’t want to miss out on something like this.


You can’t just take it for granted that you’ll be here to see it again next year.


Haoyu’s expression turned pained at his question, and he texted instead of answering out loud. [I’m going with Kon and a bunch of people he’s gathered. You can come. I invited Lute, but he doesn’t want to see some of the people we’re going with. So he says he can just go alone.]


[I’ll ask to go with Lute then.]


A surprisingly obvious decision. Lute had been really easy to get along with all weekend.


Alden dropped Wummy off in his room. He fit right in. Wombats belonged on top of learning cushions. Then, he went and knocked on Lute’s door.


When it swung open, he was surprised to see Lute in plain clothes. Instead of one of his usual interesting outfits, he seemed to aiming for comfort. And maybe he was trying to be incognito. He was wearing his combat boots, baggy black sweatpants, and a plain gray shirt. He’d left off the eyepatch and covered his hair with a knit cap.


“Hey, can I follow you around and watch the fireworks?” Alden asked. “I figure you know where you’re going.”


Lute brightened. “Sure. I’ll be your tour guide. Lexi’s a bore. Who tries to sleep through this?”


He looked happy. So he must have wanted company…just not most company.


“Should I invite some people I know from intake to meet up with us?” Alden asked. “They’re living between campus and the Span.”


“The friends you wanted to bring to the apartment? If they’re cool, that’s fine with me.”


“Great!”


He texted Natalie. She and Hadiza were about to start classes in the same program as Lute, so they should get to know each other. They would all probably have more fun with a local showing them the way around tonight, and none of the intake girls were going to care about island politics and the Velras.


It was good for everyone.


[We were about to head out!] Natalie replied a moment later. [Did you see the big silver comets going by?? Come pick us up at the new place! The kitchen is amazing.]
 


********
 


Fifteen minutes later, Alden and Lute were sitting side by side on a crowded bus.


“Your friends are Rabbits,” Lute said. “What do they do? They’re not trying to be hero Rabbits like you, right? That’s not becoming a trend?”


Alden could hear the rapid pops of firecrackers through the bus window.


“It’s the next big thing,” he answered. “You should have heard one of the uni faculty on my interview committee talking about how charming I’d look saving people in designer shoes and a tailcoat.”


“You’re going to have to tell me why you picked that class one day. After all…you could have chosen almost anything.”


Lute, more than most people, knew how true that was.


For now, Alden could deflect by answering his other question. “Natalie’s got Cook of the Moment. She’s going to be in Arts with you. She plans to be the best private chef in the universe. She was helping me with my diet until this weekend, and I think I’m going into withdrawal.”


Lute stared at him.


“Hadiza’s got an object beautification skill. She’s in Arts, too. She’s not sure what she wants to do for a career yet, outside of being summoned. I know they’re both really excited about starting classes, so they might ask you a ton of questions. Emilija’s at Franklin High. She’s an F, so she couldn’t apply to CNH. She insta-fixes small patches of chipped paint. She likes it here on Anesidora a lot; I think she just wishes she had enough power to blend in more.”


“What’s wrong with you, man?” Lute’s voice was exasperated. He yanked off the hat and the oversized glow-in-the-dark novelty glasses he’d put on before they left the dorm.


“What?”


“All of the people we’re meeting up with are girls. And you weren’t going to mention it? I have hat hair! I’m dressed like a bum! And I didn’t bring any of my cool eyepatches.”


“They don’t care what you look like. It’s dark. And we’re going to be watching fireworks.”


Lute scrubbed his hands through his hair. “Do they like musicians?”


“Probably a normal amount?”


“I should go back to the room and change.” He stared down at his sweatpants. “I could meet up with you later.”


“That’ll take forever. You’re fine.”


Lute gave him a flat look. “I don’t get a lot of chances to make first impressions on people who don’t have preconceived notions about me. I’m not sure if you’re a good roommate for taking me to meet girls or a bad roommate for taking me to meet girls without warning.”


“You’re not meeting girls. You’re being a tour guide for people who still don’t know everything about Anesidora. Don’t be weird around Natalie. She’s my friend.”


“I’m not going to be weird. I’m going to be ugly, short, and badly dressed!”


“You’re not ugly.”


“Why don’t you just stab me in the other eye?!”


Lute started muttering to himself darkly. It took Alden a minute to realize the muttering had turned songlike. He glanced away from the window and saw Lute surreptitiously making rapid hand signs over his lap.


“Are you chaining right now?”


He didn’t answer.


As Lute finished up, Alden became aware that he was uneven. It was the first time since he’d met him in conversation class a week ago.


“One more,” Lute said. “Maybe the one that…”


He started up again, and when he finished, he sat back and straightened his shoulders. His expression relaxed.


“What did you do?” Alden asked.


“The second was a common one that increases self-confidence. Great for socializing, but use with caution in dangerous environments. The first was one of my personal favorites; it makes me look cooler.”


Alden examined him closely.


“It’s not noteworthy when I’m just sitting here. It’s a multi-layered effect that increases bodily awareness and control. Stat points can do similar things, but this is more flexible. And temporary, obviously.”


“I don’t quite—”


“It’ll be easier for me to move how I want to move for the next few hours,” Lute said. “The more you practice with it, the better it gets. I’ve practiced with it…honestly, too much. It’s great for when I play my harp, but it helps with all kinds of other things. I’ve been training my facial expressions with it. Tell me to mimic an emotion.”


“Do a happy smile.”


“Could you be more dull?”


“Fine, what’s a hard one? Look like I just hurt your feelings.”


Lute’s eye widened. His brows lifted and tilted slightly. His lips parted, and a small gasp escaped him.


Alden was impressed against his will. If he’d seen this expression in passing, he would absolutely have known that Lute’s feelings were hurt, and on top of that…


“How are you making me think that whoever hurt you was definitely in the wrong?”


“Just a touch of vulnerability,” said Lute. “Works every time. I started doing this thinking I’d excel at an acting class.”


“What’s the fallout from the chain like?” Alden asked. “For regular people, I mean. I know it might be different—”


“Imagine the klutziest you’ve ever been,” Lute said at once. “And then triple it. I broke six different things, including a toe, before I decided to stop being stupid and just go to bed when I’m paying my dues. Lack of bodily awareness actually makes it really easy to fall asleep. But you’ve got to remember to empty your bladder before bed. And make sure you’re not in some contorted posture that’s going to hurt when you wake up.”


A wordchain that gave you better control of your body at the price of a good night’s sleep sounded blissful.


The warning about bladder control is concerning, but I doubt it would be one of his favorite wordchains if that was a major issue.


“Could you teach me that one sometime?”


“Oh.” Lute gave him a smile that was perfectly apologetic. “I don’t think so.”


“It’s one of your family’s exclusive chains I guess? That’s fine.”


“It’s not that exclusive. There are different levels of restriction with wordchains. To teach you this one, all I’d have to do is put you in a conference call with someone I work with on Artona II and formally vouch for your integrity. It would be a long conference call because the guy likes to hear himself talk, but it’s not like it’s impossible for me to get permission.”


That’s all there is to it? The impediment to getting access to more wordchains is having a Velra pinky promise a wizard that you’re a good person?


Then the rest of what Lute had said caught his attention. “So you’ve definitely been summoned then? I was almost positive you had based on what you said in Conversation class, but—”


“Yeah, I get summoned. I’ve got an official work calendar and everything. I might occasionally disappear without warning, too. Don’t freak out if it happens. It’s not like a real emergency summons. I don’t do anything physically dangerous.” He stood as the bus slowed to a stop. “I probably can’t teach you that chain because it’s difficult. Wordchains are…I guess you’d call them picky? Some of them more than others. The low-power, publicly available ones are the easiest to cast.”


He hopped lightly down the bus steps and onto the sidewalk.


Alden followed him, listening avidly.


“The more powerful they are, or the more esoteric their uses are, the more likely they are to be lazy bastards that refuse to work. Oh, free sparklers! Thanks!”


He said that last to a woman in a long skirt who was walking past with baskets of them. He took a handful.


“You were saying?” Alden prompted, when Lute started looking around for people with more freebies instead of continuing his speech.


