“To make harder chains work for you, you need to have just the right combo of body modifications or be a perfectionistic glutton for tedium. Or all of the above. Being higher ranked also helps, but don’t ask me why because the only answer I have is Aulia’s. And hers is some nonsense about magically powerful people being more in tune with universal vibrations.”


He frowned. “Or you could be a prodigy like Hazel and just feel how to be good at them.”


“I’d still like to try,” said Alden. “I mean, if you don’t mind teaching me. I don’t plan to make wordchains a huge part of my daily life, but—”


“That’s another thing. The more you do them, the more forgiving they are about mistakes. So those two I just used on the bus? I can only mumble them like that because the self-confidence one is weak, and I’ve done the other one so much. I have to be really precise with my words and signing when I’m mastering a strong new one.”


“This way,” Alden pointed toward the building indicated on his interface map.


“Your friends are living on the edge of Boom Town to save on rent.” Lute nodded. “A courageous choice.”


“The Wrights don’t actually blow people up, do they?”


“Themselves. Occasionally. Mostly the problem is the noise, the smells, and the lack of conveniences. Even if you shield your place, you still have to walk through the neighborhood to get around. And nobody’s going to put a decent restaurant in an area full of Wright workshops.”


It wasn’t long before they were standing outside the girls’ apartment. Lute had just finished finger combing his hair when Hadiza answered the door.


We might really not be dressed well enough to hang out with them, Alden though.


Hadiza was in a fitted black turtleneck dress, and she was decked out in gold accessories. She’d definitely given everything the skill treatment. Even the gold metal bands wrapped around her long ponytail were so shiny they practically glowed.


“Your outfit looks amazing, Hadiza.”


“Thank—”


<<It’s the thief!>> Emilija bounced into view from a side room, wearing a silver sequined jacket over a red shirt that matched her lipstick and her fingernails. She’d once told Alden that there was no excuse for a paint-fixer to ever be without polish. <<Natalie, he’s here! Don’t look into his sad puppy eyes when he talks about your guacamole.>>


“Hey! I was just complimenting her.”


“You were trying to convince her to give you more food,” Hadiza said.


Emilija grabbed the door and threw it open wider. <<She’s going to practice meat now, and we like it that way.>>


“Beef ribs,” said Hadiza.


“Candied bacon,” said Emilija.


“Lamb stew.”


“Fried chicken.”


He swallowed. Don’t drool in front of people, Alden. Have some self-respect.


Lute cleared his throat.


“Ah right!” said Alden. “Let me introduce you to my roommate. This is Lute Velra. Lute, the kind one is Hadiza, and the mean one is Emilija.”


Emilija stuck her tongue out at him.


“You guys, Lute’s in the art school, too. He’s a harpist. He’s really talented.”


Alden had thought he was at the funeral anyway. He had multiple instruments and a disdain for his classmates’ skills. It suggested some degree of talent.


Lute held out his sparklers and smiled winningly, “Alden suggested you might like a tour guide for the night. Sorry I’m in sweats. I was moving furniture right before we left, and I didn’t want to make him late to meet up with you.”


Alden stared down at his shameless, lying face.


He texted him. [Is “moving furniture” Anesidoran slang for eating a steak and blue cheese sandwich in the bath?]


As the girls turned to lead the way into the place, Lute’s fingers moved rapidly. [You’re a good man. You called me talented. We’re friends, aren’t we?]


He was wearing a puppy-dog look that even Emilija couldn’t have found fault with.


Alden rolled his eyes. [Fine. As far as I know, you were bench-pressing the bathtub for three hours while you inhaled fries.]


A minute later, they were politely admiring the kitchen, and Alden was resisting a powerful urge to steal a fistful of granola from a glass canister beside the pizza oven, when Natalie stepped out of her room.


“Sorry, y’all! It’s late back home, but my parents still didn’t want me to hang up the phone. Hi! You must be Alden’s roommate! Alden, you’ve finally got roommates!”


“I do. This is Lute. He’s…”


Looking like he just got hit in the face with a brick.


Natalie wasn’t even all dressed up like the others. She was wearing her rabbits and radishes blouse and jeans.


Lute recovered quickly, at least. Maybe it was his wordchain making him aware that he’d gone temporarily slack-jawed and mute.


“Natalie!” he said. “Nice to meet you. I was just telling Emilija and Hadiza that one of our roommates would be envious of your pot and pan collection.”


He pointed up at the copper cookware over the stove. With an unnecessarily dramatic and elegant arm motion.


Alden had to give him credit for the attention to detail.
 


*******
 


They had a lot of fun.


Lute knew where all the best light displays, street performances, and firework sellers were. When the crowd watching the volley from the Apex half of the Span turned out to be pretty crushing and Emilija started to look uncomfortable, he led them all to an oceanside high-rise that looked out over the bridge toward the lights of F-city.


“Aimi’s gone out. She doesn’t mind if we use her balcony.”


“Wow,” said Natalie, looking around the place as they crossed a white tile floor strewn with clothes and shoes. “This place is swanky.”


Except for the laundry everywhere—did Aimi Velra just strip and fling everything each time she walked through the door?—she was right. The apartment was minimalist and modern, but there was something comfortable about it.


“Tailor Environment,” Hadiza said. “It feels like it.”


<<I was thinking the same thing,>> said Emilija.


“Yes,” Lute said. “My family doesn’t believe in skimping on the magical amenities. Aimi probably had the same Rabbit do this place that the Grandwitch uses on Libra.”


“Grandwitch?” Natalie said.


“Libra?” Alden asked.


“Grandwitch is my grandmother. Libra’s her megayacht lair. And my former address.” Lute slid open the balcony door. Wind rushed into the room, and the sheer curtains whipped around. “Hang on. I forgot to activate the shielding.”


He stepped over to a series of foggy bubbles on the wall that Alden had mistaken for decorations and ran his fingers over them. They glimmered faintly, and the wind stopped.


The balcony was obviously a major feature for the apartment, with a table, lounge chairs, and a hot tub that glowed with color-shifting lights.


<<I want to get in.>> Emilija gazed at the tub longingly while everyone else stood at the railing looking out at one of the the barges. The Wrights were firing up a device that made something that looked like plasma branch and twist over the water.


Natalie held another sparkler out toward Alden, and he flicked his fingers over it. He’d been enjoying lighting them for everyone for the past couple of hours.


It flared, casting sparks around her hands. She beamed at him. “That’s a great spell impression. I wouldn’t mind having it for myself.”


There was a loud roar, and a band of white light as wide as a river shot through the air over the bridge. The balcony was brighter than day for a few seconds, and then the light band broke apart and rained down over the ocean in sizzling motes.


<<A bra is like a bathing suit. There’s really no difference.>>


“There is,” Hadiza said, glancing over at Emilija.


Natalie nodded.


Lute coughed. “I’m sure Aimi has swimsuits. You can borrow one. She’s not someone who would mind. Or even notice.”


Over the course of the next five minutes, Emilija played with the settings on the tub, and the girls talked themselves into going to explore Aimi Velra’s room in search of suits.


As soon as they left, Lute rounded on Alden. “Would it be good funny or bad funny if I got in the hot tub with all my clothes on?”


“Considering the fact that you’d have to splash your way back home in wet sweatpants, it might be sad funny. And uncomfortable.”


“I think I can make it look cool.”


“That’s the self-confidence chain talking.”


“I can definitely make it look cool.”


Alden chuckled.


Lute stood on his tiptoes and leaned over the railing. “This has been the greatest weekend. I wish I could rewind it and do it all again.”


“You just want to torment Lexi with eye jokes.”


“I’m going to do that anyway. It won’t get old.”


They watched the barge on the other side of the bridge send up sprays of fireworks in the shape of a peacock’s tail.


“Hey, I’ll show you the physical gestures for the wordchain tonight. We can practice them tomorrow in Convo IV. I’ll correct you, and you can correct my garbage Artonan. It’ll make the class less boring for both of us. If you still want to do it after you see what a pain it is, I’ll set up a call with my boss and get permission to teach you the full thing.”


“Really?” That was going to make that portion of his days so much more beneficial. “Thanks!”


<<Bubble tub, are you hot!?>>


Emilija appeared, wearing a very minimal red bikini and carrying a towel. Natalie and Hadiza were behind her in borrowed t-shirts over their swimsuits.


“It’s fine to get these wet, too, isn’t it?” Natalie asked, gesturing at her shirt. It said Tokyo on the chest. “Your cousin’s a different size than us, so the suits are…”


“Little boobs,” said Hadiza, already slipping into the water.


Lute smiled at them all graciously. “Aimi will not mind. Her house is your house. Help yourselves.”


A second later, Alden got a text from him. [Don’t thank me. I should be thanking you.]


Then he walked right over and stepped into the tub, combat boots and all.
 


*Stolen from Royal Road, this story should be reported if encountered on Amazon.
