That still left her with a dilemma. Did she want the position of leader? She tried to take Maggie’s advice and look at her immediate, gut reaction to the prospect, and unfortunately, it didn’t help, because her immediate reaction was that she both did and didn’t want the position. She did want it because she worried about someone unqualified getting it, but simultaneously, she didn’t want it because she wasn’t sure she was qualified and didn’t want the pressure.

She thought back to when she had been in similar situations in the past during group projects in school. Back then, she had always chosen to defer responsibility. Sometimes it worked well, and someone ambitious and driven would take the lead and guide the group to a good grade. Other times, it was a disaster, and the most popular person got the role, regardless of their competence, and Elise would have to work three times as hard to pick up the slack in order to save her grade.

This case was a bit different, but the same principles applied. If she accepted she would be stuck with the responsibility, but if she rejected, she risked being stuck under a bad leader. She deliberated for a few more seconds as the group stared at her, waiting for a response.

“Alright, I’ll do it,” she finally said.

The others nodded and smiled, and she felt a sense of equal relief and worry from Telvir. No one spoke for a few seconds before Elise realized that she had just accepted the leader role, and was now supposed to take charge.

“Right, so what day works best for everyone?” she asked. “I’m free every evening.”

“Me as well,” said Frank.

“I have tutoring on Tuesdays and Thursdays,” said Hannah.

“I have an astronomy class on Friday nights,” said Lauri.

“I am also busy on Friday nights,” said Telvir.

“That leaves Monday and Wednesday then,” said Elise. “I think it would be best to meet with Sucri on Wednesday and go on our own excursions on Mondays.”

“Sounds good,” said Frank.

“I agree,” said Hannah.

Lauri and Telvir simply nodded.

“Okay…” said Elise. “Then I guess we’re about done? Do we want to meet on Monday before our first session with Sucri?”

“I personally think we should,” said Hannah, raising her hand for some reason. “I believe it is important that we all grow accustomed to each others’ abilities as soon as possible so that we can benefit more fully from Professor Sucri’s Wednesday coaching.”

“I dunno,” said Frank. “I was kinda hoping that I’d be able to relax this Monday night.”

Hannah turned to him, her expression somehow growing even more stern.

“You just said that you were free every evening,” she said.

“Well, not for much longer, it looks like,” he said with a lazy smile. “Can’t I enjoy my last free Monday?”

“But–”

“I agree that meeting on Monday is a good idea,” said Telvir, cutting through the budding argument.

“Same,” said Lauri.

The entire group turned toward Frank, who sighed.

“Well, I guess if that’s what all of you want,” he said with a shrug.

“Does seven o clock work for everyone?” asked Elise.

The others gave words of affirmation, and Elise internally sighed with relief. The process had been much simpler than she was worried about.

“Then we’ll meet at the central fountain at seven on Monday,” she said. “And I’ll let Professor Sucri know that we’ll be doing our coaching on Wednesday.”

The others nodded, and soon after, the group broke up, heading back to the rest of the club members as Elise talked to Sucri. Sucri seemed happy to hear that they were going into the Dungeon on their own before meeting with her, and gave Elise a few tips on leadership before letting her go. Elise rejoined Sophie, who was using every last drop of her mana in an attempt to break through an older student’s wooden shield with thick wooden roots of her own. To her chagrin, she did not end up succeeding, but she did at least manage to crack the shield before she ran out of mana.

Sophie stayed in that same odd, competitive mood the rest of the meeting, and with her draconic mana recharging more quickly than most, she was able to participate in many different activities that the students were doing. The ones that were competitions, she always lost, but Elise was pretty sure that her control over nature mana had noticeably improved by the time the club meeting officially ended, and the majority of the students started to leave.

Sophie wanted to stay behind and keep practicing with the other, more driven students who were still present, but Elise reminded her that they had promised Nick and Bianca they’d be home for dinner, so Sophie reluctantly said her goodbyes, and the two left for home.

Sophie was uncharacteristically quiet on the walk back, clearly deep in thought. Elise didn’t want to interrupt whatever she was thinking about, so she turned her attention outward, taking in the beautiful campus. They reached the Grays’ house without exchanging a word, and even dinner was strangely quiet, to the point that Nick seemed to be concerned.

“Sophie, did something happen at the club meeting?” he asked.

“Nothing,” muttered Sophie.

“Are you sure? You’re acting a little down.”

“Huh?” asked Sophie, blinking in surprise. “Oh. Sorry.”

“What happened?”

Sophie poked at her food, reluctant to answer, so after a few seconds, Nick turned to Elise with a raised eyebrow.

“She didn’t get chosen for the rookie Dungeon Competition team,” Elise explained.

Sophie’s frown deepened as a look of comprehension passed across Nick’s face.

“Ah, I see,” he said. “Well, that’s not too bad. Not everyone gets to participate. There’s always next year.”

Elise and Bianca both winced.

“I wanna do it this year though,” grumped Sophie.

“There’s still time,” said Elise. “If you work hard, you can still make the team. Plus, that Frank guy didn’t seem all that dedicated. He might drop out, in which case there’ll be a spot open.”

“Yeah, but I don’t even have a Dungeon Pass,” she said. “And Sucri said I wasn’t ready for one yet. And there’s only a month until the teams are finalized. How can I prove to her that I’m ready if I can’t even go into the Dungeon?”

“You don’t need to,” said Irylax. “Did you say the teacher’s name is Sucri? I’ll go talk some sense into her.”

Sophie’s eyes widened in alarm, and she quickly raised her hands.

“Wait, no!” she said. “I want to prove it to her on my own. I don’t want… to rely on you for everything.”

Her words trailed off in the end, and a moment of silence fell across the table. Irylax looked at Sophie sternly, but Elise thought she sensed a hint of approval in the dragon’s eyes.

“If that’s what you want,” Irylax finally said before turning back to her food.

More silence followed as Elise thought back to something that Sucri had briefly mentioned when she was explaining the Dungeon team. Apparently, those with silver passes could take passless students into the Bronze areas. The Bronze areas weren’t really good for experience points, but for someone like Sophie who had never even seen a monster more dangerous than a slime, they were perfect.

“I think I can take you into the Dungeon, Sophie.”

“You can?” asked Nick.

“I think so,” said Elise. “I got my Silver pass, so that should mean I can take her into the Bronze areas, right?”

“Oh, I didn’t realize you were up to Silver already,” he said. “When did you get that?”

“Wednesday,” she said. “But Sophie, what do you think?”

The question was largely rhetorical, as the look on Sophie’s face was really all the answer she needed. Or at least, that’s what she thought when she asked it. However, Sophie still managed to surprise her with her response.

“Can we go right now?”
