Of course, this all depended on how arduous these one-way portals were to make. A couple of weeks of studying and experimentation would grind me through the problem most likely. With that in mind, I pulled out my obelisk and got ready to study since the Overseer was still passed out.

It had been a long time I entered my obelisk. The sphere of white light surrounded me, blocking out all sound and light from outside. Changing the options with a thought, I unblocked the noise from outside. I didn't want anything eating the others while I was reading.

The basic screensaver was the same creekside surrounded by a forest of deep green. I sat beside the trickling water, opening up a search function for Torix's library data set. I began with scrying magic since it allowed the user to see through water or mirrors. I pulled out a couple books and got to work.

Scrying was actually one of the fundamental fields of portal magic, a larger subfield of study. It went from turning water into mirrors all the way up to wormholes through spacetime. I was shocked by the sheer depth of the field.

In fact, Torix left notes on a planned progression through this style of magic. Turns out Torix involved this style of magic heavily when tutoring his students. I followed the idea behind it, focusing on a simple scrying mirror on water first.

With that in mind, I pulled some water out of my dimensional storage. I created two pools of water beside each other in front of me. A few moments later, I raised a hand over a puddle, bending my mana into the liquid. After a few minutes, I created a conduit between the two pools.

After visualizing my field of vision, I followed the instruction manual. I placed my hands together and pulled them apart. In a moment, a faded reflection of the forest above appeared in the pool. It was a different reflection, however, as the angle of the branches shifted ever so slightly.

I made a scrying pool in minutes. Huh...That was easy.

New Skill learned! Scrying(lvl 10) - While others attempt to see through their eyes, you see through the will of the world. +10% to scrying accuracy and precision.

The Originator tree was definitely helping me here, easing the learning process. The fact I already owned a vast knowledge of mana manipulation didn't hurt my situation either. With that finished, I practiced on forming several pools at once and extending the range of sight for the skill.

It didn't take long before I had several pools, each of them angled in different directions. I created gravitational vortexes that formed smooth walls of water, holding them in different directions. I would have no blind spots in combat using this skill, though it might not be the best idea to cover portions of my vision with what amounted to mirrors.

From beside me, a voice grumbled on the ground. The Overseer awakened, lulled from his sleep at one of my curses from a portal wobbling out of existence. As the Overseer sat upright, I tapped the sphere of glass, my obelisk closing out and saving my position for the future. Damn was it convenient.

As my field of vision shifted from the forested creek to the forest around the footholds of Rivaria, the Overseer grumbled,

"It's as if someone swung a pickaxe inside my head. Holding Schema is exhausting, even if it is a microcosm of his existence."

I crossed my arms, "How come a Sentinel can do it and not bat an eye?"

"They are far more automated than I. Overseers do detail-oriented work that requires the judgment of an individual. Schema uses a neural uplink to use my body for his purposes. Even small fragments of his consciousness overloads the capacity of my organic brain."

"Well shit, that sounds awful."

The Overseer groaned, "It is. What did he tell you?"

"Quite a few details. As for useful info between us, he raised my guild status and allowed me to create contracts."

"Hmm. I see. S tier guild now already. Considering the size and scope of your guild, perhaps the ranking is a bit much. Who am I to question Schema's judgment, however? Now, it seems as though he rewarded you amply for your time. I will go over the details stored in these terminals and be back with you within a few days."

I smirked, "You think these are the only terminals?"

"I thought that was the case. Is it not?"

I laughed before saying, "No. Not by a longshot."
