Her opponent didn’t even blink, diving a hand into a dimensional pocket to withdraw a small rod. The magnification spell helpfully focused on it, and all of the Heirs gasped. Aarl had a copy in his bags, pilfered from Sussu’s vault. Sarya had called it a rod of annihilation, and Nathan was pretty sure it contained a dollop of antimatter.

His aura wasn’t even halfway through the arena walls, and besides, what was he going to do? He couldn’t use his antimagic on the rod, all that would do is break the magical containment field that prevented detonation.

Sarah hammered a second bullet into the back of the first, pushing it further into the thick gel-like shield that protected him. He raised the rod and gripped it with both hands, prepared to snap it.

Then Sarah drew her revolvers, often neglected in favor of the greater stopping power of her rifle. But they made up for it in speed of fire, and she emptied both guns in a blazing fusillade of smoke. The bullets smashed into the shots she’d already fired, piling up to force the first slug all the way through the barrier.

A broad arc of red splashed out, and the Questor fell like a scarecrow being run over by a tractor. The rod clattered to the base of the arena. Everybody watched it bounce across the crystalline floor with bated breath. Then Sarah swooped down and grabbed it, cupping it close and exhaling a ragged breath. “So much for the natural order.”

Nathan whooped, ecstatic at the victory and Sarah’s survival.

Aarl shot him a concerned look. “That weapon seems built to kill you. I hope they don’t have another. But here’s your secret weapon.” He handed Nathan the adamantium dagger, still in its unenchanted sheath.

“Thanks,” Nathan said, taking the dagger and attaching it to the small of his back. He took a calming breath. He was about to speak, and afterwards the enemy would be able to set up their perfect set of duels against him. “I think a rod of annihilation beats an adamantium dagger.” He hopped out of his seat and started flying towards the center of the arena.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
