Jake also reluctantly agreed with that as he continued scanning their surroundings, hoping to spot something... which he did. Just in front of them, some of the flowers had been trodden down as if a small creature had been sitting there, and when Jake focused, he saw something else.

On his shoulder was a single small piece of hair. Jake enveloped the hair in mana and lifted it to appear in front of him, and the distinct color instantly made him realize where it had come from.

Jasper?

It wasn’t possible that it had come from before when... wait, what was Jake even doing before he entered this space? He had been picking golden flowers and stumbled upon a nine-leafed one that had transported him into this world, where he’d met others who’d also touched ten-leafed flowers. But what about before that?

There was the desert that he’d gone through, but how had he gone through it? Had he been alone? No, no, when Jake really thought about it, he was pretty sure there had been someone else, or perhaps multiple people; he just couldn’t remember who.

“Everyone,” Jake said in a severe tone. “Do me a favor and try to recall what you were doing before entering this space, as well as who you were with. Consider the details, not just the broad strokes.”

Jake got a few weird looks at first, but the three did as he asked, and he immediately saw their faces change. Several seconds passed before the Demon Prince spoke again, having some good insight.

“Alright, our memories have definitely been messed with, but it’s in such a crude and simplistic way it’s clearly not meant to work long-term, which begs the question of why. What is the purpose of sealing off memories like this?”

Jake continued studying the small hair left by Jasper, and once he felt entirely confident it had come from the little guy, he also suddenly remembered something else. He wasn’t sure how he could have forgotten, but just then, he realized he had a Hunter’s Mark on Jasper, and that the Planeswarper had also left a mark on him in turn. One he could destroy to notify Jasper.

While he could still remember its existence, Jake did so as he also lifted his arm and tore off part of his sleeve, using his other hand to take out a katar. With many swift movements, he left a few words in the form of wounds, believing that the pain would constantly remind him they were there.

Instantly, he forgot what he had even been doing a second earlier, but the pain brought his mind back. For a few seconds, he was in a loop of forgetting and remembering every single second, as whatever affected him tried aggressively to work its magic... aggressively enough for Jake to notice the source as he didn’t even take the time to think, but simply reacted as he exploded with arcane energy and attacked, much to the shock of everyone else present.
