"No, just telling you how I feel. Something broke the Great One. You want to know what that tells me? It tells me that you're seeking a power that's not going to free you. You're seeking a power that, at most, will turn you into something that will inevitably get cut down some day too, and instead of dying for good, you'll get to experience lying dead, dreaming while parasites steal your skills so that they can pretend to be gods as well. Eventually, they'll fight each other over your power because they disagree on the shape of the future. So it's going to be war, which makes the System happy. After that, someone will win, but that just means they get to fight someone else instead. No reward, no ending, no victory. Just war, war, war, war, death, death, death. Seems pointless, so I don't really care anymore. I’m done with that shit. The System can have someone else play along.”

Another awkward beat followed, and Shiv sighed. "Look, Cripple, if you want me to be entirely honest, I do feel bad for you. I feel bad for what you are, for what you've become, for what you had to put up with. But frankly, you're trapped. You're stuck in your story. Now, I don't know what the Starhawk plans to do with all those Phylacteries he's been collecting, but I'm going to tell you what I think is going to happen. Firstly, I believe that he does mean well. But well-meaning doesn't matter. I think he's going to use that power and try to fix the Republic, but the Republic will break some more, because things are complicated and the System wants people to fight each other. The fact you managed to build a nation and hold that all together, despite how much I don't like the Ascendancy, is pretty felling impressive. But even that's mainly because of Veronica by this point—not any of you Ascendants. You guys are shadows, getting more shadow-like with every passing day, and when you're not shadows, you're like mana bombs on the verge of going off."

Cripple drew closer, pointing a massive finger against Shiv's body. It was practically large enough to cover the Deathless's entire torso. "You do not get to say these things to me," Cripple spat. "You have no idea the sacrifices we've all made to see the creation of our Republic. You have no idea—"

"I'm tired of this conversation," Shiv replied. And then he spun on his heel and walked away. Cripple flinched briefly, too stunned to respond, before a sputter of outrage followed.

"Deathless! Deathless! Do not turn from me. I am speaking to you!"

"No, you're speaking at me," Shiv muttered. "This conversation's going nowhere, just like your talk with the Starhawk. Look, I'm sorry you're the way you are. I'm sorry you're trapped, and I'll try to free you whenever I can. But if you guys are going to try to do something stupid with the Great One, then my answer is I don't care. And if you go down into that pit, I'm going to try to stop you. No one should do anything with the Great One. That's my opinion now. Because inevitably and eventually, with how fast I'm growing, the Great One isn't going to be anyone's salvation. The Great One is just going to be another battle royale. Something the System's going to throw at me. If you want some advice, maybe go speak with Adam. He probably still cares. Though he's going to be more aligned with his father and the Starhawk than you anyway…"

There came a sound of grinding metal, of mechanical combustion, of alloyed rage. A massive, slab-like hand closed itself around Shiv from behind, and he let out a brief gasp of discomfort before he rolled his eyes. "Look, there are other things I want to do around the Gate, other places I want to clean up, more golems I want to make, so—"

"Take this seriously!" Cripple roared. The air shook, and a small earthquake rattled the gate. “Do you have any idea what is at risk? How much ruin we face? The fates of how many this concerns?”

"If you want my advice, you need to consider cutting yourself off from the Great One entirely. I can't decide for you. You're suffering from being unable to choose which side you want to be on. Well, I'm going to tell you right now, I don't think there's any good side when it comes to the Great One. I don't think there's any good side if you play along with the System. But you want to know your real problem, Cripple? You're desperate for someone to give you direction. You're desperate to take orders because that's simple.”

Shiv twisted his head and met Cripple’s radiant, cyclopean eye. “But you're not a slave anymore, Cripple. Doesn't matter how you feel, stolen or not, your powers make you a god, and you can use that. You can still choose to decide your future and even save yourself. But you don't even really want to do that, do you? You're not afraid of dying, you're afraid of feeling bad, afraid of being ashamed. You're afraid of betraying all your companions, who are so deeply degenerated by the Great One’s dreams they're barely even parodies of who they were. And you're both worried that whatever the Starhawk is planning to do might see the Republic ruined and that he's still right despite it. Shitty choices all around."

The Deathless shook his head and chuckled. He felt Cripple's grip loosen slightly, and so he pushed himself out, rising into the air so that he could greet the automaton god at eye level. "You're not a slave. You're not even a coward, I think. On some level, you do want to make things right. You're just hurt. You want someone else to justify what you want to do or to give you a direction. That shows me you want a way out.” Shiv sighed. “You want to hear something messed up? Despite how much I don't respect you, you're still my favorite among the Ascendants. I can't respect this, but at least I understand you.”

Cripple was utterly silent, and Shiv kept pushing. “You want my honest advice? Stop thinking about yourself as a slave and start being a Pathbearer again. You were a Pathbearer, even when you were in chains. That's why you fought. That's why you survived. Now, you be that survivor again. You carve your own path. The other Ascendants, they want what they want. They believe what they believe. What do you want to do? What kind of Republic do you want to see? What kind of future do you want to have? If it puts us at odds, then so be it. But I'm gonna be honest, Cripple. If I have to fight you because you decided to just go along with someone else, that's pathetic.”

Gesturing out at the Gate, Shiv turned away from the Ascendant. "I'll tell you what I'm about to do, though. I'm going to help build stuff here. I'm going to help provide some medical aid to whoever needs it. And then I'm going to cross over into the Tutorial and install a kitchen inside a Court Leviathan. After that, I'm going to consider making a restaurant. I'll probably start a brawl with my orcs at some point and pull vitality out of them. They'll kill me eventually, I'll come back to life, and we'll do this for several hours, until I'm satisfied and until their itch is partially scratched. When that's done, well, I'll think of next steps after that. Probably going to take a trip over into the Fairwoods to see if I can get my Curse removed. After that, maybe I'll head north and handle the Tarrasque situation. And before you ask, no, I don't give a shit about the war or the Frost Giants either. I'm going there to sell them my food, and if they try to do something, I'll deal with it. As for said Tarrasque, I'm going to beat it into submission, and I'm going to hide it away from the rest of the world, and no one is going to get that World Quest reward. And by the way, don't think I've forgotten about Amira. I'll free her for you when I get the chance. But until then, what are you planning, Cripple? You gonna be your own person for once, or you gonna be everyone else’s sideshow for the rest of time?"

The Ascendant’s projection trembled. And then something else happened. A change occurred across its body, a transmutation of incandescent mana. For a second, Shiv thought an attack was coming, but then he realized that the outer portions of Cripple's arm were turning to glass. With that, Shiv's Sticks and Stones was flooded with a deluge of levels.

Sticks and Stones 68 > 77

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 138 > 145

"I-I… need…" Cripple didn't even finish stammering before it retreated from reality. Its incandescence vanished in an instant, and Radio was cast down from the sky, bereft of any ability to fly on its own.

"What? Ah! All my Ascendants, no!" The small automaton wailed and flailed as it fell, but Shiv caught it before it could turn into scrap against the ground. "Oh, thank you, bossman, thank you! Wait, where did Cripple go?"

Shiv just shrugged. "I decided to have a conversation with it. I got a little too honest, and then Cripple left. Think you're on your own for a while. Not even sure if it's coming back."

Radio's screen-shaped head flickered with static, and it seemed at a loss as to what to do.

"So, what now? I can’t believe you depressed an Ascendant into leaving… Broken Moon, Deathless. You got your grandmother’s lips on you.”

“I’m going to ignore that,” Shiv said. He snorted. “Anyway. Cripple’s gone for now, and there’s not really a point to hiding you anymore. Udraal and Veronica can fight or fuck each other to death for all I give a shit. What do you want to do? Actually, what are you good at doing? Because there's plenty of things that you can help out with all across the Gate."

"Well, uh…" Radio coughed. "I'm not bad at accounting. I can help keep track of spending, resources, or—"

"Sure, great. I'll bring you over to Adam. Drop you off with him, and then he can show you what you need to do. In the meantime, I'm gonna go say hi to some orcs. Pretty sure you don't want to come along with that."

Radio squeaked in terror. "You keep those gray freaks away from me!”

That made Shiv laugh. He remembered Radio saying how Mortar wanted to turn it into a groin piece. "Alright, got it. No orcs in your ideal future. More for me.”

***
