Zorm’s lingering intent was already gone when he emerged with the dagger. It had been subsumed by the corruption, robbing Zac of a final round of refinement. With a tight schedule and nothing holding him back, Zac expedited the regrowth of his left arm with a good chunk of his Creation Energy. He also used some of his reserves to repair the cracked bones in his right arm. His Healing Pills and natural recovery could handle the rest.

Unfortunately, the Lost Era’s Dao wasn’t a suitable replacement to nourish his [Thousand Axes Avatar]. The corruption instinctively avoided the ancient intent, and the intent, in turn, ignored the corruption. It didn’t provide Zac with a smidge of assistance when he was overwhelmed. While it was annoying, Zac guessed he was expecting too much of the refined force by treating it as an all-cure for his problems.

Idiche was still absorbing energy from Illusion-attuned Cosmic Crystals covered in dense scripts. She sported no crippling wounds, but dealing with the stragglers outside had clearly taken its toll. At the same time, Idiche exuded a greater steadiness than before. Her first deathmatch hadn’t broken her. Zac knew she’d be able to handle herself going forward.

Esmeralda hadn’t taken a sucker punch from the dying Zorm, so she was in the best condition of the three. Barring the yet-refilled vats on her back, the toad didn’t look much different from before the raid. There was even a flush of excitement lingering on her face as she munched on a spirit-recovering Natural Treasure. She was clearly reliving her successful heist.

The difference between her relaxed demeanor and her wretched appearance in his hallucination was night and day, and a sour feeling crept up Zac's throat. He'd seen too many people die on his watch, but he was still blessed in some ways. Very few of his closest companions had fallen so far, and Esmeralda definitely counted in that group by now.

Esmeralda noticed Zac’s lingering gaze and began eating faster. “Get your own treats.”

“I’m glad you’re okay,” Zac said.

“Of course I’m okay. Just because I was tricked once doesn’t mean any random stoat can catch me. I could have run circles around that fool until the sun set if he didn’t insist on returning,” Esmeralda huffed before looking at Zac with confusion. “What’s with you today?”

“Nothing. The corruption made me see some unpleasant things,” Zac sighed, looking away in embarrassment. Then, his eyes thinned with suspicion. “Hm?”

‘There’s something wrong with a dune half a mile away from us. I can sense there’s a weak thread of life hidden within. There might be someone spying on us,’ Zac sent in a telepathic message.

‘Is it a beast?’ Esmeralda asked, continuing her feast as if nothing was wrong.

‘It doesn’t give off that feeling,’ Zac said, not entirely certain. His Draugr eyes were extremely sensitive to life, but the island was an expert at tricking one’s perception.

They shared a look and disappeared together. A second later, a bloodied woman was dragged out from the cover of sand. Zac was shocked to see Guild Master Marai in such a miserable state. He wasn’t as surprised to sense the corruption leaking from her damaged Inner World. Maybe he wasn’t alone in his fight against the traitors, after all?

If the Guild Master was playing dead, it was an extremely convincing act. She only held onto a few threads of life, and she didn’t react even when Zac sealed her cultivation with both talismans and shackles. She only stirred after Idiche forcibly pushed a high-grade healing pill down her throat. Marai’s bleary eyes opened, glancing at Zac before settling on her Vice Leader.

“Little Che, you found me,” Marai said with a weak smile. “We’re truly fated, after all.”

“Don’t talk to me like we know each other,” Idiche spat, her eyes burning with anger. “What did you do with the real Marai?”

“It’s me. I’m not from the other side,” Marai said, her words interrupted by wet coughs. “I’m the one who caught you peeping at—"

“Don’t lie,” Idiche snarled. “Marai is a piece of work, but she wouldn’t work with our enemies.”

Zac glanced at Idiche. As much as she’d complained about Marai over the past day, there clearly was a connection between the two. Unfortunately, Zac had no means of confirming her claim without entering her Inner World, perhaps not even then. She’d already proven capable of eluding the [Courtyard Compass].

“Little Che, do me a favor. If you can, kill the bastard wearing Royce’s face. He was replaced nearly half a year ago,” Marai continued, her eyes filled with pain. “And if possible, find out where they disposed of his body. I want to be buried by his side.”

“What are you saying?” Idiche said, her righteous fury tempered by confusion.

“I’m sorry, I don’t have much time. I need to speak with Mister Draom. In private,” Marai said.

Idiche looked at Zac with confusion, but he had no answers to give. His best guess was that she was planning on unleashing a final strike and had picked him as a target. He nodded at Idiche to take a few steps back. The next moment, a tremendous barrier made from lifeforce sprung up around him. But instead of an ambush, Marai brought forth a plea.

“Please, you need to stop them,” Marai said, using her last strength to grasp Zac’s wrist.

“I will,” Zac said, still on guard for an attack. However, the Guild Master’s next words threw him for a loop.

“I know you don’t care. You think us figments of the past. But you’re wrong! We’re more than that. Little Che and the others still have a chance,” Marai whispered. “Don’t… Never tell them. Overturning Destiny—”

She didn’t get any further. Her words turned into a slow exhalation, and her hand fell to the ground. The Explorer Guild’s Guild Master was dead, taking her final words to the grave.
