 king,” Lendious snapped, trying to gather himself up.“Not since I left that Dungeon. Officially, I am your successor and thanks to your great-grandfather, no Royal Knight, servant, or knight may raise a hand to me under your orders without Yal revealing you as the killer, so you’re now my awkward rival as I will be coming for the throne. I have time, support, and tradition as my allies, while you have fear as your only companion. As for father?” Serma echoed with a derisive laugh.“Your daughter died in that Dungeon. The monster that killed her? The truth. I shall see you at dinner, King Lendious. I’ll bring my own food,” Serma said simply and turned, walking away from the man that had run her life up to this moment.“You kinda suck,” Mas announced bluntly and left with Serma.Lorsa was drinking this up, cackling internally with an imaginary bottle of wine in her hands.“This...I...” the king blustered and Lorsa put on her best sympathetic face as she turned to him, ready to show him the solution to his problems, just like always.“As the successor, she technically still has to show a display of strength outside the capital and solve a growing tension, my liege,” she bowed slightly. He stared at her.“Send her to Durence. Truly, the monsters there will break her along with their Dungeon? Then you can use her death as a means to lay down extreme law and punishment on the town,” Lorsa suggested and the king’s eyes lit up.“Not... death. But if she returns cowed, I will be pleased,” he announced, reaching for his pen.Lorsa would enjoy watching this man bleed.Now, she had to hurry, she was likely missing Serma and Mas having a heart-felt conversation and weeping about the kingdom. That was prime potential romance stuff!“Write faster...” Lorsa muttered as the king made orders to send the princess off to Durence.And... their guide to Durence was almost here.The King of monsters would be extremely helpful in ensuring the two reached Durence. It had basically eaten every bandit and monster between Durence and the Capital as it was...Mentally, Lorsa pushed chaotic pieces as close as they could get, watching as they did the rest on their own.The best kind of plans worked by simply putting elements together, rather than absolutely controlling those elements.Durence was the cooking pot.The Dungeon was the heat...And now, Lorsa was supplying the ingredients.---Estal wiped her mouth with the back of her hand, noticing she had a burst lip as her hand came away red.“Blood brings out the color of your eyes, dear.” Wyin the bitch sang as she went in again, ready to make them bend.“Shutting up makes you a lot more tolerable,” Estal cursed back.The battle was reaching its climax and she had a horrible feeling. For every inch they pushed Wyin, she reclaimed a foot back, every attack they landed, she nicked them a dozen times in response, and every barb Estal tossed out, Wyin took it, only to hurl it back with more deadly accuracy.The sudden issue in their team composition was suddenly very clear.Their team did not have an explosive force nor an elementalist to control the battlefield.Estal could make barriers, but on their own, they didn’t cause trouble...Something had to change and she knew she had to do it now. Estal scowled as she dispersed her various barriers to focus.The moment she reached for the ‘other’ magic within herself, she felt sick. It has always been a ‘possibility’ for her to use this magic, but Estal had never allowed it to bloom simply because it was her father’s magic and she would have sooner chewed nails than use it.But... Hazhur had used his class skill to save her, Silver was allowing his form to change... Karn was-Well, actually, Karn was being Karn which wasn’t anything special, but she included him in the internal reasoning to bolster her willpower.But it was almost not enough... Estal almost fled from the magic until at the last second, that ‘warmth’ filled her once more. The popcorn in her stomach unleashed a truly staggered sense of ‘peace’ and Estal grasped her family magic, passed down from one to another like their eyes or hair color.A seed that fell off some rotted tree.As a vine reached for her, her skin crackled with a warning surge of red lightning.“I hate this smell,” Estal sneered at her hands as the energy danced across it and cooked the air around her, blackending a nearby bunch of vines as the near uncontrollable energy crackled. Estal winced and formed barriers to contain the magic, to keep the others out... to be alone with this pressure.“Do I make the old line about ‘flowers’ and hidden ‘thorns’?” Wyin called as she threw Hazhur across the room into Silver, sending them crashing to the ground and Hazhur’s axe flying out of sight.“Don’t be gauche,” Estal sneered, her hair lifting up in a snarling storm of the energy escaping anyway it could.“Quite. What’s your name? Estal Stormycloud? Estal Shockygirl?” Wyin asked and Estal held her chin up.“Pending,” she replied and threw a lightning bolt into Wyin’s face, using the ambient magic to feed herself, to channel magic that was normally difficult outside in thinner magical environments.There was a break in the fighting as Wyin reached up and ran a branch along her thin glowing burn mark, looking unbothered.“You’ll need to go hotter than that,” Wyin warned.Estal tried not to swallow hard, feeling her father’s fingers on her shoulder where he used to squeeze so hard she would have bruises for weeks afterwards.‘Harder girl! Are you trying to surprise someone or kill them!’“Get off my back!” Estal screamed, throwing a storm into the room that broke through her barriers loudly.The chaotic meadow now became a storm of violence.A symbol of things to come.
