As a ripple of white celestial light trails behind me, over a billion futures flash by in my mind.

This includes images of myself not making it to Maria in time, watching the entire top of the green zone be encased in ice, and the cracks leading to the cyan zone opening up far too wide to close; destroying this zone in a far more violent fashion than Miriel's plan to fill it with corruption.

Other visuals show me making it in time, and containing the blast in a similar fashion using a massive sphere of defensive arrays. However, the amount of energy this uses, and the millions of variables make it harder and harder to see the end result of doing such a thing.

Some result in the energy being contained, or pushed downward toward the open space of the green zone below. However, that would result in me suppressing Maria's power, and possibly halting her breakthrough; or an equally devastating result, freezing the entire green zone solid with the waves of Celestial Ice she's holding back.

Every path I see in my mind leads to more and more catastrophic events the closer I get.

Yet, I also begin to see the possible paths in greater clarity.

Her vibrations, and cold celestial aura pushing outward get thicker and more potent the closer I get, and I can comprehend with far greater precision how my own energy will react.

However, there are strange variables that continue to come up in my foresight readings that change the results.

"Nothing is working as it should...." I remark through my gritted teeth while stepping forward through the open air again, moving over a million kilometers forward in a single stride.

My eyes glisten with bright white celestial light, and vibrate with red and black vibrations as I push myself to the limit; even unsealing Seraphel's suppression technique once I get far enough away from the Grand Citadel's citizens.

However, in doing so, my release of energy adds even more unpredictable variables to my mental equations.

This is because Maria looks down my way and realizes I'm coming, making the cracks in space that splinter out from her burst out even faster. I can't tell if it's from the moment of lost concentration, or that the strength of her own vibrations and celestial energy just increased in power almost instantaneously upon feeling mine.

The reason behind this is a mystery to me, but it does not matter, all I need is a solution.

Not only is the zone itself cracking apart, but as I get closer I begin to see even Maria's Celestial Angelic form begin to crack and fracture on its surface.

The cracks are glistening with reflective source resin, however, they glow to reflect outward what is deep inside her Soul energy core. I see compressed green threads of a saturated true core hitting their limit, and beginning to turn cyan by force from the pressure.

"So it's not only the Green Zone in danger... it's you too..." I whisper.

Then, take in the millions of updated futures processing through my mind using this new growth curve.

Pushing my mind this far, not holding back at all, puts pressure on the entire green zone.

Not only are Maria's cold uncontrollable vibrations and celestial waves making the green zone shiver with fear, but now the strange combination of my own vibrations as well as the ones I absorbed from Miriel's will; all burst outward with both hot and cold pressure.

This in turn gives me perfect imagery and energy readings of every single citadel and living being in the green zone.

I watch Ren, the white-haired elf, falling from the sky through the empty space where I just was. They are plummeting down through the clouds with a half smile, and half distant dormant state expression on their face while falling directly down toward Ember, sleeping in his human form.

I see all of my generals looking toward the icy cracks in the sky, and the red and black ball of energy that is myself flying up toward it. The Warlords have succeeded in their battles too, and proudly stand in front of Ellipsia, with their loyal citizens behind them; all watching the ominous sky fracture.

There are even streams of notifications that ripple into the back of my mind from the Lower Realm that are blaring in my consciousness, from the commanders and troops on the Great Belt of Brymia facing an imminent attack.

So many lords, wars, and variables to keep track of...

"I need to focus..." I murmur.

Then, begin blocking them out of my mind one by one.

First, those at the coast of the Sea of Corruption. They are the furthest away, and they have succeeded and can fend for themselves.

This portion of my mind goes black.

Next, Ava, Ren, and Ember. All of the enemies from that Citadel have been dealt with, and Ember would not have gone into his resting state without knowing he would be protected. This portion of my mind goes black next.

The Ellipsia Citadel has been saved by the Warlords once again. They will be the closest to this impact, so I send a mental wave of energy down into its core.

The full reset of the ether shielding arrays and automated surveillance system retriggers.

It is the best I can do. Any extra precautions would lead to me not making it to Maria in time.

This imagery goes black too.

I then answer the calls of the Lower Realm with three fast messages and mental commands.

Three new administrator roles are submitted to the Rising Emperor's Army.

[Current Administrators][4/5 Slots Filled][Ren][Bri][Alveron][Pluto][-EMPTY-]

The interface flashes in my mind, and the accessibility of 1% of borrowed stats each is distributed to these individuals.

Bri, the yellow core stationed on the Great Belt of Brymia itself, in the center of the star system.

Alveron, watching via advanced telepathy and holographic projections many star systems away.

Finally, Pluto, the True Cored Demon Commoner awaiting orders in the approaching fleet of the Vermillion Family's Lower Realm's Demons.

–

I do not even wait for a response after this, I simply shut the Lower Realm out of my mind to conserve energy.

Everything is black.

All I see when I stare up ahead of me is a single image, the Angelic Ice Empress staring back at me.

There is a combination of fear, pain, and determination in her eyes.

Yet, as I take another massive stride forward, and the vibrations rippling through me grow stronger, I begin to feel other emotions deeper down.

It does not show on the surface, but the closer I get, the more simultaneous relief, and anxiety that builds up and is released through her waves.

"Don't come closer! I can't control it. You- You'll get hurt!" she yells out, through a crystal clear telepathy link. It sounds and feels like she is right in front of me in a silent room.

I watch as the cyan threads in her core grow more in quantity as they become more and more compressed. The glowing light bursts out from the growing fractures in her Angelic form that has already grown over double in size, surpassing 4000 kilometers head to toe.

When I kick off the air again to push myself another few million kilometers forward, the density of the cold atmosphere, and gravity pressure from the core of a higher divine realm gives me flashbacks to Celia's construct, attempting to fly through green atmosphere while still only a yellow core.

It becomes harder to move forward, and I'm forced to start absorbing the waves that come my way. Not only are they filled with bursts of cyan threads, but also stray pulses of celestial ice magic, source resin, and violent Vibrations that match the level of a Royal's.

In order to push forward again, my Sacred Body's outer shell is blasted by the cold, and freezes over like a sharp crystalline shell.

The cyan threads pierce all the way through my Sacred Body, and fall directly into my saturated true green core.

And my strange combination of High Noble, and Royal Vibrations; they start to resonate with the strong force coming off of Maria. They begin to mutate slightly, and shift their frequency; as a hint of understanding begins to wash through me. The missing condition for my full royal Breakthrough... I don't know what it is, but this feels like it's part of it.

I yell back through our telepathic link, "If I can't help you now, it's going to hurt me far more than anything these rifts can do to me!"

Another powerful stride forward brings me millions of kilometers closer again.

Within the range where some of the cracks in the green zone begin to fracture all around me. I have to swerve and twist my body to change my flight path in order to not make contact with these dimensional rifts threatening to tear apart reality.

My words make Maria's eyes widen. Not only do I feel a shift in the Vibrations in the air, but a look of relief and almost shock written on her face.

Portions of my Sacred Body are freezing solid, and crumbling and fracturing off.

Simultaneously, waves of white and red celestial fire begin to burn from deep within me, attempting to counteract this cold with my own hot Royal Vibrations. The areas that freeze and shatter off grow back just as fast as they are frozen. This in turn speeds up the process of me absorbing what is in the atmosphere, as I'm using the ambient mana, celestial energy, and divine threads to rebuild my body.

"I- but- you're-" she does not have a coherent response, only worry fills her mind and soul for a moment watching me fight to fly forward.

Then, a barrier in her mind gives way, and the Vibrations in the air finally align with what is coming out of her mouth and shown on her face.

"Jay. I- do need your help... I just wanted to be as strong as you. To fight by your side, like we used to..."

This pushes her Soul Energy Core to contract inward, and pulse out again, pushing colder and colder waves out uncontrollably. This pushes her Angelic body to grow even larger, close to 10,000 kilometers in size. It puts so much stress on her that the fractures all over her Angelic Form start to stack up in the tens of thousands.

Bright bursts of cyan threads surge out from all the cracks and it truly looks like her entire Angelic Energy form is about to destabilize, shatter, and explode...
