Carten just laughed. “Who are these?” he asked loudly, gesturing to the others.

“Oh, right, sorry. Carten, this is Val, Ameliah, and Tallheart.”

Carten greeted them and offered his hand. Val’s fingers clearly took some damage when the two shook, but it was Carten who looked like he was in pain when he tested his grip strength against Ameliah. Her small hand looked tiny in his meaty grip, but she didn’t back down.

“Wow, ok,” he said, releasing her hand and laughing. “Now I feel insecure. Where’d you find this one, Rain?” Carten was beaming enormously as he looked at Ameliah.

“She kind of found me.”

“Hah.” Carten turned to Tallheart last and offered his hand. “Never met a deer before. Nice to meet you.”

“Carten,” Jamus admonished, “that term’s not polite.”

“Right, right, sorry.”

“It is ok, Jamus, I am not offended,” Tallheart said, shaking Carten’s hand. Rain did smile to see that Carten was flexing his fingers with a pained look on his face after Tallheart released him. Rain wasn’t sure, but he thought he detected a hint of smug satisfaction in the antlered man’s expression.

“Well, if we’re going, let’s go,” Carten said, gesturing over his shoulder with his thumb.

“What are we going to do about Tallheart?” Val asked, nodding to his antlers.

“Humm,” Jamus considered. “Maybe you could ride in the cart until we get far enough from the city? We could throw a blanket over you or something.”

“Very well,” Tallheart said, looking at the cart. Rain inspected it as well while Carten recovered his equipment. The worn boards were crusted with dark material. Moving closer, he detected the telltale scent of manure.

That won’t do.

He activated purify with all of his modifiers, including aura focus. Rain couldn’t see while he held the skill, but he amused himself by imagining his companions’ reactions to the veritable nova of purification that he was releasing. He held it for thirty seconds or so, which was frankly excessive. The skill was so powerful now that small messes like this were cleaned almost instantaneously, even without modifiers.

He opened his eyes to see that the cart was spotless and that both Carten and Ameliah were staring at him with disbelieving expressions. Val looked annoyed and Jamus was laughing. Tallheart, as usual, was subdued, but he nodded to Rain in thanks as he climbed up into the back of the cart. The wood creaked as he set down the anvil which he had been carrying all this time.

“By the depths...” Carten trailed off.

“I’ve been practicing since you last saw me,” Rain said, smiling.

“You don’t say. Fuck me.”

“I thought the idea was not to draw attention to ourselves,” Val said, giving Rain a look. “That was hardly subtle.”

“Oh, come on. You can barely see it in the daylight.”

“Not true. At least, not when you use it like that,” Jamus said, still chuckling at Carten’s expression.

“Rain,” Ameliah interjected, “how did you do that?”

“I’ve got purify with aura focus, just like you. You used it back in the clearing with the musk wolf, right?”

“Yes, but that wasn’t long enough ago for you to have leveled it up that much. It took me over a year to get to that level of power.”

“What can I say? It’s just so useful. I use it all the time.”

She hesitated. “Well, yes, it is, but don’t tell me that’s all you’ve been practicing this whole time. Please say you’ve got something to defend yourself.”

“Oh, I’ve got other stuff too. I’m kind of an aura specialist now, I suppose. I’ve got refrigerate and immolate for damage, and Val here got me this armor to keep me from getting killed by a passing breeze.”

“I see...” Ameliah said guardedly. “Maybe you should fill me in on the details.”

“We’ll have plenty of time for stories when we stop for the night,” Val said. “Let’s get moving.”

“Yes,” Jamus agreed. “No telling when a patrol might come along. Tallheart, get your head down. Everyone, pile your stuff in behind him. Rain, give him your blanket. We should be good by the time we stop for lunch. I brought some more potatoes, and we can eat the rest of that lago if it’s thawed by then. I also got you some more ration bars, Rain. I know how much you like them.”

Rain sighed. “Great. Thanks, Jamus.”
