Back at the Allwarden house, Marshalla nearly passed out when David revealed he had fifty of the mana-generating beads. When she dared ask for one, he handed her a handful, saying they weren't that hard to make now that he'd figured the trick.

She stared at him blankly for a while after that.

Niala asked what the trick was, and he explained how he was just storing them in Leviathan's mouth before detonating his inner realm, punting them back into the physical world.

Marshalla decided to ignore that bit, sensing the fraying of her sanity, and delved instead into the nature of the beads.

Compared to a David's tear, the new creation had a slightly lesser mana capacity, roughly 80%, but the two couldn't really be compared. A tear would run out. A bead would recharge itself.

That said, 80% of a tear's worth was still an order of magnitude more mana than even the high-purity mana crystals being mined at the living vault, gram-per-gram.

A few tests revealed that the recharge rate was high for its size, but wouldn't beat a complete mana-collecting array coupled with a mana heart. On the other hand, it was tiny in comparison, far smaller than what a mana heart, or even one of the fairy's mana reactors, could be miniaturized to.

Marshalled surprised everyone by saying she hoped nobody but David could produce these mana beads. If they could be reproduced, the mana economy of the entire Kingdom would disappear, or at least be severely disrupted.

Before she left for her home and laboratory to run further tests on the beads, she warned David about creating more than he needed and to try to control whose hands they ended up in.

Leandro excused himself as well, leaving with his old friend, leaving Niala and Jordo with David.

She turned her head his way and grinned, ears wiggling.

He narrowed his eyes. “What is it?”

“We have to name these!” she exclaimed.

“Mana beads.”

“What?! Noooo! That's boring! I want to call them David st-”

“Mana beads. Nothing with David in the name.”

She pouted, crossing her arms. “At least give them something more interesting than bead...”

He sighed. “Mana core?”

She narrowed her eyes, then nodded. “Acceptable. Barely.”

He smiled and walked up to her, lacing his arms around her back and pulling her in. She kept pouting for a while until letting her hands fall to his hips and burrowing her face into his chest.

He rubbed the top of her head with his cheek, her ear twitching as he did. “I know you just wanted people to know I had created them. I'd rather not be repeatedly asked to sell crates of them”

“Yeah, I know... I'm not really angry. I love you.”

“I love you too, kitten.”

He felt her hands move to his back and grip his butt. Lifting a brow, he looked down. She was hiding her face beneath her hair, but he could still spot her blush.

Leaning in, he whispered into her ear. “If we keep up that pace, we're going to end up with triplets.”

“...I wouldn't mind that. At this point, anything. We've been trying for close to two seasons...”

He brought a hand up and gently stroked her hair. “Healer Cassandra said everything was fine with both of us. Your contraceptives are just too potent.”

“...Should have made them worse.”

He smirked. “Hmm, do you dislike the attempts that much?”

Her voice was tiny. “No. I love you. I love you too much. I want a baby.”

“I know, kitten, so do I. Don't worry, it will happen.”

“I want four babies.”

He swallowed. “Let's start with one, ok?”

“Maybe five.”

“Niala, please.”

Her ears wiggled. “Maybe I should make a fertility potion, but then those tend to give twins...”

He was starting to sweat. If a regular fertility potion gave twins, Niala's would probably give quadruplets, or more.

“Niala, let's... let's start with one, ok? Please?”

That's when he felt and heard her chuckle. He looked down to find her staring back at him with a grin on her face.

His mouth flattened. “You're despicable.”

“I'm adorable!” she countered.

He sighed. She was adorable.

WARDENFEL ESTATE

Karline stepped out of the autocar and into Wardenburg, the town closest to her current client. She'd been on the road for close to a full season now, chasing down leads on little else than vapourous rumours.

Each hit had been a calculated shot in the dark. Eight times out of ten, she scored. Some people might have called her lucky, but she didn't. She had worked for it. Probably spoken to more people in that time than her entire life so far.

Now, she was more than ready to turn in her report, book an airship to Riverwall, and go sleep at her home, and fill her belly with Niala's cooking. She snorted; truth was, the food was what she was looking forward to the most.

That said, having an actual place to call home felt nice. Doubly so when it had been gifted to you by some of the most secretly powerful people in the kingdom.

A half-bell of walking got her up to the Wardenfel estate's south gate. The guards checked her credentials and papers, confirmed she was who she said, and escorted her to the main lobby.

Getting there took another ten minutes of walking, because you had to have a kilometre of lawn between your gate and your front door. Anything else and you weren't really a noble, right?

She was led into the cavernous room that greeted visitors, and left seemingly alone as the guard stepped back out. The room could only be described as imposing; it was decorated to the brim with ancient displays that exuded power and legitimacy. At a guess, it was meant to put people in the right frame of mind; you are small.

Didn't work on her, though. She knew a guy who could make you melt by being too angry. What could two-story-high tapestries of epic battles sewn by three generations of seamstresses do against that? Nothing, except look pretty.

A lock clacked open behind her. She turned to see a door opening on a middle-aged majordomo. The man walked up to her with the steps of a metronome and slightly bowed as he came to a stop. “Madam Karline?”

“That's me. Pleased to meet you,” she said. A lot of people didn't care to offer niceties to house staff, but that just felt rude to her.

The corner of the man's mouth almost twitched upward. “A pleasure to meet you as well, Madam. Please, if you would follow me? Lord and Lady Wardenfel are ready to see you.”

Karline nodded, and the man turned on the spot, leading back the way he came. They walked in silence for another five minutes, eventually arriving at a door that led into a medium-sized living room.

She recognized the people inside, having met them a few times at Niala's place: Isaac and Angeline. They had Annabelle with them, who was kneeling on a big cushion at a table, facing Angeline in the same posture. The woman was flashing cards at the young girl, who thought for a few seconds before answering something.

Isaac looked up from the desk and the papers upon it, spotted Karline, and got up to come greet her. He stopped before her, put his hands behind him and slightly bowed. “Madam Karline, good to see you. My wife and I have been looking forward to your visit. May I assume you had a fruitful investigation?”

The courier woman rested her hands on her belt and waist satchel. “Lord Wardenfel, you know I can't tell you anything about it.”

He looked frustrated for half a second, but sighed instead of berating her. He gave the majordomo a slight nod of the head, and the servant bowed, turned, and left, closing the door behind him.

During that time, Angeline congratulated Annabelle, who beamed her an ear-splitting smile and jumped to her little legs, scurrying around the table and jumping at the woman's neck with the biggest little hug.

The tall blonde chuckled, whispered into the young girl's ears, and got up to her feet, lifting Annabelle as she did and holding her against her hip.

Isaac watched them with a slight frown. “Angeline, her dress is going to get crumpled.”

“Yes, dear, and it doesn't matter. How could I resist this sweet face when asked for a lift?” His wife replied, turning her head mid-sentence to look at the giggling girl and touching noses with her.

The nobleman sighed. “I'm beginning to wonder if the student hasn't outpaced the master. She has you wrapped around her fingers.”

Angeline walked up to her husband, smiling. “Or maybe I'm letting myself be controlled.” Her smile turned sly. “I hear it can be quite exciting to be given orders.”

Karline had to stop herself from chortling when she spotted the tiniest of blush on Isaac's cheeks. Oh, saints. Tell me this isn't real. Actually, no, I want to believe it is.

The lady put Annabelle down before turning to face the courier woman, stepping in to give her a polite hug. “Karline, so good to see you again. When my contact told me they'd put one of their best agent on the posting, I didn't think it was you! I am more than a little surprised by the coincidence!” She said, parting.

Karline gave her a one-sided smirk. “I'm not too sure about the best agent thing, but I don't think it was a coincidence. Anyway, are you sure you want to talk about this, right now, with the people present?”

Angeline smiled and turned toward Isaac. “Dear, could you bring Annabelle to her afternoon course? I'll give you a summary afterwards. We have to keep up appearances that you're not privy to the courier's work, after all.”

He lifted an eyebrow. “It doesn't work when you say that in the face of said courier.”

“Hush-hush. Actions count for more than words, and I am dusting you away; hence, what I say is overwritten by my action! Right, Karline?” She asked, a row of white teeth on display.

The courier woman sighed. “You're a whole different kind of it, but you're as bad as David.”

“High praises! Now, shoo, husband! I must receive most important secrets!” She said, leaning forward and planting a kiss on the man's cheek.

His blush deepened, but he simply nodded, took his sister's hand and left the room.

The two women watched them go. Once the door closed, Angeline looked at Karline and smiled. “Well, shall we?” she said, turning and heading to a set of armchairs.

Karline followed after. She had heard of these two's wedding, seen the pictures. She'd wondered for a long while, given the little she knew of both of their personalities, who would be the “boss” in the relationship.

Now, there was absolutely no doubt. She was about to talk with them.

Karline's job had been her first real scourer assignment. Ever since accepting the job offer in Longwater and being inducted into the titular role, she had been shadowing other agents.

For every one of her cases, her reviews came back glowing, most citing her methodical approach and strong deductive skills. She'd been surprised at all the praise, but she'd drunk the water. No sense in passing up a bit of food for the ego.

It still meant that she ended up fast-tracked for a solo assignment before she felt she was ready, but the reward was tear-inducing, so she took it.

Unlike the other scourer assignments she'd been on, this one had been open-ended. There were three rumours to be investigated, all in conjunction with activity from the Sonnel agents and sympathizers within the Kingdom.

She retrieved her notebook from the job and handed it over to Angeline, who took it, looked at it, set it down on the table next to her chair and looked Karline in the eyes. “Could you give me a summary of what you found? I promise I will read your notes in full later.”

Karline shrugged. “Sure, though it's fine if you don't read it. Anyway, on the first rumour, the one about Lord Assenger looking for a suitor for his second daughter. That one is true, and he's been eyeing the heirs of a few merchant houses. The Assengers' coffers are empty, and they refuse to invest in their lands or do anything about the corruption.”

She sighed. “So, instead, they want to suck up some rich merchant's coffers like lampreys. That said, there's another marriage being set up, and I'm guessing they're using the daughter's to hide that second one.”

Angeline quirked a brow. “Is that so?”

The courier nodded. “Yeah. There was a Pakag clan delegation in Verveville, the major town in the Assengers' lands. They were gone when I got there, but I know they'd been around.”

She shifted and fished out a small wrapped bundle, passing it on to Angeline, who accepted it and unfolded the cloth to reveal a small decorated bone dagger, about the size of a finger.

“This is a bone-debt. The Pakags use it as a sort of lender's note. The script on it denotes the owner of the debt and where to find them. There were a bunch of them circulating in town; from what I heard, some of the delegation went out for some sightseeing one night and had to pay with these. Most people accepted it and sold it back the next day as an exotic cultural artifact.”

Angeline held up the bone dagger, letting her eyes glide over it, before looking at Karline. “And the Pakag delegation, they were there for marriage?”

Karline nodded. “There have been preparations done on the low for a ship, crew, supplies, and everything you need for a long trip. The heir's schedule is being cleared out for the next half a year, and two Pakag translators have been retained by the Assengers.”

She tapped her temple, thinking on what else she'd found out. “Ah, they also got coastal maps for Pakag, near the Arrundi clan's territory, and from the inquiry I sent through the network, the First Arrundi, or the local lord of the region, hasn't married off their eldest daughter yet.”

Angeline's eyes widened in surprise. “That is... a lot of information.”

Karline shrugged. “It's all in the book, including what I did to get all of it. Honestly, I'm surprised I've been able to fit everything in a single book.”

The blonde woman dipped her head. “I see. Very impressive, and intriguing. The Assengers are a known sympathizer of Sonnel. I wonder if they are trying to undermine the Pakag clans for the incoming conflict, or if they are reaching for something else.”

The courier scrunched her mouth. “Want me to find out?”

Angeline smiled. “Ah, perhaps? We'll have to see what I can unearth with this information first, but I'm already impressed. What about the second rumour?”

“The one about the secret mercenary contracts being handed out?”

“Yes. Is there any basis to them?”

Karline's mouth thinned. “There... is, but not the way you expect.”

“And what do I expect?” Angeline asked, amused.

“That the contracts were being paid through Sonnel channels.” Her employer's nod told her she'd guessed right. She kept going. “The contracts are being handed out, and to a lot of mercenaries. The money, though, isn't coming from Sonnel. It's coming from Pakag.”

Angeline froze for an instant. The Pakag were hiring the Amberfallian mercenaries? “Karline, how confident are you about that revelation?”

The courier woman shrugged. “About as much as I can be. I checked with merchants who trade with both Sonnel and the Pakags, and the Sonnel francs' exchange rate has been going up for a few seasons.”

Angeline tapped a finger against her chin. “That could just mean Sonnel is doing well financially.”

“True, but the empire is buying up war supplies left and right. The influx of funds into the economy should devalue the franc, not buoy it. Instead, it's been on a slow, constant rise. Almost as if someone was buying all the francs they could over time.”

Karline rested her arms on the chair, pointing at the notebook with her chin. “It's all in there, including how both the Amberfallian coin and Pakag shielding have been going up in value. My guess is that the Pakags are draining their coffer to buy francs, then using the francs to buy coins with which they buy the mercenary contracts. Anyone investigating the money trail would find francs coming into the kingdom, not shieldings.”

Angeline's eyes landed on the notebook she'd set aside. Maybe she ought to read it, in full, soon.

She also needed to get the surprisingly insightful woman to sign an exclusivity deal with her. When she looked up from the book and at Karline, the woman's tired but proud smile told her all she needed.

Karline loved her new job.