It was absolute proof that her true message—that Caelillia—had reached the Sentinels. Night had to be there to investigate what truly happened to her. …Which was the nice way to think about it. More honestly, Ranthia knew without a doubt that he was there to cull whatever problem(s) lurked within Remera’s walls.

…And no matter how shocked and concerned she was at first, she was fine with that—in fact, the more she thought about it, the less it bothered her. Someone had tried their utmost to kill her. Whether there was a shimagu acting within Remera or if the corruption came from the top, they had tried to take her life. They failed, so it seemed fair that their own life—or even lives—should be forfeited.

“Sentinel Grace, and er… guest, come on up!” Sentinel Aurora called over the side of her diminished [Starship].

Ranthia nodded and handed the (still hated) book to Glorine with a broad smile. With that, she joined hands with Avyna and the two of them—bags slung across their backs—stepped onto one of the miniature vessels. There was no room to sit or even to set down their bags, but the ascent was smooth, at least.

And just when it seemed as if they would be able to get underway without incident, the base commander arrived. The man was clutching Ranthia’s ‘public’ scroll in his fist, which she had expected to have been dispatched via a runner or a bird well before sundown. He was flanked by a dozen legionaries from eclectic duty stations—likely whomever he passed that happened to be geared up.

Ranthia had no idea what to expect, especially with the man brazenly showing off his dereliction of duty by carrying her message.

“What is the meaning of this?!” He demanded.

“We received word of the attack; I’m under orders to bring Sentinel Grace back with me so she can recuperate and receive necessary treatment from specialists.” Sentinel Aurora responded with obvious disinterest while she focused on directing her fragment Skill’s components back into place. As each sub vessel rejoined the whole, the [Starship] expanded, and the cargo drifted through it until it settled in place.

“You would leave us defenseless?!” The base commander demanded, twitching.

“I wouldn’t do anything. I was told that the safety of the base was ensured, but I didn’t ask specifics—I don’t care. I’m sure you can request a report through the proper channels. Though the lack of contact in the wake of a major assault and the death of a known shimagu twin was… noted.” Aurora called down, before she walked over to reorganize a stack of crates that fell short of her standards for stability.

“It…it has been less than a full day, there hasn’t been time!” The base commander was visibly shaken by that.

“My man, I know the distances involved better than anyone. A good [Scout] or [Messenger] could have made it to command and back by now, let alone your birds. Anyway, I don’t really care. I have my orders, and I’m sure you have your own. Unless you have anything else for me to load, I need to get underway. My schedules are damned tight, you realize.”

The base commander cursed her (or perhaps Ranthia?), not quite under his breath, before he turned back and left.

“Thought not. Spineless idiot.” Sentinel Aurora whispered for the benefit of her newly arrived passengers as the final fragments rejoined the [Starship]. The woman checked the chunks of arcanite concealed in bottomless barrels and crates—several of which were already visibly dimmed despite the early hour of the night—before she nodded to herself.

The [Starship] rose into the sky.

Avyna was openly marveling at the ship as she flitted about. She had been aboard it once before—back when Aurora was forced to serve as an archery platform—but it was the first time that she had been able to properly study the vessel.

Thank Xaoc, the protective barriers seemed to encompass the whole vessel. The [Starship] was more robust and vivid than it had been last time Ranthia was aboard. Just as she had grown more powerful, so too had her fellow Sentinel.

“Sentinel Grace, I’m told your, er, paramour can be trusted to keep a secret?” Sentinel Aurora suddenly spoke up once they passed beyond the clouds.

“Yes, of course. She keeps several for us as-is.” Ranthia replied immediately. …Well, almost immediately. Her relief might have let her refocus on being angry about how the foolish author of that book had ruined her own wonderful story. Honestly, it was bad enough that she was feeling guilty for handing the book to Glorine—hopefully her friend wouldn’t subject herself to such a terrible, irredeemable story!

“Okay, good. Our palest veteran was willing to vouch for her too, which is good enough for me. We’ve got a detour to make before we go to Coalition City. I’m going to push the speed a bit more than usual to hide this, but don’t worry, it’s safe. We’re heading to a secret spot in Remus, so neither of you breathe a word about that or what we’re picking up. It’ll be dropped off once we get back on course for Coalition City.” Sentinel Aurora announced.

Ranthia and Avyna both promised their secrecy, the latter while she continued to wander the deck, openly touching the star stuff that had been painted into the shape of a ship.

“…Heard what happened to you, by the way. Don’t worry, it’ll be taken care of.” Sentinel Aurora added quietly.

“…Yeah, I saw Night disembark.” Ranthia admitted.

“Ha! You should tell him that, I can just picture the look on his face if you told him you saw through his whole stealth schtick!” Aurora had been in a good mood—she was obviously preening over how impressed Avyna was—but Ranthia’s words had the woman guffawing openly.

“Hey, I am a Sentinel for a reason, after all.” Ranthia smugly added in.

“That’s the damned truth. I feel like ever since we started operating outside of Remus’ borders some of you Sentinels became a scary sort that logic just can’t be applied to.” Aurora managed to sneak words out, a few at a time, between peals of laughter.

“Says the woman flying a ship made of magic through the sky at high speeds.” Ranthia deadpanned.

“Hey, I’m a bloody Sentinel too!” Aurora retorted with mock sincerity.

Not that she could hold her laughter in for long—Ranthia joined her when she succumbed to her mirth again and they shared a good laugh. It wasn’t like they had spent much time together, but their old grudge was plainly a thing of the past.

At Ranthia’s urging, Avyna knelt onto her knees while Ranthia settled onto her own, kneeling in front of her elf. They were near the border of Remus—near the Dead Zone. Ranthia had tried to warn her lover about what that truly meant, but for someone that had never experienced it…

Moments after they got into position, the sensation crawled over Ranthia’s skin.

“Prisms… This… This is wrong…” Avyna shuddered.

It was easy to take the world for granted outside of the Dead Zone. But passing through the boundary seemed to steal something precious. Some indescribable piece of the world was taken—allegedly by a plant—within the boundaries of Remus. And however indescribable it was, that piece of existence also seemed to be incredibly important once its absence was felt.

“I know, <Gemheart>. It’s okay. I’m here.” Ranthia squeezed Avyna gently and rested her forehead against the elf’s.

Avyna still remained cowed by the sensation of the Dead Zone when they slowed to a stop. The [Starship] carefully descended, while Sentinel Aurora nudged their position repeatedly in jerky movements that somehow didn’t affect them on the deck. Ranthia and Avyna were still kneeling, with their foreheads together and their hands joined. Avyna’s eyes were closed, and Ranthia’s remained hidden beneath her blindfold.

“…Just wanted to offer, but after this I think I can swing by Ariminum if I try and still keep more-or-less on schedule. It’s not part of the plan, but I’m sure no one would blame you if you wanted to hide in Remus for a while. Just… get away and be safe.” Sentinel Aurora quietly offered.

Ranthia took one look at her shell-shocked lover, then smiled and shook her head.

“Coalition City will be safe enough, and I think we’ll be happier there.” Ranthia answered.

It would have been nice to see Tertia, but… Well, that’s about where the perks ended, if she was being honest. She really didn’t want to return to Remus, and she wasn’t sure if Avyna would ever be able to get used to the Dead Zone. There they would be outsiders, uncomfortable and in many ways alone. Neither of them belonged in that place.

Sentinel Aurora simply nodded. The sound was subtle, a vague twinkling noise that was difficult to describe, but Ranthia was aware that a piece of the [Starship] had been dismissed and was reforming around whatever cargo they had just received from… wherever they were—the surrounding terrain hadn’t been familiar and Ranthia hadn’t seen anything from her limited point of view.

But it was a different, and far more noticeable sound that caused Avyna to—somehow—stiffen even further.

“What… was that?” She asked quietly.

Their new cargo was alive. And it seemed unhappy in its confines.

“Tamed beasts, don’t worry about it. But… keep it quiet.” Sentinel Aurora cagily replied—the woman had enough levels to give her sharp ears.

“…From the emperor’s secret facility?” Ranthia speculated, her tone dark.

“Oh, didn’t know you were read in on it. Yeah. In that case, mind helping the [Tamer] get on board? The [Starskiffs] eat a ton of mana.” Sentinel Aurora seemed to relax a bit with the ‘secret’ facility being wider known.

Ranthia nodded and gently pulled away from Avyna after a quick, reassuring kiss. She paused to adjust her belt—not wearing any pouches on it still felt weird—before she walked over and hopped off the edge of the ship.

She landed easily on what seemed to be a completely ordinary hill in the middle of nowhere.

“Who are you?” A scrawny middle-aged man demanded from nearby.

“Sentinel Grace, I was told you would need assistance getting aboard.” Ranthia answered, thumbing the badge she’d pinned to her mistweave tunic, while she tried her best to not look through the very hollow hill. The inadvertent peek that she took revealed tunnels that were lined with cages—and laced with traps.

“Fine, fine. Do what you must.” The man assented.

…While he stood there, unmoving. Seriously, what was he expecting? It wasn’t like she was a Spatial [Mage] from the dawn of Pallos.

Ranthia narrowly managed to resist the urge to roll her eyes and grabbed the man by his overcoat—made of scarred, worn leather—before she leapt into the air. With one hand she got a ‘grip’ on the seamless starlight that comprised the [Starship] and used the leverage to kick off the side of the vessel to get the last bit of height she needed to reach the deck.

The man—half the level of the monster he claimed to have tamed—screamed the entire time.

“You… Of all the madness!” He accused her, once he was safely standing on the deck of Aurora’s Skill-generated vessel.

“Sentinel Grace, not Sentinel Mad.” Ranthia replied primly.

“Wouldn’t that be Sentinel Madness?” Sentinel Aurora chimed in.

“I feel like Ranger Command would refuse that moniker on principle.” Ranthia answered, not bothering to keep the petulant grin off her face.

“I don’t know, I could see it. Some nice and messy area-of-effect classes…” Aurora speculated.

The two women continued to quip while they got underway, which nicely prevented the angry [Tamer] from forcing them to endure his litany of complaints.

It was his own fault for leaving the process entirely up to her.

What did he expect?

The tamer and his pets were dropped off atop a hollowed-out mesa. With how vibrant the [Starship] was, the whole ordeal felt a touch obvious and unworthy of the cloak and dagger antics, but it wasn’t Ranthia’s call to make.

Avyna had perked right back up and returned to her previous excitement almost the very instant they had cleared the Dead Zone—and oh the [Tamer] had looked as if he wanted to spit fire when he realized they had an elf aboard—and she was eagerly watching their final approach to Coalition City.

Which left Ranthia to gather their bags, but that was fine—it wasn’t like they were travelling heavy. She, too, looked forward to their arrival in Coalition City where…

…

…Wait, had she seriously let Avyna talk her into going to Coalition City without ever even sharing the plans for what they would do after they arrived?!
