

“Well… It’s more complicated than that. A lot more— I won’t go over all of it. But.” Redflame said, “While the adults who were cursed to mortality and half-dragon bodies can never ascend to a full dragon, born half dragons are sometimes able to find success with certain accretion techniques, to refine their bloodlines and transform their half-cured state into a full cure… Centuries upon centuries ago, Wyrm Season used to be all year long, but these days, when the Free Dragons return for proper accretion and body strengthening, we’ve been able to limit those who wish to try for full refinement to only attempt the last step during this part of the year.

“The Free Dragons then help to contain and destroy those who fail to ascend, and in return those Free Dragons gain a slot for an actual cure whenever we happen to find a Wizard… Or, more realistically, they gain a slot to become a half-dragon and gain citizenship in Ar’Cosmos.” Redflame paused, then said, “That’s probably as succinct as I can make that, for that whole system is two and a half messes, or more.” He breathed a bit, then forced his worries away as he forced himself to brighten. “And that’s yet another reason to look to [Renew] for a permanent cure. A proper [Renew] might be able to turn all the half-dragons into true dragons; either Paradoxed into a House, or back to pure Dragon Essence to try for another transformation like their parents before them. But that’s all for the future; the goals.” Redflame gestured to everything. “What do you think of the progress toward those goals? Have any insights?”

Erick had been working on what to say for a while now, and so he said those words, “A lot of this is quite deeper than what I was going for, so you have uncovered some insights that I will have to think upon. I still don’t think that [Renew] will work the way you want it to work, for such a thing will have to be Script supported in the first place, and Rozeta will not allow for easy Wizardry. If it looks like this spell can do that, then she might just Ban it outright, and none of these problems will ever be allowed to be solved in this way. Or she might take this [Renew] away from you when you try to make it; that’s what happened to one of my spells. [Zone of Peace]. Koyabez got that one, though, so that’s fine with me.”

Redflame retained his outwardly-hopeful expression, but he seemed to harden inside, solidifying his thoughts and direction. “Aye. All valid worries, but a Ban is on the outside of possibilities. A restriction is more likely, like with [Duplicate]. A restriction would mean that only certain people would ever be able to get this spell. This would be less than ideal, but it would still solve our problems here in Ar’Cosmos.” He said, “I am glad to see that my own insights at least match your own, though, for it has been delightfully informative to speak with a full outsider about the same type of magic I have been fiddling with for a long while. I’m going to try to make this magic in a week. I would like you to be there for the ritual.”

Erick felt a cold sweat.

“… Uh? One week? You’re going to try to make it that soon? Really?”

“Yes.” Redflame said, “One week, and I will attempt this spell. I have been saving up mana for just such an occasion, and I think a million mana should be enough. It will be a small spell, after all. Something Basic Tier.”

There was a slight problem.

Erick had already made [Renew]. Rozeta had told Erick that in his making of that spell, that she had closed off the option for anyone else to ever create [Renew]. Therefore, Redflame’s attempt would hit an Error message… or something like that.

The Error message wouldn’t do much damage to him… Probably.

But Redflame would realize that this meant that someone else had already made this magic.

Okay. Erick was in a time crunch.

… Whatever? Yes. Whatever. Erick had enough problems and Redflame seemed like a good guy. If that time came around and Erick was still here in Ar’Cosmos, then he would just tell Redflame the good news. Maybe by that time Erick will have gained Second Foundation, and already made Elemental Benevolence with Fairy Moon, and therefore he could leave Ar’Cosmos and interact with Redflame on less uneven-ground.

… Yes. Good plan.

Erick said, “Then… I wish you luck and skill, Redflame. I’ll probably still be here by then, but if not, then… We’ll see?”

Redflame’s solidified emotions turned to quiet relief, as he gave a soft smile, saying, “We shall see.” And then he shivered a bit, saying, “Oh! This will be something! I haven’t made a new Basic Spell since I made [Force Platform] way back in the beginning of the Script.”

Erick felt a tickle of his own joy, and he laughed. “You made [Force Platform]?”

“I didn’t even mean to, either!” Redflame happily said, “Back at the beginning everyone was making all the magic they could, so it’s a minor miracle I got to make that one before someone else did. Ahhh. That was a long time ago.” With a small grin, Redflame said, “I’d love to talk more some other time, but I believe I need to be getting back, and I have taken up enough of your time.”

“It was nice talking to you, Redflame. Good luck with [Renew].”

“Good luck with [Gate]! And all the rest.” Redflame turned around, looking everywhere. He paused, and said, “I think Fairy Moon and Maria are entertaining my mages in that other room, with food. Is it already dinner time? I suppose it might be.”

Erick looked toward the open archway that led into a side room. Fairy Moon and Maid Maria had set up finger foods for the various other mages who had accompanied Redflame. Those mages seemed willing to participate in the minor repast, but the ones Erick saw looked even more nervous in there than they did when they were out here, watching Erick and Redflame move about the presentation.

Redflame walked over to that room, and Erick followed.

Soon, Redflame and his people got to removing the presentation. In less than ten minutes, the whole thing was taken down and packed away, and Redflame gave his appreciation to Fairy Moon for the use of her dining room. Fairy Moon told him that anytime he wished for anything, he just had but to ask. And then, Redflame and his people and his stuff left Fairy Moon Manor through a bright red door, ringed in flames.

The door shut and vanished, once again becoming a wall of sculptural reliefs.

Fairy Moon turned to Erick. “You did not tell him the small truth of your spell.”

Erick did not expect their privacy to be so complete, so fast, but if Fairy Moon was speaking like this, then it must be.

Erick said, “I might tell him, after I accrete enough to get out from under your thumb and his claws.”

Fairy Moon inclined her head, then nodded, saying, “He is a good man. One of the best.”

Erick waited a bit for the threat…

And then he waited longer than that.

No threat came?

Erick said, “He seems like a good person, but good people do bad things all the time in the name of good, like holding other good people hostage.”

“Aye.” Fairy Moon said, “This is true. Care for dinner? I am famished, and these small foods are not for me.”

“I could eat.”

Fairy Moon turned to Maid Maria. “Set for supper.”

Maid Maria curtsied and did as she was instructed.

Fairy Moon got a small roast bird stuffed with cabbage, or something like that. Erick decided on a steak. It was a pretty darn good slice of beef. Maid Maria sat in the other room, eating her own meal in private. About halfway through the silence of their meal, Erick realized something. Maid Maria ate with Fairy Moon at her table, but not when Erick was around.

Erick felt a bit of shame at realizing that he was pushing Maria out of her usual spot, so he broke the silence of the meal, saying, “If Maria wishes to eat with you, then I can eat elsewhere.”

“Preposterous,” Fairy Moon said, without a single hint of rancor. “You are our honored guest, and therefore you will eat at the same table as myself. Maria lives here too, so she is fully allowed to eat with us if she wishes.”

… ‘If she wishes’? Did she not? Well. Obviously she did not. Why, though—

Because of him?

… Well yeah; duh. Erick did try to kill her when he woke up that one time. And yup, Fairy Moon was glancing at him, trying to see if he understood what she had implied. Seeing his recognition, she just nodded, then went back to eating.

Erick had almost killed Maria hadn’t he. Realizing that was like a slap to the face, alongside a dozen other lesser-understood feelings. Indignant rage, that Maria was scared at him for his reaction to Fairy Moon’s harmful actions. But also sorrow, that he had almost killed her… And then he was back to anger, for she had been the pink dragon that had pulled him into the tunnel to Ar’Cosmos. She was directly Fairy Moon’s underling. She was directly responsible for his kidnapping. But looking back on the day’s events…

Maria had avoided him. She had left out notes for him to find regarding food, and aside from when she was sent to fetch him she had completely stayed away. She was scared of him. Erick didn’t like that anyone was scared of him, even if they deserved that fear.

But did Maid Maria truly deserve that fear? Yes. But also no. It was entirely possible that she was under some sort of Fairy Mind Control… Though maybe not? Erick decided to let that particular anger go. He focused on how he could make this situation better for all involved.

Erick asked, “Do you feel I should apologize for almost killing her?”

“Perhaps, if you wish.” Fairy Moon said, “Words sometimes help, but they often make things worse when there is no willingness to hear.”

Not the response Erick had expected, but then again, he had had no idea what sort of answer he was expecting. So he took Fairy Moon’s line of reasoning, and asked, “Is there no willingness to hear such an apology?”

“These things take time.” Fairy Moon said, “And that is as much as I am willing to speak on her behalf since her business is her business, until it includes me.”

“… Ah. Fair.”

“I try to be.”

Erick had some words to share about that, but he kept silent. He kept the peace, for now.

Dinner was pretty good, all things considered.

After dinner, Maid Maria rushed out of sight before Erick could apologize. She had probably overheard them talking, because of course she had.

So Erick simply went back to his room and accreted for a while. Between sessions, he finished his letters to his people, and to Stratagold, to Oceanside, and to Spur. He asked if they had any pointers they wanted to give him for dealing with the people of Ar’Cosmos. In the letter to Oceanside, Erick apologized for not being able to attend the meetings between the Angels and the Demons, and he hoped that the Converter Angel was keeping out of trouble.

Nothing he wrote down was anything that he would not mind anyone else reading, so the letters were not as personal as they could have been.

- - - -

Erick cycled four more times over the next three hours; as much as his Regeneration would allow. He did not concentrate his accretion into his core because the books all said to keep his body and his core relatively even until he had a good feel for what he was actually doing. So far, Erick barely knew what he was doing, but he was learning quite fast.

And he had learned of a problem. A problem that had been there all along, and yet he had not noticed until now.

His Status, back when he could see it, said that he was a Particle Mage even in this Other Form, and that he had 10 out of 10 Class Abilities unlocked and selected. Two of his Original Self’s chosen Class Abilities were Double Mana and Double Mana Regen. These, theoretically, carried over into his Other Form.

So where the fuck were those Abilities? Why was his Mana Regen at 200 instead of 400? Why was his Base Mana at 200 instead of 400?

Erick had no idea.

Maybe they were locked away from his monster self, sort of like how his Stat rings didn’t work anymore? Did monsters even have Classes? Shadelings had Classes, but Melemizargo made those monster/people just how he wanted them to be. Or perhaps he had ‘unlocked’ Classes for them, while they were actually just on the Monster Script, like how they had said they were…

Actually. That made a whole lot of sense. The shadelings were on the Monster Script, and that meant certain things, for Erick did not believe that monsters got Classes, but since Melemizargo had tinkered with the shadelings, specifically, he had enabled Classes for them. He had certainly enabled the ability to select certain spells and abilities from the Open Script.

But, like all monsters, shadelings were still very much on the Monster Script.

… So Erick’s own Abilities were just locked away from him, somehow? And yet he had them.

It would probably take some Wizardry to solve this problem, too. Erick added this issue to the Wizarding pile, which included ‘getting his rings to work on his Monster Self’ and ‘enabling his Core to self-repair’, all of which were explicitly stated to be possible, by Rozeta, but which were disabled by default. He was on his own little sandbox-Script while in this Other Form explicitly to allow him to figure out how to make Scripts, too, because Rozeta expected him to help with the dissemination of Scripts in the rest of the universe…

Eventually.

Erick sighed.

One effect of being in this Monster Self for so long was that it afforded him the ability to think about how it all worked, and to really drive home how different the Monster Script was from the Open Script. Erick had had this Other Form for a while now, so he should have noticed this Class Ability discrepancy way before now, but he just hadn’t.

And in addition to that:

Erick was still able to send off 100 mana to Phagar, to ask about potential Particle Magic. He had already tried that, and he thought it had ‘worked’, and yet it had ‘failed’. But maybe he had only thought he had tried that? Maybe none of his Class Abilities were active?

How would he even know? If the manasphere wasn’t so clean then Erick could probably force his way into the part of it that allowed one to visit Phagar, in Phagar’s own house deep inside Time Itself. But nope! Not possible.

Whatever.

Erick accreted again, taking 5 minutes to flood his body with his own mana and to use it all up, fortifying every part of him.
