No. Fuck that. He could go hard if he needed to, and it was necessary to go hard right now. Erick could stay awake and fully cognizant for five days, easily. And so, it would only take him a little under three days to reach the first third of his necessary growth. A little bit less for the next third, and then the last third would be even faster. 10 days? Maybe? 12? Longer than Erick would have liked.

Was it linear growth? Or quadratic? Ahhh. He had never been that good with math.

And that was with undirected growth, anyway.

If he tried to accrete for Willpower and Focus specifically, as he had seen those kids do in that classroom with that instructor, then he could probably do that. The books had good outlines for that sort of growth, too. The problem was they all warned against too much directed growth before he got closer to Second Foundation.

But ignoring that!

Once he reached 1000 base Mana, he was pretty sure he could Remake the Skills Discipline and Concentration for a 3x multiplier to his Mana and his Mana Regen.

… 1000 base Mana was 100 Willpower. Ouch.

“Five days to reach… something. Maybe.” Erick looked at his core with his mana sense. The gem beside his heart was still all facets, and not anywhere close to being a sphere. “No idea how long till Second Foundation, though.”

… Erick was suddenly struck with a thought.

How fucking weird was this. Reduced to scrabbling for mana gains that he had already outpaced so long ago. It was strange. It felt almost like he had fallen into a whole new world that was so very close to his old one, but vastly different. And wasn’t that a bit too funny. Erick smiled at that thought, but it was a sad sort of smile. He had already been through this ‘falling to a new world’ scenario once—

Knock knock.

There was a knock at his door. Erick got up and went to see who it was. Upon opening the door, he instantly realized what was going on. He had made plans for this afternoon already, hadn’t he?

Maid Maria confirmed his thoughts, saying, “Master Redflame is here to see you about your [Renew] spellwork, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick nodded, breathed deep, then said, “I appreciate the news. Let’s go see him.”

Ophiel hopped onto Erick’s shoulder while Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye followed close behind.

- - - -

Fairy Moon’s paperwork had been removed. Instead, there was different paperwork, and a lot of people. Mostly orcol-sized dragonkin. Among the tall people Redflame did not quite measure up, while Fairy Moon barely made it to waist-high.

Redflame was too occupied to notice Erick’s arrival. He was fussing over the organization of metal plates and books upon the large table, while all the other people either helped move the presentation from large carts, onto the table, or they worked on large chalkboards, or woodboards, while other people read from hand-held notes as they copied words and runes and diagrams onto those chalkboards, or pinned work on the woodboards. Half the room had boards of various sorts lining the walls.

It looked like a massive graduate thesis presentation or perhaps an end-of-year review, and it looked to be only 75% ready for inspection.

Fairy Moon stood next to Redflame, looking over everything he had brought with him, while he picked up another runic plate from a cart and placed it near the runic plates already on the table. He fussed over the arrangement—

Fairy Moon softly said to Redflame, “Erick is here.”

Redflame’s entire body went rigid for a brief moment as he whipped around, trying to find—

Redflame’s bright red eyes locked with Erick’s, and then he grinned, seeming to melt into an exuberant joy. “Hello, Erick! I’m almost set up.”

Erick could not help but to smile back, as he said, “Hello, Redflame. This is a lot.”

Redflame chuckled. “It is! It’ll be about ten more minutes till everything is set for proper viewing, but have a look around. I’ve actually been working on the lack of Wizardry problem for a long time, now, with a focus on birthing the next generation properly, but your [Renew] idea has flung me to new heights of inspiration and— Ah! Ah. There’s a lot out here. Please! Look around.”

Erick nodded. “I will look around, then.”

And that is what he did.

As he glanced around, part of Erick felt bad for lying to Redflame through omission, by not telling the dragon that he had already made [Renew] down in the Core of Veird. But another part of him felt good that he had already solved the problem currently being displayed all across the room. Erick had known that inventing [Renew], allowing anyone to contribute to any other magic, would have long lasting and unforeseen effects. Possibly even more effects than his creation of Particle Magic. At least with that Particle Magic one had to understand those physics to cast or to make those spells, which was pretty much in line with how all other magic worked the world over. But [Renew] was dead simple to use and utilize.

[Renew] would enable everyone to leverage magical power into usefulness, even those without the knowledge or ability to create or properly use magic themselves. As Erick looked at the problems that Redflame wanted [Renew] to fix, he felt that perhaps he had gone a step too far with that spell. Or perhaps, more accurately, Redflame and others like him would take this spell a step too far.

… If [Renew] enabled Wizardry, then...

Erick started looking around, and hoped that [Renew] could not be used to break the world. He had more faith in Rozeta than that. He wasn’t sure if he held that same amount of faith in these dragons that he had just met, though.

Erick walked slowly, studying chalk drawings on slateboards and papers pinned to soft woodboards. He gave tiny nods to the dragonkin putting up the information, and they bowed in turn, and went right back to fixing the information into place. It was then that Erick realized that these people were not mere servants to Redflame, or anything like that. They were mages themselves, and many of the notes in their hands were simply ways for them to remember what needed to go on the boards; it was not a direct 1-for-1 copying effort. None of them actually chose to talk to Erick, though, and Erick made no effort to talk to them. None of them looked too nervous at seeing Erick, either—

Oh.

Erick realized what was going on when one of the mages almost spoke to him but then he glanced at Fairy Moon and his heart beat hard. The man shut his mouth. They were terrified of speaking around Fairy Moon. Which… Fair enough.

Erick was focused on the presentation, anyway.

Most of the stuff on the boards was theory about what it actually meant for every individual person to make a different ‘flavor’ of mana. Most of the stuff on the boards were theories on how to fix that fact, too. The runic tablets on the table were tests of those fixes, with many of the problems of those fixes listed right beside those displays. Efficiency problems. Not-actually-the-same-mana problems. Completely didn’t work as it should have problems. Etcetera.

Redflame’s main goals were on full display, too.

He wanted to end the reliance on Wizard-hunts. He wanted to enable generations of dragons to live free of the Dragon Curse. He wanted to transform those currently afflicted by an improper Curse removal, into true dragons.

Erick’s eyes went a bit wide when he saw the statistics on Curse removal failure rates, and how the Curse removal actually worked.

In a large room made of concentric circles and smaller frameworks, they would gather a thousand young dragons every time they found a Wizard. In addition to the thousand people, they would add one hundred eggs, which they already had in waiting. The Wizard would be brought out and placed in the center of the formation of the people and the eggs, whereupon they would be simultaneously stripped of their Wizardly power while giving that power to every single dragon in that room.

It was not a guaranteed success.

One percent of the adults would retain their dragon form while also ridding themselves of the Curse; mostly those closest to the center of the formation. Everyone else would become a dragonkin to a varying degree. Roughly 10% of those transformed would be able to transform back into a Familiar Form that they were comfortable with, but that would be the extent of their dragon power.

Everyone who failed any part of the process would lose access to their draconic form, forever; it was as though they had been afflicted with the Class Ability Draconic Essence Inoculation.

Ten of the hundred eggs would mature into full dragons, with their Dragon Essence transformed to the appropriate element but still able to assume a full dragon form. The other 90 eggs would break and die. It was a 10% transformation rate, instead of the 1% rate of the adults.

Low numbers, all around.

As Erick went over those boards again and again, he found it amazing that anyone would risk their lives and their bodies like this. A thousand dragons were willing to risk eternity in obscurity for a chance at living free and open… Which wasn’t that surprising, when Erick took a moment to think about it.

But just how often did a Wizard happen, anyway? Did Ar’Cosmos find a Wizard every, what, 20 years? Every 10? According to what Erick knew, House Fae had three Wizards, with two used and one awaiting use. There were three more at the arcanaeum that were used up. Erick was pretty sure that they were all normal people, too, meaning between ages 20 to 80; non-immortals. And that meant certain things with regard to timing.

Were Wizards a lot more common than Erick had assumed?

He had assumed that Wizards were a one in a billion thing (though he had no clue where he had gotten that number from) and since Veird only had 540 million people, Erick had thought it was pretty damned weird to have the last well-known Wizard, Hullbreaker, active only 20 years ago. But if there were six Wizards here in Ar’Cosmos… There were likely more than that. Maybe as many as 10? 20?

Between Ar’Cosmos and the wrought and Oceanside, Erick was pretty sure that Ar’Cosmos captured the lion’s share of Wizards.

Redflame caught up to Erick at the Curse-breaking display. “Anything I can answer?”

Erick instantly asked, “Are Wizards truly this common? The arcanaeum has 3. House Fae has three. You have to have more besides that. Oceanside got Hullbreaker, from what I heard. That means at least one Wizard every… What? 5 years? I thought Wizards were a truly rare occurrence. One in a billion.”

Redflame looked to the boards, and said, “We estimate about one Wizard every hundred million people, but they usually only make enough of a stir to be found by the greater powers of Ar’Cosmos, the wrought, or Oceanside, every 7 to 10 years. Individual dragons find them all the time, though, and never seek outside help. Every case of that happening has always led to failure and death to most of the people involved, including the Wizard. We try to tell them to bring the Wizards in, but… Free Dragons will be Free Dragons.” Redflame gestured to the rest of the presentation. “If we could make Wizards obsolete, though, that would be for the best. Then we could simply rescue them from the various forces of the world, and not rescue them in order to break them for our own needs.”

Erick was a bit surprised at that last part, and it showed upon his face. “You would have Wizards here, yet not under your control?”

“I know it must seem foolish to you— Or. Actually. Maybe not?” Redflame asked, “What sort of stories of Wizards were you raised on? Most people find the very idea of Wizards even more detestable than Shades.”

Erick avoided that large tangent by saying, “That’s a large topic.”

Redflame grinned, then nodded, saying, “Very well! But yes. To answer your question: Yes; I would be fine with having uncontrolled Wizards nearby, because aside from the Sundering, and aside from their own ideas of what it means to be a Wizard, most Wizards are usually among the best people to have around. The good ones go around solving problems that no one else can solve. The bad ones… Well… The usual response to criminals is the usual response, but for confirmed Wizards that response gets a bit… Overheated.”

“Fair enough.”

Erick glanced around, at the presentation lined up on the sides of the room, and on the various bits and bobs of runic tools set up on the table in the center. Redflame’s people stood to the side of the room, out of the way, likely there to supply expertise should it be needed. Fairy Moon stood by the table, giving Erick a raised, questioning eyebrow. Ah. She was… She was expecting him to break down and tell Redflame that he had already solved [Renew].

And he might. But… Maybe not. Probably not. There was maybe a 10% chance of telling Redflame the truth, or maybe more like 5%, and only if everything went really well. But that chance dropped to 0% after Erick saw Fairy Moon preparing for a hammer to fall.

… 1% chance.

Erick said to Redflame, “My own ideas with [Renew] involve bouncy-mimicry mana. That’s about the large and the small of it. Care to run me through your ideas, and then I can get back to you later on my own?”

Redflame smiled wide, briefly showing his teeth, before he realized that he was showing his teeth and then he slammed his lips shut. “Gladly!” He gestured to a gold-and-silver spiral of metals, sitting on the table. “Let us begin here, at the molding machine; my first somewhat-successful mana-shifting runic device I created nearly a thousand years ago. It is like that iron slime creating machine you spoke of yesterday, but this one…”

The presentation lasted two hours. Redflame spoke, and Erick asked questions. Sometimes, it was the other way around. Erick hedged his words often, but though Redflame noticed the hedging, he did not comment. He seemed to be well aware that Erick was not fully willing to commit to this project with him, though Redflame was attributing Erick’s reluctance to his current status as a prisoner, and he did not seem to suspect the truth, at all. Erick let him think what he wanted to think.

But Erick had almost broken down ten times and told the man that he had already made [Renew]. Redflame truly did want to save the unborn and heal the half-dragons. That’s what the partially-Cursed were, technically; ‘half dragons’. Not ‘dragonkin’. Those were two different things.

“They and their children are stuck here in Ar’Cosmos, because to return to Veird would turn them into monsters.” Redflame got a far-off look in his eyes. “That’s where Wyrm Season comes from.”

Erick startled. “… Oh.” And then as the implications dawned on him due to that small sentence, Erick added, “If they leave, they become wyrms? That’s… Not good.”