Erick woke the next morning feeling refreshed and wonderful, and not sore at all. His body seemed to be fully healed from his first foray into accretion, which was normal. All the books said that while there might be an initial weakness after a good accretion cycle, all of that weakness should go away faster than it felt like it should. ‘Such was the power of accretion’, was the refrain in many of the manuals.

One book, though, posited that even here in Ar’Cosmos, where Health did not exist, Vitality still helped to boost healing speed. Erick believed that one more than the others.

Ophiel chirped on the headboard while Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye lazed by the window, watching the sun come up. As Erick got out of bed, both of his [Familiar]s joined him in the bathroom, and though that was a bit awkward at first, Erick got over it, because when he hopped into the bathing pool to clean himself Ophiel dove right in and splashed around with him. Erick almost would have preferred to [Cleanse] himself than take all these baths, but that spell was not as precise in Ar’Cosmos as it was on Veird, and so he made do with what options he had available. [Cleanse] still worked, but it was more something one did to the water that one used to wash dishes, than to the dishes themselves; you still had to scrub the dishes.

Or in this case, Erick had to scrub his skin.

And the warm water was great, anyway. It constantly cycled and cleaned itself all the time.

Erick got out of the bathing pool after a little while, put on some soft clothes, and felt like it was time to get breakfast. Ophiel alighted on one shoulder while Yggdrasil took the other, as Erick unlocked his door and started walking down the stairs. Fairy Moon and Maid Maria had likely eaten long before now, but he felt he could probably find something to eat, or at least he could find one of those two people and then go from there.

The dining room was empty save for a note left on Erick’s usual spot.

‘Dearest Guest, Erick Flatt. Fairy Moon is indisposed today, so I, Maid Maria, will be attending to your needs. If you have found this note, then I have likely been called to do other duties for a little while, otherwise I would have been doing paperwork here, in this room, while I waited for you with a gift from Fairy Moon, and to attend to your other needs. I should be back soon, but I apologize for my negligence. If you are in need of the kitchen, please look to the end of the dining room and follow the smell of baking bread. Feel free to take anything you wish to take, or make anything you wish to make. There are many items already made and under ward in the pantry, just waiting for someone to eat them. Feel free to eat whatever.’

Erick glanced around, then put the note back down.

A gift from Fairy Moon? Hmm. Erick didn’t know how he felt about that.

But he did know he was hungry, and he actually did want to make his own breakfast now that he knew that was an option. It was fine having breakfast made for him, but… All of this was still uncomfortable for him. He could make his own breakfast.

This was actually great, now that Erick thought of it.

There was a problem, though. Which part of the dining room was the ‘end of the dining room’? It was a rectangular room and everything was ornate, and this place was very much non-euclidean, so… Realistically, Erick had a 50% chance of being right. The correct direction had to be one of the short ends.

He went left, first, and stood at that end of the dining room. He sniffed the air. No bread? No bread.

He went to the other side and sniffed the air—

Erick smiled. “Bread.”

Erick stepped past the archway…

Left or right?

He sniffed the air… And frowned. After a bit of back and forth, Erick eventually decided to go to the right. It was probably the correct decision because the air still smelled of bread. Soon, he hit another branching hallway. He went to the right, again—

The scent of bread held heavy in the air, and beyond a doorway lay a kitchen. Erick triumphantly walked through the archway and marveled a bit at everything in the rather massive room. A grand [Prestidigitation] stove with twenty burners sat against one side of the wall, while large wooden tables for kitchen work filled the center of the room. One of those tables had an organization of bread upon it, with most of the bread seeming to be of the flaky-croissant variety, or the bun kind, and filled with stuff. Nuts and fruits, or gooey red stuff, or… Citrus? Citrus; yes. Erick left the bread alone, for now.

The kitchen’s cold storage lay beyond another archway to the far left. Through the archway Erick saw large racks of frozen beef that hung from organized rafters on one side, while sausage and other cured or frozen meats hung on the other side, or lay in large bins. Eggs and flour and other assorted goods were in a less-cold section of that walk-in freezer. If he wanted to make his own breakfast, then he would have to venture into that space, but…

The pantry on the other side of the room had to be the ‘pantry’, and yet to call such a place a simple ‘pantry’ felt disingenuous. Erick walked over that way, and marveled at the organization.

Shelves upon shelves stretched from floor to way beyond where the ceiling should have ended. Upon those shelves rested fully-cooked meals under shimmering pink bubbles. Erick wanted to explore. But.

There was another note pinned in a prominent location beside the door, on the inside of the room.

‘Dearest Guest: Erick Flatt. If you are reading this, then I have been most lax in my duties as a good maid. Please forgive me, and accept any offering from shelves 1 through 10. Anything on the higher shelves was not made by me, and cannot be remade if you should choose to dine upon it. I will be back as soon as I can, but if you are reading this, then I am likely inevitably delayed.’

Erick left that note alone as he glanced at the shelves. The shelves were labeled from the bottom to the top, starting at 1 and going all the way to 75, and that wasn’t even mentioning how deep the shelves went. A glance at the end of the room proved to be like looking at a horizon; it just kept going, and going, and going.

Back to his local environs, though…

The shelves seemed to be organized by breakfast at shelf 1 and 2, lunch from 4 to 6, dinner at 7 to 9, and 10 was reserved for desserts. All of it was rather easy to see with Ophiel, who flitted up and up and up to give Erick a better view. All the shelves past #10 were disorganized, and labeled with names instead of types of meals. At a guess, Erick thought them all meals made by the previous maids of Fairy Moon.

… This was too much. Erick wanted to make his own breakfast, anyway. There was probably a note pinned inside that door, too; he just had to look for it.

He went to the cold storage and found another note, but this one was on a plaque and set into the wall just inside the cold room. It was not a note from Maid Maria.

‘Truest Traveler: If thou are to dine, then take what thou will, but deliverest no unneeded destruction to this supply space, or to the common cookery.’

Erick scrunched his face a little. Now that was a message from Fairy Moon, herself.

… Erick…

He wasn’t sure he wanted to make his own breakfast anymore. Well. He did. But then again. He did not. And yet…

Cooking could come later.

Erick went back to the prepared food room and glanced around at his options. It all looked really, really good, so it was a bit hard to decide what, exactly, he wanted. There was the Veird equivalent of a full turkey dinner for ten people. Or a hamburger and wine for one. Mashed vegetables for a baby and desserts of all kinds. High-class meals made to serve a king and queen, but also a platter of common cheeses that anyone could nibble from. After ten minutes of walking and searching Erick picked out lunch, instead of breakfast. He got that hamburger-equivalent he had noticed before, but he also picked out a slice of white cake from the dessert menu. If coffee had been an option then he would have settled for just the slice of cake, but back in the main kitchen the only options for drink were teas, sweet tea, wine, or beer, or stronger spirits. Erick grabbed a pitcher of sweet tea, since it complemented his food choices, and that was that.

He ate his meal at a side kitchen table, which looked perfect for just that purpose. It was delicious, and all the proper temperatures; the burger-equivalent started steaming the second he took it out of its bubble, while the cake was actually a bit frosty. All of it was good. Next time, though, he would ask Maid Maria for a proper introduction to the kitchen and he could cook for himself.

When he finished, he took his used dishes to the washing sink, where constantly-cleaning water constantly flowed through the tap. It was like the water in the bathing pool in his room. All he had to do was take the provided sponge and vigorously scrub while under the water, and everything came off perfectly clean. So he did exactly that. It wasn’t [Cleanse], but it worked. The cleaned dishes went back into the cupboards, except for the pitcher of tea and a glass which would go with Erick back up to his room. With another thought toward eating a snack later, Erick grabbed a small plate of cookies that had looked good, too, and brought them all back with him.

Once firmly behind the locked door of his room, Erick picked out the large blue accretion pillow, sat down, and organized some thoughts.

Erick centered himself.

White glows flowed away from his body like a clinging mist. With a strained thought those mists formed a bubble around him. He breathed. He opened his spirit.

Power seeped into his skin, stirring his entire body to soft, white glows on the inside. His heart pumped hard. His mana flowed through his flesh, following paths of his veins, both the bloody ones and the ones made for mana. Briefly, everything was white, like a sudden rush of rain turning a land wet, all at once, and then the white rain abated, slowing, flowing in rivers and streams back to the source that created it, back to the gem in Erick’s chest. The gem flexed. New facets appeared as its surface shifted under Erick’s rain of power.

He breathed, and focused on the flow.

Thick, translucent-white air filled his aura, to then fall inward, to follow paths, to hit the headwaters, and then start again, raining inward. Pitter patter, pitter patter. A water and air cycle unto himself, Erick went slow, and it still was over faster than he expected; he bottomed out on mana after less than a minute; Empty.

The first few times would continue to be like that, but as soon as he acclimated, it would take longer. How much longer till the time when it would take longer? Erick had no idea.

Erick lay back on his pillow, and simply breathed for a while. His body felt like he had had a hard workout, but that would pass soon enough. A lot faster than it would take to regenerate his Mana, actually, since he didn’t have Meditation in this form and couldn’t force himself into Rest.

… He needed to figure out Meditation.

That way he could put himself into Rest whenever he needed to, otherwise it would take three hours to naturally fall into a Restful state to turn his Mana Regen from ‘per day’ to ‘per hour’. He was still tied to the Script in many ways, after all. Everyone was tied to the Script until they proved themselves too much of a Wizard to be allowed access. That much was true even all the way here in Ar’Cosmos.

And Erick was not about to break himself from the Script and take control of all his mana. Not happening. Not yet.

“So.” Erick asked Ophiel, “Do you know how to gain Meditation?”

Ophiel chirped at him.

Erick smiled. “Yeah. I know the basics, but haven’t managed it yet.” He breathed deeply, then said, “No time to try like the present.” He closed his eyes.

Even breaths. Even heartbeats. Slowing down…

Resting—

“… Wait.” Erick looked to Ophiel. Ophiel cocked his head, twisting his feathers and his eyes around as he looked right back at Erick. “Right.” Erick said, “That. Duh.”

Erick had Ophiel cast a rather weak [Prismatic Ward] across his accretion space and a bit more besides. Not his bed, though. Not too large, either, because he didn’t want to weaken Ophiel too much, nor did Erick want to create some sort of problem with Fairy Moon.

But he did want space enough to cycle inside, and for Ophiel to sit and regain his mana, too. The transparent solidness that appeared around him and a bit more of the room was more than enough for his purposes. Erick instantly felt his body, soul, and mind enter a Restful state, which was surprising. The Status effect was very noticeable now that Erick had gone without it for so long.

… He really should have thought of this sooner.

He also wasn’t casting his daily [Personal Ward].

He wasn’t doing a lot of normal things that he usually always did, like talk to Yggdrasil, or talk to other people, or—

Erick frowned, and then he banished those saddening thoughts; he had a lot of shit going on right now. A lot. And besides, it wasn’t like he could —or needed to— protect himself here, in Fairy Moon Manor.

He forgave himself for his inability, relaxed, fell into the moment, and grabbed one of the books of accretion sitting next to him to read for a bit while he waited for his core to refill. He could already tell that his mana was returning to him slowly, but surely, by the small increase in the mana density of his core. Erick was sure that if he could actually see the thing inside his chest, with his eyes instead of with his mana sense, that the process of regenerating mana would make his core look like it was turning from a dull piece of quartz, to polished crystal, to something iridescent white and glowing.

Should take him about 40 minutes to reach full mana, too—

Erick set down his book as a thought crashed into his mind and would not let go.

“How the fuck am I going to cast my usual 13,000 mana [Personal Ward] if my through-put is capped at 500 per second?” Erick frowned. “Fu— No wait!… Shit.” He sighed. “Ritual casting every day, huh?”

He thought for a moment longer, then decided that he did not like the idea of a true ‘morning ritual’ every day, so in that worst case scenario, he could ritually cast [Unbreakable Form] for 7500 mana, and then do that twice. If that spell needed shoring up then some [Renew] could fix it, but that spell was already permanent. With that active, he would have 500 points of absolute defense…

Or he could work on a similar spell that he could start off small, and then add a million mana to it through [Renew], or something, to eventually make a thousand point absolute defense spell… or something. Actually… That sounded good.

