But magic was different here than it was in Veird. So how would he make such a spell? And would it translate to Veird? Likely not, unless he made it on Veird and the Script finalized it for him.

Erick glanced over to the textbooks from Inferno Maw about the nuances of magic in Ar’Cosmos.

He kinda wanted to read them—

But nope! Nope. One thing at a time. Accretion first; he hadn’t even finished all of those books, yet.

A bit over half an hour later, or something near that since there were no clocks nearby, Erick’s core seemed full. His soreness from his first cycle had even vanished over ten minutes ago. He was good to go for round two. Which is exactly what he did.

This time, it took him thirteen minutes to accrete all of his mana (he had reached acclimation that fast? Strange.) and then another forty-ish to get it all back.

The third round of accretion also took him fifteen minutes, though it could have been sixteen. Erick wasn’t sure. Accreting inside a Restful space seemed to help a lot with some of his mana issues, if just by virtue of Regenerating more mana while he was also using his current mana. But was this okay? Was this method good? Or bad? Erick searched through the books to find an answer, but didn’t manage to locate anything adequate before his mana returned to full, which was still 30ish minutes after finishing his previous session.

Again, there was no clock, so he was guessing.

He needed a clock.

The fourth time Erick took ten minutes to bottom out; a drastic shift from the direction he thought his accretion time was headed toward. (Was he speeding up again? Strange.) So while he was waiting to regenerate his pool, in addition to looking for answers regarding Restful spaces, he also looked for words to explain his newfound speed at bottoming out.

Twenty minutes later he finally managed to find a few passages that might have explained what was happening to him. Regarding the Restful spaces, he found nothing. But with regard to his speed, either he was getting so much better at accreting that his time to bottom out was cut by a third, at least, or else he was accidentally taking in ambient mana and fucking everything up. While the first was possible, it was not probable.

Erick did not go for a fifth cycle.

Instead, Erick went looking for answers from a professional, or at least to find Maid Maria. Also he wanted more food; it was lunch time and he was hungry again. He took his empty dishes back with him as he left his room once more, with Ophiel on one shoulder and Yggdrasil on the other.

- - - -

Fairy Moon and Maid Maria were sitting at the dining room table, poring over paperwork scattered over half of the large surface. Sandwiches and smaller finger foods sat on the other side of the table, all within easy reach for either person to pick from as they worked.

Maid Maria had been talking about budgets for some place called the docks, but she went silent as Erick walked into the room.

Fairy Moon looked up at Erick, then narrowed her eyes at him, before promptly relaxing, nodding, and turning back to her paperwork as she said, “Your accretion is advancing admirably.” She said to Maid Maria, “Go get the gift.”

Maid Maria bowed a bit and scampered off to a side room, her pink tail swaying behind her as she went.

Erick walked up to the table and set his used dishes to the side, out of the way of all the paperwork, or the other food. “Is it?” he asked. “Because I have no way to measure any of this. My timing for a full cycle is turning weird, too, going from one minute to fifteen to ten, or something close to that. Can I get a clock, or something, to track my measurements?”

Fairy Moon jolted at the mention of weird timing, stared at him, and then relaxed. “Your timing is weird because you are at the beginning. You are not accreting improperly. As for measurements, though. I have a gift!” Fairy Moon stood as tall as her short stature would allow. “It is a tool to tell of accretion and advancement.”

Maid Maria returned to the room carrying a small blue cube, about the size of a hand. She handed it over to Fairy Moon who took it readily.

Fairy Moon held the cube, and announced, “Behold! A crystal counter, tuned for tracking your specific advancement based upon the Script’s lines of power. This here is a demanding bit of demarcation that does not manage much for most, but it is useful for young dragons who produce more mana than they can reliably use in a day.” She handed it off to Erick.

Erick took the tiny thing and scrunched his eyes at it. To his mana senses it seemed like a blue crystal cube; completely solid and without any moving parts… or anything magical about it at all. It did have some small numbers on the upper surface, though, in eight rows, and with ten columns of 0 through 9, which indicated it was… Erick wasn’t sure.

“What… is it?”

“It is a mana crystal grown in a certain way; something that does not happen back on Veird, but which can happen here if the circumstances are correct. This counting crystal is one made for testing people with New Stats, but it is also a plain counting crystal with all the common capability.” Fairy Moon smiled. “Though the circumstances are different, with this: witness some semblance of how we calculated power back in the Old Cosmology.”

Erick eyed the thing in his hands again. Eight rows of numbers corresponded to eight Stats, so that made sense. But… He looked at Fairy Moon; he needed more than what she had given him. “How do I use it?”

“Flood it with at least a hundred mana.” Fairy Moon said, “That’s all it takes. Let me know if you break that one, for though they can measure quite well, they are prone to breaking and rather more esoteric than essential. They are also not precise, with error rates as high as 15%. A much better method is getting back to the Script for a simple survey of your Status.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “Okay. Good gift. I will use it well. I had another question about accretion, though.”

Fairy Moon nodded. “Do you desire Illustrious to return? Or will my own answer suffice?”

Erick went ahead and just asked his question, “It’s about the thing you brushed over earlier. My accretion time to bottoming out on mana was a single minute, then it was 15, and now it is ten. It is speeding up, I think. Does that mean anything? Am I taking in ambient mana? I also didn’t find anything out about people using Restful spaces to speed up recovery time; does a Restful space cause harm in any way?”

“Your core is correctly curated; I have checked. You will speed up as skill progresses and your body begins to acclimate to accretion,” Fairy Moon said, without worry. “The Restful space thing you’re doing is a nuance to the usual methodology, but there should not be problems with that peculiarity. Most people just Meditate, but your way is by-chance better.” She gestured to the food at the table. “Care to stay for sustenance? Or would you like help handling the kitchen? You are free to make whatever you want, except for any exceptional messes; that would be rude to Maid Maria and I will make you clean up any such catastrophes.”

Erick ignored the casual threat, and said, “I will grab something from the kitchen and leave you to your own work. I appreciate your answers.” He said to Maid Maria, “And your food is excellent. Much appreciated.”

The pink dragonkin lady turned a bit more pink around the cheeks as she smiled politely and did a small curtsy. “Your words of kindness are too kind; I am but a humble Cook. If you desire something in particular, please let me know.”

“I will be sure to do that, then.”

Maid Maria curtsied again.

Fairy Moon nodded, then returned to her work.

Erick went to the kitchen and grabbed something good from the premade options, and then he took it back to his room. If it weren’t for the various circumstances that landed him here, he would have thought it a bit funny to ‘go and eat in his room’, like he was some sort of child staying out of the sight of a disapproving parent.

But his situation was a situation that was not funny at all.

… The food was pretty great, though.

- - - -

The cube worked oddly.

All it had was a 10x8 matrix of numbers 0 through 9 on one side. It could not display a Status at all. It couldn’t even flick through a roll of numbers, or a proper mechanical device, in order to show his actual numbers. What it did, instead, was flicker. None of the lines of numbers were listed as a Stat, either. If this thing worked as Fairy Moon said it would, then it should show that all of his Stats were at least at 10, except for Willpower and Focus, which were both at 20, though those were his numbers from before he started accreting.

And anyway, Erick had no idea what this thing would actually do.

So he put a hundred mana into the thing and hoped for the best. Almost instantly a white glow took hold in the center of the crystal. And then the numbers started flickering, rushing through the entire gamut of numerals before something else flickered inside the crystal and all of the white glow vanished—

The numbers settled. In the first 5 lines, and line 8, the number 1 flickered. In lines 6 and 7, the number 2 flickered instead. One second later the number 0 flickered here and there, but in the other spaces, a 1 flickered instead.

And then the glow died; the counting crystal went inert again.

Erick smiled.

Okay. That was rather simple to understand. Erick wasn’t sure how the creator of the crystal had organized his numbering system, but in Erick’s own Status, it went from top to bottom: Strength, Vitality, Dexterity, Constitution, Perception, Willpower, Focus, Intelligence. It was probably the same for most people, though most people only had one of the New Stats. Therefore, the display here was likely organized to show the whole possible suite of Stats, and Erick suspected that a null-result would just make the 0s flash. Or something like that.

Even though he couldn’t figure out how it worked, exactly, Erick knew enough to understand what it meant, and it meant that he had gained about 4 Points in his ‘Status’.

Calculating out his mana spent to points gained…

“Oh.” Erick said, surprised. “1 point per 250 mana? Is that right? I think it is. That’s… Okay? Wizards cheat, apparently.”

The books had suggested it would take between 1000 mana, to 10,000 mana, to gain a point in a Stat.

… Maybe the first points were easy, though?

Erick accreted some. When he stopped, he rested, Rested, and read, looking for answers about ‘easy first Stat increases’, or something similar. All he managed to find was that it usually got harder and harder to gain more power, but that a starting point of between 500 mana to 10,000 mana per point was normal.

… The books seemed to have discrepancies with their numbers.

That was frustrating. Was nothing peer-reviewed here? At least Oceanside’s books were peer-reviewed and set in stone by the Headmaster. All of those Oceanside books were meant for the complete layman, though, which was a different sort of problem, Erick supposed.

Erick went for cycle number 7. When he recovered enough from that cycle to put another hundred mana into the counting crystal, he found he had gained another point in what was probably Dexterity. Because of that, Erick was almost 100% sure that for every 250-ish mana he accreted, he would gain 1 point in a stat. So that was good!

Almost the entire day was gone by now, though, and the math did not bode well for the super fast growth that Erick had been expecting. His core was far away from being spherical, while his body was absorbing most of his gains, which meant that it would take quite a while to get anywhere quickly with this methodology.

… And yet.

That sort of thinking was incorrect. Erick would start snowballing hard once he gained enough of a foundation to actually start snowballing; once his Script-delineated regeneration allowed him to tap into anything close to that of his actual mana creation. But that would likely take a while to happen. According to some napkin math…

He required 250 mana to gain a Point in his Status.

His regeneration was currently at 320 mana per hour. This was the combination of his Vitality and his Focus, thanks to Rozeta’s Recovery, which combined those Stats for the purposes of calculating Regeneration.

Every time he gained a point, there was a 25% chance he gained a point in either Focus or Vitality, and since both were beneficial for Regeneration, and they both counted the same, they were effectively identical gains. The other Stats didn’t matter right now. Only Regeneration mattered. If he Remade the Skill, Concentration, for 3 times Mana Regen, or Enduring for 3 times Health Regen, then this would go a lot faster, but Erick felt he did not have enough base mana to do that yet, so those bits of Soul Magic would have to wait. Which was fine; Erick was pretty sure he could Remake those Skills the very second he regained enough of a mana pool to actually make the necessary change to his soul.

But anyway: Erick had a 25% chance, roughly every 47 minutes, to gain a point in a relevant Stat. Therefore, it would take an average of four cycles to gain something relevant.

After four cycles, to get to full mana (which was currently 210 but he pretended it was 200 for the ease of math) it would take him, at first, 45 minutes to reach the next stage, and then 44 minutes, and then 43 minutes, and then 42 minutes. Erick ignored the decimals.

Erick didn’t go much further into the math than that, because once he reached a turnaround time in line with his minimum accretion time, then that would be as fast as he could go. All signs pointed to the snowballing beginning in…

An accretion time of 8 minutes per hour, which translated to a regeneration of 1900, which was combined from both Mana and Health Regeneration, which meant 190 combined Vitality and Focus, which meant 95 in both Stats…

Erick winced.

Ouch.

Okay.

The initial time frame of ‘five days to snowballing’ had some holes.

If he did undirected growth, which would put all his ‘Points’ wherever they felt like going, that would require 650 overall Stat gains. Which meant 162,500 mana accreted, which would mean…

Split the difference and just assume 400 mana per hour for the first third of his total necessary mana to snowballing… Which seemed correct. Erick wasn’t sure. He certainly wasn’t going to be doing any calculus to properly calculate this mess. No thank you. Estimates were good enough.

This meant 135 cycles, each at (once again assuming) 30 minutes per cycle… 67 hours. Divided by 12 hours per day, since he doubted he could cycle continuously—

