The reformed Personal Script said, “You have achieved an increase of your Dark Mark from 157,000 mana per day, to 161,000 mana per day, along with an across-the-board increase in Stats of several points. As you have decided against visual, exact updates, I will not give them to you unless you change this setting.”

Teressa nodded, and then she pulled out of the meditation.

In the darkened meditation room, Teressa opened her eyes. She wasn’t getting much out of her Personal Script right now, but she saw the usefulness of it. She’d figure out what she wanted to do with it eventually, but for now she smelled flowery meat on the air while Dariok and Lenitha giggled in the kitchen, talking about all that Lenitha had seen and done today with Ophiel.

Teressa grinned at that.

Her Rage was still there, in the background, demanding to come forward and for Teressa to grab at the Red in the sky and tear it all down. That was a change from the usual. Her usual way of being had been impotence. Useless. Without a way to actually accomplish anything at all.

It was not an unfamiliar feeling.

Back when Teressa had first met Erick, he had blown past her expectations of an archmage and then proven that she couldn’t protect him at all because he was too big. But then Teressa had learned about mana sensing, and she ended up better than him at that… for a short while.

Now, Erick was the fae-wizard-dragon Apparent King, handing out Personal Scripts and a lot of new power, and Teressa needed to catch up, in some way that Erick hadn’t done yet, in order to keep everything together. To make it all work.

She had decided she was going to Know the Darkness, if possible.

She was going to do an end-run on Nothanaganathor.

… Hopefully.

Teressa chuckled to herself, at the impossibility of her desire.

She’d still try. Would she have success? … ehhhhh.

Teressa rose from her seat and made her way to her family, in the kitchen.

- - - -

Shivraa sat in her field office, upon a pillow, her body a work of ice-forged weaponry, her mind sharp as monomolecular wires, her instincts as honed as a Wardancer, a Valkyrie, an officer, and a secretary, all at the same time. She had played many of those parts in her years upon years of slavery in Slaver’s Den, including some smaller parts that were best left unmentioned and forgotten. There were few exceptions to that drive to forget it all.

Perhaps the best role she had ever had in her years as a slave was as a simple cooling system. They had told her to stay in a large mansion’s large cold room with the food, to keep it cold and prevent spoiling. Shivraa recalled that time in her life almost fondly. The rage had abated in those years, and she had become ‘the cold fairy’ to the children of the master. She was not a fairy at all, but they liked to call her that. She made ice treats and snow rooms for those little kids.

Those little kids grew up and became like their parents. The rage had returned when that happened, when the eldest son decided to do to her what they did to slaves sometimes.

Shivraa didn’t remember much of the years after that.

She had been at Slave Intake 45, acting as a secretary, when the Apparent King had made his will known, and shown his power to all. When the raging monster came for Shivraa, there behind that desk, Shivraa did not fight. She welcomed that sword through her chest.

The Apparent King had saved her in so many different ways, but it had just been any old day to him. He was amazing. He was beyond her. She would try to catch up, as much as she could.

For Shivraa was awake now, making her own choices in life, and she was choosing to be at the Apparent King’s side, in whatever way he allowed.

He had already allowed her to express her rage, to let it take control, to let it do everything that she could not do, and somehow she had found herself again in that rage. In that Rage. Her Rage had become a living thing. A sword. A hand of claws. A jaw filled with teeth. Wings of blades and an aura of the Cold End of All.

There on her meditation pillow, Shivraa meditated on her path in life, in the choices she was making, every single day. Her mind wandered through memories, and through desires.

Before this trip to Veird, to what was surely her new, wonderful home, she had seen the old children of her former master, who had become masters themselves. They had briefly been mindless valkyrie, before being ripped back into youth, back into the people just on the cusp of becoming like their parents. Shivraa remembered the eldest son the most. She hated him. She almost killed him again. But she mitigated her response. Being a valkyrie had allowed her perspective that she had never had before.

That she had never been allowed to have.

She had spoken to them harshly, and they had reacted with fear and anger and terror, but also understanding. Their ‘Cold Fairy’ had become a cold killer, and the former masters had become crying children, barely understanding what they had become, or who they were anymore.

Shivraa paid them no more mind.

She wandered her meditation closer to the present, to this land where slavery was denied by the Powers That Be, through anti-slavery Quests that rescued people from that horrible life and tossed them across the globe, to another part of the land. Or, there was the other option. Vengeance.

Shivraa loved that.

She loved her new home in ways that she could not articulate well.

She could articulate that she hated Nothanganathor, though. She Raged at him. At the very idea of him. He was the creator of the creator of the creator of Slaver’s Den, of the Malevolence that kept all those people trapped until the Apparent King came and set them free.

Shivraa would kill Nothanganathor, if she got the chance.

… And yet, Shivraa knew the responsible thing. She would be better served making openings for the Apparent King to take his own revenge.

So many people would be there with her, too. To help, to Rage, to carve and kill and eradicate the Red. Veird was full of people who had been wronged by Nothanganathor, and all of them were valued comrades on the battlefield.

And yet, those others had faltered over the last year. When Shivraa appeared on Veird with her fellows and the full truth of the universe was revealed to these people, they faltered. They were small. Their rage was small. They had no idea of the full truth of the coming war.

This war would determine the fate of Margleknot, and thus millions upon millions of Layers of Infinity.

That daunted some people. Most people, really. Everyone had spoken to her about the impossibility of the coming war, in small conversations and small confessions. She did her best to assuage those fears, for fear was the mindkiller, as the Apparent King had once said… And then instantly told Shivraa that he was merely quoting someone else.

Shivraa smiled at that memory.

He was so honest.

Shivraa would die for him. Over and over and over, if need be, for what had she been doing before him except living as a slave? She was no longer a slave. She was her own person, making her own decisions, and she had made yet another decision, thanks to the Apparent King giving her more options. She would get her true revenge upon Nothanganathor, like all the others of this land.

The ‘how’ of it was still in question, though.

Shivraa focused inward.

She stepped into the room of the Personal Script.

She was already there, waiting for her. She had been at the edge of her meditation this whole time, simply waiting for Shivraa to turn her way. She was beautiful. Radiant. Brilliant white with wings cast wide and ice of many colors filling the room, like spikes of glittering-black-white certainty. She was utter solidity. She was the Ice That Ended It All.

She was Shivraa, but more.

The Perfect Version of Shivraa asked, “Your decision.”

Imperfect-but-striving Shivraa declared, “[To Strike the Pretender-Gods From Heaven].”

“Quest Accepted.”
