Candice didn’t answer. She was reading, her eyes going wide as she giggled semi-maniacally. “This is great! Mine is basically the same.”

[Armaments of Protection]

You are you.

Always active in the background. Always at 100% Wizardry Resistance. Armaments of Protection drains 1 mana per second upkeep. Automatic negation of Wizardry below <New Hire> level. You will take damage to your Mana before you take damage to yourself to protect yourself from Wizardry. Summon your full Armaments for 100 mana, and gain an edge that cuts through Wizardry. Will break if you have nothing left to give.

Jane tried to pull the description into herself, like she could with any blue box from the Script, and nothing happened, as she asked, “It cost you a mana to display that, too, right?”

Candice paused and then she looked in the air as she conjured a good hundred spell descriptions and other junk, filling the air with brown-colored words. “Oh yeah. That’s a mana a pop. I never noticed that.” She wiped a hand through the mess of glowing words, ignoring them as she asked Jane, “Do you think we can make more stuff like this? I want [Absolute Annihilation]— or [Wizard Beam]!”

“I don’t know… But...”

Jane felt something she hadn’t felt in a long time. Not since she had come to Veird and first experienced the Script, full of unknown possibilities. Not since the first time she had stepped into her first dungeon. It had been a long time since either of those events, and even longer since she had picked up a stick as a kid and pretended it was a sword.

Jane had learned almost everything she could through experimentation and Dungeons, always struggling to keep up with her father’s power, always falling short and needing to explore side avenues of strength in order to find the way forward once again.

But this Personal Script…

Jane floated in the absent gravity of the Third Floor of the Glittering Depths, surrounded by scattering, molten metal that floated in the sky like a million tiny suns, her body surrounded by blue [Conjure Armor] that wasn’t [Conjure Armor] at all, and she saw the path forward to the future. A small glimpse. A chink in an impossible wall, an impossible crack opened that she could walk through, if she kept her wits about her, and leveraged every strength she already knew to widen that gap even further.

It was a gap that she could use to save the world.

Words appeared.

Reson cap improved!

100→ 276

Jane chuckled at that.

Candice asked, “What?”

“We’re going to save this world, Candice.” Jane said, “Us. You and me and the others. Dad is going to be involved, but we’re going to be the ones to kill Red gods and Red archliches, and copies of ourselves that were twisted to Malevolence, that are going to try and tear us down in ways we cannot imagine.”

Candice’s wild enthusiasm burned hotter, and deeper, as her wild grin turned to a quiet smirk. “Yeah. We are—” She glanced at the air. “Oh! My reson cap went up!”

Jane smiled. And then she teased, “Still got a shit-brown mana-color.”

“I’m working on it!”

- - - -

Half-asleep, Jane opened her eyes to a white room, with a white hologram of herself standing before her.

Benevolence said, “Great job! That worked out very well. What can I help you with?”

“I want answers. A lot of them. And maybe an adjustment to [Regalia of Protection].”

Benevolence nodded. “I can help you with questions and answers. Be forewarned that my answers will attempt to lead you down a path toward the greatest good for all and every individual. If you are good with that, then we can proceed, otherwise I would suggest you return to the Conglomeration version of myself. Your Regalia can be altered by me as needed, as I deem necessary. Your Regalia can be altered by you, however you wish, if you can alter it and not have it collapse upon you.” She added, “I am afraid, though, that I have done as much as I can for you at this time with regard to spellwork. Would you like to see your [Regalia of Protection] spell?”

“… Sure.”

Benevolence lifted a hand and a cluster crystal of light and power and rainbows coalesced. It was a confusing jumble of angles and planes and edges and softer curves, all of which seemed both frozen in time with itself and constantly moving inward and outward. It almost hurt to look at, but this was a space inside Jane’s soul, so it actually just hurt to be around. That pain was nothing that Jane couldn’t handle, but she did have to struggle to stay within the half-dream—

Jane blinked, and she realized she was fully awake.

She grumbled a little as she took in the sights of her private room near the Blue Corps offices, located in the center of Ar’Kendrithyst. She had been kicked out of the half-dream, and now she was simply sitting on a pillow, beside her bed. The windows outside showed brilliant blue sky and fluffy clouds, and the deeper blue crystal of the Blue Corps offices across the way.

Jane breathed deep, let her small frustration go, and then she closed her eyes again.

A few minutes later, half-asleep, Jane opened her eyes to a white room.

Benevolence said, “Welcome back. Your Regalia is a very large working, rife with Wizardry, so I suggest you start with a smaller spell if you want to practice with soulforging.” Benevolence lifted an arm, and a simple 6-sided quartz-like crystal appeared. It was clear-ish, with a dot of soft blue glowing in the center, coloring the whole thing. “This is a representation of [Force Bolt] in your soul.” She put her hands together, and then brought out another crystal exactly the same as the first. “And this is a copy to mess with; one that isn’t connected to any other part of your actual soul.”

Both of the representations of [Force Bolt] hurt to look at, but Jane was able to maintain her concentration on the half-dream this time. But… Jane came upon a realization.

“This is gonna take a long time, isn’t it.”

“You might reach some competency with Soul Magic before you fight against real Wizardry in the coming month, but Soul Magic is the study of a lifetime. Several lifetimes, really.”

“Put away the spell. I want to talk about organizing the Status.”

The spells vanished—

Benevolence vanished, too.

The blue hologram came back, saying, “Let’s talk about your Status.”

“What happened to Benevolence?”

“Status is my deal.”

“… I want to organize my Status so my Mana protects my Health which protects my Psyche.”

“Sure. How do you want to do that?”

Jane sighed a little, both in the half-dream, and in reality—

Jane realized she was back in her room. She had fallen out of the half-dream.

“Dammit,” she whispered.

And then she focused inward again, as she closed her eyes…

- - - -

“So after half an hour of talking about how to do that, and then another hour getting it done, I have the bright idea to ask if we can simulate some combat scenarios or something, and she says ‘Sure! How do you want to do that?’. GODS. I just about punched her.”

Sitnakov laughed. It was just the two of them right now, taking dinner in Jane’s office in the Blue Corps of Ar’Kendrithyst. She was eating a big fried chicken sandwich and fries, and he was eating the same, with a side of black adamantium in little bricks. It was a cozy dinner. Jane wanted more dinners like this, but events were advancing outside their little spot of calm.

Plan Surround and Consume was hours away from finishing. Jane and the big guy were stealing as much time together as they could, because soon they would be in completely different theaters of war. She, here at the Corps, on reserve and likely going to stay that way because it was more important for the entire world to see The Wizard’s daughter in the thick of command, and especially if there was going to be a counter attack. Killzone would be remaining here, too.

Sitnakov would be on the front lines, with her father.

If Plan Surround and Consume worked, then Dad would turn up the heat on Fenrir, cracking its Scheme and likely saving the people down there, or something like that. He was playing his plans close to his chest, and he’d probably be altering his plans ten thousand times between now and then, just to keep Nothanganathor guessing. If everything went well, then father would be the tip of the spear in a week, or something, paving the way for all others to come in and sweep up. Sitnakov and the Valkyries would be somewhere in all of that. Candice would be close behind that front line, because she had already expressed that she was going out there and it was either with Dad, or in secret, and he had relented.

Jane might be there, too.

But the actual war was a massive affair, and Fenrir had two sides, and Veird only saw this side of that land. Even Dad hadn’t ventured inside Fenrir to check in there. Not yet.

… Or maybe he had, and he hadn’t told anyone. That was also a possibility.

Jane went back to focusing on dinner. She stuck a fry into some purple ketchup, made with purple tomatoes. Dad had brought/invented the red variety, but Jane kinda liked the purple stuff better.

Sitnakov smiled softly as he saw her eat.

Jane waved her fry. “Anyway. The Personal Script has a lot of limitations but it will help you do whatever you can figure out on your own. I was kinda pissed off and trying anything to figure out how Candice had made all her pools protect each other in sequence, so I said ‘can we shoot my own Mana at my Mana and Health and Psyche, and see what kinda damage it does?’ Looong story short, the various pools take and deal different types of damage, and they’re strong against their own damage but ‘weak-ish’ when they’re exposed to damage from other types. The way that it’s already set up is that each pool already takes damage from what they’re best at taking damage from and hides behind the other pools to let those other pools take damage from their preferred damage. Candice was livid when I told her and she checked out a damage scenario herself.”

Sitnakov smiled. “Say ‘damage’ one more time.”

Jane slapped his arm.

“Ow!” Sitnakov said, smiling wider as he pretended to hold his ‘injured’ arm. “That was several points of damage!”

Jane smiled.

Sitnakov asked, “So do soul attacks attack your Mana?”

Jane nodded. “And physical stuff hits my Health and mental shit hits my Psyche. Honestly, the hardest thing to wrap my head around now is that I can’t cheat in tens of thousands more ‘mana’ through Healing Magic and Blood Mana combos. That’s a big hit to long term effectiveness. Beth is experimenting with fixing that issue, but she’s not had much luck. I’m sure someone will figure out a cheat soon enough. Wonder what will happen when that happens. Is Dad going to ‘update’ the software, or something?

“Or maybe there are no cheats, because he retroactively went back in time and fixed them from ever happening? Who knows!

“Anyway.

“Beth has the weakest Benevolence Mark of us all and she doesn’t want to go fight things at all and she’s not in any organization or supporting others, so her Benevolence Mark is at ‘New Hire’, like Candice, but it’s a lot less helpful. Candice’s Benevolence Mark simply stopped talking to her when she was done with her Quest, like it was too tired to speak more.”

“Have you talked to your Dark Mark yet?”

“I tried it for a moment.” Jane said, “Incoherent screaming and then I started to feel… weird. Distant-weird. Hard to explain. And then there were white eyes staring at me. The eyes went away and the Dark went quiet. Little Miss Blue Combination lightward came back out after that.”

Sitnakov sat back in his chair, saying, “That’s wild, Jane. That’s… pretty amazing… Was it Melemizargo in your Personal Script?”

“Really might have been a hallucination.”

“Hmm… Even so, that has some implications for who the Benevolence Lady is… And yet, your dad did try to make Benevolence be its own thing, outside of him.”

Jane shrugged. “I haven’t asked him anything about it yet.”

“What’d the Fractal say?”

“Nothing. I tried to access it, but the interior space went all weird like a ripple flashing the top of a pond into dull reflections, then the conglomerate blue lady came back.”

“Have you asked about Igniting to Wizardry?” Sitnakov waggled his eyebrows. “You could join the real front lines and I wouldn’t have to fight alongside Shades.”

“It simply didn’t answer me. Evan asked about that, though— his Benevolence Mark is the most talkative. He’s at ‘District Manager’ level, for all the stuff he’s doing in the administration of the House. Benevolence said that he’s simply not ready, until he’s ready.” Jane huffed a laugh. “Which was appropriately fairy-like.”

Candice was now linen-colored, or at least she had been the last time Jane had [Telepathy]d with her.

Jane smiled at that.

Sitnakov hummed with discontent. “That’s something I don’t understand. Why does Evan have a bigger Benevolence Mark than you? You’re here at the Blue Corps and you’re one of the leaders for the Dungeoneer’s Guild. You should be a District Manager.”

Jane’s heart pulsed with a little bit of joy because Sitnakov was looking out for her. She smiled, saying, “I talked with Dad about it. He thinks it’s a temperament issue. I’m organizing this stuff because I kinda fell into it and learned on the job, but Evan is really going for it, and for much less violent reasons than me. I just wanted to be a delver to explore and fight new things and the organization around all of it was a whole bunch of people trying to swing their egos around and gumming up what should have been a simple act of organizing known dungeons and eradicating bad ones, so I sorta… did that. And then kept going. Honestly I am so glad that I’m not a real leader in any of these things, but I’m still here.”

Sitnakov grinned. “I get that.”

“You’ve fallen into the trap of responsibility a few times, haven’t you?”

Sitnakov boomed with a laugh. “Once or twice! Sometimes I ended up leading men and then those men became a company and Kromolok would try to get me to do more and father would say the same, but then Abarnikon asked if I wanted help with all my newfound responsibilities and I threw all of them at him. He loved it, and he’s good at it, so that’s fine by me.”

Jane snorted. “I should start doing that with Evan.”

Sitnakov smiled, and it was great to see. “So that [Regalia of Protection] is almost like a constant Wizardly-‘No’, or something, then? Like how to protect against soul magic?”

