Jane eagerly said, “It is! That’s basically the entire Ability. Took me a while to realize that— That’s another thing about the Personal Script. You know the computers my dad brought back from Earth? And from Margleknot, I suppose. Talking with the Personal Script reminded me a lot of this thing they do with ‘coding’ when the code isn’t coding right. It’s called ‘talking to the duck’ troubleshooting…”

- - - -

Evan sat in a lotus position upon a pillow in his room in his house of the Cloud Castle.

The world was disarrayed.

He would put it to rights.

He closed his eyes and meditated, his aura shimmering prismatic as it cycled into his body, into his core, into his soul. A soft chime soon echoed in his ears, and not in his ears at all. He ignored it. Another chime came a minute later. He ignored it, as he cultivated and accreted at the same time, in a way that he never could before. Several more chimes came through, like the soft bells of a meditation bowl. The ripple filled his mind, and then vanished into the ocean that was his magenta-rainbow soul.

And then there was a ‘ding!’.

Power unwound.

Evan relaxed, his magenta-prismatic aura fading away, his Domain faltering, as he felt out his body.

Black ichor drenched him, from his short black hair to the soles of his feet, to every place where flesh met flesh and even the inside of his mouth and ears and in the corners of his eyes. It stank, and Evan was exhausted. It was difficult to keep his head up and his shoulders straight, to not retch at the stench of it all, but he managed. A [Cleanse] removed most of the problem, but not all. Evan knew why it hadn’t fully cleaned him, but his mind was blurry right now; he would fix that issue later. For now, he was tired, but not absolutely filthy.

He opened his eyes and took in the update from his Personal Script.

[Pure Cultivation] accomplished!

Pure Cultivation

Expel weakness. Grow strength. Find yourself. Maybe become a Wizard one day.

Actively drain your resources to grow your base stats, starting with the weakest. <Base Stats do not affect mana generation rate>

Evan smiled at that, and then he looked through his older notifications —all those little chimes while he was cultivating— before he opened his Status and had a good look.

He liked what he saw.

Soul up!

Body up!

Mind up!

Reson cap up!

Evan Flatt, [35] [Current Location: Layer 789; Veird, year 1453]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 50%, 30%, 5%

Reson allocation rate: 15%

Darkness Level: Archmage

Fractal Level: Blind

Benevolence Level: District Manager

Soul: 115; 703,700 per day / 8.1 per second

Body: 66

Mind: 35

Overall Stability: ↑ [+6.9, -0]

Mp: 59,671/115,000, ↑ [+4, -0]

Hp: 32,487/66,000, ↑ [+2.4, -0]

Pp: 8,871/35,000, ↑ [+.4, -0]

Resons: 1/521, [+1.2 = +.13, -0]

Evan sighed into the open air, relaxing as his resons ticked up to 2. Everything about this process was a bottleneck, but Evan’s lack of resons was the real bottleneck. But 2 days ago his reson cap was 100, and now it was 521.

He would have gone further today, but duty called.

Plan Surround and Consume was proceeding on ‘schedule’, and all foreseen issues were already being taken care of by Father. The encirclement would happen in 2 more doublings; in the next 3 hours. From there, they’d try to double the whole thing 2 more times, for more solid coverage.

Evan cleaned himself up again with another [Cleanse]… and then a few more, because the [Cleanse] in his Personal Script was not as good as the Script [Cleanse], which was what it was.

“Right,” Evan reminded himself, “Switch back.”

With a flick of intent, Evan cast [Cleanse] upon himself using the real Script, and it was amazing.

Evan sighed in content as thick air flushed away the ick still on his body. He switched back to the Personal Script soon after, cast an [Alarm Ward] for 1 hour, and crawled into bed. Closing his eyes he drifted off to sleep almost instantly—

Evan found himself in a magenta room, facing the lightward version of himself that was his Personal Script.

“Ah,” Evan said, “I did not mean to come here.”

The magenta copy of himself flickered and turned pure iridescent white. “I am aware, but you should know that while I told you I could not help you make a second ability so soon after the completion of your first one, it appears I can, in fact, help you adjust another spell you already have. Would you like to take the Quest for [Sight Beyond Sight]? Or would you like to try for an upgrade for [Pure Cultivation], to increase mana generation? Please note that the previous warning still holds, in that if you choose to increase mana generation through [Pure Cultivation] then you will gain fewer Stats.”

Evan was exhausted, but he smiled and had no trouble saying, “Let’s talk about the capabilities of [Sight Beyond Sight] again, for I have new questions...”

- - - -

Poi did not need to meditate to speak to his Personal Script, but he did need to be in the right frame of mind, so he made himself some tea and cut off his connections to others, except for himself down in the Black Gate Dungeon over on Dungeon Island… or he kept his connection open to the version of himself on the Cloud Castle above Candlepoint. Really a POV issue, there. Both Pois were the same Poi.

Poi kinda lived in two bodies these days. It was nice.

Poi sat down on two chairs in two different sun rooms at the same time, and he called up two different shadows of himself—

The images condensed into a softly blue wardlight image of Poi, appearing at the sunroom in the Cloud Castle. It asked, “Yeah?”

“Last time you appeared in the dungeon space. What changed this time?”

“Your main focus is up here, so this is where I appeared.”

Poi hummed. And then he shifted his main perceptions down to the dungeon.

The Personal Script image moved with his mind and appeared in the facsimile of the old house at Spur, where Poi also sat sipping tea. It said, “And now your main mind is down here.”

Poi narrowed his eyes at his Personal Script, and was glad that it was actually answering questions, now.

Good.

No more ‘beating around the bush’, as Erick used to think, and Solomon still thought sometimes.

Poi asked, “If we were to separate this link, then would you split into both of us?”

Poi’s Personal Script began to glitter like crystal, the soft blue becoming a daytime sky filled with stars. “Of course I would split, Initiate Poi, for you know more than any other that I am more than what I appear to be. Also, you have been speaking with people who have a Personal Script and who also got pregnant, and I split down in that direction as well, just like the Mind Mages of historical Veird passed down their power.”

Huh.

Being weirdly talkative, it seemed.

Time for the big question.

Poi extended himself inward, into his soul, into the very machinery of the Personal Script.

It allowed him to do that, this time.

Poi asked, “What are you?”

The Fractal Mark in Poi’s Personal Script, like a perfect onion, and the Fractal Marks strewn throughout Poi’s soul, inside every derivative Skill and Spell of the original Fractal Mark of the Original Mind Mage, scattered like so much chopped onion, resonated together. The Fractal Poi said, “I am guidance that you have given yourself, constructed from what will be and what has been of you, but only you are you, Initiate Poi.” They asked, “Who would you like to be today?”

Huh.

Yeah.

That tracked.

Poi made a decision to believe.

He said, “Show me the options.”

Fractal Poi waved a hand.

Words appeared.

Calm Cultivation

Sight to See

Avatar of My Zenith

- - - -

Teressa laid Lenitha down for her nap, tucking her into her bed and then kissing her on her forehead. While Teressa had been reading the Benevolent Sky, her little girl had been running around with Ophiel again and she was completely exhausted. Teressa was kind of exhausted, too, but she had work to do.

She went to the kitchen, but she stopped right before she entered the room.

Dariok was there, rubbing salts and herbs onto a big slab of beef, getting it ready for the grill. He looked good. Teressa felt a pang in her heart as she looked upon him, and he hadn’t noticed her yet. How could she have possibly forgotten him? It was that damned Nothanganathor and his Red—

Teressa felt a familiar brush of Carnage pulse through her heart, filling her body with the Need to Kill, but then she sighed, and smiled, and walked into the room. Her Rage drained away as she put a hand on Dariok’s shoulder—

Dariok flinched— “Whoops! — Oh! Teressa. Ha ha!” Dariok turned and gave her a quick kiss, before he went back to stuffing salts and herbs into the cuts he had carved into the roast. “Didn’t see you there.”

He was still jumpy sometimes. He had never been jumpy before, but Solomon had said that there was trauma that would take a while to get over. Years, maybe. Decades. Maybe never. Hard to say. This un-Erasure process was completely new.

Teressa still loved Dariok.

Teressa smiled, saying, “Finally got Lenitha to take a nap and I was quiet. And I like watching you cook.”

Dariok grinned. “It’s bluebell and garlic and vanilla today.”

“Vanilla?” Teressa made a face. “In the roast?” She looked closer at the roast, and then at the near past, at the carvings that had been taken off and [Cleanse]d away. She came back to the moment, slightly offended. “That’s thousand-gold roast!” She laughed. “You’re gonna make it horrible!”

“Oh I am not.” Dariok rolled his eyes at her, saying, “It’ll be great! Some of the valkyries are real foodies and they already tried it out. Not a single person thought it would taste good, but it does… Or at least I assume it will if I followed the recipe correctly. Besides! You love bluebell, and that’s almost vanilla.”

“Bluebell is so far from vanilla that I’m not even sure where to begin.”

“I’m sure you could figure out some place, if you thought really hard.”

Teressa laughed loudly— And then she put a hand over her own mouth. “Oh that was too loud.”

Dariok smiled brightly, and it was wonderful. “Want me to help you make some louder noises? Just gotta get this meat in the oven.”

Ah.

Teressa missed this, and she hadn’t even known she missed this. The playfulness. The dirty talk. The love. The loving. Both of them knew they had no real time to do anything… Or maybe they had all the time in the world? Who knew what would happen when Plan Surround and Consume finally finished the encirclement. Teressa was supposed to be one of those who actually did know, but the Benevolent Sky was unreliable when it came to Nothanganathor’s direct actions.

Erick’s personal messages, delivered by him going back and forth through time, were much more reliable.

Mostly.

Things were going well.

Teressa strongly, softly, looked at Dariok, and poured her heart out as she said, “I love you.”

Dariok grinned. “I love you, too.”

Teressa pulled back a little bit from the seriousness of it all, teasing, “But your hands are all salty and I’m hungry, so get to cooking the rest of dinner.”

Dariok laughed. “Afterward?”

“And then afterward…” Teressa breathed deep. “I have to go back to the office.”

“I get it. I’ll take Lenitha into Benevolence Itself… Ophiel’ll pick us up?”

“He said he would and he wouldn’t forget that, but he does have a million other things on his docket…” Teressa made a decision. “I need to sit down for a little while, okay?”

“Sure. Dinner will be ready in 2 hours.”

Dariok placed the roast onto the nice big tray. It wasn’t the original nice big tray that they had had. All of Dariok’s stuff that he had had in the house had vanished with his Erasure, and the tray was one of those things. They had gotten him back, but none of the stuff. Those replacements had required trips to stores around the world. Teressa had loved that trip of theirs. It had been another walk through memory.

Dariok said, “I’ll get started on the vegetables. What do you want today? I got whiteroot, potatoes, carrots… Other stuff, I’m sure.”

“Everything that’s good. I’m gonna need something really delicious.”

Dariok raised an eyebrow. “How about fried veggies, then, and that soft sauce you like?”

Teressa felt buoyed just a little bit more. “I love it.”

Dariok smiled and gave Teressa a kiss.

They parted, and he got to cooking.

Teressa went into the other room where she sat down on a pillow and closed her eyes.

Moments later, Teressa stood in a room that was not a room, facing a softly grey version of herself without any distinguishing features. Didn’t even have a mouth or eyes, and the hands were all solid things, but yeah, that was Teressa. Maybe the shape of her soul, to be more precise? Or not. Teressa wasn’t sure, exactly.

The grey person said, “Welcome back. How may I help you?”

Teressa had made a decision a little bit ago, and now she made it again. “I need to speak with the Darkness.”

The Personal Script fluttered and then broke like a glass figure releasing a black tide that washed away the universe and left Teressa in a cloying void. The void pulled at her and she saw things in that Darkness that did not exist, but also things that might exist, if she was strong enough. If she could grab it and make it hers.

There was noise, and it sounded like everything and nothing all at once. Directionless. Without cause or effect. Someone roared. Someone cried. Someone laughed. Someone died.

Teressa was a point of calm in the black storm, and yet she wasn’t calm at all. She intoned, “I Rage at Malevolence, at what it has taken from me and others, and what it has done to all existence. I need to eradicate it all.”

The Darkness Raged with her, Teressa’s meditation filling with dragon roars and dark fire and ten million other things that may have existed in the past, might exist right now, and might exist in the future, or in another reality that was not this one. It was a cacophony that only existed because Teressa was here, looking upon it.

It was a cacophony that Teressa found strangely comforting.

It was sort of like staring into the black tangles of Benevolence in the sky, trying to figure out what they were and what they meant, but a whole lot more.

Teressa pulled herself out of the cacophony some time later, the Dark flowing back into the grey image of her Personal Script, like a black wound in the world retreating and healing over.

