The female dwarf snorted a laugh and sat down behind her desk. “They may look disorganized, but everything is in perfect order and in perfect condition.” She said. “I can't afford to put up all the shelves needed for everything, let alone find the space to put up the shelves in the first place.”

“I could.” Ren said and the two women looked at him. “Now that I see what's needed, I'd like to offer to build the shelves, so you can put these treasures where they belong.”

The female dwarf looked at Nathalia. “Is he crazy?”

“So far.” Nathalia said and laughed.

The female dwarf looked at Ren. “I can't pay you.”

“Ma'am, I wouldn't accept any money from you, even if you offered it.”

“What?” She said, surprised. “Why?”

“For one, I don't need it.” Ren said. “For another, it's something I'd like to do... for the books.”

She had a surprised expression on her face for a moment, and then she grinned. “You sir, have a deal.”

New Quest!

You have volunteered to build enough shelves to hold all of the books contained in the Library. No time limit has been set to complete this quest.

Rewards: 1000 XP, ????

“I'll have it done as soon as possible.” Ren said. “I have to head home for now to take care of a couple things, but I'll be back with enough wood for the shelves.”

The female dwarf nodded slightly and smiled. “I'm looking forward to it.”

Ren and Nathalia walked across the room and reached the door. Teepo dropped into the hood of Ren's cloak and Ren opened the door. Nathalia stepped passed him and he shut the door behind him. He took her hand and they walked down the alley and out onto the street. Once there, they made it to the main road and walked all the way back to House Neram. Carts filled with silt passed them constantly and Ren grinned at all the hard work everyone was doing for House Neram.

As they approached the house, there was still a crowd gathered near the statue. A lot of them stared at him and Nathalia as they passed. Ren nodded slightly to them and he led Nathalia to the gate. Barnar's group were working on the blank side now, and several waved at Ren. He waved back and led Nathalia through the gate and into the courtyard. He shut the gate behind them and locked it. Nathalia looked at him in surprise and Ren smiled.

“I've got Adventurer's business to do, and I don't want any unexpected visitors while I'm out.” Ren explained.

“Are you expecting any?”

Ren shook his head. “No, but it's better to be safe than sorry.”

Nathalia nodded slightly and they entered the house.

“Ma! We're back.” Nathalia said and Ren followed her through the main room and into the kitchen.

“Did you have a good ti- By The Gods, Nathalia!” Narhilda ran over to her and gave her a hug. “H-how?”

Nathalia nodded at Ren. “He bought a bit of land for us.”

Narhilda raised her eyebrows, and Nathalia chuckled.

“Okay, he bought a LOT of land.” Nathalia said.

Narhilda looked at Ren and he smiled. “How much land?”

“You don't want to know that right now.” Nathalia said. “I'll tell you later.”

Narhilda nodded slightly. “So, what are you up to now?” She asked Ren.

“I've got some Adventurer's business to take care of.” Ren said. “I also have something for the both of you to do.”

“What's that?” Nathalia asked.

Ren cleaned off the kitchen table and took the giant boar's carcass from inventory. “I've got a little bit of ham and bacon for you to harvest.”

“We...we're going to eat it?!?”

Ren grinned. “Why not? Boar is a rare meat I hear.” He said. “Don't cut it apart or throw it away once all the meat is off of it, though. I want it back.”

“There's not enough room in the icebox for this much meat.”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “I'll make a bigger one.” He walked out of the kitchen. “Make sure there's lots of bacon!” He said and walked down the hallway to the bedroom. Teepo hopped out and Ren climbed onto the bed.

I'll see you in a little bit, Teepo.

“Bye, Ren.” Teepo said.

“Logout.”
