Gracea had scarcely survived the hell months, but she had made it to the other side. She had been promised the opportunity to sleep—in a warm bed, no less—yet one of the instructors had dragged her into a quiet, poorly lit room and left without explaining a single thing! Just before she gave up and succumbed to the siren song of slumber on the floor, a voice unexpectedly spoke up. Ramrod straight—a mixture of adrenaline and instinct—Gracea studied the thin, reedy man with strange crystals in a metal frame affixed to his unremarkable face.

“The fuck are you…?” Gracea tried for words, uncertain if she found the right ones.

“A lot of work.” The man repeated, before he smiled. “All you truly need to know right now is that I am a Ranger Commander, which means I am a man that can make your ambitions come to pass.”

Direct and to the point. Gracea’s exhaustion melted away as her hopes soared. The man had already answered every single question she had in her current state, except one:

“What do you need me to do?” She asked.

Most people in the Ranger Academy learned the basics of combat, following orders, and cooperation. Others honed the expertise they already possessed as they were groomed for future leadership. Gracea drilled with the others, then met privately with her patron and his hand-selected tutors. She wasn’t just being honed into a Ranger—she was becoming an icon.

Some men and women taught her how to carry herself and how to speak. Others helped to sculpt her appearance and honed her new vanity Skill to help her become who she needed to be. Ancient records from Sentinel Dawn were unsealed for her perusal, and Gracea reveled in the intoxicating idea of erasing an entire city of the plague known as the shimagu.

Her Commander even sourced poor, infected souls for her to hone her talents against. As her levels climbed, the resistance of the average shimagu troubled her less and less—and she gained Skills that aided her efforts. [Parasite Purger] allowed her to imbue her Void-aspected healing to the Skills of her other classes. Experts trained by the recently retired Headmaster of the School of Sorcery and Spellcraft helped workshop her build until she decided to make her second class into Mist when she finally triggered her class up. With it, she could fill a chamber with a warm, mana-efficient mist that soothed the surface of the wounds the increasingly frantic parasites inflicted on their hosts, while it weakened the disease contained within and drained its mana until it could be purged with ease by her touch.

She was reborn into a soothing balm that restored the hearts and will of humanity, while her true power erased the shimagu from existence.

Her Commander came through time and time again. She graduated the Ranger Academy and was invited to speak on behalf of her fellow newly minted Rangers—a new tradition that the powers that be hoped to establish. Before Rangers, Sentinels (…well, Security Sentinels), Senators, and the doddering wealthy of Ariminum, she spoke gentle words about the power of humanity to overcome adversity—subtly hinting at the potential within the Rangers and what it could do to anything that dared to threaten the empire of mankind.

She had been trained by the masters that taught politicians all that they knew and those that wrote the speeches for senators and generals alike. Thanks to them, she had no need for a pre-written speech. Instead, she seemingly spoke from the heart—with copious eye-contact to draw her audience into her words.

It wasn’t enough, of course. But recreating the War Ranger program at the eleventh hour had never been a plausible goal. Instead, Gracea was assigned to Ranger Team 32—a team that patrolled the outer reaches of the empire, especially the territories that had been claimed as Remus expanded.

Ranger Gracea served with distinction during her time in Ranger Team 32. Her teammates spoke of her with reverence, and their leader credited her with the round concluding without a single casualty, not even in the monster-infested forests—still bearing craters and other scars of whatever catastrophe had claimed the nation that once lurked there—that Remus was struggling to colonize.

Her next round was far more successful. During Ranger Team 29’s return trip from Coalition City, they encountered the desperate remnants of a Legion escort. A senator’s aide had travelled through the front lines—likely, knowing the senator’s political record, as part of an effort to try to coerce her peers into diverting funds away from the necessity of war—but they had been ambushed by shimagu on the way back to the safety of the empire.

The senator’s aide had been captured, along with multiple members of his escort. It was easy to convince her team leader to render aid; the man plainly wanted to do so. Her team moved swiftly, while the remaining survivors of the escort sought further assistance from Coalition City, and soon found where the shimagu had hidden themselves.

The vermin had already infected the aide and the other legionaries that they had captured, abandoning the wounded beings they had once relied upon to die. Even with their sins casually displayed, the shimagu sent a representative to try to negotiate.

Gracea strode boldly forward, as though she intended to meet their representative. But even as the disease within the man spoke false promises in exchange for its continued existence, Gracea had her own words to offer. Her [Oath to Heal Humanity] felt appropriate.

“First, do not tolerate harm.

Healing is my art.

I will use all of my knowledge and the tools at my disposal to purge the diseases and infections that would threaten humanity.

I will erase every disease and parasite that I see to the best of my ability.

I will apply all measures that are required to see my fellow humans cured.

I will never see a parasite that preys upon humanity as anything other than a disease to cleanse.

I will not discriminate against any human that I heal from infection, no matter their class, sex, what gods they pray to, nor by any other means.

I will defend humanity from further infection by any means necessary.

I will fight to destroy any parasite that has the potential to infect a human.

I will admit when I lack the ability to heal a patient from his or her infection, and I shall do my utmost to see them freed by more direct means.

I will cherish and remember my true patients, and I will never lose sight of their worthiness for freedom from contagion.

I will spread salvation and erase all parasites and disease from our world to the best of my abilities, asking for no recompense.

And I shall never forgive the vile atrocities of that which I purge.”

For all that Gracea admired Sentinel Grace, it was Sentinel Dawn’s naïve [Oath] that she adapted for a greater purpose. She had inherited the legacy that Sentinel Dawn left unfinished—and she would use it to see every last shimagu purged.

The legionary that the parasites had used for their representative was freed with a single touch and Gracea kept moving, even as she left the grateful man in her wake. The slimes within the rest panicked as they were enveloped in her Mists. Trapped in her domain, each instance of the sickness had its own reaction. Some came for her and hastened their own end. Others begged for mercy in their monstrous language, as though they were people. The one in the senator’s aide believed its body to have special value and started to wound it, as though that would stop her.

She was pledged to defend humanity from further infection by any means necessary. She would fight to destroy any parasite that had the potential to infect a human.

And if she lacked the means to save the man from his disease through her healing, she was willing to accept his freedom through death—after all, the truly important thing was to see the parasite destroyed.

War Sentinel Solace stared in disbelief at the report in her hand. She had known that Sentinel Grace was still alive, but she could scarcely believe that a woman of such advanced age had managed to purge yet another twin from the face of Pallos. Sure, the report claimed that she had done so with the assistance of an elf, but Solace had met elves—they never shared credit if they believed that they could rightfully claim the slightest contribution. For the report to claim it was done alongside an elf, the truth was more likely that Grace had saved the elf and destroyed the twin in one magnificent swoop!

Her hero wasn’t some invalid that merely lent her name to bolster the morale of those that remembered her legacy!

“Rani, I have a request to make of you. I believe that I have been remiss in my duties. The time has come for me to test my power against the truest expression of the disease—I want you to create an opportunity for me to face a twin on the field of battle.” Solace was so excited that it was a struggle to keep the girl she had once been from surfacing.

Her dream truly could still come to pass!

Hyrria Rani Pyrae truly was the greatest asset that Sentinel Solace had ever found. The woman should have been another run-of-the-mill entitled brat that rose into power thanks to the funding of her modestly successful family. She was a graduate of the School that joined the Rangers on the recommendation of a retired Ranger—her own adoptive mother, no less. Yet the woman was shockingly both competent and capable, which in and of itself was a true rarity.

She only required a handful of years for her to give Solace an opportunity. It was a miracle as grand as anything any of the so-called gods could muster. Rani hadn’t just found her a twin; the woman had practically giftwrapped it for her!

A small army of shimagu was bracketed between three different Legions. They were trapped, and Sentinel Solace fought to keep her smile serene as she advanced at the head of her personal forces. She had a reputation to uphold, after all. She was hardly the feral poor girl she had once been.

Clad in armor of segmented steel painted white and trimmed with gold, Sentinel Solace boldly strode forward as her [Soothing Mists] covered the battlefield. The fine particles of her Skill were all but invisible, but they soothed surface-level injuries—fooling legionaries into fighting harder—and sapped the mana and vitality from the shimagu. Bolts of Brilliance cleared her way—potent jolts of weighty light that knitted flesh and carried her Void’s potent ability to unmake the disease within the puppets.

Rani, Tarla, Pentera, Traeli, Umbra, Hestia, Axia, and Curea led the way. Each woman had been chosen from the Rangers and wore her colors, and each was deadly within her own means. Magic and weaponry opened the path until they reached the exhausted twin—a woman that had chosen to betray the Legions and embraced the scourge of humanity.

With Solace mending her personal unit, even the twin was ultimately outmatched. It was a waste of mana to keep the treasonous host alive while she was impaled by eight different weapons, but it wasn’t like Solace lacked for arcanite.

“You who were deceived by the enemy of each and every last human, have you nothing to say in your own defense? Bid farewell to the hateful voice that poisoned your thoughts, for soon you shall be free.” Solace activated a gemstone to make sure everyone heard her words.

Then she began to channel power into [Glorious Purge]. Brilliance formed a grand bow of vibrant, golden light with War Sentinel Solace’s arm placed where an arrow should be. The bow never drew back—it was merely decorative—but her power grew as equal parts Void and Brilliance harmonized and gathered. A convergence of four different Skills—each of which merged from at least two other Skills—that granted her a heal so potent that nothing could deny it.

She had a reputation to uphold, after all. By Herculix, it would have been embarrassing if she failed to purge the disease from the woman after so many theatrics!

“Please, don’t take them from me! They’re as much a person as you or I!” The madwoman refused to repent, unsurprisingly.

That was fine, it wasn’t like Solace was sharing her words.

“Then be at ease, and welcome back, poor child.” The woman was sobbing, so War Sentinel Solace spun a tale to make everyone believe that the misled child of humanity was begging for forgiveness, rather than to perpetuate the foulest of diseases. A little propaganda never went amiss with so many eyes on her. With grave solemnity, she leveled her arm at the traitor’s throat.

The beam of energy was bright enough to make even Solace’s eyes water, but it did its job.

[*ding!* One (1) disease has been removed from Pallos. Continue your work to eradicate what remains.]

Solace shook her head, as she exited the holding cell where the traitor had been imprisoned. Even with her affliction removed, the woman refused to see reason. She continued to insist that the shimagu had some impossible value, and that the Empire of Remus—the sole bastion of humanity—was somehow irredeemable. She raved about injustice, as though she had any right after she chose to side with the enemy of humanity.

She was insane. Which meant that War Sentinel Solace was left with no other option.

“Kill her. I’ll report that she attempted to attack me while I offered her comfort and you were forced to put her down.” She gave the order, and her team saw to it that the deed was carried out.

Being the hope of humanity challenged her at times, but at last, she had become a true peer to Sentinel Grace. And she had no doubt that it was only a matter of time until she found her opportunity to meet the woman that she had dreamed of throughout her entire life.
