“Everything costs money,” Ali sighed. She had nothing to her name, except the clothing she was wearing – and even that had been a gift – and her guild ring, which she still needed to pay off. Which, technically, meant she was in the red. She had joined the guild because her friends thought it was a good idea, but she still didn’t have the foggiest idea of how to actually earn any money from her membership. “How do I even make money with my class?”

“Quests,” Mato replied, providing the obvious answer, and entirely missing the point.

“The Kobold extermination quest looks like it pays very well, and you and Mato conveniently found their lair, so we will have an advantage,” Malika answered. “And if the Guildmaster can convince the Town Council, we should see some profitable jobs on the quest board tomorrow related to the town’s defense efforts.”

“Like killing Goblins?”

“Yes, but securing a town against a dungeon-break requires a lot more than just fighting,” Calen answered. “Likely there will be a lot more quests to collect materials and ingredients for the crafters to make arrows or potions and all the other supplies necessary to survive.”

“If the herbalists want something collected, I can help you with that,” Mato said. “Perhaps you can even learn to make whatever they need and have a steady source of income?”

Ali nodded. “I was hoping you might say that. Yes please.”

They all seemed to have very practical suggestions – even Mato’s offer to help set Ali’s mind at ease. Fighting a horde of Goblins sounded scary, but in smaller groups, it might be manageable. Collecting herbs did sound nice and peaceful – if she could make money doing that, she was all for it.

“I guess, if I can’t do anything till tomorrow at the soonest, I’ll just go back down to the Grove. I want to recover from my withdrawal,” Ali said. The ache was bugging her, and honestly, she was quite excited to try out her new tree imprint.

“While we’re still in town, why not visit the blacksmith?” Malika suggested.

“Why would I do that?”

“Vivian Ross suggested that you get better equipment for your rogues. There aren’t a lot of leather armor options, but a blacksmith could have some good daggers. It’ll be fun – come I’ll come help you bargain.”

“Oh, ok,” Ali said, agreeing quickly. She had forgotten that suggestion in the deluge of new information Vivian had subjected them to. With a quick agreement to meet back at the Grove later, they split up, the boys heading out to visit their families, while she followed Malika to the blacksmith quarter.

Malika led her north to where the town butted up against the mountainside – now unrecognizable from her three-thousand-year-old memories. The enormous landslide that had buried the forest and the Grove, while she had lain encased in her mother’s protective spell, had almost sliced it in two, leaving a sheer cliff face that was still jagged and sharp after so many years. The road led directly into the mountain, through a wrought stone archway that was carved with what had, no doubt, once been a delicate relief sculpture – now worn from the long passage of time. How old is Myrin’s Keep?

The passage led surprisingly deep into the mountain, lit at regular intervals by smoky sconces bearing orange-red flickering lights fashioned with fire magic. Faux cobblestone had been carved into the face of the solid rock beneath Ali’s feet, turning the passageway into a street that led past several shops and even a bank hollowed out of the mountain on either side before it reached a cul-de-sac at the end. There she found herself gazing along an underground circular – if she were being very generous with the term – street lined with a noisy row of forges and smithies hewn directly into the rock.

So noisy, no wonder they put them out of the way, she thought, wondering exactly how the smoke of the fires hadn’t filled the air, choking everyone. Sweating laborers, stripped to the waist, toiled in the hazy air, pushing a steady stream of creaking handcarts loaded high with chunks of ore, sloshing barrels, or stacks of wood to feed the hungry hive of industry up ahead.

Malika strode confidently up to the largest and most prominently located smithy and pulled open the burnished steel doors with an ease of movement that spoke volumes for the precision craftsmanship of the owner.

Ali stepped through the doorway and was immediately hit by a wall of heat and noise. The interior of the smithy could best be described as controlled chaos. Behind the typical store-front counter, with its displayed wares, lay a vast sprawling area filled with glowing forges and smiths hammering molten metal upon huge black steel anvils. The magic of crafting skills flickered and flashed, clashing with one another in a violent display of light and noise, reminding her painfully of her withdrawal headache. There were dozens of apprentices dressed in soot-stained leather aprons dashing back and forth at the behest of shouted orders, carrying crates of ore, buckets of water, tools, and a whole host of other obscure errands.

Presently, a bald, sweating man with a singed leather apron worn over his protruding belly appeared from the back room and walked up to the counter with a smile on his face.

“What can I do for you fine ladies?”

Blacksmith – Human – level ??

“We’re looking for a couple of daggers,” Malika said, switching to the same confident manner Ali had seen her use at the supply shop earlier.

Ali was immediately grateful to her for taking charge of the negotiations.

Happily, the smith pulled out a selection of ornate jeweled daggers, placing them carefully on the counter for them to inspect. “These are the finest craftsmanship, look at the sparkle of the garnet in the hilt.”

“I’m sorry,” Malika said, “That looks like an apprentice project. We’re looking for something more practical and in the range of about five silver.”

The man’s face instantly scrunched into a scowl, and he said, “Don’t waste my time girls, go play adventurer somewhere else.” He scooped up the daggers and turned, stalking off while muttering angrily.

Confused, Ali looked at Malika as they left, “What was his problem?”

“This is going to be harder than I thought,” Malika said, sounding rather frustrated. “He saw our fancy clothes and thought we were nobles looking to drop lots of gold on those toys.”

Ali glanced at herself, a little surprised to find she was still wearing the gorgeous outfit Lydia had made for her. And here I am traipsing around in a smithy.

The second smithy turned them away in an almost identical manner, even though this time Malika deliberately asked for practical weapons up front and conspicuously avoided pointing out the lack of quality when they were offered similarly ornate work.

“I don’t want to have to get changed to get proper service,” Ali said angrily at their third failure. “This is annoying. Should we ask the boys for help?” She was loath to admit defeat and ask for help with such a trivial task, but the surprising wall of rudeness they had just been subjected to left her at a loss for how to proceed.

“Heck no!” Malika exclaimed. “I’m not about to ask them for help. Mato will probably get an over-inflated opinion of his importance. Let’s try another one.”

While Ali was quite certain Mato was not actually that kind of person, she appreciated Malika’s determination and persistence.

“What about that one?” Ali asked, pointing to a smaller smithy tucked away at the end of the row, with a dilapidated sign hanging askew that read: Thuli’s Steelworks. It looked forlorn and run-down and, frankly, she felt a little sorry for the building.

“That’s not a bad idea,” Malika answered, peering at it thoughtfully. “Seems like this Thuli might need some business. If he’s even open, that is.”

The atmosphere upon entering Thuli’s Steelworks could not have been more different from the previous blacksmith shops. The air was cold and stale, and the entire smithy, if it could even be called that, was dim and quiet. None of the chaos or heat, nor the noise of busy apprentices and ringing anvils filled its walls. It took Ali several moments before she even noticed the broad-chested Dwarf slouched over a book at the long, scuffed wooden table.

Blacksmith – Dwarf – level ?? (Ember)

A deep red, smoldering heat radiated out through the cracks in a fractured core of coal-black mana buried within his broad chest – the slumbering glow of a still-hot campfire after all the flame had faded.

Ember? That’s an unusual affinity, she thought, mesmerized for a moment, wondering what sorts of magic he might be able to do with it.

“Excuse me? Are you Thuli?” she called out to him. He was short and squat, and like most Dwarves, a little taller than Ali, but broader around in the chest than four or five of her. His enormous beard and red hair were braided untidily, and he looked like he hadn’t bathed in weeks.

Smells like he hasn’t bathed in weeks. Ali wrinkled her nose as she caught his fragrant aroma. He doesn’t look like he’s slept, either. He seemed to be studying the book with a desperate intensity, driven entirely by willpower and focus when, going by his haunted look, he should have collapsed from exhaustion several days ago.

“Go away. I don’t have time for your kind.” The Dwarf didn’t even bother looking up.

Does he hate me because I’m Fae? Or because I’m a woman? Ali shared a worried glance with Malika, but she didn’t want to be rebuffed yet again. “I’m looking to buy a couple of daggers,” she said.

The Dwarf looked up at her, something dark and red glowing in the depths of his eyes. With a gruff, dismissive tone said, “I don’t sell toys to little rich girls, go bother one of the other fancy smiths.”

Ali’s frustration boiled over. Switching to Dwarven, a language she felt far better suited for expressing her anger, she retorted, “Do all the smiths in this town have a problem selling weapons to women? Perhaps you’re unable to make real weapons. I’m here to buy a proper dagger for stabbing real monsters. And you treat me like a girl, I would have thought a Dwarf of all people would not look down on someone for being short.”

Thuli stared at her, speechless. Ali was rather proud of the fact that she had enough restraint to avoid the countless colorful swearwords that the Dwarven language seemed so uniquely suited to. At least, the normal words sounded harsh enough to satisfy her.

“You have a bit of a temper, girl.” While the Dwarf’s words were still confrontational, and he still referred to her as ‘girl’, his tone was substantially more subdued, perhaps even respectful.

“The daggers?” she asked, raising an eyebrow.

“Fine. You should be able to find one or two suitable pieces for your level in that bin over there.” Thuli indicated a large, shallow wooden bin over by the wall that seemed to be filled with random weapons as he returned his attention to the book in front of him. “Anything you find in there you can have for five silver each.”

His attitude was atrocious, but Ali was just happy that they were further along than they had gotten with any of the other smiths. She reached into the bin, picked up a shiny steel dagger, and identified it.

Steel Dirk – level 12Damage: Piercing, PhysicalRequirements: 42 DexterityOne Handed – Dagger – Steel

“Is this any good?” Ali asked in a whisper, showing it to Malika. It certainly seemed sharp enough.

Malika shook her head. “Here, this is a good one,” she said, handing Ali what appeared to be a rather plain and simple weapon – at least to her untrained eyes.

Steel Dagger – level 10Damage: Piercing, PhysicalRequirements: 35 DexterityCreated by Thuli.One Handed – Dagger – Steel

“I don’t see a big difference,” Ali admitted, examining Malika’s choice. The only obvious thing she could see was the mana signature on the second one. “And it’s a lower level.”

“It Appraised as Masterwork quality, so it will do more damage. It’s also a better level for your rogues, and it’s worth a fair bit more than the five silver he’s asking,” Malika explained in a low whisper. “Here’s another good one,” she added, seeming a little surprised and examining her next find curiously for a moment before handing it to Ali. “Odd. I can’t imagine why he’d leave these in a random bin.”

It took just a few minutes, and Malika had selected four Masterwork daggers, all quite similar; functional and simple, and the best quality she could find.

Ali took her haul over to the table and laid them before Thuli, and then placed twenty silver she had borrowed from Calen beside them.

Thuli reached over and picked up one of the daggers and peered at it with his bloodshot eyes. “I see you have a keen eye.”

“I hope you’re not going to try to change the price on us,” Malika said, staring him down.

“No,” he said, sighing, and placed the dagger back on the table. “I may not be worth much anymore, but at least my word is still good.”

As Ali collected her new daggers, her eyes settled on the now-closed book Thuli had been reading.

The History of Dal’mohra: The Lost City of Learning

Her heart skipped as she caught her breath in her throat. A book about home! “I would love to read that book,” Ali blurted out, without a moment’s hesitation.

“You really should mind your own business,” he answered grumpily. “Now take your daggers and be on your way. Before I get upset.”

Ali frowned at his rude response, but she simply stored the daggers in her ring, keeping her annoyance to herself. She had had her fill of rudeness for one day and simply wanted to leave.

“He was really crusty,” Ali complained as they left the blacksmith quarters.

“Yes, crustier than a week-old loaf of bread, but he was also the only one who would sell us anything,” Malika answered, and then after a bit of a pause, she added, “His work is remarkably good. All the daggers with his mana signature were Masterwork quality. Not many smiths put that much care into low-level items – I doubt we could have gotten better anywhere else.”

“Then why does he have such a horrible attitude? Shouldn’t he be doing quite well if his work is that good?” Ali asked.

“I’m really not sure,” Malika answered thoughtfully. “There seems to be more to his story, but we probably won’t find out today. Let’s keep him in mind.”

Perhaps I really ought to mind my own business, Ali thought, but her curiosity kept drawing her back to his book, her speculation of what it may contain, and the puzzle of why this Dwarf might be reading it.

