Gerald Brand glared across the table at the woman who had invited herself in and refused to leave. He resisted the temptation to rub the knot forming in his neck, but he could already feel the throbbing of a vein in his temple that presaged the onset of a migraine. There was a mountain of work to get done, and scouts to organize. The Torian forces were making moves that he simply could not afford to ignore, and yet Vivian Ross sat opposite him insisting he listen to this insanity.

It didn’t help that she was a three-mark and none of his staff had even tried to deny her access to his office. Reprimands are in order. And mandatory discipline training.

“Guildmaster Ross, I appreciate your efforts to build an Adventurers Guild chapter here in Myrin’s Keep. Your desire to improve life for all our townsfolk is admirable, but you’re still barely getting started and I have real problems to solve right now. I don’t have time for these ridiculous claims of a dungeon-break.”

“And if it’s true?” she asked. Vivian Ross didn’t seem at all perturbed by his putdown of the importance of her guild.

“It’s not true.” He said it as firmly as he could without raising his voice. “I read the report. Two half-breeds, a Fae monster, and an urchin did not fight a bunch of Bugbears and win. There is simply no way – you, of all people, should know this. And that refugee girl is Anh Khen – she is Torian. Need I remind you we’re currently at war with Toria? And they are pressing their advance as we speak? I appreciate your concern for the town, but I must ask you to leave and let me do my job.”

At that moment, Vivian cocked her head to the side. She did not otherwise budge, utterly unmoved by his tirade.

What now?

“Visitors?” Vivian said, as if he’d asked the question aloud.

At that very moment, his enhanced hearing caught the sounds of yelling and a cacophony of thuds and muffled scraping coming from outside. The door to the garrison headquarters suddenly burst open with such force that the foundations of the building shook.

The din blasted through the headquarters, halting an entire building-full of clerks and aides as they all stopped their work and stared at the spectacle.

An unabashedly humongous figure stooped down, twisting sideways to jam his enormous frame through the doorway. Several guards hung from his legs in a futile attempt to slow him down. He growled as he entered the room, straightening up to his full eight feet of dense muscle and thick dark black fur.

He wore nothing but thick leather breeches and an enormous two-handed blood-stained steel mace strapped to his broad back. His tree-trunk right arm was casually draped over the equally huge Goblin Bugbear corpse slung over one shoulder.

The monster’s red eyes found him across the room. “Brand!” he roared, his voice even louder than his entrance.

Helios save me! It’s that fucking Beastkin again – could this day get any worse?

Gerald Brand groaned as he pushed to his feet. Bjorn’s timing could not have been worse, but the Bugbear he carried spoke of a far more ominous problem. At least she has the decency to not gloat, he thought, glancing back at Vivian who remained silent, sitting with remarkable composure in her seat.

“Bjorn, you are making a scene in my office. I could have you fined for this,” Gerald said, raising his voice finally. He had never made any secret of his dislike for the Beastkin Berserker. He had been acquainted with Bjorn for years, and other than being on the same side for every important fight in Myrin’s Keep, Bjorn had been like a constant splinter under his fingernail. Why does he have to always be so undisciplined, so loud, so … Bjorn? Every time Bjorn got involved, Gerald had more work. It was always that way.

“The Goblins in the south forest seem to be a little larger than normal,” Bjorn snorted, his voice grating like grinding boulders. The giant Beastkin tossed the Bugbear into the center of the room like he was discarding some dirty laundry, making the windows rattle from the heavy impact.

Before Gerald could respond, the giant spun on his heel, raising a fur-covered hand furnished with wicked black claws in farewell, and lumbered back the way he had come, wholly oblivious to the half-dozen guards trying to restrain him.

Gerald took a deep, steadying breath. “Let him go. Get someone to clean that up,” he ordered, indicating the foul-smelling corpse that now littered his lobby. His aides startled and then leapt to carry out his orders.

“I guess I owe you an apology,” Gerald finally admitted, turning back to Vivian Ross – who still hadn’t moved an inch. More than anything, he prided himself on being good at reading people, knowing who was reliable and who was not. And Bjorn had just made a fool of him. Vivian too.

“I still don’t believe those kids killed three Bugbears,” he said, finally sitting down to face Vivian Ross, letting out his frustration as a sigh.

“The Fae girl is a Summoner,” she said.

Well fuck. It was all that needed to be said, honestly. One more surprise cherry on top of this shit-sundae he was being fed today.

“What do you want?” he grunted.

“Same as you, I want the town to survive. I don’t mind if you’re the one to tell the Council – you certainly have the evidence now. I would like the emergency protocols invoked as quickly as possible so that we can get started posting defense quests and supply jobs,” Vivian answered, her tone businesslike. “In exchange, you’ll have my vote for your defense initiative.”

Vivian was offering him a thinly disguised favor, a way to save face. Unfortunately, it was an extraordinarily good offer. If he presented the facts to the Council, he would be seen as doing his job and taking charge of the defense of the town. He would be shown as a confident leader, at a time when the town couldn’t afford the Council’s recent disturbing caution and distrust of his defense recommendations. And her vote would break the tie in the Council. It would put him in debt to Vivian, though.

“Thank you,” he said, accepting her unstated trade. At least I can trust that she won’t want anything that isn’t in the best interests of Myrin’s Keep. It will just also be in the best interests of Vivian Ross and that silly guild project she loves so much.

“They said that Kieran Mori is involved, and you know what that means.”

“Fuck.” Gerald did not typically curse or swear – at least out loud. But if Mori knew of the imminent Goblin horde, he was certain that they would be cornering the market for all the important consumables right at the worst possible moment. He wouldn’t be able to supply the garrison with arrows, potions, and a whole host of other items critical to keeping his forces in fighting shape.

“Now that you’re aware of the situation, I’ll leave it in your capable hands,” Vivian said without a single trace of sarcasm. Even her heartbeat sounded calm and relaxed to his enhanced hearing.

Platinum Rankers. He had met several people over level one hundred, in the second tier, and they were all equally absurd.

Even before she had left the building, he was inundated with work – calling an emergency meeting of the Council, creating purchase orders for supplies, rallying scouts, and sending them out to the southern forest.

He leaned back in his chair, rubbing his temples for real, now. Skies shitting boulders! Hope this stupid town survives – it always has before, against the odds.

Suddenly, he straightened and bellowed at a hapless aide who had the temerity to peek around his doorpost, “Get me a background check on that group of kids as soon as everything is taken care of! Get moving!”

If they were going to be providing critical intelligence, he needed to know if he could rely on them.
