Ali blinked and then had to squint as she stepped out of the Adventurers Guild into the bright afternoon sunshine. The street out front was not a major thoroughfare, but it was still close enough to the marketplace that there was a constant bustle of busy people flowing past, going about their business, and yet far enough that the pervasive odor of moldering trash and worse that Ali had come to associate with Myrin’s Keep had subsided to only a mild assault on her nose.

Although the sun shone brightly, Ali’s Kobold rogue – the one she had summoned to demonstrate her abilities to Vivian Ross – simply vanished from sight the moment they left the building.

How does it do that? There were no shadowy areas for it to slip into and hide. Nor had she seen any obvious mana usage. However, she could still feel the subtle pull on her mana telling her that he lurked nearby, watching over her.

While their meeting with the Guildmaster had been cut short, Ali felt it was for good reason. “It’s a relief that she took us seriously about the Goblins,” she said, as her friends joined her outside on the cobbled street.

“Definitely,” Calen agreed. He seemed the happiest of them all. Malika and Mato still seemed a little uncertain, even sullen, but Ali was sure it was because of Vivian’s unexpected suggestion about a role change.

“What did you guys think of her?” Ali asked, trying to draw them into a conversation to see what exactly was bothering them.

“She’s very experienced and knowledgeable,” Malika observed, “But…”

“I don’t know if I want to be the tank all the time,” Mato finished the thought, getting a nod of agreement from Malika.

So, I was right. It had felt like a huge torrent of new information to Ali, and she knew she would take a while to process it herself, so it wasn’t all that surprising that her friends had reservations, too. They can’t both tank… wait, is that a thing?

“She had good reasoning,” Calen offered, but Ali could clearly see it wasn’t the logical part of the argument that was most problematic.

“She said it was a suggestion. We could try it a few times like we did with the Goblin Warband, but we don’t have to stick with it if you don’t like it.”

Ali’s peacemaking suggestion got a quick smile and a nod from the two of them.

“I’d be ok trying it out a few times, I guess,” Malika said, scanning the street as if checking for thugs.

Mato simply grunted, before rolling his shoulders as if to suggest he’d be ready to tank a few more Bugbears right now.

“What should we do now?” Ali asked.

“We should get some supplies,” Calen said.

“Too bad there isn’t a proper Guild Store,” Malika frowned.

“What’s that?” Ali asked.

“Many guilds have a dedicated merchant who specializes in catering to the needs of adventurers – buying unwanted items like those Goblin armors we had to sell, and offering member discounts for commonly needed supplies,” Calen explained. “They are granted special permission by the Crown to deal in items that may be considered too dangerous for the general market. But this guild is still very new, it doesn’t have one yet. We don’t need much, though, so that store will probably be fine.” He pointed across the street to a gray stone building. A garishly painted yellow sign hung from a wooden pole jutting out over the doorway.

The Prepared Adventurer.

“Conveniently located,” Ali said dryly, eyeing the building. Clearly, until recently it had been something else – there was a half-dismantled loading dock on the outside and a hoist bolted to the stone of the side of the building. There were ample signs of recent renovation – not yet completed – turning it into a store that appeared to exist solely to capitalize on the new guild across the street.

“At least we don’t have to traipse across town again,” Malika said. “Let’s go check it out.”

Ali followed the others into the shop, her eyes taking a moment to readjust to the dimmer light of the interior. It was crowded and cramped inside, though not from lots of customers. Racks and narrow shelves were arranged in tight rows, bursting with an enormous array of camping gear. Large sections further within displayed rows of rugged boots, entire shelves full of climbing gear, and ropes of all sorts of lengths. Pots and pans hung from nails on the wall, clanking together gently from the breeze they had let in. Portable fire starters, advertised as ‘ideal for when you don’t have a Fire Mage’, were artfully set out at the perfect height to catch the eye.

The bare wooden floors creaked below their feet, and the air smelled of worked leather and fresh mortar, with just a hint of smoky flame coming from the nearby shelf of fire starters. Ali coughed at the sudden reminder of Kobold Fireballs.

“We don’t have a lot of money, but here’s what I got from selling the Goblin gear in the market earlier,” Malika said, showing some coins on her palm.

“We can get the essentials,” Calen said, sizing up their loot with a calculating look.

Ali immediately got lost as the three of them began a rapid-fire discussion of options. All she was able to catch was that they needed a lot of stuff before Malika darted off between the loaded shelves and racks to find tents and Mato raced in the opposite direction looking for cooking gear, bumping almost everything along the way with his broad shoulders.

Calen remained nearby inspecting packs and rope.

“What are we doing?” she asked.

“Well, some outdoor equipment will make camping underground a lot more comfortable,” he answered, “especially as you and Malika are basically living down there.”

“But I can’t carry it, or pay for it,” Ali objected. Mato always carried his pack, and it was huge. But then he was huge and very strong. She, however, was not.

“You have your new ring, remember?” Calen reminded her. “And we’ll share the money Malika got for selling gear. We earned it together – well, we should probably discuss loot as a team soon.”

“Oh, ok.” Ali had been worried about how to earn money, but she hadn’t realized she already had. Even though it probably wasn’t that much, she hadn’t realized they would automatically share, and a lot of her anxiety eased.

It probably could have been a lot more, she thought, glancing at her new favorite wooden bangle that she wore on her left wrist. Malika had mentioned that it was probably worth more than the rest of their haul. Is it really fair?

“Hey, Calen,” she asked, “why did I get a share of the gold when I got this?” She raised her wrist showing her prize.

Calen looked up from his browsing. “Oh, that’s just how adventurer groups split loot. Well, the smart ones, that is. It’s impossible to predict when you’ll find something useful, so the most successful groups simply assign items according to maximum benefit for the team. The rogue always gets the daggers, the archer gets the first pick of the bows, and the mage gets the bangle with Mana Regeneration. Anything left over is split evenly for gold or vanity purposes.”

“Vanity?”

“Like Mato wanting a huge mace to show off in town.”

She giggled. “I see.” The mace certainly wouldn’t improve the team’s fighting ability given that Mato used his claws and fangs. But the regeneration she received from the bangle would always be useful in a fight. “That seems like a smart approach.”

“It even has a name. It’s called the ‘need before greed’ system,” Calen added.

“Thanks.” Well, that explains it. It seemed like a decent system, and Calen’s explanation had taken quite a load off her mind as soon as she realized nobody was going to resent her for taking the most valuable item in their haul.

Intense discussion drew her attention over to the front desk where there seemed to be a vigorous display of gesticulation between Malika and the shop owner. Are they fighting? Did she just threaten to throw Mato at him? Ali stared openmouthed at Malika, listening with growing amazement as her friend bargained with the merchant, efficiently rebuffing his attempts to upsell them fancy magical versions of everything. In surprisingly short order, the volume subsided, and the animated gestures were replaced with smiles and handshakes as they came to an agreement that was conveniently within their price range. She’s clearly done this before.

With a satisfied grin, Malika returned and helped Ali fold everything they had chosen for her into a sturdy olive-green pack that was almost as tall as she was. Each of them, she noticed, had chosen quite a different set of equipment; Mato had a set of pots and pans dangling from his pack – naturally, given his penchant for food – and Calen had picked more varieties of rope than Ali could imagine ever needing. What does the weave of the rope and the fiber have to do with anything? At least he picked some nice colors.

For her pack, they had selected a small portable tent, a sleeping bag sized for a Gnome that felt so soft she couldn’t wait to try it, a magical fire lighter, and a polished stone with a water purification rune inscribed on it – items with simple enchantments for those who didn’t have the relevant magical affinity or skills. She was, of course, going to learn that purification rune as soon as she had the chance to study it. The rest of her pack was filled with various necessities for living in the wild. Like soap, spare socks, and a small knife.

“Uh, why do we need to pack everything if we each have a storage enchantment?” Ali had never owned one – magical storage items had always been well out of her price range as a student. In fact, she felt it was remarkably generous of the Adventurers Guild to provide such a luxury, but the others seemed to think it was essential adventuring gear.

“It should be easier to organize in the ring,” Calen said, and with a tiny puff of mana, his entire pack vanished.

It was a surprising and remarkable thing watching the spatial enchantment work. With the infusion of just a few points of his mana, the entire large pack had just been drawn through a temporary portal of space magic to somewhere unknown. She knew how it worked, in theory – the enchantment provided easy access to a small bubble of space – but watching the magic work was what fascinated Ali.

Touching her pack, she channeled her mana and studied the rapid fluctuations of magic emitted by the ring’s enchantment. Space itself seemed to fold, wrapping her pack in distorted shimmers for an instant, and then it vanished. When she inspected her ring, she could once again see the dim interior in the back of her mind. Only this time, she found her pack, and the original Recall Potion, hovering in the enchanted closet in her mind, just waiting for whenever she needed to retrieve them. She chose the pack and retrieved it before storing it again, just trying to familiarize herself with the process – and, of course, to take another chance to witness the magic unfold. She moved the potion a few times too, noticing that – even though it was a tiny amount – it cost the same amount of mana for the small potion and the huge pack. I guess that’s what Calen meant? She peered at the inside of her ring. If she hadn’t packed everything, it would probably appear cluttered, and she would have to spend a lot more mana to get stuff in and out.

On the other hand, she couldn’t directly retrieve anything from inside the pack. I should keep the recall potion separate, she decided. If she ever needed it in an emergency, she didn’t want to be retrieving her pack and digging through it to find the potion. Hmm. Actually, I need to think more carefully about how I store things in the future.

Bronze Guild Ring – level 10A ring signifying bronze-level membership with the Adventurers Guild.Owner: Aliandra Amariel.Quests: Eliminate hostile Kobolds in and around Myrin’s Keep – 0 Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 6.2 / 25kg.Created by Giddy Clicksprocket.Ring

Ali emerged from the mildly claustrophobic confines of the supply shop stepping out into the street once again, enjoying the warmth of the sun on her face, happy that she was familiar with her new ring, and that she didn’t need to carry everything on her back. And there’s still quite a bit of room in there, she thought as they made their way to the market. Most importantly, while she had more than six kilograms of stuff stored inside – a sizeable percentage of her own body weight – it still weighed the same as a normal ring.

While Mato shopped at the nearby vendors for food, Ali took in the delightful sights and smells of the street merchants as they cooked and hawked their wares to the passing townsfolk. There were even buskers trying to attract the attention – and coin – of the passersby with fantastic shows of magic. One young man with a shock of crimson hair, furry ears, and unusual facial tattoos produced a beautiful bouquet of small flowers made entirely of flame and set them floating around Ali as she watched with enraptured fascination before he moved the display to another passing woman who had dropped a copper into his collection tin.

His show was entirely silent, a stark contrast from the noisy market, and Ali wondered if he could even speak. But he seemed amazingly popular, earning quite a few tips in the short time Ali was waiting. Her Arcane Insight enabled her to admire the incredible magical constructions that gave rise to his delicately beautiful display.

He’s really talented, she thought, dropping a few small coins into his tin with a clink, clink, clink that brought a delighted smile to his face.

Arcane Insight has reached level 7.

Oh! Maybe I’ll just watch him for a little longer.

***

“Are there any good bookstores or libraries in Myrin’s Keep?” Ali asked at a suitable lull in Calen’s lamenting the lack of a good Bowyer in the town’s crafting districts. She had not had the opportunity to read anything other than Mato’s Druidic magic book and Calen’s book which seemed to be a collection of fantastical stories about a legendary Night Elf adventurer clearing out impossible dungeons.

“Yes,” Malika answered. “But both are quite expensive.” Ali quirked an eyebrow at her. “The library is near the town center, and it works a little like a guild, but the membership dues are higher than most people are willing to pay.”

“You seem to know a lot about it,” Calen said.

“I had quite a few… jobs… there,” Malika said, her eyes glancing away as if she was quite uncomfortable. “Books are common targets for thievery because of their value. Adrik and Edrik used to run a racket where they would get someone to steal a book, and then they would ‘find’ it and claim the finder’s fee.”

