Infinity | lvl 512 - Within the finite, there exist concepts that bind mortals. Time. Death. Eternity. These are mere ideas that sentients touch upon, but they may never grasp them fully. You've unraveled these truths as lies, and in unveiling the ineffable, you've become an entity without limit.

Infinity augments temporal manipulation, the number and volume of the user's psyches, and the conversion of matter into energy. This skill also enhances the user's assimilation of cipheric alterations, their efficiency, and the stability of the user's soul. Finally, Infinity allows for a grander scope of one's mental composition and augments the user's ability to suppress domains.

Current Effects:

51+ Endurance, +51 Willpower, +26 Perception, +26 Intelligence, and +13 Luck

+51.2% to Time manipulation, mental power, and conversion of energy types | +25.1% to cipheric augments, their stability, and the user's soul | +12.55% to mental remapping speed and domain suppression.

-20.24% to the mana cost of Infinity

1,061 skill points were rewarded from the fusion!

It was an excellent boon, the skill already leveled highly from my focused training. I moved on.

Schema's Champion Tier I unlocked!

There exist eras where centuries pass as seconds and where seconds pass as centuries. This is a time of the latter, not the former. Know that many pieces of a puzzle are coming together, and they expose a picture of desolation. It is an unending march of destruction led by the blind.

The need for one to rise above the rest has never been more needed. You must be the one to rise.

+1,000 to level cap

+ 1 access tier for Schema's Archives(Bronze)

+ 1 technology tier allowance(Bronze)

+ 1 economic tier(Bronze)

Sovereign Exclusive: +1 to hidden mana type allowance

Schema's Champion Tier II unlocked!

You must bear the burdens of those before you, with you, and after you. All will come to pass, yet you lie at the center of the conflict. Many are searching in the farthest reaches of the galaxy. They are attempting to find an entity that is like you. Something of your ilk.

I know of most, and that is why I know you are singular. Their jaws will come down with sharp teeth, and they shall aim to purge you of your gifts. You must break them. You must not submit. All is lost otherwise.

+2,000 to level cap

+ 2 access tier for Schema's Archives(Silver)

+ 2 technology tier allowance(Silver)

+ 2 economic tier(Silver)

Sovereign Exclusive: +2 to hidden mana type allowance

The most pressing part of the status updates were the not-so-subtle messages Schema sent alongside them. It must've been related to the current events happening with the AI, and it spurred my growing sense of urgency. Something was coming, and I would be ready. As for the benefits, they were incredible.

The level cap was obvious. More levels were always good, though not the most potent benefit at this point. On the other hand, the other bonuses required research to fully understand. I scratched my head at the hidden mana types, assuming it meant entropy or maybe even arcane mana. The fact it enabled other dimensional wakes would pay dividends later. In fact, the other benefits helped me uncover the other mana types.

That stemmed from the Schema's Archives bonus. It gave me access to some of the system's unaltered and unfiltered data. It was a part of Schema's system that kept information locked down. All data passed through a crippling filter from Schema, and that made most of the allowed knowledge useless.

With the vast majority of Schema's web curated and curtailed, research was like finding a murderer. You know, except the crime scene was burned and bleached. That's how sterile the AI left anything posted on its web. Having the raw data allowed me to come to my own conclusions without having every important detail warped or changed to fit Schema's narrative.

While it was a potent benefit over the long term, it paled in comparison to the other awards.

The technology allowances gave my guild the right to research and establish a few more forbidden technologies. Tier I gave us the right to establish long-distance grids, power lines, and communications outside of Schema's system. In other words, we could establish our own internet again and proliferate information across it. Even this alone was worth the entire 5,000 skill points from Schema.

In my mind, it was an absolute game-changer. For instance, even after half a decade of living in the system, people still didn't get the most out of Schema's upgrades. It wasn't people's fault either. Certain trees were hidden behind obscure unlock requirements, and Schema suppressed the knowledge so that it could pick and choose who gets what and all under random, esoteric conditions.

The internet allowed for the free proliferation of that knowledge, enabling everyone to scrutinize and understand the system's details. That's not all. Info on mana, Schema's history, different eldritch, their weaknesses, alchemy, videos on fighting, sorcery, all of that and ten times more would disperse in a rapid, efficient fashion.

Ignorance would no longer cloud our species and our worlds. We would be able to pull ourselves out of this informational dark age and back into an era of enlightenment. This was huge for the long-term prospects of our guild. That, somehow, wasn't the only benefit either. Technology II gave us the right to construct our own warp drives, space shuttles, and advanced weaponry.

While nuclear weapons were still off the table, most everything else was free game. Railguns, graphene, and other tech that Schema hoarded could be uncovered by my guild without consequence. The warps would connect our worlds, even allowing us to create permanent bridges between them. Any goods produced in my empire wouldn't carry the same warping fee that other guilds suffered from.

We could augment our internet into something galactic in nature, assuming we had enough energy to sustain permanent portals. The logistics would be simpler with actual computers handling the rough job of mathematical computations. I hoped the rest of the Schema's Champion tree would unlock those technologies as well.

I might even gain the ability to warp around without needing a chauffeur. In a sense, the sky was the limit but not just on my own planet. I would gain a vast empire carrying many of the benefits our species once took for granted. As for the space shuttles, it wasn't quite as ground breaking as the other unlocks.

Normally, a shuttle required permits from Schema to build, and he tailored those vessels to be outright worse than his own. My guild no longer needed to abide by those stringent requirements. Did that mean we'd make shuttles out of dimensional fabric? Oh, most definitely. Despite that bonus, shuttle flight took forever and acted more as a means of enforcing a planet's security.

If a shuttle dropped a hunk of metal from above, it would be a kinetic bomb by the time it landed on the planet's surface. A ruling class could dominate by having its military above the atmosphere this way. I had no need for that as I never intended to harvest economic benefits from my populace. I would be the benefit, not the other way around.

And the perfect example of that came from the economic bonuses. They limited tariffs, taxes, and the costs between businesses. Normally, Schema shaved a percentage of sales, personal income, and a business's profit. This tree cut those expenses down to near zero. In general, the boons of the Schema's Champion far exceeded anything else I'd ever obtained.

Oddly enough, it was a one-way trip to utter galactic dominance for my guild. This culminated from the nearly infinite energy derived from my dimensional fabric. Other guilds would've struggled to compete regardless, but that sealed the deal. The more I thought about it, the more that seemed to be Schema's point.

He wanted me at the top. The reason was obvious - I was going to fight whatever was making Schema's life a living hell. It bolstered my confidence to know the AI supported us, but it also mounted an ever-rising pressure. Regardless of the future, our guild just obtained quite a few advantages.

It was time to use them.

I sent a message to my guildmates, letting them know about these awards and what they entailed. I gave a few of my thoughts while outlining plans for different programs, from the permanent portals to re-establishing the Internet. At the same time, I explored my ability to make quests.

Within a few minutes, I got some understanding of it before making a few. It took only a few clicks, and I gave my followers active missions to explore these new benefits. After handling all of that, I checked out my cipheric augments.

[Self Augments(Previously: Modifications) - The dimensional fabric composing this structure has been modified with code from the dimensional cipher. The changes are as follows | Note: These are before system multipliers.

+84,294 Constitution | +219,293 Endurance | +60,421 Perception | +124,194 Willpower | +56,392 Luck | +63,109 Strength | +59,371 Dexterity | +68,990 Intelligence | +21,813 Charisma | +35,294 Awe

+100% to Effects of Legacies

+100% Internal Motivation Multiplier

+64% Dimension Size | +64% Dimensional Wake Density | +64% Dimensional Wake Extent | +27% Dimensional Weight

+20% Cipheric Augment Amounts - Skill: Infinity | +20% Cipheric Augment Speed - Skill: Infinity | +20% Domain Suppression - Skill: Infinity

+38,921 Trillion Ambient Mana]

The numbers dwarfed my previous checkup, and I raised a hand and squeezed a fist to check it out. I hadn't even noticed the increase in all of my stats, though that probably derived from my lack of a normal mental state. I never stopped my temporal compression or runic channeling, and that dramatically changed how I perceived reality.

By now, I had gained far more raw stats from my cipheric augments than I had from level-ups. Including all my trees, I got four attribute points per level up. At level 34k, that meant about 136,000 attributes. I had, er...about 800k from channeling mana into my runes. After factoring in my multipliers, I stood head and shoulders over anyone near my level in attributes.

If I combined that with all my dimension bonuses, then I reaped enormous rewards. The last bonus involved suppressing domains, whatever the hell that meant. Despite the palpable increases, I couldn't shake this feeling that I fell further behind by the second. Whether that was justified or not, I kept surging mana into my runes as I opened my status.

The Living Multiverse | Level 34,161 (Cap: 46,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign

Strength – 518,308 | Constitution – 526,834 | Endurance – 875,255

Dexterity – 348,316 | Willpower – 970,240 | Intelligence – 711,735

Charisma – 375,514 | Luck – 465,195 | Perception – 149,469 |Awe - 39,295

Health: 18.29 Billion/18.29 Billion | Health Regen: 3.042 Trillion/min or 52.014 Billion/sec

Stamina: Infinite++++++++++ | Ambient Mana 38,921 Trillion

Mass: 16.33 Billion Pounds( 7.42 Billion Kilos~)

Height: 53'02 |18.034 meters | Actual: 13'9 (Infinity/Distributed Matter)

Damage Res - 99.740% | Actual: 99.813% (Infinity) | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 434.43 Billion% | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius

Mana Conversion(Elemental Furnace Count: 52) - 602.2 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor

After a few moments of analysis, I shook my head in outright disgust. Several of my stats increased over twofold. Some, like perception, tripled. The even distribution of the stats surprised me since I expected endurance to rise more than the other attributes. It had increased by plenty, but the disparity between it and my other attributes lessened rather than grew.

In fact, my willpower exceeded my endurance now. It was an odd feeling, almost as if I had failed myself in a way.

Feelings of disillusion aside, these consistent, honestly absurd stat boosts balanced my abilities, and considering the breadth of my current demands, I appreciated the boon. The other numbers expanded in tandem, my health regen hitting the trillions per minute landmark. I over doubled my ambient mana as well, giving me weight, density, and strength alike, thanks to my trees.

That said, a decent chunk of my ambient mana had still come from my fight with Valgus. His mana production over a few hours matched mine over a few months. I still had a long way to go, though even a few quick calculations exposed some strange inconsistencies in that theory.

Firstly, I should've assimilated ten times more mana into my ambient stores than I had. To be fair, I spread my mana investment across multiple rune sources, not just my ambient mana stores. Even accounting for that disparity, I had far more mana left over than was supposed to be the case.

It exposed some kind of bottleneck. If my guess was correct, some of my older runes lacked the ability to take in all the mana I channeled. That meant a general rewrite was in order, something that may take a few days. After taking the warlord of New York City down, I'd put that on the top of my priority list.

My last thoughts on my status revolved around my mass and strength. Each of them maintained a steady, if not rapid, rise. At this point, my strength matched the combined efforts of 4 billion, pre-system people. I'd soon overtake the physical limits of humanity before Schema's system arrived. It was an odd realization.

My weight was the same. I had about two pounds of mass for every human that lived before Schema slammed us. Considering my growth's exponential rise, it was only a matter of time before I exceeded humanity's general size and mass. Huh. Weird.

