Either way, I sent messages and handled my status as Althea and I traveled. We did so in entirely different worlds. I hovered via a gravity well, essentially falling to my destination. On the other hand, Althea darted through the clouds, investigated settlements, and hopped between trees. She enjoyed traveling and traversal, having the time of her life by simply moving around.

I should've felt joy. Instead, I felt a touch of envy. On the moon, she and I could both let loose. Here, I could do the same as her, but it would be an artificial display. If I hopped from tree to tree, I wasn't actually hopping on anything. Trees couldn't hold me up, even when made of steel. Instead, I mimicked the grace of genuine movement instead of actually performing acrobatic maneuvers.

In fact, I kept my physical self isolated from the world at all times. A layer of heavy gravitation and carefully crafted telekinesis stopped me from destroying my surroundings. I'd gotten used to keeping myself afloat and holding those gravitational forces skin-tight, but seeing Althea enjoy gliding around left me feeling scorned.

It was as if I abandoned who I was while she never had to.

Even while those thoughts and emotions passed over me, I recognized they weren't fair feelings. I wouldn't act on them, but the feelings existed whether I liked it or not. However, I wasn't going to let my alienation stop me from finding joy in her. After all, just because I couldn't experience something anymore didn't mean I had to rob someone else of that delight.

While my thoughts meandered about, we entered into some kind of webbing. I pushed it aside.

"Ugh, what is this?"

Althea turned to me.

"What is what?"

I held up a strand of the webbing.

"This."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"This is what?"

I shook it.

"This is this. What do you mean what is this?"

She pointed at herself.

"Uhm, this is confused by you."

I furrowed my brow.

"What?"

Around us, a series of portals spawned from the ether. Ten humans jumped out of the warps, each of them armed with black swords and shields. Rifles clattered against their backs with pistols at their sides, and they painted an infinity symbol within a diamond onto their shields. The leader spoke, and a voice modulator changed their voice.

"Which one of you is disrupting the web?"

I held up a strand.

"That's what this is? A web?"

They pointed their rifles at me. The leader seethed.

"Set it down."

I smiled, my eyes alight as mana thrummed in my blood. It swelled off of me as I murmured.

"You don't want to do that."

A palpable fear radiated from the men before something muted the emotion. The leader scoffed before snapping his words.

"Says who?"

I raised a fist and the outlines of faces formed in the ascendant cloud of mana around me.

"Does it matter who I am? No. What matters is what I can do."

The air blurred around me, and mana swirled in a violent storm of potential. Despite the obvious difference in firepower, they kept their rifles raised. The leader snarled.

"Leave this place, or else."

I scoffed.

"Someone's psionically controlling you. It has to be the warlord of New York, right?"

They all gazed at one another confused. Once more, they regained composure, and the leader fired a rifle. I snatched the bullet out of the air, my time dilation giving me the chance to do so. The wind off my arm bent trees in the forest below, branches snapping and animals sent flying. As I held up the steel, I smiled.

"Ah, armor piercing. Smart. Still, not enough. Not nearly."

I dropped the bullet as my minds settled on the soldier.

"Can you hear me? If you can, then I'll give you a message."

The man kept his gaze on me, his eyes like iron while his body squirmed about. I smiled at him and simmered.

"The Harbinger has come."
