Quinn ran off, laughing. They joined their friends, and they all waved me goodbye. I waved back before Althea pulled me up to the moon's central monolith. She took a breath.

"Are you ready to go save New York next?"

I rolled my shoulders.

"Oh yeah. I'm itching for a fight."

Mana emanated from me like a flame.

"Let's go see what a warlord on Earth can do."

Althea's eyes went distant.

"More than you might expect."

Chapter Begin

I stepped up to the lunar warp drive, and Althea followed. A wave of ionizing mist and a few thousand credits spent later, we stepped onto the platform at Springfield. It bustled with activity, many people managing what evolved into a new regional economic center. Althea and I leaped into the air.

Once aerial, we gained a better view of the city, and Althea darted toward New York, not wanting to waste any time. In the corner of my eye, my status popped up with a message from Hod.

Hod, the Harbinger's Duality | Level: 14,000 | Class: Slayer | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion - I've unshackled a few of Hod's other memories, and they are...Hod like pie. Pie good, but Hod wonder if donut better. Hod wonder if donut pie exist. Hod might have good idea.

I couldn't help but agree with our resident birdman. Donut pies sounded like a stroke of brilliance that our world might not be ready for. That aside, messaging the details of Hod's findings looked difficult, so I changed direction. I sent another message to Althea explaining my detour and how I'd catch up.

I passed over the section of Mt. Verner dedicated to the eltari. Several groups had hatchlings that fed on various foraged goods from our surroundings, and the overhead mosaics sheened from the sunshine. I smiled at the obvious prosperity; their village expanded alongside their people.

I landed near the largest tent. I walked into the ritualist area within, finding elegant stone sculptures and fragments of the cipher littered about. Here, quite a few of the eltari elders helped channel a ritual where smoke drifted in the air alongside hissing gems of mana. I waltzed into the interior, glad I could change my size.

Once inside, the elders bowed to me, and I found Other Hod resting at the center of the room. Beside him, rare pieces of eldritch hummed, glowed, or twitched. Other Hod grabbed individual pieces and gulped them down before absorbing the chaotic energies within. As he did, the eldritch half of Hod expanded.

The rippling edges of his shadows bled further into his surroundings. His claws sharpened. His form took on a less corporeal form, and the umbral flames rose further off his skin. After eating the last piece of eldritch, Other Hod stood. After rolling his shoulders, Other Hod turned to me. His hollow eyes were haunting.

"Harbinger. It's good to see you."

I smiled back.

"Same. How's life been?"

"It's been a joy, but let us talk after handling our social responsibilities."

Other Hod thanked the elders, and he bowed deeply. After finishing the gesture, he walked off. I thanked Shajk and Monaba and wished them well, though my talk felt hollow after Other Hod's near-spiritual gesture. Once outside, we walked through the mosaic roads of the eltari settlement. Other Hod's form left lingering shadows behind him as he spoke.

"I've been developing my eldritch persona instead of rejecting it as I have before. It comes with many detriments, but I also have gained much from the experience. Part of that is an understanding that the more my eldritch half grows, the more pieces of Hod that come out of his absorbed memories."

I nodded.

"I can keep an eye out for different rare pieces of eldritch to see if they can help you develop faster."

Other Hod fell into one of his own shadows and walked out from under a canopy. He stepped onto a cliffside, gazing at a wondrous view of the forest.

"I thank you for the gesture, but your kindness isn't the reason for my message. I wished to give you pieces of Hod's splintered memories alongside the development of his magic."

I walked up to him.

"Cool. Any relevant details?"

Other Hod cracked his neck by moving his head around.

"Many. The first is a more principled understanding of the magic. It is just as the elders said. Hod is able to view the future and garner aspects of it. As they are, the pieces are so esoteric and disparate that we can't weave anything meaningful from the strings of fate he's seen. That is, aside from a few important names."

I raised a brow.

"Like?"

Other Hod's head twitched.

"Polluterix. That is the name of the Old One that is viewing you."

A far-off gaze and rumble echoed in my mind. I shivered.

"Ah. Did they make Valgus's shackles?"

Other Hod nodded his head.

"And they aren't the source of Hod's mana. That is derived from an entirely different Old One."

I took a breath.

"They keep popping up like new diseases from rainforests."

Other Hod scoffed.

"A colorful analogy. Hod and I haven't ascertained Polluterix's goals, but the Old One seems to control balance, conversions, and sacrifice. Though not an active Old One like Baldowah, Polluterix still pulls strings from afar using far more subtle methods than the other mad gods."

I put a hand on Other Hod's shoulder.

"Thanks for getting this info. It gives us a name and a few pieces to work off of."

Other Hod nodded.

"The other piece I wished to share with you revolves around a new enemy and chapter in Earth's history."

I furrowed my brow.

"I'm guessing it's another member under the Old Ones? An avatar or something, maybe?"

Other Hod shook his head.

"The first is of Earth's expansion. It will become a colossal planet in time, and there is little we can do to stop it. Prepare for humanity to splinter farther apart as our disparate cities become colonies."

I frowned. I expected as much considering how the rifts operated, but this helped verify that assumption. Other Hod continued.

"This other being...She is difficult to parse as her protections exceed almost all the possible measures. Still, Hod's latent abilities are potent. They've garnered that she loves the Old Ones, yet they despise her. The last piece of information we've gained is that a turtle will unlock the secrets of the world to you."

I blinked.

"What?"

"A turtle will unlock the secrets of the world to you."

I pinched the bridge of my nose.

"Uhm...Is there any more than that? Like a name, a place, maybe a time?"

"No. That phrase is all we know."

I smiled.

"Esoteric indeed. Speaking of-"

I pulled out the fragmented pieces of Kryaah's shell from my dimensional storage. The amber armor glowed and oozed odd energies. Other Hod picked up a piece.

"This isn't like anything I've ever seen. It's eldritch in origin, yet it was derived from other latent energy sources outside of their corruption."

I shrugged.

"I had no clue what to do with it or what it really was. I figured it could be food for your eldritch side."

Other Hod marveled at one of the shards.

"And perhaps it may even feed Hod's abilities."

I turned to leave.

"Sorry for cutting the conversation short, but I have to go catch up with Althea. Thanks for letting me know all of this, and update me if anything else comes up."

Other Hod bowed to me.

"Thank you, and I shall."

His form dispersed, and Hod appeared. The bird man spread his arms.

"Hod arrive in style."

He waddled back and forth, his legs like stilts.

"Hod use secret technique: Hod sneak attack."

He twisted back and forth over to me like a man made of toothpicks. Once close, he hugged me.

"Hod miss Harbinger."

I hugged him back.

"I missed you too, buddy. Good job with all the training."

Hod let go before flexing non-existent muscles.

"Hod pretty cool. But Hod tired lots lately. Hod work under shadow man. Shadow man demanding, and Hod eat lots of gross things. Hod tired after eating them."

Hod tilted his head at me.

"And I feel different, at times."

I leaned back, Hod's speech pattern hitting me like a lightning bolt.

"My god."

Hod shook his head.

"Hod wonder what in Hod happened."

I furrowed my brow.

"I don't Hodding know, but it just about made me Hod myself."

Hod nodded in a solemn understanding.

"Hod get it. Hod Hodself sometimes too."

He yawned.

"Hod go sleep now."

I turned to leave before he put a hand on my shoulders. I peered at him with a raised brow. Hod met my eye.

"Hod wish best for Harbinger. Keep safe."

I smiled.

"You too, buddy."

I flew off, leaving the rustic village and it's culturally rich people behind. I bolted through the clouds, trying to close the gap between Althea and me. I couldn't keep up yet since it took me a minute to get the multiple dimensions moving. As I struggled, I found two of Shalahora's shades guarding the entrance to Springfield. I noted that detail before passing far into the distance.

Althea glided over a cloud, one of her hands pressing against the fluffy, dense ball of mist. I hovered beside her, and she smiled at me.

"Finally caught up?"

"You know how talks with Hod go."

She shook her head.

"All over the place, if you're lucky."

I pointed behind us.

"What are those shadow soldiers doing? They looked like a few of Shalahora's shades."

Althea glided on the wind, circling around me with delicate wings.

"Shalahora can't be everywhere all at once, so he's sent his shades to act as, uh, kind of like mind police. They check the minds of people and make sure there's nothing too crazy going on. He can also check for implanted Hybrids or anything like that."

I winced.

"It's not too common, right?"

"It almost never happens. It's much more common farther South near the encampment Plazia cleared a while back. Shalahora's over there right now since he finished handling the skeptiles."

"He handled the millions there already?"

She smiled.

"Shalahora's good at what he does. He actually enjoys this kind of thing a lot."

The wind brushed against my face, cool and refreshing.

"I wonder why? I know being border patrol doesn't exactly appeal to me, at least."

"Something about unveiling the truth instead of spreading more lies, but who really knows? That guy is a real mystery."

"Hah, you're telling me."

We shot across the horizon, a sea of trees beneath us, all of them changing color for fall. I hardly noticed the passing of seasons up until recently, the temperature change unnoticeable and my life consumed with volatile situations. Having a moment to slow down, I found the trees beautiful and nostalgic. Althea watched as well.

We coasted along in a cozy quiet, each of us peering around. After crossing Lake Huron, we went over toward Niagra Falls. As expected, it was majestic yet tortured. Mirroring the Grand Canyon, spatial fog encompassed the middle of the majestic waterfalls, the plunge pool a pathway to another world.

The churning mist mixed into the spatial fog, and we dove in. The lighting altered into a sunny and vast ecosystem below. Each waterfall spread far farther apart than above, and underneath the crest of each cascade hid another world, each space disconnected by clouds of spatial mist. At the center of Niagra Falls, the depths sank for miles and miles, tunnels crisscrossing the vast natural reserve.

Other openings exposed caverns on the cliffsides. Even a cursory glance exposed several enormous dungeons that spread out for miles. They teemed with life, all kinds of eldritch flying into and out of the subterranean world. Other waterfalls fell from their ceiling, lighting the place with glowing pools of different colors.

It reminded me of the best parts of BloodHollow, and it contrasted the normal river and forest above. As I hovered over the water at the fall's center, several large shadows swam beneath me. A burning desire to uncover this place's secrets exploded in my chest, but I silenced the urge. Now wasn't the time. Not yet, at least.

I marked that location in my minimap, which wasn't so mini anymore with streaks of it crossing several states. Before heading out, Althea and I made one round trip near the waterfalls. Each of us put a hand into the current, cutting a swath through the water with our arms. It was a moment of magic and not Schema's kind, either.

We darted over to Buffalo, checking on the city for only a few minutes. I dropped off a cache of supplies, finding everything in order. Trying not to dally more, we flew over towards New York City. Even as we crossed the state, many changes in the ecosystems dotted the skyline. New kinds of fauna evolved and proliferated here.

While not overwhelming the native species, pockets of lavender-colored birches spread throughout the place, their leaves vibrant and neon. Elks with elegant, gorgeous horns hopped from tree branches, their feet otherworldly and light. Leaves covered them instead of fur. One of the elegant bucks landed on a tree branch, gazing at us with glowing eyes.

We met its gaze, and Althea waved. From the trunk of the tree the elk rested on, camouflaged wolves erupted, their fur like splinters. They bit into the buck before tearing it to pieces. Althea looked away.

"Blugh. I know it's nature, but it's always hard to watch."

I kept my gaze steady.

"It is."

I reached out a hand and pinched two fingers together. The elk's suffering ended as its brain collapsed in its skull. Althea winced, and we moved on. Having some time, I glanced at my status. I stockpiled a mountain of stats, and I gained plenty of tree points to distribute.

I got whirlwinded into helping everybody before having time to assess everything and dig into the minute details. Before checking the raw numbers, I put all of my extra points into the Schema's Champion tree and checked my system updates.

New Legendary skill unlocked! A Manifold Mind, Matter Conversion, and Temporal Compression combine into the legendary skill - Infinity.

