The spell that Reka had used to protect their camp was of the Runic Path, and the School of Trapping. She had to scratch runes into the environment and infuse them with her Focus. They burst once the spell and the infused Focus was used up, which is why she had to carve out new runes after the fight.

The wolves that Silvie had created came from the School of Summoning, one of her inherent aspects and not an ability from a relic as he had guessed.

The last thing Veron wanted to know about had to do with the Engur they had fought.

“You must have felt terrified. Yeah, chaos beasts thrive on fear and anger. And they can cause it too. I'm not sure how much of it is magical to be honest. Hayden's devotion magic helps us deal with it. Always a massive boon, and honestly a requirement to have someone with the Way of the Healer or something similar in your group.”

He didn’t fight like a healer.

But maybe I’m being ignorant.

Silvie took the reins soon after, and Veron had the chance to nap in the back of the wagon. The rocking made it difficult but he did eventually fall asleep, using all four blankets for cushioning.

He woke up again when Silvie called out to the horses to stop. It was already getting dark outside and so once again, they made camp. Veron helped set up the fire while Hayden tended to the horses and Reka set up her trapping spell.

It already felt like a bit of a routine and in no time, they were sitting around their campfire with Silvie cooking, everyone relaxing near the warmth.

“Veron, do you feel comfortable taking the first shift tonight?” Reka asked after some comfortable silence. “You just have to stay awake and alert. Call out if any monsters try to get through the defensive wards.”

“Sure, I can do that. Around two hours?”

“Yeah. You can take the first shift, and tomorrow we rotate.”

“Sounds good. I appreciate the trust,” he said.

She met his eyes and smiled ever so slightly.

He glanced around at the group. “Are we expecting another attack tonight?”

Hayden chuckled. “A few fewer chaos beasts in the area would be good for everyone.”

“We'll have enough beasts to fight in Anvakar,” Reka said.

Silvie gave Veron a glance and smiled.

“Heard a White Beak today,” Hayden said.

“Are you sure this time?” Silvie asked.

“I was sure last time too.”

“What's a White Beak? Another chaos beast?” Veron asked.

“No. The White Beak is one of your elemental kind. If you ever see lightning without the corresponding cloud, chances are one is in the area,” Silvie said.

“And you better make a run for it by then,” Reka said.

Silvie laughed.

“It's not funny. It's never been funny,” Reka said but the slight smile on her face betrayed her feelings.

“It's a little funny,” Hayden said.

“You lot came across a White Beak?” Reymond asked. The older merchant looked intrigued more than surprised.

“Obviously we didn't fight it.” Reka glanced around at the others and then sighed, as if resigned to being the storyteller. “We were on our way back to Leiveen from Yora, from a quest to protect a relic merchant looking to start a business in the trade city. Well paid, easy work. It was summer, first year of our adventuring crew,” Reka started. “We had recently fought some low level chaos beasts and felt pretty invincible.”

“Kraan Drakes,” Silvie supplied.

“Just hatchlings,” Hayden said. “And I didn’t feel invincible.”

“I did,” Reka said.

“I still don’t get why we call them hatchlings,” Silvie said. “They don’t hatch from eggs.”

“None that you’ve seen,” Hayden said.

“They don’t hatch,” Reymond said. “But they’re similar to other beasts that do. It happens when adventurers get to name things. It’s distinctive either way, I suppose. You were on your way back?”

“Yes. As I was saying, we... I was feeling invincible. And I had a well established and experienced Iron crew at my back. We didn't even have anything to protect anymore either, so maybe we took a bit of a risk and took the Hammer pass through the Hiras.”

Reymond exhaled. “Of course.”

“We had barely reached the mountains when we came across a carcass. In the middle of the road, and feasting on it was nothing other than a White Beak. I'll tell you, the books lied about its size. The thing was at least as large as Hayden. It’s beak was red from the blood. I still remember freezing in front of it with my hand on the pommel of my sword, adventuring spirit and enthusiasm dried up in my throat as it glanced my way.”

“We were lucky it already had lunch,” Hayden said.

“At least we remembered to make a slow retreat. Slow and dignified,” Reka said and nodded to herself.

“Until we hit the tree line. I swear I fell three times as we ran down that hill,” Silvie said.

“I think we ran all the way to Leiveen,” Hayden added with a thoughtful note.

They exchanged glances and smiled, then were quiet for a little while.

“Took a while to realize how close we really got to death on that day,” Reka said.

“Way to kill the story. It was funny, and we learned a good lesson,” Silvie said. “Food’s ready.”

Veron gladly received a portion of the vegetable stew. It was warm and spiced with fresh herbs someone must’ve picked up recently. A light flavor, a bit bland but he didn’t mind.

Reka and Hayden told another story from an expedition they’d been a part of a few years back but they weren’t exactly agreeing on all the details, Hayden adding single word corrections here and there.

Veron smiled and listened, sitting next to their campfire with warm food in his stomach. He was glad that it wasn’t raining.

Before long, Hayden got a lute-like instrument from their wagon and started playing a calm tune. He ignored the requests from the others to sing or to play something more cheerful.

Veron gave him a glance and then lay down on the wild grass, looking up at the stars and distant nebulas. The moon was bright, and tonight, he would take first shift. His first night shift as an adventurer.
