Erick’s eyes went wide. “Oh. Automatically cast spells are normal?”

“In a manner of speaking, yes.”

“That’s different.”

“Quite different.”

“Mana crystals can utilize external mana?”

Kirginatharp inhaled a little, unsure how to condense the myriad of ways in which Erick was wrong down to something small. “… Well. Yes, mana crystals can utilize external mana, but only when under certain circumstances. One of those main circumstances is that there needs to be a specific solidness in the mana, or a specific flow of specific varieties, in order for the mana crystal to form and function. Souls usually provide this shift in manasphere.

“Cores and rads are sort of like living mana crystals, for instance…

“But not quite. That difference is mostly academic, and mostly categorized by the presence or absence of a soul.

“Elemental Essences are probably the closest thing Veird has to true mana crystals, for Essence is the physical manifestation of an element without any direction to them. If you add direction to them, then they flow into the soul, or into the rad or core, and grant that sort of base power to the person imbibing them. Think of essences as… Supersaturated liquids, for instance.

“It takes intent, without soul, to make a true mana crystal; to make something that can act autonomously within the mana. And that is what the Script prevents, because that sort of thing can propagate rather fast. Souls still condense down crystals and make rads and become elementals all the time, though; stone elementals, air elementals, etcetera. Slimes, too.” Kirginatharp shrugged. “Anyway. Mana crystals were much too much Wizardry for Veird, so the Script prevents that, for once you have enough power and clarity of intent then you can make a mana crystal which makes reality become Reality all on its own. Propagation spreads, and in this sort of New Cosmology, that sort of propagation would kill us all. Too much Wizardry, really.”

Erick took a moment to think about all that.

“So by calling mana crystals Wizardry… You’re saying they’re not engineerable? Not scientific?”

“… Well. I’d hesitate to say that, exactly. But condensing a spell down into a crystal is much more ephemeral than writing down words on a page, or following a spell formula. It’s more like taking the very act of writing words on a page and putting that down onto a piece of paper. Any hundred people could imagine that same action a hundred different ways, and they’d all be right. Mana crystals are too arcane; they’re not proper, understandable magic.” Kirginatharp paused. “If that’s how the kids are using those words these days. Every few decades the meanings of ‘arcane’ and ‘magic’ switch, I swear.” He chuckled. “The kids in the classrooms are already talking like ‘Particle Magic’ and ‘Scientific’ are one and the same.”

Erick smirked. “Before I came to Veird, I used to think that ‘magic’ meant a lot more ‘arcane and unknowable’ than it means how you use that word. ‘Magic’ almost means ‘scientific’ to you.”

“No no. See. ‘Scientific’ means having to do with the mundane practices; no magic involved at all. I am actually quite cross with the students that conflate ‘science’ with ‘Particle Magic’,” Kirginatharp said, with mirth in his voice.

Erick grinned.

“But to get back to it: I say that mana crystals are more acts of Wizardry than proper magic, but truthfully all of that mana crystal stuff is so very outdated, and more steeped in myth than any of the magic I usually get up to. Wizards were the only ones that could truly make mana crystals, anyway, and we’ve no use for them here on Veird. They break systems of power just as much as they enhance systems of power.” Kirginatharp shrugged. “Perhaps the Old Wizards knew how mana crystals actually worked, though; all the ins and outs and sideways of them all, and in ways that would be truly repeatable and teachable. Those powerhouses were always rather secretive with their largest of powers. Perhaps there are old caches of Wizard magics lost to time or buried in the Dark, or in the deeper recesses of various churches and old places. I did manage to find some more tomes on the subject since last you attempted Full Wizard. Would you like those books?”

“Absolutely!”

Kirginatharp nodded. “Now, if this were the Old Cosmology, I would also suggest you speak to certain peoples, but we’re here, on Veird, after the Sundering, and certain peoples are still proving themselves as non-insane. So do some small experimenting on your own, before you go asking those who have true knowledge on the subject again.”

“I’ve got time. I might corner the healing market down there in the Glittering Depths while I experiment, though.”

Kirginatharp laughed loudly and happily. “Ahhh! Healing… Now there’s a large topic about yet another thing that is made near obsolete by the Script. Truly one of the great things about Veird, I think… But also, perhaps there’s too much healing?”

“Oh no. I disagree completely.” Erick said, “[Cleanse], [Mend], [Greater Treat Wounds]. They are the most wonderful parts of this world. I can’t imagine a Veird without them, and I wouldn’t want to. I must imagine that the Healing parts of the Script are rather intensive, though.”

“It’d take divine magic to make Healing Magic work as well as it does without the Script; this much is very true. But the lower levels of Healing can be replicated with a Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], as you have discovered.”

As Erick and Kirginatharp began the next course, fireworks began to illuminate the night sky outside, like pastel white blossoming rains, vibrant spreading glows, and exploding radiance that split the night into day. This sight was a nightly occurrence here at Oceanside during the Triumph of Light, and Kirginatharp’s amber eyes glinted as he smiled at the sight of it all.

As the first salvos of [Decorative Fireball]s began to fade, Erick asked, “Have you made a Second Script dungeon you’re happy with, yet?”

Kirginatharp’s soft smile remained as he said, “I’m up to 22 false starts… Perhaps I should try again. Remake one of the lesser ones into something stronger.”

Erick waited.

And Kirginatharp eventually began, “This notion of having spells outside of oneself, as in Atunir’s dungeon, is something I do not agree with. Power should not be able to be stolen or destroyed as easily as destroying someone’s wand or staff, or what-have-you. No. I fully agree with the current Script’s stance of imbuing power into the user in the form of spells implanted into the soul… I do like the idea of limiting power, though. It’s ten spells in the Glittering Depths? Well that is certainly an idea.”

“Buffing magic seems to be viable there, too, unlike in the Script.”

Kirginatharp shook his head, saying, “The Script does stats as a generalized boost, to level the field for everyone. There were many mana miners in the Old Cosmology that found great success in disallowing unique buffing magics, and instead giving general buffs to everyone. Veird was already like this, and so we chose to keep it that way.”

“Ah… Well okay then? I did not know that.”

“But 10 spells and some general stats might be nice.” Kirginatharp said, “The amount of mana that the Glittering Depths gives everyone, as a matter of course, is simply too much, though. 100,000 mana per hour? As base? No.”

Erick chuckled. “That is too much, I agree. This whole thing has me wondering what is a good average rate, though, especially when future lands will have a great deal more defense due to Node Networks.”

“Ahh. Yet another nuance. If a Second Script doesn’t present as the current Script presents, then will Node Networks go away? Perhaps.”

“… Oh. Well yes. That is a concern… Especially if only 10 or so spells are allowed at any one time— Well then you just have to have the spells able to be switched out, like in the Glittering Depths.”

“Hmm. Perhaps. I admit that the particular nuance of a ‘Storage’ is quite interesting. We tried to do that once, but it was a complete failure in so many different ways. Many of which you already experienced with your own foray into that arena.”

“It’d be possible for someone to make [Gate] on their own and then use that to service the storage needs of a group of people through specialized implementation of their gate space.” Erick said, “But that’s offering valuables to people who have no idea how valuable those valuables truly are. There’s a saying on Earth; ‘pearls before swine’.”

Kirginatharp chuckled a little. “ ‘Gold to monsters’ is a similar saying… And I wouldn’t want to grant wide scale easy movement to every single person in the world again, like with [Teleport]…”

Kirginatharp and Erick spoke of various things, from possible forms of a Second Script to small political happenings the world over, as they ate a nice large meal, and watched the night sky explode with color and vibrancy.

Afterward, Kirginatharp granted Erick copies of some old books, nicely wrapped in a large crate, as he said, “I might have underplayed it before, but I did manage to find quite a few new books on mana crystals, buried deep in my collection since the last time you asked of crystals. I wish you better luck this next time in becoming a Full Wizard, directly after Yggdrasil’s re-sealing.”

Erick chuckled. “Your mother has already made the order of events with this whole resealing very well known.” Erick smiled. “Thank you, Kirginatharp.”

“I’m not worried. It’s probably just some mental hangup that you’ll work through soon enough. I don’t believe that [Onward] story I heard at all.”

Erick’s eyes briefly went wide. And then he laughed.

Kirginatharp smiled. “I was waiting for you to bring it up all night long, Erick.”

“I just hope it’s not true. Thinking about it is disheartening.”

Kirginatharp nodded.
