Under a brilliant blue sky, Erick gazed down upon the City Restored.

Erick could kinda see the resemblance to the [Witness] memory that he had seen back on floor one. The place looked a lot nicer without all the flooding.

There was a playhouse over there, while in the other direction lay Ramblewood Arcanaeum and University. In the distance sat the massive castle of the king or whoever, while the noble houses grew on hills over there like mushrooms separate from the rest of the city. Between all of that lay a whole lot of rather normal-looking cityscapes. To the right, maybe two streets away, sat the guard tower and guardhouse where Erick had first [Witness]ed Ashes’s life…

Ashes’s memories still lurked in Erick’s mind, and from those memories Erick saw tens of touchpoints here and there across the land, and his heart thumped with some unknown feeling; a nostalgia for something that he had never known.

He also saw where the city was different from the memory—

Kinder said, “I’d love for you to have as many moments like this as you need, but that’s been about 3 minutes of city-gazing so far, and it looks to be a lot more. Shall we move on, and then you come back to this later? I wish to ensure you are acquainted with the city before I move on.”

Erick blinked a little as he broke away from his sightseeing. “… Right. Right.” His heart thumped. And then he looked to the tower that they had come out of. It was a white spire with no interior, and with a staircase spiraling down around the outside; a 200 meter length of stone extending up from the city below and not much more. There was a divot in the stone top of the tower where Erick and Kinder had walked through, roughly in the size and shape of a portal, but there was no portal there anymore. Erick looked to the side, where that staircase started. “Not even an elevator?”

Kinder grinned. “I am sure you are used to flying, but we do things simple here.” He started down the stairs, saying, “It’s a nice walk to the check-in zone, but it is a walk.”

Erick followed at Kinder’s side. The staircase was 3 meters wide, and easily allowed for Erick to walk beside the dungeon master. “Is that building below us not a check-in area?”

“Nope. That’s just a guardhouse, though we don’t have much use for those in Utopia. No real crime, you understand. Every delver who makes it this deep has to go through certain trials to make it down here, to prove their character, and those who already live here aren’t prone to that sort of thing. But if you desire it...” Kinder asked, “Do you wish to be a guard?”

“Ah? No. I’m… Not looking to move down here.”

Kinder nodded. “Not everyone does. Emergency exits are always available, but most people come and go from the towers. Before you leave, let us get you through some paperwork, and get you your house and storage. And then you can leave. To come back to this floor all you have to do is enter the dungeon up top, and come inside like you normally do. When you get to the portals in the hills, you’ll automatically come down to this floor, and then you can continue on, whatever you want.”

“I won’t be shunted to the second floor? Or the third floor?”

“Not anymore.” Kinder said, “Now if you come in with someone else, you’ll have to escort them through the other floors before you’re allowed to return here with them. We try not to let any of the general public circumvent the floors… For various reasons.”

“To make sure they align politically with Utopia?”

Kinder rolled his eyes. “Random shits from Greensoil always bring their problems in with them, and we dislike that. If you want to say that it’s ‘political’ to desire a nice homeland, then sure. It’s political.”

Erick smirked. They had yet to get more than halfway to the floor below. “How did you even get orcols and incani and dragonkin here? Did they come in from Greensoil? From Greendale? That can’t have been easy for them.”

“Ahhh… Well that’s something of an open secret, but… I suppose you’ll find out soon enough.” Kinder said, “It doesn’t happen often, but sometimes when a delver from another dungeon needs an emergency exit, and they give a prayer to Atunir, they sometimes end up here. Every individual’s story is different. Some turn corners in a dead city and end up stepping out onto the streets of Utopia. Sometimes they come in from the fields. What’s actually problematic with them is that they want to leave and they want to bring others here, and that’s often troublesome, since we only have the one exit up top, by Greendale. We still help them leave and sometimes we even help them get back, of course, but it’s… That’s hard to do with Greendale watching.”

Erick put 1 and 1 and then a bunch of other numbers together, and offered, “I can ask Erick if you want access to the Gate Network for the transportation of delvers to and from the Glittering Depths.”

Kinder flinched hard. He rapidly tried to recollect himself, and he was mostly successful. “Uh… Perhaps… We don’t want to…” His voice trailed off.

Erick gave him several seconds to collect his thoughts, but when he had no more thoughts to give, Erick offered him an out, “You don’t want to involve the Wizard, but you do want to ask for help, and you’re not sure how.”

Kinder lied, “Correct.”

“… So I was wrong, and that was a lie, but that’s too deep for me to understand right now. I won’t involve him with this at all, and you can wait and tell me what sort of help you want from a Benevolence dragon, when you’re ready.”

“… Sure.”

Kinder fell silent, and Erick respected that silence, as the two of them continued down the staircase.

They stepped off of the tower, directly onto a road made of white crystal. A guardhouse stood beside the tower, where three different guards, all human, had been preparing for Kinder and Erick’s arrival by stepping lively to the road, with their hands on the hilts of their rods, and their faces set sternly. They looked ready to throw down, or to turtle up if the situation required, which seemed like an odd response from guards from a place called ‘Utopia’. All of them gave Erick’s own rod a glance. Except for the knotwork metal inscriptions, Erick’s rod looked exactly the same as their own, and they didn’t like that.

But Kinder waved them off, and all of the guards relaxed. And they truly did relax, with the lead man smiling a little as he backed away, and one woman resuming her talk with the other woman about some party that was going to be happening later tonight. The guards easily returned to their non-duties, as Erick and Kinder walked down the white crystal road.

Erick was about to ask what they were scared about—

Kinder said, “The tower we came down is the tower to the second floor, and no one normally comes down that way, except for in emergencies, which usually involve one floor invading another. That’s why it’s a walk to the check-in zone; there is no proper check-in site here.”

“… That wasn’t quite going to be my question, but that does answer some questions about the nature of the towers around here…” Floors could invade other floors? He knew that such a thing was possible, but he didn’t think such a thing could happen in a Grand Dungeon. That seemed… Not ideal. Erick moved on. “There’s more than 5, though?” Erick counted the skyline, and recalled what he had seen as they spiraled the tower to floor 2, on their way down here to the city. “There’s like 9 of them? But there’s only 5 floors and the endless delve, right?”

“We’ve got five towers for the five floors, three for various other places, and one for the entrance floor. Only three towers see constant use; the administrative tower near the castle, the floor 5 exit/entrance, and the tower that leads to the endless delve. You’ll be coming and going from the fifth floor tower next time.”

Erick nodded, then asked, “Why did those guards look at my rod like that? Like they hated it.”

“You are following the guard questline, so there is some professional judgment there. If you wish to move here and become a guard you’re welcome to it. Aside from that, both your staff and rod are rather damned bright to anyone with a proper mana sense, and the guards have great mana senses.” Kinder said, “The development of a mana sense is necessary to truly make it past floor 3 and beyond, and most of the guards here have voluntarily chosen to go through the dungeon.”

Erick was a bit surprised by that. “The residents go through the dungeon, too?”

“Yes. Most opt to go through a special course to teach them how to use magic on Veird, though; not through the 5 levels you went through, to learn how to use Atunir’s Second Script.”

“… I think I would like to see your Veird-acclimation course. How does such a thing even work here, since you have a Second Script?”

“A lot of things taught here translate well to Veird; aura control, mana altering in various ways, mana sense. As soon as you understand those three, you can do almost anything.”

This part of Utopia was a rather nice sort of town. Not rich. Not poor; Erick doubted that any part of Utopia was ‘poor’ at all. Just… Nice. Trees to the sides of the road. People walking this way and that. Mothers guiding children to wherever. Men drinking at a local bar. Houses with closets filled with clothes and pantries stocked to bursting. Extra rooms. People cooked in their own homes on nice stoves, or worked on hobbies or crafts or other work. A lot of little shops were here and there, with people selling stuff, or gathering into friend groups for whatever sorts of activities... Big bedrooms.

… Lotta pregnant women and kids.

… Lotta people fucking in the buildings all around.

Great pastime; that.

Atunir was the Goddess of Field and Fertility, after all. Made sense that there were a lot of children and pregnant women.

Nice to see schools for the children, too. There was a kindergarten over there that was packed with kids. Looked like a class at the nearby schoolhouse was teaching a class of 20 teenagers about Veird and the Script, too. The people here had plans to move on to the real world, it seemed...

Erick asked, “How often do the people here move onto Veird?”

“Quite often. The whole story of the Sundering is absolutely terrifying, and to find out we’re all remnants of a dead cosmology spurs quite a few people into trying to find out what is real.” Kinder said, “Most people come back to Utopia, though. Veird is a land of terror.”

Erick barked a laugh at that.

Kinder frowned a little.

Erick chided the man. “Oh come on! Veird is a thousand times better than it used to be!”

Kinder’s face relaxed, and then he nodded a little. “From what I have heard, it makes sense that you would say that.” He looked to Erick, adding, “But your world is still terrifying, Ashes.”

“… It’s a lot better than it used to be. Almost all the unnatural death is contained to the dungeons and all real disasters are reverted by the Wizard, or solved as best he can.”

Kinder didn’t seem to want to talk about that too much because he changed subjects, saying, “We use the gold standard here, and the markets are like any normal market you would find anywhere on Veird. We have no taxes, because dungeon magic does a lot. Delver housing is free, and so is healthcare and practically every essential you can think of, except food. You gotta pay for food. Services of all kinds are a normal expense, from eating at a restaurant to sending letters to the world outside, but schools are free, and also mandatory for all children…”

Kinder rambled off a bunch of normal information, all of which was rather progressive, in Erick’s opinion, as the two of them walked down the white crystal road. Occasionally, someone would greet Kinder and Kinder would nod back, and speak a bit in passing about normal things, like the estimated timeframe for new classrooms, or when was this or that happening. Erick got the distinct impression that Kinder was like a mayor, which was probably close to the truth. Erick also got the impression that Kinder was used to giving tours, like he was doing for Erick, for he tended to go back and forth between topics, depending on the sights around them as they walked the streets.

Maybe he had done this before, though. Not too often, for Erick heard him repeating a few things. Maybe he didn’t expect Erick to fully understand him? Highly likely.

Eventually they reached a gold street, which seemed to be made of some metal other than gold? Erick wasn’t sure about that. It was certainly harder than gold, for when Erick tapped the road with his staff the road did not deform.

Kinder gestured ahead. “And this is the main road through Utopia. Up ahead is the delver’s courtyard, or square, depending on who you’re talking to. There’s a bunch of various shops of all types in that place, and looking up, you can see the fifth floor tower, if you couldn’t already tell by all the people headed up and down at the moment. Most entering and exiting by delvers is done through there, unless you have an emergency, in which case a portal to the surface can be provided by the dungeon.” Kinder rambled off, “Abuse of the emergency exit function does lead to denial of this function, but as long as you don’t use it more than once a week you’ll be fine.”

Erick glanced upward, and yes, he saw the people stepping up and down the spiraling staircase of the tower. At the top of the tower lay a black portal, open to elsewhere at the dungeon. At the bottom lay a fully-open town square, and though Erick couldn’t see much of that town square from this location, he did see a few guard towers poking up from the sides of that space.

He also saw his first other delver; a woman in a cloak of silver chain with a black metamond clasp holding the cloak together. Silver weaponry and accessories held at her sides and on her hands. Those silver items marked her as a delver of some sort—

The woman gave Erick and Kinder a quick glance, recognized Kinder, and then decided she didn’t care about either of them in almost the same motion. She kept walking. Erick only really noticed her because, without using his eyes, she would have gone completely unnoticed.

There was no mana sensing the woman, or her immediate surroundings.

Now that Erick was drawing closer to the large open space ahead, he realized he couldn’t sense a lot of the people walking around, though he could still see them. Almost everyone here had some sort of anti-sensory magic, like Erick’s own.

