Kinder led the way forward, into a vast open space with the tower rising in the center, a golden floor all around, and shops of all kinds lining the town square. It reminded Erick of the adventurer’s district of Spur, or any other major city; crowded, with all races, and with everyone wearing a bunch of mismatching gear. For a moment, Erick felt self-conscious with his staff in one hand and all the rest of him looking like one of the normal guards of Utopia.

The noise of hundreds of small conversations filled the air, spilling out of taverns or out from groups laughing as they made their way to the tower, or angry shouts from groups coming away from the tower, obviously angry about what had happened in their delve. A lot of people coming down from the tower carried big bags with them. Some of those large bags were protected from mana sense by an extension of the carrier’s anti-sensory field, but some of those bags were exposed to the world and so Erick saw metamonds and spell tomes and various items made of metiron.

Some shops to the sides of the city square had big signs in front of them, showing off that they were vendors and buyers for metiron, metamonds, and everything else that people could find in the dungeons.

A casual glance at their pricing structure, and at the pricing structure of all the other shops, from taverns to general stores, let Erick know that the economy in here was roughly comparable to the economy out on Veird. Sure, some things were grossly different in pricing structure, with Bolt wands being dirt cheap and Health metamonds being worth 1,500 gold for each metamond, but such was to be expected when the way magic worked was different…

… Erick realized he had no money at all right now.

Well that shouldn’t be too hard to fix. All Erick needed to do was sell some Wands of [Rejuvenation]. Those looked like they were going for...

“What the fuck,” Erick whispered, as he slowed down to make sure that what he was seeing was what he was seeing.

Kinder paused his talk and raised an eyebrow at Erick. “Problem?”

“Are Wands of [Rejuvenation] really 250,000 gold? That’s as much as a Rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] out on Veird!”

Kinder chuckled. “Ah? They actually have one on sale over there?” He looked toward the shop Erick was mana sensing. “I’m surprised it’s not gone already.”

… Erick looked closer. “Oh. Well. I guess I assumed that the ‘ask to purchase one’ and the statue meant they actually had one.”

Kinder nodded. “They probably don’t; you have to get on a waiting list.” Kinder added, “Flood the market with those if you desire; it’ll make the delvers able to push further and further into the depths, and anyone working on a floor beyond 80 is pulling in 20k gold per day, unless they suffer catastrophic loss of items, which does happen sometimes. Money is not usually the problem when it comes to getting certain items.” He added, “I would ask you not to proliferate your bolter if you could, but if other people see you using it and try to make their own, then that will probably be good for overall learning.”

The weaker version of this staff would be easy enough for Erick to replicate, but whatever caused his Staff of Absolution to turn into a Staff of Divine Absolution was not easily repeatable. Erick didn’t really want to proliferate weaponry, anyway, so even before the impossibility of Kinder’s ask, Erick was already onboard with the general sentiment.

Kinder led Erick toward the delver center, and more and more people actually started looking Erick’s way, giving him more than a passing once-over. Eyes lingered on Erick’s cerulean-gemmed bracelet, and were drawn to the massive metamond glowing white and iridescent near the top of his staff.

The delver center was a rather normal guildhouse-like place, with tables everywhere for people to drink beer and eat and play card games, while massive leaderboards hung to the side of the room, and bank-teller-like stations serviced lines of delvers. It was a busy location, made all the more busy by heated discussions between people at this or that table, but primarily by a party happening in one large section of the bar, celebrating the downfall of the ‘Ice Queen’ and to the rise of ‘whoever the fuck Ashes is!’—

And then some guys saw Kinder and cheered louder. Kinder nodded, and his step changed as a surety overtook him.

Ah.

Erick saw where this was going.

He decided to let whatever happened, happen. He did not, however, expect for Kinder to kick things off exactly as he did.

Kinder stepped right into the center of the room and smiled wide as he clapped his hands, filling the entire hall with a magically-empowered thundercrack, and then with silence. All eyes turned their way, and Kinder put a hand on Erick’s shoulder, allowing sound to return to the guildhall as he announced, “Greetings, everyone! This is Ashes Woodfield, fresh off the second floor, because he was going to start demolishing the other floors and I couldn’t allow that. I’m getting him set up with housing and tomorrow you may approach him for company recruitment, or whatever.” He glared at absolutely everyone in the guildhall, repeating himself, “Tomorrow.”

Erick put on a smile and nodded at everyone in the guildhall.

Events proceeded rapidly from there.

Quite a few cheers; loud and boisterous, mostly from those who had sigaldry of iron upon them, and who Erick rapidly understood as the Iron Bandits. A few shouts from angry people, who were angry at the Iron Bandits, yelling that they would not poach this one from them. Many people gazed upon Erick’s various bits and bobs of silver, and at his staff, trying to discern which one of his tools was the strongest; almost everyone bet on the staff, though a few people looked at his rod and his breastplate, and gauged them a fair toss up. Some spoke of how the breastplate looked plain on the outside, but might have some really nice metamonds on the inside.

It did have some nice metamonds on the inside, actually, but Erick’s [Blessing of the Unseen] hid all that from view.

Almost everyone wondered what the fuck Erick had done to get a ‘pass’ for floors 3, 4, and 5.

But no one actually approached Erick, as Kinder took Erick to one of the desks and rapidly got him through a quick questioning from the teller. Kinder added a few words of his own when the topic of housing came up, and soon, Erick had gained a special metamond key with a prismatic gem embedded in the handle.

The teller bowed, saying, “Welcome to Utopia, Ashes Woodfield.” She rose, adding, “We hope you enjoy your stay.”

Kinder said, “Now let’s get you to your house, your storage, and then you can go about your business.”

Erick smiled a little. “Sounds like a plan to me.”

Kinder led the way out of the delver guildhouse and Erick followed. Once they were beyond the doors, that’s when the crowds inside really started appearing and arguing with each other. Erick didn’t catch much of what they were saying, and he didn’t care to, for a lot of it seemed like mercenary company politics. He did get the distinct sense that they were figuring out some sort of order to approach Erick with offers to join their companies.

Erick would probably choose whichever one gave him the largest head start here in Utopia, which didn’t require him to do too much for them in return.

Kinder guided Erick to the end of the tower square, on the opposite end of where they had come in, and said quietly to Erick, “Offensive spellwork is heavily frowned upon inside the city, but defensive and utility spellwork is allowed. So we’re being tracked right now. If these circumstances were different, I would not be doing any of this how I am doing this, nor would I be offering this next offer: do you want to portal to your house? Or do you want to walk there, and likely track tens of curious people to your door?”

A few ‘empty’ spaces had cropped up in the manasphere within sight of Erick, but not anywhere too close, after Kinder’s announcement. Erick couldn’t see any people in those spaces, either, so Erick didn’t need Kinder to tell him that there were invisible people watching him, but it was still a nice gesture from the dungeon master.

Erick’s answer was easy. “I’ll take the portal.”

“Excellent!” Kinder waved a hand and a black [Gate] opened. He walked right on through.

Erick followed.

The [Gate] shut behind them, taking all the loud talking and the sound of crashing furniture with it.

The sounds of the world were a gentle thing once again, filled mostly with small songbirds and the rustling of wheat. For kilometers in every direction, all Erick could see was golden fields, while his new house lay directly in front of him.

It was a simple thing, and a bit run down.

A shingle roof, though a few were broken. Solid stone walls. A broken window out front and dusty furniture inside. All of this sat upon a hundred square meter plot of weedy land. The whole property was separated from the golden ocean beyond by a low, rock wall that was more made of rocks than proper brick or stone. It had a well, and some indoor plumbing, and a kitchen; though none of it was fancy, it was all there. The actual amenities were actually rather high-tech compared to the rest of the house.

“It even has a mage tower,” Erick said, smiling.

The tower was a squat thing at only two stories tall, but it was wide, and it had a library space at the top. The bottom looked large enough to house everything he’d need to make a functioning workshop.

“Not much of a tower, I’m afraid.” Kinder said, “You can change all that once you move in and designate it as yours. Once it is yours, then it will become truly yours, and you won’t be able to shift locations, because all your storage will end up here. No one will be able to steal from your house, either, so you don’t have to worry about that.” Kinder said, “As a suggestion, if you want to make friends, then you can hire out the reconstruction through payments of metirons or metamonds. Or you can be a hermit and do it all yourself.”

“Can I adjust the mana level here? What about mana chambers?”

“There are a whole host of privacy options once you actually stick that key in the door and claim it as yours. The mana saturation level is one of them. But if you want a mana chamber... And probably a furnace, too?”

Erick nodded.

“Either work with a mercenary or delver company on that stuff; all the reputable ones have all those crafting areas already. Or, you can hire one of the Marii’s to get that stuff set up here. Or, if you still want your own space with furnaces and a mana chamber, then you must figure that out yourself; probably through a company.” Kinder added, “No one but dungeon masters like me will be able to access your land without your approval, but once you give your approval, then you don’t need to give it again. You must physically say ‘I rescind your approval to be on my land so-and-so’ if you want the dungeon to bar someone who they have unbarred from your land; everyone starts off barred from everyone else’s lands.”

Erick walked toward the door, saying, “This is so much different than on Veird.”

Kinder nodded. “Yes. Veird is horrifying.”

“Ohhhh. It’s not that bad.” Erick smiled as he placed the key in the door. “Every assassin is just another person waiting to be shown the error of their ways.” He turned the key.

The key broke, turning to ash in his hands, as a flash of light raced across his hand, and across every surface of the nearby world.

A chime echoed.

Welcome to your new home, Ashes Woodfield!

Preliminary security established. Anti-sense active.

House found in disrepair.

Beginning repairs.

The yard cleaned up; weeds vanishing in a flash. The broken windows repaired, as though they were never broken. The cracks in the walls sealed over as an apple tree grew in the front yard, and a gate popped into being in the rock wall, as the rock wall turned into something more respectable. The golden wheat ocean parted at the gate, revealing a road that led off into the distance; the way back to town.

A thousand little problems fixed themselves, and the front door swung open on its own accord.

Dust swept away, and lights flickered on inside, giving a warm glow to the polished wood floor and walls.

Repairs finished.

Activating basic furniture and storage.

A nice, large bed appeared in the main bedroom, while tables and chairs placed themselves in the kitchen, dining room, and elsewhere. It was all rather rustic furniture, made of thick wood, but it looked like it would last forever.

“Ah,” Erick said, as he stepped inside, and watched a series of large chests appear in what looked almost like a trophy room. “You guys really do want people to stay here, don’t you?”

Storage implemented.

Banking implemented.

Your house is your own!

Welcome to the Glittering Depths, Ashes Woodfield!

Kinder stayed outside, saying, “Of course we do.”

Erick looked back at the man, and how he had remained outside the house. “Come on in, then.”

Kinder grinned, then stepped inside the house. “I know your house is likely not what a dragon is used to but you can make that happen on your own. If you want a castle, or a compound, or whatever, you have plenty of room and lots of opportunity to make that happen. You’re ten minutes away from town by [Hidden Wind]stepping, but there’s still twenty kilometers between here and Utopia, so you’ve got lots of space. In fifty years, that might not be true anymore.” He added, “Or at least that’s what we hope.”

Erick nodded. “There’s a lot there, in that little statement. A lot of hope, Kinder. Would you like to talk about any problems you might need solving? Or save that for later?”

“I’ve heard that Benevolence dragons go around solving problems in the best way they can for everyone, just like their king. Is that what I have to expect from you?”

“If I see a problem I will solve it as peacefully as I can, but I will solve it.”

Kinder nodded. “Perhaps you should look into joining the guard, and having some legality behind your vigilantism.” He stepped backward, saying, “But for now! Welcome to your home in the Glittering Depths. Good day, Ashes Woodfield.”

“Good day, Kinder.”

Kinder gave a little bow, and then stepped backward, into darkness, and out of sight.

Erick took a good five minutes to walk around the house, to visually see everything he wanted to see and not just mana sense everything. But mostly, he was preparing himself to try out ‘storage’. Kinder had spoken of it a few times so Erick knew what to expect, but he was kinda wary of the whole thing.

Because, if what Kinder was saying was true, then Erick was kinda jealous.

