Erick had long ago spoken to Jane and other people about some sort of ‘storage’ option, using his Gate Network, where people could put items into a personalized [Gate] that would drop those items off at a physical location in some bank somewhere. Retrieving those options would then be as easy as sticking one’s hand through a hole in the world, and pulling out those items.

Erick had done a bit of experimentation to see if the idea of a ‘personal mobile vault’ was even possible. He had rapidly concluded that to do such a thing would be way, way beyond his desired scope of influence. It would be one thing to make an object that allowed people to access their own storage area; that would be fine. But all Erick could really do was make a [Gate] node and then attach some various runic webs and powers to that node, which would do so much more than just be portable storage. It would allow the user basic access to their own private gate network. And that just wasn’t going to happen; not through Erick, anyway.

But according to Kinder, the Glittering Depths had worked out a private storage system.

Tentatively, Erick held out his Wand of [Drinking Food], and said, “Storage, Wand of [Drinking Food].”

The wand vanished from his hand in a flicker of blackness, and then reappeared in the first storage chest, a few meters away from Erick. It just… Blipped right from his hand, into the chest. Just like that! It was obviously dungeon magic, and… It had worked.

Erick tried to retrieve the item with the same command, “Storage, Wand of [Drinking Food].”

Nothing happened.

“Retrieve from storage, Wand of [Drinking Food].”

A small countdown appeared in the air, counting down from 100 seconds.

“Cancel Wand of [Drinking Food] retrieval.”

The countdown vanished.

Erick manually retrieved his wand from the chest, held it out as he stood above the open chest, and said, “Storage, Wand of [Drinking Food].”

The wand vanished in a flicker of darkness again, to reappear right where the dungeon had placed it the last time.

“Storage, all gear.”

All of Erick’s gear and clothes vanished, leaving him completely nude in the middle of his house. His pants and shirt were folded and laid on top of each other in the second chest, with his socks tucked into one another, while his boots sat outside the chest. All his metamond stuff appeared in the first chest, but his staff and rod were too big to fit, so they ended up propped against the closest wall.

And Erick laughed.

“Retrieve all gear!”

A countdown began, 1000 seconds.

… Why the increased timer? Erick guessed it was due to the number of items retrieved. He didn’t care to wait that long, though, so he went to the storage and manually put his stuff back on, while also telling the system to stop the retrieval. The countdown vanished.

“Storage, all metirons.”

This time, only his metirons vanished and instantly reappeared in the first chest, as they had the first time Erick had stored all his items.

“Holy shit,” Erick said, mumbling to himself. “You figured out the personal mobile vault.”

With surprise on his face and elation in his heart, Erick put all his stuff back on, and smiled as he stepped outside of the house.

The Glittering Depths had some nice magic to it. This was a nice little location.

He’d be back later.

It was time to go talk to an expert on dungeon craft.

Erick shut the door behind him, and went to the gate, and then onto the road leading away from the house. With a flick of intent at his bracelet of [Hidden Wind], Erick started windstepping back to town. Within minutes, he had passed from his little road to a main road, which split in two directions, and which had a sign by the road pointing toward his house, reading ‘Ashes Woodfield’ in well-written Ecks. It was easy to see which way was toward town; all the buildings were over in that direction.

Erick would have gone racing down that way, but the main road was different from his side road. It had four lanes, each four meters across, with two of the lanes with arrows headed inward, and two with arrows headed outward. The outer tracks only had singular arrows, while the two inner tracks had double arrows.

It was an odd sort of system, not much in use in Greensoil, where most people were very low level, but some places did have road systems like this; where there were tracks for some people who were very fast, and others who were slow.

The Gate District at Candlepoint had a system almost like this one, but with moving wardlight images instead of static arrows on the ground, and with a whole lot more regulation.

Erick got onto the fast track headed inward and began moving fast, smiling a bit as he watched others zip past the other way, and dodging fast when he overtook people moving slower than him.

As Erick windstepped toward Utopia, he read hundreds of little signs on side roads. Some of those side roads were labeled as ‘Company Roads’, which was easy enough to understand. The Iron Bandits had their own road about 3 minutes from the edge of Utopia. The Crystal Raiders, of Veracity Speed, whom Erick had met on the top floor leading new people into the dungeon, had their road one minute out of town.

A warning sign right before the big buildings asked for people not to race into the city, and so, Erick slowed down, and began walking normally, though still quite fast. Soon Erick was back in the delver square, passing by people who glanced his way as he raced toward the tower, under his own physical power.

He raced up the wide staircase to the dungeon exit, and soon, he was back at the entrance zone of the Glittering Depths, where Ophiel waited by the entrance, fluffy, invisible, and intangible. Erick went right to the little guy, and then rushed outside, all of his gear turning back into ironcrystal and colored gems as he stepped outside the dungeon, recasting his Script-based magics.

He had almost expected the staff to stay real, but nope! That thing transformed back into crystal, too.

Awfully damned glowing crystal, which was different from all the rest of his dull crystal and dull gems. The thing was a ‘greater artifact’…

Erick suspected that it was a true artifact of the Old Cosmology. Or maybe a clear memory of one. An echo, almost. He could probably paradox the staff into full existence if he wanted, and if he actually tried for it, but for now, he was not going to do that.

For now, he said hello to Ophiel, spoke with Yggdrasil some, and with Poi and others, as he went home and started going through his library, looking for every book on the subject of mana crystals that he could find. There wasn’t a whole lot. Most of what he had was based on historical conjecture of things that happened in the Old Cosmology, or magic that was localized to Fairie and Ar’Cosmos. Erick had read it all once before, because there wasn’t a whole lot written on the subject of mana crystals, but in light of the new opportunities afforded by the Glittering Depths Erick wanted to have his ducks in a row before he went around asking others about the subject of Old Cosmology magic, and the myriad uses of mana crystals.

- - - -

Erick’s first option had been to go to Storm’s Edge; directly to Quilatalap, to ask him about everything that had happened in the Glittering Depths, about Old Cosmology mana crystals, and ancient artifacts of the past. But Quilatalap had been busy, and Erick didn’t want to push through into the dungeon when the undead servants outside had politely asked him not to come in yet, explaining that it wasn’t ready.

So Erick went to Oceanside instead, and limited his conversation to mana crystals and artifacts of the Old Cosmology.

And then Kirginatharp went and guessed practically everything that Erick did not tell him.

Erick rolled his eyes as he said, “I didn’t want to directly speak of the Glittering Depths, but I suppose I can.”

Kirginatharp laughed as he poured himself some more wine. The aged Headmaster of Oceanside had invited Erick to a sunset dinner at one of the prestigious restaurants in one of the taller towers at the arcanaeum. The sky had turned to burnished gold and lovely pink outside of the restaurant's wide windows, as servers brought out course after course of appetizer and main dish, gradually filling up the table between Erick and Kirginatharp. It was rather fantastic food, and the conversation would likely prove to be one of those long winded things, so Erick was thankful for Kirginatharp suggesting they take dinner together.

In a few hours, the sky would be filled with sparklers and [Decorative Fireball]s, too, in celebration of the Triumph of Light, so that was always nice to see. Oceanside did the end of year festival rather well.

Kirginatharp smiled as he lifted his cup. “Come now, Erick! I might not have as many claws in as many hoards as you do these days, but I still know most of what happens in this world, and of course I would have heard of Atunir’s Second Script dungeon.” With a smirk, but a little more serious, Kirginatharp said, “Most of what I have heard is from people who have failed to get past the second floor, so I would greatly love to hear the whole story from the top again, with some specifics this time.”

“They seem rather private down there, and I plan to have some magical experiments down there, so I don’t want everyone to know who I am down there.”

“Yes yes, fine fine.” Kirginatharp chuckled. “I won’t tell the world that you’re Ashes Woodfield—”

“I didn’t even tell you my name down there!” Erick laughed. “Bah!”

Kirginatharp laughed again. “I also won’t tell everyone that you’re looking to release Yggdrasil from his seal earlier, either.”

“If I thought you would, then I never would have told you that, either.” Erick gave Kirginatharp a Look. “And we discussed this already. Why bring it up?”

“We haven’t spoken about it in person, and it’s serious, Erick.”

“I plan on Yggdrasil’s release being as minimally disruptive as I can.”

“Why are you even entertaining that idea? Is Yggdrasil truly this irresponsible?”

Erick leveled a disapproving Look at the old dragon, saying, “I know this is an important topic, but to call Yggdrasil ‘irresponsible’ is too much. My son is perhaps the furthest thing from irresponsible. … And the boy has a girlfriend, I think, and he wants to be separate from me. There is no ‘great answer’ besides that one, and it is enough for me. Let it be enough for you, too.”

Kirginatharp seemed vaguely admonished, as he said, “Children must grow.”

Erick nodded, and then he began to speak of the Glittering Depths, from the top.

Half an hour later, Erick finished. He even retrieved the Staff of Divine Absolution from home, to show Kirginatharp. Kirginatharp seemed vaguely interested in it, but not really.

Kirginatharp had eaten his way through several courses and Erick had gone through two, and now, Erick waited a little, for Kirginatharp to digest the words Erick had given him.

Kirginatharp set down his fork and knife, and said, “I haven’t expended much attention towards the phantoms my students have sometimes seen when inside the Dark of the dungeons… But perhaps I should. I will have to get back to you on that.

“As for the business of Atunir’s specific memories…” Kirginatharp paused in deep thought, then he said, “I don’t know the specifics, for those are lost to time and the Sundering. But I do know that some person linked to Atunir invented the expanded bolter around 250,000 years ago, though that date and that whole story is apocryphal. That story goes, that some rebels threw off their oppressors with highly-refined bolters, and Atunir’s church even has a prayer: ‘Out of the ashes, comes new life, under the blessings of Atunir’. I don’t believe there is a link, but there might be.” Kirginatharp added, “You know, when we were making the Script, the [Force Bolt] spell saw a great deal of lessening. And mostly due to the expanded bolter. Bolters, unchained, are very dangerous weapons. What we did, exactly, was splitting that power. We took the [Grand Decaying Bloody Bolts]-types of Bolts, like the one you put into that staff and made sure that no one could simply make that spell all on their own. To make such a spell under the Script, one has to first make all the pieces of the puzzle, and then put them together in a coherent way, as you have done.

“In the Old Cosmology, all you’d have to do was mush together all those dangerous Elements along with the Intent to touch the enemy with that Bolt, and it would work. You could even throw in some Elemental Destruction, too, and it all worked fine for a Bolt! Truly terrible magic, that.

“Breaking up the Bolt was one of the better things we did with the Script.”

For a moment, Erick was stunned.

And then he asked, “What else happened to make magic what it is today?”

Kirginatharp said, “A lot.”

Erick glanced to his bolter, and to the ‘mana crystal’ at the top. Then he asked, “How about we just stick to mana crystals, then. They’re not allowed under the Script for some reason?”

Kirginatharp nodded. “They’re probably not working correctly inside the Glittering Depths if the items that come out of there end up looking like that crystal stick of yours.” He added, “Mana crystals don’t work exactly how they should work inside Fairie, either, but that is mostly a function of Fairie being alive itself, and able to decide how it wishes to function, and less an actual natural property of that distant land, or of mana crystal. Nothing in Fairie is ‘natural’ in any way whatsoever.

“But to answer the question:

“In the Old Cosmology, one of the main ways that people used mana crystals was as purifiers of mana, in order to accrete specific mana types into their cores; the mana altering thing you know of.

“The second way people used mana crystals was as reservoirs of spellwork. Much like what the Glittering Depths has done, but different. The ‘iron’ there serves as a core, while the ‘diamonds’ serve as spellwork. Used to be you didn’t need anything except the ‘diamond’. A properly made ‘diamond’, when located in a properly mana rich environment, could eternally create a spell… Which is, again, sort of like what the Glittering Depths is already doing with their magic that automatically recasts itself.” Kirginatharp said, “You can’t really do that under the Script because of the Propagation Ban… You could probably do it with some soul surgery and some bio-magic to twitch a ‘go’ signal to that part of your soul when the biological part of you notices that the magic is fading. Can’t really do that directly without mana crystals, which generally do a bunch of magic on their own, under the right circumstances.”

