“Yes, Ancient One,” her newly minted champion boss answered, speaking the soft, strange Sylvan language of sentient plants.

Then, Ali turned to the hovering Eye of Agnor that seemed to be shadowing her, “Lightning Vulnerability.”

“Yes, Master. At once!”

A great, crackling surge of magical energy burst outward from the strange Sylvan creature, drenching the ruined street in lingering patches of lightning. Four arms raised, wielding a matched pair of Scourge of Deadly Creep bows, and Ali’s vision overloaded as it used Self Haste, Overpowering Shot, and filled the air with a devastating hail of lightning arrows. Without the onslaught even abating for a second, it summoned several Dark Souls, all of which faded away to invisibility before turning even the darkest crevices under the rubble into blinding, radiant strobe flashes.

From the battlements above, a Gnome took to the air, looking awfully disheveled and more than a little furious. With soot-stained cheeks and hair awry, she gestured with hands like a conductor and filled the air with so much lightning magic that sparks fell from her like rain.

Thankfully, Ali still had her mana sight and the vastly more battle-ready eyes of her demons.

Lightning strobed and crashed, assaulting her ears and blinding her eyes with intensity and afterimages. Struggling to make out anything below, she switched entirely to mana sight and the array of powerful demonic eyes floating beside her. Instantly, the details on the battlefield clarified; images distilled out of the chaos of magic, and yet again, the Eye of Agnor proved why it was the premier sentinel in her entire repertoire.

Large patches of lightning magic crackled, covering the rubble and the shattered street like deadly throw-rugs. Chain lightning ripped through the Horror to arc into the Death Knights and the lesser undead that scrambled through the breach. Arrows thumped and crackled, raining down around the giant berserker troll spinning through the undead like a demented top. A several-ton top, roaring angrily and leaking a dense crimson mist of blood and fury.

Ali pushed back against the assault on her mind, resisting with the full weight of her wisdom and the Mental Fortitude elixir as the Horror learned of her presence. Barbs of mind magic clawed at her defenses, screeching and grinding against the wards, ripping and tearing as they gained purchase. She gritted her teeth against the pain, pushing her monsters onward in full knowledge of the consequences.

If she couldn’t stop the Eldritch Horror – this Dream Eater – here, the town was doomed, but her fear of the thing of nightmares was more from her horrific memories than the claws seeking purchase in her mind.

The barriers protecting her body sparked and shimmered as powerful bolts of ice and death crashed into it, only to be dispersed and shattered by her unyielding spell, but she couldn’t release it for even one second, not even to patch the breach in the walls. I will not yield! Gritting her teeth, she made that her mantra. Never yield. Not while I draw breath. Scenes of Ciradyl’s unthinkable fate played through her mind, despair that somehow tempered the steel, the defiance, foremost in her mind. Fragmented thoughts battered her soul like invisible hammers. If we cannot stand, none will – many stand with me – I will honor them – I will honor those who have already sacrificed for me – Mom, Dad – Aunt Lira…

Suddenly, a pure note from her chime sounded in the back of her mind, and the rending claws of mind magic suddenly vanished. The assault abated, leaving her contending only with the relatively benign oppressive auras of dread from the Death Knights.

Phew! That’s a crazy thought, she exclaimed internally, amazed at herself. There had been a time when the auras and pressure from the Death Knights would have crippled her with fear – had crippled her mind, and now, she was familiar with something that made even that feel like a relief.

You have defeated D̷͙͝r̸̡͇̓͐ę̴̣̎a̵̬̬̫̓m̵̨̞̩̓̔͠ ̵̳̉Ẽ̶̟̇ä̵͓̌̊t̵̹̖̃͠é̸̼̗́͑ȓ̶͎̻̯̃͗ – Eldritch Horror – level 204 (Mind).

Ali ignored the notification and the few cheers of those guards with enough presence of mind left to understand, swooping down toward the breached wall as the giant dark and twisted eldritch horror crumpled and crashed to the ground with the intent to patch it up. But as she approached, three more Death Knights stepped through the gap. Suddenly, she found herself retreating, rapidly blocking a fresh assault of death and ice. Despite that she was hard-pressed, Ali found a measure of control as she gave ground begrudgingly, her mind whirring as she processed option after option.

The first Death Knight raised a gleaming mithril shield, projecting a dense barrier of ice that hovered in the air before them and stepped forward. The continuous hail of nature and lightning arrows shattered and exploded against the powerful shield, but the Death Knights advanced, returning fire with a heavy magical assault that tore great chunks of life from her Berserker.

Despite his size, plate armor, and enormous health, Tol’brekk was no tank, and he was forced backward steadily under the Death Knights’ inexorable advance.

Death magic formations flickered within the shrouded form at the back, and Ali’s golden darts flitted out from her fingertips without so much as a thought, her reactions honed through grueling hours fighting these undead in the Crypt of Kings. The Damage Reflection curse unraveled, shredded by her Disruption.

But she couldn’t stop the second one.

Yet another Death Knight emerged from the rubble, casting the death curse on the Carnage Berserker as it spun through the attacking formation in a maelstrom of blood and axes.

“Stop!” Ali screamed through her connection with the berserker, but the giant troll’s death was instantaneous as his own immense damage was multiplied and reflected back at him.

As if that death was of no consequence, the squad of Death Knights advanced under the heavy, creaking shields of ice and death magic. They stepped around the enormous, bleeding troll corpse and into the town, no longer hampered by anything that might slow them down. Finally casting as a means to slow them down while she figured out a better solution, Ali threw up several domain-enhanced barriers to block them, but they systematically shattered each obstacle in their way, ignoring the hail of arrows and bolts of lightning that crashed against their heavy shields. She needed help but there was none in sight. All she could do was continue to step backward, throwing barriers into their faces.

From a ways up the ruined street, a great roar tore through the din of battle, and Ali’s eyes snapped up to the sight of an enormous Dire Bear trailing ribbons of void magic and dragging a train of zombies and ghouls along behind him. Fire and arrows were tearing through his dogged pursuers, but he ignored them, charging toward the Death Knight formation without a moment’s hesitation.

Mato!

The death formation flickered once more, inflicting the Damage Reflection curse on him like a blooming corpse flower right as Mato charged. “Mato! Watch out!” she screamed. But somehow, he held his powerful strike, as if he could sense the danger. More figures appeared, sprinting down the street, and someone dispelled the curse. Mato attacked instantly, claws ripping through shields of ice as his void magic tore through the formations.

“Did you miss us?” Mato called over, abusing his Limited Telepathy to tease her over the deafening roar and crash of battle.

The sheer grip of tension and urgency suddenly melted within her. There was Calen, flying high overhead, and from a different street entirely, Malika led a second group of adventurers toward her.

“I did,” she said quietly, even though she doubted her words would carry to him.

In the ringing crash of steel and void, Mato chuffed softly.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
