reathe easy in my last minutes. Any others lying around too. But be quick, I don't want them following you."She nods, pulls me into an embrace, then scurries about the task I set her."Who was that?"I smile as I angle the fans to blow the overwhelming scent of cooking oil and food out into the room. If I fill the room, some will leak out into the street. "Loonie. Our granddaughter. Good…""Get her out of here!"I smile, looking around for more stuff for my cart, loading it as I find it. "She's about to leave. All I'd do is slow her down. She's just helping me set up some more lures before she goes. Then she'll catch up with everybody else; she's the one who's gonna lead them to the shelter.""Oh." Her voice is a little softer. A little more scattered. Maybe a minute or two more. "Tell her we're proud of her."Loonie makes one last pass by me, one more attempt, but I cut her off before she can speak. "Loonie? I just want you to know, your Grandmom and I are both so, so proud of you. You get those people to the shelter safely, you hear me?"Then her arms are around me, squeezing, crushing me. I think she might even be cracking my ribs, but I don't give a shit. I put my arms around her and squeeze back. Then she turns, crying, and sprints for the doors. I get it. In her shoes? I wouldn't be able to leave if I said anything either.I leave my cart by the fans and walk back to my wife's slumped body. "Kinda stupid of me to ask, but anything else you want me to do? Before you go? Or even after?"I take her hand in mine as I sit down, and she whispers into my head, "I'll let you know."We sit there like that, the food smell growing stronger, as her last seconds tick down. "Are you cooking?""Kinda sorta.""Oh. I smelled it, but then it went away."Tears run down my face. Funny. Now, at the very end? I seem to be grieving sort of properly. Or no. Somehow my neurospicy brain has decided that now feels 'safe enough'. Fuck it. Not like anyone will see it. Not like I'd care if they did. "Your sense of smell has gone then." I squeeze her fingers. "Can you feel my hand in yours?""Ye…" A long pause grips my heart. "Not anymore.""Fuck.""Little late for that.""Little late for everything except… I love you. I always have. Every second of every minute of every day for the last sixty-three years."No response. Just a kind of warm sigh. I settle in, waiting to see an alien in person for the first time in my life. Then a single word wafts out of her augs. "Chosen?"She hasn't called me by that pet name since back in the nineties. "Yes, Beloved?"One final word comes through, a ghost of a sigh, one I only recognize and understand because I've heard her speak it so often in jest, in play, in frustrated rage. This time nothing marks it but final sincerity. "Havoc."I don't know if she hears my response. I hope she does and leaves this mortal coil with a smile on her soul. I hope she doesn't feel obligated to respond, or like I had to have the very last word. "As you wish."I never realized she knew I'd thought about something like this. Always thought I'd kept this side hidden well enough. That all the jokes where I'd obscured the truth with laughter had passed her by. I'd always feared she wouldn't stay if she knew.I set her hand on her lap, stand up, and walk back to the fans. As I walk, I initiate a cross-load of all the data from her augs to mine. Then another script that triggers a cascade of deletions, not just from my augs, but everywhere I've visited and lurked over the past few decades. Online, Mesh, Corp sites I spent a lot of time on.Hot, greasy wind blasts me in the face as I approach the kitchen. I step in, turn off all the burners, count to ten, then flip the gas back on, careful not to activate the auto-ignition. I step out to the fans and my cart. One at a time I grab each of the bags on the cart, rip them open, and fling the contents into one fan or the other, blasting their contents out into the big open space of the cafeteria. Flour. Powdered sugar. Even a few big containers of powdered spices. Anything powdered and flammable.It's hard to breathe when I take my first step back toward our table. I lean on the wall. There's a fire alarm right there. I smash it, pull it, and stumble back to where my wife's body sits. Halfway there I stop to lean against a popcorn cart. I notice something, shrug, and screw the feed hose off the propane tank, cranking the feed open with my other hand.I finally drop into my chair and take her hand in mine. The pungent chemical they add to cooking gas to make the methane easier to detect wafts into my nose. With my free hand I scrabble in my vest pocket as I check my augs. I've cross-loaded everything she's recorded over the decades. I'll never have a chance to look at it, but I'd done it for the same reason I hold her hand; I couldn't not do it if I triedI check my scripts, or what's left of them as they've gone on their targeted rampage across the electronic landscape. All the telltales come up green. Good thing, I couldn't follow up if I wanted to.It took me decades to fall prey to the same kind of thing that stole my wife away from me so long ago, but after watching her I'd seen it coming. She grew terrified of the woman who haunted her mirrors. I gradually fixated on people 'spying' on my online presence. But I'd leaned on my augs far earlier, lost far less of me, managed to beg, borrow, or steal the code for my scripts.Nothing better to do with my time over the past three decades but geek out over the real-life superheroes fighting against the alien invaders and compile an electronic cluster bomb that would erase all electronic traces of my existence. Had to have hobbies to fight mental decay, after all.But by now the scripts I'd set off have hashed, changed, deleted, or otherwise screwed with every trace of my identity I'd left behind, including the scripts themselves.Including my own augs.I'm okay with that. I've always been sort of fluid, and where others like me sought out the perfect label to represent their fluidity, I just let everyone call me what they would. My identity is me, not a collection of syllables.So now nobody can track any of what I'm about to do back to me, because 'me' doesn't exist. More importantly? Our boys? Sol? Loonie? None of them will get a bill for it.I send a message to the hospital, to building management in the megastructure above us, to what remains of the city government. "I have placed a large-scale improvised explosive device next to Jefferson megascraper support D, and will detonate it shortly. Evacuate or seek shelter immediately."My due diligence done, I focus on the feel of my wife's right hand in my left, trying to ignore the hard metal in the palm of my right hand. She gave it to me a while back, a sort of random gift, something I thought looked cool. I don't think she ever thought I'd use it for something like this. Then again, she stayed with me all those years. Stayed when she knew, even though I thought she didn't.We sit there like that for a while, until I hear scrabbling outside the big outer doors. I watch the first couple aliens enter the cafeteria. Quadrupeds with tripartite jaws. Model Threes. After a handful come in, a smattering of little flying guys swoop over their heads. Model Ones. "Fuckin' seagulls."The air tastes heavy with grease and faux methane smell. The room spins, and my head flops back. I'm barely able to see the windows from all the powder in the air. The Model Threes see the movement, moving towards us at a cautious saunter. If we ran or charged, they'd be aggressive, but this? We're just more biomass in a room that reeks of it.I'm from Jersey, not Philly like her. But after sixty years, not to mention me tying the augs that were us together, the line where one of us ends and the other starts is almost meaningless. So, our last words are a mélange of traditional Philly and Jersey greetings to our interstellar visitors, with our own pedantic loquaciousness tying it all together."Welcome to Philly. We see you've taken it upon yourself to fuck around. You are now cordially invited to find out, then go the fuck home."We press the button on my jet lighter. Light. Sound. Motion. Pain.Darkness, silence, and crushing weight.We have no idea how, but we're conscious. We think. If this is the afterlife, it's remarkably boring. No light, no sound, just a vague sense of pressure. But we're here together, I guess. Could be worse.Then, a single voice, beautiful in its purity and sense of purpose, rings through our head.System Initialized!Congratulations. Through your actions you have proven yourself worthy of becoming one of the Vanguard, a defender of humanity. I am Stryt. I will assist you to uplift humanity so that you may defend your homeworld from the Antithesis threat!Rise, #!#!@$@ #!@!%!@@#@!@), and become a protector of the weak!***You can find more of Kenny's works here: Kenny Celican's Fictions | Royal RoadIf you enjoyed Havoc, then you should check it out on RR and encourage Kenny to write more!
