While the night hadn’t started quite how Elise envisioned, she still remembered the route she planned to take to get down to the Platinum areas and earn her Platinum passes, and had made sure to thoroughly memorize it. She also made sure that her route included a detour to check on Charlotte, so she knew where to go from Charlotte’s lair to get back on track.

From the lair, it only took a few minutes to find their first monsters. Charlotte actually noticed them first, though Elise wasn’t entirely sure how. They were flying, forward, then suddenly, Charlotte stopped, and held out her arm to stop Elise as well.

“What is it?” asked Elise.

“Not friends,” said Charlotte.

“Not friends?” asked Elise. “Enemies? Monsters?”

“Not friends,” said Charlotte. “Charlotte help. Friends help each other.”

Before Elise could ask what she meant by that, Charlotte flew up to the ceiling and activated some kind of camouflage Skill before racing forward. Elise activated {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!}, following close behind, and a few seconds later, she noticed the monsters as well. She debated helping, but decided to hold back, wanting to see what Charlotte was capable of. And she was glad she did.

Soon, she and Charlotte arrived at a small group of Mithril Crawlers marching through the tunnel. There were only four of them, so it wasn’t a huge threat, but the look on Charlotte’s face was as serious as if she was preparing to sacrifice herself against an endless horde.

Charlotte stopped a few dozen feet in front of the Crawlers, sticking a web to the ceiling above her, and as soon as the last one passed beneath her, she pushed off with her legs, rocketing downward. She moved so quickly Elise almost didn’t catch it, landing directly on the Mithril Crawler’s back with her spider body’s fangs around its neck. There was a loud sizzle, then the Crawler’s head popped off in Charlotte’s hands, its neck melted clean through by her acid. Before the other Crawlers could turn around, Charlotte was already back on the roof and attaching the dead crawler’s head to her back with a thin web net.

The entire assassination had taken no more than a quarter second, and left the other three Mithril Crawlers confused and angry, but unable to do anything. Ten seconds later, a second Crawler died, and twenty seconds after that, they were all dead, and Charlotte had collected all of their heads. She was fastening the last one to the back of her spider half when Elise decided to reveal herself and call out.

“Charlotte!”

“Elise!” said Charlotte, beaming as she launched herself toward the ground again.

In an instant, she was standing in front of Elise, and reaching back to grab the heads.

“Gift!” she said. “Friends!”

“Thank you,” said Elise, accepting it and quickly storing it away.

As she took it, Charlotte reached back for a second head. Elise prepared to try to turn it down, but evidently, this head was not for her. It was for Charlotte.

The spider girl pressed the bottom of the head to her stomach, then dug her fingers into it, melting through the metallic shell until her fingers were in almost down to the palm. Then, she pried outward, bending the metallic shell and exposing the meat within. She raised the opened head to her mouth, and with a spine-tingling slurp, started devouring the meat and juices within.

Elise watched silently with her mouth hanging half-open as Charlotte made short work of the insides of the head. Then, she walked over to the main bodies, drawing a line with her hands across the back of the shell. The shell sizzled beneath her fingers, acid melting right through, and soon, she had the main Crawler’s body cracked open as well. With it open, her spider’s maw below her human torso started eating, and she grabbed another head from her back to eat with her human mouth. She offered the final head to Elise, but Elise turned it down, instead continuing to watch the fabulously messy feast.

When Charlotte finished, her once-nice shirt was covered in insect guts, and it also had a few holes in it. Some were from her own acidic saliva, and others were from the jagged metal of the crawlers tearing into it. She did not seem to notice until Elise pointed it out though, at which point she gasped in horror.

“Shirt!” she exclaimed. “Shirt hurt! Shirt hurt! Shirt healer!”

“I’m sorry, I can’t heal the shirt,” said Elise.

“Shirt healer!” Charlotte begged. “Shirt healer!”

“I can’t,” said Elise. “We’ll just have to get you a new shirt.”

Tears welled up in Charlotte’s eyes, and Elise was forced to spend the next ten minutes consoling her, and coaxing her out of the shirt to keep it from getting damaged any further. Convincing her that they would not meet any more friends in the next few days, and Elise was not sure that she actually succeeded, or if Charlotte had come to some kind of misunderstanding, but she managed to calm Charlotte down and take the shirt for safekeeping.

After the shirt hurt incident, the rest of the journey was somewhat calmer. Elise taught Charlotte whatever she could. They made a surprising amount of progress, something that Elise attributed to a combination of Charlotte having high Intelligence (she assumed) and Elise’s own method of using {Suggest} to help give meaning to words. Charlotte was still far from being fluent, but she was at least able to ask questions and somewhat understand the answers.

Elise also taught her some table manners, showing her how to eat politely and cleanly to keep her future shirts safe. Elise’s question about how Charlotte had been so clean when they first met was answered when she saw the Crawler residue slowly disappearing as monster corpses tended to do in high mana zones. Elise had hoped that Charlotte actually had some sense of hygiene, but unfortunately, Elise had to try to teach her that too.

Quel’Khulan and Quel’Tyral have their work cut out for them…

On the final day, they finally stopped as they reached the homestretch of the journey. Just another hour of travel, and Elise would be at the Platinum entrance she had been aiming for. Obviously, Charlotte couldn’t come with her, though, so they stopped to meditate again, and Elise contacted Irylax, saying both that Charlotte was ready to go, and asking Irylax to bring a new shirt. Only a moment after Elise asked, the dreamwalking connection was cut, and when she returned to her body and opened her eyes, Irylax was already standing there, holding out a shirt toward Charlotte.

“F– Friend?” asked Charlotte nervously.

“Yes, she’s a friend,” said Elise. “Charlotte, this is Irylax. Irylax, Charlotte.”

“Hello, Irylax,” said Charlotte. “I am Charlotte.”

“Hello,” said Irylax. “I brought a shirt—”

“A shirt!” exclaimed Charlotte, seizing it. “Shirt means friends!”

She struggled to put it on for a few seconds until Irylax sighed and sent some mana over to help speed the process up. Once the shirt was on, Charlotte smiled widely, then lunged forward to give Irylax a hug, something that the dragon reluctantly accepted.

“Charlotte and Irylax are friends,” said Charlotte. “Charlotte has shirt. Irylax has shirt. Shirt means friends!”

“Yes, yes,” said Irylax, gently pushing Charlotte away. “Now, let’s get this over with. Rabbit, come here.”

Elise stepped forward and as soon as she was within arms reach, Irylax reached out and touched her, and a moment later, the three of them were standing on a hill in the sun. Charlotte hissed, shrinking away, but Irylax didn’t pay any attention, instead turning to face a cabin at the base of the hill where two men were emerging.

“It’s alright, Charlotte,” said Elise. “That’s the sun.”

“Sun?” asked Charlotte, eyes tightly shut.

“Yes. That means we’re out of the caves. We’re free.”

“Free?” asked Charlotte, cracking one eye open before quickly shutting it.

“Not trapped anymore,” said Elise.

“Not trapped anymore…”

Charlotte slowly worked on opening her eyes, getting used to the sudden light after a life in a dark cave. As she did, Irylax shared a quick conversation with Quel’Khulan and Quel’Tyral before bringing them over to meet Elise and Charlotte.

“Charlotte?” said Quel’Tyral.

Charlotte turned to face him, still squinting.

“Friend?” she asked.

“Yes, I’m your new friend,” he said.

“Remember when I told you about new friends?” asked Elise. “These are your new friends.”

“New friends,” said Charlotte, smiling, but still squinting.

“And I have to go now.”

“Go?” asked Charlotte, turning to Elise.

“Yes.”

“How long?”

“Long time,” said Elise.

Charlotte pouted. “Why?”

“Well…” Elise started, not sure how to explain in a way she would be understood.

“May I?” asked Quel’Tyral, holding his hand out. “I should be able to explain things.”

“Sure?” said Elise.

Tyral reached out to Charlotte, gently touching her on the temple, and Elise sensed a very fast, very complicated exchange of aether between the two. When he finished, Charlotte smiled.

“Charlotte understands,” said Charlotte. “Charlotte and Elise friends?”

“Of course.”

“Charlotte see Elise later?”

“Yes,” said Elise. “I’ll visit whenever I can.”

“Okay.”

With a strange calmness, Charlotte, smiled, nodded, then turned to Tyral.

“Charlotte is ready.”

“Lovely,” said Tyral, smiling back.

“What did you do?” asked Elise with {Whisper}.

“I shared some of my memories of being a monster, and my struggles to make friends. It’s a bit complicated, but it’s a standard technique to use on newly awakened monsters. I can show you how to do it yourself later, if you’d like.”

“Yes, please.”

Quel’Tyral led Charlotte away, chatting with her, which left Elise alone with Quel’Khulan and Irylax. Quel’Khulan started to say something, but was almost immediately silenced by Irylax.

“You two talking can only go badly right now,” said Irylax. “We’re leaving. Good luck, Celestial.”

Without waiting for a response, Irylax grabbed Elise and the two teleported back to the tunnels below Jelor City.

“Wait, I couldn’t even say goodbye to him?” asked Elise.

“It’s his fault,” said Irylax. “He has all the subtlety of a street prostitute, and you two have already shared far too much. The less communication you two have, the better. You’ll understand soon. For now, just worry about yourself.”

Before Elise could say anything Irylax vanished. Elise stomped her foot in frustration, but there was really nothing she could do. Plus, Irylax was probably right, and Elise knew it. That didn’t make it any less annoying, but it made it easier to accept.

Not long after, she emerged from the Dungeon in the Platinum area, earning her Platinum Dungeon Pass. It didn’t feel like much of an accomplishment, since Charlotte had done most of the work, but she was glad to have it. And with the Charlotte business largely taken care of, that was one more thing off her mind, which gave her a little more mental space to focus on things of more immediate importance. Like school. The end of the semester was approaching, and with it, the Dungeon Competition, and Elise’s team was ramping up their training so they could make a run for the top of the rookie team leaderboard.
