Jalrock got the hint, and took Nirzir’s question seriously, saying, “Questions of love are too nebulous so they strain the machine more than most, especially when younger people are involved. But I can tell you that the machine responds favorably to such questions, in that it always answers the question —though poorly— and then breaks in the same way, which is easy to repair.” He pointed to a set of parallel lines of steel in the back of the machine, clearly visible under lightwards. “That’s the main breaker. Questions of love break the first three, and the books in the library sometimes have to be replaced alongside a retrofitting of many smaller parts. Such a repair is usually between 15,000 to 17,000 gold, but such questions do get answered.” He stressed, “No one has ever been satisfied with their answer, though.”

“Ah.” Nirzir said, “I will have to think on this.” And then she stepped back; satisfied for now.

Enough dilly dallying.

Erick went up to the machine and began hunting and pecking at the Ancient Script keyboard. It didn’t take long for him to begin touch-typing and for everyone else in the room to suddenly tense, as they read. Letters began to appear in the air atop the screen, flowing out from the right-hand side toward the left. When Erick hit the question mark key, the whole sentence flashed in white light.

“What are the things I must know about Enduring Forge to gain a good outcome for this step of the Worldly Path?”

If he couldn’t ask about [Gate], directly, then perhaps if he broke it down into parts, then that would be acceptable. A hint or two about Enduring Forge, itself, would also be nice. Jalrock’s paling face betrayed his worry that the people of Enduring Forge had fucked up and made Erick feel unwelcome, but there might have been some worry over the machine’s ability to handle the question, too. Darabella’s almost-manic grin as she stared at the workings of the machine told him that his question was too large, but it was comfortably large; she might not have cared about the question itself, but she certainly wanted to know how it affected the machine. Erick found he liked that about her; Darabella loved her specific brand of magic and runework, and in that frame of mind, she was very willing to break things to see how they worked.

… Erick looked to Jane, too. His daughter seemed to be interested in the question, as well, but her glances at Darabella betrayed how deeply unhappy she was about the woman.

Well. Whatever.

Erick gazed upon the machine and hoped he had asked the right question.

The machine whirred. Gears turned. Fans caught magic, then began spinning up, faster and faster, their spellwork catching ambient mana and flowing it across the rest of the system—

Huh! The machine used ambient mana for something! Interesting! First time seeing that, thought Erick. He would likely be dissecting everything he saw here for many days to come, but for now, amid all the small, building noises of the Sliding System, came one noise in particular that gave Erick pause. He heard music, and there were no musical instruments or machines in the Sliding System’s workings.

So where was—

The manasphere was singing, and Erick wasn’t the only one that could hear it.

Nirzir whispered, “You hear that, right? Erick? The music?”

Jalrock looked to Nirzir. “What?”

“She hears what I’m hearing, and yes, I can hear it, too.” Erick watched as the letters on the screen flickered and faded from sight, yet remained in the ethereal illusions of the manasphere, transforming from reality to Reality, before being sucked into the screen then into the workings of the machine. “There’s a song. A chorus.”

“I can’t make out the words.” Nirzir said, “But I think they’re speaking… Of Fate? Maybe. Not sure.”

Darabella’s breath hitched. She briefly glanced at Erick and Nirzir but then she turned her attention back to the machine, searching for answers that only she might see or understand.

“I’d call it ‘Of searching through possibility’,” Erick said.

“Oh! Yeah. I could see that,” Nirzir said.

Erick said, “But ‘searching through possibility’ is almost the same as calling it ‘Fate Magic’, anyway. Don’t think there’s much of a difference.”

Jalrock stared at his family’s machine, asking, “It’s Fate Magic?”

Darabella gave a great big gasp. “Of course it’s Fate Magic! That’s the piece we’re missing to properly repair it all!” Darabella laughed loud, as though she had a few questions of her own answered tonight. “Fate Magic is basically Spatial Magic but by another name!”

Something had clicked in Darabella’s mind, which then clicked in Erick’s mind, too.

“Huh.” Erick said, “I suppose you could say tha—”

The machine had been whirring up, going faster and faster, but like a switch had been thrown, it began to slow. The black screen flashed.

Darabella whispered, “Oh. That was fast.”

Words began to form in the air above the black metal as the shadows in the room seemed to lengthen. No one noticed the shadows moving except for Erick, and they weren’t coming from Jane, so there could only be one other source.

Everyone else was focused on the screen, though.

“You have found what you needed to find, but now comes a choice. Slower, or faster. If you hesitate, the decision will be taken from you.”

“Huh,” Erick uttered, unsure.

The weight of those words hit hard.

First came the notion that the machine was stronger in Erick’s presence, since he was currently wrapped in the Fate Magic of the Path, and the Sliding Machine worked off of Fate Magic. Maybe something was happening there in that meeting of forces. But this was only a passing idea, only evident by the speed at which the answer was given, and that the machine hadn’t broken at all in order to churn out its answer.

A corollary to the first notion was that Melemizargo was up to Shenanigans. But Erick ignored that, for now. He was always up to shit.

Second, came the idea that someone was actually controlling the machine from elsewhere, and that this was all an elaborate ‘smoke and mirrors’ routine. (This ‘someone’ was not Melemizargo in this scenario.) This was probably false; the machine was probably working exactly as advertised. Not only could Erick see the vast amounts of power flowing through the runes of the machine, but based on the pure emotions coming off of Jalrock and Darabella, they could both either be in on the ruse, or this machine had actually surprised them, too. He got the impression that it had surprised both of them in the past, many times, as well. Erick chose to believe the machine was not purposefully lying to him, and that there was no one pulling any strings except for him, and possibly Fate.

Third…

Erick read the answer again. The answer seemed to imply that he wasn’t capable of leaving the Path right now. He could only go faster, or slower. If he did nothing, the choice would be taken from him. Settling down in Enduring Forge and simply forgetting about [Gate] was apparently, implicitly, not an option.

Not ten seconds after Erick had gotten his answer, before anyone could say much about it at all, Erick went to the machine and pressed the runes for ‘erase board’. He ignored Jalrock’s aborted attempt to slow him down, and typed out another question. Everyone else watched, transfixed.

“Which option results in fewer deaths; slower, or faster?”

If him asking a second question was ‘hesitating’, then so be it. Erick wasn’t about to be shoved around by the words of a machine, and especially not if those words were actually coming from Melemizargo.

Darabella giggled a little, nervous, as she read the question and the machine whirred back to life. Light flashed. Books shifted in the shelf without moving at all, becoming different sets, and then flashing back to what they were before. Shadows and magic crawled through the machine, flowing along gears and inside runes like iridescent oil.

Erick had seen many types of magic before, but this one here was the first to make him freak out more than a little. This was actual fate fuckery, here. This seemed like true reality-bending. It made him a bit giddy, if he was being honest with himself.

He liked it.

The first breaker flash-fried, sending sparks flying as a gear snapped on the left side of the machine and then the next three breakers blew like a transformer struck by lightning. Sparks showered the room. Most everyone flinched and covered their faces, except for Erick and Jane.

Jalrock rushed to the machine, to flip a main breaker—

“Let it ride,” Erick said. “Please.”

Jalrock warred with himself, briefly, and then he stepped away from the break—

The machine began powering down. Jalrock almost collapsed to his knees in relief, muttering about how thankful he was to all the bright gods that it had stopped.

A readout printed:

“All options pale in comparison to each other, depending on where you stand. But those options are no longer yours to influence. You hesitated. Now all you can do is ride the dragon.”

Everyone else felt doom and gloom upon their shoulders, for sure.

But Erick laughed at the proclamation, saying, “Ah! That’s fun.” He turned to Jalrock. “Thank you for this diversion. I completely believe that your Sliding System works as advertised, but the world’s best Prognosticators already find me infuriating, so… Whatever!” He turned to Darabella. “Let’s go see the next machine?”

Darabella was a bit pale, but she mustered herself, and gave assent.

There were a few more small pleasantries between everyone, with Erick thanking Jalrock for showing him the Sliding System, and Jalrock back to being his overly-pleasant self, but with an undercurrent of apprehension that wasn’t there before. Nirzir spoke to Jalrock about repairing the machine, and he gave her a quote which seemed high to Erick, but Nirzir was fine with it.

Soon enough, Erick and his people were out of House Slate and onto the next location.

- - - -

House Largerock showed off some ‘runic locks’ that served as blocking nodes among the runic webs that stretched inside the five different platforms of Enduring Forge. These were the heavily inscribed items that transferred wanted power, like wardlights and [Envelop Item], while also preventing unwanted power from traveling along the runic web, like tampering [Fireball]s, or any other manner of damaging spellwork.

Erick spent a good hour there with Darabella and the people of Largerock, talking over how the system actually worked. Nirzir even got into it a bit, going so far as to request whether it was possible or not to get Enduring Forge to come to Eralis, to see about securing some runic webs for themselves. House Largerock gave some small promises to open talks with Eralis and with Clan Void Song about possible runic webs, but nothing as of right now. They were hesitant to offer anything more than that, since this stuff was integral to the defense of their own lands, but they’d bring up the topic with the other houses at their next meetings. They would have a better answer for her at that time.

Erick thanked them for their help, and moved on to the last stop for the night.

- - - -

Scion Yarlinnia Whitesteel greeted Erick at the gate to mansion Whitesteel.

Darabella was back to being on edge, for Yarlinnia did not like her, and the feeling was mutual. Erick was not here for the drama, though, so he had mostly ignored everything about Yarlinnia, even if he knew he shouldn’t. Yarlinnia seemed like a perfectly nice woman, too; she wasn’t haughty and her voice was perfectly sincere. But Erick was here for the Arcane Attuner, and not to get involved in whatever was going on between the two women.

The Arcane Attuner promised to be even more transformational than the Slime Spawner Erick had seen back at House Platinum. This machine, according to Yarlinnia, could transform normal [Ward] power into a Solid Ward of varying strength, size, and shape. Marvelous! Simply marvelous! The possible applications of such a working could not be understated, with most applications falling under the umbrella of ‘defense for the commoner’.

If only the 1 mana to 1000 mana conversion problem could be fixed. Or at least lessened. 1 to 10 would be great. 1 to 100… Less than ideal, but good enough. 1 to 500 was as good as they had ever gotten it, though, but that was only for perfectly cast [Ward]s imbued into the machine. 1 to 1000 was much more normal, and the point was to have any mana be used to fill up the Solid Ward; not just [Ward]. Not everyone had the spell [Ward], anyway, and even fewer people could cast it well.

Yarlinnia gestured down the third hallway since the entrance, saying, “Just a few more hallways. Sorry about the positioning. We’ve been stolen from before and my great grandfather—” She gestured to a painting on the wall, among a bunch of others. “That’s him. He got disgusted with people stealing from him, so he made all our runic devices welded into the actual house. They’re a lot harder to steal these days.”

Darabella scowled at Erick’s side, holding back some sort of remark.

There was a reason they were going down this hallway, for sure. There were other hallways to get to the Arcane Attuner, but this hallway had paintings, and Yarlinnia wanted to show them off without showing them off. And for good reason. She wanted to fuck with Darabella.

Several of those paintings held the images of a man that Erick had seen before, in the paintings of Darabella’s house. The man was Yarlinnia’s brother, and also Darabella’s late husband.

If the quality of the various paintings was not indication enough that they were the same person, it was hard not to notice when Darabella’s heart beat hard when glanced at the first such painting, and then when she purposefully did not look at the rest. Yarlinnia certainly noticed Darabella’s reaction, too; she had planned this.

The two of them did not hate each other because of some noble/commoner tiff, but because Darabella had married Yarlinnia’s brother, and then the brother had died, and Yarlinnia blamed Darabella for that death. Yarlinnia hated Darabella, and she was simply waiting to drive in the knife, as soon as Darabella gave her an opening. Darabella had yet to give her that opening, but she was getting close, for sure.

Erick tried to shift the conversation away from the building confrontation, asking, “So that’s why everything in these other rooms is wrapped in steel bars inscribed with anti-[Metalshape] runes? All of it looks very interesting, though.”

Yarlinnia gave a small, professional grin, as she said, “If you see anything in particular that catches your eye, let me know. We have much more than the Arcane Attuner to show.”

