Poi sent, ‘Erick is done with Enduring Forge, and... We already discussed this, him and I, the other day. I did not expect that our paths would diverge this soon, but looking back, I can see why I felt the need to have this particular discussion back then. I have the distinct feeling that if Erick steps on that pad, he’ll go somewhere else, and we cannot follow.’

No one said anything for a minute.

Jane sent, ‘It’s entirely possible that Goliro got half-blipped into a rock face and he took a week to die.’

‘That is a possibility.’ Erick said, ‘Luckily, I have [Greater Treat Wounds], along with [Greater Lightwalk]. The chances that I end up in a situation that is physically dangerous that I cannot recover from is low, because I won’t be in my physical body when I blip.’He added, ‘And considering that Goliro would have needed to have an Elemental Body— Ah. He could have had aura control. Maybe he did get stuck in a mountain.’

Everyone stared at Erick.

Erick sent, ‘I won’t get stuck in a mountain.’

Teressa glared at Jane and Poi, then at Erick, sending, ‘I cannot believe that you think this is a good idea! You’re going to die if you step on that damned thing!’

‘The chances of anything happening at all are very low.’ Nirzir said, ‘The runework seems rather solid… from what I know of the subject. Chances are, he will simply end up at the Destination pad.’

Teressa breathed out heavily, sending, ‘No. Something will happen. I can tell already. But I have no idea what it means.’

‘What are you seeing?’ Jane asked.

‘… I’m seeing myself and Poi at Spur, and Silverite yelling at me,’ Teressa confessed, her eyes clouding over with the briefest of grey lights. She blurted out, ‘Fuck! And I’m also seeing that we’re fucking needed there, too. There’s a shadow all across the whole fucking place. Dammit.’

Erick sent, ‘I’m going to step on that pad, and you should all go back to Spur. You too, Jane. At least until the danger passes.’

‘You know…’ Jane sent, ‘[Teleport] can take two people.’

‘I need to do a manually-cast [Teleport] to make the platform work as intended, and I’m not going to risk your life to do that.’

Nirzir gasped. ‘Manual [Teleport]! No. Too risky.’

‘Fuck,’ sent Teressa.

‘So you’ll risk your own life?’ Jane asked, ‘All for yet another spell to add to your arsenal?’

‘Yes.’ Erick smiled, saying, ‘Magic is wonderful, and I mean to learn everything I can about all of it.’

Nirzir actually grinned a bit, as though the idea of Erick being this foolish was beyond the pale. Erick hoped she would forgive him, and that she wouldn’t be scarred by this.

Jane knew Erick wasn’t lying, though. She went to her father, and hugged him tight. ‘See you on the flip side. If there are any monsters then fuck them up, but if there are people on the other side and they fucked with the advancement of magic by killing Goliro, fuck ‘em up even harder. Be ready for it.’

Erick hugged his daughter tight, sending to all of them, ‘I’ll see you all when I see you. Good luck! Don’t let people think I died. And make sure none of these people here think that they did something wrong, either, okay? This is my choice, and I’m going.’

‘Sure, dad,’ Jane sent.

Poi nodded while Teressa looked on, her eyes going hard.

Nirzir still didn’t believe this was happening.

Erick pulled away from his daughter, sending, ‘Darabella is going to be needed for everything else that is to come, but I doubt a relationship is in store for us. She was giving off all sorts of ‘I don’t want to be here’ signs all night long. Can you tell her it was a nice night, and leave it at that?’

Jane smiled wide. ‘Yes. I can do that.’

Erick went to Nirzir, sending, ‘It was lovely to meet you. I’ll see you again when I see you, okay?’

‘Uh. Sure.’ Nirzir frowned a little. ‘… You’re not actually going, are you? You’re not serious, are you?’

With a great deal of sadness, Teressa sent, ‘Yeah. I can already see the divergence in the manasphere. Fate will take him away as soon as he steps on that pad and I have no idea when he will return.’

Erick went to Teressa, and held open his arms. The large woman looked at him, briefly, then she grabbed him up in a full hug, plucking him off of the ground like she was picking up a toddler.

Erick laughed a little, sending, ‘I’ll see you later, too, Teressa. Don’t worry about this.’

‘Kinda hard not to worry, Boss!’ Teressa let him down, blinking away tears. ‘I don’t see the endgame of this future.’

Nirzir loudly sent, ‘You haven’t invented [Renew] yet! You can’t go anywhere!’

‘Yes he can.’ Poi sent, ‘This is a choice, and he’s making it.’

Erick held out a hand to Poi and took his guard’s gauntleted grip into his own. He pulled the man closer, and patted him on the back, sending, ‘Good luck solving the problems I leave behind.’

Poi mentally laughed as Erick stepped away. Jane physically chuckled, filling the space with sound for the first time in a minute. Upstairs, Darabella and Yarlinnia were having their own silent telepathic conversation. Nirzir and Teressa remained silent, one stuck in disbelieving, the other mentally distancing herself from losing someone she had come to see as more than her boss, but less than a father.

A prized uncle, then.

Erick sent to Teressa, ‘I’ll be back. I’ve glanced at my own future, too, and I don’t see any impenetrable shadows.’

Teressa sent, ‘That doesn’t mean anything when it comes to you; you’re notoriously hard to read. Even Redarrow had trouble. I’m surprised that the Sliding System didn’t instantly catch fire and melt to slag.’

‘I expected explosions,’ Jane sent.

Poi sent, ‘I expected it to scream and the books to catch on fire.’

Erick smiled. He was the only one.

Nirzir looked to Erick, sending, ‘You’ll come back to Eralis, though? Right? Eventually?’

‘Yes. Eventually.’

Nirzir nodded, finally believing that this really was happening, if only a little bit. She’d believe that he was gone when he was actually gone, and not a moment before. ‘I’m taking the rune notebooks, then. I’m a future archmage, so it’s my prerogative to be like that since I’m doing it for the good of everyone. If you take too long, then when you return to Eralis you might end up seeing the Void Song sung from the sky, without needing to actively be sung all the time.’

Erick nodded. ‘Good luck with that.’

Jane sent, ‘You spoke of Darabella asking after your help with a Teleporting Pad before today, and now we’re here, and you’re getting on the pad that killed her husband.’ She looked at her father, and said, ‘This is suspicious, dad. It looks really bad for her. If nothing happens, then nothing happens, but I want you to be aware.’

‘Darabella is simply a desperate woman in a position of opportunity, trying to nudge a crazy archmage into helping her find out why her husband died. There was never anything wrong with what she asked of me, or with what is happening right now.’ Erick smiled at his daughter, and said, ‘I love you, Jane.’

‘I Love you, too, dad. Safe travels.’

‘You, too.’

Suddenly, Erick found himself with nothing more to say.

And no one had anything else to say to him.

Oh, sure, they could find more words. Invent more reasons to delay. But… No.

It was time to take another step on the Path, and to that end: An Ophiel blipped into the room, holding a backpack with Erick’s stuff that he had been gathering over the last few minutes, once Erick understood what was happening. It contained some water, his adamantium rune knife, some papers, and some hard foods; it was enough. He slipped the backpack into position and secured the straps while everyone else watched. Nirzir still didn’t believe this was actually happening.

Erick gave one final nod, then he stepped onto the—

- - - -

Jane watched as her father’s foot touched down upon the hexagon of silver-blue metal and he instantly vanished in a wrap of brilliant white light. Not even a full step. A half step! And then he was gone from sight. Jane felt her heart tense and her shoulders tighten, and a spike of nerves unfurl inside her stomach.

And the Beginning Pad powered down, white light flickering among the runework; Her father’s magic, vanishing.

The Destination Pad remained inert.

Ophiel had remained behind, either unwillingly or accidentally, like a bundle of white feathers and eyes hovering briefly at shoulder height, unaware that he should be falling. He squawked in annoyance, and then in worry as he fell a bit, then caught himself before he fell all the way. But then something broke inside of the [Familiar]. His wings stilled. His eyes glazed over. He dimmed. He died.

Ophiel crashed down to the ground and broke into a million pieces of glittering magic that slowly began returning to the manasphere like so much broken dry ice.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye had gone with Erick, though, for some reason.

Nirzir, wide-eyed and full of worry, stared at the pad, and at the remains of Ophiel. She yelled, “OH, FUCK.”

Teressa slumped to the ground, to her knees, then to her butt. “Ah. Shit.” She whispered, “I couldn’t protect him, Poi.”

Poi put a hand on the large woman’s shoulder.

Jane found that she could only sigh, her breath coming out ragged as she clenched her fists.

And then the people upstairs realized something had happened.

Events proceeded rather fast from there.
