The generalized magic conversion array was located at House Platinum, in a room just off to the side of the foyer, with Patriarch Rial Plat there to introduce the device and explain its functionality. Darabella seemed perfectly capable of doing this, too, and soon, she was discussing the item with Rial, as Erick asked questions, and poked around at the item.

He could have spent days playing around with the array, but Erick contented himself to a half an hour and a bunch of poignant questions, for the system was about four times more complicated than it appeared.

Overall, the array was a set of ten nested gold rings, with the largest a meter across and welded directly onto a splash of possibly-gold metallic crystal that resembled giant quartz, but in metal. The crystal might have been a rare form of fool’s gold, but Erick had no idea; it wasn’t runed, whatever it was, but it did seem to have some sort of anomalous effect on the rest of the system.

The largest golden ring did not move, for it was affixed, but the nine smaller concentric rings did move, each of them freely rotating within the system, slipping left and right as they were wont to achieve the effect in the center of the system, which was to give birth to a baby metal slime. The type of slime produced varied a little, but usually they were iron slimes. Erick was told that the slimes usually only survived for about an hour without iron ore to mine from cave walls, but this system was defunct these days, and the Slime Spawner was more of a relic than an artifact. They had transitioned away from using iron slimes to mine for iron long, long ago. Usually, they simply traded with Homeland, the goblin capital city, for their iron needs.

This sparked a small, enthusiastic conversation from Erick about how he had seen and moved one of their Iron Beasts just the other day. Rial explained that the iron-fungus farming beasts were about a hundred times better at farming for iron than slimes, and you didn’t end up with accidental iron oozes with the goblins’ system. Iron oozes were not nearly as nice as platinum oozes apparently were; that revaluation on the city hall steps had been a large oddity to Rial, too.

But back to the Slime Spawner.

Spellwork of any basic kind, from [Force Bolt] to [Alter Size], went into the exterior ring, and then flowed through some ethereal connector runes to the next ring, where various other runes shifted the meaning of the power flowing into them, and then flowed that new shaped power into the next smaller ring. This flowing process repeated, with spellwork shifting more and more into the desired shapes and meanings, with each ring rotating as needed to facilitate the flow and shift, until the magic met in the middle ring. When anywhere from 900 to 1500 magic power flowed through the system, a metal slime would be born in the center.

“Variations in requirements are mostly due to the environment.” Rial said, “The cleaner the environment, the less mana required. Slimes are a result of bacteria turning monstrous, and most bacteria aren’t capable of becoming monstrous, so this is to be expected.”

Erick smiled upon hearing that. He teased the dryly sarcastic man, “That’s a theory that isn’t fully accepted by the Arcanaeum Consortium, Rial.”

“There are a great many things we do that aren’t accepted by the Arcanaeum Consortium,” Rial deadpanned.

Erick laughed, then turned back to the system, saying, “This is truly remarkable. I barely understand how it works, but I’m beginning to.” A question struck him. “You don’t make gold slimes, or osmium slimes, to help mine for those metals?”

Rial said, “Feel free to copy this system and adjust for those metals, if you wish. We’ll buy such a system from you for a good price.”

Darabella asked the question Erick was about to ask, “You’ve never had luck with gold or osmium spawners? After all this time?”

“We’ve failed every time, my dear,” Rial said.

The spinning rings and the flowing magic were a lot to try and understand, but Erick managed to figure out most of it. Superficially, anyway. He’d have to make one of these himself to see if he truly knew what he was doing.

Erick gave his thanks to Rial, and they moved on.

- - - -

Darabella smiled wide as she stood in front of the machine, saying, “Now this one! This one is the most impressive runic machine I have ever seen.”

Jalrock smirked, saying, “If only it didn’t break down every single time.”

“It certainly looks like it could break down every single time,” Erick said.

They had moved to House Slate, and then to a storage shed away from the main house, and past several protective runic webs. Inside of a room dedicated solely to it, sat a marvel of runic engineering known as the Sliding System. Whatever it was, it was very large and way too complicated. Compared to the ring system of the slime generator, the Sliding System was literally centuries ahead in rune tech.

There were rings of various sizes and configurations floating or locked in place here and there. There were floating plates, etched with singular runes, hovering in the vicinity of the rings. Pillars of rotating runes rose here and there among the system. There was a book of runes with metal pages, and then off to the left there was a small shelf of paper books. A boiler, for some strange reason. And, above all, a fuck ton of gears and belts and otherwise, holding it all together.

The most prominent feature, though, was a square meter of black metal that acted as a screen, fastened to the front of the machine, and the keyboard with runic keys that jutted out from below the screen.

Darabella looked to Jalrock, asking, “Do you mind if I explain…?”

“Go ahead.” Jalrock gestured to the machine, saying, “You’re as good with this as I am.”

Darabella giggled a little—

Which caused Jane to roll her eyes.

—and she then walked closer to the machine, explaining, “The overall direction-of-intent of the Sliding System’s runic structure is primarily based on [Identify]. The end-effect is similar to what you get with an identinomicon, but with an important difference. This system doesn’t query your own mind or a set of enchanted books to help you find the answers to your questions. It questions magic, itself.”

Erick was not the only one to have his focus suddenly narrowed down to the machine sitting in front of them. Nirzir gasped. Teressa huffed a disbelieving laugh. Erick’s mind instantly went to the fact that Melemizargo and the mana were basically the same thing, so was this machine querying that Dark God? But then Jane spoke up first.

Jane said, “Ask it about [Gate].”

That was a good question, too.

Darabella’s good mood took a small dive. She very much understood that Jane did not like her on a personal level, so that explained some of Darabella’s response, but there was more to that new, sad look than simple dislike. Whatever the case, Darabella recovered fast enough, saying, “It breaks with the large questions.”

“Of course it does,” Jane muttered.

Feeling more secure, Darabella continued, “The Sliding System breaks down all the time, with runes and breakers burning out as the first stage of breakdown; the steel flowways melt and this is by design. Or at least those flowways are supposed to break down before the rest of the machine. Sometimes they don’t break like they should, and then the machine is down for a while.”

Erick asked, “Is it a problem of money?”

Because he would supply large amounts of money if this machine actually did what Darabella said it could do. He had a few questions he wanted to ask ‘the mana’. ‘Why did the mana drag him and his daughter to Veird’, was just a start.

Jalrock spoke up, “A full repair costs more than money. Some of these materials are hard to replace, and some of the deeper mechanisms are impossible to replicate, for the people who made them are no longer alive and we have no one capable of working in some of these designs.”

Darabella nodded, saying, “Hence the flowways breaking down before those important parts.”

Erick asked, “What sort of questions are allowed?”

“Questions on the nature of magic are very dangerous; don’t do that.” Darabella happily said, “But everything else is an option! The closer you are —physically, metaphysically, whatever— to the subject of your question, the easier it is for the machine to answer you. Questions about specifics are difficult. Questions about specific locations are difficult. Questions about the future are difficult. Questions that have nebulous answers are difficult. But down the other path: Questions about the past are easy. Questions about nebulous locations are easy. Philosophical answers are sometimes wildly difficult, causing the machine to break down rather instantly. But sometimes the answer is simple. Asking ‘What is the meaning of life’ will get you ‘what you make of it’, almost every time.” She smiled, then said, “A bad question is, ‘Who or what will cause the most difficulty in my life, going forward?’ This one is way too nebulous to get you a good answer because, by answering that question, it might become a self-fulfilling prophecy, and then you get a feedback loop. A good question is, ‘What killed so-and-so.’…” She paused. She said, “That one usually gives you a direction to find out the real answers, but sometimes that doesn’t work, either.” She looked to Erick, saying, “You should treat the Sliding System as a way to narrow down possibilities. To give directions. Not to give a true answer.” Darabella looked to Jalrock. “Anything you want to add?”

Jalrock spoke up, “It’s based on Elemental Book, like [Identify]. Treat it like a very elaborate identinomicon which is able to temporarily enchant the very world itself, or at least this small part of it. This includes the user. So the more receptive you are to the idea that the system works, the easier it will work.” He asked, “Any idea what you’d like to ask it? We might have already asked whatever you’re thinking about.”

Erick had already considered the possible questions, but hearing all of the caveats narrowed down his options to a single one. He said, “Perhaps, ‘How can I make this machine work better?’.”

Darabella smiled brightly. “It breaks down instantly.”

“We’ve tried that one a few times.” Jalrock offered, “You could try one of our beginner questions?” He went over to the machine and plucked the metal book out of its slot near the keyboard. The ‘book’ couldn’t have been more than ten metal pages long, but it was made of rustless steel and bound in the same. He handed it over, saying, “That’s the Sliding System diagram and general question booklet.”

Erick flipped open the book and read for a few seconds, before flipping through the rest of it and rapidly understanding all of it.

He closed the book, and said, “This doesn’t explain why it’s called the ‘Sliding System’, either.”

Darabella spoke up, “Oh! I can answer— Uh. Jalrock? You want to answer?”

Jalrock smirked, saying, “You go ahead.”

Darabella wasted no time in getting right down to it, saying, “Spatial Magics play a large part of the Sliding System, in that the ‘sliding’ of the system is how it shifts through various possibilities to arrive at a proper answer.” She gestured to the bookshelf, saying, “That bookshelf sometimes gains or loses books based on how the system ‘slides’ through various Realities in its search for answers. The bookshelf is only the most prominent example of a ‘slide’, though. Everything shifts through Realities if you look closely enough. Thus, it is called the ‘Sliding System’.”

Teressa stared, focusing her mana sense even further, to try and understand what she was looking at. And she wasn’t the only one. Jane flickered some light here and there, looking for herself, while Nirzir stood on her tippy toes to get a better view of some of the parts.

Erick was even more impressed. “So it’s literally sliding through Realities to find answers?”

“Yes; but with a lot of caveats.” Darabella said, “Near-Realities better than further Realities. The further the Sliding System goes the more it breaks. Some answers are factual and recorded in the books the system slides into its shelves, though, so those come easier than others. Some answers require deep scans through subjective Reality in order to find factual realities with answers. Some answers are factual throughout all Realities, so these are the easiest to answer; it doesn’t have to slide far at all.”

Jalrock said, “It’s all terribly complicated and that book doesn’t explain any of it in depth. This is why we can’t repair it easily if something large breaks.”

Erick hummed, then asked, “So why can’t it answer about [Gate]? [Gate] is Spatial Magic, too. And I know a lot about Spatial Magic, as well.”

Darabella looked hopeful, but she kept her hopes small, and she looked to Jalrock.

Jalrock was deeply nervous, with a cold sweat breaking out across the otherwise-stoic man’s body. And then he collected himself, swallowed, and said, “If you want to ask about [Gate], go ahead.”

“… But that would break the machine.” Erick said, “Nevermind that one, then. I have a better question.”

Darabella said, “Then to ask it, all you have to do is type in the question using this rune matrix and then we wait. An answer usually takes five minutes to appear.”

Erick stepped forward—

Jane asked, “What are you going to ask?”

Nirzir was locked in mana sensing the machine, studying how it worked, but at recognizing that the talking had resolved her quiet desperation erupted out of her mouth, “What about questions of love? Could I ask the machine who I’m going to marry, and if I will love him?”

All eyes turned to Nirzir.

“What! It’s a perfectly reasonable question with far-reaching political consequences.” The young woman stood her ground, saying, “If necessary, Void Song will pay for the use of this machine, after Archmage Flatt has had his turn. We can pay for the repairs of most damage.” She added, “If this machine can actually do what you say it can do.”

Erick glanced from Nirzir to Jalrock—

