Before Erick could answer—

Darabella spoke, “How about the Teleporting Pads? He might be interested in those.”

There was a hidden edge to Darabella’s words, and Yarlinnia briefly looked like a woman about to enact her long-awaited vengeance. She had prepared, and now she would pounce.

Yarlinnia said, “I’d be delighted to show Archmage Flatt my late brother’s inventions.”

“We invented those together! You had no right to take them from me!”

“And if you would have died instead of him, then perhaps you would get credit for their invention and I would still have my baby brother.”

Ah. So it was like tha—

Jane took a sudden edge; was Darabella going to kill her father in some magical ‘teleporter accident’, too?

Erick almost stopped everything to take his daughter aside and tell her to calm the fuck down, but that would make more problems for everyone, and Jane wasn’t going to act on her wild thoughts… Probably not going to act on her wild thoughts.

Nirzir, Poi, and Teressa, however, had a much better reaction.

They pretended they were blind and deaf. Much more normal response, there.

Erick decided to exert a bit of his presence, saying, “We’re not doing this sort of argument tonight—”

Both women suddenly realized who was standing next to them. Yarlinnia looked suitably chastised. Darabella looked briefly vindicated, before she realized she fucked up, too. Ahh… Erick wished she felt better in his presence. But he couldn’t fix that right now.

“— But after the Arcane Attuner, I do want to see these Teleport Pads.” Erick said, “Darabella has asked for my assistance in that field of study and I have my own reasons for seeing any esoteric Spatial Magic runework, as I am sure you are well aware.”

Yarlinnia refrained from a full blown scowl toward Darabella, while Darabella looked mostly blank, like she was hiding in plain sight, unsure of how to feel.

Yarlinnia gave a quick bow, saying, “It will be as you desire, Archmage.”

The Arcane Attuner wasn’t too much further down the hallways.

It was a rather simple machine with a floating-concentric-circle design, not unlike the Slime Spawner, but it was made out of adamantium with runes filled in with gold. It was an odd design choice, for sure, but Yarlinnia explained that the creator had a gold-tainted aura, and they worked best in gold, so that is how the machine was made. Darabella responded, politely, saying that ‘filled-in-runes’ were an esoteric way to create runes, for runes laid down in actual-material instead of through void-creation-in-material did not shift with use; Shifting Runes did not work with that style, at all. Yarlinnia, also politely, responded that not everyone thought that the Class Ability Shifting Runes was good, and that it was an odd design choice to fill in with metal, but it worked. Darabella agreed.

It was the most honestly polite interaction the two women had had all night long.

Activating the machine was as easy as pouring casts of [Ward] into the receiver runes. After pouring in 5 mana, making a 500-power [Absorption Ward], the runes began to light up and a Solid Ward of indeterminate make appeared in a sphere around the space. The sphere was a weak thing of only maybe one or two points worth of defense.

Teressa touched the sphere and it broke like a bubble.

Erick then tried channeling normal mana into the set of runes labeled ‘Intake’. After a full 900 mana, the same bubble began to appear around the room as before. Another gentle touch broke that Solid Ward sphere, too.

Erick stepped back and looked at the Arcane Attuner.

This was [Renew]. It took an odd form, and only had one specific result, but this was [Renew]. This was it. This was his big spell that he had been working on for over a year, now. A spell that would change the world. This was just the physical representation of the magic that Erick would make later, but…

This was [Renew].

Erick’s shoulders relaxed. He let out a sigh, and then a small chuckle. “This is— Well. This is half of [Renew]. I already have all the other pieces.” He turned to Yarlinnia, saying, “Thank you very much, Scion Whitesteel.”

There were a few surprised reactions around Erick, but Yarlinnia was the first to speak, “Is that really all it will take you to make [Renew]?” She rapidly asked, “Could you make your [Renew] work with runework, too?”

Erick said, “I think a runic web that carried [Renew] would be a lot easier to make than a runic web of various functions all jumbled up together, and scattered piecewise across a neighborhood. Less points of attack that way, less infrastructure needed. So I would not want to patch [Renew] onto the web you have running through Enduring Forge. I would want to make an entirely new system.” He smiled. “I doubt you’d want to change your systems, anyway. There’s a lot of defensive measures in there that a [Renew] web couldn’t replicate.”

Nirzir asked, “What part of the Arcane Attuner was it? Which part was the answer?”

Erick gestured to a few parts, saying, “This here is similar to the structure of the Slime Spawner, but more generic. It looks like two different methodologies each tried to do the same thing, and each arrived at a separate, correct answer, which is already in-line with my own ideas of ‘bouncy mana’— But that’s a long discussion that we don’t have to go into right now. Let’s see the Teleport Pad, and then I have work to do before moving on from Enduring Forge.”

Yarlinnia immediately went to the door, speaking as she moved, “Right this way, Archmage.”

Erick followed, with Darabella quickly rushing to keep up and everyone else following close behind.

“Is that really it?” Nirzir asked, “Will you make [Renew] now?”

“Soon, Nirzir.” Erick said, “Later.”

Nirzir nodded, staring at Erick for a moment longer, before looking away, lost in thought.

To get to the Teleport Pads they took a rather distant route. Erick and everyone else followed Yarlinnia down a hallway to a back door, then across an open field to where a lonely tower of white stone existed separate from the rest of the house. Darabella momentarily froze upon seeing that place, whispering a quiet prayer to a long dead man that Erick did not remark upon.

Yarlinnia’s breath momentarily hitched as she put her hand on the door at the base of the tower. “This was my— My brother’s workshop.”

Erick prepared himself for some drama.

Darabella went rigid as the door swung open, partially forgetting to breathe as lights inside cast shadows reaching outward, and [Alarm Ward]s and defensive spellwork broke away from the entire structure. The insides had been hidden behind obscuring spellwork, but now they stood revealed to Erick’s mana sense. The lack of contents of the tower revealed a story of loss, and purposefully forgotten history.

Yarlinnia went in first.

Erick went in next.

Darabella came in third, and she almost collapsed as she gazed upon the emptiness.

The first floor was a foyer without any welcome to it. The walls were bare of pictures, though there were hooks that could have held some. Desks were empty of everything. Darabella went still as she stared at places which might have once held something important, but which now held nothing. Tears collecting in the corners of her eyes. Yarlinnia watched Darabella and something seemed to break in her, too, like she was seeing pain that mirrored her own.

On the third floor was the actual living quarters, which contained room for a bed which was no longer there, closets full of nothing, and a bathroom that had been sterilized of all comforts. The only thing the room held was two chairs, next to an antique window table, next to a window that looked outward across the cavern of Enduring Forge.

Yarlinnia ignored the rest of the first, empty room, and walked up the stairs to the second floor. Erick followed. There was only one thing on this floor: the Teleport Pads. Darabella came up behind Erick, briefly shielding herself from the room’s contents and from Yarlinnia’s gaze, before she stepped out from behind Erick…

She stared at the Teleport Pads and wiped away sudden, silent tears, trying to appear as though nothing was wrong.

The pads themselves were solid Deep Sky Silver hexagons, each two meters across and several centimeters thick, and situated three meters apart. The edges of both were lined in runework, written small and neat and meticulous, and if not for the conflicting writing on both, then Erick would have suspected that they had been [Duplicate]d. Maybe the original hexagon had been copied, actually, but the runework set them apart from each other. The main differences were in the center of both hexagons where large letters had been laid down, each a meter across; the pad on the left held the runes for ‘Beginning’, while the other was inscribed with ‘Destination’. The runes around the Beginning pad told a story of displacement, while the runes around the edges of the Destination pad told a story of solidification of possibility.

With an exhausted, sad voice, and an expression to match as she stared upon the Teleporting Pads, Darabella whispered, “I can’t believe you haven’t done anything with them. These were his life’s work, Yarlinnia. He deserved more than to be forgotten.”

Yarlinnia quietly said, “These Teleport Pads are an achievement, but their misuse killed him, and you were an absolute mess to deal with, so we locked them up until now.”

Jane calmly asked, “So these pads killed the man?”

Erick spoke before anyone got mad at Jane, saying, “Unbound Spatial Magics can easily kill people. It’s one of the few magics that routinely do.” He explained, “The Wayfarer’s Guild has a hefty lock on Spatial Magic, which is backed up by the Arcanaeum Consortium, because in the process of Remaking [Teleport] many, many students accidentally perish and create [Partial Teleport], instead.” He asked Yarlinnia, “Is that what happened to your brother?”

Darabella went still, again.

“We’re not sure. My brother was a Spatial Mage for the Wayfarer’s Guild so he knew what he was doing…” Yarlinnia said, “These things would have changed how we transport goods, but… It was just another day of testing when it happened…” Her voice faded.

With conviction in her voice, Darabella said, “We had broken the 1000 kilometer barrier of the Script’s [Teleport] many months prior. Goliro—” She paused.

Yarlinnia watched, silently.

Darabella recited history, “Goliro wanted to try Underworld testing, and so we did that. There’s some math involved in how to compensate for [Teleport]’s reduced range down here, and so we compensated. To further compensate for these dangerous jumps, Goliro didn’t jump, himself; he used [Teleport Other]. In this way, we completed an effective 2500 kilometer jump from the starting point at one of Whitesteel’s near-Surface mines, to here. The materials used in the creation of these pads greatly outweighed the cost-benefits of such increased range, but no one ever said that making new magic was cheap—” She smiled; remembering. “Goliro would have loved to have met you, Erick.” She returned to the past, saying, “But at 3000 kilometers; at three jumps? Turning 250 base mana into 750 means tripling shipments per day. Costs could be recouped after long enough use— prototypes are always more expensive than the real thing, anyway. And so... There was the 3000 kilometer test. We succeeded in that one! It was amazing. One ton of material, shipped over three thousand kilometers in one spell! Everything was going to change… But…” She stopped talking.

Yarlinnia picked up the story, “Goliro wanted to try ‘jumping’ himself. He never appeared at the Destination pad.”

Darabella stared at the blueish-silver pads, saying nothing. She wiped away another tear.

There was a long moment of silence.

Erick asked the obvious question, “And you’re sure he’s dead, and not simply run away, or something like that?”

Yarlinnia had no trouble answering, “His soul came when we called—”

“A week after the accident,” Darabella nearly spat. “It took a week for him to appear. I know he went somewhere, and they killed him for some reason.”

“Who killed him, Darabella?” Yarlinnia nearly hissed at the woman. “That’s right. No one did. He probably landed half in a mountain and died from exposure.”

“His memory was faulty! If he was stuck in a mountain he would have been able to tell us that!” Darabella said, “He was killed. Someone killed him. I don’t know who but I know he was murdered. It wasn’t an accident.”

Yarlinnia looked to argue further, but her anger suddenly guttered like a flame snuffed out. She spoke with true care in her voice, “You should get over it, Darabella. This system was great for jumps of less than 2500 kilometers, but your insistence that he was murdered has ruined everything. If you want to know why we kept these pads and never did anything with them, that is the reason. Father couldn’t allow you to go uncredited, but you had to be a witch about it all… We could have actually had something here. Your stupid insistence that Goliro was murdered ruined everything.”

Darabella’s anger vanished.

Yarlinnia said to Erick, “Feel free to inspect them. Imbue [Teleport] into both pads, and then every time you stand upon the Beginning pad and [Teleport], you will arrive at the Destination pad. You will have no control over that destination. [Teleport Other] or Object will achieve the same result.” She turned to Darabella, asking, “Can we talk? Upstairs? I want to talk, Darabella. It’s been… Too long.”

Darabella simply nodded and went to the stairs. Yarlinnia followed.

After they had vanished from sight, Erick turned to his people, sending, ‘Well okay then. So that all happened. Thoughts?’

Nirzir sent first, ‘Songli needs this magic, but not if it’s not safe.’

Jane sent, ‘I think Goliro was a Spatial Mage who had already Remade all the way up to [Teleport Other], so he was on the Worldly Path when he did these tests. I think this pad was his attempt at a [Gate] but Darabella and Yarlinnia never considered that option, possibly because of Fate fuckery. Or maybe they did! I don’t know. But Fate certainly fucked over Goliro, sending him somewhere, and he died because he couldn’t handle the danger on the other side.’

Teressa and Nirzir’s eyes went wide as Jane laid it all out there, but Poi just nodded.

Erick sent, ‘Exactly what I was thinking. So… Should I step on and see where it takes me?’

Jane frowned.

Teressa instantly sent, ‘NO. You should NOT do that.’

