The fae were the true creators of Elemental Fae, but then the Script gifted it to everyone, and in that gifting, they built vulnerabilities into that magic. No single magic or individual person would ever again be allowed to act with impunity, and the fae were no exception to this absolute decree. In that way, Erick’s [Fairy House] would be vulnerable to other Fae Magic unless Erick did a whole lot of runework to guard against that vulnerability, and yet, such protections still might fail when they were needed most, like how Kydyr’s protections had failed him.

The specific way in which runework ‘solved’ this problem was that it stacked up many, many [Fairy House]s, like nesting dolls, only allowing the outermost one to be subject to Fae Magic’s specific vulnerability to other Fae Magic.

So, in this way, it might be possible to ‘fix’ this problem by importing runework’s ‘stacking feature’ into his [Fairy House] spell, directly. And so, he would add [Renew] to the working.

Erick smiled.

This was a good plan.

Erick stepped forward and Ophiel surrounded him, floating in the air on all four corners; to the North, South, East, and West. And then Ophiel began to dance around Erick, fluttering and full of eyes, watching him and the rest of the world as they hovered. Before he even asked them to, Ophiel began to sing the individual songs of [Intangibility], [Concealment], [Fairy Item], and [Renew]. For a moment, Erick lost himself in the sounds, in the music of ethereal force, a hidden grove, a tinkling laugh that could simply be a trick of the wind, and a flowing refrain that took everything that came before and made it more.

He grinned as he realized that there wasn’t much work to do to get everything into proper alignment, and then he smiled as he heard one way in which it could be better; deeper. He would play a little ‘fae trick’ of his own. Anyone could see the blue box, and it would look like a normal spell, but the part about [Renew]’s bolstering effect would remain obscured; hidden in clever wording and nuanced meaning.

The laughter of [Fairy Item] turned suddenly happier, as though a joke had played well.

A refrain of joy turned into a cavalcade of deepening song—

The magic passed through him; without asking, without demanding. It happened, for Erick was merely a conduit for something else. More than two thousand mana vanished into invisible air, transforming something just beyond his sight. He could feel the shift in the air…

He could not see it.

For a long moment, there was nothing.

Erick glanced around, searching with his mana sense and his visual sen—

The blue box appeared while Erick was still looking for the spell effect itself.

Fairy Stronghold, instant, close range, 1005 + Variable

Instantiate a protective fairy space into reality. Medium size. Unreal control. You may expand or reinforce the space with extra casts of this spell. Only those you show the path can enter this stronghold. Lasts until you decide otherwise.

As he blinked away the notification, he saw it.

A white door set in a white brick wall, standing on Yggdrasil’s white root like someone had carved the structure from a house and plopped it down. It was not well-attached, sitting atop loose, white gravel and flagstones. It could topple over at any moment, but Erick knew it wouldn’t; not yet, anyway. A trio of white flagstones extended out from the door, angled toward Erick.

Erick was already standing on the first stone.

To all his mana senses and Sights, the door did not exist. But to his visual eyes, it did. He stepped a bit to the left, taking one foot off the flagstone, eyeing the door—

The door vanished. Like how the whorls of tree bark could resemble a face from a certain direction, or how a pile of clothes could look like a dog on the floor if it was dark and you didn’t look too closely, Erick had moved, and changed everything. The door was gone.

All there was, were the blue waters of the lake, and twenty other roots of Yggdrasil arcing out of those waters. The first flagstone had vanished out from under his feet, too. The vanishing stone was perhaps more strange than losing track of the entrance. Ophiel kept dancing around him this whole time, supremely interested in whatever it was he was doing. The little guy didn’t seem able to see the door, at all. He also flew right through the space where the door was without any trouble.

Erick stepped back onto the flagstone.

The door reappeared.

He stepped onto the second flagstone, then to the third, to stand before the door itself. As Ophiel flew through the brick wall, not noticing the wall at all, Erick placed his hand on the knob...

- - - -

Tasar watched as Ophiel hovered around Erick, singing in some sort of ritual. She didn’t understand it herself. She was classically trained in all the proper methodologies to make the most of the Basic Script that was open to everyone. This ritual and ceremony were sort of how Kirginatharp cast his larger spells, or how the Song Magic of Songli worked. A lot of the older immortals from before the Sundering had their little rituals like this, and those rituals had invaded almost every culture of this world.

Without proper magical learning, Erick had been raised as many of those immortals had; through stories and folklore, that magic was somehow too ‘strange’ or ‘impossible to truly know’. A lot of planars failed to grasp magic because they approached it in this way…

Or maybe it was because magic just ‘didn’t make sense’ to them.

That was probably a more true statement.

Magic made a lot of sense to Erick, though, and that was because magic was easy to understand. He came at it from an odd direction, but it worked for him. That’s how it worked for almost everyone, actually. One just needed to approach magic from the proper angles of math and study, with the proper tools of gridwork and runework and all the other small tricks that one eventually learned if they stuck at it long enough. One had to find a good teacher, too, obviously. The truest power was locked behind ‘[Gate]s’ of ‘do you know the right professor’ or ‘have you proven you won’t fuck up the world if we teach you this’. Perfectly reasonable demands to make of anyone, before they are allowed to know how to wield power. All of that learning was mostly just tricks to organize how magic behaved in one’s own mind, though.

For those magically-deficient planars were only technically right that magic ‘didn’t make sense’.

Some people, like Erick, came at it all on their own, though, and with a system that worked because he made it work.

With a strong enough personal Truth and a history that tapered well into how he wanted to use magic, the mana had responded particularly strongly to Erick’s desires for growth and prosperity. Erick’s methods worked for him, though Tasar doubted they would ever work for her—

He vanished.

Tasar instantly focused, her mana sense cast wide to pick up any disturbances in the fabric of space, peeling out fact from fiction to try and discern the Truth of Location—

‘Report,’ came Uchena’s insistent voice.

Ophiel hovered around where Erick had been, looking briefly confused. They broke away from their controlled flight around Erick’s casting location to resume their passive, standby hovers. Tasar easily recognized that particular mannerism of the summoned creature. Ophiel was unsure, but not worried. Therefore, Tasar wasn’t worried either.

‘I do not see him but I doubt he's left the area.’ Tasar sent, ‘My detectors aren’t catching any movement. His spell creation likely worked. If he’s not back in one minute then we can start attempting to [Dispel] the area to bring him back—’

Erick reappeared, and then vanished again.

Ophiel squawked at the disturbance, wanting to play but not being allowed. He was only a year old, wasn’t he? That was 20-year-old behavior… Unless Erick was leaking his feelings too much. He probably was.

‘There, see?’ Tasar sent, ‘He’s just made a good [Fairy House].’

‘You need to be more worried about this, Tasar.’ Uchena sent, ‘It doesn’t matter if he has a kill spell inside. The Church and Rozeta don’t always agree on what should be done about strange actors.’

Uchena remained angry at Erick even after the public reveal of Erick’s execution spell, but Uchena was Uchena. Paranoid, and often proven right, but just as often proven wrong. It was why she was second in command of the Inquisitors, and not the first. Tasar wished she would relax.

‘I think he should have told us about the kill spell.’ Tasar sent, ‘Then we could have avoided all of these political games… But I suppose Erick wanted to move forward on his own merits, and that is laudable. He’s a good person, Uchena.’

‘Good people do terrible things all the time.’

‘And if he looks to break the world then Rozeta will be there killing him long before you can.’ Tasar sent, ‘He even knows about the dangers of fae! I think we can all take a step back and relax a little; perhaps even a great deal. I certainly don’t think I need to actually be there with him every single hour of every single day, either. He needs his space, Uchena, or else he is going to explode.’

Uchena sighed. ‘You should have remained with him.’

‘I don’t need to watch him poop, or do anything else that he feels the need to do. It was embarrassing enough when he undressed in front of me.’

Uchena’s generalized, wordless disagreement flowed through their connection—

Erick reappeared exactly where he had been, looking exactly the same as before.

‘And there he is. Again.’ Tasar sent, ‘Looking exactly the same as before.’

A quick check of his body with her mana sense informed Tasar that Erick was either a perfect copy, or Erick himself. She leaned toward Erick being Erick, and Uchena must have felt the same, for she closed off their connection without Tasar’s input. That woman seriously hated the man, which was normal for Uchena, but it often led to self-fulfilling problems. She was highly gifted in the Mind Mage arts, and in killing, but she had not a single knack for Prognostication or interpersonal relationships.

Tasar happily called out, “How does the new magic look!”

- - - -

Erick called back, “Come on over and see!” He touched the air around him. “I left it running.”

Tasar stepped through the air to land on the glowing white root next to him. For a brief moment, she was confused, then Erick mentally gave her Stronghold permissions and she lost her confusion. She glanced at the ground, to the paver stone she was suddenly standing on, and then up, at the conjuring Erick had created.

“Oh.” She stared, disbelieving, saying, “There it is.”

“Yup!”

He hadn’t gone too much further with his new, modular magic, but he had managed a two-story tower that clung to Yggdrasil’s root like a building constructed on a cliff’s edge. The ‘materials’ were super light, too, so even though no building inspector would ever sign off on this construction, it probably wouldn’t fall, anyway.

The first floor was kept small, since the root was only three meters across, with enough of a footprint and securing bars to keep it from tipping over, and enough space to provide arch support for the second floor. The second floor had almost four times the floor space of the first. It was very top-heavy and completely untenable for long-term habitation, but it was good for an experiment. Erick stepped through the first-floor door and Tasar followed. A staircase occupied most of the first floor. Erick walked up and Tasar followed.

All the while, Tasar was wide-eyed and speechless, testing the ground as she walked, flickering through several Sight spells to try and see through the magic. But this was a Fae Spell, and to all senses it looked real, from the inside, anyway; Erick had already checked on that himself.

The space didn’t seem to exist from the outside, at all, which Erick was still wrapping his head around. Now that he had his own [Fairy House] spell, Erick could finally do some proper tests on the space.

The second floor was more impressive than the first, by far. It was a dome of clear crystal, with the staircase coming up from the center and panoramic views all around. Yggdrasil’s green canopy and lightning-like branches held far overhead, while the lake all around them seemed as large as an ocean. More glowing white roots spread out everywhere, arcing above the waters, but to the north-west, Yggdrasil’s trunk dominated the view.

Erick said, “I added in a lot of the Permanency-[Renew] ideas I’ve been working on into this spell, so I can even extend the space with more casts.” He gestured at the roof and spent a thousand mana, translating into about 20,000 mana after Intelligence. The thick crystal dome transformed into an iron-braced viewing room, with a ladder leading up to a widow’s tower at the top. “It’s an expensive spell but it’s modular, so I can make you your own rooms if you want, and I can expand pretty darned far, even without the use of a runic web. I am pretty sure I can even make individual rooms that are invisible to each other until you cross the threshold; either through runework, or nested spells.”

Tasar stared around, stunned and impressed and working to figure out how it was done. “Permanency is something people work for decades to— And it’s modular?” She touched the ladder leading up as if it would break at her touch, but the solid, fake metal remained strong. “How did you— How much mana did you put into this working? How much space do you get per cast? This should be way too expensive to—” She relaxed a fraction as she realized something. “Ah. Intelligence.”

Erick nodded. “Variable spell. One medium-sized space per thousand mana, with every extra thousand mana giving another medium-sized space; a little over a two-meter diameter sphere.” Or, Erick could double the strength in an area, though he hadn’t done much of that yet. Erick said, “One cast at 1000 extra mana was only enough to make the front door and a small closet beyond. It took the equivalent of 130,000 mana to make this small tower and secure it to Yggdrasil so it wouldn’t topple into the lake.”

