But.

He could do this.

“This place is protected by [Prismatic Ward], anyway.” Erick said, “And this Letter Killer isn’t on my list of allowed people.”

Tasar said, “Even so. She does have that Amulet, and it does make her immune to almost all forms of detection. I’m not 100% on it working, either, but it should. It would work better if I wrapped it through the whole space, but— We’re just trying to look out for you, Erick.”

Erick breathed deep.

Stamp down the anger.

This was fine.

Erick sent Ophiel outside and gently nudged Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye out of the space, as he said, “Sure. Let’s do it. I’m going to lay on the bed. Wrap it through everywhere but the bed space, if you need to do that to feel secure. I’m going to meditate for a little while and I don’t want to be disturbed, or viewed.”

Was this stupid?

Perhaps.

It would be more stupid to let this problem build any higher.

Tasar relaxed a little bit, smiling graciously, saying, “That does make me feel more comfortable. I will do this. It will detect telepathy or [Scry] eyes, and even the connections to Ophiel, but I will allow for those connections.”

Erick nodded.

Tasar cast a shimmering black light throughout the whole Privacy and suddenly Erick’s body began to fluoresce like a wrought under blacklight, but green. Tasar glittered the same, looking like a green glowstick at a midnight rave. The spell layered across Yggdrasil’s glowing bark, and across the air above. Erick noticed short, green prominences that stood out from his body, and with a bit of understanding, he realized those flares of green sparkles connected him to every Ophiel out there. He lifted a foot and watched as green light connected him to Yggdrasil. He moved a bit, testing the space, and the detection spell glittered with green sparks like he was moving through water filled with bioluminescent algae. As he stopped moving, though, the glow began to fade, and all that remained was dark air. His sunform, kept tight and small against his back, still radiated a brilliant green glow, though. Tasar’s glow had already faded almost entirely, leaving her fully black, standing among her shadows.

And then Tasar’s mouth made green sparkles as she once again moved, saying, “It calms down if nothing happens. Anyone moving through the space, at all, will produce an effect that I or anyone else can see. I will leave you to your meditation.” She added, “I have taken the liberty of leaving your small bathroom untouched, as well.”

Ah.

She thought he needed to poop. Okay. That worked.

Tasar nodded, then moved out of the space, regaining her glowstick-look as she moved to the edge of the Privacy, saying, “When you move out of the space I will begin watch. Please purposefully tap the space to let me know. I will respond to the first intrusion, and that includes [Telepathy] intrusions.” With a casual turn, she stepped outside of the Privacy.

Erick was left with a dozen uncomfortable realizations.

He only had ten minutes of ‘free time’ to do what he needed to do, like some convict inside a prison,

He rapidly moved to the bed, stepping out of the inky air like a glowing green cloud, to crash onto the mattress and into possible privacy. For a moment, Erick watched the shadowy spell, as the green glitters he left inside gradually began to fade. Nothing else disturbed the shadows, anywhere.

… Time to get this over with!

Erick switched to his Other Form, watching Tasar all the while. She did not blink, or move, or react at all. Erick rapidly activated [Renew], feeding his core while also cycling, trying not to lose himself to the sudden relief that filled his entire soul as mana flooded inward and fixed a thousand tiny degradations. Twenty seconds later Erick had bottomed out on mana, but he had never stopped watching Tasar. She didn’t react at all. Erick continued to cycle for a little while; ten seconds, and then twenty. And that was enough. He switched back to his Normal Form.

More seconds passed in blissful solitude.

And Erick had a thought. Did he want to keep up this specific ruse? To play along with Tasar’s thoughts on what he was actually doing in here? Pooping? If so, then he needed to take the full ten minutes.

Or at least a minute.

Yeah. One minute for the ruse. This was fine. Erick just sat there on his bed, breathing, and feeling good for another ten seconds, and then the minute was over. And then he realized he should actually go to the bathroom, since it was morning, and Tasar had left the path to the bathroom open. So he went to the small bathroom he had set up, did what he needed to do, and [Cleanse]ed away the mess, recasting his normal [Personal Ward] like he would during any normal morning. He also recast [Sealed Privacy Ward] over the space, erasing the latest history of the manasphere throughout the area—

Everything flashed green.

Tasar suddenly shifted into the space; she did not walk in, and she did not appear where she would have been if she had walked in. She appeared by the library’s bookshelves, nearly 5 meters away from where Erick had expected her to appear.

Well that was terrifying, both in the speed of the action and with how quickly Tasar reoriented to adjusted surroundings. For a brief moment she looked ready to kill someone, and then the moment passed; she realized nothing was happening. No need to worry. No need to kill an intruding fae.

It appeared Erick was touchy, yes, but Tasar was also touchy about defending her charge.

Erick just waved, happily saying, “Thanks for the break.”

As the glow in the air faded back to shadows, Tasar rapidly resumed her professional facade. And then she canceled her spell, returning light to the Private space, as she said, “I apologize again for intruding on you. This seemed to work out, though, so if you need to do this again, just let me know.”

Her words were calm and diplomatic, but a few small clues gave away her inner thoughts. The tension in her shoulders. The darting of her eyes to see if anything had moved; she had a good mana sense, but she used her eyes just as much as her other senses. She wondered if he had met with the fae, and then lied about it. Such a suspicious nature would be dangerous going forward.

Erick tried to make her feel calmer, saying, “Morning ritual taken care of. Thank you for the actual privacy.”

“… Sure.” Tasar asked, “Are you feeling better?”

“Sure. Care to watch me make [Fairy House]?”

“Of course.” Tasar said, “I have the metal on order from our reserves. It will take a few hours more but it will arrive in large enough quantities to form a decent web. I believe Riivo is bringing it, himself, for we both want to ask you about Kydyr’s final day, if you’re up for that?”

“… Yeah. Of course.” Erick said, “We can do that, too.”

Tasar smiled a little, but it was a worried expression, filled with tension that didn’t need to be there—

Wait.

She wasn’t suspicious that Erick was hiding something.

She was suspicious that she had missed something, and thus they would both be in danger.

Erick realized his anger had been blinding him to a smaller truth that had remained true this entire time; Stratagold was doing what it thought it had to do for the good of the world, and now, that ‘good for the world’ included Erick. They were trying to look out for him. They were trying to be allies. They had some pretty strict codes of what was ‘good’ or ‘allowed’, but they were trying, and everyone was upset over all the recent events so no one was at their best. If what Erick knew about the fae of Earth held up here on Veird, then their worries were probably well-founded.

This increased security was completely understandable, and they weren’t actually treating Erick like a child. If they were, then Tasar would not have agreed to give him any alone time at all. No; after yesterday, he was pretty sure that they were treating him as an actual ally. Or at least trying to.

Tasar seemed to have her own, personal hangups and Erick was still trying to figure those out.

Reevaluating Sitnakov’s and Kromolok’s reactions last night made clear that things had changed for one specific reason. Kromolok already knew, but now Sitnakov and everyone knew that Erick had a kill spell in his heart. It was easy to be allied with a world-destabilizing force when one already had the ability to kill that force without worry.

… Hmm.

Erick would milk this known avenue of discourse for all it was worth, at the appropriate time. Not right now. Not for something as small as demanding private time for himself, no matter how important that [Renew] time might be for his sanity, especially if they were in an actual, active danger situation.

Erick said, “I’d also like to know more about fae; from you, and from Riivo. While I appreciate your people’s insistence on providing security to me in this dangerous time, I would have you know that before his death, Kydyr told me about how dangerous the fae were, and he made sure I understood. He spoke of how the Letter Killer went around murdering men in her spare time, and how if the fae met me, she would likely try to woo and then kill me. But one thing we never spoke about was how much I already knew of fae.” Erick added, “We have a lot of stories about fae back on Earth. Tell me, does this sound like them: The fae are all old monsters who twist words and make bargains that you wouldn’t ever consider fair, but which, by the letter, they are; according to the fae, anyway. Stories of people kidnapped out of their homes. Of babies replaced with [Polymorph]ed fae. Of small rituals like leaving bread on windowsills to keep the fae from harming you. Of a hundred years stolen from an invader of the forest because they didn’t speak properly with the inhabitants. Of warnings to be playful with fae, but not overly playful, for the fae will take everything from you that they possibly can.” Erick said, “I know not to get involved with that sort of stuff, but even if I have to get involved, I think I can navigate small interactions.”

Tasar’s eyes briefly went wide halfway through Erick’s talk, and by the end, she was both greatly relieved, and also knowingly worried. “I did not know that there were fae stories on Earth, and I don’t believe Stratagold knows this, either. Stories of the fae are kept rather quiet on Veird, on purpose, but I suppose it makes sense that the fae would have visited your world before now—” She perked up. “I think your daughter wrote some small stories about fae? I confess, I did not read everything she wrote for Kirginatharp for most of it was completely nonsensical.”

“My daughter would know more fae stories than I, but it is true that I have no idea what was real. I bet a lot of it was real, though.” Erick said, “Not only does Melemizargo’s mana escape from the world and travel out into space, but the Old Cosmology had been around for a long time before that and Dimensional Magic was not always Banned. Earth has likely been tangentially exposed to the mana of Veird’s previous universe for a long, long time, influencing much of our cultures without us even knowing it. There might even be fae remaining on Earth, right now.”

Tasar gave a small, nervous laugh, saying, “Now that is a terrifying thought.” Tasar shook her head, saying, “Usually, planars don’t know anything of magic, but you took right to it. I guess it makes sense that the fae would have had a larger presence on your world than most. Ah. I think Riivo would greatly like to participate in this conversation. Do you mind if we table talk about fae for now?”

“Oh. Sure.”

“I will say, though, that some of the oldest books spoke of fae as though they were the original planars; traveling to and fro from world to universe and back as they were wont.” Tasar spoke excitedly, “I studied them on my own Worldly Path, but my steps fell far short of a visit from—” Tasar said, “I’m really sorry for thinking you knew nothing of the fae. I’m sure if we talk to Stratagold we can remove much of this oversight, and even if they ask for the oversight to remain, with a good [Fairy House] you should be able to have your… Alone time… Whenever you wish, without us actually being vulnerable.”

Erick lost a lot of the tension in his shoulders, and in his chest. “I would like that.”

Tasar nodded.

Erick offered, “Time to make some magic?”

“Yes, please. I haven’t actually gotten to see you make magic before, so this is rather exciting.”

Erick chuckled a little. “You’ve never been to Songli?”

“Not… really.” Tasar said, “It’s a big deal for a Geode Guardian to visit a major city and I can’t go incognito. If I am to be a bit overly honest, I am hoping that traveling with you will allow me to be a bit more normal and in the background.”

It was such a sincere expression that Erick blanked, and then his mind restarted. He chuckled a bit, saying, “Maybe we can work on some Fae Magic disguises.”

“Oh. No.” Tasar waved him off, saying, “Fae Magic disguises are a more dangerous use of that magic. I never went far with it, but I have one spell, and that is enough.”

There was a story there, but…

It was time to make magic.

- - - -

Erick stood on a part of Yggdrasil’s roots that stuck out of the water not too far from his trunk. Still under the green canopy, with the kilometers-tall tree not a hundred meters away, Erick watched the waves for a little bit, listening to the gently crashing water as a soft breeze flowed across the cavern.

Tasar stood on a different root, not twenty meters away, well and truly outside of the area of effect of his magic. She had already told him that there would be watchers in case Fairy Moon would show in the middle of this magic, but Erick put that concern out of his mind. It took a moment to get in the proper mental space to make magic, but he was close.

… He focused on the sounds around him.

All ten Ophiel hovered nearby, but only four remained with Erick; one for each sound of the coming spell and for the corners of the compass. Erick already knew that [Fairy House] was going to be a special sort of spell. He couldn’t tell what, exactly, would make it special, but he had some ideas. A hidden entrance, that only someone in the know would know. Invisible and intangible to all but the allowed. A space, almost sacred in a way, and more well-protected than all others possible within the Script.

And yet, the Script would make it fragile.

