Erick politely waved her off, and then moved the conversation to nicer topics, like how to Remake the various boosting abilities, like Clarity and Strong, and how to best clear out one’s aura of unwanted Essence pollution. He wanted to distance himself from [Fairy Stronghold] for a little bit, to let his ideas on that magic percolate until they were more filled out, and what better way to do that then to work on regaining absolutely all of the points he had ever spent on the Open Script.

Remaking all of the boosting Skills basically came down to something Erick had once thought to do, and which Tasar had given him books on, but which he never got around to doing. Tasar was more than willing to speak on the books, too.

Tasar explained, “Remaking things like Strong, for two and eventually three times base Health, or any of those specific boosting abilities is basically Soul Magic; major Blessings, in particular. Imagine it this way: When you purchase Strong from the Script, you’re actually putting a blessing into yourself. This minor blessing will eventually max out at level 10 through continued use. The whole process is a great deal more difficult to do on your own, but the Script can streamline the process so you can arrive at Strong rather easily, and you already have a lot of experience with making Blessings, so I imagine you will find this process similar to the others, but with nuances.

“For instance: You only have to reach deep enough into Soul Magic to make that initial, small blessing; to create a magnification of your Health. The Script will compensate and grant you the larger Skill, or grant you the Remake Quest Completion in your case. The simplest way to learn what this means is to put a point into a Stat, watch how it changes the body, and then use your aura control to make a blessing/magnification of that exact same thing through a permanent shift in your soul.” She added, “If you do it wrong you could end up making a curse instead, which still has some use, but then it’s either Soul Magic to completely remove the curse, or, if you’re interested in doing some debilitation curses, you can try to transform that curse you’ve cast into yourself into an offensive spell. But since your rings automatically break curses then you might not suffer that particular fate.” She added, “There are other ways to go about getting these particular Skills for the Script is very good about streamlining efforts into particular directions, but you’re already good with Blessings, so I would go that route if I were in your position.”

Erick glanced at his rings. “Huh.” He took the ring off, watching his soul seem to go from a properly-filled water balloon to suddenly overflowing. His Stats decreased by 31 all across the board, dropping his max Health and Mana by a lot, but he still had that Health and Mana inside of his soul, as a part of his body until it went away. He frowned a little, then stuck the ring back on, saying, “That’s too complicated to look at right now.”

“Oh yes.” Tasar said, “And it’s technically Soul Magic, too.” She added, “Clarity for 50% reduced Mana costs and Precision for 50% Health costs are both matters of precision with aura control and manual casting. You’ve done gridwork, yes? Now all you have to do is make a proper [Force Bolt] or whatever with half as much mana as usual. You likely won’t ever make [Clarity], for it is one of the hardest skills to ever Remake, but you can get close.” She gestured to the books on the shelves of the library, saying, “Those books I gave you have some lessons that might help you with all of that.”

Erick smiled gently, saying, “I’ll get around to that reading when I can. Thank you. Say? So what sort of house would you like? I can start making one, or at least the plans for one. I’d also like to talk about what it means for us to travel together. What you’re expecting. That sort of stuff.”

“Ah! Okay.” Tasar happily began conjuring lightwards, saying, “I prefer a house like...”

Lightwards and plans abounded, as Erick and Tasar spoke of architecture and separation of rooms and privacy, and if [Sealed Privacy Ward] worked to separate parts of the [Fairy Stronghold] from each other. The answer was that yes, Erick could separate his room with a Privacy, and Tasar would likely be able to do the same with her own. They were still at 35 hours remaining on fae watch, but Tasar felt she could certainly leave Erick to his privacy for ten minutes here and there; shouldn’t be trouble at all. As the two of them sat around the kitchen table talking, and planning, Erick was happy to find that mundane conversation was actually quite nice.

Relaxing.

Better than talk of murder and danger, for sure.

Riivo showed up hours later.
