Tasar was already casting detection spells, sending them outward. “My senses of the outside are blocked by the walls like normal vision, even to [True Sight], and mana sense goes out like normal… Spells coming in from the outside are funky, though— Oh. Look at that.” Ophiel flew through the space, from the outside, passing right through the crystals and iron bars and even Erick’s stretched-out hand like a semi-transparent ball of feathers and eyes. Tasar smiled, saying, “Things from the outside pass right through. This is the good version, Erick. It just needs a runic web to be truly secure.”

“I was thinking of getting breakfast at the embassy before Riivo showed up with the platinum.” Erick asked, “Do we have time?”

“Oh. Sure.” Tasar poked at the crystal window with a rigid finger, saying, “I’d like to help you on your aura control sometime soon, too. Have you run into any problems with that? There’s a platinum slime designated for you if you’re having trouble with aura cleaning and you want to brute force it.” She touched the iron reinforcing bars, saying, “This truly does look like metal. Huh.”

Erick grinned. “I want to do some resiliency tests with this spell before I go back to aura control. Do you have any Fae Magic?”

Tasar stepped into the air, preparing for the space to pop. “Just the one spell. You want to test it?”

“Yes.” Erick stepped a fraction off the floor, saying, “I reinforced the spell with some redundancy through Permanency, but it will likely break. Not sure how much damage it can take.”

Tasar nodded as she held a hand out to stomach height and cast a quick spell.

An orb of glass materialized in her hand and the bracelet on Erick’s forearm evaporated as though it was made of dust in a windstorm. The stone floor of the house only rippled. Erick looked down, expecting something more to happen. Tasar did the same, her eyebrows going up.

“Huh.” Tasar dismissed the glass orb then said, “The reinforcement held, I see, but more likely the shattering effect caught upon your bracelet instead.”

“The effects of the house are technically closer to the casting point of that orb, though.” Erick asked, “Can you conjure outside?”

“Of course.” Tasar focused for a moment, then pointed to the windows, saying, “Right there, and then inside the structure. I’ll go for a few casts.”

Erick watched as a small blackberry floated out of Tasar’s hand, then darted up and out of the [Fairy Stronghold]’s upper exit. The summon rapidly moved to hover outside the window. With a flicker of black-green light, another glass orb materialized outside the window and promptly fell down; lost to the lake waters. And the windows held. Tasar’s eyebrows went up again.

She moved the blackberry to the window, then inside, the construct turning ethereal as it entered the area of the house. Erick smiled. Ophiel did the same thing when he flew through. It very much reminded him of… Almost like looking at an illusion through [True Sight]. Which… Was exactly what it was, but different?

Oh.

Okay.

Oh.

This was big. Erick didn’t know how it was big, but it was. He didn’t notice the similarity until it happened a few times but now that he noticed, he noticed.

Perhaps the fact that other things could enter the space, but they were illusions to anyone already inside the space… Or perhaps it was the idea that Erick had made something more real than reality… Or perhaps—

Erick blinked as another glass orb released from the blackberry and the entire Stronghold fractured like lightning struck the center. Erick’s false Fae Reality crumbled and broke like so much shattering white mana.

And Erick lost his train of thought—

No! Wait!

Fae Magic operated on a different wavelength!

Oh.

Wait.

Wow. Was that it? Just make a different wavelength of reality? Overlap the world with other worlds that no one could actually see? Was there a ‘wavelength’ inside the mana? Did the fae live on a different slice of reality? Oh. Shit. That made a lot… of sense...

Wait.

What the FUCK did the DIMENSIONAL BAN actually DO?

All this time, had the answer to [Gate] been staring him in the face? All he had to do was make a different wavelength of reality through fae magic and then have that different reality operate through different rules to allow for [Gate] to function anywhere mana existed. Was that it? The whole story? Mana had to exist in two different points of space for [Gate] to work through them, because… of course it had to? Mana had to exist in the location one was [Gate]ing to, duh. Yes. Of course it did.

Was all mana in touch with all of itself, all the time?

Was mana just a separate reality, overlaid atop the physical one?

… Okay, that second ‘overlaid’ question was an obvious and emphatic ‘YES’. Duh. Mana was a separate reality that was mostly unaffected by this physical one.

So, thinking back to how ‘all mana was connected to all other mana’… That was probably how Erick and Jane had fallen to Veird. They had touched upon a different slice of reality and gotten sucked up into this larger pool of reality, here on Veird.

Which was likely why [Gate]ing back to Earth would be impossible. Erick would have to first make a [Gate] spell that could target specific spots of mana, and then target that one specific bit of mana back on Earth that had shoved them here to Veird.

… But that one bit of mana would have already passed on, right? Earth certainly had a low amount of mana, for sure.

In this way, the same sort of event had happened to other planars in other parts of the universe, didn’t it? They had encountered a knot or an eddy or a particularly aligned bit of Elemental Fae, or something, and… It was just like what happened to Erick when he stepped on that Teleport Pad in Enduring Forge. He had stepped into the mana when he did that, didn’t he? And then the mana flowed as it normally flowed, to the Core. Mana normally flowed everywhere. But a lot of it flowed back to Veird’s Core.

Holy fuck. No. That didn’t seem right? The order of magnitude of ‘luck’ needed to not die in such a situation was… Very large, for sure. Erick and Jane had ended up in the Underworld with monster—

With Melemizargo right there.

Was he constantly calling for help from outside? Perhaps? Maybe he was? Was he acting as a separate ‘Core’ for all the planars to fall to? Or was that another magnitude of ‘luck’ that Erick and Jane had succeeded, where many, many others had failed?

Oh, gods, so many sudden questions.

This ‘sliding through the mana’ was real, though. For sure.

Back in the Old Cosmology, in order to [Teleport], one had to ‘pick themselves up in one area and set down in another’, following the flow of mana. That is what Erick had read when he read about the creator of Spatial Magic on Veird, Everlin Etherspray, and how she had first worked that particular magic. The story was likely apocryphal, but the way in which people [Teleport]ed in the Old Cosmology was well documented and true. (One could also work against the flow, as Everlin did, but that was harder to do.)

But when that Spatial Magic got into the Script, it was streamlined.

And yet [Gate] was Old Cosmology Spatial Magic, and likely a bit more Fae Magic aligned than all the rest. It was trickier. More devious.

Erick wasn’t sure, but he felt like he was sneaking up on a Truth.

In the process of falling to Veird, Erick and Jane had gone from an area of low mana to the only other place where mana existed in large quantities, Veird. Or, perhaps, they rode the natural direction that probability flowed; from a space with a single mana (or a small amount, for sure), to this planet with a veritable ocean of mana. Or Fae Magic was being True Fae magic, since it was operating outside of the Script’s bounds, and playing some cosmic, improbable trick.

Okay.

Lotta questions. No easy answers, aside from all the answers Erick had just figured out.

To do:

Research the Dimensional Ban; what does it do, exactly. Does that Ban simply prevent [Gate] from punching through to different dimensions, like the one Veird originally came from? And yet, the Dimensional Ban and [Gate] exist in the same Script, at the same time, so then [Gate] must not be Dimensional Magic at all. But how could it be anything else?

Research how probability flows in mana. Does flowing mana actually matter for [Gate]? It probably does, considering how the Twisted Vision inside the Forest of Glaquin constantly sucks mana toward its center, and how Old Cosmology Spatial Magic used to work.

Research how Fae Magic seems to exist on another plane of reality. Research how mana itself is like a different plane of reality. Research how viable it is to create structures in the mana that exist on other wavelengths of reality, if such a thing were even possible.

—All these thoughts took place in one impossibly long single second. And then Erick’s [Fairy Stronghold] finished breaking. As the light show cleared, Erick and Tasar remained in the air over Yggdrasil’s root.

Tasar looked to him, saying, “It’s a good spell, but it needs the solidity of a proper runic web to make it viable for defense.”

Calmly, Erick nodded, as though his entire worldview hadn’t been shattered, yet again. He said, “I can put it in a runic web, so that shouldn’t be a problem. Won’t be a problem to use it out in the field if no one sees me put it up, though, and especially if it’s inside a [Prismatic Ward], which should protect it from people casually walking through.”

“Sort of defeats the purpose of having a hiding spot, though, right? If you can see the magic of the [Prismatic Ward] you’ll know where the house is.”

“I could put the [Prismatic Ward] on the inside. I can nest the systems.”

Tasar nodded. “I suppose so.”

As Erick’s thoughts overflowed with questions and hypotheses without any good answers but that which would come with time, he asked, “Want some breakfast at the embassy before the day truly starts?”

“Sure!” Tasar said, “We should stop by the EIPC rooms and I can grab my mother from my office, for the news of yesterday has certainly sent rippling effects throughout the whole of Stratagold, if not the whole Underworld. We should find out what’s happening there while we can.”

Erick very much noticed Tasar’s use of ‘we’, and she meant it in a good way, as though they were partners. He appreciated that. He said, “We should do all that; yes.”

Tasar smiled brightly.

- - - -

Erick and Tasar managed to make it across the open space in front of the embassy and into the front halls before they could go no further. Crowds gathered faster than any of the nearby guards thought they would as the entire embassy seemed to rush forward to see what Erick had to say for himself. With a team of riot-control wrought surrounding him, keeping the nobility and smartly-dressed commoners back with a small amount of force, Erick felt suddenly lost.

Everyone wanted a piece of him, and though none of their exact needs were exactly the same, all of them were out there for nearly the same reason.

‘How close is [Gate]!’

‘Are you selling property in the cavern!’

‘Are you going to find the Letter Killer!’

‘Did you call out to the Darkness!’

That final yelled question shifted the mood.

And then one person suddenly yelled, “Why you got a kill spell in your heart! What did you do to make Rozeta hate you!”

Erick should have remained at Yggdrasil. He hadn’t been thinking straight for his mind was filled with Fae Magic and implications. If he had been more present then he never would have walked into this mess. He had thought, with the wrought riot team’s quick response, that these people would decide that pressing forward was a bad idea, but...

But these were the mortals living under the auspices of the wrought, and they had much more mortal reactions, full of rightful worry.

Erick suddenly lost his appetite, but while Tasar and the nearby guards singled out the rowdy speaker —an incani who seemed like he personally hated Erick for whatever reason— Erick called out his only real response to the sudden questions from the sudden crowd, “Rozeta and I are working together, and the kill spell is a side effect of the boons she bestowed.”

Tasar suddenly whipped around to stare at Erick. She was not the only one who had the moment crystallize into something unexpected and strangely fantastic. ‘A boon?’ ‘What sort of boon!’ ‘What are your plans for the planet Yoril!’ All sorts of strange questions came at him while the rowdy incani flummoxed for —and rapidly found— another bit of vitriol to shove at Erick. But Erick was hearing none of it. He told Tasar that he was headed back to Yggdrasil while he was already walking that way. The riot-control wrought began pressing back toward the door, holding back the crowd and then parting to let Erick through. They held back the crowd from chasing after him, but Tasar got through.

Tasar rushed to catch up. She was apologizing even before they made it back to Yggdrasil, though it was not her fault and Erick said as much.

Back at Yggdrasil, and after a calming moment just sitting there, Erick almost made himself breakfast. But then Tasar hopped to work, and began fixing him food, which consisted of a copy of the sandwich which Erick was going to get himself and a strong tea. He thanked her while she spoke a lot about security, seemingly fixated on making him comfortable and to know that such an incident will not happen again, and if he wanted, they could have a chef or three move to Yggdrasil. Erick didn’t want that…

“But I appreciate your offer.” Erick said, “Don’t worry about it, though. I’m… I’m thinking of a lot of thoughts about [Fairy Stronghold] and [Gate] and— I should have known that I couldn’t walk in the embassy like that; not after what happened yesterday. That was my fault.”

Tasar frowned a little, torn between wanting to ask about [Gate] and obviously thinking that the mob event back there was a failure of hers and Stratagold’s, not of Erick. By her expression, Erick could tell that she chose to let him talk on [Gate] on his own time; she went for the second topic, saying, “Okay. Well. Let me know if you change your mind about the chefs.” She added, “At the very least we can order delivery. You don’t have to actually go inside the embassy, yourself.”

