Silverite’s eyes glowed silver as she said. “Continue until I say otherwise, Erick.”

Erick watched as a silver [Scry] eye drifted up into the sky.

Crystal mimic and sewer slime notifications came next.

Erick let the spell run for as long as his audience wanted. His audience mostly just watched. They watched him, watched the sky, watched the slime as it moved across buildings, up and down, into the sewers, everywhere it could reach.

Monsters died.

Five minutes later, Silverite said, “You can cut the spell, Erick. Killzone. Mog. Please escort Erick to Frontier, then to Kal’Duresh, then back home.”

Erick released the spell. The white orb flaked away again, just like it did the first time he used this spell, but everything else about it had been different. No noise. No entity reaching from the skies. No invitation granted.

Probably because the invitation had already been granted well before today.

- - - -

Erick had never been on the streets of Frontier. He had seen it from the sky, sure, but being on the ground in peace time was a much different experience than watching the city get overrun by a dark tide, while blooms of color tried to fight against the darkness.

Killzone had teleported both of them into the center of a large town square somewhere in the center of Frontier. The nice-enough looking square might have held tents and vendors at some point in time, but now it held people.

Humans!

Not a lot; maybe twenty humans, but Erick felt like he had forgotten what other humans looked like. There were brown people and white people and tan people. There was flowing cloth and tunics and armor and leather; stuff you’d wear around town, or to the job, or maybe to see something, or to be seen by others. Some had jewelry, others had fancy hair. There were a lot more hair colors than the black-blond-brown-red spectrum Erick was used to. That person had blue hair. That one had orange hair. That woman’s hair was bright, bright green.

Some of the people were looking at him, but most were looking at Killzone.

And there’s Helix, wearing nice clothes similar to Al’s, actually, now that Erick took the time to see; Helix also looked like a cross between a mobster and a sultan, but no turban.

Helix said, “We’re ready when you are, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick didn’t even have time to take it all in, before it was time to get to work.

“Alright. Here we go.”

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

The crowd gasped as thick air lifted off of every surface in sight, and the slime’s white core materialized around Erick. Notifications started pinging. Moments turned to a minute.

Erick said, “Lots of wolves. Up to… 40, so far. Still going up. It’s reached the mimics outside of town. It extends about 10 kilometers in every direction, so—”

You have Slain Daydropper A!

95% Participation!

+123 exp

Erick plucked the Daydropper box out of the air and held it out to Helix. “Uh. Here. Viscount.”

Killzone and Mog both got a look. Killzone frowned. Mog’s eyebrows went up. Helix frowned. The crowd murmured. Helix gestured with his fingers for Erick to pass him the notification. Erick did. Helix read it, then dismissed the box.

Helix smiled, saying, “Not a person. Just an anomaly.”

The crowd seemed to calm.

Four more Daydroppers popped. Each of them for 123 experience.

Erick said, “4 more of those, lots of mimics. Wolves are done. Let me just count… 70 wolves. Mimics are slowing. I can probably cut the spell now, if you wish?”

Helix said, “Thank you, Archmage. That will be enough.”

As white ash flaked into the sky, Erick counted up the totals. “75 wolves. 5 of those things. About… 55 mimics.”

A woman standing behind the Viscount stepped forward, holding onto a green stone. “Approved.”

Erick said, “In case of emergency you can telepathy… someone?” He looked to Killzone.

Killzone spoke with a little twang, “Y’all can send to Liquid, or me. We will respond appropriately, and timely.” Killzone put his hand on Erick’s shoulder. “Good day.”

Erick, Mog, and Killzone blipped away in a tiny crash of black light.

- - - -

They reappeared well outside of a large, walled city, built upon what had to be a minor mountain.

A white city wall encircled a great mage-castle town. White towers piled high across the raised city. Dark blue roofs stood out against the lighter blue sky; some roofs were domed, most were peaked. Buildings crowded up against each other, but in the center of it all was a grand castle, kinda lonesome, built around into itself, like the spiraling, spiked shell of a conch. Here and there among the whole of the city was the green of plant life, but in the center, on an upper part of the spiraling castle, was a massive tree that hugged much of the castle's upper reaches.

From Erick’s position on a sandy hill well outside of Kal’Duresh’s walls, that tree and the inner castle had to be hundreds of feet tall.

Everything seemed to glitter.

The whole place was easily twice the size of Spur.

Holy shit, Frontier was a hovel. Humans, what are you doing! Have you no pride?

Erick said, “This is amazing.”

Mog smirked, saying, “You’re the only human I know who could look at an incani stronghold and not fly into a violent rage.”

“That’s untrue.” Erick said, “You know Jane, too.”

Mog laughed. Killzone hummed.

Mog walked forward, saying, “We’re expected. Baroness Pirazel Xelxex may be a baron in title, but the power she commands in the Wasteland Kingdoms is much closer to that of a duchess.”

“Do these people hate the Script, too?”

Killzone said, “Nope. These are the powerful ones.”
