“Yeah, it definitely served me well,” Jake confirmed, looking at this old bow with nostalgic eyes. It had been with him in its current version all throughout Nevermore, which was already respectable, considering it was an item that couldn’t upgrade by itself like Eternal Hunger. Especially when one considered the stress Jake’s arcane affinity constantly put the poor bow under.

“Tonken, do you believe it feasible?” Yggdrasil’s voice echoed.

“I was worried at first, but if we use the Records in this bow as the base, I believe it’s possible,” Nature’s Attendant nodded. “It was directly granted by the system, and the conceptual complexity reflects that.”

“Good,” Yggdrasil said, finally turning her head toward the other goddess present. “Artemis, you are to assist Tonken in creating a bow for the Chosen of the Malefic Viper. As an archer, your assistance should prove useful, and you are in a prime position to bring the Chosen with you to provide input when Tonken requests.”

“Yes, Mother Tree,” Artemis answered, bowing deeply.

“Proceed. I shall call for the Chosen once more when needed.”

With those words, Yggdrasil’s summoned dryad clone disappeared, and the pressure bearing down on them was reduced. At least by a little, as Nature’s Attendant was still there.

“So, what do you need me to do?” Jake asked the second-in-command of the Pantheon of Life after a second or so of silence.

“For now... nothing. I’ll bring this bow back with me and ensure the seed I prepare can house its Records,” the old man explained. “Down the line, I will need you to feed the seed and sprout energy intermittently. That is to say that leaving for any Hunting Grounds isn’t recommended, as the seeds can be quite demanding, and the timing of when they are fed energy can have a high level of impact on the final result.”

“Alright,” Jake said, as he wondered something. “Say... how is Yggdrasil involved when you’re making the seed and all that?”

Nature’s Attendant smiled at Jake’s question before shaking his head. “I would think an alchemist like you had heard of grafting. We shall grow a small sapling that can serve as the body of your new bow, after which we will graft a piece of Yggdrasil directly onto it, allowing the Records to merge, creating something greater than the whole. That’s why we were concerned the Records of the sapling wouldn’t be sufficient to withstand those of Yggdrasil, but seeing this bow you gave me, and knowing who you are, I do indeed believe we can create something quite wonderful.”

Jake nodded along to the explanation, and after asking a few more mostly meaningless follow-up questions, Jake’s brief visit with Yggdrasil and Nature’s Attendant came to an end, Jake leaving both a bow and a mask poorer.

With what Nature’s Attendant had said, Jake also shouldn’t go hunting for the next period. Coupled with the fact he’d just gotten a lot of class levels, and the many subjects remaining on his to-do list before evolving, it wasn’t that hard to figure out what would come next.

That’s right, it was alchemy time... with a bit of meditation and quality time with Artemis sprinkled in here and there.
