Who had been his enemy. But who also wept for Eater of Spears, and her other fallen friends, just like Badarrow had. That was how they had met. The two liked each other, despite having somewhat different personalities. Badarrow was taciturn, Snapjaw outgoing.
But trust—oh yes, they had that. Trust was an important thing. That was probably why Badarrow was carefully watching Snapjaw open her mouth.
The same mouth that could, with a bite, turn a Wyvern’s hide into mincemeat. And jaws that could crush stones for fun. But that was also the thrill.
Snapjaw sucked carefully and Badarrow hissed. Careful. But he let Snapjaw do all the work. Her teeth were sharp and only the [Eater] was moving. Slowly. But with agonizing—control.
The female Hobgoblin’s eyes were dancing with enjoyment as she looked up. Badarrow tensed, trying to last. And she teased him, and then—abruptly—began to hum a marching tune.
“Ah!”
Badarrow moved. Snapjaw relaxed and no blood was shed. But she kept humming, loudly, and Badarrow was having trouble holding on, even with a [Sniper]’s discipline, a Redfang’s pride. But he waited—as Snapjaw began growing louder and louder, tickling, stroking his thighs and then—
The door opened right as Badarrow released. Snapjaw gulped, blinked—and both Hobgoblins turned as Calescent marched into the room with a pair of plates and hot, spicy food.
“Both of you not at breakfast! Must eat! I have lun—”
He stopped, staring at the two mid-fellatio. Badarrow glared silently. Calescent paused. He looked at both of them. Studied his dish.
“Too much spices. Bad for this. I come back in thirty minutes, with less-spicy dish.”
He slowly backed out of the room and closed the door. Badarrow didn’t move as Snapjaw slowly rose. She studied the closed door.
“Need locks.”
“Mhm.”
He was panting. Snapjaw licked her lips and then nudged him.
“Your turn.”
The Hobgoblin grunted obligingly and Snapjaw laid down on the bed. Badarrow bent over and Snapjaw smiled expectantly—and then had a thought. She whispered down to Badarrow.
“Bet no Goblin ask Calescent to lick things. Too afraid of spicy burning.”
They both giggled at the thought. Down the hall of the private quarters, oblivious to the comments on his sex life, Calescent marched. He walked to the second door and opened it brusquely; he hadn’t learned his lesson.
“Breakfast and lunch are important meals! Everyone needs—”
He paused. Calescent walked out of the room, checked the door. He stared back inside. This was indeed Chieftain Rags’ room. He walked inside, stared at Redscar.
And Leapwolf. The two Goblins were naked. Leapwolf was on the bed and Redscar was paused, hand on an erect phallus. Leapwolf stared at Calescent and turned red. Redscar’s grip tightened as he grinned at Calescent. Leapwolf groaned, back arching, sweat on his brow.
“Chieftain?”
Calescent pointed lamely at his bowls. He heard a growl.
“Next time, knock.”
Rags was peering at the two Goblins who’d been giving her a demonstration. For fun. And education. Calescent slowly nodded as he saw Rags sitting in a chair.
“Food?”
All three Goblins shouted at him and the Hobgoblin hurried out the door. He sighed.
“Probably need locks. Must make better food for after-sex.”
He marched off.
 
——
 
Did it offend people, to discuss sex? To say penis? Or vagina? Or describe sex in intimate ways? The answer was yes. Perhaps, because most people weren’t good at it.
Call it crude, or needlessly lascivious. Unchaste, as some might label discussions of anything close to carnality. But it happened, and there was a difference in…understanding.
For example, what the Antinium learning expedition found was that there was a very wide sample size of techniques between the species they surveyed. And there was a correlation between genders; they’d surveyed enough people to ensure it wasn’t casual correlation.
“Okay, so there are different positions—and uh, if you’re really persuasive, there’s even the butt—”
Relc’s lesson on sex with some visual hand-gestures was interrupted by a female Gnoll who kicked him in the back. She urgently pulled him aside and spoke to the Antinium.
“Ignore him. He doesn’t know what he’s talking about. If you want to make the female happy, you can’t just rush into it. If that happens, I know I’ll have a bad time, yes?”
Her comment was accompanied by nods from around the table. Female nods. Relc flushed.
“Hey! I don’t get any complaints!”
“We know what to expect from you.”
That comment made Relc flush. The female Gnoll leaned over and Belgrade, Anand, and Yellow Splatters all leaned in. They were taking notes.
“Touching first. Obviously you court her—the experience is the entire event. Not one quick explosion. At least—not for us. And technique matters! You can’t just go at it like—”
She nodded at Relc. The Drake grinned.
“But I can go all day! Not bad, right, Beilmark?”
The Senior Guardswoman rolled her eyes. She was partnering with Relc for the interim—there was a situation with Bearclaw in Liscor and she’d come to ask why he hadn’t checked back in. She’d been sucked into the debate.
“Relc, not all women want to go for an hour.”
“But that is important. Just a bit of time. Mm—just not really short.”
“As long as they build up to it properly, it doesn’t matter—”
Belgrade was frantically scribbling down what was, when you got down to it, a lot of contradictory advice.
“I see, I see. May I see a demonstration?”
Laughter. The Worker looked up—he had been serious.
“Will you please demonstrate? Be specific as possible, please. I can pay—”
“We talked about this.”
Relc coughed, looking amused.
“Oh, it’s inappropriate. I apologize. Then—may I receive a verbal description of the techniques employed?”
Beilmark had to sit back, laughing, but Relc jumped in.
“I’ve got one. You can use Skills in bed. [Triple Thrust]. Oh yeah.”
The entire group around the table stared at Relc. Menolit choked on his drink.
“Really? How does that…work?”
The Drake [Guardsman] paused, and some of his bravado faded.
“It uh, tends to hit the right spot, and then her navel and thigh. Hurts like hell.”
The others stared at him. Montressa sprayed her drink out her nose. Gales of laughter followed Relc as he turned around, shouting.
“It’s a combat Skill! Shut up! I only did it once!”
Yellow Splatters laughed too. He was enjoying himself. But Anand and Belgrade, [Tacticians] to the end, were serious and focused. Belgrade nodded.
“I believe we have enough data. Clearly, the time has come.”
“…To do what?”
“Am I to assume that sex is a somewhat difficult proposition that cannot be easily obtained?”
“Not with some women.”
Menolit muttered. Beilmark nodded cautiously.
“One cannot just do it on the streets, yes? That is why you cannot ask for it, hm?”
She looked meaningfully at the Antinium. Belgrade nodded.
“We are aware. Thus, since it is most likely an experience out of reach of most Antinium, I believe we must endeavor to synthesize the experience for other Antinium.”
Anand was nodding. Yellow Splatters and the crowd looked at the two Workers. The [Sergeant] spoke shortly.
“What?”
“A story. We should convey our advanced knowledge of sex so that Antinium may understand how it happens and derive enjoyment. Just as one reads a book of cooking, and enjoys the idea of cooking, sex. Come, Yellow Splatters. We should begin work at once.”
The Antinium were gesturing towards a table. At this point Erin had to intervene.
“No!”
She stuck her head out of the kitchen where she was showing Garry how the chocolate had been made. The Workers looked at her.
“No writing sex stories here!”
“Aw! Erin!”
She shook a fist at Relc. And that should have been the end of that. Erin went into the kitchen to keep teaching Garry, because some things were better than sex for the Worker. And he loved Erin’s presence more than sex.
But the Antinium had changed. So much so that their rebellion didn’t stop here. Belgrade looked around.
“Miss Solstice had expressed her desire that writing of this story should not occur here. Therefore, it must not.”
Anand was busily packing the ink and parchment up.
“Agreed. Let us go to a more secluded spot. Bird’s room. Come, Yellow Splatters.”
The [Sergeant] rose. Relc saw Beilmark turn to him. The Gnoll whispered.
“Should we stop them?”
“Are you kidding? Hey, Belgrade, Anand! We’ll pay for copies.”
“Aha. And you see? This is already turning into a monetary benefit.”
Anand nodded as the three trundled up the stairs. Relc stared at their backs, and then at Beilmark.
“We’re gonna be heroes when we return to the barracks.”
The Senior Guardswoman nodded. She stared at Relc, and then around the inn.
“Dead gods. Does Klbkch always have this much fun with you?”
“Yeah, but he can’t appreciate it. Come on, let’s get a drink, do a quick patrol, and come back. Hopefully they’ll have something brilliant.”
The two Workers and Soldier went up the stairs. They immediately went to Bird’s room and knocked.
Bird was not inside. He was on the roof, eating a bird.
“Mmf. Birds. Birds! I love birds.”
The [Bird Hunter] looked up as the three Antinium paused in his crude tower. He was shaking, crouched over a disassembled bird. Blood ran from his mandibles and onto his body. The Antinium stared at him. In this moment, you could see the Antinium that plagued the nightmares of Drakes.
Until he spoke.
“Oh, hello Anand, Belgrade, Yellow Splatters. I have fulfilled my obsession. Would you like a bird?”
He offered a piece of bird to them. Anand waved it away.
“Bird, we have no time for birds. We must write a story of sexual prowess and deed for the Antinium. May we borrow your room?”
Bird stared at the Antinium. He opened and closed his mandibles a few times.
“…Yes.”
“Thank you.”
The Antinium went downstairs and entered Bird’s room. Bird thought about asking if he and Pawn were invited to the writing of sex. He had seen Pawn just a few minutes ago.
 
——
 
“All clear. You don’t have Yellow Rivers.”
Geneva finished her inspection. The Lizardman sighed in relief. He flopped onto his bed, back-first, and Geneva began taking her gloves off.
“Miss Scala, you are a lifesaver. I was terrified when I saw—”
“Just dead scale matter and dirt. It’s built up here—you need to take better care of your hygiene. As I said. And the condoms—”
The Lizardman’s name was Xeppal. And he was a [Prostitute]. Geneva briskly took off her gloves as Xeppal sat up and nodded.
“No fear, Doctor Scala. I’ve heard about the Yellow Rivers. Thank you, thank you for coming out. Everyone was afraid…”
He gestured towards the doors. Geneva nodded.
The brothel she was visiting wasn’t the highest of classes in Talenqual, but that just meant it was important to visit. The Slippery Tail did a lot of business and it was a vector for diseases.
“Your manager asked me to visit. And she’s assured me she’ll pay for protection and insist on it.”
“That’s a relief. Miss Dushal’s a good one. Dullahan, but she takes care of us. Some places—well, they don’t even have security. You get a bad client and…”
Geneva grimaced. Sex work existed in Baleros. In all five continents, actually. Terandria was apparently strictest, as were cities in Izril, but sex workers existed everywhere. The only difference was how much protection they were afforded.
It was one of those things that made her angry. If it had been regulated, the Yellow Rivers diseases would be easier to deal with. As it was, she had to seek out the owners of brothels, and they were sometimes less than cooperative.
“It’s a difficult situation, security?”
Xeppal nodded.
“You get someone who’s the wrong sort? Well, my female friends have more trouble than I do. Me—women come to me because I have this.”
He showed her his member. Lizardfolk had an odd design compared to a Human penis. Geneva had been inspecting it for the Yellow Rivers symptoms, telltale pus. Now she could admire the flaccid shaft.
…Both of them. Xeppal waggled his brows at Geneva. It was a bigger specimen than most she’d seen, male or female.
“Did it surprise you, Doctor?”
“Hemipenes? I’ve heard of it, but it was something interesting to see. I knew that snakes and lizards had them.”
“Evolutionary traits. Well, it’s not that unusual, but members of other species are certainly intimidated.”
“Is that a Skill that gave you your enlarged hemipenes, or were you born with them?”
Geneva refused to rise to the bait. Xeppal shrugged.
“Both, Doctor. As I said—I’m in this business. Have been for seven years.”
“…That would make you fourteen when you started.”
The Lizardman shrugged.
“Had to make a living. It’s not always easy, even with the community to fall back on, or family. Especially if you have bad ones.”
Geneva nodded. She was familiar with that too. Xeppal was her last client for the day, and she began packing up her bag while she asked him questions. All the other sex workers had told her similar tales.
Some were in it because it was a fun job, others because they had no choice. But Talenqual’s company, the Feathered Brigade, didn’t regulate this industry as much as other companies and there was plenty of abuse in the system.
“Tell me about the dangers.”
“Oh, I don’t need to whine, Doctor. Miss Dushal has been fine to us.”
“And elsewhere? I want to know.”
Xeppal paused.
“The Last Light cares about us?”
“I’m just Geneva. I care.”
The Lizardman paused. Then he shrugged.
“…It’s worse in places with no law. You get a Gold-rank or someone with high-levels that has…bad tendencies? We die. Can’t stop a Level 30 [Warrior]. But we keep an ear out for each other, if we’re wise. If we’re not, it’s bad. Disease—danger—I suppose there’s worse jobs. We enjoy ourselves, mostly. You get Skills, you can get clients who just love you—and, well, people look out for us. I hear it’s bad in Terandria in places, Chandrar—but there are things you hear.”
“Like what?”
“Oh—there’s a group in Izril. Northern. Humans. The Sisters of Chell. Criminal gang. Very big and they take care of you. Mostly females, but if you’re in their city and you work in our trade, you’re safe. No one abuses someone in the Sisters of Chell’s territory.”
“They hunt them down?”
Xeppal grinned.
“Worse. Some of the Sisters—most of them are former [Nightworkers], only, they turn into [Nightstalkers]. [Seductresses]. You try hitting one of them; she might be a Sister of Chell and decide to take souvenirs.”
