A long time ago, when Erin Solstice was still new to the city of Liscor. When she still lived in her first inn, and people had just gotten to know about the odd Human girl who’d appeared outside the city—she’d had a conversation.
It had gone something like this:
“You have not had sex yet. This is a bad thing, yes?”
That had been then, and a young woman had entertained the idea of sexual gratification, dating, and intercourse with her friends, Krshia and Selys. She had even gone on a date.
It had ended poorly, for the would-be suitors. Erin had ended up with a rather interesting collection of dildos. Which had subsequently been destroyed by her undead skeleton. The first time.
It happened. But since that day, the topic had not come up again. And yes, there were more important things in life to focus on. Monster attacks, keeping friends alive. The possibility of war.
Yet, at the same time, it was extraordinary that the topic never came up again. Erin Solstice didn’t lack for friends, of any species or gender. But she discussed bowel movements and periods with more frequency than anything touching on mating—
Sex.
Indeed, what was uncomfortable to many males wasn’t banned in The Wandering Inn. As, case in point, a few days after Erin’s night of glorious fire and celebration, she found herself in the outhouse.
It was a nice outhouse. Rebuilt, refurbished—Lyonette wanted the inn to connect to Liscor’s sewage lines, but for now, the toilets were attended with herbs to cover the smell and cleaned regularly. It was one of the tasks the staff got to do. And the young woman named Erin Solstice was doing her business.
Again, a natural activity. Erin went to the bathroom at least once a day, which was what she considered healthy. But she didn’t talk about it. Still, at this particular time, Erin happened to look down. And her face fell.
“Aw.”
She was on her period. Which wasn’t generally a problem. But…it was, if you didn’t have anything like a pad and you really didn’t want to go back indoors with your new underwear and pants. Erin grimaced.
What to do? What to do…as crises went, Erin decided this was a low-level event. After a few minutes of cursing, she began shouting.
“Hey! Hey! Someone get Lyonette!”
After a few seconds, her shouting roused someone. Namely, the Workers on the rooftop. Erin waited, and then Lyonette came out.
“What’s wrong, Erin?”
“Uh…can you get me my pad?”
“Pad? What do—oh.”
It took Lyonette only a fraction of a second to get it. Inside, Erin felt embarrassed, but she went on.
“It’s in my room. Um—I think in the drawers? It’s washed! Sorry, I just—”
“I’ve got it. One second.”
And indeed, a minute later, Erin had relief. Well—in a way. She still felt a bit crummy, but as she left the outhouse and reentered the inn—after washing her hands outside, thankyouverymuch, Erin was chatting to Lyonette.
The morning crowd looked up as the two young women entered the inn and went over to the bar. Not to drink, per se, but just to chat.
“I wasn’t keeping count. Yuck. I hate being on my period. I just feel…euragh. You know?”
“…No. Do you mean, cramps? My mother used to have the worst ones.”
Erin frowned.
“Yeah, a bit. But I also get mad a bit more easily.”
“Really? Compared to usual?”
The young woman frowned. She didn’t see a few of the breakfasters looking up, especially some of the Gnolls who had good ears.
“Ha. Ha. I never asked, but um…you get them?”
Lyonette gave Erin a look.
“Yes, Erin. I get them.”
“I’m just checking! Maybe you get a fancy Skill that stops menstruation or whatever. Or…I was wondering if there were any differences because we’re…”
Erin made a wild hand gesture to say ‘from different worlds, and thus having the distinct possibility of some kind of genetic differences from the environments we are raised in, the proximity of magic, and other extraneous and unknown factors.’ The [Princess] just shrugged in reply.
“Actually, I usually take a potion. My entire family does. But we’re Human like you, Erin. Actually—my bleeding is bad.”
“Really?”
“Yes. Mrsha got worried the first time it happened. But since Octavia’s here, I think I might switch back to potions.”
“Potions? Well, I know they stop you bleeding—but do they like, work perfectly? Are there side effects?”
“Mm…not really. You can get a few symptoms, but [Alchemists] are good about it. And it apparently stops you menstruating at all. So the one downside is that sometimes you have a [Lady] or even a [Queen] who has children in her sixties if she’s taken the potion all her life…”
“Whoa. But that’s…well, I guess biologically…wait, do you know about eggs?”
“…Eggs? We’re talking about children, Erin. What are you talking about?”
“Biology! Wait, you don’t know? You don’t know!”
The [Princess] just gave Erin one of her looks.
“Erin, it’s too early for this.”
But the young woman was already excited.
“I need to sit down with you and explain! There’s this thing—inside our bodies. Our, you know, vaginas—and we have eggs—”
She felt a bit embarrassed. The [Princess] was just staring, trying to process the fact that Humans laid eggs. It promised to be an interesting discussion, but a voice growled, interrupting them.
“Excuse me. Do you mind? I’m trying to eat, here!”
A Gnoll looked up from his table. And he was male—that was just a…fact worth noting. Erin and Lyonette turned and looked at him.
“What?”
“Do you mind? I’m having breakfast!”
The Gnoll looked affronted. Lyonette and Erin looked at each other. Both frowned at the guest.
“What’s the matter? It’s just biology!”
“It’s disgusting. Humans bleed from…I can’t.”
He pushed back his morning steak. Erin glowered.
“Hey, Dierr, you don’t like it? It’s what women have to go through! You don’t like hearing about it? How you do think I like blood coming out my—”
Half the diners instantly stopped eating as Lyonette slapped a hand over Erin’s mouth. The young woman hesitated.
“Um—sorry. Maybe it is a bit crude.”
Dierr, who was a regular of Erin’s inn, shook his head a few times.
“Humans. Gnoll women don’t go through that.”
“Yeah? Oh wait, yeah. They don’t.”
Erin recalled a conversation with a female Gnoll. It was true—Gnolls didn’t go through the monthly bleeding process. Neither did Drakes. They had different systems that had evolved in their species. Erin hesitated.
“Well, yeah. Gnolls don’t have periods, but they have um, what’s the term? Estrus? Mating periods. And Krshia told me that when they do, they have the same sort of, y’know…stuff. Coming out of you-know-where. Actually, she told me it can be blood, or brown…”
That did it. Almost every male diner and most of the female ones put down their utensils and had to push their plates back for a second. Lyonette covered her face.
“Erin.”
“I don’t need to hear this!”
Dierr stood up, looking ill and agitated. Erin looked around; some of the guests were doing the same.
“I came here for entertainment, not—that!”
Some of the other regulars were grousing. They weren’t Olesm, or Relc, or Palt or the other big-names that often took part in the inn’s dramas, but…regular diners.
Dierr, an affable [Hunter] who really liked getting his food within a minute of ordering, Menolit, the Drake [Veteran] with half a tail who’d fought in Liscor’s army until being honorably discharged, Ulevissia, a Drake [Mage] who made her entire living making door locks, Fleaears, whose unfortunate name didn’t relate at all to his [Tanner] profession, at least, one hoped—
“I am so sorry. Erin, be quiet. Everyone, please! Let me get you something on the house. Why don’t we all sit and—”
Lyonette rushed around, trying to keep the regulars in their seats. Erin stared around.
“But it’s natural. I mean, okay. I’m sorry I said it out loud. It’s like talking about poo, I guess—”
“Erin!”
The [Princess] snapped at her. Erin shut up as her regulars glared at her. She flushed, and then looked about when she heard a vague, slapping sound.
Temile, and some of the Players of Celum who stayed at Erin’s inn—and the ones who came every day to rehearse—were laughing so hard there wasn’t actually much sound. Just wheezing, painful, choking guffaws, and slapping the table. Temile slowly slid out of his chair as Erin glared at him.
He wasn’t the only one. Mrsha was giggling, even if she didn’t really get all of what had been said. Erin propped her hands on her hips. At least some people were being amused.
“It’s natural!”
“But some things we don’t need to discuss while our guests are eating, Erin. I’ll get Octavia for you; she’s probably asleep still. After another all-nighter at that naked Drake’s lab.”
“Saliss.”
“I know his name. But—dead gods! Can’t he put on clothes?”
“It’d take an army. Anyways, he’s cool.”
“Well, he’s apparently up all night and into the morning! Octavia got back in time for breakfast! Exhausted from making potions all day.”
“Only making potions?”
One of the other regulars quipped as Lyonette went around the inn, doling out a few of the chocolate squares as an apology. Erin saw Menolit, the Drake [Veteran], grinning as he took a square of chocolate. She frowned at him.
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
The Drake stared at her. Menolit was scarred, and half of his tail was missing, owing to his service in Liscor’s army. He was touchy about the tail, but Erin liked him and he liked being here—partly because Humans didn’t care as much about the tail.
“Thank you, Miss Lyonette. Er—Miss Solstice, if a young woman’s out with a fellow all night, you don’t think it’s all making potions…?”
He waggled his brows and grinned. Erin gave him a blank look for a second, and then blinked.
“Wha—oh! Hey! No way. That would never—no way. I mean—Saliss wouldn’t—he’s teaching—right?”
She looked at Lyonette, flustered. The [Princess] looked up, absently.
“What? No, I doubt it. And if she is—who cares?”
“But…”
“He’s the best [Alchemist] in the city. Saliss of Lights. I mean, you know there’re other apprenticeships that work that way. A young [Alchemist], does favors for a master…”
Menolit said it matter-of-factly. Erin just looked at him.
“Menolit!”
“What?”
The Drake looked at her. Erin pointed at Mrsha, flushing.
“There are kids here! Don’t talk about s-e-x!”
Mrsha immediately began trying to spell the word out. Menolit gave Erin a long look as his lips moved.
“What, sex? Miss Solstice, it’s natural. I’m not judging. Someone wants to spice things up with that Drake, be my guest. I wish he’d put on pants too, but the Drake’s got spirit.”
“That’s not all he has. Although between you and me, I’d have expected a Named Adventurer to be better.”
Ulevissia quipped. There was laughter and people relaxed. Erin on the other hand—was flushing.
“Hey! Enough! That’s enough. Let’s not get…weird, here.”
She waved her hands, and the laughter died down as Erin pushed a bit with her ability to control the mood in the inn. It was fairly subtle, for her. But Lyonette noticed, as did Temile and a few [Actors]; their classes made them sensitive to such things.
And a few others. At her table, Selys Shivertail looked up from a morning gossip session with Drassi. She hadn’t really partaken of the conversation so far—because she was trying to eat breakfast too—but now she frowned at Erin, vaguely. As the [Innkeeper] argued with Menolit and then went around the room, chatting with her regulars, Selys paused.
“Hey, Selys, Drassi. How’s it going?”
“I’m off-duty! I don’t start for another hour. Hi, Erin.”
Drassi announced hurriedly. Erin waved that off, although the comment was more aimed at Lyonette than the self-proclaimed ‘cool boss’. Selys smiled as Erin sat down.
“Hi, Erin. Rough morning?”
“You know me, spitting blood, shooting it out of my crotch—I keep forgetting Drakes and Gnolls don’t have periods.”
Erin sighed. Selys and Drassi looked at each other.
“Well, we have our problems, Erin. You don’t have dead scales.”
“You don’t have ingrown hairs or split ends.”
“Point.”
The three females grinned at each other. It was a longstanding practice of species to practice the game of ‘who had the most bodily issues’ with each other. Selys glanced at Drassi.
“So…well, you’ve told us all about your monthlies. Feeling okay?”
“Yeah. It’s not bad today. I mean, you know…I could use a warm compress or something. That really helps. But maybe I’ll talk to Octavia when she wakes up. Potions are handy.”
“No arguments there!”
Drassi grinned. The [Gossip] and [Bartender] looked in fine form today. But then, she was enjoying her new class and position serving alcohol. And she’d certainly had enough work these last few days.
Ever since the night of glory and fire. These days, the pink flame was carefully kept burning in a concealed, controlled lantern. The same one Erin had used for the blue flames of sadness. Sometimes it went out if you didn’t feed it, but Erin could always conjure the fire again.
At the moment Selys had just come in for her gossip session with one of her best friends. Best two friends, really. The young Human woman smiled as Selys offered her some fried dumplings. Palt had made them; the Centaur wasn’t in today, but he would be, no doubt. Selys gave Erin a side-long look.
“We were just talking about recent events. Speaking of which…are you worried about Octavia?”
“What? No. I mean, a bit. Saliss is like…I mean, I think he’s a good guy. But Octavia shouldn’t be…y’know? When she’s learning from him? That’s weird, right?”
Erin looked awkward as she danced around the subject. Drassi scratched at the spines on her neck.
“Madly having sex in their laboratory all night long?”
The [Innkeeper] choked on her bite. Selys snorted and had to pound on Erin’s back. She was assisted by a flying kick from Mrsha. Erin coughed up the food stuck in her airways and rubbed at her back.
“Ow. Thank you, Mrsha. Drassi!”
“What? Unless—do you think they’re being kinky? Like—I dunno, you hear stories.”
“Drassi!”
“Like what?”
Selys leaned over as Mrsha leapt up onto the table and swiped a dumpling. Drassi grinned.
“You know Stitch-People. I hear they can switch out body parts and do a lot of crazy things. And they can repair their bodies, so they can get rough. Like—have you heard the stories about how the male ones can have huge…things? And some Drakes—and Gnolls!—want to know how it feels. But you can tear—”
“Drassi! Mrsha is right there!”
