“Liscor’s strict about it. And so’re most Drake cities, but they’ve all got some. Even Pallass has some regulated brothels. Very regulated, but it happens. Gnolls are different. They’re the ones who don’t like selling sex; but Drakes allow it, so long as it’s managed.”
“Relc! How do you know that?”
Erin strode over to him, finger pointing. Relc gave Erin a puzzled look.
“I’m a Senior Guardsman. Plus, I patrol there. What’s the harm?”
“Oh. I mean—don’t tell them that! Look!”
The Antinium were electrified. Belgrade huddled with Anand and Yellow Splatters and Garry who came out of the kitchen. He looked at Relc.
“We have funds. Will we be able to purchase this sex?”
“Um. Yeah. Why? How much do you have?”
“Fifty six gold pieces, eleven silver, and thirty two copper pieces.”
Garry announced instantly. The room paused. Relc blinked a few times.
“Uh—yeah. I don’t think you’ll need—even a gold piece for some of the best is like—well, you could get an hour from Liscor’s best for one gold. Most’ll be a handful of silver…they have more money than I have! Klb’s holding out on us!”
He looked at Beilmark. Belgrade seemed shocked.
“These are very generous rates, especially if offspring will be produced from the act. A bargain.”
Relc choked on his spit.
“That…never happens, Belgrade, buddy. It’s a bad thing, uh, if it happens when you don’t want it.”
“What if we would like it to be so? Could we pay for this?”
Belgrade looked at Relc. It was Erin who answered. And she was getting angry.
“It’s more than you think. And I’m afraid you can’t do it easily, Belgrade. It’s not a light thing. And you shouldn’t encourage them, Relc! It can’t happen!”
She rounded on Relc. And she was angry now. This was going too far. Relc held up his claws.
“Hold up. They can get laid, Erin. I bet you some of the girls would go for it, especially in Liscor, just to say they did. Especially the big dude, Yellow Splatters.”
“What if we lack genitalia?”
Crash. Ishkr had just walked into a wall. Belgrade looked around innocently.
“Did I not say? We considered this might be an issue.”
“You lack…”
“Yes. See?”
Anand pulled back his loincloth. Erin recoiled—but there was nothing there. Just smooth chitin.
Everyone in the room looked at the Antinium. Relc’s jaw dropped. Then his spear dropped.
“Oh Ancestors. You poor guys.”
“Why is he upset?”
Yellow Splatters murmured to Anand. But most of the males in the room looked horrified. Menolit stared at the Antinium. Erin sighed.
They had never had genitalia to lose, which was sort of the point. But Relc just stared at the Antinium and then gave them all hugs.
“Ancestors. Not even once?”
“Is this a bad thing?”
“Can we not have sex, then?”
The Drake turned to the others. No one wanted to answer.
“I mean—you can do some things. But the big thing? No. I’m sorry.”
He put his claw solemnly on Belgrade’s shoulder. The Antinium sighed.
“Alas.”
“Relc, maybe we can take them to a brothel. Pay a male Drake and a female one. Or Gnolls. I know a few. At least let them see. And there are other things, yes?”
Beilmark was whispering to Relc. The Drake was nodding.
“Yeah, yeah. They can see it—”
“Absolutely not!”
Erin shouted. That was it. The room went still as the [Innkeeper]’s aura crashed down. And suddenly, there was silence.
Erin Solstice walked forwards. She glared at Relc, at Selys, at everyone. And she was angry.
“Are you all mad? They’re kids! Belgrade’s not even three! They just learned about clouds last year! They shouldn’t know about sex!”
She was so angry she was shaking. The others looked at her, unable to move or argue back. Relc was slowly raising one claw—Erin stared at him and his arm shook. But he seemed determined to speak. And if he did—Erin was gonna deck him. It was unacceptable. It was not right!
“Excuse me. May I speak?”
Someone spoke under the crushing weight of the aura. Erin blinked. Her control was such that even Lyonette was moving in slow-motion. Erin’s aura was fueled by anger. But it was Belgrade who was speaking.
Her anger was not directed at him. Now, the [Tactician] spoke brightly to Erin and the room. He nodded slightly at Erin.
“I would like to see sex. I would like to try it, whatever I can do with my limitations.”
Erin looked at him.
“Belgrade. I’m sorry, but no. It’s too early. And you’re too—”
“Young?”
“Yeah. Belgrade, you need to be adults before you have sex. At least eight—no, at least sixteen! Yeah! Sixteen! Wait—is it sixteen?”
Erin had to think. The Antinium looked at her. And then…they shook their heads.
“No, Erin. I would like to have it now. Please.”
Belgrade spoke quietly. Erin stared at him. She looked at Yellow Splatters, and Anand, and even Garry. And they were nodding.
“I as well.”
“I would like to try it.”
“If I could share it with all Antinium, I would.”
It was Belgrade who went on, speaking to Erin. Belgrade, who wept for the dead. Who was unsure of his place. But he spoke with a level voice, never looking away from Erin.
“I understand we are considered young by your standards, Miss Erin. But I would like to…try this thing known as sexual intercourse. Even if I cannot, even if I am young. For I am afraid we will never be the age you seek. Not sixteen. Or ten. Or even eight. Most Antinium never live past four years. I cannot remember one who has lived six years, besides the Queen and Revelator Klbkch.”
The other three Antinium nodded. They were hungry. In a way like children, but also…adults. Like people, wanting, searching for something they had never known existed. Just like a thirsty man longed for water even if he had never seen it in his life.
“I do not understand the pleasure of it. But I would like to.”
The [Trapsetter Tactician] looked around. He looked at Erin, and then touched his chest.
“You tell me I should wait. But I will never have that long. And I? I would like to leave something of myself behind when I die. Even if I go to Heaven. I would like to know what it is like to be with someone like that. Someone else, whom I share this moment with. That is what I understand. That is what I desire. I am sorry if I am wrong, Miss Erin. But this is how I feel.”
He bowed, and stepped back. And suddenly, Erin didn’t see the young, silly Antinium children. But that old look that not even her parents had known.
The look of someone who had buried too many friends, had seen too much sorrow. Had killed. Erin saw it in the mirror some days.
And she was suddenly ashamed. Her aura winked out and people moved, gasped. Erin stepped back. She was not blushing. That was embarrassment? This?
This was shame. Erin had fought, but for the wrong reason. She looked at Belgrade, who did not expect to grow to be six years old. And she covered her face.
“Don’t ever say that again, Belgrade. You’re not going to die before you turn sixteen. You’re going to live a long time. And—you’re going to experience so many things. I promise you.”
The [Tactician] turned to Erin. An adult, older than she. Who measured his age by his fallen comrades. And a child.
“You promise?”
“Yeah. But—”
Erin silently looked at Relc. The Drake cleared his throat.
“I could arrange something. But…yeah.”
“Is it something we have missed greatly? Something all Antinium should know?”
Yellow Splatters looked at Relc. And the [Sergeant] was greatly disturbed. Erin shook her head as the other hesitated.
“It’s just…part of life. One thing. I guess it can be good? But you don’t need it to live a full life, guys.”
Her voice was a question. And no one had the heart to contradict her. Because she was right and wrong. But perhaps—that was her perspective. The young woman wiped away her tears as everyone felt compelled to buy the Antinium a drink, or speculate on other experiences which were just as good as sex. Things for them to show their people.
And in time, a Hobgoblin came into the inn. Numbtongue felt refreshed. Sometimes you just needed some alone time. Especially with females all over, none of which he was comfortable having sex with. And it was hard finding a spot in the inn where someone wouldn’t notice or ask to play tag where you could relieve yourself.
He had to sit in a cave to feel properly isolated. The Hobgoblin paused as he saw the Antinium in the inn, caught up with the happenings.
“There’s more to life than just sex. And there’s beautiful things too.”
Erin was telling the Antinium. The [Bard] nodded, and smiled. He took his guitar out. And he began to play a gentle song. The Antinium looked at him.
“Beautiful.”
Anand whispered. Amid the discussions of sex, the Hobgoblin’s music was like a calming breeze. Which was what it was. The song was gentle, light. Meant to be played on a ukulele. And Erin knew it. She smiled. Numbtongue understood.
Somewhere Over the Rainbow. A song about dreams and wishes. If any song had a bit of magic in it, it was that one, played by Iz Kamakawiwo’ole. Erin clapped along softly, and then she began to sing.
Nothing that engendered sex here. Just music. A thing everyone could experience. And beautiful. Touching.
From their seats, the Wistram [Mages] listened. And Montressa glanced at Erin and Numbtongue, singing in harmony and looked at Palt.
“That Hobgoblin might have a step up on you.”
The Centaur paused. He looked at Numbtongue. And then he shook his head. The [Illusionist] slowly puffed on his cigar as he looked at Erin, thoughtfully.
“No. I don’t think he’s even scored a single point. And I don’t know if I have, either.”
That was all he said. And after a while, the Antinium stood up. Sex might be seen, or partaken in. Erin let them go with Relc. But the Senior Guardsman had a sudden thought as he went with the Antinium. He turned to Beilmark. And he was suddenly grave.
“Beil. Um…Antinium. Guys. You know, about your missing…do you…do you think that it’s possible—I mean, Klbkch looks different. And he’s Klb. But I’ve never heard—I mean, I thought it was him and the Queen or something. But does he not have…”
He gestured silently. Beilmark’s ears perked up. Belgrade and the others looked at each other.
“I cannot imagine why, Senior Guardsman Relc. He inhabited a Worker body before his new one. And I understand genitalia are a weak point.”
Relc stared. Then he leaned against the doorway.
“Oh no. No wonder he’s so angry—Beilmark. You take them. I’ve gotta—”
“Done.”
The Guardswoman was nodding. The Antinium stared at each other.
“Is it really that bad a thing?”
The female Gnoll shrugged as Anand looked at her.
“Males think so.”
 
——
 
Sex. Or lack thereof. How it dominated things, when you let it. But there were bypasses. Workarounds. Like the vial Xif was showing Octavia and Saliss.
[Alchemists] didn’t just do it explosively, they didn’t do it at all. Because they didn’t need to. With this. Octavia eyed the vial. It was, of course, shimmering a bit. But she’d seen a number of odd ingredients going into it.
“I’ve seen aphrodisiacs. But um…Master Xif, Master Saliss. What is this?”
The two [Alchemists] looked at each other. Saliss tapped the vial.
“This is a potion you can drink that makes you orgasm. It’s outlawed in Pallass, mainly because of the impropriety.”
“Org—you mean, it helps in bed?”
Saliss rolled his eyes and Xif grinned.
“No. I mean, you drink this? You have a good time. Not the same as aphrodisiac, or a love potion. Different effects. Some are more mental, others long-lasting without being as…dramatic. See, I’m not good at this. Which is why we’re here. Hey, Xif.”
“Saliss. I whipped up one dose since I heard you’d be bringing Miss Cotton here. Miss Cotton.”
“Master Xif.”
The two nodded stiffly at each other. Saliss just grinned.
“Don’t worry, Octavia. This isn’t an imposition. Xif is delighted to have you here.”
“Yes, using my ingredients and shop.”
“We’re paying you back for it. And you get your share.”
Saliss rubbed his claws together. Octavia looked around.
“I’m sorry, but why does this benefit Master Xif? Also, why is this potion here if it’s banned in Pallass?”
The Gnoll coughed. And Saliss chuckled.
“We’re teaching you the recipe. So we…have to make some. And it occurred to us that Liscor doesn’t ban these potions. Or…other cities in the north.”
The Stitch-Woman’s eyes went round.
“Oh! Then—there’s a new market? But this potion, will it sell?”
She eyed the potion dubiously. Something that bypassed all the pleasure of sex? How was that better than the real thing? But Saliss was just nodding.
“It will sell. The reason the Walled Cities banned them was because too many ingredients went towards making them. A huge market and we actually had a shortage of other potions.”
“Why? Because it was addictive?”
“Not alchemically. But—here. Try some if you want. As much as you care to.”
He offered Octavia the vial. She hesitated. It was common to try a potion’s effects so you knew what it did. She eyed Saliss, and then downed the vial in one.
Octavia paused. She knew better than to say ‘nothing happened’. She just had to wait for…
The Stitch-Girl felt heat suffuse her face. She looked down.
“Oh—”
“Shoot! We forgot about that. I’m gonna need a towel, Xif. You have clothes. Sorry, Octavia.”
“Absolutely not. Get your own towels! I’ll never use mine again if you take them! They’re good towels!”
The two [Alchemists] began fighting. Octavia…slowly leaned against the counter. Her knees had lost all strength. She felt lightheaded and every few seconds felt tremors of giddy feeling run through her entire body..
“Um—I—M-Master Saliss?”
“Don’t worry! It goes away after a while! But it’s great, right?”
“I—”
Octavia made a sound and covered her mouth, but she had to drop to the floor. Xif swore as Saliss grabbed a towel and wrapped it around his waist. Then the two [Alchemists] looked at the apprentice.
“Uh. I forgot how the first time goes. You alright, Cotton?”
Saliss eyed Octavia. The Stitch-Girl didn’t make a sound for about five minutes. Xif and Saliss retreated. When Octavia could stand up—she did so shakily.
“Whew. That—hold on—”
She had to catch her breath. Saliss ushered her to a chair.
“Shouldn’t have given you the full dose. I’m sorry. Here, take a seat—no, don’t talk for like, five more minutes.”
He ushered her to a seat. Saliss came over to Xif, looking embarrassed as Octavia let the aftershocks ride her into a wonderful place. Xif eyed Saliss. He gestured at Octavia.
“Is this inappropriate? You’re the one who gives me speeches on student-master relationships, Saliss.”
