That threw Yellow Splatters for a loop. He looked around and found the two Soldiers, who were sitting and reading books together. They were inseparable; they were the only two survivors, after all. They had been found, dancing among the slaughter.
A miracle, like the ones Pawn prayed for. Yellow Splatters felt for the two; he had even determined to make sure they were never put in that situation again. But they had not taken on a set paint yet; they were thinking of who they would be. And…he could admit they had different names than most Soldiers.
But…female? Yellow Splatters felt the need to clarify.
“Names do not define gender. Do they?”
“Chesacre and Thaina inform me they are female. Why would I doubt their sendings?”
Belgrade gave Yellow Splatters a blank look. Of course, other Soldiers did not speak, but they had adopted their own sign language—learned from Mrsha and made up themselves—and they could communicate in a…mental way. It was something Yellow Splatters felt himself. The [Sergeant] had to disagree, though.
“But Soldiers are neither male nor female, Belgrade. We are.”
“You do not identify as male?”
“…No. Why would I?”
“I do. My name is masculine. So is Pawn’s. They are based on the greatest chess players of Erin’s world. Well, except Pawn’s. But he thinks he is male.”
“Surely it is not a choice?”
“It is. And I am concerned about the possibility of female pregnancies! What is so hard to understand?”
Belgrade was growing increasingly agitated. Babies could appear out of nowhere! And, apparently, you had to feed them sweets, take care of them, make sure they didn’t work too hard…two would be fine, but many? He was worried.
Yellow Splatters on the other hand had a bit more insight than Belgrade in one area. Slowly, he leaned forwards.
“Belgrade.”
“Yes?”
“I believe you misunderstand one thing about gender.”
“Which is?”
“Biologically, I believe gender is determined on genitalia.”
“What? Why would that be the case?”
“Isn’t there a difference?”
Belgrade had to think about this.
“And if there is?”
“We should at least make sure the biological risk of pregnancy is tied to genitalia, correct?”
Belgrade thought about this.
“…Yes. I suppose that would be a contributing factor towards pregnancies. I didn’t actually ask how the sex entailed; no one would accept my offer to pay to observe this.”
The [Sergeant] nodded slowly.
“Then, let us assume pregnancy does depend on that aspect.”
“Yes. And?”
Slowly, the [Sergeant] pointed at his loincloth. He removed it, casually.
Not all the Antinium wore loincloths. Indeed, only the ones who went above did. Most of them didn’t wear clothing at all; it wasn’t needed. But other species made a fuss and it was the rules, so the Antinium obeyed. But now, Yellow Splatters removed his clothing, such as it was. Belgrade stared down at his groin.
“Yes?”
“I do not believe we have either markings of male or female.”
“Really? Are you sure?”
Belgrade inspected the smooth chitin. Yellow Splatters nodded carefully.
“We have a disposal valve.”
“That takes place in sex. But I will admit…I don’t see the other two parts I was instructed to look for. And the disposal orifice is apparently only for advanced experts in sex.”
“Really? Why would you use that area?”
“…They didn’t really say. Then…is pregnancy not a danger to the Antinium?”
Belgrade relaxed. Yellow Splatters nodded.
“Evidently not.”
“But Chesacre and Thaina informed me they are female.”
“Then they are. What is the problem with that? I think it is a good tool to further differentiate Antinium.”
The two looked at each other. Belgrade nodded.
“Indeed. Perhaps other Antinium are female. Fascinating. Is Klbkch female? The Grand Queen?”
They thought about this.
“…Klbkch is probably male. And the Grand Queen female.”
“Biologically, I understand she is. And that Klbkch’s original gender was male.”
“With genitalia?”
“I did not ask him. Would you like to ask?”
“…No. But how do you know so much about this, Yellow Splatters? I had considered myself an authority, even if Miss Erin will not explain the rest to me until I am older.”
Belgrade looked at Yellow Splatters, impressed. The [Sergeant] paused, and for the first time, was truly uncomfortable.
“I should not say.”
“Why? Is it something Klbkch has told you?”
“No…”
“Then why is it not permissible to speak?”
Belgrade looked at Yellow Splatters with the innocent inquisition of someone who really didn’t know. And Yellow Splatters paused only for a moment, because the Antinium outside of Klbkch and the Grand Queen really didn’t keep secrets from one another. It was just an instinct that made him hesitate.
“Well, I have received all this information secondhand. From Pawn. He, I understand, has talked about sex with Lyonette. She tells him many things. And he has seen female genitalia.”
“Really?”
“Yes. And she hugs him and they sit in her room.”
Yellow Splatters realized he was talking in a vacuum. Every other Antinium in the room had turned to stare at him. The [Sergeant] paused, and for once, understood the word ‘gossip.’ But it was too late. Belgrade scooted forwards.
“He did not tell me this. Tell me more.”
“I—understand massages are involved. And hand-holding. But Pawn would know more. I…think it would be wise to be silent, now.”
“…What are massages?”
It was a question that would begin a very eventful little day in The Wandering Inn in earnest.
 
——
 
“Your meal, sir.”
Garry the [Chef] sat in an outdoor café, waiting for his order. When it came, he stared at the glistening pasta, seasoned with white alfredo sauce and herbs, with delight. The Gnoll [Waitress] bowed slightly, stared at him, and saw the Antinium pick up his fork.
“Thank you very much, Miss. I am very happy to partake of it. Do I tip you now? Erin told me it is very important to tip people.”
“No, that comes later. If you would like. Er…sir.”
The Antinium Worker nodded. He picked up the knife and fork and carefully collected some noodles. He was on holiday. He had gotten his…third holiday ever. The Free Queen had given him money, and let Garry go to the city.
Normally, Garry would go straight to The Wandering Inn, but today he wanted to be…adventurous. So here he was, in an outdoor café, a ritzy one, eating good food to expand his own repertoire of recipes.
Garry could eat pasta. He could eat gluten, come to that, because he was a [Chef]. And any decent [Chef] learned a Skill to internalize any food—or make any food he served or ate tolerable.
It was Garry’s new Skill—[Non-Allergen Cooking]. And he wanted to be the first one to serve his fellow Antinium pasta. And bread! All the bread they could eat.
So Garry, with great anticipation, took a bite of his pasta-salad paired with some fine bread and wine. It was a fancy dish, and all the other posh diners were staring out of the corner of their eyes at the Antinium Worker sitting in their midst.
The Worker chewed happily—for two seconds. Then—his mandibles opened. He put down his fork.
“I am very sorry to say this, Miss Waitress, but I fear the pasta is rotten. You may wish to inform the [Chef].”
Instantly, the other diners in the restaurant spat out their food. The Gnoll waitress looked horrified.
“Are you sure, sir?”
“Absolutely.”
Garry pointed at his bite of pasta.
“This cheese is sour. I believe it has been expired, which is not a flaw in my cooking, but in this restaurant…”
Instantly, the diners relaxed. There was a laugh that ran around the tables. The [Waitress] laughed too, relieved.
“Oh, no! That’s the meal, sir.”
Garry stared at the Gnoll.
“But this cheese is sour. Therefore, it is rotten.”
“Sour cheese is a delicacy. Mister, uh, Garry. You pair it with the proper foods.”
The Gnoll [Waitress] explained patiently. Garry stared at her. Slowly, he tasted the cheese, and the delicate mix of vegetables with the sauce. And then the wine.
“Oh. I see. I retract my comments.”
“Is it to your liking, sir?”
“It is very flavorful.”
Garry was truthful. And it was. It was good cooking. Sour cheese was awful, horrendous if eaten on its own, but that was why you mixed it with other food. You created an experience with some wine, other mixes of flavor—
There was just one problem. Garry finished his plate of course, he always finished his plate. And he tipped the Gnoll [Waitress] well enough to make her smile and thank him profusely. But he looked at the gold coins he put on the table.
It was okay. But could you make this for a thousand Soldiers and Workers? Or one hungry Free Queen? Garry walked away from the café, not in as good a mood as when he’d sat down.
He thought about the money he had spent, that his Queen had given him. That he could have bought nice things with, for the other Workers and Soldiers. And Garry felt bad and didn’t like the sour, expensive dish.
His head hung low, Garry decided not to go to the next restaurant. He could have bought so much food for his fellow Antinium. What was the purpose of a fancy meal only one person could eat? It went against his ideals as a [Chef].
And—speak of them already—Garry looked up with surprise as he saw more Antinium headed towards him.
“Garry! Garry, we must sequester your aid. It is an emergency!”
Belgrade waved his arms, all four of them as he shouted. He was accompanied by Anand and Yellow Splatters. Garry stared.
It was not unusual to see his fellow Antinium—well, it was, since Garry was so often attending to the Free Queen. But it was astonishing to see them above in Liscor today.
“Belgrade, Anand, Yellow Splatters. What are you doing? The Hive is supposed to be closed.”
Revalantor Klbkch had forbidden any of the Painted Antinium from going above after the Bird incidents. He had—not been happy about Bird.
Only the Free Queen had overridden his restrictions to give Garry the day off. But the other Antinium were either having an emergency…or defying Klbkch’s orders.
Unthinkable. But something impelled the Antinium upwards. And that thing was—
“Sex?”
Garry stared at Belgrade. The Worker nodded.
“Apparently, sex is something other species have. But—and this is my opinion which Anand and Yellow Splatters do not share—I believe sex can lead to unwanted phenomena such as pregnancy!”
“What is that?”
“Something that happens between males and females. Which Antinium are not.”
“Chesacre and Thaina say—”
“They are not female.”
“They say they are. I believe them.”
Yellow Splatters’ arms were folded. Anand looked between Belgrade and Yellow Splatters.
“This is why we are here, Garry. The matter must not wait. If Belgrade is right—all the Antinium could become pregnant. That might make Revalantor Klbkch angry indeed.”
His antennae were flailing with his anxiety. Garry was stunned. All of them…pregnant? He hadn’t thought about it.
“How?”
“We don’t know! We have come above to find out! It could be triggered by sexual intercourse, whatever that is. Maybe—massages? Or hugging? Hand holding? These are all displays of intimacy!”
“Hugging? Hand holding?”
The Antinium looked at each other. This was indeed serious. Serious enough to disobey Klbkch over, even. Garry thought about the food he’d eaten. And he was ashamed. He straightened, and put his hand on his purse.
“I see. This matter concerns the Hive. In that case, you have my support. Was Revalantor Klbkch informed?”
“We…thought it best not to tell him. He need not know about this.”
The other Antinium looked at each other. And rebellion was born of that carnal passion which brought down even empire. Garry nodded.
“In that case, friends, come. I have funds allocated to me by the Free Queen. Let us see if anyone will teach us the intricacies of sex. I only hope I have enough.”
The Antinium nodded. Four now, they turned. The first person they saw was a Drake. They approached him at speed. Yellow Splatters stopped the Drake, who looked alarmed.
“What is it? Raskghar? Oh dead gods, is it the moths again?”
“No, citizen. We merely seek information on…sex.”
“We are willing to pay you for a demonstration. Or to partake of it with us.”
Belgrade offered the Drake some coins. He stared at the four Antinium. And then he backed away slowly. And then turned to run. Belgrade turned to the other Antinium as the Drake fled, shouting for the Watch.
“See? I told you. Handholding. We may already be pregnant.”
 
——
 
When you got down to it, what was sex? It wasn’t something you had to explain to anyone who had partaken, but even someone who thought they understood the concept could be surprised.
And surely—every parent who had ever had that question pop up dreaded the conversation like nothing else. Because it meant their children would have…sex. Or were at that age.
I mean—sex. Just fine when you had it yourself. No problems there? But a kid? And how did you explain it to them? Especially in a way that conveyed…everything?
Erin Solstice didn’t know. But she thought she understood some of her parent’s pain over their conversations.
“Sex! Sex! Seeeeeex!”
A Gnoll cub raced past Erin on the floor, laughing and shouting the word. Erin covered her face with both hands. Ekirra and Mrsha were howling with laughter as they raced about, playing tag and as Ekirra shouted the word.
He’d learned another one at her inn. His playdates to The Wandering Inn were in jeopardy. But it wasn’t her fault. Despairingly, Erin looked up.
At Relc, Senior Guardsman of the Watch. And his four…criminals. Who had attempted to accost Liscor’s citizens for inappropriate acts.
Belgrade, Anand, Yellow Splatters, and Garry looked up at Erin apprehensively. They had been marched into Erin’s inn and the situation had been explained to her.
Relc had brought them. But the Drake was hardly putting them in chains. He and Drassi were leaning on the bar, laughing so hard they were close to puking. So were Selys and half the inn.
“Sex? How did you—who told you about that?”
“I was informed of the dangers of pregnancy here, Erin.”
Belgrade shook like a leaf, fearful of punishment. Erin wanted to hug him, but she had to fold her arms first.
“Sex is—you can’t go around and ask people for sex, guys!”
“Yeah, you have to be subtle. They were going up to strangers—half of them blokes—and asking—for sex—for gold—”
Relc choked as he guffawed. He inhaled, came close to passing out as he laughed himself over the bar’s counter. Drassi tried to haul him up and fell over.
“I do not see what is so funny. Sex is not a good thing. It can lead to pregnancy. Or have I been misinformed?”
