“Eh. Nuance, Xif. She’s learning it. I’m not giving them to her regularly. And I’m not banning her from having a good time or smoking—well, I do ban smoking in my lab. But hush. If you didn’t like it, why’d you jump at the chance to make a few?”
The Gnoll [Alchemist] shrugged.
“I have no problem with them. You’re the reason they were banned.”
Saliss’ brows drew together. He leaned over and snapped.
“Some people need them more than others. Dullahans have problems. Young Drakes and Gnolls and Garudas don’t. Shut up and help me brew a teaching batch with Octavia and I’ll let you keep two bottles. And I’ll get you back into Erin’s good books if I can.”
Xif pursed his lips. Saliss would be walking away with most of them, but two bottles was…he nodded. Good for yourself, good for gifts, good for sale. But addictive in its own way. Also—hard to make.
“…How about some of the other fires?”
“You have the pink one.”
Saliss shook his head as he turned away from Octavia. He began setting up the ingredients and equipment they needed. Then he picked up the empty vial. He looked at Octavia, she was bending over, putting her head between her legs.
A wonderful experience. And yet, it was still a potion. With this, you could experience one of the things that made sex so great. And—arguably, experience it better than most could the old-fashioned way.
But people conflated that with the entire thing. Saliss paused.
“Alchemy. Who needs love?”
He only looked a bit sad as he said it. Then he tossed the vial aside and got to work.
 
——
 
“Well, I think I’ve learned a lot today.”
Fierre nibbled on the tip of her quill as she finished writing. Ryoka reached for a drink with lemon in it. The two young women were flushed in the small room.
They had just gone through a lot. From the discussion of sexuality as a broader thing than male or female, to the different ways people identified. Things from Earth. Which would be useful. Valuable?
Perhaps, perhaps not. Ryoka had told Fierre because she wanted the young Vampire to know. Not about Earth, but things that were important from there.
Like diseases. Ryoka looked at Fierre, whom she was pretty certain had some super-magical immunodeficiency syndrome. Could you get that from…
A kiss? Fierre’s pale lips were stained with a bit of ink. It was not the sexy look the Vampire girl was going for. But…her deep red irises drew Ryoka in. As did her teeth.
“So…about the way two girls have…sex. You showed me and told me, but uh—you know, it’s hard to visualize it without seeing. Do you think you could…elaborate?”
Elaborate. Ryoka felt a tingle along her spine. She looked at Fierre. Play dumb.
“How do you mean, elaborate?”
“We-ell…it’s not much, but the room’s secure from everything. And um…some of the things sound interesting. I’m open-minded. If you wanted…”
The Vampire girl smiled at Ryoka. And Ryoka felt her mind flying off in multiple directions.
 
You don’t like girls. You’ve tried that. I mean—you don’t like them as much as—
Shut up! Look at those lips! We could go for that! We have been dying over here!
Could be STDs—
Can you get something from a finger? What if she wears…gloves?
 
And most of all—Ryoka shivered. She liked Fierre. She thought she did. A lot. Fierre was like her. A girl with a secret. A different perspective.
Immortal. Strong enough to put Ryoka through a wall. Now, why was that alluring when Ryoka never liked tough guys? She licked her lips.
“I…could. Show you something.”
“Just one or two things. Maybe.”
Fierre slid along her desk. Her chair screeched a bit. That nearly brought Ryoka out of it as Fierre did that thing where she stood up and pulled the chair with her.
Oh no. She was not a Vampire seductress, even like her mother tried to be. But Ryoka was really…really…
They both had trousers on. You could do a lot with clothes. Ryoka stared at Fierre. It would be…and you didn’t have to be unsafe. The Vampire sat next to Ryoka after a bit of a struggle getting the chair over her desk. She leaned over.
And Ryoka felt something touch her just over the crotch of her pants. She jumped and felt goose bumps. Okay. If she hadn’t thought she was into it—
That changed her mind. Ryoka stared at Fierre. The Vampire was close, but she had no body heat.
“If you wanted to show me…”
And why not? They were so alike. Ryoka gulped hard. So alike.
So alike.
Abruptly, Ryoka pushed Fierre back and stood up. The Vampire recoiled, so quickly her movements were unnatural. She looked up at Ryoka.
“I’m sorry. I can’t. It’s not a good idea.”
Ryoka’s voice trembled. She was breathing fast. Fierre looked up at her.
“Why not?”
“It’s not you. It’s me. Wait, that’s stupid. I’m sorry. But I think…I’ve tried it before. Boys. And girls.”
Ryoka stammered, her thoughts in a whirl. She was trying to explain. Fierre was drawing back, hurt, but Ryoka had to explain. She looked at the Vampire girl.
“It’s not that I wouldn’t try it. Or that I’m not attracted to you Fierre, because I am.”
“So. What?”
Now the Vampire’s voice was cold. Definitely hurt. Ryoka pulled at her hair.
“I…I…I’ve done it before. I’ve tried to be with someone. Even though I liked them. Loved them. For a hot second. But it’s never worked. I couldn’t even have friends. Fierre, you know what I’m like.”
The Vampire hesitated. The hostility halted for a moment and she looked at Ryoka. After a second, she spoke.
“Bad days?”
“Yes.”
Ryoka closed her eyes. She put her palms over her eyes and sat down.
“I’m sorry. But I can’t. It’d just—make me—I’m not ready. I don’t want to hurt you and I can’t lose you as a friend.”
She sat there, shaking, lust faded. Ryoka muttered into the ground.
“I don’t want to lose my friend. I don’t want to…change that between us. And it would. I can’t even be a good friend. I left the other ones behind. I left…a little kid alone because I’d burn everything down. If I can’t do that, how can I have a relationship?”
She just sat there, shattering. Fierre stared at Ryoka, wide-eyed. Then she raised her gloved hands, made herself laugh.
“I was kidding! It was a joke. I’m charming you. Obviously.”
She saw the young woman look up. Ryoka brushed at her eyes, refusing to take the offered lie.
“No. You weren’t. But it’s fine to experiment, you know. There’s nothing wrong with liking other people. No matter who you are.”
She had to be honest. Tell Fierre that. The Vampire girl looked at her. Then she went back behind her desk with her chair. She reached for something and pulled it out.
“It’s different for Vampires. There are so few of us, and most are related. And Humans—we can’t just casually…I’ve tried it a few times, but it was a mess. They have to be drunk and not notice how cold I am. And I just want to drink—”
Her teeth shone in the light. But the drink Fierre pulled out wasn’t blood, but alcohol. And blood. She mixed the two into a shot glass and Ryoka smelled strong spirits. The kind that went above 90-proof without killing you. Well…that you could theoretically survive. Magical liquor. It made Ryoka start crying—
No, she’d already begun before that. The young woman blinked as Fierre poured her a drink.
“I see. I’m sorry.”
The Vampire girl smiled. But she looked at Ryoka and the two stared at each other. Ryoka took the glass full of oblivion. Then she had to laugh. Because Fierre hadn’t tossed her out. She still had her friend.
Thank god.
“We’re so fucked.”
“Two messed up girls. I won’t even ask you how you know all that about sex.”
“I was a [Sex Guru] in a previous life.”
Fierre choked on her blood cocktail. Ryoka laughed as she drank and coughed. The two coughed and drank and eventually, Fierre sighed.
“At least I have toys.”
“What, really? They have those here?”
“Where are you from? I couldn’t have them at my home. One time, Fluffles the Fourth found my um…you know. And she was carrying it around and my father found it—”
Ryoka began laughing. Fierre laughed too, her pale cheeks tinged with color.
“No way. I’ve been, well, making do. I had no idea—Erin hinted they had some dildos in Liscor, but—really? You can buy them? Tell me where and I’ll go yesterday.”
Fierre laughed.
“There’s a black market. And trust me, there’s variety. Well, there’s aphrodisiac potions too. Virility potions. Magical artifacts…”
“Artifacts? Like what?”
“Ryoka. Artifacts. You want a good time? Illusions? [Mages] get horny too. And trust me—there’s a demand for them.”
The young woman was laughing. In relief. Because she felt like she’d made the right choice. She looked at Fierre, laughing, smiling, trying not to cry.
“You mean, there are magical sex machines?”
“Those are called Golems, Ryoka.”
 
——
 
Sometimes people didn’t have sex. And that was as significant as when they did. Goblins—Goblins had it easy in a way.
They didn’t dance about it. They had a different idea of how sex worked. Of course, they also had such passions because you could die tomorrow.
Win some and lose some. But sometimes…it was hard.
Dawil found Falene at the bottom of her cups at the bar. She was alone; she was in fact, helping herself to the inn’s liquor.
“Go away, Dwarf.”
Falene waved a hand at one of the Dawils haunting her. She was past light intoxication and readiness for a few questionable choices. She was fully maudlin and trying for oblivion.
“You’re looking poor, half—Falene.”
Dawil caught himself. Falene wasn’t in the mood for their regular sparring sessions. The half-Elf ignored him.
“Go on, mock me.”
“…Nah. Don’t you worry about the lad, either. He didn’t notice a thing. Poor fellow got pulled in by a [Drinker]. Or was it a [Drunk]?”
Falene sniffed.
“But you’ll remember.”
“Shan’t say a word, even if you remember this. Which I doubt, frankly.”
The [Axe Champion] eyed the empty bottles around Falene. Wistram [Mages] could put away alcohol. He was beginning to think the academy had a problem. Falene sniffed a few more times. She had snot running down one delicate nostril.
“I just—I know it was a bad idea. But I’m tired of the road. I don’t mind it, but finding a partner—”
“Aye. Tough.”
“What would you know? You’re short. I’m a half-Elf. You can find company. Men see me and I’m a trophy. They can brag about it. But I want someone who at least—”
Falene put her head down. Dawil patted her awkwardly on the back. He reached for a glass as Falene tried to tell him about Feor, and her faction…and why Ylawes was a good second-choice—and she’d really just wanted a night—
The Dwarf nodded and patted her shoulder and tried not to let her kill herself drinking. He sighed.
Children. Sometimes he felt like an adult leading two brats around. But then he looked at Falene and sighed.
Aging slower than Humans sometimes really was a problem. He envied Ylawes, sometimes. A [Knight] in shining armor? You had to ward his doors at night.
Literally. And that didn’t even count teammates.
 
——
 
 
A life without sex wasn’t so bad. If you had a purpose, it didn’t matter. If you’d never had it, what was there to regret?
But it was probably good to relax people. Sometimes, it wouldn’t help. But you could probably correlate it.
At any rate, someone who was incapable of it was making a beeline towards The Wandering Inn. And he had two swords.
Klbkchhezeim of the Free Antinium walked in a murderous mood. He was addressing Tkrn, who was regretting bringing the news to the Antinium Senior Guardsman.
“They. Went. Above? Without my permission?”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman, but Relc and Beilmark got them and brought them to the inn—”
“I see. I will deal with them there. You may go, Guardsman Tkrn.”
The Gnoll hesitated. He had seen people like this before. And walking away usually meant someone was dead the next hour. But he hesitated—
Because Klbkch was really not in a good mood. And the Slayer Klbkch was out. Tkrn was bracing himself. He’d made mistakes once. If he got stabbed, well…he owed it to the Watch and the one Guardsman who’d been kind to him. He was preparing to reach out and duck when someone stepped out in front of the gates.
Relc. He blocked the way towards The Wandering Inn. And his face was grave.
“Klb—”
“Move aside, Relc. I have a discipline issue to address. I have let it go on for far too long.”
Klbkch was vibrating with anger. And his hands were on his sword hilts. Relc stared at them, and then he shook his head.
“Not now, Klb. Come on, let’s have a drink.”
The Antinium stared at Relc. The Drake was uncharacteristically sober. Klbkch hesitated.
“Has something happened?”
“What? Nah…nah…”
“Something has clearly happened. What?”
“We just want to buy you a drink, Klbkch. Come on. The lads are all here.”
Jeiss stepped out of the shadows. The Senior Guardsman and Councilman wore a similar look. And then Klbkch saw more Guardsmen. Some seniors, others regular ones.
All with that look of…Klbkch hesitated.
“What? Why? I have work to do—”
“We’ll cover your shift. It’s all set. Captain Z herself gave the all-clear. Come on.”
“No, I must—what is going on? I am busy. Hello?”
Before Klbkch knew it, the other [Guards] had seized his arms and were towing him in the direction of Wishdrinks. Relc shook his head. Tkrn stared at him.
“Senior Guardsman Relc?”
Had he heard about Klbkch’s mood? This was smooth, for Relc! The Drake looked at Tkrn.
“I guess you heard? I’m just torn up about it. Come on, we’ve booked Wishdrinks. When they heard—they’re giving us a special time. We’ve gotta have a good time, for Klb.”
“What? What happened?”
“You haven’t heard? Oh…oh man. Tkrn…listen…this is gonna break your heart. Klb—he—I can’t say it—”
A little while later, the Antinium Guardsman found himself in Wishdrinks. Everyone was plying him with alcohol, and asking how he felt. Even the staff were giving him special treatment.
Klbkch had no idea why. But the Watch was filling the room. Mostly male Guardsmen, but some female ones. They were acting like they were at a wake.
“I do not understand.”
“I can’t imagine. I heard of a fellow—got hit in that spot. Just…pulled out a wand and blew his head off after two months. You’ve been like this for years? I respect that.”
Jeiss was talking, toasting Klbkch. The Antinium stared at him, then the female Drake.
Watch Captain Zevara. She stared at Klbkch. Cleared her throat a few times.
