Belgrade looked anxious. But that was him. Anand was giving Erin a resigned look—he’d clearly figured out this was a misunderstanding. Yellow Splatters’ arms were folded and he was looking uncertain. And Garry…he waved at Erin.
“Hello, Erin. I am sorry to bother you on your day off. And to be arrested.”
Erin spared a smile for the least-seen Worker.
“Hi Garry, I am happy to see you. But—guys. What is with today and sex?”
“It’s a sign, Erin.”
Selys called out from her table. There were a lot of chuckles from around Erin’s inn. Not just from her regulars. Erin glowered around and saw Montressa and Beza trying not to snigger. Palt was smoking furiously and she knew he was hiding a smile.
“Oi! Smoke!”
“I’m venting it. See?”
The [Smoker] pointed. The haze was streaming out an open window. Erin threw her hands up.
“Alright, laugh! I don’t think it’s funny!”
“It’s hilarious, Erin. These four finally want to have sex and—”
Relc pulled himself over the bar. He laughed at Erin.
“Who was gonna arrest ‘em? Watch Captain Z just said to send them here. It’s your problem.”
“She said that?”
Erin’s look of chagrin made even Lyonette laugh. But the [Princess] was staring at the Antinium. At last, she came over.
“Well, I suppose we’d better tell them about sex, Erin. So this doesn’t happen again. Pawn should be able to do it. He’s actually in the city.”
“What?”
The other Antinium looked at Lyonette. She blinked.
“Pawn. He’s in the city. Buying things. Um…didn’t he tell you?”
“He said he was going above. Despite the restrictions Revalantor Klbkch placed?”
“Restrictions? Pawn said he had a special allowance.”
The [Princess] looked astonished. Then her eyes narrowed.
“Typical. Well…I suppose he decided to lie.”
She smiled about it for some reason. Erin stared at Lyonette.
“I don’t think we should encourage the Antinium to break rules, Lyonette.”
Even if she was her own bad kid who’d run away from home. Lyonette blinked at Erin, and then she blushed furiously.
“Right. I meant—well, that’s one thing. Before Pawn gets here—we do have to do some explaining. First off, Belgrade, no one is getting pregnant from hand-holding.”
“…Hugging? Massages?”
Lyonette turned beet red. Erin blinked at her and then at Belgrade. Her eyes slowly narrowed—
“No. Sex is totally different. It’s—well, I might have to get a diagram.”
“I know! It’s when a male and a female get in bed! And grunt a lot! And the bed gets wet, but it’s not pee! It happens all the time!”
Ekirra raced over. Erin covered her eyes again.
“Ekirra, dear, why don’t you play in the garden with Visma? She’s helping beautify the pond.”
The Drake was indeed putting shiny stones in the pond, or rather, choosing the shiny ones Numbtongue brought back from his expeditions and putting the ones she didn’t want on the pond floor.
“Why? It happens all the time.”
“All the time?”
The Antinium stared as the little Gnoll nodded solemnly. So did Mrsha. Then they fell over each other, laughing. They were enjoying this. Erin was not.
“It’s serious! Ekirra, in the Garden. You too, Mrsha!”
“They know about sex, Erin. I keep telling you—Ishkr, tell her.”
The Gnoll [Waiter] paused as he swept the floor. He looked at Erin, and at Selys, who was waving him over into the discussion.
“…I’m just working. I’d like to keep working, please.”
Ishkr retreated out of the conversation. Relc chortled.
“Look, boys, it’s simple. Sex is where you take your thing, and you go like—”
It was amazing how with two hands he could break down sex into a single motion. One hand pointed, and two fingers made a circle and—Erin shouted.
“Relc! Come on!”
“Can you give details, please?”
Belgrade and Anand were taking furious notes. Relc was only too happy to, as were other members of the inn. Erin threw up her hands.
“Perverts!”
“Erin, how else are they going to learn? Isn’t it better for them to learn?”
That reasonable question came from Selys. Erin hesitated. She looked at the Workers, who had gone over to a table with some of the guests willing to talk to them about sex. It was entertainment to the guests and…well, they did have to know.
“I guess.”
Erin subsided. She still felt embarrassed—doubly so when Ekirra leapt around singing about what he’d seen.
“Ekirra, dear.”
Lyonette’s voice was stern and made the little Gnoll pause, warily. Erin stared askance as he ducked his head and stopped laughing around.
“Hey! That didn’t work with me.”
“Because I’m the mean, strict mother and person managing this inn. And you’re the cool boss.”
The [Princess] grinned at Erin’s expression. The young woman stared as Belgrade asked Ulevissia.
“So you’re sure that there is no pregnancy from any act other than inserting the…what did you call it?”
“Penis.”
“Shaft.”
“Thing.”
“Second-spear? Mini-Relc?”
“…These are a lot of terms. Are you sure they refer to the same organ?”
Laughter from around the room. Even Erin’s lips twitched. It was so…vulgar? Well, that or silly. And all the regulars had their own opinions.
“Yes, and you should give someone a gift. You have to court someone before you can have sex, dear little Belgrade.”
Ulevissia was telling the [Tactician]. Relc laughed.
“Not if it’s a single night. Then, you only have to use one of your best pickup lines. I’ll teach you a few. Okay, if they’re a Gnoll you say—”
More laughter as half of the crowd told Relc to stop giving bad advice. Erin shook her head. And then she heard someone cursing.
“Lizard-faced harpy. Gifts? That’s how females suck you dry. You pay a day’s pay and what do they do?”
That remark stood out to Erin in the crowd, as did the sour expression and what she sensed—dark anger. Erin turned.
“Hey. Menolit. Do you have a problem?”
The Drake [Veteran] stopped cursing Ulevissia under his breath. He glanced up, and then away from Erin.
“Sorry, Miss Solstice.”
Erin looked back over at the Drake [Mage]-[Tinkerer], but she hadn’t heard Menolit. She went over to Menolit’s table, sensing his dark mood at Ulevissia’s comments.
“What’s wrong? Most women don’t need gifts, you know, Menolit.”
She stared down at the Drake. She knew Menolit, and his upset expression and—she realized she was looking at his tail for signs of his mood. But most of his tail was gone, leaving only a stump.
The Drake [Veteran] noticed Erin’s glance. He bared his teeth.
“Don’t mind me. I was just going to tell those Antinium it’s not all about romance or how you do in bed. If you don’t get there, what’s the point? It’s harder when you’re disfigured is all I want to say, Erin.”
His expression twisted. And Erin sensed and saw his bleak expression.
“Hey. I’m sorry.”
She sat down at his table. Menolit turned his head, embarrassed, cursing.
“Fuck me like a lizard—don’t mind me, Miss Solstice. I’m just an idiot.”
“No you’re not. Is it…hard? Is it really that bad in Liscor?”
The [Veteran] looked at Erin. He indicated his tail.
“This? Yeah. You don’t know. Which is why I like it here. Gnolls don’t see it as much, but they’ve lived here long enough. It’s like missing part of my face. It happens in battle, but rarely. Drakes don’t strike each other’s tails if we can help it. But when it’s me and half a dozen fellows at a bar, there’s no point competing and I’m hardly rich or funny—”
He cut himself off.
“Don’t mind me.”
But Erin did mind. She reached out. And caught herself.
A trite comment would have been to say that he’d find someone. It would be thoughtless. ‘You don’t need sex, I’m fine’, would also…not apply to him. Erin looked at Menolit.
“…You know, Humans don’t care about tails. Look at me. I think Relc’s a great guy, and I don’t even notice what people say about him.”
She nodded at Relc. Menolit glanced up. He half-grinned, half-grimaced at her. And his mood didn’t really change. Erin could feel his black fury and despair and hurt, oh, the hurt, while he sat in her inn.
She was growing as an [Innkeeper]. Menolit spat his response.
“I’d—wonder if you’d give me a chance, then, Miss Solstice?”
He looked at her, challengingly. Erin hesitated.
“I’m not dating anyone.”
“Right. But if you were…I imagine it would be someone in your species, or someone like…Olesm Swifttail. Someone else. Someone with high levels or…”
Menolit didn’t finish. He laughed harshly. And paused, as Erin reached out.
“Hey. Stop that.”
She looked at him, squeezing his wrist hard. Erin Solstice looked at Menolit.
“I’m not interested in you, Menolit. I shouldn’t have said that about Humans. But it doesn’t matter what you look like to me.”
She met his eyes. Menolit paused, searching them. Then he shrugged.
“…Wish every woman was like you, Miss Erin.”
“Nah. We bleed too much each month.”
He laughed at that. Then shook his head.
“…I’m sorry. Can I—I’d like to order something. The fire drink. The—Minotaur’s Punch.”
Erin hesitated, but what else could she do? She nodded.
“Drassi—”
The [Bartender] went to her bar and fetched the pink flame, mixing the drink of glory and nostalgia. It hurt, but not as much as the Faerie Flower drink raw. Erin brought it back to Menolit.
“On the house.”
“Thank you.”
He saluted her, crisply, and then drank. Erin saw him go somewhere else for a second. Then—Menolit heaved himself up and joined the laughing conversation.
Perhaps not better, but at least it was something. Erin wandered back to the bar, feeling sad for him. But she couldn’t fix the world’s ills. But maybe if she circulated the thought among some of her female regulars…
Here she was doing it. Erin blinked. But it was different for someone else—
“Psst, Erin.”
Lyonette drew the [Innkeeper] aside. She sighed as Erin looked at her quizzically.
“You can’t give all these drinks on the house, Erin.”
“But he’s a regular…”
The [Princess] stopped Erin.
“We have to mix the Minotaur’s Shots with flammable alcohol. That’s not as cheap as mead or ale. That’s the eighteenth ‘on the house’ drink in the last two days! You get a limit of…four per day. Fine?”
“Okay.”
Erin sighed. She looked at Belgrade and Anand and Garry and Yellow Splatters. Then she heard the clip-clop of hooves.
“Erin, is now a bad time?”
“I’m not explaining the birds and the bees to you, Palt.”
The Centaur smiled.
“I assume that’s a metaphor?”
“Yeah. Anyways, it’s weird. Do you—is it—nah.”
Erin waved a hand. The Centaur nodded, adjusting his cigar in his mouth. He paused.
“…It’s one of those things everyone learns about, I suppose. But I’m sure they’ll learn enough. And you don’t need to hover over them. Why not take a break? I’ve been meaning to treat you to a meal in the city. Take an hour off?”
Lyonette looked at Palt. Erin glanced up vaguely.
“What? Oh…well, that’d be nice.”
“I know a good place—”
“Oh, wait. Garry told me about sour cheeses, you know? He was really upset and he’s only got his day off, so I really need to teach him. Sorry. Can we do it another time?”
“Of course.”
Palt smiled as Erin gestured towards the kitchen. He talked with Erin a few more seconds, and then she went to extract Garry from the crowd. Palt nodded at Lyonette, who gave him a sympathetic look. When Erin was out of earshot, she whispered.
“You’re going to have to be more direct.”
Then she turned and went back to work. Palt blinked at the [Princess]’ back, and then trotted back to the table.
“Hah! I saw you fail your charm spell over there!”
Montressa and Beza snorted as Palt sat down. He glared at them.
“Don’t even joke about that. Charm spells and love potions are banned hard in Baleros. I don’t know why Izril doesn’t have stricter laws. It happens at Wistram all the time.”
The two female [Mages] quieted. Montressa rubbed at her red hair.
“Yeah. Sorry.”
Palt puffed a few times, calming himself down. He made an apologetic gesture for his outburst.
“Anyways, it never works for romance. It’s illusory love. Infatuation, not the real thing. Real love potions…dead gods, I don’t imagine even Saliss of Lights could brew those.”
“Still, you did your best.”
“Did I? I should have just asked her on a date. But I feel like she’d turn me down straight off.”
Palt looked at Montressa and Beza. The two [Mages] traded looks. Beza snorted.
“If I were looking for romance, I’d march up to the male and tell him I liked him. That’s how it works best. Honesty.”
“And how has that worked outside of Minos?”
The [Illusionist] replied acidly. Bezale sipped from her drink, her expression neutral.
“It’s worked quite well, actually. The only ones who turn me down are the ones who couldn’t have managed in the bedroom anyways.”
Montressa snorted, but she waved a hand as Palt looked at her.
“Don’t talk to me. My name was mud in Wistram and before that…”
The two [Mages] paused. Before that was Pisces. They fell silent. Then Palt sighed.
“Maybe I’ll challenge Erin to a game of chess. But if I go for it too early—”
“She’s a challenge. And she’s a master of chess. Do you think you even have a chance?”
The [Aegiscaster] waggled her eyebrows at Palt. The Centaur shifted.
“I can only try. Besides, this is…more advanced than chess. If it was a game, it would be more convoluted than any board game ever made. With rules that keep changing. And I think—different species and different genders play according to different rules. So that you never really know who wins.”
The two female [Mages] glanced at each other. Palt was the sort to pontificate on romance and make it a challenge. Even so, Beza had to ask.
“What do you see in her?”
Palt sipped from his drink calmly.
“Aside from the fact that she creates moments? The fact that she’s brave enough to brawl with you, Beza? Or that she’s smart? And hides behind a mask better than some of the Elusive Lot?”
The two [Mages] looked at Palt. Montressa whispered. He was head-over-hooves if he was singing Erin’s praises. And Centaurs had a lot of space between their head and hooves.
“Yeah. Besides all that?”
“She’s very cute.”
 
——
 
Cuteness was in the eye of the beholder. Badarrow thought of Snapjaw as ‘cute’, or he would have if someone vouchsafed the word to him.
In reality, he looked at Snapjaw like…a box. And inside that box was something different than most people saw. Everyone was like that.
Snapjaw, who had a huge mouthful of teeth, who could eat a Wyvern. Who could be friendly—who had served with the Goblin Lord.
