The [Doctor] paused. She winced, but Okasha laughed. Geneva was just imagining how you’d save that. Well, you could heal it, but the resulting damage…
“I don’t need to keep you, Doctor. Thank you, and we’ll refer anyone to your clinic who has the Yellow Rivers. Hopefully not many.”
Xeppal shuddered. Geneva nodded.
“You’re sure you can use the condoms?”
“What? Oh, you made them in all sizes. Centaur, Dullahan, Human, Lizardman—well, Dullahans and Humans have similar ones. I can put it on just fine. See? Uh, wait…”
Geneva sighed.
“Remember, don’t tear it. Some room at the top. Here—”
She grabbed Xeppal and briskly demonstrated. Geneva was so focused on her work, she didn’t realize the hemipenes were growing until she was halfway through putting the condom on. Xeppal grinned.
“Sorry, Doctor Scala. I can’t help it.”
Geneva blinked downwards. And Okasha made a faint sound. The [Doctor] paused. No.
“Yes! Do it or I swear I will!”
She hesitated. But the young woman looked at Xeppal, and decided—why not? He was an expert.
“Xeppal, tell me if this is intrusive. But if you wouldn’t mind—would you care to try out the condom? With me?”
As lines went, it was a poor one. The Lizardman blinked at Geneva and then beamed from earhole to earhole.
“For you, Doctor? I’ll give you my best service.”
Geneva almost smiled. She began putting her work case aside, but Xeppal slid off the bed. And—he knew the meaning of foreplay. Geneva felt herself getting hot. She blinked. She’d have no problems with Xeppal, prodigious size or not. Her roommate was getting her body ready.
The Lizardman looked at Geneva. And she felt…more than just physically excited. She’d forgotten what it was like. For a moment, she relaxed, and managed a smile.
“I think we need to get some of the [Doctor] uniforms in. I think our clients will enjoy it.”
Xeppal whispered in Geneva’s ear, and licked gently. She shivered. It might be fun after all.
“Yes, yes, yes, yesyesyesyesyesyes—”
She just wished Okasha would shut up.
 
——
 
“After copious amounts of foreplay, the female was ready to achieve orgasms, which would be the first of many if the mating ritual succeeded in its intended goal. Thereupon, the male inserted his phallus, also known as penis, mini-Relc, or member into the vaginal orifice. Other forms of intercourse would come later.”
A group of Antinium sat in a tent made of cloth. Bird’s Fortress of Fluff had been upgraded. And the three Antinium were squeezed under it, writing in the shade of the hung blankets and comfy pillows.
They were writing about sex. Anand took over.
“And then they had sex. And much sex was had. So much sex that insemination was guaranteed. Which resulted in much procreative pleasure. And—”
Anand looked up from the story, quill in hand.
Yellow Splatters and Belgrade stared at him as all three hid under the blanket in Bird’s room to write their carnal fiction. Anand looked at them, searching for inspiration.
“What do I write next?”
“Um. They had intense sex, which was so intense, they…”
Yellow Splatters paused. It was Belgrade who came up with the rest.
“…They were covered in fluids.”
The other two Antinium looked at him. Anand wrote that down quickly.
“So lewd. So much sex. Well done, Belgrade.”
“Thank you, Anand. Do not forget to mention the part about cunnilingus.”
“Does that come before the sex?”
“Hm. Better write it in twice, before and after.”
“Indeed. Did not Guardswoman Beilmark say that there could never be enough?”
“Indeed, indeed. I believe we are finishing up. Let us present our work to the others.”
 
——
 
“I hate you.”
Erin stared at Relc. He’d come back after an hour’s quick patrol with Beilmark and he was practically dancing in place, rubbing his claws together. The young woman folded her arms.
“And you, Beilmark? Really?”
The Gnoll Guardswoman didn’t even look ashamed.
“Miss Solstice, it’s hurting no one. And I think even if we laugh about it, better to have something than nothing, eh?”
Erin glared. She was fed up with it. Fed up with people saying ‘it wasn’t any big deal’. Maybe—it wasn’t. Menolit deserved to find someone. He was lonely. Erin wanted him to find love.
And Selys and Drassi—great! Really! Erin had thought about it and that was fine.
But she put her foot down with the Antinium. No. No—they were kids. In a way—almost like her kids. They weren’t even three years old.
“You don’t think it’s wrong for them to be learning about this? Let alone trying it! What if they had?”
“Eh, they’re big kids. Yellow Splatters is as tall as I am.”
“But they’re kids.”
“Are they?”
Beilmark paused. She looked doubtful. She sniffed at Erin.
“Anyways, good sex is good for the body, Miss Solstice. I would know—I wouldn’t have married my husband and stayed all this time if we weren’t having it regularly! Especially with kids and work!”
She laughed. Relc was nodding. Erin bit her tongue.
“I just—I’m not saying it’s bad! It’s just not super necessary, y’know?”
“Hear that? Ouch. Good luck.”
Montressa chortled as she elbowed Palt in the flank. He gave her a resigned look.
“Life’s not all about that, Montressa.”
“She’s not going to even let you get onto Tier 1 of dating with that attitude.”
The [Mages] watched as the young woman folded her arms, looking flustered, annoyed—embarrassed. Relc was rolling his eyes, Beilmark was politely declining to argue about the Antinium’s age—
And then Hawk walked into the inn.
The Rabbit-kin Beastman was as always, one of those people Erin looked at when she imagined physical perfection. Not that she desired to emulate furry abs, but he did have abs.
It had to be the vegetarian diet. Mostly vegetarian, anyways. And Hawk’s entire body was…athletic. From his toned legs and muscles that moved every time he walked—Erin slapped herself. She was focusing on the sex thing too now! Bad influence!
The Courier looked around as Erin, relieved to have a break, walked over to him.
“Hawk! Thank goodness! What’s up? I thought you were heading north!”
“Hey, Erin. Sorry. I was a bit delayed, but I am running north. Bunch of deliveries around Invrisil—and it’s dicier, with the Assassin’s Guild. But uh, I wanted to stop by.”
“Hey, sounds great! Can I get you anything? Carrot cake? Carrot bread?”
“You know—I’ll take some bread. And cookies?”
“We can make some right now.”
Lyonette hurried over; the Courier was a big customer. Erin smiled at Hawk. And not in a sexual way!
Yes, she had eyed his poofy tail and yes, she wanted to touch it. It was a bunny poofball! On Hawk! But that was all. She could admire his physique, but wanting to…no. Nope!
“I can’t stay long enough for cookies, but I’ll pay for whatever you have in stock. Thank you.”
The Courier nodded at Lyonette. She hurried into the kitchen and Hawk looked around.
“Can I get you a drink? A Minotaur’s Punch? Oh, right. Alcohol and running.”
Hawk gave Erin a smile.
“Exactly. No, I’m just here to uh—oh. Excuse me a moment, would you?”
He walked across the room. With each stride, Hawk seemed to go twice as far as normal. A Courier’s Skills. Erin saw him pause at a table, and sit down. She heard his voice and slapped herself in the face. Hard. But there he was. Sitting across from Selys.
“So, I’m heading north, but I’d love to reconnect again when I come back this way.”
“I’d like that. No promises, but it was a fun time yesterday.”
Selys smiled. Erin stopped herself from slapping herself a third time. Hawk smiled.
“I did enjoy it. Can I bring you a souvenir?”
“You can. But nothing too big, or I’ll have to reply. Let’s not get into a gift-war.”
“Never fear.”
The Courier was laughing with Selys for a moment as Lyonette hurried out with his food in a bag. He put it into a bag of holding, paid, and stopped by Erin. She said something; he left.
“Well…”
Selys was sitting at her table, sipping calmly from a fruit drink with ice, courtesy of the sad flames, as Erin and Drassi converged on the table. The Drake looked calmly at her friends.
“So, he’s a nice guy. And we dated before.”
“You—what? But—”
Erin pointed at Hawk’s retreating back. Selys and Hawk? Drassi was grinning ear-to-ear.
“You said you liked him, Selys! What changed?”
“Well, good carrot-based foods for one. Erin helped there. And…I’m wealthy and Hawk’s always been rich. It used to be people going after him for his gold, but now I think he and I understand each other more, you know? So we can do the same things without it being awkward.”
“Wow. And I imagine a Courier—”
“Whoa. Whoa. Hold on. You two? Really?”
Erin was incredulous. Selys just smiled coyly.
“It’s casual. If we find anyone we like, we’ll stop. Neither one of us expects it to go the distance. But—yes. What’s the big deal, Erin? What’s wrong with us?”
She gave Erin a look. The young woman opened and closed her mouth. And it was a disapproving sniff from across the room that answered her.
“Bit of a stretch, Beastkin Rabbit and a Drake. Or am I wrong?”
Erin turned in her seat. She stared at Menolit and with a sinking feeling in her heart, realized he was drunk. And it wasn’t even evening. The Drake [Veteran] glared at the three young women.
“Too good for Drakes, Miss?”
“Excuse me?”
Selys’ face went flat as Menolit stood up. But Erin and Drassi both saw her narrow her eyes. Menolit didn’t seem to care. He seemed to relish the hostile attention.
“A Rabbit-man and a Drake? Do the parts fit? Is it that much better than with honest Drakes, or is nothing broken? Good thing too, going exotic. Maybe I should! Although I hear Humans have hair down there. And they bleed. So not so great for us fellows, is it? But I guess it balances out—poor fellow over there probably can’t find anyone who’s not into getting torn a new one.”
He waved at Palt. The Centaur looked around. Everyone stared at the half-man, half-horse. Drassi winced.
“Ooh. How would you—?”
Menolit talked over her. He was drunk, and angry, and sad—Erin stood up slowly as he whirled.
“Or the Minotauress? Giant cow-woman?”
“You—”
Beza stood up and Montressa and Palt forced her down—with spells as much as muscle. Menolit stared at Beza, and then waved at Palt.
“At least I have a friend over there. Two of us who’ll never get anything. One of us can’t fit, and the other’s a freak! Neither one works, see? At least the Courier got some, but then, he’s rich—”
He turned as Erin walked forwards. The young woman stared at Menolit.
“Hey, Menolit. Why’d you have to say that?”
The [Veteran] looked at Erin.
“Am I wrong?”
She looked up at him.
“Yeah.”
“Really? So looks don’t matter at all? This? Doesn’t matter?”
He waved his tail around, the severed stump of it. Erin wiped some spit off her face. She looked past Menolit, at Palt.
The Centaur was holding back Beza. And he had a calm expression on his face. But [Illusionists] wore masks. Erin sensed how he was feeling too. So she spoke to both of them.
“You know, Menolit. I’m sorry about what I said. Because the truth is, I don’t have a problem with how you look. I really don’t. It doesn’t matter who you are. What you look like. What scars you have. If I like you, it’ll work. Somehow.”
“I suppose if you weren’t putting it in—no, wait, that’s what potions are for. Stretching, shrinking or getting bigger yourself…”
“Drassi.”
Erin looked at the [Gossip]. Drassi stopped whispering. She looked at Menolit. The Drake was looking at her.
“Then what about me?”
“I don’t know. I’m sorry, but I don’t like you that way, Menolit. But Selys? What did she do to you? Hawk?”
The Drake [Veteran] paused. He looked past Selys. Erin pushed gently, and the alcohol in his system, some of the fury, turned maudlin. He lowered his gaze.
“I’m sorry. I’ve disgraced myself.”
“Let’s get you home, buddy.”
Relc strode forwards. Erin looked at him, and shook her head.
“He’s fine. Come on, let’s get you sat down.”
“I should go. I’m—”
“You remember what I said a few nights ago, Menolit? People get second chances.”
The young woman led him back to his seat, the angry drunk [Veteran] gone. And he had been a good soldier. People relaxed. Erin sat Menolit down, gave him some goat’s milk. The Drake lowered his head.
“I’m sorry.”
“It’s okay. You can apologize again. But Menolit?”
“Hm?”
“If you say that stuff again, I’m gonna hit you with a pan.”
He smiled at that. And Erin smiled too. She couldn’t save the world yet, but she was working on one sad Drake. Among others.
 
——
 
And then the Antinium came downstairs and presented their story. Relc nearly died of laughter. So did most people. The Antinium might have noticed the laughter wasn’t their intended response, but they looked…pleased.
“We are eliciting a response. And I am pleased at it. Let us sell our copies to Liscor and bring the story to the Antinium. Aside from experiencing the pleasures of sex, and the act of pregnancy—no—wait—that is for females—I think we have done a good job.”
“Yes, we must simply ensure Chesacre and Thaina do not engage in it.”
That caught Erin’s attention. The young woman stared at the Antinium.
“Wait, there are female Antinium in the Hive? Wait—wait—aren’t those two the Soldiers that Pawn introduced me to?”
Belgrade nodded solemnly.
“Yes. They are female. I believe two pregnancies is not too dangerous, but given the complications of childbirth, we should not risk their deaths…”
“Unless they wish to bear offspring. Perhaps it is worth the risk.”
“Ah, so they say. And it is not that great a risk, yes? These…two Soldiers are female, hm? How did that come about? Or are Antinium different and we cannot tell?”
Beilmark grinned at the three Antinium. And the pieces clicked for Erin.
“Oh. Oh.”
It was just a misunderstanding. Erin put her head down and sighed. But then someone spoke up.
“Hey lads. You know you can buy sex?”
Relc leaned on his spear, grinning widely. Belgrade, Anand, and Yellow Splatters stared at him. Garry poked his head out of the kitchen.
“What? But I was informed it was illegal to solicit sexual intercourse.”
“Oh, on the streets, yeah. But why not visit a brothel?”
Relc looked around. Beilmark was falling off her chair, her chest heaving with mirth. Erin stood up. Anand was opening and closing his mandibles.
“So it is legal? I was under the impression it was not.”
The Senior Guardsman shrugged.
