The dust and grit swirled at the young Goblins. They shouted in pain as it covered their skin and stung, burning and itching. They fled, and Ulvama glared.
“Stupid young Goblins.”
She grumbled, and Raidpear laughed. The humor broke the moment of intense passion Ulvama was going for, and the [Shaman] was put out. But that didn’t stop them.
Indeed, they were so noisy at times that one night, Pebblesnatch had run in with a bucket of water and thrown it at them. But Goblins had sex. That was what they did. In fact…they were pretty good at it. And Ulvama, a self-styled master, bared her teeth in the shadowed hut.
A few Goblins peeked back inside as she got to work re-establishing the mood. They were hit by Raidpear’s codpiece.
 
——
 
Sex. There were masters of it. Some used it as recreation, others for a goal—some to manipulate, seeking intimacy. It was only all-consuming for some, but it was interesting how it factored into people’s lives. It could be as significant as a full night’s sleep in changing how a day went. Well—the two didn’t always go hand in hand.
But it mattered. And yes—to some more than others.
“I want to have sex! I want to have sex! I swear, I’m going to lock your muscles down if we don’t have sex!”
A voice shouted in Geneva Scala’s head. The [Doctor], the battlefield surgeon, the woman known to some as the Last Light of Baleros, hope of the dying [Soldiers] everywhere, paused.
“Okasha.”
“I don’t care what you say! We haven’t had it once! I have needs! I’m not like you! I can’t control the body unless you’re asleep and you have to rest and I’m…”
There was a sob from inside Geneva’s head. Well, rather, Okasha was projecting her tiny voice directly into Geneva’s eardrums. But it felt like it was literally inside her head.
“I’m sorry, okay? But it’s frustrating. I feel like a prisoner.”
“I’m…sorry.”
The [Doctor] paused. She was in her personal quarters, in the United Nations headquarters. And she was preparing her field-kit, her bag of medicines, experimental poultices, surgical tools, and so on.
She was about to make a house call. But the [Doctor], one of the people from Earth on Baleros, the continent of mercenaries and war, was more extraordinary than even the other members of the United Nations company, designed to find and protect people from their world.
She had a secret. And that was that Geneva Scala was paralyzed. Or she should be. A long while ago, a few months now, she had been struck by a mace. Her spine had been…shattered.
A terrible blow. Not just one you could hope to repair either; the blow had done more damage than Geneva could calculate; she’d inspected the wound with a mirror and Okasha’s help, but she suspected that even in her world, she might have been paralyzed but for the most experimental and cutting edge medical technologies.
She would have been helpless. But—Okasha had saved her. The Selphid, a member of the parasitic species that could control bodies’ nervous systems, had entered Geneva’s body with her permission. And the two had become something new.
A Selphid living in a living body. Something anathema to the entire world. With Okasha, Geneva could move. And not only that—the two could work together. Okasha could even boost Geneva’s body past its limits. And because Geneva was alive, she could heal damage done, even use her Skills while Okasha used hers.
They were two souls and one body. But they were not alike. Geneva had gotten used to her roommate. They had their quarrels, but Okasha had given up much to be Geneva’s shadow.
Still—when differences emerged, they could be tricky. And at the moment—Okasha was vocally unhappy.
“I’m frustrated. I know you are, no matter how much you try to hide it.”
“I’m not—”
Geneva opened her mouth, and closed it. It was hard to argue with someone in your nervous system.
“I could tell yesterday. You were aroused right after dinner! But you never do anything. You just drink and work and drink and work and drink and then you work some more! You don’t stop!”
“We are dealing with a crisis, Okasha. There is a plague beginning in Baleros. And it will spread.”
The [Doctor] was tired. She had indeed been working all day and night. She snapped at Okasha.
“The Yellow Rivers disease is growing in infectious cases and no one but you, me, and the United Nations company is taking it seriously. People do not want to talk about it—and there is no cure!”
“It’s gross. I’m used to bodies, but I don’t know how you can touch them—”
Geneva grimaced. The Yellow Rivers infection, which was a sexually-transmitted disease, was indeed…nasty. Even by the standards of someone in the medical field. And they were used to a lot of horrible things the body could do. But the yellow pus and the open wound the infection caused in the genital regions that spread so quickly along with the smell…
It was a good thing that Okasha could stem Geneva’s gag reflex, and keep her from vomiting. Because even Aiko and the other aspiring [Nurses] and [Doctors] that Geneva had added to her clinic had trouble tending to the patients. But Geneva Scala was tackling the patients—and she had over a hundred of them since the original two had appeared in Quallet Marshhand’s company.
The [Doctor] knew it was going to get worse. But she’d been up for…well, only thirty-two hours. She said as much and Okasha shouted in her head.
“You drink stamina potions like water! It’s not healthy! I’m the one making sure your organs are working! If it wasn’t for me, your lower intestine would be gone!”
“And I’m grateful, really. But Okasha, I have to keep working. If I don’t—”
“‘People die, Hippocratic Oath, I’m Geneva Scala, Last Light of Baleros. If I don’t do something, no one will’. Blah, blah! I’ve heard it!”
The Italian [Doctor] winced. She didn’t sound like…
“I’m sorry. But I don’t have any tools from my world, or antibiotics or medicine. So I have to work myself hard. We can sleep after this.”
“And have sex.”
“Okasha. Have you not seen the Yellow Rivers infection? This isn’t the time for—”
“Wear a condom! You made them and they work! You can spot the infection! Wear one! Find someone! I know you like some of the people around you! Or—we can go to your room, and…”
“No.”
“Geneva, I am going to throw your body at the nearest breathing person if I don’t get something to have fun with.”
The [Doctor] grimly considered the Selphid’s threat. Okasha could and would override Geneva’s nervous systems in dire situations, but this sounded like a threat. And Geneva’s understanding of the Selphid suggested that Okasha might actually be at risk of breaking down.
“…Okay. I’ll look into it.”
“Really? You promise? Swear?”
Okasha raised Geneva’s right arm, which she often got to control. Geneva saw and felt her right hand extend a pinky.
It was odd, pinky-swearing with herself. The [Doctor] sighed, already regretting it. How was she going to…?
Well, there were no shortage of male Humans from Earth in the United Nations company…or in the city they were in, Talenqual. But Geneva did not want to proposition, say…Dawson, and deal with the consequences. It would be like, well, sleeping with someone in your company. And that led to problems.
Ideally, she’d have asked someone like…Ken. Or Luan, if he wasn’t married. Someone who could be discreet and whom it wasn’t risky to deal with. But Ken was involved with that Lizardwoman—or had they broken up?
The United Nations company was certainly not celibate, by and large. And many relationships occurred outside of the group, because of the friction it caused when couples formed inside the group or broke up. But it was mostly casual, and Geneva thought it was positive as long as everyone wore protection, which she’d lectured them at length about. With visual aids on the Yellow Rivers issue.
She was reluctant to call it an epidemic yet, or a pandemic, but Geneva Scala feared…that this disease was magical in nature. If so—it could become a worldwide issue quickly.
But no one was listening. No one with the power to change things. Maybe her scheduled visit to the Academy with the Titan of Baleros…? Geneva’s head hurt.
So much to do. Where was she? Oh yes. Sex. She had to have sex with someone. Geneva tried to remember her days in medical school. She’d hooked up. Although when you were thrown into the fire and you were working all day—that sometimes killed your sex drive. But she remembered enjoying it.
It hadn’t been a concern since she’d come to this world. Since she’d become a [Doctor] and measured her days in lives saved and lost. Geneva supposed she’d just have to do it to keep Okasha from going insane. It had to be hard, being her.
So…not Ken. And Geneva wasn’t keen on a female partner. Not her wheelhouse. That would have left Daly usually. But—
Daly and his bombs. Geneva felt a flash of fury. Her breathing quickened and she nearly dropped the experimental disinfectant.
“Careful!”
Okasha spoke with Geneva’s mouth. She caught the vial with the [Rogue]’s agility. And Geneva felt her fury abate, almost magically.
“I’m making you calm. Calm, Geneva! Be happy! Think about sex!”
“Not with Daly.”
Geneva muttered, but Okasha was manipulating her brain, releasing endorphins, getting rid of the adrenaline spike. It sometimes frightened Geneva, how casually the Selphid could do that. But Okasha respected boundaries. If not, she wouldn’t be begging to have sex. Or…was she manipulating Geneva on a deeper level?
No, don’t think of that. Think of…sex. Geneva sighed.
“I’ll find someone. Tonight, Okasha. Stop flooding my system.”
The building sense of arousal vanished.
“Sorry.”
“I’ll ask about it. Ironically, we’re going to a good place to ask.”
Geneva Scala sighed. Okasha paused.
“I slept through part of your day. What was it again?”
The [Doctor] grimly hefted her field bag.
“We’re paying a visit to the brothel. The owner wants to make sure her clients and her workers aren’t infected.”
“Oh. Ew.”
 
——
 
It was everywhere. Sex! The urges of copulation! Like a disease!
Honestly, it was. But if it wasn’t focused on all the time—it occurred. As rarely as a period? More often? Less? It did vary. But sometimes, when it did occur…it could change everything.
In an inn, a half-Elf was considering just how it would change her team’s dynamics. But—it was time. Her skin glistened with her bath water. She had a fragrance on. And…she was nervous?
She knew who was going to come through that door. This wasn’t her room. But she’d walked into it, fresh from her bath, and she was ready to make a mistake. If it was a mistake. Probably? Yes? No?
She was a bit…intoxicated. But the half-Elf was ready. Dead gods, she was. So she prepared as she heard the heavy steps coming down the hallway, pausing, leaving the clamor in the common room behind.
The half-Elf lowered her half-naked form over the inn’s bedspread. After a moment, she lay on her front, tugging the towel up to just almost cover her breasts. She adopted a languorous, sensual pose and faced towards the door. A subtle fragrance hung in the air that she’d worked on for ten minutes to get just right.
The air was hot. Expectant. And the glimmer of sweat on the half-Elf’s skin was…illuminating…in the half-shaded room. As the door opened and the half-Elf [Mage] looked up, a soft, lilting tune began to play, almost unheard.
The scene was set. Falene Skystrall looked up as the footsteps paused outside of the door and—
“Hey, half-Elf! Ylawes is drunk. He said you wanted to talk. Mind if I dump—”
Dawil kicked the door open. The Dwarf paused and stared as Falene blinked up from her sensual pose on the bed. He had Ylawes over one shoulder; the groaning [Knight]’s head was in danger of hitting the floor.
He stared at Falene. She stared back. The half-Elf immediately reached for her towel and covered her breasts. Dawil’s jaw worked as the Dwarf and other member of the Silver Swords stared at his companion.
“Uh.”
“Get out.”
Dawil paused, and then his face broke into a huge grin. He laughed at Falene as she tried to cover herself up; Ylawes was barely conscious as he stumbled over to the bed.
“You pervert! He’s only a boy! Barely twenty-seven!”
“Get out!”
The Dwarf roared with laughter as Falene raised her arms. He ran for it, still shouting with laughter.
“Poor lad can’t even catch a break with a grandmother thrice his age after him! Hah! Hey! No [Fireball]! No—”
 
——
 
“So—you’re telling me it’s natural for two girls to…have sex?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka. The young woman shifted uncomfortably. They were sitting in Fierre’s office with the desk between them. Ryoka had suggested it because it beat her room, which would invariably lead to them sharing a bed.
But she’d brought it up because no one in this world besides…people from Earth…really knew about sexuality. At all. Maybe they existed—no, Ryoka suspected they surely did. But they were in a pre-acceptance era, and that was compared to Earth. Pre-understanding, even.
“Yeah. So—it’s normal. Just a different perspective. Some girls like guys. Some guys like guys. Some girls are actually guys and they were all along. It’s…I’m going to use some terminology here, so it’s complex, okay, Fierre? But the point is…”
Ryoka trailed off. She had to close her eyes and breathe.
It was…an awkward scene. Fierre was leaning over the desk, and she was looking at Ryoka like a piece of meat. And blood. Which was, to Vampires, pretty damn amorously.
But did she like Ryoka? Did Ryoka like girls? Well, the answer was ‘depends’, both ways. Ryoka had had these moments with Fierre before. And the young woman thought it was a mix of things.
It could be interest. Or that they were the only two who shared Fierre’s secret, or that Ryoka liked immortals and Fierre wanted to drink blood, or that the two understood each other and they were alone. And Fierre could be charming Ryoka with her eyes.
But she probably didn’t need to. And Ryoka…thought of Belavierr. Of the [Witches]. And she opened her eyes and her tone was steady.
“It’s about being okay, Fierre. With who you are. Nothing’s wrong about any way you are.”
She met the Vampire’s eyes. And some of the ardor behind the red irises faded. Some of the teasing, too. Fierre sat back and nodded.
“Tell me. You said the Lord of the Dance was…what was it? Homosexual?”
