“Or gay. Terminology, again. Homosexual is the term used to describe feelings of sexual attraction to one’s own gender. But he could also be straight, or heterosexual, but just open to dancing with other guys. Which, I’ll grant you, seems odd for Terandria…”
Fierre was making notes. The informant and letter opener and information broker was at least good at understanding new things.
“Very odd in Terandria. But go on.”
“I don’t want to assume. But let’s start with terms. There’s homosexuality, heterosexuality, bisexuality, as three broad concepts. But it’s not one thing or another. It varies. And there’s the concept of transgender people, people who enjoy cross-dressing sexuality as a spectrum…”
The young woman wanted to talk about this right—even though she wasn’t an expert. And it was…important information. Fierre’s eyes glittered with the pleasure of acquiring new and valuable information. But she also was looking at Ryoka’s…
Throat. Which was about as uncomfortable as a guy staring at her breasts, when you got down to it. Different purposes, but the same general intent. Both wanted to put something in you—although Fierre also wanted to take something out too. The Vampire girl inhaled.
“What was it when two girls liked each other? Did you say…homosexual applies?”
“Yes. Well, there are other terms. It could be bisexuality, curiosity…the colloquial term is lesbian…or gay as a catch-all…”
“And how would two—girls—make love? I mean, the parts…well, I guess there are ways. Do you know about that too?”
Ryoka paused. She stared at Fierre.
“Well, yeah. We can get into that.”
She had a definite feeling that this moment, this…intimate scene with the two in the locked, secure, ‘you couldn’t break in with a small army if you tried or hear what goes on in there’ room, might escalate.
And Ryoka could have run at any moment if she wanted to, or shut it down. But did she want to?
She had needs. And Fierre…Ryoka needed a new term for someone who had an immortal fetish. Immortaphilia. But then again—why did they have to be so stupidly sexy?
Vampire teeth. Ryoka didn’t know if she wanted this. But she was pretty sure she was staying because she was uncertain. She swallowed.
“Let’s go over from the top. From a biological perspective…”
 
——
 
Fierre was not the only person asking about sex that day. Nor was Ryoka the only one giving out an explanation. But hers was willingly. Others found the task of explaining the birds and the bees and the way they had intercourse, especially if they were kinky, an…awkward task.
“Master, what is sex?”
Az’kerash, the Necromancer, master of the undead, and former Archmage of Wistram, looked up. Bea was sitting in front of him, as was her wont. When he allowed it, his Chosen hung about him, like flies attracted to rotting meat.
Although, it was notable, Bea was never surrounded by flies. Or by the living, for long. She had recently been out on one of his assignments, and she had come back with this question on her lips.
“Sex?”
“Yes, Master.”
Az’kerash didn’t blink or falter as many a parent would when faced with the question. He had created Bea, but he was a rational [Mage], and he had stripped out lesser emotions long ago.
“A biological imperative that allows for reproduction and entertainment of sorts. It takes many forms. If some try to accost you, fulfill your roles as I have taught you.”
Bea nodded. That was easy. She could, like Venitra and Kerash and Ijvani, blend into society at a moment’s notice. She could even simulate sex—until her partner expired. That wasn’t the question.
“But master, why do people want to do it?”
“Entertainment, Bea. Is this necessary? You know many biological functions of the living are incomprehensible to you.”
Miffed, but amused, Az’kerash moved a strand of Bea’s hair. She smiled, leaning into the gesture. And she was more like a child than the woman’s body she possessed in that moment. Part child, part creation, part undead.
Her eyes glowed faintly in the half light—Az’kerash was studying a bidding war over Saliss’ Youth Potion, a rare item that went on the market and always precipitated a huge bidding battle. He was half of a mind to buy it. It was useless to him, but…Az’kerash well understood the allure to many.
Bea watched her creator for a second. Then she had to go on.
“But master, do you want to have sex with me? I heard [Necromancers] do that. And sometimes, [Golem Artificers]. Is that true?”
“Zelkyr believed in creating perfection that it might serve him. Adorn him. And yes, he believed in creating what he desired. I never did. You were never made for that. Never.”
“Because you don’t want to?”
Az’kerash nodded. And his dark eyes and white pupils were tired.
“I left it behind with my life, Bea. But Zelkyr believed in creating one who would love him as no other had in this world, before or since. Was it wrong? Did he make a [Slave] dressed in stone, or did they love him beyond what he had simply made them to be? I asked Cognita, once. And she told me it was love that bound her as much as spell. But I do not know where the answer lay. Zelkyr loved his three most perfect creations, and he loved magic and craft more than any woman.”
“Because they were better at it?”
The question made Az’kerash smile. Another, living man might have guffawed. It was fleeting, but he did smile.
“Perhaps. But regardless, he and I differed. His creations loved him and he experienced the pleasures of flesh. But Bea—they waned on him. In time, he began to hunger for something more than fleeting joy. He looked at his wondrous creations, beheld their flaws as they withered, and one was—broken.”
“In Rhir.”
The Necromancer paused.
“Yes. He and I beheld…our imperfections. And thereafter, Zelkyr forsook love. He pursued something greater than Truestone, the height of his creation. He and I. But the difference is, I never had his desires.”
“But you loved. Do you not love us?”
Bea looked upset. Az’kerash bent and kissed her on the forehead again, as he did sometimes. But never on the lips, which Bea knew now was…different.
“Never. Can I love something I know too completely, Bea? I love you like part of myself. But can I love that in a carnal way?”
Bea opened her mouth. Az’kerash put a finger to her lips.
“I do not wish an answer. Let us understand only this.”
He closed his eyes and thought a moment. Part of his fragmented mind came together, for an answer.
“Love is painful, Bea. I found immortality. My old friend…I do not think he did. I do not think so. And he and I both found love a painful thing, even though one of us trusted to the love we found in others, and another to the love he fashioned, that was eternal. It is not something I need now, grasping immortality. Part of it is simply biological and I…”
He touched his body and Bea understood.
“Yes, master. But…the woman I killed said it was more than that.”
“Oh yes. More, so much you do not need to know, Bea. Sex is not love. But one goes hand in hand with the other. I loved a woman like no other. And she died.”
Bea went still. Az’kerash looked at her face and she remembered a sight she was not supposed to have seen.
“Do you miss her, Master?”
“When I think of her, yes. But it would be poorer to forget, even after a century’s passing.”
And he looked at her face. Bea bowed her head, afraid to ask more.
Az’kerash sighed.
“Ijvani is coming soon. And she has brought a…gift. Come, Bea. Talk no more of sex.”
“Yes, Master. I have only one question, please?”
“Ask.”
“Why do some people prefer to use this instead of this when we have sex? Or sometimes, they ask to touch my feet, or…”
She lifted up her clothing and pointed to different spots. Az’kerash stared at her. After a second, he pointed.
Bea blinked, felt a slight pop, and appeared outside the castle. Venitra and Kerash started and looked at her.
“Well?”
The bone woman, Venitra, demanded. Bea turned.
“He didn’t explain about the other bit. I think we should just kill them before they get to that part.”
“Oh. Did he ask what the difference in gender meant? Or why the Drakes and Humans are so secretive when it’s the same one?”
“He did not. But apparently, Golems do it better.”
“Huh.”
 
——
 
Some people were indeed better at understanding sex, whether it was from the viewpoint of science, or a practiced expert. But there were also the young.
And the purely ignorant. There were some people for whom sex—did not apply.
Rebellion was fomenting in the Hive of the Free Antinium. The rule of Revalantor Klbkch was in jeopardy.
The Antinium had seen the light of Heaven. But also—they had heard of a new way. An Antinium had left the Hive. Bird was gone. And he had chosen that.
The law of the Antinium was being threatened, at a time when the other Hives were finally connected to it and beginning to mingle. Even now, representatives from the other Hives were making the long, long journey towards Liscor. For Bird, again.
But this was not about Bird today. Bird had been unbanned from hunting birds and had brought the old reign of terror back to the skies of Liscor. Rather, it was another Antinium who had business with sex.
And business with the business of excretion. Yellow Splatters carefully wiped his excrement away with his hand. And if it was gross and vulgar to do that—well, people did it and it didn’t waste toilet paper. And toilet paper was a waste of resources.
He carefully wiped his hand after that, removing any filth in the sand. Then, Yellow Splatters left the excretion cubicle along with many Soldiers and Workers doing the same. They stared at him as he left, awed, perhaps, that Yellow Splatters, the [Sergeant], the Soldier who spoke, excreted just like they did.
Antinium used their version of septic tanks, which were regularly cleaned. Well, theirs were just chambers in the earth that waste ran into. And it was useful and thus used as fertilizer and composting. Mostly to grow mushrooms, which became food again.
It was an easy process, by and large. Antinium had very efficient bodies, so their waste wasn’t that egregious. Yellow Splatters had heard…stories. He was grateful for efficient bowel movements, and headed back to the barracks where the Painted Antinium were gathered.
Yellow Splatters produced waste every two or three days, sooner if he went into battle. He never talked about it. But it happened. Sometimes natural occurrences weren’t talked about.
Like excretion. But on the other hand…sometimes such discussions were unique indeed. As Yellow Splatters entered the barracks and returned to his seat, Belgrade approached him. The [Tactician] looked unusually upset today.
“Belgrade. How can I help you today?”
Yellow Splatters used the greeting he’d learned from Pawn. The [Tactician] stopped next to the [Sergeant] as Yellow Splatters fondly cast his eyes over the barracks. His home for his people. Pawn was not there; he was going out to visit the inn as he often did to speak with Lyonette. But the Painted Antinium were there, practicing, reading, sleeping—
Living. Yellow Splatters would do anything to protect that. And his people knew their deaths were not in vain. There was a Heaven. He waited as Belgrade collected his thoughts. Then the Antinium Worker spoke.
“Sex.”
Yellow Splatters turned.
“What?”
Belgrade looked at him, as seriously as could be.
“Sex. This is an issue I feel I must bring up among the Painted Soldiers, Yellow Splatters. Now that there is an issue of it occurring, this is something I wish to curtail.”
The [Sergeant] paused. He was, besides Klbkch and the Grand Queen, the leader of all the Antinium in times of emergency. His level of command was matched only by Anand, who Klbkch had nominated as a secondary commander if both leaders were incapacitated. Indeed, their duality was even similar to Klbkch and the Grand Queen’s. One lead from the front, the other behind.
And yet, with all of his planning and his knowledge of the world…sex was not one of the challenges Yellow Splatters had faced. Until now. He stared at Belgrade.
“Go on.”
“Sex. The possibility of it has arisen. I have studied other species’ habits as a hobby, and I believe we are in danger of it.”
The Antinium [Trapsetter Tactician] was unusually nervous as he nodded to Yellow Splatters. The Soldier just stared at him.
“Why?”
“Sex occurs between males and females. It requires both genders to occur, according to the people I have bought drinks for in The Wandering Inn. It is also pleasurable, and a means towards pregnancy and birthing.”
“Which are?”
“A period of increasing incapacitation in which another life form is incubated inside the female’s body until it is birthed, thereby increasing the population count. It is, apparently, the other species’ way of reproduction.”
“As opposed to birthing pods?”
“Yes. Inefficient, but that is other species. But the incapacitation takes months of time, in which the female is apparently increasingly burdened by the strain of reproduction. I fear very much that this is going to occur in the Hive.”
It…did sound like a problem. Yellow Splatters was hazy on sex, and pregnancy, and the pleasurable aspect of it, but incapacitation didn’t sound good. He nodded.
“How can we alleviate this crisis?”
“By forbidding sex. You must instruct your Soldiers and Workers not to have sex. I would like to get Pawn’s approval on this decision myself. I understand it is recreational, and if Miss Solstice insists, I will change my opinions, but I do not think the benefits, even for reproduction in this inefficient manner, outweigh the negatives. Do you agree?”
The [Sergeant] was nodding. Absolutely. Then he paused.
“Wait. You believe the Workers and Soldiers will have sex?”
“Yes.”
“With whom?”
That was Yellow Splatters for you. Whom, not ‘who’. Grammatical and precise, even in the face of unexpected sexual intercourse. Belgrade stared at him.
“With your female Soldiers, of course. Now that you have both genders, it is a given.”
He stated this as fact. Yellow Splatters paused.
“Female Soldiers?”
“Yes! Chesacre and Thaina! The two who survived the Dungeon sortie.”
Yellow Splatter paused. He…remembered that. Klbkch had determined that there was a surplus of Soldiers and Workers and had ordered thousands into the dungeon. To…reduce both side’s numbers. Two had survived, by a miracle. Saved from Facestealer by a skeleton, of all things.
“Yes. But that is just their names.”
“They are female names.”
Belgrade was agitated. Yellow Splatters didn’t follow.
“But they are just names.”
“But they are female names, Yellow Splatters. Chesacre and Thaina have informed me they are.”
