Erin shouted. Mrsha recoiled as Erin pointed at her. Drassi looked at Selys. The [Heiress] was nodding.
“Don’t be vulgar, Drassi.”
“You know you’d try it.”
“Mrsha’s just a kid. Mrsha, go over there. And I don’t think Octavia’s sleeping with Saliss, Erin. But if she is…well, I don’t think [Alchemists] are that different. If Saliss was a high-level [Warrior], now—Drassi?”
The [Gossip] was nodding as Mrsha was ushered off the table. Erin practically hurried her over to Lyonette.
“[Alchemists] are kinky, Selys. Kinky. Potions. Sex.”
“Oh. But how would you know?”
“I dated a few of Liscor’s [Alchemists]. They’re low-level, but they still make stamina potions. And that’s—”
“Hey.”
Erin slapped her hands down on the table. Selys and Drassi started, looked at her. Erin was flushing and glaring at the two of them.
“This isn’t appropriate for the morning, you know? Mrsha’s here, and she has good ears. Right?”
She looked from face to face. And Erin Solstice, who had happily pontificated on the issue of periods in front of the entire room, looked…awkward. Selys and Drassi blinked at each other.
And they both had the same thought again. The two engaged in a sub-vocal argument, and in the end, Selys lost. She looked at Erin.
“Erin…why don’t you have a seat?”
“I’m not gonna sit if you two are going to be weird—”
“Have a seat, come on.”
The two practically pushed Erin into a seat. The [Innkeeper] looked at the two of them.
“What? What?”
Selys took a breath. She remembered that conversation from a while ago. She hadn’t given it a lot of thought, but now…she looked at Erin.
“So…have you had sex recently?”
Erin froze. Dierr glanced up from his seat and then pretended to be interested in his steak again. A Centaur, opening the door to the common room, halted in his tracks. Montressa and Beza ran into Palt’s behind, but the Centaur motioned them back.
The young woman paused.
“What? What sort of question is that?”
“…A normal one?”
Selys raised a brow. Erin looked at her friend, and then at Drassi.
“Seems sort of personal, right?”
“I dunno. We’re friends. Drassi’s not gonna spill it, Erin.”
“[Gossip]’s honor. But yeah, have you had a good one recently, Erin?”
“Hey now. I really don’t feel like—”
“Krshia told me she doesn’t think you’ve masturbated all month. And she said that last month. And the month before that. Erin—do you have a problem? Because there’s a potion for that.”
The two female friends stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] stood up. Her face was beet red.
“Krshia said—? I don’t need to take this!”
She began to storm off, but the two Drakes grabbed her arms and towed her back. It was hard; Erin had [Lesser Strength].
“Erin, come on!”
“We’re not judging—”
“You aren’t, Drassi? I am.”
“Hey! Let go of—”
Erin found herself sitting at the table, held captive…well, not really. But the two Drakes were looking at her seriously. Selys had to go first.
“Erin…do you think maybe you’re being a bit…prudish?”
“About se—about the thing? Yes! Especially with a kid around!”
Drassi glanced at Mrsha.
“But she knows about sex, Erin. Gnoll kids do.”
“What? She’s far too young to—”
“She’s a Gnoll, Erin. She lived in a tribe. She has a nose and ears. All Gnoll kids know about sex when they’re young. What’s wrong?”
The young woman from Earth opened and closed her mouth. Drassi just blinked at her innocently.
No—not even innocently. She just looked blank. What was the problem here? Erin hesitated.
“Well—okay. But it’s still not something we need to talk about, right?”
“Not if we don’t want to. But seriously, Erin. Are you…stressed? Because if Krshia’s right—”
“I’m fine!”
“So you do use the dildos she says she keeps giving you?”
Erin was practicing her guppy impersonations. Her mouth kept opening and shutting.
“I—don’t have to answer that!”
Selys looked serious.
“Erin, we’re not judging. It’s normal. But seriously—you talk about periods and using the outhouse and you get nervous about the idea of sex?”
“I’m totally fine with it! Anyone can have sex! Relc had sex just the other day! I think!”
Erin threw her hands up. Drassi leaned over.
“Really? With who? That Garuda [Guardswoman]?”
“It’s private! He didn’t need to tell me and I didn’t need to ask!”
Erin glared at Drassi, trying to forget she’d been bugging Relc about that exact thing. Selys raised her brows.
“Good for Relc. He deserves it. Poor guy would have trouble with Drake women, although he’s popular even if he’s a bit…”
“Ugly?”
“Drassi, be nice.”
“I’m not being mean! I like Relc! I’d give him a try if I thought it wouldn’t make things weird.”
Sometimes Erin didn’t understand Drake aesthetics. Relc looked fine to her. But she found the conversation pivoting back to her again.
“All I’m saying is that I have no problem with Relc hooking up, Erin. It’s natural. Nothing to be ashamed of, even if Embria objects. Well…she is his daughter.”
Selys paused. Erin fidgeted.
“I know that. And I’m not judging.”
“Good. So…have you had sex at all since the last time Krshia and I talked to you?”
“I don’t need to answer that.”
“…Have you masturbated?”
“Selys.”
“Erin, I think you might be stressed.”
“Pent up.”
“It’s okay to want to have a good time.”
“Roll around on the carpet with some fun guy. Oh wait, Humans get rug-burns.”
“Even relieve yourself now and then.”
“Hey, can Humans use their hands? I’ve been debating with some of my friends about that. Because we have claws with, you know, talons. And if you slip—”
“Drassi, please.”
The [Gossip] subsided, but she and Selys both looked amused. Erin did not want to be at the table with them. She folded her arms, like a bulwark against all things erotic.
“It’s personal.”
Selys recognized the signs of a stubborn Erin coming on. She rolled her eyes, exasperated.
“If you don’t want to talk about it, fine. But we’re just talking to you—as friends—about whether you’re happy. Honestly. We wouldn’t want to push or anything. But if you’re frustrated…”
That was all she said. And she gave Erin a serious look. So much so that the [Innkeeper] realized that Selys wasn’t making fun of her. Not really. Erin slowly uncrossed her arms.
“I…well…it’s not necessary.”
“No, but it’s fun.”
“You could get pregnant.”
“From a Drake or Gnoll, Erin? And there are potions for that. Actually—I think I have my answer. Dead gods. How long has it been, six months? That’s a long time for…and nothing else?”
“Wow.”
Drassi gave Erin an almost admiring look. The [Innkeeper] didn’t like the look. She glared, went on the offensive.
“Well, what about you, Selys? Have you had sex? Or you, Drassi?”
The two Drakes blinked. They looked at each other. Drassi paused, and then shrugged.
“Well, I lost my last boyfriend during a fight two weeks back, but I’m not hurting for company, you know? I’m fine.”
“And I had sex yesterday. In my apartment. Not the one I’m building; that’d be weird.”
Selys sipped her drink. The young woman blinked.
“What?”
“It was good. And yes—we knew each other. But it’s not serious. But I enjoyed it, and so did he—which is why we got together. Well…and we see each other more often because of my position. He actually came by to talk about it.”
“Wh—but—Selys! What about Pisces?”
The [Heiress] looked at Erin. And this time, it was a long look. And somehow—not as amused or exasperated as she’d been before.
“What about him?”
Erin felt like she was treading on dangerous ground all of a sudden. But she didn’t know why.
“Well…I thought you and him were a thing. You know? You said you liked him, and you two were always talking, arguing. And you had that kiss under the mistletoe, and you told me you thought he wasn’t that bad. So I thought…”
Drassi’s head slowly turned towards Selys and her stare said that her friend had said nothing of the sort to her. Selys flushed. But she’d invited this. She took a breath, and then nodded, as the scales in her cheeks darkened a bit.
“I said that, Erin. But we haven’t done anything. Literally, nothing besides that kiss, and that was for a dare. I like Pisces.”
“Yeah. So…”
“So what?”
There was an edge in Selys’ voice. Erin hesitated.
“But if you like—”
“He hasn’t said anything to me. And I haven’t said anything to him. We’re both adults, Erin. Not engaged or anything. Should I be sitting here, saving my chastity like a—like a Human [Princess] while I pine for him?”
Across the inn, Lyonette slipped as she cleaned a table. Erin turned red. Selys’ voice had a note of real contempt.
“No. I just thought you liked him. So…”
That was all. Selys relented.
“I…might. But I’m not expected to wait for him, am I? And I can have fun, right? Honestly, Erin. You sound like…”
She bit her tongue before she said something actually hurtful. Erin sounded a bit like some of the old Drakes who scolded the young, promiscuous ones. Not Selys’ grandmother; Tekshia had only told Selys that she wasn’t allowed to get pregnant before she turned twenty.
But it was strange. Strange indeed, that Erin Solstice was so…awkward. Selys looked at her friend and sighed.
“Sorry, Erin. I’m not mad. But…have you never thought about it?”
The young woman looked past Selys. And Palt silently trotted into the inn. And the Centaur pulled out a cigar and considered his moves. Numbtongue wandered out of the garden where he’d been playing music. And the young woman was just…conscious of those facts.
“I…”
“You know, Culyss still likes you. Even after getting beaten up by all the Goblins. You never really told me what that was about.”
The young woman blinked. She remembered the Drake. Selys took a breath.
“Tell you what, Erin. You don’t have to do anything. I feel bad about introducing you to Culyss before you were…well, you know. But why don’t I introduce you to…my friend? You know him, anyways. He’s coming by later. I mean…just so you know I’m fine talking about it.”
She sighed, a bit embarrassed. Erin stared at her friend.
“I do? Wait…is it…”
Her eyes went round. Selys rolled her eyes as Drassi leaned forwards with a [Gossip] and a [Bartender]’s instincts for juicy tidbits.
It was truly odd. But it was natural. She just wondered if Erin was shy. Or maybe she hadn’t ever been in a relationship. Selys thought Erin had said she had done it at least once, but maybe…she’d had a bad experience. The Drake shook her head.
It was natural. Why was everyone so hung up on it? But then—this was the perspective of someone who had grown up with a former adventurer for a parental figure. Tekshia…didn’t have the same views as some Drakes her age. And Drassi was everyone’s friend.
Maybe it really was different for Humans? But then, that was the nature of carnality. Some people took to it more than others, and others saw it as deviant, or special, or…awkward. But it definitely happened. Even if people didn’t always talk about it.
So what was the problem?
 
——
 
Sex. Ulvama brushed a sweaty strand of hair off her face. She was having sex.
Intercourse, mating, procreation…she straddled a sweaty Hobgoblin and grinned in the dim lighting of the hut. Raidpear, Hobgoblin, member of the Redfang Tribe, and a member of the Solstice Goblin group within the lands of the Unseen Empire, grunted. Ulvama smirked down at him and increased her tempo.
“Good? Good?”
Her voice was teasing, challenging, even. Which meant Raidpear metaphorically and physically stiffened at the taunt.
“Fine.”
He grunted. The two were engaged in copulation, another good word. And both were enjoying themselves. Ulvama slowed and squeezed—the Hobgoblin groaned and the [Shaman] smiled.
She enjoyed what she did. And to Ulvama, her job, her class, and position as [Shaman] necessitated having sex. She had explained it to Pebblesnatch, once.
Sex was power. It was influence, and it was necessary. That was why Ulvama had actively sought out and formed a relationship with the strongest Goblin among the Solstice Tribe. The [Shaman] might have gone after Leafarmor, the female Hob, but it was also her opinion that males were easier.
Abruptly, the [Shaman] switched positions. She leaned down, so the two’s faces were close. The intimacy made Raidpear shudder. And the [Shaman] fed off both the pleasure, the control—and the magic. Her painted tattoos glowed in the darkness. She was enjoying herself, but—she didn’t like Raidpear.
Or rather, she enjoyed his company. She certainly enjoyed this, and she had few objections to Raidpear as a fellow Goblin.
But that was the extent of Ulvama’s emotions. Sex was a type of currency to her, a give and take. It was not like that for everyone.
Raidpear probably understood that, or guessed on some level their relationship wasn’t born of mutual attraction. But he was a Redfang, and casual dalliance came easily to their tribe, who lived and died with each battle. It was a good position for Ulvama; he wouldn’t grow touchy if she ended things.
Still—she was using her knowledge to manipulate him. Like taunting the Redfang; their tribe didn’t like losing, or running away from a challenge.
“Now? Now?”
She laughed as she methodically moved. Raidpear gritted his teeth.
“No.”
It was a contest. But the [Shaman] had already won, no matter who ‘beat’ the other in this match. Indeed—Ulvama threw back her head, and Raidpear finally released. The two panted. And the Hobgoblin Redfang looked triumphant. Ulvama laughed. Her crimson eyes flashed as she embraced him, not without affection.
“Again?”
Her fingers moved as she whispered a little spell. Raidpear made a deep sound in his throat. Instantly, he rose to action, and stared at Ulvama. She got off him and moved down the cot, gliding downwards. The two Hobs were caught up in each other. Raidpear hissed—
And then they both saw the flash of light as one of the watching Goblins shifted in the tent’s opening. Ulvama and Raidpear whirled. They saw about ten younger Goblins, six male, four female, all staring at them.
Young Goblins. Cave Goblins, some of the Mountain City Tribe, the Flooded Plains—no Redfangs, but they were a small group—all staring at the two. They paused as Ulvama’s eyes narrowed.
“Out!”
Raidpear roared. The Goblins started. Ulvama was faster. The [Shaman] leaned down, snatched up some of the soil at the bottom of the primitive hut, and blew the handful at the voyeurs.
