Staring up at the starry night sky, Min Gyu rocked his chair and stroked the sleeping Kishi curled up in his arms, reminiscing of simpler times when such a beautiful sight had brought him no end of wide-eyed wonder.

In his younger days, he’d contracted a feverish love of warfare and became a man besotted with battle and bloodshed. Every morning he woke up thinking of war, and every night, he dreamed sweet dreams of the Martial Dao, his hunger for strength and progress so insatiable it threatened to consume him. When one conflict drew to a close, he set his sights on the next, riding from one end of Central to the next while praying the fighting would continue until he arrived. It was an escape of sorts, for he’d long since given up on everything else. His parents cared little for his happiness and only saw him as a tool to propagate the bloodline, a chip to be bartered and married away. Women were not worth the trouble they brought, a deceitful and duplicitous bunch who wanted to take him for everything he had. Children were messy and irrational, a burden he never once cared to sire, and other popular pursuits such as hunting, calligraphy, poetry, and whatnot all bored Min Gyu to tears.

But war? War was a pairing of order and chaos, a life well suited to his tastes, which was perfect because it was all he had left. Battlegrounds were a magical place where anything and everything could happen, so long as one had courage, blood, fortune, and steel enough. Lives were lost and reputations made, friendships forged and grievances cleared, all while Warriors indulged in the heady and overwhelming thrill of the fight to their heart’s content. Outside of battle however, he had guidelines to follow and a routine to adhere to, ones he improved on and perfected over years of campaigning. The standard camp set up was optimal on flat ground, but what about in hilly terrain or by the riverbank? There were clear rules outlining how to post sentries, but one could adapt to the circumstances and should post more or fewer guards depending on any number of factors in play. Everything was standardized, whether it be tent size, uniform material, or even latrine depth, and because there was a rule for everything, this taught Min Gyu the importance of discipline, while war taught him to remain flexible since life did not always adhere to the rules. Rigid was good and comfortable, but adaptability was the key to survival on the battlefield, because matters rarely went the way the writers of those rules expected them to.

The duality of order and chaos in army life was exactly what Min Gyu needed to overcome his aimless existence, a structure to adhere to that provided the freedom to follow his heart’s desires. In battle, he only ever needed to concern himself with the enemies before him, and outside of battle, all the major decisions were made for him. How to march, who to meet, where to camp, what to eat, all this and more was delegated to others leaving him free to pursue he love of the Martial Path. There was no need to cozy up to higher ranking officers in hopes of securing promotions and better postings, he only needed to show up for battle and follow orders. Outside of combat, he trained as much as he could and made merry the rest of the time, putting much emphasis on temporary friendships and living in the moment with the comrades he had at his side, because come tomorrow, there was a good chance many of them would be dead. With battle to come with dawn’s first light, appreciating the starry night’s beauty became all that much more important, for it might well be the last night he ever bore witness to.

And now? Now he was a jaded old man whose blood relatives had abandoned him and comrades had all gone off and died before him, leaving him to discover the wonder of family all too late and relearn the risks of trusting too easily.

The worst part was not that he’d failed this new family of his and possibly set them all on the path to civil war, but how they behaved as if none of this was his fault. There was no talk of forgiveness because they did not care to lay blame at anyone’s feet, and instead treated this reunion like any other. After little Rain returned from his near-hostile meeting with Shuai Jiao and the Ryos, he simply shared everything that took place while the family broke bread and concluded with, “So now we wait.”

And wait they did, sitting out in the courtyard together as they were wont to do, with Mila and Yan pretending not to worry while Rain and Lin-Lin teased the quin pups. The former pair’s worry didn’t go unnoticed, which was why the latter were teasing the pups in the first place, to distract the mind and lighten the mood. Baatar and Sarnai sat side by side, their heads touching in a moving portrait of love and affection, while Akanai and her husband did the same in another corner of the courtyard. The touching scene sat in stark contrast to the Death Corps Guards and Bekhai Sentries patrolling the manor, both inside and outside the walls, while hidden Aspirants lurked in the shadows to watch and wait for their foes to act. Throughout it all, the multi-talented Luo-Luo played a moving tune that touched many a heart and soul alike, a poignant melody which did much to ease the tension and anxiety. At least, it did much for Min Gyu, because it was difficult to believe the Commander General would so easily accept Falling Rain’s miraculous abilities and give up whatever ambitions he harboured. Hell, Min Gyu himself wasn’t sure what to make of the boy’s Spectre Devouring prowess or what implications revealing them to the Empire at large would have going forward. All he knew was that the Mother Above must surely be watching over the boy from on high, even if Rain himself didn’t believe in her existence.

Silly child, to be so lacking in faith despite being privy to so many of Heaven’s secrets...

Looking back on his life now, Min Gyu was certain the Mother Above had also graced him with Her favour as well, else there was no other way to explain just how life worked out so well for him. Not only because he survived where so many others died, but also because he found his Path so naturally after running away from home and fortuitously saving the right person who’d been born to exactly the wrong sort of parents. Becoming a Warrant Officer was his first true step along the Martial Dao, one he took unwillingly, but matters would’ve turned out so differently if he’d simply enlisted into the Imperial Army of his own volition. Chances were he would’ve finished training and come out as little more than a Captain at best, one without wealth or backing to secure himself a proper posting. Thus, he might well have gotten stuck on garrison duty somewhere out in the middle of nowhere for a decade or two, and then he would’ve never have risen to the heights he enjoyed today. Being a Warrant Officer offered him a much needed degree of freedom, most importantly of which was the vital ability to pick and choose which conflicts to serve in, for though he harboured an obsession with chasing after the harsh winds of war, he’d always loathed the minor minutiae of actual command.

That being said, though he had no regrets regarding his Path, it was always interesting to think back and imagine what might have become of him if things were different. Would he have abandoned the Martial Path altogether? Met a good woman and fallen in love? Become a degenerate drunk and gambler? Gone crawling back to his parents? Or would he have focused wholly on his career to rise through the ranks as an armchair Officer?

It was this last possibility which tormented him so on this lovely but unappreciated autumnal night. Over the course of his military career, Min Gyu had often come across the type, those wealthy scions of powerful families who used money and connections to secure their military ranks, and rarely was he ever impressed by their abilities. They were always overly concerned with face and prestige without caring to earn any for themselves, riding on the coattails of others and shamelessly taking all credit without contributing anything more than coin. These silk-pants almost always had a competent and hardworking second-in-command to handle all the real duties of military office, but every now and then there would be an idiot too arrogant or unruly to be controlled, and the cost for their incompetence would be measured in human lives. Difficult to count the number of times he’d ignored an idiot’s orders to hold an untenable position or carry out a suicidal charge over the course of his career, a decision he never made lightly. In fact, he only narrowly avoided military sanction by making the correct decisions time and time again until he gained a reputation for snatching victory from the jaws of defeat, or at the very least preventing a bad outcome from spiralling into complete disaster. Some people had no place giving orders on the battlefield, and Min Gyu admitted that tactical command was far from his strongest skill, as he was more effective fighting on the front lines than commanding from the rear. Only then could he get a feel for the battlefield and know how to act and react, when to charge or when to hold, when to retreat and when to call for reinforcements, an instinct born of constant conflict that failed to exhibit itself while poring over maps and formations.

This realization made young Rain’s proposal to separate ranks between battlefield and tactical commanders an interesting one. Liu Xuande, Chen Hongji, and even young Rustram and Jorani were all living proof that the strongest Warriors were not necessarily the best choice for issuing battle-wide commands. It was rare to find a Warrior as multi-talented as the likes of Commander General Shuai Jiao or the traitor Bai Qi, a truth everyone and their mothers knew in the Army proper, but few cared to bring up on account of how strength was venerated above all else.

Alas, even this was not a hard and fast rule, but more of a guideline than anything else, and it pained him to see young Rain struggle so hard despite his strength and intelligence. Since the boy’s miraculous recovery, Min Gyu had been hard at work helping him gather allies in Central, and yet all his efforts were a mere fart in the wind, barely heard or noticed in the grand scheme of things. The Ryo Family seemed to have all but thrown their weight behind the boy after losing a Sword King and revealing a Sword Saint to hold up the Heavens. Alas, Min Gyu allowed his sympathy for the family and his trust in Da’in to override his caution and better judgment, which allowed Jeong Hyo-Lynn to play him like the muddle-headed old fool he was.

In hindsight, it was clear he should’ve seen the signs earlier and might well have were he not so inept in all things political. Lady Jeong graciously accepted his help and made use of his reputation to win over allies and threaten her enemies, but she always kept him at arm’s length when it came to any decisions of importance. He called on old acquaintances to find guards, workers, and contracts for the Ryo family holdings, and sang praises to the high heavens about their blacksmiths, who were admittedly fine craftsmen one and all, though their weapons were inferior to what the Bekhai produced. He was even foolish enough to trust her household with sending and receiving their mail, a trust Lady Jeong betrayed to read through all their correspondences and alter or omit them as she pleased. From start to finish, the Ryo Family as a whole only benefited from their association with little Rain, which Min Gyu believed would foster a sense of friendship, camaraderie, and gratitude, but now, it seemed as if Lady Jeong had simply taken it all for granted.

No, that wasn’t entirely fair, for there were ample reasons to side with Shuai Jiao and the Imperial Clan, though Min Gyu was still not entirely certain why there were sides at all. In his eyes, there was the Empire and the Enemy, and that was that, but alas, not all thought like him. He once believed Shuai Jiao was similarly apolitical, but recent events had proven otherwise. The cunning tactician played the game well too, roping in the Ryos from right under Min Gyu’s nose, though he supposed it wouldn’t have taken too much effort once it became known that little Rain was not entirely in favour with his patron, Shen ZhenWu, whereas Yong-Jin and Shuai Jiao were still firmly in the former Legate’s good graces. This was likely the straw which broke the camel’s back, but there were other factors to take into account, the most important of which was Lady Jeong’s discovery of Da’in’s silly infatuation for Kyung.

