Oh what a fool that girl was, to have eyes for a man so unsuitable for her station and double the fool for getting caught making advances upon him. It wasn’t that Min Gyu was looking down on his grandson, but even once Kyung was freed from his Oaths, his status would still be nowhere near enough to match the shining jewel of the Ryo Family. He had no wealth or political power to offer, and while he was an exemplary Martial Warrior, he fell short of true rising dragons like Rain or Gerel. Kyung couldn’t even give the Ryo family an heir, which was usually the whole point of these marriage alliances, meaning there were plenty of eligible young men who were more suitable for Ryo Da’in that she’d already rejected. Difficult to say why a smart girl like her would chase so adamantly after Min Gyu’s boy, especially after he already refused her several times before. Perhaps it was an act of rebellion, choosing a man so unsuited to her family’s needs, or perhaps she was simply seeking comfort after losing her beloved father. Only the girl knew what was going through her mind, but at least Kyung had the good sense not to give in to Da’in’s demands. No rice had been cooked, but the girl represented the Ryo Family’s lifeline and even the mere hint of impropriety would be enough to ruin her carefully maintained image.

A silly thing to quibble over, a woman’s chastity, especially considering the great value men placed on ‘conquering’ women just like her, but while heroic men were venerated for their lusty appetites, heroic women were supposed to be chaste saints who should blush in the mere presence of the opposite gender. It was evident in how others tried to discredit Yan at first, with hateful rumours aplenty regarding how she ‘seduced’ him into making her his heir and terminal Disciple, rumours which quite nearly ruined her entire military career before it started. Even after marrying young Rain and displaying a mastery of Air and military tactics beyond what most of her peers could match, there were still whispers of how Du Min Yan wasn’t deserving of her rank and accolades. Were she a human man instead, she would be beloved by all, a celebrated hero of Central they would all be proud to have poached, but instead, they held her to an impossible standard and called her unpleasant names, all because she was a woman and half-beast who didn’t fit the proper image of an ideal heroine.

An image which fit Ryo Da’in so well she might as well have been cast from the same mould.

Hence why she was still unmarried despite being one of the most eligible women of Central, because her skill, beauty, and reputation were all so exceptional it afforded her the luxury of going against convention to insist on a husband willing to marry into the Ryo Family. Of course, it wasn’t so simple to attract a man of means who was willing to accept such terms, and thus the list of suitors interested in Da’in declined sharply in quality, but Min Gyu was certain the girl’s high standards were mostly to blame. Alas, the young were so often foolish in matters of love, and his phenomenally talented God-Daughter was no different, falling ‘deeply in love’ with a man so far below her station that their union could never be. Even if this were true, her love was one sided as Kyung himself said they were not suited, else Min Gyu would have moved Heaven and Earth to see them happily wed, even if he had to fight Lady Jeong to make it so. Why Kyung wasn’t interested in Da’in was a question for another day, but Min Gyu was just glad it was so, because the Ryo Family had shown their true colours today. Marrying Seoyoon to Yong-Jin was akin to declaring themselves against little Rain, a selfish act unbefitting of a noble and heroic family like theirs, especially after they’d done so much for them.

To say their betrayal stung was an understatement, but Min Gyu could not fault them, not entirely at least. From Lady Jeong’s perspective, Min Gyu had been the man to introduce the fox into their hen-house, a beast who tried to steal away their prized egg Da’in. It didn’t matter that Min Gyu was not aware of the situation or that Da’in herself had been the aggressor, for in the eyes of a loving parent, fault could be laid at anyone’s feet besides those of their precious child’s. A shame about young Fung, who was smitten with Seoyoon and had been hit hard by the news, but the boy was no stranger to heartache and would recover soon enough, already drowning his sorrows in one pub or another. As for public sentiment, most found the pairing between Seoyoon and Yong-Jin logical at the very least, as they would not be the first couple to emerge from the Hwarang. What Min Gyu found odd though was how Seoyoon was made the sacrificial lamb for Da’in’s mistakes, married off to Yong-Jin who lacked even a family name, yet still refused to become a son of the Ryos. It was, in short, a losing proposition for the Ryos no matter how you looked at it, because this loose connection to Shuai Jiao was hardly comparable to what they could get from almost any other powerful family. A marriage to Ishin Ken-Shibu for example would solidify both houses, and there were countless smaller houses that could be roped in with Seoyoon as the prize, but instead, Lady Jeong chose to express loyalty to the Commander General in return for what appeared to be nothing at all.

It wasn’t that Shuai Jiao was wholly absent from politics, but his public image meant he couldn’t outwardly favour the Ryos just because of this marriage, nor did he possess any commercial interests that could be used to support them. Marshal Yuzhen believed Marshal Yo had been working with Shuai Jiao all these years, and while Min Gyu wouldn’t go so far as to say she was wrong, the secretive nature of their partnership made it so that even if this were true, he couldn’t outwardly favour the Ryos either, not without good reason independent of their ties to the Commander General. So the question remained, why did Lady Jeong choose to marry Seoyoon off to Yong-Jin? What profit was there to be had? Not only was Fung an impressive young seedling and the sole heir to a wealthy city, little Rain would’ve likely given them a king’s ransom in wedding gifts and favourable contracts, because despite his vocal dissent on the topic of nepotism, little Rain would always choose to favour his allies whenever possible. One only needed to look at the meteoric rise of the Spring and Autumn Consortium to see the truth of the matter, though to be fair, there were some remarkable talents hidden within that seemingly unremarkable group of low-born merchants.

Young Rain even went so far as to claim the Spring and Autumn Consortium had earned every copper and title they held now, and while Min Gyu didn’t disagree that they put in a lot of effort, he would also note that they only had the opportunity to do so because they bought into his War Bonds early, which is why others would say they rode his coattails to success.

Heaving a sigh as he sank back into his chair, Min Gyu closed his eyes to the starry sky which he could not wholly appreciate and wished he were of more use. The Sanguine Tempest was a force to be reckoned with on the field of battle, but no match for the likes of the Sword Saint Jeong Hyo-Lynn, nor was he an unmatched commander like Ethereal Palm Chen Hongji, to say nothing of the Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao. Min Gyu’s sole value lay in his sabre and fan, a Warrior whose only use was to send at one’s foes, and in the subtle games of Central politics, this meant he was next to worthless. He couldn’t even garner enough coin or support to fill Yan’s five-thousand man retinue with elites, so what was he if not a burden to his beloved grandchildren? Little Rain even had a stately manor built for him in the Northern Citadel, a none too subtle suggestion that he stop interfering with their marital bliss and move his wrinkled old ass out of their home.

Not in so many words of course, for even the boy would not say something so crass out loud, though Min Gyu could imagine the boy thinking as much.

“Sorry grandfather.” Seated beside him all this time, Kyung finally deigned to speak, but it was not what Min Gyu wanted to hear.

“What for, my dear boy?” he asked, patting Kyung’s cheek fondly. “You’ve done nothing to apologize for. Ignore this old man’s melancholic noises, for they are like the creaks and groans of an old dusty house; insignificant and inevitable.”

“I’ve brought troubles to grandfather’s door.” Ears pressed against his skull, the boy still held his head up high despite his meek and unassuming words.

“By no fault of your own.” Cracking a smile, Min Gyu chortled, “You can hardly be blamed for catching a woman’s eye, now can you? A shame you’ve no interest in Da’in though, for there would’ve been much less complications had the rice been cooked.” The cat ears flickered as Kyung’s shoulders tensed, confused and unable to understand Min Gyu’s meaning. Leaning over to whisper in a conspiratorial tone, he said, “If you’d taken her maidenhood, then we could have easily resolved this matter by changing your family name from Du to Ryo.” Or more likely Min Gyu would’ve had to fight off the murderous Sword Saint as she tried to erase her daughter’s shame, but no need to mention that. The boy felt guilty enough for being a part of this mess, no need to point out how he might have made it worse.

“Oh.” The cat ears dropped again, alongside his shoulders and head as he slumped over in... regret? “...Should I have...?”

“Heavens no,” Min Gyu replied, chuckling all the while. “I’d have boxed your ears myself if you sought to take advantage of my God-Daughter without truly loving her. You did well, though I suppose it was all the easier considering you weren’t interested. Must have proven quite the blow to her ego though, you refusing Da’in’s advances, and I wager it might well have had something to do with how insistent she was.” Lady Jeong had caught Da’in mounting Kyung (fully clothed) after defeating him in single combat, a rare victory for the girl since they first started sparring. Little did they know the Matriarch of the house was lurking in Concealment to check on her daughter’s progress, though Da’in should not have behaved so scandalously even if she was wholly confident of their privacy. Yan’s fault, most likely, as the girl did so love to gossip about her husband and their exploits, much to everyone’s chagrin, but Da’in and Seoyoon hung onto Yan’s every word which likely led to this.

Still... even though Min Gyu knew their pairing would never work, there was a small part of him that would have loved seeing his grandson and god-daughter wed. Were Ryo Dae Jung still alive to shoulder the Heavens for his daughter, Min Gyu suspected the man might’ve even supported Da’in’s choice since he did so love to dote on his children. That was something Min Gyu would’ve never known had he not stayed with the Ryos for so long, because even though he was a strict authoritarian of a General to the world at large, at home, Dae Jung was the ‘easy-going’ parent who was likely to laugh at his children’s antics while Hyo-Lynn doled out the discipline.

It showed in how both daughters took after their mother, for girls were often more dutiful and obedient, while stubborn Geom-Chi even went as far as to refuse a second Spiritual Weapon multiple times in order to follow in his father’s footsteps. He never said as much of course, but being an outsider allowed Min Gyu to see things more clearly than those involved, and he spent many an afternoon helping guide the young man after his father’s tragic passing. Not that Min Gyu had the intention to replace Ryo Dae Jung, but men and women needed different types of attention, and his mother’s constant questions about his feelings and overbearing presence was stifling the poor boy, when all he needed to do was vent his anger and frustrations.

Min Gyu had hoped to help young Geom-Chi in that regard, but that was no longer possible, as the Ryos had all but cut ties with him by siding against little Rain. Still, what a perfect world it would have been if Kyung had married Da’in and they lived happily ever after, a dream which fell through before Min Gyu even realized it was a possibility. A real shame that, though it made him worry for his grandson, because if even Ryo Da’in couldn’t catch Kyung’s interest, then what sort of woman would he accept? “Kyung,” Min Gyu began, turning to his grandson who looked so uncharacteristically out of sorts. “If you don’t mind me asking, why did you reject Da’in advances?” Pausing to choose his words wisely, he tried to keep an open mind and Sent, “Is it because you... prefer men? Or did something... happen... like with Li-Li?” Heavens forbid, Jin Kai’s sins were heavy enough, and Min Gyu wasn’t sure if his old heart could bear it if there was still more to uncover.

“No grandfather.” More confused than offended, Kyung simply shook his head and sat in slumped resignation, hesitating to say what weighed upon his chest, but Min Gyu gave the boy all the time he needed. After a long period of silence, Kyung heaved a sigh and finally opened his mouth to reply, before closing it again. This scene repeated itself a few times until he found the courage to say, “I am... unsuited for Lady Da’in.”

