“Not sure yet.” Shrugging, Rain all too casually continued, “I was hoping you or Marshal Yo might have an answer. I asked Yuzhen about it, and we’re fairly certain we can keep them safe in the North, but Central is too reliant on trade and travel to keep a large group isolated with any success. I have ideas to distract from the refugees, but I doubt they would reassure you in the slightest considering my intents.” Draining his cup dry, Rain refilled his cup and stood up to fill Shuai Jiao’s as well, stretching one arm over the table while leaning on his other hand instead of using both hands to hold the teapot as decorum demanded. Another bad habit rather than calculated insult, one Min Gyu was helpless to resolve given the boy’s lacking reach, as he already had to stand on tiptoes to fill the Commander General’s cup. “Either way,” Rain continued, matching Shuai Jiao’s steely gaze and not coming up short, “I will not allow myself to be controlled by what others might do. I can only do what I believe is right, and deal with whatever may come from there. Yes, this action presents significant risks, and yes, there is a chance I will not be able to shoulder the consequences myself. By proceeding in this manner, I might well ruin my reputation and lose all the goodwill I’ve gained with the people of North, South, and Central, but so. Fucking. What?”

Drawing himself up to full height, Rain trembled with unrestrained righteous fury, his Aura emanating out like a burning sun of emotion. “The people of the West are suffering even as we speak, and I will not delay their deliverance just because the task before me seems too great. I have waited long enough, and now it is time to ride to their aid. Even if I fail, the attempt will be enough to show the people of the West that their Empire has not abandoned them entirely and give them something I fear they have long since lost: hope. Where there is life, there is always hope, but sometimes we must be reminded of this simple truth, and that is what I have set out to do.” Leaning over the table to face Shuai Jiao head on, he continued, “There will be many trials and tribulations ahead, some from within as well as from without, but that will not stop me from even trying. I would appreciate your help in overcoming these troubles, but if you refuse to provide any help, then I’ll settle for you getting the fuck out of my way, else you force my hand and I will have you removed.”

Even though civil war was still a very real possibility, Min Gyu was appalled by the boy’s lacking manners. How dare he speak to Grasping Vines Shuai Jiao in this insolent manner? Even as an enemy, he was deserving of respect, but thankfully the decorated veteran took no offence. Instead, he took yet another sip of his tea while nodding young Rain. “So, it is not hotheaded arrogance that drives you,” he said, his gaze softening every so slightly, “But an overabundance of empathy. This explains much. I do not know which one is worse, but I cannot say I disagree with the sentiment, and it is reassuring to know you are at least somewhat aware of the consequences ahead.” Heaving a sigh, the Commander General stood and stepped back before falling to one knee, raising his fists in a proper martial salute while simultaneously lowering his head. “Very well then. This one is here to obey, Legate. Your orders?”

Just like that?

Rain likely shared Min Gyu’s misgivings, but the boy recovered quickly. “...Marshal the troops as discussed. We march within the week.”

As the boy stood over the Commander General and took charge of the situation, Min Gyu sank back in his chair with a sigh, letting loose a breath he didn’t know he’d been holding. Sudden and anti-climatic though this resolution might be, this outcome was surely the best one possible, and he marvelled at how well the boy let bygones be bygones with only a moment’s hesitation. No longer was he merely a rising star full of potential, but rather a Dragon among men, one who would dominate this stage which he was born to stand upon as he shouldered the responsibilities of a nation.

Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces and perhaps, soon enough, saviour of the West.

After that... only time would tell if he would save the rest of the Empire, or throw everything into chaos in his efforts to do so, but regardless of the outcome, Min Gyu would support him every step of the way.

Chapter Meme
