Even though these words mirrored Min Gyu’s earlier thoughts, to hear Kyung say them out loud filled his belly with fire. “Nonsense!” Smashing a palm down on his rocking armchair, he surprised himself by shattering the chair out from underneath him, forcing him to Lighten and lock his knees to keep from falling on his ass. Three years ago, this would have been an impossible feat for a man in his condition, but now it was as easy as turning a hand, though sweet Kishi was most upset by the rude awakening and abandoned his lap to go seek peace and quiet elsewhere. Smoothly coming to his feet while ignoring Rain and Lin-Lin’s giggles, Min Gyu faced his grandson and asked, “That’s why you refused her advances? Because you deem yourself unworthy?”

At Kyung’s nod, Min Gyu stomped his foot and slapped his knee, unable to contain his anger until it spilled out into his actions. “Foolish boy,” he said, hating himself for how Kyung cringed at the statement. Stretching his arms out to take his grandson by the shoulders, he gently guided him to stand up. “Answer me this, grandson of mine,” Min Gyu began, choosing his words carefully. “Ignoring everything else, do you have feelings for Da’in?” The boy nodded immediately, his cat ears disappearing into his short hair and eyes cast down at his feet. “Deep feelings?” Another nod. “You want to marry her?”

The boy hesitated, but nodded, and his eyes finally looked up to meet Min Gyu’s gaze. “But I will not be a Ryo. I will be a Du, from now until the day I die.”

“Bah.” Delighted as he was by Kyung’s touching gesture, Min Gyu waved a hand and said, “If a woman like Da’in accepts you, you shouldn’t let a silly thing like a family name stop you. Du or Ryo, you’re still my grandson and Disciple, and no one can ever take that away from you.” This was not the important part though, so Min Gyu shook his head and continued, “But I do not understand. If you care for her, then why reject her advances?”

“Because he didn’t want to make trouble for you or the Ryos, Grandpa.” Striding over to give her big brother a hug, Yan reached up to pinch his cheeks with a smile and said, “You and your stony expressions... I actually believed you weren’t interested, else I would’ve told you to act on your urges before locking you both in a room somewhere.”

An unexpected emotion flashed across Kyung’s face, and Min Gyu almost laughed out loud. “Scared are you? You should be, because if you wish to wed Da’in, then there will be many trials and tribulations to overcome, and though I will support you as best as I can, I cannot guarantee you will succeed.” Tightening his grip on Kyung’s shoulders, Min Gyu narrowed his eyes and added, “But you will never know what might happen if you never find the courage to even try. Forget about the obstacles in your Path and follow your heart. Do you wish to pursue her? If so, then I will hold up the Heavens for as long as I am able, and do everything I can to convince Lady Jeong to acquiesce.”

Or distract her, if it came to that. Kyung had already won over Da’in, so it would likely be a simple matter to convince the girl to elope, and given what she told Rain in the meeting earlier today, Min Gyu put even odds on Lady Jeong not hunting the couple down and five to one that even if she did, she wouldn’t have Kyung castrated. Well, perhaps three to one odds, as the woman was cold and calculating to the extreme, but Min Gyu was almost completely certain she would allow a Healer to restore Kyung back to full health.

Probably, but such were the risks one took for love. Even if things didn’t work out, Kyung would always regret it if he never even tried. That was Min Gyu’s greatest regret, giving up on love altogether. He’d been hurt too many times before, first by his childhood sweetheart, then by a string of courtesans and Warrior women who were all too happy to have a tumble in the sheets, but unwilling to become the bride of a vagabond Warrant Officer. By the time Min Gyu’s career came to a crashing end, he’d long since given up on finding love, a grievous mistake he didn’t want to see his grandson make.

The rest of the family came to offer Kyung their love and support, with hugs and head pats aplenty, settling in around they boy to discuss things further. The boy was too aloof and reserved in his response, but Min Gyu saw the truth behind his stony exterior, for he had fast become overwhelmed by all these unfamiliar feelings and could barely even process his own thoughts much less respond to them. The others accepted this with grace, for they’d already accepted Kyung as a member of their patchwork family, the same way they accepted Min Gyu himself. It was good to know the boy would have a place to belong after Min Gyu’s passing, whether it be a family in Central or the north, but it would be best if he could have both.

Greedy to chase after two hares before securing even one in hand? Perhaps, but parents and grandparents alike only wanted what was best for their descendants, and Min Gyu wanted the world for Kyung, and perhaps it wasn’t too late for him to settle down himself. If only he could get a meeting with the lovely Madam Gam...

The family talked long into the night about plans and suggestions, and little Rain even had the audacity to suggest they simply kidnap Da’in away in the darkness of night, a plan which Min Gyu thought was a joke but progressed into the planning phase all too quickly. The Bekhai were nothing if not straightforward, and in their eyes, if Da’in and Kyung were both willing, then the only thing keeping them apart was physical distance. Better to try and convince Lady Jeong to agree, because even though she saw Kyung as an unsuitable husband for her most talented daughter, the truth was that the Ryos would benefit greatly from this association. Fung was Rain’s friend, but Kyung was his Brother-in-Law, a much closer and more significant connection. So what if the Ryos had betrayed Rain’s faction and tied themselves firmly to Shuai Jiao’s ship? Even if civil war should break out, having a link to both sides all but guaranteed the Ryos would come out victorious.

With Lin-Lin all but falling asleep on her feet and Ping-Ping squeakily insisting it was time for bed, the entire family was preparing to head in for the night when young Rain came to alert. “The Commander General is on his way over,” he said, glancing towards the direction Shuai Jiao must have been coming from. “On foot, with Monk Happy and no one else.” Not entirely true, as there was a Divinity from the Brotherhood also watching over them and likely an Imperial Divinity as well, but it was best not to even mention the movements of Divinities and leave everyone second guessing. “Sorry. Seems like bed will have to wait.”

The boy left to make fresh tea and snacks while Yan stood with Min Gyu and whispered about taking him shopping for a new chair in the morning. “Something sturdier made of steel, perhaps,” she murmured, giving no face at all as she joked about his earlier mishap, and he feigned indignation while struggling not to laugh along with her and lose all semblance of face. “Mila, weren’t you going on about some sort of sturdier, reinforced metal?”

The girl’s cheeks turned as red as her hair and Min Gyu sympathized with poor Mila even though he didn’t know why she was so embarrassed. Yan was a devilish girl with a mischievous streak, one which endeared her to all even as she poked and prodded at their weaknesses. It was a side of herself she kept hidden from the world at large, for the same reasons Da’in hid her petulance, because such behaviours were unbecoming of a Warrior Woman of the Empire. Strong, yet feminine, beautiful, yet chaste, these were but the beginnings of a long list of demands the people placed upon their Heroines, and even someone as powerful as Akanai was unable to rise above it all. Poor Mila tried her best to buck the trend, and it resulted in her being considered the ‘least worthy’ of Rain’s wives, at least as far as public perception saw it.

But Mother forgive the first fool to bring this up with Rain himself, for though She might show mercy, he had none for anyone who dared disparage his beloved wives. Call him a fool and an idiot to his face and chances were he’d laugh and agree, but say something bad about his wives and he might well draw blood then and there. Passion was something Kyung could stand to learn from little Rain, but one step at a time. Min Gyu’s grandson had already won Da’in’s heart, though it still remained to be seen how she felt after his stubborn rejection to disastrous consequence. Either way, the seed had long since been planted and taken root, so all Kyung needed to do was nurture it with attention and affection for it to blossom into beautiful love.

The Death Corps guards announced the Commander General’s arrival without any pomp or fanfare and brought him into the dining room where the entire family was waiting, even the youngsters who would only get in the way should violence ensue. Not that Min Gyu believed it would come to this, not right away at least, as Shuai Jiao was not a man to act in so murderous a fashion. Rain and the Bekhai however were another story, and Min Gyu respected the Commander General’s courage for not only coming here alone, but also partaking of the tea and snacks without hesitation despite having been given a scare by Rain’s would-be assassin earlier today, a man who emerged from Concealment within stabbing range without being noticed.

Min Gyu had not enjoyed being one of the practice targets for Rain’s masked assassin, but his pride remained intact since no one else had managed to catch the sneak thief either.

After barrelling through the polite formalities, Shuai Jiao dabbed his lips with a worn handkerchief and sighed. “Say I believe you,” he began, looking so tired and worn as he sat in a room full of Peak Experts and potential enemies. “Your miraculous ability and unheard of claims, your wild ambitions and selfless motivations. Say I believe it all and am willing to support you. Surely you don’t think that will be the end to your troubles?”

...Why would it not be? If the Commander General were to ally himself with little Rain, then who else was there to fight?

“Of course not,” Rain said, rudely playing with his cup of tea, but only because it was a nervous habit and not out of any desire to annoy the man across from him. “Retaking the West and Cleansing the inhabitants will be the easy part. The difficulties come after. Even if we can secure the Western Province post-haste, there will be a pressing need to relocate a sizable portion of the Western population, and we won’t be able to hide our actions for long. In fact, now that you know my secret, I don’t think I’ll even try to hide what I’m doing, but that means the general population will soon learn that I am not slaughtering the prisoners and actually freeing them instead.”

Oh... of course. Min Gyu was a fool for not seeing it earlier. He believed the boy’s claims, but no matter how much proof or Oaths they provided, there would always be those who didn’t believe. The people of the West would have many difficulties ahead of them, including but not limited to discrimination and misguided demagogues howling for their execution. It would be fine if they limited themselves to mere speech, but fear and loathing made for a poor combination that could easily turn a peaceful gathering into a full-blown riot. Not to mention how even Rain’s reputation had its limits, and his own soldiers might refuse to aid him in setting loose a ‘plague of Defiled’ upon North, South, or Central.

The boy briefly touched on these topics and more before going even further to say, “Most worrying of all is the Imperial Clan’s response. I know Xing Yong Wei has been supervising a kill squad of Disciplinary Corps Warriors who specialize in silent purges, and I don’t doubt the Emperor will turn those dogs loose on the relocated citizens of the West. Their tolerance for risk is next to none, but I will not allow them to slaughter thousands of innocents for no reason besides caution.”

“Easier to have the Disciplinary Corps denounce your actions,” Shuai Jiao replied, casually sipping his tea as if discussing the weather over a game of chess. “Then the people will rise up and carry out the bloody work for them. You cannot protect every refugee you save, and you would be a fool to even try.”

“Well, I never intended to bring them back to Central,” Rain replied, though it was clear from his expression that doubts were beginning to take root. “There’s plenty of untamed wilderness up north for Western refugees to get lost in.”

“But with winter approaching, can the North afford to feed so many extra mouths? And while concealment and isolation will work to your advantage, unless you conquer the entirety of the Western Province adjacent to the Azure Sea, your refugees will have to sail past a great number of harbours and villages before arriving in the North, with next to no chance that their presence goes unnoticed.”

“Not to mention the fact that South and Central also want a share of the workforce, yea? Taking refugees in presents a significant risk, but given how a large number of them are likely to Create their Cores and be grateful to the province that takes them in, then you cannot just sit back and let the North monopolize them all.”

“All true,” Shuai Jiao admitted without even a hint of shame. “We have suffered many losses in so short a time and must make plans for the future. So? How will you address these issues and keep your refugees safe?”

