---Luna peered into the water and tried to grab her own reflection. It escaped as it always did. There was something oddly alluring about something that stole her image and prevented her from stealing it back. How did it get it in the first place?She never gave it permission. But perhaps the hot spring didn’t need her permission?What an odd place. Why was it here? Why did Mum make this place?Luna didn’t know and that was just fine. Luna wasn’t made to know things, she was made to...To...Be Luna.That wasn’t exactly an easy thing to understand. Luna wasn’t a person, just like the Frog in the water. Touching it only made the Frog vanish. If someone peered too closely at Luna... the same thing would happen. The only thing Luna really had as a ‘Luna thing’ was her name. Moon.That and being a Dungeon Monster which meant Death.So she just pushed them together.“I wonder if someone can just float off the moon and vanish?” she asked no one. The idea didn’t excite her so much as it gave her something to focus on. Luna needed something to be Luna.Gramps was old and Giant was big. Rale was buff and Devina was both a female, a Frog, a magical Frog, and the older one.Being the youngest ‘female’ Frog was a weak thing to have when a new one could be made any second. If Luna was none of the things that the other Frogs were, then what was she?She was a reflection of someone. Luna felt that was something she could admit.“Hey Luna,” Mum called as she walked into the area. Luna stood, her body stiff as she didn’t know whether to bow, wave, nod, smile, look away, or just plain run. Her being ached to do all of these and more. Being created, the echoes of Devina and Rale confused her. They changed too quickly for Luna to hold a solid idea of ‘what’ to do.“Heyo... Mumo,” she grinned weakly. Her Mother paused.“Hi Luna, you cute... tuna,” she fired back and Luna actually felt cooler compared to the powerful Dungeon core.

The shadow complained. Nu the system tool. The words were clear, but Luna couldn’t help watch it bend and respond to her Mum’s gentle touch and teasing. Nu didn’t give off the same warmth as Mum. He reminded them of their power, their potential, their... purpose.Being stuck between the two was giving Luna a bit of a nervous tic.“How are you getting on? You’ve taken a real shine to this place,” her creator said with audible delight. Luna guessed she had. Her urge to explore or follow Devina never really overrode her fondness for the steaming water. The place had a tranquil air to it that the Frog Pond didn’t.The Pond felt almost religious in nature and the air just meant Luna couldn’t relax, not to mention Gramps grumbled and nagged at her to sit straighter, be more respectful, yadda, yadda.The hot springs felt like a place of rest and Luna couldn’t deny the feeling on her soft skin.“It’s not bad. You doing the whole ‘make sure no one is a psycho and will stab the humans’ thing?” Luna asked, twirling one finger around her head. Her mother chuckled slightly.“No need. Wyin is in the boss room and Cois is drunk. I’m just wanting to make sure you didn’t need anything?” she asked and Luna almost wanted to say ‘a reason’.“Nope. I’m jolly good,” she reported calmly and the glowing orange blur moved off with a cheerful wave.Luna watched her go and then looked down at her reflection again.If she could just reach in and touch the girl. She could maybe feel something beyond confusion and bravado.Luna liked the hot springs. That was... something. Something she could build on.Luna stood and began to gather rocks, her form picking up speed as she slowly put a plan together. The idea of who Luna was.It all began with the rocks and the spring.---Delta gave the giant Frog warrior a long look as he silently guarded the log bridge, his form as still as a statue.“You okay?” she asked uncertainty and Giant nodded.No words, no facial expression, and no hint of what Delta should do to strike up a conversation.“Guarding the log, huh?” she pressed on and Giant gave the log a frown, but he only nodded.Okay, a frown! Delta could work with that. A frown suggested that Giant was unhappy with it. She guessed the log wasn’t exactly the most impressive thing to see in the jungle. Rubbing her hands together, she eyed her Mana that was just dipping below 30 but her DP still had plenty left to play around with.She opened the menu of the log and saw Sis had already created the needed options.Delta purchased the first one.

Giant took a step back as the log split in half and the rough sides smoothed out. The river shuddered as the bank sunk low to form a deeper ravine between the two sides of the jungle. The bridge stretched and, while the two sides were mostly made of solid rock, the middle was formed of solid looking wood.Overall, the bridge and its reflection formed a perfect circle. Delta gave the river a wide look.She was glad Rale could save people now, they would have to scale the cliff to get out if they didn’t wash out somewhere back upstream as the river recycled itself.Giant took steps onto the new bridge and practised swinging his spear to adjust to the sudden space. He gave the bridge a few experimental hops, but the thing was pretty darn sturdy. Delta knew he would be able to use his bulk and speed without worrying about the bridge wobbling or throwing him off.“Thank you.”Giant’s quiet but deep voice sounded out and he took a kneeling spot on the middle of the bridge. Giant seemed to really like doing his duty.Kinda like Gramps, Delta noted.Bridge guardian. Her little John of the jungle. Least he wouldn’t have to ask any riddles about swallows to the visitors. Then again, the idea of a bucking bridge made Delta a little too amused.

Nu spoke up as Delta wandered away into the cover of trees and wildlife. Delta looked at the screen which displayed her remaining DP and Mana. She had enough to play with and start some things, but not enough to completely finish everything. Hob and Gob would have to dive deeper or begin to trade spider silk and mushrooms with the village.“Not yet. I still have to get the little ones a good home so someone doesn’t accidentally smush them forever,” Delta reminded. Nu grumbled but he didn’t protest too much. Delta knew that the value of having monsters that didn’t need to be constantly resummoned paid for itself.Not to mention, Delta just felt plain guilty for not securing her monster’s lives. It was just the right thing to do.

Nu seemed to joke, but Delta wanted to list how small they were with their tiny hats and baskets. The big eyes and squeaky chirps, and love for Mr. Mushy. They absolutely needed every upgrade Delta could find for them!Delta lightly floated down the hole which lead to the Mushroom Grove and watched as the colony of pygmy mushrooms frolicked around starlight shrooms and a few gutrots. They all seemed to dance at the sight of her. Delta loved them.Such wonderful creatures. Delta would have to maybe trap the entrance or maybe ask Devina to set spirits as guardians...For now, she opened the menu for the grove.

Delta giggled and purchased the option to allow the cuties to be safe from now on.--The little chief closed its eyes as the room became theirs. The cache of weapons was neatly hidden under mounds of dirt as planned for their homemade traps. The act of eternal existence made the big shrine (hidden in a hut) to Mother glow. The tiny statue made from a shard of the fire crystal that a brave pygmy had risked its life to retrieve from the water of heat.The room bulged and changed as their huts were raised on platforms of large sleeping mushrooms with no hands. The quiet ones.Soon, Mother would gift them with more blessings and they would be her hidden knife. Unseen even by her.As the great shadow instructed.The room’s new power filled his body before the change was finished. The chief watched as his tiny little hands sparked with new found power. He could hear the tiny whispers of his people as they prayed to the Mother Shrine.He stepped outside his hut, the highest building in the room now. He watched as each ‘layer’ of the village was set on bright red caps of the quiet mushrooms. Until the dark soil spread with grass and flowers below. A large round freshwater pool lined up with the hole in the sky where the intruders would fall from.The life in the grove drunk deeply from the water as tiny tunnels went in every direction on every level. A tunnel to anywhere on the level.The perfect ambush design.---

Delta was jumping up and down as her menu said she could now have 10 of the little pygmies at once!

Delta paused and gave Nu a puzzled look.“Tiny sweet Mr. Mushys?” she tried and Nu shook as the words scrolled over his face. A series of letters that roughly sped up to reflect laughter before Nu calmed himself.

Delta just gave him an odd look.
