Delta sat neatly on the bar stool near the end of the smoothed down the wooden surface that took up almost the entire side of the room. Her orange glowing figure looked ghostly as the cracking hearth behind her forgot to cast her shadow.Delta idly ran her finger over a glass as she pretended the ringing noise was sounding from the glass and not her own lips.“Ya walked into the room and I just knew ya were trouble,” the goblin tending the bar muttered as she downed the amber liquor herself. Delta gave her best mysterious smile as the bar had taken in some of her love for old 60’s detective movies. The bartender especially seemed to enjoy being the gruff goblin with a curious nose for trouble.A fresh glass was poured and Delta almost giggled at the useless but kind gesture.If I’m such trouble, why have you not asked me to leave?” she teased and the bartender sniffed.“Guess I got a weak spot for the strays,” she rubbed the wooden surface with an old rag. Clean but well used and well-loved despite only being hours old. Delta leaned forward and peered at her newest resident.Goblins did not have genders but... something with the last few monsters had become screwy; Delta decided she didn’t mind the change in control or even the unpredictable outcome. The resulting Guardian of her new room was spectacular. The slightly slender form was not exactly more human or even more beautiful than the ‘masculine’ goblins. Instead of squat faces or strong features, this goblin looked more like a bird of prey.Her long sharp nose curved down and her beady eyes were slitted with a deep gaze that seemed to gauge a person the moment she laid eyes on them. The hair was thin and cut loosely into a messy tail of black hair. The only soft feature was her lips which were full and curved more than any of the other goblins and her chest left… no illusions as to which way her body had grown in some areas, and definitely made ‘her’ the correct word.Her own fine control when making monsters was getting worse, Delta had to admit to herself. But, like her impulse to make an inn, Delta felt no urge to fret over the outcome. She was slowly coming to terms about the simple facts of her being. Ruli... Quiss... Nu...They had all let slip exactly what she was. A Dungeon Core. A being with no dying cells or limits to her growth. Why not have fun? The idea of fretting over every choice she made every day made her want to curl up and never do anything. Impulsive creation and new ideas would keep her going as her family grew.The Swarthy Hog was a place of comfy rest and a bit of gruffness. It didn’t try to hide the simple yet solid tables or the cheaply carved candle holders on the wall. The Inn was more like the goblins themselves. Created cheaply but improved with skill and care.The straw and sand on the floor and furs that lined the wall made the place gain a huntsman feel but Delta felt like a lady would enjoy the complex drinks made from mushrooms, apples, berries, fish oil, boar hair, Golden Fish scales, and well, Fera had a real knack for making up drinks when she got bored.Fera the Goblin Innkeeper. What a gal.Delta liked her the moment she kicked Cois’ ass into gear and made him light the room's candles. Each of the goblins seemed confused on how to treat their new family member, but respect was always somewhere in the mix.“You look like you want to tell this tender a secret, hm?” Fera mused and Delta gave a slight smile.“Not really a secret, but I think this is one of the better things I made,” she winked and Fera looked unimpressed.“Doesn’t take a genius to see that, darling,” she nodded and poured herself more amber liquid from the tap. Delta hoped she didn’t get so sloshed that she started handing out freebies. She’d hate to sack a good goblin for addiction.She ignored Cois cackling down the hall as the shadows of dancing fire roared out. Addiction came in many forms and levels of intensity.Billy laughed demonically as Numb yelled a challenge.Many... forms.“What’s the plan, Momma?” Fera asked as she rubbed the spotless counter over and over as her tip jar remained empty except the single berry from the spiders as they came to the party in the corner of the ceiling, a single thimble of the Durence brew making all of them drunk and slightly catty.Delta mused on the question.“Got some Frogs to check on and... well, some overdue upgrades to the fort room. It’s outdated,” she said as Fera lightly tapped the mushroom cap near the back of the bar.“Maestro, gonna need something slow. Don’t want the boys rushing in,” she grumbled as Maestro slowly let a soft guitar resound throughout the room. A soft man’s voice called out as he sang. Something about leaving in the morning.Delta stood and almost swayed to the song as Nu’s box slowly appeared next to her.

“Charmer,” Delta looked around the inn with extreme fondness before she moved down the tunnel to a room she had barely touched. The simple hills and wooden defences made her blush a little but it was all in the name of progress. One day wooden fences, the next? Laser controlled missile sharks.Or something close to it.The goblins looked at her when she approached and Nu spoke before she could.

The goblins let out a cheer and stampeded past Delta without so much as a single greeting. Delta twitched but she remained cool and collected, nostrils flaring as she rolled up her sleeves to get to work.First, she liked the hill aspect and raised tunnel idea. It was just the rest that looked like a beginning Dungeon attempt. The Fort Room was above all else, a stalling room. It had to tire people who Delta didn’t want to come in deeper. A room Guardian before and a Guardian after should add pressure, but she wasn’t going to count on it.She replaced the Wooden walls that were so easily hopped or burned or crushed or... Delta focused and with little effort, stone breached the mud and rose higher than Fran on Bacon could reach. Mana dipped a little low but she quickly added some parapets and a metal gate.Overall, the room already felt about three times as tricky to breached. Delta rose up and focused on one of the towers. First, she borrowed one of Mr. Mushy’s more... stable pots and pulled up another ‘gift’ from Grim.The pot filled with a still purple liquid that partially stuck to the sides of the pots where the air disturbed the surface before it settled. The ooze that Grim had used on Mr. Mushy. The walls, the gate, the sticky ammunition as well as the sticky patches already on the hill. Delta cheered as she left the rest up to Sis.To let her partner work her magic in peace. Delta wandered back towards the inn and opened the menu to make sure nothing new had appeared in the short time she had been gone away.

The list wasn’t bad and Delta had no shame in letting the Inn produce the alcohol that Quiss had offered as a gift. The taste, according to Fera, was beyond intense. Her usual gobs looked a little red in the face after one drink while Fera drank the stuff casually.“Inn, Fort Room upgrade... next on the list is seeing the Frogs,” she told a placid Nu. The sheer upgrading and building struck a peaceful cord in the menu and Nu barely argued over any of Delta’s choices.There was a minor scuffle and Billy was sent crashing over a table as Fera sent him flying out of the kitchen where various foods cooked on a rough stove. Apple pies, their edges a perfect golden brown, sat cooling as their melted fruit filling gave off an aroma of delicious sweetness and tartness as the mana tinged fruit leaked its juicy energy.In a large pot next to that was a big cast iron pot of creamy mushroom soup that would normally be bland, but Fera had used some of the plants on the second floor to season it and the smell was making the goblins hungry as the surface bubbled with carrots and salt. The smell captured the senses as it wafted through the inn.The last food item was a sensual chocolate cake made from a gift of Deo’s. The chocolate was spread over a spongy cookie batter that Fera whipped up from the homemade cookies that Isanella had gifted the Dungeon. The mixture was a gluttonous mess of sugar and well-earned comfort food.The kitchen became a treasure for all the beings of the Dungeon. Delta even knew that Fera had a single jar of supreme honey from the Queen on the second floor. The smell was enough to make even Fera drool and she didn’t accept messes in her kitchen.Delta groaned as she couldn’t taste any of it just yet, as it was all Dungeon made.What was worse was that tomorrow was Boar burgers and Fish Fillets covered in a mushroom gravy! Delta dragged herself away from the smells and waved sadly at Fran who was trying to bench press Bacon on his own.Bacon was so sweet, but all he did was remind Delta of the boar burgers! Rushing downstairs, she took a deep breath as she was surrounded by wildlife. She blinked as a Bloodhare hopped past.She wondered when Fera would grab one of those for the menu?It took some time to track down the frogs. They weren’t exactly together. The first one was Gramps who seemed to have taken over the Frog pond cave as his refuge. The older frog was calmly meditating near the clear water, between the statues of Devina and Rale. His body slightly pulsed a deep blue and sweat leaked from his wrinkled head.“Mother...” he whispered. If it felt odd to have an ‘old’ Frog call her mother, Delta didn’t feel it. She could almost see how young Gramps was, his outer shell a disguise for the young and curious being inside. He just hid it well.“How are you?” she asked kindly. Gramps finally relaxed and he allowed a short gasp as he gathered himself.“I was allowing my mind to wander. I saw many beings. Many great beings. The two-headed dragon of the white light. I saw the Fire King and Ice Queen in the endless struggles. I saw the two left eyed sheep of Opportunity. But I saw them and felt nothing for I am your loyal vassal,” Gramps grunted and tried to stand for a bow. Without the others around, the Frog tried to focus his stiff attitude to be respectful.“Gramps... it’s okay. You don’t need to be so formal,” she instructed as Nu slid away to give them space. Delta knew between them both, she had the better ‘people’ skills. Gramps’ looked stubborn and got down on one knee.“Instruct me, Mother,” he begged. Delta held back a sigh and rose to her full height which wasn’t much.“I want you to look me in the eyes,” she began, his wandering gaze was beginning to worry her.He did so almost regretfully.“We are in the sacred place of your gift. Here... we must respect your power. Should we not live up to Rale and Devina-” he cut himself off as if cursing his own words for slipping out.Oh.“Hm, I was very impressed with how you saw all those beings. I think you’re working very hard,” Delta idly commented and Gramps looked unsure at her sudden change of subject.Delta could see the need to prove himself to her but nothing Delta could say would really make the old Frog feel any better. He was almost like Nu in a sense. Appeased by action. Delta was sure she was actually starting to get the hang of this whole Dungeon thing if this worked. Plus the Frog was perking up. If it made him feel better to be given a task... then Delta could handle being a little tougher than usual.The story has been illicitly taken; should you find it on Amazon, report the infringement.“Gramps. Keep focusing on your task. Learn how best to serve me and I will return. I will expect you to meet my eyes next time,” she almost teased. Gramps trembled but he nodded as if the task was a burden he was more than glad to accept.“As you command! I will not fail!” he promised and made himself return back to his lotus position as the water pulsed at his energy. The Frog had a real talent for... whatever he was doing.

Nu almost sounded amused and Delta perked up at his words.“You know where she is?” she asked brightly as they left the Frog Spawn room.

