On the northeast side of Candlepoint, there was a similar, but smaller, mountain of white eternal stonewood waiting to be Shaped into something more cathedral-like. Justine waited near that mountain, along with a handful of other clergy and people of Candlepoint. Mephistopheles and Slip were present, along with a few paper shapers from city hall, and guards from the guard. Every single one of them jumped to attention in their own ways as Erick’s lightning portal opened up a mere twenty meters away.

Erick had already had a few long talks with Justine about what was going to happen here, and she had already participated in approving the model made by O’Lark. That model, of course, had some missing pieces that were going to be supplied by the shadelings here; primarily Mephistopheles.

Who was the leader of the Cult.

He had not been the leader of the Cult of Melemizargo when he had revealed his Cultist tendencies back at that first meeting, over a week ago. But word had gotten around that the Cult was going mainstream, and so the various Cultists in town had crowned Mephistopheles their leader. But really now. He had probably been their leader all along.

Erick just let that happen, since nothing much had come of it.

At no point in time had any interactions between Mephistopheles and Erick changed, for Mephistopheles kept that Cult stuff under wraps. Here and now, though, it was time for something more serious, and ceremonial. And so, the cultist robes came out.

Mephistopheles wore black robes befitting a Priest of Melemizargo. A few of his compatriots wore the same. This was a test of Erick, actually, now that Erick looked it over. Would he let this happen? The answer was yes.

Contrasting him, Justine wore robes of silver and white. Her people mirrored her, though they wore more white than silver; they were believers in other gods besides Koyabez, the God of Peace and the Silver Star.

Erick stood tall, and regarded everyone present.

He spotted the grey stone model of the cathedral O’Lark had gifted Justine, sitting off to the side, and also the rougher-made additions done in black stone, no doubt added by Mephistopheles. It was fine. Or, at least it would be fine.

Hopefully.

Erick laid down the law, “This is likely going to get dangerous, for a full Interfaith Church has not been done since the very, very early years of the Script. All of those locations have long since been destroyed by myriads of different forces, or desecrated and enshrined by one side or the other. Every attempt to have a full Church results in the same destruction, either by Melemizargo, or Rozeta, any of the other gods we call upon today, and also their followers.

“There is a long bloody history here, and we are attempting to fly in the face of that history. To show something better can be made. Melemizargo seems less and less insane by the day, so maybe this will actually work this time, but he’s gone through various phases of lucidity before.” Erick said, “This is dangerous. Don’t forget that.

“But hope has always been dangerous.

“We hope for a better world tomorrow than the one we experience today. We hope, now, for our children to grow up not afraid of the dark, and for those raised in the dark to not be afraid of the light. We guard our hearts and yet extend our hands anyway, in the hopes that our hands are not burned in the offering. That we can lift each other up to better heights, and stronger, more stable tomorrows.

“It’ll be many, many years before anyone accepts Melemizargo as reformed, but if he’s willing to put in the work, then maybe all the people of the world may one day refer to him by a name that has all but been scrubbed from history; The Welcoming Dark.”

Erick ignored the small tears of joy, and of buried anger in the eyes of the shadelings, and in the eyes of those who were no longer shadelings. There were emotions on both sides, not that both sides were equal at all in what they had done wrong. He ignored the buried hate in Sitnakov’s gaze, and in the eyes of those who tried to stand well out of sight at the far, far edges of the land which had been cleared for the cathedral.

And Erick decided he didn’t need to listen to anyone else.

He had planned for Justine to say some words, and for Mephistopheles to say some more. But.

NOPE!

Erick began Shaping—

The crowd turned as the white mountain began to shift.

Immediately, Erick noticed a change. Magic flowed from his body like a brief burst of thick air, washing across the to-be-cathedral, soaking into the white wood and sending up sparks of Benevolent lightning. Those sparks grew and grew, and in a flashing instant, the mountain moved.

Spires ripped up from the white mountain like an explosion of crystal, forming towers flanked by arches and filled with spaces for massive stained glass windows. One central spire expanded left and right, forming hallways and a circling ring out back, where the gods would have their individual altars—

A land of black grew in the middle of those altar spaces, expanding outward, pushing aside and widening the original design into something larger, and more Dark. Melemizargo’s space became three times the size of any other gods—

Simultaneously, the central nave came into being, and became a vaulted ceiling fifty meters tall while the transepts and the main altar flashed into existence, and the exterior became something gothic and intricate.

A wave of power flashed out from Melemizargo’s altar in the back, breaking all of Erick’s control, and yet the building kept building—

Golden flames washed out from what had to be Koyabez’s altar space, followed instantly by divine fire expanding out of Rozeta’s nook. Gold fought with black for the briefest of moments…

And then black relented.

It was not a wrestling of power as Erick had thought it would be. It was a give and take. The Darkness backed off here. Koyabez advanced there. Rozeta’s divine fire filled out this land over here. The various altars in back turned slightly more uniform, each one growing to match Melemizargo’s addition, and yet, Melemizargo kept his altar slightly larger, constantly…

Eventually, the gods stopped fighting.

Melemizargo got his larger altar space, which was like a small cathedral inside the larger cathedral, while all the gods moved on.

And the construction expanded. The main cathedral burrowed into the ground, forming lower floors, while the upper floors created themselves, or rather, some god did. The whole white cathedral was awash in golden fire, but each flame was slightly different. Erick could barely tell which magic belonged to which god, but he thought he saw Atunir in the construction of a vineyard on the lands beside the cathedral, while storm-tossed power created a fountain on the other side. An arena clashed into existence behind the building, perhaps the work of Sumtir, the god of righteous war, while the gates to a graveyard and central pyrestone appeared way over there, beside a now-apparent mausoleum.

Everywhere Erick looked, he saw the white eternal stonewood grow and expand, forming side buildings and housing halls and everything else that normally went with a church. He had not accounted for those additions, for he was only going to make the cathedral itself out of eternal stonewood.

But the gods had other ideas.

One god in particular had an idea that Erick wasn’t sure he liked, or not.

Melemizargo did not like everyone else creating without him. From his altar came lines of black, filling in the grout of the tiled floor, running down the baseboards of the hallways, edging out here and there in every place he could find.

Perhaps, most oddly, the gods let this happen. They pulled back their divine fire as the shadows came forward, holding to their own altars, watching the shadows crawl by. And the shadows didn’t try to enter those altars, either. That was perhaps the most odd thing; there had been no fight over territory.

Just an expansion, and an allowance for others to move as they were wont.

Over the course of thirty four seconds, which might not have been accurate for Erick was rather distracted that the magic had pulled away from him and been taken over by gods, the cathedral and the surrounding lands came into being. Stained-glass windows appeared, in all the rainbows of the myriad gods, but also with a tinge of black Darkness, even though there had been no glass in this Shaping. The vineyard flushed out with thick vines and deeply purple grapes, even though there had been no [Grow] in this Shaping. A small golden fire lit upon the center of the pyrestone in the graveyard, even though there had been no flames before. Rozeta’s library, where the clergy would keep books she had approved for extra points, filled with those books. A thousand other smaller touches of divine gold and dark black completed the magic here and there.

And then it was done.

Crafting his House had taken Erick the better part of the sunlight hours of the day, only finishing around four in the afternoon. He had expected this smaller project to take about two hours, and for some crisis to interrupt those hours.

… But then again, he was doing something rather religious right now. Usually, when one worked under the auspices of a god, those gods helped the petitioner to make their magic. Erick had even experienced this twice before, with the creation of Yggdrasil, and of the Crystal Star with his Blessing of Empathy. In less direct ways, this is what happened when he sang to the mana, and the mana responded.

Perhaps it was simply the severity of the divine actions here, in this moment, that got Erick thinking about such nuances of magic; as they tore away his spellwork and used it to their own ends. This was what clerics and other assorted worshiping people often reported when they spoke of the touch of the divine. Erick didn’t expect such an event to happen right now, but upon reflection, if nothing else happened, then this was a good outcome.

The building settled.

It was a white cathedral with black accents in the floor, in windows, and in the arcing roofs.

Erick was not the only surprised person in the audience.

Sitnakov went, “Huh.”

Justine rapidly decided to take hold of the situation, raising her arms to the sky, saying, “We thank the gods in all their glory, for this chance you are taking on us, and on The Dark One.” She lowered her arms, and turned to Mephistopheles. A change came over her, like a spring pouring up from bare sand. Divine fire tainted her soul as she spoke with multitude of menacing voices, “Do you accept the burden of cooperation? Of true coexistence? Or is this to be yet another trick to tear us all apart and drown our last world in your dark lies, Melemizargo?”

Mephistopheles’ eyes flickered brightest white, as the edges of his red skin incani body turned darker, casting him into shadows, filling him with power. The voice that came out of the man was not Mephistopheles’s voice.

“It is to be cooperation. My Cult that remains loyal will no longer pursue their usual goals of disruption, but we will still pursue our goals of true education. This world might be real, but it is still so very unstable. The next one will be better.”

“Will you assist us with dismantling those in your power who will not follow this public edict?”

“You would not like what would happen if I do that, for once all the current problems are solved then I will need to challenge this world in other ways, for light will turn to shades of brightness if left unchecked, and you are all unchecked.” Mephistopheles as Melemizargo turned to Erick, saying, “And the world looks to be getting a lot brighter.”

Justine stood tall, regarding Melemizargo, and said, “We disagree. But we will not fight about it today. Instead, we will protect this church, and you will do the same. It will be a physical covenant of our pact of cooperation.”

“Agreed.”

Divine fire ripped out and away from Justine, leaving her cold and vulnerable.

Darkness pulled away from Mephistopheles, leaving him smaller than before.

And then all that power settled into the cathedral, where it vanished into the altar rooms in the back, and into the eternal stonewood that made up the building.

“A covenant, then,” Justine said, though she was almost too weak to stand.

“A covenant,” Mephistopheles agreed. Bent over and with a hand to his knee, he was barely doing better than Justine.

Justine nodded, then turned to Erick. “The gods wish to talk to you, as you are able, Wizard.”

Mephistopheles forced himself to stand straight, then said to Erick, “The Darkness approves of your benevolence, and wishes you luck.” He said to Justine, “See that? ‘Wishes for luck’ instead of ‘to talk’. He’s a lot less demanding than your lot.”

“He’s also caused nearly all of the greatest tragedies this world has ever seen, so this wish is a lot less innocuous than you believe it—” Justine cut herself off. “I’m not fighting right now, Mephistopheles.” She said to Erick, “Our Apparent King, we are grateful for your magics, and for your benevolence on this afternoon. Please join us for a grand feast to commemorate the day’s construction. Everyone is invited, but you would be the guest of honor.”

The audience tensed, though not a single person in power was worried about Erick joining them for a party. They wanted Erick there.

Erick happily said, “I’d love a good feast. This is probably the best possible outcome, too, so it’s time to celebrate!”

The audience didn’t know what to do about that. But they would adjust.

Justine said, “We are pleased with your acceptance. Ever since our recent economic reorganization we’ve been feeding people every day in our food halls…” She smiled brightly. “But the gods are good, and the people who have needed our services have found their own sustenance, created by their own hands, and now, we have excess. We can have a real feast tonight, and everything will be alright.”

And it was.

Upon tables set in the front yard of the cathedral, Justine presided over a grand feast of thanks to the gods, in all their glory, and also to Melemizargo, though that second part was said much smaller than the first. There were smaller speeches by other people of the clergy, with Erick only really paying attention to the speakers for Rozeta and Phagar. Apparently, Rozeta’s library was open for all to read, and Erick kinda wanted to read some of the defining literature of Veird; a lot of it was actually fiction, which was a surprise. Phagar’s speaker directly called for an End to hostilities, and in a private aside to Erick, said that Phagar was waiting for him to ask about Time Magic.

So that was something to do, soon enough.

