Many people whom Erick rarely saw attended the feast, and it was good to see them again.

Aside from some merchants and farmers, and other assorted people whom Erick never got a chance to interact with, the minotaurs showed up in numbers. Their appointed leader, Danarin, gave another small speech of thanks to Erick, that mirrored the one he gave months and months ago, at the start of the Worldly Path.

After that speech the burly man was much more personable, happily sitting with Erick to talk about everything that had happened to the minotaurs. Erick confessed that he had been worried about them since they did not partake much in city hall, nor did they ask for help with anything. As far as Erick could see, they participated in all the normal stuff that people do, like going to markets and buying from vendors, but they also did a lot of their own stuff. They were a bit insular.

Danarin smiled at that, saying that they strove to be self-sufficient. They were all Ar’Kendrithyst level adventurers before they were turned by Hollowsaur, after all. Erick was glad to see that Danarin and the other minotaurs had thrived under all this hardship, and he was even more surprised to see that Danarin had a wife now, who was also a minotaur. Danarin’s wife was a similarly bronzed but more curvy minotaur, who was maybe a week or two pregnant.

She already had absolutely massive breasts, though, and Erick could not help but wonder what that was all about. For a brief moment, Erick was worried about things such as ethical body modifications and soul work—

But then Danarin caught Erick looking and wiggled his eyebrows, saying, “She’s been such a great big blessing in my life, I sometimes think I’ve been blessed twice!”

Erick stared for a moment, then suddenly laughed, saying, “Congratulations on the kid, too! That’s a third blessing for you.”

Danarin paled. “Uh?” He looked to his wife. “Lilaria?”

Lilaria gave a coy smile, saying, “I wasn’t sure because I haven’t visited the doctor— But… I missed my period. Yeah. I guess I am?” She looked to Erick, and actually managed to hold his gaze for a moment.

Erick nodded. “I’m pretty sure, yeah.”

Two tables over, Teressa nodded.

Danarin, however, saw none of the other small nods that went around the gathering. He briefly went limp, and then he recovered. He smiled wide and happy, then rushed his wife and picked her up, spinning her around as Lilaria giggled happily. Danarin called out, “We’re going to be parents!”

Lilaria said, “You’re gonna be a daddy!”

“I’m gonna be a dad!”

Congratulations erupted from the crowd.

It was a good feast, with many small joys all around.

Erick was glad.

This whole ‘city building thing’ seemed to be working out.

As he sat back in his chair, there on that main table, Erick looked out at this small gathering of his people…

And he was happy.

Meetings with Mephistopheles and Justine and all the rest had been taking less and less time, as they got closer to being on the same page. The city was actually back up and running, and Ava, ever the barometer of luxury and ease that she was, was back to wearing a different fancy dress every single day. Zaraanka’s businesses were a fraction of what they had been, and almost all her contacts with the outside world had been cut, but her connection to Princess Weilux of the Wasteland Kingdoms remained open, and she was rebuilding. Zaraanka still couldn’t meet Erick’s eyes 75% of the time, but outside of his sight, she was working harder than almost everyone else to get back what she had lost, and to gain so, so much more. Valok was as taciturn as ever, almost like he had been with Erick when Erick first met the man on what would become the Farms of Spur, which was fine. Valok did meet Erick’s gaze, though, and he spoke openly when necessary, but that was about it. Whatever friendship Erick had with that man was gone.

But it would simply take time to rebuild.

And this was good.

Tomorrow, Erick imagined he could actually move onto other main projects. The city was healing, and would eventually be growing. The wrought district and the first part of the Gate Network was starting to receive various diplomats from the other Geodes, who were on their way to Ar’Kendrithyst. Erick was starting to receive resumes from Kirginatharp, the wrought of Stratagold (maybe the other geodes would follow? One could hope!), and the Mind Mages. He had even received a surprise missive in the form of a package of letters stuffed full of flowers and fae magic, listing out possible associates from Ar’Cosmos for him to induct into his House.

And now that he actually had his House, he could finally start building House Benevolence.

- - - -

“The main goals I have right now are to support and secure the Gate Network I have begun to create through book keeping and record tracking, with another major focus on security of all kinds. Most of the major powers will be allowed to maintain security of their own Gate sets, but I still need people to oversee those lands, and to check on those numbers coming out of those places, like the numbers coming out of Stratagold.

“Right now I have a small folder of numbers regarding what has come through Stratagold’s Gates, but I know that that folder is going to become a whole office, one day soon. I expect the same to happen from every single other four-Gate land I connect to in the future. I expect Songli to eventually calm down enough to talk to me once again, and to accept a four-Gate, and maybe Eidolon on the other side of the Letri Ocean will do the same, though I have never talked to any of those people on Nergal.

“Smaller Gate sites, which might happen here and there in the future, will need to be overseen by someone as well. I imagine that a portal from here to some future settlement in some part of the Crystal Forest will need to be a part of a network of such smaller sites, and be overseen by some generalized Gate overseer.

“Or something. I’m open to adjusting as needed.

“Longer goals include diplomacy with various nations in order to set up more Gates of all kinds, and in ensuring that longstanding enemies don’t treat this land as a way to invade others, or to start wars of any sort. I expect the people I hire to be able to speak with my voice in all of these situations, since I cannot be everywhere at once. What such actions look like, directly, is still up in the air, but it will probably involve Ophiel sitting on your shoulders for the first few meetings between important peoples, or whatever might happen, and then letting you take over from there.

“My current, personal goal, is to offload all this accumulating paperwork and organization onto other people who are responsible enough to shoulder those responsibilities. It’s a tall order, but it must be done, for I am creating something here that will hopefully outlast my own existence for many, many millennia. Eventually, I hope to teach others how to [Gate], so that they can take over some of these functions, but that is something best saved for ten years down the line.” Erick said, “Which is why you are here. You came highly recommended by Kirginatharp for the position of castellan, the overseer of my House Benevolence, and based on your resume and recommendation alone, you have the job… After some magics of mine, which you have already requested of me, and which would be necessary for you to actually fulfill the duties requested of you.

“But I have to know why you chose this path.”

In his offices at the top of House Benevolence, Erick held his first meeting.

Across the table from him sat an ancient greyscale dragonkin by the name of Zolan Goldbranch. He was an Oceanside native, and he was old. His eyes were rheumy and clouded, and he sat in his chair with a bend in his back, his joints knobbled with arthritis that could not be healed away. Healing magics could only do so much against the degradation of age, and Zolan was old by every single standard, except when held against the standards of immortals.

He was a hundred and thirty four years old, and he had run Kirginatharp’s estates for 85 of those years, only stopping fifteen years ago, which was ten years after he could no longer read printed words. He still had a good mana sense, though, which was now at a range of 20 meters, which had given him ten more years of time back then. But now, there was nothing he could do to stop the ravages of age.

And Erick was his only hope for a new life.

Zolan just sat there for a long moment, considering his words. The old man’s copperscale great-grandson stood behind him, a Paladin by the name of Zorik, striking an imposing figure with a barrel chest and thick legs, dressed in shining silver armor. He was a great contrast to Zolan. Erick imagined that Zolan had once looked like that, long ago, and yet here he was, now deflated by age.

And Zolan was angry at that personal failure. He was angry at the passage of time itself, or some other ephemeral concept he could not battle, no matter who he knew, or what powers those friends of his wielded.

Erick waited.

Zolan spoke with a quiet voice, “The Headmaster cleared your [Reincarnation] as capable of true soul healing only days after you transformed those dober dogs. Now, those dogs have another life ahead of them. I want the same.” With as powerful a voice as he could muster, Zolan said, “I am not ready to go into the embrace of the gods, not when everything is going to change right as I’m about to die. I had made peace… as much as I could, but then you came along. I have to see the coming worlds for myself, Wizard Flatt. I have to see it.”

Honest.

Driven.

Erick wanted to hire him on the spot. But...

“Why not go the [Polymorph] route?”

The great grandson briefly looked uncomfortable—

Zolan chastised the boy, “He’s talking about pretending to be another person. Not eating someone! Gah. How far the family has fallen out of magical traditions.” Zolan said to Erick, “I’ve never been good at lying about myself, to myself. I know who I am. It’s made certain things harder for me, magically speaking. I can’t do illusions. I can’t do transformations or enchanting. But I can do bureaucracy. You want to know how much money you’re making, and where the problems are, and to then know that I’ve already solved all those problems I can solve? I can do that. Or do you wish to know the numbers every day, and how they grow, and only to be informed if a real problem should arise? I can do that. I can make the ledgers of any business sing gold, and I know every single nation and many of the smaller powers out there, for Oceanside has been a magical and educational center of the world for a very long time, and I was at that center.”

“How do you feel about Ar’Cosmos?”

Zolan rapidly answered, “Terrorists and thieves, but if they’re truly sectioned off into their own slice of reality, then maybe that will change.”

“You’ll be working with them.”

“And I’ll make sure they’re not fucking you over in subtle, insidious ways, just as I would do against Stratagold, and Songli, and all the rest. So you’re aware: I consider most people to be decent, but nations are silver thieves and golden terrorists, because most nations have to be that in order to survive. The presence of actual powers adjusts certain metrics, of course.” Zolan said, “I believe you’re too trusting a good ten times over, but that’s been working out for you. For now. You can be the hope for the future, winning wars and ensuring overall security of your domain, but the rest of us gotta eat and make our own small homes in that domain, weathering the larger forces out there, and that is what I do. I deal with the minutiae and keep the silver thieves and golden terrorists at bay so that the heroes can go out and be heroes.”

Erick said, “I’m too trusting, eh.”

“I’m sure there’s lots that the public doesn’t see, so maybe you aren’t actually that trusting at all. But everything the Headmaster has divulged to me before I came here paints the same picture. You are exactly who you appear to be. A great big damned hero.” Zolan said, “Even discounting all the rest of what you’ve done, which is next to impossible, you’re a great man who managed to get all his major enemies on his side before he came out as the one thing they all hated most, a Wizard. And I want to work for you. I want to make this land the best it can be.”

“How do you feel about that, though? That I’m a Wizard?”

Zolan gave a toothless smile. “You are going to become the living, breathing treaty that holds this world together and gives us new ones soon enough, Wizard Flatt. It’s going to be amazing, and I aim to see that you aren’t burdened with paperwork while you’re off saving the world yet again, or deciding some important fate here or there. Of course, I will sometimes expect you to come down from your tower and solve various high-level disputes, and to give guidance when you deem necessary. But overall, I can run a kingdom, you can tell me what you want done, and I will get it done.”

Erick had a think.

Then he said, “I expect you as the castellan of House Benevolence to hire equally from Ar’Cosmos, Stratagold, Oceanside, Candlepoint, and anyone else who might happen to come along. You will probably gain a position of power relative to, if not exactly like, a governor of finance in a small court. Something like a royal court will eventually come along, though I will not call it that. Since you are a Knowledge Mage, I will expect you to become that again, and to answer all my questions directly, when I ask them.”

Zolan nodded, then said, “The sharing of knowledge is expected, but the only people I won’t hire are the Shades, or anyone working for them.”

“An expected caveat. I’m sure they’ll turn up sooner or later, though, and so if they speak to you, then just tell them to speak to me instead. They will operate outside of the system you will be placed in charge of.”

Zolan sat a bit straighter, as he dared to hope, and ask, “So I have the position?”

“You do.” Erick added, “But this [Reincarnation] you desire will cause side effects. Are you ready to hear them?”

Zolan breathed out, relaxing deeply. His great grandson, however, looked scared. Zorik looked down at Zolan, but Zolan waved a dismissive hand toward the boy, and the boy tried to calm down.

Zolan asked Erick, “What are the side effects?”

