“Complete Status reset to level 0. No blessings, no curses, no boons. I’m not sure if godly magic persists through the process, but I’m reasonably sure that it will not persist.” Erick said, “You will no longer be a Knowledge Mage. While I’m rather sure that while you will retain your memories, your self, and some personal abilities, like mana sense and aura control, your magic will be gone. Fully gone. You will have to remake it all. You might even have to relearn mana sense and aura control, though knowing how will surely make the process simpler the second time.”

“Granpapa…” whispered the great grandson.

But Zolan only smiled. “I started out with [Identify] and a dream to know the world. I can do that again.” He nodded. “Faster this time, too.”

Erick pulled out a piece of paper from the side of the table, and laid it in front of Zolan, asking, “[Reincarnation] is rather bespoke, so I can do a lot with it, and I do mean a lot. I don’t want to get too into the marshes with options for people, but this is the basic idea I’ve thrown together since I made the spell…” He stopped talking because Zolan waved him off.

Zolan said, “I want to give you some advice before we get to that, and it will include the man at your back and how you no doubt desire I make certain promises under Mind Mage truths.”

Behind Erick, Poi just waited.

“… Sure?” Erick said.

“Have me swear an oath of fealty; not a simple promise. I would like in direct wording what I can expect from you, and what you can expect from me. If need be, I’ll swear it twice, both before and after this [Reincarnation]. But this is a big deal, and you are treating it too much like a business transaction and not enough like a true kingdom creation that it is.” Zolan said, “Everyone from people at my level to people I hire, roughly two levels below me, also needs to swear fealty to you, directly, and if it’s done under Mind Mage verification, then all the better. Other people of true power, such as archmages or otherwise, also need to swear fealty to you, directly, no matter where they fall on the organizational chart. When these people step out of line, those people need to be punished, directly, by you. People at lower levels of the organization will need to be punished by those who hire them, and so on and so forth, unless a transgression is bad enough to warrant your direct involvement. Delegation is important.”

“… Good advice.”

“… I see you are uncomfortable with this crown you have taken upon yourself, and that you did not verbally push back when I pushed forward with telling you how to run your own kingdom. I did not imagine it would be this bad, but it is both worse than I had feared, and not nearly as bad as it could have been.” Zolan said, “It’s not a bother now, but if you stop growing, it will become a problem.”

Erick chuckled at that. “I’m still in an adjustment period.”

“I can work with heroes like yourself. I can raise you to solid power. But first, all power in this Gate Network and in these lands you hope to raise from the sands of the Crystal Forest, must come from you, and you must actually declare it to be so. If people are here and not working for you, they are working for an enemy. Accept this truth, act in this manner, and everything else will flow more easily.”

Erick had a sad, yet accepted grin. “All rather pessimistic.”

Zolan nodded. “I am a realist, and I have seen it all, Wizard Flatt. The only thing I have never seen is an optimist make real, good changes in this world, but then again I have never seen someone quite like you, either.”

The more Zolan spoke, the more Erick got to know Zolan personally, instead of from his thick resume shipped over from Oceanside, the more Erick appreciated that this was who Kirginatharp had sent. There were a few other options for the castellan position, but not a single one out there had 85 years of experience essentially running all of Oceanside’s kingdom-level properties. Zolan Goldbranch was essentially the ‘secretary of the treasury’ of the Arcanaeum Consortium. Erick was lucky to have the guy, and Zolan knew it.

Zolan had all the right answers; even to questions Erick had not actually asked.

It was true that Erick was treating this more like a business than he should.

Erick had been entirely ready to hire the guy, and then dismiss him if he fucked up or if he was too much of a spy. But perhaps that was the wrong way to go about this.

Erick asked, “Do you, Zolan Goldbranch, consent to a Mind Mage overseen truth telling and oath giving?”

Zolan stared with cloudy eyes at Erick, and at Poi. Poi stepped away from the wall, to stand next to Erick, at the side of the desk. Zolan lifted his chin toward his great grandson. “I want to see this. Heal my eyes, and don’t give me guff about it.”

Zorik kept his mouth shut as he reluctantly put his hand on Zolan’s shoulder, then he said, “May Rozeta grant you Sight once again.”

Zolan’s eyes cleared in a flash of divine fire. He blinked several times, then looked to Erick and Poi with bright copper eyes, full of life, even though his body was failing all around him. “Do that too often and it works less and less each time. It’s good to see you though, Wizard Flatt.” He turned to Poi. “I consent to a Mind Mage truth telling.”

Poi nodded, his thick air tendrils touching upon Erick and Zolan. “Then may your words and intentions be known as false, if they are false.”

Erick rapidly pieced together what he thought sounded correct, cribbed from various oaths he had heard of here and there on Veird, and then he spoke with authority, “I, Erick Flatt, Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence, demand your fealty, Zolan Goldbranch, for the power I shall invest in you is power you gain only through me. You will oversee my lands, my interests, and my people, as much as I appoint to you, growing and nurturing all under your granted purview as much as you are able, in good faith and without deceit. Should you fail, you will be punished based on the severity of your failure, but should you succeed, then you will gain as much as you are due.”

Zolan smiled faintly, his copper eyes shining bright as he said, “I, Zolan Goldbranch, grant you my fealty, Erick Flatt, Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence. I will speak with your voice and do as you would command, with your power as my backing. I will oversee your lands, your interests, and your people, whatever you shall grant to me, as though they were my own, growing and nurturing all those under your purview as much as I am able, in good faith, and without deceit. If I should fail, I will be punished based on your sole judgment. When I succeed, I expect to be rewarded commensurately.”

Erick approved of Zolan’s adjustments, just as Zolan had approved of Erick’s own wording.

Poi pronounced, “All words spoken were truth. All intentions said were honest,” and then he retracted his tendrils of thought.

Zolan breathed out—

He coughed a little, and then he coughed a lot. Soon, he calmed, and he sat there. His breathing was labored, but not anymore than it had been before he had arrived.

“Welcome aboard, Zolan. You’re now the castellan of House Benevolence.” Erick said, “But you’re going to need a physical change for what’s to come.” He nudged forward the [Reincarnation] paperwork. “I’m surprised you made it all the way through this meeting.”

Zolan chuckled a little, then stopped himself before he started coughing again. After a moment he glanced down at the paperwork, and said, “I can’t even pick up that paper, or a pen to write what I want. Can’t hardly get around without help, either. That’s why I got my Paladin great grandson here to help me out. Zorik is a good kid like that. Only one of my family who was willing to bring me here to see the Wizard, and only because Rozeta was whispering in his ears. If I came out of this meeting with a failure, then I’d probably be dying in bed next month.” With a knowing glint in his eye, he looked to Erick, saying, “Some more advice is in order: The Headmaster expected me to get the job because I’m a sad spell right now and he guessed how you would react. He guessed correctly.”

Erick laughed, then he said, “When you next see Kirginatharp, you can inform him that yes, your advanced age and the fact I am saving your life has had a great deal to do with my decision. But you’re also qualified. You can tell him that I’m already fine with having spies in my organization as long as they actually work for me.” He narrowed his eyes at Zolan. “Which you will, right?”

“You’re not going to have any trouble with information leaks from me, Wizard Flatt.” Zolan said, “I’ll let him know what you want me to let him know, though.” He glanced to the paperwork, and his sight went sideways a fraction. Cataracts and some sort of degenerative scaling returned on the surface of his retinas, inside his eyes. “Ah. Dammit. There goes the sight again.”

Zorik said, “Sorry, grandpapa. I won’t cast that spell on you again. Not this week.”

“I know, I know…” Zolan said, “Divine favors are hard to come by for the likes of us secular types.”

And then Zolan just sat there, looking conflicted as he blankly stared at the paper in front of him. He couldn’t see it anymore, but that was hardly a problem.

He was reluctant?

Ah? Yes. He was. Odd.

The man had been vocal and enthusiastic about his interview and appointment. He was ready to take on the responsibilities of being a castellan for House Benevolence, and he had even been enthusiastic about [Reincarnation]. [Reincarnation] was one of the reasons he was even being considered for the job. But now they were here, at this moment of truth, and Zolan was struggling with overcoming some internal problem.

Erick decided to just ask the guy. “I didn’t plan on offering [Reincarnation] in order to get anyone to sign up with me, but it’s the only thing that makes you a viable choice for the position. And you want it, too. And now we’re here. I know you have the spells to fill out that paperwork without actually needing a pen, or actual sight to see the paperwork, so why this sudden reluctance?”

Zolan scowled a little. “Tsk. Fine. I’ll just say it and Zorik can be embarrassed. I want to be a demi. I wanna be fucking hot. And I want a big dick—”

“Oh grandpapa,” muttered the Paladin, his face heating up.

“— What! Nothing wrong with knowing what you want! I used to be that way until age shrunk all of me!”

Zorik continued to gain a tint of red to his face.

But Erick was already laughing. He smiled and shrugged, asking, “Any particular size of balls? How much girth and length are we talking here?”

“Ah ha!” Zolan said to his thoroughly embarrassed great grandson, “Now these are the important questions!”

“Grandpapa! That’s not!—” Zorik asked, “Why a demi? Do you not like yourself— This dick stuff is something you could get fixed at any proper Soul Mage and I know you know a few.”

“What!” Zolan mocked offense, “I don’t know any Soul Mages.” As a loud aside to Erick, he said, “I know Soul Mages.”

Erick chuckled.

Softer, Zorik muttered, “Asking the Wizard to become a demi is in poor taste.”

“Ah? Well.” Zolan said, “If that is truly the oddity here: That’s even more simple than asking for a big dick. Our entire family is demi if you take away the dragonkin side of things, and I’m tired of scales.” He reached forward with a bit of magic and filled out the paperwork in a flash of easy casting. “I am thoroughly embarrassed that my embarrassment over answering your questions caused any sort of stuttering at all, but especially here, at the start of our great House Benevolence, and especially with regard to telling you what you needed to know. It won’t happen again.”

According to his read on Zolan, Erick knew that such stuttering and indecisiveness wouldn’t happen again, so Erick smiled a bit wider, unable to contain his amusement.

He looked over the paperwork.

Ah. Well. This was a rather… thorough depiction of what Zolan wanted.

Zolan had filled out the entire backside of the paper with several detailed sketches of what he wanted his new body to physically look like, along with very small and packed print regarding his current personality, and what he hoped to maintain through the [Reincarnation]. It was all rather unexpected, but not actually unexpected at all, once Erick considered what the outcome of all this would be.

Then and there, Erick decided to improve his [Reincarnation] paperwork to at least ten pages long, instead of this single page inadequacy.

Erick rapidly rid himself his own funny emotions, and asked, “Shall we begin?”

Zolan moved his arms a little, smiling while asking, “Do I need to remove my clothes?” while also failing to be able to move much at all. “Ah. Dammit all. Zorik! Help me with this robe.”

Zorik looked like he wanted to be anywhere else but here, and yet duty compelled him to—

Erick stood up, and said, “I’ll do it.”

Zorik steeled himself, and stepped away from his grandpapa, looking worried the whole time, but at least he was past his embarrassment. As for Zolan, the old man looked ready to face down a horde of wyrms. Which was probably something that was going to happen eventually when he got to dealing with the dragons of Ar’Cosmos. Erick approved.

And then he began to reach toward Zolan with his sunform, lifting the old man gently into the air…

- - - -

“Complete success,” Erick said, as he lay Zolan onto a conjured chair. A few more conjurings put some temporary clothes on the no-longer-old man. “The clothes are [Fairy Item], so they’ll break in the face of any other Fae Magic, but they’re tougher than normal conjured items.”

“By all the gods,” Zorik whispered reverently, as he gazed down at his grandpapa, “It really does work exactly as Rozeta said it would.”

Erick teased, “Did you not have faith?”

Zorik eyed Erick, briefly pissed that anyone would ever suggest as much, and then he realized he was eyeing a Wizard and rapidly turned back to his grandpapa. “It’s always surprising to see miracles, for one should never expect them, and cherish every one that comes one’s way.” He paused, then said, “The part about the… genitalia aside. You should know that grandpapa was a prolific man in his youth. He had three different wives, each of which he outlived, and with ten surviving children from those unions. He has a family of four hundred and ten right now. I expect that number to rise, especially since you made him look like… that.”

Erick had done fantastic work, that’s for sure!

