Erick wasn’t too sure about the mind stuff, but when the world fractured from [Reincarnation], Erick had selected the vision of Zolan that led off to leading small councils to bureaucratic glory and controlling mountains of gold. Such a trajectory was simply a hope for the future, though; it wasn’t set in stone. As for the physical stuff, Erick was much more confident about that. His new castellan was a 20-something heroic specimen of man, with pale violet skin, small horns, Hollywood-level hotness, and assorted other types of film-level greatness, too. Zolan would surely approve, but if he, or his partners, found himself unhappy with the nuances of his new body, then he could probably go find or call up one of those Soul Mages he ‘didn’t know’.

“It’s not just Blood Magic, is it?” Zorik asked.

“This is not cosmetic Blood Magic; it won’t wash away with healing. He really is who he looks like now. He probably has a new name in his Status, too… Or maybe he doesn’t? Ask him and find out.” Erick smiled. “And families are important! Whatever new ones he goes on to make I’m sure he’ll do fine. You did well by him, I can tell.”

“He’s a fantastic administrator of finances. I suppose he’s lost all of his magic now, but… He’ll get it back.” Zorik said, “He’s going to make a lot of people angry that he chose to become something besides a copperscale, though. I did not expect the change to demi. No one did. But… I suppose…” He frowned. “Great grandma, Great gamy, and Zizi were all demi, so this is not actually that unexpected.”

Erick offered, “He’s going to take about twelve hours to fully wake, but you can speed that along with a [Cleanse] if you absolutely need to, though I would suggest you do not do that, just to give him time to relax. Do you want to take him home for a few days? Maybe help him gain some levels before he returns to work? He should start with 20s in all the basic Stats, which means he could start on boosting Skills and making magic right away. It shouldn’t take long for him to get up and running once again.”

Zorik stood straight. “20s in every— You can do that?”

“My aim might have been a little off, but I think I hit the max you can do naturally; yes.” Erick said, “I’m assuming that Kirginatharp would want to actually look him over, as well, so you can tell me what you find, though you shouldn’t find anything unexpected.”

“Then... Yes. I would appreciate taking him home, actually. I would… I would really appreciate that.”

Zorik was scared of losing his grandpapa, and probably would be scared of that for a long time to come. He was worried that he had already lost the old man, now that the ‘old man’ no longer existed, but Rozeta was surely whispering into his ears the truth of what he had seen, and that was messing him up, too. His soul did not believe what his eyes and his god were telling him, and that was a problem for him.

He was having trouble coming to grips with it all.

Erick said, “You’re welcome to come here too, you know. This doesn’t have to be a clean break between his old life and his current life, though I do expect his loyalties to lay with House Benevolence from now on. You can buy a house in Candlepoint and maybe I’ll even make a Gate from here to Oceanside one day soon, to allow for easy travel. Not for a while, though. I promised the wrought I would wait at least 10 more days, and I would need to actually speak about this with Kirginatharp.”

Zorik looked down at his great grandfather. “Maybe… Maybe at least my small part of the family could move here, too.”

Erick smiled a little, feeling great about this decision, and about how it had all happened. Things were looking up, up, up! He offered, “A [Gate] back to Oceanside, then?”

“OH!” Zorik came back to the moment, and said, “Yes. The trip here was via the contracted angel and demon [Gate] and I would prefer not to go through them again. Your own [Gate] would be lovely. Thank you, Wizard Flatt—” He paused. “Um. Can you… Can you wait a moment? I will clear it first.”

“Sure.”

Zorik sent out a tendril of thought. Poi was already doing the same, though, since he knew Erick’s thoughts without him needing to voice them, and Erick needed to move Ophiel into position at Oceanside to open the [Gate] from that side, and he didn’t want to cause an incident.

Erick waited.

Poi nodded; he got clearance to begin moving Ophiel in.

Ten seconds after that, Zorik said, “Okay. Yes. The hospital receiving room, if you could. That took a lot less time than I thought it would.”

Erick moved Ophiel toward the hospital receiving room, but before he opened the portal, he felt the need to tease the uptight paladin a bit more. “So when they ask why your grandpapa’s dick is so big you tell them Zolan asked for that, okay?”

Zorik’s copperscale face heated up again. He whispered, “So unprofessional of him.”

“Or brush off that question,” Erick shrugged, adding, “Either works.”

Zorik wanted to get his grandpapa home and for there to be less talk of dicks in his life. “Ready for transport, please.”

Erick opened a [Gate].

A familiar hospital lay on the other side; one where Xendross Sands had worked for a month, and where Jane had recuperated for a month. Erick waved to a nurse on duty and to a pair of hospital guards, who stared at him like they were looking at a Shade, but then Zorik walked through, floating his grandpapa behind him, talking a big show about the need for his grandpapa to get some generalized rest, and a need to see the Headmaster.

Kirginatharp showed up on the other side of the [Gate] even before Zorik finished saying the word ‘Headmaster’.

The Second to Rozeta looked much as he did last time; relaxed, yet in power. Like a Chinese emperor, in gold and white. Everyone froze, except for the Paladin who spoke in small words to the nurse about not [Cleanse]ing, and to let him wake naturally. That caused the orderlies and nurse to come back to the moment, and to get back to their job.

Erick wasn’t surprised at all by Kirginatharp’s arrival, and said, “Hello, Kirginatharp. You had a good man there, but Zolan works for me now. Just did the oaths.”

“Ah! Good.” Kirginatharp smiled faintly, looking like a weight had fallen off his shoulders. “I’m glad you approved…” His voice trailed off a bit as he focused more toward Zolan, and less toward Erick. “Ah. He’s... Demi?”

“His choice!”

“… Ah. Yes. His wives were demi, I suppose.”

Erick said, “Thanks for the other resumes as well, but I’ve got to get back to them.”

“Yes yes. Of course.” Kirginatharp turned to Erick and nodded. “I look forward to eventually having that tea we spoke about last time.”

Erick smiled again, saying, “I do as well, and also talking about getting a Gate hookup for Oceanside.”

Kirginatharp nodded, seeming to be happy about that tentative offer, as well.

Erick closed the [Gate].

And then he turned to Poi, and for a moment, he just said nothing.

That had gone well.

Poi nodded. “That did go rather well.”

Erick smiled, asking, “Who’s the next one?”

Poi laid down a small folder atop Erick’s desk, saying, “This one is Mox Dawnsider, who has been in Candlepoint for the last several hours, so there’s no need to pick her up. She’s recommended for Gate administrator, household administrator, education administrator, or land development administrator. She is interested in your plans to turn the Crystal Forest green.”

Erick had already sat down at his chair and began reading through the folder. He came to a few rapid conclusions. “I’m probably going to hire her, too… a hundred and five, though…” He flipped a bit— “Annnnd she wants a new body, too.” He shut the folder. “Probably still gonna hire her.”

Poi deadpanned, “You think she wants big tits?”

Erick laughed.
