His thoughts were interrupted as the woman laughed. “Ha. Right to the point. A man after my own heart. I’m Velika.” Her smile vanished, her face turning hard and stony in an instant. “Now. Who the fuck are you, and what were you doing in my mine?”

Oh shit. This must be the noble. Wait, where’s Stint? Rain looked around, not seeing the scout anywhere. Everyone else was accounted for, though Val was still lying on the ground where the horse had thrown him. He groaned, sitting up and rubbing at his head.

“We’re adventurers,” Carten said, stepping forward and pounding his hand against his armored chest. “And what we were doin’ is none of your business.”

Rain winced. Who decided to let Carten do the talking? He offered his hand to Val, who took it and pulled himself back to his feet.

“Adventurers, huh?” she said, looking at each of them in turn. Her eyes lingered on Rain’s armor before settling on Tallheart. “Which one of you is the smith?”

“Huh?” Carten said.

She started walking to the side, then turned, heading directly for Rain. Ameliah smoothly moved to intercept. “We apologize if we have offended you. To our knowledge, the mine was abandoned. By the custom of the Guild—”

“Yes, yes. I don’t care about that,” Velika interrupted, staring at Ameliah. “I want to know who made that armor,” she said, pointing first at Rain, then at Tallheart. Her eyes flicked to Carten briefly, but her finger didn’t move, staying locked to the antlered smith. “And why is there a cervidian with you?”

“He is under our protection,” Ameliah said, raising a hand to keep Tallheart from responding.

Oh, this is bad. This is really bad.

“And you think you can protect him? From me? Do you have any idea who I am?” The woman grinned, laying a hand on the hilt of one of her swords.

“Please,” Jamus said, stepping forward. “There’s no need for violence. Let’s discuss this.”

“A duel,” Val said suddenly. Rain blinked, looking at him. “We’ll resolve this with a duel. You versus Ameliah. If you win, we’ll do whatever you want. If Ameliah wins, you let us go.”

“Val!” Ameliah hissed at him.

The woman laughed. “Ha. No, I don’t think so. You will explain yourselves, or I will make you. Now. Which one of you is the smith?”

“I am,” Tallheart rumbled. The woman raised an eyebrow.

“Huh,” she said. “A cervidian smith. I wouldn’t have expected that. Aren’t you supposed to be all twigs and nature?” She looked him up and down, her eyes lingering on the joints of his armor. “Yes. Very good. You will come with me.”

Tallheart shook his head slowly. “No.”

“Excuse me?” said Velika.

“He said no,” Carten said. “Ya deaf?”

“Shut up, Carten,” Jamus said. “We can’t fight this woman.”

“The hell we can’t!” Carten said, banging his shields together. “I don’t care how fast she is. She can’t be tougher than we are. There’s one of her and six of us. Seven, if you count the idiot archer.”

“Archer?” Velika said. “Oh, you mean my scout? I thought I saw him cowering as I closed in on you. So he’s a traitor, then?” She snorted. “I’ll deal with him later. He can’t have gotten far.”

“Why do you want Tallheart to go with you?” Ameliah asked, drawing the woman’s attention back to her.

“I have a job for him,” she replied.

“And if I do not wish to work for you?” Tallheart said.

She tried to sidestep Ameliah again, but Ameliah moved to block her. “I will make it worth your time.”

Tallheart tilted his head, considering, before replying in his bass rumble. “No.”

The woman sighed. “Look. Perhaps we got off on the wrong foot. I’m not going to turn you in to the fucking Adamants or anything. I just want you to make me a sword. I don’t care who you are, or how much you stole from me. Now, come on. Let’s go.”

“Damn spoiled noble brat, lookin’ down on us,” Carten said.

“Wait, Carten,” Rain said, surprising himself. This woman’s confidence in the face of a full team of adventurers was giving him a horrible feeling in his gut. He gulped as her gaze returned to him. “How can we trust you? If he goes with you, how can we know you won’t—”

“You have my word,” Velika said.

Tallheart shook his head. “No. I am leaving with my friends. I will make nothing for you. Not here. Not like this. If I am to create something for you, you must meet me on my terms.”

The woman’s face twisted into an expression of petulant anger. Uh oh. That’s not good.

Before the woman could do anything, Ameliah suddenly looked to the side. Rain followed her gaze, picking out a rider rapidly approaching, following the windswept trail that Velika had scored along the landscape. Velika swore loudly as the rider pulled to a halt. “Gods damn it, Bravis. Leave me the fuck alone.”

The man dismounted, bowing to Velika at the waist. “My lady, I am sworn to protect you.” He straightened, holding up a hand to cut off her angry response. “There is a problem. We need you back at the mine.” He eyed the gathered adventurers, then returned his gaze to his master.

“What the fuck could you possibly need me for that Jeral can’t handle?” she demanded, staring at the man.

“A group of adventurers, my lady.” He eyed the party again. “Another one. The one the scouts said was following us. They say that there is a lair at the bottom of the mine and that they are here to claim it for their own use.”

“So?” Velika said. “Tell them to fuck off.”

“My lady, the party is being led by Lavarro.”

Rain blinked. Oh shit!

Velika swore again and finally took her hand away from her sword. “That fucking bitch will be the death of me,” she said with a sigh. “I’m tempted to just let her have it. It’s not like this mine is worth the trouble.” She paused, then shook her head. “No. No, I won’t. First, she snaps up the quest I posted for charity, for charity, I tell you, and now this. I won’t allow it. It’s the principle of the thing. Just because she’s stronger than I am, it doesn’t mean she can get her way.”

Is she…not aware of the hypocrisy of that statement? Is she for real?

Velika ran her hands through her hair again and sighed. She turned to look at Tallheart. “We’re not done. Where can I find you?”

Tallheart stared back at her in silence. The woman tapped her foot impatiently. Finally, Tallheart replied. “Fel Sadanis. Talk to Jamus at the guild. I will…consider your request.”

What, really?

“Fine,” Velika said. “Who’s Jamus.”

Jamus raised his hand. “That would be me. You’re sure about this, Tallheart?”

Tallheart nodded. “I do not want her to know where I live. If you bring her to my village, I will be most displeased with you, Jamus.”

Tallheart doesn’t live in a village…oh. I get it. Clever. He’s trying to throw her off. Maybe he means to run away, and he only told her he’d consider it to buy some time?

Luckily, Jamus seemed to catch on immediately and he didn’t bat an eye. He nodded, then turned to the noblewoman. “I will be in the city after a few days. Please, do not try to follow us or do anything that would endanger my friend. You know how it is for his kind.”

The woman nodded. “I will respect his privacy, provided he is as good as Jeral seems to think he is. I’ll be there in two weeks. I need to go north, first. You better still be there and this better not be a waste of my fucking time. Come on, Bravis.” She sighed. “Lavarro, huh? This is going to be a whole thing...”

Without warning, the woman vanished in a puff of dust. Despite himself, Rain gasped. So fast! He searched for where she’d gone, quickly spotting her heading back the way she had come. He tracked her progress by the wake of debris that she was drawing behind her. She kept speeding up, another echoing boom sounding just as she disappeared from sight. Bravis sighed and climbed back onto his horse. He looked at the group, then shook his head wordlessly. He pulled the horse’s head around and kicked it into a gallop to chase after her.

Ameliah let out a breath, then turned to look at Tallheart. “Well, that went differently from how I was expecting.”

Carten lowered his shields, relaxing from his ready pose as the horseman retreated in the distance. “Who the flying fuck was that, and why haven’t I heard of her?”

Jamus shook his head. “I have no idea. Ask Lavarro. It sounds like they have a history.”

Carten scowled. “No thanks.”

Ameliah turned angrily to Val. “Why would you suggest that I fight someone like that? And without asking me first? Even if I won, do you think her family would have just let it go? What were you thinking?”

Val shrugged. “She’s Osaran, I think. She’d have kept it fair. I figured it was our best shot.”

Ameliah sighed and rubbed at her neck wearily. “Next time, just let me do all the talking. She’s…one of the bad ones.”
