Does she not have enough to complete her order? We’ve already started negotiations with Scholl over Aaliyah’s weapons. "I can see what we have, but kaglese comes from a mine close to Olebert's capitol. Since Pacore took over Yleles and the earl's fort, we've been cut off from our normal suppliers. I can scrounge together some ore but not much. How much do you need to complete your order?"

“Oh, I’m already almost done with that,” Aaliyah’s casual remark sends my head spinning. Weapons that can be enchanted usually take a while to make, and a blacksmith needs to spend time testing the weapon to make sure it fits the bill. Should I ask her if she's sure all her weapons can handle enchantments, or would she consider that rude?

Heedless of what she's saying, Aaliyah continues to brag about her work. "I have forty spears and swords ready, and all I have left is to make more of those special arrows."

“Arrows like the one sold to General Pitz?”

"Yeah, those," Aaliyah cheerfully replies. "In fact, if it will be a few more weeks until Kervin makes it back to the village, I should have them done by then if you want them early?"

Usually, craftsmen ask for an extension to their deadlines, not the opposite. And she’s managed to make eighty kaglese weapons! We should’ve done more to keep her hidden from Scholl. “But you have enough kaglese for the arrows?”

"Oh, yeah, I have enough kaglese for the arrows; I was just wondering if you can get me more so I can make a few more weapons. It's ok if you can't; I know it can't be easy getting kaglese right now."

She sounds so confident; it’s making me feel even more tired. “I’ll see what I can do,” I tell her.

“Thanks. Now I don’t want to be the rude one, but I have a battle junkie probably waiting for me to return to the village.”

“Battle junkie?” Marshall repeats.

“Don’t worry about it,” Aaliyah mumbled voice comes out of the magic tool. “I just have to get back to the village.”

“Then we won’t take up any more of your time,” I politely move to end the conversation. Good thing too, Aaliyah told me a lot of things I need to think over.

“Until next time then,” the communication magic tool goes dark.

“Marshall, can you help me back to my desk?”

“Sure, Boss,” Marshall helps me stager back into my chair. Once I’m seated, Marshall asks me, “What do we do now?”

He must be referring to Grey’s death.

It still doesn't feel real; I have all this anger pent up with no one to direct it at. It's good that Grey is probably dead, but I wanted him to die by my hands. I wanted to be able to tell Elizabeth that it was our numbers who got him when she wakes up. Well, I guess I can still tell her that he’s dead, but it won’t be the same.

“Try to get in contact with Two and Four, let them know about the change in the situation and that they might have to search for a body,” I give Marshall my orders.

“And you, Sir?”

Leaning back in my chair, my eyes start to droop. I don't even want to lift my arms to reach for the remains of my stamina tonic.

What’s the point in me staying up now? The man we were hunting is no longer a threat.

“Boss?” Marshall asks me again after I don’t answer him for a few minutes.

“Wake me up in four hours,” I tell him, letting my eyes close. As soon as they shut, I feel the full weight of my fatigue kick in. I can feel myself slipping into unconsciousness. “Remember, four hours. I’ll fire you if you let me sleep longer than that,” I mumble as I drift off to oblivion.

“Yes, Boss, have a nice nap,” is the last thing I hear before sleep takes me.
