“A conveyor belt!” Ren said. “I was thinking about how I was going to get all that ore up there without having to crawl up the wall and dumping it in by hand.”

“Well, we have gears, wheels and Spider Silk cloth.” Tee-one said. “We'll have to add the first load by hand to make the parts we need, then we can make the conveyor belt and just crank it up to add more ore.”

While they talked, Ruck had crawled up the wall and was already upside down on the ceiling above the smelter.

“Hold on, I'll start it up.” Ren said and opened the door in the front of the forge. Rather than activate all the enchantments at once, he did them in stages. He remembered the first time he had lit up an enchanted forge and activated all the glyphs at once. He had been looking into the forge at the time and the blast of heat and fire had burned off his eyebrows instantly. Ren chuckled as the giant forge slowly came to life and filled the internal space with flame and wind. It reminded him of the Fire Realm, and he felt a sharp pain in his heart.

The heat quickly spread from the forge into the smelter, so Ren shut the front door and waved. Ruck emptied his inventory of ore into the smelter, then came down and refilled it, then went back up and dumped it all into the smelter.

“You're right.” Tee-one said. “There's no way we could have smelted enough metal to make those large parts in one shot.”

“We can now, though.” Ren said and looked up at the ceiling. “Hey, Ruck! Give us a hand building Janice's place. We have to let the metal simmer for a while before we can use it.”

Ruck waved and moved away from the top of the smelter, then let go of the ceiling. He flipped over in mid-air and landed on the floor as his legs compressed and supported his weight so that it didn't damage the floor.

“Show off.” Ren said and grinned. Ruck pat him on top of the head and they left the large warehouse and went next door. Ren took out the prefab walls he had made the day before, and they built the house and a large workshop beside it. He had enough paving stones now to cover the floor and halfway up the walls, and then they built a much larger glass furnace for Janice to use.

While Ren enchanted it, Ruck moved the bags of sand from the warehouse to Janice's workshop. Ren activated it and loaded it with sand. Since it could be left to simmer, just like the iron ore, Ren asked them to help him build the stables he would need for 60 horses.

“Are we making 5 separate stables with 12 horses each?” Tee-one asked.

“I'm tempted to, since that's what everyone else does.” Ren said, and then smiled. “But, you know me.”

Tee-one chuckled. “One large stable with 5 compartments it is.”

“I'm glad I picked up so much lumber at the capital city.” Ren said. “How far away should we make it?”

“Not far.” Tee-one said. “You know people are going to like the novelty of having free horse and cart rides.”

“Only a few hundred feet away it is.” Ren said and they walked over to the spot. Since there was a minimal amount of building materials needed for horse stalls, it didn't take them long to make a single stable for 60 horses. The stalls themselves were 10 feet wide and 10 feet deep, because Ren wanted to make sure the horses had lots of room to move around, and then added a 20 foot wide by 10 foot deep space every 12 stalls for hay and feed storage.

They built the manager's office on the end of it, a 20 foot by 20 foot space, which made it stand out unlike any other stable he had seen. They added paper storage, a large desk and chair, and added a window in the door. On the very end of the stable, they built a 40 foot by 40 foot classroom, added chairs for the students and a desk and chair for the teacher.

“Whew.” Ren said when they were done two hours later. “That took a lot longer than I thought it would.”

Tee-one nodded. “It's the little details that slowed us down.” He said. “Each horse stall had partial walls, and each needed it's own gate with a hole for the horse to stick it's head out.”

“Imagine if we were doing it alone and didn't have each other to help.” Ren said. “I'd probably still be building the forge warehouse.”

“That's why we're here.” Tee-one said and held a hand out. Ruck slapped it in a high five gesture, and Ren chuckled.

“We should take a break for a bit.” Ren said. “I think the smelter needs to be skimmed for impurities.”

“I can do that.” Tee-one said. “Why don't you go and see how the next batch of houses are coming along.”

“Do I have to?” Ren whined dramatically, and Tee-one chuckled.

“Go and talk to her.” Tee-one said. “You need to know what her problem is.”

Ren sighed and nodded, then walked up the road to the Main House and the housing subdivisions behind it. He wasn't surprised to see that 10 of the houses were finished already and came to a stop beside Jen. He hadn't used Sneak, and made sure to make enough noise so that she knew he was approaching. He saw her stiffen and wasn't sure what was wrong.

“It's coming along nicely.” Ren said as he looked at the houses.

“It is.” Jen said. “Ren, I...”

“It's not lunchtime yet...” Ren said. “...but, I would like to talk to you in private.” He looked at her. “Will you accompany me to the Main House?”

Jen took in a breath and let it out.

“Please.” Ren said.

Jen nodded and they walked over to the Main House and went inside. “You have a Mayor's office?”

“Patty runs the town, with a town council to help.” Ren said and walked by her office and down the hallway. “I offered her the Mayor job when I realized she thought I was getting rid of her.”

“Were you?” Jen asked, and Ren chuckled.

“Of course not.” Ren said and opened the door to the two room apartment at the back and looked at her. “I'm trying to improve things, not destroy them.”

Jen twitched slightly when he said 'destroy them', and Ren kept his face blank so she wouldn't know that he saw her flinch. She walked by him into the apartment and stopped.

“Is this your place?” Jen asked. “I know you said you'd be living here...”

“No, my personal living space is upstairs.” Ren said. “Please, have a seat.”

Jen sat on a chair at the table, and Ren motioned to the comfy couch. She sighed and walked over to the couch and sat down. He waited for a moment, then walked over and sat down on the couch a foot away from her. He saw her body stiffen up, and he turned to look at her.

“Tell me what's wrong.” Ren said.

“Ren, I... I'm not sure I...”

“Jen, we've known each other for a while now...”

“I thought I knew you.” Jen said, and Ren raised his eyebrows.

“Okay, you have to clarify that.” Ren said. “Please explain.”

Jen sighed and leaned back on the couch. “Ren... you always surprise me... but...”

“But what?”

“This last surprise was... it was too much for me.” Jen said.

Ren reached out to take her hand, and she pulled back before he could. He let his hand fall to the couch, and slowly pulled it back.

“I don't understand what you mean.” Ren said. “What surprise?”

“I... I talked to Catalina.” Jen said. “She told me about...” She started to tremble slightly and clenched her fists. “I heard about what you did to the city gate.”

“She's afraid of you.” Teepo said.

“Oh.” Ren said, a little sadly. “Jen, I... I'm sorry. I was showing off and wanted to take my anger out on something.”

“You completely destroyed a 50 foot wide solid metal gate, Ren.” Jen said. “With just your fists.”

“It was weak and poorly made, though.”

Jen snorted a laugh. “You pummelled it into pieces, then brought a large chunk of it over to Catalina and Maude like you were going to squash them with it.” She said. “You crushed it in your hands instead, much to their relief, and threw that chunk of solid metal farther than anyone has ever thrown anything before.”

“Look, I know it was stupid to show off like that.” Ren said. “So please, believe me. I wasn't going to hurt anyone then, and I'm not going to hurt anyone now.”

“But you could have.” Jen said, and sighed. “Very easily.”

“Of course I could have.” Ren said, and she looked at him with wide eyes. “I'm an Adventurer. Once I'd gone up a few levels and figured a few things out, I could have killed everyone I've ever met.”

Jen started to shake visibly, and Ren took her hand. She tried to pull away, but he held onto it.

“Jen, listen.” Ren said. “Just because I can hurt people, doesn't mean that I will... or even want to.” He said. “The entire time I've been in this world, I've done my best to help people when I can and to enjoy myself.”

“But...”

“Not once have I set out to maliciously hurt anyone.” Ren said, and then sighed. “Although, I... I did hurt someone once when...” He shook his head. “That was a bad moment for me, and I don't want to relive it.” He said. “It worked out afterwards, but it was... I'm never... ever... going to do something like that again.”

“Ren...”

“I'm sorry that hearing what I did has scared you; but, you should know that I will never hurt you.” Ren said. “I can give you my word on this because I know it's easily kept.”

“I...” Jen sighed and squeezed his hand. “I know I'm acting like a terrified little girl; but, that was no reason to snap at you like I did this morning.” She said. “I'm sorry.”

“I could argue that it's not lunchtime yet, and you have to wait like I said and should apologize properly then.” Ren said and smiled. “But, I'll be the bigger man here and graciously accept it anyways.”

Jen gasped and smacked his arm.

“Ow.” Ren said and rubbed the spot, and she chuckled.

“Like that hurt you.” Jen said.

“Having you afraid of me hurt a lot more.” Ren said, and she put a hand on his shoulder.

“I'm still scared of what you can do when you're angry.” Jen said. “I'll try my best not to hold that against you.”

“That's all I can ask.” Ren said and stood up. He still had a hold of her hand and helped her stand up, too. “On the plus side, if you need someone to deal with errant metal gates, you'll know just who to call.”

Jen didn't respond to the joke, and Ren led her out of the apartment and out the front door of the Main House.

“Oh, my god.” Jen said.

“What?” Ren asked and turned to look. He didn't see anything out of the ordinary.

“Where the hell did a warehouse and a giant stable come from?” Jen asked, and Ren chuckled.

“You didn't look around once today?” Ren asked her, and she shook her head. “Tee-one, Ruck and I built them.”

“Since we got here?” Jen asked.

“Well, it did take us an hour to build the giant forge inside the warehouse.” Ren said. “Now that it's done, we can concentrate on the other buildings.” He smiled. “I'm sure we'll have the Church finished by tonight.”

“Ch-ch-church?”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “I redesigned one and had it built in the dwarf lands.” He said. “One specific room for each of the elements I know of, and then a large room in the middle for general worship.”

Jen's breathing was a little heavy, and Ren smiled.

“I had to make the stained glass windows myself.” Ren said and she looked at him. “I'll be making more while Ruck and Tee-one build the frame for the building.”

“How... how big will it be?” Jen asked, and Ren wiggled a finger at her to bend over. He whispered in her ear how big it would be, and she had to brace her hands on his shoulders. “You can make... several industrial-sized buildings... in a day.”

“Thanks to you.”

“Wh-what?”

“Your prefab wall idea was so great that it's all I use now.” Ren said. “Make several wall sections, prop them up or have someone help, then attach them. The only real limit I have now is my imagination... oh, and accessible lumber.”

Jen took several quick breaths to calm down. “How much lumber did you get in the capital city?”

“Not much.” Ren said and smiled. “Only 50,000 planks.”

Jen laid her forehead on his forehead and took several more breaths. “You're carrying them, aren't you?”

“Most of them.” Ren said. “Along with a few thousand 4 x 4s, trim pieces, and half-planks to use for finishing work.”

“Good god.” Jen said and closed her eyes for a few moments, then took several deep breaths. “I... I'm still a little scared of you, you know.”

“I'm glad that's not stopping you from enjoying yourself.” Ren said, and she chuckled. She leaned on him for only a moment longer, then stood up straight and let his shoulders go.

“You need to get back to work.” Jen said in an almost normal voice.

“Yes, Ma'am.” Ren said. “See you at lunch.”

“I hope so.” Jen said. “I didn't bring any food for myself this time.”

Ren chuckled. “Don't worry, I got you covered.”

Jen smiled at him, then watched as Ren ran across the road and into the large warehouse.
