

The Golden Sands tribe, it turned out, made their way across the desert they were named after using a half-ritual, half-spell called the [Gilded Hurricane]. It was interesting enough to provide a very necessary distraction for Cale, though he'd already begun to loosen up slightly by the time Kazza launched into a slightly hesitant and very private explanation.

In the sense that he'd requested a closet for it. Kazza had been willing to explain his clan's magic to Cale, but he refused to let anyone else learn about it. It was a matter of pride, he said. He understood that the secret was likely out no matter what, but this way, most of it would not be a direct result of him babbling about it to outsiders.

Akkau had offered to enclose them within a privacy ward, of course, and Cale's barriers could easily be tuned to block out light and most forms of magical observation. Kazza had insisted on the closet in addition to all the other protections.

So now Cale was in a closet with him.

The complete form of [Gilded Hurricane] was, Kazza explained, a spell that couldn't be cast alone. The spell didn't really exist independently—it only came about from the effects of its constituent spells being cast repeatedly into the same location, causing the magic to converge in on itself in a way that resembled a ritual and spell array. The broad details of this were known, but the actual spells needed for it were not, and no one had ever been able to get the secret out of the lizardfolk of the Golden Sands.

Kazza took a deep, nervous breath.

"Most of the spell is composed of a second tier spell unique to our clan," he said. "It is called [Windstream]. Our best warrior-mages cast a fifth tier [Stable Anchor] to bind our people and homes to the spell as it builds. We cannot see while we are transported through the hurricane, so the head of the clan casts a sixth tier [Path Through the Dunes] so we can set down in the right place. And that is... all of how it works."

He was really far too anxious about this, despite his best attempts at holding firm. The lizardfolk was fidgeting, and his tail kept smacking into the side of the closet and making him jump. "Just checking, but are you sure no one's going to kill you for telling me all this?" Cale asked, only half-joking.

Kazza scowled slightly. "They will not. I am just... I have never once believed I would gift an outsider with this knowledge. I had hoped, if we were to ever share it, it would be out of trust, not desperation."

"Guess it's a lot to expect you to trust me after a few minutes, huh?" he said, keeping his voice light and nudging Kazza. The lizardfolk snorted a bit but managed a small smile.

"I do not wish to offend," he said.

"If you actually fully trusted me I'd be worried about how much longer you're going to live," Cale said, snorting. "There's nothing I can say to earn it now. But if it makes you feel better, I'll try my best to earn it even after all this is over."

Kazza thought for a moment. "I believe that helps, though I do not know why. Thank you, Cale."

He paused. "Now. Why is it Akkau said that I would question why a Great One such as him is not the apprentice?"

Cale grinned. "Can I get a small demonstration of [Windstream]?" he asked. "That's the core of your spell, right? I think Akkau will help with the rest, but that's the part you need all the mages for."

Kazza looked confused. "It is a unique spell, and cannot be easily learned, but if you are certain..."

He obliged.

You have learned [Windstream]!

[Windstream, Level 1] [Second Tier, Active (Unique, Golden Sands)] [30 Mana]

A spell unique to the lizardfolk of the Golden Sands, emerging from their natural affinity with breath magic and their long stay above the heart of a Monolith. Creates the unique spell [Gilded Hurricane] when compounded enough times, allowing rapid physical transportation through their home.

Cale tried not to flinch too much at that description. He hadn't needed the reminder, and it wasn't relevant anyway. He couldn't do anything for Vital.

At least this trip would let him say goodbye.

"Alright, let's go," Cale said. "This next part needs to be done outside."

Kazza looked even more confused, but followed Cale anyway.
