Why did the dead try to kill the living? Was it hatred?
Did they seek to defile the living, to drag them into the same unending torment of their lives? Did they envy those who still drew breath? Or was it a greater mystery? Did the undead simply want others to join them, to add to their endless numbers?
Maybe—perhaps—the dead simply resented the living. Maybe they remembered the past, and it hurt them. Or that they could understand the living and wished to ease their suffering.
It could be they just knew how ugly they were and didn’t want anyone to look.
Erin screamed as an almost completely decomposed Gnoll came close. He had no face. Nothing that she would use that word for. Just—rot. Horrible, black innards that still twitched and slapped together wetly as he lurched at her.
A hand seized the zombie around the remains of his ruined head. Ignoring the flesh and other things that squelched around his fist completely, Knight tightened his grip until something crunched and the zombie jerked and fell still. The Worker dropped the corpse to the ground and kicked the body away. He stood, protectively shielding Erin at the entrance of the inn.
Around the hill, the dead were struggling with the living. But there were no screams. At least, the Antinium did not scream. The dead did. They howled or made ghastly sucking sounds or sometimes groaned, but the screaming was what terrified Erin. She felt they shouldn’t be able to. The dead should be silent.
But they weren’t. If anything, it was the Workers who more closely resembled silent reapers. They moved in unison, fighting, blocking, forming a living line as they fought against the undead. Sometimes they spoke, but with a terrifying calmness of their own.
“Die.”
“Suffer.”
“Perish.”
Two Antinium gripped a zombie by each arm and tore him apart. Another seized a skeleton with two hands and ripped out its ribs with the other two.
They fought like machines. Uncaring machines that took apart the undead like a child taking apart legos. Sometimes, it was a clean dissection. Other times, they smashed the dead bodies to make them fall apart.
But for all that, they were like children. None of the Workers knew how to fight. They were extremely strong, but clumsy. And the undead may have been rotting, but they were all killers.
A Worker staggered back, arms grasping as a skeleton slid forwards, bashing at the Antinium’s head with a mace. It nimbly dodged the Worker that strove to seize a bony arm and raised its mace to crush the Antinium’s skull.
“No!”
The skeleton looked up, and a flying frying pan crashed into its face. The yellow flames in its eyes dimmed, and the Antinium took the chance to seize it.
Erin watched the Worker begin to dismantle the skeleton and stared at her hand. She hadn’t even realized she’d thrown the frying pan. But more undead were charging up the hill towards the inn.
“Stay behind me, please.”
Knight pushed Erin back as more undead crashed into the line of Antinium, this time from the back. The Antinium wavered as they struggled to hold the dead back. Erin saw one of the Workers slip and fall as a Ghoul tackled him. The undead began tearing at him.
He had a name. He’d told it to Erin. Magnus. Magnus as in Magnus Carlsen, a name taken from Earth’s chess champion. He fell down, and Erin saw his blood. It was green.
“No!”
She tried to run forwards, but Knight seized Erin by the waist and lifted her up.
“You must not. You must not put yourself in danger. We are here for your protection.”
Magnus fell, shielding his face. Erin pulled harder, but Knight refused to let go.
“He’s dying!”
“Yes. The enemy surrounds us. We are at a disadvantage. This must be rectified.”
Knight pulled Erin back and raised his hand. He spoke calmly.
“[Defense Formation].”
Magnus thrust the Ghoul back and raised his hand, ignoring the green blood that splattered the ground around him.
“[Attack Formation].”
He collapsed silently as a Ghoul finished tearing through his exoskeleton. The undead Drake pulled something out of Magnus and opened his mouth to consume it.
A scream of rage preceded a jar of acid by only a second. The Ghoul stumbled backwards, clawing at its face as the acid melted flesh away. He fell back, and another Antinium calmly hit him with a mop, sending him slumping to the ground.
Erin felt the effects of the two Skills hit her as she raised another jar of acid and threw it. She felt lighter—so much lighter! And it seemed as though she had suddenly grown a pair of eyes on the back of her head. She was aware of the undead around her, just as she was aware of how the other Antinium were moving.
They held the line. Even as the undead ran up the hill, the Workers met them, calmly ganging up on the individual undead in twos and threes. The Antinium had no sense of fair play, and the undead were hard pressed to defend themselves against three sets of four hands stabbing at once.
A Ghoul rushed past two Antinium and ran towards Knight. The Antinium raised his sword, but a skeleton leapt past him and knifed the Ghoul in the chest. Toren and the Ghoul fell, stabbing and biting at each other.
Erin spun. She lifted a pot and hurled it. A zombie staggered backwards. She had—she had had quite a few pots and pans she’d seized from her kitchen, but she was running out. She’d hurled them into the crowd, trusting to her [Unerring Throw] skill.
Now the undead were falling, retreating. Erin stared as zombies began turning, running backwards. Was it a feint? Were more undead coming? She looked around wildly, searching for movement in the darkness.
No. No more undead were coming for the moment—they were all dead. Toren pulled himself away from the Ghoul, reclaiming an arm as the Ghoul jerked once and then lay still.
How many horrors had died here? A hundred? Two hundred? It felt like a thousand.
“Thirty-four.”
Knight said it calmly as a skeleton fell down, skull cracked open from one of Erin’s frying pans. She stared at the Worker as silence fell and the last corpse stopped twitching.
“What?”
“We have killed thirty-four of the undead. The rest have retreated. They will return in greater numbers, I believe.”
Erin stared at Knight as the Antinium calmly cleaned gore off of his sword. Around her, the Workers were helping each other to their feet, carrying the bodies down, and…digging?
Yes, the uninjured Workers were digging in the ground. Dirt flew into the air as they dug a long, wide trench around the inn. They were building a moat. A moat.
“What’s happening? What is all this?”
Erin stared at the dead, at the Workers, and at Knight. She felt dizzy, sick. And not just from the carnage. Just a few moments ago, she’d been waiting for Rags, and now there were Workers with names and the living dead.
And the smell. Erin threw up a little in her mouth but refused to let her stomach heave anything else up.
Knight bowed his head to Erin again. He was like Pawn only—different. Physically, they were the same, but even though they had the same voice, the same body, and both had named themselves after chess pieces, he was different. Erin couldn’t explain why or how. She just knew.
“The city of Liscor and the surrounding area is under attack, Erin Solstice. A horde of the undead emerged from the Ruins and besieged the city around an hour ago.”
Erin stared in horror at Knight. She fought to make her mouth work.
“The ruins? Undead? You mean they came from there? Did something set them—”
Her heart skipped a beat, and her stomach lurched.
“Oh no. The Horns of Hammerad. They went in there. Are they…?”
Knight shook his head.
“Several adventurers reached the city alive. I do not know any more than that.”
Erin seized Knight by the shoulder, ignoring the fluids that coated his carapace.
“Any Minotaurs? Anyone with pointy ears? An Elf? Half-Elf, I mean.”
Again, he shook his head.
“No such adventurers were seen. The only ones who survived were Humans. A…captain of one of the teams. A woman wearing silver armor. And a few other Humans. No one else.”
Erin stared at Knight, wide-eyed. Her thoughts melded together and then shut down. Knight nodded his head at her.
“I am sorry.”
She did throw up, then. Erin bent down and hurled up her lunch and dinner. She felt a cool hand on her neck, steadying her, and as she gasped and cried, Knight helped her back up.
It took several minutes for Erin to regain…control of herself. She was crying, talking incoherently, clutching Knight’s hand in a death grip as Toren brought her some water. She drank it, spat, threw up, drank some more, and finally stopped.
She didn’t stop panicking. She didn’t stop the agony in her heart or the terrible loss. But she put it inside her for a while to focus on the now. Erin looked at Knight as the Antinium studied the trench, which was only getting deeper around her inn.
“What’s happening? How many zombies are in the city?”
He paused, and another Worker—Calabrian—volunteered the details.
“The fighting was intensifying as we left. Over thirty thousand undead creatures have attacked Liscor, and the Watch fights them in the streets.”
“H-how do you know how many…?”
She couldn’t see in the dark. It sounded so precise—Knight pointed left.
“One of our number, Bird, counted them. At least thirty thousand.”
Thirty thousand. Erin tried to remember how many guards she’d seen at the gates or patrolling through the city. There were so many of them, but against tens of thousands of undead? More than that?
She turned to Knight.
“Should we—I mean, can we help them? How bad is it?”
He shook his head and gestured to her inn.
“Going out would not be wise. The undead fill the grasslands and will attack anything living. They have come here and will attack again soon. We are here to protect you, but you must stay here.”
Erin stared at him in horror. She stammered, and her voice cracked.
“Me? But—I’m just one person. Why me?”
He returned her gaze seriously, black, faceted eyes intent on her face.
“You are alive. That is all the reason they need.”
“And they’re out there? Regrouping?”
“Yes. Can you see them?”
He pointed, and Erin looked out. There was little light anywhere—the stars and moon were the only sources out here, but her eyes had grown accustomed to the night. She looked, and the sight made her stomach tighten with fear.
Dark shapes moving in the moonlight. They filled the plains, moving slowly, a cluster of shapes surrounding something white that was approaching the inn.
“Oh gods. There are thousands of them.”
“Hundreds. They move towards us.”
Knight’s words sent a chill down Erin’s spine. She opened her mouth to say something and then froze.
“Hold on. What’s that thing in the distance?”
Erin squinted. It was the white mass the undead were surrounding. At first, she thought it was just a bunch of them moving together, but it was something else. It was far away, but coming…closer?
“Is it…a giant slug?”
 
——
 
The Watch of Liscor fell back, fighting, loosing arrows into the undead crowd, casting spells. Fighting, retreating.
Dying.
They were outnumbered and fighting across a wider and wider area. The gates had let in the undead like a virus. And so long as they had been contained to the first few streets, the battle had been even, perhaps even in the defender’s favor.
But with Skinner’s arrival breaking their ranks and the ceaseless influx of the dead, the streets had been overrun. And more and more dead had surged down alleyways, forcing Zevara to pull her warriors back further and further or become surrounded. And as they did, the scope of the battle extended until dozens of streets were locked in desperate combat, stretching thin numbers even further.
A sign of how the battle was going lay with the civilians. They were being evacuated to the southern section of the city—the children and those unable to fight, that was. Everyone else was fighting. Those with class levels and even those without.
They fought, Drakes and Gnolls and the few Humans, healing themselves with potions, making the enemy pay for each step with blood. But the dead were bloodless. And they just kept coming.
Zevara and twenty guardsmen fought down one of the main streets, trying to stem the flow of the dead. They weren’t enough, not for such a wide passage. But overturned wagons had barricaded part of the street and created a kill zone.
The problem was that the dead were coming over the roofs, scaling walls, running through alleys. Zevara had archers shooting down as many as possible, but the defenders would still have been quickly overrun were it not for the Human and Drake fighting at the front.
Pisces pointed, and another Ghoul jerked. Beneath his rotted skin, his spine twisted and broke, and the undead collapsed soundlessly. The [Necromancer] turned, and more undead fell down as if their strings had been cut. He had accounted for over half of the fallen dead lying in piles on the street. The other half were due to Relc.
The Drake stood in the center of the undead mob, spear spinning around him too quick to follow. He stuck a zombie through its head with the shaft of his spear, twirled the butt up to shatter a skeleton’s jaw, ducked another skeleton, punched a Ghoul hard enough to break its ribs, and then beheaded a zombie with a wicked cut from the tip of his spear.
Zevara cut down a skeleton and gasped as it cut her shallowly across one arm as it fell. She stabbed it until the lights in its eyes faded and saw the massive creature approaching Relc from behind.
“Relc!”
The Senior Guardsman spun around and hurled his spear. The Crypt Lord staggered back, the spear lodged deep within its chest. Relc ran forwards and seized the shaft of the spear. With a roar, he ripped it back out, kicking the giant undead backwards as he did. The Crypt Lord fell on its back, and Relc stabbed downwards, spear blurring until the bloated creature lay still.
He staggered back and ran back towards the barricade as the undead tried to encircle him. The guardsmen opened up a small gap for him to squeeze through, and then he was beside Zevara as they pushed the dead back.
“Damn.”
Relc coughed and swore as Zevara moved back with him. His scales were covered in black bile, and she instantly grabbed a potion out of one of the crates and handed it to him.
Relc took a sip of the potion, spat black liquid out, and drank the rest. He threw the empty flask over the barricade and nodded at Zevara.
“Thanks. I got some of the poison in my mouth.”
She scowled, but couldn’t put any of her usual force in her words.
“Be careful. If we lose you, our line will collapse.”
Relc grinned at her wearily.
“Hey, don’t worry, Captain Z. None of those things can scratch my scales. If there weren’t so many of them, this would be as easy as frying fish.”
