“But there are a lot of them, and they just don’t stop coming.”
Zevara hissed in fury, and her tail lashed the ground as she pointed.
“It makes no sense. They’re not congregating in one spot, and they’re attacking every side. Like a real army would do. And that guard they have around the gates is—”
“Not like them. I know.”
Relc’s eyes narrowed as he stared in the direction of the open north gate. Despite their best efforts, they hadn’t managed to retake it, not even with Relc. The dead around the massive metal doors refused to budge, and the gates were cumbersome enough to close on their own.
“It’s that damned skin-creature that’s doing it. So long as it’s around, they’re going to keep coming. If you’d let me go after it…”
Zevara shook her head curtly.
“You wouldn’t make it out the gates before they surrounded you. And that thing is too much for you to handle alone.”
He glared at her.
“And so we’re going to leave it? I told you, it’s going after Erin—”
“Do you want me to try and save one Human in this mess?”
Zevara shouted at Relc. He blinked, and she continued.
“No matter what that thing is doing, we can’t spare anyone to go after it, let alone you. If we knew what it was doing, then maybe—”
“Waiting.”
Zevara and Relc turned. Pisces stumbled back towards them. His face was pale, and his hair and robes were matted with sweat. He stumbled towards a cart holding water flasks and drank greedily.
The Captain of the Watch looked back towards the fighting. Without Relc and Pisces, the guardsmen were already beginning to be pushed back.
“We need you to keep casting, Human. If you can’t, we have plenty of mana potions—”
Pisces glared at Zevara.
“Potions do not cure exhaustion. Even my efficient spells tax me. I must rest.”
“I’ll go. The poison’s cured.”
So saying, Relc sprinted to one of the wagons and leapt. He kicked the skeleton that was climbing over it and landed on the other side, spear already blurring. Pisces drank more water, and both watched as Relc kept fighting.
Zevara glanced at Pisces.
“What did you mean? That creature is waiting?”
He nodded and wiped at his mouth.
“It is clear that these dead are protecting that skin creature in some way. It may have control over the dead or spellcasting ability—regardless, they act as convenient fodder while it takes the skin of creatures to sustain itself.”
“Then why did it leave?”
“The danger. As I said, your Senior Guardsman posed an actual threat. It realized this and withdrew. It will let the undead keep fighting until we are exhausted and it returns. Remember—for each one of us that falls, it has another minion to use against us.”
Zevara knew that. She was more worried about the trick it had pulled before it left.
“What about reanimating the undead we’ve already slain? How many times can it do that?”
Pisces shrugged. He looked as unnerved by that as she did.
“I’ve heard of undead doing that, but not even the ones I saw at Wistram could—it’s a spellcaster. But it cannot do that forever. Only a few times, I suspect. And it might not be able to control all the undead. The Crypt Lords are lesser leaders. The fact that greater undead than them haven’t been created is odd. So many dead gathered for so long together—”
“And why the girl? Why is it going out after that Erin Solstice? The one who got Klbkch killed?”
Pisces hesitated again, and Zevara wondered if he was about to lie. When he spoke, it was with clear reluctance.
“…She probably doesn’t matter at all. It’s simply how that creature works. He will eliminate every living being in the area and surround the city with his army. He senses her, no doubt, and wishes to eliminate any possible threat. Or perhaps it is fleeing east then north, towards Esthelm, to minimize the risk to itself.”
“Well. We may have time if that’s the case.”
Pisces opened his mouth, and his eyes widened with outrage. Then he looked at her, really looked at her panting for air, the screaming, embattled city, and closed his mouth and nodded.
“Yes. Perhaps. But we will be overrun soon if there are many more of the undead.”
It was a statement both knew to be true. Zevara shook her head. She raised her sword, feeling exhaustion in her arm. Flames trickled from around her mouth as she spoke.
“Drink whatever potions you need. Rest if you must. But get back to casting quickly, mage.”
She ran back towards the guardsmen as they struggled to hold back several zombies. Pisces stared after her and shook his head. He took a few quick steps back and then made his way to a pile of dead corpses that archers had shot off rooftops.
The skeletons, Ghouls, and zombies had taken the rooftops and smashed in their skulls or splattered on the ground when the arrows had knocked them off their perches. But as Pisces raised his hands, the shattered flesh and bone reknit, and the dead rose back upwards, unearthly lights appearing in their eyes.
Six zombies, three skeletons, and four Ghouls stood up, staring at Pisces. He pointed east, in the direction of the gates.
“Go. Avoid fighting until you reach the inn. Protect the girl. Kill any who would harm her. Go.”
Pisces watched the undead run towards the barricade, moving past the startled defenders. He smiled crookedly and had to sit down as the effects of the spell hit him.
“My, my. I suppose I’m a little too invested in that girl for my own good.”
He laughed and cast his eyes towards the sky.
“Well. A token deed. It will not amount to much. Not when…”
His voice trailed off. Pisces stared blankly at the undead fighting with the Watch. He was a [Necromancer]. He could sense how many dead were in the city and outside it, a fact he had carefully neglected to mention.
After a moment, he smiled again and stood up. His blood was burning in agony, and he felt nauseous, exhausted. Even a potion wouldn’t help him, but the undead still fell as he killed them methodically.
Pisces laughed as the dead fell around him, uncaring of the toll. They would die. All of them. The few living guardsmen and citizens couldn’t stem the tide any more than Erin would survive. He laughed and cast his eyes skyward again, perhaps for the last time.
“Ah, but what a wonderful night to die!”
He could have run. Yet…the [Necromancer] looked around. He had the [Invisibility] spell upon his lips. It would be simple to cast it and hide from the undead. He, of all people in Liscor, could probably evade them and escape with his life. 
But—Selys was swinging a sword on one side, Zevara holding the line on the other. Relc was fighting ahead of him. Another, reasonable man might have fled.
“But I’m better than that. I am…”
The [Necromancer] whispered the words, and his head turned as his friendly undead ran past the ones under Skinner’s control. Pisces never finished his sentence. He whirled, waved his hand, and a group of zombies collapsed. He pointed, and the dead died. But they kept coming. And coming.
And coming.
 
——
 
“Oh god. What is that?”
Erin stared down towards the white shape moving towards them. Every time it dragged itself towards her, more horrific details emerged. At first, it was just a white shape, a sickly slug. Then it was a slug with arms, and then…a creature of some kind. But then she saw that its skin wasn’t skin but dead flesh packed together. And then she saw the faces, stretched across the skin and…
They ran towards the Antinium, Skinner’s small army. They fell into the huge trench the Antinium had dug, breaking bones, climbing out only to be kicked back in by the Workers.
There weren’t many. Around a hundred or less. That’s what Knight had said. As if that wasn’t enough to bury them all in corpses anyways. Most of the undead had moved back towards the city. But the creature came on, dragging itself through the grass.
It left glistening chunks of itself behind. Pieces of dead skin. It horrified Erin more than anything.
But she had to fight. Erin lifted another jar of acid and hurled it at a Crypt Lord. The massive, bloated creature shrieked and slapped itself with its clawed hands. But the acid ate away its skin, melting the massive creature’s outsides in a matter of minutes.
That was her role. Erin stood at the door of her inn, throwing jars of acid, pots, pans, knives, anything she could. She had one frying pan next to her as an emergency weapon, and she’d already hurled most of her chairs down the hill.
It was working. It was working. The dead were filling the trenches, but they hadn’t broken past the Workers yet. It was working—
Skinner had reached the bottom of the hill the inn was on. He raised his head and looked up. Two crimson eyes flashed at Erin, and suddenly, she knew fear.
Fear.
“No…no.”
Skinner’s eyes glowed at her under the moonlight. His gaze touched Erin and held her. It caught her and made her feel fear beyond anything she had felt. She was helpless.
She shook. Erin was consumed by horror, pure, unfiltered terror that paralyzed her to her core. The crimson stare was death. Hers.
She couldn’t even move. She couldn’t even scream.
Erin felt something tugging at her. Knight grabbed her and pulled her backwards, towards the doors of her inn. He shoved her inside, and she stumbled, partly free of Skinner’s gaze on her.
“This creature projects fear of some kind. Please, move back. We will handle this.”
Erin stared at Knight. She worked her jaw soundlessly.
“I—”
She wanted to say she’d keep fighting. But she couldn’t. She glanced outside, and Skinner stared at her. He was grinning, his toothless, empty mouth a gaping hole. She froze up, and Knight blocked the door with his body.
“Stay behind me.”
The undead surged forwards as one. The Workers met them as they tried to leap the moat and failed and knocked the undead into the pit. Several zombies managed to tug one Worker into the pit, where he disappeared under a pile of discolored limbs. But the line was holding.
Was holding.
Skinner’s gaze moved from the inn for one second. He seemed to regard the ditch and then looked back towards the inn. For a second, Knight wondered what had happened. And then the ranks of the dead drew back, and a larger creature lurched forwards.
A Crypt Lord stood on the other side of the trench. But he—or rather she—didn’t try to cross. Instead, the Crypt Lord began spitting, sending huge gouts of black blood raining over the Workers.
Several Workers hurled their weapons across the ditch, but they bounced off the Crypt Lord’s thick, discolored skin. It spat blood back at them, and the Workers shielded their faces ineffectually with their hands.
Suddenly, the moat was no longer a barrier but a liability. The Antinium could not cross to fight the Crypt Lord and instead had to retreat while it poisoned them.
Knight watched as two Workers fell, curling up into balls as the poison killed them. He stared as the undead swarmed into the trenches and up the other side. He sighed.
Chess was not at all like battle. There were some similarities, and the [Tactician] class leveled with chess. But it did not teach fighting. It did not account for unpredictability. Chess was a beautiful thing. But battle—
Battle was uncertainty.
“Ah. Alas.”
Knight made sure his body was covering the door. The other shutters around the inn were closed, and the second floor was also shut off. Any dead creature could break in, though. He gestured and raised his voice.
“Close ranks.”
The Workers stepped back, forming a wall around the inn. There were just over twenty left now, some injured, many without weapons. They had learned something of fighting, though. They would not die easily.
Knight turned his head slightly and saw Erin was still staring out at the undead as they cleared the moat. Her face was pale. He tried to smile, but all he could do was lift his mandibles slightly. What would Pawn say at a time like this? What was the right thing to say?
“Please stay inside. You will be safe here.”
She tried to say something. But Skinner’s stare paralyzed her, took away her words. Knight closed the door and put his back to it.
Twenty workers. A hundred undead creatures. Skinner. They would hold with all their might. As long as they could.
Until they could no longer move. Until they were no longer alive. Each Worker was resolved to die. That was simple. Knight only wished—he only wished—
He only wished it were enough.
 
——
 
Rags sat on the hilltop, watching. She was no longer watching the city of Liscor. That place would fall or burn. It mattered not to her.
Instead, she was watching a small hill covered in flickering motion. Rags’ eyes were good. Even in the night, she could see the Workers struggling against the undead. She was also good at counting. That was why, despite her entire tribe sitting with her on the hill, she did not order them to move.
It was a sensible choice. All of Rags agreed with that. Aside from Skinner, the terrifying monster that struck fear into her heart, the undead were too numerous, too deadly. Goblins weren’t good at killing things that were already dead, and they would have been outnumbered by the dead even if they joined the Workers. Not a good fight. So why fight?
All of Rags agreed with her choice, even if not all of her tribe did. The frightened, pitiful Goblin part of her told her to run. And the cold [Tactician] self she had learned told her the battle was unwinnable. Rags knew this. But another part of her hurt.
It was a small part. It wasn’t a practical part or a particularly useful part. It knew there was no other choice. But it hurt. And it distracted her as she watched the battle.
Absently, Rags’ hand went up and poked at her flesh. No. It wouldn’t stop hurting. She knew she couldn’t do a thing. So why try.
A Goblin shifted next to Rags. He wanted to go down there. But one glare from her and he stopped moving. She was Chieftain. She decided. And she had decided not to interfere. It was only logical.
She just wished that part of her would stop hurting.
Rags touched her heart again. There was nothing she could do. Nothing but watch. She would watch until the end.
That was all she could do.
 
——
 
Knight stood against the doorway, arms stretched wide, his entire weight against the wood behind him. His legs buckled. But he refused to fall.
The undead had crossed the moat. They had reached the inn itself, and it was there the Workers were making their final stand.
They were doing well. Well enough. The lone Crypt Lord had fallen, taking five Workers with him. But the remaining Workers fought together, shielding the inn, letting their strong bodies take the brunt of the assault to protect the fragile wood.
