And damned if these old fogeys didn’t give it their best try. Though his movements looked basic and unimpressive, Broken Blade Pichai was a force unto himself. With a massive, horizontal swing of his sword, the colourfully armoured southerner harvested Defiled lives like a farmer reaping grains. In an unmatched efficiency of motion, that same slash sent the Demon flying away, knocking Defiled aside as it tumbled helplessly through the air. Although the creature landed on its feet, viscous Ichor already dripped down its wrinkled and cracked skin, leaving sizzling patches blackened earth wherever the caustic fluids landed. Obviously reluctant to face him alone, the Demon wailed and hissed from a distance, leaving the Broken Blade free to wreak havoc on the Enemy’s left flank until their next inevitable clash.

To Jorani’s right, Eccentric Gam growled in frustration in his standoff against the Demon, unable to land a killing blow as the defeated creature dove down and hid beneath the earth. Like an unstoppable, man-sized chariot, the half-fox heedlessly charged through the Defiled to follow it away, flinging his opponents aside like broken ragdolls as he twirled his staff with effortless ease. With a maniacal grin, he lifted his weapon and brought the butt end down to ground as if planting a flag, and the earth shook beneath Jorani’s feet as the ground split apart to reveal the battered mole-Demon. Struggling and squealing like a wounded animal, the Demon was held fast by the embrace of the same dirt which it previously swam through. “Ha!” Eccentric Gam declared in triumph, waving his hand and bringing the Demon up out of the crevasse on a prison of soil. “Hiding in the Earth from the magnificent Gam? Seeking Death!”

Lining up his attack, he drew his staff back for a one-handed thrust. Expecting the Demon to go tumbling into the crowd of Defiled like the Broken Blade’s foe, Jorani soon discovered Eccentric Gam was a level stronger as the creature exploded on impact, showering the oncoming Defiled in a flood of corrosive fluids while leaving Gam and his allied Death Corps unharmed. Howls and screams filled the air, but Eccentric Gam’s Chi-infused cackle drowned them out and lifted Imperial spirits, Jorani’s among them. “Come, cowardly servants of the Father,” the half-fox declared, turning to face the Demons behind them. “Line up nicely for your grand daddy here. What a useful bunch you are, much easier than killing Defiled by ones and twos!”

“Forward!” Surveying the battlefield from just out of weapon’s reach, Old Du stood in the air and commanded Eccentric Gam to stick to the plan. Thankfully, the screwy old fox merely scowled and obeyed, smashing swathes through the Defiled forces with every lazy swing of his staff. The pressure on Jorani was instantly lessened as Death Corps soldiers were freed to flank his position. Eccentric Gam’s victory over the Demon was like a rock cast into a pond, sending ripples down the Imperial line and collapsing the Defiled before them. Up above, Old Du split his focus on watching the rear and keeping his Demon in check, and when Jorani found a second to glance back in curiosity, his jaw dropped in disbelief. Behind them stood a wall of wind and blood as two shrieking Wind Chakrams circled back and forth, cutting down any Defiled who dared approach in numbers too great. A few still made it through, but the majority stayed back lest the twin discs of death claim too many lives for even their superior numbers to sustain.

Truly a Sanguine Tempest, which made young magistrate Fung look like a complete fool for calling himself the ‘Unstoppable Tempest’. Pei, the spoiled brat could count himself talented if he had one ten-thousandth of Old Du’s prowess.

A shame Old Du couldn’t just use his Wind Chakrams to clear the way, but that would be expecting too much. The operas were clear on this point, creating a Chakram took enormous amounts of Chi, and the disc deteriorated with each pass through an enemy. ‘One Man Killing a Hundred’ was the title of Jorani’s favourite song in the opera, which depicted Old Du’s rise to glory in the Hoplesh Rebellion, retaliating after a suicidal attack from the rebels killed off the Imperial Command. Alone and without aid, Old Du, who Jorani supposed would have been middle-aged Du, flew into the enemy camp alone and slaughtered their command in return, his Wind Chakram reaping a hundred Experts before finally dissipating into nothingness. Once finished, middle-aged Du escaped unharmed and took command of the leaderless Imperial Army, destroying the rebellion before they could recover from their leaderless state.

And now, decades later, with rumours of his senility and decline aplenty, Du Min Gyu was more formidable than ever. Two Wind Chakrams! Two!

Unfortunately, no warrior could defeat time. Killing one or two hundred Defiled on his own would be an impressive feat, but in the grand scheme of things, it was hardly a drop in the bucket and Chi was finite. Already, Jorani could see a twinge of effort in Old Du’s face as well it should, what with keeping the Defiled behind them in check while fending off a Demon with powerful bursts of wind. Although his easy stroll through the Defiled lines continued, Jorani saw that Eccentric Gam’s robes weren’t only wet with the blood of his foes, but soaked in his sweat too, dripping down his forehead and making him look even more ragged than before. Then there was Broken Blade Pichai, the least impressive of the bunch, who’d already slowed his pace and fallen back, allowing the Death Corps to clear the way to the Demon instead of leading the advance himself like before. Even though Old Zhang had yet to act, the Solitary Sword wasn’t famed for fighting Defiled or Demons, a duellist in the purest sense of the word, so best not to hang their hopes on him.

Cursing the seemingly endless number of Defiled, Jorani yelled over the clash of blades and the screams of the dying. “C’mon ye weak livered bastards, I heard the Death Corps are the meanest, baddest soldiers around. Y’all gonna disappoint a street rat from Sanshu? Forward to Victory!” A wordless roar sounded in reply as the Death Corps fought on with renewed vigour, and Jorani might have imagined it, but he thought he saw Old Du favour him with a slight approving nod. It wasn’t much, but for the half-breed son of a washer-woman, it meant more than the old man would ever know.

You see this Ma? You don’t need to worry anymore. Your boy grew up into a proper man, a real soldier, he is. Rest easy now, but light, you hear? Maybe I’ll be coming to join you in a bit, and we can catch up on old times.

Hack and slash, stab and retract, this was all Jorani thought of as he steadily marched towards his goal. Every now and then he bellowed out a stream of meaningless drivel, urging the Death Corps forward until his throat grew hoarse with effort. Arms leaden and Chi running dry, still he fought on, yet the gates had yet to appear in sight. In fact, they’d barely made it out of the centre of the fort, only now stepping out of the slave grounds and making their way in amongst the slavers shacks. Not even halfway there, yet Jorani’s strength was all but spent, drawing upon reserves he didn’t know he had stored as he marched ever forwards into the Enemy. Unable to find Siyar, he prayed the former smuggler had gotten out safe instead of lying somewhere behind him, though he knew the latter was far more likely. With the last of his voice, he yelled, “Kill the Defiled!”, for that was all that was left to them. He figured they were dead men walking, but they should kill as many Defiled as they could before he headed off to see Ma and Mum Above.

Won't be long now Ma. No need to cry, it'll be a nice reunion. After all, your boy never got a chance to say goodbye.

Chapter Meme
