Amazingly, the young woman was still in the contest. Yvlon wondered if she could move her feet that fast, and she thought the girl was doing well—until she noticed Medacium.
He was sitting back on a stool over his drum, one drumstick striking the edge of his drum. With the other? He was having a drink, not looking at his instrument, leaning back, clearly at ease.
People were laughing, and Yvlon then got a sense he was mocking the [Soldiers]. With a flourish, the [Drummer] downed his drink, then raised his other drumstick. He didn’t miss a beat as he began to play on the drum itself.
Ratattatak-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k—
There was no expressing the speed of which he hit the drum this time. The notes almost blurred together, but they became a hypnotizing avalanche of beats.
So fast and loud the sand was rising around him in a cloud! The other two [Soldiers] had to drop out almost at once, but the last one, Teresa, kept going.
The young woman did her best. For a moment, her feet blurred into a pattern of footsteps so fast and fluid that Yvlon thought she’d kept up—until Medacium stopped and hit one note.
“Fail!”
A boom of sound—and Teresa went flying out of the circle. Yvlon blinked; the [Drummer] had sent her flying with a single hit from his sticks. He leaned back, taking another drink.
“Medacium! I was fast enough!”
He snorted.
“You were out of pattern. You’re not Reim’s finest, Lady Teresa. A Skill can’t compete in the Dance of Daheic-Lah. Who’s next? Come on, come on—you.”
He was looking around as a second wave of people came over. Then he pointed. Yvlon jumped, but it wasn’t her that he was pointing at.
Colthei grinned. He stepped forwards as the drummer’s eyes glinted.
“Guests to the King of Reim? Adventurers by the looks of you.”
“Yes, sir! Named-rank.”
Teresa, who had been scowling, turned her head, and a woman with platinum-green hair spun around with visible delight. Everyone stared at Colth and the other Horns as he gave Medacium a bow.
“And who’re you, sir?”
“Just a [Drummer] serving his [King]. A musician of no renown. No songs other than the beat of boring battlefields of late. But come, you speak with your feet, and I’ll speak with my sticks.”
Medacium twirled the drumsticks, then began to play. Colth bowed—then kicked off his shoes with a grin to stand barefoot on the ground. At first, it was slow, and Yvlon saw a grinning Ceria and even Pisces standing in the ring.
What are you doing? She mouthed at them. They gave her a look as if she were crazy, and Yvlon wondered if she should join in. But the drumming had already begun, and this time, Medacium amped up the pressure fast.
Tattatattatatatatattatat—
He threw in double-beats and increased the tempo even faster. Each time someone failed to match the beat, they leapt out, leaving a circle of ever-faster moving dancers.
Ceria was first of the Horns to quit, tripping and taking out two other dancers with a curse. Pisces lasted longer, but he grew red-faced at the cheering, and for all his [Fencer]’s footwork, there came a point where even his feet couldn’t touch the ground fast enough.
But Colth? Colth—kept up. His look of amusement became one of concentration, and he stared down at his feet.
Ratattatak-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k—
Here it came. The same pattern that had knocked Teresa out began, and Colth’s feet began to drum the ground. Yvlon knew the [Ultimate Supporter] was good at most things he did. He doubtless had experience as a [Dancer] and was using his Skills to maximum effect.
For five seconds, six, seven, he was in it, surrounded by cheering people. Yvlon glanced at Medacium’s face, but if she expected respect on the older [Drummer]’s face—
He looked amused and relaxed as he played at a pace that had Colth sweating. Then he sped up.
Colth’s feet hit the ground and stopped, and the tempo doubled. He turned, gave the [Drummer] a look of disbelief, then shook his head. He held up his hands, stepped out of the ring, and bowed.
“I can’t compete, Drummer! Can anyone dance that fast?”
Was that a look of disappointment on Medacium’s face? It flashed over him for a second, then he was calling for someone to give Colth a drink. He laughed as he toasted Colth and let the [Supporter] come over to inspect his drums.
“Few can dance as fast as you, Named-rank man! It’s not the old days. Is Jelaim of Serpent Hunters here? He could do well ‘gainst you. No? Then someone fetch Mars!”
His words provoked a moment of silence. Fetch Mars? As in, Mars the Illusionist? But all Medacium did was begin playing a rolling tempo on his drums. Low, then louder and louder, and within a minute, she appeared.
“Medacium! Are you calling me? I was busy checking out the comet! And keeping His Majesty from breaking the thing in half by punching it!”
Today, Mars had short, blonde hair, and she was more lithe—she looked a bit like one of Yvlon’s ancestors, like some [Paladin] of old. She was unrecognizable to the woman of before—except in the way she made the metal of Yvlon’s arms tingle.
“Humor us, Illusionist. We have His Majesty’s guests, and Teresa wagers she can dance ‘fast enough’. I’d ask Amerys if she were healed, but it’s you, Orthenon, or Takhatres.”
“And you’ll get Takhatres dancing only with a barrel of wine in him and Orthenon only on the graves of his enemies. Fair!”
Mars’ eyes glinted as she spotted the Horns. She didn’t nod at them, but jerked her head to a tent just behind her. Yvlon looked at Pisces, who was staring at Mars. The Horns of Hammerad watched as Mars stood in the center of the ring.
Then there was silence until Medacium played. He started slow, and Mars made exaggerated movements, throwing her head back, posing, to laughter and calls of appreciation from the audience. Someone was holding up a scrying orb, and then the [Drummer] sped up.
Mars didn’t seem to need Skills to keep up at first. And she had armor on—she flowed from step to step fluidly, still moving about rather than keeping in one position. But Yvlon had expected that.
It was when she got to the speed that had foiled Colth that things changed. Then, Mars seemed to have to concentrate. Her feet were already blurring, and she was grinning, clearly straining to keep up.
This time, Yvlon leaned forwards as Medacium’s eyes glinted, and he doubled the beat. Yvlon heard Mars calmly speak in the moments before her feet touched the ground as she took a hop.
“[Speed of the Striking Viper].”
The entire camp seemed to turn as an avalanche of drumbeats poured through the air. It felt like Yvlon’s skin was rippling, as if she could feel each strike upon those old drums. But what kept her eyes wide, unblinking, was the second—no, the highest-level [Warrior] of Chandrar.
Mars the Illusionist.
The [Vanguard] had matched the speed of Medacium’s playing. She was moving too fast to see. But that didn’t mean she was a blur. Rather—
She was leaving afterimages. It looked like a multi-headed woman with a hundred limbs was posing in every direction—the sand rose in a storm around Mars the Illusionist. She seemed to fill the circle in a hundred poses that vanished before your eye could even blink.
How long she danced, Yvlon couldn’t say. Ten seconds? Twenty? Less than a minute—then, with a crack, Medacium raised his sticks, wiped sweat from his brow, and Mars paused, raised her fist, and the circle exploded into cheers.
“Dead gods!”
Ceria shouted, and Yvlon agreed. She had never seen someone move that fast. Perhaps Mihaela—but that hadn’t been a dance in one spot. Imagine if she did that with a sword in hand.
Mars let other people take the ring, and she downed an entire cup of beer after slamming it into Medacium’s drink.
“You just have to show off for the newcomers, don’t you? Trust a Hraacian.”
“Can you blame me? ‘Twas so boring the last battle that you would have fallen asleep. No wonder His Majesty’s pining.”
The two were laughing with each other when the crowd parted, and Yvlon saw another familiar man stalk forwards. A figure appeared in the center of the dancers, making them leap aside.
“Mars. The King of Destruction wants to meet the adventurers.”
Takhatres, the flightless Garuda, was staring right at Yvlon. Orthenon, the [Steward], merely gazed at Mars’ empty cup with disapproval, then nodded at the Horns of Hammerad.
Mars winked at Yvlon, then called out, gesturing to the ring.
“We were dancing for the old days! Takhatres, you can do it far better. Orthenon, you too! Come on!”
“You can pluck my ass and make a headdress of feathers first.”
The Garuda shook his head, and Mars laughed.
“Is that a challenge?”
She took a step forwards as Takhatres jerked his head. Then, with a huge smile, the Illusionist turned, and Yvlon felt a thrill run through her as Mars gazed at her thoughtfully. Yvlon smiled as politely as she could, and Mars grinned.
“Well, I can see why he took to you. Come on, fierce girl and Horns of Hammerad. His Majesty awaits.”
She swept an arm out towards the large tent, and Yvlon realized everyone had stopped to stare at her. Teresa, Medacium—with a thoughtful glint in his eyes—even one of the half-Giants taking a sip of water was looking down at Yvlon.
At her? Why? Yvlon kept smiling until Ceria hurried over and gave everyone a beaming smile.
“Coming! Yvlon, what the hell are you doing?”
“What?”
Yvlon met Mars’ gaze until Ceria yanked on her arm.
“Yv. Stop snarling at Mars. You’re freaking me and my circlet out.”
Snarling? Yvlon just had a smile on her face. Her teeth showing. Her eyes open. Maybe a bit too wide. She looked down and realized her arms might be a bit—spiky looking. Mars winked, and Takhatres and Orthenon glanced once at Yvlon.
Then they went to meet the King of Destruction.
 
——
 
The King of Destruction was in a better mood after seeing the comet fall. But he was still maudlin, especially after Orthenon reported in to him.
“Jaganismet. Jaganismet.”
When he heard that name, he stood up and couldn’t stop pacing around the tent. Trey knew the name, but he had never met the man.
Jaganismet was one of the vassals that Flos and his followers liked to invoke when they bemoaned the people who hadn’t come to support the King of Destruction. It was notable that he was a name they mentioned, like Venith and Maresar.
With respect to Parasol Stroll and the Serpent Hunters—they were not the ones that Flos had hoped would come to his aid. But Trey didn’t know much more than that.
So he asked, whispering sideways to Gazi, as Teresa and the Earthers filed into the war tent.
“Who’s Jaganismet again?”
The half-Gazer, as ever, gave Trey one of those searching looks that made him feel like someone was x-raying him, including pins and needles running through his body. Gazi half-closed her central eyelid in a frown, as if unsure if he had forgotten something important or just incredulous he didn’t know the obvious as an Earther.
She decided it was the latter and whispered back.
“Mighty Jaganismet. One of the greatest warriors of Chandrar. A fearsome man from Heroph; once, he would fly into rages and kill his way across the battlefield, be it friend or foe. My liege helped him control his fury. He was crowned [King] during His Majesty’s slumber.”
“Ah. Right. Was it a good decision on their parts?”
Amerys, drinking wine and still floating in the air, leaned down idly.
“If you’ve met Jaganismet, I’d say not, Trey. He’s not the smartest of men.”
“He loves his country.”
Gazi frowned up at Amerys reprovingly, and the Archmage of Chandrar lifted her hands.
“Oh, no one would deny that. But I’d rather take a rusted hammer in place of his mind.”
That upgraded Gazi’s frown into a glare. The Gazer’s eye glowed slightly, and Amerys dropped a foot in the air, splashing wine over her robes before she reactivated her flight spells. She gave Gazi a sinister look, but Trey felt Amerys sort of deserved it.
She was a fairly generous woman at times. Intelligent; a [Mage] of [Mages] who believed in foreign exchange, a fan of many cultures, worldly, academic—and elitist too, when the mood came over her.
She was rather like the Academy of Mages that Trey and Gazi had saved her from, even though Amerys often boasted proudly of being the radical, war-capable [Mage] among their ranks.
Their sidebar conversation attracted Flos’ ear, and he turned. He had been sulking because everyone had begged him not to punch the comet for fear he’d break something valuable. Now, he strode over, wine cup in hand.
“Jaganismet might not be able to mince words with a [Scholar], but his mind has outwitted countless foes, Amerys. To be a [King]…when I heard of it, I could scarce believe my ears. He hates leadership.”
Mars shrugged.
“Heroph isn’t exactly replete with great leaders, though. They were war-torn before Your Majesty conquered it, and Jaganismet was one of their many soldiers of fortune who fought from the day he was a child. Sold to other nations’ wars. I passed by during the eighth year of your slumber, Your Majesty.”
“And?”
“It’s better. Not the best, but I saw nary a criminal there. Nor monster. The lands might not be rich under Jaganismet, but he had a reputation for hunting down monsters with his bare hands. There’re worse men to rule. Like High King Perric.”
That, everyone could agree with, and Flos Reimarch sat himself back down on a throne that was carried around his tent. He had excellent posture, even in his discontent, and he sipped from his cup of wine. Then began to complain.
“He didn’t intend to join us, Orthenon? Are you sure? I could well use him. Or another great vassal! More vassals! My favorite steed for one or two more! Was that the Dance of Daheic-Lah I heard just now? Even entertainment’s no longer as good as it was in the old days.”
He’d been like this for over a month now. Trey sighed as he schooled his face to neutrality, and the [Steward] shook his head.
“Jaganismet claims he is preoccupied with ruling a nation. He does not wish to endanger it, in his words, Your Majesty.”
Amerys was astonished.
“I’ve never heard him to be a coward. He must actually be acting like a [King]. But he did kick the Quarass?”
Orthenon nodded, and Amerys smirked. Flos was still moaning about his lack of supporters.
“The problem is half are too old, and the other half have things to do. Do you know [Bard] Liasel? Our silver-voiced [Songstress]? I heard why she never came to Reim. She has grandchildren.”
