“What could I say? Good evening, Erin, I trust this letter finds you in acceptable health? We are all alive, if separated from Ksmvr, and my nose has never been in more pristine glandular condition?”
Ceria snorted water out her nose, and even Yvlon smiled at that. The [Armsmistress] murmured.
“Don’t forget to add a ‘forsooth’ and to sign your name as ‘Pisces the Great and Terrible’.”
“More like ‘Pisces Who Can’t Get Laid’.”
Pisces shook a fist at Colth. He was staring out the window, wondering how long until they could get to Baleros to find Ksmvr and Vofea and help Erin out. At least they were bound to see the King of Destruction today.
That was when he saw the comet.
It was a streak of white-yellow coming down through the skies. It seared a line across the blue skies, so vivid and bright it looked at first like a [Light] spell of unparalleled magnitude. Pisces’ mouth opened as he saw it coming down—towards him.
“Dead gods! What is that?”
All the Horns looked up, then put their heads out the window. Pisces saw the line getting brighter and brighter—alarmingly bright and alarmingly close. Ceria’s jaw dropped, and Colth breathed.
“Comet nothing. It’s a damn meteor. Dead gods, it’s a [Blacksmith]’s bounty!”
“A comet? I haven’t heard of one falling in years!”
Yvlon was just as agog. Everyone stared upwards—then looked at each other. Ceria, Pisces, and Yvlon spoke all in a rush.
“Wait, it’s getting really big.”
“Is it heading at us?”
“Can’t be. What’re the odds?”
Colth, though, for some reason, started to look apprehensive. He glanced at Pisces. Then at the comet.
“No. It can’t be.”
“Colth?”
They turned to him, and the [Ultimate Supporter] gave Pisces the side-eye.
“You don’t think…Pisces. Do you think this, uh, might have had anything to do with your new Skill? And us trying to activate it?”
Pisces gave Colth an uncomprehending look. How in the world could they…?
[Manufacture Stellar Ivory].
His eyes widened. He looked out the window, up at the comet. Then swallowed.
“I, uh—that’s not how it works, right?”
The Horns stared at each other. Then they scrambled to try and get to the driver’s seat. Ceria began shouting at the scrying orb.
“Manual controls! Give us steering!”
“Left! Go left—”
“Ceria, put up an ice wall!”
“Ice wall? We’re in motion, and it’s coming right at—”
Pisces stuck his head out the window, and then he saw a gigantic ball of light descending towards them. The size of, oh, a six-story building in Invrisil? He opened his mouth.
“[Unmanufacture Stellar Iv—]”
 
——
 
The comet missed them. They felt it hit the ground; when Pisces had stopped shielding his eyes and ears, he poked his head out the window and saw a huge cloud of smoke several miles away. He took in a shuddering breath.
“Dead gods, that was close.”
“Close? Let’s get at it!”
Colth was raring to go, and even Yvlon looked excited.
“Someone stop the carriage! Carriage—stop! Even if the King of Destruction is waiting for us—how do you stop this thing?”
She began trying to open a door, and that annoying voice came out of the scrying orb.
“For your safety, please do not open the doors of the carriage while in motion.”
“Open the door! Or I’ll use the restroom right here!”
Ceria shouted at the orb.
“Please do not litter in the Magical Carriage. For any complaints or concerns, please contact Mage Rievan at—”
The Horns looked at each other. Pisces sat down.
“This is a valuable magical creation of Wistram, Ceria. We are bound to meet the King of Destruction. True, there is a comet just a few miles away, but if the carriage insists we must go to our destination, we should carefully and calmly respect the will of both King Reimarch and Wistram.”
Ceria lowered a fist and gave Pisces a long stare. Yvlon nodded slowly, and Colth gave Pisces a thumbs up. Everyone sat down.
—Pisces and Ceria began kicking the scrying orb, and Yvlon began punching one of the carriage doors. Colth shot one of the spectral horses as the scrying orb began protesting.
“Please do not—”
“Refrain from damaging—”
“Any hostile actions towards the Magical Carriage Service will be noted—”
“Listen here, whomever you are. Stop touching the carriage or I’ll—”
Ceria froze one wheel, and the carriage went skidding sideways. Yvlon leaned out and, morphing her arm into a kind of plough, tried to slow the carriage—Pisces saw Colth climbing out of one window to slash a wheel.
The carriage slowed, turned, and then the entire thing rolled over as two wheels went out. Colth went flying and landed with a backflip onto the ground, stumbling slightly. Yvlon hurtled out of the carriage, turned to metal, and tumbled for fifty feet before sitting up and swearing.
Pisces and Ceria climbed out of the carriage, the latter with a bloody nose. Both paused to kick the carriage as they stomped out of it. Ceria rubbed at her head.
“Everyone good? Comet?”
Pisces nodded.
“Comet.”
 
——
 
The damn carriage had taken them off-course in the time it had taken to destabilize it. It took Pisces a moment to raise his undead horse, but without bones for more, he had to improvise.
He and Colth ended up riding on the undead horse while Ceria skated on a path of ice. It melted so fast she couldn’t use it for transit for anyone but herself, which meant Yvlon had the, uh—most unique option.
“Colth! Pisces! Trade with me!”
A very unhappy Yvlon was being carried on a palanquin of bones by four Skeleton Champions. It looked sort of bouncy. Pisces and Colth pretended they couldn’t hear her as Ceria did a twirl through the air, missed her jump, and hit the ground hard.
Pisces hoped this comet would give him some answers to his [Stellar Ivory] problem. Or at least be as useful as Colth and Yvlon claimed comets were. He was down to four Skeleton Champions, and the last one had been cobbled together out of the three Jaganismet had pulverized. And that didn’t even count the fact that Princess Seraphel had apparently stolen one; he’d already had to remake it in Jecrass!
“So comets have magical metals in them? I knew they had gemstones!”
They were rare celestial events. Colth hollered back at Pisces.
“Gemstones, metals, you name it! If you’re lucky, it’ll have Adamantium or something in the crust! Or something rarer still! We’d better hope we’re fast or scavengers will be all over it!”
Pisces nodded, but he wore something of a frown as they sped towards their destination. Colth might not know this, but Pisces had been inducted into Earth’s secrets by Erin and the others. Had they ever mentioned comets in this sense?
They’d talked about other planets being in the skies above. What was a comet, then? A piece of one floating through the void?
Well, if so, it was a damn large one. Pisces could still see smoke two hours later as the Horns crested a ridge. Yvlon and Colth were debating the best way to ‘acquire’ the comet.
“Okay, I’ll use my mining Skills, and you punch out anything you can, Yvlon. Anything you can’t damage is the good stuff. I reckon we grab it, stuff it in a bag of holding, and never speak of it again until we find a good smith. Pelt. Then—aw. Blood of Rhir!”
Colth shaded his eyes and began swearing. Pisces groaned too as they saw a huge depression in the earth and a giant, smoke-covered lump of something in the sand. And—a sprawling camp and countless, countless people milling around the crater.
“Someone’s reached it. Who? There’s a damn army down there! Wait—”
Colth frowned, and Pisces felt the hair on the back of his neck rising as he peered down at the army. He saw a flag with an inverted triangle on it. A hovering crown and lightning falling over a crossed sword and shield—the mark of the Kingdom of Reim.
“The King of Destruction’s army. Wait—do you think—?”
The Horns traded a glance. Pisces couldn’t guess how close they’d been to the meetup spot Mars had indicated, but was it too far-fetched to think Flos would come running if he saw a comet? Of course he would! It was Colth who shuddered and Ceria who flinched. The half-Elf licked her lips.
“I think I, uh, sense his aura down below. Dead gods, that’s huge. Turns out we were headed in the right direction. Not just one aura. One, two, three, four…”
“Takhatres, Orthenon, Flos, and Amerys. Gazi and Mars don’t read as strongly. They’re right down there. Dead gods. I can see a half-Giant. A big one.”
Pisces had missed it, but behind the smoke of the comet, he saw something move. A woman so vast she seemed normal-sized from afar had a huge hammer, a maul, and she was approaching the still-glowing comet. She took a swing at it, and her maul bounced off—then Pisces saw two more half-Giants approaching with hammers.
They had found the King of Destruction, it seemed. And by the look of things—a festival was going on to herald his victory in battle and the comet. The Horns looked at each other wordlessly, and Yvlon exhaled.
“Nothing for it. Everyone, be on your best behavior. That means you, Ceria.”
The half-Elf pointed at her face, then wordlessly gestured at all of Yvlon. Pisces half-smiled, but his heart pounded as they began to descend the ridgeline, and Colth licked his lips.
“Time to meet a legend.”
 
——
 
The pounding in Pisces’ heart actually turned out to be internal and external. Loud music filled the air, and the camp below was bustling with activity. In fact, it looked more like a celebration from afar. Countless people were gathered outside the comet or setting up on the ground.
As the Horns approached the camp, they were spotted, of course; the first time, someone dropped down at them out of the air.
Three Garuda, each holding spears, who shouted down as they hovered a dozen feet over the adventurers.
“Halt in the King of Destruction’s name! Identify yourselves!”
They flew about as the Horns paused and held up their hands. When they shouted up their names and team, one of the Garuda did a double-take.
“The King’s guests? You’re wanted! Wait here!”
He shot off, rather than use a speaking stone, and sped down to the camp. Pisces saw him alight in the center, leap into the air, and fly back.
“Pass, friends!”
Two more groups met them, one a riding patrol who identified them instantly, and the last a camouflaged group of Stitch-folk who had hidden behind a boulder. Pisces jerked when he saw a lazy group of six, but their bows were pointed at the ground.
“Serpent Hunters greet thee, adventurers! Pass.”
“He’s got good soldiers. I didn’t even spot that group.”
Colth muttered reluctantly to Pisces as the Horns waved at the Stitch-folk and proceeded on. The King of Destruction had camped right next to the comet, which had left a huge bowl-shaped depression in the ground. It seemed to be tactically unwise to Pisces to camp in the middle of a valley, but he soon realized that the defenses of the camp were largely hidden.
He nearly fell into the second line of trenches dug into the ground; Pisces windmilled his arms hard when he saw glowing runes pointing up at him. When he heard laughter, he saw [Soldiers] riding down in a vast column along another path towards the comet and camp.
Everywhere Pisces looked, people were moving; he saw a caravan of wagons slowly winding up one slope—there seemed to be several authorized approaches—and the camp below him grew larger and larger as he stared.
It was a moving town, but Colth seemed more shocked with how small it was.
“No prisoner trains. He must be efficient about how he does that. Look, there’s a brothel there.”
“Look at that, Pisces!”
Ceria pointed, and Pisces saw there were gigantic poles of metal set with giant, gleaming gemstones rising above the tents. One look at them and he felt the power emanating from each.
“What’s that do? Kill any enemy coming at it?”
Yvlon was staring at more concealed dugouts and fortified spots around the camp; it was laid out in a very convenient pattern in case people had to suddenly defend against an attack. But Ceria just shook her head as she shaded her eyes.
“I think it cools the air. That one might block the sun?”
“…What?”
“Well, it’d save on people drinking water and keep sentries from passing out. Smart.”
Colth was approving. Pisces had never seen mobile enchantments of that scale; the radius of the magic was enveloping most of the camp. And the smells! Normally, he associated a moving camp with a bit of foulness; there were latrines, debris, and so on.
Cooking scents rose from the camp along with odors of oil and metal. Fouler odors? Nothing but the feeling of a bazaar; spices and perfumes. Because, Pisces realized, he could see colorful bins full of the stuff. There was a wealth of goods to compete with Pallass’ bazaar—as for dirt and debris?
An entire group of [Soldiers] looked to be showering under a raincloud. Pisces heard laughter and saw others shucking their armor and clothing to leap in there. From the lather, he guessed they had access to soap as well.
“Now that’s a rich army. I bet Amerys did the raincloud. Hey, let’s take the main path down. Or does no one else think we’re walking right through a bunch of defensive trenches? There’s not as many as I thought, Colth.”
The [Ultimate Supporter] just pointed at the Garuda, half of whom were in the air, the other half mingling on the ground.
“The King of Destruction goes on the offense, Ceria. See how he’s got the three main paths out of here? I think I can see hidden palisades or something buried under the sand. He yanks up some of those, and he’ll have his army leaving via the other paths while you try to storm the camp unless you have him literally encircled.”
“Is that common strategy, Colth? I’ve studied strategy like this a bit, but never seen it on this scale. It’s all so polished.”
Yvlon and Colth began debating tactics as Ceria pointed, and Pisces saw an entire line of people taking dirty clothing and washing it. He imagined water was a concern in dry Chandrar—unless you had [Mages].
Of course, the camp was military, but Pisces could barely focus on the [Soldiers]. There were thousands of them, but it was actually hard to tell who was a [Soldier] in the camp itself when they were off-duty. Most had taken off their armor, and there were a lot of civilian types around.
Pisces knew a war camp had people who weren’t [Soldiers] in it, but this? It didn’t just look like a festival—it was one!
Colorful tents had been set up, and there were [Traders] hawking goods on the outskirts! Pisces saw people eating, dancing—and there was indeed music playing.
Someone was blasting music for miles. As they neared the tents and cautiously bouncing figures, the Horns of Hammerad looked at each other and knew.
