“Apologies. I only mean for all of us. [Necromancers] had it worst. Or maybe second-worst, compared to [Golem Artificers]. It’s hard to tell who is more unwelcome there. [Mages] hate [Necromancers]. But the Golems and Cognita Truestone…small wonder no one’s made another of that magnitude.”
“Aren’t the Sedoli faction, Golem-makers, still quite powerful—”
Amerys snorted, as if they were arguing politics at Wistram’s banquet tables.
“Please. Having a modicum of power making basic Golems is a purely plebian take on the situation. They were Zelkyr’s party; they should have been making Sentience-class Golems and ones on the scale of Giants with Cognita’s help. Instead, she has them terrified.”
“I—I rather liked Cognita. She was always cordial to me.”
Pisces frowned at Amerys, and she raised her brows higher.
“Really? You must have been special, then. She always looked at me as though she were calculating how best to snap my neck. Why don’t you follow me? The [Mages] of Parasol Stroll have some manawine over yonder. We can’t let Flos have it; he wastes the damn stuff.”
And then she was floating sidelong, speaking to him, asking about his teachers and how he had managed after being expelled—and Pisces realized after a moment, to a thrill of delight, that she spoke to him like an equal.
Like a [Mage] to a [Mage].
It had been worth coming here for that alone.
 
——
 
Ceria and Colth were good talkers. They danced around the full tale of the Crossroads of Izril, but Flos Reimarch didn’t seem inclined to push. Pisces? He stood and talked to Amerys and the [Mages] of Parasol Stroll.
Yvlon was a bad speaker. She stood there, doing her best, but she really didn’t know what to say.
“Hello, my name is Yvlon—”
She must have said it a dozen times, and it worked and got people to leave her alone, but she felt a bit disappointed this time. Several Earthers—she thought they were Earthers—had come up to her. She’d given them the Yvlon introduction by accident.
It was becoming reflexive. In truth, Yvlon was nervous she would say something provocative or snarl at Mars. She needn’t have worried; Ceria was taking up all the oxygen in the camp, and that was a lot of air.
“So here I am, and I just think—what if I took it off his head? Voilà.”
She had the High King’s crown in hand and offered it to Flos. He took off his own circlet, a far more humble affair, and tried the crown on. Then he pulled Ceria in close and produced a rectangular object.
“Nothing will do but a picture! Cheeses!”
He and Ceria beamed into a camera, and Flos inspected the picture with great satisfaction. Ceria nearly laughed a lung out. She was endlessly popular—even Takhatres snorted in amusement.
“This one’s alright, Flos. I can see why you think they’re at least entertaining. Have you told them to get the Mad Ones yet?”
“Shhh—shh! Don’t ruin my fun, Takhatres. We have some business to attend to later, Ceria. For now…I do think it was the most entertaining trip at sea. Even if I was suffering the entire time—and the vomit did not help.”
Ceria winked.
“I apologize, Your Majesty. I really was, uh, seasick. But if you have something to ask, we’ll hear you out! We’re trying to get a lot done this trip.”
“No doubt. No doubt. How’s your gear? Do you need a few enchanted swords? We don’t have that much of great magnitude, but we can spare any number of basic ones. We keep looting them off Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but they won’t put out the Relics to play. The best thing I have is this sword, and it is nice—”
Flos drew his own sword, and Yvlon felt her arms tingle. He had a massively long sword—not a greatsword, which was ludicrously big and could be worn only on the back, but the closest thing to it—rust-red. Adamantium. There was something powerful in the enchantment, and Ceria backed up a step, but Flos sighed.
“—But it’s still below a real Relic-grade weapon. And I know I gave my sword away.”
He snapped at his vassals, earning a huge laugh, but Ceria’s eyes were on the blade.
“Wow. What kind of enchantment is that? That’s…it might not be Relic-class, but that looks like permanent Tier 6 magic!”
Every head turned, and the King of Destruction blinked at Ceria.
“Well done. Even Amerys had to take a moment to figure…well. Hm. You’re not looking the worst for gear. Amerys wanted me to make you an offer on your clothing, which says a lot.”
He gave Ceria a practiced look. She grimaced.
“It’s great stuff, but I can’t figure out what the clothing does.”
She was so casual. But Flos was a kind of adventurer, and he traded tips with Ceria easily.
“You tend to need a [Clothier] to figure that stuff out. I remember raiding ruins and getting some clothing and trying it on, only to realize it had anti-theft charms. Imagine a full body rash of hives…”
He shuddered.
“Anyways. That fellow, Pisces, could use a new rapier if we have one and he wants it. Colthei looks good…Yvlon…”
He spotted her, waved, and spoke loudly.
“I can’t do better than her arms! If she wants some armor, we can put together a set.”
“We accept!”
Ceria! Yvlon glowered at her friend, but the half-Elf was keen to get whatever she could out of Flos, as she always was with everyone. And for once, it backfired spectacularly. Flos instantly nodded.
“Jelaim! Get some plate armor for Yvlon Byres—don’t cover up her arms! Something decent. And in exchange, you can show me your other crown, Ceria. I’ve been dying to ask about it. May I?”
He peered at Ceria’s circlet, and everyone in earshot did a double-take. Ceria’s face froze up cautiously, and Yvlon blinked.
The King of Destruction had noticed Ceria’s circlet? If anyone could…no, Amerys was glancing over from her conversation with Pisces.
“Uh…okay. It’s got a weird effect on it, though.”
Orthenon was there in a second.
“Cursed?”
“Maybe just a little? It does…”
Ceria whispered in Flos’ ear nervously, and Yvlon was surprised she would confide in him, but she might have had no choice. Flos blinked, and his eyes widened, but he just shrugged.
“I want to know what that’s like. Gazi did think it was odd when she spotted it, but—give it here. Some might say I have that effect already, and Orthenon, you should want me a bit smarter, eh?”
Orthenon tried to grab for the circlet, but Flos was faster. He took it from Ceria as the half-Elf offered it to him with a weak smile.
Flos made a show of inspecting the circlet and comparing it to his own simple crown of gold. He didn’t seem to have an enchanted circlet like Lyonette and even Perric had; he must have sold that one too. Yvlon saw him settle the circlet on his head, grin, and reach for a camera.
Then the King of Destruction’s expression went blank. Colth looked up from talking about adventuring with Mars. Yvlon’s grip tightened on a wooden cup, and Pisces turned away from Elena, who had been approaching with an outstretched hand. Flos let go of the smartphone, lifted the circlet off his head, and stared at it.
Silence fell over the people around him as if he had suddenly cast a spell. The King of Destruction stood up, and his voice was no longer amused.
“Hm. There’s something in here. Orthenon—cut.”
He flicked the circlet, and his [Steward] drew his blade so fast Yvlon only saw the afterimage; a purple cut across the air that lingered. There was a flash of green light, and Ceria shrieked.
“Wait! Waitwaitwaitwait—stop!”
The circlet had gone flying across the ground. Yvlon ran forwards, staring. Was it broken?
No—but she had seen a flash of green light, and the [Steward] had his single-edged sword in both hands, ready for another cut. Ceria threw herself over the circlet.
“A second blow, Your Majesty?”
Flos was rubbing at his hair as Orthenon studied Ceria, on-guard. He looked down.
“You didn’t cut it? Is your internal energy or whatever you call it waning, Orthenon?”
The [Steward] glowered.
“It hasn’t decreased since I left Drath—nor risen in this land without a drop of energy, Your Majesty. The circlet is hard beyond belief. I can probably break it.”
“Stop! Please!”
“There is something inside of it, Ceria. I dislike it intensely, Orthenon. Don’t harm her. Amerys! To me!”
Then he was on his feet, and Yvlon was striding forwards. Orthenon pivoted slightly towards her, but Yvlon raised her hands.
“Wait. How did you know that there’s an intelligence in the circlet? Your Majesty?”
Flos glanced at Yvlon; she had only known because of Ceria’s comments. Amerys flew over, and the King of Destruction drew a finger; everyone except the Horns and his Seven fell back several steps.
“I just felt like something was watching me the entire time I was in Ceria’s company. The moment I put it on, I knew something was in there. I’ve seen things like that before.”
The King of Destruction’s instincts were a powerful thing indeed. Ceria was covering the circlet with her body.
“Don’t—don’t break it. It’s our treasure from the Village of the Dead. It’s useful. I need—”
She broke off, and Yvlon had to explain. She felt like she was doing a bad thing, but she gave Flos a summary of the circlet’s origins as Amerys floated around them. Flos just nodded when she was done.
“A Relic from a dead [Necromancer]’s tomb. I would call it standard if you can ever call finding a Relic that. I’ve heard of [Farmers] pulling the blades of [Heroes] out of the ground. Still—that’s not a Relic without a catch. Amerys?”
Amerys sighed loudly as she flew down and stood on the ground. She held a hand out, and Ceria let her touch the circlet, but didn’t let the Archmage take it. Amerys just passed a hand over it before turning to him.
“Flos. No matter how many times you ask, I am not an all-purpose [Mage]. Enchanting is not my specialty. If the Mage of Rivers couldn’t figure it out—it’s like asking Mars to shoot a bow.”
“I can shoot a bow.”
Mars shot back, having come over to stand on Flos’ other side. She grinned, but she seemed watchful. Amerys nodded.
“But you don’t go into battle with one in hand. It’s like that. I have no doubt if you sensed something, then it has a curse. How bad or how much Ceria can combat it? Who can say?”
Every eye turned to Ceria, and she held the circlet close to her, smiling desperately.
“Flos. Your Majesty. I apologize for not mentioning—anything—anything wrong with the circlet. It’s more scared of you than you are of it, honest. Let’s just go back to partying and pretend nothing’s wrong. I’m the adventurer. I’ll take responsibility for it. And it makes me a lot more powerful as a spellcaster.”
The King of Destruction heard Ceria out, nodding gravely as he stood there. He sighed, and Yvlon realized it had already turned to dusk; his breath rose in the cold air.
“Curses get quite nasty. Far be it from me to stop an adventurer from using any tool at their disposal.”
For some reason, Yvlon sighed when she heard that. Flos gave Ceria a grave nod, then Colth and Pisces. His eyes found Yvlon, and she saw those green eyes shine. They were far more youthful than the rest of him, as if he had truly slumbered for twenty years.
A thirty-year-old man in the body of a fifty-year-old. Yet at the same time, he looked all of his age. As if he had seen a person like Ceria before. The King of Destruction saw Ceria sigh, smile, and bow. Then those eyes danced, and Yvlon remembered what she had somehow forgotten.
He was the King of Destruction, not a reasonable man. Flos spoke.
“—But a friend? Mars?”
The Illusionist drew her blade, and somehow, Ceria dodged. She leapt back, raising a hand, and tried to cast a spell—and failed.
Amerys calmly lowered her hand, and Mars flicked her sword up. The circlet tumbled out of the half-Elf’s grip, and the Illusionist spoke.
“[Phoenixflame Draw].”
“[Antimagic Iai].”
Orthenon’s sword came out of its sheath at the same time as hers. The two blades criss-crossed so fast that Yvlon barely saw them intersect.
This time, Ceria’s scream was preceded by that flash of green magic. Brighter, this time, and the thunderclap of sound made the audience stagger. But when Ceria leapt forwards…
The circlet was lying on the ground. Not unharmed, though; Yvlon saw green magic knitting itself together, repairing two gashes down the middle.
It was healing itself? Ceria tried to grab the circlet, but Takhatres was faster. He kicked it up, and Amerys floated it in the air.
“Fascinating.”
“Now that’s insulting. I barely left a scratch. Give it here and I’ll do better.”
Mars sounded peeved. Ceria was screaming, trying to cast magic, but clutching at her head. Mars reached out—and Flos picked the circlet up. He inspected it as green magic crackled down from the cuts, and Yvlon thought she heard a faint shriek, now. Coming from the circlet.
“Hmph.”
Then the King of Destruction gripped both ends of the circlet, braced himself, and pulled. 
The air stopped—then seemed to pull apart around his hands. The world shifted, as if it were fabric and he had a grip on reality. The ground shook, and Yvlon saw Flos brace, adjust his grip—
Then pull with the same force he had used to break a Djinni’s bindings. And the circlet—
Broke.
It cracked in half, and a voice shrieked. Green light expanded outwards in a burst of magic that picked Pisces up and flicked him through the air.
Colth caught him; Yvlon staggered as something punched her in the chest, and she raised a fist to fight—
People were on their backs. Flos Reimarch staggered, felt at his fingers, flexed them a few times, then tossed two pieces of bone to the ground. They sparked green, and he stomped a foot on them and shrugged.
“Djinni bracelets are stronger. I don’t think this is entirely broken, though. Still, that felt quite enjoyable.”
He kicked one piece across the ground, and someone bent and scrambled after it. Ceria Springwalker grabbed one piece of the circlet, then the other. She tried to join the two pieces together. Her face was confused. The pieces flashed—green sparks going everywhere—but it was clear something had gone terribly, terribly wrong.
“Huh? My—my—”
The half-Elf tried to join the circlet again. She raised it—put the two pieces together—and stared at the break with unfocused eyes.
“Huh?”
Yvlon started to get worried. Ceria sat down, mouth agape, and Pisces and Colth instantly ran forwards. Flos began to look a bit concerned.
“I think I broke it. At the very least, I gave whatever was in there a wound. If you wish to keep it still, Ceria, I suppose I can’t gainsay that. But I would toss the thing, if I were you. Or let Mars destroy it.”
He gestured at the Illusionist, and Ceria gave Flos a blank look.
“Whu?”
“Ceria? Are you okay?”
