“The marble may be dug if it is found. There are monsters within the mines; other nations want it?”
It sounded like a question, so Colth nodded hesitantly. Jaganismet placed a palm on the table.
“Find it for me. I will kill monsters and foes alike to secure it. I would find it myself. Thrice, I have entered, thrice, found nothing but a tiny amount.”
Okay, that was very direct. Pisces swallowed.
“Ah, indeed, Mighty Jaganismet. That is a very actionable approach. May I, ah, inquire as to our remuneration for this task?”
Jaganismet gave Pisces a blank stare.
“I do not know what that means.”
He turned, and a vassal whispered urgently in his ear a moment. Jaganismet’s frown cleared.
“Ah. I will give you some of the profits. A fair amount. If you have anything else that need be done, name it. I promise nothing of Heroph, and I would offer you any being, man, woman, monster, or Djinni, dead for a boon. But a [King] cannot slay whomever he wishes. It seems.”
He seemed burdened by this, and Pisces opened his mouth. That…was a terrible deal. He’d throw over this man’s offer in a heartbeat for the Quarass, and she hadn’t fully sold him on her bargain!
On the other hand, he was really big. And scary. Colth, though, seemed to have an idea. He gave Jaganismet a silky smooth smile.
“Your Majesty. We are little interested in gold. But perhaps you might do Pisces a favor? He has a class he needs ridding of—”
“Colth. Come now, Colth—”
This seemed like a really bad idea. But Colth began explaining Pisces’ [Slave] class to Jaganismet. The man stared at Pisces, then Colth.
“No one in Heroph may be made [Slave]. They are my people. I have destroyed six caravans of Roshal to free them after I was made [King]. Removing this man’s class?”
His eyes flicked to Pisces, and the [Necromancer] instantly liked him a bit more. He’d taken on Roshal? In Chandrar? His people did not seem as happy by the admission as Pisces expected. But Jaganismet just stared at Pisces. Then turned to one of his escorts.
“…I can remove classes?”
Okay. That idea seemed like a bust. Jaganismet conferred with his people a moment, then turned to Colth.
“I shall try. If you agree to find my Chemath Marble.”
“We can agree to consider your request very carefully if we should head near Zethe, Your Majesty.”
Colth smiled politely, and Jaganismet smiled. He held out a huge hand. Then stopped as an advisor whispered in his ear.
“Ah. That does not mean yes.”
Then he frowned hugely, and Pisces felt himself burst into a cold sweat. Colth, the canny [Negotiator], kept his smile.
“We cannot commit to a deal if our team is not here, Mighty Jaganismet. Moreover, we do not even know if we will go to the Mines of Zethe! We would hate to let you down. There are surely other adventurers capable of the feat. What of Heroph’s people?”
Jaganismet half-shook his head.
“I am the mightiest by far. The other adventurers flee me. Medain has countless; I have none.”
I wonder why they’re so scared. Colth gave Jaganismet a thoughtful, even conciliatory nod.
“I see your problem, Your Majesty, but Pisces and I cannot agree to a unilateral request.”
“I am [King] of Heroph. I must demand it for my people. I will have your word before I leave.”
Jaganismet didn’t move. Now, Colth was sweating, and Pisces saw exactly why the Quarass was so concerned. You’d think—uncharitably, mind you, and he certainly hadn’t given it more than a passing consideration—that you might run around this man mentally.
However, it turned out you couldn’t dance around Jaganismet’s will. Colth did his best.
“Your Majesty, you cannot force us to agree. We are adventurers. You may be King of Heroph, but our authority as independent adventurers is recognized the world over. To press the issue would be to take issue with adventurers worldwide.”
The advisors looked concerned. Even Jaganismet frowned deeply and leaned on his fists on the table. He stared at the ground. He stared at Colth. He closed his eyes. After a minute of thought, the King of Heroph looked up.
“I don’t understand. It is a threat—a trap I cannot avoid without retreating. Therefore—”
Pisces was reaching for a date when a foot kicked through the table and hit Colth, and the entire tent ripped and went flying after the [Ultimate Supporter]. A flying pole hit Pisces in the arm—his mouth was open as the table splintered around him and the sun beat down on his head. He looked up:
Jaganismet had a fist raised.
Pisces dove as a fist pounded the ground. Lightly, he thought; it would have only potentially cracked his ribs.
“Your Majesty! If you slay them—”
Heroph’s people were in chaos, but Jaganismet just kicked, and Pisces felt his stomach compress. He hit the ground, rolled, threw up, and heard the [King]’s voice.
“I will not slay them. Only force them to agree.”
“Bastard!”
Colth was on his feet as Pisces tried to get up. The [Necromancer] whispered a spell; his Skeleton Champions surged into action from where they had been loitering at the edge of the camp.
Jaganismet faced Colth as the [Ultimate Supporter] leapt at him. He raised a hand, and Colth buried his blades into one arm. Then tried to drag the blades down and cut—and realized they were stuck.
The King of Heroph flexed his arm, swung Colth around, and the [Supporter] let go before he could be grabbed. Jaganismet looked a bit slow—he twisted as Pisces cast a spell.
“[Deathbolt]!”
He was fairly certain it wouldn’t kill someone of Jaganismet’s level, and sure enough, the man only blinked as the bolt passed into him. He swiped—Colth rolled under him and retrieved one of his blades. He tried to kick Jaganismet behind the knee, and nothing happened. The King of Heroph turned; the Skeleton Champions leapt at him.
A fist turned one of his Skeleton Champions to dust. Not to bones; the fist punched through the skeleton so hard and fast it left a cloud of white powder behind. Pisces’ open mouth caught some of the dust particles, and he began to choke.
“Swear!”
Jaganismet roared. He punched down, missed Colth, swiveled, and kicked through a second Skeleton Champion; the third jabbed him with a rapier, and the metal bent on his skin. Pisces turned invisible. He ran, casting another [Deathbolt], and it didn’t stop the King of Heroph. If anything, he seemed to be moving faster. The third Skeleton Champion vaporized, and Colth blurred out of the way of a third blow, swearing.
The King of Heroph realized he’d lost Pisces and whirled. He had no spells. No senses to use on Pisces.
He stomped the ground, and dust rose into the air. Pisces saw Jaganismet spin—run at him—
“Pisces, run!”
The [Necromancer] was trying! [Flash Steps] carried him away from Jaganismet—until he looked over his shoulder and saw the King of Heroph was right behind him. Pisces screamed. Jaganismet screamed, but it was more like a howl of fury.
A [Rider] howled as he rode at the King of Heroph.
“Jaganismet!”
Pisces looked up, swerved, and the King of Heroph pivoted. He swung a fist, and the spear struck it with a sound like a gong. It was the rider who recoiled, horse screaming and rearing, but the tall, gaunt man regained control of it and shook out his hand.
The King of Heroph charged him with a roar, and Pisces saw the other man curse. Orthenon, the [Steward] of the King of Destruction, took one look at Jaganismet and lifted his spear up.
“[Spear Art: Six Petals of the Cherry Blossom]!”
He flicked his spear six times, and six glowing arcs of light struck Jaganismet, who battered through three, deflected two more, and dodged the last one as he ran at the [Ruinbringer Steward]. Pisces and Colth stared as the [Steward] saw the furious [King] would not be stopped. Cursing, Orthenon leapt from his saddle, dropped his spear, and fell towards Jaganismet like a comet.
“—nleash Inner Energy: Heavenly—”
 
——
 
Pisces slowly got up from the ground after a while. His ears didn’t stop ringing; he wandered around in a circle until Colth grabbed him.
“[Stabilize Condition]. Pisces? I think our escort’s here.”
He jerked a thumb around, and Pisces stared around what had been the Quarass’ camp. He stared at the crater, the three groups of royal escorts milling about, and the three leaders.
The Quarass, Jaganismet, and the King’s Steward.
Orthenon’s clothes were ripped to shreds; he was flexing one arm and grimacing as someone found him a cloak to wear. Jaganismet just seemed disappointed.
“—Taking Elena with us. Unless you would like to endanger your people and war with Reim, the same goes for the Horns of Hammerad, King Jaganismet.”
“Not at this time, Orthenon.”
The man stared at Colth and Pisces, and so did the Quarass with such a meaningful look that Orthenon himself turned to the two of them.
There was little the two rulers could do, it seemed. Aside from Orthenon being one of the Seven, if not originally than definitely now, he’d brought an escort of Reim’s [Soldiers] who were calmly outnumbering both Germina and Heroph’s people. They just glared as Orthenon strode towards Pisces and Colth.
The King’s Steward was amazingly fit, Pisces noticed, with a far paler complexion than most people of Chandrar. Colth muttered in Pisces’ ear.
“Drathian. I met a few when I was with you-know-who. He’s got that weird body they have. Cultivation or something. That’s what he used to stop Jaganismet.”
Pisces’ brows rose. But all the King’s Steward did was call out to them.
“Pisces Jealnet. Colthei Lacment. The King of Destruction requires your presence. I am Orthenon, his steward. We have met. Let us ride. Miss Elena, are you ready?”
Pisces saw the same young woman rubbing at her ears and lugging a Chest of Holding towards a horse. She apprehensively got onto a horse after a quick nod and whispered exchange with the Quarass.
Orthenon turned. He stared at Colth, and the [Ultimate Supporter] covered his face.
“Great. How many [Kings] is this? Pisces, this is all your fault.”
“My fault? You’re the one who provoked Jaganismet.”
“Well, you’re the one who had the bright idea to enchant the damn ship—”
They were still arguing a day later when they ran into Mars, Ceria, and Yvlon.
 
——
 
The King’s Steward didn’t even stay in Pisces and Colth’s company the entire time. He remained with them for about an hour until he judged they were outside Khelt’s aegis and the other two rulers couldn’t catch up. Then he turned in the saddle.
“I will be returning to my lord’s side. We are south of Reim at present; my people know how to find our camp. Mars will be heading down this road with your companions.”
“Are you sure?”
Pisces blurted out, and Orthenon gave him a flat look. If Jaganismet’s face was sometimes uncomprehending, blank, and the Quarass’ couldn’t be read, Orthenon looked mildly annoyed in a kind of perpetual way. But he was polite and inclined his head.
“Nothing will gainsay Mars. His Majesty is only of a mind to meet you and briefly converse. He may have an offer to make of you, but it shall not be required. I shall see you in three days’ time.”
Then he kicked his horse into motion and, like Tyrion Veltras, just accelerated into the distance. Colthei stared after Orthenon, frowning.
“Thought so. He’s not actually the best [Rider]. That’s no speed Skill, or if it is, it’s only one or two. He’s giving the horse some of that energy stuff.”
“What did you call it? Cultivation? I’ve never heard of that in my life.”
Pisces felt widely-read, so that was surprising, but Colth just shrugged. He seemed embarrassed as he admitted he didn’t, either.
“It’s one of the few things I never fully picked up. They like eating all kinds of pills and stuff in Drath; I’ve heard they create superior warriors. But Orthenon’s a known quantity. He’s from there. And he is probably…in the top ten for [Warriors] of Chandrar, if he qualifies as a [Warrior].”
Pisces nodded a bit as they rode at a more sedate pace. He felt at the back of his neck.
“Colth.”
“Hm?”
“Have I been dreaming or abed with a fever all day?”
Colth scratched at the back of his own head.
“If you are, I’m right there with you, Pisces.”
It was actually only a few more hours before they met Yvlon and Ceria. Pisces had expected, given the distances, that it would take longer. But what should he see but another oddity—a carriage racing at them so fast that even Reim’s [Soldiers] raised their blades—until they saw a figure standing on top of the carriage, waving her sword at them.
“I found a faster mount than a horse, lads! There’s your sniffing fellow and your [Supporter], girls! So that’s how they look, eh?”
Mars the Illusionist was the most buxom, bustiest—busiest—bouncing—from the motion of the carriage—Pisces stared at the giant woman with very revealing, nay, impractical golden armor and a mane of red hair. Colth just narrowed his eyes.
“Damn, that’s a good illusion.”
“Illusion. Right.”
“It’s got physics and everything. See how her chest and hair move? You don’t get that on bad illusions. I bet it even feels real until she deactivates it.”
“R-really?”
Mars was laughing as the carriage slowed. She leapt from the top, took two steps over, and tried to grab them both. Colth dodged—Pisces froze up. She let go of a red-faced [Necromancer] six seconds later as the carriage doors opened and two people leapt out.
“Well, one of the two of you is a fan of mine. The other’s not that bad either. I heard you tangled with Jaganismet himself! Even I’d have trouble dealing with him if he got warmed up. Where’s Orthenon?”
“I—I—”
“Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] felt someone leap on him. Ceria tried to put him in a headlock, and he fought her off. Then Yvlon grabbed him.
“Are you okay? Where’s the King of Heroph? And the Quarass?”
She was frowning around hugely, fist raised, and then she nodded at Colth. He nodded back. Mars boomed above them all.
“No need to fight, Yvlon! They’re sorted. Germina, Heroph, Medain—they bark loud, but they all quiet down when my liege raises his voice. Now, let’s get back in this carriage and head somewhere more interesting, eh? Where is Orthenon? Did that bastard not wait for me? I’d rather ride ahead than be stuck—dead gods damn it!”
She realized her companion had left them and seized a speaking stone.
“No, get back here, Orthenon. I’ll not wait a day when I could join the battle. How many hours away are—well, come back and pick me up. Or I’ll hit you harder than Jaganismet next we meet!”
She turned her head, calling out to the Horns.
“Jump in the carriage and meet me at the camp, would you? I have a battle to get to. The rest of you—with me! That magical doodad is faster than all but Orthenon.”
