The King of Destruction was maudlin. Not bored; war, to him, was not something so prosaic as to be boring, even when it was a battle easily won. But melancholy? Yes.
“How many hundreds of thousands of Hemp have they sent at us this month? I swear, I recognize some of them. Not a single champion or Mars would be here rather than riding to Medain. What happened to the wars we fought the first time, Gazi? When each day there would be a great [Gladiator] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen challenging me to single combat? There were hundreds of [Carpet Riders]—their [Grand Mages] lined up and sneering at us. Remember? They’d spit or even piss into the sand right up until I threw something at them.”
The King of Destruction was reminiscing, something he didn’t actually do as often as people might have thought. The battle was over; Venith had begun taking captives. Despite the warnings, his vanguard had stood down after the fighting was over, and the [Lord of Wrath] was capable of the task.
Flos was riding north towards their war camp for a celebration. By his right rode a half-Gazer, one huge eye turned towards him, the other four looking in every direction. On her right was a young man clutching a staff, a Golem made of sand and blood-red glass sitting in front of him.
On the King of Destruction’s left floated a green-haired woman, idly reading a book, while a Garuda, the only one not flying, strode along, easily keeping pace with the horses, leaving a trail of blue behind him as his legs blurred. Just to the left of them was a discontented young woman holding a sword and scowling as she listened to the conversation.
The half-Gazer, Gazi, responded to the question.
“We killed them all, my lord.”
Flos objected instantly.
“We did not. Remember how damn hard it was to kill a [Grand Magus of the Empire] back in the day? There was one of those fellows—each time we had him down to his final barrier. Then he’d use a scroll or break a flask and unleash a Djinni, war crime or not…remember when he disguised himself as a female camp servant and fled? It’s damned hard to kill someone high-level. They just don’t have the spirit for it.”
“Well, they did lose the last war, Flos. You can’t blame anyone over Level 40 for having the sense to avoid us. I have a bolt of [Grand Lightning] ready to go for a real challenge.”
Amused, the green-haired woman, Amerys, called down from above. She was more casual with Flos’ name, and he grinned up at her.
“Are we that fearsome, Amerys? It is Nerrhavia’s Fallen! One great army with fifty Level 40 experts would put our backs up!”
She laughed down at him.
“And one [Army of the King] would kill them all! Face it, you’ve become too much of a monster in Chandrar’s minds. When you were young, they thought it was a war they could win. Now? They’re hoping another enemy takes your flank or to politic their way out of things.”
Flos grunted.
“It isn’t like I like wasting the lives of my [Soldiers] or the Hemp. Who’s the current ruler? Yisame. I barely recall her. Her grandfather, now, there was a Stitch-man who swore he’d gouge out his own eyes and rip out his tongue before he agreed to a single one of my demands.”
Gazi nodded, smiling happily.
“I helped him with his oath, Your Majesty. Remember? That was when they sent Mars against us.”
The King of Destruction rubbed at his red-gold beard and sighed.
“Oh, I remember that. That was the first time I completely lost one of those duels and we ended up running for our lives. It got hairy, afterwards—until Mars switched sides.”
Gazi nodded at this while Amerys just rolled her eyes. Takhatres, the pacing Garuda, just snorted through his beak as everyone else listened.
“Every time I hear of your exploits, I can’t understand how you ever survived before you met me.”
Flos rolled his eyes heavenwards.
“It was certainly more difficult before Takhatres, Lord of Chandrar, graced us with his presence and who won every battle afterwards.”
“Just as long as you have your story straight.”
The King of Destruction threw the Yellat he’d been eating for a snack at Takhatres, and the Garuda dodged. The Yellat hit the ground with a puft of sand that blew a chunk out of the ground, and Flos sighed again. He enjoyed the banter with his vassals. He enjoyed the fresh air, the lack of great casualties on his side.
Yet, he did long for those old days, in a sense. Scratching his beard, the King of Destruction muttered.
“If we pressed in hard to Nerrhavia’s Fallen and went for Tyrant’s Rest, we’d get that army of old. They’d have to defend hard to protect the capital. A battle for old time’s sake.”
Amerys’ head rose cautiously, but Takhatres’ and Gazi’s eyes gleamed. Flos knew that if Mars could have heard this, she would have been cheering her support. Orthenon would be cautious—it was a matter of opinion.
“One huge battle won’t end the war for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Flos.”
Amerys spoke from above. The King of Destruction knew that.
“It would certainly speed it along. But we might well lose too much. Or lose outright.”
That made Teresa’s head come up, and she stared at Flos from the side. Trey Atwood just nodded from his steed, listening; Teresa always seemed surprised when Flos admitted losing was a possible outcome. But he saw it. The King of Destruction closed his eyes.
“I can see Venith and Orthenon taking command. Takhatres on the flanks. Amerys could lock down most [Mages]—Mars and Gazi headhunting enemy champions. If they threw Djinni at us, those damn carpets—a hundred thousand Silk warriors? My [Army of the King] would make it even.”
He could picture it in his mind’s eye. Warriors empowered to be ten, even twenty levels higher than normal, pitting their new Skills against artifacts of the great empire of Chandrar. Even Djinni battling his [Soldiers].
The fight of a lifetime. Teresa’s eyes gleamed, but the King of Destruction grimaced.
“—I see Zamea’s Nomads of the Sky suffering greatly.”
Half-Giants. Always the first to die in such battles. Mage Throwers would be raining down magical fire. If they unleashed a Tier 6 magic—
Entire battalions might die in flame. Of course, he might tell Amerys to do the same upon his foes with the same artifacts he had looted. It depended on how desperate the battle was. Flos had seen worse. But what he saw, most of all, made him sigh.
“Too much risk. We are not ready. Not enough vassals stand ready to turn those odds. And most of all?”
He touched his chest where a new scar itched now and then. A thin sliver just over his heart where Raelt, the King of Duels, had run him through. The King of Destruction sighed.
“I am not ready. I see myself either falling or being injured if they send another Djinni after me, or getting past Orthenon and Mars’ guard. Damn. I really should have kept my old armor and sword. I need Relic gear. Or to be twenty years younger!”
He slapped his saddle, annoyed.
“How did I survive as a boy, Gazi?”
She tugged at one braid, amusement in her eyes as all turned to the maudlin King of Destruction, who was, most of all, frustrated with himself. His skin still sometimes felt burned; he recalled that blade piercing his chest and the fires that had nearly baked him alive.
He felt like the weakest link of them all, and he couldn’t remember how he’d used to do it. Of course, everyone remembered but him.
“My liege. Do you not recall the days when you would outrun your bodyguard and fight, surrounded by foes, at times? What of the moment when you took it in your head to kill a War Hydra the first time you saw one on the battlefield?”
Flos grunted.
“That was stupid. I was excited, like a boy. Dead gods. Didn’t it nearly swallow me till you cut its head off? How many times have I been in the scrum, swinging my sword around, completely exposed?”
The Seven instantly answered for him. Amerys called down.
“Hundreds.”
Takhatres shot back.
“Thousands. You were a far better fighter back then.”
Flos glowered at him, and the Garuda stared back, unrepentant.
“What? You were. I haven’t seen you punch a warrior in armor off their feet or clear a hole in the battle with a swing of your sword. You just do that trick with the javelin.”
“It’s called practicality, Takhatres. That boy nearly died ten thousand times. If I did it now, they’d have my head in a trice, all of you or not.”
“That boy was a better fighter than you are.”
The King of Destruction grumbled into his beard, but he had to admit, it was true.
“A better fighter. A worse king. I miss my old sword.”
“Then why did you give it away?”
Amerys, Takhatres, and Gazi all raised their voices. The King of Destruction threw up his hands and kicked his steed in the sides. He didn’t lose any of them, of course, and he glowered ahead of him.
“I thought I would never use it again! My Seven are returned to me, and all I hear is heckling.”
He heard laughter behind him, and Amerys leaned down to shout-whisper to Takhatres.
“Heckling, he says. As if Orthenon didn’t give him an earful for twenty years.”
“He must have lost his touch, our [Steward]. I’m sorry you have to see this, Amerys. The King of Destruction awakes, and all he does is whine.”
“I believe it’s ‘whinge’, Takhatres.”
The King of Destruction was laughing as they caught up. He shaded his eyes, though even with his [Rapid March] Skill, he knew he was too far away from the camp to see it yet. But he did think he saw someone heading their way. And if he read them right…
“I think I sense Mars and Orthenon approaching. She’ll be sour she missed the battle. Where are the Horns of Hammerad?”
He was looking forwards to that. The King of Destruction began to hum a marching song as he turned his head. He saw Teresa, still sullenly polishing her blade, mutter something to Trey.
The [Bloodglass Mage] and [Chaos Schemer] rolled his eyes as the [Blade of War] clearly complained. Teresa threw a punch, and Trey winced as it hit his shoulder so hard his horse jolted. In response, his Sand Golem, the adorable Minizi, tried to attack Teresa with her own sword.
She was getting rowdy. The King of Destruction considered the battlefield behind him, and his thoughts roamed about. Yes…the two of them weren’t growing much after Trey’s adventures in Wistram, and Teresa had stalled in levelling. Partially because Orthenon and Venith refused to let her take a larger command.
The war had stagnated with Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But the King of Destruction smiled to himself as he stroked his beard. He had an idea of how things could soon change. He lifted a hand as he spotted Mars racing towards him, shouting curses, and saw Orthenon speeding up.
“Begin the festivities at camp! We have a battle to celebrate—I have a hunch we’ll have more than one good piece of news today!”
He laughed, spirits rising as he thought of the future. The King of Destruction leaned back in his saddle, then shaded his eyes as the clear, blue sky of Chandrar lit up for a second. He blinked upwards as a streak of light crossed the sky and then stared. Every head rose, and the [Soldiers] halted; Amerys spun, hands raised, then whistled.
The King of Destruction pointed at a glowing streak coming down towards the earth. Close.
“A comet.”
Then he began beaming. Today would be a good day after all.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad had been discussing Erin Solstice on the fourth day of travel when they saw the comet.
“I just don’t get what was off about her. She—that was not the Erin Solstice I know. Correct me if I’m wrong, Ceria, Yvlon. Even you, Colth.”
Pisces was cooped up in the carriage, and Ceria was hmming, listening to his grievances about how Erin had been acting on the television. Yvlon just shrugged.
“She acted like she did at sea.”
“Precisely! That’s not her.”
Colth took a draft of water.
“Seems to be pretty much her, Pisces. I knew she was dangerous when I met her. Even in a wheelchair.”
“Yes, but she’s not like that. She doesn’t dance on the bodies of her enemies, no matter what the rumors say. And that—form? She never sought to be a warrior.”
“…Didn’t she vaporize Draugr with lightning bolts at the battle for the Solstice?”
Colth eyed Pisces, mouth full of water, and Pisces objected.
“That was—a—a—that’s a kind of natural Erin outcome. She does not seek power in combat. She just happens to have a giant jar of acid lying around. Or a garden that spits lightning bolts. I realize this sounds insane, but Ceria, back me up!”
He turned to Ceria for help. The half-Elf opened one eye and adjusted her circlet.
“Erin’s acting weird.”
“Thank you.”
“It could be she’s just changed. If she hit Level 50, maybe she’s now an [Innkeeper of Slaughter]. You know you change when you hit the threshold, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer]’s face fell. He stood up in the carriage, as much as he could, and leaned out the window so air could blast over his face, scowling.
“I cannot believe that. That’s…she’s damaged from her own flames. Perhaps she’s still grieving for Halrac or—someone needs to help her.”
“I bet the Titan will give her a huge hug. And a rose.”
Colth interjected with good humor, and Pisces spun to point at him, surprising the [Supporter].
“Not him. I mean a friend! Ryoka! Yes, Ryoka might well do it. Someone to remind Erin of who she truly is. Perhaps I should send her a [Message]…but it’s sure to be intercepted. Has Lyonette tried contacting any of you with the [World’s Eye Theatre]?”
Ceria raised a hand.
“She got me since I was first. I heard Yvlon was warded in Medain’s palace. Lyonette got to her thrice; then they figured out how to block her. She said you two were invisible when you were at sea.”
Because of Silvenia. Colth and Pisces glanced at the scrying orb, and the [Necromancer] sighed.
“Hopefully she will tell us how Erin is truly doing. Er—when she can catch up.”
It wasn’t like the [World’s Eye Theatre] had too much of a limit. Lyonette could reach out to the Horns of Hammerad, and she’d tried.
…It was just that she had kept appearing in the middle of their carriage and rapidly vanishing because the projection couldn’t keep pace with the magical device. And since none of the Horns had actual control over the damn thing—Mars had given it the directions—they were stuck.
It had made certain tasks, like using the privy, very uncomfortable these last four days, and Pisces longed to stretch his legs. It had gotten so bad they’d traded off using the roof as a place to stretch, howling winds or not; only a sandstorm had forced them inside.
“Why don’t you send her a [Message], Pisces? Something innocuous but…meaningful?”
Colth suggested after a moment. Pisces just sighed.
