Do not wet thyself in front of everyone. Do not wet thyself—he stared at Gazi and remembered her drenched in blood, casually holding Relc and Klbkch at bay, laughing to herself. A living legend—
The first he’d ever met, really. Besides Cognita. Well, Klbkch didn’t count since he’d been weaker. Even being around her made Pisces feel ready to fight or flee, but her ire was drowned out by laughter.
“Hah! She’s got some spark to her, doesn’t she, milord? You should have seen her at Medain’s capital! She was ready to take on the High King and his little pet adventurers, her and that [Armsmistress] over yonder!”
Mars slapped the frost off of Flos’ arm as he grinned, and Pisces could breathe again. Jelaim was laughing, and only Orthenon and Gazi looked put out. Flos whirled, and now it was Yvlon’s turn. She didn’t back up, but she did freeze up like a statue.
“I heard about that. Stole the High King’s crown off his head. Yvlon Byres, I think? We barely said a word. Hello!”
He offered her a hand, rather than a hug, and she gingerly extended her own. Flos pumped her hand up and down.
“I’m mildly disappointed that it didn’t turn into a mass of spikes. And how are you?”
“Ah. I—uh—greetings, Your Majesty. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez.”
She wasn’t going to do it, was she? Pisces’ look of horror grew as Yvlon began to rattle off the speech she’d told him about. He’d thought it was a joke. Flos’ face went flat—then he began to grin and point at Yvlon silently. He was trying not to wheeze by the end of it.
“Mars. Mars. Do you see now why I had to send for them?”
Mars was grinning nonstop, and Yvlon turned faintly red, but Flos clapped her on the shoulder with a huge smile.
“Well, Yvlon Byres, I’m delighted by your presence. If you have the time, we’ll have to see how you fare against some of my soldiers, eh? And you must be Colthei, the new one!”
“Salutations, Your Majesty! I’m the rookie of the Horns of Hammerad, Colthei, The Ultimate Supporter! Named-rank adventurer at your service! I only regret Ksmvr and Vofea aren’t here to meet you!”
By now, Colth had Flos’ number. That damn fool stood to attention and threw Flos a salute. The King of Destruction’s eyes lit up.
“What’s this? I remember Ksmvr of Chandrar. A new member?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. She’s a Satyr.”
Some of the Humans behind Flos started, and Flos’ eyes lit up.
“A what? What kind of species is that?”
“A half-goat woman? Not a Beastkin.”
“What does that—no, no. I should greet everyone first. A rookie Named-rank?”
The King of Destruction chortled louder. He offered Colth a grasp of the hand, then seemed to frown a second at the [Supporter]. Flos shot a comment over his shoulder at Mars.
“He’s pretty good, isn’t he?”
“Passable, milord. Medacium didn’t pass him, but…”
Mars gave Colth a friendly smile, which he returned with his fake one. She was relaxed; he was not. The King of Destruction just snorted and muttered to Colth out of the corner of his mouth.
“Medacium’s little ‘test’ only works for the fleet-of-foot. Jaganismet and I both fail it every time that bastard makes us dance. Don’t mind my vassals. Welcome. You’ll fit in well.”
He clapped Colth on the shoulder, this time with a nod of respect. From someone over Level 50 to someone about to achieve the same. Indeed, even Takhatres gave Colth a brief nod; he barely looked at the other Horns.
Which left the last Horn present. Pisces swallowed hard as Flos Reimarch’s eyes fell on him and Flos smiled.
Why did this man act so familiar to someone he’d met just once? Pisces wished he didn’t always do this, but it brought to mind—
Erin Solstice. She could remember someone she’d met only once, too. The King of Destruction was tall, a natural warrior, and he smelled like Yellats for some weird reason.
“Pisces Jealnet. The only [Necromancer] I can name on Izril’s soil. Fetohep himself complained he couldn’t bring you back to Khelt after the battle was said and done. How was the battle at sea, man? I wish I’d been there, but sea fighting and I never mix.”
He was aware of the battle with the Bloodtear Pirates? Well, that was the news, but Pisces’ role in that? The [Necromancer] stuttered for a reply.
“How was the battle at sea? Er—desperate. Frantic. All the above, I would say. It is a relief to be here and to meet you, Your Majesty. Thank you for your generous hospitality.”
Was it something he said? He felt like his had been the most refined, expected speech. And yet, Flos grew palpably less interested in a moment, and disappointment entered his tone.
Why? The King of Destruction looked Pisces up and down without that sense of distaste Pisces got from nobles of Izril. Searching for something?
“You’re in good health, I take it? From Medain to Jecrass—no one gave you a difficult time of it, caught between either nation?”
“For being a [Necromancer]? Chandrar has been very hospitable, Your Majesty. The lands have been quite marvelous—and Reim’s most of all!”
More disappointment. The King of Destruction hmmed.
“Yes, yes. They’re very lovely…lands…”
What was Pisces doing wrong? The [King] glanced at Pisces and gave him an artificial smile. It was very good, but he seemed to throw out the next question out of politeness.
“I didn’t get to see most of it—not many angles. I can assume the Horns fought hard. How were the Bloodtear Pirates? Raise a lot of undead to do battle?”
Pisces wished he could be more impressive, but he doubted lying was a good move, so he shifted his feet, ready for a third look of disappointment.
“Er—well, I only summoned Skeleton Champions, so they fought throughout most of the fight. Aside from the ship I reanimated, I didn’t do much necromancy—”
Flos had begun to turn for some cups of wine, but his head snaked around in an instant.
“Ship?”
He strode back over, and Pisces panicked.
“Ah—ah—yes. Just a ship. Only a small one! And it fell to pieces very quickly thereafter. I can’t reanimate large ones.”
“You…raised a ship?”
That came from overhead. Pisces stared up—and Amerys, the Archmage of Lightning, stared down at him.
It was like he were back in Wistram, seeing her lounging at the high table. Pisces’ mouth opened, and the words came out.
“Temporarily?”
The King of Destruction traded a quick glance with Amerys. Then? He picked Pisces up, swung him around, and put him back on his feet.
“Hah! Just reanimated a ship! Orthenon, go get me one so I can see it! Can you even do that?”
“I can reanimate things—”
“Things? Like what? A building? Let’s find one to knock down—that tent!”
One of the camp [Chefs] shrieked.
“Not my tent, Your Majesty!”
Then Flos was dragging Pisces around, beaming, and Pisces shot Ceria, Colth, and Yvlon a panicked look.
They waved at him.
 
——
 
When Flos had been persuaded not to knock down a tent just so he could see Pisces reanimate it, he remembered his manners. He lifted a hand and pointed.
“Mars. Orthenon. Takhatres. Amerys. And I believe you know Gazi best of all.”
That was how he introduced his Seven. No titles, no preamble. The Horns looked at them, and Pisces swallowed.
Gazi and Amerys were the two he knew most, and both made his mouth dry. Yvlon stirred, but she hadn’t known either as well, and Colth was in full fake-Colth mode. What did you say to Gazi? After Liscor?
She killed a group of Silverfangs on the road north. She nearly kidnapped Erin and Ryoka. 
Erin poked out her eye. Is she going to hold a grudge?
She no longer seemed as overpoweringly terrifying to him. Was it because their levels had gotten closer? Gazi seemed like a lithe, deadly warrior, and her eyes glowed with power. That didn’t make him less afraid; now, he was keenly aware how deadly she was. Her armor, cracked though it might be, made him wonder how he’d ever best her.
Best her? Put away that thought! Draw his sword in front of the King of Destruction and he’d be dead.
It was Ceria who spoke, keeping her voice casual. She stepped forwards, held up a hand, and smiled.
“Hey. Thanks again for the book.”
The book. Illphres’ spellbook. Pisces hadn’t seen the handover, and he was sorry he’d missed it. It must have been in secret—his eyes darted to Amerys, whose face tightened for a moment before she sipped from a goblet, and then to Gazi.
The half-Gazer just smiled, her pointed teeth menacing, her eyes locked on Ceria’s face, then sliding to Pisces. He could read nothing from that alien expression.
“It was useful to me. Call it a debt of gratitude and Amerys’ will. Pisces. Ceria. You two look more interesting than the last time we met. I didn’t get a good look at you at sea.”
Again, her central eye glowed, and Pisces realized he had to speak. Flos was watching the conversation with great interest; what he read in their pasts or knew of their relationship, Pisces couldn’t have said.
“Gazi. It is good to see you well. I’m honored to see you again.”
More lies. She wore an expression of amusement, now. A grin at his expense. Pisces tried to smile.
Dead Silverfangs on the road. He thought of Krshia and Mrsha—it wasn’t politic to mention. She held out a hand.
“A great thing, to meet adventurers from Izril. Welcome to Chandrar.”
That mocking smile and her grip were too strong. Pisces shook her hand as Ceria chuckled. He tried not to grit his teeth.
“Yes, absolutely. I must add, I am so relieved to see your eye is fully healed after Erin disgorged it.”
Gazi’s smile winked out. Ceria turned her head, and a look of such delight crossed her face that Pisces realized she’d been about to say the same thing. Behind him—Flos Reimarch spoke.
“Well now. I had almost forgotten. Gazi. Were these two there when that [Innkeeper] blinded you?”
His hands fell on Pisces’ and Ceria’s shoulders, and they went still. Gazi gave them a huge, slow blink of her eyes and then nodded at her [King].
“They were, my lord. A small reason for why I was so distracted. Though I credit news of your return to most of my failure.”
“And how changed are they?”
The King of Destruction peered down at Ceria and Pisces. The half-Gazer took her time, studying Pisces. He wasn’t sure if she could read his class with his anti-appraisal gear, but he still felt like she was seeing right through him.
“I am looking at you this time, Pisces Jealnet. The same to you, Ceria Springwalker. A year has made mice into growing lions, Your Majesty.”
Pisces realized her central eye wasn’t skipping around constantly. It was locked on his face, flicking up, down, but focused. Studying him.
The King of Destruction’s voice was pleased, and he patted the two adventurers on the shoulders.
“Lions aren’t much good against Adult Crelers, but that’s a transformation indeed. So they helped injure you? I’ll settle that [Innkeeper]’s debt later, but we’ll call it a small favor that can be considered against the one I intend to ask. Will you let bygones be bygones, Gazi?”
She turned to him, and Pisces saw her smile. Truly, genuinely, with a kind of adoration he had never seen from her before. One of her smaller eyes glared balefully at him, and he averted his gaze, as if that smile was too personal for him.
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
Flos nodded, greatly pleased.
“Then we are all friends. Bring out more wine for our guests! Ceria, I hear you know your way around a drink. Orthenon, that keg, that one! Let’s see if we can bully her into talking about the Crossroads of Izril!”
Then he was dragging her off, and Amerys floated idly after the [King].
“And let’s ask about her clothing!”
That left Gazi and Pisces together. They stared at each other in silence, and Pisces forced the words out.
“I suppose we should let the matter drop, then. So you know, the Silverfang tribe will remember.”
Gazi shrugged slightly.
“They threatened me. It was their choice, just as it was mine to attempt to kidnap Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin. How might the world have changed if I had succeeded, hm?”
Her eyes were knowing as she looked at him, and Pisces could agree. What would have happened?
“I’m glad you did not.”
She advanced a step, and he put a hand on his rapier’s hilt before jerking it away. But all Gazi did was whisper.
“You are grown. Just remember you stand among the world’s greatest. And one more thing. As a tip—I can see goosebumps. The others are just as hard to trick.”
She winked one eye and passed by him, snagging a cup of wine. Pisces shuddered, rubbed at his arms, and turned away.
Archmage Amerys was floating right in front of him. Pisces didn’t quite scream. But he did leap back.
“So you’re the one who unleashed the undead from the crypt. I don’t remember you. Ceria Springwalker I do. At least, I remember Illphres complaining about her. You?”
The Archmage of Chandrar looked more worn than he remembered her. Older; her captivity must have aged her, and she floated in the air rather than walk about. He imagined her constitution might have suffered most of all. Yet lightning seemed to hang on her every word, and he felt like he was standing before a maelstrom of power. Even Valeterisa wasn’t as nakedly dangerous as she was.
From Gazi to Amerys. At least, this time, Pisces didn’t have an urge to insult Gazi rising with every word.
“Greetings, Archmage—”
“Oh, stop. Flos might be peculiar, but his penchant for avoiding small-talk is one of the things I like of him. We’re no longer at Wistram. What possessed a [Necromancer] to ever study there, anyways?”
Pisces stiffened as all the memories came back. He inhaled—and spoke rather abruptly.
“I thought it was a place for anyone to learn whatever magic they pleased.”
He worried a second that he’d been too abrupt despite Amerys’ claim, but the Archmage of Lightning just paused in sipping a cup of wine, then gave him a sympathetic look.
“Once, it was. Two hundred years ago, it was. Even decades after that, I hear, they still taught some necromancy. Terandria put an end to that. As did the constant attacks by Az’kerash. What a pity, eh?”
What a pity. Such casual words to say about his entire class, his entire school of magic. Amerys read Pisces’ face and lifted her goblet.
