The Quarass of Germina was a busy woman. Most rulers were, but she calculated her time down to the increments of each day. If you were a being made up of countless lives and experiences, you could do anything.
Which meant that you had better choose the best anything. She could have been re-teaching a sword school to new warriors. Or overseeing Germina’s dry farms. Or smithing an artifact.
She had taken the time to come to Khelt-Jecrass in the north to find two adventurers. Why?
“Chemath Marble. You do not know what it does. Its use has been lost, and even when the mines were open thirty years ago—they provided only four nations with enough marble to be considered significant.”
The Quarass was pontificating. She liked doing that too. Pisces sat there staring at the girl with brown skin, a headdress of multi-colored jewels, and the light, colorful clothing of Germina, a child until he met her eyes. A girl who owned the Serkonian Lance, the Relic casually propped against the table she sat at.
The tent Germina’s people had set up was spartan; Colth and Pisces had been given sweet dates, water, and nothing else. Was it a sign of traditional Germinan hospitality? Or the nation’s poorness?
Pisces knew Germina was the weakest and smallest of the four Shield Kingdoms at present, but it had a reputation. Mostly for assassins. He hadn’t missed the shadowed figures standing behind the Quarass, faces and bodies covered in black cloth. Of course, those didn’t scare him.
The one clinging to the cloth along the top of the tent, clothing perfectly camouflaged with the ceiling? Invisible to Pisces’ [Detect Life] spell. They didn’t even deform the cloth. That scared the heck out of him. He hadn’t even spotted that one; Colth had warned him.
“She’s got two more behind us, I think. And knowing her reputation, there’s one under us too. Hear her out. Promise her nothing. She’s low-level.”
Colth was talking to Pisces with some kind of Skill; his words filled only Pisces’ ears. The [Necromancer] was sweating. The Quarass knew what he wanted.
Bearig. Droppe. Eloque. Rophir. Merr. Were they in danger?
He couldn’t read the Quarass’ face or mind. The problem was that the same was not true for her.
“—I would have thought the Death of Wings taught her subject better than that. Do not speak when I am conversing, Colthei Lacment.”
The [Ultimate Supporter] stiffened. Pisces’ skin crawled.
She knew Colth was allied with Demons. That…was not good. The Quarass took a longer sip of water and sighed.
“Chemath Marble is powerful. The palace of Khelt, the walls of Reim, temples in Baleros, and the Fitorian Academy of Ailendamus were the only recipients of the marble. You have seen what Chemath Marble enabled Drevish the Architect to do against the King of Destruction’s foes.”
Bolts of lightning hurled from the towers like a crown around the city. Enough to win several battles.
“—And it was only so limited because Drevish was outbid by his competitors. Khelt’s Chemath Marble you have seen in effect as well.”
“We have? I—ah—Your Majesty?”
Pisces blurted out, surprised by this, and the Quarass favored him with a slight smile.
“I am the Quarass, Pisces Jealnet. Address me as such. Majesty is a lower title. For you, I shall not take offense.”
Her tone indicated Colth had to be on his best behavior, and Pisces ducked his head, sweating. He was no Erin to thumb his nose in rulers’ faces. He did that when they weren’t looking. But the Quarass felt dangerous. She reminded him of a Larracel or maybe Cognita.
Someone for whom politeness wasn’t actually a requirement because she could do without. But someone who would remember when politeness had been given.
“The Meeting of Tribes. King Fetohep of Khelt activated a unique power seldom seen in this world to ferry armies of the dead across continents. I am sure you recall that.”
The Quarass prompted Pisces, and he did recall. Wait…she meant the moment when the Walled Cities had bombarded the army Fetohep had brought. They had reduced the entire army to dust, and the King of Khelt had used the death magic and bones to open a portal to unleash the true might of his armies.
“That was Chemath Marble’s doing?”
“Mm. In part. Khelta herself was responsible for the ability to teleport vast distances, but the full might of her magic was enabled by the stone. Now, do you see?”
“You want us to get it in the Mines of Zethe by foiling other nations’ plans, Quarass? That’s a tall order, even for a Named-rank adventurer.”
Colth sounded palpably unhappy, and Pisces could see why. Zethe was northwest of them, and neither he nor Colth had any objectives there. The Quarass flicked her fingers delicately.
“It is. You are unlikely to head in that direction or succeed as matters stand. I inform you of my desires that you may fulfill them. If you should find aught else valuable to Germina, I may trade it for what you desire. Knowledge is important, and I shall arm you with my favors that you repay me.”
“In exchange for helping Pisces find his friends. Rather mercenary of you, Quarass.”
Colth shot back. He looked far steadier than Pisces given the circumstances. The Quarass regarded him with one eye.
“That is what I do to those who are neither friend nor foe but merely an adventuring team far from home, Colthei. My enemies I might speak of. Even spill dangerous secrets to the world. I am well aware of the ire of Demons. But then, Rhir is far from Germina, and the Blighted Kingdom is a more profligate ally. Now, consider how a friend might find Germina’s munificence?”
Colth fell silent, but his eyes flashed dangerously even as his fake smile came over his face. Pisces broke in, smiling nervously.
“We—can well see the value of Chemath Marble and Germina’s interests, Your Majes—Quarass. Do excuse me.”
Once more, the Quarass gave Pisces a smile like he was some new [Student] in class and Colth was the annoying honors student.
“It is useful, though I would rather sell it for exorbitant prices. You see, Germina is hungry for gold, Pisces Jealnet. I shall not be shy about the matter. Though gold is second to expertise, which brings me to my second point. Soon, the King of Destruction will send for you. He should already have Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres headed towards him.”
Pisces exchanged a look with Colth. The [Necromancer] coughed into one hand.
“Are you so certain, Quarass? Yvlon can be—stubborn—and I heard they were in Medain. Trapped.”
The Quarass shook her head slightly.
“It matters not if she is. Mars the Illusionist has gone to fetch them.”
Pisces had begun chewing on a date, and he choked slightly. That—that would do it. The Quarass steepled her fingers.
“I know the King of Destruction’s will in this. He is a passionate man, but among his designs will surely be Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Not to enlist you in war—”
She saw Pisces’ and Colth’s alarmed looks.
“—but rather, to act while he conducts his war. Some of his people remain in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He wishes them back; they are part hostage at this moment, and their skills would be of great use to him. They are the Mad Ones; [Engineers], [Alchemists], [Mages]—experimenters, visionaries. Inventors of great scope, vision, and destruction.”
Pisces had heard of them. He swallowed.
“Wait. That would follow that he intends for someone to liberate and second them to—”
“Reim. Which is what he will desire, as all know you have business in Chandrar’s south. And should you free them, I trust you will convince them to come to Germina instead. I am the King of Destruction’s ally, but their talents will be put to better use in my purview.”
The Quarass gave Colth and Pisces a happy smile, and Pisces liked this job less than the one about Chemath Marble. Tweaking the King of Destruction’s nose? The Quarass sat back as Colth gave her a faint grin.
“Quarass, you have predicted our movements and even the mighty King of Reim’s mind with a great will. No doubt we could do these things, but Pisces can easily find his companions. With or without Germina’s aid.”
He meant by tracking Ivery, the Skeleton Lord. The Quarass raised her brow.
“Of course he can locate his Skeleton Lord, Colthei. That would be a reasonable decision. If they were all together.”
Colth exhaled slightly with resignation. Pisces’ stomach churned.
“Where—where are—”
The girl studied him.
“My people can liberate them from where they are. Assure yourself, Pisces Jealnet, that time may be limited in some of their cases. They have made enemies; Roshal, among others. I am prepared to find each one, deal with the nations they have offended—even settle Merr the Storm’s bounty—and remove their [Slave] classes. Including yours. I require proof of your intent, first.”
The offer stuck Pisces in the chest, and Colth rose slightly, as if to go.
“We cannot promise that, Quarass. You’re asking Named-rank favors for trifles for you.”
He snapped back, and the Quarass of Germina sighed.
“Colthei. Sit down. I am well aware Pisces Jealnet’s friends are not enough to move an entire team, split as they are and pursuing their own ends. Your friends, however? Perhaps even the Ultimate Supporter would move for that.”
Colth gave the Quarass a blank look, then chuckled.
“My friends? Deniusth, Mihaela, Eldertuin, and the lot are big boys and girls, Quarass. Larracel’s got the biggest britches of them all. Even if they’re in trouble, they don’t need me. Nor do I think Germina’s hand is any more entrenched in the New Lands of Izril than anyone else’s.”
The Quarass smiled politely, even with great interest.
“We shall see whether my attempts are more…thoughtful than the others. I don’t mean fellow adventurers who have never even seen your true nature, Colthei. I mean your friends. The ones sworn in blood with you. The ones who have shared your bonds, your travails, your defiance. Your comrades in chains, Colthei.”
It was like someone suddenly pulled the blood out of Colthei’s body. He leapt up, and Pisces grabbed him—and realized two burly [Assassins] had done so too. Colthei stood, pulling all three up with him.
“Impossible. I am the only one left. The Naga winnowed us down to one. The very best.”
His voice was flat. He wasn’t mad—he just shook his head. But his body was taut, straining. The Quarass just smiled. Was there a trace of sympathy in her eyes? Maybe just a hint. But those eyes were very knowing, very cold. As if she had seen too many grievous sights, even Colth’s, to have the same depth of emotion she had once had.
“True. Assuming he had them in his grip. What if he merely told you they had died after one of your escape attempts? They were not all dreams. What if, instead, they escaped?”
Colth’s eyes flickered. He put a hand to his head, and Pisces remembered what Colth had shared, haltingly, during their time at sea. Trickery, illusions, waking up in the same place again and again.
I am in the Wishing Well—
“Was it during the—do you know? How do you—”
The Quarass said nothing as the [Assassins] tried to wrestle Colth back from leaning over the table. She exhaled.
“Three. I believe three made it after a certain incident at Camp Ethost—a rather simple name for a dark place. A training camp of Roshal’s that suffered intense fires before being abandoned. That was no dream, if you remember it, Colthei. Three escaped.”
Emotions were running like water behind Colth’s face, but his tone was flat, disbelieving. Pisces wanted to grab him, take him aside, and reassure him, but it was all he could do to hold Colth still. The other man’s pulse was thundering; Pisces could feel it through his fingertips.
“Impossible. No one could have survived for so long.”
The Quarass countered.
“You did. They had no help, and indeed, they fled far to escape Roshal’s following. Invisible people, trying to scrape by and hide. I know where they are. The same offer applies to them; I do not believe the Naga will forswear himself on you. Not after you have slain his hound.”
Colth said nothing. But he was tensing up more and more and his eyes flickered around the tent. He couldn’t be wondering if he could take out the Quarass’ bodyguard, could he? Pisces whispered.
“Colth? Easy now. We can fulfill the Quarass’ very reasonable demands and—”
The Quarass of Germina took a drink of water, smiling, and exhaled. She didn’t even reach for the staff at the table. She put her fingers together, looked at Colth, and said—
“Where else would you go to find work where no one asks questions? Where not even Roshal can reach? They are in the Mines of Zethe as hired laborers. So you see, Colthei—”
Her finger rose, and she traced a line between him, Pisces, and her.
“It is all connected.”
Colth slowly, slowly untensed. Pisces stared at the Quarass, at her evil smile, and he wondered if this was what you got if Erin Solstice were old, pitiless, and had access to a dictionary. The Quarass chuckled to herself as the two adventurers sat there.
“What an evil shit-person.”
…Until a voice spoke up. Pisces went white. He looked at Colth, and the [Ultimate Supporter] stared at Pisces, aghast. The [Assassins] twitched. Who would dare say something like that? The Quarass stopped smiling, and Pisces realized—
Colth hadn’t said it. He thought Pisces had. Both of them turned, and someone ducked at the entrance to the tent.
“Oops.”
A young woman tried to hide, and Pisces saw a flash of platinum, mint-green hair and suntanned skin. The Quarass sighed.
“Excuse me a moment.”
She stood, and Pisces and Colth found themselves being served a heaping plate of dates as the Quarass exited the tent.
 
——
 
Elena Othonos had just wanted to know what the Quarass was like when she wasn’t being ‘nice’. As it turned out, she got to know exactly how the Quarass acted. Also, what the consequences were.
“Stop! Stop! I’m sorry!”
The Quarass gulped down more water as Elena hung upside down, suspended from her feet, which were tied by a rope to a pole.
“Normally, you would be lashed. Naked. But I do like you, Elena.”
“Can you let me go, then?”
Elena swung right and left, trying to keep the blood from rushing to her head. She saw two figures sitting in the tent peeking at her. The Quarass just sighed.
“Let her down.”
Her people had been the ones stringing Elena up; one put away a riding crop with visible reluctance as the Quarass admonished them.
“She is my guest. I do not care if you believe she is disrespectful; her impudence is as natural as it is for the King of Destruction. Elena, I believe he is coming to return you to his side.”
The Earther from Greece grumbled.
“Oh, wonderful. From the frying pan to the fire. At least you listen to me.”
