Yvlon shook her friend gently, and Ceria raised the circlet. She tried a third time to join the pieces together.
“Buh—the—circlet—”
The King of Destruction paused. He looked around. He looked at Ceria. Then he whispered to Orthenon out of the corner of his mouth.
“Er—get a healing potion.”
“No need for that.”
Amerys forestalled Orthenon as she descended and walked over, sighing. She bent over Ceria, who was trying to articulate words. Amerys leaned in, inspected one of Ceria’s eyes, then murmured a spell as Pisces shook her shoulder. She forestalled him.
“Magical backlash. Not the worst. My guess is the intelligence-effect leaving her is addling her mind a bit. You could have done that more delicately, Flos.”
She glowered at him, and now, Yvlon couldn’t tell if she owed him her thanks or…the King of Destruction shrugged unapologetically.
“Let her keep the pieces if she wishes. If whatever that was is still about, well, she has her chance to be free of it or choose again. I just dislike this uncertainty nonsense. Someone find a [Healer] to check on her!”
He favored the Horns of Hammerad with a nod, then bowed his head slightly.
“I hope she isn’t too badly affected, but I did what I thought was best. My apologies if it interferes with your careers.”
Pisces stared at Ceria as Colth bent over the broken Relic. Yvlon just met the King of Destruction’s eyes. What did you even say to him? He had broken Ceria’s Relic, solved Yvlon’s agonizing—at least in some way—and apologized for it. Sort of.
King of Destruction. Small wonder they called him that. Yvlon could not articulate the feeling in her chest. But someone else could.
A young man leaning on a staff walked over. Trey Atwood glanced down at Ceria, then called to Gazi the Omniscient, who was staring at Ceria’s circlet with great interest.
“Hey, Gazi. Look at that. Flos is freeing people from cursed circlets, Djinni from their chains, and he still kisses up to Roshal. I guess we know what he’s afraid of.”
The King of Destruction had been heading to get a drink. His head slowly turned, his shoulders rose, and the Horns of Hammerad stared at the young man—who had just earned a death-glare from half the vassals—and a slight smile from at least Amerys and Gazi.
Who was this? Pisces frowned at the young man, and memory stirred. Wait. Wasn’t he the one who’d caused the riot at Wistram—?
Ceria just sat on the ground, cradling the circlet. She reacted to the [Healer] checking on her, then to Amerys, who spoke slowly to her.
“My [King] is a rash man—you might save your Relic. Either way, do you need anything from me, Ceria? I had hoped to speak magic with you. It seems Wistram is beyond all of us.”
The Archmage of Lightning could have used a lesson in nicety…from Mihaela Godfrey…but Ceria did look up. She tried to focus on what Amerys was saying.
“Me? Magic. Speh.”
She flicked her fingers, and a bit of cold air blew forth. Amerys stared at Ceria, scratched her green hair, and sighed.
“Well, she’s still got more talent than Flos.”
Yvlon whirled towards Flos, fists clenched. Pisces gazed at Ceria, who sat with a blank, distraught look on her face. He opened his mouth—
The King of Reim sat there. Apologetically unapologetic, as if he’d committed a minor faux pas. He smiled, and his Seven looked down at the Horns of Hammerad.
Pisces closed his mouth and swallowed.
Ah, yes. That was the King of Destruction.
