The Quarass flashed her a quick smile.
“It is I who wish you would swear yourself to my cause, but these things take time, Elena. In any case, I trust you will remember what I have said.”
Oh, Elena wouldn’t forget. The scariest person in Chandrar might be the Quarass of Germina. Cara would have conniptions if the two ever met, and as far as Elena was concerned, escaping Wistram to be kidnapped to Chandrar?
At least it was giving her a real sense of the dangers of this world. If only she could report to Cara and the others in Terandria…
Well, it wasn’t like the Quarass was invincible. The girl was still a girl, and as soon as Elena was let down, she sidled over and gave the Quarass a huge hug.
“Stop that.”
The Quarass hated being picked up. Elena beamed as she nuzzled the Quarass’ cheek—and saw the Quarass’ people giving her looks of outrage and pure jealousy. That was one thing Elena had noticed; the Quarass hadn’t tortured her for information about Cara or the others. She hadn’t gotten it out of Elena either because she wanted Elena to like her or because she feared Flos Reimarch’s wrath for whatever she did.
She was palpably unhappy with being a child as well, often cursing her fragile body. Even if—
“Gah!”
The Quarass executed a pinch to one of Elena’s nerves, and Elena let go fast.
Even if she was a martial warrior, spellcaster, general, spy, and tactician all rolled into one. Oh, and the last thing? The Quarass fixed her headdress with a sigh.
“Now, behave while I finish convincing those two to work for me.”
“Those are the Horns, right?”
“Yes, Elena.”
“Erin’s friends.”
The Quarass’ eyes flickered.
“They are. And they will be working for me, so our interests align there as well.”
Elena had no doubt the Quarass could convince the Horns to work for her. Well, maybe if she could get a quick word—the Quarass was about to stride back into the tent when two servants, neither assassins, hurried over.
“Quarass!”
Lady Vaitsha Zectiou wore hand wraps, and Elena backed up a step when the poisonous [Lady of Viper’s Touch] appeared. She was beautiful in a way Elena, a [Beautician], couldn’t match; her skin had a dusky hue to it no blush could give, she swayed slightly as she walked, and even her presence was naturally intoxicating.
Both from a literal pheromone standpoint and because she could kill with a touch. You couldn’t teach that to models on a runway. Well, maybe some of them had that already.
“What, Vaitsha? I am busy—”
The Quarass looked peeved to be interrupted twice, as she was constantly busy, but if Vaitsha interrupted—with young Khalid, the [Champion]-in-training by her side—it mattered.
“It’s from Hraace, Quarass. Pedagogia Araxia.”
Instantly, the Quarass’ annoyance turned to severe interest, even, Elena noticed as Vaitsha offered a speaking stone to the Quarass—fear? Anticipation?
The Quarass took the stone and began speaking into it. She waved the others back, and Elena strained her ears to listen. However, two servants noticed Elena wasn’t obeying instantly and dragged her out of earshot, so Elena only caught glimmers of the conversation.
What she did hear was very, very interesting.
 
“—gogia, I am sure you well know my t—” 
The Quarass stopped, then sounded surprised. Then flustered.
“—an entire future ahead of me. No? I can p…I know payment is not…”
She listened for a while, nodding impatiently. Then tried to sound reasonable.
“—But given the circum—I am well aware of what my predecessor said to you. And did. I remember—I would say I have quite the complexion and my bearing—”
She shot a frustrated glance into the air.
“—Would you reconsider? I shall press the matter—thank you, Pedagogia.”
She ended the call, stared at the stone, then hurled it onto the ground and began to stomp on it. It was such a fascinating reaction that Elena didn’t even laugh, but merely wondered who talked to the Quarass like that.
And why she sounded so disappointed. 
“She refused, Quarass? We shall have her head in a day!”
The Quarass snapped at Vaitsha.
“And ruin my chances forever, fool? No! I must simply convince her.”
Vaitsha ducked her head, and the Quarass stomped around, thinking out loud.
“It is the most obvious way to improve myself, however long it might take. But if Hraace cannot be swayed…I need the Chemath Marble. They are not immune to gold, however much they pretend to be. Or if I develop a new Skill—damn [Innkeeper] classes. There has to be one useful Skill. My drinking habit for twenty more levels!”
She threw her hands up in the air, frustrated, and that was her real problem. She was the Quarass of Germina. Levelling up was hard for her. She could lead an army, recite high poetry, even do weird Drathian stuff like cultivate her body and soul. But you didn’t get many points for doing what you’ve already done.
Poor Quarass. She stood there, a girl in actual need of a hug, and Elena wished she could be team Quarass. But she already owed Cara everything. Then the Quarass’ head rose, she sighed, and she collected herself. Time to go strongarm a Gold-rank team and Named-rank adventurer into doing her bidding. She’d have to settle for that.
Elena was already turning to go, since she apparently was going to see Flos. She had to pack—she looked back at the tent and then paused.
“Huh. Who’s that huge guy?”
The Quarass stopped. She’d seen the same thing. Elena’s head rose as she stared at someone coming their way. She had been told Khelt didn’t have half-Giants.
“Hey, Quarass, who’s—”
 
——
 
Pisces and Colth were each on their fourth date and arguing about how to get out of this one when they heard a commotion outside.
“Someone’s coming.”
Colth stood up, and Pisces felt it too. A prickle running down his spine. He heard a shout outside the tent.
“Halt, in the name of Germina!”
Instantly, the [Assassins] in the tent shifted, but when Pisces half-stood, one spoke.
“Remain here. The Quarass wills it.”
Two slipped out of the front flap, and Pisces sat down. This was Khelt’s land, anyways. He doubted—
The shouting grew louder. Then he heard a pounding sound and felt a reverberation through the ground. Colth glanced around.
“Either an ox has learned to run or my [Tremorsense] is telling me someone huge is coming this way. Who the hell is—”
A huge, brown arm, like the trunk of an Elephant, opened the tent flap. Pisces saw scarred flesh, criss-crossing the arm, worn leather guards—and a struggling [Assassin] trying to hold the arm back—all appear.
A man ducked into the tent as Pisces and Colth stared. He was eight feet tall, wider than both of them put together, and more muscled than Grimalkin of Pallass. His eyes seemed small in his huge face, but perhaps that was the vibrancy of the two yellow pupils and the immovable crags of the rest of his expression.
His hair was black and wild, but someone had carefully shaved his face so not even stubble remained. Oh—and Pisces realized the [Assassin] had two daggers bared and was stabbing the arm.
The blades were not going through the skin. The man shouldered into the tent and revealed three more [Assassins] clinging to him like bugs. He looked down at the two adventurers, frozen in their seats.
“Are you the Horns of Hammerad? Pisces? Colth?”
Pisces hesitated.
“Uh. Yes?”
The giant man nodded in palpable relief. Then he struck one palm with a fist so hard the air moved. All three [Assassins] clinging to him were thrown off.
“Jaganismet. [Warrior].”
He announced himself. Then—paused.
“Wait. No.”
No? Colth’s mouth was as open as Pisces’. Jaganismet, or whomever this was, looked around.
“I am to be announced. Wait here.”
He strode out of the tent. More shouting. Pisces’ eyes slid sideways.
“Colth?”
He didn’t know that name exactly, but he thought it rang a bell? Colth was frowning.
“My Chandrian knowledge is weak. But I definitely know that name. Wait. Wait—”
Before he could tell Pisces what had struck him, someone came running into the tent. The Quarass looked, uh—flustered.
“That fool. Jaganismet, halt!”
She shouted back the way she’d come, but too late. There was more shouting, a crash of something being sent flying, voices raised—
“Do not do battle! Halt! H—”
The Quarass spun, saw them lifting up the tent flap, and cursed. When the adventurers emerged outside, Pisces and Colth saw chaos.
Germina’s warriors were arrayed outside the tent, facing down the giant named Jaganismet and a second party of panting riders. The men and women looked half-dead from exhaustion, but they were trying to raise flags, and they were arrayed behind the huge man. He saw Pisces and Colth emerge and raised his voice.
“I am—”
At the same time, one of his people began to shout.
“We herald His M—”
Both stopped in confusion. Jaganismet’s face went slack, then he grimaced and stepped behind the man on horseback. The figure faltered, then shouted.
“In the name of Heroph-the-Liberated, we herald our ruler, Mighty Jaganismet! We wish no violence with Germina!”
Heroph? Jaganismet? The man looked at the herald, and when he got a nod, he strode forwards.
“Jaganismet. [Warrior]!”
He performed the same mighty salute. Paused. Then closed his eyes.
“Jaganismet. [King]. Once, warrior.”
It was perhaps the worst royal introduction Pisces and Colth had ever seen in their lives. It wasn’t a bit—Jaganismet seemed to have messed up his literal class two times.
“Jaganismet! This is Khelt’s land! You have no right to be here. Nor to intrude on my domain!”
The Quarass strode up towards Jaganismet—somewhat apprehensively, Pisces thought. She was flanked by all her [Assassins], and they had blades drawn. Jaganismet was just staring at Pisces and Colth.
“Quarass? I did not know you were here.”
He blinked at her. She stopped, mouth open.
“I am here, Mighty Jaganismet. I am the new Quarass. The old one died.”
“Hm. I did not expect this. Khelt? I did not know we intruded.”
“Your Majesty, the undead you destroyed—”
“Hm. Troubling. First the Quarass, now Khelt. Troubling…but I must speak to the Horns of Hammerad. I desire Chemath Marble. I have been told the High King demands your aid. Therefore, I do the same!”
Jaganismet shouted at Pisces and Colth. The two looked at each other, and Colth muttered out of the corner of his mouth.
“Okay, I’m getting slightly sick of being royalties’ favorites, aren’t you, Pisces?”
“Indubitably. But this fellow seems to be, ah, winging it?”
That was the only way Pisces could describe Jaganismet’s attitude. Yet the Quarass seemed determined to keep him well away from them.
“Jaganismet, you set yourself against my designs. I warn you: begone. You may speak to my guests after I am done, not before.”
The huge man stared down at the child and had to actually stoop down to stare at her.
“Quarass. You are too cunning. I cannot compete with my wits. Yet I have great need. Forgive me.”
“No, Jaganismet, don’t—”
He moved so fast the [Assassins] had barely a chance to step towards him. The giant of a man raised his hands—and clapped them together.
“[Skysplitting Clap].”
A shockwave blew Vaitsha’s veil clean off her face. All of Pisces’ hair and his robes rippled, and the tent nearest Jaganismet went flying. Everyone, including his own people, reeled, stunned. Including the Quarass. Then the King of Heroph took a single step.
The Quarass had the Serkonian Lance in hand, but she had been affected by the Skill. Jaganismet wedged his foot into the ground under her. Then he kicked her.
He lofted her into the air with one foot, almost delicately. Not a kick; a punt, his leg moving faster and faster until the Quarass was launched off of it and into the air.
Pisces’ head craned back. He stared, mouth open. Head rising…then falling…falling…
In the distance, a tiny figure floated down, having no doubt cast [Featherfall]. The Quarass’ people stared at Jaganismet in horror. One raised a blade dripping with venom.
He raised a fist.
“—arriors, retreat! Do not fight him!”
The Quarass’ voice cracked through a speaking stone. As one, her people froze—then flowed away, running to protect their leader. Jaganismet lowered his fist. His people were in a horror, shout-whispering to him. He simply turned to Pisces and Colth.
“I am King of Heroph. Hear me, Horns of Hammerad. I require your services.”
Something in the way he spoke made Pisces instantly long for the Quarass.
 
——
 
Jaganismet sat in the Quarass’ tent, cross-legged. His people stood around him, covered in grime and sweat. His voice was huge, unsubtle; when he was confused, he sounded it. When he was angry—well, Pisces hadn’t heard him angry, and he didn’t want to now.
“Now I remember where I knew that name. Pisces! He fought under the King of Destruction back in the day! He’s one of Chandrar’s deadliest warriors! Right up with Mars and Torreb!”
“Oh, come on, how many do they have?”
“Highest-level, second-highest-level, and third-highest, Pisces!”
Did that mean he was the third-greatest [Warrior] in all of Chandrar? Jaganismet didn’t seem to notice their silent conversation. When he spoke, both men fell silent instantly.
“My nation needs coin. The Chemath Marble can make my people rich. Rich enough to give every single citizen twenty gold coins a year, my advisors say.”
Pisces exchanged a look with Colth. That was rich. Pisces suppressed a whistle. He spoke nervously to Jaganismet.
“Er—Your Majesty. May I ask how you found us? How you know of us? We’re honored to meet you, of course.”
Jaganismet looked blank a second, then nodded. He made that fist-into-palm gesture again.
“The honor is mine. I found you because my advisors traced you; I merely ran to get here. Heroph is some ways away. It has been four days of it, but I have heard tell of Chemath Marble. My need is great. Despite my labors of twenty years, Heroph remains poor. They say it is a thing of industry, of people, [Merchants] and supplies. I cannot provide these things. So Chemath Marble must do.”
Ran? Pisces stared at Jaganismet, but he believed it. Colth broke in urgently.
“Er, Your Majesty. May I ask what you will do with the Chemath Marble?”
“Sell it.”
“But it must be mined. Do you want us to locate it or…? Secure the mine?”
The Quarass and presumably High King Perric had a complex plan involving locating the deposits and a desire to make sure they were the only people with access or maps of the very complex and, as Pisces understood it, very dangerous Mines of Zethe. That meant battling other adventurers, even other nations mining in the area.
Jaganismet frowned at Colth.
