He covered his face with one hand, and Trey tried not to snigger. It was sort of funny. Whether they objected to how Flos had abandoned his empire, to his continued wars, or were cognizant of threats to their homes or simply had no desire to make war—the King of Destruction would probably have accepted all those reasons.
The fact that some had just had kids and settled down seemed to offend Flos most of all. He listened to the drumbeats from outside wistfully.
“We have one good musician. They can’t even combo their Skills with only Medacium here.”
“We could…send for the Loquea Dree and Monks of Sottheim, Your Majesty? They’re continuing to aid Nsiia, but if you truly have need of them…”
Mars floated the idea hesitantly, and Orthenon instantly shook his head. Flos did too.
“No, they’re fighting well for Tiqr, whom I do owe greatly. And my instincts say I won’t be remiss for my vassals soon. Nor is Tiqr in a bad way, though I haven’t heard of any allies approaching. Orthenon?”
“None, Your Majesty, but I will keep my eye out.”
That interested Trey. As a [Chaos Schemer], he was more aware of the machinations of nations now. As if his mind were able to keep track of details and tricks. And what he had noticed was that Flos had a kind of instinct that bordered on the supernatural. He could call when battles were turning for or against him, and it even extended to his subjects and other nations.
His aura, perhaps—one of the strongest in the world—but it was probably a mix of factors. Flos simply shrugged.
“Call it a hunch. If we win the war, we could have either reinforce us…Loquea Dree will be pleasant to have around. Sottheim. Ah. Uh.”
His face changed, and he wore that colorful expression of trying not to look repulsed, as he always did when he found something he didn’t want to do.
“…Nsiia might well keep them.”
That made Teresa burst out. She was sweaty and still mad as hell from not being allowed to take part in the fighting.
“What? Orthenon said they were some of the finest warriors of Chandrar, Your Majesty! Super-[Monks]! Why not summon them?”
Orthenon shot her a reproving look; he seemed more stern with her these days, and Teresa gave him a sullen glower. But Flos smiled. He was about to reply when he spotted someone and waved a hand.
“Elena, is that you? Welcome back from the Quarass’ realm. Don’t be shy. A drink? No?”
When she didn’t step forwards or accept refreshments, Flos turned to Teresa, visibly disappointed Elena hadn’t warmed to him. Most of the other Earthers treated Flos either as a somewhat terrifying figure or as a joke until the Seven snapped at them. The King of Destruction focused on Teresa.
“It’s not that I don’t value them, Teresa. They replenish their numbers even after crippling losses, they fight well, and Abbot Shurein is a good friend. It’s just—”
He toyed with his cup as Lloyd shuffled in, fiddling with his smartphone. He stared at Trey, who was in the center of the tent, and Trey nodded to him. Lloyd kept staring at the traitor among Earthers, the one with blood on his hands.
I deserve that. Trey saw Flos speak, and every eye jumped back to him.
“—there are only so many orgies one can handle, and that was when I was young. And, gratifying as it may be, there’s something off-putting about running into women constantly hoping for children, let alone the concerns of lineage for me. You understand?”
He turned to look at Trey, and the [Bloodglass Mage] opened his mouth a second before finding words to respond.
“I…have never had that problem in my life.”
Laughter ran around the tent as the Seven relaxed. Even Flos smiled at that, eyes lighting up. And that was the value of Trey, more than his magic, or Minizi.
Make the King of Destruction smile. Keep him out of his funks, which the others feared would see him go into his slumber again. It worried them. It was the one crack in Mars’ armor, the one thing Takhatres seemed to fear.
Flos Reimarch needed constant things to strive for, and this war was exhausting—more so than Jecrass or Hellios or Belchan had been. He palpably resented having to fight lower-caste Stitch-folk sent to die for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, which Trey gave him credit for. But neither would he relent after Nerrhavia’s Fallen had attacked Reim and killed Maresar. Without the ability to end the war in a single stroke, he became—like this.
“Sex. I suppose I’m just no longer young, then. I realized, at some point, I didn’t enjoy more than the act itself in most cases. There were only a few women who ever caught my attention so strongly, and the last—”
He broke off, and Gazi closed her eyes. Amerys sighed, and Takhatres fidgeted. Orthenon’s face didn’t change, but he shifted a step, and Mars looked away. Flos stared into the distance, took a sip of wine, and sighed.
“Well, she could have conquered Nerrhavia’s Fallen by herself.”
And what were you supposed to say to that? The Earthers in the back, Lloyd, Elena, Maximilian, Alanna—just over a dozen, minus George—all looked uncomfortable. Some were pleased to be away from Wistram and amidst all this wealth. Some resented Trey.
Elena was the only one so far that Trey thought of as individually unique. She had caught the eye of the Quarass and Flos, but she probably hated him most of all. The Earthers were silent, and the Seven—
Someone nudged Trey, and he looked up as Amerys’ [Mage Hand] spell vanished. She grimaced, tilted her head, and he saw one of Gazi’s eyes was staring at him. And Takhatres, who jerked his head.
Do something.
What was Trey, a walking clown? A fool and a jester? He tried to think of something to say—and as luck would have it, Teresa interrupted, completely selfish.
“Flos. When are you going to give me a command of [Soldiers]? If you won’t let me join the vanguard, give me something to do. Or Trey will continue passing me!”
Trey stared at his twin.
Where Trey Atwood looked older, with a scar across his throat, a Lifesand Golem with blood-red eyes and teeth at his side, leaning on a staff, a [Mastermind] who had sacrificed lives to free the Archmage of Chandrar, with an oath of vengeance against A’ctelios Salash—
Teresa Atwood was different. Classes changed you, and she had begun to look like some heroine from stories. Begun, because while she stood tall, her hair had actually begun to look redder, and she seemed like a warrior of the deserts, she wasn’t at Venith Crusland’s level. Let alone any of the Seven’s.
Flos broke out of his memories with a jolt and eyed Teresa. He sighed.
“You’ll die.”
“Or level.”
The King of Destruction shook his head.
“No, you’ll die. I’m a judge of warriors if nothing else, Teresa. You have a battle lust I remember from my youth. It was my fault for not noticing, I suppose, but your ego’s outstripped your sword skill.”
Teresa flushed angrily.
“Then let me fail or triumph!”
Orthenon bowed, looking rarely embarrassed by her outbursts as he glared at Teresa, whom he’d taught to use the sword.
“I take responsibility for her tutelage, Your Majesty.”
“No…it’s natural. And I don’t intend to stifle Teresa. But she is my servant, and she’ll be marked a hundred times as a foe to capture or kill. I’ve heard your complaints, Teresa. I have a solution. You will have your chance to prove yourself as a great warrior of Chandrar.”
Teresa’s looked delighted, and Trey gave Flos a suspicious glance. Teresa had been hounding the King of Destruction for months about this, ever since the siege of Reim, apparently. Was he going to let her get herself killed? Even if he disagreed with her immensely, Trey wouldn’t want—he wouldn’t allow that.
“Your Majesty?”
The same concern was palpable on Orthenon’s face. He strode over, and Flos whispered in his ear. Trey tried to listen in, but the silence spell gave him nothing. He just saw Orthenon blink, relax, give Flos a dubious nod, then a smile.
“—the best. The worst that can be said is ‘no’.”
“If they agree.”
“They will. It’s another force I thought might come running to my side, and if nothing else, they deserve to give me this.”
“In that case, I withdraw my objections, Your Majesty. It should prove very interesting if aught comes of it. Teresa shall have her chance.”
Orthenon bowed, stepped back, and Mars instantly nudged him because she clearly had no idea what was going on. He ignored her, but his eyes flicked to Trey for one minute.
Great. More Flos plans. Trey didn’t like it. But before they got to the surprise, the King of Destruction seemed to relax.
“Ah. Perhaps today shall be the best day of the year…well, one of the finest this long year. Orthenon, we’ve kept my guests waiting far too long. Send them in!”
He rose, and Trey’s head turned as the [Steward] stepped out of the tent. Then—he saw the King of Destruction rise to his feet.
Flos Reimarch smiled suddenly. One moment a maudlin [King]—the next, invigorated. His beard, red with Terandrian royalty and flecked with gold in places, seemed to bristle, and his chest expanded as he held out his arms.
Who could provoke such a greeting? Did they even deserve it? Gazi’s eyes swung to the entrance, and she smiled for some reason. Trey peered at a group of people he vaguely recognized. Hadn’t he heard they were here?
Oh yes. He knew them too.
The Horns of Hammerad.
They entered the tent slowly, preceded by Orthenon, who introduced them. A tall, lanky [Necromancer] with pale-white robes and a rapier at his side, visibly uneasy. A smiling man with two shortswords on his hips and who gave Trey an uneasy feeling, despite being as polite as could be. A woman with silver arms, who wore the fakest smile in creation, and a half-Elf whose grin was genuine and whose circlet made Amerys and Trey twitch for reasons he didn’t know.
Gazi’s eyes locked onto the faces of Pisces, Ceria, Colth, and Yvlon. And the King of Destruction?
He beamed, strode across the ground, and before the introductions were even complete, swept one of the Horns up in a huge bear hug.
“Horns of Hammerad, we meet again! Well met, friends!”
Ceria Springwalker’s feet left the ground, and she squeaked as he embraced her. Yvlon Byres visibly recoiled, her arms beginning to morph—Takhatres caught her arm. She stared at his eyes and went still.
Pisces nearly leapt back, and Colth recoiled before smiling—but Flos was just swinging Ceria around. He turned, laughing.
“My Seven! Friends, vassals—why in Rhir’s hells are we in here? Come, come!”
Then he strode out of the tent with Ceria under his arm. By now, some of the other vassals had arrived, and Mirin of Parasol Stroll, Jelaim of Serpent Hunters, and even Zamea of the Nomads of the Sky had begun to head towards the tent to join the meeting.
They found Flos outside carrying a very nervous Ceria under one arm. Soldiers, veterans of Reim, his subjects, and his vassals all gathered around as Flos Reimarch put Ceria down.
“These are the Horns of Hammerad!”
Takhatres instantly muttered as he followed Flos outside.
“Who?”
He was not impressed. Nor were most people; Gold-rank adventurers weren’t exactly high-level in Reim. And yet—Flos knew them. From a moment Trey remembered too, like a fever dream.
Sand at Sea. King Fetohep, sailing to Izril with multiple rulers and an army to fight a battle even he couldn’t fully articulate. Rasea Zecrew, being press-ganged into joining them. Fighting Drakes and Gnolls in a land he didn’t know—
And Teresa had missed it. No wonder she got mad.
“Ceria Springwalker, you look—well, actually, much more defined than the last time I saw you. I think my eyes were burned. How are you doing?”
“Uh—well, Your Majesty? Hi.”
Trey had heard Ceria Springwalker was something of a rogue, something of an imp. The Ice Squirrel herself; he’d studied up on her when he knew she was coming. But being hugged by the King of Destruction seemed to have unnerved even her.
“How are the Crossroads of Izril? No, wait…the war at sea. You’ll tell me about both. What’s your class?”
“I—uh—uh—[Arctic Cryomancer]. Same as last time.”
“Really? No new classes? After all that?”
Zamea was staring down at Ceria. A thirty-foot-tall woman, leaning on a hammer that dwarfed the half-Elf…Ceria’s eyes drifted up, then met Flos’ beaming face. Trey knew how that felt. The words blurted out of Ceria’s mouth.
“I actually just got a new class! [Trickster of Crowns].”
Flos’ cheeks bulged as he took a huge drink of water, but he didn’t expectorate. He swallowed, then laughed hugely in delight.
“[Trickster of Crowns]! Hah! Someone keep mine safe! This is the same half-Elf who spat all over me at sea and kept referring to me as ‘bandage man’ and ‘Fetohep’s cousin’. You imp—this is my overdue payback.”
He put her in a headlock and began messing up her hair with one hand as Ceria spluttered. Trey winced, but he did grin as he saw the other Horns look at Flos in dismay.
Oh no. He liked them.
Poor adventurers.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet wasn’t sure what he’d expected as a reception from Flos. Something official, weighty, and extremely dangerous if they offended the King of Destruction, he had feared.
He had forgotten what the man was like. Scrying orbs didn’t convey the full weight of being around the King of Destruction. It wasn’t a desire to kneel—rather, a kind of infectious personality that made you want to hang on his word, impress the man.
When he smiled, you wanted to. It was like Erin’s charisma, but if hers was more subtle at times, his was overpowering. And he was, right now, giving Ceria’s head a noogie.
Noogieing? Pisces had only heard it in the context of Kevin and Erin, so he wasn’t sure if it was an appropriate verb, but that was what was going on.
“And this is for vomiting on me. And I distinctly recall you stealing a snack off my plate. And this is because I find it highly amusing!”
The half-Elf was protesting, begging to be let go—and Flos kept laughing as Ceria’s face grew redder and redder. His vassals were chortling too—until Flos’ arm leapt off Ceria with a mild oath.
“Frost Giant’s balls, that’s cold!”
He shook out the arm and dropped Ceria, who scrambled up and away from Flos. Pisces jolted and saw the King of Destruction ruefully shaking off a layer of frost on his clothing.
She’d cast a frost spell on the King of Destruction? Pisces was in urgent need of the restroom. Even for Ceria, that was crazy!
The reaction of the vassals was instantaneous. Orthenon developed a frown like thunder, and Gazi twitched. Pisces saw one of her five eyes flick to Ceria. Then to him.
