It was such a flurry of activity, transferring to the magical carriage, trying to ask questions of the other two, that Pisces didn’t realize Mars had vanished for a good while.
The first thing he noticed was that the entire carriage was magic. He was so agog by it that the others had to pull him inside.
“Pure mana construction! It’s a summoned vehicle? Is it safe? How hasn’t it lost cohesion?”
“Solid mana, Pisces. I know, it’s crazy. I think it’s mostly air magic with a bit of other stuff mixed in. Look at this.”
Ceria tugged Pisces into the carriage, and he saw it was all interior space. No driver’s space; the magical horses began to canter the moment the door was slammed, and a voice was playing from a scrying orb in the center of the carriage, set in the center of a table.
“Hello, riders of Wistram’s Magical Carriage Service, courtesy of the Terras faction! This vehicle is operating out of its designated location. Your fee is one hundred and twelve gold coins, six silver, and has been temporarily waived due to <REASONS OF KING OF DESTRUCTION>. Please relax and enjoy the ride! This service is in prototype testing, any errors, accidents, or concerns should be forwarded to Magus Rievan, Wistram Academy— ”
“This is insane.”
Colth stared at the carriage as it began to move, and Yvlon gestured at a bunch of blankets and pillows that Ceria had flopped into.
“We’ve been in this thing for two days straight. Mars hardly let us rest.”
“She told us to piss out the windows. Now there’s a woman who’s even more direct than Yvlon. She rode into Medain, spanked High King Perric, and said she wanted to get back to fight a battle with Flos! I stole Perric’s crown. So, how’ve you two been?”
Ceria was eating out of a box of dried chips. Pisces rubbed at his face. Then his chest.
“A giant kicked me. Are those chips?”
“It came with the carriage. Want some?”
“Please.”
“Colth? How are you? Why did it take you so long to get to Chandrar? I walked, and I got here a week before you.”
Yvlon frowned at Colth, but she raised a fist, and he bumped it.
“It was all Pisces’ fault.”
“Reanimating the ship was your plan!”
Pisces exploded, showering chips everywhere. They began to point fingers at each other and shout. Ceria and Yvlon listened, both interjecting comments now and then.
“—And then the King of Duels brought us to—”
“—he can’t even figure out how his new [Manufacture Stellar Ivory] Skill works.”
“The Quarass knows about Colth! And Bearig and the others—”
“Hey, guys, I think Wistram can spy on us via the scrying orb. The half-Elves sucked.”
“I found a new way to introduce myself. Neither of us slept with Perric.”
“—kicked the Quarass a thousand feet! Undead horses! With a saddle—”
Somehow, between arguing whose fault certain things were, insane comments that demanded explanations, and laughter—they figured out where the others had been. At some point, Pisces found himself trying to punch at Colth as Yvlon patted him on the arm, and Colth was trying to map out the route both groups had taken as the Ceria laughed and scarfed down snacks at the same time.
Then he realized he was smiling. Pisces stopped, looked at the others, and exhaled.
“That took less time than before. If only Ksmvr were here.”
The others stopped laughing, sat back down, and Yvlon rubbed at her face.
“I just hope he’s safe. He has to be. Vofea too. When are we leaving?”
Ceria chewed, frowning.
“After meeting the King of Destruction. And here I thought we had met too many rulers. Why do they all want a piece of us?”
Rubbing at his hair, Colth shrugged.
“Hazards of being famous. Which we are, thanks to the television. It reminds me of when Mihaela was named the Courier of Izril. She couldn’t sneeze without getting an invitation to meet someone important. The Five Families, the Walled Cities’ rulers—she had attractive people throwing themselves all over her, [Merchants] wanting to cut deals—we’ve sort of made a name for doing the impossible.”
“You say ‘we’, but you mean the Horns with Ksmvr, right?”
Pisces sniffed, trying his best to look superior as possible, and Colth gave him a long stare.
“Oh, I’m sorry. I forgot I’m the rookie as the Named-rank adventurer. I apologize, oh great and powerful Pisces. Hey, Yvlon, Ceria. Want to know something Pisces didn’t mention about our trip?”
Yvlon just raised her brows—she had been patting Pisces on the shoulder since he relayed the attempt to remove his class, and Ceria leaned forward, eyes gleaming.
“Something interesting, Colth?”
The [Supporter] gave Pisces an evil smile, but Pisces didn’t understand what Colth had on him. He hadn’t done anything that stupid. Had he?
“As a matter of fact—you know the Arbiter Queen? Jecaina of Jecrass? She was all over Pisces while we were at the palace. Private duels and everything, and he flubbed it.”
Pisces went red and began to splutter. Ceria’s chortles became hiccups, and Yvlon shrugged. Colth started laughing with Ceria, and Pisces howled.
“You said it was a bad idea! You said—”
A chip bounced off his head. Colth roared back.
“I was giving you hints, you idiot! I had your back the entire way down, and you didn’t even land a single point!”
Jecaina? Had she really—and he’d ridden off and—Pisces stared at Colth. Then he tried to murder him. Lightly. Yvlon kept the two apart with her metal hands until she started laughing. Then Ceria handed Pisces a crown with amazing, gleaming jewels, like a crown of the sea, and he stared at the magic contained within.
“Like my new hat? It’s not quite as good as this one.”
She indicated the circlet on her brow, and Pisces stared at the Crown of the High King of Medain. He gazed at it, then at Ceria and Yvlon.
“I thought you made that part up.”
The two of them slowly shook their heads. Pisces’ hands began to get sweaty.
“Dead gods, you two. Can’t you stay out of trouble for one minute?”
They gave him such outraged looks that he instantly switched subjects. And then they were on their way to meet the scariest ruler of all.
The King of Destruction.
It helped that all of them except Colth had met him before. Pisces only realized why Colth kept biting his fingernails after an hour. Then everyone made fun of the [Supporter]. Right up until they all recalled that they’d made fun of the mysterious bandaged man on the ship all the way to Izril.
…Which was fine. He probably didn’t hold grudges. Right?
 
——
 
Each time the blades rose, the steel stained deeper crimson. A standard burned as another rose higher, the sigils of the King’s Seven upon it. Horns blew, and a drum beat across another battlefield as Stitch-folk backed away from an advancing line of [Soldiers].
You would think, at some point, Nerrhavia’s Fallen would simply run out of bodies to throw into this slaughter.
They did. Or at least, local regions could run out of available [Soldiers] not shattered, run low on equipment and be forced to surrender wholesale. It was one of the reasons why the King of Destruction chose to take on armies that outnumbered his. And they all did.
They were four-to-one today. The wind was hot, churned by ozone and lightning. The battle was going ill for Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Just one of the Seven. Kill one of them or kill the King of Reim. It was like a kind of puzzle that the [Generals] of the Court of Steel in Tyrant’s Rest were playing. They’d send an army devoted solely to a core of [Lightning Mages] whose goal it was to kill Takhatres and his Garuda, or an [Archer] battalion equipped with homing arrows.
The problem was that they were up against the most complete version of Reim yet. Not just Mars or Orthenon or Gazi alone—
Flos Reimarch, Gazi the Omniscient, Amerys the Calm Flower, and Takhatres, Lord of the Skies, had taken to the field.
Four of them, not even counting lesser vassals. And you should count them—the eastern flank was collapsing under the weight of that grim vanguard.
“Flee or perish! No mercy for the slayers of Maresar, the Bandit Lord!”
A [Herald] was shouting across the field as lightning bolts crashed down, sending Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s mages running. A laughing woman was floating high overhead, trading spells with [High Mages]. An Archmage versus gnats.
Someone had snuck behind enemy lines and beheaded several officers; Takhatres was sweeping around the battlefield, eliminating chariot and rider groups. Which meant it was a clash of infantry-on-infantry in the east. The center was being held down by the King of Destruction, and the western flank was advancing, trying to relieve the pressure on their comrades.
East was breaking fast. They had a ravine and higher ground, but Reim’s elites were being led by a [Lord] who flew a standard of his own.
Venith Crusland accepted no surrender. Any [Soldier] his vanguard ran into died. He strode forwards, grim-faced, followed by that bloodsoaked force as the drums beat louder.
Yet another battle. How many since Flos Reimarch had woken up had he personally taken part in? A hundred? Two hundred? This one would be a particularly bitter defeat if Nerrhavia’s Fallen were to quit the field; break the armies here and they might lose as many as six cities before their troops could sweep back.
They might take them back, but by then, Reim’s [Soldiers] would be holding the walls, forcing a costly siege. Worse, if the King of Destruction personally upgraded a city, the odds of taking it became faint.
Something had to give. Flos Reimarch had barely advanced a tenth of the way into Nerrhavia’s Fallen, past their northern forts, and he did pay for those steps in the blood of his people, but one of Chandrar’s superpowers was struggling to mount a credible defense against him.
Perhaps it was the war with Tiqr and the loss of General Thelican. Or the war with Illivere and Pomle.
Or maybe it was disunity in the Court of Steel that prevented them from bringing the full might of their forces to bear, too determined to keep valuable forces loyal to each [General] alive to commit them.
Or maybe it was the rumors of a plague of metal insects within the great nation itself.
It might have been the lack of courage among the Hemp and Cotton; rumors of their desertions had become so concerning that the Court of Silks had authorized battlefield executions of family for desertion and small rewards for bravery, including potential elevation to higher grades of cloth.
The battle was turning ill on the eastern flank, but it was also clear that the King of Destruction had committed his finest forces there. The western front could actually see wounded [Soldiers] standing to attention, and they were gathering for a crushing charge.
—Then the first rank of Stitch-folk faltered, their raised golden shields shifting like a cloud of golden beetles as a figure rode towards their side of the field. Heads rose, and the thud of boots turned to unsteady pattering. Then a halt.
The King of Destruction halted at the front of his soldiers on the western flank. Several arrows sang towards him, but two stopped in the air, frozen by a personal spell, and a young woman with a sword cut a third out of the sky with a flourish of her blade.
Flos Reimarch paid no attention to the arrows. He studied the oncoming soldiers—then raised his hand.
“Warriors of Reim, no quarter, no mercy!”
A roar rose from behind the King of Destruction. [Soldiers] raised their blades, and a furious howl emerged from the throats behind him. Chandrar’s greatest [King] drew a sword and pointed it across the field. The Stitch-folk stared at him. The King of Destruction’s eyes smoked with wrath even from afar.
“For Maresar—wet Chandrar’s soil with blood! Charge—CHARGE!”
He seemed to grow larger and larger as the Stitch-folk [Soldiers] cowered behind their shields. Like a stormcloud, emerald-green eyes and hair made of flames bursting forwards, rising taller until he could crush all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen in a blow.
The forces on the western flank braced, heedless of the voices screeching through the speaking stones at them to maneuver—all but two of the officers were cowering, and the two capable of movement were wide-eyed, nerveless—
He hadn’t moved. Instead, his soldiers had backed up, following Venith’s drive into the enemy ranks.
A javelin went through three ranks of [Soldiers], tossed by the King of Destruction himself. The impact tossed one of the Stitch-folk around, and she stared at her missing arm with an open mouth as she lay on the ground.
The rest of her comrades fled, and Flos Reimarch lowered his arm. He spoke in a quieter voice, deactivating his speaking spell. He checked the western flank, then saw Venith had taken the entire pass already. One tilt of the head took in Garuda screaming curses as they harried a fleeing group of chariots, and the King of Destruction said one word.
“Rout.”
He called it about six minutes before the [Soldiers]’ nerve broke. Despite their clear advantage in numbers, the Stitch-folk threw down their weapons and fled, even the ones who hadn’t done anything but watch.
The King of Destruction checked the sky. It was just past midday; he reached down and grabbed someone as they tried to run past him to harry the fleeing [Soldiers].
Teresa Atwood struggled—before Flos tossed her back through the air. Her brother had the sense to stay with the [Mages], but she’d stayed with Flos’ forces, rather than Venith’s, throughout the battle and hadn’t seen so much as a single engagement. Flos turned his head and saw Earthers watching far to the rear; none of them had the stomach for battle.
The King of Destruction leaned on the pommel of his saddle and exhaled. He had a theory as to why the battles went so well for him: Nerrhavia’s Fallen sent no champions. No great [Generals] or [Warriors] or even [Mages] wanted to try their luck against the King’s Seven. They sent in chaff, poor Stitch-folk of lower castes, and hoped they could win by sheer weight of numbers.
A single fake charge and morale collapsed. When he looked overhead, Flos could see Amerys floating over the fleeing soldiers, head propped on one elbow, lounging in the air. He couldn’t make out her exact features, but he would bet she wore a discontented look; she hadn’t even bothered continuing to throw lightning bolts at the enemy as they fled.
He could not see Gazi or Takhatres—and the Lord of the Skies was too diligent anyways—but Flos Reimarch bet the rest of the Seven had the same feeling as him.
He heaved a huge sigh, and the King of Destruction yawned as the drumbeats died down.
“Dead gods, but I am weary of this.”
The King of Destruction was so disappointed that when his vassals found him, he was taking a nap next to his horse.
 
——
 
