There was a certain…artificial quality to the voice. Something theoretically possible with a Skill, but even the drums and other instruments were being used in ways the adventurers had only heard in one other place:
The Wandering Inn.
Colth’s face wrinkled up with the unfamiliar sound, but Pisces and Ceria began elbowing each other as they approached. The people in the camp seemed fascinated, just like Liscorians had been when they’d first run into the music. Some were bouncing on their feet to the song, and it was certainly a merry one. Pisces thought he’d even heard this one before.
I Gotta Feeling by the Black Eyed Peas. Colth’s jaw dropped.
“This is surreal.”
 
——
 
Yvlon was still focused on the festival itself. She saw a [Merchant] wearing purple, silk robes eagerly holding out song crystals with the Singer of Terandria’s music on them. He was trying to sell to a [Soldier] who still had dried blood on her armor.
“Fresh from Terandria! No? Can I interest the brave warriors of Reim in a—a full cauldron’s worth of gelato? Mint!”
The [Merchant] was clearly new to this place. Some of the [Traders] were giving him an amused look, and the eager Human’s sunburned face turned confused when one of the [Soldiers] laughed.
“Mint? D’you have anything more interesting, fellow? It’ll do if you’ve got nothing better, but His Majesty sends that sort of stuff to the camps at his whim. ‘Twas an entire month when you’d have it nonstop until he grew so sick he banned the sight of it! But here? Are these song crystals new?”
She picked up one and played it, adding to the cacophony. The [Merchant] swallowed, but the [Soldier]’s face lit up.
“Of course! Fresh from the Singer herself! And I—I would be only too happy to donate the gelato to the celebrations!”
That was a brave move. Yvlon wondered if the [Merchant] was afraid of offending the King of Destruction’s warriors, but as it turned out, someone seemed to have given him some friendly advice.
At his words, every person in earshot instantly came over. Without hesitation, they broke open nearly a dozen vats of preserved ice cream and began grabbing song crystals. They were doing the same at other stalls, Yvlon realized. No one was asking for a price, and [Traders] had goods in open bins.
There were people cooking food outside, and the smells made Yvlon’s stomach grumble. She was hungry from days of travel rations in the damned carriage. She reached for a money pouch until she saw no one was paying for that either.
Why? If the King of Destruction expected all this for free, Yvlon doubted a [Merchant] would be coming here willingly. She had suspicions for all of a minute. Until the woman who’d been asking about the song crystals burst into a smile.
“Now that’s a fair gift for the camp! You’re a right sort, man! Here—for your troubles! I took a better one in battle.”
She reached to her side and produced a blade from her waist. There were three swords at her side, and Yvlon saw her present the [Merchant] with a bloody blade that glittered with magic. The [Merchant] almost recoiled—then took the sword with a nervous smile.
“How generous!”
“Eh, thank Nerrhavia’s Fallen for the bounty! Here, who’s got something to give? Didn’t we find that [General]’s war tent? Give this fellow a chest of gold so he’ll be back!”
Casually, the [Soldier] wandered off and a few moments later came back with a chest that was indeed full of gold. Probably a [Quartermaster]’s stock for paying army wages. The [Merchant]’s eyes lit up, and the [Soldier] reassured him.
“There’ll be more at the end. If we like what you’ve got, you’ll get more. So open up those stocks, fellow! The King of Destruction’s in a good mood! He’s even of a mind to give away some flying carpets!”
Then Yvlon saw it. [Traders] were pocketing bracelets of semi-precious gemstones, accepting looted weapons or valuables in exchange for more unique goods, but the rest were just turning out what they had in hopes of a treasure haul.
And they would get that. The army of Reim was in full swing, and even people without much to offer, like an excited boy, could run into the crowds and emerge with a handful of gold.
“Dead gods. So this is the train of treasures they said followed the King of Destruction around all his campaign!”
Pisces was just as agog as Yvlon. The music was pulsing through the air, and as Yvlon watched, a cloud of Garuda flying overhead accidentally sprayed some people below with wine; they were drinking mid-flight.
Curses rose from below, but the entire Garuda flock dodged as someone came hurtling through the air on a flying carpet. Two dove and plucked a screaming figure off the carpet a second before it hit the ground.
In fact, Yvlon realized that she had lost everyone but Pisces when she turned her head. The [Necromancer] was eying some of the stuff on display, clearly wondering if he could have some.
“Let’s introduce ourselves to the King of Destruction first, eh, Pisces?”
He started and gave her a guilty look, but Yvlon assured him.
“I want some too, but we’re on our best behavior.”
“Agreed. It was just—Ceria! Colth!”
The half-Elf had a double handful of skewers of meat. She handed them out as Colth appeared with a mug of ale for everyone.
“What? I’m sure he won’t mind! Come on, Yvlon, this is great!”
“They’re still covered in blood, you insane, frozen chipmunk.”
Yvlon hissed at Ceria. She hadn’t missed that Reim had just won some kind of battle. One of the [Soldiers] had a huge, bloody scar running down his face, but he was drinking and laughing with his buddies. Colth’s eyes glinted as he looked around.
“Well, don’t offend them. They’re noticing us, Yvlon.”
It was true. More than one [Soldier] immersed in the partying had looked around, even when they hadn’t spotted the Horns, as if an animal instinct had told them someone dangerous was about. Yvlon saw the scarred warrior turn, put a hand to a single-edged sword, and grin.
“Who’s this, now? Adventurers? New recruits? Come on, the celebration’s not begun! While we wait for the comet to break open, let’s have a duel like the old times!”
He had grey hair, Yvlon now saw, and he was a Stitch-man. Possibly in his sixties? But he flowed towards them, and Pisces instantly put a hand on his rapier’s hilt.
“Come on, Loxeh, don’t bully newcomers. Besides, we don’t have the healing potions to put you or them together!”
To the Horns’ relief, someone intercepted the [Swordsman], and the disappointed [Soldier] went back to drinking. Colth felt at the back of his neck as he waved at a group of veterans.
“Okay. That fellow set off my [Dangersense]. Not hard, but I’m guessing he’s Level 30 or higher. Definitely an expert. They’re everywhere.”
Yvlon nodded tightly as she began striding through the camp, as much to keep moving as to avoid a repeat of that situation. She hadn’t felt this many high-level combatants anywhere, even Invrisil’s Adventurer’s Guild!
They passed by a group of [Mages] with brightly-colored umbrellas who were standing in a knee-deep…pool of water? Yes! They’d conjured a hundred square feet of water and were relaxing in it, out of the heat of Chandrar’s day. One tipped up a hat and eyed Ceria and Pisces.
“Cryomancer. Necromancer. Hallo, you two! Have a drink with Parasol Stroll?”
He waved, and Pisces jumped. Ceria just waved back.
“Not yet! Where did you get the drinks?”
“Over yonder. Got any ice magic? Almost all of us don’t practice it. Magus Mirin! Ice Mage!”
A woman with a hat standing in the center of the pool turned. She spotted Ceria and waved a hand. A huge orb of water, bright and pure, rose from the pool. Ceria blinked—then focused. Yvlon saw ice run over the globe of water slowly, then accelerating until the entire orb turned to ice.
“Cheers!”
The [Mage] raised a cup, and Magus Mirin split the orb into pieces—for their drinks. Accordingly, people rushed over for the ice, and Ceria turned to Yvlon, a bit breathless.
“Dead gods. They’re all capable [Mages].”
“That was a test?”
The half-Elf nodded without a word. As they wandered closer to the comet through the camp, it seemed to have finished smoking. It revealed three half-Giants standing around it, hammering a huge piton of stone on the top of it. Yvlon could see hundreds of people around the base of the comet energetically hammering on it.
It looked black and molten from the heat, but even from afar, she could see odd veins of metal running through it and, in one section, sootstained, green, translucent crystal. Then one of the half-Giants scored a blow, and a chunk fell away, revealing a swathe of shimmering metal that provoked a huge roar of delight. Then shouts of alarm.
“It’s still molten! Back, back!”
A river of something dark green oozed from a chunk of the comet. Instantly, the [Mages] of Parasol Stroll rose to their feet. Mirin cursed.
“That looks to be Grasgil! Those idiots—Grand Magus Esiela, Palke! With me!”
They cast [Speed] and blurred towards the falling Grasgil, levitating it up before it could stain the sands. Yvlon kept staring as the cheering grew louder, and Colth grabbed Pisces’ arm.
“Pisces! Look! I’ll swear, that’s Dragonblood crystal in there! Like a geode!”
The same stuff Numbtongue’s sword was made of? It looked like there was enough for a hundred swords! Red crystal glinted within, and Yvlon wondered how much the smiths of House Byres or Pelt himself would be drooling over this haul.
“Pisces? Feel anything from the comet?”
“…No.”
The [Necromancer] was frowning as Yvlon turned to him. That surprised Yvlon; she had thought this would trigger something. Was it just a coincidence?
Pisces can’t just call down meteors with his Skill. Right? But then, how the hells does it work? [Mage] Skills were so—confusing. Yvlon only jerked her attention away from the comet when the music that had been blasting through the camp stopped abruptly.
They were nearing the center of the camp, and the source of the Earther-music had been coming from a single device enchanted to be loud enough for an entire festival.
A young man was holding a smartphone as he fumbled with it. He was surrounded by a few other interesting Humans—all around the same age and with something of the same wide-eyed look the Horns of Hammerad wore.
But the rest of the people around them were soldiers. Soldiers and, Yvlon noted, musicians.
[Trumpeters], [Drummers]—the kind of people who worked in an army. They had been listening to the music with great interest, but a clear kind of rivalry. The music of Earth that was so fascinating to most people of this world was being critically inspected by one of the [Drummers].
He was a Stitch-man, but he had bright, white stitches around his sun-browned limbs, and his hair was spiked, pale white—not with age, but dyed. His long arms held two metal sticks wrapped with leather, aged and worn, over an equally battered, massive drum.
[War Drummer] or something. Now that the music had died down, the fellow was speaking in a clear, carrying tone.
“Earthman Lloyd. That’s not a bad song. But it’s more fit for a party than a festival.”
“It’s Earther Lloyd, uh, Drummer Medacium. What’s the difference?”
The [Drummer] snorted.
“A festival’s got to have more weight to it. Blood’s been shed, even if it wasn’t a battle for the records. Nor is that the same as watching someone play afore your very eyes. Here, you stand there. Our turn.”
So saying, he stood over his drums and nodded to a duo of younger [Drummers]. They were young, but this man had to be…fifty? Forty at the least. The hair was throwing Yvlon. She watched as he raised his drumsticks.
Krakkatatatat!
The very first thing he did was rap the sticks along the edge of the drum, where wood met the stretched leather. The sound was loud, made the Earthers jump, and turned heads his way.
“Come hither, soldiers of Reim! Time to show Our Majesty’s guests how to celebrate like warriors of Chandrar! Who’ll dance for us first?”
Medacium called out, and no sooner did he speak than he had fourteen eager figures, all but two very young, leaping forwards into a ring of onlookers. The [Drummer] gave them an approving nod, then began to play.
Duun. Du-du-du-du-dun—
He didn’t grab another pair of sticks, but his drumsticks visibly changed until he was holding padded mallets which produced the heavier reverberations. Slowly, at first, then with increasing speed, he began to play, echoed by his helpers.
Deliberately, in the center of the ring of people, the [Soldiers] placed one step, then another, some holding swords, others just holding their arms up. Each time the mallet hit the drum, they took a step.
Dundundundundundun—
The drums sped up, and accordingly, so did the movements of the dancers. They weren’t following any one pattern Yvlon saw, though many did seem to have a specific way to step and raise their arms and move their feet.
However, the main goal was, apparently, to dance to the rhythm of the drums when the [Drummers] went at it. That was fast.
Dun-de-dun-dundedundedundedunde—-
Now they were going faster, and dust clouds were rising around Medacium’s drum as he began to play faster—and louder. Yvlon was reminded of the times she’d seen Pelt forging, but the sound was deeper and far more musical.
The first [Soldier] who couldn’t keep up was ejected from the dancers to jeers and laughter. Then another. And another.
Soon, there were only five left, three of them Human, another Garuda, the last Stitch-folk. Yvlon realized one of the Humans was getting cheers.
“Go, Teresa! Holy fuck, look at her!”
Some of the Earthers were pointing to a young woman holding a single-bladed sword aloft. She had tanned skin, the kind you got from repeated sunburns, and she wore the same clothing and armor as the rest of the [Soldiers], but she looked more Izrilian or Terandrian than the rest. In fact…Yvlon thought she recognized Teresa from somewhere.
Where? Erin’s [World’s Eye Theatre]? But that meant—
With even more interest, Yvlon saw the [Lead Drummer]’s eyes twinkle. And if she thought they had set a fast tempo before—his drumsticks reverted from mallets to normal, and for a second, he slowed.
Tic, tic, tic—he was grinning as he tapped the side of his drum. The [Soldiers], panting, slowed, and they wore a look of determined resignation.
Tictictictictictictic—
Medacium was speeding up. One of the dancers dropped out, then two, as the rest had to strike their heels and feet to the ground almost in the same spot to keep up. Now it wasn’t about how you could dance, but just how fast your feet could hit the ground.
