By now, the Red Commander had regenerated enough to make a sound. He laughed in triumph, despite the pain that must have wracked his body; he was used to pain, it seemed, and practically revelled in it. Only the sheer, visceral nature of the attacks Torment's Shadow used was able to break through that apathy, and now his threshold had simply risen to accommodate.

"What's wrong?" the Red Commander mocked. "Worried about two kids? I have to admit, you did manage to scare me, but you still can't kill me—"

Torment's Shadow silenced him with a blast of spiritual pressure, which was one of the newer functions of its new form, and one the Red Commander still hadn't figured out how to counter. His eyes bulged as he struggled against it, and for a moment, the tendrils around the captive goats retracted. That was enough for a quick blast of cleansing fire to burn away any converted flesh.

The goats shrieked and scattered.

Torment's Shadow ignored the chaos. It needed a solution, but it wasn't capable of one, and the nature of the transformative spell it was using didn't quite allow him to change. It needed to close the gate, but for that, it needed to know who Cale Cadwell Cobbs was; the problem was that it had been fighting for—what, days?

It didn't remember who it had been.

And then its eyes settled on the littler spiderling's abandoned pack of supplies. The pack had spilled open when her brother pulled her back, and out of that pack rolled a simple loaf of bread.

Torment's Shadow stared. Something within it flickered, and then it remembered the echoes of an apprentice's words.

"I'm going to learn some baking magic when you come back," Damien told him earnestly. "Or before you come back, if you take too long. That way, when you're back, we can do some baking magic together."

There was a plea in that, wasn't there?

Torment's Shadow blinked one last time, and Cale Cadwell Cobbs opened his eyes, the last of the Twilight Gate's effects flaking off his skin like ash. Now human again, there was nothing stopping the power of the Red Commander's spell from grabbing his flesh and trying to transform him into yet another avatar.

Cale grinned. "You know," he said. "It just occurred to me. I forgot to warn you."

The Red Commander seemed struck by Cale's sudden change. He narrowed his eyes warily. "What are you talking about?"

"It's just, you know," Cale said. He stuck his hands in his pockets, affecting a sheepish demeanor. "This isn't the first time a hive mind tried to assimilate me, you know? And yeah, you're not really a hive mind, but that's what that spell is trying to do."

The Red Commander frowned, uncomprehending.

"Do you know what happens to a hive mind when its core gets overwhelmed?" Cale asked, his tone conversational. The Red Commander's eyes widened, and the spell snapped off—

Far too late.

Cale Cadwell Cobbs poured his mana straight into the connection his opponent had foolishly opened between them. The Red Commander opened his mouth to snarl and protest, his eyes bulging with impotent rage.

But before he could get even a word out, his mana core shattered and his body collapsed, empty and inert.
