The audience devolves into a clamor of shock and disbelief, evidently reading more into the Abbot’s claim than I do, unless they too are avid floof enthusiasts like myself. Unfortunately, before I can get a real read on why they’re so surprised, the Abbot holds a hand up for silence and the hubbub dies down. “While the Empire at large believes it takes thousands of years before a Spiritual Heart can form, this monk believes this is not the case, at least insofar as animals go. How many thousand-year old beasts can truly be lurking about out in the wild? Nature is cruel, and even the most powerful and dangerous of creatures can succumb to age or disease, so to believe that every creature bearing a Spiritual Heart is thousands of years old would be folly. To prove this, this monk hand raised a clutch of chickens from birth and directed one, which was subsequently named Kukku, to form a Spiritual Heart after only mere decades of life, sixty-three years in total to be exact.”

Aw, in terms of Spiritual Beasts, Kukku is practically a baby… I wonder if Mama Bun is the same. Probably not, since she lacked any and all guidance and is pretty stupid to boot. She might really be thousands of years old, though she’s still my sweet baby floof. Ping Ping and Pong Pong though, they might not be as old as I thought, though Ping Ping is at least eight-hundred years old, since that’s the oldest recorded sighting of her.

While I muse on about the actual age of the animals around me, the Abbot’s declaration has sent the gathered Healers into a tizzy, though no one is brave enough to call the monk a liar. As well they should since it goes against generally accepted knowledge, but I know better than most that what most people think is not necessarily the truth. Still, I ask, “How did you guide a rooster into forming a Spiritual Heart?”

“Another good question, Junior Brother, but first, let us make sure we are all in agreement.” Taking a look around the room, the Abbot asks, “Is there anyone present who cares to voice dissent regarding this monk’s earlier explanation regarding what constitutes a Spiritual Heart?” Since no one speaks up, the Abbot nods and continues, “Thus, we are all in agreement that a Spiritual Heart is simply an object which has absorbed the requisite amount of Heavenly Energy. As such, this monk does not claim to have guided Kukku to form his Spiritual Heart, but merely provided the required Heavenly Energy to do so.”

“Impartation of Heavenly Energy?”

“Impossible. That’s a myth.”

“Does the Brotherhood possess an Elemental Spirit?”

“That makes more sense, but it could also be a natural Heavenly Font, such as the Eternal Flames spewing from Yutian Mountain or the Earthen veins beneath Shen Jin.”

Though the Abbot holds his hand up for silence again, this time it takes the Healers longer to quiet down, and I organize these new tidbits of information for future use. I don’t know what Impartation of Heavenly Energy is, but Elemental Spirits are referring to Blobby’s extended family, while natural fonts are something I’ve heard of, but never actually seen. Taduk claimed they were the source of Heavenly Energy in the world, and they come in many forms, such as the aforementioned eternal flame and Heavenly veins, but also spread by Heavenly winds and congealed into Heavenly waters. Honestly, I thought they were all Blobby variants, but apparently, there’s a difference between Elemental Spirits and Heavenly Fonts, though what that might be, no one is saying.

Once everyone quiets down, the Abbot says, “How the Heavenly Energy was provided, this monk cannot say, for it touches upon secrets this monk is not at liberty to divulge, but the method is neither simple nor entirely effective seeing as Kukku was the only chicken to succeed out of a clutch of hundreds.” Even knowing the low success rates, I’m more tempted than ever to join the Brotherhood. I love eating meat and having a dick, but I would also love to turn all my pets into near-immortal Spiritual Floofs. Shaking his head in cordial regret, the Abbot half-jokes, “Had this monk known beforehand how taxing the ordeal would be, he might have never gone through with the experiment. Regardless, it shows that a Spiritual Heart can form in a shorter time frame, so long as sufficient Heavenly Energy is provided. The question remains, how does one take Heavenly Energy and instill it into one’s bones or organs?” Nodding at Taiyi ZhuShen, the Abbot adds, “This monk believes Healer ZhuShen is best suited to answering this, since his study into body-strengthening medications touches closely upon it.”

Surprised at being handed the baton, the one-eyed Healer strokes his wispy white beard in thought while obviously basking in the spotlight, and everyone else has no choice but to hide their grimaces and wait. After a long and dramatic sigh, Taiyi ZhuShen says, “I must admit, I began my body-strengthening research in hopes of changing the Martial Path as we know it. For beasts, their Spiritual Hearts are often fashioned from their deadliest natural weapon, so if humans were capable of the same, then we would have stalwart warriors with iron skin, steel muscles, and jade bones. Many of my elixirs use Spiritual Plants as ingredients, but to minimal effect if I’m being honest. Akin to using a spear to kill a fly, the costs far outweigh the benefits, but this is not to say there is no benefit at all.” Straightening with pride, he pats his chest and exclaims, “Though my Disciples are far from the strongest Martial Warriors of their generations, they are much hardier than your average soldier, able to ward off mundane steel with bare flesh before Developing their Domains.”

“At the cost of speed and flexibility,” Taokang Geyan points out, and I sense the two old Healers have something of a grudge between them. “Which is the sole reason why they are so lacking compared to their peers. They move like men ten times their age, so you might as well encase them in a mountain of iron for all the good their defenses do.”

“While my methods are not without flaws, I believe we are not here to discuss the validity of body tempering, but rather the formation of Spiritual Hearts.” Huffing with displeasure, Taiyi ZhuShen continues, “As I was saying before I was so rudely interrupted, I based my methods upon the theory that if the human body absorbs enough Heavenly Energy, then it too could form a Spiritual Heart, or at least a quasi-Spiritual Heart. Thus, I set out to create a formula using Spiritual Plants and other ingredients to provide said Heavenly Energy, and have made some small progress in the field, though nothing exceedingly noteworthy.”

“So you’re saying that simply by lathering one’s body in a broth of Spiritual Plants, one can form a Spiritual Heart?” Lishan Suzhen makes no effort to hide her skepticism, though she immediately regrets her decision when she remembers the Abbot claimed Taiyi ZhuShen was the most well-versed in this subject.

Nodding in agreement, the Abbot says, “This is indeed possible, though Healer Geyan is not wrong to claim the process is… less efficient than ideal. That being said, to bring us back to the point at hand, the Spiritual Heart is usually the beast’s most potent weapon, fang, claw, beak, talon, or whatnot. With this being the case, some scholars theorized that humans are incapable of forming a Spiritual Heart because our greatest weapon is not tooth or nail, but rather our minds.”

“...Still haven’t answered my question.” Either of them really, why Spiritual Hearts are named so and how’d the Abbot guide Kukku into forming one.

“Patience is a virtue, Junior Brother.” Almost rolling his eyes in frustration, the Abbot mutters a small prayer before continuing, “You now understand the general idea behind the formation of a Spiritual Heart, correct? Then all that remains is to understand the concept behind them. Core Creation, Aura Condensation, Natal Palace Formation, and Domain Development, these are the milestones along the Martial Path, and it’s widely believed animals largely follow the same path, with only one difference.”

“Aura Condensation,” I supply, having pondered this matter many a time before. “Animals don’t have Auras and aren’t affected by them in the same way people are.” Pong Pong is the sole exception I’ve come across, but considering how powerful the little guy is, I don’t expect there are many others like him.

“Indeed. Why is this so?”

...How am I supposed to know? Seeing the confusion on my face, the Abbot smiles and pats my shoulder. “Once you can answer this question, then you will have the answer you seek. Much like the Martial Path, there are certain matters which one must discover on their own, lest the telling do more harm than good.”

… Or in other words, he doesn’t know either and just wasted all my time with this lecture. Great. Seeing the other Healers don’t understand anymore than I do, I sigh and switch topics with the grace of a panda while wishing the Abbot brought his pet panda with him. “Anyways, regarding the matter at hand, why don’t we take a step back and hold off on any public declarations regarding my health and whatnot.”

“Apologies, young Hero,” Taokang Geyang says, and to my surprise, it looks like he means it. “We here know better than most the lengths you’ve gone to in months past, and this Geyan wholeheartedly thanks you for your efforts, but to go against the Imperial Clan and declare you unfit for service is...” Sighing, he adds, “We all have our weaknesses.”

Meaning they have loved ones they’re worried about implicating if they support me. “I understand.” And I really do. “All I need is official documentation of my physical ailments and medical leave to circumvent the military ban on fire. If I keep eating hardtack and jerky, I’m pretty sure I’ll starve to death within the week.”

All of the Healers present voice their agreement, and in a matter of minutes, I’m headed back to camp in my rickshaw with a dozen sealed documents in hand, each one attesting to my need for fire to cook my food, brew my medicines, and heat my baths due to a whole slew of issues. The Disciplinary Corps might use it as proof of favoritism and skirting the rules, but I wasn’t joking about dying without it. I only suffered minor injuries in my first battle back, but even that much is enough to put me out of commission for the next two weeks without Healing, and I won’t survive the Healing unless I eat more. Hot food seems like such a small thing, but I think I lose more energy chewing hardtack than I get from eating it, so it’s kinda a necessity.

Still, the meeting showed me I still have friends in Sinuji and gave me plenty of food for thought, so I suppose I’ll tuck all this information away until it becomes relevant and go back to scouring Zhen Shi’s notes for answers.

Fun, fun, fun. At least no one in my retinue died yet, so there’s that, and now that Dastan’s heroics have won over Hondou Masahige, the next battle should be easier than yesterday’s, but still…

How long will we have to stay here before Jixing gives up? A month? Two? Hard to say, but what else can I do? Honestly, rebellion is looking real tempting right about now...

Author’s note: I already know a bird’s vocal organ is called a syrinx, but I didn’t feel like explaining it in story for readers who didn't know, so I did what I did instead.

Chapter Meme
