“Ow.” Quashing the urge to glare daggers at the offender, I swallow my ire and sigh instead. “Doesn’t matter what you poke me with. It still hurts.”

“Fascinating.” Tossing aside the hair he plucked from his assistant’s balding head, the wizened Healer Taiyi ZhuShen lifts my good hand to his one remaining eye so he can better inspect the minuscule wounds, though considering he pierced my skin with a single strand of hair, I doubt there’s any markings to be seen. Then again, I suppose it’s for the best since I’m so underweight that even Healing the minor scrapes caused by needles and wooden scrapers is taxing my body to near exhaustion, which is why I left my torn shoulder muscles untreated in favour of a sling. “Most fascinating,” he continues, stroking his silken white beard whilst wholly oblivious to my discomfort. “The skin is supple and healthy as can be, neither drier nor thinner than expected, yet it provides next to no protection from injury.” Clearing his throat, the esteemed Healer lowers his head and sheepishly asks, “Might I take a sample to study? I wouldn’t need much, a palm-sized piece should suffice.”

Before I can reject him, a second Healer chimes in, this one a swarthy, thickset man named Taokang Geyan, whose dark, bushy eyebrows make him look perpetually surprised. “Bah. Still playing around with body-reinforcement elixirs? A waste of good materials is what it is, not to mention ruining the lives of many a promising warrior, for your efforts are based on a fundamentally flawed premise. What good is medicine if spread on the body? It must be imbibed to take full effect.”

“Better still if it can directly enter the blood instead.” Lishan Suzhen, the only female Healer present and the oldest of the bunch, takes this opportunity to state her opinion while forcefully pressing on a nerve in my left armpit. An acupoint, she calls it, one which is supposed to clear the clogged ‘meridians’ and facilitate my recovery, but has yet to do anything except cause discomfort and put my hand to sleep. It’s not the worst thing considering how much my arm hurts, so I tolerate the handsy old grandma with minimal embarrassment. “I’ve found much success by cutting open a vein and pouring the medicine directly to the wound, though I worry the boy might not survive it.”

The state of physical medicine in the Azure Empire is absolutely appalling. While the Healers here might not be at the top of their chosen profession, else they wouldn’t be stuck working on the front lines, they’re still some of the best minds in medicine humanity has to offer, yet here they are spewing a bunch of dark-ages medieval bull-shit. It shouldn’t really surprise me considering the level of technology and how stupid people can be, but I figured that Healers who literally sense everything happening within the human body would have a better grasp of how it works. Unfortunately, they aren’t big on peer review around here, which means most Healers come up with their own half-baked theories and never bother getting a second opinion, so they assume their theory and base subsequent theories on a faulty premise, leading to a tangled-noodle doctrine of medicine that is almost entirely wrong, yet still works because Chi.

“Technically, medicine can make its way into the bloodstream through the skin,” I say, gently extracting myself from old lady Suzhen’s hold and massaging my limp arm to get the blood flowing again. “And in certain situations, it might even be more effective than ingestion, since stomach acids can interfere with certain medicines. Under the tongue, for example, is one area where the blood vessels are extremely close to the surface, making it a great entry point for medication.” Ignoring one-eyed ZhuShen’s pleased smirk and rotund Geyan’s thoughtful frown, I turn around to face the stern Suzhen and explain, “Instead of slashing a vein to insert medicine into the bloodstream, it would be better to use something like a hollow needle instead, though you’d have to be careful about letting air in as well. While it might seem harmless, a bubble of air could cause a heart attack, stroke, or respiratory failure if it travels to the heart, brain, or lungs respectively. You can look at venomous snakes for one such example of using injection to deliver a substance directly into the blood.”

My piece said, all three Healers try to ask their questions at the same time, resulting in an indecipherable clamour which I cannot make out. Glaring hatefully at one another, they all try a second, then a third time to similar result, but each one is too prideful to take a step back. Instead of settling it like calm, rational professionals, they instead trade sneers before leaving the decision in my hands, their eyes all filled with unspoken promises and barely implied threats to sway my decision. There’s really no winning with these old fogeys, so I instead sigh and say, “Honoured Healers, if you would like to discuss the Dao of Medicine, I would be happy to invite each of you to my camp for tea and refreshments, but I will need time to prepare. I’ll arrange everything as soon as we’re finished here, so why don’t we get back on topic?”

Reminded of the situation, the three Healers at least have the good graces to look embarrassed, which makes me glad I didn’t bring Lin along for this visit, because the last thing I need is for her to laugh at their discomfort. When I agreed to follow through with Junior’s plan, I didn’t think there’d be an entire crowd here to receive me, but apparently the chance to study a Martial Warrior with a shattered Core was too much to pass on for the Healers of Sinuji, even if the Disciplinary Corps has it out for me. One-eyed Taiyi ZhuShen, stocky Taokang Geyan, and matronly Lishan Suzhen are only the most senior and influential of the bunch, but thankfully the other Healers have been relegated to quietly watching from the sidelines, including Abjiya and Jibari who came along to lend insight to the discussion. With this many Healers present, it’d be hard for Jixing and the Disciplinary Corps to discredit their findings, but having seen the three most senior Healers bickering like schoolchildren, I worry I’ll die of natural causes long before they reach a consensus.

I’m not asking for much. All I want is for a Healer who isn’t my Teacher to publicly state that I’m weaker than a commoner and utterly unfit for battle so I can maybe go back to the Citadel where they’ll be hot baths and hot food. With Dastan and everyone else, of course, which means it definitely won’t happen, but a man can dream.

“Well, it’s obvious the boy isn’t faking,” Taiyi ZhuShen begins, running a finger over his ornate eye-patch. “The physical weakness and shortness of breath can be feigned, but there’s no explaining how he tore his muscles so severely by simply dragging a man several meters or even how the biscuit we all watched him eat left his gums bloodied and lacerated.”

“Any fool with eyes can see the boy’s ailments are genuine.” Lishan Suzhen’s frigid demeanor is one Mom and Akanai would approve of, never one to mince words. “The issue lies in proving this to the Empire at large without parading him through every city and village in Central. His muscles show no sign of atrophy, his eyes remain focused and unclouded, his mind sharp and memory unaffected, all of which means that aside from being grossly underweight, there is nothing physically wrong with his body. Unsteady legs, shortness of breath, inability of his lungs to fully inflate, we are unable to find any observable cause for his many symptoms, and until we do, we cannot act carelessly. We can hardly expect everyone to simply take us at our word in a matter of this magnitude, not with the forces involved, and if we speak without proof, we’ll be discredited in an instant.”

“Better to stay silent and leave things be, but this Geyan was never one to fall in line.” Patting his portly belly, the swarthy Westerner chuckles and says, “The greatest issue lies in our lack of knowledge regarding shattered Cores, and indeed the Martial Path itself. Seeing the boy’s plight, it raises questions few have ever asked regarding commoners and the Energy of the Heavens, and his theories hold substantial weight. To think, the Mother’s Love would go so far as to shelter each and every one of Her children from the rigors of this world, for without this protection, I fear all would be like our little friend here.” Shaking his head with a sigh, he adds, “Truly the student of the Medical Saint to possess such comprehensive knowledge and understanding to reach such a conclusion, but alas, we lack your Teacher’s… atypical mindset and extraordinary brilliance.”

I’d be offended for Taduk’s sake, but to be fair, Geyan isn’t wrong.

Pretty much everything I’ve shared with the Healers was common knowledge in my past life or guesswork, but I suppose standards of proof are lower here. ‘If I can’t think of a counterpoint, then it must be right’ is a terrible mindset, but at least this time it’s working in my favor. Still, as a self-professed man of science, I feel compelled to say, “Most of my theories are conjecture. There could be another reason for my physical frailty besides ‘all of humanity is unconsciously using Heavenly Energy’, but it’s the theory that makes the most sense.” I haven’t even gotten into my whole teeth spiel because I didn’t want all the Healers of Sinuji to dismiss me as a mule-brained idiot. Honestly, the fact that everyone believes teeth regrow naturally annoys me more than it should, but I can’t think of any way to prove it.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Interjecting for the first time, the Abbot stands with palms pressed together as per usual, though at least this time he didn’t come out of stealth and scare the shit out of everyone present. I figured it would be rude to bring a Death Corps guard in since I’m asking these respected Healers for a favor, but my paranoia wouldn’t let me come in unprotected. To this end, I imposed on the Abbot to publicly attend and pull my ass out of the fire if need be, but I didn’t expect him to take part in the discussion. “It should come as no surprise that Junior Brother’s plight stems not from a physical condition, but a spiritual one, for the root of his ailments was caused by the destruction of his Spiritual Weapons.”

Judging by the sharp intake of breaths from all the Healers around me, I’m not the only one who just had a ‘Eureka’ moment. Since no one else is responding, I say, “I always figured we called them Spiritual Weapons because they’re made from Spiritual Hearts, but why are they called Spiritual Hearts?”

“A question which touches upon the crux of the matter,” the Abbot replies, his wrinkled face breaking into a grandfatherly smile, “But one which cannot be answered without going into great depth.” Gesturing for everyone to take a seat, it surprises me when everyone in the room pulls up a chair to listen, including the three oldest Healers who have yet to agree on anything. A sign of their respect for the Abbot I suppose, though considering this is their first meeting, I don’t see why they hold him in such high esteem. Everyone I’ve ever talked to treat the Penitent Brotherhood like a joke, but all the esteemed Healers in this tent treat the Abbot like he’s their great-grandfather even though some of them look just as old, if not older.

Once everyone is seated and ready, the Abbot takes a deep breath and launches right into his lecture. “As you already know, a Spiritual Heart is simply an item which has absorbed a certain amount of Heavenly Energy and can be utilized as a catalyst for Chi. It can be mineral or plant, but most Spiritual Hearts are fashioned from the body-parts of living animals. Teeth, bones, claws, and skin are the most common of the bunch, but there are records of other organs such as stomachs, lungs, and yes, even actual hearts becoming Spiritual Hearts, but there is no general consensus on how Spiritual Hearts are formed, or any real, organized study into them whatsoever, because it’s believed that the time frame required for a Spiritual Heart to form vastly exceeds the lifespan of Martial practitioners.” Smiling, the Abbot adds, “This humble monk has personally seen the formation of no less than three Spiritual Hearts, in the form of a tiger’s skeletal frame, a rooster’s vocal organ, and a panda’s fangs.”

...Wait.

Hang on.

Three?

The Abbot has seen three animals forming their Spiritual Hearts?

So… he has more floofs? I haven’t even met the rooster yet, so when am I going to see the tiger and panda? I bet they’re so cute and fluffy… I wonder if he tried to turn the tiger vegetarian? I want to hug a panda, they’re like bears, but goofier. As an aside, it’s kinda cute that Kukku loves screaming so much that he turned his voice-box into a Spiritual Heart. Adorable, but I get why Jorani hates the rooster now. It must suck being woken by a Chi-infused cock-a-doodle-doo.

