Nathalia put a hand on Ren's hand that held the tiara. “I've never used anything like this before.”

Ren smiled. “Just point your pretty face at something, and think 'lightning activate'. Then watch it explode.”

He placed the tiara in Nathalia's hand and she equipped it. It spanned Nathalia's forehead and the ends were dug into her braided hair.

“Now the cloak.”

Nathalia equipped it and gasped. Ren's Aura spread out to 40 feet, and he assumed Nathalia's did, too.

“I'd hoped it would work just like my cloak.” Ren said and grinned.

“Ren, I...” She stepped close to him and looked him the eye. “I love you.”

“I love you, too.” Ren bent slightly and kissed her. They heard a sob and turned to see Narhilda crying.

“My little girl is growing up.”

“Ma.” Nathalia said and went to her to give her a hug. “I'm still your little girl.”

Narhilda nodded. “You look so regal.” She said and turned to Ren. “You both do.”

“Perfect.” Ren said and walked over to her. “That's the look I was going for.”

“You were?” Narhilda asked.

Ren nodded slightly. “It's like I told Nathalia. I want people to be impressed when they see us.”

Narhilda looked at his gold armor, and Nathalia's gleaming steel armor. “You're definitely impressive.” She said. “But... why is yours so dull compared to my daughters?”

“I want everyone to see her, and ignore me.” Ren said grinned. “Who's going to look at me with Nathalia in the room?”

Nathalia's mouth dropped open and Narhilda chuckled.

“You're right.” Her mother said. “She's quite the sight to behold.”

“That's what I told her.” Ren said and saw Nathalia blush slightly, then winked at her. She remembered her slip being tangled up in bed and the blush filled her face. Ren reached out a hand to Narhilda. “May I see the rings I gave you?”

Narhilda held her hand out and Ren took the Strength ring off, absorbed the enchantment and enchanted it with a double glyph (8 runes of Augment) and thought Strength. He put it back on her finger and her eyes widened. He did the same for the Vitality ring and she took a deep breath and sighed.

“By the gods, Ren!” Narhilda said. “You're too good to us.”

Ren smiled and gave her a kiss on the cheek, much to her surprise. “The better I get, the better the House gets.”

Narhilda stood on her tippy toes and gave Ren a kiss on the cheek back, much to his surprise. “Yes, we definitely need to register a new ritual.”

“Mother...”

“What? I really liked that.”

“I know you did.” Nathalia said, and smiled. “A bit too much, I think.”

Her mother grinned. “It's so nice to have a man around the House.”

Nathalia rolled her eyes. “Come on, Ren. She's getting into one of her moods.”

Ren chuckled and nodded slightly. “We'll be back later, My Lady.”

“See you then.” Narhilda said and waved. Ren and Nathalia left the house and he let her open the gate to see her reaction. She unlocked it and didn't notice the lock opened smoothly, then yanked on it hard, to open it.

“Whoaaaa!” Nathalia said as the gate flew open easily and she whipped around and nearly fell. Ren caught her easily and held onto her.

“Before I forget to tell you, I fixed the gate.”

Nathalia looked at him with her mouth in a little 'o', then scowled. “You did that on purpose.”

Ren grinned and kissed her. He broke the kiss a minute later, and she smiled.

“I'm still mad.”

“I know.” He said and let her go. “My Lady, after you.”

Nathalia turned and then stopped. “What in the world?” She said. “The drawbridge is up!”

“I couldn't stop at the gate, could I?” Ren chuckled and untied the rope holding the drawbridge up and let it out slowly to lower it. “I'll be replacing it later; but for now, it works.” He walked over to her and took her hand. They walked across the drawbridge to the road and turned to walk to town.

“What's that?” Ren said and stopped walking. He saw a crowd gathered around in front of Dorcot's tiny house. Teepo! Go!

“On it!” Teepo jumped out of the hood and skittered as fast as he could down the road.

“Oh, that?” Nathalia said. “It's just a little surprise for you.”

Ren looked at her and raised a single eyebrow. She automatically reached up to rub it with her thumb and Ren chuckled.

“Ren, you're not going to believe this.” Teepo said.

What is it? Ren thought.

“It's nothing bad, so your Trouble recipe won't kick in.”

Ren relaxed and started walking again. As they approached the crowd, several people turned and gasped. Of course, once someone pointed them out, everyone else turned around to stare at Ren in his gold armor and Nathalia in her gleaming steel armor.

“Concentrate on your main Aura ability, Nathalia.” Ren whispered, and Nathalia nodded slightly. When they were close enough, the crowd parted like water and several of the workers nodded. Ren gained 30 Honor, and dismissed the popups as he saw what the crowd was staring at.

On the other side of Dorcot's house, out of view of House Neram, was a statue in a little courtyard. They'd even put several benches and hedges along the outside. The whole thing would be in clear view when you came up the road, and Ren stared at the statue in the center. It was a half-sized statue of Ren, bent over and carrying a house on his back. He read the inscription and gasped at the popups he received.

New title!

You have earned a new title: Atlas

This title is given to those that can carry the weight of the world on their shoulders, and grants the bearer: Inventory (Modified), Strength: +20, Vitality: +20

Notice!

Your accomplishment of moving an entire house (and all of it's contents) by yourself, without damaging them, has spread to the general population.

Influence: +1000

Honor: +1000

Fame: +1000

Notice!

Your Influence has reached an unprecedented level (5000+). You are now considered a Warrior by all that see you.

Notice!

Your Fame has reached an unprecedented level (5000+). You are now: Renown.

“By the GODS!” Ren said.

“I told you that you wouldn't believe it.” Teepo chittered in laughter as he crawled up Ren's Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and into the hood.

“Who... who did this?” Ren asked.

“Barnar.” Dorcot said as he and Angeilin came out of their house. “I offered to pay for it, but he said it was something that he had to do.”

“I can't believe...”

“You can't believe it?” Dorcot said and laughed. “You carried my wife's house over 8 miles, all by yourself.”

“You're amazing, sir.” Angeilin squeaked, and her face flushed a little red. “And you look very dashing.”

Ren looked at her and smiled. “Thank you, Ma'am.” He said, then looked at Dorcot. “I cleaned up your desk of all the... clutter.”

Dorcot chuckled. “Yes, it was quite cluttered.”

Ren took out a coin pouch and handed it to him. “Equip this, please.”

Dorcot did and Ren slipped him 4 coins without showing him what they were. “I built a temporary wall around your work area and left you an empty crate for the... clutter.”

Dorcot nodded and put the coins in his new coin pouch and then gasped. “By the gods!”

“That's a gold for every small one in the drawer, and enough to cover any you do today.”

Dorcot shook his head. “You really are crazy.”

Ren grinned. “That's what everyone says.” He said and heard several carts coming up the road. “I think that's everyone coming to work.” He turned around and counted the carts as they passed. Each one had a driver and 2 workers, and they all nodded to Ren. He dismissed the popups automatically. When he got to a dozen, he stopped counting. “What's going on?”

“The word's gotten around that you pay well for a good day's work.” Dorcot said. “More carts show up every day to go to the mines.”

Stat Change!

Aura (Personal) Level 4 (Beginner 0%)

“Wow.” Ren said as workers kept nodding to him and Nathalia. When he saw several carts from Barnar's shop, he waved to them. One pulled over and Ren grinned as Barnar hopped out of the back.

“Barnar, what were you thinking?” Ren said and waved at the statue.

“It's great, isn't it?” Barnar said and walked over to the statue. “I even got the window frames right.”

Ren shook his head. “That's not what I meant.”

“I know.” Barnar grinned.

“I can't convince you to take it down, can I?”

Barnar shook his head. “I can't. It's already registered at the Main Keep as a 'noticable feature'.”

“You didn't!” Ren exclaimed.

Barnar smiled. “I did.”

“Well, damn.” Ren said, then shrugged. “I hope people can get used to looking at me all the time.”

“I haven't.” Nathalia said, immediately. “You're a delight every time.”

Ren looked at her, and then around at the crowd. Several slight nods met his gaze.

“We have to go.” Nathalia said and tugged on Ren's hand. “We need to get to the Main Keep.”

“Right!” Ren said. “See you all later.”

“Have fun.” Angeilin squeaked as Ren and Nathalia started to walk down the road. The last cart in the line pulled over and the three women stared at Ren and Nathalia.

“Sir, Ma'am.” The driver said, slightly embarrassed. “I'd like to offer my cart and pony if you need a ride.”

Ren looked at her and smiled. It was the driver of the cart he'd ridden in to the mines the first time.

“Thank you for the offer.” Ren said, then turned to Nathalia. “Would you rather walk, or ride?”

“I'm tempted to walk, just to spend the extra time with you.” Nathalia said. “But the faster we get there, the faster you can spring yet another surprise on me.”

Ren grinned and turned to the driver. “We'd appreciate the ride. Thank you.”

They went around to the back and Ren helped Nathalia climb in and climbed in himself. He greeted the other two women and sat down. The cart turned round and took them to the Main Keep. Ren and Nathalia climbed down and the driver offered to stay. Ren shook his head.

“Thanks, but I don't know how long we'll be here.” Ren said and smiled. “We'll find our way back later.”

The driver nodded slightly and pulled away. Ren took Nathalia's hand again and walked up to stand in the line to get in the Main Keep. The guard by the gate waved them forward when he saw them standng there. Some of the dwarves in line started to protest, until one of them got a good look at Nathalia and her Giant Boar Hooded Cloak.

“Deathgore!” They said and pointed. Everyone turned and looked at her. Nathalia didn't blush from embarrassment at all of the attention, and Ren felt quite proud of her. She looked at him in surprise as she picked up on it, and Ren grinned.

Our Aura's are getting more in tune. Ren thought as they entered the Main Keep. He kept a hold of her hand and didn't get in line, and went to the General Information door and opened it. When he looked around, he saw that everyone was staring at Nathalia and smiled. They entered the hallway and Ren shut the door. He led Nathalia to the other door and stopped.

Teepo.

Teepo hopped out of the hood and landed on the wall, then squeezed through the opening at the top of the door.

“The one taking care of the records was really amazed about us killing the Deathgore.” Ren told Nathalia. “She might want to... ah... pet it for a while.”

Nathalia chuckled. “Like when I saw your cloak up close for the first time?” She said and ran her hand over the soft black fur.

Ren smiled. “Exactly.”

“Okay, I'll be ready.” She said.

“All clear, Ren.” Teepo said.

Thanks.

Ren opened the door and walked into the room, still holding Nathalia's hand.

“By the gods!” They heard someone yell.

Ren smiled. “I think she knows we're here.”

Nathalia smiled, too. “Then let's not disappoint her.”

Ren grinned and they walked through the aisle until they came to the spot with the desk. The female dwarf was sitting there with a look of pure shock on her face.

“You... you...” She said and pointed to the Giant Boar Hooded Cloak.

“I had to honor the Deathgore properly.” Ren said. “Now everywhere Nathalia goes, they'll know its death isn't just a story or a rumor.”

The female dwarf stood. “May I?” She asked. Nathalia nodded and the female dwarf ran around the desk and snuggled into the cloak. Nathalia felt amusement and chuckled a little.

“Is this how you felt when I was doing that?”

“Pretty much.” Ren said. He waited until the female dwarf sighed and walked back around the desk, before speaking again.

“My fiance and I want to file a land claim.” Ren said and Nathalia took in a sharp breath.

“Figured that out, did you?” The female dwarf smiled. Ren chuckled and she turned around and took out the two maps, one for the city and one for the countryside.

“The city one first.” Ren said and she unrolled it for him. He pointed to House Neram and the 2 square miles it owned. “I see a lot of open land there.”

The female dwarf nodded slightly. “It's on the outskirts of the city, so there's not a lot of demand for it.”

Ren smiled. “There is now.” He said and traced his finger the 5 miles down the side road to reach the main road of the city, then went the other way and made a square 10 miles long and 5 miles wide.

“What's land near the city go for these days?” He asked.

“About a hundred gold a square mile.”

“Ren!” Nathalia gasped.

“Can two different plots of land be registered at the same time, under the same deed?”

The female dwarf grinned. “Damn, you're good.”

Ren grinned himself. “I've had a bit of time to think about it.”

She unrolled the countryside one and Ren put his finger on the plot he owned, which was already added to the map. He moved his finger up and down the mountain range and along that whole side of the map. “I'd say the rest of the countryside should be enough, I think.”

“WHAT?!?” Nathalia and the female dwarf yelled together in shock.

“It's only about 900 square miles.” Ren said. “That leaves a mile between the new plot and the convent, and 2 miles between it and Dornrach.”

The two women stared at him.

“It's only 90 platinum.” Ren said.

“ONLY 90 PLATINUM!” They yelled together.

“It's 50 platinum for the lot around House Neram, why are you upset over another 90?”

They both clamped their mouths shut and Ren smiled.

“Be right back.” Ren said and stepped around the edge of the shelf and walked a little ways away. He took out the crate of cut diamonds and selected a half-dozen good sized ones and sold them to the system at a 10% discount, making 155 platinum. Ren stored the crate again and walked back. Nathalia and the female dwarf were still staring at him.

“You can do up the deed now.” He said and put 140 platinum on the desk.

