Ren ended up with 32 bags of powder and stored them in inventory after turning off the oven. He'd had just enough fabric in the bolt of cloth he had in inventory to make the rest of the bags. He could have made more sacks, but he'd used some of it to make coin pouches for the female workers. Of course, that reminded him to make more coin pouches. Ren ran back to the stable and stored all the bolts of cloth there, went back to the workshop and made several dozen high quality coin pouches of various colors.

“I'm going to have to hire more general labourers to shovel silt into the oven, and to gather the powder into sacks.” Ren said. “I can get 40 sacks from a single bolt of cloth, so with the 5 bolts that I have left, that's 200 sacks.”

Ren checked the giant boar cloak and the metal arch was cooled off. He folded over the edge of the pelt and sewed the metal arch into the rim of the hood, so that when it was flipped up, the tusks didn't flop around, or hit the wearer in the head. Ren tested it by holding the cloak at arms length and flipping the hood up, and the metal arch kept the tusks pointed in the right direction.

“Sweet.” Ren said and stored the cloak. His Leatherworking was now Level 2 (Intermediate 50%), and his Stitching was at Level 1 (Advanced 15%). That had only gone up 5%, even with the size of the boar and the difficulty, and with the 20% bonus for using the portable crafting station. “That's going to take a lot to level up.” Ren looked at the oven and the sacks he needed to make. “I'm going to have to buy more fabric.” He was tempted to use the high quality bolts of cloth still stored in Narhilda's old bedroom closet, but Ren had earmarked them for army uniforms. That assumed the army got off their butts soon and hired House Neram with a regular contract. Ren grinned. He'd be spending a few days in the brig if he'd said something like that to the Commander of the Garrison.

Ren stored the Portable Leatherworking Crafting Station and then used up 4 bolts of cloth to make 160 sacks, then stacked them beside the exit chute of the oven. He took out a bit more cloth and sewed up a sack 1 foot square, and unloaded all the 1 gold cost diamonds into it, tied it shut, and store it. His Stitching was now at Level 1 (Advanced 16%).

“Yeah, a lot of time to level up.” Ren said, then went to the forge. He changed the mold layout on the floor to make several rows 10 feet long and an inch wide, then ran out of bricks. “That's good enough.” He said and nodded to Ruck, who started pouring the molten metal. Ren used the skimming tool to spread the metal along the molds and they were soon filled. He took out the 4 wind bricks that he had and set them on the ends of the molds to let the steel cool. After a few minutes, Ren popped the bars out and had Ruck pour again. They repeated this process twice more and Ren had a dozen 10 foot long and 1 inch wide steel bars.

There was still about a quarter of the smelter full of molten steel, and he added more iron ore to fill it. After more impurities were skimmed off, Ruck poured it out into the big blank mold several times. Ren took each one and hammered out the rest of the pieces for a set of armor plate for Nathalia, to match the elaborate breastplate he'd made for her. 2 nice shoulder pieces, thigh high metal boots, and a pair of upper arm coverings. It nearly emptied the forge, and Ren eyed the huge pile of gold ore.

“Oh, why not?” Ren said and added in the gold ore, with 1 piece of iron ore for every 3 gold. Once it was smelted, Ruck filled the big blank mold several times and Ren hammered out a set of full plate armor for himself. He had about half of his Mana Pool left after enchanting all the stones in the giant oven, and set to work enchanting the armor pieces he'd forged. He enchanted them with double glyphs (8 runes total) with Protection for now. Ren could always modify the enchantments later, and probably would.

He took out some fabric, and dyed it black, then used one of Lord Neram's patterns to sew a skin tight bodysuit to fit under the armor. Once that was done, he equipped the bodysuit and put on the gold armor pieces; minus the armored gloves. Ren still needed access to his rings.

Teepo whistled. “You look awesome, Ren.”

“Thanks, Teepo.”

Ren had Ruck pour out the last bit of gold/iron mix into the big mold. He'd think of what to do with it later. He tossed in several chunks of iron ore.

“That's great Ruck. You've been a big help.” Ren said, and Ruck gave him a 'thumbs up' gesture and climbed down off the forge. He waved to Ren and left the workshop. Ren then sewed up a skintight bodysuit for Nathalia, enchanted her armor pieces with Protection glyphs, polished them to a shine, and then thought about how he'd give it to her.

“I think it would be better in a box, rather than handing it to her as a bunch of pieces.” Ren said, then pulled out enough wood to make a long box, just over 4 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 2 feet deep. He built it and got a popup.

Stat Change!

Woodworking Level 7 (Beginner 0%)

Ren dyed the box red and laid the bodysuit in first, set the armor pieces in the proper spots, then noticed something was missing. “I forgot a helm of some kind.” He said, then had an idea. “Maybe a big tiara instead.”

Ren checked the molten metal and skimmed off some impurities, and stirred it vigourously. “I'm almost out of time.” He said, then took out the medium crate of cut diamonds. Ren chose several different ones, to try and decide which one would be best in the center. “Oval is definitely the best for the center, because it doesn't have the long pointy end underneath.” He chuckled. “Imagine equipping a tiara and then having the diamond embed itself into your forehead!”

“You'd become a diamond monocerus.” Teepo said, then chittered in laughter. Ren laughed and picked a good-sized oval, about 3 inches across, and set it aside. He picked 2 smaller ones about 1 inch across, to put on either side of the big one, and stored the crate. He concentrated on Nathalia and enchanted the big oval with a quadruple glyph of Lightning, one of the smaller ones with Water, and the other small one with Terror, to match his rings. Ren checked the molten metal, and it looked good enough. He poured it into the long thin mold, let it set for a moment, took it out and folded it in half. He used a chisel to cut comb-like teeth in the ends so that Nathalia could slip it into her hair, then hammered the metal lightly into the proper rounded shape. Ren placed it face up on the anvil.

“Here goes nothing.” Ren took the big oval diamond and put a dollop of molten metal on the tiara and pushed the diamond down into the surface, making sure the enchantment was facing in the right direction. He repeated this with the two smaller diamond ovals and smiled. He was tempted to set a bunch of the little diamonds around the big ovals, but the metal was cooling too quickly to do that. He'd have to find a good jeweller somewhere to teach him how to do this properly. Ren left it on the anvil to cool and poured the last of the molten metal into the long thin mold and deactivated the forge.

Ren walked over to the opening in the wall, and saw it was getting light out. He took out enough lumber to make a partition wall around Dorcot's workbench, leaving him a lot of room for both the big crate of diamond crystals and to move around. If there was going to be other people in here, he didn't want them to bother Dorcot while he worked. Ren went back to the anvil and the tiara was cooled off. He put it in the box with the armor pieces, covered it in cloth, then placed the Giant Boar Hooded Cloak on top. He closed the box and stored it.

“I really hope she likes it.” Ren said and left the workshop to go back to the house.

“If she doesn't die from the shock, she's going to love it.” Teepo said.

Ren grinned and walked down the road to the front gate. The metal didn't grind at all anymore and Ren locked it behind him, then pulled the rope to close the drawbridge and tied it off. He walked into the house and saw that no one was in the kitchen, and went to the old bedroom. Nathalia was there on the bed, still dressed. Ren walked over beside the bed, and Teepo hopped out of the hood.

How much time before breakfast? Ren thought.

“About an hour.”

Ren laid down on the bed and Nathalia stirred, then looked at him.

“Good morning.” She said.

“Good morning, beautiful.”

Nathalia blinked a few times and then sat up in the bed. “What in the world are you wearing?”

“This thing?” Ren said and lifted his armored arms. “It's just something I threw together.”

Nathalia opened her mouth to speak and then looked at him. “You really just made that tonight?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I finished making something else, and decided I needed something better than leather armor.”

She reached out a hand and stroked the gold metal. “It's wonderful.”

“Wait until I polish it. You won't be able to look at it without hurting your eyes.” Ren said and grinned.

Nathalia chuckled and laid back down. “Are you leaving it on?”

Ren nodded slightly again. “There's only about an hour left before breakfast, and I want to get used to wearing it.” He said. “Then I'll need you to come with me to the Main Keep.”

“Okay.” She said and tried to slide closer. The full plate mail stopped her from cuddling close, though. “You're not going to wear it all the time, are you?” Nathalia asked.

Ren chuckled. “No, it's just for when I go out in public.”

“Good.” She said and took his unarmored hand. “I like cuddling you.”

“I like being cuddled by you.” Ren said and smiled. “You can recharge me, if you feel like it.”

Nathalia smiled and used her healing several times over the hour, as they both lay there and watched each other until breakfast. They got up and went out to the kitchen when it was time, and Teepo tagged along.

Narhilda stared at Ren's golden armor, then grinned. “I think you might be over-reacting to me seeing you in your underwear.”

Ren and Nathalia laughed and sat down at the table. They enjoyed a good breakfast and then Ren took some food out to Princess and fed her. He went back inside and went to the kitchen table. He knelt by Nathalia's chair and took her hand.

“My Lady, this is the year for courting gifts, and I've made something that I hope will please you.” Ren said formally. Nathalia's eyes widened as Ren asked her to come into the main room, as there wasn't room in the kitchen for it. She nodded, Ren stood up, and helped her stand as well.

“This way.” Ren said and led her into the main room. He looked at the couch, and it wasn't a good spot.

“You can use my chair.” Narhilda said.

“Mother?” Nathalia said and turned around

“It's okay.” She said. “I think this is a special occasion.”

Nathalia smiled and nodded. Ren grinned and sat her in the chair. When she was comfortable, Ren took out the large red wooden box and placed it on the floor in front of her.

“Please accept this humble gift, that I made with my own hands.”

Nathalia reached a hand out and stroked the red wood. “Any gift from you, is more than any woman deserves.” She said and smiled. “I accept your humble, hand-made gift.”

Narhilda stepped close to stand over her daughter's shoulder to get a good look. When Nathalia opened the crate, they both gasped and Narhilda gripped the back of the chair to stop herself from collapsing.

“By the GODS, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “When... when did you do this?”

“It took a couple of days to treat; which, either fortunately or unfortunately, I was unconscious for the most part.” Ren chuckled. “I'm just glad I had Ruck drop off my crafting stations the other night and set it to dry. I made it last night while you were alseep.”

“This is what you did all last night?” Nathalia asked, stunned.

Ren smiled. “Well, in between a bunch of other stuff I did.” He said. “I needed to wait between projects, and did this up.”

She stared at him in surprise. “You... you made this... masterpiece... in between other projects?”

Ren grinned. “I told you I had a lot of work to do.”

Nathalia shook her head. “Ren, you shouldn't have.” She said and lifted out the Giant Boar Hooded Cloak. “This is too much!”

“You can't turn it down, Nathalia.” Ren smirked. “You already accepted my humble hand-made gift.”

Nathalia opened her mouth to protest, then smiled. “That's why all the formality.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I couldn't take the chance that you'd say no.”

“Oh, Ren.” Nathalia said and stood. “I don't know what to say.”

“Don't say anything yet.” Ren grinned. “That's not all that's in the box.”

“It's not?”

Ren motioned to the box and Nathalia reached in and lifted the cloth.

“By the GODS!” Nathalia sat back in the chair in shock. “You... you...”

“I said I did other projects last night.”

Nathalia stared at the gleaming steel armor and was left speechless. Ren knelt by the box and pointed to the empty spaces.

“I already gave you the breastplate and the gauntlets.” Ren said. “So I made these to match.”

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia said, and tears came to her eyes. “When you said... when you told me you'd make me more pieces when you made a forge... I didn't expect...”

“That makes the gift even more special when its unexpected.”

“But...”

“I'm heading to the Main Keep.” Ren said and stood. “I wanted you to be as impressive to everyone else, as you are to me.”

Nathalia dried her tears of joy and stood. She took a deep breath and smiled. “Very well.”

Ren handed her the black bodysuit and Nathalia equipped it. It replaced her slip and then she stored the fancy green dress her father made for her. Ren handed her each armor piece and she equipped each in turn, then added the breastplate she still had in inventory. Nathalia left the gauntlets off, just like Ren did.

“You have your sword; but, I thought you might want some of the same options that I have.” Ren took the tiara out of the box and showed it to Nathalia. “The middle one is a Lightning enchantment, similar to my ring.” Ren pointed to his own raised platform ring.

“Ren...”

“This one is Screaming Terror, to help make your enemies fear you.” Ren said and pointed to his other ring.

“Ren...”

“This one I call Water Spray, and it's like my Water Spray ring as well.” He pointed to the last ring. “You've seen them used in battle.” Ren said and looked at her. “Just concentrate on which you want to use, and say Activate.”

“Ren!”

“What?”

“I... I can't...”

Ren turned to face her. “I know you may not need any of this right now; but by the gods, you will have the option of using them if you ever do need them!”

