It didn’t take a genius to realize that things weren’t exactly going according to the usual script for how a human’s evolution to B-grade should unfold. At least none of the research Jake had done ever mentioned the system glitching out and nonsensical system messages.

However, despite the situation and Jake finding himself unable to open up the system menu, he didn’t panic. Things were fucked up, yes, but he felt no sense of danger and continued to trust that the system would do what the system usually did. He saw no world where it would actually mess up Jake’s Path or corrupt his soul or anything like that. Such just wasn’t the system’s MO, and he knew that should the system so desire, it could do anything it wanted, so a world where it failed or broke wasn’t an option either.

This was merely the system adapting, and as he continued to absorb energy from his environment, Jake felt something growing within him. At this point, he was well past knowing what to expect, and all he could do was wait patiently as he focused on the sensation of existing within this special system space.

Finally, after what felt like an eternity, the absorption of energy petered out, and the system once more came alive. A familiar message popped up in front of Jake, as if the entire Spirit of Man skill selection had started over.

Probably because it had.

Through the eras, humanity has always prevailed, in no small part...

Jake skipped reading the section that was the same, and as he got to the end, he saw that the final sentence had changed.

The Spirit of Man echoes throughout your being, resonating with your Origin. As the Primal Hunter, you do not choose which aspects to embody, but radiate all those deemed useful for your Path. Through the Legacy of humanity and your very Origin, you embrace this power, your Spirit of Man, unlike any other, past and present.

As a well-read individual regarding the evolution of humans in the multiverse, Jake could confirm that he’d moved well beyond what was considered standard now. Seeing the system even directly Jake’s identity as the Primal Hunter definitely got him to raise an eyebrow... but not as much as what came next.

With a final push, the whirlpool of energy with Jake at its center came to a stop, forming a singular skill within him. While everyone else got two, Jake only received one as the system prompt finally appeared.

Race Skill Gained: [Primal Hunter’s Spirit of Man (Unique)]

With it, Jake’s mind was flooded with instinctual knowledge and power as he got the skill. Immediately, as he’d not even opened the description yet, Jake knew... he had no fucking right to ever complain about only getting a single Spirit of Man skill.
