To reinforce it, Ranthia cast off her shame. She followed the words with—what she sorely hoped—was the equivalent phrase in High Elvish. She had never heard it spoken, but “I love you” was in the story she had just been studying—a tale about two people that were supposedly literally divinely intended for one another. It was one of the greatest romances to be found in Remus’ histories or legends. Which meant that, if the author was accurate, Ranthia actually had the words she wanted Avyna to hear.

Shock seemed to physically jolt through Avyna’s lithe body, complete with her lips forming a perfect, tiny o. But then her beautifully faceted eyes lit up and a somewhat silly—but undeniably happy—smile split her face.

They kissed again. Emotion blurred into passion somewhere along the line.

Avyna, half peeled out of her clothing and sprawled out across the table, interrupted Ranthia with a finger pressed gently against her nose.

“We will have to practice more, that was terrible. This is how you say it:” The elf playfully corrected.

Ranthia had to admit it, the phrase was far more poetic on Avyna’s tongue.

But she could worry about that later.

It was late in the evening before Ranthia finally succumbed to fatigue. She wasn’t even entirely sure when they had relocated to the bed, but it was as good a place as any to convalesce. She just needed a moment to catch her breath.

Avyna wordlessly slipped out of her embrace and waved off her feeble protests before she passed through the curtain to the less personal area of their home. Soon enough—and, simultaneously, entirely too long a time later—the still undressed elf returned, carrying a familiar stack of papers. It was the contract that defined their relationship.

“I… I was thinking. I believe that we could… consider the trial period concluded?” Avyna offered. Her ears were red, and she was fidgeting ever-so-slightly with shyness—gods and goddesses, she was so beautiful.

“I am yours, love. My heart, mind, and body belong to you.” Ranthia breathlessly agreed.

Avyna still had to fetch the quill and that bottle of purple ink, but a short time later, the two snuggled together on their bed. They both had plenty of dexterity, a desk or table wasn’t necessary. Avyna wrote out an addendum to the contract that stated that the trial period had concluded. They were less than half a year into their first—of eighty—years together, but they were both certain. They were ready to be undeniably pledged to one another. It took monumental willpower on Ranthia’s part—and she was certain it was the same for her beloved—to maintain her composure through the writing, signatures, and safely setting the contract and implements out of the way. Then they sought one another’s lips—and bodies—anew.

The final line of the addendum had been written in Ranthia’s own hand:

Let no one—mortal, immortal, or divine—question our love for one another.
