Suffice it to say, it had been a mess. Then Ranthia got home to find Avyna asleep in a chair with a mug of cold tea precariously near the edge of the table.

Going to bed angry always seemed to invite her more creative nightmares. That night, her images had (somehow) turned against her and were trying to rip her apart while Avyna watched with disinterested amusement—as if Ranthia had never truly mattered.

But no matter how detailed and potent the nightmares were, they stood no chance against the terror of reality. Ranthia woke up to the most dreaded sound she could imagine.

[*ding!*]

The System didn’t reward levels for nothing. Merely existing was never going to get you a level. Getting woken up by the System meant that something had gone horribly wrong with her situation or with the world.

All traces of sleep fled from Ranthia’s mind as she launched herself to her feet. She had no time to think—instinctively she crouched over Avyna to protect the head and vitals of the woman that she loved. The distant twinge of discomfort over using them barely crossed her mind as she sent image after image out, as fast as she could form them.

Fear bordering on terror was the closest thing to a cogent thought that she had as she directed her outer images to start prodding through what should have been a safe space. Her own knives were still forming—never had the adamantium felt so slow, and—

[*ding!* [Ranthia’s Covenant with Xaoc] has reached level 156!]

Wait, what?! It wasn’t a combat Skill, thank Xaoc, but what in the—

The combination of confusion, draining terror, and the fog of fatigue left Ranthia, perhaps, uniquely vulnerable to being surprised by the method that Avyna used to signal her wakefulness.

That was her excuse, and she was sticking to it.

Ranthia’s [Covenant] got eleven levels total throughout the night. Ranthia had to silence her notifications to even get any sleep (once Avyna got her mirth under control, at any rate), but by morning they had stopped entirely. Remera was fine—she checked—which left Ranthia with only one feasible explanation. It had to have been something to do with the money she had funneled into that little temple of chaos—not that she had ever expected, even for a single moment, to actually get levels out of giving them money and telling them to spread chaos with it. Granted, they were also adherents to Xaoc, much like her, so perhaps it was something unique to her [Covenant] with their shared deity.

Either way, she became desperately curious about what the [Priests] had done. Still, she had to wait for Tertia’s next letter—which was no doubt already enroute—to ask; there was no point in trying to send her friend a message just yet.

Avyna’s shop—still unnamed, the elf insisted a name wasn’t required when it was the only shop in Remera—had been open for a month. Things were going great still and it was one of the most popular places in the base for off-duty personnel and civilians alike. Sure, Avyna’s profits on some goods had tapered off as most people bought what they needed, but Remera’s population was constantly in flux as personnel transferred in and out. Which let Avyna sell quality goods—those made to last—without sacrificing future profits. Granted, snacks and (nonalcoholic) beverages were her best sellers most days—people never got tired of a bite or sip of something novel and different from what the base provided.

But more importantly, Avyna was due home at any minute and Ranthia was busy finishing up lunch while she hummed to herself. With Avyna’s half day done, Ranthia was eager to spend a day and a half with her favorite elf—and she was eager to show off her latest creation. The food certainly smelled amazing, but she refused to cut into the meat until Avyna—

“My love, that smells practically divine!” The expected elf arrived!

Avyna put her speed to use and rushed to wash up and settled herself into her customary spot on the bench at their table as swiftly as she could manage. Ranthia didn’t bother to accelerate her own perception to keep up, she just waited for Avyna’s return so she could explain her dish.

“It should! You remember how I told you that one of my mentors was a dwarf?” Ranthia didn’t bother to keep the excitement out of her voice.

“Of course.” Avyna shot Ranthia a flat look—right, she had a memory Skill.

“Well, that dwarven inspector that showed up in Remera a couple of days ago? Turns out he’s her husband! Overheard him mention Rigira and stuck my nose in. She retired from the war, but he still does inspection stuff and… Not important! Anyway, long story short, he gave me a recipe for a blend of spices, juices, and alcohol that I could soak red meat in to take its flavor to the next level!

“I got the meat bathing in this mixture yesterday while you were at the shop. I wanted to do something special to kick off our time together.” Ranthia explained.

It was good to know that Rigira was still around—even if it was unlikely that their paths would cross again, with the woman back in dwarven territories. Her husband seemed like a nice guy and had been eager to meet her, not that he could spare a ton of time to talk. The meatbath—he’d had some other name for it, but that name hadn’t stuck either—was supposedly how he had won Rigira’s heart, but he considered anyone that survived his wife’s training to be family.

Not that it helped him to have more time to spare talking to her, but she sincerely appreciated the gesture, especially if it was delicious!

“Aw, you continue to spoil me, my love! If it tastes even half as lovely as it smells, I will have to offer this man a discount at my shop.” Avyna smirked.

“Hey, you don’t do discounts!” Ranthia gasped in faux-outrage—not even she got discounts from Avyna!

The two bickered playfully in mock-argument until Ranthia finally sat down after she finished serving their plates, along with a large bowl of potato salad. Avyna rolled her eyes bemusedly at the bowl; potato salad had become something of a passion project for Ranthia since she discovered it. Often (…possibly too often) she tried new tweaks to the ingredients and preparation steps. It was great, but she felt like there was an even better flavor that was waiting for her to discover it.

Ranthia forgot all about the potato salad when she cut into her meat and it all but crumbled from the touch of her crystalline utensils. The meat was tender beyond her expectations, and it was exquisite.

Cooking was truly amazing. She suddenly found a desperate need to understand why this meatbath was so effective—to find ways to bring its effects to other dishes. Her pursuit of a better potato salad felt hollow and unimportant in comparison.

“I have met cooks on their third cycle who could not pull off a meal this good!” Avyna seemed to be nearly as enthusiastic about the meal as Ranthia was.

“Skills can only boost so much. Better recipes and ingredients count more than any Skill. Learned that myself; I used to have a cooking Skill [Soups & Stews]. When I dropped it, I expected I’d regret it forever. Instead, honestly, I don’t remember seeing a big difference in the soups or stews that I made, except when I had less to work with. Not that it was super high or anything, that was a looong time ago.” Ranthia explained after—wait, where had the rest of her meat gone?

“Twenty-four years is not a long time, let alone a ‘looong’ one.” Avyna teased.

“…Thirteen years.” Ranthia quietly corrected.

Avyna laughed.

“The blink of an eye, my love. You shall see.” The elf promised.

There wasn’t even a trace of food left. They had both gone for seconds, then thirds—leftovers were not happening—and had obsessively hunted down every morsel left on their plates. Just when Ranthia was giving serious consideration to drinking the rest of the meatbath out of the pan, Avyna stood up with a surprisingly solemn “Right.”

Wordlessly, the elf retrieved a little wooden chest that Ranthia hadn’t seen since the move. She opened it, revealing the last two of those little brown confections that they had received in honor of their commitment to one another. They had saved the final pair for a special occasion, and yet…

“A great meal deserves a great dessert.” Avyna explained, once she caught Ranthia’s eye.

Avyna savored her own, once she handed the other to Ranthia. Ranthia made a show of admiring the ugly, yet tasty, treat while she waited for Avyna to finish. As soon her elf was done, Ranthia popped the treat into her mouth and pulled Avyna into a deep kiss. The delightful morsel dissolved between their tongues as they drew the kiss out—their lips didn’t separate until every trace of the confection’s decadence was gone.

Avyna whispered something dreamily in elven while they cuddled. They both knew they were destined to end up in bed together, but for the moment they were full and happy. Which made them quite willing to take their time working up to such physical activity.

“Would you be willing to teach me your language, love?” Ranthia finally asked the question that she had been building herself up to since they got together. It was a serious question, but with their current mood the weight felt distant. Ranthia was almost more focused on trailing gentle kisses along the curve of Avyna’s nearest horn.

“High Elvish. I would be delighted to, my love, but I should note that Creation would serve you just as well with most elves. My Creation is self-taught because I grew up in a small community that favored our language, and I never finished my time at the Academy. It was a language I learned through books and trial and error.” Avyna’s words were soft, as were her hands that wandered the lean curves of Ranthia’s hips and back.

“I still want to be able to converse with you in your own language. To hear the music that is lost.” Ranthia didn’t want to say it was because she knew Avyna’s struggles with Creation—it would offend her lover’s pride. What she landed on instead was cheesy, but in their current mood neither was bothered by it. It just lurked—a promise to the future, to haunt Ranthia when she recalled the conversation.

Avyna even rewarded her with another tender kiss, one that began an escalation.

“You really are too good to me. Very well, I would enjoy teaching you new ways to use that tongue and those lips of yours.” Avyna agreed with a salacious smile.

Lessons could wait.

Mail arrived from Remus again, finally. Ranthia and Avyna each received a scroll from the Hyrria couple. As usual, Tertia had written to Ranthia while her wife had written to Avyna. Pandia and Avyna had really hit it off as—to borrow Avyna’s term—quill pals, even if their letters caused extreme levels of mortification for Ranthia any time she happened to glimpse the words they exchanged. Ranthia wasn’t exactly shy, by any sense of the word, but it was just… weird to see their sex life so frankly discussed—and she could have lived without learning some of the details about Tertia that those letters laid bare.

Anyway, the embarrassing letters of Pandia’s endless curiosity weren’t important—it was finally time to learn the truth of what in Xaoc’s glory had happened back in Ariminum that spiked her [Covenant] levels!

…The Statue Incident. Ranthia had waited for almost a month for three words. Tertia noted that “the Statue Incident” happened around the same time and offered no further details.

That spoiled, wealthy brat was definitely driving Ranthia up a wall on purpose!

The weather couldn’t agree whether it was fall or winter. The nights were cold and brutal and the day was heralded by a frost-kissed world; then all of that hurriedly melted away while temperatures flared. Except sometimes the night stayed merely slightly below a range that felt pleasantly cool and sometimes the day had a chill as well.

Wracked by the inconsistencies of nature, morale suffered a bit and—more personally—Avyna had to make the snap judgment call every morning whether she would keep a keg of a hot spiced beverage or a chilled fruity one on her shop’s counter. When she chose incorrectly, she sulked over the lost profits.

The shimagu had been strangely silent lately. Reports from the Legion’s larger scouting forays into shimagu territory—which Remera had no involvement in—suggested that their opponents were up to… something. But few scouts could drive deep enough into hostile lands to get useful intel. Sentinel Aurora had mentioned that Hunting was trying to look into it, but until they had a clearer picture, they were left with nothing better than assumptions.

At least the amorphous worry kept the legionaries willing to work on their drills each day. The sun was barely climbing into the sky while Ranthia sparred against an imaginary opponent outside the base. The troll twin was still—broadly—her better, even as her levels slowly climbed since his death. She knew him well enough that he made an acceptable faux-adversary as she danced through the rocks and struck the air.

After another [Void Edge]-empowered strike, Ranthia paused. The subtle vibrations in the ground grew into a cacophony of noise and training became a serious scouting mission.

Thank Xaoc, it was another caravan. An elven one, considering how much crystal was on display.

Ranthia eyed the four enchanted crates with suspicion. The elf [Laborer] that had unloaded them made it look easy.

The level 879 elf [Laborer].

The diagram drawn on each crate that showed it being set on a table and the table breaking beneath the crate promised a miserable day.

