hifted, the mushroom stem becoming blocky with pockmarks with hints of dust falling off it.--"-then she just ups and goes 'I don't need any of you. I'm the true Nina. Then she teleports away with some doohicky!" Sassy Nina complained and Estal couldn't believe the audacity of Nina being so rude to Nina. Nina needed a hard slap and dragged her back by her hair to Nina to apologize for giving Nina such trouble."Trust no one, not even yourself," Estal stated with a slur to her words.She looked down at the odd drink she didn't order. It looked like a deep orange liquid that seemed fruity-woody-nutty-meaty-medicinal."What's this?" she asked as Nina leaned away from it as if the drink was a dangerous monster."Delta Surprise. Everyone gets one," the goblin bartender grunted."Why does it keep changing colors, consistency, and texture?" she asked, confused."It's a surprise and I'll headbutt you if you ask what kind of surprise," Fera warned and stalked off."I like her when I'm not trying to Dungeon this place, we need more straight-to-business bartenders!" Estal declared and raised her glass."To the bartender!" she declared."I'll smother you if you spill that drink," was the response. Estal downed the whole thing in one go and Nina gagged in a way one only could when they saw a liquor that almost killed them once. All at once, her toes and fingers began to tingle as she felt the room was getting further away.No, wait she was floating!"I am the queen of the sky lizards! Bow to me, Ninas! Nini? Plural of Nina!" she declared as the wonderful sensation of being loved and hugged surrounded her. This was what it felt like to get a hug from someone without ulterior motives.Estal sort of hated it! Where did she stick the dagger of betrayal? Where was the contract almost signing her away as some wife of an inbred idiot? Where was the trick that came with this treat?!She floated through a spiderweb and the court of spiders all raised their tiny glasses in toast as she passed by."Oh no! I didn't bring my upper-crust pants! Don't look at me, your lordhips and ladies!" she wailed as she covered her eyes from the fancy spiders.---Sassy Nina watched as Estal bumped into the roof and began to sob. Fera handed her a broom."Poke her to a corner before she runs into a candle," the goblin ordered."Got it covered," Nina said and held up her hand, showing a string wrapped around her fingers that ended up around Estal's foot. She got the string on as soon as Estal began to float."That drink is a menace," she told Fera who looked thoughtful."I think it's cathartic. I think it's trying to help you see how to think about your problems. Take ice cube up there. She needs to cry more," Fera said and Nina raised her brow."How did splitting me into a hundred copies help me?" she asked sarcastically."Maybe you need to find out what's at the bottom of your barrel of monkeys. Maybe you're missing something you can only see when it's all put on the table. I don't know. I'm not paid to fix your problems. I'm barely paid to listen to you all complain," Fera huffed and walked off.Sassy raised her glass to Earnest and indicated she needed another drink. Earnest, Diligent, and Busy were all working today, cleaning plates and sweeping the place.Sassy would drink for them!"So elegant!" Estal continued to sob to a cobweb stuck to her face.Sassy liked Estal, but this was going right into the ammunition bag when they got into another little spat.
