“That's right; there you go, girl.” Hymn nodded in appreciation. “Solve the problems one after another. But a helpful hint: It's not useless to attack him physically. His indestructibility isn't without penalty. If you manage to damage him enough somehow, he'll get weighed down. He'll slow, and a bit of speed might be the difference between reaching the final encounter or starting over.”

The Headmaster's words also reminded Uva of another thing: Even though this Shiv didn't have any mind strike, there was still a rippling epicenter of translucent magic within the depths of the Garden. There was still a small seed from which the rest of the eldritch mass sprawled forth. She remembered how Shiv manifested the Garden back in the Fairwoods—his body needed to be broken. He had to sustain damage, and if that primordial vessel was completely destroyed, the rest of the Garden would cease to be.

“Which means if we can get past his invincibility and strike deep enough with overwhelming firepower, we can defeat him. We can slay him. Success is unlikely, but we have multiple paths to victory now. We just need to find a way to walk one to the end.”

She started with the simplest solution: her magical superiority. Even the most complete version of Shiv was her inferior when it came to magic. Though his scintillating flame, which cooked other mana types, served as another layer of protection for Shiv, he wielded his Unique Pyromancy reactively, blindly, casting it in all directions and spending it as fast as it combusted—and it combusted fast.

Mana derived from philosophy… You're utterly ridiculous, Shiv. Uva rolled her eyes. I'm just glad the System decided against giving you your Harbinger—or your ability to go backstage. Or at least I hope you don't have those skills right now.

Another sphere of fire exploded out from him, and Uva stymied the coming conflagration with interlaced chains of psionic lightning, like catching a falling fruit with a woven basket. As his flames burned through material and magic alike, it wasted itself, searing chunks away from her mind magic. A nibble of strain began to grow at the center of her skull, but it was better than seeing more of her skin peeled away in bits and chunks. More importantly, Uva was beyond being a mere Psychomancer now.

She pulled her spiderlings back and used them as conduits for another magic. Icicles infused with tarnished time fell, and the barrage became an unceasing hail, impacting Shiv and detonating wide, dropping columns of golden frost upon the raging monster.

From below the city, there came a horrific groan, sounding as stone sliding across metal supports. Entire districts began to tilt, but the quake to end all quakes failed to start in full as Shiv was forced to respond instead of being able to rip the fault lines of the city wide open.

Indeed, his Shapeless Tides were taxed by Uva's hailstorm of time-halting magic. Where his Magical Resistance withstood that barrage, his Physicality paid the price. She felt a tremor of weakness vibrate through the city where before he was casually capable of tearing through kilometers of stone, blasting things aside with casual sweeps and shrugs. She'd seen his tides seep through the cracks he made, burrowing deeper into the earth like an ocean offering rivers of essence.

But that left him deprived—and vulnerable. The vectors lining his body thinned, and when her attacks came, when she flicked her lightning into the fray, taxing him some more, what few tides protected him were shown for the first time. As Shiv's weakness was exposed, he was forced to withdraw the tides he'd sunk into the ground to ensure his own protection.

An explosive roar left him. The air vibrated from the sheer volume of his enraged lungs. Uva ignored him. She continued attacking, pouring her magic down upon him, costing him more of the moving vectors that represented his Magical Resistance, inflicting harm and making this a battle of attrition—something that favored Shiv in most situations, but not here, not now, and not against her.

Not with an entire city to use as a mana battery.

For the first time, the tides of battle shifted. Shiv was now at a disadvantage. His scintillating flames were put out as slabs of ice crashed down upon him—one avalanche greeting another. Tendrils made from lacerations erupted out from his body, and he tried to use them as whips to cleave buildings in twain. But they too were imbued with his Shapeless Tides. As Uva called down a rain of psionic lightning to course along the outsides of her remaining spires, the tendrils crashed uselessly against her mana, as offensive Magical Resistance rebounded from forking branches of Psychomancy of the same Tier.

In a normal struggle of endurance, she would lose. Just about anyone would lose. Shiv would always come back, but when it came to matching mana fields and grinding magic against magic, well, Uva had an entire city to draw from. This pale mockery of Shiv wasn't even capable of conserving his own flame.

“We have him. Keep focused. Do not stop casting. Do not stop. If we give him a single opening, he will break through. He will—”

Uva's inner monologue was interrupted by a deafening rumble that shook her true form—even though she was dozens of kilometers away from ground zero. Far below, Shiv discharged his inertial sheath, and all the speed he'd been building up was released as pure kinetic energy. The world went white. The air around the colossal Garden ionized. Plasma ate through the city like soup. There was nothing magical about it. It was simply destruction expressed by an oversupply of energy.

Another fraction of Weave was lost. Ten cubic kilometers of urban development were rendered empty. No debris fell from the sky in the aftermath. No ash rained down either. This destruction was pure and complete. And at the center of that glass crater was a now 500-meter-tall titan with a thousand whips bleeding and flicking about, seeking new prey to spear.

He was then promptly blasted by storms of psionic magic and cascading tides of falling sleet.

Uva had lost another thousand minds when his inertial overdrive discharged, but her assets were spread across the city and, more importantly, Shiv lost most of his speed as his Reflexes Skill had been reset to its weakest state. Bursting his inertial sheath was a foolish thing to do in the situation, but when you were going berserk, rational thoughts were hard to come by.

Yet, even as Uva's magics tore into him, ripping through his remaining might and bringing him closer to the brink, Shiv didn't focus on burning the city as a truly mindless monster might. Instead, as he summoned a spark of scintillating fire, he ignited the air around him and his body shifted—huge chasms formed across his eldritch visage, with each resembling a set of teeth.

Uva immediately realized what Shiv was about to do. She tried to pull her lightning back, but some of her mana was already burned, and that which was cooked fell into his open maws like a bounty of meat. The monstrous incarnation of Shiv chewed with delight, savoring Uva's magic and gaining new boosts in the process.

A shell of translucence exploded out from Shiv in the aftermath—an aegis of Psychomantic mana. It didn't seem particularly thick to Uva, and she suspected she could crack it wide open with a few bolts of lightning. But it would buy Shiv time. Time to build up his fire and fry more of her Psychomancy. Time to generate new tides to replace that which he'd lost. Time to move closer toward Passage, which she noted he was already doing—his body suddenly possessed of a clarity it didn't have before.

It was almost like he wasn't even in a berserk state anymore.

“That's likely because he's not,” Hymn answered, his left eye blazing bright with Divination mana. “Not right now, anyway. He'll likely regress back to mindlessness soon if he doesn't eat another one of your bolts, but swallowing some of your mana has given him more than just a protective field of Psychomancy; he probably has a measure of intelligence again as well.”

“That silly, silly man keeps getting the silliest of skills,” Uva growled with exasperation.

Hymn nodded slowly. “The good news is, he might be able to cook pieces of himself and feed them to you. You'll be able to be as indestructible as he is for a time, or so I suspect.”

“Cannibalizing my lover's flesh isn't exactly an enticing thought, Hymn.”

“Why, I thought you were the adopted daughter of a spider goddess? Cannibalism should be right up your alley.”

“Spider-like. Spider-like! She has aspects of a wasp as well. And the consumption of weavers has been outlawed for many decades!”

The Headmaster frowned at her, appearing to know she was deliberately omitting specific bits of information. “It was outlawed not because of some grand triumph of social rights for the lesser male counterparts of the Honored Mothers which govern your kind, but because the plague was becoming too contagious and feral packs were ripping through the city’s underbelly.”

“Allegedly,” Uva ground out.

“Girl, come on, you can fool some other Seeker, but not me. And I'm not actually judging. The Republic's done far worse. It's just that you can stand to be a bit less of a hypocrite sometimes.”

Back in the fray, where her attention deserved to be, Shiv adapted his strategy, and Uva countered once more as well. He sent his fire forth, trying to burn her mana. She met him magic to magic, expecting him to charge forth and feed his Garden. But instead of swallowing chunks of deep-fried magic, he also got a mouthful of spiderlings which crept down his throat. They were further followed by the remaining Terrorspawn she commanded. Paltry in number and without a survival instinct to speak or, she didn't expect them to survive, but they would wreak havoc inside Shiv's eldritch stomach—however his Garden digested things.

As she used her spiderlings to tear through his insides, painting scratches along the wounds and broken things constituting his Outsider form, the parts that she damaged hardened into a silvery shell that quickly grew immune to her geometric attacks. But Uva wasn't a one-trick pony. She began casting new spells from her spiderlings, lashing the Deathless from within. She possessed her own psionic lightning as well, and furthermore, the icicles of temporal frost she unleashed went unburned by his flame.

A minute and a half passed by. She still had halfway to go before achieving a technical victory. But Uva was incensed now. She tasted vulnerability in blood, and she sought to feast upon true victory once more rather than merely surviving.

After all, she was to be a Legend too, and though she was more than a little fond of Shiv, there was always a question in the back of her mind—an urge to discover and experiment. She wanted to know if she could beat him, and how consistently at that. There was no true harm in it. They were all Pathbearers, and right now, she felt more aligned with her Path than ever before.

Understand, adapt, and resolve, Operative.

While the words echoed in her mind, Uva attacked Shiv from within and without. She made him spend his magic defensively, burning away her psionic storms—but found himself denied any new meals as her reserve spiderlings ripped through the chunks before they could fall into his mouths. The saboteurs she'd smuggled inside him broke as Shiv shifted his eldritch architecture and ground them down to nothing. But though it hurt to lose some spiderlings, they were regrowable through trauma, and she would always have more of them.

Shiv, meanwhile, was running out of overflow vectors and not generating new tides fast enough.

He picked up a bit more speed by the third minute, his inertial membrane active again, roaring with vivacity, but Uva countered his approach in advance by casting her body across the city to one of the far-flung spires still standing. No longer was she in Passage, and by the time Shiv realized where she was, it was already too late. She was too far, and he was too spent.

She could win by just waiting things out. But where was the fun in that?

“Sorry, Shiv, but the System wanted you to be my victim this time,” Uva mused to herself. “I'll make it up to you later. We can have ourselves a proper spar.” She paused, and smirked. “More than one. For now, I need you to be the one that fries.”

And as she finished that apology, she drew upon all her remaining might, gathered the storms she had left under sway, and fused all that mana together into a single, trembling bolt high in the sky. A thousand strands of lightning collapsed together, slamming piece after piece to become a single colossal spear of translucence. It rattled in the air, raging silently, displacing thoughts across the city. Within it was not only all her own energy, but what remained of Weave's psionic replica. Most of the mentally simulated city was lost, but there was still enough leftover that driving it down into Shiv felt right.

He'd ruined her recreation, and she would use her broken art piece to finish him. There was something poetic about that, and she suspected that would feed into her legend more than anything else in the Delve so far.

Instead of casting the spell as she usually did—with a concentrated exertion of thought—she reached out, spreading her hands across the city as she gripped the lightning, wielding it like a blade in reverse grip.

As Shiv turned, as he came hurtling toward her, his form a climbing comet, thoughtless, mindless, shedding what remained of his psionic shell, she brought her lightning bolt of lightning bolts down, driving it into his form and bursting the last of his tides apart in a blast of warring mana.

