Hail followed the lightning. Droplets of golden frost that impacted Shiv from all sides. Uva launched lances of ice into his exposed form; his body wrenched itself apart as sections were frozen in time, wounds displaced, unable to move with the rest of his destruction-shaped physiology.

If Uva desired it, she could have caged him in a dense slab of time-enclosed frost, kept him as a display item and let the time run out, but again, she wanted to win, and so her time magic was focused. The stasis she inflicted captured Shiv's original form exactly. The chunk that tore away was also that which held his original body and was severed from that central cortex—that source from which his Eldritch Physiology sprang forth. The rest of his Garden twitched and spasmed like a human body undergoing seizures, struggling to re-establish contact with its mind.

But tragically, that moment would never come. Her spiderlings, the twelve that remained, converged on his body and waited for the frost to clear. There were no Terrorspawn left. Now she only had three thousand minds fueling her with memory, storm, and mana.

But it didn't matter. She'd prevailed. And as her golden-tinged ice broke apart, evaporating beneath the final rush of tides that was birthed from Shiv's core, she speared down into him. She glided through his protective shell and—

Found his original body as indestructible as the rest of him.

Uva's lip twitched. “Never mind,” an instance of her mind declared. “We don't have a good solution for killing him. We're going to need to invest in some other kind of magic later, something directly destructive. Freeze him again. Let the time pass.”

An annoyed huff escaped Uva as she blasted Shiv with ice once more before he could reconnect to his Garden.

And just as well, for she was over the four-minute mark now, and the seconds ticked down to—

Shiv blinked out of existence. A notification followed.

Encounter Complete (4/5)

Special Encounter Objective Accomplished—Applying Special Delve Evolutionary Encounter

The words Uva saw left her speechless and paranoid. “Hymn?”

“I know. I see it too.” The Headmaster reappeared next to her. “The problem is that I've never encountered or even heard of this before. I have no idea—”

Initiating Encounter (5/5)

Special Encounter Engaged

Encounter 5 Objectives: Defeat the Divinely empowered Hatchling—choose what you wish to become, as your choice has been stolen from you before.

No sound came. No obvious wave of pressure washed over Uva. But she still felt something, and as she looked up, what she found looming over her was another figure, the true source of the incandescence she'd been feeling.

Yet it wasn't the Composer that stood ready to greet Uva in battle, but the Starhawk, now bound to the Hatchling, prepared to lend his Divinity to the vile spawn of the Eldest that once stole Uva’s soul.

“Seeker!” the Hatchling screamed. “You were meant to be mine. You will be mine yet. We will be joined, and I will be born in truth!”

“Ah.” Uva sighed. “I suppose I should have seen this coming.”
