Distract. Divert. Delay. Disengage

These are the key principles to apply when facing a singular adversary a Tier or multiple above your own.

Along with the four D starting words above, we're adding two more: distance and detection. Let this cold reality sink into your bones. No matter what we teach you in this course, no matter what skills you have, if a High-Tier Pathbearer engages you on their terms while you are unprepared, you are dead. Short of divine intervention or the System's favor smiling upon you in the most vulgar of ways, you are dead. There is nothing you can do if a Master or, Composer forbid, Heroic Vanguard closes with you.

Make peace and die knowing you gave yourself in honor of Her name, and that she will play an ode to you in memory of your distinguished service.

But if you manage to avoid such misfortune and fight as a part of a greater unit, then you might find yourself spared from death even if your enemy is many times your superior.

Distraction is the most effective means of survival. The pure Martial Pathbearers you face will be the most easily distracted. After all, though they possess tremendous speed, physical destructiveness, and natural durability, they are often lacking in Awareness, which will allow illusions and other sensory-confusing and environment-altering magics to affect them with great severity. A well-placed blast can send your enemy scurrying to uncover what caused the explosion and give you ample time to teleport out of the danger zone.

This leads into diversion. A diversion is always essential for a Pathbearer who, with high enough Reflexes, can sort through the initial confusion and catch up to you in an instant. As such, it is important that they find themselves facing an actual problem, or what they believe to be an actual problem, for as long as they can be occupied. In some instances, a diversion can be created even without a distraction. Your enemy can know exactly where you are and possess every means of slaying you, but if you break a dam and cause a raging torrent of water to wash toward the rest of their undefended allies, then they will need to make a cruel calculus of their own.

Make dilemmas for your enemies and buy yourself life.

This then blends into delay. The more complex you can make your problems or dilemmas, the longer they’ll remain out of action.

And this will give you the time you need to reach the final outcome: disengage. This is why your Jump Magi must be protected. They are your team's lifeline. If you're caught out of position or you need to evacuate immediately, they are your means of escaping the direst of perils. In the case where there are no Jump Magi or they have been put out of commission, you can disengage through other means, though you will need exponentially more luck and wit the more supportive elements you remove from your arsenal. You will need to do anything you can to get beyond the enemy's own awareness and back to our protected lines.

But know that this, in turn, is the most ideal circumstance, and you will rarely encounter this in the field. Every action you perform will be paid for and rewarded in exchange for lives. You must spend lives to give more time. You must spend lives to save lives, and sometimes saving lives will result in you spending them down the line. The ultimate fact, the cold, bitter math, is that an Adept is prey for those above them, and even a well-coordinated team will not often be able to stand against a lone enemy Master.

So, when you embark, prepare every time to be as protected as you can be, and remember that the only reason our nation itself stays protected is thanks to Her Lady Arachnae’s power, and the spending of our blood.

And both are choked by the brutality of scarcity.

—Methods of Disengagement (Combat Course for Novice Sisters of the Arachnae Order)

406

The Storm that Dreamed [I]

Shiv didn't fight like a person, not even when his mind was intact. He fell like a natural disaster, slamming himself into his enemies like a storm of force and magic—raw brutality, refusing to stop even as his body was shredded apart and death closed in to claim him.

Even before his meteoric rise to Master-Tier, there was something bestial in the way he fought, a relentlessness that couldn’t be trained. She'd witnessed it firsthand shortly after meeting him, when he saved her from the rogue Raven—and then proceeded to butcher the man during a chaotic fall through Weave.

And now, here in this Delve, he was severed from both rationality and logic, commanded to rage free across Weave at the behest of the city in his most unnatural form.

A sea of Shapeless Tides spiked straight down, and Shiv's monstrous form plunged like a blade cast forth from the heavens. A blade sheathed in rolling avalanches of blood, ruptured organs, and rolling rubble. Shiv became ruin in motion as he slammed down into the first spires beneath the Composer’s great cocoon. The eldritch devastation that clad Shiv drank in the carnage he caused as he hammered an entire tower into dust, absorbing the damage and injuries he inflicted on infrastructure and individuals as his Garden grew.

An immediate toll was reaped. 542 minds blinked out of Uva's Noostorm network. As part of the physical city was destroyed, a portion of its mental replica simply ceased to be. The minds supplying those core memories were lost and slain. Sections across the mentally-constructed city went dark, vacant voids usurping the place of objects and people.

“Strike back, you fool. Strike back!”

Harkness' bleating was unnecessary; Uva was already mid-retaliation. She drew on all her reserves as she began her counterattack. Bolts of Psychomantic lightning impacted Shiv from all across the city, and she noted how the Garden's size worked against it. Though it stood 300 meters tall and moved like a meteor, Uva's Multi-Tasking and Reflexes Skill Fusion was faster than Shiv’s Inertial Overdrive, and mana always struck faster than matter as a rule.

As a result, just under ten thousand psionic storms converged upon the avatar of annihilation, and it had no chance to evade any of them.

Translucent bolts struck Shiv in an unceasing chain, and the magical blasts that followed ripped through Weave like thunderclaps. At the same time, she commanded all her Terrorspawn and spiderlings to sally forth and assume defensive positions to guard the territory and people she had captured. Although her spiders heeded her command as a hive heeding its queen, the Terrorspawn ignored her orders, seeking only to attack the oncoming threat and derive fear from his flesh so more of their like could be birthed.

Where Uva's spiderlings created layered geometric fortifications to delay Shiv’s onslaught, the Terrorspawn wasted themselves by launching their bodies through the air or galloping across crumbling bridges into the jaws of destruction itself.

“No! Hold position!” Uva snarled telepathically. But though the Terrorspawn arose from her power, they didn't bow to her will—not until she drowned them in their own subconsciousness, much like she did to Weave's actual defenders.

She didn't react quickly enough.

Shiv barreled through the sea of lightning crashing over him. His acceleration became extreme, the inertial sheath coating his massive form thundering with delight as his speed only climbed. He moved and, with air friction alone, set the atmosphere aflame, leaving a stream of explosions in his wake. The world shook. The city was cleaved asunder, and twelve cubic kilometers of architecture vanished beneath fire and force.

While waves of natural flame rolled off his body like riptides displaced by a surfacing leviathan, an aegis of scintillating fire ripped free from his body, sweeping forth in all directions like interconnected, arc-shaped tsunamis ripping through magic and matter alike.

Half of Uva's Terrorspawn were wiped from existence in a fraction of a second. Thousands of captured minds were lost as their component bodies disintegrated. The only reason the destruction didn't spread further was thanks to her fractured spiderlings. The way they parted geometry and caused space to distort and bend shunted cascading tides of destruction between buildings, slashing through interconnected bridges but sparing the bulk of the spires beyond the city center.

If only for a few more moments.

Shiv continued to move. He rampaged and raged, throwing himself at the geometric fortifications, and though her fractured spiderlings were capable of tearing through mundane matter, when Shiv slammed into them, she knew his form to be unbreakable.

Before her fractured spiderlings were sundered, they suffered the kiss of his scintillating flame. His Unique Pyromancy seared Uva's flesh, for each spiderling bound to her—a part of her. She bit back a hiss of pure pain as pieces of her skin burned and blistered, toppling free from her body in cooked slices—the kind sawed free from the flesh of a well-glazed boar. But that distant, searing pain didn't last long. For when he smashed into them, the spiderlings shattered outright, dissolving into glittering pieces beneath his immensity.

He was a soaring landslide, an earthquake that shook the atmosphere instead of just the earth, an inferno unleashed, and there was nothing stopping him. He was inexorable, implacable, indestructible. In the ten seconds that followed, he painted a chasm of devastation across Weave, splitting the city in two. The psionic replica of the city superimposed over the physical suffered even greater harm. Entire portions went missing. The northeastern section vanished. The west blinked out, leaving panes of glass anchored to empty air where entire spires once stood.

The number of minds and psionic storms she controlled went from 10,000 to a little over half that number. And if she didn't come up with a way to keep him at bay, that number was going to be halved again and again, until there were no more minds under her sway, until he finally turned his focus on Passage to see this simulation brought back to the start.

Uva gritted her teeth and strained her stacked consciousnesses. Her Reflexes fired; her Multitasking allowed countless instances of herself to think. A dozen Uvas were given the task of succumbing to blind panic and utter despair. The rest of them worked to discover a strategy or solution to put the Deathless down.

There was no surviving five minutes against Shiv. That objective was a lie. He would keep coming. And as a loud strum of hostile melodies radiated out of the Composer's cocoon, painting the entirety of the captured city in a resonant web, there was no place for Uva to hide, nowhere she could go. Shiv knew where she was, and he was coming for her, but before that, he would see the city torn down to its foundations, before he finally visited that initial stronghold she'd captured, if only as a lesson in her impotence on the part of the Delve.

Their trio had long since noticed what the System was doing. Adam's developments made him a perfect counter for Shiv, but the Paragon remained uniquely vulnerable to Uva even now. Meanwhile, even this incomplete version of Shiv, lacking any of his predatory cunning, psychological insight, or a whole slew of Unique and lethal skills, was still too much for Uva herself.

A defiant aspect of Uva’s personality cut through that pall of impending despair with a decisive snarl. “No! Stop that! There will be no more defeatist thoughts. He's not an ideal adversary for us, but we can delay him. We can beat him. But we must act instead of reacting. It's the same thing with Adam. If we wait, he will bury us beneath his power, and Shiv is even worse. The longer we give him, the more his strength and speed and fire will grow.”

“But what are we supposed to do?” Her lead mind shot back. “The Delve stripped him of his mind, so there's nothing for us to destroy. He's currently berserking—and as if his indestructibility wasn't bad enough, his size is growing as well, since the Garden absorbs everything he destroys and everyone he harms. We don't possess nearly enough direct force skills to overwhelm him; whatever the limits to his Toughness are.”

“We don't focus on attacking him physically; it would be a bad idea, even if he didn't have Legendary Toughness. The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things absorbs damage, and unless we're capable of literally removing pieces of the Garden from time itself like the Stranger—Wait. Time…”

An idea resonated through all the Uvas.

Shiv slammed straight down to the very base of the city, and an earthquake reverberated throughout the entirety of the dimension. Kilometers-high spires began to rattle and swing, their foundations, crafted by the Composer’s own hands though they were, uprooting as Shiv cracked the floor below, breaking through the bedrock and stabbing his Tides into the artificial tectonic plates even deeper below to unbalance the city on a literally fundamental level.

“Our solution is magic,” Uva's minds declared as one. “His Magical Resistance, his Grappling Proficiency, his Physicality—they're all a shared resource. The more tides he spends striking and damaging the city, the less he has to protect himself. We need to concentrate what remains of our Noostorm—but instead of trying to grind him down with a rain of bolts, we should use our storms as shields. We should bathe every section in the city in cages of mind mana. The spiderlings are not proper barricades, but formations of frozen time might be.”

