An idea comes to mind, one so crude and tactless it pains me to even think it, but I can’t let it go without trying. I’ll need strength and power in the days to come, and even if I don’t know how size correlates to strength, at least I know it’s a step in the right direction. Steeling my heart, I slink out of Baledagh’s room and stare into the void, reaching back into memory to conjure a second room into existence. Calling it a shack would be generous and more than a little misleading, as this hovel of packed, clay walls would hardly be suitable for chickens to roost in, much less a home for a person, but home it was to one poor, unfortunate soul. Dim and unsightly, the interior boasts a packed dirt floor covered with woven-grass mats. The door is little more than a few branches lashed together and the roof leaks more than most sieves, but there’s a homely pride to its interior, with every item in its place, neat and orderly as can be. The floor was always swept, the linens always clean, and clearing dust and grime had been a daily battle, but one she never skipped, not even at her lowest.

Ai Qing was a woman to be admired, someone who never let life’s hardships bring her down. A courageous, persevering young woman, she was more noble of spirit than most aristocrats I’ve met, and the first woman I fell head over heels in love with.

It feels horrible to admit, but it’s the truth. Though I was already betrothed to Lin and Mila, I had yet to fall in love with them. I had feelings for them sure enough, but not the burning passion of love and intoxication I have now, more like the smouldering affection of friendship and affinity, accepting them more out of resignation than anything else. They both wanted to marry me, or at least Lin wanted to and Mila didn’t mind her mother’s choice, so I figured why not? Things have changed since then and now I love them more than life itself, but back then...

Standing in the doorway, I peer around the home where sweet Qing-Qing nursed me back to health, my throat tight and eyes filled with tears. Even after all this effort, I can’t bring myself to step inside, overwhelmed by the memories of our short time together. I remember the darkness and fear as I woke for the first time in ages, a man battered and broken in both body and mind, ravaged by my trip through the Lake and the truths uncovered within. I remember her soft touch against my bare chest and her gentle, yet firm insistence I remain in bed, her intentions clear as day despite my blinded eyes and deaf ears. I remember the first time I saw her, how she wiped away her tears before noticing I was awake, and how quickly she recovered from my bumbling reassurances of how I wouldn’t rape her...

My other self might have come to terms with Qing-Qing’s death, but the pain feels fresh today as the day I lost her. I want to see her face, hold her hands, hear her sing her mournful melodies, and even though I could do all of that with a snap of my fingers, I’ve already disgraced her memory enough for one day. Stepping away from the door, I will myself awake and hope no one saw my moment of weakness. Pretending to rub my eyes awake as I can wipe away the tears, I breathe deep to clear my sinuses and swallow the lump in my throat while trying to find the courage to go back and check.

There’s no winning. If Qing-Qing’s hut is gone, then I will be pained by its loss, and I will be similarly pained if it remains. At least if it is still there, then it means my Natal Palace needs to be modelled after a place I have strong emotional ties to, whether it be Baledagh’s room, Qing-Qing’s hut, or the village in the mountains, though they’re all places I’d rather not have to look at, day in and day out.

If strong emotional ties are what’s needed, maybe I can model my Natal Palace after the Golden Swan Pavilion. Course, seeing how I haven’t been there in years, I’d have to go back for a visit and refresh my memories... for research purposes.

Falling back into bad habits, I reach into my pouch and pull Blackjack out, giving the sweet hare a little nuzzle while delaying the inevitable. Squirming in my grasp, Blackjack’s head bobs up and down, indicating it wants to go higher, and I stand up and raise the cloud chaser hare into the air. Freezing in place as I spot something on the horizon, my mouth proves faster than my brain as the question slips out. “What’s that?”

“It’s a boat.” Feeling generous, Guan Suo refrains from calling me an idiot, though he turns around with a raised eyebrow in question. “What have you been doing back there? We spotted it close to twenty minutes ago.”

Belatedly noticing Ping Ping has finished her meal and my clothes merely soggy instead of soaked, I realize I spent quite a bit of time lost in memory. “Was meditating,” I lie, shrugging as I sit back down. “So... any idea who’s on board?” The unknown vessel has a distinct lack of flags or banners and would look more at home moored to one of Nan Ping’s riverside docks than out here on the Azure Sea, with a sheltered living quarters in the back so one can enjoy the scenery without being subjected to the elements. A pleasure barge, essentially a little pavilion on a ship where one would drink and make merry.

Studying my red eyes and puffy cheeks with open curiosity, Guan Suo offers a shrug of his own before turning away. “We’ll find out soon enough.”

He’s not wrong. With Guard Leader’s powerful strokes guiding us forward, our skiff drifts to a stop a few meters from the barge, and silence ensues, both Guard Leader and Guan Suo content to sit and wait while Taduk studies the pretty engravings on the side of their barge. Seeing how no one is willing to speak, I raise my voice and call, “Hello. Is anyone up there? We mean you no harm. I am Falling Rain, Warrant Officer of the Empire and I’m here with my Teacher -”

“Well as I live and breathe! If it ain’t the little hero of Sanshu.” Interrupting me mid-sentence, a familiar face pops out to greet me with resounding cheer, his hair and beard as unkempt as always. “Ye ain’t satisfied with one drop of Heavenly Water, boy?” Lei Gong asks, smiling to take away the sting of his words. “If yer here to steal a second one from under our noses, then mark my words boy, it ain’t gonna be so easy this time.”

Oh wow. This is going to be awkward... but first things first.

“Greetings, Lord of Thunder. Is the Azure Ascendant in? This lowly one would like to offer his greetings.”

“Nah,” Lei Gong replies, his answer flooding me with relief. If they’ve been hunting Blobby all this time and our groups come to blows, at least they won’t have an Ancestral Beast in their corner. Ignorant to my rude and somewhat murderous thoughts, Lei Gong continues, “Somethin’ came up and he ran off with Wugang about a week ago. Only me and Yuhuan here aboard, Daxian and Yelu Shi are in Nan Ping on other business.” Lowering his voice to a booming whisper, he adds, “Between you and me, ye might want to steer clear of the Tyrant. She’s none too happy with ye on account of killing her darling nephew and all.”

In my defence, her ‘darling nephew’ OuYang Yu Jin died while charging across stage to impale me on his spear, but yea, I can see why she’d be upset. Before I can respond, the Tyrant in question appears next to Lei Gong and looms in all her shapely glory, her mature beauty more than enough to stir my heart. “The Runic device I left with Jorani was activated last night,” she says, glaring down at me as if I were an offending bug, which I find both terrifying and arousing. “Tell me, what crisis warranted its usage? If that fool activated it on a lark, I’ll boil him alive and use his skin as a rug, GangShu’s hopes be damned.”

Umm... What?

Chapter Meme
