“You said belief, I wouldn’t have, given the Ascendency's religious fervor. But in essence, yes. The Ascendancy fell because their Tier 50 thought he was above everything else. He was strong, incredibly strong amongst his peers. But looking through his personal records after the fact, it’s clear that he never cared for the Ascendency’s religion or customs. He saw himself aloof from everything worldly, including that which he should have cherished. That made him a good politician because it allowed him to play ‘The Game’, and let him rise up to become their Tier 50. But when it came down to it, he was given a choice between his own personal vengeance and accepting his Chosen had died.”

Looking disgusted, JR spat, “As we see from my feathered perch, he made the wrong choice. He saw the situation differently than you or I. Another player's chess piece had made what he considered an illegal move, and so he punished them for it. Nothing more or less. If you don’t believe me, his original messages are still available. Ask Emmanuel for access, I’m sure he’ll give it to you. The ‘belief’ you speak of isn’t as simple as a Great Power’s religion, or cultural identities, it's about the entire system and perpetuating it. If more ‘competent’ heirs were selected like that, how many Great Powers do you think would have fallen?”

“Lets say I agree with the logic, how does that make Agatha different?” Quill couldn’t help but ask.

“Did she take over and crown herself? Yes. Did she take over and burn down the entire system to make herself something else from the ashes? No. Compare the fall of the Ascendancy and the Empire’s change in leadership. Both were bloody, but one was far more destructive than the other. Agatha was a believer. One might argue the strongest of them all, far more than the former dynasty’s last selection of heirs. I have no doubts about that.”

JR was hardly the first person to compare the two incidents. Luna had even made him write a report comparing the two events, and the take-aways were fresh in Quill's truncated memory.

Accordingly, he shot back, “Most people who compare the two put the blame on internal politics versus external.”

“While the more apparent internal versus external argument is touted around as the difference, I disagree. What stopped Agatha from rewriting the script?” Quill was opening his mouth to reply when JR waved a wing, silencing him as he spoke on. “Agatha may have lost some of her supporters if she’d tried to create something vastly different from the Empire you know, but far fewer than you’d expect, so long as she allowed those supporters to transition into the new structure. From your perspective, I’m sure the political and socio-economic situations were pivotal, but those are lies. Lies Tier 50’s spread because it makes people feel good, that they matter, because it gets people to believe.”

Quill was almost lost in JR’s tangent before shaking his head and getting them back on track. “As interesting as this is, what point are you trying to make?”

JR tutted, looking down his beak at him. “What point am I trying to make indeed? I explained, but let me elaborate further if that wasn’t enough. Internal scuffles are just that. So long as the core is solid, Great Powers are stable as bedrock. It takes a great storm arriving at exactly the right time to even shake one, and most storms find they are mere squalls instead of the hurricanes they envision themselves. As brittle as the old decrepit Empire’s foundation was, it's not so easy to fight up at those Tiers. Additionally, even if such people existed, how many are willing to be the storm? How many others simply leave at Tier 45 as Titan so correctly pointed out? Hmmm?”

Quill had no answers and JR could see it. Thankfully, he changed the subject, pivoting with a light hearted hop as mana stones started to charge the stabilizers. “So what about my idea of sharing with Cosmind? Are you amenable? It would make things much easier if I could loop her in. So many equations change post-defensive pact, and you wouldn’t want an ally to be underprepared do you?”

Unwilling to stay quiet any longer, Quill quipped, “Are you open to payment plans? You tell me the information about the mana stones now, and I tell Max at some later undefined point, possibly seconds before I ascend? Hmmm?”

Instead of shooting his crazy idea down, JR seemed to consider it, tapping a claw on the table. “Oh, and how would you do that?”

Put on the spot, Quill said the first thing that came to his mind. “I can pay her in letters one at a time like interest payments. Maybe I can make it a scavenger hunt? Though given Max’s abilities, I’d have to stop a lot of pre- and post-cognition tricks, so my real best bet would simply be time. One letter every few thousand years feels about right. Actually, the more I think it over, the better my original idea is. Delay payment for as long as possible.”

“Your business sense is getting better at least. However, no, I don’t agree to those terms. If you wish to know what I know, inform me in advance of your acceptance and then arrive a little early to our next session. I can ensure you have privacy while you and Cosmind chat. Then and only then, will I speak of what I learned. That's my counter offer.”

Quill wanted to argue, to object in some way. But instead, he signaled he’d heard the deal and got to work harmonizing the Natural Treasures, letting the conversation end there.

The raven had given him a lot to think about. First wasn’t the teased information about his mana stones, but the conversations about Agatha.

JR undoubtedly wanted him to reach some predetermined conclusion, but nothing stood out as particularly noteworthy to Quill. For all the raven’s casualness, he’d never once forgotten the Tier 50 was savvy enough to become one of eight beings at the peak of the Realm.

Pausing, Quill thought he might have stumbled upon the deeper meaning JR wanted. His initial reaction was to call the raven’s distaste of the Ascendency, naked hypocrisy. The bird had happily used the same ‘Tier 50 were the only real people’ argument when it was convenient for his stance.

Pondering everything as he worked, Quill realized JR hadn’t exactly contradicted himself so much as used the argument like a parent uses the reasoning that they are an adult to shut down a conversation they don’t want to have. Personally, he wasn’t sure he agreed with the conclusion that driven and ambitious leaders inevitably lead to a Great Powers ruin.

The Realm’s history was littered with Tier 50’s blunders, both large and small. With JR’s words ringing in his head demanding attention, he perused what historical documentation he could find. He wanted to be surprised, but found hints of JR’s meaning scattered throughout aborted plans, cut investments. The ever shifting landscape that was Great Power politics obscurated things further, but he thought he saw the signs of Tier 50’s pulling back when the risks grew too large.

More than anything else, that realization sent a thrill of fear down to his toes and right back up to his head. Would the Empire find itself alone during the true war?

Was that JR’s warning?

Quill didn’t know, but he took the warning to heart.

The Tier 50’s might be willing to negotiate, but if anything threatened to destroy their Great Powers they’d react like…a cornered animal. Worse yet, the more they cared, the harder they’d fight.

Was that JR what he’d meant?

Watching at his hands as he worked, Quill saw flashes of blood long washed away by his sweat, injuries long healed by time, magic, and suffering, dirt caked under his fingernails so permanently that no matter how short he kept them he always found more.

How would he react with a Great Power-sized rabid dog intent on securing him as a battery to keep a Great Power running?

Opening his clenched fist, Quill forced himself to relax and concentrate on his work.

That wasn’t a question he needed to ponder. He had his answer. He’d had it at Tier 1 and it hadn’t changed at Tier 30. Still, self reflection was an important skill, so he let himself answer as if it was the first time he’d heard it.

His positivity buoyed him along as he returned to work confident that even if he was wrong, he was at least true to himself. It only lasted until he finished his allotted harmonizations and moved to assist JR.

As if reading his mind, the bird started chattering at him the moment he sat down. Unable to sit there quietly, the bird eventually riled a response out of him and they bickered until Quill’s mind could no longer contain the two of them. Only then did JR call an end to their efforts, with most of the upper torso’s scaffolding built out.

Returning to the estate, Quill wanted to sleep off the headache, but forced himself to return to his lab.

For all of JR’s quips and comments, he’d failed to mention one thing about Agatha. She’d succeeded. He didn’t need to look up the countless failed coups across the Great Powers to know how she’d managed what everyone else couldn’t. She’d planned, prepared, and performed when it mattered most. He could do all of that, anyone theoretically could, but her most important trait had been her strength.

Quill knew he was taking a step in that direction with the armor, but more tools were better than less. He needed to get his flash talismans working. The larger his mana pool, the higher his Tier, the more mana he’d have to throw around in fights. Even with his new armor being a mana hog, he’d have more mana than he knew what to do with in a few Tiers, unless he started designing skills for that singular purpose

Shelving that idea, he saw Blake had already done so a dozen times, not wanting to bother Rah. Quill didn’t have such compunctions and sent the lower Realm ascender a message. He might have some method that was better at channeling billions of mana more efficiently than what was locally known. It was unlikely, but there was little reason not to ask.

When Quill didn’t get an immediate response, he gave up on that line of inquiry temporarily. Rah would see it whenever he came out of whatever archive he’d bribed his way into, and no personality fragment of 『　』 had the free time to learn skill creation.

The only other person he could think to reach out to was Eclavorn, but his relationship with the dragon was rocky at the best of times. He felt it better to wait before he pulled that thread.

Quill's return to work only lasted a single attempt before he gave up and retreated to bed to sleep. While his thought process was fine, and he could think through the pain, his testing required a level of detailed control he needed to be fresh for.

He spent over a month trying to create a light talisman with a leaking liquid mana stone, and when he finally succeeded, he’d confirmed his worst fears. In the current iteration, leaky liquid mana stones made great nightlights but terrible combat talismans. They simply didn’t allow enough mana per second through to make a reliable conduit.

Spinning the glowing mana stone on his desk, Quill looked at the technically present illumination and reconsidered. He’d started with only a few thousand mana. Maybe he just needed to… scale things up.

Creating a slightly larger mana stone with only a few million mana, he carved a light talisman on the surface before allowing the outer layer to fully solidify.

Tossing the larger but now visibly glowing mana stone into the air, he sighed. For a first attempt to solve a problem that had been hounding him for the last five Tiers, it wasn’t a bad answer. However, it was equally clear it wasn’t what he needed.

It was definitely useful, and he’d love to investigate the leaky mana stones and the method used to make them, but he didn’t have the time where Blake would make it. No, Quill needed to redirect his efforts to his original goal.

Flash mana taslimans that were usable and useful in battle.

Another part of Quill feared needing to tackle that project before the name was finished, or the project would be forever shelved, citing his very own failure. So long as he got their collective foot in the door, 『　』 would happily make time for this as well.

He just needed to prove it possible.
