“He really cares about us.” Dilseffa said and kept walking backwards. “You don't realize it until you start thinking about all of the things he's done, then it hits you that all he's doing is helping people. People he just met. Most of the people in his domain he rescued personally. He's even saved this world several times now.” She was almost too far to hear without her having to shout, and she stopped walking. “He's even saved a bunch of Giants and made them a city to live in, and didn't ask for anything in return.” She said and her tears stopped on their own. “Who does that?”

Rimsoh didn't say the obvious answer, and she smiled.

“He does. He always does.” Dilseffa said. “He knows people are grateful for what he does for them, since he can feel their emotions; but, almost no one ever actually thanks him for it.” She said. “Well, I'm going to. I'm thanking him right now.” She put a hand over her heart and took a deep breath. “I, Countess Dilseffa Dreikhyth, publicly acknowledge King Ren as my Inamorato.”

A ripple of surprise flowed around the camp site as the Pervarians couldn't block their feelings anymore.

“I am Second Mistress of his Royal Concubines, and I will do my best to earn him Respect.” Dilseffa said in a strong voice that none of them had ever heard before. “I am his, and he is mine, both formally and informally. I dedicate the rest of my life to his service, and that of my family members who so choose to join me in that service.” She said. “I do so swear.”

Everyone fell silent as they saw a beam of bright white light shoot out from her and across the remaining space between her and Ren and connected them. The day was ending and the daylight was waning fast, so the bright beam of light lit up the entire campsite.

“I humbly accept your pledge of loyalty, Countess Dreikhyth.” Ren's command voice cut through the silence just as much as the beam of light cut through the air. Everyone turned to look at him, and he walked over to her. “Please, allow me to adorn you appropriately.”

“I accept your attention, My King.” Dilseffa said.

“I had planned on waiting until a more private setting.” Ren said and took out her wardrobe cabinet and opened it. He reached in and took out her work outfit, and she caught her breath. It was only a string bikini and barely covered her.

“M-my K-king.” Dilseffa said and held the thin and very strong platinum-laced cloth. “I... I don't...”

“My head of security will be the fiercest warrior.” Ren said and closed and stored the cabinet. “Equip your uniform, please.”

Dilseffa did so, and everyone caught their breath as nearly all of Dilseffa's skin was exposed.

“Here are the jewelled adornments that are appropriate for your station.” Ren said and started to hand her platinum bracelets, anklets, and a diamond encrusted necklace. No one spoke as Dilseffa equipped each item and her power increased with each added item. “These are only artifical boosts until I can train you properly to become this powerful on your own.” He said. “Now, your crown.”

“M-my WHAT?!?”

“Royal Mistresses are a part of my Dynasty in the lands of Pervaria.” Ren said and pointed to his head, and she saw a thin platinum crown partially hidden by his fluffy hair. “Please, kneel.”

Dilseffa was too stunned to refuse and knelt as she stared into his eyes. Ren held out a diamond encrusted tiara and tucked it into her hair.

“Welcome to the Ren Dynasty, Dilseffa.” Ren said. “Boy, that sounds so pretentious, doesn't it?”

Dilseffa snorted a laugh and he smiled.

“May I kiss you to finish the ritual?” Ren asked, and she nodded. He cupped the sides of her face with his hands and leaned down slightly to press his lips to hers. The light between them grew brighter as he poured feelings of admiration and thanks into her, and she felt how proud he was of her. He broke the kiss and stepped back, then took her hand and helped her stand.

“That was so beautiful!” Yuwen said excitedly and ran over to them. “Quick! Do me next!”

That made several people laugh, and Ren and Yuwen repeated the ritual. Tiyaphi came over when Ren called her over, and they repeated it as well. Once they were done, Teepo told Ren he was out of time.

“I have to go.” Ren said.

“We need to get inside.” Artemis said, and she, Ren, and the three Pervarian concubines, went inside the tower. The bottom was a fully furnished living room and the next 4 floors had bedrooms.

“I'm on the top floor.” Ren said.

“Can I sleep there, too?” Tiyaphi asked.

“I won't be much company.” Ren said.

“I want to be there when you wake up.” Tiyaphi said.

Ren felt that she was going to sneak in later if he said no, and sighed.

“Thank you!” Tiyaphi said and ran up the stairs, then Artemis and Ren walked up after her.

Yuwen looked at Dilseffa. “You really meant what you said, didn't you?”

Dilseffa tried to hide her feelings. “It... really hurt to... end things...”

Yuwen took her hand and walked towards the stairs. “He'll let you hold him, I'm sure.”

“But...”

“We don't even have to ask.” Yuwen said and pulled her up the stairs to the top floor.

Ren, Artemis, and Tiyaphi were changing clothes to get into bed. They looked at the two women, shrugged, then climbed onto the bed.

“I told you.” Yuwen said and equipped a set of lacy underwear and bra she had retrieved from her wardrobe. Dilseffa equipped an old and slightly worn out night gown, and Ren felt her embarrassment.

“Come here.” Ren said.

It wasn't a command, so Dilseffa had to choose to go to him. She did, and walked over to the bed. Ren touched the cloth with the Master Tailor Sewing Needle and repaired it instantly.

“There. All fixed.” Ren said and pat the bed beside him.

“I... My King...”

“There's no need for titles anymore, Dilseffa.” Ren said and put an arm down for her to lay on. “Cuddle in and relax.”

“I don't know about the relaxing part.” Dilseffa said and climbed onto the bed.

“I'll be a perfect gentleman.” Ren said and smiled. “Since I won't be here to take advantage of you.”

“Geez, Ren.” Artemis said. “Take it easy on her.”

“She knows I'm joking.” Ren said and tucked his other arm under Artemis' neck. “I've got two legs free, or you can settle for my hands.” He said to Yuwen and Tiyaphi.

“Definitely hands.” They said together, then chuckled and laid down so his hands cupped the sides of their faces.

“Goodnight.” Ren said. See you later, Teepo.

“Bye, Ren! I'll keep an eye on things, like always.”

A chorus of goodnight was said in return, then Ren tensed all of his muscles for a moment and relaxed.

“Logout.”
