The rings we received from the OuYang clan are very helpful aids, but a double edged sword. Everyone gathers the Energy of the Heavens at a different rate, a safe rate. Without an aid like the ring, there is virtually no chance of overdrawing energy, because of diminishing speeds of cultivation. The more chi you have, the slower you draw more in, simple as that. The rings remove that limitation, while also increasing our base speed of drawing in Energy. The violent buffering from cultivation allows for a person's core to develop more quickly, but not at an astronomical rate. It helps me play catch up at least, as long as I remain in control, and don't boil myself from the inside. We all cultivate with the rings each day, while Alsantset watches over us, ready to interrupt if we seem to draw too much. Except for Huushal, he lent his ring to Song. He has the worst control out of all of us, but he's very good at using his chi instinctively, bolstering himself to herculean strengths, something else I want to learn.

Readying myself for what's ahead, I put my ring on and begin going through the multiplication table in order to clear my mind. One times one is one. One times two is two. Rote repetition without needing to think, it lets me slowly sink into the State of Balance, rather than plunge in as I normally do. As I reach eleven times three, my mind enters the State of Balance and the Energy of the Heavens rushes towards me. Ready for the surge, I direct it with a thought, not only breaking the large wave, but moving it about, dispersing its metaphysical momentum as it enters me.

Separating it into a dozen streams, my absolute limit, I allow it to circle throughout my body, several currents and eddies splitting through me, the temperature of my body slowly rising. Diverting the rest of the energy out of me, I keep only the controlled streams within, siphoning off more when I am able, keeping myself at my limit without ever going over. The energy cycles through me sixty-four times before it is able to begin settling into my core, fighting me every step of the way. Shutting myself off from the Heavens, I stop taking in more energy, refining what I have, compressing it into my core, like swallowing water with a full belly, feeling bloated and unwell. Slowly, the energy becomes more tranquil, soothing, lazy almost, and I surrender to the flow, falling into relaxation, the calm seducing me into surrender.

The sharp, jarring strike of Alsantset's chi interrupts me once again, my eyes flying wide open from the sting. Kneeling in front of me, she admonishes me with a look. “It was better this time little Rain, you resisted for over two hours. You will learn to control it well eventually.” She pats me on the head, and stands back up, watching the others as they continue to cultivate.

Mei Lin dabs the cold sweat from my forehead while I recover from the experience. “Two hours, Rainy, a new record.” I smile at her, grateful for her help as I take the handkerchief from her. “What happened at the end, Rainy? You looked like you were settling into it, but then you lost control.”

Closing my eyes, I try to remember what just happened, before it all drifts away. “I lost control, but not like I normally do. It's usually a struggle, wrestling the energy, directing it where I want it to go, and I had that, I was succeeding. Then it made a 180 degree flip, no longer fighting me, but... guiding me instead. I just... surrendered, I think.” She remains quiet, giving me a pat on the head, always optimistic.

Pulling the ring off of my thumb, I study it carefully. It's just a simple band of jade, this one inky black. While it is solid in color, I can still make out the other side of the ring, seeing right through the stone. The flat edges are lined with silver, while the outer surface remains uncovered except for a single rounded band of silver, engraved with the character 'insight'. Along the smooth inner surface, there is an intricately carved pattern, barely indented, difficult to see but easily felt, a rune, the marking that makes the ring more than just jewelry. The books I read about runes had no explanation for where they originated from, but if carved in the correct manner with chi, they interact with the Energy of the Heavens in unexpected ways. Everyone who knows how to carve a rune guards the secret selfishly, and it would have taken years for the OuYang Patriarch to learn. He probably made several for his own people, keeping it a secret, ensuring they had enough of them before exposing his talent to the world.

The book had examples of what could be done, and apparently, this chi gathering rune is a more common occurrence in the Eastern Province. With the lack of a bridge, and being the smallest province, the Eastern Province is the safest, and richest area, due to lack of major conflict in the region. I'd like to live there, it seems like a wonderful place. Runes have other effects, such as strengthening armor, or bolstering endurance, but those are more rare, most in the hands of the Emperor. Keep the best toys for those who you know are loyal, the Emperor is a clever man. Or woman, actually, I have no idea. They stay pretty gender neutral around here.

Putting the ring away, I head out in the darkness, back to my bedroll. Mei Lin is already there, cuddling with the twins, an excuse to sleep closer to me. She's been increasingly clingy lately, but if I'm being honest with myself, I don't hate it. She is a sweet little girl, and I do love her. I just wish she could be my real little sister. She will make someone very happy in the future, it just can't be me.

Putting it out of my mind, I lay down on my bedroll and close my eyes. Two or three more days to the city, but I'm not exactly looking forward to it. The Magistrate of Shen Yun is Situ Jia Ying, a card-carrying member of the Society. We aren't exactly on the best of terms with the Situ clan, but Akanai should be there waiting for us. Even a Magistrate can't run rampant around a Lieutenant General.

Unfortunately, I also have to worry about the Lieutenant General. I get the feeling Akanai won't be too happy with me, considering we now have five duels to worry about.

Maybe I should stay outside the city, just to be safe.
