“Yes,” Malika said, her lips curling up in obvious distaste.

As soon as they were ready, Mato charged the monster, with Malika sprinting along just behind him.

“Go,” Ali told her minions, reinforcing the verbal command with her intent. All but her mage charged in. Her Mace Bugbear leapt through the air, flying seven or eight meters before he came down with a gigantic, smashing strike. To Ali’s surprise, the heavy mace bounced off the hard bone carapace with a loud bang and the tiny crack he had made rapidly closed. The axes and daggers of her remaining minions met with just as little success.

The Spitter Drone dropped off the wall and one of her Kobolds had to dive for safety, barely avoiding being crushed by the huge bulk that sent a quake through the stone underfoot as it landed.

Mato’s swipe tore some splinters of bone from the monster’s carapace, his claws glowing green in her mana sight as he empowered it with some magical skill. Probably Brutal Restoration, Ali decided. It turned on him with uncanny speed for such a massive creature, spraying a jet of vile fluid from between its two insect-like mandibles. The jet tracked across the ground, along Mato’s flank, and up the wall before it stopped. Dozens of razor-sharp bone spines shot out from the fluid, stabbing Mato and the nearest Bugbear before the mana twisted and the entire thing solidified.

Mato roared in pain as his thrashing shattered the new bone encrusting his side, tearing out chunks of skin, flesh, and fur which the liquid had just turned to bone! His healing magic slowly flowed through his body, and the ossified flesh cracked and sloughed off as his wounds began to slowly knit together.

Ali stared in horror. She couldn’t imagine the pain Mato must have just endured. But he just swiped a huge paw at the monstrous bug-like creature even while his blood leaked from between the cracks in the bone that hadn’t fallen off yet.

“We need to fight smarter than this,” Ali exclaimed. “We can’t just tank it and hope for the best…”

“Can you see if your Bugbears can target their mandibles, or legs?” Calen said, firing another arrow. “It must have some weakness.”

“Ok,” Ali said, nodding. “Hit the legs,” she commanded her Bugbears, and instantly they switched strategy trying to wedge their maces under the lip of the carapace.

Not wanting to let her friend endure the fight any longer than absolutely necessary, Ali immediately picked a spot and opened fire. Her Arcane Bolts slammed into the bony carapace with a staccato thwacking sound, flinging shards of broken and shattered bone in all directions, slowly forcing open a gap in the armor which grew wider only slightly faster than the bone armor’s extreme regeneration could close it up. Quickly, to capitalize on the vulnerability, she instructed her mage to use Firebolt to target the same location. Calen and Malika immediately noticed her efforts and joined in. It was clear that the bone was regenerating significantly faster than the Kobolds they had fought earlier. Ali dared not let up, or their efforts would be rapidly undone.

Another fluid jet sprayed out, splashing against the wall and filling the air with a putrid stench. Even though it missed Mato this time, the spikes shooting out of the fluid as it hardened still impaled him several times before he twisted his body, snapping them off. Malika darted in to touch him with her healing magic before she returned to delivering a furious onslaught of flashing punches.

The bug writhed and sprayed several more times while Ali rained down bolts in concert with her Fire Mage’s efforts, widening the hole torn through the carapace and exposing the monster’s innards.

That’s just big enough to fit… she thought, sending the command to her mage.

“Incoming Fireball!” she yelled, getting Malika to duck right as the sizzling ball of flame shot forth, slamming into the hole and vanishing inside the gigantic monster.

There was a muffled thump and the sound of bone cracking, and suddenly, gouts of fire erupted from several large cracks in the rapidly disintegrating carapace. The Spitter Drone lurched sideways, ricocheting off the wall before slewing drunkenly to the left, nearly crushing Mato before the Bear danced free.

“Go! Go! Go!” Ali’s rogues and Bugbears, useless in the fight until now, launched a devastating offensive, targeting the weak spots opened all over the heavily armored carapace by the powerful explosion of fire magic. Even though the carapace was visibly repairing itself already, the axes and daggers were relentless, sending shards of bone flying among sprays of vile gray fluid.

For the first time in the battle, the monster shrieked, writhing to try to escape the furious onslaught. Its frantic thrashing sent some of her Kobolds flying, but the rogues were dexterous enough to land on their feet and resume the attack.

After a few minutes of wild spray, glinting steel, and bone splinters shattering in all directions, the monster suddenly shuddered and stopped attacking.

“We’re close! Attack!” She urged her minions to finish it.

From deep within the monster, a dense ball of glowing mana began to coalesce, pulsing like a heartbeat that grew stronger with each beat. As it grew, the chill of premonition traced down Ali’s spine, setting her shivering with dread.

“Take cover!” she yelled, throwing as much mana into a protective barrier as she could, blocking both herself and Calen.

The mana within the monster pulsed one last time, and the entire behemoth of bone vaporized in a detonation that dwarfed her mage’s fire magic. Ali was flung to the ground as the entire stone street exploded, flinging deadly missiles of bone and rock in all directions, skewering her minions and ricocheting off her barrier and the walls behind her. All her rogues were blasted across the street, striking the stone walls with sickening splatting sounds. She reeled from the stinging recoil of multiple mana reservations snapping. Dimly, she saw Malika landing on the roof, pulling several shards of bone out of her thigh before pulsing her healing magic. Mato had been blown backward through a wall, but he emerged shaking his huge head before knocking several bone plates out of his shoulder and flank and clambering over the rubble.

Ali stared in a daze at her cracked and beaten barrier which had surely saved her and Calen from being skewered. All around her, bone and … pieces… rained down silently. Malika was yelling something as she leapt down from the roof, but she too was silent.

She seems very insistent.

Malika was yelling something again.

Oh, I’m deaf.

Ali concentrated on Malika’s lips and got as far as “Run” before she saw a horde of Kobolds barreling around the corner at the far end of the street.

Oh shit! That’s why.

In panic, she struggled to her unsteady feet, reaching out for help. Only one of her minions remained – a Bugbear with only a bleeding stump protruding from beneath his heavy steel pauldron. Knowing she could never run as fast as the others, she commanded the Bugbear to pick her up and flee.

Behind, she saw a churning mass of angry Kobolds and skeletons that grew into a tide that threatened to wash them away. More and more joined the throng as the group of adventurers fled into the dark streets of the ruins, desperate to get away.

Ali summoned barrier after barrier behind them to slow the horde, but it was as effective as building sandcastles on the beach to stop the tide. They crossed the border from the encrusted buildings into the regular city and continued sprinting into the darkness, her Bugbear puffing and panting from the effort. Every time she checked behind her, Ali was certain the Kobolds were growing closer. They ran and ran, but the Kobolds chasing them were tireless, and even though she was still deaf, her imagination could easily conjure the chirps and hunting calls growing louder as they closed the distance.

“They’re not giving up!” Ali yelled, her voice coming out as no more than a hollow vibration in her throat and skull.

“We have to use the smoke bomb, teleport out!” Malika yelled. Or at least, that’s what her lips seemed to say. A black potion appeared in Malika’s hand.

Ali’s guild ring had come with a free potion of recall, and she quickly found it and summoned the vial of black liquid.

Malika threw her potion to the ground, and she vanished in a silent explosion of shattered glass and black smoke.

“Put me down quickly,” she told her Bugbear, and as soon as she reached the ground, she dashed the potion on the stone at her feet, feeling the disorienting lurch in the pit of her stomach as the magic pulled her away.

She didn’t stumble this time, but she experienced strong vertigo and dizziness as she was whisked into the teleportation locus in the center of the Novaspark Academy of Magic. Malika was off to the side wearing a worried expression, and a few moments later twin puffs of smoke and a fresh smell of burning signaled the arrival of Mato and Calen. Ali let out a held breath sensing the last reserved mana for her Bugbear snapping away. She shivered. That was close.

Malika sat down and hugged Ali, pulsing healing magic through her body. “Well, that was a spectacular disaster, are you ok?”

Ali’s hearing cleared instantly as Malika’s magic repaired the damage.

Ali nodded, but her body was still shaking from the aftereffects of the huge adrenaline-fueled run for their lives across half the ruined city, and the delightful experience of being blown up by a monstrous bug creature of bone.

“How can we ever win against that many?” Ali asked. Her voice shook but she didn’t care. The explosion had nearly killed them, and if she hadn’t reacted exactly when she did, she was certain both she and Calen would have died in the explosion. The horde of Kobolds drawn to the explosion had been endless.

“Relax a little, Ali,” Mato said, his voice unreasonably calm.

“How can I relax after… that!”

“It was a pretty epic train, I will agree. And that bug exploding was something else. But we won, and we got out alive, so in my books, that’s a good fight,” he declared, grinning.

Ali looked at him incredulously. Is he even on the same planet? Did he not see the Kobolds?

“You didn’t get hurt, did you?” he asked.

Ali opened her mouth and then shut it again in surprise. I didn’t even get hit. In fact, the only damage she had sustained was when the shockwave from the explosion had burst her eardrums. She glared at Mato and frowned. “But you had your body turned to bone! You had to break it off in pieces. And I saw you impaled by dozens of shards when that thing exploded!”

“I’m the tank now. I have a lot of health and armor – it’s my job to get hit so you guys don’t have to.” He smiled softly at her. “Yes, we were surprised by that explosion at the end, but other than that, the battle went pretty well.”

“You’re ignoring the part where we almost died to a horde of Kobolds that wouldn’t give up after running halfway across the city. And that was after almost being blown up by a giant bone monster,” Malika pointed out, taking a strongly contrasting position to Mato’s rosy perspective. “Not to mention the cost of those potions to save us. Still…”

“Yeah, I prefer being alive, too,” Mato agreed.

“We can learn from this,” Calen put in.

Their calm logic slowly dispelled Ali’s adrenaline-jangled nerves and her feelings of being overwhelmed. She began to think about it a little more objectively. Malika’s right, he’s taking an overly optimistic view, but he’s not entirely wrong. I don’t want to do that again, but at least we are alive because we were prepared and had those potions to escape. We can fight another day, we will fight – and we’ll fight better, too.

Ali regarded her inner thoughts with surprise. Huh. If she didn’t know any better, she might be accused of sounding brave.

After taking a few moments to recover, Ali and Malika settled the mana debt for their teleportation fee. Between the two of them, they were easily able to cover it without waiting to regenerate.

He must see this kind of thing all the time, Ali thought, noticing that the official hadn’t interrupted his work for even a moment during their entire conversation. Her gaze lingered a little on the beautiful runework of the teleportation locus before she followed her friends out of the hall.

These three have my back. I’m only alive because of them.

Some things no amount of coin could buy.
