Obolis closed his eyes, "I understand if you need to call off your involvement on Blegara. I will not pursue your involvement further, either; I know a lost battle when I see one. Shameful as it is, I believe we should move forward with the plan to kill Plazia-Ruhl. While I'm not willing to lose this many troops in this war, the Ahcorous are. Those bloodthirsty creatures should prove perfect for our needs."

I shook my head, "That isn't necessary. I think we can still win, and quick too. Hasn't Florence told you about our plan for subjugating the Vagni?"

Obolis's eyes darkened, "No. He did not."

"Oh...Well, we're going to show the eldritch on Blegara worshipping me. Since the Vagni worship the eldritch, they will hopefully worship me after that. Once we get the Vagni on our side, the Adairs will lose the locals' support. Holding the planet should be much easier after that."

Obolis steepled his fingers, "I still believe holding Blegara will prove impossible even with the locals' support. They aren't a powerful military force, and they are primitive. That shouldn't make enough of a difference."

I raised three fingers, "There are three reasons we'll be able to hold Blegara. The Vagni and the eldritch will help us more than you'd think since both will be involved in this. The second reason is we can use super golems to hold down certain districts of towns."

Obolis nodded, "Ah yes, Alpha, was it? That was a powerful soldier, and it was designed with killing Hybrids in mind. They would assist us greatly in controlling the territory. That wouldn't give us the ability to control more rural areas, however. You simply cannot produce enough of the super golems to do so."

I pointed at him, remembering the magenta crystals we found, "That may be true, but I think we've found something recently that will give us an edge against those monsters."

Obolis's eyes lit up as he detected a secret, "Ah, you've uncovered something that could be a dagger in the Elysium's side...interesting."

Obolis's eyes dampened, "But that does not change the economics of controlling Blegara. I could buy your super golems, certainly. I could also purchase this new means of defeating Hybrids from you as well. I would never, not even over centuries, be able to earn that money back from Blegara. It offers pearls, corals, and beach resorts. That does not equate to trillions of credits, unfortunately."

I stood tall, "I think Blegara is worth saving."

Obolis peered down, "Hm, so you've grown attached, have you? Hmm." Obolis bit his tongue for a moment, appearing peeved, "You know...I expect some conniving plots from my children. To have it occur from Florence, however...that's unexpected and disappointing. I expected loyalty from him, given the opportunities I've allowed him to have."

I scoffed, "None of you, not a single Novas, understands the guy. Florence is more than just useful. He's a serious asset worth keeping."

Obolis raised his eyebrows, "Hm, perhaps that is so. I've seen the talent in him, and yet I could not give him what he needed to succeed. On the other hand, you've weaned more use out of him than we have in years. If you have done so with Florence, you may be able to wean more use out of other resources as well."

Obolis turned a hand to me, "I've read through reports from Victoria that you've enjoyed your stay at Blegara. Is that true?"

I nodded, "Eh, yeah. It's a cool place."

Obolis grinned, "How would you like to own the planet?"

My eyes widened,

"Uh...What?"
