Torix scoffed, "I anticipated more blood and screaming as well. Interestingly enough, the crystal hasn't affected the mind of the bird whatsoever. How that is...I've no idea. It's merely augmented its nervous system to include proprioception of the newly added, crystalline limbs. That and a moderate hunger for metal."

Torix shook his head, "Marvelous, I must say. I've never seen anything quite like this. It's as if this crystal is a symbiotic lifeform designed to enhance creatures it attaches to."

I crossed my arms, "Let's see what it can do."

I lifted a hand, generating an iron spike from below the bird. On route to pierce it, the spine reached within a foot of the bird before the crystal lurched in place. Four prongs stopped the metal in its tracks before assimilating the metal. Once it finished eating, the gemstone condensed into its previous form, no larger but denser than before.

I crossed my arms, "So there's a limit to the size of the crystal bearer. Maybe it has to do with brain size or something?"

Torix pointed at the bird, "Would you mind feeding it more iron? I'm left wondering how much it can eat."

A few more spikes later, and we learned that the crystal definitely hit a saturation point. It could only absorb about ten times its host's mass in metal based on the birds. After that, the sheen of the gemstone maximized, and it could no longer feed. I took out a bit of my dimensional fabric and tossed it at the bird. The crystal shifted to the bird's defense, but after making contact with my dimensional material, it retreated back into crystal form after making contact with my armor.

I grinned at Torix, "This is going to help against the Hybrids, eh?"

The lich cackled before steepling his fingers, "Oh, I'm brimming with ideas, all of them unpleasant."

We brainstormed for a few hours, trying out a variety of gemstones I had on hand. Each one absorbed different amounts of metal and took on different shapes when put on various birds. These shifting forms resulted in many different incarnations of the crystals. Some operated like ribs surrounding the birds, each one acting as an extra limb. Other birds gained a flowing tendril of crystal, giving it extraordinary single target abilities.

One of the crystals created an armor protected and molded around the bird as I attempted hitting it. That was the strongest incarnation of the crystals so far, acting as an extension of the bird's body. It also became evident that each crystal varied in its impact on a bird's mind. The stronger the crystal's effect, the stronger it affected a bird's mind. No matter what kind of addition it had, it beefed up the birds quite a bit.

I couldn't help but think of the eldritch while seeing these things in action. We didn't know the long term effects of the crystal on animals yet either, but they seemed beneficial so far. That might not be the case long term, but I left that studying to Torix. He engaged with this kind of research far better than I did, after all. I looked away when he put crystals on birds. The old necromancer didn't so much as flinch while a bird screamed.

Either way, I left Torix's hidden research labs with a feeling of resounding success. The crystals rested at the bottom of the trenches in Blegara, and I didn't think Obolis knew about them. For the first time, I might be able to understand more about something than he does. Thinking of that and the struggling forces in Saphigia, I sent the Emperor a message to see if he could meet with me soon. I wanted to renegotiate our deal, and I made that clear.

Well, it turns out he could meet, and a bit too soon, actually.

Obolis Novas(lv ??,??? | Finder of Secrets, The Carnage of Olstatia, The Emperor... | Guildleader: The Empire |...) - As I understand it, there's been much discourse and results from your battles on Blegara. The position since our initial charge has changed most certainly, and I agree, we should discuss further details regarding the planet's future.

If you are able, I'd enjoy a meeting immediately. I've found an inkling of downtime, and making it purposeful would please me greatly.

I look forward to your reply.

I put my hands on my hips, thinking for a moment. Yeah, I could meet up right now. We sent a few messages back and forth before Obolis gave me the coordinates for one of his private chambers in Olstatia. With that in tow, I let Ophelia and Chrona know I'd be late. Finishing the planning required, I walked towards the warp outside of Mt.Verner.

Stepping out of the white mist leftover from warping, I turned to look at my surroundings. I was already here, Obolis approving my travel to this place. I found myself surrounded by torches and stylish stone from all sides. It was a kind of red marble littered with gold streaks, the strands showcasing the same color pallet I expected from Olstatia by now. If anything, this marble probably inspired the look Olstatia went for.

Above me, a pillar extended upwards via an ancient, well-worn spiral staircase. This spiral staircase carried many walkways leading to other tunnels in this underground labyrinth. The number of resources required for this place dwarfed even a planetary scale, several colonies worth of marble, gold, and gemstones needed in a hideaway of this size. The many walkways here, no doubt, hid away an innumerable number of treasures, maps, and personal chambers for Obolis.

Speaking of which, I followed the directions he sent. I paced up the spiral staircase several flights worth before walking down the twenty-seventh walkway. After recounting several times to make sure I wasn't going down the wrong walkway, I explored a hallway littered with low-lit torches. The orange lighting cast the displayed treasures here in dramatic luminescence.

A flask of Plaga Ustus was here, the glowing and white virus swirling in its containment. Several other vials showed themselves as I walked past, each brilliant different colors. Peeking at a few of the descriptions, they showcased other unique varieties of eldritch. A few weren't even monstrous in nature, holding mostly positive effects on those infected. The Empire might be using them on their forces already.

On the other side of this viral showcase, a few captured Hybrids stayed suspended in stasis. There was an enormous exhibit of a blighted one, the gialgathen's body distorted into its new, abominable form. Cords reached out from its throat mid-bite, and orange pustules glowed over its frame.

The nanomachines fluid gave the monsters their tenacious recovery, and suppressing one of these creatures was no easy feat. The standard Hybrids also exposed themselves here, having been captured at some point by the Empire's forces. Past that, rare varieties of eldritch existed within preserved tubes. All of these monsters were volatile, dangerous, and majestic, their ferocity both horrifying and praiseworthy.

Hiveminds, endless walls of flesh, glistening miasmas, living suits of armor, even converted albony exposed their forms for curious eyes here. Armors, knives, swords, guns, shields, ores, gemstones, jewels, stones, teeth, horns, skulls, plants, and elemental furnaces lined up in perfect, preserved spaces. The sheer variety overwhelmed the senses, each piece valuable and rare in their own right. In this kind of lineup, they all looked familiar, however.

The sheer wealth and prominence on display here boggled the mind. It left me floored as usual, but I collected myself before meeting the Emperor. He had used this tactic several times, showing off before we talked to put me off my game. It was an attempt to leave me startled before we spoke, so he was at an advantage. In this case, awareness alone canceled out this tactic.

Using that knowledge, I silenced my awe and surprise. This was an inevitable amount of wealth he accumulated over centuries. By comparison, my guild hadn't existed for even a decade, and when we hit our hundredth year, we'd dwarf this fortune a hundred times over.

I mean, probably...

Finding a bit of solace in those thoughts, I paced into Obolis's chambers. I cursed under my breath as I walked in. He did it again, and the displays took my breath away. The ceiling rose over a hundred feet above the generously spaced hallway behind me. Obolis's greatest treasures showed themselves here, only the rarest of his collection on display now.

On the left, a horde of insects swarmed with a lesser Ruhl at its center. It reminded me of Baldag-Ruhl, but nowhere near as ancient and worn down. This was a younger Ruhl, one fresh out of being formed. Panels beside the Ruhl showcased a variety of rare gemstones that glowed different colors.

On Obolis's right, many vials of blood were lined up, each with a remnant family inscribed beneath them. He harvested remnant DNA to reverse engineer their secrets. Considering how powerful individual remnant families were, the idea was sound, albeit illegal. At its top piece, he lacked a few families of remnants. The rarest of which was the Adairs, of course.

Behind Obolis stood a tan tree by spotlights. It had a white trunk with black stripes, like a birch with orange fronds acting as branches. These fronds ranged in color from yellow to red to orange. Its fallen leaves created an elegant walking space right behind Obolis, who stared at the plant with adoration.

I pointed at it as I walked in,

"Is that the tree you guys use for masks?"

Obolis turned in his chair, the cushion space supported by some gravitational instruments,

"Indeed. When cut and preserved, the wood turns different shades depending on the age of the tree. The older the tree, the darker its coloration. As you may have imagined, orange masks are the younger ones, red some of the oldest. Only the most ancient trees gain the charcoal coloration you'll see worn by the elite albony."

Obolis gestured at his prime specimen, "This tree is one of the most ancient of its kind found in a dark forest. I brought it here after exploring one of the oldest and most worshipped woods on my home planet of Olstatia. It creates a natural ambiance I find...calming."

Obolis turned to me, "It also reminds me of the ways of my ancestors. They forged the path I now walk, leading the albony into the future. Unfortunately, a grim one at that."

Obolis stood up, his form imposing as always. He walked from behind a desk of black wood, dozens of hidden electronics lying beneath its surface. It was no doubt the same charcoal wood he used for the elite masks. Walking along his marble floor towards me, Obolis spread his arms wide,

"And now our future is in a darker place than I imagined. You've no doubt noticed that our support on Blegara, it's been ineffectual. It is the planet I value the least, yet it is the most contested of all my planets. I believe that Elysium wishes for that planet since its easily obtained territory relative to the other places under my rule."

Obolis gripped his hands into fists, "Yet, I find myself in a precarious position. On the one hand, I don't wish to lose the territory I've invested in. There are resources on Blegara I wish to retain, and my Empire's reputation is on the line here. On the other hand, Blegara is still a relatively underdeveloped territory."

Obolis stared at the swarming hivemind trapped in a stasis pod of sorts,

"That planet was considered a worthwhile risk due to the rarity of aquatic resources. Its water is shallow across most of the word, meaning it carries much more usable, aquatic territory than is normally possible. The organic resources there are tremendous because of that. It carries enough water to terraform a few planets as well."

I frowned, "But now you're wondering if it's worth holding onto?"

Obolis winced, "That is precisely correct. You've been fighting there for several days now, on the ground. You understand as well as I - the planet is doomed to be taken. Whatever we conquer, it is retaken during the night. I do not wish to be trapped in a perpetual war with the Hybrids where I alone carry the tools to destroy them."

I raised a hand, "That's what I was going to talk to you about. We won't be able to hold the capital for long. Even if I reconquered the entirety of Saphigia in a day, the Hybrids would retake it overnight. I won't be able to hold it down unless I stay there permanently, and I'm not willing to do that."

"Neither am I."

"That's my point. We won't be able to retake Blegara at this rate without a hard push from your end. From what you just said, you're not willing to do that."

Obolis raised his eyebrows, "I find the matter settled by basic economic theory. Blegara is simply too little gain for too much loss. From an opportunity cost perspective, it's by far the worst investment left at my disposal, and I'm tempted to rally my resources for preservation elsewhere. That is the position I find myself in."

Obolis glared at the Adair's missing vial of blood, "I...I put my bets on Schema and lost. Now I must suffer the consequences for my failure, and I believe that by trying to keep all of my territories, in the end, I will keep none. At this rate, I'll be losing several planets because of this rebellion, and that is a loss of several centuries of work, time, and diligence."

Obolis's face grew grim, "Yet more may be taken if I cannot cut my losses here. Elysium may not be as large as Schema, but militarily speaking, they are a similar force. As is, my Empire is akin to a solar system in scale. These enemies of mine, they are galactic in nature, and I cannot compare. You've noticed that difference in military might. That's why you called this meeting."

