Other minds helped me execute and push past this relentless perfectionism. I ended up finishing thirty of these new golems as the ancient mind stirred from my interference. It wrestled for control of the rainbow bones, limiting my time even more.

I turned to each of my new golems, the improvements paling in comparison to my new rune. Still, these golems carried several adjustments for Leviathan-7. They worked in teams of three, each of them isolating and destroying behemoths one at a time at the kelp forest's uppermost section.

These golems also carried ascendant cores. The mana gave them hunger and the ability to assimilate eldritch energy like I did. The conversion could use a lot of work, but I tolerated it for now. Getting control of the situation took priority. Rubbing my temples, I said over the pounding impacts above,

"Now, each of you will need to go up to the uppermost layer and stop the spawns. Safety is the absolute, highest priority. Do not, and I repeat, do not go down to these lower levels. You'll die a useless death if you do."

Changing to Event Horizon, I stared at them with piercing eyes, "Understood?"

They shivered before giving me nods. I peered at them in silence before waving my arms, "Now let's move. We have ground to cover."

They spurred into the action as one of the empowered eldritch left a blooming flower of cracks on the bony plates above. Turning primordial, I raised my brow, trying to get the rainbow bones to attack the eldritch. The ridiculous shards refused me, but I expected as much. I rolled my eyes before changing back into my ascendant form.

I shot towards the pounding sound. I cut my way through the rainbow bone with my shield overhead. I timed it with one of the monster's collisions, capturing the beast within my dimension. The electrical spirit cackled and hissed from where it released a thunderstorm above.

Trapped and in stasis, I tried killing it by smothered the electrical entity with dirt. It left no impact on the aberration. Howling out over the rolling hills, three different primeval eldritch shot towards me and my golems from a distance. They aimed to destroy my golems, something I couldn't allow.

My minds racing for a solution, I came up with a game plan. I psionically synced with the other golems, and we launched up, heading towards the upper layers of the kelp forest. We darted through the algae strands, finding weaker behemoths on the second tier of the planet's ecosystem slices.

Three uber eldritch followed behind us, each of their compositions different but deadly. A ball of living vibrations disintegrated matter as it passed through objects, and another eldritch coursed through the air as liquid light like some higher being. The last one moved as minerals, having made its body out of the rainbow bones.

They homed in, and I acted as a shield for my golems. My forces escaped to the upper echelons of this place. Taking a breath, I closed my eyes as the eldritch closed in. I opened my eyes with a growl as the creature of vibration cycloned into a spiral. It erupted out with a twisting, kinetic storm that blurred our dimension.

It disintegrated three behemoths beside me, but I hid behind my dimensional shield. The monster of light shot past me, piercing through my body from the side. It left its glow within me, and it spread out like glowing poison. A cleansing fire erupted over me, yellow flames popping out over my skin.

The mineral monster came up and turned its arm into a hammer. Slicing with speed, it slammed me down into the shards below. Being made of rainbow bones, the ground only crushed several feet, and my body pulped against it. From my destroyed state, I stood up. As I arose, my body healed in tandem.

It was as if a living Daniel stood out of a dead one.

The three primevals used a combination attack. The ball of vibrations coursed onto the mineral being's hammer arm. It lifted its hammer while slamming it down to me. The light monster formed an eclipse over the hammer arm, creating a wall of light around me. This created a small tunnel.

Testing its rigidity, I smashed a fist into the wall of light. It held firm, sparking lights erupting from my fist's collision. I turned around, peering up. Panic ignited in my chest as the mineral beast shot down hundreds of feet to me. A plan sparked in my mind, and I followed it.

I swung my shield up to absorb the combination attack. The hammer fell in, a large portion of the vibration beast sinking into the abyss. I followed my dimensional shield's path with my other fist, empowering it with condensed strands of armor. I crushed my hand into the mineral monster's face, smashing it apart.

Its head crumbled, and the punching hand after it impaled the mineral monster's face. In an instant, I generated several singularities over the liquid light. Its body splintered, my attack absolute. At the same time, the mineral crashed down beside me, a kinetic bomb erupting in the tiny, enclosed tunnel of light.

Multiple minds worked in sync, letting me leap up in time to point my dimensional shield downward with my other arm. I pulled the captured electric beast out from earlier. It blocked the majority of the ensuing explosion, lobbing me upwards towards the liquid light. Passing to it in a wicked rush, I smothered the light monster with Event Horizon.

It fled up the chute of energy it created. This lined the creature up, and I lifted my dimensional shield again. I released the captured laser beams from earlier in a burst, decimating the creature of light. The blowback propelled me back down towards the other primevals below me.

I turned myself into a thin line while speeding my descent with all the gravity I could muster. I passed its initial kinetic wave with ease, strengthening my gravity wells with each passing second.

A second before I landed on the vibration and mineral eldritch, I turned myself into a flattened ball. An enormous explosion erupted, contained within the light tunnel. It pipelined the energy into an incinerating, destructive eruption that shot far above the atmosphere and into space. My gravity well pulled in objects far in the distance, the air and atmosphere falling towards the pillar of light.

Cracks formed over the glowing tunnel before it shattered. The energy radiated outward in every direction, destroying dozens of behemoths degenerating. The kelp seas above parted, exposing Leviathan and its perpetual glow. A gash in the rainbow bones formed below, and the monsters from afar squealed in agony.

No fragment of the monsters remained. No limbs, blood, nor breathe. Only the blue cores hummed beside me, my senses fuzzy and strange. Everything unveiled around me as gravitation or mana, no physical feelings rushing in. Turning my awareness inward, I found no physical body. I existed as my dimensional wake alone, having disintegrated into nothing.

And from nothing, I returned.

My body reconstituted, phasing into existence. I stood among the liquid pit of dead behemoths and primevals. I soaked them in while turning in every direction. Nothing nearby dashed in, so I pocketed seventeen more blue cores. Other monsters in the distance stared at me. From their gazes, fear replaced hunger as their perspective changed.

My fight left a scar over this slice of their ecosystem. It tore entire miles of plant life to nothing, leaving me in an empty patch of cleared kelp. Above, Leviathan beamed down with its radiance. In its glow, I spread my arms and boomed for all to hear.

"I'm the Harbinger of Cataclysm."

Mana crystallized around me, siphoning into a chaotic storm of violence and energy and power. I seethed,

"This is where I'll prove it."
