Detective Ramirez smiled and repeated the words she had said when they had broken into the basement. “Hey, I got you covered partner.” He said, and handed her a pair of latex gloves.

“Thank you!” Officer Stonewall said, slipped them on easily, and plunged her hand into the pipe. She moved her hand around a little, and her fingers hooked something. “I think... I... got it!” She said, and pulled out a plastic bag. A rank smell came up from the pipe, and they covered their mouths and noses.

“Put it back!” Detective Ramirez said. “Hurry, before the methane fills the room!”

Officer Stonewall went to stuff the bag back into the hole, and heard something hit the floor. She stopped and checked the bag.

“What are you doing?” Detective Ramirez asked her, but she ignored him and untied the bag. Inside was a bolt. Neither of them said anything as she kept the bolt and shoved the plastic bag back into the drain. It cut off the source of the smell, but the room had a lot of the fumes in it now.

“Let's get out of here.” Officer Stonewall said, and they left the room. “So, it was a wild goose chase.” She said when they were in the hallway.

“Maybe.” Detective Ramirez said and took the bolt. “Let me check something.” He walked down the hall and went to the bed. He bent down and tried the bolt where the missing one was supposed to be, but it didn't fit. It was much too small. He smiled and went out to Officer Stonewall.

“It's not from the bed.” Detective Ramirez said. “It's too small. We have to find where this came from.”

“We've spent a good portion of the afternoon here already.” She said. “Should we waste any more time with this?”

“I've got nothing better to do today.” He said and smiled. “Do you?”

Officer Stonewall opened her mouth to say that she could be working on another case, but she saw the gleam in her partner's eye.

“Let's keep looking.” She said, and he grinned at her. They went into each room again to check for something that would need a bolt of that size.

*

Stella got Ren settled into bed a few minutes later, and he checked the time.

“There's no point in logging in.” Ren said and sighed. “I'd have to log back out for supper soon anyways.”

“Are you sure?” Stella asked. “You could get almost two hours of sleep if you log in.”

Ren smiled. “Uh huh. Like Nathalia would let me sleep if I only had two hours and had to leave again for the night.”

“That's true.” Stella said. “Well, you could try to take a nap for the next half hour.” She barely had the words out of her mouth, and then the phone beeped. She picked it up and checked the text message. “Elise wants to know what you're having for supper.”

“What am I having?” Ren asked.

“I'd planned on a pork chop and a bit of mashed potatoes.” Stella said. “The pork chops should be done in about 10 minutes.”

“Hm. Pork chops sounds good, but see if she has anything planned.” Ren said. “She might have picked something up.”

Stella sent her another text to ask her, and a moment later the phone beeped. “She says she could pick up something if you want.”

“How many pork chops did you cook?”

“Four.” Stella said. “They've been slow cooking all day.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “Can I invite her to join us for a meal?”

“Us?”

“I'm not going to sit here and eat your food, while you go sit in the break room or wherever, just so you can eat yours.”

“Don't worry about that.” Stella said. “I think you and Elise might want to share a nice dinner together.”

“But...”

“It's not like we have a big table here for everyone to sit around and have a meal on.”

Ren slapped himself in the forehead. “Dammit, I completely forgot to shop for a house!”

“You've been kind of busy.” Stella laughed. “We can look at some listings after you eat.”

“Okay.” Ren said. Stella sent Elise the dinner proposal for Ren, and then the phone beeped again.

“She'll be here soon, and she's looking forward to it.”

“Thanks, Stella.”

“Don't thank me yet.” Stella said, cleared off the rollaway table, and took out a candle that was supposed to be used in emergencies, in case the power went out. “Wait until I get things set up first, then you can thank me.” She put a small vase with a flower in it on the table with the candle. “No, that's a little too plain.” She said, then looked around. “Ah, there we go.” She grabbed a decorative cloth from the back of one of the chairs. Once the candle and vase were moved out of the way, she put the cloth on the rollaway table and put the candle and vase back on top of it. “Much better.”

“You're enjoying this.” Ren said, and she smiled.

“I'm taking care of you, and that makes me happy.” Stella said. “Now lay there and be good, while I go and get the mashed potatoes started.”

“No! I'm going to kick and scream, and make a huge ruckus until you get back!” Ren said and grinned at her.

“You better not, you rascal!” Stella chuckled, and went to the door. “If you need anything, just holler.” She opened the door and set the stopper into place to hold it open. Ren watched her go across the hall and into the kitchen. She propped that door open as well, so she could see back into Ren's room easily. First she checked the pork chops, then started to peel and chop up the potatoes. It went fast, and they were washed off and put into the water to boil. Stella came back into the room after washing her hands, and left both doors open.

“You watched me the whole time?” Stella asked. “You were supposed to try and get some sleep.”

“I was going to, but you distracted me with your awesome cooking skills.”

“I did?” Stella asked, kind of surprised.

“Yeah.” Ren said. “I especially liked it when you bent over to check the oven.” He let a grin spread across his face. “That's a great skill right there.”

Stella laughed and ruffled his hair. “That's not really a skill; but, at least you're honest about liking it.”

“I learned from the best.” Ren said, and looked at his watch. “Do you think the food will be done soon? Elise should be here any minute.”

“Any minute is actually right now.” Elise said from the doorway. “Hey, cutie.”

“Hey, yourself.” Stella said before Ren could, and they both smiled at Elise's surprised expression.

“I... ah...” Elise tried to say. “I meant...”

“I know who you meant.” Stella chuckled and walked past her. “Supper should be ready in a few minutes.”

“Thanks.” Elise said. “Are you joining us?”

“Not this time.” Stella said and went into the kitchen. “I'll let you two enjoy your first dinner alone.”

“You don't have to.” Elise said, and lifted the bag she carried. “I brought some diet-approved ice cream for dessert.”

“I'll stick that in the freezer for you.” Stella said, and took the ice cream from her. “Now get in there and kiss your boyfriend.”

“Yes, Ma'am.” Elise grinned. “You don't have to tell me twice.”

“I shouldn't have to tell you once.” Stella rolled her eyes, and Elise laughed.

Stella went back into the kitchen and shut the door, and Elise hit the stopper on Ren's door to shut it as well.

“Hi, Ren.” She said, a little shyly.

“Hi, Elise.” Ren said. “Don't mind Stella. She likes to tease people sometimes.”

“I know.” Elise said. “I went through a lot of it while you were... um...”

“Drugged to the eyeballs and unconscious for a week.” Ren said and smiled. “It's okay to say it.”

“But that's just it.” Elise said and slowly walked over to the bed. “It shouldn't be okay to say it.” She sat down on the chair beside the bed, and Ren moved over close to her. He cupped the side of her face, and looked into her eyes.

“It was bad, I won't deny it.” Ren said softly. “But you were there for me.” He said. “You got me out of there and saved me.” He put a gentle kiss on her lips. “I'm doing so well now, and it's all because of you.”

“Ren...” Elise said, and her face flushed a little red. “I only did what any...”

Ren stroked the side of her face. “If you think that anyone could have done what you've done for me, then you are underestimating yourself.” He said. “I, on the other hand, know exactly how amazing you are.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said, and kissed him.
