Power did flow through the script, but it was in a dormant state. Master had explained that any lapse of consciousness, save falling asleep, would trigger it, and given her shaky health, that would likely mean that her service was at an end.

She would do anything to prevent that script from activating.

“Good. Any odd memories, or lapses in your understanding?”

“No, Master. Does that mean you can remove your working?” There, nestled within her mind was a powerful spell-form, enacted by her Master rather than being an additional inscription set within her own flesh.

It contained a massive amount of knowledge that she should have, but which was made suspect by the accident. Whenever she encountered a situation where her knowledge was lacking, that working would provide the information she needed to not embarrass her Master or the House.

She hated it.

Like so many things of late, it was a constant reminder of her failure, and she strove, daily, to fill in the gaps, which should never have been there.

Master shook his head. “No. It will remain. I built it to come apart when you have no more gaps to fill. Then, and only then, will I consider you fully recovered.”

“Yes, Master.” She quietly resolved to increase her studies, to end the need as soon as possible.

“Finish up. We must reinscribe you, and then you will spend the day in the city.”

She nodded and began to eat once more instead of replying verbally.

In order to honor Master’s time, Tali stopped breathing and simply ate as fast as she could stuff the food down. Her inscriptions would handle it from there, and they were about to be refreshed, so that wasn’t an issue.

In less than five minutes, she polished off the last of the feast. She returned her breathing to normal at that point. While she didn’t require breath, it did use her inscriptions to go without, so she kept up the habit when reasonable.

Without need of instruction, Tali stood, commanding her clothing to retract back into the band around her neck, below the saorsa-collar.

Her pouch, bloodstar storage, and morphic weapon fell to the stone.

She lifted her arms and held them straight out before she spread her feet so that they were shoulder width apart.

With a flex of will and power, she deactivated the inherent protection within her garments. The magically created defense was such that it would protect her, regardless of how much, or how little, of her body the clothing covered.

The final requirement for her to fulfill was to manage her magic. First, she pulled all of her power out of her scripts and stoppered her gate. Then, she had to take all the magic that she had just consumed and hold it in suspension.

Master used to do the reinscribing before she ate, but that changed as she recovered, and now it was a test and training in one.

“Be Reinscribed.” With a casual motion, her Master flicked his hand forward and gold wire streamed seemingly out of nowhere, though Tali knew it came from Master’s dimensional storage.

Silver and copper joined the gold, but in far smaller quantities.

As the wires approached her, they branched out, each branch getting smaller and smaller, until each was the size needed. In some cases, that was so thin that she couldn’t see the filament even with her enhanced vision.

Then, the pain came.

All across her body, the metal breached her skin. It was only by Master’s magic that it could do so. Even without active power running through her, her body was enhanced to the point that it took a lot to cause her harm.

But now, she was being pierced in uncountable places all at once; no part of her spared.

It was only through monumental discipline and self-control that she kept all parts of herself from moving, any muscle from tensing.

Master was simply following the inscriptions that were already in place, so there was no chance of error, assuming she didn’t move.

So, she didn’t.

If she’d been asked, she’d have assured the asker that her Master’s magic didn’t need her to stay perfectly still, but he’d asked her to try the first time he’d inscribed her, and so she’d made it her mission to be as perfect in following the request as possible.

In less than a minute, it was done.

Her skin was covered with a sheen of sweat and blood, but as she released her power, her body healed nearly instantly. Blessedly, none of the damage was too extensive, so it only took a couple of days’ worth of energy and nutrition from her reserves. I’ll make that back up with lunch.

A quick aspect-mirror and a few hops caused the blood and sweat to fall free, leaving her clean once more.

“Come.” Master turned and walked away, not glancing back to ensure she obeyed. She couldn’t help a small smile from blossoming across her face at his confidence in her obedience.

As she scooped up her items and returned them to her belt, she briefly noticed the blood-splattered, dirty remains of her feast. I hope they clean this up before I get back.

Without another thought, she followed after, her clothing regrowing as she walked.

She knew their destination. To go out into the city, she would need a key-ring. It was a familiar requirement and process, but she still stayed a step behind her Master, flanking him on his left.

He didn’t correct her, so she knew that she’d chosen correctly, and her smile grew.

Of course, they went to the armory.

As the heavily inscribed doors opened, power flooded outward in a wave.

The two of them stepped inside quickly, closing the door behind them to keep the power as contained as reasonable.

With the odd woosh-click of a sealing airlock, Tali and her Master were sealed within.

She glanced around. While she couldn’t come here whenever she wished, she’d come often enough that it no longer made her knees weak to behold the wealth of the House.

Nearly every item within this sacred vault was a vestige, powered by an honored soul who would serve the House of Blood for eternity.

Tali winced internally, losing some of her smile with the thought that she would never be among them. Her service would, one day, end. Master made his choice, and I will honor it. There is no turning back now.

They walked past a rack of non-morphic weapons, though they were anything but mundane. Each held immense power, and each was a deterrent to their foes, to be wielded by trusted guards in the case of an armed conflict.

Pieces and suits of armor filled one wall on carefully organized racks, most were single items powered by a single soul, but one suit stood separate, each piece was powered individually. Regalia of War.

A House was measured based on how many elite warriors it could bring to battle at need. The House of Blood could field twenty, though only one came from this branch, from this hold.

And Master will become the second, tomorrow. She would make it so.

In a side room, items of a non-violent nature were housed, including the key-rings for the hold.

“Taigh, we need one copper key-ring.”

The column in the corner of this side room flared to life. Within it was a fount of tremendous power, nurtured for millennia, slowly having its flowrate expanded until it could be the heart and literal soul of this hold.

The column contained the inscribed, pseudo-intelligent interface, which governed the magics of the hold.

“Greetings, Be-thric, potential Pillar. Authority recognized. Whom do you wish to bind the key-ring to? It would be useless for you, unless you then gave up your gold.”

“The ring is for this one.” Master pointed to Tali.

“Understood.”

A side case opened, and a copper ring floated out.

Tali extended her hand as she knew was needed, and the ring slipped onto it, tightening to match her finger’s size. The result was that the ring was wider than it had begun, but now it would not come off without the removal of the digit.

Magic flared and inscriptions appeared, impressed into the inside of the copper, against her skin.

“Request complete.”

Master turned to Tali. “Begone. Do as you please until third bell after noon, then return to attend me for the feast.”

She bowed low. “As my Master commands.”

They exited the armory together, then went their separate ways.

Tali strode with purpose through the hold.

Low race servants scampered out of her way, Mid races bowed at her passage, and Tali, herself bowed to and stepped aside for the High race members of the House.

Each has a place, and in our place, we thrive.

One way or another, after tomorrow, she would bow to no one save the Pillars ever again.

She came to the massive front gate of the hold and held up her key-ring.

The magic defending and sealing the entrance recognized the authority of the device, and opened for her, allowing her to exit through a small, person-sized door set into one side of the gate.

She quickly dove into the magic of her clothing, and guided it to form the crest of the House of Blood on her upper, left chest. She surrounded it with a copper braid to denote her status as a candidate. With that done, and a deep breath, Tali stepped out of the hold, and into the District of Doors.

The street wasn’t crowded, but it was far from empty. A large part of that was how tightly compacted the population was in this, wealthiest of districts within the city of Platoiri.

Here, the Houses had their holds, and the wealth of each House was displayed by how large they were able to afford to have their door.

The door for the House of Blood’s hold was the largest within three blocks, the other doors around them leading to the holds of minor houses, merchants, or even master craftsmen that either were allied with the House of Blood, or who were hoping to be.

The power was palpable in the air, even though each hold would have been made as efficient as possible. The net result of so much magic being used in close proximity made this the most magic-dense part of the city. Hence its prestige.

Tali grinned to herself at the circular nature of the thing. More doors meant more power, which made the district more desirable, so more people wanted to have their holds there.

We are a funny lot.

She turned and walked towards the market district and food. No need to wait until lunch.

As she walked, she moved the power within her, gathered through her breakfast. She guided it to overlay the matching scripts within her, reinforcing and augmenting their enhancement of her physicality.

The ending-berry power was especially intoxicating as it rendered her nearly invincible, though it was notoriously less than reliable in defending the integrity of a brain.

Ancient humans had used ending-berry power to foment several rebellions, and so she’d been reluctant to use the power due to the association, but Master had insisted that it was too useful a tool to ignore. She had, of course, acquiesced.

The people moving around her were of uncounted races. There were beast folk of all kinds and hue folk of all shades, as well as others that didn’t fit as nicely into broad categories. The races she could see ranged from Low to High, though they all appeared similar to her magic-sight in the dense power of the District of Doors.

She even saw a few humans, though they stuck to the sides of the road, staying out of everyone else’s way. None had gates.

She was the only gated human she’d ever seen in person, outside the shaping ground.

Gated humans were the most honored of servants to the houses, but that honor brought with it very tightly regulated responsibility. She was unique.

Unfortunately, that meant that a lot of others noticed her, and stared at her, wherever she went.

Her obvious house crest kept most trouble away, but most creatures didn’t have the perception to see her as anything other than simply human.

It was a short walk to the near-edge of the market district. The proximity of all the amenities was another benefit to the District of Doors.

In the center of the market district stood the city’s core.

More than a thousand founts, bound together and cultivated to empower the city and all the services that it provided.

Beautiful.

Tali couldn’t help but stare in awe at the monument to magical advancement.

Unfortunately, today it was marred by a group of gateless humans, wearing rags, scrubbing the street clean.

It was meaningless, demeaning labor, reserved for those who had tried to upset the status-quo. That close to the city’s founts, magic could clean the streets without any loss to anyone.

Tali looked away in shame. How could any of her people, however distantly related, not see the place of honor that humans held in society?

Nothing in modern life would function without the gift of service gated-humans offered.

Fools.

It seemed like some others shared her views, even if not her reaction to them.

There were some hecklers, and a few people got rough with the humans, but since they never fought back the aggressors usually moved on quickly. There were laws, after all. One couldn’t go around beating the defenseless.

And the law considers anyone of a lower race to be defenseless before those of the upper.

Still, all violence wasn’t prohibited. That would just be unreasonable. Over the top abuse was curbed, and since the humans weren’t fighting back, anything more than a few bruises or broken bones would have been dealt with harshly.

Order must be maintained.

Shaking her head, Tali approached a rather busy food stall, working her way through the crowd to place her order, passing over a few coins before accepting a massive platter of meat.

Those around her gawked at what she was carrying away, but no one stopped her. At least not until a large, teal skinned man stepped in her way. Unfortunate color, that.

Still, he hadn’t picked his birth, and the hue folk came in all shades.

Regardless, it seemed like she was going to have the opportunity to demonstrate the power of her house once again. It was quite common for something like this to happen whenever she went into the city. Her rank in the House of Blood, along with her obvious humanity, made her look like an easy target to bring shame to her House. It was occasionally inconvenient but hardly new or difficult to deal with.

I do wish they’d waited until after I ate to challenge me.

“Getting food for the other rabble, girl?” His voice was smooth, like ocean waves on a shallow beach.

What? She glanced down. She was indeed carrying enough food for a large group, but it was all for her. She also noticed that her burden was blocking the sigil on her chest. That changed the situation. “No, I-”

“Are you correcting me, filth?” He went to push her, but she fluidly stepped to the side, letting her foot linger just long enough to trip him as he passed her.

He fell with a cry of alarm, groaning after he hit the ground.

