She looked down to see if he was all right, inspecting him closely. After all, she didn’t want to be in violation of the law, and if she’d accidentally caused him to die from a simple fall to the paving stones? That would be quite the embarrassment on her Master’s House.

She shook her head. “No, I was just trying-”

Her focus was fully on the downed man, she was comfortable with her surroundings, thinking he was a lone actor. As such, she didn’t react when his friend stepped from the crowd behind her, even as he brought a heavy wooden chair down towards her head.

However, Tali was not a fool, nor was she some waif of the street.

She was an Eskau candidate.

She contemplated drawing her weapon and cutting the attacker in half, but this was a misunderstanding, and she might get blood all over her food.

She was hungry.

So, I shouldn’t kill them.

She could have stepped aside, but that might actually let the attacker hit his friend with the chair. As humorous as that would be, it might actually end up with the one on the ground being killed. If that happened, there would be guards involved. Worse, they might need to contact her Master, and there was no chance she was going to let him be disturbed with his peers arriving at the hold.

No, this was an opportunity to show her strength, the strength of her house, and her own wisdom in handling such a situation.

I could just let it hit me. That would do basically nothing to me, and it would send the message loud and clear.

She almost did just that, but then sighed internally. That was foolish, and if he had some sort of magic to empower his strike, it might backfire. Taking the risk was careless, and careless people died.

Fine. I’ll block. Doing that should give them pause, then I can correct the misunderstanding and get on with my day.

That decided, she almost lazily brought her left arm up to block.

She could stop heavily inscribed maces with that block. The chair stood no chance.

But, the chair wasn’t metal.

It wasn’t even inscribed.

It shattered on her arm, allowing the back supports, still being driven downward, to slam into the back of her head with almost no loss of power.

The teal man behind her was obviously heavily magically enhanced for strength as well as other things, but even that wouldn’t have been enough to defeat the protective net of magic, originating from her clothing, defending her head.

Unfortunately, as the wood turned to pulp against her defenses, power flared within the hue folk’s arm, and the energy of the strike shifted.

Tali’s eyes widened in recognition of the spell-form even as it activated, while she watched through her bloodstar’s mirrored perception.

The old-growth hardwood held together more than well enough to impart a great deal of energy, which the man’s power carried past her defense to strike her a thumping blow.

Anywhere else, she might have been bruised. A strike to her head, however?

Ru-

* * *

Tali hadn’t even slumped in the instant after she’d been struck. Her vision had barely flickered black.

That was close. I thought that had gotten through, somehow.

A pulse of power exploded from the base of Tali’s skull.

-DING-

A sound, almost like a bell, hummed through her thoughts, and she found the note calming, or it would have been if she hadn’t had a strong guess what it meant.

Then, her own voice came to her, as if she were thinking, though she didn’t ever truly consider that the voice might be her own thoughts.

-Consciousness lost for 0.004 seconds due to blunt force…WHAT THE RUST!?!?!-

Tali twitched from the internal scream.

-Major deviations in consciousness detected. Active conflict detected. Battlefield patch initiated.-

What? No. No!

* * *

Tala shook herself clearing her head after whatever had struck her.

Wha-?

-No time. In a hostile situation. Get somewhere safe, then we’ll talk.-

Tala took an eternity packed into a single heartbeat to perceive the world around her, assess her situation and decide a course of action.

In the end, she spoke one word. “Rust.”
