

“Fireball that tree, too,” she said. “And that one with the scraggly branches, I don’t like the looks of it.” Her demonic minions cackled with glee as they scrambled to do her bidding. Ali was smiling happily, very pleased with herself, when a terrifyingly familiar formation of mana condensed deep within the heartwood of the Mana Eater.

“Elemental Storm! Everyone hide!” she yelled, panic rising within her as she desperately cast around for anything solid to use for cover. She had no idea what death and nature affinities would look like with the extreme destruction of an Elemental Storm, but she really didn’t want to face it head-on. She had obliterated the nearest tree, and with the Slow curse, she had no hope of reaching the next nearest one. Not exactly the best timing.

The storm of mana within the monster swelled, growing stronger, more powerful, and much more ominous. In the second or so she had available, Ali hastily constructed the counter-formation, releasing her Disruption at the monster. But the blue flowers shivered, discharging their dangerous spores into the air and her spell dissolved before it even had the chance of reaching the core.

A huge surge of mana reached a crescendo and erupted from the plant monster’s trunk. A dense, angry squall of black sludge blasted outward from the center of the plant boss, howling through the air like an insane banshee. In desperation, Ali threw up a barrier and made her minions gather behind her. For the melee ones, for Malika and Mato, she had nothing but healing.

“Heal Mato! And Malika!” Ali desperately searched through her minions’ Healer’s Sight, trying to pierce the raging storm of rot that smashed into her barrier and howled past the edges. She had no idea where Naia or Calen were, she couldn’t see either of them. She poured her mana into her barrier, desperate to keep it up, holding her recall potion ready in her hand.

They’re dying. She could feel the enormous spike in rage from her two berserkers, and the rapidly dropping health from her shamans and bone warriors.

“I can save some, Seeker,” Kir’vella said, grinning maniacally.

Ali’s head whipped around to regard the witch doctor standing beside her.

“Spirit Banishment,” she offered.

“Do it,” she said, and then clarified. “Berserkers or Bone Warriors.” Mato had to tank, or else the boss would lash out at everyone else. Malika, with all her defensive skills and damage reduction, was probably the most likely of all of them to survive something this devastating, and Mato would need healing. So, she had to leave her Blood Shamans.

Both berserkers triggered their Last Stand. The witch doctor cast her magic, and then a few moments later cast it again. Ali felt the snap in her connection when one of the Bone Warriors died, rotted away to nothing out there in the storm. Then a Blood Shaman fell. Then one of the Berserkers, her body fully used up in a blaze of rage and fury, spent and rotted away to nothing more than a skeleton and a pile of goop that vanished in the storm.

Suddenly, the apocalyptic rot spell subsided, leaving a rain of black sludge that fell upon the ruined landscape. Nothing remained of the lush ferns, moss, or flowers. All the mushrooms and fungi had rotted away. Nothing moved, except near the trunk of the giant plant Mato roared, his claws slashing away in a spray of wood chips. Malika shone with glowing soul magic, pumping healing into him as she unleashed kicks and punches at the heavy bark and wood.

Ali had never felt so relieved in her life. Her eyes cast about, and she found Calen emerging somehow from a hiding spot he must have found. High above, a surge of slimes crawled across the ceiling. Of course, Naia’s rotting slimes would have been immune to this sort of thing.

Thank goodness my barrier held.

“Go get them back,” Ali said, speaking trollish to her witch doctor. She shimmered and vanished to the spirit realm and her minions began reappearing one at a time. Joraa and Kir’mogan had survived, along with a single Berserker. One of her Hellfire Imps had been too far to get to safety, but she had saved her troll mages, all the kobolds, and of course, Kir’vella.

Right. Time to roll up her little sleeves and get to work!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
