The memories of both Demons rush into my mind together, almost interlocked as a single flow of energy. The imagery I get from the Lower Realm of both of them growing up together on a Noble Grade World plays side by side through each other's eyes.

The presence of dense refined qi and demonic energy on these worlds is far thicker and more potent than anything I've seen from any memories in the past.

Instead of the normal procedure I've seen, where higher-ranked demons in the vermilion family's army come to scout out talent on a single world, then bring them to the demonic realm to train, these two Demons are different.

They're repeatedly transferred to new mana-based worlds as fledglings, with a few dozen other recruits.

From the monsters I see in these fragmented memories, they all look to be Elites... and the potency of divine threads, qi, and energy on these worlds far surpasses the ones I even witnessed Miriel's old self take over near the end of his career in the Lower Realm.

The fledglings form their cores and start to awaken their Noble Vibrations before even receiving their demon cores and doing labyrinth trials to bond with a dragon.

Those that cannot defeat the mana-based Elites in this galaxy die in the process, as they are not strong-willed enough to awaken a path.

The two stick together, even dominating and taking out an entire Obsidian Berserker Clan world themselves.

Eventually, once they have consolidated their true cores, a team of Noble Demons from the demonic Realm welcomes them into the Morvale Family Army.

The two are separated, sent to selected Noble Grade Worlds in the Elite Star Systems, the closest to the source they can safely be deployed.

For their talent level, and applications to serve their Family Head in the Upper Realm, the two are mandated to rank up their Labyrinths 4 times and return over level one hundred thousand in order to serve in the Cyan Zone.

Many more years pass as both of them cultivate isolated in their boss room floors, taking on all of the challengers from their worlds. One landed on a Wyvern's Planet, while the other on the world of an exceptionally strong Dark Skinned Ogre species that I've never seen before.

I watch tens of thousands of challengers fly by in each of their memories, and as far as I can tell, hundreds of thousands of years. The labyrinths slowly grow floor by floor as they rank up the final levels that they couldn't attain just from killing monsters normally on random worlds.

Their graduations from the Labyrinths both happen within the same few hundred years, and so do their trials on the thrones within the worlds they've ranked up their labyrinths on.

The further into these memories I watch, the faster they fly by, and more fragmented they become. However, as they ascend to the green zone, I'm positive these monsters are far more ancient than I ever thought they were...

There are bursts of images, showing me the presence of far more citadels than I remember in the Green Zone. There are dozens of them in fact.

Wyverns fly through the skies, small humanoid figures with white and black auras with long elf-like ears ride some of them, and many races are prospering together. There are even Noble Demons walking about out in the open in these Citadels. Lords do not bow to them, they are nothing but normal citizens.

The two Demons hit many checkpoints, including a Demon-run Citadel I've never seen before, a Wyvern-run citadel that is exactly where the sea of corruption is now; and lastly the Fortress.

This Citadel is the only one that looks identical to the Green Zone I know.

This is their final destination for the next few thousand years, as they go through some kind of mental conditioning and training regime, then are sent off to the Grand Citadel. It is a white dome, and there is a massive Glowing White Celestial Wyvern that seems to be its ruler.

The two Demons are just some of hundreds that arrive here today; and pay massive amounts of Medium Quality Ether fragments to the ruling Wyverns in order to use the Realm link below their Citadel.

The memories have become so fractured and fleeting that I only get a few frames of the moment when they walk into a massive room holding a silver reactor, the same one below the Citadel now without any change.

It is built into what looks like the Upper Realm's floor.

Impossible to sense through it, it feels like it is literally resting half in this zone, and half somewhere else I cannot comprehend.

Another faded frame appears after they use a teleportation function in this reactor's room.

The visuals of the many Demons that showed up today all appear to be floating in a white void, in a massive circle suspended in space. Many of them have their dragons below them, or by their sides; but it is not necessary. They all float, unable to move, constrained by some kind of overwhelming pressure.

A hologram of a cyan-cored Demon appears in their center, and I recognize it as the same Lucian Morvale I saw speaking to Miriel.

His gaze spins around the circle of demons that have ascended, nodding slowly, and examining each one as they are frozen in space.

Every few dozen Demons he points to them, then flicks his finger upward. They completely disappear from the circle in a flash of white light.

The Family Head's gaze falls on the two Demons, but doesn't change much compared to the others.

He makes a full circle, only making 5 out of the hundreds that have arrived disappear in the flash of white.

He raises his finger again.

"The rest of you have not made the cut. Fight your way out of the Ravine, and I will accept you as a General in my army."

Then, flicks his finger downward.

Everyone in the ring of Noble Demons feels an absurd amount of pressure beat down on their bodies, and tears in space open up below every one of them.

I witness the same journey through the maddening storm of cyan threads that I had to take to get here... and this time feel the shift in direction they take. It triggers a memory within me, realizing that our path to this Ravine may have been manufactured by someone else, because that was not natural at all.

–

When these two Demons are dropped into the Darkness, they are not together.

The memories that emerge from this journey through the Ravine are mind-breaking.

I knew that this must have been long ago... before Miriel's time... but as the hundreds of thousands of years pass, I begin to lose count.

It could easily be over a million years wandering through the darkness.

The brutal battles these two demons go through, learning how to strengthen their bodies to deal with the pressure, draining Celestial Energy manually, or eating the corpses of their fallen Demonic kin before they melt.

Millions of battles' worth of instincts and pain rush into me, becoming more fragmented and distorted the longer they last in the Abyss.

I see thousands of pedestals. It confirms my theory that we only landed on one of many paths. The Ravine is an absurd spider web of endless cracks into this dark black stone.

These Demons both travel billions of kilometers. Some of the time they walk in circles for thousands of years, other times they find new battlefields with countless Noble Demons just like themselves.

It is eye-opening, even the hordes of Noble Demons Maria and I fought and believed was an incredibly large amount were actually just scratching the surface. The population in this Abyss has decreased drastically from when they first arrived.

Many of the memories become as fragmented as the commoner demons I absorbed in my first month in the ravine.

There is an era of darkness that I cannot fully decipher.

During this time, there are only a few key high-emotion spiking moments that are left in their conscious memories. That is the day both of them awakened their High Noble paths.

The confidence, and superiority built up from wandering for an eternity through the strongest of their race, has created two extremely similar paths. One that is awakened for true battle. Any Noble Demon that challenges them can never defeat them, because after endless subconscious reinforcement of battles won it is as if the rules of reality in their minds and souls have judged that this is the truth.

The other large memory they share is of them meeting each other at the top of this temple.

In the memory I see, it is not broken.

Even as the two begin their fight, they do not remember each other, nor do they even remember themselves. They are perfectly evenly matched. The battle goes on for years as far as I can tell... and through every swing of their soul weapons against each other, a resonance begins to build familiarity back into their fractured minds.

Yet, the day their fighting stops, and they accept each other as allies again, something very strange happens.

The sound of slow clapping fills the two Demon's minds.

It is even disturbing to me, as viewing these memories, I've been used to having nothing but their ether senses to visualize my surroundings.

Yet, there is still audible clapping.

The air pressure becomes too hot and overwhelming for either of these High Nobles to even move. The only other time they have felt something like this was in the presence of Lucian Morvale's hologram, but it definitely feels different.

There is an unknown Royal in this Ravine.

Hot and eerie vibrations flood through the air, and the two Demons feel true fear for the first time since they entered that nightmare.

Something that has faced this darkness far longer than them, and faced horrors they cannot comprehend.

–

The flashing memories of these Fallen Demons cease because the flow is interrupted by the surge of Celestial Energy coming back from Maria after she finished her cycle. This, combined with the fear burning through my survival instincts after viewing the final moments of these memories.

Maria starts to get up to her feet, and as a burst of energy surges through me, I heal my fatigue enough to stand as well.

I could use a few more cycles to recover further, but something deep within my mind is yelling at me to run.

I start to look around and expand my new upgraded ether senses out a few kilometers in every direction to find the threat. Maria feels my alertness, but she hasn't seen what I just saw...

My heart skips a beat when I feel a familiar hot aura flood down from above us.

I stop moving altogether once I hear slow claps echo through the silent darkness.
