Both Dragons peered at her, and Rags concentrated. Her milkshake rose, a tad wobbly, and she sipped from the straw. Teriarch gave her a surprised nod.
“Just so. Is telekinesis not among your lessons, Rafaema?”
“Magic? I can cast Tier…3 magic. It’s difficult. Let me, uh—”
The two Dragons tried their best. Rafaema was actually worse than Cire; he managed to lift a spoon and get it into his bowl as her utensils kept clattering to the ground. But Cire just flipped his spoon and sent banana flying everywhere.
Teriarch vanished the flying food with a cough.
“—Dining with such utensils is difficult. Pay me no mind. Why don’t we dispense with the formalities?”
Rather awkwardly, he created another chalice-bowl and dipped his head into it, munching on what seemed like a bunch of oats seasoned with raw egg and cooked ground beef. It looked gross, but Rafaema just muttered to Cire.
“He’s training.”
“For what? Throwing up?”
“Shut up and be polite. He’s another Dragon.”
“I know that! It’d be totally Archmage if you weren’t making googly eyes at him every two seconds.”
“I am not.”
“Yes, you are—”
It was awkward, but once more, Teriarch’s mere act of providing food led into another topic. Rafaema broke away from the hissing match.
“…Why do Goblins love fish? I get that I’d like food with lightning in it and Cire would like fruits. Wyverns love meat, I suppose. But fish? Goblins don’t live near the sea; they go everywhere.”
It was a question that even the Wyvern Lord blinked at. Rags frowned suspiciously at Teriarch. Yeah. Why did they like fish?
The Dragonlord’s eyes flicked towards Rags, re-invoking his refusal to tell her of the Goblin King secrets. Yet everything else seemed fair game, so he hmmed and, in his peculiar way, smiled.
His tone, when he told stories, was that of Demsleth. The eternal old man by the fire, maybe a bit too knowing and condescending at times, but nostalgic and, yes, eager to tell what he knew. Like a former [Professor] at Wistram talking informally to a bunch of grandchildren or an old [Academic Shipcaptain] less pithy than most, whiling stories over a drink to young [Sailors].
“The answer is simple, Rafaema. When Goblins were first crea—brought into being, they emerged next to the sea. The first tales of them were of a gentle people who spent their days fishing and swimming in the ocean. Even some of their names originate from old language; Fomirelin, one of the forms they learned, was ‘Great Goblin of the Sea’. The apocryphal tales of them were of Goblins who would walk into the sea and re-emerge giants ready for war.”
His face clouded over as Rags sat up and Rafaema glanced at her.
“Tragic. Like the War Walkers of Dullahans, it was an act of desperation and vengeance that a species might survive. So you see, Goblins loving fish may be ancestral or just how their first peoples lived. They also, incidentally, tend to be superlative swimmers.”
Like her tribe? Rags was astounded. If that were so, it made sense why the Flooded Waters tribe had always loved the spring and the rains, for all the dangers. They would dive and catch fish with crude nets and bring them back to their tiny cave, despite the big predators in the water.
She hadn’t missed the slip of his tongue either. Cire just stared at Rags as if only now figuring out she was present. He mouthed ‘what the heck’ at Rafaema, but the Lightning Dragon was all focused on Teriarch.
Rags was gratified by the knowledge of her people’s past. And at the same time…she had suddenly less her appetite for the tuna, which she did like.
—She just didn’t like Teriarch telling her that she was going to like it. Rags didn’t stick up a hand this time, she just pushed her plate back.
“You know a lot about Goblins for someone who isn’t a Goblin, Dragonlord of Flames.”
Teriarch missed the edge in her voice. Cirediel snapped his mouth shut, which surprised Rags; had he been about to say the same thing, like his comment about Gnolls?
The Dragonlord was glancing towards the mouth of his cave, where Mivifa and the Oteslians might have been still banging on the forcefield and shouting at him. They had not been happy about being barred from their ‘audience’ with him, but Teriarch had told Mivifa that they were under the same restrictions as the [Spearmaster]. And if they wanted trust, they had to earn it…which wasn’t exactly a specialty of Walled Cities, it had to be said.
Teriarch chuckled at Rags, initiating a personal dialogue for the first time since he’d welcomed them into his cave. Now she had won her audience, he was as grand as she remembered…and she was glad this time she had experience not to be overwhelmed, but it was still hard when he loomed over her, his mouth big enough to snap her up in a gulp.
“I may not be a Goblin, but I assure you, my knowledge of your and every other species is second only to actual members thereof, and arguably better, Chieftain Rags. I have, in fact, been a Goblin and walked among your kind. Shapeshifting, you know?”
She folded her arms, glowering now.
“That’s not the same. You say ‘most Goblins like fish’. Why? Because we grew up around the sea? Maybe most Goblins like fish because we don’t live near the sea and it tastes good and new. Mrsha likes honey more than meat. She’d die of cake-eating death if Lyonette let her.”
“Yeah! Wait, that’s a way to die? Ancestors.”
Cire swallowed, and Teriarch sighed.
“I merely meant that, in general, across your species—”
“How many Goblins like fish out of a hundred? How many say it’s their favorite food? What’s the percentage? The statistical distribution of landlocked tribes?”
Rags had the immense satisfaction of watching Teriarch hesitate and thanked Kevin, once more, always Kevin, for his discussion of, well, statistics. Teriarch took a second, then laughed.
“I’m sure I could provide some data analysis, but I don’t just have that lying around. Anecdotally, it’s certainly been a truism from me. I haven’t heard more than a handful of Goblins complain when I served them the dish.”
“You mean a super fancy dish prepared by magic to taste good? Yah, most Goblins don’t complain if you hand them worms. Doesn’t prove we all like fish. Doesn’t prove that since we grew up near water we like it.”
Rags was, in fact, less on board with fish and swimming the longer she talked. But the Dragon was getting—tetchy.
“I’m not generalizing your species at all, Miss Rags. I’m simply pointing out historical facts—”
“You weren’t there.‘
“I have it on the authority of beings who were there! My mother’s parents were at the dawn of your species.”
He boomed at her, and she flinched. There was no fire from his maw; he was too controlled for that. But every other lightsource in the room, enchanted flames, physical ones, bounced and wobbled as if a gale had broken loose.
Teriarch saw the Wyvern Lord raise his head and growl, and Rafaema and Cire staring, and modulated his tone.
“It—is the most quintessential, defining element of your species. The origin of Goblins is tied to the first centuries of your existence. Pivotal.”
He was so sure. And yet, Rags pointed out as steadily as she could—
“You won’t tell me what they are.”
“I cannot. So trust me.”
“No.”
His affronted eyes widened, and Rags expounded on her statement.
“Goblins do it all the time. Every tribe calls other tribes ‘not-Goblins’. When I was small—smaller than I am now—I thought being not-Goblin was a terrible thing. The worst you could be. When I saw the world, I realized it’s just something Goblins say. Everyone’s ‘not-Goblin’. It makes it easier to fight them and say your tribe is best. You say Goblins love fish, in general, not all, etcetera, etcetera. You don’t know anything. Stop feeding us fish.”
She sat there, waiting for him to blow her away either physically or with a spell, trembling, but determined not to let him see it. But for her dignity, her tribe, for Goblinkind…
She waited, and Cire gave Rags a grin and a furtive nudge with his tail. Teriarch? He took a breath, then smiled, swallowing any ire or retort and placing it behind such a summery front of politeness that Rags wondered if he had taught the Five Families how it was done back in the day.
“I shall take your comments under advisement, Chieftain Rags. And I do apologize for any discourtesy I might have caused. May I serve anyone a refill?”
He went round the group, and no one was that hungry; both Dragons had taken down half their meals and were more interested in listening. The Wyvern Lord, by now, had realized he wasn’t actually being that sated by all the meat and was sniffing around the cave. Rags ordered a milkshake and a steak.
She chewed on it and slurped loudly as Teriarch genteeled at her. Rafaema broke the long silence, nervously bouncing into the conversation like a child trying to distract two warring adults.
“So…you know all the origins of species, Teriarch?”
He laughed at this without modesty.
“I was there for only a few! No, as I said, I am removed from the origin of…well, levelling and time as we know it by two generations. An exceptionally long time, even if I have outlived my mother and my ‘grandparents’ by far.”
His face fell, but he went on.
“The origins of most of the…original…species of this world are beyond me. But I was around for the Selphids, the Stitch-folk, Jinn, I suppose, though it was more like the proliferation of their kind. I have seen too many species pass into the great beyond as well.”
He sighed. And here came the Teriarch Effect™. That was the known condition where his audience, young women, other Dragons, or anyone else, had to raise a hand and seek clarification. And they were spoiled for choice. Rafaema interrupted, voice breathless.
“Wait—wait—what do you mean Jinn?”
Teriarch instantly changed subjects.
“I merely meant that Jinn—wait, I suppose they are dead. Hah. Jinn are—were—well, half-breeds. No, wait, that’s derogatory…one picks up the phrasing of one’s associates, and I…ahem. Djinni who slept with mortals would bear young, or vice-versa. People of immense magical power, yet without the true immortality or full power of their Djinni halves.”
“Whoa. Kinky. Wait, with Djinni? Dude. Isn’t that messed up because they’re all slaves? Oteslia doesn’t have slaves.”
Here came the Cire Effect™. And it stumped Teriarch a bit, because for once, he realized he was shooting way over Cire’s awareness of things. Teriarch backtracked.
“That is slightly incorrect, Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olicuemerdn—”
“What’s with my full name? Are you my mom?”
“I—thought you never met—”
“He means the First Gardener, Teriarch. Go on.”
A silence fell, and Rags upgraded the situation with the Dragons from ‘complex’ to ‘emotionally charged’ as Cire froze and hunched his wings slightly, as if to cover his face. She found the only person she could exchange glances with was the Wyvern Lord.
He might have been more monster than person, but he was giving her that side-eye you got at a dinner party when the hosts were bringing up personal issues and you were just wondering when you could excuse yourself…or how much was going to come out when the drinks started flowing.
In a way, it made her recognize him as more of an actual, thinking being than anything else she’d seen from him.
Teriarch went on after a silence.
“Let us consider the matter historically, Cirediel. Once, Djinni were free, or at least a sizeable portion of them were unbound. Their current plight is far from the species that once was; like Dragons, they were numerous. Your current attitude towards them and slavery is commendable, but know that at the time when Jinn first appeared, Djinni were a wild, free people of many nations. Jinn were, in this context, a rising power as they spread with that penchant of mortals.”
Cire raised a claw.
“What did they look like? Drowned Folk? Half-magic, half not?”
The others wanted to imagine this. The Wyvern Lord yawned, and Teriarch flicked a wing.
“Better to show you. No, they weren’t of every species. Some looked rather mortal. But they mostly looked like…”
Rags studied a brown-skinned man balancing on a flying carpet with one foot made of what seemed like gold; his other foot was silver. He was frozen, like a magic picture, juggling three magical swords in what had to be Chandrar.
He seemed more like a Djinni than anything else. Cire blinked.
“Whoa. He’s mostly Human.”
“Some had gaseous bodies or unique skin tones or features. Again, they were a diverse lot, but they mostly resembled their other halves. Human.”
“Wait, they were part-Human? But Djinni mixed with every species?”
Teriarch coughed into his wing again.
“Ye-es. It was just that interbreeding between species, especially magical species, is very rarely fruitful, even with Skills. And one species has been the most numerous and prolific.”
“Whoa. Humans get around. You know, I often noticed that in Oteslia. Like, the amount of Humans who come through is really low, but wow are they—”
Rags was realizing that the conversation, enlightening as it was, was at the mercy of Cire and Rafaema’s bickering. Like the Ryokas and Magnolias before her, she tried to steer the conversation the ‘right’ way. With similar results.
“I have a question: if you were present for so many species’ creation and deaths, you must know the truth behind so many mysteries.”
The Dragon had a very Pisces-like smile on his face as his eyes shone at her, heliotrope purple and blue cerulean, glowing like gemstones, left, then right. She swore he did it on purpose, and it did remind her of Pisces, who had taught her magic, always showing off mid-lesson.
“They were not mysteries to me. I suppose that is historically appropriate to mention for the education of my young peers. Though, I had intended to bring up dishware appropriate for Dragons. You see, the chalice is a customary vessel, and if you two require dishware before mastering telekinesis—how is your magical studying, incidentally?—I would recommend a kind of kebab. Skewers which allow you to eat quite civilly while conversing, not that we require as much sustenance.”
He was dancing everywhere, and it was like the inverse of a hallway of traps. If you walked him into any topic, the Dragon would be off, lecturing you about how many spoons you used in a Terandrian banquet compared to how many were statistically necessary with references to the thickness of the pottage as the most dangerous variable.
Rags’ hand waved as she kept it in the air.
“What are the Eyes of Baleros and why do they matter so much?”
