The tongs began to bend, and Mrsha felt them giving, but at the last moment, she finally sensed the ground giving. The Faerie Flower gave up the fight, and Mrsha fell backwards with a silent shout of triumph. Got you! I got—
She landed on her butt, the tongs raised overhead, a huge, long, green strand of Faerie Flower yanked out of the ground, covered in dirt. Mrsha stared at it—then at the long strand of…flower…sticking out of the ground?
The stalk of the Faerie Flower was six feet long and counting. Delicate spirals of the stalk had been yanked straight by the bent tongs, but little offshoots of new flowers were budding, blooming—and down the length of the long, long Faerie Flower were little yellow flowers.
Dozens of them. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. She stared at the longest Faerie Flower she had ever seen, then at the others.
But—they were—she had repotted them before the Solstice and—
She scrabbled forwards, peering at the ground. It was all pulled up from the force of her struggle, but she saw down at least another four feet, and it was just more green and yellow down there. Mrsha studied the flower.
They’d grown down? This one was ten feet long and…she bent down over the flowers, then glanced around. After a second, Mrsha shrugged and began to dig.
 
——
 
After ten minutes, she went to grab a shovel.
 
——
 
After an hour, she washed herself off in the pond and bundled up the entire amount of flower she’d pulled out so far like a coil of rope. But she was in real danger of destroying part of the hill, so she looked around for Valeterisa and Relc.
When she knocked on Relc’s door, a very harried Archmage of Izril came out in a bathrobe and peered at Mrsha.
“What? Dirt? A spell? Uh—uh—[Groundswim]. There. Go away. Please?”
Mrsha brightened up. She thanked the Archmage, who slammed the door. Then, after a second and some muffled conversation, opened the door and put a sock on the handle. Mrsha went back to the garden.
 
——
 
Okay. She filled in the dirt pile and patted the other Faerie Flowers; she didn’t want to damage them, though they were as deep as the others! She’d seen their long bodies snaking down…
Mrsha didn’t know how the spell worked, but she imagined herself sinking through the ground and then panicked when she realized she was up to her neck in what felt like water.
To her relief, she could go up and down effortlessly, and she could breathe, even with her head underground. Mrsha sank under the ground and then spent five minutes popping out of the earth like the world’s largest groundhog, scaring Apista, and swimming around the garden—until she slammed into a web of the flowers.
They were all the way through the middle of the hill! Dead gods, they were twenty feet deep! Reminded of her task, and now reflecting that she’d have to get everyone to excavate the entire hill to collect this lot, Mrsha dove.
The [Garden of Sanctuary] was, she realized, more like a full sphere instead of a half-dome. It was just that the two-thirds you saw was the part above-ground. Like the Dullahan [General]’s…there was a lot of ground beneath.
Ten feet. Twenty. Thirty…she didn’t know how deep the hill was, but she imagined she was at ‘ground’ level now, and still, the compressed yellow flowers and green tendrils went down. She could ‘see’ them through the earth, and yet there was still more ground to go, obviously.
Now, she didn’t know how far below the ground she was, hill or not, and Mrsha saw a tangle of huge stalks at last. More offshoots of the Faerie Flowers going in every direction, trapped underground. She put her hands on her hips.
Well now! Those stupid flowers had gone down instead of up! It was just like them, really. But here they were. The base of the plants was brushing against what she realized was the ‘bottom’ of the [Garden of Sanctuary]; she saw the wooden walls curving upwards. So it was a giant sphere. Like…a terrarium, she supposed, only, it was a place to live.
Well, neat. And now she has super Faerie Flowers. Mrsha brightened up. A new observation about Erin’s garden and maybe a clue about what might lie hidden in the other ones if anyone had been that smart. And Saliss would go crazy for these. Though…she wondered if the effects were any different? They still had the same stupid fl…
She peered down at the base of the Faerie Flowers. Hold up. What was that?
Mrsha dove down. That wasn’t a regular Faerie Flower. It was…a lot bigger. A huge flower compared to the regular ones. A sunburst of petals. Mrsha’s eyes widened. And this was only one of—
They were all blooming. She swam deeper, to the very bottom of the [Garden of Sanctuary], and only then wondered what happened if her, uh, [Groundswim] spell ran out with her underground. Nervously, Mrsha inspected the roots. They were all twined together and she tried to guess how many flowers were blooming above. They were practically like ropes, they were so long, and she grimaced as she wondered how she’d even pulled up part of one Faerie Flower in this state.
How the heck are we going to dig these up? Valeterisa, duh. Archmages make everything easy. Maybe I should keep watering these? This could be a big secret. Those are some long roots.
They stretched down and down…if the plant was this hecking huge, the roots were crazy! Mrsha frowned. Wait. The roots kept going down, but the garden’s base was there. She swam closer, reaching out.
That didn’t make sense. How far down did th—
And then Mrsha’s paw passed through something as she traced down the roots. She froze—and then felt a suction. A pull as her paws touched air. She flailed wildly, and then she was falling. Falling—as dirt sprayed around her, and she gasped real air, and the roots were still going down.
Down, down, down—
It hurt a lot when you hit the ground. Mrsha had experience.
When she woke up…she had no idea where she was. Only that her normal days had suddenly come to an end.
