“When you meet a truly ancient Dragon, count and parcel out each word. Waste no time, for each single syllable matters. Their memories stretch back to the dawn of this world, and their answers reveal the truth, so speak to them like a poet, with all the grace and authority and wisdom you can muster. When you get them talking, pour a cup of tea, because then they won’t shut up.”
—Empress Sheta, the Empire of Harpies, 2174.
 
Events were in motion.
 
——
 
Marching an army north past the Bloodfields took time. Getting them into position without alerting anyone? Extraordinarily difficult. But it could be done; Drakes had ‘safe routes’ into the High Passes they had charted just for this event. At some point, all would be revealed, so they had agents on the ground. The most dangerous part of a Goblin tribe was a Chieftain. Remove her from the equation and it got easy.
 
——
 
“They’re running. They’re running! Clear the highways! They’re on the move, and I’ve never seen them go this fast!”
“Stop screaming and sit down. You are a Courier, Hawk. Not an incontinent Street Runner. Where are they?”
Mihaela Godfrey barked as the Rabbit Beastkin shouted into the scrying orb. She ripped a map from the unconcerned Drakes and began issuing orders.
“Send out an emergency message. Lock down every single road south of them. The Kraken Eaters have caught City Runners and even Couriers on the march.”
“Where are they even going? Their territory’s in the north. They’ve left the coastline, and they’re moving fast.”
Mihaela traced a straight line south and grunted. If you took a ruler and moved it across half the continent…you’d have to be an idiot or a bird to plot your course like that. But she held her tongue on that as she responded to the Drake Guildmaster of Marwsh’s Runner’s Guild.
“Too early to call. But if I’m right…somewhere stupid. Put the alert out. Oh, and find that idiot Persua. Tell her she’s going north immediately. She’s on Emergency Runner duty for anything needed in the path of the Kraken Eater tribe.”
 
——
 
Klbkchhezeim of the Free Antinium ran out of the gates of the city of Heidomat, arrows flying past him as he lost his disguise hat and his trenchcoat blew away to reveal his Antinium form. He was still determinedly eating a sandwich as the furious Watch chased after him.
“You are all disgraces to the Watch. I am reporting you to the relevant authorities.”
The Slayer ran. He had a Gnoll [Prostitute] on one shoulder, whom he was shielding from the arrows. It was not a kidnapping, despite the shouting. She was definitely not resisting and covering her face as the arrows flashed past her.
These things happened. Klbkch raced away as the local authorities added ‘kidnapping’, ‘blackmailing a brothel owner’, and ‘assaulting members of the Watch’ to his growing rapsheet.
Klbkch added ‘improper conduct towards working professionals’, ‘corruption within the Watch’, and ‘substandard working conditions and pay’ to theirs.
He still hadn’t quite gotten to the New Lands, but given the velocity he was moving, he was on his way. Klbkch checked over his shoulder.
“I feel as though someone’s walking on my backshell.”
The Gnoll turned her head, wondering what that meant. But Klbkch rubbed the back of his neck as he deflected another arrow. He had the most uncanny feeling he should be at The Wandering Inn. Of course, he always felt like that. But what was this strange sense of rivalry?
 
——
 
Fetohep felt it too, across the world, as he listened to reports of the ‘raiders’ troubling his borders. The King of Khelt shifted, somewhat impatiently, and frowned.
He had the distinct thought he should be putting on his best storytelling robes and impressing someone right now.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flames, scales shining like a river of gold, copper mane swirling around his neck, lay on a pile of gold and treasures. His voice was deep as that of a Giant, diction refined like an Archmage of old, and his eyes flashed with the colors of magic itself.
In front of him sat a Lightning Dragon, one-winged, face desperate and hungry and longing. She was sleek and fit, wounded; a scar across what she and the rest of the world had assumed to be flawless, perfect youth. In some ways, perhaps, a mockery because she tried to conform to that ideal she had been told she was. In other ways, the living embodiment. A Dragon who had eaten a Void Goat before her second century. But more than her taut muscle or gemstone scales, her eyes reflected that deep loneliness.
Rafaema’s great weakness was at odds with the one the sulking Earth Dragon carried in his chest. He was as suspicious of the storyteller, confused both in general and specifics about what was going on. He was also the most vibrant of all the guests in the cave; he was young. He had no scars. He was like a magical seed, blooming, unripe and young, but filled with the entire promise of their species. If he was lonely or he mourned, his was a different kind of loss, though. A denial he bled like a thousand bandaids he’d forgotten he’d put on and pretended he couldn’t see.
The Wyvern Lord, by contrast, outweighed both Dragons and was simultaneously more resplendent with his mane of frozen winter and his imposing scales scarred by battle, but instantly more bestial than the others for his lack of forelegs; he had to sit awkwardly or crouch, and both made him more like a caged animal than a thoughtful observer. He acted like it too, sniffing the air, cocking his head, distracted, as the others sometimes glowered at him, but other times, he seemed to listen or focus on an artifact in the room, a word in the air, as if that focus had a significance beyond any mere animal’s wavering focus.
As for the Goblin, she didn’t fit. She was too young, too mortal; for all she strutted around in her boots and armor, she was a child among legends. If there was any reason for her place here, it was because the Brass Dragon accorded her a kind of deference. As if he knew what she might be, and more crucially—she knew what she might be. She was not chased out by the sheer magnitude of this meeting of Wyvern and Dragon because she had sat in the presence of legends before. In this moment of Dragons, she was awestruck and intent, desperate and youthful.
But this was still no [Immortal Moment], so she abided with the dignity mortals found in the presence of infinity that only they could wield.
They were here for the stories. Each for a different reason. Rafaema and Rags approached their needs differently, one with a hunger, the other with a desperation and a need for any scrap of information. Cire was here half out of longing, but he had deep suspicions about the strange Dragon he’d heard so much about.
The Wyvern Lord was still getting his head around the ‘we are not fighting over mates’ aspect. But he listened as the Dragon spoke.
It was a difficult task. Arguably fruitless. A certain Wind Runner and [Lady] of House Reinhart could have told the current listeners that they would be disappointed. You see, the old Dragon told stories. But they were never the stories you wanted.
He told you the truth, but pieces of it. That was why they both didn’t rush across time and space to sit in front of him. They’d heard the tales, gotten tired of asking for him to fill in the gaps. In a way, he was a terrible storyteller, like the stage magician who refused to ever explain the trick or the twinkle-eyed [Bard] who concluded all his tales with ‘and only the [Bards] know the truth’.
For instance, here was how one story began. It was as Teriarch provided refreshments to his guests.
“I trust we’re all settled? No more Drakes buzzing about? Good. I am, of course, anonymous to your cities and tribes, and I trust you will be discreet.”
Cire raised one wing. He tried not to be impressed by the cave they sat in. The cave was easy; it was just a hollowed out den of rock, but his eyes kept flickering to a wall of paintings, each of people—Drake, Human, Drowned Person, Djinni?—people who looked important.
Unlike Rafaema, Cire’s eyes attention was not focused on racks of swords, piles of boots, or even gemstones. Oh, his eyes had bulged, and he’d run up a pile of gold and tried to dive into it with very predictable results, but he had grown up in Oteslia, in the First Gardeners’ homes.
The paintings told him something he couldn’t articulate; if he had the vocabulary and time, and Mivifa’s help, Cirediel would have said it was the fact that the art of each ruler or person had an organic, natural quality to it.
These were no slap-dashed [Drawn to Life] pictures that were just like a [Magic Picture] spell. This captured something intrinsic of the people in the labor of the [Artists]; they were chosen with taste, and Cirediel had seen enough portraits to know taste. Of note…not a single one had the Brass Dragon in it. But the Earth Dragon would have sworn all of them had his presence about them.
When he looked around at a crude, hand-made, wobbly vase seemingly placed amidst the sea of gold on an enchanted plinth so it couldn’t be knocked around, or a flower preserved in a glass case, the Earth Dragon saw treasures amidst the pile of wealth. And had he said that, the Brass Dragon might have respected him and seen him differently.
Unfortunately, then Cirediel spoke.
“Sure, old dude. You’re just some Giants old Dragonlord monking about in the High Passes and you expect us to sit here and think it’s all Archmage? That’s total Creler eggs. Rafaema, you believe this guy? He’s the one who got your wing, um—”
Teriarch’s brows crossed slightly as he tried to uncode Cire’s slang, and Rafaema buffeted Cire with her good wing several times.
“Cire, shut up and go home.”
“No way. I’m just saying, how do we know this old guy’s truegold?”
“If you doubt my name, young Dragon, or the sheer fact of my existence or size—”
“Yeah, you’re sorta porky. I didn’t even know we could get fat.”
Teriarch inhaled deeply, and the Wyvern Lord grinned. Rafaema was so incandescent she snapped at Cire, and he flailed at her with his claws.
“No biting! No biting! Are you crazy? What happened in the north, Raef?”
Rags thought it was like two Goblin children fighting…with giant Dragon bodies that were in danger of crushing her if one fell on her. She sipped from her milkshake as Teriarch tried to restore order.
“I am Teriarch, the last Dragonlord of Flames. I see there is much your cities did not tell you. I should, no, I must tell you of your pasts. But let us do it civilly. Come, sit. Take refreshments. Here.”
He snapped his claws, and Rags’ milkshake refilled. She blinked at it, and a dish popped into being in front of her. It was a gigantic grilled tuna.
The Wyvern Lord stared at a chalice filled with cuts of prime meat, and Rafaema blinked at what seemed like blue snow falling into a huge container. It was like a massive brazier, the kind you’d light the mother of all bonfires in, perfectly placed so she could dip her head down and eat.
Cire got a bowl full of fruits. Bananas, giant strawberries, entire melons, rind and all…
The four guests eyed their dishes, and the Wyvern Lord began eating after a moment, so greedily and carelessly that Cire raised a wing and grimaced, shielding himself from the splatter.
The Wyvern Lord had just been smelling the meat to make sure it was good and had wondered how the Brass Dragon had over fifty-six different cow’s worth of meat, but he decided not to question it. Cire was less discerning about whether all his bananas had come from the same tree, having grown up in a city where that was possible, and complained instantly.
“Hey! Okay, that was sort of Archmage. Are you, like, an actual [Archmage] archmage or is your spellcasting just Archmage?”
The Brass Dragon’s face was colorful.
“…Language certainly has shifted since the last time I slept. It’s mere magic food. Low on sustenance, high on taste.”
“Sweet. I need to watch my figure. But why do I have all fruits? What’s that, Raef? Ow!”
So said the smallest of the Dragons, who certainly seemed tiny compared to Teriarch and was even distinctly smaller than Rafaema. Cirediel had scales like a tree, glorious shades like wood, and moss-green wings and accents that reminded Rags of a swamp. He stuck his tongue into Rafaema’s bowl and yanked it back.
“Ith shocking!”
“Lightning crystal dust seasoned with sugar and a hint of horseradish. A Drathian dish they used to serve to Lightning Dragons who attended the courts of their [Emperor]. Each dish is what I assumed you might like. Earth Dragons are often vegetarians.”
“What? We are?”
Cire was indeed sniffing his meal with considerable interest. And it was that which made Rafaema sit up and Rags frown. She’d been cutting into her tuna, and Teriarch inclined his head to her.
“Just as Goblins have a penchant for fish as a general rule, not in every case. I assure you, it is nothing more than careful courtesy. But trends do exist.”
“Oh yeah? It’s speciesist to me. Do you give Gnolls only meat? Huh?”
Cire could not shut up; he glared at Teriarch, but the Brass Dragon seemed…pleased by Cire’s presence. He certainly wasn’t ‘archmage’ about Cire, but, Rafaema realized to her displeasure, he was overjoyed to meet yet another Dragon.
Even if it was Cire. Patiently, Teriarch shook his head.
“Species informs some elements of creatures. For instance, Humans love sweet foods. Their tongues are literally receptive to the flavor. Lizardfolk and Garuda are also both highly receptive to sugary products, but Dullahans do not care for such meals as much. Individuals in the species have any taste they want. Gnolls are more primarily carnivores, as are Drakes. If I sometimes generalize, it is out of familiarity with each species—especially my own kind.”
His gaze took in the two Dragons, who chewed on their food, dipping their heads into the bowls, and the Wyvern Lord, who had finished two-thirds of his food. He dodged as more meat dropped into his bowl and burped loudly.
The sight of Cire trying to gulp down a huge mouthful of watermelon made Teriarch cough.
“—Do you, ah, dine with each other often?”
“We don’t really need to eat much, so it’s always as Drakes. Really stuffy, with the First Gardener or Dragonspeaker and all their cronies. What?”
Rags had noticed the gigantic, curved soupspoon and forks. Teriarch stared pointedly at them as Rafaema and Cire paused. They exchanged a glance, then Rafaema tried to pick up a fork with her claw.
It was such an awkward method that Rags knew, instantly, it was incorrect. A Dragon was not meant to use a fork like that, even if they could. Teriarch gave her a look, and Rags threw out a wild guess.
“You use magic to eat?”
