The Wyvern Lord was sated, not just in belly, but in something else. He had no name, for Wyverns did not have names.
Once, they had names.
Imagine that.
After the little Goblin had gone, the Brass Dragon had told them tales of what they were. The Wyvern Lord somewhat understood. They treated him as if he didn’t know, but he was the Lord of the Weyr.
He had listened to the rock-things speaking. Taught himself how to understand the Goblins in both their weird languages, and the annoying hunters who had come to kill his people. Not well; he barely understood any other people, so maybe he was stupid.
Gargoyles, Trolls, Goblins, adventurers, each with their own tongue, all made his head hurt. So did the big Dragon. A threat, or so the Wyvern Lord had thought. A competitor for the affections of the Lightning Dragon. But he was old, the Wyvern Lord realized.
Probably too old to mate. Seeing the small Earth Dragon proved that. Though the Wyvern Lord had dark suspicions about which one the Lightning Dragon would pick.
But his talk was…interesting. He spoke of what Dragons were. What they were supposed to be. Good at magic. The Wyvern Lord didn’t ‘do’ magic. He had been about to try to steal more gold by eating it—it could be pooped later and cleaned off—when the Dragon had looked at him with sorrowful eyes.
“You are most _____ed (good thing?) or cursed of us all, Lord of Weyrs. For in you there is the ___entiality (pots?) of your species, as it has endured and thrived as we ____ (go away?). You may become a Wyvern King.”
The Wyvern Lord hadn’t known what that meant, nor had the Dragons. The Dragonlord had said:
“No, Rafaema (cute). For him it is more than a title. His very mind grows as his magical ___ass-ity (helmet?) grows. Wyrms. Dragons. All our kind and the many offshoots. Lindwyrms and kirin—very distant relatives—and even knuckers…there are perhaps three old Dragons left, including me. One Wyrm.”
They had asked questions, and he had refused to answer. Instead, he had talked about breath, flying, and how both the Lightning Dragon and Earth Dragon were ‘doing it wrong’, how their natures would allow them all kinds of cool stuff. And the Wyvern had decided that maybe, just maybe, he had made a mistake trying to drive the Dragon out of his lair.
But he’d only done that because he’d been forced away from the top of the mountains by them. The hairy ones with their spears and blades that could knock a Wyvern out of the air, much like the Goblins’ weapons.
Anyways, the Wyvern Lord was pleasantly drunk and full; they’d had real food, and the two little Dragons were snoring while the big one did weird press-ups with his front legs.
Forelegs. Who needed ‘em? Hah! The Wyvern Lord flew, somewhat unsteadily, thinking only of himself. Because if he thought of his Weyr…
They’d lost Wyverns fighting that stupid city. They’d lost them fighting the Goblins. And when the hunters came. Less than a third of the ones who had followed him down from above were alive.
It had been the right choice. If they’d stayed and fought, the hairy ones would have picked them off. They were immune to all but his breath, and if they fought, the big bad things would kill both sides. The hairy ones could hide to ambush the big Wyverns and…
And his Weyr was splintering. More were leaving for other mountains, despite the risks. Was he a bad leader? No, no…
If he was, no one was smarter than he. The Wyvern Lord wondered how long the Frost Wyverns would survive here; they couldn’t nest together. They were fighting too many monsters. Drunkenly, he wished the old Lords of the Weyr were alive.
There had been six when he was small. He distinctly remembered the Weyr being better. Multiple Weyrs up there. But they had died one by one; the last three had died fighting a Goblin who climbed up that high.
Bad things. But the Weyrs had already been in trouble ever since the Queen had died. A real Frost Wyvern Queen. She must have been smart. Someone the Dragon would have respected for sure.
The Wyvern Lord wondered whether the Dragonlord knew what had happened to her.
 
——
 
He knew he couldn’t sleep here on the Goblins’ stupid stone fort. He was too big. Even if he let them put a collar on him or let the weird voice in his head make him a…tame Wyvern, his Weyr could not.
Too big. Too many. Too hungry.
He knew it, but the Wyvern Lord still flew about, crashing into rocks, searching for the little one who’d fed him some ‘spaghet’ and who was a good rival. And killed Wyverns, but fair, they’d tried to kill her. And she’d saved some, in a way. They got food, grooming, beds…did she know some of them were letting the Goblins capture them rather than fight and starve up here?
Hey, hey you. You missed something fun.
After a while, the Wyvern Lord saw a Goblin who smelled as drunk as he did toddle onto the rooftop and throw a fireball in his face. It stung a bit, but he tried to grin at her as he waddled over.
He was drunk, she was drunk. They were best friends.
She didn’t…look happy. The Wyvern Lord didn’t get it. He equated drunkenness, a new phenomenon, with sheer fun. But he saw her stand there and heard her tell him to go away. The Wyvern Lord tried to nip at her. Then he ate another fireball to the face.
A hard one.
Ow. He recoiled, sobering slightly, and began to get mad. The Wyvern Lord opened his mouth, wondering how she’d like it if she got a taste of her medicine. Then he saw the tears.
The little Goblin called ‘Rags’ gazed up at the Wyvern Lord. The good things the Dragonlord had told the Wyvern and the Dragons—were her despair. The Wyvern Lord opened his jaws. And then he realized those stories of bygone ages were not for her.
Nor even for him. They were civilized tales of long-dead eras for the last children of a people who were dead.
Her entire home smelled of fear. It stank like a place soon to become carrion. The Wyvern closed his mouth. He stared at her, and they were both children of these feral wilds.
Not he, that dignified, clean specimen of noble grace, stronger, well-taught, and resplendent even in age with his accomplishments. Born to regal houses of Dragons when they had not feared being eaten in eggs or hunted as monsters.
The Goblin kept crying until she realized the Wyvern Lord was watching her. She stopped, about to throw another fireball—and he met her gaze. Then he dipped his head in slow acknowledgement of their shared being.
He wondered if she understood anything he ever said.
The Goblin wept. Not in front of the Dragonlord, despite his weakness for tears, for he would save her or not irregardless, and her tears mattered not to him, in a way. The Wyvern Lord bowed his head—and gazed into that bleak future for his Weyr and her tribe. For the future of when both were no more.
Not ‘if’, but when. Then he beat his wings. She shielded her face, and Goblins emerged, covering their eyes as a mighty gale roared around them, fearful.
A Wyvern Lord flew and screamed a lone challenge in the High Passes. A flying Antinium made of beautiful blue, a Lord of Stone, bounding herds of Abyssal Spiders, and even the fearless Eater Goats peered up.
They did not get in his way. The Wyvern Lord descended in a dive as a bleary Brass Dragon emerged from his cave, demanding to know whether the Wyvern knew what time it was and why—
He ate a full torrent of icy breath that froze the ground and turned the world to winter. A glacier formed on the bottom of the High Passes as a bunch of little [Knights] looked up, compared their flames to the Wyvern Lord’s breath, and ran for it.
Satisfaction—for about five seconds. Then the Wyvern Lord saw the ice melting as an infernal glow burned within.
 
He of brass and metal scale
Made of metal, heart and lungs burning
Breathed flames from a world ago
Turning the sky to dawn.
 
The Wyvern Lord dodged and breathed again, and the Dragonlord was rising. Demanding to know why they quarreled. The Wyvern Lord knew he would lose.
But that was not why you fought.
 
~The Wyvern Lord’s Tale, End~
 
——
 
The next day, Rags had a hangover for the first time in her life. It was almost as bad as a Wyvern Lord, who woke up singed with a massive headache from being smacked by a giant metal claw and an Eater Goat gnawing on one of his legs.
Sometimes, the days were mysteries. Teriarch, for instance, had no idea why the Wyvern Lord had attacked him after a rather thoughtful discussion yesterday and complained heartily and at length to a largely unsympathetic Unicorn just there for a free drink.
Two Dragons sat there, wanting to know more about their heritage. Despite their upset and arguing minders, both of them wanted an audience Teriarch was not minded to give.
It was, as a sour Magnolia Reinhart would have said, ‘business as usual’ for Teriarch, even if he was being more helpful than usual.
Armies marched closer to Goblinhome. Fightipilota prepared to head north. Erin Solstice was the size of a Fraerling. The Titan was heading towards the Dyed Lands. There was a hole in space.
These were just facts. Realities, events happening with occasional overlap or influence upon each other. All according to plan, neatly accounted for by the Grand Design of a long dead god, and events marched—slowly—towards their conclusions, which built towards larger conclusions.
And there was a little Gnoll girl wearing robes.
 
——
 
She had white fur, which she’d combed flat today, over two hundred times. So much so that her paw hurt. Her robes were a rich, velvet brown, but not…bad brown.
Normal brown robes made you seem like a [Hermit] or some mysterious old man who gave you advice whether you wanted it or not, then got killed fighting an evil villain in the first part of a great movie series.
These robes weren’t boring brown. They were the most beautiful brown in existence, the color of the eternal forest, that made you want to walk and stand under canopies that filled the sky. The most unboring brown, the most glorious…
Or they should have been. She’d done her best and added the green leaves of color that became a kaleidoscope, as if the ‘tree’ were changing colors through every season, herself.
Everyone had said it was beautiful in class when they made clothing, and Mrsha had gotten a ‘Gold Coin’, which was a little badge students got for being good at things.
She’d chucked it in the outhouse. It didn’t belong to her. She’d just copied something she couldn’t have forgotten if she tried.
Thus attired, Mrsha stood with her little wand raised. Hoping like heck this call worked. She’d already tried Nalthaliarstrelous twice; he must have been shielded. When someone did pick up in the [World’s Eye Theatre], she sighed with relief.
“…Hello?”
A man appeared in front of her, sitting in a huge room made of bones. In fact, he sat in the mouth of a giant skeleton of a fish, deep underwater, as the ancient hide of the sea creature kept him and his crew safe from the crushing depths.
He was a [Druid], an imposing Drowned Man who was half-Shark. He had a lot of teeth on either side of his face and his shark-half’s eye was placed too high and to the side. He was big, carried a staff, yes, but one lined with big teeth.
He didn’t recognize Mrsha at once as his eyes narrowed, but he didn’t un-recognize her either. It was the Mrsha Effectᴺᵒ ᴿᶦᵍʰᵗˢ ᴿᵉˢᵉʳᵛᵉᵈ, which meant that people sort of knew her.
They’d say, ‘wait a second, do I know you?’, then have to think and remember the white Gnoll girl from this moment or that. Quasi-fame.
It helped Mrsha get over the initial hump of introductions. The [Druid] motioned a few suspicious other [Druids]—holding shoulder-mounted bone harpoon guns—aside.
“Few people can track down the Sea’s Shepherds. We’ll take precautions against next time. If you’re from…The Wandering Inn? Seas and land owe the [Innkeeper] a debt of gratitude for the Yellow Rivers cure. I am Druid Godreiad of the Sea’s Shepherds. Leader of the Circle of Shepherds. Why did you call me?”
He was scary in a way Nalthal wasn’t. He wasn’t trying to be scary to her, but Mrsha’s knees shook a bit. She talked a big game with Fetohep and other people she knew, or thought were kind, but this guy made her nervous.
She wished she’d gone to the bathroom before all this, but Mrsha waved her wand as she wrote on a card. He had to lean forwards to read it.
“Mrsha du Marquin. Hm. Where have I heard…?”
He glanced towards someone and nodded. Then sat in his chair. It looked like something else made of old scales, worn away to show hide beneath. A fish’s skin?
These [Druids] lived in a ship made of a sea monster, and they killed [Pirates] and anyone else who threatened sea life. They had threatened to murder Fezimet of the Featherfolk Brigade for burning the forests.
They were not like Shassa Weaverweb. They were like Nalthal when he got mad. In fact, the [Druid] was carefully covering a map that looked like plans of some kind; there were a lot of red lines and a bunch of x’s. Mrsha felt like each ‘x’ would have been worth tens of thousands of gold pieces to the right [Strategists].
The Gnoll girl realized it was her [Druid] senses telling her this. Like the other [Druids] she had met, she could sense, even via Erin’s Skill, a bit of their thoughts and intent.
These [Druids] were planning on killing people. A lot of people. 
Godreiad read Mrsha’s nervousness. In fact—he read Mrsha’s thoughts. It had been so long since she’d spoken, druid-to-druid, that when he spoke in her head, it made her nearly fall over on her back.
“You have nothing to fear from me, little landtender. Only those who despoil and destroy should quake and watch the seas for when we rise. Nor are you close to where we plan to strike. Why did you contact us?”
Even his voice was less kind than the other two. Mrsha flinched, but she had come this far. And she saw him studying her robes curiously. She had to know, so she firmed her back and thought back at him.
“I am Mrsha. I…outrank you?”
It was more of a question than a statement, despite her best efforts. Godreiad’s brows twisted together, hair and shark skin, then he barked with laughter.
“…No.”
There was a barest hint of a pause. He frowned, and Mrsha’s heart leapt. The man scratched at his chin, then gave her a sharp look.
“What are you wearing?”
“Fancy robes.”
She was evasive, and the [Druid]’s brows bobbed. He blinked at Mrsha, and someone whispered to him.
 
——
 
“High Druid. Is she a spy, perhaps? She might ruin our plans or be an agent of smog and steel.”
