She gave Krshia a pointed glance as the Gnoll jumped, then tore up the card. And ate it. She gave Ser Dalimont a waxy smile as her customers gaped at her.
“Er—edible cards. The newest thing. Heh. Next?”
Mrsha backed away as Krshia shot her a glower, and she decided maybe that wasn’t a good topic with the elections.
 
——
 
Anyways, her other duties included checking in on everyone. Mrsha ticked off her list of people, noting that she had failed again to contact the Horns, Rabbiteater, and Ylawes’ groups.
More worry for me. She kept thinking about the levels in between all this. It had to be real. Right? But if it was…what caused it?
A mistake? But even a mistake had to have a reason. Had she done something? She was awesome, sure, but like, Level 50 awesome. Not that awesome.
She had cause to ask someone about it after all. Not another [Druid]; King Fetohep of Khelt sat there seeming—tired.
“All is well, Mrsha. Splendid, in fact. If I do not presume to a surplus of time, it is, I suggest, because my kingdom is so varied and occupied as to require my attention.”
Something was wrong. Mrsha’s eyes flicked around the throne room, but apart from a few servants, she saw noth—
“—jesty’s aid! Your Majesty’s aid! We are suffering!”
It was the faintest of cries from the window. It was a chant; Mrsha flicked one ear up, and she edged sideways as Fetohep reached for another [Message] scroll. He glanced up, saw her ears twitching, and raised a finger.
The window drapes closed, and the noise was gone. Mrsha stood there as he smiled at her.
“Is that all, Mrsha? I must prepare for a banquet.”
She made a note on the clipboard. Lyonette? Who could actually…Mrsha stared at it and then glanced up.
I know you’re busy, Fetohep, but I have a really important question if you can answer it?
“A question? Ah, very well. Age must condescend to youth betimes. Speak.”
Mrsha wrote quickly, noting the [Servants]’ expressions. They were always smiley and in awe of Fetohep. She had seen them nervous when they forgot something, but never…
Worried. She couldn’t read the Revenant’s face. So she just wrote her question down swiftly, so as not to bother him.
The ancient ruler of Khelt had time for Mrsha, as he did for children, his people, and he liked to put on a good face, regardless of the moment. His preserved, undead one wasn’t much to look at anyways.
He was humoring her—right up until his golden eye-flames happened across her message. Then they narrowed to pinpricks. It said:
If you hit a high level, like, over Level 50, do you…feel different? Like your body’s no longer normal? Does your head…not hurt, but feel like instead of up and down and left and right, it can think in new directions?
The King of Khelt sat there for a moment, then laughed. A huge, amused laugh of actual delight. He leaned back, and his servants relaxed and smiled as if Mrsha had done a grand thing.
“My word. This schooling must indeed be so exceedingly academic as to rival that of my own academies. That is a splendid account, albeit in purely experiential terms, of what it feels like. Yes. I, myself, felt more as though my body were in strange agony when I grew my first Galas muscle. When one passes Level 50…”
He stood up, strode to the door to the balcony, and opened it. Mrsha saw him pause, heard a chanting—then Fetohep closed the blinds suddenly. A few flies buzzed around him, and he stood there. Then turned to her as if nothing had happened.
“…When one passes Level 50, yes. One changes. The mind? I heard Queen Xierca often state the feeling, along with the few individuals of the more thought-based classes I conversed with. Were you, perhaps, concerned for Erin Solstice? She has not indicated any such pains, but I am sure she passed them in the company of…Fraerlings well enough. I am sure she is well.”
His tone sounded—odd—and Mrsha frowned at him. What was this?
Fetohep was off his game today. He didn’t even notice Mrsha’s expression as he sat back down.
“I do wonder which, if either sensation, she might feel. If I meet her, I shall inquire.”
I will too!
“How? Has sh—of course she has spoken to you from the Titan’s academy. My apologies. It is foolish to presume she would not speak to her family. Of course, she has all the time for me.”
Slowly, Mrsha wrote down something else next to Erin. Underlined it. Circled it. Added three !!! and drew a line to ‘Fetohep’. So he knew, too. But he didn’t know that she…
Fetohep did notice that and swiftly changed the subject.
“Ah. Was that all? The experience is entirely genuine. I suppose your teacher is empowering you to dream of higher levels?”
Nope.
“Then you read of it in a book. Which one? You can often tell the authenticity of the writer by such innocuous statements.”
Um, it was Tales of Adventure and Woe. I forget which edition.
Mrsha wrote hurriedly, and Fetohep’s golden gaze flickered in the right eye hole so fast that Mrsha didn’t spot it as she wrote. Slowly, he glanced down at something on his throne of gold. Brushed his hand at it and made a complex gesture that Mrsha didn’t see as she raised her card.
So you really feel different? All…big-minded? Does it change you forever? Because that’s scary. You’d get strong, wouldn’t you? So strong you couldn’t play with other people or even feel things the same way.
The King of Khelt sat forwards slightly, and his voice was poised, face turned towards her.
“If one was truly powerful. Yes. And you…read this. This is an experience you have never had?”
Mrsha gave him a big, goofy grin.
I’m Mrsha the Super Duper! Why would I have that kinda level? I read about it, and, uh, Zel talked about it. That’s how I know.
“I see. Mrsha, I have changed my mind. Why do you not tell me about your day? It is good, you see, for a King of Khelt to partake in other lands.”
Me? I’m sure you’re busy.
Mrsha was glancing at the window, and Fetohep hesitated.
“Perhaps, but why don’t you sit? I could—arrange for Miss Imani to bring you some sweets. Elucidate to me anything new that went on. In this hypothetical of high levels, what level would you imagine this occurs at? Level 50? Level 60?”
No clue! But it would all feel the same, right? Or does it feel even weirder at high levels?
Fetohep’s fingers drummed on the armrest of his chair.
“I…would not know, having never passed Level 60 myself. I could inquire, academically. There are many records, if not as many personal accounts of that nature. Perhaps the former rulers of Khelt had journals with such notes? I shall ask the [Historians]. So…nothing of note? At all?”
Nope! I’d better go!
“What if—”
She vanished, and the King of Khelt sat there. Then he stood up.
“Summon the [Mages]. Have someone inspect the enchantments on the throne for its veracity now. Compile a full report on the truth spells.”
Then he strode out of the room, wishing he could address that. It had to be a malfunction. Or…he was as stumped as Mrsha.
It was just impossible.
 
——
 
Im. Pos. Si. Ble. Mrsha knocked the word out in the rest of her day, sweeping popcorn out of the World’s Eye Theatre with Rosencrantz, collecting her allowance, chewing on her dinner while staring at Elia Arcsinger reading a book…
Mrsha was so distracted she didn’t even make a fuss about her dessert not being there—she had almost served the 35 days of no-dessert sentences for her various misdeeds. Lyonette would have asked if she was feeling well, but she was busy preparing for a meeting, and Elia Arcsinger closed her book and had to go pee.
Again.
Mrsha was so distracted, in fact, that she only looked up when Rags entered The Wandering Inn. There was a big fuss of Lyonette welcoming her in, but the Goblin just sat at a table, seeming hungover and tired.
“Can I visit Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
“Of course, Rags! How are you? I have so much to show you…oh my, the gardens.”
Mrsha saw Lyonette give her an excited wave, and Rags’ ears perked up, but the gold was mostly tidied away.
…Mostly. It was a huge pile, but it didn’t swamp the entire place, and they’d gotten rid of a ton of it thanks to the gambling and other stuff. The box was still going…Mrsha sat there after dinner as Rags was shown the garden and…did not throw a fuss.
She just sat in the inn. Poking at her food and having a drink as Lyonette, somewhat crestfallen, asked Rags how things were.
“You can have as much as you need—”
“Thanks. No time. Might try something. Taganchiel, see about how fast our contact can…no. Got to be clever about it. No time.”
Rags was having a bad day. Mrsha wanted to go over to her, but the Goblin didn’t like her, and Mrsha didn’t know her that well. So Mrsha sat, and Rags sat, and the two both had deep thoughts, and Mrsha wondered what the heck it could be.
Level 70. Her. Something she was doing…she only glanced up when someone tapped her on the shoulder.
“Psst. Hey, kid. You seen General Shirka around?”
It was her favorite naked Drake! Mrsha brightened up a bit. She debated asking Saliss about the levelling thing, but she thought she had an answer. And besides, Saliss just seemed tired.
“No Shirka? Damn. And here I came out of my busy schedule making weapons to see her. I heard she was here.”
How’re things, Saliss? I haven’t seen you about.
He waved a claw.
“Oh, you know me. Investigating seith. Making the kinds of weapons that could level the 9th Floor. Fun stuff.”
A Pallassian stopped staring at the Antinium and Rags in disgust and edged away from Saliss. He grinned. Mrsha didn’t think it was a joke.
Watcha gonna do with it?
“Make sure no one but the ‘good guys’ can get more of it? I’m nearly restocked on my stuff at last. And you know what an adventurer has to do.”
…Drink and party?
“Go adventuring. Hah.”
He looked a tiny bit excited, a tiny bit…his head craned around the room, and he eyed Rags.
“So no Shirka?”
Nope. She was here yesterday.
Saliss relaxed a bit.
“Good. I mean, in that she’s not a good customer like I am. She must have just liked the inn from me talking it up. Imagine that. Someone who listens to me. Alright, kid. I’m going to see Octavia—wait a second.”
He pinched Mrsha’s cheek and pulled her out of her thoughts. She punched his arm furiously, but Saliss just whispered in her ear.
“Since I’m not allowed in the garden for perfectly good reasons, can you get me a resupply of the flowers? I might be away from Pallass for a bit, and I want to make sure I’m stocked up on flower-type potions.”
He actually made potions with the Faerie Flowers? Mrsha blinked, then recalled they were good as painkillers and other stuff. She nodded and padded upstairs to get his flowers. She had to open the door to the garden in secrecy.
The gold pile, again. Mrsha had been told they were going to move it to another garden so they could re-open access, but hauling all that gold around, even with bags of holding, took ages.
She had a bit of trouble with the hill of flowers. Mrsha tugged, and the damn flowers, less than six inches high at ‘full grown’, refused to come out. She tried for a damn good six minutes, but her paws refused to lever them out, and she just landed on her butt.
In the end, she plucked the heads off, the only part that mattered, and ran them back to Saliss. He thanked her, vanished, and Mrsha was then told she had ‘detritus on her carriage’ by Dame Ushar.
When she figured out that meant ‘dirt on her bum’, she wiped it off and, sighing heavily, went to Rosencrantz, who was on duty.
“Long grabby things? Tongs?”
She shook her head and motioned with her arms, and he scratched his head.
“Long…grabby things. I think Calescent has extra-long tongs for the oven.”
That sounded like her best bet. Mrsha went to him, and he willingly turned them over.
“You wash first, okay? For prank? No?”
He was disappointed when she assured him it was just for boring gardening. Mrsha entered the garden from the kitchen and, with a sigh, went over to the now-flowerless stalks.
They were green and actually sort of boring-looking without the flowers. The yellow flowers were bright and sometimes seemed like gold if you glanced at them out of the corner of your eyes. The rest of the Faerie Flowers?
They had a curvy, spiral-like cast to them, in miniature, and the stalks were thick. Mrsha had sworn they’d been growing since the Solstice, but again…the ones she glared at were short and stubby. Mrsha grabbed one with the tongs. If they were flowerless, she knew from experience that they’d soon wilt and die, so she had to get rid of them so the others could be healthy.
She seized the first shoot with the tongs and heaved, using the application of leverage and the grip strength of the tongs to exert more force than her little body had. Kevin had taught her that.
Give me a lever long enough and I’ll move Moore.
It made her smile.
It made her sad.
She took it out on the Faerie Flower stalks, but they refused to budge. What was wrong with them? Mrsha heaved. She pulled, and this time, the soil shifted a bit, but, panting, it didn’t…
 
——
 
Twenty minutes later, Mrsha ran into the inn, whining as she held out her paws, which were red and sore. Valeterisa was flirting with Relc and making kissy-faces as she ran up to him.
“Hey, kiddo, what’s going on?”
A red-faced Valeterisa broke off from her chat with Relc, and he listened as Mrsha pointed and stamped her foot. Relc wasn’t allowed to see the gold, she recalled, because he might blab, and she hesitated, but Valeterisa solved that for her.
“A gardening issue? Relc could help you, but why don’t I, ah…[Lion’s Strength]. There.”
She tapped Mrsha on the forehead, and the Gnoll’s jaw dropped as her arms suddenly felt swole. She flexed her arms, and Relc hesitated, then sat with Valeterisa with a laugh. They were putting their heads together to do gross things as Mrsha raced back into the garden.
 
——
 
This time, you’re mine. Mrsha spat on her paws, put the tongs together over the offending stalk of the Faerie Flower, and positioned herself with the strength spell on her.
An Archmage’s magic plus the tongs? The flowers had no chance. Mrsha pulled, grateful that she hadn’t ruined the Faerie Flower stalks with all her efforts with the tongs. Actually…she had a thought as she leaned back and heaved.
They’re pretty sturdy if they survived me banging them up. They didn’t use to be this—hrggh—
Her eyes bulged. She pulled. The ground began to move. Incredulously, Mrsha saw the single, tiny shoot of Faerie Flower resisting the strength that could have let Mrsha pick a table up. Her eyelids began to twitch.
What the heck was going—
