Cire closed his mouth on a question about utensils, and the Wyvern Lord padded off to the side, yawning again. He didn’t follow any of this; he had no clue what Baleros was and patently didn’t care. He began nibbling on a ball of shoestrings, only stopping when Teriarch snapped at him. Growling, the Wyvern poked at it with his claw as the Dragon went on, turning to his attentive guests.
“The Eyes of Baleros are back in play? I recall Magnolia mentioning that. Oh dear. Another Nagatine Empire. Maybe I should see about…but the Iron Vanguard is in Baleros, and they are one of the worst enemies of Dragons. Beware them above all, you two. Many species remember us and hate and fear us for good reasons, but Dullahans were exceptional dragonslayers of their time. Chandrar is also perilous depending on which nation you may visit for that same reason.”
Cire and Rafaema shuddered, and Teriarch focused on Rags with a look.
“The Eyes of Baleros are ancient relics—nay, wonders—forged at the dawn of time. They predate me; you could fuel a Tier 8 spell and keep it powered indefinitely from the mana they generate. They have been the hearts of magical empires and fought over for eons. Each time Lizardfolk gain them, they enter a renaissance of power…which tends towards empire.”
He sighed.
“Warring over the damned things has informed much of their species’ history. I knew I should have chucked it over the world’s edge that one time I had one, but you never know what might use it down there. And it was so useful—”
The Dragon hesitated. Coughed and turned his head and distinctly blushed.
“—Despite the best efforts of many guardians, Lizardfolk always get them back.”
“What are they?”
Here it came. The shifty eyes. The pretending to lift his chalice so he could eat from his cold food.
“An impossible idea. Call it merely an energy source to fuel their transformation into Nagas. There’s not a chance of their real purpose ever coming to fruit…”
He hesitated. Bit his tongue.
“Oh dear. Let me, uh, just write this down. Look into the Eyes of…right. Excellent topic, young Goblin.”
“What do they do?”
Rags repeated herself. Teriarch was writing in a tiny spellbook. He ignored the question. Rafaema raised her voice.
“What are they?”
The Dragon hesitated, glanced up, and shook his head.
“Even if you two knew, the position of Baleros relative to Manus’ influence, or your tribe’s, is meaningless.”
“Erin is in Baleros. So are some of my Goblins.”
“Yes, one or two versus the millions of Lizardfolk. Rest assured—”
“Manus is the City of War. At least tell us!”
The two rose to their feet, pressing Teriarch. Rags saw him hesitate and swallow. And she sensed a clue to something. Eagerly, Rags waited, and Rafaema stretched out her neck, listening. Teriarch paused, gazed past them, closed his eyes—then bellowed.
“What are you doing with my hoard?”
Rags and Rafaema whirled. She saw Cirediel and the Wyvern Lord freeze. Cirediel had a massive, Dragon-sized couch he had been trying to fit in his bag of holding. The Wyvern Lord had three crowns on his head and had been unsubtly scooping an entire pile of gold towards himself. And he’d somehow undone the entire ball of enchanted shoelaces and tied them around one claw!
The two tried to look innocent.
 
——
 
Four hours later, Rags walked into Goblinhome, ignoring the questions from her lieutenants, pausing only to ask if they had seen any traces of monsters or an enemy force.
Nothing yet. She walked into the kitchen, grabbed a bottle and a cup, walked towards her rooms, and shut the door. Then locked it. Then put a chair under the doorknob.
She then poured herself a huge cup of bourbon and drank it in one go. Then another. And she knew.
The Curse of Teriarch was upon her.
It was like a superpower. It was four hours of…what? Informative knowledge. True things, like learning exactly how close Minotaurs had come to taking over a good portion of the world. Commentary on various Lizard evolutions into Naga.
Speculations about Baleros’ wartime economy of mercenaries versus Izrilian economic structures in Drake cities, which had segued into a commentary on Oteslia’s great tree, its lack of status as a World Tree, Oteslia’s historical poverty as a gardening nation, and complete derailment from the question about WHAT THE EYES OF BALEROS WERE.
It was a superpower. Or maybe it was how Teriarch consciously or unconsciously did things. Or it was the damn Wyvern Lord and Cirediel, who kept asking or doing inane things.
It was…how the Dragonlord of Flames was. And Rags knew it wasn’t just her. When she had stomped out of the cave, even the grumpy Magnolia Reinhart had interrupted the Goblin from banging her head on the stones to offer her a snack before Rags caught her flight back to Goblinhome.
One glance at Magnolia’s resigned expression…said it all, really. Rafaema had stayed, if only because she was arguing with Cire and the Wyvern Lord and the four of them were comparing Dragonbreaths. But Rags felt like pouring her next cup out of an acid jar.
“The oldest Dragon in history and he’s worse than Greydath.”
What was it with old people and not wanting to tell you anything? No, Rags realized as she took a deeper drink.
He doesn’t think it’s worth telling us anything because he doesn’t think we can help. It was implicit in everything Teriarch did and how he chivvied them around, getting exasperated, lecturing, but never confiding or asking for help. It was in a single story that Ryoka and Magnolia had heard.
The apocryphal tale of the last [Warrior] to nearly kill Teriarch.
 
——
 
“They try to slay you whenever they know you exist. It’s rather, mm, like an obsession. Understandable, if annoying. A Dragon guarantees you at least a handful of levels if you’re under Level 50. Aside from that, we are highly profitable beings.”
“Profitable?”
Teriarch saw Rafaema, Rags, Cire, and the Wyvern Lord in front of him. He noted how Rafaema shifted uneasily and Cire tensed…and they knew something. But Teriarch could blink and see—
Ryoka Griffin, sitting across from him, still sweating from her run through the High Passes.
There were holes in that memory. So vast…even magic could not erase them, nor repair what he had lost. Yet sometimes he thought he vaguely remembered what he had lost, both in Eldavin and before that.
It made it worse. The memories played on, and someone else was there that he wished he recalled.
Magnolia Reinhart, barely seventeen, perched on a rock as her surly [Maid] practiced backflips and they watched the setting sun.
Sheta, in her royal gardens, hiding from her parents and nursemaid as she pestered the Dragon Protector to tell her stories.
A crimson Dragon, scales so bright red she appeared to be aflame, the one and only, sitting on the edge of the nest, listening to him as he tried to tell her how to be safe. His one and only daughter—
Blink and time seemed to flow together. But memory was so painful, because you could never go back. Only see it and wish you could have done…or said…
Teriarch could see the Dancer and wish he had never told her what he thought bravery was. In a girl’s eyes lay her entire journey to Rhir, a sacrifice to move a world to realize a threat.
If he had lied…
He watched Rags and saw in her Goblins he had known—and he had known them and called so many friends, and some, friends become enemies—and not one had ever broken their people’s curse.
Tell her the truth? He saw dead Goblins piled by the hundreds of thousands, and sometimes, he still tasted the flames he had burnt them with.
And they thought he was reluctant to tell them out of pride or vanity or an abundance of caution. Teriarch realized he had paused when one of them prodded him to go on, then chuckled.
“Where was I? Oh, yes. Armies are one thing. Armies are always…dangerous. Teams of adventurers likewise. But the individuals are the worst. You look at me, Sheta—”
“Ryoka.”
“Apologies. You look at me and see a Dragonlord of Flame. A noble specimen of old, a master of magic and combat.”
“Dude. You’re sorta fat. Don’t kick me, Rafaema, it’s true! Can you even fly?”
Teriarch ignored the scuffling between Magnolia and Ressa as they pulled at each other’s cheeks.
“Ahem. The worst is the individuals. Yes, I am a Dragonlord. Yes, my kin have thousands of years of experience, honed power in magic and artifacts. Levels were made to equalize everything. One of the last times I recall fighting near to the death was when a warrior came to slay me. He was armed with no dragonslaying relics. His gear was, if I’m honest, rather substandard. Mithril, barely enchanted…I imagine the fellow was down on his luck. I took him lightly at first. He challenged me, the old ‘foul Dragon, hoarding the treasures stolen, end your menace’ sort of thing. I have to admit, I might have been tetchy at the time since I had just woken up, because I teleported him twenty miles up and went to sleep. I thought he was just a run-of-the-mill amateur, you see. No protections, and that’s a basic trick.”
His audience listened as Teriarch set the scene. He could still see the man—white-haired, wiry, with a frame that suggested he was all sinew and would run out of energy after eight minutes of fighting. Wearing ill-fitting mithril armor, a desperate longing in his eyes, a lopsided mustache.
A former [Lord]? An adventurer come out of retirement? He slurred his esses and had a beaten-down maul, which showed he understood he’d need to crack Teriarch’s scales rather than do something fanciful like slice through the Dragon’s neck in a single swing.
Teriarch whispered as he remembered waking up again and seeing that small figure charge into his cave and vanish in a blast of Dragonfire. Then…keep coming as the mithril melted off him. And the real terror.
“He was Level 70. A [Warrior]. First, I teleported him into the sky, and I have to imagine he fell the entire way down. Then I breathed Dragonfire on him. Threw him out of my cave. Tried to disintegrate him, melt him with acid, suffocate him underwater—tear him to pieces. We fought for six days straight.”
And each time, he got a little closer. Each swing felt like it made Teriarch’s scales ripple and hurt. A tiny roach of a being compared to Teriarch—and like a roach, truly unkillable, unsquashable—
“Why didn’t you run?”
Fair question. Teriarch replied.
“It became about pride. I could have fled; he could have run away, and I daresay I would have let him go. But neither of us would relent. I could not kill him; he could not kill me. We were wearing each other down.”
Blow by blow, spell by spell, until it was fang and claw versus bare fist. Teriarch whispered.
“Level 70. Do you understand? I daresay that had I known he was coming, I could have found ways to best him. But that was what he was. Level 70. Not Level 80. Level 90? Perish the thought. A Dragonlord of Flame fought to death in an admittedly crude duel with a Level 70 [Warrior]. They can slay us, my child, and the more we kill and slaughter them and try to prevent them from gaining that strength…the closer they come. So we must have peace.”
It was why he did not slay the Necromancer, despite the fact that he had a chance. He was ashamed to tell Magnolia that, but there it was. He didn’t know who would win. Be it [Necromancer] or [Warrior]—and he had not lived this long by gambling.
“So, how did it end?”
They all wanted to know that, except for his daughter, who hid in her nest as Teriarch received the scolding of a lifetime for frightening her so young. He laughed as an older Nirayicel asked him to finish the story, as a Goblin peered at him and a Wyvern Lord and Earth Dragon shoved at each other so they could sit next to Rafaema.
Ruefully.
“He and I were in the final blows of our strength. Every time I hit him, he came back with a punch that rattled my bones. Maybe it was another day of fighting—maybe one of us would slip and be brought down. I was desperate, focusing on the next blow, when I realized he had fallen on his face. I limped over, thinking it was a trick, but when I turned him over—he was dead.”
Dead? Teriarch nodded to all the questions and speculations. The answer was so mundane. And so…he always thought of the old man with nostalgia, with regret. With empathy.
“His heart gave out. That’s the only explanation I could think of. It happens to older members of a species. He wasn’t in the best condition when he faced me—he had a [Warrior]’s body, but he and I were pushed to our limits. His heart stopped, and he passed away. In truth…I don’t know when it stopped. It might have been a day before he finally died. I have seen [Warriors] continue fighting with mortal wounds, even headless, for a while. He was a truly great foe.”
That was his lie. He did lie, but the Dragonlord of Flames told it each and every time. One of his greatest foes; an unnamed [Warrior] who had hit Level 70, who had died matching the Dragonlord of Flames blow for blow.
Not an old man with barely any gear worth his levels fighting a Dragon with no one to mourn or search for him when he was gone. A Level 70 [Warrior] who had no title nor purpose beyond one final fight in a cave and only a Dragon to bury him.
That was Teriarch’s story. He looked upon Goblins, the City Runners he had known, [Ladies] and Harpies and Djinni. They asked him to explain every secret of the world. And he told them fragments and bits and left them to go figure it out themselves. For how unsatisfying and poor it would be if he told them it.
He was a poor storyteller, after all.
 
——
 
The Dragon had lived for tens of thousands of years.
Rags for less than a decade. She sat in her room and continued to pour herself drinks, because she got it. In his gaze, she saw that timeless loss. When he spoke and didn’t even know who he was with…
She saw something terrifying that no Goblin had ever had a problem with. The lack of memory, the age, was a haunting thing that scared her, perhaps more because being Goblin was remembering the past.
It was something she wished Goblins had to struggle with: the infirmities of age. But no one, not even Greydath, would live that long.
Perhaps the Dragon would, indeed, save her tribe. But it would be as dawn broke and the Dragonlord of Flames swooped down.
 
Last of all, upon the wings who had flown over lands lost to sea.
The hero of only memories, born of the age of legends, last champion of his kind.
Swooping down over mortality to speak wisdom.
To threaten wrath and offer better days.
 
Something like that. His very nature was grander than his audience; he belonged to the diction of kings, the poetry of high magic and valorous deeds.
He might save her tribe.
She could not.
So the Goblin drank.
 
——
 
