They were often hunted by their enemies; the Sea’s Shepherds would attack any nation for their crimes against nature. Druid Godreiad didn’t think this was the case. It could be the child just wanted attention or something, but why contact him?
He frowned at her. The question she’d asked him was ridiculous. Silly. A child’s question—and yet—
He swore he had had a dream last night about this. But it was faint, foggy…the [Druid] shook his head.
“Keep any plans and our heading out of sight. If she moves, I’ll try to dispel the magic. And…note down her robes.”
One of the other [Druids] stopped and blinked at him. She was part shifted owl, unhappy about being underwater, but able to see in the gloom of the ship as they ran dark, even by Drowned Folk standards. She peered at Mrsha’s robes, and like him…
“What part?”
“Everything.”
She began taking a sketch of Mrsha’s robes as Godreiad stepped closer and thought at her. Her tone was earnest; she was young. An innocent child, for all she was a [Druid]. He didn’t even consider her a full one; you could play at the class, but you weren’t a guardian of this world until you had taken and lost a life in defense of it.
He humored her. It wasn’t bad to have children aspire to love nature, regardless. And now he was curious.
“Is that all? We don’t have ranks like you imagine, girl.”
We have circles, and they are independent. And dying. The land’s circles alternate between too small to do good, protective of their domain like the Vale Forest, or sold out to cities like Oteslia.
Again, she didn’t need to know that. But the girl hesitated, then fixed him with her earnest eyes.
She had a…disconcertingly adult voice, which sounded like some kind of rather formal [Lady] in her mid-forties dictating in very precise language.
“Are you quite sure? Because I think you’re the leader of all these [Druids]. Of six ships. And a bunch of whales.”
His alarm was fully suppressed, and he was glad everyone else was out of her view. She should not know that.
Find out how she knows. The [Druid] glanced at the person taking notes, and Mrsha was now on the Sea’s Shepherds’ lists, not a good place to be if she was a foe. His voice was calm. He’d bluffed [Kings] from where he sat. This time, he spoke; he could control speech better than wildthoughts.
“I think you’re mistaken, Druid Mrsha, just as you’re mistaken about outranking me. Did you come to ask these questions? You shouldn’t bother the Sea’s Shepherds. We don’t have time to waste.”
A call had begun; not one of [Druids], but of nature itself. They would answer and wreak a vengeance on the folk of smog and steel who had trespassed so greatly. This was an almighty call; they had felt it in the depths. He wondered who else was coming. But the Mrsha girl just waved her little wand.
“I had one more question, please and thank you! You’re the only [Druid] I can ask! My guy isn’t here, and the other [Druid]’s only, like, Level 25.”
“Ask, then.”
He expected a third silly question, but she took a huge breath, then thought at him—
“If you get high level, like, um, super high-level, can you…no, wait. How can I say this? If you reach the apex of levelling, a truly splendiferous level—”
What kind of child knew ‘splendiferous’?
“—can you sense all the big, dying trees? I mean…not the Vale Forest, which is all too young. I mean the big ones. The sad ones who’re mostly dead but alive because they’re all corally. The ones guarding the undersea forests.”
Treants. He felt a shock down his spine. She meant Treants. And she understood that the true trees, the ones with voices and thoughts, however strange, were dead. From the Vale Forest—the Treants had left the land.
But she could have known that. It was merely unsettling until she continued.
“And if you can sense them and stuff…are they all around Baleros right now? And if they are, why?”
Every [Druid] in the command room of the ship had gone silent. The heads turned to Godreiad, and he drummed his fingers on the table. If not for the wild call to arms, they would have been investigating that very…
He had suspicions. But rather than voice them, he spoke shortly.
“By what authority do you claim to command the Sea’s Shepherds, Druid Mrsha? Do you have any other proof you would stand above me?”
Druids had no higher ranking than a High Druid of a Circle; there weren’t enough, and there were no great [Druids] of old. If there were…that faint not-memory twinged at him.
Somewhere, the Grand Design’s analysis of the future snarled slightly around something it didn’t quite understand. Something that should not have occurred. It auto-corrected absently.
And the child just thought at him—
“If I was in charge, I wouldn’t have to tell you. I’d think something and you’d know. I’d be a scary, bad person, even if I was really sad and didn’t want to. Because I could think and call scary ships and animals and make the forests and land go to war.”
She gave him a big, round-eyed look, then flinched and tugged a branch-patterned hood over her head. Godreiad didn’t understand why, until he realized—he was smiling.
With all his teeth. Shark and sharp Human teeth, a grin for a vision of a true [Druid], one who would speak and make the lands shake off the people who had tended them unwisely. Someone to clear the earth fallow so great forests and wilds could emerge once more.
A single being to call forth [Barbarian] tribes and the Gnolls and all those who respect that dream and wash away even nations under—
Why was he imagining it? It was a boy’s dream, the kind Godreiad and every [Druid] probably had until they realized they would not likely live to that level. Why, when he watched her, did he imagine…
“Wait. Sit. Do you want to speak? Here, let me get some younger [Druids]. Tell me what you wanted, Druid Mrsha. Ask me anything you want.”
He tried to coax her, but she was shaking her head.
“I think I’m fine! Sorry! Thank you! I must have been mistaken! Goodbye!”
She fled as he tried to stop her, her pale illusion vanishing as he cursed and lowered his hand. Godreiad sat there for a moment and wondered why he had dreamed all that.
Then he picked up the illustration of the robes and stared at them for a long time. After a while, he sent a wild thought to a land [Druid]. To ask her to pass the design around and see if it meant anything.
Mrsha was on the Sea’s Shepherds’ list, now. A different list.
 
——
 
Mrsha tore her robes off and lay, panting, in the [Garden of Sanctuary] for a good fifteen minutes until her heart stopped racing.
That was one scary guy. She was beginning to think Nalthaliarstrelous was a kindly, reasonable [Druid]. And that Shassa was a weak pacifist, at least by [Druid] standards.
Okay. Okay…Apista buzzed down, a hecking giant orange bee patterned with black death stripes that made Mrsha almost run for the hills until she realized it was Apista’s new Scourgebee form.
Apista, you silly willy! I’m already scared! Don’t do that!
The bee buzzed around Mrsha, reverting back to normal as she sensed Mrsha was only nervous. The two hugged, and Mrsha wiped at her brows.
As Godreiad had observed, Mrsha had a range of mental tones, ranging from a faux-Lyonette Terandrian [Lady] to what you might expect a normal child to sound like.
Okay, I’ve proven that was no dream. Evidentiary analysis proves that I had the powers. Ergo…something smart here. I think I was super-Mrsha for a while?
That was her only conclusion. But why?
She had never actually dreamed of being Mrsha the Super Druid. In all her dreams, it was literally below Mrsha the Sweeper or Mrsha the Filing Accountant for future visions. She liked being a [Druid], but she hadn’t envisioned being a Level 70 one.
She could tell Lyonette. Or Nanette. But the two were fighting, and honestly, Mrsha didn’t know if they’d believe her. Heck, she didn’t believe her!
After a while, Apista buzzed off, and Mrsha was reminded it was early morning. She had chores to do; thankfully, it was the weekend—three days of weekend, Lundas, Gnorna, and Zenze, obviously, and this was the first one—so no school.
Mrsha couldn’t imagine living a life where you only got two days off. But she had chores.
 
——
 
First, Mrsha filled Apista’s water bowl with sugar water. The bee buzzed around it, and Mrsha cleared away a bunch of ash from the nest Apista had made in the jungle-side of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Part of the job of feeding and cleaning up after Apista was getting rid of all the Dreamleaf cigars she smoked. Thankfully, they were biodegradable…Mrsha brought them over to a snowy part of the garden and kicked them into the permanent frost there.
Thanks to the [Garden of Sanctuary], any spot aside from the hill of statues or central hill got rained on daily. Erin could have turned on the rain on top of the hill too, but she wasn’t here, and Mrsha had a routine.
She lugged a bucket of water from the pond, splashed it over the bright, short little Faerie Flowers, and poked them a few times.
Get big, get big, get big…no dice so far. Mrsha sighed. They were still runty, even if she was sure they should be growing. They had been growing a few inches, or so she swore…but then they’d shrunk?
Damn flowers. She took care of them even if they were no longer in the inn proper.
People kept trying to steal them. Mrsha tossed her bucket down, sighing. And since they were growing in Oteslia, there was less demand for the flowers. She couldn’t sell a few to Saliss on the sly for fun potions.
After that, Mrsha headed into the inn and found Nanette. She and Nanette walked out of the inn—stared at the pouring rain—and came back ten minutes later in full rain gear.
“—And she says she’ll handle the dead dryads or whomever they are. She says I’m—we’re—not old enough to understand the risks! She said it to me, a witch!”
Mrsha endured Nanette’s grousing all the way across the bridge to the graves. It was super wet, but at least the graves looked okay. Dalimont kept checking the waters; he had been briefed fully on the threats that might snatch the two girls, even with the bridges, and had requested backup.
Ishkr was doing fine; he stood with an umbrella streaming sunlight from under it, and Mrsha glanced at the Christmas umbrella Erin had gotten from Niers. She felt like the Gnoll was warning every predator in range not to mess with him. He winked at her.
Vaulont had to go throw up before joining them. Apparently, crossing over the water via the bridge had done things to his stomach. A bunch of fish tried to eat his breakfast as he grimly wiped his mouth.
Aside from that, the inn was quiet, and Nanette stomped back in to resume her glaring match with Lyonette. For once, Mrsha wasn’t all on her side.
She got the issue. Lyonette was being a conservative poo-face who didn’t want to do the right thing and help the people who’d saved her life and who wanted the wand. At the same time…
[Druids] were hecking scary. Nature was scary. Mrsha was suddenly reminded of how bad it was when interesting things happened. The sensation of being Level 70 had actually made her less excited than you’d expect. When Mrsha had felt like what it was to be…Belavierr…?
The rest of her daily tasks were other small things. Cleaning up her room, taking breakfast up to Bird; she was sitting in her tower, singing about the rain. And watching the Rheirgest villagers outside.
For a group of [Necromancers] used to the mountains, they were getting on swimmingly here, no pun intended. Some were actually swimming, despite the risks, or fishing from the hill as their undead continued to work on the inn. When Lyonette had warned them about the big fish, they’d been happy.
Why?
More bones and bodies for them. They were experimenting with aquatic undead. Mrsha shook her head affectionately at the village of miniature Pisceses.
After that, Mrsha went into Liscor to check on some Antinium. And the beavers. Grass Shell, the Antinium [Shaman] in charge of Selys’ mansion, assured her the beavers were fine.
“They are very healthy, Miss Mrsha. They miss Miss Selys, but I have taken them with me on my journey through the ocean of death’s shadow. I fear no drowning, for they are with me.”
When she gave him a blank look, he elaborated.
“When I feed the bees. I must cross…bridges…of water.”
Oh. That was what she’d been worried about, but apparently, he’d already prepared for that, and they’d dragged him out of the water once when he’d fallen into it. Mrsha high-fived one of the Fortress Beavers and handed them a wood-cookie that Calescent had made for them. Then she went to Krshia and handed her the day’s shopping list.
 
——
 
No one who lived in Liscor long liked the rains. All the old Liscorians were grumpy, muttering about leaks and lack of travel and sewers flooding. But the new Liscorians were great.
“This is amazing. I’m sure I’ll tire of it eventually, but my inn’s dry as a bone. Architect Hexel was very good about making sure the 3rd District was enchanted and waterproofed months in advance. Why, between the elections and living on top of a sea for a few months, I think it’s a grand time to be in Liscor!”
Timbor Parithad, the [Innkeeper] who ran The Drunken Gnoll, was jawing away happily with the glowering Drakes and Gnolls. At his words, Krshia gave him a long, searching look.
“Not a single leak in your rooms, no? Every Gnoll in my district has at least one.”
“Nary one. I suppose it’s new construction, then?”
“By an [Architect], not an apartment barely upkept by a bunch of damn [Landlords] for the last sixty years.”
One of the Drakes groused, and someone else shot back in the crowd.
“Oh yeah? Well, why doesn’t the Council have them fix that too? Seems like my tax money hasn’t gone to waterproofing Liscor, only the new district.”
“Well, you propose it to the Council.”
“Maybe I will. And maybe I’ll vote for a Council that respects the people’s will this spring.”
“What does that mean? Also, the Council is re-elected next year, scales-for-brains.”
“Not if Proposition #1 goes through.”
“Propo…what? You mean those people shouting in front of City Hall? Hold on, why…”
Mrsha watched the two Drakes argue, and Krshia’s ears perked up. The Councilwoman kept a straight face as her shop attendant handed Timbor his change, but she whispered to Mrsha so only they could hear.
“I may visit Miss Lyonette soon, yes? Important times are coming. You are being good, Mrsha? You and I don’t see as much of each other as we used to.”
Mrsha wrote on a card.
I’ve got school now, and I’m a big girl with lots of people to hang out with in the inn. Plus, your apartment smells like Lism.
