“You guys are in for a treat tonight.” Gina said, and her voice magically carried to every part of the club. “It's been a while since she performed a routine like this, and I wasn't going to let her after...” She shook her head. “She said she needed to do this, so all I can do is say that I hope you enjoy it.” She said. “So, without further ado... please welcome to the main stage... The Blacksmith!”

Gina stepped off the stage to another smattering of applause, and then the lights dimmed further. A low humming music started, and then a figure walked onto the stage through the curtain behind the stage, and they were covered in a black cloak. A spotlight turned on and lit the stage up, and then the figure whipped off the cloak to reveal Jennifer. She was also covered in damaged armor pieces.

“What you see is what I am.” Jennifer said. “A friend showed me earlier tonight that I don't have to be like this anymore.”

The music became louder and she took out a blacksmith hammer. She started to dance a very erotic routine and repaired each piece of armor while still wearing it. No one said anything as Jennifer finished the armor repair and then started to take it off. Her dance became frantic as each successive piece was removed and tossed aside, and she finished her dance by falling to her knees and taking off the partial helm.

Jennifer still wore a metal bra and underwear, so she hadn't completely stripped; but, it sure felt like she had taken off a lot more than she actually did. She shook her hair out to let it flow down her back as she tossed the helm aside with the rest of the armor pieces, and smiled at the completely silent audience.

“This... is... me.” Jennifer said breathlessly, and after another moment of silence, the place erupted in applause. Copper, silver, and even a few gold coins landed on the stage around her, and a couple of the other dancers walked around the stage and gathered it up for her. Jennifer was panting heavily from the extra long exertion, and her personal animated guard walked over and offered her a hand. She took it and stood up to brace herself, and the other dancers gave her the tips the audience had thrown to her.

“Thank you.” Jennifer said, and regained some of her Stamina. She let the animated guard go and waved to the crowd, then walked back out through the curtain behind the stage, and the guard followed right behind her.

“Didn't I tell you that would be a rare treat?” Gina asked as she stepped back onto the stage. “None of us have seen that routine before, and I doubt we'll see it again.” She said. “Now, how do we follow that up?”

“Take a break!” Someone shouted.

“Ha ha! That's right, Don!” Gina said. “We're all taking a 10 minute cool-down period, so order some food or have another drink.” She said. “Self-serve until after the break, of course.”

“I'm waiting for you!” Don said.

“It'll be cold by then.” Gina chuckled.

“I like cold!” Don said, and she shook her head.

“Okay, everyone else except Don can order food and serve yourselves.” Gina said, and several people laughed. She left the stage, and the dancers all made hasty retreats from the people they were around, including Candy and Caramel, and they all disappeared behind the curtain behind the main stage. The girls went up the stairs and into the large dressing room, and most of them sat down to check themselves in their mirrors.

“Okay, what was that about?” Gina asked.

“I just felt like doing a new routine.” Jennifer said.

“That felt like a lot more than just a routine.” Gina said. “The last time you did anything like that was when you won the dance competition.”

“Oh, wow.” Caramel said, and the girls looked at her. “She did it for Ren.”

“What?” Gina asked, and saw Candy's nod. “Okay, someone tell me what happened.”

Candy put a hand on Jennifer's shoulder. “I'll tell them, if that's okay?”

Jennifer nodded, and Candy relayed the parts of the story that she knew. When she got to the part where Jennifer and Billy walked off to talk, Jennifer took over and filled in the rest.

“Oh, Jennifer.” Gina said and knelt in front of her. “Why didn't you say anything?”

“This is why.” Jennifer said and looked at the other girl's faces. “I didn't want your pity.”

“It's not pity.” Gina said and took her hand. “We all care about you, and want what's best for you.”

“So does Ren.” Jennifer said and covered her mouth.

“Okay, spill it.” Caramel said. “I knew that scene in Clint's place looked like a lot more was going on.”

Jennifer sighed and told them that Ren had caught Billy, about the fight and Billy trying to kill Ren, about Ren snapping Billy's neck, and about how sorry Ren was it had happened and his offer to be a friend when she needed it.

“Wow.” Caramel said. “I don't think I would have waited so long to kill him, or covered up what happened to protect Billy's reputation with his friends.”

“Ren lost his friends over me.” Jennifer said. “If that doesn't prove he's a good man, then I don't know what a good man is.”

“None of us can argue that he's not a good man.” Gina said. “Was he smart about it, though? That's debatable.”

Jennifer shrugged. “He said it was up to me if I wanted to say anything to the guys about it.”

“I get it.” Candy said. “Ren thinks they're going to blame you for Billy's behavior, so he took the blame himself.” She squeezed Jennifer's shoulder. “Yes, that's definitely a good man.”

Jennifer nodded.

“Are you going to tell them?” Apple asked.

“I don't know.” Jennifer said. “It just seems like it's not worth the trouble.”

“Ha!” Caramel laughed. “It's statements like that, that make me question if you're really one of us.” She smiled and touched Jennifer's other shoulder. “Aren't we always causing trouble?”

“No, you are always causing trouble for the rest of us.” Gina said, and they all laughed. There was a knock on the door, and Gina nodded. “Our break is almost over.” She said and checked herself in the closest mirror. “One minute! Let's go!”

The girls all scrambled to check themselves one last time in the mirrors, changed their outfits, and left the dressing room to head back down into the club. They had work to do.
