Something relaxed in Erick as he heard the vitriol in Tenebrae’s voice. The man was deeply hurt by a lot of events in his life, for sure. He was 90, at least, and if he had been an Archmage for most of his life, then he had likely lost a lot of people. The cook, Palodia, was the only other real person Erick had seen inside this flying castle. Most of the ‘people’ here were the Rockys. There was a story there, for sure, but for now...

Just how many people had Tenebrae lost?

The most important ones, for sure, and then thousands more besides.

If Erick lost everyone, he’d probably become a hermit out in the middle of nowhere, too.

Erick calmly asked, “What would you have done? I couldn’t very well not give out all that information. They would have come after me even harder. I needed the support of the people of Spur, and I got it. And now, I’m known as the Archmage who gives you what you want; you just gotta be nice about it. Much better than being—” Erick cut himself off before he said something mean.

Tenebrae sniffed. “They call you a pushover.”

“Sure. Why not. I don’t care what others think; only what they do. And I like helping people.”

Tenebrae snapped, “You are doomed to a life of pain! You know this, right? You will be used and thrown away when you are useless! You will watch your daughter die to some petty tyrant who thinks to steal from you. You will watch your city burn to idiot Hunters, looking for levels! Did you think that first Red Dot was the only time that would happen? It will happen again.” He spat, “More Red Dots! More parasites in your brain! More of everything!”

Erick softly said, “I know.”

His attempt at being gentle did not cause Tenebrae to think before he shouted.

“This [Gate] network will be the death of at least five million people!” Tenebrae said, “That’s what the Headmaster estimates. That’s what powers like Yggdrasil and his copy down in Archipelago Nergal represent. Millions of deaths! Ending the Moon Reachers and the Deathsoul Shrooms means massive sweeping changes in the Forest in ways no Prognosticator could ever truly see! That’s another million deaths right there! The Converter Angel will do horrible things to end your Path before you get anywhere near her. You should just become a hermit right now. Abandon everything you have set to achieve. Find some criminal in some part of the world and consume him for a new body. Practice Mana Altering your magic all the time, until your natural color becomes something else. There are ways to avoid what you have set for yourself, and yet you do not! You will kill millions, Erick. And that’s saying nothing about what you did to the Shades and Melemizargo.”

Silence.

Tenebrae said, “All the good you do will haunt you for the rest of your life.”

Silence.

Erick softly asked, “So we should try to achieve nothing? Do nothing?”

“Yes.” Tenebrae said, “Do as little as possible. Stay out of the affairs of the world. Let them come to you, and let them prove that what they ask is for the best. And when they succeed because of what you give them, you watch them fail later when you’re not around to help, or when you turn your back for just a second. You harden your heart. The problems of the world are not yours to solve.”

More silence.

Erick said, “I will take your words to heart, Tenebrae. Thank you for them.”

“… And yet, that is not the end of this quest into the Forest, is it?”

“Correct.” Erick said, “We’re still going, for I am young, and dumb, and I still believe in the basic goodness of most people. Thank you for taking us to the Gates, Tenebrae.”

“Good causes just as many wars as evil.”

Tenebrae grabbed his plate, stood from the table, and left. He seemed both incredibly angry, and something else. His eyes were rimmed in the red of unshed emotions, but it was hard to tell which ones. There were surely a lot of them, but anger and sadness were the most obvious.

Erick, Jane, Teressa, and Poi, resumed eating, but remained silent.

A Rocky brought out a chocolate cake with a slice cut out of it, and told them it would be a few days of travel to reach the expedition point. They would not be going all the way to the center. There would be a lot of walking, soon enough.

- - - -

Beyond a deep spell of obfuscation and occlusion, in the deepest parts of his Estate where paintings of lost ones adorned the walls, a man tried not to cry, and failed. He did not need to be a prognosticator to see the future that laid before his guests. His past, and their future, was contained in a painting in his hands. The painting was of a happy family, taken long ago. These days, only one of the five remained. Even after all these years, Tenebrae had never changed his beard or hairstyle, though there was a lot more white where once was brown.

All of the others in the painting were nothing more than dust and ash.

The oldest had died to assassins breaching the walls of his former home, back when his Estate did not fly.

The youngest had perished to a team of adventurers who would not take ‘no’ for an answer. For their evil, not only did their homelands die, but they died, too.

The middle child died when a Shade came calling…

That Shade had died in the Culling of Ar’Kendrithyst. Tenebrae did not have the strength to ask Erick if he had done what no one else could do; to seek a clarification of the report published by the Mind Mages, or the second report, handed off to the Arbors of Treehome. If Erick had managed what he could not… The shame of it would have broken Tenebrae all over again.

The last person in the painting died to her own hand; to a decision to walk into Ar’Kendrithyst and kill the offending Shade or die trying. She had died. All her children had been taken from her, and she could not bear to keep on living. She had wanted Tenebrae to join her, but that was asking for the one impossibility he could not grant. He had a responsibility toward the world. That responsibility had finally separated them, for while wars and nations and Wizards had only brought them closer together, she was tired. Three of her four reasons for living were gone. The future was gone, and so she was done.

Tenebrae had killed her shadeling a year later.

That was almost forty years ago.

Where no one could hear him except the dead, Tenebrae whispered, “I cannot ever join you, it seems. Even that final journey was taken from me by Erick.”

He sighed. He set down the painting. He spent another minute in the room, gazing upon all the other paintings of those who had come before, of memories of long ago. Then he sealed off the room and entered the hallway beyond.

Rocky had been standing there, looking pensive, but he stood straight and professionally when he saw Tenebrae. Why was he there? Had something happened?

With his senses extended far beyond himself, Tenebrae paused. He saw a little charm of deep magic held in Erick’s hand. More charms, or perhaps… Charms? More Charms sat in the hands of the others. Those bits of magic had not been there before.

He returned to himself.

Rocky said, “He has experimented with your comment over dinner regarding Blood Magic.”

Tenebrae ran through several scenarios in his head.

The first was colored with anger. Erick had experimented with Blood Magic? On his Estate? What sort of messes needed to be cleaned? If he had injured Palodia or conjured some new bacterium then he would be very wroth with Erick. As soon as that thought occurred, Tenebrae checked on his cook. She was in her rooms, reading her romance novels, as she usually did. She was almost more of a hermit than Tenebrae himself. She was fine. She didn’t even know of the horror that had almost happened. It was better that way.

He might need to clean out his entire Estate, but no one was dead. They’d all need to be checked for Blood Corruption, though, and before they made it anywhere close to the Village; that place dealt with more danger than most of the rest of the world, but Tenebrae wasn’t about to be the vector for even more danger.

Anger blossomed, and kept blossoming.

Tenebrae didn’t fully process scenarios two through twenty; they were probably wrong, anyway. The idea that Erick had made a good anti-Blood Magic Charm? Impossible. He hadn’t even known to try before dinner!

Not even a thought worth entertaining.

Ohhhh! Now he was good and mad! He would throw them all out! Then blast them into shattered—

Rocky derailed his anger, “How was the chocolate cake, sir? You have some on your beard.”

The memory of chocolate was a bucket of water poured over his head. She would have loved it.

And Erick had made the base bean; one of dozens of new vegetables he had unleashed upon Veird in the past year. All of those were also made in an afternoon, or less.

And wasn’t that a sobering thought.

Tenebrae cleaned his beard, staring Rocky down. He said nothing, and then he stormed down the hallway, or at least he tried to storm. His heart just wasn’t in it at the moment. And yet… What sort of fool spells was that ‘archmage’ making now!

There’s the anger! Yes. Hold onto it, and wield it like a sword.

Tenebrae loved being angry.

- - - -

Erick cast the spell again, creating a tiny sphere that glittered with promise. It was an intricate working, but it likely fell short of the [Blood Dummy] Tenebrae had mentioned over dinner.

Minor Anti-Blood Charm, instant, close range, 250 mana

Create a minor charm that prevents a single major Blood Magic or many minor Blood Magics from affecting the holder. Lasts a maximum of 48 hours.

The glittering white sphere caught the last glints of sunlight in its depths, like a marble made of compounded crystals.

Erick said, “I’m not sure if ‘major Blood Magic’ means what I want it to mean… And I have no way to test that theory without a [Cancer Spell], or something.”

Jane held her own [Anti-Blood Charm] in her hand, then she stuffed it in her pocket, saying, “I like the idea of Charm magics. Make a bunch and then string them on a bracelet, or something.”

“It’s a niche field.” Teressa said, “48 hours for your first one is pretty good. Our Charmer’s Charms usually only last a few hours, and we almost never get them unless we’re going up against actual threats. We never even got the option in the Army.”

Poi said, “Shades like to steal things that can be stolen, and Charms are among the worst offenders.”

“That, too.” Teressa said, “If you can be deprived of it and it can be used against you, you best not be taking your Charms into a thievable situation. Same reason we tell people to never make non-anchored [Ward]s—”

“You!” Tenebrae called out from across the courtyard. “What are you doing!”

Jane sighed, and then she put on her best face.

Everyone did.

As the angry archmage walked their way, Erick stepped forward, saying, “Your hints over dinner were interesting and so—”

“You’re experimenting with Blood Magic in my house!” Tenebrae stepped to Erick, demanding, “How have you not blown yourself up yet! Barely a year in this world and you touch upon the depths of magic! Foolish! Irrespons—”

Erick showed him the box for the spell.

Tenebrae scowled, brushing away the box. Erick simply showed him another one, this time holding it in his own hands so that Tenebrae couldn’t brush it away.

Tenebrae read, and his scowl almost vanished. Then he fixed his face, regaining his scowl.

Erick spoke, “Your hints at dinner were useful. I had never considered making such magic, but once the idea was planted, I spoke to Teressa, and she spoke of the Charmer Class. Very interesting magic, there. I didn’t even know the field existed, but I think my first foray into that particular magic was decent enough for a first try.”

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes at the blue box. Then he stared at Erick. “You didn’t make this with [Conjure Force Elemental].”

“Nope. Here.” Erick held out a glittering charm. “What do you think?”

Tenebrae took it, like a child snatching a toy from another kid. He held it up to the light and his eyes glittered grey with some [Sight] magic, no doubt. He pinched. The charm broke into dust and drifting ideas, scattering on the air. Tenebrae regarded the dust as it disintegrated into nothing.

He said, “Destructive Blood and a [Ward]. Well put together, but still the work of an amateur and an artist. All style and no substance that does not befit the goal, and in the process, crafting holes in the working that would catch upon all Variable Blood Magics, and thus ruin your charm. You have made a protection worth roughly 450 Health, and thus a Blood Mage would hammer you with a minor spell and break your protections, as any Blood Mage would do anyway, thus opening you up for the actual spell that you needed to protect against.”

Tenebrae had said all of that with disdain and hate, and not a little bit of gloating.

Erick responded with a nod, and a calm voice, saying, “You have spotted the problem I have spotted. I assume this was why you suggested [Conjure Force Elemental] and not [Ward]. That change would have been to give the spell some measure of sentience, to choose when to activate. Charms, I think, are always full protection, since they are based on [Ward].”

Tenebrae deflated, ever so slightly. He reinflated, saying, “This is why the [Conjure Force Elemental] version is better! If you would have done the math, then you would have seen this glaring flaw well before you got as far as you had! How much time have you wasted on this spell? How many days till you can try again? Ten? A hundred! A tho—”

“Just one.” Erick said, “It was just a tier two spell, and I didn’t use [Conjure Force Elemental], so your method is still possible. As I was saying, I didn’t even know that Charms were a field of magic that existed. In retrospect, it was obvious that you could make a Destructive Charm against specific types of spells, but the use of Destruction was also not something I was familiar with, until recently. Very dangerous magic, that. But surely there is a way to limit the discharge of a Charm?”

Tenebrae huffed, then said, “Basic Charms are too broad and too easily discharged. If you must go that route, then you must include an [Interception]-based clause to the magic in order for your Charm to only trigger when damage or a certain level of spell approaches. Otherwise, bumping into tables or simply walking around will break a basic anti-damage Charm.” He added, “Anti-Damage Dolls are the preferred method of generalized defense, and those include [Conjure Force Elemental] in their working, but you must include some sort of healing magic with those.” He sneered, “And all you have is [Healing Word]!”

