The ocean of air tried to brush Jane aside, to fling her like a little ball of lint, to break her, to see what her insides looked like as they painted the grey stone of Tenebrae’s Estate. But it could not. She held strong to the stone under her, one foot in front of the other, the wind tearing upon her with shrill whistles.

Or maybe those whistles were coming from Ophiel. It was hard to tell at this sort of speed.

And then the wind stopped. Abruptly. Jane almost went flying forward, into the still air and off of the castle, her back foot coming off of the stone wall, her arms wheeling. Ophiel fluttered away. She caught herself with her front foot, in a fashion, slapping down onto the stone wall and melding just a bit with the grey. She laughed as she righted herself.

Ophiel came back down to rest upon her shoulder. He squawked in angry flutes and unsure guitars.

The castle had not slowed, or altered trajectory. A shield had simply come up over the entire thing and blocked the wind.

Jane laughed at it all. And then she sat down on the wall and watched the world roll away, far below. Soon, she just smiled. Ophiel’s eyes scanned in every direction, but even he was mostly watching forward. He enjoyed the speed, too.

- - - -

Tenebrae watched the young girl through the windows of a middling tower in the center of the Estate. From the outside, this place was just one of a few such towers, it wasn’t even the highest, and yet, it provided a full surrounding view of the entire Estate, letting the archmage see through the stone, to see every single person in the place. He could also spot the enchantments both active and not, to see if any of them needed repairs. If needed, he could also scan for any potential enemies, from any direction. Half the floor and all of the ceiling was see-through. All of it was enchanted with variations of [Stone Sight] and [True Sight].

From the outside, this place was nothing special, but from the inside, the archmage appeared to be just off-center of what could have been a lighthouse, which was what he called it, since it provided a wonderful full view of the entire place, and more besides. Everyone else who knew of this place also called it the Lighthouse when talking to Tenebrae, but since ‘everyone else’ was almost entirely just the Stone Men, and they were different from him, they also called it another name: Operations.

Tenebrae took his hand off of the control crystals that glowed upon a pillar in the center of the Lighthouse, leaving the controls to Rocky.

The Rocky standing behind the controls said, “Shields holding. Minor damage is already being repaired. Speed increasing to 140 KPH.”

Tenebrae had delayed activating the wind shields to see if the young girl was going to fly off like so many other young idiots had. She would have survived…

Probably.

Either way, Erick would have vacated the Estate and Tenebrae would have left him behind, and damn the consequences. Once that uppity archmage was gone, there would be time to fill in some gaps in the Estate’s [Ward]s, and with a bit more discouragement, maybe Erick would simply never find him again.

But then again, neither would anyone else. And that was actually a problem.

If Tenebrae calibrated the [Ward]s to block Erick, then he would also block out others who could actually use his help, others that Tenebrae would actually consider, outside of a Headmaster-backed bargain of trade.

Why had he ever agreed to this? Particle magic was idiotic.

Erick was idiotic.

“Bah.” Tenebrae stepped away from the controls and spat, “This is going to end in disaster.” He glared down at the guest house. “Look at them! He brought two people without an Elemental Body! For almost any other mission they would have been fine! But for this one? How foolish! Nothing but a hindrance!”

The orcol woman and the Mind Mage dragonkin both crashed into a wall when they took off. They were not hurt, because of course they weren’t. At least Erick had the sense to bring along rods of [Greater Treat Wounds].

“But only Erick’s girl has [Stone Body], or any other Elemental Body. All Erick has is [Greater Lightwalk]. A Domain, sure, but… Bah. Domains are useless where we’re going.” Tenebrae frowned as he gazed upon Jane, sitting on the wall. “Even his Girl is going to be useless! Prismatic Polymage. Too specialized, by far…” He went silent. He asked, “When was the last time we saw one of those?”

Another Rocky, this one near a set of secondary controls, said, “Thirty nine years ago. He won your assistance and you put down a roil of Tangled Hydras for him and his team, in the Uncharted Beaches southwest of the Kingdoms.”

“Ah. That one. He was rather competent. When did his city die? It died, didn’t it? They always die.”

“Thrived for twenty two years. Population of 30,000, and then more Tangled Hydras washed ashore. They did not survive the second attack.”

“Of course.” Tenebrae scowled. “Damn blasted idiot adventurers, thinking they can sustain even the smallest of towns out there in the wild! That Prismatic Polymage killed all those people who believed in him. I don’t know why I help when they— Wait. Did he die before the hydras? Or during? Might not have been his fault. Rare, but it does happen.”

“That Prismatic Polymage fought the hydras as they appeared. From what we heard after the fact, he was killed by an antirhine dust attack in the middle of the battle. Weakened him enough for the hydras to eat him.”

Tenebrae’s scowl deepened. “I authorized a counter-assassination, didn’t I?”

“You did. We carried out your orders to satisfaction.”

“Good.” Tenebrae said, “Damn blasted idiots all over this world.” He thrust a hand forward, gesturing toward Erick and then Jane. “Idiots from every world! It never changes!” He looked to Erick, then to Ophiel, then said, “Damn idiot archmages, too.” He spat, “And no mana coming from him?”

“None that we can detect, Master. He is not one of them.”

Rocky did not say the W-word, and he didn’t have to.

Tenebrae eyed the control crystals in the Lighthouse. A few important ones were dark. “And we’re running all the detection magics?”

“All the ones we think he is not able to see.”

“… Hmmm.” Tenebrae stared at those darkened control crystals, then sighed. He asked, “What’s for dinner tonight?”

“Baked Chicken. Steamed vegetables. Highland Wine. And for dessert, we have Chocolate Cake.”

“A humbling meal, for sure. But… Chocolate? That thing that Erick made?” Tenebrae scowled. “I don’t approve.”

“You will like it. It hits all of your desires in a dessert. Sweet, decadent, and it requires a lot of work to transform the cocoa beans into a proper food item.”

Tenebrae continued to scowl. He huffed. “But he made the base item. Beans, though?”

“This is a good way to show that you are willing to meet halfway.”

“… Fair. Then it will fall to him to be polite. I am already meeting him halfway.” He scowled a bit. “No… I will have to do something more. I have met more than halfway.”

“Of course, Master. Would you like to try some cake before dinner, in case you don’t get that far?”

“No.” Tenebrae said, “I can have it in private after they give me cause to storm off.”

- - - -

After a tumultuous upheaval of their new living quarters, whereupon everything Erick had thought to take with him was unceremoniously thrown to the southern side of the room, Erick set everything back to rights, and [Mend]ed whatever needed [Mend]ing.

And then Erick and his people were invited to dinner with their ‘illustrious benefactor’. Erick had not named Tenebrae that; Rocky had. Erick had quite a few other words to describe the man who had most assuredly moved the castle like he had, specifically to injure, or at least be as petty as possible.

Jane had been on the wall. Erick had told her not to go anywhere on her own, but she immediately ignored him. But he put an Ophiel on her shoulder, so she was never in any real danger. But...

Erick refused to make himself more angry than he already had been. Anger was not a fun emotion. It ate him up inside, and so, he made every effort to get rid of it as soon as possible.

Erick distracted himself with the smell of a nice, if plain, dinner.

Baked chicken, steamed vegetables mostly of the green variety, but also with some corn in there, and nice wine. It might not have been the most impressive meal, but there was no want for portions. At least three chickens were quartered and placed in a large bowl, beside another bowl full of vegetables. Tongs were provided for grabbing whatever one wanted to grab. It was all very informal. It meant sharing with others.

Erick’s estimation of Tenebrae rose several degrees for that.

And then promptly fell, because Tenebrae was seated upon a nice chair. Teressa and Poi and Jane all had nice chairs. Erick had a two-legged stool that only stayed upright when held upright. The legs were too short, too. Even if he did sit upon the ‘stool’, it would put him eye-level with the table. He, of course, did not sit in the chair and find out that it was too short for him; he eyed it, and found out that way.

Everyone else sat down, because Tenebrae was being very polite to them, and Erick had told them to be polite back. And yet… Tenebrae smiled at Erick. Erick was the only one still standing.

Tenebrae asked, “Why, Erick? Is there something wrong? It’s a good meal waiting for us, but we can’t partake unless you sit. Palodia worked hard on it.” He waved over to the kitchen, which was half visible, saying, “Thank you, Palodia! Smells wonderful.”

Palodia was an ornery old incani woman with red skin and horns who scowled out of the opening toward the kitchen. She disappeared back behind the divider and some metal thing slammed against some other metal thing, as she said, “I cooked for kings, and you ask me for baked chicken! Disgraceful.”

Tenebrae called to her, “Blame our guests!”

Palodia did not comment.

Tenebrae spoke to Erick, “Please. Erick. Sit.”

Erick sat upon the given chair, but only after supplementing it with lightform supports, turning into a copy of all the other chairs, in everything but color. Erick’s chair was white.

Tenebrae did not lose his smirk.

Erick crafting his own chair seemed to be within the man’s expected parameters of this interaction.

Erick said, “It smells wonderful. Thanks for the invitation.”

Tenebrae waved his hand, activating a magic without saying so before he did, being as rude as possible in the process. Erick did not react, for the spell was just to move the food around the table, onto the plates.

Erick got wing-tips and spines and potatoes on his plate. Everyone else got real food. He hadn’t even seen the bones in the pile of baked chicken. Erick said nothing. He could eat the potatoes. This was fine.

Jane glared, then stood. She cast a localized [Cleanse] on Erick’s plate, removing the fried bones, then used the tongs to give him two pieces of meat.

Erick said, “Thank you, Jane.”

“Of course, dad.” She sat back down.

Tenebrae watched, smirking the whole time.

Tenebrae ate first, then everyone else followed. It was a tense situation. It was boring food. But it was good food. The chicken was seasoned well, and moist throughout. The vegetables steamed, but well seasoned. It was a pretty good meal. Palodia was surely capable of much more than this.

Halfway through dinner, Tenebrae broke the silence, as he looked to Jane. “Filial. Decent Class. Decent abilities. You pass, for now.” He turned to Poi. “Mind Mage. Useless for everything except for grave scenarios that you could have prevented in the first place.” He regarded Teressa. “Recently learned and close to mastering [Witness], but for all that you are still a [Juggernaut]. Why? No. Don’t answer. I don’t care. I suppose your Class is good enough, but you won’t survive an encounter with a dragon. None of you will. And you’ll get Erick killed when he tries to save you.” He looked to Erick. “And you’re the worst of them all. An archmage, so I must judge you harsher. Self taught. Excelling in such, so this much is fine. But have you ever considered taking the Basic Mage Certification Course provided by Arcanaeums around the world? A year or two to complete, and you would have had a spell for every occasion. Or do you imagine yourself with a full arsenal? An answer for every occasion?”

Tenebrae went silent, waiting.

Erick answered, “I have enough spells for now and more will come as necessary and as I consider them. Do you have a spell for every occasion?”

“Yes. But this isn’t about me. It’s about you.”

Fair enough. Erick could play along. He asked, “What spells do you think I should have?”

Tenebrae kept his smirk. “What do you have that will protect you from Blood Magic?”

“Nothing, except for a lot more Health than the average mage.” Erick said, “All I can say against that is that I would be fine, and my vengeance against those who dared to wrong me would be served to them ten-fold.”

As if telling someone to step aside from a hostile magic, instead of trying to outrun a spell, Tenebrae said, “The spell is called [Blood Dummy], dumbass. The enchanted items are called Blooddraw dolls. You take [Conjure Force Elemental], [Interception], and Blood Magic and you combine them into a doll that will take into itself the Blood-mangling parts of any targeted Blood Magic.”

Erick sat up straighter. Ah. There was a solution? But why hadn’t Quilatalap suggested—

Tenebrae smirked. “You’d know this if you went to Arcanaeum.”

Erick almost scowled, but he refrained. He simply said, “I don’t believe I would. Not after years, if at all. Certainly not after the basic arcanaeum courses. I was there for a little while and they spoke of Blood Magic like it was just a level below Soul Magic.”

“You’re old and stupid and yet young and stupid, too. A terrible combination. I’ve seen grandfathers who were both less and more smart than you.” Tenebrae declared, “You should have started slower. Making such lightning in the middle of a city! Terrible. You were found out right away. And then you gave out your Particle Magic with lectures to anyone who wanted to come! Completely asinine. I’m surprised you’ve lasted this long.” He glanced to Poi. “How many assassination attempts have you had to save him from?” Not bothering to wait for Poi, though Poi was never going to answer that, anyway, Tenebrae stared at Erick. “A hundred assassins? Maybe even some proper Assassins, too? Mostly Mage Killers, as befitting someone so deeply powerful and deeply flawed.”

