Jane stood to the side, listening, her eyes locked on the conversation as she kept her mouth shut, but at Tenebrae’s words, she whispered, mostly to herself, “I can make a [Greater Treat Wounds] Charm.”

Tenebrae turned to her. “You have [Greater Treat Wounds]?”

“Oh. Uh.” Jane smiled brightly, saying, “Yeah! Never go anywhere without it. Saved my life a lot. Would have died to an Ancient Unicorn without it. I think it was having that spell that allowed me to get Shedding Form, too. Much cheaper to just reform my Familiar Form these days, than it is to cast that spell.” She added, “But I can’t always be near people, so I think I need to learn how to make Charms so that they can heal themselves.”

“… Good. I approve.” Tenebrae turned to Erick. “You need better healing magics than [Healing Word]! What is the problem! Do the Quests. Get them. Your daughter has [Greater Treat Wounds], and you should, too! What is wrong with you!”

Erick honestly offered, “I was considering a certain healing magic that I would have had to make myself, but I have mostly abandoned that idea. I had heard that you could only purchase one healing spell, and until recently, I hadn’t even had [Healing Word].”

Tenebrae asked, “What healing spell were you considering making?”

“[Immortality].”

“… Ah.” Tenebrae said, “That would explain the expertise with Blood Magic. I warn you not to try this, but if you do, you will not try this under my aegis. I don’t want any [Grand Abomination]s in my estate, understand? You risk [Abomination] with every active Blood Magic. You know this, don’t you?”

“I did not—”

Tenebrae laughed loud.

“—But I would not attempt mutative Blood Magic, anyway.”

“Any why not?” Tenebrae asked, narrowing his eyes. “You already do all this other Destruction and Blood Magic without any training. Maybe you would succeed!”

It was a taunt.

Erick did not rise to the man’s taunt. Instead, he said, “The only reason I have succeeded with those dangerous magics is because denial and countering is easier than creating.”

“And yet you’ve created a whole new branch of magic! You should try this [Immortality], but give me your notes before you do. I would like a souvenir of your death. I could probably sell it for a lot!”

Jane twitched. Teressa and Poi tensed.

Tenebrae was incensed, now.

Erick had been trying to deescalate, but he had not done enough, obviously. He probably should have stayed away from the idea of [Immortality], but there were tons of immortals on Veird. It wasn’t that taboo of a subject, as far as Erick knew.

Erick tried, “I won’t be doing the more dangerous magics until I know more, and all I know right now is that I don’t know enough. [Immortality] was a crazy idea that I will not be pursuing any time soon. That was why I finally got [Healing Word], as you have discovered… How did you discover that? Even though I haven’t shown that spell around you, or those who I believe to be your agents. But then again, you are a member of the Wyrmrest Alliance. Did Treehome tell you? Should I be mad at them?”

“Ha! I don’t need them to speak to me of what I can already see!” Tenebrae smiled, viciously. He thought he had won the exchange, and that was good enough. He said, “[Identify]. It’s a useful spell, once you shift it into the right perspective.” He pointed at his left eye. It flickered grey. “Figure that one out, why don’t you.”

Erick instantly guessed, “[Identify] plus some sort of soul magic aligned with… I’m not sure.”

Tenebrae kept his smile, but a tough battle of emotions raged behind his eyes. Erick had broken off his guess once he realized he should purposefully take the loss, but he had still gotten more than halfway there, and Tenebrae did not like that.

Tenebrae said, “Don’t go experimenting with souls on my Estate. I’ll rip yours out of you if you do.”

And then he turned and walked away.

- - - -

Erick laid in bed, considering a theoretical [Identify a Person’s Spells] spell. It surely included [Identify], [Soul Burn] or [Soul Sight] and possibly both, to either puff away a part of a person’s soul and scan through the contents or maybe just seeing the soul was enough… There also had to be some intrinsic interaction with the Script in order to classify the basic tier spells that existed in the souls of others. It was entirely possible that you couldn’t check for anything more than Basic Tier, for reasons similar to why [Cascade Imaging] could only check for spells which Erick already possessed. Which meant that the more magic someone possessed, the more they could understand the spells of a scanned target. Which meant that Tenebrae likely had [Quick Spell], if he had [Healing Word].

Or.

Someone was feeding Tenebrae information. Possibly from a Sin Seeker, or some other Class that allowed the scanner to see the Status of their target.

Or.

Erick was being spied on in other ways.

Because he hadn’t told Tenebrae or showed his [Quick Spell] capabilities around anyone except for his people, and the Arbors, and Syllea. Which…

Tenebrae was a part of the ‘Wyrmrest Alliance’. The older archmage had probably received missives about Erick regarding his combat and utility capabilities.

And, he was probably being spied on.

Eh. Tenebrae seemed better the more they interacted. Maybe, when this was all through, they’d be the best of friends!

One can only hope!

- - - -

Jane laid in bed, thinking.

It was a good thing she had taken Draconic Inoculation.

What would it be like to have a dragon’s actual body?

Ah. No no no no.

Banish that thought.

No eating the people they were going to visit!

But… if some were to die and she was there and the brain and the heart was right there….

Okay. Look. Hypothetically. If one were to entertain the idea of being a dragon without being a dragon…

Jane sighed as she tried to stop her stupid mind from getting her into way too much trouble.

She turned off her Hidden Monster: Surround Sight, and tried to sleep. And then she turned it right back on. She was in a dangerous place, after all, and she could sleep ‘with her eyes open’, as it were.

And then she couldn’t sleep at all.

She sat up in bed, and tried to process, again, that her father had made every single [Condense Particle] spell up to Thallium. He had stopped just before Lead.

Damn, dad.
