Stella stuffed the last bite of a candied apple into her mouth.

I have to hurry up and eat it before this guy punches me and knocks the sweets out of my grip! I didn't buy this just for it to go to waste!

Aggressive crunching followed as a muscular, bald, bearded man, cracked each of his knuckles.

Gosh, how am I going to fight this guy without making a scene? And worse yet, my emotions will definitely cause me to shapeshift. My second day in town and I'm already about to blow my cover.

“Let's move to somewhere more open, little girl, where your brains won't ruin the cobbles!”

Stella narrowed her eyes.

“Let's.”

My brains?! What kind of monster is this guy?!

“That's quite enough. Both of you.”

Three men on horseback moved through the thick crowd of the marketplace, stopping beside the source of the commotion.

The man in the front dismounted, his eyes full of conviction. He moved between Stella and her opponent, shaking his head in disapproval.

“Tell me at once, what is the meaning of such a squabble?”

The man to intervene had bright red and orange hair. His eyes were much the same color and he had tanned skin covered in tattoos. He wasn't wearing a shirt, but with as thick as the tattoos were across his chest, it almost appeared like clothing.

“Calco! This hack sold me—” began the meathead.

“Not you. You have disgraced this town's reputation. I will ask her instead.”

Stella hastily wiped sugar and caramel from her face as the man, Calco, turned his gaze to her.

“I don't actually know what happened originally, but this guy smashed someone's stuff and then picked him up like the hulk. I thought the guy was going to kill him, so I stepped in to fight em’ off.”

“Hulk?” Calco asked, tilting his head.

Before Stella could continue, the guy she'd been trying to protect rose from the ground, the remains of his cart shifting as he did. He looked down, crestfallen for a moment, before stepping over the pile.

“Ah, it's you Fritz, I should've known,” Calco chuckled.

The Fritz guy approached him, looking a little embarrassed.

“Yes, but this time it was different. This man destroyed my cart and choked me. This young child came up to help, and I believe she saved my life.”

Child?!

“Truly?” Calco asked.

“Yes, sir,” Fritz confirmed.

“Then, by my honor as Councilor of Fellheart, I banish this individual from ever setting foot in this town again, lest they face retribution!”

The big bald guy didn't look pleased and squared up with Calco, expressing pure animosity.

“Banish me? Over a stupid magician and an equally stupid girl? Don't make me laugh.”

“Hey… I'm not stupid,” Stella said, while pointing a candied apple at him.

Calco smirked and gestured for Stella and Fritz to step away. Then he drew a sword and bent his knees, readying himself to fight.

“Do you plan to fight me, then?”

The other men on horseback dismounted but didn't draw their weapons. Stella was starstruck by Calco’s sword, which she compared to samurai swords.

The bald guy released a puff of hot air through his nose.

“If you can't face me yourself, there isn't any point to a battle anyway. Fine, I'll go. But I'll get my revenge on you—he looked at Fritz—and you.”

He headed off in a random direction and two horsemen began to follow him.

“We'll escort him, Calco. You worry about these folks,” one called over his shoulder.

Calco gave them a curt nod and then looked between Stella and Fritz.

“You are both very reckless for facing him yourselves. Particularly you, what is your name?”

“Stella…”

Calco offered his hand and she took it, shaking it awkwardly.

“It appears you are a foreigner to this region, just as I am. But I am not familiar of those with blue hair. What nation are you from?”

“Erm… Y’know… Somewhere east of here.”

“I see. Well, if you aren't comfortable saying so, that's not a problem. I'm just here to help maintain order and it seems you share that sentiment. You are welcome in Fellheart, Stella. Some call it ‘The Lordless City’,a place where all people are welcome.”

Lordless? What does that mean?

“And you, Michael Fritz!” Calco said, poking him in the chest.

“Stop calling me a lord, people will get the wrong idea!”

“Sorry, sir!”

“And stop selling faulty potions. Or the next time you're saved, I'll have to ask you to pay a fine!”

“Yes, sir…” Michael whined.

“And lastly, to the rest of you, watching us like we're entertainment. You would do well to follow this young lady's example. Now disperse! Before I'm forced to make you!”

Stella crunched on a sweet, watching the crowd part whilst murmuring. With her excellent hearing, she could make out every word if she focused hard enough.

“Who is that child?”

“Is she a beastling? Why else would she have blue hair?”

“That damned Fritz, always causing trouble.”

She quickly tuned out and then thanked Calco who had mounted his horse and turned to leave.

“No worries, Stella. I pray we meet again, I think you'd find we have much in common.”

And with that ominous statement, he left.

What did he mean by that?

Stella turned to address the man she'd technically rescued, but found him a distance away, trying to piece together his market stand. Pieces had splintered away and even fallen between the cobbles. Glass was broken and scattered, and apples were rolling away.

Michael’s expression simply grew more crestfallen as he pointlessly picked up the pieces of wood on the ground.

“Hey…”

Michael barely turned his head so Stella took a candied apple from her sack and shoved it into his field of view.

“Want one?”

At first it appeared he wouldn't even look at it, but then, as a silent moment passed, he took it. Then he turned and plopped onto the ground.

Stella sat beside him, feeling bad and not knowing what else to do. She had no powers for fixing things and no knowledge for it either. She had also spent most of her money on food.

Wait, I have monster items! Maybe those are of value!

Before she could go look for someone to buy her loot, Michael gave a great sigh and spoke.

“Thank you, for helping me. Someone your age shouldn't have to do something so brave. I wish I could repay you… But as you can see, my stuff was destroyed.”

Stella stood and tossed her sack of desserts into Michael's lap, causing him to keel over as they hit him right where they shouldn't've.

“You need those more than I do, so chew on that while I go sell some stuff. Can you point me to somewhere that buys monster loot?”

“Well,—wheeze—the Adventurer’s Guild always buys monster items, if it's of value they'll pay—grunt—but if not them, I'm not sure who.”

Stella nodded.

“I imagine you can't take your hands off yourself to show me the way, so, I'll get directions myself. Cya!”

Hopefully he doesn't steal my apples, but he seems too pitiful to do something like that right now, Stella though, stomach still rumbling.

It took some asking, but Stella found her way to a large, run-down building with cockroaches inside. Outside, a crooked sign read ‘The Adventurer's Guild’.

It was empty when Stella entered, and dark. When she called out a greeting, though, candles began to light one by one.

“Yes, welcome,” croaked a hoarse voice.

Stella's gaze darted around the establishment until they rested on the counter to her right, shrouded in shadows. That was definitely the source of the voice, however, the only thing there, was a wall of wood.

More rightly, it was a desk with no discernible way to see the clerks behind it. And seemingly no way to go behind the desk either. In their place, three wooden openings that seemed to have two moving, sliding parts.

Over each were iron bars, stopping anything larger than a grown man's arm from moving between them. So even if someone wanted to hop through one of those openings to get behind the counter, it'd be impossible.

Does anyone even work here? This gives me the creeps.

“Approach the desk, girl.”

Stella's heart was in her throat as the voice sounded right in her ear, causing her jerk back. But there was no one present, and when she evaluated her surroundings she found a single scaled arm was now reaching through the middle wooden opening.

Stella considered her options.

If she left, who would buy her monster items? And would they give her a good price? In all the anime she'd watched, the guild was the best place to go if you wanted some quick crash and a thrilling quest. But… Was this really the right place to go?

With a thick gulp she approached the counter and the hand that hadn't even flinched during her minutes of thinking. The hand unfurled, a palm covered in sleek, reptilian flesh.

“Hand me the goods you wish to exchange for income.”

The voice was like wind hissing through a canyon. And the scales were thin, grey, and flaking off, more by the second. Though Stella bent down, the opening the reptile's arm stretched out from was narrow, revealing nothing but a bunched-up sleeve, presumably belonging to a black cloak.

“So…Do you work here alone? Are you… Okay?” Stella began as she opened her makeshift sack.

There was no reply in all the time it took her to untie her sack, pull out her Pincher Blade and then place it in the creature's hand.

Instantly, the reptile pulled the item through the bars, closing wooden panels. Stella looked on in awe, wondering if she'd just been robbed, only for the reptile's hand to reappear seconds later, with copper in its center.

Stella hastily slid the precious copper into her hand, then counted it. 25 copper in total. It wasn't much, but the centipede was likely common. Plus, she had dulled the blade from using it to chop firewood.

She refocused to find the hand, still outstretched, scales continuing to flake while it waited in stasis.

“Next,” the lizard-creature rasped.

Stella continued one item after another. Mother's Last Breath netted her 50 copper which for only half of the item, was a good price. The Thunder Tusk was a full 300 copper, impressive.

Her scales however, (which she had been collecting as they shed, hoping they were valuable) were simply handed back to her.

She had also handed in the familiar horn, ashamed of her previous usage of it, and wondering if the bear would give her judgmental looks if she summoned it again. But it too, was handed back to her.

“This item is bonded. It refuses to be sold.”

Stella took the horn, confused, then regarded her scales.

With the existence of ground dragons for wagon pulling, I guess dragon scales aren't valuable. But what's all this about this horn refusing to be sold? Whatever, mystical randomness is all part of the Isekai gig.

In other matters, this copper will be a drag to carry around. Maybe there's a way to transfer it into silver, like asking for hundred dollar bills instead of tens and twenties.

“We also have a currency exchange window,” mentioned the lizard-guy, very conveniently.

The same hand extended from a different opening with a sign above it showing its designation for currency exchange. Stella was thoroughly creeped out, but approached and handed in her copper.

In return, she received 4 silver and 15 copper. To see her total, Stella pulled up her status screen.

Name: Stella Algos

Stage: Queen Dragon Fledging (10% to next evolution)

Class: None

Renown: 1

Wealth: Peasant (+1 to all stats)

(C: 15 S: 4 G: 0)

Stats: (0 points available)

Power: 28 (27)

Vigor: 24 (23)

Grace: 21 (20)

Intellect: 10 (10)

Skills:

Wrath Of The Ravenous (Grade SS) - Level 1

Elemental Breath (Grade S) - Level 5

Strength In Numbers (Passive)

My first renown! Hm… I wonder what it does… Well, that doesn't matter right now, I have way more wealth now!

For a moment she glowed with pride, idly stuffing her discarded blue scales back into her sack and stowing her coin purse there as well. Then she remembered her intention had been to sell items to help Michael, the merchant or alchemist of sorts, that had gotten his market stand destroyed by an unhappy customer.

I kinda want to keep all my money, but that guy definitely needed it. Maybe I can ask for something in return, like really good discounts.

Her spirits lifted when she returned to find the desserts in her brown bag mostly untouched.

“I got the money!” She mumbled around candy.

Michael was still sitting pitifully on the cobbles. He had barely touched his candied apple.

“Thanks, but I could never take from a child. A girl at that.”

“Hey! I'm no child!”

“Really?”

“Shut up! I offer to help you and this is how I'm repaid!”

Michael met her furious gaze, then nodded.

“You're right, I'm sorry for assuming. Don't concern yourself with my mess, Stella. When I fix things later I'll be sure to repay your kindness.”

Stella didn't know what to do. She didn't want to abandon the stranger, even if he was just that, a stranger who'd run into some bad luck. Well, before she left, getting some information from a local would be useful.

“What was up with the Adventure’s Guild? Why is it run by an old lizard guy?”

Michael arched his brow.

“Have you ever been inside one before? They are said to be worked in only by cursed souls. But they aid the king's peace by paying those who slay beasts. They usually don't pay much, but if you're strong it's easy to make some kind of a living.”

“Are they trapped in there?”

“Who knows? It's not like the magic barrier on those places will let anyone figure that out.”

“Oh… So, what's about them not paying much, I got like four silver!”

Michael scoffed.

“They only pay you some amount based on some random chart made by royalty. Four silver is barely enough for a week's worth of living in these parts. But, I guess a girl as fancy as you doesn't need to worry about that.”

The sourness in Michael's voice quickly ruined Stella's curiosity.

“What's that supposed to mean?”

Michael looked up at her through messy brown hair and crooked glasses, his expression turning to something between a sneer and a smirk.

“You’re too young to be strong enough to fight monsters and unruly customers without some kind of training. So, you have money, right?”

The sweetness of Stella's candy had abruptly turned bitter.

“You don't know anything,” she snapped.

Michael's expression softened gradually, then he shook his head as if clearing his thoughts.

“I don't. I was wrong to assume again. I'm very grateful to you for saving me and trying to help me. I'll do whatever I can to repay you.”

Stella collected herself, holding back her desire to jump kick the guy.

“As you should… But what can you do to repay me? Aren't you broke?”

Michael looked like he'd been stabbed by her words.

“Yes, I'm a little broke. But I have skills, that's how a Fritz makes it in this world. I can tutor you in any number of skills and not all of them are just useful for merchants.”

“I thought you said you were a failed merchant.”

“I am. But I'm an excellent tutor, and I just so happen to have plenty of skills.”

A tutor? How many jobs does this guy have? Didn't he call himself an alchemist as well?

“Well, how about you tutor me in some skills?”

Michael scratched his hairless chin thoughtfully.

“I have a lot of work to do, so I might be available only late in the day.”

“Work?” Stella asked, looking at his destroyed stand.

“Yes, I'm an alchemist. I'll make goods to sell and rebuild my business. I'm used to it.”

Stella's eyes sparkled.

“Can I help?”

“Erm, sure. If you're sure you want to.”

“Yeah!”

I guess, I have a skill tutor?!
