In the previous chapter, you read the statement: 'Not all Skill Evolutions are equal.' Now, you're going to read a new statement—one that complements and surpasses the previous.

No High-Tier Skill is equal to another.

Though it sounds simple, the nuance behind these words is extremely complicated. When you're an Adept, gaining something like Stone Skin is inferior to Diamond Shell. It is simply a matter of hardness. But there is a reason why some people gain Stone Skin. Part of it is related to your race, to your Path, to your experiences, yes; but another part is due to your trajectory. Diamond Shell will allow you to advance and become Adamantine, or potentially another material that is focused on raw durability. However, it will not allow you to gain something like Shattered Form, which prevents you from dying upon being destroyed physically. Indeed, when you obtain Shattered Form, you wish to be destroyed physically, as it gives you boosts and adjustments to all your other attributes while remaining shattered.

And herein you can see the complexity and truth behind High-Tier Skills: once you reach a certain threshold, the sheer amount of things you can do with an advanced skill is staggering. The Evolution possibilities are so broad and so specific that they cannot be compared meaningfully on a linear graph anymore.

In terms of pure durability, a Pathbearer possessing the Heroic-Tier Dome of the Adamant Tortoise Skill is far superior to someone who owns Guise of the Glasswalker. The latter, in fact, is even more brittle than a great many Adept-Tier Toughness Skill Evolutions. But pure durability loses its meaning when you can wield your pieces upon being shattered and reform yourself simply by looking at a reflection, while also being able to step into reflective surfaces and emerge whole.

These are the nuances you will face as a Pathbearer as you go along. Keep this in mind: A lacking skill evolution at present does not damn your future. It will affect it, but who you become eventually is not determined entirely by who you are now. Strive. Strive and step. Do not worry. Do not be consumed by doubt or held back by regret. For eventually, the place you end up will be a precipice. It may not be the precipice you expected, but might and mastery are things that cannot be captured by a few simple statements and easily imagined scenarios.

A warg-lion is far stronger than a hawk, but place both in the sky, and one shall soar, while the other can but splatter.

-Paths of Ascension

265 (I)

Beyond [II]

The fire that consumed the group of thugs was glorious and lively. The flickers danced, and as their bodies burned, their skin didn't char, their muscles didn't fry, their fat didn't pop. And their screams lasted only a second before they turned to something else—a chorus of song.

The song sent a rush of energy through Shiv. Not as much as Plague-Fueled or Shape of Monstrosity did, but it felt like something inside him was healing, something inside him was being kept at peak capacity.

"Should you sustain any wounds at present, your heart blood will be nourished," Toasty declared. "Feeling yourself healing, enjoying a certain kind of ineffable pleasure, such is the enchantment taking shape.”

A second effect came into play then. The Story Thus Far revealed itself as each string connecting him to the thugs vibrated. They were strummed as if by an unseen hand, as if by the Composer herself, but the vibrations were more than mere noise. They injected Shiv with faint visions of knowing and awareness. These were murkier and more confusing than what Non-Sequitur or its prior versions offered him, but he still caught glimpses.

Each of the thugs was fully consumed by the flames now. They burned, but the flames were also a screen, a perspective into their past. Shiv saw them as children. Shiv saw them as adolescents. Shiv saw them as adults. Shiv saw the formative moments of their lives, what was recorded by their skills, what they clung to in their darkest hours. The drugs they took, the people they hurt, the people they loved, the times they wept, the traumas they endured—their innermost secrets, ones none of their companions knew of—all spilled within the bosom of dancing fires.

The longer he focused on a specific fire, the more he sank into a specific vision. It wasn't a total overview of someone's personal history, but it did give Shiv insight into their character and personality.

The goblin who had been begging him before was a rat, through and through. He believed in nothing. He understood no boundaries. He cared only for his own pleasure, more bestial than individual. And the moment Shiv offered him mercy, he would plan his revenge.

In the end, even still, even now, even as he burned, he refused to believe this was his final fate. He begged Longinus, he begged the System, he hoped, and he knew. Despite all odds, he knew he would be saved. Despite all odds, despite who he was, the squalor he lived in, he imagined himself to become the ultimate Pathbearer someday. That delusion had allowed him to secure control over his squatter gang. But past that point, he was merely prey—prey in an uncaring world. He would never learn that lesson.

But Shiv glimpsed it. Shiv understood it in the thug’s stead.

"I see you," Shiv whispered. "I see you for what you are."

And as soon as those words left him, a following enchantment took shape. Enchain the Transgressors turned the thread connecting him to the deceptive goblin into a rope, a thing that began to siphon the flames of the gang leader. Yet there was a pull, a struggle. Shiv found himself gritting his teeth as he tried to rip the vitality free from the goblin. The goblin reached out. With what of his body hadn't been taken by the blaze, he reached out. His fingers wrapped around the tightening cord.

No! the goblin howled, his thoughts echoing inside Shiv through the Chained Heart of Lifegiving. I have to remain! I have to! I need to become the strongest! I will, I will, I will!

His delusion, though pathetic and paltry when pitted against Shiv in battle, now found true purpose. It defied Shiv. No, not Shiv himself, but the heart. It allowed the goblin to stand his ground. His mind refused to move, but the longer it went on, slowly, the Deathless felt his victim break. Bits of his sanity shattered, and the first fragments of translucent mana spilled across the burning length.

No! The goblin choked, but that was all he could do now. Bit by bit, his prodigious delusion turned desperate willpower was eroded down to nothing, and all that was then fed into the crystal-chained heart.

Shiv took an involuntary step back, as if the existential presence he was struggling against had suddenly vanished.

The goblin gang leader was. And now he wasn’t.

"You alright?" Adam called out. "What was that? How was he resisting you? Wasn't he supposed to be just an Adept? ”

"He was," Shiv breathed. He stared down at the heart in his hands, and it pulsated with both translucence and incandescent fire. An incandescence that almost resembled the hue of divinity.

"Now you see," Toasty declared. He let out a boisterous chuckle. "Now you understand what has been claimed. The mind must be broken, the body ruined, before they can truly be consumed. This is no easy gift. It is not something of force, but rather something of hunger."

The Deathless examined the now rapidly beating heart once more before he turned toward the fae. "So, how do I put him inside a piece of ingredient, exactly?

“Through the final enchantment that truly matters: Life for Loreflame. What you have now can be spent, can be drawn into you to restore what has been taken from your life force, or can be gifted to another should they have suffered damage to their existential essence." The Faebread leaned back in his cage and barely resisted scoffing. "Existential essence for those who constantly bleed and lose it to the world, anyhow. How you Patternists manage to suffer this winnowing, withering cage of existence is beyond me."

"Well, it's pretty easy," Shiv replied. "Usually, we just make cages for other people and teach them to sympathize with us that way.”

Shiv's words and mocking smile caused the fae to sputter, but he managed to regain his composure before suffering any more humiliation. "Pah, enough of this. Find something—something you understand to be food, something you believe to be of great significance. Life for Loreflame needs to tap into one of your skills. It needs to tap into a skill that infuses animation and purpose into another thing."

"Would it work with Golemancy as well?"

"Perhaps," Toasty said. "But I understand little of your Golemancy. I only know the meaning of bringing purpose to food. To offering Princess Plum Blossom delights. You have come to me to learn this, yes? Then do not deviate. I am not a Golemancer; I am simply a Knight of the Summer Court, compelled to give purpose to that which is delectable and splendorous."

Toasty’s declaration made Shiv center his focus. He couldn't afford to experiment too much right now; he didn't have the time to get creative with his looming threats. Best to steal a technique that he'd seen someone else use.

"I want you to show me how to animate breadcrumbs. I want to use them like you did against me and the chefs at Monster Mystery Meat."

"Wait, what happened to Monster Mystery Meat?" Jessica asked, staring at Shiv and then looking toward the fae. "Are they still open? The hells did you clowns do?”

Adam coughed awkwardly. “There was a… tragic accident. The chefs were Cursed while walking the Fairwoods, and they offered themselves as food to the guests after being baked into bread. Then a fire destroyed the entire restaurant after everyone left.”

The Giantsbane did a double-take. She shot another look at Toasty, another look at Shiv, another look at Adam, and then she stared down and sniffled. "You guys felling suck!” Jessica whined, kicking a can lying on the ground. “Everything you touch turns to chaos and blood! Monster Mystery Meat is dead? Where am I going to go get Ogre Ass Pie now?”

"Oh wow, you finally noticed," Shiv muttered sardonically. "Wait, Ogre Ass Pie?"

"Yeah, yeah, I know it sounds like it tastes shitty, and if you make it poorly, it does. But if you cook it just right, and you manage to deal with the regeneration..." Jessica smacked her lips. "It really hits. It really, really hits."

Be sure to keep that in mind, Shiv said to himself. He needed to expand his repertoire, and that reminded him he probably needed to look through that book of recipes as well. Even if Monster Mystery Meat was demolished, and things there weren't turning out so well, he still had a full kitchen stored inside the Coliseum. A full kitchen he intended to put to purpose one way or another.

Shiv was about to ask Toasty for a donation of a few breadcrumbs when he paused. He held up a finger and pulled out his Last Morsel. He cut a piece of shadow away from a nearby crate and began the process of adding a bit of spice to this experiment.

"What are you doing?" the Faebread asked.

Jessica leaned in, curious. Shiv simply held up a hand, brushing them off for now. He shoved the shadow inside his frying pan and then gestured at Toasty.

"Give me a few crumbs from your body,” Shiv said. The fae brought his hands in front of his chest protectively and hissed with offense. "Just a few pieces! Look, I'm gonna try something, alright? Might be interesting. Might make sure we're able to return you to your woods properly."

Begrudgingly, Toasty did as the Deathless requested. A few chunks of bread-like particulates broke away from his kettle helmet and spilled over toward Shiv. He let it fall into his frying pan and channeled a burst of Pyromancy inside thereafter.

"What are you even doing?" Jessica asked, squinting into the pan. "Actually, I got another question for you. Why a frying pan?"

"Because the System thinks that it's really funny and uses me as a punchline for its jokes.”

The Last Morsel's lid manifested in a puff of black smoke, and for a few seconds, Shiv cooked a helping of shadows alongside a smattering of breadcrumbs. When the lid vanished, dissipating into black motes, what remained there were a few small grains of black-crusted clumps.

"Hmm," Shiv said. He pinched a few of the crumbs and held them up before his eyes. They all glowed with a strange, dark hue. But instead of putting them in his mouth, he placed the crumbs on the ground and pulled out the heart again.

"So, how's this Life for Loreflame thing work?" Shiv asked.

"Simply direct the organ to whatever you wish to infuse. Use that which you have taken, and focus. The threads will emerge once more."

Shiv did as the fae instructed. However, this time he wasn't just using the Enchained Heart of Life-Giving. He was also using his new Narrative Skill.

Lord Commander of the Slumbering Uneaten triggered immediately as he stared at the black-crusted crumbs. He heard faint whispering, notes of confusion. A sense of dissonance with itself. The crumbs were something that was, yet were something that shouldn't be. They were something that could have only been born at the hands of the System. At the hands of a Legendary-Tier skill or item.

What am I? the skill seemed to ask him, conveying a question nested within the crumbs.

I don't know, Shiv answered honestly. Let's find out.

As he pointed the Enchained Heart of Life-Giving at the crumbs, it flared with a crimson flame. A weight left Shiv. A weight of vitality. A weight of thought. The silvery veins coiled around the heart flared bright, and once more, Shiv felt himself pulled into the organ, just like back in the kitchen of Monster Mystery Meat.

Within an endless-appearing realm of mist and fire, Shiv stood across from the goblin he'd just consumed. The thug looked around, lost, confused.

