"What just happened to me? Who are you?" The goblin blinked rapidly, looking through his still-simmering hands. He looked the same as he did before. The tattoos remained. Even a few of his injuries still lingered. But more than anything, it was his psyche that was split asunder. And Shiv exploited that to its fullest extent.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Remember how Velly confused you for one of the Ascendants. You know what to do.

"I am Longinus," Shiv said, trying to hide the awkwardness in his voice. "You called out to me, so I came to save you."

"What? This doesn't feel right…" The goblin vibrated slightly. He doubted. He suspected Shiv was lying. He was not as scattered as Velly and Nornsong had been. "If you are the Wanderer, why do you look like the one who slew me? What is this?"

Shiv used the goblin’s doubt and his delusions of grandeur that The Story Thus Far had revealed to him to his full advantage. "Of course I look like him. The moment you were about to be struck down, I reached into the guy who was trying to kill you and... and I stole his body from him. I destroyed his soul. I heard you. You're going to be the greatest Pathbearer of all time, man. I couldn't just let him kill you, could I?"

"Oh, yes!" the goblin suddenly exclaimed. He smiled. His mind-broken joy was infectious, overwhelming. It burned brighter than the flames that now composed him. "Yes! I knew! I knew you would finally hear me! I knew you would save me, my lord! I knew!"

Gardener of Doubt 62 > 65

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: We really should talk to delusional people more. It's very easy to exploit their emotions. It's like there are pillars they must bend to, pillars that compel their thoughts. Psychological predictability is slavery. To the self, and to the others who master you.

"Oh, I thank you, Longinus. I fucking thank you so much! You have done everything I asked. Finally, finally someone knows who I am. Someone knows what I'm worth." The gang leader was crying now, and it took Shiv practically every ounce of willpower not to let his incredulity show on his face.

The Deathless cleared his throat. "Now that you've been saved, I need to instruct you in the ways of true power."

"True power?" the goblin asked. His eyes were alight with greed. "You wish to bestow upon me true power?"

"No, no, no, no! You can't just skip ahead like that, oh follower of mine. I need you to build a skill that is truly powerful, and to do that, I need you to become a bunch of shadowy breadcrumbs and do what I tell you to.”

The goblin stared at him, unable to process that last sentence.

"Look, it's simple, alright? I'm gonna put your soul into a series of shadowy breadcrumbs that were blessed by my good friend Harlock." Shiv suddenly wheezed violently, trying to stifle his own laughter.

"Longinus? My lord? Are you alright?" the goblin asked.

"Yeah, yeah. It's just, this body I took is really bad. He was a really bad guy. Anyway, Harlock blessed those crumbs, and he wants someone with the willpower and the strength to wield them. So you're going to have to do exactly as I say, alright? Exactly as I say."

"Anything, my lord, anything to be the strongest! I dedicate myself to you. To all the taverns we will sack, and to all the holes we will plough!"

Broken Moon, I couldn't have done this to a better guy if I tried, Shiv thought to himself.

With the goblin convinced to do Shiv's bidding, the vision ended, and they surfaced once more. The Deathless finished channeling his power into the ingredients, and with that, they flickered in the air, glinting with vitality. A small cloud of darkened crumbs danced around him, and Shiv watched as it spilled into the shadows and emerged thereafter without difficulty.

"I feel very strange, my lord." The goblin's outlined form was manifested as each of the crumbs took a spot equidistant from each other. It was like someone had traced an outline of the goblin right before Shiv. Adam gawked.

Jessica's eyes grew wider and wider. "Songbringer’s sweet bulbous breasts, you weren't shitting me at all when you said you can bring food to life." Her astonishment turned to amused laughter, but that quickly died down as the implication of Shiv's actions fully hit her. "Wait, did you just jam a guy's soul into the bread?"

"What remains of his soul," Shiv said flatly, "and fragments left over from his mind."

"A thing you Patternists make more convenient for us," Toasty said with a scoff. "If you weren't so brittle, it would be far harder for us to harness your lacking potential to something beautiful toward the end of the Eternal Cycle."

"I must say again how much this skill disturbs me," Adam said. "This is effectively imprisonment, if not temporary enslavement."

And that brought Shiv down a little as well. "Shit, you're probably right. I was thinking that earlier. Trying not to think about that, actually. Something I could try is draining the life out of one of my golems and then seeing if I can get it to work that way, but there would be no bits of thought. I don't think it works without broken pieces from the mind."

"It does not," Toasty confirmed. "The life force must understand itself, must have a lens to shape itself. It's like water without a cup. It simply spills, dissipates. The sun claims it, turns it to vapor. And then it is no one's until once more it falls like rain with the turning of the wheel."

But the Gate Lord had a different idea. "Shiv, the eldritch monsters and orcs... they have vitality too, don't they?"

“Yeah? Oh, oh, okay, yeah.” Shiv liked where this was going. “Yeah, we might be able to make this work. Well—Wait, no, the eldritch don't respond very well to fairies. Not sure if this skill will work on them right.”

"But we can try, right? And failing that, we can try using this on the gray monsters. I can put up with their damnation easier than the others, at least..."

"Alright then, go team," Jessica said sarcastically. "Finding ways to technically dodge the fact that we're becoming soul enslavers."

Adam groaned. "Please don't call this skill that."

"That's what it is," Jessica said, grinning. "You're literally jamming some poor bastard's soul into pieces of food." She chuckled again. "Not that he doesn't deserve it, but still. Really creatively messed up. You know, I didn't expect to be surprised. I thought I'd seen practically everything, but you know what? This tickles me. This really does."

"I thought it might," Shiv said, holding back a grin of his own. "Alright, Toasty, tell me how to get this inside someone and pop them."

The Faebread pressed his lips together. "It will not be as easy for you. You will need to attain a critical mass of breadcrumbs, and you are missing the other skills. Skills that let you teleport foodstuff from foodstuff."

The Deathless paused at that. "Hey, I got a question for you, right? Another one. Are all your skills food-related?"

"Of course!" Toasty stomped his foot in indignation. "For it is my great purpose to see Princess Plum Blossom fed and nourished, to her heart and soul's content. Now, heed my words. If you wish to direct the crumbs, you must simply order them. Tell them what to do. They will obey you now that you have taken their mind and claimed them for your own."

"Really not beating the food slaver allegations," Jessica said with her hands on her hips.

Adam's face contorted in a series of agonized expressions. "I thought of confessing my sins to the Ascendants for my part in this, but I realized they probably do far worse."

"Don't worry, Adam, I'm doing this for a good cause. I'm going to use it to blow people up from the inside."
