"I can answer all your questions on the way. Come on, let's go. It's time to head out. You have some dungeons to clear."

Leo, the silver-haired artificer motions for all of us to follow as he begins walking toward the elevator at the back of the penthouse office.

I turn to follow, but Abby speaks up to stop us.

"Hey, that's it? No mission specifications? No intel on the dungeons we're facing? You're just handing us a poorly drawn map and transmission tablets to go?"

She grabs the map off the desk with attitude.

Maria stands up with an innocent look across her face, turning her head back and forth to me, then to Abby, then over to the Director's assistant.

The blond-haired woman slowly nods, then speaks in a low tone.

"I understand this may be different from your past missions Abby, but you've been chosen as the new elites. Like it or not, you 4 are special now. Your team has been gifted the abilities that many other hunters could only dream of handling."

The green-haired healer tightens her stare, but gives a firm nod as the thin blond woman continues.

"We don't have much information on regions like this one. If I had a better map or more intel I'd love for you to have it. The problem is, we're understaffed and overworked. Everyone who's able to help fight is out on the front line for this grouping of breaks. Even the Director himself went to supervise the B and A-Class teams as they handed the core labyrinth break. That's why he wasn't able to see you at our meeting today."

Leo jumps in with a hand raised and a smile.

"Come on, let's head out. We don't want to miss the train. There's one leaving in under half an hour, that's our ride."

Abby lets out a sigh, crossing her arms, then turning to face Leo. Her hair flies up in the air from the quickness of her motions as she begins to follow the silver-haired artificer.

Maria grins and speaks up.

"Alright, it's settled, we're off!"

I smile back as she makes her way across the room to follow the others.

I look down to meet Arie's gaze. The archer makes an audible gulp as he stands to his feet, replying to my firm nod in a low tone.

"Ready for this?"

I throw an arm around his shoulder as we start to walk toward the elevator following the girls and our guide.

"I am, are you? Is there something you want to get off your chest once we get outside?"

He lets out a sigh and whispers under his breath so only I can hear.

"The village I grew up in is near section 4. I wasn't expecting the breaks to happen so soon. I'll be fine. This... was just unexpected. Thanks for asking."

*Ding*

I reply while watching the elevator door open on the other side of the room.

"Understood. Looks like there's more to this mission than meets the eye."

Arie gives me a nod, looking over his shoulder, then back to the open doors of the elevator.

"Indeed, I'll fill you in on more details later."

The 4 of us crowd into the small elevator behind the silver-haired man. Leo hits the button to take us down to the Lobby. His cheerful attitude lightens the mood.

He turns to me before speaking to everyone.

"Well, I met Jay last night, but it's nice to officially meet all of you. If you have any unique or abundant raw dungeon item drops, feel free to put in a request for my assistance at any time. Just tell the front desk Leo sent ya!

He scratches his chin and pauses for a second before continuing.

"Visitors aren't exactly allowed down in my lab unsupervised, but I'm almost always working, so never hesitate to put in a word. I'm happy to help. "

I smirk and give him a nod. Maybe I'll ask him to have something crafted in the future and compare it to Bri's handy work.

For quick crafts and items I don't mind having made on the books, Leo will be a helpful asset indeed.

Abby and Maria introduce themselves, then Arie speaks up.

"So, we're taking the train up north? That ride will take almost a full day. We'll make it over to Section 4 by tomorrow morning. Right?"

Leo nods as the elevator begins to slow.

"Very astute of you, that's correct. I've already made arraignments for your housing at the Gate 1 entrance, you'll be able to begin your mission bright and early tomorrow morning once we arrive."

*Ding*

The elevator hits the bottom floor and we walk out into the lobby.

The 5 of us walk through the front door and make our way to the train station without veering much from our path at all.

Arie and Leo talk over details of the Dark Continent while Abby and Maria chat about their training. I enjoy the peaceful walk, listening to the merchants and people go by on either side of us as we stroll through town.

It's mid-day and there's many E, D, and even C-Class hunters going about their daily lives in the central market.

It's a beautiful sight.

The active marketplace in a thriving city like this never gets old. I can smell food from many cultures and hear metal weapons being traded along with various crystals and magical items.

Grinning ear to ear, the 20-minute walk through town goes by in a flash.

Leo's voice breaks me out of my blissful daze as we make it to the station.

"Alright, the train should be here any minute now. Get out your IDs, we'll be riding in a special section. This private cabin is one made for longer distance travel, it's used by the Association higher-ups."

We all nod and do as he says while walking up onto the train platform through the crowd of other hunters and adventurers getting ready to board. Each and every one of them is going to head off on their own missions and various journeys.

No more than 5 minutes later, just like the artificer said, the train comes chugging towards us, screeching to a halt moments later.

A few workmen hop out every few train carts. Hunters and businessmen flood out from the train and get straight to work in town.

The worker closest to us throws two hands sin the air as the train's whistle blows.

"All aboard!"

We walk over and Leo talks to the man, showing him his ID. The train worker points higher up the train platform. Leo nods and turns back to us, motioning for us to follow.

We do.

Less than a minute later, we make our way to a new worker standing guard, show our Ids, and board into an exclusive-looking cabin. The worker lets us in and closes the small door behind us, waving goodbye.

"A pleasure for you to be aboard the train today, we'll be arriving at the Gate 1 stop early tomorrow morning, make yourselves comfortable."

*Click*

The door shuts and we're all left in a rather fancy-looking private room.

There are orange couches that line the walls and large glass windows above them. I can see the busy city on one side, and another set of train tracks on the other.

Abby speaks up as she walks over and lies down open one of the couches with fluffy-looking pillows available for headrests.

"Now this is how ya travel! Who knew the Association actually had perks like this for us? I thought only the higher-ups had luxuries like these."

Arie smirks and walks over to make himself compatible on the couch nearby. Feeling the soft fabric and kicking his feet up onto a darker-colored coffee table, he speaks up.

"Not bad, I haven't ridden in anything this nice in a while."

Maria walks forward with a happy look on her face, sitting down on a couch on the opposite side of the cabin while letting out a sigh. I follow, sitting next to her and throwing my feet up on a small black coffee table to match Arie.

Leo stands by the train door with his arms crossed, staring at us, then lets out a laugh.

"Ya know, I like you guys. This is how Elites should act, the last few teams have been a real pain... I think you 4 are definitely going to be different."

The train begins to move, and a whistle blows again. I watch the crowds of people and bustling market slowly disappear from view.

I smile and let out a sigh as the peaceful scene leaves my vision.

We're leaving the city. A new adventure awaits.
