He inclined his head when Touch looked at him. “Smell, what do your sources say about Titan’s other project?”

That prompted him to consider just how much he should share, but eventually decided he needed these people if they were as connected and influential as he thought they were. “The information about actual projects is spotty at best, but what all of them say is the same or similar. They are throwing mana around like it's free. They are operating on a massive budget, which is only expected to increase now that the Emperor has sold the aura rifts to the other Great Powers.”

Bartholomew leaned back and Touch took his place in the light, speaking for the first time. “I speak for all higher Tier aperologists when I say Titan is encroaching into our territory, and we intend to put a stop to it. Brute force is obviously entirely impossible, which leaves political maneuvering as our only recourse, though the only question then is what and how.”

Touch was an aperologist then. That narrowed it down a lot, and he made a note to look everyone in that profession up later. He also wasn’t entirely sure he agreed with a blanket violence ban. Targeting the Ascenders themselves, sure. But there might be some leeway in dealing with the subordinates. There was nothing wrong with starting off with non-violent means though, so he kept his silence.

Bartholomew nodded to show his agreement. “We need to do something. I suspect that friend Sight is correct though. The Emperor won’t step in so long as we keep things mostly above board, and I don’t want to incur the wrath of either him or the royals.”

Hearing leaned forward, so Bartholomew let himself relax into his chair and away from the light. “We need to hit them soon. All of them. Put obstacles in their way before they gather too much headway. Once they are stalled, we can see about dismantling their support.”

Sight leaned forward and added. “Agreed. Titan and his guild are probably funded by Mara, Leon and the Emperor. If we can slow him down, we can petition the Emperor to reduce funding based on lack of progress. It has worked before.”

Bartholomew didn’t want to give away his identity, so asked about Legion instead of Wraith. “What are we going to do about Legion? Her incursions into long standing traditions are… Irritating at best.”

Taste leaned forward. “A few of their newly recruited nobles can have accidents and incidents proving their unworthiness, which will serve as stark counter points to any good she tries to show.”

Touch shook their head. “I agree in principle, but whatever is done, we need to prevent rift breaks or civilian deaths. Titan reacts badly when confronted with his past, and the other two will support him. I’ve used my connections to get the real recording of Titan killing Maven. He monologued to her corpse because of that rift break incident on whatever that planet was. V something. Two hundred years, and he still didn’t let that go. I’m not going to get involved with anything that guarantees death by Ascender.”

Hearing added, “History has shown if you don’t piss them off too much, but make things difficult, they will often find the issue too bothersome and just drop whatever project it was. That is the line we need to walk.”

Bartholomew leaned forward and agreed along with all of them.

Taste finally brought up the last issue, and the one most important to Bartholomew. “Finally Wraith. We need to do something. Her dismantling the Winter Wolves wouldn’t be the end of the world, but if we make her first obstacle easy, she might get a taste for it. I say we stall her out then and there. Let's see if she has the taste for chipping away at established interests if she cracks a tooth on them.”

Bartholomew wanted to growl at the mention of his people being tossed away as if they were simply pieces on a chessboard, but he didn’t let a single thought slip out of his control.

“Agreed.”

With things settled, they established methods to contact each other without having to send clones to meetings like this.

Bartholomew could only hope that together they were enough to stop these Ascenders, even as he let his clone fall apart he connected to a private server he had set up so his real body could learn about the meeting without ever getting close.
