Alongside the opening of the first public rift, the first aura potion hit the market of East Flower. Its final price was sky-high, of course, but that was to be expected. Unlike the well-established subsidies for the traditional Concept potions, there were no Empire-provided sponsorships for selling aura potions which might limit their price. In time, they might come, but ‘in time’ was not now, and there was nothing to be gained from underselling one’s products when there were people who could afford the price of not having to wait around for an ascension or a shard of reality.

Only time would tell where the price would settle.

Right now, a Bottled Concept took years, sometimes decades, for a Tier 4 to afford, but even if aura potions settled out to costing twice that, which he rather doubted with how much cheaper the production was, their benefits were such that they’d still be immensely popular. That would be triply the case if the Empire stopped subsidizing Bottled Concept, which some rumors were saying was imminent. After all, why would they subsidize something when a superior replacement existed and was cheap enough to produce you don’t really need subsidies at all beyond start-up capital?

The first batch of aura potion, handmade by his own wife from sunrise aura Haluk had personally harvested, had produced two vials. After donating the first to charity, Haluk mounted the second on the mantelpiece in the family's private gathering hall.

It would hopefully signal the first of many.

It would take years, decades probably, to fully convert all of the rifts he wanted into aura rifts, but with an even dozen rifts converted and stable, the production lines began to churn.

Haluk wanted to redirect all of them to East Flower, or the Capital, which was said to have even higher prices than what the regional capital’s civilians could afford to pay. But he knew that was an awful idea, even if the initial prices would have been incredibly favorable.

Instead, he made sure that the first batch was sold locally at the lowest feasible prices, which helped quell any remaining murmurings about his usurpations of the tamed rifts.

Instead, he contented himself with delivering the second batch of aura potions to East Flower himself. The shipment was only ten thousand aura potions, all of the basic four elements, but with this single shipment, he was able to pay off nearly the next ten years of payments to his loans.

Queen Tur’stal herself even gave him a public audience, which made him the envy of his political rivals, who now had to think twice about offending him with him in their liege’s good graces.

With the payment secure and extrapolating the success out along with the eventual drop in prices, Haluk still expected to have paid off the loans he had taken in less than a tenth of their allotted repayment periods. Even if he only dedicated half of the profit to the loans. Best of all, that didn’t even account for his taxes, which had been on the rise with all the new industry the aura potions were creating on his twin worlds.

He was sure Ascender Titan would never see it, but he sent the man a heartfelt thank you message.

It wasn't much, but it was the only way he could show the gratitude he felt deep in his heart.

***

Marquess Enrique Castillero scoffed at the recording of Ascender Titan ‘giving aura potions to the Empire.’

What an incredible waste of time.

Anyone properly skilled would create their Concept on their own. That was how it was always done, and that was the proper way to do things. It was blatantly obvious. The vast majority of immortals had gotten there by making their own Concept, after all, and if you couldn’t even do that properly, what hope did you have as an immortal?

Those who made their Concept with external aid were but pitiful shades of a proper Cultivator. Ascensions, shards of reality, aura, or worst of all Minkalla, produced whelps unworthy of the everlasting life they’d been given.

How someone could be so strong and yet so foolish was a mystery Enrique couldn’t comprehend, but the damage was done. The man was living proof that a single strong individual was more valuable than a thousand lessers, but he insisted on trying to raise the commoners out of the mud they were destined to die in.

A few of his neighbors were foolish enough to profess that they would install a few of the aura rifts to rope in more commoners, and while there was some value in that, Enrique felt they were wasting their time and money.

They were at least better than the rare few who were determined to turn these potions into an export.

The very idea sickened him, but he had no way to stop them.

Domains were the realm's way of weeding out the weak and undeserving.

There was no reason to allow such things to exist.

The question was if he could actually make such a change. Could he ban anyone who didn’t have a natural Domain from his lands?

Probably not, but the idea had merit. Sometimes, culture and public opinions were a stronger motivator than laws. It might be worth spreading the idea that anyone who used such a crutch was lesser.

A few careful comments in the ears of the very commoners who this was to supposedly help could see that they actively started working against their own interest.

The ones who managed to create their own Concept at Tier 4 would then in turn serve as beacons of the idea that they were better, as they would want to feel superior to those who took the easy way out with a potion or a shard of reality.

The more Enrique thought about it, the more he felt like this was the best course of action.

It would even keep his hands from getting dirty directly, as once the movement had some momentum, he could just say he was following the desires of his people.

The populists were always mollified by such reasoning, but they rarely remembered that the commoners were so easy to manipulate.

Not wanting to give anything away, he sent a ‘heartfelt’ thank you message to Ascender Titan like most nobles were professing to do. There was no reason to paint a target on his back, after all.

No, it was better to appear to be another hapless flunky of this movement.

That was fine, though. Gold always shined through the grime when put through trials and tribulations.

They would be proven correct sooner or later, and that was enough for Enrique.

***

Afasa Paea kept his head down and worked.

He was a worker.

That was his life.

He didn’t necessarily enjoy it, but as a Tier 4, his wages were high. That enabled his hobbies, and that was enough for him.

When he had heard about the new aura potions, he wasn’t too interested. A more expensive alternative to a Concept potion seemed like a waste of money to him.

What was the point of advancing, when Tier 4 already provided far more than he ever could need? An impossibly healthy body, an easy hundred and sixty years of life, and the ability to earn plenty of money with next to no effort.

He’d been keen on the idea as a youngster, of course, but now that he was fifty, he saw there was so much more to life to enjoy. He had two wives, five kids between them, and eleven grandchildren. He was content to live out the rest of his years in a healthy body before passing away. Chasing immortality was for the reckless and the dreamers, and he didn’t consider himself as either.

That option shifted slightly over the course of the next ten years, when the news quietly spread that the new potions were far, far better than the old ones, even with their higher price though said price was starting to fall.

It was still irrelevant to Afasa, but it was good that such a thing existed. It could help any of his grandchildren or great grandchildren who did decide to join the rat race for immortality, and so he started setting aside a little of his income to prepare for any of them who did. It meant one less vacation a year, but that was ok. He had seen most of the prettiest sights on his world already, and the interplanetary vacations were too much work.

It was easier to just stay local and spend time with friends at this point.

Still, he sent a thank you letter to Ascender Titan.

It was a once in a lifetime opportunity, and who knew, maybe the Ascender would even see his message.

Now, that would be something to brag to his grandchildren about.

***

Hearing tapped the table, catching the attention of everyone else invited to this… Bartholomew wasn’t sure what to call it. A conspiracy?

He was, however, in a position where he couldn’t easily refuse the invitation, and so he had gained the moniker of Smell.

That was clearly a nod to his bloodline, but he wasn’t sure which of the other four Senses were the host, which would let him know if he should be offended or amused.

Bartholomew had expected that question to be answered by the first person to speak, but instead, the table AI started the meeting instead of any one of them. “I have gathered everyone here today because we have an issue. A collective issue that none of us are capable of dealing with on our own. The newest Ascenders.”

Sight looked over the rest of them and sighed, their voice raspy and artificially distorted enough that Bartholomew’s Tier 45 senses couldn’t pick up any identifying clues on gender, bloodline status, or general age from the way they produced certain words. “I don’t like it. Going against Ascenders is asking for trouble we don’t need.”

Taste leaned forward and flicked a finger, which caused the hologram in the center of the table to come to life. “These three are far more motivated than the typical Ascender. First, Wraith. Instead of just playing duchess, she is actively moving into dismantling the Winter Wolves' control over winter bloodlines. She started an initiative to make ice and winter bloodline items more available, but that was clearly a stab at dismantling the Winter Wolves’ control if they had tried to fight her on the issue. The Winter Wolves were smart enough to go along with the initiative, but my reports indicate that Wraith is already starting a plan to reveal some of the worst excesses the wolves are responsible for, and she’ll likely reveal it the moment the winter wolves move to counter attack. We suspect it is only the Winter Wolves being a firm supporter of Queen Mara that has prevented her from doing so already but that is only speculation.”

Bartholomew had perfect control over his body, and so didn’t react, but Taste knew more than they should have regarding his clan's issues with the newest Ascender.

“Next, we have Legion. She has been more quiet, but her greater plans are far more sinister. She has been not only giving out free bloodline research information, but she has been overheard talking about wanting to reduce the amount of hereditary nobles when their duchy fills in completely. That sets an… Unfortunate precedent that the Emperor will undoubtedly reference in the coming years.”

Bartholomew didn’t care too much about the fate of noble houses, the Winter Wolves were more a clan that had a noble title or three than a noble house in and of themselves. Still, it was disconcerting to hear another pillar of his family being targeted.

“Last but not least. Titan is already revolutionizing rifts. I—”

Sight leaned forward, cutting Taste off. “I actually like this development. Bottled Concepts are expensive to create and us higher Tiers pay a disproportionate amount of those taxes so I won’t weep at their passing. The real issue there will be getting the Empire to reduce our taxes instead of just redirecting the funds elsewhere.”

Taste tapped the table, changing the display to cycle through various forms of transportation. “The rift stuff is fine. I also welcome some of the changes that reliable sources of aura will bring. Me and mine will be more than happy to take advantage of the aura. The aperology isn’t the issue. It's everything else that the guild is doing that is the problem. Titan, or rather his Guild, is also working on a number of things which touch all of our interests. His first development beyond the aura rifts seems to be travel mana engines specialized in low Tier runes.”

Hearing shrugged in a way that made them seem less like a leader. “So I’ve heard, and while it's annoying he’s working on it, we will have a working prototype in another decade at most. We are pouring millions into that project with the idea of cutting him off before he can go live, but frankly, our main pursuit has been the higher Tier ships. Larger wallets up there. Even so it's doubtful he will beat us to the finish line. In addition to more funds, we have larger and more experienced teams to throw at the issue.”

“Titan’s team is reportedly just a year or two out from filing. You might have larger and more experienced teams, but he’s throwing billions of mana a day at the problem.” Taste’s words seemed to hit Hearing like a sledge hammer, but Bartholomew couldn’t tell if the reaction was true or false.

He did, however, know a little about that situation from his own sources. “Initial reports are that the prototype they created won’t be useful in short range travel, but it's quite the improvement for long distance, where the vehicle can reach its top speeds. It’s useful, but it's not the full replacement that many hoped travel mana would be.”

Hearing nodded slowly. “That is, at least preliminarily, correct. We are hoping to solve that issue, but it's not looking easy, and might be downright impossible. It is, in fact, what our best people are working on.”

Bartholomew made a note to who was creating the newest engines, but there were dozens of higher Tier movers and shakers in that category, so it would be hard to pin down who Hearing could be just from that alone.

