“Did we just see...” Nathalia started to say, and Ren put a finger on her mouth.

“Shh.” He said. “I think we shouldn't talk about it.”

“But...”

“I know she's your mother, but she's also...” Ren shook his head. “I'm taking my own advice.” He said and removed the finger.

“Well, if we can't talk about that...” Nathalia looked at him with her face full of questions. “...then tell me about everything we just went through.”

Ren started to shake his head, then stopped. “Actually, I...” He smiled and his grip on her hand tightened. “I would like to talk about it.”

“I'm glad.” Nathalia said, and tears came to her eyes again. “How could other Adventurers do that to you?”

Ren smiled sadly. “They weren't other Adventurers.” He said. “They were my parents.”

“By the gods!” Nathalia exclaimed. “No. That... that's not...” The look of horror on her face matched the tone of her voice. “How could they do that to you?!?”

“I've been asking myself that for years.” Ren said. “I still haven't come up with a reason, other than money, or that they enjoyed it somehow.”

Nathalia shook her head, and lifted his hand and gripped it with both of hers, and pressed it to her chest.

“That someone as good as you came from all of that.” Nathalia said and beamed a smile at him. “You're a miracle!”

“It's a miracle that I survived as many times as I did.” Ren said. “That's true.”

“No, Ren.” Nathalia let his hand go, and moved to sit in his lap again. She hugged him close, and kissed him. “You help anyone that needs it.” She said. “You never worry about what will happen to you, but you'll do anything for the people you care about.” She stroked her hand through his hair, and gazed into his eyes. “You went through all of that, and it didn't break you.” She kissed him softly. “Despite all of that, you became a good man. You're not mean, or vindictive, or angry all of the time.” She smiled at him. “You are a good man, and I love you.”

“I love you, too.” Ren said, and kissed her back just as softly as she had kissed him.

“Now I have a question.” Nathalia said.

“Just one?”

“I have more than I can count, but... there's one that I need answered right away.”

“Go ahead, My Love. Ask away.”

“What's a 'pool', and what do you do with it?”

That was not the question Ren thought she would ask first, and he laughed a full-throated laugh; then Nathalia joined in and laughed, too.

********

Denise checked the recorded footage, and relaxed a she saw the time indexes matched. Nothing was lost or over-written from the sheer amount of data that was being recorded. She was a little surprised that the game could recreate all of the real life things that Ren had seen; considering it was supposed to be a medieval setting and shouldn't be able to make those things.

*

“Sir!” One of the techs at Sid Tec tried to get the head programmer, Max's attention. “Sir! You aren't going to believe this.”

“It's quitting time, dammit.” Max sighed. “What is it now?”

“F.L.O.W. accessed the internet.”

Max laughed. “It always does. That's how it sends data to the players.”

“No, sir.” The tech said. “It accessed it for content.”

Max frowned. “What do you mean?”

“My job is to monitor all the things being created and used in the game, and managing the databases so there's no problems for the game to bring up the items when needed.”

“Yeah.” Max said. “And you like that job.”

“I do, sir.” The tech smiled. “All the order and neatness is a soothing balm to all the chaos.”

Max laughed. “Got it.” He said. “So what happened?”

“This, sir.” The tech said, and turned his flat-screen monitor for Max to see the sensory deprivation chamber.

“Is that?”

“A sensory deprivation chamber.” The tech said. “It's now a part of the game item inventory list.”

“How the hell did that get in there?”

“It came in a data packet, sir. Along with these.” The tech hit a key, and a long list of real world items appeared. Everything from electrodes to an olympic-sized in-ground swimming pool.

“A treadmill? Modern clothing? Surgical gear?” Max shook his head. “What the hell?”

“It's amazing that this much could be inserted so fast, then rendered into the game mechanics.” The tech said. “I knew the AIs were the best mankind could produce; but this...” He shook his head. “Highly detailed, fully modeled and functioning real-world items in seconds.”

“Is there any kind of player ID on this?” Max asked. “If someone is importing these things and breaking our proprietary software...”

“It wasn't a player doing it, but it was done for a player.”

“I don't have to ask, do I?” Max said, and sighed as he checked the list again. “It's Ren Haddon, isn't it?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Damn that kid.” Max said. “He keeps messing things up on us.”

The tech smiled. “It gets better, sir.”

“How could it possibly get better?”

“I can't delete the new items or over-write them.”

“Excuse me?” Max said. “You have full access to the archives and call data.”

“I thought so, too.” The tech said. “But as soon as I change the IDs, or copy over the files, they are automatically copied right back and restored.”

“From where?”

“The automatic backup files.”

“How in blue blazes did it get backed up already? That's not supposed to happen until midnight!”

“I don't know, sir.” The tech said.

“Okay.” Max said. “Mark it for the programmers to go over tomorrow. Give it a priority heading, and it'll be the first thing they have to deal with in the morning.”

“What if the data is needed later, and the game doesn't have it?” The tech asked. “It'll crash, won't it? Or give an error?”

Max rubbed his forehead. “Have them replace the items with similar things. The sleep deprivation chamber with a sleeping bag, the treadmill with a set of paving stones, the operating tables with cots. You get the idea.”

“So the data won't be gone, just replaced.”

“Right. The game won't know the difference.”

The tech smiled. “I think you're underestimating the game, sir.”

“It won't know the difference, because we'll tell it that it doesn't know the difference.” Max said. “A computer can only do things within the limits we set for it.” He said. “Goodnight. I'll see you tomorrow.”

“Goodnight.” The tech said, watched Max leave the room, then turned the flat-screen monitor back around and turned it off. “That's what I thought about computers, too.”

*

Elise Stanford, the secretary at Sid Tec, hopped into her Hummer H2 and drove home at a normal speed. She didn't rush, because she still had a bit of time before she had to be at Ren's side for when he logged out. When she got home, she undressed quickly and tossed the clothing into the laundry basket, then took a shower. The water rinsed away the sweat that had gathered during the day, and she felt refreshed as she stepped out and looked at herself in the mirror.

“Hi, beautiful.” Elise said, repeating the words Ren had said to her that morning. She blushed just like she had then, then grinned as she remembered the kiss he had given her afterwards. She brushed her hair diligently, and it's natural waves formed as her hair dried.

“What to wear... what to wear...” Elise said as she browsed through her closet, looking for the perfect outfit. “Dammit, what do I wear?” She flung several outfits onto her bed, then went back to her closet. “I want him to see me, but I also don't want him to see too much of me so soon.”

Elise looked down as herself, and her massive chest hung there. “Yeah, there's not a lot I can do to hide you from his sight.” She picked a pretty black bra that was supposed to cover all of her, but all it really did was hold her steady while she walked, and stopped her from popping out of any top that she wore.

“No, that's a bit too restrictive.” Elise said, and tossed it aside and picked up a nice purple one with lace, that covered enough to save her modesty, but left enough that it would drive men wild. “Perfect!” She said, and put it on. It took some bending over and a few shoves, but she got herself positioned in the cups properly and fastened it in place. She started to put on the matching panties, then remembered she should wear another thick pad. She grabbed one, and looked at the underwear. There was no way it was going to cover enough to hold the pad in place, and she sighed.

“It shouldn't be this hard to dress sexy and practical at the same time!” Elise said to the empty room.

*

“I wish she hadn't left the blinds closed.” Gary, the NSA agent, said from the van.

“Geez, Gary. If you want her so bad, just go over there and ask her out.”

“Yeah, right.” Gary laughed. “The boss would kill me for revealing myself and blowing the operation, and then my girlfriend would kill me for trying to cheat on her.”

“Come on. You'd still let her kick you in the balls.” Bill said.

“Damn right I would.” Gary said, as he listened to Elise's running commentary about how different articles of clothing weren't the right thing to wear. “Just imagine the sight I'd see while writhing around on the ground, looking up at that statuesque redheaded goddess.”

Bill laughed. “Well, at least we know she legitimately doesn't have anything to do with this case, besides coming to the kid's rescue.”

Gary looked over at Bill with his eyebrows raised. “Then why are we staked out at her place?”

“I had hoped she'd have the blinds open, too.” Bill said, and Gary laughed and clapped his partner on the shoulder.

*

Elise went with a nice a-line black skirt, and a loose fitting purple top that matched the color of the bra. She added a black belt around her waist to hold the top closed on the bottom, and pulled it up slightly so it hung over the belt and didn't form around her chest like a lot of the other things she wanted to wear. She chose a pair of flat shoes to go with the outfit instead of her trademark heels, put on a touch of makeup to make her eyes pop, then decided to keep her contact lenses in instead of switching to her glasses, like she normally would.

I don't want my glasses getting in the way if I kiss him again. Elise thought as she grabbed her purse and tablet, and headed for the door. Watch out, Ren Haddon. She grinned. I'm dressed to kill, and I'm coming for you!

********

Ren explained as much as he could to Nathalia about the things she had seen in his memories, and she absorbed the information as if she was going to be tested on it later. Teepo on the other hand had remained quiet, and stood on the ceiling and stared at them. He wondered how his best friend had survived everything he'd gone through.

“They're called 'sneakers'?” Nathalia asked, and Ren nodded. “Do they help you Sneak?”

“A lot more than shoes do.” Ren said. “Unless they're wet. Sneakers squeak when they're wet.”

“And almost everyone wears them?”

Ren nodded slightly.

“Why?”

“They're comfortable, cheap, and easy to get.”

“Can you make them?”

“No.”

“Why not?”

“There's no rubber here.”

“And rubber is sap from a special tree, and only becomes rubber when mixed with other things and dries, right?”

Ren smiled. “That's right.”

“Are you sure there's none of those trees here?”

Ren looked at her, then grinned. “No, I'm not sure. I know just who to ask about it, though.”

“The Sage of Ages.” Nathalia said, then frowned slightly.

“What is it?” Ren asked her.

“Did she really tell you that you and her were going to get together?”

Ren nodded slightly. “She told me I'd have to go through a few things before the time came, though.”

Nathalia sighed. “Then... then that means... you an I...”

Ren shook his head. “She didn't say that.” He said. “She only said we'd be together. She didn't say no one else was involved.”

“But...”

“I know. It's hard to think that she's referring to something as if it's already happened, even though it hasn't, or might not happen at all.”

“But...”

“Probabilities are funny like that.” Ren grinned. “Like, how you just happened to be the cook on the ship that picked me up.” He said. “Imagine if I stayed in the hold and ate ration packs for the trip.”

Nathalia's eyes widened. “We... we never would have met.”

“Right.” Ren said. “I never would have come to the attention of the Council, I wouldn't have interfered with anything, and I would have been back in Aurora already with no clue about what had been going on.”

“By the gods.”

“But, let's not think about that.” He said. “I've only got another hour or so with you, and I want to spend it doing something worthwhile.”

“Like what?” Nathalia asked, and tried not to blush at the thoughts going through her head.

“Let's make some pastries!” Ren said and held onto Nathalia as he stood up.

“P-p-pastries?!?” Nathalia stammered, and he laughed.

“Just kidding.” Ren said and took her to her bedroom. “I have to properly thank you for saving me.”

“But... but I... it was only at the end that I... I finally convinced you...” Nathalia had a hard time getting the words out as she remembered everything Ren had endured, and what she had watched him endure.

“You did convince me, though.” Ren said and laid her down on the bed. “Right at the perfect time, too.”

“Ren, I... I really love you.”

“I know you do.” Ren said. “We're still sharing our feelings.” He smiled. “Now I'm going to make you feel so good that you're going to forget your own name for a while; because all you'll be thinking about is me.”

“Oh, Ren!”

For the next hour, the only name Nathalia could think of, or say, was his.

********

“Hi.” Elise said as she came into Ren's room.

“Elise!” Denise said, and stood up. She was thankful that the blue screen had ended only a minute before, and Ren was already on his way back to the giants. “You're here early.”

Elise smiled. “I tried not to rush over, but I get too excited to wait sometimes.”

Denise nodded. “I hear you.”

“How is he?” Elise asked, as she looked at Ren.

“He's... oh, Elise.” Denise sighed and held the tears back. “You have to see... to see the...” She shook her head, and then Elise's tablet beeped at her.

“I shouldn't get a download unless it's got a priority setting...” Elise said and put her purse down and opened the tablet. “Oh, my god.” She said, as the thumbnails and text descriptions popped up on the screen. “This... this...” Elise sat down in the chair beside the bed, shock clearly on her face.

