“Ren will be out in about 30 minutes.” Denise said. “He's running a little late with the giants.”

“With the what?!?” Elise looked at Denise. “That quest was supposed to be over.”

Denise smiled. “He's dealing with the ones still alive.”

“Some of them lived?” Elise asked, then looked at the television monitor. “He's already got them in their own settlement?” She shook her head. “He's amazing!”

“You don't know how amazing he is yet.” Denise said and took a deep breath. “Watch the videos, and then you'll know.”

Elise nodded and started the first video, then slowed it to normal speed and watched it again as tears came to her eyes.

“My sweet little Ren.” She whispered, and wiped her tears away as she watched the next video.

********

Ren had stopped in at one of the local farms and bought a huge pile of food ingredients to make various meals, as well as flour, sugar, and everything else needed to make bread. He also bought the cooking utensils and tools needed and stored everything. On the way through the Garrison, he stopped at one of the supply depots and picked up a few more tents, just in case some of the others were damaged. He was going to need at least one more for the new giant, anyways.

Ren had been tempted to take Princess along; but he wasn't staying that long, and could run this far pretty fast by himself, anyways. Teepo hasn't complained. He thought as he glanced at this friend that had perched on his shoulder as soon as he left House Neram Keep. Ren also had Adventurer's business to take care of in a couple of hours, and needed to get back home before then.

“I'm back.” Ren said as he ran over to the group of giant-sized tents.

“Hi, Ren.” Laurelia said as he came over to the stew pots. “You're just in time. The stew's gone.”

“Did everyone get at least one bowl?” Ren asked as he rinsed out the pots, filled them with water again, and she nodded.

“There was enough left for the trench diggers to have a second bowl when they stopped.”

“How far did they get?”

“Pretty far.” Laurelia said. “Go have a look.”

Ren ran over to the trench, and grinned. Nearly 500 feet of ground had been dug up in a trench that was 25 feet wide and 12 feet deep. He ran back to the cooking area and nodded to her.

“That looks great.” Ren said. “I assume people want to have supper soon?”

“Only the ones that had bowls of stew first.” Laurelia said and chuckled. “Like me.”

“It's a good thing I brought lots of ingredients then.” Ren said, and took them out. “Where's Nikaia? She can convert these and we can get some other volunteers to help cook.”

“She's in her tent, I think.” Laurelia said. “Can Telaka do it? He's right over there.”

Ren looked over at the giant she pointed to. It was the male giant with the inventory, and he nodded.

“Sure.”

“Hey, Telaka! Can we get your help?” Laurelia asked, and he came over to the cooking area.

“More food?” Telaka smiled. “I'll gladly help.”

He converted the food ingredients and cooking tools to giant size, and the table was immediately swarmed with helpers.

“With this we can make bread!” One of the female giants said, then looked around. “But... how in the world...” She looked down at Ren, who had gently pat her knee.

“I'll worry about making the oven. You worry about making the dough.” Ren said to her, and remembered what the oven at the mansion looked like. The female giant looked at him with raised eyebrows, then nodded.

“It's a deal.” She said, then got to work making the dough, and Ren had to make a trip back to the Garrison to gather enough stone bricks to make a giant-sized oven. He was tempted to borrow one of the ovens being used by one of the many cafeterias, but that would be too much to ask the soldiers and cooks to deal with. The loss of a single oven could throw off the entire meal schedule for a good portion of the Garrison.

Ren ran back to the giant camp and quickly made a raised platform with some of the dirt from the trench. Once it looked high enough, he climbed up and laid out the stone bricks into the right configuration, enchanted the ones on the bottom with fire, then covered them with another layer of stone bricks. Once that was done, he took out a chisel and cut a very slight angled edge into every row of bricks for the sides, then set them all into place on top of a temporary wooden brace. He made a shelf in front of the oven; but it was off to the side, so anything placed on it wouldn't get direct heat.

Stat Change!

Stonemasonry Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Stone Cutting Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

The bricks own shape and weight should hold them together. Ren thought, then asked one of the giants to cover the top with dirt, just in case.

“Are you sure?” The giant asked, and he dumped a shovel full of dirt on top of the stone arch.

“Positive.” Ren said. “The dirt will hold it in place if anyone happens to bump it by accident.” He said. “It will keep the heat inside the oven much better, too.”

“You little people and your crazy ideas.” The giant said, and kept shoveling dirt where he was told to. Ren packed it in tight, and into the crevices, to make sure it was as secure as it could be.

“I think... yes, that's enough.” Ren said as he stepped away from the enormous oven, then took the wooden brace with him and stored it. He thought 'Activate' and the enchanted stones immediately had the heat in the oven up to a warm temperature. “How's the dough coming along?” He hollered over to the giant workbench and the women working on preparing food there.

“It just has to rise for a while.” The female giant with a large bowl of dough said. “Is there somewhere that I can... yes, there is. Thank you.” She said as she saw the stone shelf she could use to put the dough on near the heat, but not in it. “You've done something like this before.”

“I haven't built one like this before, or one this size.” Ren said and waved at the oven. “This was a first.” He smiled. “I have baked a lot of bread, though.”

“Me, too.” She said. “I'm really glad to be able to do it again.”

“So am I.” Ren said. “Plus, it smells wonderful.”

“I always thought a kitchen was never really finished until it had that smell in it.”

“I like that.” Ren smiled at her. “That's a good view to have.”

“It's going to be half an hour or so for that dough to finish rising.” She said. “I better get back to chopping vegetables.”

“What did you decide to make first?”

“Thanks to that side of ram you brought, we're going to have a roast tonight. In the morning, we'll have ram and eggs.”

“It sounds delicious.” Ren grinned at her. “I'm sorry I'm going to miss it.”

“Oh? Why's that?”

“I've got Adventurer's business to take care of in half an hour, and then I've got to get your story out to the world.”

She shook her head. “I can't believe you can do that.” She said. “If you can... you... that's too much power for a little person to have.”

Ren smiled at her, and she went back to the giant workbench, then he went to his own workbench. The child giant was there with the female giant that was taking care of him, and the child held out the backpack Ren had given him earlier. Ren took it and pulled out the old and tattered clothes that were inside.

“Let me see what I can do with these.” Ren said, and unrolled them and put them into their proper shapes. “Hm.” He said, and put a hand under his chin. “They're pretty torn and messed up.”

The child giant looked like he was going to cry, and Ren beamed a smile at him.

“I think it's time for some little person magic!” Ren said enthusiastically. “First I need to take out my Magic Needle!” He said, and pulled the Master Tailor Sewing Needle out of inventory so that it magically appeared in his hand. The child clapped, and Ren took a little bow.

“Now! Some magic waving of my arms!” Ren said, and flailed his arms around wildly, and the child laughed. “Okay! I think it's ready!” He said. “Magic Needle! Grant me your power!” He poured Mana into the needle, and it glowed brightly in the dim light. “Restore this child's precious clothing!”

Ren held the needle to the child's top, and it started to glow. He heard a gasp; but he wasn't sure if it was the child, or the female giant standing behind him. At this point it didn't matter, because everyone that was nearby, and had gathered after hearing the child laugh, gasped as the top remade itself.

“Thank you, Magic Needle!” Ren said, and flailed his arms again to make the child laugh. “Now! Once more!” He said and touched the pants, and the same thing happened. The giants gasped as the pants glowed and remade themselves. “Ha ha!” Ren laughed. “Thanks again, Magic Needle! You can go home now!” He said, and stored it. To the child, the needle just disappeared into thin air, and he clapped again. The little magic show had cost Ren nearly half of his Mana Pool, but the look on the child's face was worth it.

“There you go!” Ren said, and handed him the clothing and the backpack. “Please accept this with the blessings of the little people.”

“Thank you!” The child said happily, and all of the giants stopped whatever they were doing as they watched the child go to the changing tent. The female giant that was watching over the child giant, stepped close to Ren and then knelt.

“That's the first time he's spoken since all of this happened.” She said. “Thank you very much.”

“It was my pleasure.” Ren said. “Hopefully, he'll continue to talk, now that he can wear the clothes his mother made for him.”

The female giant blinked her eyes at him. “How... how do you know that?”

“I'm a tailor.” Ren said and smiled. “Those clothes weren't bought from someone that makes lot of them; they were made with love and care.”

The female giant nodded her head and stood. “That they were.” She said, and walked over to the changing tent as the child came out wearing his old clothes. He ran over to Ren and took off the backpack.

“You can keep it.” Ren said. “I'm sure you're going to find lots of things to put in it.”

The child smiled, and ran back to the female giant and took her hand, much to her surprise. She looked at the child, then at Ren, and waved before they walked off to their tent.

“How did you do that?” Laurelia asked, and Ren turned to look at her.

“Magic.” Ren grinned. “Which I'll have to replenish before coming back.” He said, and took out several more tents in case the giants needed them. “I have to go, but I should be back sometime tomorrow to finish making clothes for everyone.”

Laurelia nodded. “We'll make this food last a couple of days, at least.”

“You should make sure the trench gets finished, too.” Ren said.

“How will you get back in if it's finished?”

“I'll make a bridge.” Ren said and grinned. “Goodnight, Laurelia.”

“Goodnight, Ren.” She said, and he ran off before she could say anything else.
