Midsummer was hot and entirely too dry. [Mages] that weren’t on wall duty deepened their wells to try to accommodate the prolonged dry spell, but they were still reliant on deliveries from Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] to avoid rationing. The only downside was that the water she delivered was seawater that had been purified and desalinated with Skills. It was perfectly safe to drink, but it still had an indescribably ocean-y taste that made it vaguely unpleasant to drink.

Fortunately, Remera was predominantly manned by war-hardened legionaries—men and women that were far too disciplined to complain about such a minor issue.

…They weren’t throwing the base’s leadership to the shimagu. Yet.

Another day of standing around concluded when the winged ogre took flight and returned to the shimagu camp as the sun set. There hadn’t even been a single skirmish between their respective forces, just the two of them wasting their day staring at each other while the winged ogre cycled through his pathetic efforts to intimidate her—seriously, the dumbass needed to, at the very least, come up with fresh material.

Ranthia was feeling lazy (among other things), so instead of climbing down, she just sent an image atop Remera’s walls and shifted to it. She dismissed her abandoned image while the ever-present mousy Sound girl reminded her to attend a debriefing with the base commander—as if Ranthia was somehow unaware of the routine after the bulk of her summer had been spent living it.

The meeting didn’t eat up too much time; even the self-important base commander could only make so many demands of her when literally nothing happened. It was just another hour of her life. And there was no small amount of loathing involved in that somehow becoming her standard for a ‘brief’ meeting.

Gods and goddesses, she needed some Avyna time. She just wanted to get home and pounce on the one source of happiness she had left in the world! Which meant that, naturally, she was less than halfway home before she was stopped again—this time by the moonlit glow that covered Remera becoming replaced by a dazzling array of vivid hues.

Ranthia didn’t even need to look up, she was getting used to the effect caused by Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] arriving once again. By necessity, the supply line Sentinel kept her visits randomized—Xaoc knew what the shimagu could do if they could ready a trap specific to her—which meant that Remera was just as unprepared as their hostile neighbors were.

The dazzling constellation made manifest descended rapidly, even as the [Mages] on levitation duty scrambled to prepare for the supplies. Aurora was still unable to land in Remera, since the powers that be declined to provide Remera with adequate arcanite to allow her to reform the vessel. This left Aurora vulnerable while supplies were ferried down safely (airdropping water barrels was almost as stupid in practice as the idea sounded).

Which meant that Ranthia needed to hitch a ride up with the [Mages] to help protect the stupid, beautiful bit of Skillcraft.

“Grace.” Sentinel Aurora’s tone was all business, but she saluted Ranthia—which, for Aurora, was a warm gesture of camaraderie, when it wasn’t strictly required by circumstances.

“The parasites been any trouble?” Ranthia asked with a companionable nod, keeping a wary eye on the not-distant-enough base.

“Weirdly quiet lately. Had a few pteros fly away from me earlier this month and I can’t even say if they were wild or infected. This war is all kinds of nonsense; I would’ve rather served against the formorians.” Aurora replied, as she leaned against the starry mast of her own Skill.

They were both ignoring the [Mages] that gathered their weight limit of supplies and descended. After so many repetitions, they could be trusted to grab what was meant for Remera without causing any problems for Aurora’s other deliveries.

Ranthia nodded her agreement with the sentiment. The shimagu base seemed to still be quiet, but she wasn’t about to drop her guard. The winged ogre rarely flew above Remera—they had artillery enough to make him pay for the attempt—but wariness was inescapable in times of conflict.

“Oh, damn. Nearly forgot! Message for ya.” Aurora called out.

Ranthia blinked and caught the scroll—sealed with the Hyrria insignia, which meant it was from Tertia—and peered quizzically at Aurora. The woman had to have been carrying the scroll on her person, which was… unusual.

“Got it from some retired Ranger when I finally went back to Ariminum a few days ago. She slipped me sixty-four rods to get that straight to your hand as soon as I could.” Aurora explained, not caring that they had an audience to her admission of taking a bribe.

It was weird, but Ranthia shrugged it off. For all she knew, maybe paying sixty-four rods as a bribe was cheaper than sending it normally—messages from Remus had been growing increasingly less frequent for most of Remera. She could read it later, it wasn’t like the scroll was going anywhere.

Ranthia returned to her watch until the [Mages] announced they were done. With that, she traded salutes with Aurora one last time and leapt directly off the side of the [Starship]—sure, one of the [Mages] would have happily given her a ride, but she was ready to get home!

Ranthia stepped into her home and laid eyes on the beautiful elf that was the light of her life—waiting near the entrance. At last, Ranthia’s paranoid vigilance fell away, and her world narrowed to the woman with the radiant smile that was about to greet her.

Ranthia didn’t even bother to slow her perception. With the full breadth of her stats, she tossed the scroll in her hand gently toward the table and rushed to seize Avyna. A fiery, needful kiss was an ample greeting. Once she was confident that Avyna was returning the kiss with as much fervor as Ranthia offered it, she carefully—yet roughly, elven fabrics were durable—pulled Avyna’s garments open as she steered her lover toward their dining table.

She was hungry for something other than food, but it was an acceptably close surface.

“Um, hi?”

Ranthia froze, her tongue still between Avyna’s lips, as she forced her world to widen just enough to recognize that they had company. Gailla was holding the scroll that Ranthia had tossed and was waving awkwardly with an openly amused smile. Glorine was seated next to her on the bench, her face practically ablaze with a frenzied blush as she tried to stop herself from gawking.

Ranthia’s desire warred with her baser emotions. Their friends were well below their level—neither woman had her third class—which gave Ranthia a few precious moments to make up her mind.

She separated her lips from Avyna’s—and managed to resist the adorably disappointed pout on her elf’s face—before she clumsily tugged Avyna’s clothes more-or-less back into place.

Guests. Sure. She could be polite and spend some time with their friends.

With a rictus smile forced through the blush that had consumed her face, Ranthia greeted their guests.

Alcohol and laughter helped. Ranthia’s frustration and disappointment soon were dislodged by the social lubricant and the warmth of friendship. Before she started to serve Ranthia, Glorine used to work as a messenger for a stodgy, rule-obsessed minor Legion official who assumed her word was all-important. Ranthia was practically undone by hysterical laughter over a story of Glorine’s former boss attempting to wield her tiny amount of power against a Legion logistics officer who kept responding to every message with a simple “No.” While the woman attempted to write longer and more formal and weighty messages to get her way.

By the time Ranthia and Avyna saw their—somewhat unsteady—guests out, Ranthia finally felt like herself again. Avyna offered her a promising kiss and offered to get things cleaned up before she joined Ranthia in bed.

Some things were more important than whatever amount of sleep she managed to snatch before the horns woke her up.

Ranthia happily grabbed her forgotten scroll and cracked it open while she discarded her tunic. While she waited for her lover, she could enjoy the words of another close friend.

Greetings to Ranthia, the Graceful Sentinel, from Tertia of the house of Hyrria.

“What in Xaoc’s name…?” Ranthia stared at the opening line. It felt stiff—formal enough that Ranthia had to squint at the handwriting to convince herself that it was actually from her closest friend. Tertia had never written like that in her previous messages.

After another two paragraphs of dense language and hollow substance—empty pleasantries delivered with rigid purposelessness—Ranthia finally reached the point of the letter.

It is with a heavy heart that I scribe these words. I have just left the Ranger Convocation, and it is my greatest hope that I am the first to provide you with word of what I have just learned. With condolences and shame, I report to you that Pyra—bereft of additional names—and Juvenae—similarly bereft—have perished in the year 4819 while serving their duties with Ranger Team 11.

All traces of Ranthia’s good cheer vanished.

“No…” Ranthia whispered, unaware that she had already whispered the same word multiple times while she read the dark message.

The rest of the scroll was a bleak read. Tertia had retreated into a businesslike, cold demeanor—which meant Ranthia had to wrestle with her impatience with her friend’s needlessly obtuse wording to find the nuggets of agonizing truth. Tertia had spoken to the team’s leader—Helvius, a man Ranthia had met, alongside a hale and happy Pyra and Juvenae—and transcribed her take on the story he provided.

Removing the formal horseshit left Ranthia digesting a terrible tale. A small group of Legion deserters—trainees that had never even seen combat and couldn’t even stomach the gentle abuse of whatever training the Legions did—had taken over a small farm. The Rangers encountered the displaced family and agreed to help. Eight fully trained Rangers—four of which were veterans of multiple rounds—against six half-trained Legion dropouts.

It should have been easy.

And it was—with a single, horrible exception. A level 97 kid—some nobody with low levels and mediocre talent—got a lucky shot off. A moment before the party’s heavy smacked him down, the kid loosed an arrow.

And Pyra was gone.

The arrow took her through the eye. She was killed instantly and without suffering—the coldest of comforts. Juvenae methodically eliminated the rest of the traitors and took it upon herself to use materials from the farm they had secured to build a grand funeral pyre. Her team leader elected not to stop her, and instead they bore witness to the pyre’s ignition.

They wandered off to deal with the damage and to find the family that owned the farm again while Juvenae stoked the funeral pyre as hot as her Pyronox could make it. A grand roar of dark flames.

When they returned, they found that she had joined Pyra in the conflagration. The official word was that another traitor had hidden themself and attacked her while she was vulnerable, but neither Tertia or Ranthia had any doubt of the truth: Juvenae had thrown herself into the fire.

The woman had always been complex and hard to read, but it was obvious that she had decided that she couldn’t live on without Pyra. The love the two shared was something that was foreign to Ranthia, but it had worked for them. They had a more distant happiness than Ranthia could accept, but it was their happiness.

Together they went through life, and together they entered Samsara.

Ranthia had—more-or-less—accepted that her immortality meant she would lose what few friends she had over time. That her last, tenuous connections to Remus would gradually be erased. But for Xaoc’s sake, she was only thirty-three—she wasn’t even considered old for a mortal human, at least for any metric outside of marriage.

But being a Ranger was even more dangerous than life as an Adventurer. She knew that. Gods and goddesses, just a couple of years ago, she’d scolded herself for assuming that Lysia would survive the round. Black Crow had a dark sense of humor—Lysia was plainly still alive, but the bastard took two of her other dear friends in exchange.

“My love. …What is the matter?” Avyna’s voice shifted from sultry to concerned.

Ranthia wrapped her arms around her beloved as soon as Avyna reached her. She clung tight to the one constant in her life that she could hope to hold on to while she tried—and failed—to find the words to describe what she had learned. Every option felt hollow, as if she was failing to capture the true depth of what she had lost. Pallos had grown poorer seasons ago and she had never even known.

Summer came to an end and autumn arrived. And with it, rare and terrible interruptions to the performative stalemate began. Larger attacks from the shimagu came without warning, between the games. But even then, Ranthia was still trapped atop her stone tower—where she kept some presumed twin in check by standing there—while men and women valiantly died all around her.

At some point, Ranthia had grown to truly despise warfare. Her entire career as an Adventurer—and, later, as a Ranger—had simply required her to find a problem, point herself (and her team, when she had one) at it, and break the problem with overwhelming force. War was materially different. It felt more like a fact-finding mission: a narrow role where her use of violence was aggressively discouraged. Just like with most fact-finding missions, Ranthia was forced to witness and learn of horrors, then she was forced to hope that someone, someday, bothered to resolve them.

