Neither Ranthia nor Avyna encountered that horrible [Bard] again. This made Avyna suspicious—no matter how often Ranthia affirmed she hadn’t done anything—until she confirmed with someone else in the caravan that the woman was still with them. Ranthia was just glad when the elves finally left a couple of days later, taking the menace out of sight and—hopefully with time—out of Avyna’s thoughts.

Her beloved needed happier days.

Ranthia’s birthday was heralded by a night of harrowing nightmares, each more brutal and twisted than the last. Nothing truly made sense, but the sensations of her body being cut, torn, and broken were far too realistic. The muted sensations of pain were never acute enough to wake her, but they ensured that she woke up hot and sweaty, with Avyna having scooted away from her in her sleep.

Ranthia got up and sighed while she threw out an image and shifted into it. In all honesty, she hadn’t really been looking forward to her birthday. Avyna had reacted with open mirth at the Reman culture of celebrating every birthday (according to her, elves only celebrated birthdays that matched levels/class unlocks and preferred to celebrate achievements), yet she had also tried to insist on a large party for most of the base too. She had finally agreed to a small lunch party with Glorine and Gailla, with Ranthia and Avyna spending the day together otherwise, but Ranthia was starting to regret even mentioning her birthday.

Avyna was the only person in Remera that could even know that Ranthia was turning thirty-three. If she intended to live beyond her mortal allotment of years, her immortality—her curse—had to stay a secret.

And, in her sour mood as she moved to silently pray at her altar, she found herself wishing that she had agreed with Avyna’s sensibilities. Celebrating her birthday as if she was still just a Reman Adventurer was a mistake.

Pallos’ cutest little yawn pulled Ranthia out of her mostly silent prayers—which was perfect timing since she was nearly out of mana. Ranthia stood and blew a kiss to her drowsy lover before she slipped through the dividing curtain and moved to start breakfast.

“No! My love, out! No kitchen for you!”

Ranthia blinked as her beloved—still wonderfully undressed—elf blurred through the curtains at speed and physically shoved Ranthia away from the kitchen. Wasn’t she just half-asleep?!

“I was in the mood to cook for us!” Ranthia confusedly protested. She liked cooking!

“I shall prepare our food. There are things in there you are not to see!” Avyna chided, even as she slipped on a robe that must have come from her Spatial storage Skill.

Ranthia found herself pouting for a second reason, until she was distracted by a larger mystery. How in Xaoc’s glory was there something in the cooking area she wasn’t supposed to see?! There hadn’t been any caravans for a couple of weeks!

Ranthia set aside her confusion and feigned her initial grumpiness until Avyna gave her eight kisses—each more wonderful than the last—after which she was mollified. As such, Ranthia accepted her banishment and returned to their personal area to settle onto the chaise (it was nice finally having a word for the ‘bench’) with her current reading project: a High Elvish book of songs that had been popular across the past eight centuries. It was a dense tome, and it was definitely more challenging than her current proficiency with the language could handle—she was forced to turn to other books and/or her notes to find meaning from unfamiliar words all too often. But ever since she had learned that Avyna possessed an exquisite singing voice, she was eager to find some excuse to hear it again.

It would be a tragedy if Avyna kept her passion for music sealed away just because of her horrible ex!

Once breakfast was ready, Avyna surprisingly insisted on feeding Ranthia every bite. It wasn’t exactly practical, but it was sweet and Ranthia was all too happy to play along. The best part was how Avyna gave her each sip of the pear juice, even if it was a touch messy—Ranthia never turned down any excuse to lock lips with the woman she loved.

After which, Ranthia expected to escalate things, but Avyna—the cunning minx—convinced her to accept a massage instead. The richly scented, woody oils were unlike any Ranthia had experienced before, and even without any dedicated Skills or classes, Avyna effortlessly put Sunrise to shame. Ranthia was left a boneless, blissed-out mess, that lingered even after Avyna smugly left her to recuperate.

Recovery resulted in an unplanned nap.

Ranthia had zero doubts that Avyna was trying to keep her distracted. Her sneaky, sweet elf continued to flit between different means to keep Ranthia occupied and away from the cooking/hosting area of their home. Her [Merchant] savviness even coerced Ranthia into wearing a new outfit for her own small party—an elven dress that proved to be absurdly complicated to put on. The green fabric wasn’t like any material Ranthia had ever seen. It looked like a solid color, but a different set of subtle patterns appeared depending entirely on the direction of the lighting that caught the dress.

More annoyingly, it had elegant golden chains—that looked extremely fragile—that formed a complex pattern across the surface of the garment. Ranthia found herself hating them as she struggled to get them in place and secure.

It was pretty and Avyna was wearing a blue-and-platinum version of the same dress, which provided just enough incentive for Ranthia to keep trying to figure out the convoluted garment. Honestly, Avyna had made it look easy.

Finally, Ranthia got everything settled and, at that very moment…

“My love, our guests are here!” Avyna called out as she poked her head through the curtains.

“How in Xaoc’s glory could you have possibly timed that?!” Ranthia sputtered, openly staring at her beloved in disbelief.

Avyna just offered a mysterious, yet playful smile—okay, yes, it was an incredibly sexy expression that momentarily stalled Ranthia’s mind—before she returned to their guests. Ranthia took a moment to recompose and convince herself that it had to be a fluke (there was no way Avyna could have predicted to the moment both their guests’ arrival and the time Ranthia needed to get dressed… right?) before she joined the others.

Gailla was fidgeting with an oversized fruit tart—the promised dessert that Avyna had ordered from her baking associates—adjusting where it was positioned on their surprisingly full table. Glorine was, increasingly unsubtly, attempting to signal to her perfectionist girlfriend that Ranthia had arrived.

The tart smelled amazing, providing a hefty note of lemon, with sumptuous slices of fresh pear splayed out across the surface of the confection. The aroma was gorgeous, though it finally clued Ranthia in that the only food scents in their home seemed to be it, the bowl of salad, and the fresh, hot bread—all already on the table.

But before Ranthia could start to feel too disappointed or confused, Glorine—visibly flustered—finally grabbed the sides of Gailla’s head and lifted her gaze up to Ranthia.

“Oh! The woman of the day! Happy birthday! Rine said you wouldn’t be interested, but my hometown had a tradition of singing a song for people’s birthdays—I’d be willing to sing it!” Gailla announced, with a large grin.

Glorine just buried her face in her hands.

“That’s fine, I’m just glad the two of you could make it!” Ranthia answered with a laugh. She had heard Gailla sing before—it was… an acquired taste.

Ranthia moved to hug her friends, but she paused—a familiar aroma had suddenly filled their home. Ranthia turned to find Avyna carrying a stewpot from the cooking area.

“It can’t be… is that…?” Ranthia didn’t dare to hope.

“Only the best for you, my love. Rabbit stew—I had Pandia get information from her wife and Lady Green about how you prepared it.” Avyna replied with a grin.

With unspoken apologies to their guests, Ranthia had to hug the love of her life first—and sneak a few kisses—once the stew was safely set on the table. She hugged her friends second (sans kisses) while she tried to settle her emotions. Her 33rd birthday was already better than the too-large party and lingering revelries of her 32nd!

Food was next. Ranthia still had lingering questions about how Avyna managed to keep the aroma contained, but the answer was almost certainly “enchantments.” Instead, she focused on savoring the rabbit stew. It was a valiant recreation of her own recipe. Sure, there were details that Ranthia could have quibbled about had she been a terrible person, but she was so touched that it was practically the best thing she had ever tasted.

Ranthia may or may not have eaten entirely too many servings, then while she relished her full belly, she was plied with gifts. Glorine gave Ranthia a pouch filled with roasted and seasoned nuts, snacks that could be kept for a good while (“For when you get stuck on top of that tower of yours.”). Gailla shyly gave Ranthia a small, framed mural made out of painted wood and stone chips that she had made (“It’s just a hobby, but I thought this was one of my best works.”). It was supposed to be artwork of Ranthia and Avyna side by side. The accuracy of the likenesses was dubious, but Ranthia was touched and Avyna clearly found the vibrant artwork to be very pretty.

Avyna found a place for it immediately on the fabric walls of their home.

“And from me, my love, I swallowed my pride a bit and ordered this in…” Avyna explained while she presented Ranthia with a small wooden chest.

Inside were four of those little brown confections that Avyna was so taken with.

“Oh, wow! I thought these were expensive?” Ranthia gasped.

“They are, but… well, I wanted to celebrate you properly, my love. Though I do hope you will choose to share.” Avyna winked salaciously before she leaned in, speaking in a huskier tone. “I’m also wearing your other present under this dress.”

Glorine’s face turned red while Gailla nodded approvingly.

Ranthia laughed and leaned in to kiss Avyna…

…Only to be interrupted by the sound of horns blasting an urgent warning a mere moment after their lips touched.

Ranthia wasn’t entirely sure if she or Avyna was angrier about the interruption, but she scrambled for her armor.

So much for a great birthday!

Sixteen days later, Ranthia stood on her stone pillar. The winged ogre was atop the former battering ram opposite her, making threatening gestures at her while she grazed on Glorine’s nuts and watched the skirmish below.

The shimagu assault force had approached Remera from the wrong direction—having cut into Coalition-controlled territory while they marched—which managed to bypass most of Remera’s scouting efforts. The base commander was still livid—as if he wasn’t responsible for the patrol routes—but Remera still had enough warning to harden its defenses and send word before their enemy reached them.

It was an unusual conflict, with intermittent actual skirmishes that were surprisingly small in scale. The shimagu had formed a camp just within view of Remera and periodically sent a subset of their forces forward, matched by a similar number of legionaries and dwarves. Three days prior, they had actually had an hour-long contest that concluded without a single fatality on either side.

Most of the base’s leadership seemed pleased by the change, but Ranthia’s nightmares had been worse than ever—during the rare moments she was able to steal brief naps. The situation reminded her entirely too much of what life was like in the Unbreakable Image while the troll twin toyed with them and trained. War, stripped down to mere games where each side postured.

Ranthia knew that she should be fine with it. Wasn’t a pointless contest with minimal loss of life better than rank butchery? It was obvious that the winged ogre would have loved to die by her blades (oh, sure, the idiot probably assumed he would win if they truly fought, but Ranthia was focused on the true outcome), but they were both bound by the ‘strategies’ of others.

Besides, he wasn’t the sole (purported) twin. He had only flown in more recently. The first day, another ogre—a big guy with a spear almost as outlandish as the trainee she had accidentally convinced to leave the Ranger Academy—had climbed the shimagu tower of wood to “oppose” her. His levels were a bit behind her own, with the exception of his third class having ninety-eight levels above hers (Steam, Gale, and Gravity). But he wasn’t the only new face.

There was a human archer too, barely into his third class, that was almost as bored as she was on top of the tower. Tentatively, he was her favorite twin that she had encountered to date; instead of glaring at her or making threatening gestures or ridiculous poses, he had wordlessly proposed a game to pass the time. One of them would hold up a number of fingers, concealed by their other hand, while the other tried to hold up the same number of fingers—with bonus points for matching the same fingers raised. It wasn’t much, but it was preferable to doing absolutely nothing for days on end—even if the base commander ended up petty and irritated with her every time she finished such a shift.

The twins (both confirmed and self-declared) only showed up one at a time, and her opponent always ascended their own tower—which kept her bound to Remera’s. The official word was that Remera wasn’t requesting reinforcements so long as their enemy remained honorable, which meant that Ranthia’s abundance of time to spend on her Avyna was at an end.

