He inclined his head towards Max for the last sentence, acknowledging the woman responsible for said kill. A bit of a grin ghosted across her face. “I do love that the six pieces thing stuck around. All generally correct. The one thing you got wrong is that Charl wasn’t merely half decent. He was really fucking good. You just have your perception warped because your freakiness is about throwing siege spells around like fireballs, and Zack’s freakiness is about throwing fireballs around that hit like siege spells. But obviously, there’s some similarities between him and you, and not just on the battlefield.”

Holding up her hands, she spoke over Matt who tried to object. “Now, you’re not the same in every way, but it’s hard not to see him in you sometimes. Charl could be… volatile. When he was in a good mood, he was one of the most delightful people you could ever be around. But when he was in a bad mood, it was everyone’s problem. And he also took everything far too seriously. Someone not bowing before him to the proper degree was a personal insult, attempting to contest him was a grave attack. Now, granted, that’s not too weird for a Sectie, but it’s weird for one of us to not be weird. We rarely fit such stereotypes. Look at Sien, she couldn’t give two shits about that stuff. And even Yun Me is alright.”

Matt just looked at her in bafflement. “I’m nothing like that. What?”

Max leaned back, sipping on a newly-full glass of wine. “Mmm. You’re not nothing like that. If someone gets you mad, you get real mad. And until we got to know you a little better, it was hard to tell what might make you mad. Your friends dying is understandable, but surprising you’ve made it this far without being long-numb to it. You get real evasive about explaining how your abilities work. Simply saying the words ‘rift break’ is enough to sour your mood, and you get really touchy around anyone you aren’t confident you could break in a fight. And at the same time, you get mad at mortals if they cross you, while also cultivating gratitude and reverence from them. But still, it’s just a set of quirks. And now that we know you, we also know the resemblance is superficial at most. Or at least it was until you mentioned your Truth and it was so close to his. Especially in Empiric.”

Matt just blinked at her, not fully comprehending how they could be similar. Sure, Max technically wasn’t wrong… for most of it, anyway, but it was definitely an exaggeration to say that they were problems.

Max rubbed the bridge of her nose as she said, “You’re The Master of Your Own Destiny. Charl was The Master of Destiny. Or, if he was feeling a bit egotistical, ‘The Master of All,’ and no, the arrogant little brat didn’t have his Truth before his title.”

It took Matt a few moments to process that type of Truth and the person it would take to create something like that and he shook his head. “My Truth is entirely different.”

“I agree. That’s what I was confirming earlier. They’re almost the inverse to one another, but not quite, and I know at least a certain red and blue someone isn’t going to be happy. And for some reason, my word alone isn’t considered sufficient to disabuse them of the notion that you’ll be a problem. So, if you don’t mind, I’d like to run through a few scenarios with you to present as proof when your Truth inevitably leaks to the group.” She paused, “The memory-lock offer is still on, by the way. I could even make the key be learning about your Truth some other way, so I’ll be able to remember and vouch for you whenever that happens without needing to re-test you.”

Matt let his gaze harden. “I’m fine with that because I’m not like that, and I’m confident that will be clear with a conversation and possibly a punch to a snout. I do want the rest of Charl’s story when we are done.”

After she agreed, Max launched into a similar round of questions to what Luna had done, and each answer seemed to make her relax more and more until she was laughing and joking with him by the end.

Waving him up, she led him through her suite and deeper into the space station. “Let's go look at a memorial. I always find visuals help with explaining things like this.” After a pause she added, “And I like to show off. The Empire stole our idea of letting Ascenders set up businesses. This was one of my side projects and I’m really proud of how well they have done in the hub systems.”

Matt had a ton of questions but didn’t voice them, trusting her methods.

He still didn’t like the implication that he was at all comparable to such a notorious piece of shit like the Master of All, whom even the other Ascenders didn’t want to interact with.

Finally, when they were in a museum of sorts, Max led him to a place he hadn’t really expected.

The Tower of Absent Chosen.

Or in other words, memorials to fallen Ascenders. Matt was slightly surprised. It wasn’t that Max didn’t seem to care, she’d just always been very focused on the present and future, not the past. Though, considering the mortals trickling in and out, this might just be a typical museum in Corporations space.

As they flew upwards through the tower, using a hole in the floor of each level left for vertical passage, Matt got the opportunity to take a look at the floors present. They started with the earliest dead Ascenders, and were getting more recent as they went upwards. If Matt had been told that anyone had something like this, he would have expected maybe a couple plaques acknowledging their loss, or something like that. But each of the floors had way more detail than he’d expected.

Because Max had been thorough. The earliest Ascenders didn’t have very much recorded about them, and even less was known about the presumed-dead ones. Those who Ascended tended to go out on their own terms, after leaving some kind of record for future generations. The dead ones… didn’t get the chance, but even a few glances in their displays was enough for Matt to pick up at least one or two things he hadn’t known about each of the fallen. Even when he didn’t see something new, there was always something noteworthy.

Slayer Daedalus had what looked like the man’s entire custom runic system documented in an extensive library. Honestly, that seemed a bit dangerous, considering how it effectively had a mind of its own, but he trusted that Max knew what she was doing.

Legend Death Knight’s last stand was rendered in an impressively gory illusionary scene, the man’s entire body splayed out as each bone and tendon individually grappled with a different one of the elites sent to kill him. Even after his probable-death, the necromantically animated body parts had carved a bloody swath through the Empire forces marching on Clans space, turning a near-stalemate into a horrendous loss for the old dynasty.

Some parts of the Empire still had a superstition about random deaths being from one of Death Knight’s fingerbones claiming yet another victim.

Gladiators Tick and Tock’s floor was illuminated by a light source Matt didn’t recognize, but was labeled to his [Identify] as being stardust collected from the remains of the Tier 25 star that the Clans had burned with their subsequently-banned superweapon to vaporize the duo. Matt didn’t have much time to look at their exhibit though, as they arrived at their destination.

While none of them had been sparse, the Master of All’s memorial was exceptionally detailed. Practically everything about the man was displayed somewhere in the hall, all around the centerpiece, an impressive recreation of the man’s dismembered body, limbs separated from the torso and his head little more than a bloody lump of flesh.

“Now. Charl was very charming. When he wanted to be. Even when he wasn’t, he had something of an aura around him that made it just oh so easy to excuse his problems as being no big deal. More on that later. Anyway, I’d known him for a while, we’d fought a few times in a couple of wars. There were… a lot of us active, back then. And things were far more tense, because the War of Monsters was in very recent memory. Despite that, we got along decently well, and while he wasn’t really my type, I’d never really had a problem with him.”

“Anyway, it was fairly well-known that he had a harem. A bunch of airheaded women he’d met on his travels and who were just so enamored by ‘the wonderful Andes Charl’ that they just had to tag along with him on all of his adventures. So, it wasn’t that weird when he was an absolutely incorrigible flirt. He just was like that, it was no big deal.” Max shook her head. “You have no idea how much I improved my mental defenses after this. But I digress. He was always trying to get us women Ascenders to go on a date with him. Not that any of us really cared to oblige. Lila never really played along, Sien already had a thing going on with someone else, and I was bored enough to agree to a single date.”

“I was very clear that I had no interest in joining the gaggle of girls following him, slack-jawed in awe of his every move, but he insisted it didn’t have to be anything that serious. Just a bit of fun, it only needed to be a one-off between two people who could properly understand each other. Eventually, I agreed. He really was that charming, and hey, he was probably pretty good at the whole dating thing considering how much ‘his girls’ claimed he was amazing. In hindsight, another red flag by the way, not that I’ve been calling most of them out. I know that the opinion of random power-leeches like that is essentially negative value, and I knew it at the time as well… but Charl… Anyway. We started our date mostly by strolling through scenic places near our mutual borders undercover, enjoying a bit of anonymity, when I piece it together.”

She paused, “Okay. So, for the sake of this making sense to you, I’m not going to try and explain the exact way that I figured everything out. Instead I’ll just break it down from the start. Charl was a Talent thief. His Tier 1 Talent allowed him to ‘claim’ the Talent of those who he ‘conquered.’ His Tier 3 let him keep and use multiple ‘claimed’ Talents, compounding their power. His Domain was also tied into it, letting him steal skills and even some Domain powers, but he mostly cared about the Talents. His harem was composed of women who he’d ‘conquered’ in bed, and stolen their Talents as a result. Once upon a time, they’d been powerful, ambitious, and clever Talented women, until Charl got his hands on them and tore their spirits in half for a Talent he’d as often as not toss out just a couple months later when he found something more exciting or powerful to replace it with.”

Matt sucked in a breath at Max’s explanation of the Master of All’s true abilities. It made sense, but meta-Talents were so rare as to practically be a non-factor. Talent removal was essentially a myth, Talent stealing was the sort of bogeyman that only existed in movies and novels.

His mind inevitably went to Manny and how Charl was a lesser version of the Tier 50.

Matt paused as he realized the flaw in his own logic. It might be more accurate to say Manny was the lesser version of Charl if everything Max said was true, which he had no reason to suspect she wasn’t. Being able to not only steal Talents but stack their effects was something out of horror movies and folk tales.

His musings were interrupted by Max continuing, “And that’s what he wanted to do to me. I, obviously, objected. Strenuously. You know how you always hear that I brought Charl back in six pieces?” She pointed at the recreation of the man’s corpse, with his limbs floating a few inches away from his torso, and his head nothing but a bloody mess. “Guess what the sixth piece was.”

Her grin was predatory for a moment, before it morphed into something that was obviously insincere, and her voice changed to a much lighter lilting tone. “Speaking of which, I’d like to talk with Rah about getting a sample of his spirit in case I need to forcefully descend the Master of All if he ever manages to make a comeback. I’m pretty sure I can use his spirit as a calibration vector if the bastard somehow survived a progressive mind-wipe, spiritual shredding, three personality overrides, and a very shattered Domain on top of a cell-by-cell brain deconstruction and cranial pulverization.”

Matt hadn’t known that but was still mildly offended. “And you thought I might be like that?”

“Thought? Not really. But we didn’t think Charl would be that bad either. We definitely feared it might be the case. Even before everything came to light, he was warping the vibe of the group chat, and that’s far too precious a thing for us to risk. I know you appreciate having people who get it. We care just as much, if not more, as none of us had fellow same Great Power Chosen near our own age and Tier.”

“I think I’m still adjusting to the fact he could steal Talents from people while they were still alive. Removal post-mortem is how that usually manifests, but stealing? Shit, how did they survive at all? Their spirits must have been irreparably harmed.”

Max shrugged. “It’s the only one I’ve heard of as well and I searched through every record I could get my hands on afterward. It might have started as a ‘normal’ scavenging Talent, but he pushed it hard. For all his faults, the asshole was driven to be the best.”

Matt looked at the dismembered replica of Charl and asked what he felt was the most important follow up. “And what happened to his harem? Did they die alongside him? I’m assuming his Talent was keeping them alive in some way.”

