Max smiled, and Matt thought it might be the first true smile he had ever seen from her with her fractals brightening and swirling.

“See, it’s questions like those that distinguish you from Charl. To him, people were either something to be pursued or something to hold onto as a trinket. The only reason he didn’t just discard his ‘spent conquests’ was because their minds were so twisted into pure devotion and praise towards him. But to answer your question, a lot of them are still alive. By the time the news that he was dead had properly broken, myself, Sien, Lila, and Olivier had raided his sect and retrieved the bulk of them. The rest took longer to track down, because he didn’t keep them all in one place, but Ollie is fast.”

“Did his sect know about his Talent?”

Max snorted. “Naturally. He got a lot of good Talents with their assistance, either killing them if he didn’t take a shine to them, or adding them to his harem if he did. It’s a bit tricky to say how much exactly they approved of what he was doing, because one of his earlier Talents gave him that aura I mentioned, of anything he wanted to do being fine.” Before Matt could clarify Max answered the question he had really wanted to know. “Not that it got them any mercy from us. Sien obliterated the sect in question and picked a fight with Grand Elder Desolate Plains about just how far it's acceptable to go to empower an Ascender.”

Knowing that Sien, Lila, and Oliver all had come to the rescue of the harem members lightened Matt’s mood slightly.

“What happened after that? Were they able to be healed?”

Max sighed and shook her head as she turned and led him out of the museum. “Not healed. The kind of damage they have is the sort you need a high-Tier spirit-specialist overhealer, the kind which just makes no sense at all, to even get a chance of beginning to mend. Anything that works by conventional medical techniques simply has no chance. But, we’re keeping them alive and trying to rehabilitate them. It’s not easy though, for all that they can sometimes pass as simply airheaded, they’re shells of people in a very literal sense. It’s been an ongoing project of mine to try and reconstruct whatever is left of the original person as much as possible.”

Entering a blank room, Max started an illusion which showed them in a healing ward. “Honestly, mind-wiping them all and restarting them as blank slates would be far easier, but they… aren’t really in their right minds enough to properly agree to that sort of thing. Some still took it, but only once we’d verified it’s not just because they’d rather forget their ‘master,’ and at that point most of the hard work is already done. We’ve even had a couple essentially return to full normality, including new Talents, but we aren't really sure what differentiates them from the others.”

The information about developing new Talents was interesting, but Matt didn’t bother thinking too hard about it when he realized the method to recreate it was not only cruel but gone forever.

She took a deep breath and let it out, but stayed quiet as Matt walked through the illusion, parsing the information that was being fed into it. It had a substantial amount of research data and Matt let his [AI] churn through it.

“If you send me the information I can have my guild and a healer friend go over it all. No promises on either front, but it can't hurt.”

Melinda’s Talent was unable to interact with spirits at all, but he knew that limitation had only pushed her into researching that side of healing, so she might have some insight.

Max shrugged. “If you want. I’ve had the best healers in the Corporations look at them, so I doubt there is much they can do, but I won’t say no to more help. They deserve to have normal lives, and we’re looking at another twenty millennia before they’re all better at the current rate.”

A burst of information later, Matt let his [AI] churn through it as well.

To his surprise, it almost immediately came up with a possible way to lessen the impact from the backsliding.

“Have you guys tried using Last Mountain’s Dew? Even though it's typically found as a Tier 10 natural treasure, it has the effect of making one's spirit more stable. I can’t see how that would be a bad thing in their case. Further simulations suggest using it in conjunction with Night Adder’s Venom might be useful for quickly repairing then locking in their spirits.”

Max just stared at Matt for a few seconds before shaking her head. “Right, I shouldn’t be surprised your [AI] is that good. That’s literally why we’re doing the integration. How many cycles did that take?”

“Only a few million.”

“Only. As for the question, yes we thought about using Last Mountain’s Dew. We discarded the idea because we aren’t trying to stabilize their spirits as they are but get them to regrow completely. We never considered pairing it with Night Adder’s Venom. I’ll pass that along, and we'll see if it's viable. I won’t forget to check in on the status of the integration, by the way. I was talking with Delphi that I’m working with someone else on it - don’t worry, I didn’t say it was you - and she had some ideas for some setup that I’m kinda now sad I wasn’t able to do. Do you want to focus on that this visit, or wait until later? I know you’ve still got some mods left before the fun really starts, but it’s always fun to talk strategy!”

Matt shook his head. “One thing at a time. I want to make sure I’m prepared for my Truth's mental effects before anything else. Especially mind altering things like integrating a skill into my subconscious. That's honestly kind of scary.”

Max clapped her hands together before rubbing them. “Okay! Then let's get to work. Sooner started sooner finished.”
