“The head of the Adventurer’s Guild, the foremost [Mage], usually head of the Mage’s Guild…hrm, the Captain of the Watch, Zevara, the head of the Merchant’s Guild…Olesm…”
“Olesm!?”
“He is chief [Tactician] in the city. He must advise on matters that may be military. He has a voice.”
“Wow. I had no idea he was actually that important!”
“Well, it is a civilian council. While the army is away they leave such people in charge. You know Liscor’s army is a mercenary one? They are a power unto their own, but they rarely return to the city.”
“Huh.”
Erin thought about that for a second. Then she stared at Krshia. The Gnoll wasn’t shivering, but she looked miserable, standing in her small stall waiting for customers as the snow fell down again.
Miserable. Perhaps it was her stall. It was too small. Erin remembered how it had looked before, how many wares Krshia had had on display. Now…
“I’m sorry about your shop. Did I say that before? I’m really sorry about it. I know it was hard—and I’d like to help if I can.”
Krshia blinked at Erin and shook her head.
“You say it as if it was your fault. It is not.”
“But I need to say it. I hired Lyonette, and I know you were upset. It must be so hard—if I can do anything, I will. That’s what friends are for.”
The [Shopkeeper] just shook her head.
“I must have new wares to sell, and that costs money. To sell I must buy, and I have less coin than I did. My friends in the city and those from my tribe aid me. They lend me coin and I buy and sell with that. It is enough. It is not as if you can give me more business—unless there is something like those hamburgers I may sell?”
She looked inquiringly at Erin, but without any real hope. Erin hesitated, and then smiled.
“I do have some ideas. Maybe not things I can make, but—I’ll try.”
“It is all I ask, yes? But where does this spirit come from?”
“I did a lot of thinking. Well, mostly on the wagon ride to Esthelm and back. I think I can help, and not just by giving you a bunch of coin or anything. I just—I want to make sure my friends are doing okay. Which reminds me, where’s Brunkr? I heard he was sick from Klbkch!”
Krshia paused. She had been smiling a bit at Erin. Now the smile vanished into the cold.
“My nephew? He is poor. He rests in my home, Erin. He will…be better after he gains the courage to do what must be done, I think.”
“What’s that?”
Krshia looked uncomfortable. She shook her head and glanced around the street.
“Better if you see for yourself. I would let him explain or you see, but not say it. Hrr. Perhaps there is time before more come to shop. Would you like to see?”
Erin hesitated. Krshia was clearly upset. If she wasn’t saying…
“Sure.”
It was a quick walk to Krshia’s apartment. Erin opened the door and recognized the cozy home. Nothing much had changed since her last visit, save for what looked like a heap of rugs on Krshia’s couch. Then someone groaned and the pile of rugs turned into Brunkr, wrapped up in blankets as he lay in Krshia’s home.
“Brunkr? I have come back, yes? And brought someone to visit.”
Krshia spoke quietly to Brunkr. He made no reply. He was lying with the blanket wrapped around his huge frame. Something stank horribly. Erin made a face and suppressed the urge to gag. She peered at Brunkr, but couldn’t see anything, cocooned as he was.
“What’s wrong with him?”
“Go away, Human.”
Brunkr’s voice was muffled but distinct. She saw him roll and then two dark brown eyes glared malevolently at her.
“Leave me, Erin Solstice. And take your cursed doombringer far away from me. Leave her yourself unless you wish to end up as I do.”
Doombringer? Erin frowned and then realized he meant Mrsha. Krshia frowned at Brunkr.
“Nephew! Be silent. Do not blame bad luck on the Mrsha child.”
Brunkr ignored his aunt. He sat up with an effort, groaning as his legs slowly unfolded and he shifted the blanket. The smell grew worse. It was the smell of…Erin’s stomach roiled and the crepes threatened to come up. The Gnoll warrior was breathing heavily and sweat was staining his fur as he stared at Krshia.
“Is it time to cut it off? Is that why you have come?”
“Cut? Cut what off?”
Erin blinked at Brunkr. He stared incredulously at her, and then snarled. He tore off the blanket from his frame and thrust his right hand at her.
Both Human and Gnoll recoiled. Erin saw yellow dripping pus, oozing around red broken skin covered in horribly stained fur—in an instant she realized where the smell was coming from. The blanket Brunkr had tossed to the floor was also covered in dried yellow gunk.
It was horrible. And disgusting. Erin swallowed hard and forced her stomach to stay still.
“What’s that? How did you…?”
“Your cursed one bit me.”
Brunkr snarled at Erin. He cradled his hand, unable to touch it as more yellow pus dripped slowly out of the infected injury on his arm. Erin couldn’t look away from the horrible sight.
Whatever Mrsha had done, and Erin vaguely recalled her biting Brunkr only a bit, that small injury had turned into a full-scale infection that had taken over a good portion of Brunkr’s forearm. It was horrible, and clearly not healing.
“That’s bad.”
Both Brunkr and Krshia stared at Erin. She gulped again.
“That’s real bad. Um, Brunkr. Mrsha did this? Have you—I mean, I’m sorry, but she didn’t mean to do that. Have you had that looked at by a [Healer]? Or gotten a healing potion or something? If you need to, I can pay for—”
The male Gnoll made a sound of fury and turned away violently. Krshia pulled at Erin’s arm and whispered to her as the two stood by the door.
“It is not something curable with a healing potion, and the [Healers] cannot fix such an injury, Erin. Not ones from Liscor—and not ones from Celum, I fear. It is too far infected now. Only magic might save it, and few know healing spells for this.”
“Oh. Oh no.”
Erin didn’t know what to say. She understood the problem. Maybe Brunkr would be okay in her world, but here a healing potion and [Healer] were the only types of medicine available. And neither one was specialized in fighting diseases or infections.
“It is my doom, brought upon me. It will fall on the rest of you as well.”
Brunkr stood in a corner, holding his arm, not looking at the other two. He had heard every word they had said with his acute hearing.
His arm. It was a ghastly sight, but Erin couldn’t look away for some reason. She kept waiting for Brunkr to turn so she could stare at it again.
Her right hand twinged. Erin stared down at it, and remembered a similar sight. She looked at Krshia questioningly.
“Back when my hand was all cut up Klbkch gave me a healing potion. It worked, even though it was sort of infected. Are you sure a healing potion—a good one—wouldn’t…?”
Krshia shook her head instantly.
“Light infections, perhaps. The body will fight it off in the end, yes? So a healing potion makes it faster. But deep rot such as this…no. It will only speed up the infection.”
“So what can you do?”
Krshia didn’t reply. But she stared at Brunkr and Erin saw the Gnoll’s entire body tense up. Erin went pale.
“No. Really?”
“He must—”
“No! Not yet!”
Brunkr’s voice was full of anguish. He bent over his hand, making a sound that was more animal than word. Erin saw Krshia staring at her younger nephew with deep sorrow—but also something cold in her gaze.
“It must be soon, nephew. Erin, even she can see your hand is gone, yes?”
“No!”
“No!”
The echo came from Erin’s mouth. Both Gnolls stared at her, Brunkr turning his head to look. Erin was shaking her head.
“No, Erin Solstice? But you see his hand. It must go or the rot will consume him as well.”
“No, it’s—maybe something can be done. Krshia, let me—I think something can be done.”
“Truly?”
“Impossible!”
Brunkr snapped at Erin, showing his teeth. Erin felt her heart beating faster, but not from fear. She stared at Brunkr’s hand and thought of doctors, hospitals. She had no idea—only a vague recollection of taking tablets and getting shots, but maybe…
“Let me try to help, okay? I think I have an idea. I’ll come back—”
“Do not lie to me, Human.”
Brunkr glared at Erin, seemingly more infuriated by her offer to help than his aunt’s words. Erin held her ground as he stumbled towards her. Brunkr’s voice was slurred by pain and grief, but he was still a warrior of a Gnoll tribe. He towered over her as he glared and Erin saw Krshia staring warily at her nephew.
“Humans—hrr. I hear Humans say try and give up in an instant. What can you do that my tribe—my aunt cannot? Can you save my hand? Tell me. If you lie, I will know.”
“I can try.”
Erin looked Brunkr in the eye. He stared at her. The anger was replaced by dull resignation in an instant.
“You will fail, and say you did all you could. Your words are empty.”
“I don’t give up that easily. Here.”
Erin stepped past Brunkr, to a pile of rags that smelled horrible. She found a bucket of water and washed the rags briskly as Krshia guided Brunkr back to the couch. Erin wrung the cloth and pressed it on Brunkr’s head. The Gnoll groaned and lay back. Erin turned to Krshia and silently the two females left her apartment.
“If you can help, I will give all to save his hand. But is it possible?”
“I don’t know. I don’t know, Krshia, but I know who I can ask.”
“Who?”
“Ryoka.”
That was all they said on the matter. Back at Krshia’s stall, Erin stood in front of it, feeling heavier than she had when she’d just woken up. She couldn’t get the image of Brunkr’s infected hand out of her head.
Krshia seemed equally weighed down, despite Erin’s assurances. She looked so tired. It hurt Erin’s heart. The girl cast around for something, anything that could make the Gnoll feel better, and then remembered one of the things she had decided to do. She put a smile on her face and made it stick by sheer force of will.
Lighthearted tone. Erin took a breath and did her best.
“I know Brunkr’s in bad shape, but can I tell you about something that’s going to happen a few days from now, Krshia?”
“Hm? What is this thing, Erin Solstice?”
Krshia eyed Erin as the girl tried to summon the powers of the holiday spirit. She spread her arms.
“Christmas! I know you don’t know what that is, but listen. Back where I come from…back from my world, we have a tradition. Every year, in the winter, just before the new year starts, we celebrate Christmas.”
“Hrm. The shortest day of the year, the winter solstice is yet a few days away. Before this is Christmas, you say? What happens on this day?”
“We celebrate. We give each other presents, eat lots of food—oh, and Santa Claus comes to give things to everyone!”
The Gnoll just stared at Erin. The girl tried to explain. She got most of the points across, although Krshia still didn’t understand why a fat man would run around with presents and coal to give to everyone. But the Gnoll was smiling when Erin had finished.
“So you intend to celebrate this—this day of giving soon?”
“Yes! Tomorrow, maybe? Or the day after? I know there’s not a lot of time to get gifts, but we can all try, right? But we have to do it before the new year’s. That’s very important. So…do you want to join in? I’m going to have everyone give gifts to two people so everyone gets presents. We’ll have a huge party at my inn and everything!”
Erin held her breath as Krshia thought about the idea. The Gnoll rubbed her face with a furry paw, and then smiled again.
“Christmas. Yes, it could be a nice thing to do. And I must give gifts to two others? Whom? Or will it be a surprise?”
Erin hesitated.
“I think that could get weird. I’ll come up with a list and tell everyone who their people are. I’ll uh, also make sure you don’t get Lyonette and she doesn’t get you. I guess I should keep Klbkch and Zel from being Secret Santas too.”
“Hrm. That may be wise, yes.”
Krshia bared her teeth in a smile. Erin smiled back.
“Okay. I’ve got to go. But I’ll be back. And—I’ll be back.”
“I know. Go safely, Erin. And have a merry…Christmas, yes?”
“Yeah!”
The girl waved and hurried off down the street. Krshia watched her go, and then sighed. The thought of her nephew was like a burden on her, a heavy stone. But somehow, she thought of it differently now. She managed to smile, and perhaps it was that which attracted a middle-aged Drake across the street to Krshia’s stall.
The Gnoll smiled wider, and began to talk with the Drake. Perhaps she was only there for a chat, but Krshia thought she could smell an opportunity here.
“Hello, Tesha. Have you heard of an interesting Human tradition? No? It is called ‘Christmas’. I tell you because it is coming soon, and you may wish to buy presents if you wish to partake. You see, on Christmas…”
 
——
 
So much to do, and so little time. Erin was trying to figure out which street to go down when she saw a familiar face and scales in the crowd. She called out at once.
“Olesm!”
“Erin? I was just going to see if you were back!”
The Drake beamed at her. They stopped in the middle of the street, the vapor trails of their conversation floating upwards as they talked and shivered.
“How are you, Olesm? We barely talked before—Lyonette says you were a huge help to her while I was gone. Thank you so much!”
“Aw, it was nothing—well, actually, it was sort of hard.”
Olesm frowned as he nudged Erin. They stood aside to let a grumpy Drake wearing armor and a group of other armed Drakes stomp by. The Drake wearing the most impressive regalia snorted as he saw Erin talking with Olesm.
“Humans.”
He passed by and Olesm shook his head.
“Sorry—what was I saying? Oh yeah, I was happy to help Lyonette. But it’s a good thing she managed to patch things up with the Gnolls so they’d deliver to her. My arms nearly fell off trying to haul all the food she wanted up to the inn every day! I don’t know how you do it!”
“You get strong. See?”
Erin tried to flex her arm to show Olesm, but all the clothes on her body made that futile. Olesm smiled and then fidgeted.
“I don’t suppose you’re free right now, Erin? I’d love to chat with you—I mean, there’s so much I’ve been meaning to show you, and I’d love to play a game if…”
Erin sighed and Olesm’s face fell.
“I’m sorry, Olesm. But I’m so busy! I have to go to the Mage’s Guild after this, and then…”
“I completely understand. I’ll ask again later.”
Olesm raised his claws and made to back away. Erin felt a pang as she saw how disappointed he was—and how hard he was trying to hide that fact.
