I am the Undying Savage, Falling Rain. Warrior of the People. Husband to Mei Lin, Sumila, and Du Min Yan. Prospective Husband to Zheng Luo and maybe Li Song if she’s willing. Son of Baatar and Sarnai. Brother to Alsantset and Charok. Uncle to Tali and Tate. Pet Dad to so very many floofs. Legate of the Outer Provinces. This is my world, my home, my family, and I will fight to protect it all. This is not all that I am, for I am still so much more, but even though the labels will change and people will come and go with time, so long as I stay true to myself, then I know I can handle whatever it is life throws at me.

Because even if am not strong enough to stand on my own, I have family, friends, and floofs to help support me.

Cradling Buddy close, I sit up with my sweet doggo in my arms and whisper sweet apologies for disturbing him, and he magnanimously forgives this transgression so long as I hug him a little longer as we take the scenic route out the window and down to the docks below. Setting him down next to the fountain, I take a look inside and see Blobby living his best life without a care in the world, and I envy him and Buddy for their simplicity. If I were like them, then this next bit would be easy, just a matter of shuffling forward a metaphorical half-step, but a significant half-step with no idea of what awaits me on the other side.

There are many reasons not to do what I am about to do, chief among them being danger and uncertainty. I’m still not entirely sure what I’m about to do, or what my chances of success might be. Could be 100%, or it could be zero if I’ve gotten everything wrong to date, which is all too plausible a possibility for my tastes. Besides, it’s not like the world is doomed if I don’t take this next step. I am the hero of my own story, but the world does not revolve around me, nor will it stop working if I fall dead or comatose for a few weeks. I am a hero, yea, but I’m also a cog in the machine, here to play my part and nothing else. Considering the risks, it’s only logical to hold off on moving forward until I’ve had time to really think things through and consider all the angles. It also wouldn’t hurt to get some advice from the people I trust, because I could be overlooking some incredibly obvious information that others would be quick to point out. Would anyone really blame me for playing it safe? No, the same way they wouldn’t blame me if I failed to produce a miracle and win this war single-handedly overnight.

There are no Spectres here to shake my courage, no Zhen Shi whispering lies into my ears. These concerns are my own, and valid ones at that, because if I had all the time in the world, I wouldn’t have the courage to take the next step. I recognize this now, accept it even, because why take risks when you don’t have to? The war for the West is all but won, of this I am sure, because Zhen Shi is preparing to cut and run even as we speak, so really there’s no harm in taking things easy. Soldiers will die, and people will suffer as the Enemy retreats and recuperates while the Empire advances to reclaim and rebuild, but such is life. I’ve done my part here in Meng Sha, even more than I realized at first, so there’s no shame in leaving Akanai, Dad, Grandpa Du, Nian Zu, and so many more established heroes to handle the rest.

I could go on and on about the benefits of taking it easy, but there’s really only one reason to move forward, and not even a good one. I would love to kick the shit out of Zhen Shi and end his reign of terror today, so I can go home and rest easy tomorrow. That’s why I pursue strength after all, a truth I’ve known all along, not for the sake of being strong, which is cool and all, but so that I can remain free. Free from conflict, free from strife, free from worry, free from fear, just… free.

A seemingly impossible goal, I know. Shen ZhenWu told me as much when I explained why I wasn’t interested in Imperial secrets. I pursue strength in order to be free, so it wouldn’t make sense to trade my freedom for strength, since then I would no longer have any reason to be strong. I remember his response so clearly now, and see far more than I first did. There we were, seated across from one another at the tiny square dining table where we would soon break fast, so close I could reach out and shake his hand. I didn’t appreciate it at the time, but he was offering me an olive branch with such an intimate meeting in his temporary private sanctuary, a place of safety and solitude for the real Shen ZhenWu, the man he’d been born as rather than the Imperial Scion he’d become, somewhere he could relax while looking at his equivalent of a ‘hang in there’ kitty poster. A meeting room like this was usually reserved for close friends or family rather than a potential subordinate and ally, a detail which flew right over my head at the time. Even if it was a ploy, I suppose I should feel touched, not because of the food or the honour or whatever, but because he was giving me a glimpse at the person he truly was.

One beset on all sides by his enemies and in desperate need of allies, so desperate he’d travelled all the way here to the outer provinces to wine and dine a lowly savage tribesman. God damnit. How did I not see this sooner?

I remember Shen ZhenWu stopping to study my expression after I told him my desire to remain free, but I’d been too nervous at the time to really notice his sympathetic expression. I took it for pity, but he understood my desire for freedom, because he shares those same desires while simultaneously understanding how far out of reach true freedom is. “I almost admire your foolish simplicity, Falling Rain,” he began, speaking softly so as not to give away his grief. “The freedom you seek does not exist, not for men like you or I. Service to a person, service to a cause, or service to your conscience, in the end, you are bound by circumstances beyond your control. You wish for true freedom, power enough to remain unfettered from all conflict or struggle? Not even the Emperor could grant you this request, for you’ll soon find that the more power you amass, the more fetters you accrue. There will always be a person, a cause, or a principle which you will serve, even if you think it’s of your own volition.”

And after dismissing me with a wave of his hand, he waited until I was at the door to add, “I have a soft spot for dreamers, so my offer remains, though for how long I cannot say. Think on it.”

Probably because he himself was a dreamer, struggling against a fate he feared he could not escape, though I’m still not entirely sure what his struggle might be. That being said, I’m beginning to think he wasn’t as antagonistic as I thought he might be and that if I’d been a little more flexible about working together, then maybe, just maybe I could’ve helped him avoid almost dying at the hands of Half-Step Divinity Wraiths assassins. Or maybe not. Who knows? The important thing is that even though what he said makes sense, I disagree. Yes, I will always be bound by chains of love, friendship, empathy, and more, but those are chains I willingly accept. Thus, it is wholly possible to be free of those burdens I reject, but only if I’m so much stronger than everyone else that they all have to give face when I tell them to sit the fuck down. Just be stronger 4head, simple as that, and despite my sarcastic undertones, it really is that easy.

Which is why even though I would love to sit back, relax, and let others bear the burdens for a change, I’m also kind of done with this war and would like it to end today, so fuck it. We’ll do it live.

On that ambivalent note, I take a moment to review everything I know before opening myself up the Void. The blue skies, azure waters, grey concrete, and green grass of my Natal Palace remain fixed in place, but I become aware of the vast darkness hidden behind them as I throw myself forward along my Path and leave myself no room for retreat. The barriers of my Core and Soul come down as the Energy of the Heavens surges through me, eager and excited to partake in the feast left before it. There is no warmth or chill, no comforts or burdens, no rage or benevolence, coercion or nurturing. There is only the Heavens, vast and ineffable, but I will not be awed by their might.

This is what it means to Shatter the Void, to become One with the Heavens as Dad once called it. This is the sort of strength I experienced in JiangHu, with my emotions and desires acting as a catalyst of Heavenly Energy. The Heavens care not for the fate of man, only what we have to offer it, and in my desperate desire to be rid of emotion and existence, I offered it everything I had save for what little I kept locked away in the Call Centre of the Void. A bargain too tempting to let pass, and in return, the Energy of the Heavens helped me fulfill my desire to be rid of all regret, but I had little to no control over what ultimately happened.

This is not the strength I desire, for down this path lies the unrestrained might of a false Divinity, power without control. Whether they are Ancestral Beast or Human Divinity, a false Divinity’s strength is not truly theirs to wield, else they would be able to control it, a dilemma I never really understood before now, but only because I never put any thought into it. Having Shattered the Void, they gain the ability to wield the raw Energy of the Heavens, but not entirely at will. In truth, all Divinities are beholden to their own whims and desires, ones that the Energy of the Heavens are all too eager to respond to.

And therein lies the issue. Control isn’t just about using Heavenly Energy, but when not to use it. Emotions run hot in battle and conflict, so all it would take is one errant thought, one unwelcome desire, one intrusive thought for control to slip away. This is why Divinities restrict themselves with the Treaty, because they’re not confident of restraining themselves in battle. The Energy of the Heavens is so responsive to their Will that they live in constant struggle, a struggle to keep their emotions in check so that they don’t accidentally harness the power of Destruction and do something they will forever regret.

Because while a duel between two Divinities can destroy the landscape for hundreds of kilometres around them, an all-out war might well break the world.

Staggering implications aside, I don’t need this sort of empty strength, something to hold in hand and never use. What good is a weapon if you cannot wield it without fear of destroying friend and foe alike? Lin-Lin was right, in that it is not strength that I currently lack, but control, so the prospect of this impotent strength is not enough to tempt me any more than strength obtained through a pledge of fealty. As the Energy of the Heavens surges through me, I refuse to struggle, nor will I surrender, for I am a man who walks his own Path. The forces of this world hold no sway over me, because I will not allow them any purchase. I seek no authority from the Heavens, but will seize it for myself, subverting its mysterious energy the same way humanity has harnessed so many other natural sources of power like heat, gravity, solar, and electric.

I am the dam which stops the river.

I am the wall which blocks the wind.

I am the forge which contains the fire.

I am the drill which pierces the mountain.

This is my Dao, an unyielding one which seeks to uncover all the mysteries of the world and wield power through the ingenuity of humanity, because magic is just science we have yet to wholly understand. A grand undertaking, one for which I fear I am ill-suited in the end, but even if I falter and fail before arriving at the peak, I am more than happy to help lay the foundation for future generations to come. I only see so far because I stand on the shoulders of giants, so I know that nothing is beyond the scope of humanity’s understanding. As long as we’re all working together, we’ll get there someday, and while I might not be the man destined to place the final piece of the puzzle, I can at least take the pieces out of the box and inspire others to help out.

This is not the entirety of my Dao, only a sliver of what I have comprehended. Much as I want the Dao, the whole Dao, and nothing but the Dao, I can’t handle the Dao. If I could, I would be more than a false Divinity, but a veritable God instead, a prospect which holds no temptation for me. If the end result is anything like the Brotherhood envisions, I would much rather be stained in the red dust of the mortal world for a single lifetime than live out eternity as a God without sex, drugs, or fame, and I don’t even really like drugs or fame all that much.

With no struggle and no surrender, I endure as the Energy of the Heavens surges through me in search of an urge or impulse to fulfill, only to find nothing save emptiness within, and emptiness without. I have no use for this wild and untamed energy if it will not bend to my Will, no use at all save to study and analyze how it flows through my body, mind, and soul in ways I can barely even perceive. This isn’t the next step, just the first step towards figuring out what the next step entails, a fact-finding mission to hopefully answer a few burning questions I still have bouncing around in my head. Time passes, seconds, minutes, hours, or even days, all in the blink of an eye, the Energy of the Heavens coursing through me so many times I’ve long since lost count, but my efforts bear fruit as I compare and contrast the flow of Energy through my ‘Spiritual System’ to what I’ve seen in others. As always, I focus my attention not on the similarities which are all too easy to pick out, but the vast differences in which the answers lie, and those answers come easily to me with a little help from the Heavens themselves.

