There are twelve major passages for Heavenly Energy to travel through, like highways or arteries, though I’d much rather use a different word to avoid confusion. Each one is fixed in place in and around a different major organ, tied together by more than mere proximity, and they are all interconnected by a complex network of minor, one-way passages. This last part is a tiny yet important detail I almost missed. These minor passages extend all throughout my body, yet are not anchored to it in any way like the major passages are, with so very many seemingly redundant interconnections that allow for a staggering number of possible routes for Chi to flow from point A to point B. The most efficient path is not always the chosen path, nor is it the best one even a fraction of the time, which I feel is important to keep in mind, though I have no idea why. Something to do with the connections themselves maybe? Dunno.

The most confusing part is how there is no cyclical flow, like blood moving through your veins or a river flowing down a trench. Instead, the Energy of the Heavens surges into my Core, which then feeds into each minor and major passage independently one stream at a time, and only now do I see an issue. The movement through my body is not… steady, not synchronized, not harmonized in any way, but more like one of those puzzles where the numbered pieces are all locked in a frame and you shift them left, right, up, and down to move them into the right order. There’s really only enough room for Heavenly Energy to flow through one major passage at a time, because the rest gets filled and clogged up with excess Heavenly Energy so that one passage can operate. It's as if each passage is its own individual machine that can only operate while the others lay dormant, rather than the twelve passages coming together to form an entire system working in harmony.

Which seems wrong, but I can’t really say why, except to ask why bother connecting all the pieces if they’re just going to act independently of one another?

Another point of concern is the lack of coverage in my skin. Much like my blood vessels, this Spiritual System is closed off save for an ‘opening’, for lack of a better word, in my Core, and an exit point that just sort of pops up wherever it’s needed. This seems normal at first, because if there were openings in my skin, then I’d just leak Chi all the time, right? That being said, it strikes me as weird because every time I meditate, I feel the Energy of the Heavens seeping in through my skin. It’s a very distinct sensation of tingling nerves and opening pores as a warm and refreshing breeze passes through me, one that eventually settles into my Core, but most certainly does not originate from there. Why the discrepancy in what I feel versus what I sense going on here?

The answer arrives in a burst of Insight, but I’m not sure if it came from the Heavens, Blobby, or myself. Hell, it might’ve come from Buddy for all I know, only that the answer becomes clearer once I recall my past experiences. Following the whole debacle in JiangHu, Taduk helped me fix my shattered Core with the medicinal power of Body Tempering baths. I’d severed ties to my physical form by then, but the Energy of the Heavens contained in the bathwater helped reforge those connections, which led to my soul being unable to fit back inside.

Or so I thought.

To fix the ‘issue’ of my too-girthy soul, I used the Energy of the Heavens to enlarge my Core, but that was taking two steps backwards, one that didn’t even work all that well considering how I kept leaking Aura after the fact. The issue with being a corporeal being is that I value my body and mind over my soul, but who says the soul must be contained inside the body? Why can’t the body be contained inside the soul? In fact, why does one even need to be contained in the other if they aren’t occupying the same physical space? My body and soul aren’t two cups stacked on top of one another, but instead two separate things co-existing in the same space, like light shining through a window or sugar dissolving into water, indistinguishable yet wholly distinct at the same time.

In fact, I think I understand why Shen ZhenWu said the Core is the medium through which we harness Heavenly Energy, and is both the key to humanity’s success and our possible downfall. In order to control the Energy of the Heavens, we Martial Warriors channel it into our Cores where we brand it to create Chi, which we keep there until it’s needed by cutting our Core off from the Heavens. A necessary work around to advance along the Martial Path, yet in doing so, we seal off our ability to progress past a certain point, or at the very least handicap ourselves in the process. All this time, we’ve been treating our Cores like a storage bank for Chi, but it’s true purpose is more like the central control system which coordinates its flow, the heart and brain of the operation, as it were. The problem is, we Martial Warriors tend to keep our Cores topped off, meaning there’s no room for our Chi to flow freely, which leads to a stagnant Spiritual System that only has room to circulate when necessary.

Which explains why most Martial Warriors have such piss poor Spiritual Senses, to the point where most don’t even know it exists, because their Spiritual System never properly develops in the first place. It’s like a muscle, in that you need to use it to improve it, but outside of practice and combat, our Spiritual System remains dormant and unused, and therefore our Spiritual Senses never have the chance to flourish and grow.

Now that I know there’s an issue with the way things are set up, what would be the right way to go about it? I’m not entirely sure, seeing how the Body Refining baths mended my shattered Core without any need for direction or oversight. The work of the Heavens I guess, restoring me to my ‘saved state’ or whatever, which means I’ll need to do something drastic to make this work.

Again, the answer comes easily thanks to my current state, though I still hate Insight with a passion. A flash flood unearths rich soil, and a forest fire clears away the choking undergrowth. Destruction followed by Creation; this is the solution I seek. There is no hesitation and only a little reluctance as I Shatter my Core and tear apart my Spiritual System with an effort of Will, clearing away the old to make room for a new and improved foundation.

A decision I immediately regret as every last nerve of my body is set aflame and I discover the true meaning of suffering.

The pain is not solely due to the destruction of my Core and Spiritual System, a truth I recognize whilst wracked by the all-too-familiar throes of this particular form of agony. This is the pain of loss, but not a physical or emotional loss. This is the anguish I experienced whilst trapped within Zhen Shi’s nightmare realm, one I brought upon myself every time I severed a finger to spare myself even more suffering. This is a pain which stems from the spirit, only amplified a thousand times compared to what I experienced before, for severing a single finger is nothing in comparison to what I did to myself when creating thousands upon thousands of Natal Souls. The pain was always there, I only lacked the ability to perceive it, having closed myself off from my spirit and soul due to the presence of my Core, a realization which has implications far beyond what I can currently see.

Thank the Heavens I was smart enough to limit myself to ‘only’ a few thousand of them, else I might well have killed myself in the process. Then again, I never really set a hard limit on numbers, just went with what felt right, so maybe I knew how far I could push myself without really knowing it at all. That’s the problem with Insight, knowing without knowing. If you don’t understand why you do what you do, it limits your ability to apply that knowledge in other areas.

No pain, no gain, but pain is temporary, so I shove all these unwelcome sensations to the back of my mind and put a pause on any further progress to give myself some time to take stock of the situation and figure out what to do next. Gone is my Natal Palace alongside everything else within it, and I idly wish I’d taken the time to say goodbye to my things before doing away with it all on a whim. More of my tendency to anthropomorphize things, because it’s silly to want to say goodbye to an object, but it is who I am. All that’s left is Buddy, Blobby, and myself all immersed within the darkness of the Void, and I focus on them to avoid getting lost and disoriented by the sheer scale of nothingness around me. Neither of them seem all too bothered by this, though my sweet dog goes on alert and scans the surroundings, sensing something in the darkness of the Void that I cannot perceive. Nothing comes of it however save for a low, warning growl, while Blobby floats in place and emanates a general impression of dissatisfaction over what I assume is the loss of the fountain. My Spiritual Weapons are still there, for they are a part of me no different from my arms and legs rather than merely objects tied to my Core like before, which is great because I would hate to lose them a second time. Most importantly of all, the information kept on my PC Keystone is all tucked away safely, stored in the same place it’s always been stored, an unused part of my mind I previously only accessed with the Keystone. Going through it is daunting and perplexing to the extreme as everything flows through me all at once, but the human mind is a wonderful thing, even one as stunted and stupid as mine. In the blink of an eye that stretches on for hours, the information is all sorted and stored away in a more accessible manner, done so easily and effortlessly I couldn’t even describe the process.

In order to move forward, I have fallen back to the start, but this is all part and parcel of my path. Just like I told the Abbot, if we each must forge our own Path, then by definition, there can be no ‘wrong’ steps, because every step is a part of your journey, including the parts where you backtrack after coming to a dead end. Failure is as much a part of life as success, and a far better teacher to boot, because I would never have known how to correct my mistakes had I not made them in the first place. Case in point, I know I can’t just leave the entire reconstruction process to Heavenly Energy like I’d been hoping to earlier, because then I’d just be back where I started, with a closed-off Core and faulty Spiritual System, rendering all this suffering for naught. Instead, I need to rebuild myself to be better than I was before, and in order to do this, I need a plan and Heavenly Energy I can control.

That’s the key word, control, and as I direct my Will to mending the metaphysical wounds left by my hasty deconstruction efforts and self-inflicted mutilations of the soul using the usable Heavenly Energy from Blobby, I realize the major difference between Chi and the raw Energy of the Heavens is merely one of volume. Much like water, there is no distinction in where one unit of Heavenly Energy ends and another begins, only a vast reservoir that comes together as a whole. Thus, attempting to utilize the raw Energy of the Heavens is akin to trying to shift the weight of the world all by your lonesome, a feat which requires a phenomenal effort of Will I lack even a scale to measure by, and one I assume is impossible for anyone short of a literal God. In contrast, when Martial Warriors channel Heavenly Energy into their Cores, they’re essentially going out and filling a cup with Heavenly Energy, and the reduced metaphysical mass renders it pliable to our Will. That being said, there’s only so much you can do with a cup of water. It’s still the same stuff as what you find in the lake, but you’d be hard pressed to put out even a campfire one cup at a time.

The long and short of it is that Blobby’s freshly Cleansed Heavenly Energy is in the sweet spot where it possesses enough ‘mass’ to Heal my injuries without too much direction, but not so much that my Will cannot direct it. If left untouched, Blobby’s usable Heavenly Energy will eventually merge with the ‘raw’ aggregate and become indistinguishable from the rest, the same way a raindrop on a window eventually flows back to the ocean in time. The Energy of the Heavens is like water in so many ways, and therein lies the answer I’ve been searching for all this time. I must become water, in a metaphorical sense, not a literal hydro-man one. Just as there is no real distinction between where the sea ends and where the tributary begins, I must reconstruct myself so that there is no distinction between the Void and my Core, with the only difference between Chi and Heavenly Energy being one of location. An answer that is both simple and complex, but I just need to keep it simple, stupid.

Alright then. Now I have a general sense of what to do, namely carving a working Spiritual System into my body, mind and soul all at once, a system which needs to be open and accessible to the Energy of the Heavens at all times. That being said, once this is done, how do I seize control of Heavenly Energy without having to pit my Will against the sum of it all?

Or maybe I’m looking at control the wrong way. I can’t pit my Will against the Heavens, because I will lose every time, but that’s not the only way to exert control. A waterwheel doesn’t use water directly to work the grindstone, but rather harnesses the flow of water to do so, so if I want to control the Energy of the Heavens, I need to build myself a waterwheel. Or figure out the Panacea of Heavenly Energy. Or find some loophole in the rules to exploit and make myself harder, better, faster, stronger…

