“Woof.”

A stern and strongly worded bark from Buddy snaps me out of my depressive introspection, only to discover his face pressed against my cheek in what can only be described as aggressive affection. Nestling in against me with more force than necessary, my sweet doggo grumbles in demand that I stop being sad and give him cuddles instead. If only all problems could be solved so easily, but the funny thing is, Buddy’s efforts bear fruit, because it’s impossible to be anything but contented while snuggled up with the best dog ever. It’s even funnier because I know he’s not concerned about my dark emotional spiral, but disgruntled he has to keep pulling me out of them. He doesn’t understand why I can’t just be happy, because there’s nothing here in the moment to make me sad that he can understand.

If only I could see the world from his perspective, so full of joy and curiosities, then I’d probably never be sad again…

Huh… I know I just went on a whole spiel about perspective and self-discovery, but I seem to have overlooked one important aspect. The Abbot once brought up a parable about the three blind men and the elephant, and how the blind men each try to identify what sort of animal it was. Rather than pool their information together, they each independently arrive at wildly different conclusions, and then fall out over their subsequent disagreements. I reckoned it was a lesson about ignorance and obstinance, how people tend to hold onto opinions in spite of the facts, but the Abbot had a different lesson in mind.

A cylinder floats on its side in mid-air, and behind it sits a back-drop of darkness. “Imagine the cylinder is the Dao, one we cannot perceive with our eyes,” the Abbot intones, his monotone diction so calm and soothing. “All we can see is the shadow the Dao casts upon the world, which in this case, is represented by the walls.” A light blinks into existence along the cylinder’s side, and a square shadow is projected on one of the walls. “Note that with the lights and walls in this configuration, the shadow formed by the Dao is a square. This is the truth.” The first light blinks out, and a second appears on another side, projecting a shadow of a circle against the backdrop. “In this configuration, the shadow formed by the Dao is circular. This is also the truth.” The first light appears again, while the second light remains in place, and now there is a square shadow on one wall and a circular shadow on the other.

“The light is our perspective, the shadow our understanding, and yet the Dao remains the same.” Understanding the Abbot’s meaning, I add, “Our limited subjective experience renders us unable to understand the Dao in its entirety.”

“That is one way to interpret it, Junior Brother.” The Abbot’s voice sounds like it’s coming from where he was seated across from me, but I am still unable to see him. “Another is that there is no singular Dao.”

Pointing at the cylinder, I ask, “But isn’t that the Dao?”

“Indeed it is, but if we are unable to perceive the Dao directly, then from our perspective, there is no difference between the Dao and the truth we are able to perceive, or more succinctly, the truth becomes our personal Dao, one unique to each individual’s perspective.”

The truth I perceive is my unique Dao. There is no singular, quantifiable Dao. The Dao is a square, and not a square. The Dao is a circle, and not a circle. The Dao is a triangle, and not a triangle. All statements which are true, depending on your perspective. The Abbot told me all this because he wanted me to know why we each must forge our own Path, but also because he needed me to understand that no one can interpret my own perspective besides me. That being said, maybe, just maybe, there’s another lesson to glean from all this, one that’s been staring us all in the face this whole time.

If the three blind men had worked together, then they would have had a much easier time identifying what sort of animal an elephant is. In the same vein, if we study enough shadows, then maybe we can extrapolate what the actual shape is. This is what I’ve been saying all along, that humanity could only benefit if we came together and pooled all our collective information and experiences. Not solely regarding the martial Dao, but everything and anything at all, for there is a wealth of knowledge out there just waiting to be tapped, an Empire full of hidden gems and diamonds in the rough.

That’s a goal for another day, but I can put the concept into practice here and now. If I want to know who I really am, then I can’t ignore how others see me, because my perspective alone is not enough to cover all the angles, even if I am uniquely qualified to view myself in the third person. Luckily, while dumping their scathing retorts directly into my brain, my Natal Souls collectively included a record of their experiences as well, alongside everything they sensed from the people they tried to help. Most of the soldiers in Meng Sha weren’t thinking about me as they fought, but some were, and their perspectives shine a whole new light on who Falling Rain really is.

Li-Li doesn’t know what to make of my confession, but knows I will give her all the time she needs to consider it, and that regardless of her answer, I will respect and abide by it. She respects me as a person, but thinks me foolish for always dwelling on my mistakes and wallowing in self-recrimination. Just as I understand her fear, she understands mine, and in this mutual understanding, she finds comfort and security. I am, above all else, a good man, which in her eyes, is one of the highest compliments any man can receive.

Yan sees me as the wind beneath her wings, but not in so many words. I am the person who always encourages and supports her, someone who will always be there no matter how difficult things might get. With me at her side, there is nothing she cannot do, and while I would argue that she doesn’t need me in the first place, she would vehemently disagree. Though she was initially thrilled to sense my presence and eager to see what miracle I would pull off next, she was actually disappointed when I didn’t send the Defiled fleeing for the hills and just win the battle outright. Yan thinks the world of me and sees me as someone who is larger than life, a man who takes on too much responsibility and demands too much from himself, yet one who inevitably rises to the occasion in spite of all the odds stacked against him.

To Mila, I am her beloved hero and a goal to pursue, a take which leaves me in awe and disbelief, for she has long since been the same to me. She sees me as the true rising dragon of this era and buys into the whole Chosen Son of the Mother business, because she’s seen how far I’ve come in so short a time and how hard I worked to get here. Despite knowing how much I love her, she still believes herself unworthy of my affection, which I would say is downright inconceivable if I didn’t feel the same way about her. She admires my drive, intelligence, talent, and more, but most of all, she is in awe of how much love and empathy I still have in spite of everything I’ve been through. Because of this, she was able to put aside her pride and marry me in spite of knowing I would take other wives, because she knows that I have more than enough love to share.

To Dastan, I am the benefactor he will never be able to repay, but he hides his overwhelming gratitude because he knows it’d make me uncomfortable. To Zian, I am a rival written friend, someone who challenges him to be better than the man he was yesterday. To Jorani, I am the benevolent boss who gave him the opportunity to become the man he is today, someone who saw the best in him and helped him see it too. To Lang Yi, I am the savior who pulled him out of the darkness, even though he walked out of it all on his own. To Bulat, Ravil, Siyar, Wang Bao, and so many others, I am the person who gave them a second chance, one they each feel they do not deserve, so they do everything they can to live up to expectations.

So many Irregulars view me as the compassionate and magnanimous Legate, someone who understands their struggles and does what he can to ease their burdens, a welcome change from how most nobles treat them, like workhorses and riffraff. Even though I feel like I’ve done nothing but exploit them, they are happy to have the opportunity to prove that they too are heroes in their own right, rather than sheep to be sheltered away from the wolves.

In this same vein, a shocking number of people here in Meng Sha see me as their role model and idol, hoping to follow in my footsteps and rise up as a hero of this generation. They see what I’ve done in so many different areas and hope to match me in just one, dreaming of one day becoming a dazzling hero, peerless duelist, tactical genius, economic authority, or even innovative pioneer. My actions and achievements have affected so many people in so many different ways, but I never would have known this to be true it if not for my Natal Souls.

And their perspective should not be discounted either. Even though my Natal Souls are all iterations of myself, their thoughts and actions in their moment of death surprised even me. Each and every one of them felt the need to contact me before dying, which I thought was arrogance, but turns out was just fear. Even though they knew why I delegated the work to them, they wanted to leave a last will and testimony before dying, because like me, they are all terrified of death. Yet in spite of going through so many of their experiences, I have not found a single instance of anger or resentment directed towards me for putting them in such a difficult position. Every Natal Soul was willing to give up their life for the cause, and not a single one hesitated when it came time to die.

An easy decision to make when your life is measured in minutes at best, as every last one of my Natal Souls would have died soon enough, except in the case of my Natal Soul General. He found a way to live, yet he threw his life away all the same. He knew he would die after Devouring those Spectres, knew Blobby would Cleanse him out of existence once he became Unbalanced, and yet he did it anyways without thinking twice. He could have reasoned with me and told me to go Devour the Spectres instead. It would have been risky bringing my true soul out into the Void to do battle with Spectres, but I would’ve survived the Devouring process and can Cleanse Spectres even without Blobby’s help. This would’ve allowed my Natal Soul General to live on as a separate entity, but he dismissed this line of thought without even considering it. Not because he didn’t want me risking my soul or believed my life more valuable than his, but because he’s a giant idiot just like me, who believes he is the hero of his own story.

And he was. We all are. Not just me and my Natal Souls, but everyone. Every last person in the Empire has their own story to tell, even the likes of Mataram YuGan and his clansmen, and all our stories come together to decide the fate of the world. My part in all this is but one of many. This is the truth, that we all have our parts to play, and I can only play my role to the best of my abilities.

So who am I?

The answer depends on your perspective. Husband. Son. Brother. Uncle. Slave. Savage. Runt. Whelp. Friend. Rival. Comrade. Commander. Bekhai. Warrior. Undying. Hero. Rayne. Falling Rain. Baledagh. I am all these things and more, but as the Abbot loves to tell me, I am all too fond of making the simple more complex, when instead, I should strive to make the complex more simple.

I am me.

I am everything I listed before, but also so much more. Though I am unable to distill the concept of who I am in a single statement, I know who I am, and that is more than enough to define me. I have my dreams, my ambitions, my fears, and my concerns. I know my flaws, but more importantly, I now know my strengths, because I have faced my fears thousands of times today and never once did I falter. Every last one of my Natal Souls marched gladly to their deaths, laughing in defiance every step of the way, not because they believed their lives inconsequential in comparison to my own or because they yearned for death and escape. No, they willingly gave their lives up because they knew it was necessary. No war is won without cost, no victory in war without death, and I would rather die a thousand deaths than lose a single friend or loved one.

And even though they all died with grace and aplomb, my Natal Souls did not die without regret. Their last testaments taught me much about myself, revealed to me everything I hold dear most of all. My wives, my family, my friends, my pets, each and every one of my Natal Souls warned me to be kinder to the people I hold dear, and it is a warning I would do well to heed. This more than anything has shown me that while I am drawn to death and romanticize it all too often, I am not so willing to die after all. Difficult as this life has been, I do not truly hate it as I’ve claimed all too often, but I would hate to lose it before I’ve had time enough to properly cherish what I have. There have been times when I tried to muster up the courage to end my own life, and other times when I wished death would come and claim me in the night, but even at my lowest point when I suffered so much in the mines, I never gave up or surrendered. I came close many times, especially in my darkest of days, but each and every time I clung dearly to hope and clawed my way back to life, because I am not a man who knows how to give up.

