Elemental Vile and Exalted were rather unable to be used together, but not really. The problem was that there was a whole lot of overlap between the two, so outside of very rare circumstances there was no need to use them both. Vile wanted to primarily harm enemies and secondarily help allies. Exalted wanted to primarily help allies and secondarily to harm enemies. Added to this, there were often mana concerns; one could only cast a spell so often before one’s mana ran out —for those who had such issues, anyway— and there was no such thing as Propagation Magic on Veird due to the Foundation Ban against that sort of power.

Erick had neither of those concerns right now; he had mana, and there was no Propagation Ban.

Added to that, Vile and Exalted had different focus auto-targets… When it came to buffing and debuffing magic, anyway. That’s what Erick was focusing on now, so that’s what he kept in mind at the moment. Actual Vile and Exalted damaging spellwork was a different ball game altogether…

But Vile was kinda Ooze-like and Exalted was definitely more Force-like—

Ah.

It was all slotting into place.

Erick envisioned a drop of Blood, which was the best Propagative baseline, that infected a person’s soul and locked them into that body. That was the baseline magic. When the person died, for whatever reason, their body would hold onto their soul and put it into a state of suspended animation. If there were enough sources of the animate-version of the lifecycle of this magic nearby, then the Vile and Exalted auras of those nearby animated minions would empower the dead body to animate with them. If there were no nearby sources of Vile or Exalted power, then the body would simply release the soul when the magic therein degraded.

But if there were animated undead nearby to power the raising of the corpse…

Yes.

Erick needed to add in some [Renew] spellwork for that.

But then… Yeah. This was an idea.

An animated corpse —the main active form of this magic— would then start oozing out Vile aura and wielding Force-like Exalted weapons that carried the Blood magic, and then they would keep killing others and infecting them with the blood. Carnage would activate if the undead spotted enemies against Benevolence...

Erick examined his thoughts and found them all distasteful.

… And then he considered power requirements, and control. From there came thoughts of how to end this spellwork once it was done.

Maybe he could do both at the same time? Have a few trips through Infinity using resonwork to connect animate-corpse to animate-corpse in a mana-sharing node-network so that they didn’t run out of power and constantly healed each other...

Erick paused.

“This is probably more horrific than that [Cascade Imaging – Luminous Beam] magic… Hmm.”

Now there was a thought.

Erick could probably tie this magic to a [Cascade Imaging] and use this magic both to survey the battlefield from that spellwork and also make a specific kill-switch for the spell through the Imaging. The only downside to that was that the people around here knew about radio waves. That was one of the reasons the [Cascade Imaging] back at base didn’t work so well. The smart forces of Slaver’s Den were using canceling tech to erase their presences from Erick’s Imaging.

… So don’t go off of radio waves, then?

He needed to update [Cascade Imaging] to resonwork and Benevolence and all of that to utilize the curve-through-infinity resonwork that Cascadio had shown him.

… Yeah?

Yeah.

That would be the first task of this magic making today. A new [Cascade Imaging] for a new era.

Erick looked out across the various little ideas he had cast into the air, all of them misleading and ill-formed, from fireballs that pained people through light to bullet storms to world breaking spellwork, and then he erased it all from the air. They were just the doodles one did when they were busy thinking. They didn’t mean anything.

He wondered what the people looking would make of them.

… Anyway!

Time to get back to work. Some people were trying shit.

Erick leapt up into the air and flew upspireward, to where his Lightning Path was guiding him right now. He found a giant abomination of rock and crabs scuttling toward the city. It was very well hidden. Erick landed right on top of it and crushed it dead under one foot. When the remains tried to cloy into his scales and flesh, he frowned at it, trying to understand what it was doing.

Ah.

This was tricky shit.

A lot of soul work in that little shit of a crab— Well. ‘Little’. It had been 20 meters wide, and that was a lot of space in which to put a whole bunch of replicating machines and undead slugs and shit. They didn’t get anywhere. They tried. They failed.

They would have been murder against anyone other than Erick, with them trying to burrow into Erick’s scales like they were. That would have turned a normal person into paste in a matter of seconds.

Erick fried them with copious amounts of fire—

Which they absorbed, and then the whole metal slug swarm grew. Erick’s foreleg was now crowded up to his elbow in black machine-slugs.

He tried Ice and the infection got bigger.

Hmm.

This was a pretty interesting attack. It gave Erick some good ideas for the spellwork he was working on. Of course, putting Mana Siphon into a bunch of replicating minions was probably a very, very bad idea. The creators of these metal slugs certainly didn’t care that they had done exactly that and made a grey-goo scenario, though.

Erick wondered if they had an off-switch?

Whatever the case, the slugs were trying to turn immaterial and slip into his soul, but his soul was a raging river and they could not swim upstream that fast at all.

Erick did not let the infection continue.

[Physical Aura] pulsed out like an explosion, physically ripping the slugs away. A more attuned aura vibrated the slugs into the air, to suspend them away from the ground. Erick continued to flow power away from his arm and the rest of his body, to push the slugs away, and it worked rather well. Within moments the slugs all floated in a vibrating sphere of power. He even grabbed up the slugs hiding in the ground and in the sand, and another, secondary crab hiding ten kilometers away from the first.

The black slugs roiled in Erick’s suspension like black cables all twisted into each other.

Erick broadcast his intentions though the nearest 50 kilometers, “I’m going to take these slugs to all four of the major cities of Slaver’s Den.”

And then Erick took to the sky and dragged along the slugs with him, headed toward Centrics, the nearest major city of—

The ball of slugs exploded like ten million firecrackers going off all at once. Within seconds, nothing was left except for broken flesh and charred machinery.

“… Hmm!”

Erick flicked some physical power at the broken grey goo, crushing it down to a molten ball of various metals, and then he did some Particle Magic separation, pulling out tens of different metals in various combinations; mostly iron. With a bit more flashes of power, Erick turned those different metals into ingots, and then into tiny slug sculptures. Then he made them all into a tiny sphere of slugs with some words written in slugs upon them.

With a bit of power, Erick zapped over to the edge of Centrics, about 190 kilometers away.

The wall of Underling Chains’ major city lay ahead; a solid black wall a hundred meters tall and crowned in turrets. Towering buildings rose into the sky beyond the wall, and everything there was as orderly as Erick had seen back in Wraithborne’s ring city, around the Evil Death Sun, but also a whole lot worse. In some ways, what Erick saw was just people going about their lives, going from market to market, or high-end shop to high-end shop, or eating good food, or doing whatever they wanted, except there were slaves everywhere.

10 slaves for every 1 slaver—

The turrets started firing what had to be depleted uranium, or something. Each ‘bullet’ was a meter across, too. They kinda stung. Didn’t do much actual damage. Erick turned on some defensive spellwork, and then there was no sting or damage at all.

He just hovered there, wondering if the turrets would get bored, or not.

Erick easily survived the turret fire, so he let that happen for a little while; 20 seconds, just to let them know they were ineffective. They did not seem to want to stop firing at him, though, so he turned on some reflective spellwork and returned their fire to them. In a flashing instant, bullets bounced in a way only magic could manage and bullets impacted the shields of the five nearest turrets. Bullets crashed up and away, headed back into the sky. The turrets kept firing for 2 more seconds but Erick tuned his reflections and made some precise return fire that broke through the turrets’ shields. Bullets the size of people ripped through the offensive structures.

People were already screaming about dragons in the city beyond.

Erick turned to lightning, went into the center of the city, to a garden square surrounded by dark trees and with a sculpture of Captain Shackle in the center. With a whip of his tail, Erick decapitated the winged elf statue and put the metal-slug sculpture onto the head’s place.

And then he got out of there, being sure to decapitate another two Captain Shackle sculptures on the way out and place copies of his slug sculptures atop each one’s neck. He scattered a few more slug balls here and there, just to be sure the message couldn’t be hidden.

He wondered what their response would be, for written in slugs, Erick had declared, ‘We’re showing off Propagation Magic now? Okay.’

Erick got back to House Benevolence well before some atomic bombs dropped. He stopped those easily enough. Honestly. Did they think his absence would take any more than 10 seconds? That he wouldn’t be back in time to stop the destruction?

Slavers were fucking stupid.

The only real defense they had was all their intrinsic hostages.

This was almost like that time all those years ago with the slave cities of Mainland Nergal, back on Veird. Erick had been involved in all of that shit, too, but the main contributors to ending the largest lands of slavery on Veird had been Destiny and Messalina. They cleaned up those lands and turned them into the Freelands, and Erick mostly supported them. He didn’t do much of that himself.

Since then, he mostly tried to forget those evils he had seen.

But now those memories were surging back to the forefront, because this place was so much worse than how Continental Nergal had been.

And to think, he was actually feeling bad about the spellwork he was going to make.

… Eh. Self-replicating angel-demon carnage-blood-radiation zombies seemed about as ethical as one could get with propagation-war magic… Probably. Erick’s version had the souls trapped in their own bodies, quietly riding along for the journey and completely insensate. If he wanted, he could make the souls and minds fully realize what was happening to them. That seemed a whole lot more evil and traumatic, though.

And allowing people to see what was happening to their world after they were soul-captured would probably disrupt the magic. Best not to allow for that sort of vulnerability; just make the souls silent and secured.

But first thing’s first!

An update to [Cascade Imaging] to remove a lot of the current limitations on the magic as well as add a whole lot more functionality and protection.
