Ta’Kamoil continued, “A Fireball on a hospital? War Crime. A Fireball on a military base? Battle Magic. A Fireball on a market that is both maintained and operated by warriors of a town? Ehhhhh… That’s iffy territory. It’s pretty safe to say that everything we’re doing here is a war crime, though, because everything here in Slaver’s Den is both a place of warriors and victims, because the warriors use their victims to fight for them. There is no getting around this war crime, and so our Apparent King is just going for the crime and being done with it. As an aside, 3 out of every 4 attacks Slaver’s Den are throwing at us are also war crimes, because most everyone in this House is a civilian, too. That’s how wars of extermination are, almost all of the time.”

Vanya raised a hand.

Ta’Kamoil asked, “Yes?”

Vanya asked, “How do you begin to make a distinction when 4 out of every 5 people were following soul-bound orders? For targeting with your magics, I mean.”

Ta’Kamoil said, “That’s philosophy, and it’s something that we probably won’t have to worry about too much, because in the following battles Erick will likely clear out the vast majority of combatants himself. But to actually answer the question: The answer lies in personal strength of conviction and perception tied into resonwork. Reson work is how spells curve and bend, and mostly you won’t be able to use that, so we’ll start with magical-based targeting systems, which are much more like working computer code and less like working resons…”

- - - -

Lanzoil watched the sky turn back to normal, then he got back to organizing the violent labor forces of the kitchens and farms and getting people separated, off to their own parts of wherever they needed to be. There had been fights. There would be more fights. Some people went to the healers who were working on those magics, while others simply got sent home for the day.

This latest altercation had been about the level of spiciness in some food items in the mess hall. There had been blood. The actual problem was not the spiciness, but the myriad traumas of the people of this land erupting in unkind, and unexpected ways. And yet, Lanzoil was still happy with all of this. In a normal society with this level of hurt there would have been murders by now. So far, no one had actually killed anyone else, and all attempts by the outside world to kill the people here inside this city had been thwarted.

The people here were getting along fantastically when compared to normal expectations.

And yet… The ‘city’ of House Benevolence was a crashed ship in a land of pained refugees, and though the warriors defended the walls from incursion, the incursions kept happening. Not a single person living in this land was ‘used to’ the explosions and otherwise happening outside, and those explosions and otherwise were going to get a whole lot worse before they got better.

Lanzoil had his work cut out for him.

At least Erick was giving them all some time to settle down before the next battle came. They needed that time.

- - - -

Erick settled down onto a barren plateau of rock overseeing the wasteland outside of his new city. He was about 40 kilometers away from the white-dagger wall, and he was alone. He was not worried about being attacked, but even if he were then he would prefer they take their big shots out here. Maybe someone would get stupid? It was not impossible.

It’d be pretty fucking stupid to attack the kilometer-long dragon who stepped out into the open, in full view of everyone, though.

Erick had grown sometime in the recent past, yet again. At this point he was about a kilometer long himself, including his tail... Or maybe only 900 meters? Still pretty big.

Erick wasn’t quite sure when his ‘largest size’ turned out to be nearly a kilometer long —and maybe 1.75 kilometers wide from wingtip to wingtip— but it had happened when he wasn’t really looking. He had needed to keep himself small when by the House in order to not cave in the roof or oversize his seat.

According to a short conversation he had had with Shadow about it, getting bigger as a dragon was a natural part of the power of a dragon, and didn’t he already know this? She had been surprised he wasn’t bigger than he already was. She had even hinted that when he approached her true dragon size then she’d reveal that to him.

Erick wasn’t sure if she had been flirting or not.

Anyway.

Time to make some cruel magics.

As he cast some channeled spellwork into the air, filling the world with the cloying sounds of black-green Vile and the roaring sounds of reddest Carnage and the softer liquid-reds of Blood, Erick reacquainted himself with these particular Elements. He had worked with them all before, of course, but not deeply, or with such a violent end-goal in mind. It was time to appease a fae of blood and death, because Erick certainly wasn’t going to try and appease the trickster one. Lord Eldraki wanted ‘a single heartbeat’ or ‘For Erick to share assets equally with Shadow’ and that simply wasn’t happening.

But Lord Dakka wanted magics of Blood and Carnage and Death.

… And Erick’s new people wanted spells of the same.

Perhaps, Erick thought, it wasn’t such a bad thing to step into this sort of arena for a little while, where the spectacle of it all mattered just as much as gaining security in the final outcomes of war. People respected power, and would think twice about disrespect if they felt you would truly fuck them up.

Still felt icky to work toward these dangerous ends.

Erick altered Benevolence to an Elemental Vile facsimile… And considered.

The part of that ‘bloodfire’ that woman had spoken of, the part where the light pained, was Elemental Vile. Vile had a way of doing that rather easily to those who it was tuned to inflict pain upon. Vile was, perhaps, one of the most war-useful Elements out there. Beyond its closeness to Contract Magic, Vile had a whole bunch of other painful and powerful effects. Sure, it pained those who it touched, who were enemies of the caster, but that’s exactly what it did so well. That auto-targeting. The ‘blood’ part of bloodfire was just to concentrate the effects of the Vile upon the blood-filled people out there in the area of effect. Vile, attuned to certain targets, would only harm those certain targets.

Such an auto-targeting system of ‘bloodfire light’ would have also boosted the physicality of all people who had Vile inside of them, too. Vile didn’t just harm, it also helped those on the Vile’s side.

Vile’s angelic counterpart, Elemental Exalted, was a lot more about the buffing aspects of that dichotomy than the injurious option.

And thinking of the Vile/Exalted dichotomy…

Incani didn’t actually have Elemental Vile inside of them, which is why the ‘painful aura’ aspect of this power didn’t see much widespread use on Veird. Humans didn’t have Elemental Exalted inside of them, either, which is also why that power was not seen on Veird. That was also Quiet War shit, which Erick and other world leaders shut down as much as they could.

Erick clenched his claws and extinguished the Vile light.

He moved on to Carnage.

Erick extended his aura forward and filtered the bright red glow of Elemental Carnage into the air. It was a roil of war and pain and bloodshed and broken bones. Unlike Vile and Exalted, Elemental Carnage was present in a people on Veird; the orcols—

Erick sighed as he thought of Quilatalap, and then he got back to spellwork.

Elemental Carnage was basically THE war mana. Orcols instinctively used it when they went to war or got too angry. At lower levels of Carnage, every [Strike] hit a little harder and every step made with [Swift Movement] went a little further. At higher levels, every [Strike] became a [Grandmaster’s Strike] and every [Swift Movement] became a [Rampage Run], or other similar Skill. Carnage didn’t see much use in actual spellwork, though, because Carnage was uniquely harmonious with Strength and Health; they were practically the same color back on Veird. Warriors used Carnage; mages did not. This was not wholly true, though.

The best way to get Carnage into spellwork was to attach it to something else. Usually something physical. [Flying Sword of Carnage], [Summon Carnage Elemental], and any variation of Carnage and Force would always work well together. Carnage and Stone did well, too, if you used the Stone to inflict physical damage. That was what Al back at Spur did sometimes, when he was actually fighting for real. Erick hadn’t ever seen that in person, but he had kept tabs on Al and the people of Spur, both because Al was a Benevolence Dragon now, and because Erick still liked Spur, quite a lot, so he knew what Al could really do if he had to.

… Erick wondered if they were doing okay. If Spur was still standing.

Surely it was, right? It had been the last time Erick had spoken to Yggdrasil about all that, but that was a month or two ago by now.

Right.

So!

Putting Carnage onto a summoned minion? Yeah. That sounded like the best option. That one bookish woman was probably on the right track with her suggestions of Carnage skeletons, or some such idea.

For the ‘best’ summoned minions were Death minions, and Erick also needed to use Death Magic to appease Lord Dakka anyway.

Erick flickered Elemental Death in the air before him. Grey light blossomed and the world turned lesser under that ghoulish illumination.

Elemental Death was pretty good at what it did, and that was to impose a semblance of life on dead stuff. Other Elements that were great at making life were Blood, Healing, and Ooze, and wow was Ooze good at making life. All Elements could make life, though, under the right circumstances.

In the Crystal Forest of 20 years ago, back before Erick and House Benevolence retook most of that land back from the desert, sand elementals were pretty common during storm season, or in certain parts of the land where sands always blew. Not nearly as common as literally any other kind of life, though, because true elementals were pretty rare in places where there were so many different competing elements, but still, sand elementals did exist. The much more common version of elementals out there were not actually ‘elementals’, though. Lesser versions of elementals didn’t go by that descriptor.

‘Lesser elementals’ were just slimes.

By that same token, some true elementals were hard to differentiate from oozes, like Blood Oozes, for instance. Was there a Blood Elemental that wasn’t an ooze? Not really. Life was a spectrum, and sometimes things didn’t show up how you expected them to.

A few different elementals didn’t exist outside of laboratory settings. Elemental Death was almost one of those Elements, because Elemental Death was very good at using what was there to make itself into a ‘living’, hunting, creative thing. So what happened was that ‘elementals’ rose within bones and bodies in areas of death, and then those dead things moved on to make more dead things. It was only when all the dead things moved on but Death still coalesced that you ended up with Death Slimes.

Rare, though.

Anyway.

Because of this automatic-rising nature of Death, it was pretty cheap to make a dead body obey you, compared to all the other kinds of minions one could make, because you didn’t have to spend power dictating how the minion would act in certain situations if you used Death to make them. Elemental Death was already doing all of that for the body it inhabited. All the necromancer had to do was add in some stimulus-response mechanisms and undead bodies would pretty much do what they would have done in life.

‘What they would have done in life’ was mostly walking around and doing not much of anything, actually, until the dead thing found living things that it could make into dead things.

Funnily enough, to hear Quilatalap talk about it, the reason dead things liked to attack the living was not out of any jealousy or hatred or anything like that —though those specific reasons did exist in some undead— but because the Elemental Death inside of them recognized that the living could be turned dead and thus give rise to more dead. This fact, combined with the hard-coded genetic and living predisposition for living things to want to make more living things, is what made undead kill people; it was not an evil imperative that made dead things kill the living, but a reproductive imperative to kill stuff to make more of their kind.

All of that was a fun, dirty joke among necromancers and liches and the like.

So making a dead thing attack and kill the living was pretty ‘cheap and easy’ —which was another sort of dirty joke. It was also basic. ‘Missionary necromancy’, as Erick called it one time, and then which Quilatalap had absolutely loved for all of the different meanings…

Anyway.

Cheap necromancy was cheap and often bad. Well done necromancy cost as much mana as other good spellwork of other types, and some would say it even cost more, because you needed bodies and souls to do the good necromancy. (Which was another sort of sex joke.)

… Anyway.

There would be a lot of bodies in the coming wars, if Erick let there be bodies, which he would need to, right? Because Lord Dakka wanted destruction.

… Did he really want to use necromancy against a bunch of necromancers, though? To create minions that could be taken from him?…

“Theoretically taken from me,” Erick mumbled to himself.

Actually taken from him?

Not bloody likely.

Now was a good time to practice some of his Propagation techniques, too.

Soul Magic propagation techniques, too… Er? No. Not really. But in a small way? Yes. Erick decided he wanted the souls of those he Carnage-killed, or whatever, to remain trapped in the bodies so that they could come out of the cities on their own, and line up to be brought back to life. Erick wanted those souls so he could heal them.

… Yeah. That would work.

And so, how to do this?

Erick kinda wanted to discard the idea of using Elemental Vile to pain people… But Elemental Vile was very good at targeting. Benevolence was good at targeting, too, so did he need to use Vile? Yeah, probably, because people were under Contracts and some Vile might be able to act as a layer of anti-reaction against those Contracts activating if Erick did it right...

Hmm.

An idea.

