There was a slight stink. People made scents. But mostly, everyone was clean.

She hadn’t done this ‘waking up in a pile’ thing since she was a hatchling—

She was a hatchling? No. She was not a hatchling. Where did that come from?

Memories flooded her mind, as she sat there in the warm press of bodies, of times long ago, in the caverns of the Underworld. She had been a person of some importance. A cavemaker? A river router? Something deep and needful. But her memory was unformed clay. Her ideas slipped from her thoughts like messy juveniles, unable to control their form so they ran around as naked snakes all the damn time—

She looked around herself again. Others were awake, just as she was. They looked at her—

She froze. Their eyes were not eyes. They were pits of shadow and light.

Shadelings. They were all shadelings. Everyone in the pile was a shadeling. But… They weren’t trying to kill her? Or maybe this was a deeper trick. She knew something of Shades, and they liked to play games. So she stuffed down her fear, as rote training took over—

Ah. She was capable of playing games. Yes. She knew how to be relaxed in the face of danger.

So while the shadelings were concerning, and their existence implied something awful, she put her cares of all that down, and found something more interesting to ponder, for something else had caught her eye. Something more important than shadelings. And as she gazed at it, her mind further crystallized.

The most important thing in the world was a brilliant green cloth that rested over her chest. Green, vibrant, shimmering slightly. She touched the fabric, and touched god. This simple cloth was a lifeline thrown to her, to drag her up from the darkness. She gripped that fabric like it was her entire world, because it was. She loved beautiful things. Beauty and art, and power. It was a great truth that a life lived in dim darkness was no life at all. This simple cloth, that was anything but simple, showed her that truth that she had almost forgotten.

She stared at the cloth as twilight morning drifted in from the windows, illuminating the brilliance of the fabric thrown across the press of bodies, with no regard to how expensive it must have been.

The woman gently dislodged the muscled arm over her shoulder. The man the arm belonged to grumbled, but just reoriented, and cuddled closer to the other man at his front.

She sat up, all the way.

Her eyes went wide as she looked around the room. Cloth of every color, worth hundreds of gold each, laid around the room, wrapped around people and pooled into piles, like someone had scattered wealth to children who had no idea what to do with such a thing but hoard it, imitating dragons.

The woman remembered something important. Her name.

Ava.

She was Ava, of the Jadescale tribe. Ava Jadescale. A second thought came just as fast as her name. She wasn’t hungry? For some reason, she remembered being hungry and desperate for a long time. Wandering in darkness, not knowing what to eat—

And she was naked! She had clothes, but what about her mask?! She had no mask! The shame of it all! And all these people, all around her! If they they saw her…

They had already seen her. Two shadelings were looking straight at her, right now.

For a rough second, Ava almost panicked. Then a calmer emotion took precedence. What was nudity in the face of all the clues piling up around her, that she was in the deep darkness? Recovering her mask was important. Making a new one was a distant desire. Survival was more important than anything. She was in the middle of a pile of shadelings, after all. That meant something seriously wrong was going on.

But the shadelings were sleeping. Mostly. Only a few out of dozens looked at her, or at each other. But no one moved. No one spoke. Some opened their eyes, just to close them ten seconds later.

Ava had time to sense her surroundings more.

She looked to her clothes, and saw them inadequate. They did not cover her hands. Glinting green scales dappled up her pale white skin, exposing her true nature as a shifter. The same scales likely tracked up her neck, and… Yup. She touched her neck, and the sides of her face, and felt the tiny scales that poked out whenever she was less than fully composed. This would not do. With a concentrated thought, and a tug on her natural magic, Ava pulled those scales inward.

Her body responded… differently than it should have, with sluggish means and then something that she had never experienced except for in the most dire of circumstances. She ran out of mana.

Sudden cold ripped through Ava’s body as her Mana bottomed out. She almost gasped at the sudden sensation, like falling into an icy lake. Her scales barely retreated. She almost laid back down in the pile; the warmth of others called to her. To sleep, to dream, to retreat from the fight. But she could not. She powered through the cold. After a minute, her thoughts became her own again, and she did not feel the call of sleep too deeply.

What in the Core was going on? She checked her Status—

Ava balked, loudly and worriedly. She was not a shadeling. None of that nonsense was correct. Level 1? What? What was this steaming pile of worm shit floating before her? Some sort of awful joke? A bad dream? She had just been level 0, too. She had just gained level 1 by bottoming out her mana.

She spoke, trying to voice her anger, but her voice cracked before she got out her first word, like she had not spoken in an age. Sounds escaped her mouth. They were almost words. Other sleepers woke at her sounds. That should have been worrying, but her voice was gone! Ava didn’t care about waking the monsters, for her voice was gone! She was level 1 again! She struggled to speak, panic tainting her throat, moaning louder—

“SHHH— Shut up!” said a man, sliding into the open door of the room. His eyes glowed like lightning behind a stormcloud, the brightest thing in the room, as he whisper-shouted at Ava, then to others, saying, “If you know you who are, get out of the pile, and get out!”

Five people, who were not already awake, lifted their heads at the interloper’s words. They began to grumble, waking others.

“… Shit,” said the man, who changed his tune as fast as he could, to something more musical. He began a small hum of peaceful notes, smoothly adding words to his calming refrain, “Iiiif you’re awaaaake, goooo on get oooout. If yoooou’re asleep then staaaay asleeeeep. Peeaceful dreeeams, doooo not wake. There’s nooothing to dooo, but recuuuperaaaate. Hmmm hm hmmm. Hmmm hm hmmm…” The man continued to hum and ‘sing’.

Ava stopped trying to work her voice; it wasn’t happening right now. Instead, she gazed across the space, staring at the people who remained awake. All of the moaning shadelings went back to sleep. The man visually picked out the shadelings who did not go back to sleep, jabbing his finger toward each and every one of them, including at Ava. He jerked his thumb toward the door.

Ava did not rush out of the room, to get out of the pile of bodies, as some did. Ava was not a hatchling, oblivious to what awaited them. She knew how this went. Shadelings served Shades, enacting all their horrors. She was a shadeling, according to her Status, and she was surrounded by other shadelings. Therefore, she would be expected to commit horrors. This was not a good situation, but what could she do? She was level 1; all of her usual power was gone. There was nothing to do except prepare for when there was something she could do to fight this fate.

She extricated herself from the pile, and from the elegant green cloth, to stand tall.

She almost faltered, as she felt the cold air rolling through the open door. She almost fell back into the press of warm bodies, to escape the coming fate. She did not want to be here. She did not want to enact the will of those great evils. She had never considered that shadelings might be real people, either. She had always been taught that they were soulless abominations, meant to instill fear of death in all who saw them, and emotional terror on a level few other torments could inflict.

And that was a whole new horror laid atop today’s tunnel of terrors. She had killed shadelings before. Had she been killing people?

How cruel. How awful the lies of civilization. How awful the Shades, to do this to people.

Ava shivered. But she walked forward. She would meet her fate, and crush or undermine it as best she could. They made a mistake when they raised her from the dead. She would see Ar’Kendrithyst fall from the inside—

Who was she kidding? She was kidding herself. They were going to break her. That’s what Shades did. They strove to break the world, and all the people therein. Ava had been a power in the before times, but even she knew not to mess with those dark archmages.

Ava did not cry, though that emotional need crawled through her head for a long moment. She held her head high, as she left the dark little room, and stepped out into the morning light.

… This was not Ar’Kendrithyst.

Where were the giant crystals? Everyone knew about the crystals. The city was supposed to be one of the wrought’s Geodes, wasn’t it? If Ava was being honest with herself, she was partially excited to see those looming towers of red-purple crystal. They were supposed to be beautiful. She thought back to the green fabric in the room behind her. The simple beauty in that cloth had made her think that maybe this wouldn’t be so bad, if she could get to see beautiful sights.

That those sights might be covered in blood or decorated with entrails that she would have to clean up…

That was a distant thought, kept purposefully as far away from her mind as Ava could muster.

But this land was flat, with a grey sky overhead and a few dozen scattered black stone buildings here and there, with nothing more than basic roads connecting one place to another. Everything was dark, and dreary. And boxy. The lighting was even uncoordinated! Blues and reds and scattered rainbow lights hanging in the middle of nowhere? What was this aesthetic? Awful! That’s what it was. Ava was appalled in a whole new way.

Ava frowned as she looked across the land. She had heard that the Shades were architectural savants, just as much as they were monsters. That they crafted homes of soaring crystal and worked with solid light and liquid shadow, with airy towers and flying buttresses and cathedral windows. Everything they made was supposed to be a testament to their power; that they lived in creative marvels in a land constantly laid low by war and spells strong enough to prevent [Mend] from functioning. But this place was just some tiny, dark village in the middle of nowhere! There was no beauty to be had in this place!

… Where was she? The air was chilly, as it usually was in a desert, and as she expected it to be in the Crystal Forest, and the Dead City in the morning, but those clouds up there seemed rather out of place. It didn’t rain in that land of orange sand and crystal mimics, if that’s indeed where she was—

A door shut behind them, closing off the hole in the ground where Ava and the rest of them had woken.

“Listen up, people,” said the incani man who ushered them out of that small room.

The incani man was obviously not in a true position of authority. Just look at his clothes; clean and well made rags, but still just rags. And no shoes.

But…

Was he? An authority? Ava quickly revised her opinion when she caught the eyes of those seven people around her, the ones who had come out of the hovel with her. They were all grey eyed; barely cognizant of their surroundings. All of them shied away from Ava’s direct stare, as though hiding the shame of their gaze. But the man was not shy at all. The man who called for attention had the brightest, clearest eyes of the small group, and they bored into Ava’s own, as she stared at the man.

The man broke the stare, as he spoke to the group, “You all are awake. And I don’t mean today. I mean for the first time in a long time. Anyone have memories of walking, but not knowing where they were?”

Furtive looks among the gathered group answered the man’s questions more than any spoken words; the group remained silent. They remained gathered, for now. There was no obvious danger in their decrepit surroundings, except for maybe the people further out from this hovel hotel, on the streets looking their way, but otherwise going about their business. Some of the men and women who woke up with Ava shied away from the glancing gazes of the people down the street. Ava did not. She stared back, and the onlookers averted their eyes.

The man began to speak, and Ava turned to face him, as he said, “You all seem mostly here. Mostly awake. Good. So here’s a bit of help for you, that I never got. I had to wake up in a pile, just like you, but when I was pulled outside, I had my insides toyed with by a Shade—”

One of the men next to Ava collapsed at the mention of ‘Shade’. Others shied away from him. Ava almost collapsed, too, but she had locked her legs upright, and her eyes forward. She looked past the speaking man, and hid her fear well enough.

“There are no Shades here!” said the man. “Stop crying. You’re in the best situation you could be, considering that we’re all damned and given up for dead as Melemizargo’s play things.”

At the Dark Dragon’s mention, everyone went silent.

The man continued, “Yeah. You are awake. You know the danger. You know the horrors.” He stood a bit taller, trying to be regal, saying, “I don’t know if we’re going back to that. I don’t know what’s happening. Some of you might get more memories in the coming days. I ask that you pay forward the kindness I am giving you now, to those less fortunate than you, who are still drowning in darkness.

