In several places at once, and as he watched red and green and blue fires erupt across the white fires burning on the fields of the dead, he said, “Good man, Slip. Thank you. I’ll get that done.” He added, “I’ve also got meats and breads along with beer and wine coming in a few hours.” He spoke through another two Ophiels, to include Mephistopheles and Zaraanka in the conversation, as he added, “Food will arrive soon. Anything anyone can make from the Farms will be needed, but I’m also bringing fabrics and such. I’ll try to get more tomorrow. Make some lists of what you want.”

Mephistopheles nodded, as he watched the burning land.

Zaraanka burned the land, and shouted, “Thank the Darkness! Food!” She added, “I hope it’s good, Lord Flatt!”

“Me too,” Erick added, “You all deserve something better than what you’ve been dealt.”

Erick felt more than awful about everything that had happened to these people, but as some overheard his words spoken to the three people in charge, for now, and some of them smiled, he felt a bit better. Not much. But… It was a good feeling.

- - - -

Clouds hung in the sky over a city transformed by hardship. What was once home to a hundred thousand, made of close knit apartments, drenched in rainbow lights, and stuck in the middle of a sandy nowhere, was now a sparse land of scattered structures, a great lake many, many times the size of the city, and farmland stripped half bare by people too hungry and tired to cook the vegetables first. Some held on to their sanity. Most turned insensate after all the recent deaths. Some squirmed on the ground; victims of their need to eat, and parasite-filled eels being the closest food around.

Beings of light descended on the town, into squares and courtyards, into the land surrounding the dark Crystal in the center of the city. They came with gifts of actual food. Shredded meats grilled well and fast, set into stone containers. They had been [Cleanse]d out of sight of all eyes, before being delivered onto conjured tables, but no one needed to know that. Beer and wine came in on feathered wings. Cheeses descended to where farmers had gathered their corns and their potatoes and their rice, to prepare what they could for all comers.

Rods of [Treat Wounds] flowed through the town in grips made of light. Tiny vials of purple liquids carried on intent toward those suffering from eels. Not everyone took their medicine. Some had to be forced upon people who had no idea where they were, or what they were doing. Some fought. They did not fight very well. They all got their medicine, in the end. Soon enough, they also stopped struggling against the pain in their chests, and their guts, as the sources of those pains died inside of them. Vomit and other awful facts of life was a common aftermath. Erick simply released more [Mirage Slime]s into the city.

As the sun set over the lake, turning the sky red and gold, and Erick took a break to let the people of Candlepoint fire their own spells into the water, others ate and drank and talked quietly about what was next. What would happen, now that they had a human overseeing the town? Sure, Erick was an archmage, and the current focus of the Darkness, but what did that matter when Melemizargo discarded broken things and created new things, at his whim? Was their reprieve from the Well just a cruel joke? Was this all there was to life, now? A pittance of food from a man who was too soft to undertake the problems coming on the horizon? A man who couldn’t even get enough food to feed ten thousand survivors? Some of them hadn’t even gotten to the meat before it was all gone. And while beer and wine were good, they needed water, too.

Erick had wanted them to be self sufficient from day one, with his catered meal as more of a luxury treat than actual food. But then the farmers had to burn the fields closest to the lake, a third of the Farms actually fell into that lake, and the rice paddies had been filled with purple eels. And then much of the water in the city, as well as the entire rudimentary sewer system, had been infected with eels. Those damn eels had screwed over all of Erick’s planning.

So he improvised. And he probably did what most people might call ‘too much’.

He went to his kitchen, in Spur, and cooked some mashed potatoes. With magic to assist in its creation, Erick made some of the best mashed potatoes, ever. Swimming in butter, with enough cheese and heavy cream to make them the best damn thing anyone could ever taste, those mashed potatoes were carried on feathered wings out to the middle of nowhere, where those two kilograms of food became two thousand. After a thought, and a concern to logistics, Erick added another thousand kilos of mashed potatoes to the mix.

Solving the water problem was easy. Erick just made it rain into cisterns, that he created, on the eastern side of the city.

When the next shipment from the caterers was ready, it was the last, so Erick tripled it, keeping some of the better cuts behind in case he needed to send more, but still sending more than enough food for everyone to have seconds. Each singular bottle of wine became ten bottles of wine. Each barrel of beer became three barrels. Cheeses and breads would keep for longer than the meats, so Erick quadrupled down on those, sending a house-sized shipment of hard cheeses and more than enough bread to last a week.

As the people of Candlepoint ate, and drank, and ate some more, Erick conjured temporary beds in every house in the city, as well as stacking temporary mattresses in the Crystal Courtyard for anyone to take. [Conjure Item] got a workout, but this was not a spell to rely upon. Using conjured beds for a night was okay, and what adventurers usually did when they were out in the field, but tossing or turning, or even sitting down in a conjured bed, was sometimes all it took to disintegrate the conjuring back into the manasphere. And yet, still, people were overjoyed at the beds. Some called for [Cleanse] over themselves, which they got, as they grabbed a mattress and rushed through shadows, to find a spot to sleep in a darkened house, or building.

The sun set, pulling its light from the world, turning the sky into a vista of dark clouds and starlight. Three crescent moons hung over the horizon, casting pink, silver, and white glows into the rainbow dark city. The prismatic lights of previous structures still hung in the air, like ghosts floating where walls and alcoves and roofs no longer existed. A few people went around under the orders of others, or on their own recognizance, casting new lights onto new buildings, or [Dispel]ing the old.

The new lights were not uniform. They were gold, or green. White was popular, but so was yellow. One building had red on the outsides. Erick had no idea why someone would paint their building in red lights, since it looked a bit bloody, but as Zaraanka came around, and shouted at the casters that she wanted pink, Erick saw what was happening. Zaraanka was rebuilding her Pink House; her bordello.

Erick let it lie. The matron of the bordellos wanted to reopen her pink doors to the public, and Erick did not have the energy to countermand her right now.

But it was nice to see that people were putting up lights that they wanted to put up.

… Still. Maybe tomorrow, Erick would see about organizing Candlepoint’s architecture and sewer and all of those public parts of city life into something everyone could live with. But. Eh. He wasn’t going to be a tyrant. He was support. The people of Candlepoint could make their own decisions.

Women laughed as they drank bottles of wine. Men joked over meat and mashed potatoes. Orcols made houses sized for them, while dragonkin and incani conjured castles and apartments, and groups of all sorts played cards under moonlight. People laughed over copious food. Some discovered, the hard way, that the mattresses Erick conjured and gifted to the town were not suitable for all activities, but some simply found sleep. They rested, and would hopefully recover.

Some cried themselves to slumber.

Some cheered at a fortuitous roll of the dice, or downed another beer, or dealt more cards.

When a woman found a guitar in the rubble and brought it to Erick for [Mend], she started playing, while others sang. Other people brought out their violins, trumpets, drums. Songs filled the night, soon enough.

Celebrations caught on slowly, but built to new heights as Erick copied food and beer, and even a few of the instruments and decks of cards and other such small niceties. He did all of that out of sight, but he knew that someone must have seen what he had done. These people could literally meld with the shadows, after all.

And then it was time for more gifts, freely given. Fabrics piled into the Crystal Courtyard, all at once, at midnight.

A woman from Zaraanka’s pink house was not the first to spot the new gifts, but she was the first to rush the pile. Ophiel guarded it, though.

Erick gently said, “Free to take, but make something and gift it to someone else, too.”

A fast agreement saw the woman off with needles, threads, and a luxurious roll of orange cloth, suitable for blouses or dresses or anything nice. She cried a little as she left the courtyard; happy, mostly, but sad too. Others came quickly, got their gifts, and left with the same message of supporting one another.

Erick was under absolutely no illusions that once he gave the items away that what happened next was completely outside of his control. But that was okay. Hopefully no one would get into fights over resources. If they did, Erick would have to covertly [Duplicate] those resources and leave them lying around the town…

Not too often, though. If he did that, then people would notice the pattern, and exploit it.

Whatever was to come, would come later. In thirty minutes, every single roll of fabric, from the heavy duty browns to the luxurious whites to the gauziest rainbows, was gone. Secreted away into some stash somewhere, or openly displayed in small meetings where one person brought the loot and everyone got a share. Rolls of cloth were now in the hands of people who could use them. And that was good.

Somewhere in all of that, the fires from the bodies and the eels burned low, then out. The only people left in Candlepoint were the living.

The city looked safe, for now.

- - - -

Erick sat up from his chair, and stretched. He yawned. It was well past midnight. The sun would be up in a few hours.

Teressa read her book in her chair on the other side of the library, but at Erick’s movement, she looked up. “Done for the night?” she asked.

Erick yawned again, as he dismissed an Ophiel over at Candlepoint, and summoned another in front of him. That Ophiel twittered in happy violins, before taking his spot on Erick’s shoulder, as Erick stood up from his chair. He said, “Yes. Done for the night. More work tomorrow.” He added, “Thank you, very much, for running all those errands, by the way. As soon as Kiri gets back she can run them.”

Teressa set her book down, as she smirked. “Glad to help.” She said, “It makes me feel kinda nice to help some shadelings. I just hope you’re making the right choice.”

“The way I see it, there isn’t any other option. They’re desperate people who the world sees as evil. Shared suffering. Religious indoctrination… The Shades have laid an awful trap, and it will only be defused through careful and plentiful assistance. If these shadelings aren’t supported, they will become what people expect them to become.”

“I could see that.” Teressa said, “But there’s still a danger, here. I just don’t know where the danger is going to come from.”

“Probably from some interfering Shade. Or. Heck. Maybe some other city state, or nation?” Erick walked out of the room, saying, “Good night, Teressa. Thanks for looking after me.”

“Good night, sir.”

As Erick got ready for bed, with a nice hot shower and a bit of light reading, and one last look to Candlepoint —nothing was happening except for sleep and celebration— Erick tallied up the money he had spent today. The mud flits would be available for pickup tomorrow, from Oceanside, which was also where he had to go to get the potions against violet eels. That ended up being expensive. 50,000 gold, just to combat a citywide eel infection. But it was a price worth paying. The food ended up being 31,000 gold, and was a smash hit, along with his four thousand kilos of copied mashed taters. The food from the Farms of Candlepoint did not go nearly as far as Erick thought it would go. But that would get better. The beer and wine and cheese went much further than it would have without Erick’s copying. That would last for weeks, according to what he saw. Bread would last five days, at most, and maybe someone in Candlepoint could become a baker and start baking by then, but maybe not. The fabrics cost 28,000 gold

All in all, he had spent something like 200,000 gold.

Worth it.

- - - -

The sky rolled over. Starlit darkness turned to cloudy twilight.

A woman in rags woke with the dawn, as was her norm. She did not know when this had become her norm, but as that fleeting thought crossed her mind, she felt different than she had before. Something had happened… a day ago? Four hours ago? She took notice of her surroundings, for perhaps the first time in a long time.

She laid in the corner of a dark room, with a dozen other people, all huddled together for warmth, with limbs spread as they were wont. A part of her instantly rebelled at the feeling of strange flesh against her own. This much closeness was almost suffocating. The only saving grace of her circumstance was that the arm draped over her shoulder and the leg wrapped around her own, were clothed, and no one stunk.

