“We’re in the city of Candlepoint, located in the Crystal Forest, about a [Teleport] east from the Wall of the Wasteland. We had a Shade overlord, but some upstart archmage named Flatt, who invented the first new magics on Veird in 1200 years, somehow swindled this city out from under that Shade. I don’t know the whole story. Doubt anyone does. I’m just trying to survive.

“But that archmage has given us some good changes around here. And here’s where you come in.” He spoke clear, and concisely, saying, “If you can farm! Go to the north of Candlepoint, and find a farmer. Valok Greentalon is in charge there. He’s a redscale. If you’ve got nothing better to do, then get your [Grow], [Telekinesis], and [Watershape], and go farm. We need food. You need food. Don’t worry about rains in this desert. Archmage Flatt brings the rains; that’s what he invented. Rain magic. Your duty is to bring in the harvests.

“Slip is the captain of the guard. He’s the one who is rather dark, and bright eyed. You’ll find him at the Guardhouse, near the lake.

“And that’s another thing. We have a lake! It’s being cleaned of a violet eel infestation, so stay out of it for now. And that there is a major concern. We need help with the lake, and someone who knows how to make a proper sewer system. If you’re a Sewermaster, then thank Melemizargo! We need you most of all. We can shit in buckets for a while, but no one wants that.

“If you can sculpt stone, or you want to kill monsters to keep the town safe! Go find Zaraanka Checharin. She’s a human who likes to wear pink, who runs the Pink House. Zaraanka is also your go-to if you want to go kill Crystal Mimics and get your own rads to eat.

“That’s another thing. You’re a Shadeling. Now that you’re not wandering in the darkness, that means your rad has stabilized. To keep it that way, you need to consume a thousand mana a day. You can mostly consume your own. But you need refills, to keep your mana fresh. You get that by eating maybe 50 mana a day in rads. More is better. Less makes you feel less like yourself.” He stressed, “If you don’t, then you’ll turn monster—”

A woman, suddenly frantic as she heard herself called a monster, spat, “I’m not a monster!”

The man leveled his eyes at the woman. “You are. Feel your mana in your heart, and pour it inside, towards your core. This is how you eat your tail to survive. A dozen cycles per day is usually enough to keep your mind clear.”

The woman went silent; stunned. She did not seem to be looking at her chest, or looking inward, but others did.

Ava was one of them.

She had spent most of her mana, not minutes ago, but the little she had was more than enough to experiment with. As mana flowed within, a new sense that she had never possessed spun through her body, as she controlled her minor amount of mana to flow inside. It was a new feeling, filled with the cold of mana leaving her, but that cold blossomed into a warmth that expanded outward, refilling her body with mana, bringing feeling back to her fingers and toes. Ava ‘cycled’ her mana, for just a few more points. She almost smiled, but she did not. This was easier than completing the Class Ability Slot Quests. She could do this all day.

The man said, “You also level by doing this. Just as if you were spending mana on a skill.”

Ava gasped. She spoke, and nothing came out. She grabbed her throat.

The incani man looked to her—

An orcol woman, who also gasped, spoke up, right as Ava tried to figure out what was wrong with her throat, saying, “Does that mean there is no level 15 limit on casual growth?”

“Yes.” The man said, “You deduced that rather fast.” He said to the group, “But you’ll find your options limited, severely. We’re not in the Script. We’re monsters. Or something. You will naturally have [Shadowblend]—”

The orcol woman exclaimed, “The [Shadowalk] ability?!”

“Yes!” The incani man, slightly tired now, said, “Stop interrupting.” When no one said anything else, he continued, “You have [Shadowblend]. I suggest you learn how to use it. And there’s no [Teleport] for any of us. We are stuck here in Candlepoint, so banish all thoughts of escaping. You wouldn’t make it a kilometer outside the city walls.”

The orcol woman looked to the air, whispering to herself, “Shit. Not even [Blink]?”

“No spatial magic at all.” The man said, “And here’s the shit that we’re all in:

“Candlepoint, this city, is some sort of bridge between Melemizargo and the rest of civilization. The Dark God is trying to reconnect with the other powers of the world, or something. When the Shade was in charge of Candlepoint, shadelings died when they tried to defend themselves from the rest of the world’s cautious and violent individuals. We have had representatives from the Headmaster, to the Viridian King, and everyone else you can think of.

“Since Archmage Flatt got in charge… It’s been better. But still: We’ve got the support of ONE ARCHMAGE. ONE. Got that? You make trouble for him, or for others, or with anyone who might visit the town, then you make trouble for us all. Get with the program or you will be taken to some small hole where you will be put down like the monster you are.” He added, almost forlorn, “Like the monsters we all are.” He pointed down the street, to a large building with a domed roof. “That’s where I work. It’s the Courthouse of Candlepoint.” He pointed to himself. “I’m Faloin. I work for an incani in charge named Mephistopheles. He’s got big red horns; can’t miss him.” In a calmer voice, he asked, “And this is my second day of doing this: how was your introduction to Candlepoint?”

Two women looked ready to cry. One man still sat on the ground. Two others had various far off looks in their eyes. The orcol woman looked interested, for some reason.

Faloin looked to Ava, and pulled a rod of magic from his pocket, asking, “Can you speak?”

Ava tried again, and failed again. She shook her head.

He held up the rod, saying, “It’s a rod of [Treat Wounds], courtesy of Archmage Flatt.” He held it out, but took no steps toward Ava.

The message was clear. If Ava wanted to trust him, then she could, but he wasn’t forcing the rod, or his magic, upon her. Ava steeled herself, and stepped closer. Faloin tapped her with the glowing rod. In a flash of light blue magic, she felt something unwind in her throat. Or possibly grow back. Other tiny hurts along her entire body, from a crick in her neck to a pain in her foot, vanished. Her skin flushed as her scales, unorganized from their usual patterns, organized down the left and right sides of her body. She breathed.

She spoke with authority, “I am— was. I was a Sewermaster. I would like to be again. Do shadelings get [Stoneshape]?” As soon as the question left her mouth, she realized that she could have looked up the spell, herself. She also could have looked around her. No one made these buildings by hand. So she kept her eyes forward, on Faloin, betraying nothing with a turn of her face, or otherwise, and mentally searched the Script for [Stoneshape]. Yup, there it was.

“Do you have a name?”

She briefly considered a false name, but she said, “Ava.”

Faloin nodded, then said, “We can talk about that in a bit.” He spoke to the group, “That’s your introduction. Good luck, everyone.” He began walking northward.

… Was that it? Ava watched Faloin walk away.

Faloin turned, asking, “Coming, Ava No-last-name?”

Ah! Right. Ava hurried to follow, feeling better about everything, now that she had a moment to think. All in all, this was much better than what she had expected when she woke up in a pile of shadelings. After a moment’s hesitation, the orcol woman followed Ava.

The others…

One of the others stood up and walked away, in an undirected daze, their eyes pits of shadow; all light gone. The others fared better. They got up, they looked around with cloudy grey eyes—

Ava turned away, to focus on her own future, and to see the rest of the city as they walked past. The other newly raised shadelings would either fend for themselves, or drop back into darkness, on their own accord.
