From high above, in the grey, cloudy sky, Erick watched through the eyes of his [Familiar], as the dark city and the surrounding land settled down, around the newest lake in the Crystal Forest. And it did settle down. The new depression in the land was slight, but it was there, and with a quick check, Erick found that it went out to at least fifty kilometers.

And then he got to work, in rapid and disorienting order, fixing the fallout of Melemizargo’s [City Shape].

He blipped drowning shadelings out of the water. Prevented a building full of injured people from collapsing into that water. Fished the dead out of the lake. Killed crystal mimics who saw past the crumbling walls of the city to the greenery of the Farms beyond, before they got too close or too enraged. Shored up the new coastline, so that Candlepoint didn’t crumble into the water. Recreated the city walls up to the lakeside, then did a smarter thing, maybe, and walled up the entire new lake with roughly made stone blocks, each five meters high.

And then there was a sudden infestation of bright purple snakes or eels or whatever the fuck they were, that decided to come up from the Underworld, to corrupt the new lake. When they reached the coast, they crawled onto the land, and began chasing people. They weren’t that dangerous on land, for they moved like earthworms, but they had rings of sharp teeth and they knew how to use them. Erick saved a few insensate shadelings from being an easy meal, but most people easily got away. Most people, except for those still in the water.

Erick honestly did not think he would ever have to worry about underwater combat, so he was less than prepared for the event. [Force Bolt]s fizzled before they struck. [Force Shrapnel], as an aura, slugged through the water, clipping worms-eels, turning the water wine-dark, but also not doing much at all. [Flying Striker], though it was flying sword and water was not air, worked well enough. The worm-eels weren’t monsters; Erick would have used [Withering] in that case.

Or maybe he wouldn’t have used [Withering]. Shadelings were in the water, helping to combat the eels. Slip, the Shade Captain of the Guard, was someone who prepared for underwater combat. What Erick couldn’t kill, he could, as he zipped through the water, untouched by all, turning worm-eels into mush with some sort of telekinetic power.

But the problem still poured up from below. That was an easy fix. With a [Prismatic Ward] in the way, water got through, but the carnivorous squiggles did not. They certainly blocked the other side, though.

Thousands and thousands of worm-eels layered on the other side of the [Prismatic Ward], pushed up from below by the power of the spring. All of those bodies would have made a seal, and thus built pressure until the dense water popped, so Erick fixed that with a heavy application of a spell, worked in a way he had never attempted before. Mana Altering for Lightning and Chain, and [Force Shrapnel]. It worked better than Erick would have thought possible.

Fulmination Aura, instant, medium range, 26 mana per second

Rip and tear at the constituent particles of reality with a chaining bolt of lightning that surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage and paralyzing all so touched. Deals more damage the more targets there are.

Ophiel hovered in the center of the gushing spring, at the very center of the lake, down in the depths. He was well protected by a density in that passage that only he could traverse. Others were not so lucky. With gnashing teeth and writhing bodies, purple worm-eels crushed against the blockage, pushed and piled against one another by millions of liters of water, gushing up from the deep dark below.

Ophiel cast lightning into the water, in an unexpected way. A ring of bright white light coalesced into the water around Ophiel, in parts, at first, but those pieces of light quickly came together to form a halo five meters wide, horizontal, and perfectly smooth. It wasn’t smooth for long. Lightning arced from that halo, through the water, crackling down, a million fingers of power touching off from one purple worm-eel to the next. Purple worm-eels fried from the inside out, unable to take the strain of the underwater storm. Those that survived did not survive for long; their last moments of life were as paralyzed intruders, crushed against the bodies of their kin, and then fried by even more lightning.

Ophiel filled the water with a second, [Cleansing Aura]. Thick water spilled away from the other side of the [Prismatic Ward], trailing up, past Ophiel, with the inexorable pressure of the spring below. Burned worm-eels, too far broken to ever be considered bodies, turned to naught but a thickening of the water, to then dissipate into the lake above, as Ophiel continued to crash lightning down into the swarm.

Erick left Ophiel to that process. Inside the [Prismatic Ward], he could regenerate more than enough mana to keep up the spells, as needed. And he would need to. Even as Ophiel cleared out the first blockage, more purple worm-eels appeared, crushing up from the other side.

Erick’s thoughts trailed elsewhere, for now. For a more permanent solution, he would have to go down below and fix up the other end of the spring, like how Al had put bars and columns over Spur’s river inlet, deep under the city.

… Or maybe he could invent a permanent filtering [Particle Ward]? Or...

Maybe some other day, when people weren’t in mortal jeopardy...

Actually. He, and a few hundred other shadelings with the capability, had saved Candlepoint from further falling into the waves. A wall surrounded the new lake. People were wet, but okay.

Erick quickly went over the city. Was Candlepoint saved, again? Or was another disaster looming on the horizo—

… Some shadelings were grilling worm-eels on metal racks, with [Prestidigitation] fires flickering underneath the filleted animals. Some were already eating, like it was the first real meal they’d had in months. Maybe it was.

But tiny worms wriggled in the bodies of the uncooked larger worms, and the eyes of the shadelings were dusk dark, with barely a light inside. Erick asked them if they should be eating food that was obviously both under cooked and filled with living parasites, and they growled at him. Growled. Like they were animals.

Erick quickly got some other shadelings involved. Mainly Slip, the Captain of the Guard. Erick couldn’t take food away from starving people, but Slip and his guard had no issue. They saw the problem, and started solving it, by turning parasite-infested meat to ash. There was a fight. Erick let Slip handle the altercation, as he was already onto the next problem: destroying all the worm-eel bodies he could find that he had chopped up and left behind.

… Apparently! Chopping them up wasn’t enough! They still wriggled!

Their insides were especially wiggly.

Some of the worm-eels had gotten to the dead bodies. Those bodies were now filled with parasites.

“Shit,” Erick mumbled, through Ophiel, as he hovered over the now-writhing corpses.

With another Ophiel, he found Zaraanka, and Mephistopheles. Both of them were busy adjusting the whole city, again, what with the new lake and all. They had moved on, after Erick and Slip moved in on the worm-eel problem. Mephistopheles was by the farms. Zaraanka was by the coast, further shoring up the shore.

Erick told both of them, “The worm-eels had parasites and they are spreading among the bodies. There is no time to honor the dead like we should. If anyone wants to say some words, then come now.”

Mephistopheles stood in the ruins of an apartment building near the new lakeside, gently taking it down with ten other people. He lowered his hand, and a roof turned to sand, as he stepped backward, avoiding the fall. He looked to Ophiel, hovering above him, and said, “I’ll be there.” He called to his people, “We’re burning the bodies.”

Two women and one man collapsed to their knees at Mephistopheles’ words; crying. Others comforted the stricken, as tears flowed.

On another side of the city, where Zaraanka directed hundreds of women and took stock of a the supplies of the city, the woman in pink said, “Finally.” She tossed a pad of paper onto a pile of clothes she likely wanted Erick to [Mend], next to assortments of burned items and other fragments of life, then shouted to her people, “Break time!”

The women and men around Zaraanka seemed hollow, compared to most. They had been gathering supplies out of the city. Some of them still held those cloths or carpets or carried dirty mattresses on their backs, but at Zaraanka’s announcement, and at her directed walk down south, they dropped their loads and they followed. After a few steps, a few froze in their tracks, understanding what was happening, but others just walked along, numb to it all.

Ophiel was already in the south of the city, hovering over the bodies, using his new lightning spell to kill the most obvious parasitic worms—

The entire new lake was infested, wasn’t it? Shit. Intellectually, Erick had already understood this, but now that fact sunk in.

Lightning crashed from white halos, as multiple Ophiel flew across the corpses. The halos mostly stopped crashing when the parasites were dead, but Erick was not going to trust that. Besides, it was time to burn the bodies. Cleanup could be easier when there weren’t tens of thousands of corpses in the way—

Erick hated that he had that thought, but he had it, and then he moved on. The largest infestations of worm-eels were dead, so he cut the lightning, and pulled Ophiel back, so that others could come in.

People ghosted out of the shadows, to stand on the edge of the fields of the dead.

The disparity of dead to survived was nine to one.

A man stood over his whole dead family, a woman bawled on the edge of a parking lot of bodies. It was horror, and it was traumatic. Those who cried, cried loudly. But most had been through too much already. Most just stood, in temporary vigil, watching, witnessing. Erick had seen people like that before, both on Earth and on Veird. He had called these people here, numb, because that’s what he was used to seeing.

But he saw a deeper truth in some of their eyes. The bodies and death that laid before these people was merely another trauma in a long line of horrors. They had seen it all before. They had lived through it all before, too.

Or maybe that was Erick’s own [Hunter’s Instincts] coloring his view of the world, right now.

… He’d turn the skill off when it wasn’t necessary.

… Which was actually right now. Erick turned the skill off, and participated in the ceremony before him, as a silent observer, and a coordinator.

Mephistopheles wasted no time taking center stage. He was slightly faster than Zaraanka, who hid her scowl well, but not completely.

Mephistopheles stepped forward, into the field of bodies. He spoke to the sky, so that all could hear, “We consign the fallen to their fates. There but for the grace of Melemizargo, go us all.” He stared across the fields of flesh. He stepped back. “Light the fires. The worms are spreading.”

Erick aimed a spell at the overcast sky. The winds of Candlepoint slowly resumed their endless journey from north to south. The clouds would not dissipate for hours, but the smoke from the pyre would flow away from the city.

Ophiels descended from the sky, and fulfilled Mephistopheles’ command, lit bright white [Cleansing Flame]s across the field, turning bodies to thick air, revealing the worm-eels hidden in corpses. Purple threads writhed in the white fire, looking for something to eat.

Shadelings watched, as fires glowed and parasites struggled.

Erick went to Mephistopheles and Zaraanka. “The people should participate in this.”

Zaraaka took the lead faster than Mephistopheles, her voice rising above the roar of the flames, “Anyone with fire magics! Burn the field!”

A few instantly threw out fireballs or burning lines of light, exploding flames across the bodies, filling the clean burning fires with smoke that rose into the sky, black and ugly.

Erick asked Mephistopheles, “How should we remove the parasites in the lake?”

“I don’t know. Ask Slip.” Mephistopheles sneered, adding, “He probably knows.”

Erick did.

Slip was by the lake. He was watching the light show down below, at the very bottom of the blue. At Erick’s question, he turned to Ophiel and gave a complete answer, “We need Draught of the Violet Eel for the people. You’d find that at an alchemist. You might have to get some Underworld supplier. For the lake, we need mud flits. You could buy them over in the Wasteland. They’re all-purpose parasite cleaner fish. Your lightning is good, but those eels can burrow into the ground and gain a foothold here if we do not clean them out with a natural, permanent solution. So we need the mud flits. After a week, then we can add the normal three reservoir fish, in order to keep the lake healthy.” He looked a little ashamed, as he said, “I heard you had them in your lake at Spur.”

“Anything else you can think of?”

His eyes glowed vaguely brighter, as he smiled, saying, “Water lilies. Grasses. Lakeweeds of all sorts would be good. Trees. Bigger walls around the whole lake. But we can do all that later, and the people can help with the wall.” He looked down at the flashing lights at the bottom of the lake, saying, “You should run a pass through the whole lake with your lightning; kill off most of the eels that you can. When there aren’t any visible eels, we should be good for a large shipment of mud flits. We can probably take them tomorrow.”

