Kiki shook his head, "He can still battle. Just listen to the crowd."

Kiki grinned, a sinister edge in his voice. I frowned as Eradin locked eyes with me. He stared a for a moment before his huge eyes widened. He glanced down,

"I...I lost, didn't I?"

I nodded. Eradin raised a wing, letting out a mental shout, "I surrender. He has beaten me. Honor to him and his clan."

The crowd booed, their hatred for the gialgathens coming out. A few people shouted,

"Where's the blood?"

"I wanted to see some more missing teeth."

"He's crushed dozens of espens with his bullshit tail. He has it coming!"

The crowd's reaction disgusted me. A few people tried throwing food and drinks at Eradin while he was down. I shot out a wave of gravity, slamming the food back into the arena.

This shit was getting old fast.

Kiki sighed, "Well, it's well within tournament regulations to surrender."

He raised a hand to me, "To the victor!"

The crowd changed on a dime, giving me an enormous hoopla. The mob repulsed me at this point. I just wanted to win the mythical compendium then get out of here. All this easy fame and status came from their hatred of gialgathens. My integrity wouldn't let me accept it.

With those thoughts swirling in my head, the crowd calmed back down. Kiki raised another hand, "And now we have the final fight for the Yildraza sector. The last gialgathen and last year's winner, give a hand for Derlilath, Lady Of The Yellow!"

A chorus of boos echoed out as a yellow gialgathen flapped her wings. Old and muscled, she landed in front of me. She almost glowed with energy, her armor encrusted with gemstones. She grinned at me, her voice commanding,

"It's good to see they've brought a worthy warrior this year."

I grinned back, "Likewise."

Unlike the others, she looked like a serious challenge, so I analyzed her,

Delilath, Lady of Yellow(lvl 10,031 | Unknown Status) - Once a general of Lehesion's army, Delilath worked as one of the gialgathen's most powerful mages. She's placed in the top five of the tournament for the last seven years since she's decided to compete.

Though she once fought to help the espens, public opinion turned against her. Numerous campaigns by prominent figures such as Thisbey Thorn or Azakus Riola ruined the reputation of Lehesion's followers. With rumormongering and propaganda, they've turned Delilath from a celebrated hero to a scorned symbol.

Regardless of her affiliation with politics, Delilath's competence in battle is undeniable. She wields ancient magics only known by the gialgathens. By drawing mana from her surroundings, she opens up her own mana pool to enhance her tail swipes. This combination of control-oriented sorcery and physical ferocity makes her threatening to almost anyone.

Be careful and tread with caution.

I smiled, my blood boiling at her status. This would be an actual fight, and that prospect excited me to no end. I pounded my fists together, denting my gray armor and letting out an echo. Delilath channeled her energy, soft, yellow spheres forming around her.

Dozens of yellow stars formed beside her, a sweet-smelling wind rushing over me. I followed suit, charging up my own mana. The air around us saturated with energy, our auras intermingling. Sparks of red lightning shot from me, my blood permeated with volatile energy.

Kiki backed away, raising his eyebrows, "Well, both combatants look as though they want to tear each other apart."

A happy grin grew over his face, "Excellent! Are both combatants ready?"

With her chin held high, Delilath nodded. I shook my fists, mana saturating my frame. Kiki laughed, "I'll take that as a yes."

He swung his hand down, "Let the battle to decide who represents Yildraza begin!"
