“No, we meet back here,” Tarny said. “We go out through the windows. I don’t like the odds of someone rigging the controls and making it out through the hold before we hit. The glass will have weakened just like that bottle.”

“I find myself wondering why it hasn’t broken already,” Shu said, now unstrapped and shoving various items into his pack.

Tucking the stone board under one arm, Jamus hustled for the stairs. Once down, he joined Staavo in going through the various compartments, prioritizing food and water over all else. There wasn’t much else to take, really, though Staavo apparently thought otherwise. After smashing the core out of its housing and tucking it away in his pack, he pivoted and began ripping cabling out of the walls.

Recognizing that the heavy wire could be used as rope if nothing else, Jamus went to help, grabbing whatever tools and scraps of equipment might be useful for things other than their intended purpose. Last, he snagged the Ranks board and shoved it in his pack before toting it and a pair of chutes up the stairs.

Once he was strapped up with his parachute on his back and his pack on his front, he held the stick for Tarny. The Beacon locked the rudder and clambered out of the chair, and not long after that, they were all ready.

“Here,” Staavo said, tossing a large, two-handed mallet to Shu. “Go wild. If we get split up, meet at the crash site.”

“Watch your eyes,” Shu said, advancing with the hammer.

One gentle tap was all it took, and the whole pane he’d struck shattered, exploding outward. Only then did Jamus realize that the cabin had held its pressure through all of this, though the sudden outflow had already reversed with the wind rushing in.

“Levitation?” Tarny signed from near the opening, catching Jamus’s eye.

“Still too high,” Jamus signed back after trying and failing to get a response from the spell. He placed a hand on Staavo’s shoulder and yelled in his ear. “You three go with the parachutes! I’ll rig the ship! I’ve got the best chance of surviving if something goes wrong!”

Staavo nodded, then offered up a loop of cable and shouted as he gestured to the flight stick. “Tie it before you jump! We have to make sure it hits hard!”

“Understood!” Jamus yelled back. “Now go, all of you!”

“See you on the ground,” Tarny signed, then moved Shu, who had climbed up into the broken window and was clinging with both hands. All of them had done a test jump back at base in preparation for this mission, with Ameliah there to catch them if something went wrong, but there was a big difference between that and this.

It almost came as a surprise, then, when Shu glanced back only once before crouching down and hurling himself into free space, just barely missing the wing as the air caught him and dragged him away. Tarny went next, then Staavo, waving goodbye with a cheeky salute before casting himself into the unknown.

With no real way to aim for a rock as suggested and no reason to linger, Jamus quickly looped the cabling around the console. He slipped a coil over the stick, braced himself, then yanked hard.

The deck pitched sharply, and he nearly lost his grip before he got the controls secured. Only thanks to the Strength enhancements on his earring did he manage to make his way to the broken window, fighting gravity, wind, and the craft and its contents tumbling around him. Once he got there, it was less that he jumped and more that he was hurled free.

Unfortunately, a jagged piece of glass ripped into his pack on the way out, and his chute instantly deployed. With no chance to scream, the expanding fabric hauled him straight into one of the freely spinning props.

It did not feel great, to be honest.

The real problem, though, was that he’d become tangled. As he recovered from the brutal impact—mostly absorbed by his health—he found himself being towed toward the ground at alarming speed by the falling mass of metal.

A tremor ran through him as Levitation came into range, and he immediately activated the spell only to blast the breath out of himself by the straps still wrapped around his chest. In the game of rope tug between his magic and the ship, his magic had plainly lost.

His hands moving with speed and surety, Jamus deactivated the spell and pushed aside panic. He began searching pockets of his robe, a task made difficult by the way it and his jacket were being whipped by the wind. Finally finding what he wanted, he proceeded to demonstrate why no adventurer worth their plate ever went anywhere without a pocket knife.

The straps parted easily before the well-maintained blade, and then he was loose, but by then, the ground was very, very close.

Levitation!

Slowly, ever so slowly, his rate of descent decreased, and yet the ground was still hurtling toward him. Before long, Inconceivable struck with force enough to have hit the damage limit for sure, detonating in a hail of metal scrap and broken rock, and yet still he fell.

It was only after another fifteen or so seconds that the wind began to truly die down. Those fifteen seconds felt like they’d taken as many years off his life.

His toes were no higher from the dirt than the roof of Staavo’s old tower when he finally neared equilibrium. He swiftly started to resist his own spell lest he be sent hurling back into the sky, and before he knew it, he touched down, barely even having to bend his knees.

Jamus smoothed his jacket over his robes, ignoring the frantic beating of his heart as he looked up for his companions. He spotted first one chute, then another, and finally the third, all drifting down slowly after him.

Heaving a great sigh of relief, he saw something else that made him pause. Smiling despite everything, he took three calm steps forward, extended a hand, and snagged his hat out of the air before it could hit the ground.
