“A family walks into a hotel and the father says to the clerk, 'I hope the porn station is disabled'. The clerk gets a disgusted look on his face and says, 'You're sick, buddy! It's just regular porn!' ”

“Oh, god.” Lisa snorted a laugh.

“I recently bought shoes from a drug dealer.” Ren said. “I don't know what he laced them with, but I've been tripping all day.”

“Ugh.” Elise said and shook her head. “Is that all you got?”

“I used to have an ant farm; but, I had to give it up.” Ren said. “The little bastards wouldn't grow anything.”

Lisa laughed.

“Some people have trouble sleeping, but I can do it with my eyes closed.”

“Groan.” Elise said and smiled.

“I just noticed the ceiling.” Ren said. “It might not be the best in the world; but, it's up there.”

Lisa laughed and Elise chuckled.

“Why did the redhead go to the dentist?” Ren asked. “She had ginger-vitis.”

“That's terrible.”

“I asked Stella about going on an all-almond diet.” Ren said. “She said that's just nuts.”

“I think you're losing your touch.” Elise said.

“Um... the shovel was a ground-breaking invention?”

“Nope.” Elise said.

“Okay, okay.” Ren said and thought. “A guy once told me he hadn't been in the bathroom for 2 years.” He said. “I think he's full of shit.”

Elise chuckled and her boobs jiggled a little.

“I only wanted one night stand, but now the furniture store keeps calling me.”

“Ha ha!” Lisa laughed and covered her mouth.

“I asked the checkout girl at the supermarket for a date, and she said they are in the fruit aisle next to the bananas.”

Elise chuckled and her chest shook some more.

“I have kleptomania and when it gets bad, I take something for it.”

Lisa snorted into her hands and her body shook.

“Someone once said that my clothes were gay. 'You're right' I said. 'They came out of the closet this morning.'”

“Ha!” Elise laughed and her breasts jiggled quite a bit.

“What did the bra say to the hat?” Ren asked. “You go on a head, I'll give these two a lift.” He said and pushed up Elise's breasts and let them go. She laughed and they jiggled, and thanks to the extra help from Ren, they moved a lot as Ren and Lisa stared at them.

“That's amazing.” Lisa said.

“What do you call a redhead between a blonde and a brunette?” Ren asked. “The interpreter.”

“Bwahahaha!” Elise laughed and her chest jiggled even more.

“A redhead and a blonde are comparing lovers.” Ren said. “The redhead says she slept with a Brazilian. 'You slut!' The blonde said. 'How many is a brazillion?'”

“Oh, my god!” Elise said and laughed and laughed.

“How can they move like that?” Lisa asked and reached up to touch one of the massive mounds of flesh just above her face. “It's like magic.”

“It is magic.” Ren said and reached up to touch the other one. Elise calmed down when Ren stopped telling stupid jokes, and realized she could feel more than two hands on her chest. She leaned her head to the side a little to see Lisa was touching her, and thought that was very brave of her. Elise tapped the hands touching her and both Ren and Lisa stopped touching her. She hooked the bottom of her t-shirt with her thumbs and lifted, and the thin cloth slid up and off of her chest as she crossed her arms and pulled the t-shirt over her head.

“Good god.” Lisa said and thought about sitting up, when Elise put her hand on the younger woman's shoulder.

“It's okay to be curious.” Elise said. “Can you touch it again for me?”

“B-but...”

“It's not an invitation you get every day.” Ren said and touched the breast above his head. “Feeling them through the t-shirt is nice, but this...” He buried his hands into the mound of flesh. “...there's nothing else like it.”

Lisa was going to decline and not do it, then leaned out a little and saw Elise's face. It was just as flushed red as hers was, and they exchanged smiles. She moved her head back under, and just like Ren, used both hands and buried them into her breast.

“Wow.” Lisa said and moved her hands around to massage it. “It... I... I can't describe...”

“Isn't Elise wonderful?” Ren said and kissed the underside of her breast. “I never could have imagined doing anything like this.” He said and gripped the tip. Elise caught her breath, and he massaged her harder. “Now I'm here with two beautiful women, and one is letting the two of us touch her like this.”

“R-Ren...” Elise moaned. She hadn't had two people doing two different things to her breasts like that before, and she wasn't sure which sensation to focus on, because it was both confusing and pleasurable at the same time. Ren sat up and turned around, then leaned on her as he kept massaging her and rested his head on her chest.

“You're so beautiful, and so giving.” Ren said and kissed the top of her breast. “Thank you so much.”

“R-Ren... please...”

Ren smiled at her, then dove for the tip and started to suckle. Elise gasped as he used his lips and tongue on her quite expertly, and she felt movement on her other side.

“L-Lisa...” Elise said and saw Lisa sit up.

“I should go.” Lisa said.

“Don't.” Elise touched her shoulder, and then cupped her own breast to offer the tip. “It's... really tender.” She moaned. “Be... be gentle.”

Lisa blinked her eyes at her, then looked at the blood engorged tip. It really did look sore and like it needed attention. “I'm... not into girls.”

“Neither am I.” Elise said. “But... I... I want to feel your mouth on me.” She said and her face flushed to a deep red. “I want to see...”

Ren stopped sucking and looked at Elise.

“You have to ask for what you want.” Ren said. “We aren't mind readers.”

Elise ducked her head a little. “I want to see... to feel... the both of you at the same time.” She said and looked at Ren, then at Lisa. “Please.”

“Lisa? Give me a hand.” Ren said and grinned. “We have a formal request for emotional satisfaction.”

Lisa chuckled at the absurd notion, then looked at the pleading expression that Elise had on her face. Without a word, she turned and leaned in as she mirrored Ren's position, then she and Ren dove for the tips of Elise's breasts and started to suckle.
