“Yeah.” Alden frowned. “If we’re on the right track, it would most likely be Wright or one of the rares. The other major classes have fairly narrow lists at B-rank. Shaper’s a maybe, but it doesn’t sound anything like one of their skills.”

“It’s not Shaper.” Boe’s tone was dismissive. “Their stuff is all kind of obvious as far as System naming goes. If anything, it sounds like it might be a—”

“A what?”

Boe suddenly grabbed onto the sleeve of Alden’s coat and stopped walking. “Is that who I think it is?” he asked quietly, staring ahead of them.

There were quite a few people on the sidewalk. Alden scanned them, looking for someone suspicious, but before he could identify the problem, Boe hissed, “The man across the street from the consulate! The one trying to look normal while he stands around in board shorts in February.”

Alden finally spotted the board short wearer. “Oh, my gosh! It’s Skiff!”

The water-shaping superhero looked out of place here in a business district, wearing street clothes.

Well, mostly wearing street clothes. The swim trunks didn’t really go with Skiff’s puffer jacket.

“Shush, fanboy. Take my hat.”

Before Alden could ask why he should do that, his friend had shoved the hideous stocking hat onto his head.

“So,” said Boe in a conversational voice as he yanked off his scarf and wrapped it around the entire lower half of Alden’s face. “Maybe we’re not as smart as we think we are. You said the trading interface listed locations, and I didn’t think anything of it. And I guess you didn’t either.”

Behind his new muffler, Alden frowned. “Yeah. But ids are private.”

“Sure. Only they’re not very, are they? To find out who someone is in real life you’d just have to go to the consulate they were trading from and wait for a teenager to appear during regular school hours.”

Alden’s eyes widened. Crap.

He hadn’t realized how valuable Chainer was to certain parties when he’d left this morning. He’d have taken the listing down if he’d known. He hadn’t authorized autotrade of course, but his information was there for anyone to see. Advertising was the whole point of the platform. It had never occurred to him that he shouldn’t do it.

“Bud vey canf do vad?” he protested around a mouthful of wool as Boe tightened the scarf. “Wha ‘boud my privafy?”

“Even in an ideal world, your civilian right to privacy is only good for the next three months,” Boe said quietly, stepping back. “In reality? You get it… right?”

Alden did. He didn’t like it, but he did.

It would only take a phone call.

Once someone from Anesidora had seen the listing—whether they were for or against the Velra family—they could just call up one of their friends on the Chicago hero team and ask them to run down and have a look at the consulate. See if any likely young people strolled in at an odd hour.

Follow them home. Find out who they are. Kill them in their sleep.

Okay. That last was ridiculous.

Probably whichever faction they belonged to, all they’d really want was to give Alden lots of nice stuff in exchange for Chainer.

Which would have been great, except for the fact that he didn’t just want nice stuff. He wanted nice stuff without becoming involved in superhuman politics.

Even Gorgon couldn’t keep him out of it. Bribery and social pressure were apparently fine with the Artonans. The alien would only be allowed to step in if people were threatening or mind controlling him.

“New plan,” said Boe, still speaking quietly. “We walk right past the Aquatic Idiot and head for the bus stop. Even if your nemesis in North Dakota happens to work for someone on the island and he described you to them, you don’t have any noteworthy features that’ll stand out when you’re bundled up in winter wear. We should be good.”

Alden hadn’t considered that B74 might have ratted him out. But it was possible at least. He did live in the Dakota zone, so he was connected to the Avowed community if not the island itself.

“Leff go,” said Alden. He coughed and worked his lips until they were mostly free of the scarf. “We’ll catch Skiff’s attention if we stand here too long.”

###

“Quit turning around to look out the back window, Alden. You’re not going to see an A-rank Shaper chasing the bus down the street in his swim trunks.”

“I didn’t think I was,” Alden lied as he spun back around in his seat. “I’m just making sure we made a clean getaway.”

“We did. I told you. He didn’t even glance at us. I think he was playing Sweet Smasher on his phone.”

“I couldn’t use my peripheral vision because someone mummified me with wool.”

“Well, mine worked fine. You’re in the clear for now.”

Alden grumbled, but he did his best to let himself relax. “I didn’t expect it to be like this. So chaotic. I wanted time to think and plan.”

Boe slouched down and wedged his feet against the back of the seat in front of him. He pulled out his own cell and started typing. “It’s exciting being a superhuman, right? You were only chosen…nineteen hours ago? And you’ve already made a pal in Poland, discovered the consulate’s secret basement level, and possibly sparked a minor political war between Anesidora’s social elite.”

Alden snorted. “Imagine what I’ll do next week.”

“Hopefully you’ll have quietly acquired your final class by then, affixed it, and be in the middle of learning how to use your new powers. You need to get at least a little prepped before you dive into the Anesidoran shark tank. Any other outcome means you’ve screwed up.”

Alden raised an eyebrow at him. “How do you figure? Even if I find out what Gorgon meant, it’ll probably take me a while to get my hands on the specific class. And then I don’t have to affix it right away. I could still hang around on the trading platform in case something amazing came along.”

“More amazing than Chainer? The class that has you looking over your shoulder for a legit superhero tail? Or more amazing than a class recommended for you, specifically, by a powerful alien being you’ve spent the last few months befriending?”

“Well…”

“Mmm,” Boe said, his lips pursing. “So you’re still hung up on Adjuster.”

Guess I’m transparent. “It’s the obvious choice for what I want to do.”

“You mean it’s the class Hannah had.”

There was no judgment in Boe’s voice, but Alden felt defensive anyway. “It’s not just that.”

Boe set aside his phone and glanced out the smudged window. “I know. Adjuster’s easy—”

“It’s one of the most complex classes to master!”

“Don’t fly off the handle. I mean it’s easy for you. Emotionally. It’s the one you know the best. You like tons of things about it. It excites you. And you actually have a real-life, extremely personal example of someone using it in a way you admire. If the System had given you Adjuster yesterday afternoon, you’d have affixed it before you left that bathroom stall.”

Alden couldn’t argue with that. He probably would have.

“Adjuster’s not scary for you,” Boe continued. “You’re a shitty B-rank and that makes your future even harder to grasp, so it’s probably the only class you feel sure won’t be garbage.”

“B’s not shitty,” Alden muttered again.

But his heart wasn’t in it.

He’d been so wrapped-up in new experiences that he hadn’t analyzed his own feelings very well. And now that Boe had done it for him…

“You’re right. I guess. I…wanted to be an S or A-rank Adjuster. I know that’s lame to admit. But it’s the only thing I really imagined for the whole superhero daydream.” He sighed. “Right now, it feels like I’m scrabbling at the edge of what I want. If I could just get my hands on Adjuster, part of me thinks I would finally be standing on solid ground.”

“You can have it if you want it.”

“Maybe. If I sell Chainer to the Velras, or their enemies, I could probably get enough money to pay off any Adjusters who want to trade. But there might not be any even then—”

He was interrupted by the sound of Boe laughing at him.

“Is my suffering amusing to you?” he said, put out.

“No, but your total lack of business acumen is. Are you serious? Alden, they sent a freaking superhero to find you. Within a couple of hours. Even though I knew a little bit about the situation, I would never have guessed it was that important to them. But now that I do…”

Boe crossed his arms over his stomach and smiled up at the bus’s grimy ceiling.

“You’re not going to trade Chainer for money and then sit around hoping you’ll be able to buy your dream class with it. You’re going to tell someone what class you want, and then they will fetch it for you like a golden retriever.”

Alden blinked. “That can’t be right…”

“We’re talking about powerful, rich Avowed. Ones who’ve managed to maintain an iron grip on an ultra rare class despite other powerful, rich Avowed trying to stop them. As long as you don’t ask for something impossible, then I bet they’ve got the budget for it. And the resources to lay their hands on it. It’s what they do for their own kids. They can do it for you, too.”

“So you think I should give it to the Velras?”

Boe shrugged. “I don’t really care about which side of that little spat wins. Do you?”

“Nah,” Alden admitted. “It’s like trying to pick a team when you don’t even understand what sport they’re playing. I just want them to not ruin my life after the fact.”

“You could sneak past Skiff into the consulate when it’s busy…or even better, head to the consulate in New York where there probably isn’t a super waiting to pull you aside and give you a speech about his faction’s noble cause or whatever. Slap Chainer up to autotrade in exchange for your pick, and then vanish. Let them, or even some lucky selectee off the street, race to give you what you want first.”

“That sounds perfect,” Alden admitted.

“Can you request a bonus with the autotrade though? You didn’t mention it.”

Alden shook his head. “No, it’s just for classes. People always ask for, or offer, money separately. In their notes section. It’s probably something you’d have to make legally binding outside the trading platform. And then you get online and do the trade.”

“That’s a problem then,” Boe said.

“I don’t need money on top of a specific class.”

His friend gave him a severe look. “Last I checked, you wren’t swimming in cash.”

“Yeah, but I don’t have to be. School is paid for on the island, and you have to stay in the dorms the first couple of years anyway. I’ll have a little bit from my parents. It’ll be fine.”

“It would be way more fine if you didn’t sell the extremely valuable thing you’re holding for nothing. Being poor sucks.”

“I don’t think—”

“What about supplies for your hero work?”

Alden blinked. He hadn’t thought that far ahead. He would be a student first. Working as superhero was still a long way away.

“You don’t even know what you’ll need,” Boe continued. “You might need to buy weapons. Or chemicals. Or an armored vehicle. You might get a power that requires some expensive resource to shine. You might—”

Alden held up a hand. “All right. I get it. Some money on top of the class would be better. Then…if I’m not going to be totally neutral, I guess the Velras are the way to go?”

“They’re the perennial champs as far as I can tell. And you’d think they’d have a pretty decent non-disclosure agreement for the people who help them out, or whatever the Anesidoran equivalent is. As long as you trade it to them quickly, before other parties have the chance to tell you not to, you might still be able to feign innocence. I bet they’ll keep their mouths shut.”

Boe seemed to be in high spirits now, apparently lifted by the thought of Alden bossing around an elite family of Avowed for even the briefest period of time.

“So!” he said cheerfully. “All you have to do is decide: Do you want your hunting dogs to get you Adjuster? Or do you want them to get you whatever Gorgon recommended?”

“Do I have to pick?”

“Afraid so. Unless you want to say ‘to hell with it’ and affix Chainer right now. Just think….you could have new, uber-rich adoptive parents by nightfall. Whether you want them or not.”

“That’s terrifying.”

Alden contemplated the pattern on the bus seats while he tried to sort himself out. When Boe put it like this, it really was an either-or situation.

Did Alden trust his own knowledge more than Gorgon’s advice?

The alien knew what he wanted to do. They’d talked about battlefield support. Gorgon had said that they weren’t real friends but that he was fond of Alden and wished him well.

They’d done the mysterious blood thing.

And while Alden knew Gorgon wasn’t all-knowing, he was probably more-knowing than most humans.

“I guess I’d have to go with Gorgon’s suggestion. If we can even figure out what it is.”

“You guess?”

“Ugh. Fine. I’m sure. Gorgon is frying his skin off for me. I trust him, and I don't have to be married to Adjuster. I can leave it behind if I have to.”

“Well, brace yourself for a rocky divorce,” Boe said merrily. “The desk demon’s idea of a great class for a future superhero is pretty far outside the norm.”

Alden stared at him.

“That’s what I was looking up on my cell a minute ago.” Boe lifted the phone from his lap. “I was wrong about the anagrams. And you were right. He was trying to make it easy for you. ‘Let me take your luggage’ is a skill from one of those classes that gets to choose from a bajillion of them.”

