Klbkch paused. He had to think of the Painted Antinium and Pawn as a separate force within the Hive. One that needed orders, that could not simply be ordered to wait indefinitely. He nodded to Pawn after a moment’s delay.
“Take the Soldiers not wounded or on combat rotation and assist with filling in the tunnels I have specified. If you finish with that task, report to Anand or Belgrade. They will take over the inspection of the Hive while I return to my duties in Liscor.”
The Revalantor clicked his mandibles impatiently. He had no watch, but his internal clock was flawless.
“I have Watch duty in fifteen minutes. Anand and Belgrade have my permission to act with all the authority required to reinforce the Hive. If they have doubts, I will return tonight to inspect the Hive once more.”
“I will tell them that, Revalantor.”
Klbkch nodded and strode through the tunnels, towards the surface. It was a relief to have Anand and Belgrade in the Hive. He hadn’t realized it, but having the two [Tacticians] present meant he could delegate much of the responsibility that usually fell to him or his Queen. And she had kept to her quarters recently, working on some private project, leaving the Hive entirely to him. It felt harder, some years. He hadn’t expected the rain to come so soon, but he should have predicted it…
Was he getting old? Was this the degradation that came with age that Xrn had told him about? Dementia did not affect the Antinium, but perhaps Klbkch, who had lived and been reborn countless times, was an exception. Maybe he was getting old, because sometimes he felt tired…
Klbkch sighed as he strode out of the Hive and marched down the streets. He moved quickly as the rain pelted him, nodding to Drakes and Gnolls on the streets. Within five minutes, he was at the Watch barracks and putting on his [Guardsman]’s armor. He was ready for duty within two minutes and marching out the door after having signed the roster sheets in the next minute.
Yes, he was getting old. But there was hope. Klbkch clung to that thought. There was hope. He just had to hang on a little bit longer. And then the world would change. The Grand Queen would change it, or Xrn, or perhaps…
Klbkch’s eyes caught a young woman he recognized hurrying down the street. She’d just come out of a tunnel in the ground. He stared. Had Erin been in the Hive? No, surely she had just been…he watched her go, his mind blanking for a second. His mandibles opened unconsciously as he stood in the rain, going about his duties as a member of Liscor’s City Watch. They were surprisingly similar to his duties as Revalantor. Klbkch whispered the word into the rain.
“Perhaps.”
 
——
 
“What was that, Klbkch?”
Watch Captain Zevara turned. The Antinium [Guardsman] shook his head as she stomped down the street, the City Watch spread out along the walls.
“Nothing, Captain! My apologies.”
“Don’t! You’re the only damn guardsman I have who turns up on time, even in the wet!”
Zevara shouted back at Klbkch. She strode down the road leading around the walls of Liscor, shouting at the [Guardsmen] she passed.
“Check for cracks, fractures, or anything out of place! I want all four walls checked by the end of today! Inside, outside—hurry up and I’ll buy you all a round at Furry Wing’s tonight!”
The wet Gnolls and Drakes in uniform cheered as Zevara passed. The Furry Wing tavern was a popular one for the City Watch because it served drinks in huge mugs. Zevara grinned, but then added a snap to her voice.
“But don’t miss a spot! I’ll be going over parts of the wall myself, and if I find any spots you’ve missed, you’ll all be drinking water tonight!”
She heard a good-natured shout from her guards and nodded to Klbkch. The Senior Guardsman took a section of wall in front of him, and Zevara turned away. She knew he could be trusted to check every inch of Liscor’s walls. The Antinium understood the dangers of the rainy season more than most. It was amazing they’d wanted to put a Hive here, knowing what happened…but they were vigilant, and that was everything.
The other Drakes and Gnolls were too complacent. Zevara strode down the walls, repeating her message. She had to push them. They thought that just because Liscor’s walls were enchanted, they would hold. Zevara knew that enchantments could fray and develop weaknesses, just like stone. So she checked and double-checked the walls for any fracture, any weak spots where water might slip through.
“Hey Captain!”
A cheerful voice interrupted Zevara as she went on a circuit of the walls from the outside. Zevara rolled her eyes and turned.
“What is it, Relc?”
The huge Drake [Guardsman] grinned, ignoring the rain which made the other guards cover their bodies more securely with their cloaks. He grinned and pointed to his section of the wall.
“I found a broken part of the wall! Look!”
He indicated a micro fracture at the base of the wall. Zevara eyed it and nodded.
“Good work, Relc. We’ll have a [Mason] take a look at it.”
She turned away, wishing she were indoors with a good stiff drink in her claws. She’d settle for a drink in Erin Solstice’s inn. She had some good ales, and her food was excellent, even if weird things happened far too often over there. But before Zevara could continue her patrol, she heard Relc call out again.
“Hey Captain, I found another one!”
Reluctantly she turned back and looked. There was another tiny fracture at head height. Zevara sighed.
“…Good work, Relc.”
Relc grinned at her, tail wagging like a dog’s. He cupped a claw to one earhole.
“What’s that, Captain? I think I must have missed that. Lots of rain!”
“I said, good work, Relc.”
Zevara gritted her teeth. Relc pretended not to hear.
“What? Sorry, I must have gotten water in my earhole! One more time?”
The Watch Captain eyed Relc murderously, hating every inch of the wide grin on his face. She turned around, and her tail slapped Relc across the face.
“Ow!”
“Good work, Relc. Now get back to checking the damn wall!”
 
——
 
Water. It changed many things about Liscor, but one thing, at least, was the same. The Adventurer’s Guild was busy as always as adventurers stood in lines, arguing, picking fights, talking about the dungeon, and grumbling about the rain. From her desk, Selys Shivertail grinned balefully at the adventurers who’d never been to Liscor before. They thought this was bad? Just wait until they had been here a week. Then they’d realize what a spring in Liscor meant. Rain was only the start of what would come next.
There was a reason why armies didn’t bother sieging Liscor. In the winter, they froze their tails off. In the summer and fall, well, they had a good window, but that also meant Drake armies could march north and break the siege whenever they pleased. And in the spring—
She was already worrying about the dungeon. What if it flooded? What would happen in the spring? Would the adventurers not be able to access it? She didn’t know if she could handle a bunch of angry cooped-up adventurers for two months.
Then again, she didn’t know if she could handle them now. Selys sighed, relieved to have a break for a moment. She eyed the dripping young woman in front of her and silently passed one of the towels behind the desk to her.
“Here.”
“Thanks!”
Erin wiped her face off but didn’t bother with the rest of her body. She’d have to go out in the rain soon enough, and she’d given up on her stupid cloak that kept tangling around her feet. Selys eyed her.
“Had fun outside?”
“Oh, tons! It’s raining, you know? Really hard!”
Selys gave Erin a look. It simultaneously invited more obvious information and promised an equal or greater amount of ridicule. She gestured out the window of the Adventurer’s Guild where it was pouring.
“No, really? I hadn’t noticed.”
“Hey, I was in the Antinium Hive and that was big news!”
Erin made a face at Selys. The Drake sighed.
“The Ants—I mean, the Antinium live underground, Erin. I can look out a window. Sorry, I don’t mean to snap, but I’ve been busy telling adventurers all day why going outside is a bad idea. Sure, you think you’re hunting Shield Spiders or slimes or something, but that’s when a Hollowstone Deceiver sneaks up on you. They’re silent in the rain, and they hunt aggressively during this season. You should watch out too.”
“What, Rock Crabs? Jeez! I’d better keep an eye out. I don’t have any more seed cores, so I guess I’ll have to find another way to scare them off! Thanks for the warning.”
Erin toweled her hair and handed it back. She stared at Selys as she held the towel with one claw and looked around for a place to put it.
“So look, Selys, about what I was saying—”
Selys sighed. Why was she friends with Erin again? Oh, right. She had a good heart. But she could be incredibly, incredibly strange sometimes. And what she’d asked Selys to do? That was madness.
“I heard you. I think you’re insane, but I can do the paperwork. It will never work, mind you. My grandmother—”
“Just try?”
Erin stared pleadingly at her friend. Selys raised her claws.
“Okay, I will. It’s not going to work, but I will.”
“Thanks! I know you’re busy—you should come to the inn more often! It’s been ages since we last hung out!”
The young woman beamed at Selys. The Drake nodded.
“I’d like that. I’d like to see Mrsha and chat—but you know how it is. Adventurers keep coming to Liscor and we’re understaffed and in the rain…”
She flicked her tail at the adventurers milling about the Guild. Erin nodded sympathetically.
“Yeah, I hear you. I wish they’d come to my inn, but I guess that’s not going to happen with the—”
She mimed saying the word ‘Goblins’ silently. Selys nodded. She’d already had to tell a number of adventurers that the Hobs in Erin’s inn weren’t threats and that they would receive no bounties on their heads.
“If you think it’s bad now, just wait a week. I’m afraid you’ll get no business from Liscor until the rains stop. Well, maybe some people will come, but I really wouldn’t count on it. I hope you have coin saved.”
“Uh—”
Selys sighed at Erin’s chagrin.
“Well, at least you have the door to Celum. I envy you, actually. I’d love to be able to pop over to Celum anytime I wanted. I feel like a prisoner during the spring, you know?”
“No…say, Selys, what does happen during the spring?”
The Drake paused, leaning on her desk. She stared at Erin, searching the young woman’s face for any signs of humor.
“Erin, tell me you’re joking. You’ve never, ever heard of what happens to Liscor in the spring?”
“Nope.”
“No one’s mentioned it to you. Not once?”
“Not that I can recall.”
“We’re famous for this! Every year—oh, you haven’t been here that long. Huh. It feels like longer.”
Selys shook her head, amazed at how time seemed to fly and simultaneously drag out. She felt like she’d known Erin for years, but it had only been half a year at most. She sighed. Erin looked around curiously. It was still pouring.
“Anand and Belgrade told me there’s a lot of water and…drowning? Or is that just underground? They said you could explain. If it’s a long story I can come back later—I have to be in Celum now so—”
“I can give you the short version.”
Selys smiled as she took a seat on her high stool behind her counter. She liked Erin, she really did, but she was going to enjoy Erin’s reaction more. The [Innkeeper] looked curiously at her.
“Okay, what’s the short version?”
“In Liscor, it starts raining hard each year after winter. For about two months it’s non-stop rainfall, and the city’s practically closed off during that time. When the summer begins it all dries out, but…think of it like this, Erin. We’re caught between the High Passes on either side. There’s an entrance to the north, and an entrance to the south, but Liscor is one big bowl. The only high elevation are the hills, which Liscor and your inn and a few villages sit on top of. And it rains a lot. What do you think happens?”
The Drake waited. Erin looked blank.
“Bowl, rain, lots of mountains and valleys. Wait, you don’t mean—”
Her eyes widened. Selys grinned. She leaned over the counter and raised her voice so the adventurers behind Erin could hear.
“That’s right. It floods.”
Erin stared. She gave Selys the blankest, most surprised look that the Drake had ever seen. Then she looked out the window at the pouring rain. She stared at Selys, at the rain, and then grinned.
“Hey, good one Selys! I nearly bought that for a second!”
The Drake stared at her. Erin stared back, her smile faltering. Selys sighed and slowly covered her face. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Wait, you’re serious?”
