“How hard would it be to put a ceiling over a city? It’s got walls, just put a dome over it! Okay, you can’t see if that happens—how about a glass dome? That’s a lot of glass. A magic dome? I bet Pallass has a fancy magic dome. What about a subway? Now that’s useful technology!”
The streets were mostly empty, despite the usual morning press. No one wanted to be out in the rain. The Drakes looked gloomy and ill-tempered, if not quite so depressed as the days before. The Gnolls looked perfectly miserable. Erin splashed down the streets, appreciating that Liscor at least had sewers to carry away the runoff as she marched further into the city. It was a wet, miserable day.
But only if you let it be. Erin was determined to make today work. She’d left the inn with Lyonette already showing the Redfang Warriors their new rooms. Now Erin headed towards one spot in the city devoid of rain.
The Antinium Hive. The passage down into the Hive was exposed to the surface, but there was some kind of water flow system in place such that, as Erin descended into the darkness, the water coming down from above was sucked into the earth. A few steps out of the rain and the Hive’s walls were wonderfully dry underfoot. Erin let herself drip for a while as she stared around the entrance.
It wasn’t hard to enter the Hive of the Free Antinium. Just go down a few steps into the darkness and you were in a tunnel. Now, Erin had never actually gone into the Hive by herself, but she had gotten permission from Klbkch to enter a week ago for story time with the Antinium. So she could enter. Right?
There didn’t seem to be any guards, just a long tunnel sloping downwards. It was large enough for eight Erins to walk abreast and made Erin feel small as she marched into the Hive.
“Just gonna see a few friends. Nothing wrong about that, right? No one mind me, just a Human coming in out of the rain. Just gonna—”
Erin got five steps when her [Dangersense] went off like a siren in her head. She froze as the empty tunnel suddenly filled. Sixteen Soldiers stepped out of hidden alcoves, fists raised, bodies tense and lowered, ready to charge. The young woman froze, eyes wide, staring at the Soldiers on every side.
“Uh oh. Um. Hi?”
The Soldiers said nothing. These weren’t the Painted Soldiers that Pawn led but regular Soldiers. On guard duty. Erin was afraid to breathe, seeing the Soldiers clenching their fists, imagining what would happen if one of them punched her. She squeaked, trying to both speak fast and not do anything as provocative as breathing.
“I’m, uh, Erin! Erin Solstice! I have permission from your boss to be here! Klbkch? He said it was alright! Okay, he said I could enter this one time and so I thought I could do it again. I didn’t mean to intrude. I’ll totally leave if you’re all, uh, busy.”
The Soldiers made no move. One of them, the one in front of Erin, hesitated just a fraction. He stepped closer to her, and she shrank as she stared up at him. He had very long mandibles, perfect for tearing flesh. Not that she thought of the Antinium like that! They were people too, just like Goblins!
And people killed people quite often. The Soldier studied Erin, fists still raised. She tried to smile up at him.
“No, this is a bad time? Okay then, I don’t want to bother you. I can see when I’m getting in the way, so I’ll just…”
She was about to edge away when the Soldier suddenly nodded and turned away abruptly. He didn’t signal, but the other Soldiers instantly lowered their fists and stepped back towards their alcoves. Erin stared at the Soldier as he walked away from her, no longer paying any attention to her whatsoever.
She had the distinct impression he’d just recognized her as Erin Solstice, not some random Human who’d wandered down here by accident. She wondered what would have happened if he’d decided she was someone else, and resolved never to enter the Hive without Pawn, Klbkch, or another Antinium with her.
But now she was in the Hive, it was too late to go back. Or, at least, so Erin told herself as she walked down the wide tunnel into the darkness. She’d been here once, after all! She’d just find one of the Workers she knew, have a quick word, and be off. She could have sent Bird, of course, but she was worried he might miscommunicate. He was a silly Worker sometimes. And how hard could it be? It wasn’t like—
Whatever ironic thought Erin was about to have was cut off as she entered into the Hive’s main corridors. The tunnel around Erin turned abruptly and there they were. Antinium. Hundreds of them, marching down a huge tunnel, turning into side passages that sloped upwards or downwards, huge currents of Workers and Soldiers moving in every direction.
The Antinium had no railing to divide the flow of traffic, but the brown-black shapes moved smoothly and without pause, following an invisible line such that the Antinium were able to all move through the massive corridor at once, not having to pause or wait in line at all. They moved in complete silence, so that the only sound in the massive room was the shuffling of feet.
It was hypnotic, terrifying, and completely alien. Erin stared for one entire second and then sneezed. It was unintentional. The noise cut through the room like a gunshot.
The Antinium stopped as one. Every head in the vast corridor turned to Erin immediately. She froze and then raised a hand. The Antinium stared at her in complete silence. The [Innkeeper] gulped and then put on her best smile.
“Hey.”
The Workers and Soldiers stared at her. Erin waved weakly. Her voice quavered a bit.
“Uh, sorry to intrude. I’m just, uh—I, uh—do any of you know where, um, Pawn is? Anand? Belgrade? Klbkch?”
The Antinium stared at her. Erin hesitated. Then as one they turned and pointed. Erin stared at the tunnel they’d indicated and saw the Workers nearest to her make way.
“Oh? Am I supposed to—”
They stared at her. Erin gingerly edged forwards and walked through the gap the Workers had created. The Antinium watched her go, silent, staring at the Human in their tunnels. Vibrant, colorful, alive. They heard her voice as she navigated down the tunnels, echoing back at them.
“Sorry, sorry. Oops—this way, right? Thank you. Okay, I’m going—wow, it’s dark in here. Sorry, I know you’re probably in a hurry, right? I don’t want to get in the way, you can keep walking or doing whatever you—oh boy, Klbkch is going to be so mad at me.”
 
——
 
“So, uh, hi.”
Erin stood in front of Anand and Belgrade. They’d met her in one of the tunnels; well, practically ran her over, in point of fact. They’d swiftly escorted her into a side room, mainly to end the Hive-wide traffic jam. Now they sat around a small table with a chess board on top of it.
This was Anand and Belgrade’s personal strategy room. It had some maps of the Hive, a real chess board, one of Erin’s improvised Go boards, and some pieces of parchment and a quill and ink. Erin stared around the small room, seeing the spot where Belgrade had hurriedly rolled up all the maps of the Hive and stuffed them away. Military secrets, she supposed. She glanced at the Workers again. They hadn’t responded to her greeting.
“It’s not like I meant to cause a holdup. I kept telling the other Antinium to keep going without me. And I, uh, thought I could just sort of wander about and find one of you guys. You know, casually?”
She peered hopefully at them. Belgrade and Anand shared a look. Belgrade was the first to speak.
“You are lucky you were not killed within seconds of entering the Hive.”
“Oh.”
Erin stared at Belgrade.
“But I wasn’t. I thought I had permission.”
The Worker nodded slowly.
“Yes. But your exact description was not passed to the Soldiers on duty. It is extremely fortunate they either recognized you from previous encounters, or believed your self-identification.”
“Ah. Well, that’s good. I, uh—killed?”
Belgrade nodded. Erin gulped.
“Okay, well, I’m not doing that again. I thought—did you guys know I was looking for you?”
Anand shook his head.
“We were investigating the disturbance. When you entered the Hive, all flows of traffic halted, which immediately warranted our attention. I have never seen the Hive simply—stop like that before.”
Erin winced. She fiddled with a bishop on the chess board. Anand stared at her for another beat and then seemed to become more alert.
“This incident was surprising, to say the least, but minor. Miss Erin, I believe your intrusion has resulted in the best results possible, especially given all the outcomes. The Hive was not unduly affected by your presence, and I must believe it is warranted by some need. How can Belgrade and I help you? Or is it Pawn or Revalantor Klbkch you seek?”
He waited expectantly. By his side, Belgrade folded his hands—all four of them. Erin looked relieved and pondered how best to start.
“Alright, okay. To begin with…did you know it’s raining?”
The two Workers exchanged a glance. Anand shook his head.
“We did not, Miss Erin.”
“Oh. Well, it is. Just thought you should know. You see, Zevara—you know, the angry Drake Watch Captain lady? She said it’s the beginning of the rainy season in Liscor, and I thought—”
Erin got no further because, at her words, Belgrade suddenly tensed up. His mandibles opened, and he shuddered.
“Rainy season? It has begun already? Oh no. Oh no.”
Belgrade’s arms folded around himself. He began to rock back and forth in his seat. Two of his arms gripped the table, and he started repeating the words anxiously.
“Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no—”
“Belgrade?”
Erin looked at him, alarmed. Anand put a hand on Belgrade’s shoulders, and the Worker stopped rocking, although he kept repeating the same words. Anand was apologetic as he clicked his mandibles together gently.
“You will have to forgive Belgrade, Miss Erin. He does not do well during this time of the year. He nearly drowned, two years ago.”
“Oh. I’m so sorry, Belgrade. That’s terrib—wait, how can you drown underground?”
“The water, the rushing water. The walls breaking, the water—”
Belgrade shivered. Anand raised one hand as the other three patted his friend on the shoulder. He pointed to the dirt walls of the Hive around them.
“This season is problematic for the Antinium, Miss Erin. We do our best to ensure the integrity of the Hive, but accidents happen. Water can burst through the tunnels, and it is particularly dangerous to us when it does, given our inability to swim. Belgrade only survived by holding his breath until the water could be drained from the tunnel he was trapped in.”
“That makes sense. But all that water comes from above? It’s just rain. There’s not that much water. Unless the rivers overflow?”
Erin stared blankly at the two Workers. They exchanged a look.
“I believe your knowledge of what occurs during this part of the year is…incomplete, Miss Erin. I would elaborate, but I fear that I do not know what occurs aboveground during this period of time. The Antinium do not go above the surface in the first two months of spring.”
“Why?”
“The water.”
Belgrade whispered the words. Erin stared at him, leaned back in her seat, and shook her head.
“Okay, I think I’ll have to ask Klbkch about this. Or Selys. I’m going to see her next.”
Anand nodded.
“That would be wise. They no doubt have a more coherent explanation than we. But did you need to see us specifically, Miss Erin? Revalantor Klbkch will doubtless be busy with his duties.”
Erin paused. Why was she down here again?
“Oh, right. I have a proposition for you two. Look, my inn’s in a tight place but I have this idea, see—”
She explained briefly to Anand and Belgrade. Both Workers nodded, intrigued by her idea. Belgrade stopped rocking long enough to give his opinion.
“We can do this for a few more days. At least before the water rises. Tonight we will come.”
“Good!”
Erin smiled, relieved. She got up, and the two Workers did likewise.
“I’d love to play a few games, but I have to see Selys next. You said Klbkch is busy, right? Well, I’ll ask Selys about this rain thing.”
“Good. We shall escort you to the surface to reduce delays.”
Anand and Belgrade got up. The Workers flanked Erin as she exited the tunnels. Anand shook his head.
“I do apologize that we could not inform you of the events surrounding the rainfall, Miss Erin. But most Antinium understand little of the world around us. Belgrade and I are privy to some of the Hive’s knowledge, but…”
Erin smiled at him as they walked. This time the Workers and Soldiers kept moving, although she sensed them peeking at her.
“No problem, Anand. I totally get it. Your experience is different than mine. But Liscor changes a lot this month, huh?”
The Worker nodded.
“Indeed. Travel is almost virtually eliminated, the city stockpiles what resources it has, the price of food goes up, the price of wood rises—and of course the Antinium earn a small income as we help construct some of the maritime industry’s fishing craft. We could sell you a boat quite cheaply, I think.”
“Really? Cool! I always wanted a—wait, what did you say?”
 
——
 
Water. It was such a simple thing. A necessity to survive, and yet, for some, the idea of water was terrifying. The Antinium could not swim. It was one of their critical weaknesses, and, as such, the Hive of the Free Antinium was filled with activity as the rain fell on the ground above.
Klbkch, Revalantor of the Free Antinium, strode through the tunnels of his Hive, teams of Workers following him by the hundreds. He walked through each tunnel, Workers breaking off to check each part of the walls, tapping and listening to make sure that there were no faults or other weaknesses a thousand tonnes of water might exploit. Any cracks were repaired, any suspect tunnels sealed off. There were many, many drainage tunnels within the Hive, designed to carry off water should it flood, but if it came to that, Antinium would die.
And Klbkch found himself caring more about the loss of a Worker or Soldier’s life than he had in the past. Perhaps it was because some of them were Individual and thus a precious resource that could not be so easily reacquired. Or perhaps it was the shorter Worker following behind him, anxiously watching as Klbkch directed flows of Workers.
“That tunnel is faulty. Seal it off completely. Fill it with dirt and pack it—I will return later to inspect the area. Forty Workers will go to inspect the dungeon entrances with the others. We must not allow those areas to flood.”
Workers moved as ordered. Pawn moved to one side as they marched past him. He stared at Klbkch as the Revalantor looked around the tunnel.
“Revalantor, how can my Painted Antinium assist with this process?”
