A light rain pattered down on the roof of The Wandering Inn. Rain, after so many weeks of snow. It was a pleasant sound, and reminded Erin of her world. After all, rain was rain. Some things were the same.
More than a few things, actually. Erin was in another world. A world full of monsters and magic, terrors and wonders. And yet, somehow Erin still found herself filling out forms. It was reassuring, and slightly depressing, to know that bureaucracy didn’t change across species.
And paying fines. That seemed weirdly familiar too. Not that Erin caused trouble when she’d been back in her world. Okay, maybe she’d gotten a few lectures about setting up lemonade stands inside a school cafeteria, but this?
Twenty-six gold coins. In truth, Erin paid only eighteen gold coins as both Watch Captains had added in four gold coins from their pockets, but that was still a lot. The coins disappeared into a pouch at Watch Captain Venim’s side as he stood up.
“Paperwork’s done. I have the coins, and I’ll slip this into the approved files tonight. We should see progress tomorrow morning. Watch Captain Zevara, I’ll leave things to you over here. Miss Solstice, I’d expect to receive a [Message] spell by way of Liscor within the week—two or three days from now, if I’m a judge.”
Watch Captain Venim headed for the door, and Erin got up. She replaced the mana stone attuned to Pallass, and the Drake paused before stepping through.
“Thank you again for doing this, Miss Solstice. I apologize for the inconvenience and the fees.”
“Eh. I caused you a lot of trouble, so there’s no hard feelings. It’s got to be hard, running a Walled City, right?”
She smiled wearily. It was late—going to Pallass and her adventures there felt like a lifetime ago. Venim nodded with a rueful expression on his face.
“You have no idea. And your inn isn’t even the worst of the problems I have to deal with, if you’ll believe that. At least it seems well-defended. I can tell the Assembly of Crafts that having a Gold-rank team present most of the time will deter anyone taking the door, including our own forces.”
“Don’t forget the five Hobs in my basement.”
Erin grinned. Venim’s smile slipped and vanished. He stopped, one hand on the door handle.
“Scale rot, I forgot. The Goblins.”
He covered his face with his claws. Erin’s smile disappeared as Venim walked back to confer with Zevara. The sense of relief in the inn trembled under the weight of this new complication.
“There is no precedent for having monsters within Pallass, authorized or not. There are strict laws about allowing monsters to enter the city or keeping non-sentient ones as tamed animals, though. We could argue that the Goblins won’t enter the city, but they pose a risk the council might not ignore…I’m not keen on the idea either.”
Venim glanced at Erin and Zevara as he spoke. Erin hesitated, and it was Zevara who answered with a grimace.
“Don’t bother trying to talk her out of it, Venim. I’ve had the same arguments, and she won’t budge. This is technically an autonomous holding within Liscor’s radius of authority, but we’re not pushing the issue, and I doubt Pallass will get any further.”
“But this is highly—you’re telling me she has had Goblins in the inn before, and you haven’t considered—can’t they just be—”
Zevara kept shaking her head and eying Erin. Erin eyed her right back, her arms crossed.
“Those Goblins are innocent. They don’t cause trouble, and they have yet to hurt anyone. They saved me from goats.”
Venim stared at her.
“Goats.”
“Eater Goats.”
Zevara nodded. The Watch Captain from Pallass blanched a bit.
“Ancestors, the things you lot have to deal with over here—those are the same ones that bite even when you behead them, right? Well, be that as it may, Miss Solstice…”
“No, Captain Venim.”
He glared at Erin, vexed. She glared back, ready to fight on this issue. The air around Erin heated up, and Venim edged back in his chair. He looked at Zevara, and she gave him a complicated shake of the head and an impatient gesture with her chin. This time, the Watch Captain’s sigh was loud and unhappy.
“Fine. Stop using your aura, Miss Solstice. I’ll try to gloss over that fact with the Assembly of Crafts. The Gold-rank team here does help. If I can claim them as security—I don’t suppose you pay them to guard your inn? Even a copper coin or two would help justify it as…”
He gestured helplessly at the paperwork. Erin shook her head.
“Nope, sorry. But I do have an Antinium Worker with a bow on the roof of my inn. That’s good security, isn’t it?”
Venim covered his face with his claws. Zevara patted him on the back.
“Antinium. Oh, that’s just what I need to convince them. Well, I’ll do my best. I’m leaving before you tell me you breed Shield Spiders as well.”
“Hey!”
Erin watched the Watch Captain go through the doorway. It was dark in Pallass too, although there was no rain in the Walled City. She saw Venim talk to a few figures down the alleyway, nod at her, and close the door. She plucked the mana stone from the door as soon as it was closed.
There was silence in the inn. Erin turned and saw Watch Captain Zevara stretching out her arms and rubbing at the spines on her neck. She looked tired.
“Think it’ll work?”
The Watch Captain looked up. Zevara shrugged, tired but slightly hopeful.
“It should. Pallass’ Assembly of Crafts may be arrogant, but they’re not fools if they’re in charge of a Walled City. I think. Those Goblins throw a bit of a problem into the mix, though. If you’d just…”
She trailed off, shaking her head in resignation. Erin looked around her inn. Yes, her Goblins. The reason why her inn was deserted rather than filled with bodies. And it would have had some business, even this late at night, if Erin had been open. Her inn had been—had begun to be—known as a place with good cooking, interesting events, friendly service, and magic dishes. It had been popular.
But she’d opened her doors to Goblins and so she was a monster. Maybe it was because of the Goblin Lord. Or because they were Hobs. Probably it was both. Either way, her Goblins had driven away business.
Her Goblins. As if she owned them. And Venim thought they might be a security risk? Erin shook her head. The Redfang Warriors stayed out of sight, living in the basement, rarely using the outhouse—being as unobtrusive as possible. They were trying. Even now, they were below, and Erin wondered how long they’d been cooped up in the basement.
She looked towards the trap door leading to the basement. It was dark in her inn with the fire burning low. Still, Erin could spot the trap door shift a tiny bit downwards as she stared. Her eyes narrowed, and her lips quirked upwards.
Zevara hadn’t noticed. The Watch Captain was staring at her empty mug. When Erin turned to her, she stood up.
“Thank you for the drinks. Here—”
She fished around in her money bag, but Erin waved it away.
“You already spent four gold coins. That’s a lot. Drinks are on the house.”
“My thanks.”
Awkwardly, the female Drake nodded at Erin. She stood in the inn, and Erin fidgeted. It was funny, well, sort of. Erin and Zevara had only ever really met when Erin was in trouble, and their encounters had generally been one or both sides shouting at the other.
“Lots of rain today.”
Erin coughed and commented weakly. Zevara blinked and seemed to take in the rain for the first time. She scowled, her expression sharpening unexpectedly.
“Rain? Damn, I hadn’t noticed. Did it start after I arrived here?”
“Yeah. Oops, you don’t have an umbrella, do you?”
“A what? Oh, you mean a parasol? Why would I need one of those? I’m hardly a [Lady] or pampered noble—I have an oiled cloak, or I would if I’d thought ahead. I’ll run for it. It’s just water.”
Zevara grimaced. She cocked her head, listening to the sound of the rain drumming on the inn’s roof.
“It always sneaks up so quickly. Between the dungeon and the Goblin Lord, we haven’t been preparing at all. I’ll have to rouse the Watch and check the walls…couldn’t this have waited another week?”
She groused. Erin didn’t really understand.
“What’s the problem? It’s just rain?”
Zevara turned, clearly annoyed, and paused as she considered Erin.
“You’ve never been here during the spring, have you, Solstice?”
“Um…no. Why?”
Bemused, Erin watched as Zevara groaned and covered her forehead.
“No one told you what happens during the rainy season? Ever? Ancestors, well, at least you’re in the right place. If you were living in one of the valleys, it would be a disaster. And your inn is Antinium-built. They know what needs to be done.”
She nodded at the walls of the inn. Erin stared at them. Had the Antinium done something to them? What happened when it rained?
“Look, I need to be up with the dawn, and I can’t explain it now. Ask Klbkch or Relc or anyone from Liscor what the rains mean. And keep your Goblins in the basement. They haven’t caused trouble so far, which means I haven’t had to do more than warn people not to go to your inn and cause trouble. So long as they’re hidden, people should tolerate them.”
The Watch Captain strode to the door, adjusting her armor and peering out at the rain and cursing. Erin, who had still been wondering about this mysterious rain phenomenon, frowned suddenly.
“What do you mean, keep them out of sight?”
“Exactly what I said, Human. Out of sight, in the basement. That’s sensible of you. No one wants to see Goblins right now. Not after General Shivertail. The last thing I need is a mob attacking your inn to get rid of the monsters.”
Monsters. Erin frowned at Zevara. It was late, she knew, and she was grumpy. But she looked over her shoulder at the trap door to her basement and knew she couldn’t let that go.
“They’re not monsters. They’re people who think. That’s the point.”
The Watch Captain stopped, her back towards Erin. Her posture said she didn’t want to have this conversation, but she replied anyways.
“If you say so. Just keep them out of sight. If not—”
“What? You’ll be leading the mob?”
Zevara turned, her eyes flashing. She stared hard at Erin. Did a bit of smoke escape her mouth? It was quickly lost in the rain.
“No. But I won’t be able to protect you.”
She turned and strode out of the inn, disappearing into the rain before Erin could reply. Disgruntled, Erin mumbled into the sudden silence.
“You never did.”
Annoyed, Erin cleared the table of mugs and scrubbed at a beer stain. Keep her Goblins below? The nerve of Zevara! Never mind that her words made sense. But they only made sense if you thought of Goblins as monsters or animals. People shouldn’t be confined! They shouldn’t be—
Erin passed by her basement and paused. They shouldn’t be locked up. But then, was she the problem to begin with?
Slowly, she set down the mugs in the kitchen and walked back to the trap door. It was shut, but that didn’t fool Erin. She lifted up the handle and peered into the basement.
It was dark below. Nearly pitch-black. Erin knew there was a lantern down there—four, actually—but the Goblins appeared to be asleep. She heard a few loud snores. Erin rolled her eyes.
“I know you heard all that. You were listening, weren’t you?”
The snores paused and then went on, a tad unconvincingly. Erin sighed.
“I know you’re awake. Look, I think Zevara’s right and wrong. It is dangerous, but I didn’t say you should stay below. I just thought—hey, you are awake, aren’t you?”
She stopped uncertainly. The snoring stopped, and a head appeared out of the darkness, alarmingly close. Headscratcher had been standing on the ladder the entire time! Erin yelped in surprise and instinctively slapped him on the face with an open palm.
“Gah! Wait, sorry!”
Headscratcher yelped and tumbled backwards. Erin heard Goblins exclaiming in alarm, the sound of a thud, and annoyed Goblin voices. She winced and peered into the darkness below.
“Oops. You surprised me. I’m really sorry about that. It was an accident, I swear!”
In the darkness, five pairs of crimson eyes stared up at her. Erin shivered just a bit.
“Sorry. Look, I know I told you to stay in the basement but—come up tomorrow, okay? This is where I wanted you to sleep. It’s not a prison.”
She paused, that thought striking her as important. The Redfang Goblins stared up at Erin, their faces unreadable in the darkness. Erin crouched on the top of the ladder, wondering if she should go down. In the end, she spoke into the darkness as the rain fell overhead.
“You’re not prisoners. I mean that. If you want to leave, to find Rags or do something else…you can go. I’ll give you food if you need it. But I think it might be safer here. And if it is—if you think you want to stay despite the risk, I will shelter you. I promise. And tomorrow…tomorrow we’ll see about getting you rooms on the third floor.”
The Hobs started slightly in surprise. Erin nodded. Keep them below? That was such a wrong concept to her.
“I should have done this from the start. It was fine to keep Pisces in the basement, but you? I have tons of rooms. And if you’re going to stay here, it’s going to be as guests, not as hidden monsters. I’m not ashamed that you’re here, and you shouldn’t be either.”
Five sets of crimson eyes. One blinked. Erin saw a Hob move his head, do something in the darkness. Wipe his eyes? The rest just looked at her. The [Innkeeper]’s voice was low as she spoke to the Hobs, her back framed by the dim firelight.
“There’s nothing wrong with being a Goblin. I told you that, didn’t I? You’re people. Not monsters. Humans can be monsters and Goblins can too. But we’re not all monsters. We’re people. And people don’t live underground or in caves.”
She paused.
“Unless they’re Hobbits. Um. Talk to you tomorrow!”
She waved at the Goblins. Two waved back. Erin shut the door and turned away, feeling embarrassed. She had the distinct impression the Goblins had begun talking amongst themselves the instant she closed the trap door.
She hoped they weren’t laughing at her. But she had said what she believed. That was important. Erin stumbled back to her bed, tired, knowing she’d have to get up soon. She pulled some blankets over her body, punched a pillow, and tossed and turned as the rain fell.
“Let’s see. Pallass jerks…Jelaqua…Calruz and the Horns of Hammerad…Goblins…and no money. That’s enough for one plate. Maybe two. Now how do I make everything fit together?”
