Erin thrashed about for a while, her mind racing, running into obstacles, backtracking. So many problems. There were always problems, but there were always solutions, too. She thought about money and her friends and the Goblins until something clicked. Erin sat up suddenly and snapped her fingers.
“Hmm. That might work!”
Then she immediately fell backwards, pulled the blankets over her head, and went to sleep in relief.
 
——
 
Rain fell across Liscor and the grasslands. Rain, a shimmering, endless downpour of droplets, hitting the ground millions of times each second. It was a hypnotic sight if you weren’t out in the middle of it, a beautiful display of nature to be seen by all.
Bird sat in his watchtower and felt a spray of wet, cold droplets smack him in the face. He wiped at the wetness but then the wind shifted and blew a squall of rain right over him. He hunched his shoulders as the rain blew diagonally, pattering off the roof of his watchtower and his body.
It was wet. He was cold. But Bird was still happy. True, it was raining, and, true, he had been rained on for the last four hours. But he wasn’t dead. It was important to keep things in perspective. Bird felt lucky and privileged to be here, and he tried to be grateful. He wasn’t dead, he was allowed to hunt birds and sit up in his own personal watchtower—he even had his own private quarters!
Bird had the room closest to the staircase leading up to the watchtower. It was a nice room. And it was his. He used to have a bed, but he’d never slept on it, so Miss Erin had taken it away.
Antinium couldn’t sleep on beds. The round shells on their backs made it too difficult since they would rock back and forth or just lie uncomfortably. Perhaps Revalantor Klbkch could do it with his altered, slimmer form, but Bird had given up after five minutes of lying on the bed and wondering what was supposed to happen.
When it became apparent that Bird couldn’t sleep on his bed like most other species, Erin had come up with a solution. She’d created a stack of blankets and pillows that formed what she called a ‘cubbyhole’ similar to the alcoves Bird used to sleep in in the Worker’s barracks.
However, this sleeping space was so soft and luxurious that Bird was afraid to sleep in it and spent most nights with his back against a wall. It still got a good deal of use; Mrsha had been captivated by the idea of pillow forts and often curled up inside Bird’s bed for naps.
And Bird didn’t need to sleep much. He liked being up at night. It was his duty, of course—he’d chased off a few Drakes yesterday by shooting arrows at their feet when they approached the inn just past midnight. But Bird didn’t mind the late hours. Owls came out at night, and if he waited long enough, it would be dawn and birds would be singing and flying about. Perfect targets for an alert Antinium [Hunter].
Of course, it was raining so there would be no birds. The Antinium Worker thought about this and still felt happy. Birds might not fly in the rain because it was wet, but only if they had feathers. What if there were other types of birds he had yet to hunt? His mind raced with the possibilities as the rain pelted him from all angles. Bird was oblivious to it as he thought.
Were there fish birds? Birds that could fly in the rain? Maybe birds above the clouds? Bird looked up and felt happy. The world was a wonderful place! When you didn’t know what it contained, everything was new and fresh. And Bird was completely ignorant. Thus, he sat in his small watchtower as water sprayed him and the rain pounded down. He ignored it all, his crude hand-made bow in hand. It wouldn’t do to get the lovely bow Erin had given him wet, after all. He sang a tiny tune as he searched the pouring landscape.
“I am Bird. I am wet. It is raining. I am wet. Drip, drip, I am Bird…”
“Bird!”
The Antinium turned as someone shouted his name. He looked down the stairs and saw a young Human woman shielding her face as the rain pelted her from above.
“Oh, hello, Miss Lyonette.”
The [Barmaid] shouted something at Bird, looking upset. He was alert instantly, wondering if a monster or other danger had come through the door. Erin had told him to watch for threats outside the inn, but Bird was aware that having a magic portal door was a security risk. He did take his job seriously. But that didn’t seem to be the problem here!
“…door! Come…drenched…here!”
He could only hear a few words over the pounding of the rain. But Lyonette was waving, so Bird followed her down the slippery steps into the inn. It was very wet. He observed the floorboards were quite wet and the wet had gone into several rooms and down much of the third floor. Hm. He turned to Lyonette as she wiped her face with a towel.
“What is the problem, Miss Lyonette? It is quite wet outside. And in here.”
“Yes, Bird. It is! That’s a problem. And do you know why it’s so wet?”
Lyonette glared at Bird. The Worker tilted his head. A problem. He had never been good at solving problems. He had liked chess well enough, but he had never taken to it as a [Tactician] like Anand and Belgrade had. Erin had called his games the ‘weirdest games she’d ever played’ though, which Bird had taken as a compliment.
“It is wet because it is raining, Miss Lyonette.”
“Yes. It is. But why is it wet inside, Bird?”
Bird looked around. Wet, wet…why was it wet inside? Because there was a hole? No, the inn was sturdy and waterproof. So why was there wet on the third floor? He noticed the water moving slightly and looked behind him. Water was running down the steps leading up to the tower. His tower. Bird’s mandibles opened wide as he realized the issue.
“I forgot to close the door.”
“You forgot to close the door.”
Rainwater had spilled into the inn from Bird’s watchtower above. The Antinium stared at the flooded third floor with interest. Mrsha galloped through the giant puddle, splattering water everywhere. Above her, Apista flew away from the water droplets in alarm. Lyonette sighed.
“Okay, I guess I was waking up in an hour anyways. Let’s get to work.”
“I am deeply sorry. I will assist you with cleaning and return to guarding above.”
Bird lowered his mandibles, ashamed. Lyonette shook her head, looking only slightly put out.
“It’s fine, Bird, really. Just don’t forget again. And you don’t have to go above. I’m sure Erin would want you inside and out of the rain.”
Bird protested mildly as Lyonette ordered Mrsha to grab more towels.
“But I must guard. And I have permission to hunt. I am waiting for fish-birds to come out.”
“Fish birds? Bird, there are no fish birds.”
“There…aren’t?”
Lyonette paused, staring into the Worker’s downcast face. She hesitated.
“Um, well, I’m not certain. Why not? I’m sure there are birds that go out in the rain. Actually, I lied. There are most definitely fish birds, Bird.”
The Worker nodded happily, faith restored in the world.
“I knew it.”
Life was good for Bird. He was especially happy Revalantor Klbkch had ordered him not to kill the Hobs just yet. Bird had kept an eye on them every night, under strict orders from his Hive, and he wasn’t sure he could kill them, even if he ambushed them. It was good to be peaceful. No one should die.
Except birds, of course.
 
——
 
Erin woke up to the sound of rain. She woke up slightly later than usual, which meant dawn was just breaking as she got up and blearily stumbled around the kitchen.
“Ghrmph. Rain, raining all the time. Gonna be a pain going to Liscor. Where’s breakfast? Right, right…gotta find Lyonette. Lyonette?”
She walked out into the common room, but Lyonette was uncharacteristically not already awake. Erin hesitated, not wanting to wake her up, and then she heard the sounds from above. They were faint, but, as Erin ascended to the second floor and stared past the rooms reserved for the Horns of Hammerad and the Halfseekers, she heard the noises coming from the second stairwell heading to the third floor.
“Singing?”
Erin tiptoed up and saw a strange sight. It was Lyonette kneeling on the ground, mopping up water with a towel as Bird did the same. Mrsha and Apista were frolicking around, getting water everywhere as they played catch. They were making the mess worse, but Lyonette wasn’t scolding Mrsha. Instead, she and Bird were singing!
“It’s raining, it’s raining, water’s on the floor, Mrsha at the door, it’s raining, it’s raining—”
“Drip, drip, drip.”
Lyonette was singing a silly made-up song as Mrsha rolled past her, her fur dripping. Bird, wiping the floor with a towel, softly sang as well. He was just singing ‘drip’, but it melded together with Lyonette’s singing in a wonderful way.
Erin stood watching Lyonette and Bird singing the silly song as Mrsha rolled about, a smile on her face. Only when the Worker and [Barmaid] had cleaned up most of the water did she cough.
“Erin!”
Lyonette spun around, looking embarrassed. Erin smiled at her and at Mrsha as the Gnoll galloped up to her. She caught Mrsha before she could shake herself.
“Ah! No shaking, Mrsha. You get a nice warm towel instead. Lyonette, thanks for doing that. How’d the rain get in? Bird’s door?”
“It was my fault. I am entirely to blame. I will accept all punishments necessary, or my termination.”
Bird stood to attention. Erin frowned at him.
“You’re not getting fired, Bird. It was a mistake! I’d never fire you for that.”
Bird visibly relaxed.
“Oh. Does that mean I can do it again?”
“No.”
Lyonette and Erin spoke at once. Bird nodded agreeably and stared at Apista as the Ashfire Bee hid behind Mrsha. Erin beckoned Lyonette over.
“Sorry I didn’t start getting breakfast ready, Erin. It was just—”
“No, you’re cool. It was better you did this, actually. I’m going to move the Redfang Goblins up here today.”
“The Goblins? But—well, okay. If you think so.”
Lyonette looked dubious, but she nodded anyways. She had changed so much! The fact that she was willing to let the Goblins stay under the same roof as her was more than most Humans were willing to do. Erin intended to change that. She shifted, aware her second piece of news for the day wasn’t going to be taken with the same level of grace.
“I, uh, had Watch Captain Zevara and that Drake guy from Pallass over last night, Lyonette. Looks like we might get to open the portal to Pallass after all. There’s a lot of political stuff going on, but I think I managed to get it sorted. So there won’t be Drake [Soldiers] from Pallass marching in to take the door away.”
“That was going to happen? I mean, I’d believe it but—good job.”
The runaway [Princess] looked relieved. Erin chewed her lip.
“Tiny problem, though…I had to pay to register the inn, and the price was eighteen gold coins.”
“Eighteen?”
Lyonette looked horrified. Erin nodded.
“I took them out of the safe. It’s, uh…well, I took a look at what we had left. What do you think? How long do we have?”
Erin was hoping that Lyonette had put some of the inn’s coin somewhere else or had more on her. The young woman’s face said it all. Lyonette counted in her head, doing the same math that Erin had agonized over last night. When she was done, she shook her head gloomily.
“Enough coin for a week. Not much more, even if we cut back on buying food and supplies…”
“I’ll get us more.”
Erin rested a hand on Lyonette’s shoulder and smiled reassuringly. The [Barmaid] looked uncertain, but Erin grinned at her.
“Money’s not a problem, Lyonette. I have a few tricks up my sleeves. And more in my pockets. And one under my pillow.”
“Really?”
“Yeah! Okay, I have two good ideas. Three if I use my backup plan. I think they’ll all work. I just need to go into the city and, uh, make a few deals. If I help serve breakfast, can you manage…?”
“Leave it to me. I’ll get the Goblins settled. Drassi and Ishkr aren’t coming today, and I think the Horns of Hammerad are going out on a long trip today. So are the Halfseekers, so it’ll just be Bird, Mrsha, and the Goblins to feed for lunch. Do what you need to do, Erin.”
Erin smiled in relief.
“You’re the best. Alright, breakfast is waffles! Hey Mrsha, don’t run down the stairs! Oh well.”
She grinned as the white Gnoll raced down to the common room. Then she paused, and both she and Lyonette turned. The sound of rainfall, muted but always present, had intensified suddenly.
They stared towards the stairs leading up. Bird paused as the rain pelted him, about to climb back up to the tower. He stared at the water already trickling down the stairs.
“Ah. Oops.”
He closed the door swiftly. Erin shook her head.
“That’s a design flaw. But I guess we can put a towel rack there and get Bird to clean up every time he goes in and out. Speaking of which…”
She looked out one of her glass windows at the rain. It was coming down hard, obscuring the landscape. Already, it had washed the last of the snow away, so all Erin saw was green grass and brown mud, both dark as the rain drummed on her windows. She turned to Lyonette, rueful.
“I don’t suppose you know where I could get an umbrella?”
Lyonette looked blank.
“A what?”
“Darn.”
 
——
 
Umbrellas. Umbrellas were an invention that did not exist in the medieval era, or at least, not in this one. True, it was good to keep rain off one’s face, but with an umbrella? They required a lot of careful stitching, long flexible joints that required delicate wood or metalworking, and were, in general, a tool for the nobility to use. A [Lady] might have a parasol or, rather, have a servant follow her around with one, but everyone else just used cloaks. After all, they were warm, didn’t need to be carried in either hand, and didn’t break.
Erin ran with an oiled cloak over her head towards Liscor, screaming as rainwater trickled onto her clothing and mud splashed around her boots.
“I hate cloaks! I hate cloaks! I hate cloaks!”
Not that an umbrella would have helped much either. The rain was coming down fiercely, and the guards on the walls looked miserable to Erin. The one at the western gate was at least sheltered from the rain. She waved Erin through, and the young woman dashed into the streets of Liscor.
And slipped. The wet cobblestones were slippery and Erin had been running to get to Liscor in time. Erin fell, got tangled up in her cloak, and after a brief moment where she just sat in the middle of the wet street with water pouring over her head, got up, and marched through the streets, grumbling about ceilings.
