Earth, May 31st, 2024. 1:45 PM. Someone detonated a high-yield nuclear weapon in Los Angeles, California.
That was about all the news managed before the world went insane. People staring at the television or their blaring smartphones began screaming or calling family, and Inkar, staring in horror at the image on the largest broadcast screen in New York’s Times Square, dropped her ice cream cone.
“Uh. Is that bad?”
Tkrn looked at her face, and the screaming took on a fever pitch. His head turned as a siren began blaring, and then the entire square was turning into chaos. A person wearing a mascot costume was running, as if thinking the next explosion would land here.
Inkar heard every phone around her blaring some kind of emergency broadcast, and the air was thick with panic. She saw someone grabbing for their family—a middle-aged Human woman with a look of true terror on her face. Heard a second klaxon alarm begin to go off—
And then the world froze. Literally froze. Screaming people froze in midair, hair no longer affected by the air. A dropped phone stopped as though someone had hit the pause button, and Tkrn stared at Inkar’s ice cream cone, which had fallen. Pieces of the cone had fragmented upwards into the air, and he bent down and, amazed, picked a piece up and tasted it.
“What’s going o—”
He had been about to say ‘on’, but the word stretched out and repeated itself as Inkar reached for him.
“What’s going on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—on—”
Flicker.
The simulation of Earth, the great Skill, [The World of You and Me]—looped for one terrifying moment, and Inkar felt herself repeating the motion of reaching out, her heart re-hammering in her chest, Tkrn’s word repeating over a dozen times. Then—abruptly—
Something tossed her out of the Skill, and she fell, stumbling, as Gnollish voices cried out, and she saw a glowing world behind her, shaped like Earth, flicker.
“The Skill! What happened?”
Adetr Steelfur emerged with a howl. Other Gnolls who’d been in the simulation of Earth stumbled forwards, ejected as well. Instantly, Tkrn and Inkar turned and began to shout.
“What did you do? What did you do?”
Most of the Gnolls had seen what had happened in the moments before the simulation Skill went down, and Tkrn grabbed Adetr and tried to shake him. Since Adetr was made of metal, almost, that was more like Tkrn shaking himself.
“I didn’t do it! I saw the news—”
Gnolls were all shouting in confusion. One was dead white under her fur and staring up at the sky, as if transfixed.
“Someone did it!”
“What happened?”
“I saw a bright light—”
“The entire world shook. I saw it from where I was—”
“Who was responsible for that? It can’t have been normal! Unless—?”
 
——
 
It took time for the shouting to die down, and when it did, Chieftain Feshi, Shaman Theikha, and the other Chieftains and leaders of Gnolls had arrived at a run.
“Is the Skill down? What happened?”
A group of a hundred and fifty-some Gnolls in the gigantic ‘Earth Tent’ that housed the Skill all tried to speak at once. Theikha turned to Inkar.
“Silence! Inkar, what do you know?”
The one actual Earther among the tribes spoke, trying to piece together what she’d seen.
“Someone dropped a bomb in Los Angeles. A nuke.”
“A what?”
Theikha frowned, but Feshi’s eyes went round.
“One of your world’s versions of Tier 8 spells? Or was it one of the big ones?”
There were different kinds? Inkar shook her head.
“I don’t know. Everyone was panicking; it was a worldwide event. Then the Skill—the simulation froze and kicked us out.”
“We all saw it. Wherever we were.”
Adetr nodded, and Theikha raised a warning staff.
“If the Skill is broken—Adetr—”
“It wasn’t him!”
Tkrn chimed in, and the Steelfur Gnoll stopped covering his head. Theikha gave Adetr an unconvinced look, and he pointed at another Steelfur Gnoll.
“They were with me! We were on the internet at a café. It wasn’t me!”
“If not you, then who? Random events happen, but nothing as dramatic as that.”
Feshi was an experienced visitor to the Skill, and another Gnoll who’d come running, Chieftain Mrell of the Demas Metal tribe, peered at the Skill worriedly.
“Can anyone re-enter?”
“Not yet. It doesn’t look broken.”
The world was still hovering there, but when a Gnoll tried to stick their paw into it and re-enter the simulation, they just waved their paw around and pulled it back, as if it were no more than a fancy illusion spell.
“This might be a sign we’ve overloaded it. Or that the glitches are getting worse.”
Nervously, one of the other Gnolls muttered. There were nods from around the room, and Theikha’s frown deepened further.
“This is not a good time for a disaster like this. The exhibition is tomorrow!”
“We’re not showing off the Skill, though.”
Inkar tried to sound reasonable, and it was ‘we’, since she’d be helping from behind the scenes, even if other Gnolls were going to demo the actual products. Plus, she had a decent rank as Honored herself as well as Earther.
Theikha gave Inkar a sardonic sniff as the great [Shaman] of the tribes looked around. Her heart was beating faster than normal; you could hear it, like a background thrum amidst all the whispers and tension. But it wasn’t racing; a good sign.
“I need every Gnoll focused, not worrying about the Skill. To begin with, everyone, clear out of the tent. I would like volunteers. You, Chieftain Mrell, Shaman Atgre, yes, Shaman Satar—fifteen warriors, and a handful more experts to monitor the Skill. Everyone else leaves. We will see if it reactivates. Then, I will have testimony from each Gnoll as to what they saw. If someone did cause this, they may speak to me privately, yes?”
Her words organized the chaos, and Gnolls soon began to file out of the tent. Inkar wondered if someone had caused the incident, but if so, who? It wasn’t like those weapons just grew from trees. And [The World of You and Me] faithfully recreated security and weapons; even with Skills, you couldn’t just waltz into a military compound.
But maybe it was echoing Earth’s real events? Not a comforting thought. The clocks and dates kept moving over, far faster than the days were passing in this world. It already had disturbing implications, but the Skill might be dying.
Well, the first thing Tkrn and Inkar did was report to Inkar’s Chieftain, Eska of Longstalker’s Fang.
Eska was a [Chieftain of Herds], more comfortable managing animals than reviewing engineering plans or googling how lightbulbs worked in the Earth simulation, but she well understood the crisis. She sat up, abandoning her comb, which she’d been running through a sheepdog’s fur. The huge, fluffy creature sat up, ears alert and wary, sensing the tension.
“What did she mean, the Skill is having…glitches?”
Inkar tried to explain, as best she could, as Deskie, the [Magic Spinner], Pulsg, the chief [Shaman], and a few more Gnolls in the know strode over.
“It began about a month or two ago. You know how there’s a limit on occupancy for the Skill?”
“Hrr. Two hundred, yes? I’m on the waiting list. I’ve only gone three times.”
Pulsg’s voice was slightly hurt. He shot Tkrn and Inkar a reproachful glance, which both tactfully ignored; Inkar had permanent access as the resident Earth expert, and Tkrn, as her partner and bodyguard, got to tag along whenever he wished.
In practice, that often resulted in a lot of free ice cream waffle cones while they helped a Gnoll with a computer or check out the right book from the library. Tech support for Gnolls wasn’t a field Inkar had envisioned herself in, and yes, she was no great tech expert herself.
But she could at least ask a friendly [Librarian]—er, librarian—for help and explain nuances of Earth to new Gnolls needing a guide.
The Skill was the greatest boon of the Meeting of Tribes, the remaining Gnollish groups present in the center of the Great Plains of Izril. It was a secret, a resource of information beyond any other—and right now, it might be failing.
Small wonder every Chieftain and Honored Gnoll was worried. Though some, like Chieftain Eska, just shook her head.
“I went in twice just to see what it was like. It was…an experience, yes? Truly mind-opening. The food and sights made my mind feel as though it were cramped, then as open as the Great Plains itself. But I cannot fathom beginning to study that world. This makes more sense.”
She picked up a stick and tossed it, and the sheepdog raced after it. Inkar could sympathize.
“What is this…issue with the two hundred allowed in each month?”
Honored Deskie had also not been in the simulation as much and tilted her ears as Inkar explained.
“Fewer and fewer Gnolls have been allowed in, Deskie. First it was just a few short of two hundred. Then a dozen short. Now only a hundred and fifty or so can enter at each time.”
Tkrn nodded.
“It’s hard to track. Gnolls enter and exit constantly if they’re allowed in that day. Adetr started a log, and the number has gone down and stayed down most days. On a good day, it’s a hundred and eighty.”
“Hrm. It sounds like we’re taxing it.”
Deskie murmured, and Pulsg laughed.
“Can one tax a Skill?”
The older Gnoll shot the comparatively young [Shaman] a reproving look.
“Everything can grow tired. Even Skills, or so I’ve felt. Perhaps it needs to be recreated? Or it runs on some power that we have failed to give it?”
Everyone looked at each other. Tkrn coughed.
“If it needs the creators, Rose and Yelroan have to return. If it’s power…that’s not good either. What if we turned it off and on again? That works for computers.”
The ‘technical guru’ of the Gnollish research team gave Inkar a toothy smile. She just sighed.
“Someone caused the bomb to explode. That is my guess. But how? Even Adetr couldn’t do that, and he’s raided military bases.”
And gotten thwacked with Theikha’s staff for it. Inkar didn’t envy whomever was responsible for this mishap. Still, Eska just tsked.
“It had better not take Mrell’s focus, or Adetr’s. We’ve spent too long preparing for the exhibition tomorrow! Deskie and all our [Spinners] and [Weavers] have been working nonstop—not to mention the other tribes and their woodwork.”
“At cost! Finding good timber in the winter was a nightmare.”
One of the [Traders] growled, and the others nodded with feeling. Inkar tried to focus.
“Yes. The expo.”
“Is that what we’re calling it? Expo? All these newfangled terms. What happened to trade fairs?”
Deskie complained mildly and patted Inkar’s arm. The [Worldly Traveller] took her paw, smiling.
“It’s a word that attracts attention because it’s new, Honored Deskie.”
The [Spinner] harrumphed.
“Yes, I know that. But we did use to call them just Grand Bazaars, the likes of which tribes came to. It has the same feel as one this time, even if we’re not bound to sell more than the new Earth things. Do you think the dignitaries might buy something else? What if we showcased some products?”
She glanced with real disapproval at the single tent that had been erected for tomorrow, and Eska broke in.
“I asked about our animals or your clothing or bolts of fabric. Chieftain Feshi declined, Deskie. Nor do the dignitaries seem interested. The ones from Chandrar might buy some of our fabric; the Stitch-folk from the southern side of the continent especially. Nerrhavia Fallen’s dignitary didn’t give me a second glance.”
Pulsg nodded with an expressive face.
“The Terandrians are mixed too. The one from…Kaaz? He wouldn’t stop asking questions about what we are selling. The same from Desonis and Nadel, yes? Very interesting who sent an ambassador and who will watch. Major countries like Ailendamus declined to send a single person, yet Nadal rushed their person overseas. By Courier no less.”
Travelling to the Great Plains of Izril on short notice was difficult, hence the expo taking a month to set up. But for the start of the new year, it was going to be something. Inkar was excited, despite her worries about the Skill.
“And is the Minotaur group here? I wanted to introduce myself to them.”
And use my Skills to say hello! Eska chuckled.
“The Minotaurs remember how to come as guests. Yes, I have an entire crate of all kinds of rare fish from their isles for tonight. And one of them brought a bunch of cute giant rats. Capybaras?”
Pulsg, who hated seafood, sighed, but Deskie smiled and promised to introduce Inkar herself as they pointed at some of the guest tents set well away from the Earth tent, but in close proximity to the other tribes. Guests from all over were ready to see what the Gnolls were selling tomorrow.
Visitors from Chandrar, Baleros, Izril, Terandria—yes, even Rhir. Inkar hoped it would go well. The amount of gold it might pull in orders would do a lot for the Gnoll tribes after all they’d suffered last year.
And we’ll get to see how they react to some of it. But the Skill faltering in the Earth Tent was a bad omen. Inkar hoped it didn’t foreshadow things to come. Even as she walked off with Deskie, who was only too happy to tell her about the other species who’d come by and who was worth meeting, Inkar had to wonder.
How had someone exploded that bomb in the Skill to begin with? And why?
 
——
 
When she finished her piano lessons for the final time, Nerrhavia gave herself a little treat. Just a bit of fun. A warmup; some practice.
After all, this place was fake, and she had a small wager with herself on whether it could even accurately display what would happen if one of the earth-shattering weapons went off. As it turned out, she was half-right.
The Skill would soon fail and eject her from the fake world before the blast even really finished going off. It was still entertaining to her.
There she stood, a woman with brown skin, wearing silk clothing in a traditional outfit she assumed was the closest this world had to her customary garb. She stood in a deathly quiet command theatre of some kind.
It had all kinds of glowing screens and buttons as opposed to magical artifacts and maps on paper, but she recognized the nature of the place, even if the appearance changed. Dozens of Humans stood there, faces transfixed with horror.
They were swaying, unable to look away from a screen marred by fire. Some were trying to reach for weapons, glancing at her out of the corner of their eyes. But they couldn’t move.
And the Immortal Tyrant was laughing. Merrily. She had requested a view of the news channels and people reacting to the moment.
