“Ah! A Skill with the gift of creation! You truly are a [Traveller]!”
Corregrione was delighted. He spread his arms, then glanced skywards.
“What a strange thought, but Falamizural might be a chance of a lifetime for one such as you. A shame she left. I would be delighted to exchange gifts with you—”
Then he hesitated.
“—Ah. But I, of course, have no right. I defer to Your Majesty.”
He gave Inkar a flick of the eyes, and the girl from Earth pivoted, flushing. It must have been a breach of custom.
“May I offer you the [Traveller’s Gift From Home], Your Majesty? It is a small thing. We both receive something the other might have from their homelands.”
If the woman refused, Inkar suspected Corregrione would be allowed to accept. If anything, the opportunity to ask the strange woman to trade gifts was even more tantalizing.
Inkar was greedy, she admitted it. Nothing was more fascinating than meeting someone from a distant land and exchanging gifts and seeing their eyes light up when they saw what Inkar gave them.
For free! It was almost always something both liked or valued, and it was not cheap! The crocodile skin knife sheath, the saddle—
What might she get? However, she was just as wary of offending the woman. The stranger didn’t hesitate, however. She just smiled and chuckled.
“You may, if you wish. I shall find it amusing.”
What did that mean? Inkar activated her Skill as she ducked her head in gratitude.
[Traveller’s Gift From Home]!
Her Level 30 capstone Skill. She felt the air move with expectation, as it always did. But instead of a simple ‘pop’ of displaced air, she felt something else happen.
The air froze over. The sky went dark for a second, as if the sun had snuffed out, and she felt as if time halted and ran backwards. Inkar’s breath caught in her throat—her eyes widened—
And then, with a sound like layers of dust shifting, oceans upon oceans of it sifting away—
Something fell out of the air and hung glittering from her fingers as she caught it. Inkar caught the black chain of metal and object dangling on one end.
Astival and the woman peered at it, and Corregrione let out a soft sigh of wonder and nostalgia—and, Inkar thought—disappointment.
The woman just chuckled.
“Appropriate. Treasure it, child.”
Astival nodded slowly.
“A Note of Implorement. There would be no other copy that remains.”
“Perhaps in a vault.”
The two clearly recognized what it was; Inkar’s breath caught as she stared at a curious little…whistle? It looked vaguely like a horn or something made out of black metal, but it was stylized, almost like a word. It would be a very beautiful amulet; only the hint about the name let her see where there was a small spot to blow in.
“Don’t use it unless you’re in danger.”
Corregrione advised Inkar. But she couldn’t take the time to inspect her gift—not yet. She had gotten half the Skill. Inkar held out her hands for the object that the woman would receive. She waited.
And waited.
And the Skill…wavered. She felt it active, felt it compelling her hands to hand the woman her due share of the gift. But the expectation was like a word at the tip of her tongue she couldn’t say. Inkar waited and waited in a kind of agony of suspense.
“What’s…going on? Nothing’s appearing. Something should appear.”
Soft laughter. The woman knew what was going on clearly. She addressed Inkar, amusement in her tone.
“There is nothing you can offer me that will not offend, let alone value.”
What? What? Inkar’s hands were beginning to tremble. Sweat began to bead on the [Traveller]’s face, and she strained, trying to stop this agonizing deadlock.
Something. Something. She had to give the woman something—
Then the world slowly shifted, and Inkar gasped in relief. A shock of pain ran through her heart as something fell, and she caught it desperately. What—what was—
It seemed jewelry was in vogue with this woman. For Inkar caught a simple red gemstone lined with gold. The instant her fingers closed around it, though, she knew something was terribly, terribly wrong.
It pulsed in her hand. She flinched as she touched it, and her heart ached.
“What’s…what’s…”
Her hands shook as she held it out, and the woman plucked the gem up and eyed it.
“Ah, now that is amusing. In lieu of anything else, she gave me this. Do you recognize it, Astival, Corregrione?”
She held it out, and the Gnoll shook his head after only a second. Astival, on the other hand, peered at it, then gave Inkar an impressed look. And a sympathetic one.
“Unsuitable to hand to you directly, Your Majesty. But of some small value.”
“Yes. A Heartstone. Not from her homeland. Well, this is amusing. I accept your gift, Inkar.”
No, nonononono. Inkar felt the Heartstone pulsing as the woman held it up, then tucked it into her pocket. Each time it faintly glowed with light, she felt it. Because it was pulsing at the same time as…
She put a hand to her chest. Then stopped. The woman spoke to her, tone brusque.
“Hm. Because that was entertaining, I shall allow you to accompany us. I am in need of some entertainment. I am Nerrhavia, child.”
What? Inkar tried to look around, but no one else seemed to hear or react to the name. Nerrhavia’s lips curved upwards.
“Now, stand next to me. You are delighted to speak with us.”
Instantly, Inkar walked over and stood there as Corregrione made way for her. He gave her a sympathetic nod as her eyes stared desperately at his face. Astival just looked amused and chuckled to himself.
“Pardon my amusement, Your Majesty.”
“I found it equally so. The courts would have been raucous had they seen it. No one offered me an exchange Skill for the last two centuries of my life. Now, to work.”
They walked forwards, and Inkar moved with them, filing down the line. She couldn’t run away. Or shout. Nerrhavia glanced up at the sky and smiled as a shape flickered above.
“Now, let us see who is worthy.”
 
——
 
Nerrhavia finally reached the front of the line with Inkar, Astival, and Corregrione in tow. Falamizural was circling overhead; she would doubtless return, but Nerrhavia had found an entertaining companion in lieu of the woman.
The child from Earth was exceptionally afraid, but of course, she didn’t show it, and Satar Silverfang just blinked at Inkar before bowing.
“May I know your names for the records of the tribes, honored guests?”
Corregrione and Astival gave theirs, and even Inkar, since she would accompany them inside. Astival was a [Commander]; Corregrione was more honest and said [Traveller].
“Corregrione…I think I remember that name, sir. It must be an auspicious one.”
The Gnoll blinked as Satar scratched at her ear. Then he gave her a look that wasn’t shamefaced so much as regretful.
“Yes. Perhaps. I bear it proudly.”
He would, at that.
He had never done anything wrong in Nerrhavia’s eyes. The Immortal Tyrant saw Falamizural come down reluctantly, seeing their place in line, and Satar gasped as she saw the Garuda.
“May I know your title, Lady Garuda? Your nation? I wouldn’t take your time, but if you have a story of Gnolls or your own nation’s, I would record it down in my book.”
She showed it to them, and the Garuda’s wings drooped.
“I have no story to give. None that I can share now, at any rate. I am Falamizural.”
She did like to dwell in her failures. Nerrhavia’s eyes rolled, and she saw Satar’s eyes narrow. It was not even true; Falamizural had a history, and if Nerrhavia had cared, she could have repeated it here and now.
The [Tyrant] did not care. When Satar turned to her, Nerrhavia smiled.
“Leave my name blank, girl.”
“Huh? But I have to write down who entered.”
Satar protested. Nerrhavia knew it was more of a show than anything else. Would this expo truly matter in the grand scheme of things?
Well, yes, obviously, but the Gnolls hadn’t known that. Satar writing down names had been a plan to level her and impress the rulers and their egos. Nerrhavia began to walk forwards.
“Leave my name blank and fill it in when you know it, child. Consider that my gift.”
“Y-yes? Thank you—um—”
Satar was so bewildered that she just stood there staring as Nerrhavia, Astival, Corregrione, and Falamizural entered the tent with Inkar following. By now, Falamizural had realized what had happened.
“Let her go.”
She jerked her head at Inkar as Nerrhavia directed them towards their table at the far edge of the room. Eska glowered at Inkar, but threw up her paws, deciding that the girl had enough camouflage with this odd group. Nerrhavia didn’t deign to respond, but the Garuda kept hissing.
“We are enough. I am enough—she’s a child. Let her go. Please!”
“Sit next to me, Inkar. Falamizural, you shall sit across the table. Corregrione, wherever you please.”
Astival sat on the other side and Corregrione between Falamizural and Inkar. The Garuda wavered, then sat herself down, head bowed low.
“Don’t hurt them. Please.”
Inkar whispered as she sat down. Nerrhavia yawned as she glanced around the packed room. Things were almost ready to begin. Good. Her eyes fell on the seating, and she nodded at Astival. She picked out the delegates she was interested in, but stopped a moment. Socialization would doubtless come after the introductions.
“The Gnollish people have been hospitable to me, whether they knew it or not. I shall remember it. They will be safe, Inkar.”
The [Traveller] did not look entirely convinced by the promise. Which annoyed Nerrhavia more than anything else so far.
“That is my word, girl. And my word is worth that of nations. What must you think of me, if you even know me? Astival?”
She turned, genuinely curious for his take on the matter. He glanced at her.
“I don’t follow, Your Majesty.”
The Immortal Tyrant waved an indulgent hand to take in Inkar and all the Gnolls.
“Those who came after, Astival. Consider the nation that bears my name. Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Or those who are simple children of the eras long after ours.”
Astival’s lip curled as he regarded the Silk ambassadors.
“Paltry and pathetic, Your Majesty. Made of traitors and rebels—yet they kept the [Slaves] that the rebels swore would end with you. They send what would be mere commonfolk to the Ageless Courts.”
“Yes, yes.”
Nerrhavia cut him off impatiently.
“I mean the reputation of the empire. What do you think they believe of you and I?”
This conversation was interesting to Corregrione and Falamizural too. The Garuda had no doubt about how Nerrhavia should be seen posthumously, but…Astival’s brows cleared.
“Ah, our reputation in history’s eyes? I beg pardon, but I would not have an answer, Your Majesty. I never considered what future generations might think if the empire collapsed. I could not envision it.”
Spoken like a loyal dullard. Nerrhavia sighed.
“They paint such a banal picture. An ‘evil empire’, as if ours were the exact same as all those who were striven against, from Harpies to half-Elves. Remember this, Inkar.”
She turned, and her eyes flashed as the [Traveler] shivered.
“—Mine was a nation ruled by laws. Whatever else they say of me, I shall not quibble with. But know it had a fairness to it. I have witnessed countless nations with corruption and excess, regardless if they hide it behind their vaunted nobility and freedom, or ones who revel in their defiance of ‘goodness’.”
Disdain oozed from her voice. Nerrhavia had never cared for it.
“Mine had law. Of course, those at the bottom had less than those who were born higher. I, at least, acknowledged it was unfair. I, at least, let them rise.”
A meritocracy. She glanced at Astival.
“Do you know the law of worth, Astival?”
He repeated it as he had been taught as a boy in the academies.
“The highest class must hold at least a tenth as many of the gloriously capable as the lowest, Your Majesty. Or they are unworthy of their rank.”
Nerrhavia nodded indulgently.
“From slave pits to my most trusted generals. Few made the climb, but knowing it could be done is how the empire continued. The cities were always so wonderfully prone to change. Elsewhere—stable.”
Utter stability. The cities had been where the complacent could be overturned from their seats of power, but if you had no stomach for that, there were provinces where you could grow fat and old without fear your entire life.
Much like Khelt; the Immortal Tyrant had studied Khelta’s rise to power and used it to inform her own nation. Khelt had indeed been around during her own empire; a nation she had wisely left alone. A high standard of living among the loyal subjects in Nerrhavia’s provinces had been one of her nods to Khelta’s style of ruling. Her regret had not been being contemporary to the famous necromancer-queen.
…Meeting her in the lands of the dead had both been a moment of triumph and slightly jarring. Still, emulating her methods had reaped rewards for many generations of loyal citizens of her Immortal Empire.
And they had wondered why they could never start insurrection in the rural areas. At least, never until the end.
Nerrhavia accepted a cup of sherry and sipped from it. Inkar was listening, of course.
“Speak. You are in no more danger than they.”
“You…I know your name. Why did your empire fall if it was so perfect?”
A fine question. Corregrione’s ears perked up, and even Astival kept his face blank. Falamizural leaned forwards eagerly; of course, all of them had predated her death, and even though Astival had been there in the final year of her life—
They came from different points in time.
Falamizural was oldest by far. Corregrione could have said to have lived at the height of her reign; Astival was at the end of it. There was a symmetry Nerrhavia liked to their affiliations with her over the thousand years she’d lived.
A thousand.
Just a thousand. She had met rulers in the lands of the dead who had sneered at the brevity of time, but should she compete with half-Elves? She had lived well during her rule, not fallen into complacency nor chased after immortality until she was a husk, flailing about in fear of death.
“Hm. How much do you know, Inkar, of who I was?”
Gnolls were dimming the magical lights in the tent. The chatter of voices was dying, but both Inkar nor Nerrhavia were more interested in the guests than the objects on display.
“Ladies and Gentlemen, welcome to the Meeting of Tribes and the expo of—”
Nerrhavia tuned out Chieftain Feshi’s voice as the young Gnoll strode onto stage. She watched, letting others applaud, as the Gnolls introduced their expo.
