She dismissed her grievances, too embarrassed to grouse about a minor issue like that before other Gnolls. Eska went on.
“Wistram has agreed to host the event for us on scrying orbs; we just need enough to show all the nations.”
“Did they charge us?”
Tkrn asked sardonically, and Eska sighed.
“No. The price was we had to say it was ‘courtesy of the Terras faction’ and let the Archmage of Memories participate. Given that it was Wistram…we agreed.”
The Gnollish grudge against Wistram had been mitigated by the revelation they could learn magic, but simultaneously been enhanced by Wistram’s culpability in that lie by sheer incompetence or because they’d been in on it.
However, brutal practicality. The only other thing Eska warned Inkar about was the guests nearer to home.
“You are to stay hidden, Inkar, yes? No popping up to help. If someone fails, they fail. Adetr knows everything, anyways. The guests are to mingle and do…fancy things. We will feed them like Goldflake Pigs and give them time to socialize. There will be powers like Nerrhavia’s Fallen and many more. Chandrarian nations, Balerosian ones; smaller ones I have never heard of. Archmage Eldavin pulled connections, as did Shaman Theikha and the Chieftains. We will impress them. But there will be no Drakes present save one.”
“No Drakes?”
That worried Inkar. The problem with a giant expo was that the nearest groups who had money to buy things were, well, Drakes.
Drakes, who were not exactly well loved in the Great Plains at this moment. Eska bared her teeth.
“They may watch and bid on the items, and we shall see how well it goes, yes? Only three Drake cities were allowed access. Guess which ones.”
“Was one Liscor?”
Inkar’s guess was wrong, and ironically, the Liscorian, Tkrn, was right. He shook his head instantly.
“We can’t buy goods like that, and we’re not that famous. It’s Pallass, Salazsar, and Oteslia.”
The Cities of Inventions, Gems, and Growth. Of course. The Walled Cities who’d fought against the others, even if it had only been a band of a hundred soldiers in Pallass’ case. Eska sniffed and nodded approvingly at Tkrn.
“We do not forget. Tomorrow, then. We will impress all these nations and, tribes willing, make enough gold to help every tribe. As well as connections.”
“Lyonette said she’d help as much as she could too.”
Eska rolled her eyes as Inkar added that.
“Yes, yes. If she wants to send us a hundred gold pieces, we will accept it too. Let’s trust in the expo, hm?”
And with that, Inkar went to sleep. She wondered why, when she rose in the morning, despite the excitement and nerves and everything else she felt, there was a current underneath it all. Of…unease?
She couldn’t have said why. She didn’t even process the feeling at first. But as the dignitaries began arriving, like Tradespeaker Vitnay, a few more interesting guests appeared.
Including a stranger from distant lands and times. Inkar didn’t notice her at first, but meeting her would prove to be one of the most important encounters of Inkar’s life.
 
——
 
Over a hundred countries had sent a delegate in person, if you included the mercenary companies of Baleros. Nearly twice that number were watching via scrying orb.
Every single orb in the Meeting of Tribes had been borrowed from their owners and pressed into service, and the morning saw Chieftain Eska fretting as she had her tribe setting up each nation at their tables and solving technical issues.
“—No, you’re looking the wrong way—Your Majesty of Jecrass? Your Majesties?”
When Inkar poked her head into the tent, she saw Shaman Pulsg trying to direct the omnidirectional scrying orb towards the stage. He was writing on a plaque, crossing out ‘King Raelt of Jecrass’ and writing ‘King Raelt of Jecrass and Queen Jecaina of Jecrass’ on the back.
The King of Duel’s voice had that strained patience of people having technical difficulties as he replied.
“Hold on. Our [Mages] are refocusing the orb. Is this the right…no, I’m staring at your midriff.”
Technical issues. Inkar hid a grin as Pulsg turned to the Wistram [Mage] trying to do the same to five dozen orbs at once.
Like any Gnoll [Shaman], he ended up solving the problem by getting five pieces of wood and making a box which she placed the scrying orb inside.
“There. If you’re staring at a piece of wood, you’re looking in the wrong direction.”
“Oh, that’s so much easier. Thank you. Why doesn’t Wistram just do that with their fancy calibration spells?”
Pulsg gave the Wistram [Mage] a superior look as the harried Human man asked to borrow the box. Then the [Shaman] bent over.
“If you would like to adjust your view during the expo, or get a closer look at anything, please signal us via [Message] spell, Your Majesties.”
“Thank you, Shaman Pulsg.”
“Thank you, Your Majesties. Longstalker’s Fang does not forget our friends.”
Hence why they were being set up at one of the head tables closest to the expo. Inkar would have loved to go over and talk to the rulers of Jecrass if she could. They had been here at the battle, but she hadn’t been able to talk.
Eska’s tribe was doing well. The Chieftain was standing with a carefully annotated map of the huge room with the stage in the center so that everyone might see what was on display. She was placing nations at each table; it was important to do correctly.
“Put the Chandrarian Stitch-folk nations at that table. It says Reneiz, the Lantern Lands—not the same as the Lantocracy of Bitorm, remember—Scaied all at that table.”
She was directing lesser nations further out from the center. Everyone would have a good enough view, but there was a pecking order, and Inkar had only heard of one of those nations Eska had mentioned. A Gnoll frowned at several Stitch-folk delegates waiting to be seated.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen there too?”
Eska fumbled with the map.
“What? Absolutely…not. Put them at the larger table there. With Rhir’s delegate.”
The delegates would be sitting with a mix of scrying orbs and real people, but Inkar didn’t think that mattered too much. Rulers were peeking out of scrying orbs, or their entire courts were present, and she saw some of the people, like the small court of Silk Stitch-folk from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, had brought no less than three scrying orbs for their table.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen greets the Blighted Kingdom, our sworn allies by pact and deed and stitch. May you walk on the bones of tyrants.”
The lead [Ambassador] gave a long bow to Rhir’s [Diplomat] and an even longer introduction of his court and the Court of Silks watching from Nerrhavia’s Fallen itself. Even the Queen of that nation might be watching. The man completely ignored the lesser Stitch-folk, some of whom weren’t even Silk, to their visible annoyance.
“Looks like it’s going well…”
Eska had just spotted Inkar sneaking into the tent when someone strode up. If Chieftain Eska was busy getting the seating done, Shaman Theikha was personally welcoming the most important delegates into the tent with Chieftains Feshi, Akrisa, and Orelighn.
“Eska. The seating is messed up again.”
“What? No it’s not. I have them—”
Eska peered at the floor plan and tried to show Theikha, but the [Shaman] was glancing back.
“Khelt’s delegate has arrived. I must welcome them—fix it.”
“Fix what?”
Theikha was already gone, and Eska frowned at the map. Inkar stood on her tip-toes to see over Eska’s shoulder.
“It looks right to me.”
“She must want someone sat elsewhere. I’ll correct it, but we can’t just move the monarchs around. Well, we can, but then they get annoyed.”
Eska sighed; it wasn’t going to matter that much once they were all settled. Then she noticed Inkar and growled.
“You’re supposed to be staying out of view. Out! Go find Tkrn!”
“He’s helping set up—”
“Then go outside and pretend to be a guest! Shoo!”
Eska beckoned, and a Gnoll chased Inkar out. Sighing, the [Worldly Traveller] had to stand in the melting snow and watch from afar as Theikha welcomed Khelt.
All this talk about nations giving their support to the Gnolls really was lip service. When the Walled Cities and traitors turned against the Gnolls, where was the world? Glued to their television screens.
The value of the concord of nations was represented in only one kingdom in the world: Khelt. They alone had marched armies into the Great Plains and changed fate in no small way.
Small wonder they were being personally led to the tent by Shaman Theikha, a small group of Kheltians walking past a bunch of quietly offended Terandrians. However, even larger kingdoms didn’t quite dare sneer at Khelt.
Everyone remembered the King of Khelt riding across Chandrar, threatening war with any nation that dared cross him—and then doing exactly what he had promised.
He had thrown a gigantic gemstone halberd through one of Zeres’ towers. Brought an army of a million undead soldiers onto Izril’s shores. Survived a combined bombardment of the six Walled Cities. Returned A’ctelios Salash to slumber—Inkar had even heard he’d found time to leap a giant canyon on a horse.
Just for fun? The Kheltian delegation was holding a scrying orb that definitely allowed Fetohep to see through it. They made only one stop before entering the tent and claiming their seat of honor.
A younger Gnoll was standing by the doorway, greeting each representative and noting something in a book she held. Satar Silverfang, the [Historian of the World], was receiving more attention from some monarchs than Shaman Theikha.
The reason for that was sadly obvious. Satar had been on television. She was the Gnoll who’d made her appeal for stories. Theikha was just a ‘Great Shaman of the Plains’ from the Gaarh Marsh tribe, whatever that meant.
Inkar edged closer and heard a bright voice echoing from a scrying orb being held by a rather effluently dressed man. And yes, that was the right word for it; he had clothing that looked like it was more liquid than cloth.
Desonis. Queen Geilouna was speaking brightly to Satar.
“G-e-i-l-o-u-n-a. I see it misspelled constantly. Is this to be some event noted down in the annals of Gnollish history, Shaman Satar?”
“I may only hope so, Your Majesty. I will certainly note down your kind words and presence.”
Satar ducked her head, aglow with delight at being able to meet so many rulers—and note down their names and words! However trivial, Inkar just bet it would help Satar level.
“Yes, well. I do expect I shall see something fascinating. And it is a welcome distraction since…since…”
Since the Earl of Rain’s passing. The voice fell silent, and Satar tried to keep smiling as the delegate hurriedly bowed.
“Your Majesty, I shall convey us into the expo.”
“Oh? Yes, go ahead, Diplomat Nebersa. I’ll just take a nap…do my introductions for me, would you? Especially if we’re seated next to Itreimedes of Avel. Please, tell me we’re not—he’ll talk the entire…”
More delegates. Now came the House of Minos and Tradespeaker Vitnay. But the Minotaurs were preceded by a yowl that drew everyone’s attention.
A snarling chorus of voices; a Drake group from Salazsar flinched and backed up fast as an entire pack of gigantic wild cats bounded forwards!
Lions! Inkar leapt back fast. She had never seen one except in zoos in Kazakhstan. But there were near a dozen loose! She heard them yowling, a frightening sound—and then saw a grinning group of nobles rush forwards in a whoop.
“Hail, wild folk of the plains! Kaaz Dorem Laegriser, the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon, has arrived! Greetings, from one wild-hearted people to another!”
Ah, yes. Kaaz. They literally ran past the other delegates, and Inkar covered her eyes slightly—out of embarrassment. The Gnolls looked at each other as Kaaz, dressed in adventurous clothing despite the chill in the air, prowled amongst the giant cats they loved so much.
Clearly, they felt like they had an affinity with the Gnolls in some way. ‘Wild-hearted peoples’, was it? The Gnolls looked at the overgrown cats with as much chagrin as the other delegates.
If Inkar was any judge, she would have bet the House of Minos would be thought of far better than the Kaazians, despite one of the latter bounding forwards to shake a hand and announce herself as Hundredlady something-or-other. Respect was, among other things, waiting your turn in line.
I wish I could have joined the welcoming committee. Or be backstage! But either option would have made her too noticeable. There were enough Humans here, both from delegates and merchants and Wistram’s [Mages], to give Inkar some cover. But being the one Human with the Gnolls when all the Earth-tech was unveiled would be a dead giveaway.
Thus, Inkar just got to watch as more and more delegates appeared. She was just watching a scrying orb from Calanfer being introduced to Satar when she felt her head turning.
A new group was walking into the Meeting of Tribes. Of course, there were so many delegations that that was hardly surprising. But Inkar’s eyes focused on this quartet.
She could not have said why. They were far less numerous than the entire courts surrounding some ambassadors like that of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and the lone Rhirian [Diplomat] flanked by bodyguards was far more notable.
Yet the moment Inkar saw the Stitch-woman walking forwards, followed by a middle-aged Gnoll, a tall, thin Stitch-man, and a magnificent Garuda with white wings—she couldn’t look away.
Four of them. Each one odd and unique.
A Gnoll, two Stitch-folk, and a Garuda? What nation was this? Perhaps they were all individual delegates or represented [Merchants] of some kind. Inkar stared first at the Garuda, because they were exceptionally few in number, even here.
She had black feathers, or perhaps exceptionally dark blue, from her face to her legs, but her wings turned pale-white, even edged with gold at the tips. Her eyes were the same color; she held her head high, and Inkar felt like she had both the air of Adetr—a warrior—and of Theikha.
She was looking around the Meeting of Tribes, nodding to Gnolls she made eye-contact with. Smiling, eyes filled with sympathy and…some kind of intense loneliness or longing. Or maybe even fear?
Whenever she glanced at the person she followed, she slowed a step, as if to leave the group, but then she’d hurry to keep up. Yet she kept her head high and looked the most regal of the lot, a ruler of Garuda in her own right. Except when she stared ahead.
