“Until recently, you might claim that. The last three shipments were excised by flames. They were infected with the metal insects that plague your entire kingdom!”
The [Ambassador] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s face froze.
“There is no scourge of insects. Your lies are as pathetic as your cloth, [Diplomat]. If you will excuse me.”
He didn’t quite shove the [Diplomat] aside; rather, one of his bodyguards did that for him as the man gestured. Nerrhavia just sighed.
“Silk and cotton. The fabric changes, but the problems do not. As before my reign, so after. Merindue would weep or send you all to the stocks if she could hear this.”
She shook her head as the [Diplomat] fell down to cries of outrage. The [Diplomat] from Scaied was a Stitch-woman [Mercenary]; she snapped as the [Ambassador] passed.
“You insult Reneiz brazenly in front of nations you have begged for aid against the King of Destruction, Ambas—”
He backhanded her, and she almost dodged the blow. The Stitch-man snarled—caught himself, and stared at his arm, and Nerrhavia stepped back as Scaied’s bodyguards drew their swords just in time.
The crowd fell silent as Scaied’s [Diplomat] reached for a sword, then halted, holding her cheek. Nerrhavia saw Astival, [Puppetmaster Sadivictus], standing on the other side of the crowd. Nerrhavia watched as the [Diplomat] of Reneiz got up and drew his sword.
Words were said. She didn’t pay attention to them. They were always the same. She didn’t pay attention to their names either.
The Drake with the child—Erin had called her Mrsha—were more interesting to her. Nerrhavia had a keen memory for names and faces, but only when it suited her.
“Merindue. She was a skilled [Magistrate] in my empire. Not one of my finest; far from it. A worthier foe. Events unearthed her true talent for rebellion.”
She spoke only to herself. No one else was listening. A circle had cleared despite the Gnolls trying to get in there and stop a duel between the ambassador of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and the diplomat of Reneiz.
The courts of both nations were watching; insult had been given, and if it hadn’t been Reneiz, Scaied might have made the challenge. The [Ambassador] was overconfident; Reneiz’s [Diplomat] wasn’t as good as his bodyguards, but the Cotton Stitch-man was more skilled with a sword.
It should have ended with a disarming blow and minimal blood shed. That was what the [Diplomat] was trying for, despite his fury. The Silk nobleman fended off the calculated thrusts and cuts with increasingly flustered posture.
Even Nerrhavia saw that. She also saw Astival, standing behind the crowd, waiting and waiting for his moment.
Her Sadivictus waited until the [Ambassador] stumbled back and the [Diplomat] was setting himself up for a careful slash to the hand; dismembering a hand was merely an insult among Stitch-folk, who could sew limbs back on. Then—
The [Puppetmaster] calmly lifted an empty hand and flicked it.
 
—The [Ambassador] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen suddenly parried the [Diplomat]’s sword in a moment of desperate talent. He snarled, panicking—
 
Astival lifted his empty hand and swung downwards, then calmly stabbed forwards once in the empty air. A great cry arose as he twisted his hand.
“Halt! H—”
Astival drew his hand back, and then flicked it through the air at neck-height. Then Astival lowered his hand and turned away. There was a thump—a scream followed from a dozen voices.
 
——
 
The headless corpse of the [Diplomat] lay there as the [Ambassador] backed up, white-faced. He didn’t seem to quite realize what he’d done. He stared at his arm as if confused—then began to denounce his opponent.
“He came at me for blood.”
“You executed him. All saw it!”
Another [Diplomat] leapt into the conversation, face pale with fury.
“Reneiz will have a blood debt for this! We say it in Deimos’ name!”
More than one dignitary was shouting in outrage; smaller nations, but nations still, near Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
By now, the Court of Silks were strongly suggesting the [Ambassador] shut up and leave the tent as fast as possible, and his [Bodyguards] were trying, but the press of bodies was in the way.
“This shall be addressed in Tyrant’s Rest. King of Deimos, Rulers of Reneiz, you have our word.”
Queen Yisame herself spoke to attempt to slow the political disaster. Nerrhavia rolled her eyes as she walked over to the scrying orb.
“Tyrant’s Rest. Couldn’t you have thought of a better name for the city? Truly. What would these nations do, oh Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, if it were not for the legacy you rest on? Merindue forged the pacts that keep you safe.”
It was true. Furious Reneiz might be, but if they had even contemplated war, there was more than fear of Nerrhavia Fallen’s armies to consider. There was a wall—of paper and ink, but a wall nonetheless.
Contracts. Peace treaties, sometimes signed on the point of a sword, but magically binding nonetheless. The pale-faced [Ambassador] was bowing to the scrying orb, and Queen Yisame’s eyes were ablaze with fury at having this event ruined by her people.
She frowned as a face appeared in the orb in front of her. A strange woman stood there, smiling at her.
“Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“That is Queen Yisame to you—”
The furious [Queen] paused. And the other woman just glanced at her.
“This is not the first insult Nerrhavia’s Fallen has given to Reneiz and the Kingdoms of the Western Provinces, is it?”
Something about the way she said that made Yisame hesitate. That wasn’t the name of Reneiz and the other kingdoms west of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, of course. They would object to that, and they weren’t united.
But it was how they were listed in older contracts that still had the individual signatories on their parchment. 
Of course, that was only a passing association. The Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen snapped back.
“It shall not be the last, but amends shall be made. This was a tragic accident! The [Ambassador] shall lose his position!”
The complete honesty took Yisame off-guard. She would have never said that—but she meant every word, of course. Perhaps the [Ambassador] head would be sent if that was enough! But why had she even admitted…?
The other woman smiled.
“Thank you, Your Majesty.”
Then she stepped out of the scrying orb’s view. Yisame blinked—then felt a shock run through her core.
“Who—who was that?”
“Who, Your Majesty? We must replace that fool at once. The Empire of Scaied is already barking at us—”
The Court of Silks was abuzz with the drama. No one had seen—Yisame’s face went pale. She looked around at the projection of the tent. Where was she? The woman was nowhere to be seen. Almost, Yisame wondered if it had been a hallucination.
But her instincts said—
“Etrikah? Etrikah! Summon the Great Sage now!”
Her courtiers stared at her, surprised to hear anything but dignified tones from—
“Now!”
Yisame screamed, and they went running. The [Queen]’s eyes darted through the crowd.
Stop her, she wanted to shout at her bodyguards. Stop her from—
Doing what?
 
——
 
Nerrhavia stood over the body of the dead [Diplomat]. Everyone else was keeping back; there was no hope of healing him, severed head or not.
Well, they might have tried to save his head, but no Stitch-person would have suggested it if they knew the technique. 
She didn’t bend down or touch the blood seeping into the carpet. Instead, the Immortal Tyrant reached down.
Down.
Through the vaults of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, to the core of the laws and concepts that made up the kingdom. And that was all they were, really. Ideas. But ideas you put paper and force behind, which created nations. It didn’t matter where she needed to go.
Nerrhavia was the Immortal Tyrant; all modern contracts were descended from her work. So she calmly plucked something out of the idea of a nation, and lifted it into reality where she stood. She unfurled it and read.
“Hm. Hmm. They took the wording almost exactly from me. The Merchant’s Guild likewise. Well, that suits me well.”
The scroll was ancient and lengthy; rolled up, it would be thicker than Adetr Steelfur’s arm. It was capped on each side by gold, and the writing was magical.
As was the entire contract. Nerrhavia glanced at the image of Reneiz’s rulers. She saw two thrones, two different rulers staring through the scrying orb. One was holding their family to them; they had made the mistake of bringing children to see the event. The other was single.
A dual rulership? She’d look into that later. At this moment, Nerrhavia just counted the names at the bottom of the scroll.
Scaied and Reneiz were on there, but over half the nations had vanished. Still, this was one of the oldest contracts Nerrhavia’s Fallen had. Far stronger than any pact they had with Deimos, a newer kingdom.
Contracts. They guaranteed so much. But most of all—they prevented either nation from declaring war without jumping through several hoops. Nerrhavia saw, to her amusement, that the kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fallen could declare war far more easily than the Kingdoms of the Western Provinces.
“Manifestly unfair. They built a kingdom on the ashes of mine out of injustice. This is dated…mm. Merindue would have been dead. A.N.? Is that ‘After Nerrhavia?’”
She shuddered at the dating choices made at the time. Then bent down.
The bloody sword that the [Diplomat] had held was heavy in her hands. The scroll hovered in the air as Nerrhavia calmly lifted the blade.
“[I Am the Origin of Contracts: By Right of Mendacity, I Annul Any Oath, I Shatter Every Pact].”
The scroll flickered and tried to vanish, as if it had a will of its own. Some did. But this was a simple one.
She brought the blade down and chopped through the huge scroll of parchment, and she heard a cry from multiple scrying orbs.
Rulers of Chandrarian nations screamed as ancient vows exploded in their minds. To Nerrhavia, it was far simpler.
She saw a link that connected nations break. A promise writ with authority and magic—sever.
It had been riddled with disease already. Broken in spirit, if not letter. That was why it was so simple to break.
“An arbiter of crowns fears nothing, Queen Jecaina. If the law is faulty, cut through it and every pact. I forged shackles out of words. I also unmade them as I saw fit.”
Calmly, Nerrhavia tossed the blade down on the body and took a handkerchief from Astival. She cleaned her hands of the blood. That was, in fact, the simple part. Contracts were her forte. She outlevelled the people who enforced and who had written the contracts.
People were harder. But not by much. Nerrhavia speculated that news of the [Diplomat]’s death might have reached several of the higher-ranking members of Reneiz already and certainly would spread through the courts.
But there was the possibility the rulers would be able to suppress the news until it could die, much like Roshal had done. And emotions did fade. The rage of this moment would dull until the [Diplomat]’s death was a scar, not an open wound.
“To motivate a population from peace to war is more difficult. But not by much.”
She wished she had kept Inkar for a longer moment—she missed having someone to talk to. But then, Erin Solstice would have refused to do what came next.
Unless it truly mattered. Nerrhavia bent down and touched the [Diplomat]’s chest.
“That is why I exist. Khelta and you stand on one end of your perceived morality. So allow me. [Kingdom: Witness Their Demise].”
The body began to rise into the air. Nerrhavia stepped back as the blood unpooled from the carpet. The air flickered as a Reinhart looked over and gasped—
Then the body vanished. Nerrhavia turned and let a smiling Astival clear the way from the tent.
 
——
 
Across the world, the people of Reneiz gazed up as the sky began to bleed. They raised their hands, at first wondering why it was raining. Was it a fluke?
Then the droplets of blood registered. Screams filled the streets—and then the skies changed from spring to a Stitch-man’s face. Then his body swinging a sword as he locked blades with—
Who, it was hard to tell at first. But then the symbol of Nerrhavia’s Fallen on a Silk Stitch-man’s sneering face became visible. The citizens looked up as a moment replayed itself. Burning across the skies.
A headless body dropped into a palace before a family gathered around a throne, splattering blood. Because it was two rulers, Nerrhavia sent the head straight into the lap of the second monarch, who stared down, frozen.
 
——
 
That should do it.
The Immortal Tyrant walked out into the fading sun. Some of the Gnolls within the expo hadn’t even realized what had happened to the Great Plains of Izril, so focused were they on the presentations.
But some had definitely noticed odd things happening. One of them calmly lifted a staff and held it to Nerrhavia’s throat—before Astival knocked it down with his sword. Shaman Theikha ignored the blade placed at her throat as she stared at Nerrhavia.
Corregrione stirred a second before a huge, furry hand fell on his shoulder. Gamur the Axe leaned on Corregrione’s shoulders, sniffing him.
“You don’t look terrifying. So you must be horrific. Don’t move until the [Shaman] says.”
Corregrione didn’t move, and as Gamur spoke, a growl from behind Astival made the Stitch-man tense, but he just kept his sword placed at Theikha’s neck, even with Garsine Wallbreaker behind him.
Nerrhavia eyed the staff, shaking her head in disappointment.
“Shaman Theikha, must you?”
Theikha almost backed away—then she caught herself and swung the staff up again, staring at Nerrhavia.
“Offer any more danger to the Meeting of Tribes or my guests and you will suffer the wrath of the Great Plains, stranger.”
Her heartbeat thrummed in the air, and Nerrhavia exhaled.
“I have offered no danger to the tribes of Izril. I shall remember your people’s value.”
“That sounds really ominous. Do I hit her first?”
Gamur had a hand on his axe, and Corregrione whisper-growled at him.
“Young brother, don’t. I’d hate to see you hurt.”
The Named-rank Gnoll looked at Theikha to ascertain exactly how much trouble they were in. He couldn’t smell danger, but like Garsine—
“Who are you?”
Rather than answer the question, Nerrhavia shaded her eyes to stare skywards.
“Inkar hasn’t found you then. A pity. Shall I give you some advice, Shaman Theikha? You orchestrated this event quite well. A shame the other players of the game don’t respect the board and are less long-thinking than you. Less intelligent? Perhaps.”
The [Shaman]’s eyes flickered. She snapped at Gamur.
“Ghosts.”
“Oh, great. So they’re higher level than me.”
Garsine rumbled.
“Kill the Human first.”
