“—No more ashes, no more sackcloth,
And an armband made of white cloth
Will some day never more adorn a sleeve.
For if the spell that falls on you…
Gets your friends and neighbors too:
There’ll be nobody left behind to grieve!”
A susurration rose from the audience as some of them belatedly realized this wasn’t the song they were expecting. Accordingly, the music picked up, and the piano began to emit a cheery, lively melody completely at odds with the words.
 
“And we will all go together when we go.
What a comforting fact that is to know!
Universal bereavement,
An inspiring achievement—
Yes, we will all go together when we go!
 
We will all go together when we go.
All suffused with an incandescent glow.
No one will have the endurance
To collect on her insurance,
The Merchant’s Guild will be loaded when they go.
 
We will all fry together when we fry.
We’ll be french fried Yellats by and by.
There will be no more misery
When the world is our rotisserie,
Yes, we all will fry together when we fry.
 
And we will all bake together when we bake.
There’ll be nobody present at the wake.
With complete participation
In that grand incineration,
Nearly ten billion hunks of well-done steak.
 
We will all char together when we char.
And there will be no moaning of the bar.
Just sing out a goodbye
When you see that [Archmage] fly
And the party will be ‘come as you are’.
 
We will all burn together when we burn.
There’ll be no need to stand and wait your turn.
When it’s time for the fallout
And Queen Khelta calls us all out,
We’ll just drop our agendas and adjourn.
 
We will all go together when we go.
Ev’ry Drake and ev’ry Gnoll.
When the air becomes arcaneous,
We will all go simultaneous.
Yes…we all will go together
When we all go together,
Yes. we all will go together when we go.”
 
Can you hear it? Could you see it? The air caught every note as if afraid of what she might do to it if it dropped them. And the light faded until it seemed like she was playing in complete darkness. Her eyes glowed in the murk, but when she smiled—
The world glowed like the burning fires of the earth. Her light voice sounded amused, as if she had seen it all. Gaze roaming to meet the eyes of the rulers chuckling uncomfortably at the image of utter annihilation.
When they looked into the depths of the Immortal Tyrant’s gaze, the laughter didn’t stop. It merely turned hysterical. She sang the words longingly, like a promise, like the final joke they’d ever hear.
When her voice dropped to the final word and the piano’s echo had died away, the applause was spontaneous, and Nerrhavia stood, stretching lightly. She took a single bow. Then she walked offstage.
“It was worth practicing. Chess we knew. But pianos never.”
She murmured to Satar Silverfang as she passed by. The Gnoll turned and fell over as the applause continued. Nerrhavia lifted a hand as if dazzled by the lights or acknowledging the compliments, but she was ignoring both.
“Another world of sights. I have never been bored of people, from the most common to fellow rulers. So long as they are worthy, I will never cease to be entertained.”
 
——
 
After that performance, the final item on display was almost a let-down. The Gnolls just went from table to table as the lights came on, handing something out to each person, including bodyguards and servants.
It was…a catalog of the items on sale.
Wonderful. Okay, it was fine. The script was very legible, if not as fancy as some of the [Scribe]’s best works, and it even included a number of songs, including Great Plains Sing, that famous Gnollish song. Out of deference, or in a stroke of genius, the Gnolls hadn’t included only their own songs.
There was also Land’s Farewell, the Drowned Folk’s song, and Khelt’s national anthem. If anything, it was rather impressive how much time Gnolls had wasted on making so many books.
…Because each one had to be hand-written.
Obviously. A high-level [Scribe] could do a small booklet like this in an hour if they were really good. Maybe a Level 40 one could do…three or four per hour?
They had to have at least four hundred. Queen Ielane’s head snapped up as she saw the Gnolls bringing a huge device into the center of the room.
“Reclis. Reclis. Stop writing down those song lyrics. Be glad you failed to win any large bids. Buy this.”
The King of Calanfer looked up and blinked. Satar, nosebleed gone, spoke to the audience.
“This is the most valuable item we have created, guests of the Great Plains. If you do not understand, please look at the books in front of you. There were four hundred and fifty made for this event. A great expense, one might think. Yet it took us barely three days to make all of them, and most of that was time spent bookbinding.”
A murmur of incredulity rose, and someone called out—Itreimedes.
“How many poor [Scribes] did you murder for that?”
Laughter. Satar called back.
“None, Your Majesty of Bows! And no [Scribe] did work on this, except to make a template for us to use! In fact, copying a page was as simple as this—”
She turned, and Adetr carefully manipulated the printing press until a block of wood moved down, pressed on a page—and Satar lifted the sheet and held it up.
A copy of the first page glistened in the light, ink still wet. Instantly, a Reinhart stood up.
“Ten thousand gold pieces.”
“We aren’t bidding—yet, Lady Cecille. This is a printing press.”
“Forty thousand for a blueprint.”
The [Diplomat] from the Forgotten Wing company called out. Satar tried to speak for the people slower on the uptake like Itreimedes, and Itreimedes, and possibly Itreimedes.
“Scribes may be faster, but training them takes time. This device can make it so that with paper and ink and a bit of knowhow, entire libraries can be—”
“Fifty thousand gold pieces and a Kelpie breeding pair!”
Queen Jecaina called out. Heads turned at that, and Satar tried to keep going.
“—Happy to create as many as—”
“Eighty thousand gold pieces and a trade deal with Desonis.”
Queen Geilouna called out, and Satar gave up and stood, beaming. Voices began clamoring, but the truth was that if you were bidding, you were a fool.
Magnolia Reinhart’s servant just got up and walked out to have a word with Adetr Steelfur about purchasing a design straight from the start. So did several other of the canny diplomats.
Inside? Well—it got ugly fast.
 
——
 
“Three hundred thousand gold coins.”
That stopped almost all real bids. Few things were worth the amount of money of relic-class items. This was an object that the Gnolls could make more of, even if they only had one working demo.
Three hundred thousand? What a waste of gold! It was an outrageous sum, but the Reinharts had bid up the price more out of spite than anything else. Guess who wanted it?
Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Partly because it was new. They had also gotten the piano. But the exorbitant price of the printing press was partly due to how the technology would revolutionize language and learning and more—
Partly because Queen Yisame really wanted one. Everyone sighed as the bid went once, twice…
Printing presses. Revolutionary. World-changing.
…Sort of less impressive than the piano still, if people were being honest. There were groups like the Terlands who were not happy about the existence of the printing press. Why?
Because their Golems had been cornering the market on copying books for ages. Several of the Terlands were urgently talking with Ulva Terland about, well, the future of a cornerstone of their economy.
But it really was a bad look. The Stitch-folk from the equal-cloth kingdom of Reneiz and the delegates right behind Nerrhavia’s Fallen were grumbling audibly.
“This is manifestly unfair. How long will we be forced to wait? At least let us buy the designs.”
The [Ambassador] from Nerrhavia’s Fallen heard that and called out.
“Ah—our purchase must be contingent on no plans of this amazing device being leaked in the next eight months.”
That complicated matters. Orelighn had to hurry over to Feshi to confer, and another voice rose in protest.
“What? We didn’t get a single item!”
Fissival’s Drake was throwing a huge fit, and Oteslia’s [Diplomat] was visibly distancing herself from him. Strangely, the Zeresian [Diplomat] was all calmness.
“Come now, Fausst. Fausst. It’s not like we won’t get designs of all this.”
“In how many years?”
The Zeresian [Diplomat] was cool-headed, give him that, but he occupied a level of diplomacy kith and kin to the Serpentine Matriarch—which was to say, telling. He smirked, and his voice was a bit too loud due to the acoustics of the room. Or something else. His whisper rolled into a moment of silence as he leaned over to the scrying orb.
“Well, I’m sure we’ll find a printing press or two in some burned wreckage of a trading carav—”
He stopped talking as he realized his was the only voice in the room. The Drake slowly sat upright and kept his face blank as the Pallassian negotiating core just stood up and walked away.
Dead gods. He’d actually said the quiet part out loud. Several people turned with faces of complete disgust—which told you who the fools were, really. Itreimedes, again.
Still. It was the wrong thing to say here. Because Feshi Weatherfur just treated the Zeresian [Diplomat] to a cool look, and Orelighn strode back onto stage.
“I believe all future trade arrangements with items from the Great Plains will require buyers to supply their own escort and transportation. Thank you.”
The Zeresian [Diplomat] studiously ignored everyone staring at him until someone kicked the door open to his study, whereupon the scrying orb went blank. However, the bad blood generated by that comment persisted.
It was…almost palpable, actually. Rhir had bought up a lot of items too, and Pheislant’s own [Ambassador] couldn’t resist a spicy comment.
“I don’t suppose that the rather generous amounts of money the Blighted Kingdom has spent might come out of our annual contributions to the war effort?”
The [Diplomat] from Rhir was far more adept than Zeres’ and instantly nodded to the ambassador.
“With respect, sir, the money spent is purely that of the Blighted King. All contributions to the war against the Demons is accorded to the front. Every last copper coin. Please, do not begrudge the Blighted Kingdom’s desire to give its citizens a shred of comfort.”
Pheislant’s [Ambassador] realized he’d put his foot in it and backpedaled.
“Not at all. I just meant—”
A figure drifted by the table. That woman, the pianist.
Nerrhavia.
Everyone was half-aware of her presence. Their name they hadn’t even begun to guess at. Nerul kept passing over her, then turning his head and squinting, like a man trying to remember a dream. She stood with the Gnoll, Corregrione, and Astival flanking her.
The song she had played seemed to be still echoing in the room. It had agitated Rhir’s [Diplomat] more than most, but he hid it well. It was like an echo in the back of the heads of the mighty.
A vision of what might have been. Now? Nerrhavia leaned over, interjecting herself into the conversation.
“Oh, please, Diplomat Antertree. Don’t be so modest. [Tell Me What You Truly Believe].”
The [Diplomat]’s back straightened. There was a flicker of alarm from the scrying orb as a [King] sat up on his throne and said ‘did you hear that?’
But it was too slow. The [Diplomat] didn’t react to Nerrhavia. His face turned bitter, and the half-Elf’s hand rose to a scar on his cheek, hidden partially by a beard.
“Ambassador, why quibble over the price of the Blighted Kingdom’s funds? It’s the least we deserve. You could—you should send ten times what you do. With the Deaths of Demons returned? We are the only things standing between you and cowering behind your palaces from armies of Demons.”
His voice was harsh, and the Pheislant [Ambassador] stopped smiling genially. His brows crossed together.
“I remind you, Diplomat Antertree, that Pheislant has given without interruption to the Blighted Kingdom ever since the accords were signed. Through war and strife! Our soldiers died on the 5th Wall when the Death of Magic arose.”
The [Diplomat] knew something was wrong. His lips were twitching, and his eyes were darting around. Nerrhavia smiled at him out of the corner of his eyes. The half-Elf’s lips kept moving.
“Yes. They did. Much good a few hundred low-level [Soldiers] did. The Death of Magic might have blinked when blasting them from above for a second.”
A gasp of outrage from Pheislant’s scrying orb and the Terandrians. Pale-faced, the [Ambassador] rose to his feet.
“Lord Totland’s son died on those walls. You will recant those words, sir.”
The half-Elf didn’t immediately reply. He was just clenching his jaw. Hard. So hard that his back molars were threatening to…
Crack. And the little pellet of fast-acting poison would kill him fast if it did. He knew he was under hostile influence. But before he could use the Rhir-tooth, Nerrhavia patted him on the arm.
“No way out, Diplomat Antertree.”
His jaw unclenched. The desperate light in his eyes went out. Then he stood like a puppet. And Nerrhavia saw his mouth open and let bile spill out into the world. She passed by him with a smile as Rhir’s scrying orb began to flood with panic.
She wasn’t done. No, not nearly. Her Skill was like…the room was thrumming with tension as voices rose.
It was not just the seating. Or the bad blood from historical nations. It was also the pent up emotions of the auctions. The inequity of richer nations.
Voices rose, and fingers began to point as smaller Drake cities accosted Pallass’ group, demanding blueprints of what had been bought. Where the [Negotiators] would have held their tongues or said polite, empty promises, their true feelings came out in sharp retorts.
They couldn’t help it. And the arguments were growing in a whirl of emotions. Or…a web.
It pulsed around a woman walking around the room. A vortex of resentment and words bursting forth at the wrong moment.
“—Furthermore, your demands for our aid against Reim are completely unilateral. We did not support the King of Destruction, but we have no desire to fight your battles for you.”
Reneiz’s [Diplomat] and the [Ambassador] from Nerrhavia’s Fallen were at the center of a completely Stitch-folk argument. The superpower of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, representative for Stitch-folk for so long—no longer had that shine of authority and respect.
“Reneiz has benefited from our generosity for ages, fool. Or didn’t Reneiz beg for potions to treat the Yellow Rivers disease? And our steel fuels your cities.”
Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Ambassador] sneered down at the Stitch-man. He was made of Silk, as opposed to the Cotton of the other [Diplomat].
