“Wait. How many spindles does it have?”
Multiple spindles—that was, the part of the spinning frame that took the thread. It took the task of a [Spinner], which was to make thread from wool and so forth, and multiplied how fast they could work. The Stitch-woman from Scaied looked at several nations’ representatives, all Stitch-folk, and burst out.
“We’ll buy it now. Even the plans!”
“Alas, we can only sell two of these Spinning Deskies, and the plans are very complex.”
Eska smiled smugly as the Stitch-folk began to demand to buy it now before the bigger nations could see it, and the Queen of Desonis leaned over.
“Excuse me. Can someone tell me how valuable that…”
Things were going well. Another item on display was purely, uh…well, it was useful, and a bunch of Drowned Folk, Wellfar nobles, Lizardfolk, and several members of nations like Pheislant were listening to a Gnoll.
He was an odd one; he had a gleam in his eyes and a cap on indoors with several fish hooks, of all things, attached to the brim. Because apparently that was an Earth style.
“Now, this is a reel. Observe how I crank this little lever and the string retracts?”
“Dead gods, it’s complex looking.”
“Just like that? It’s not magic?”
One of the uninformed guests peered at the reel suspiciously. But a Pheislant [Diplomat] just sniffed.
“It’s very compact, but our [Fishers] have reels like that.”
A primitive reel wasn’t hard to make after all. It was just a cylinder you wound up when you got to it; you could make one with a stick. The [Angler]’s eyes lit up.
“Ah, but does your reel have a drag system, Lord Hoswet? I invite you to use this one and see for yourself. Now, I also invite you to stand back and cast it as if you were throwing a reel line. Not with your hand—you can flick the entire fishing rod, and it’ll release the string.”
In fact, he had to perform a demo first, and the sound the spinning wheel made as he flicked it drew the eye of every person in the room who knew fishing. There was a lot of talk about the mechanism and the ‘drag’ system and the efficiency of the crank.
It was all, uh, a bit beyond Satar. But that was fine. There were other things for every facet of life.
Such as—
“Tourniquet bands.”
It was a piece of metal in the shape of a ring with a leather band on the inside. A Gnoll carefully tightened it around Tradespeaker Vitnay’s arm, and the Minotauress grunted.
“Bloodflow’s stopped. I see the uses at once. I thought you could tie one, though?”
“But how many [Soldiers] can do that in a stressful situation, Tradespeaker? Do they have access to cloth? Or do you have them use one of these? Along with giving your healer a syringe?”
A Gnoll was also showing off their blood transfusion kit, and the Minotauress exchanged a grim look with her Beriad.
“We’d like all of it. The Last Light has opinions on such things…”
“We consulted with her and sent her a number for her approval, actually. Now, let me show you how the blood transfusion works. It’s very complex about blood types, so allow me to preface it with a quick explanation…”
No one wanted to contemplate transfusing blood or using a tourniquet when a healing potion had worked so well before, but times were changing, and potions were now a rare thing. The Gnolls had all kinds of stuff like that, from magnetic compasses, wheels using ball bearings, a lightning-catcher made out of Demas Metal—
Mrell was very proud of that. Electricity crawled up and down the length of the ‘magical battery’ he’d created, adhering to the Demas Metal. Rhir had already tried to buy it outright to fuel their own research.
Why not when you could catch lightning with magic to experiment with?
Satar was just stepping back when someone sidled up to her.
“Excuse me. I’m looking for the, uh, one of the things I was told I might find. The sex tent?”
The [Shaman] stared at the Human man with an open mouth for a couple of seconds.
“…The sextant is over there, sir.”
“Oh. Ah. I see. Thank you.”
A very disappointed Human drifted away. Satar’s fur rippled as she shuddered, then she went to find Shaman Theikha.
 
——
 
“We’re almost ready for the big reveals. I keep feeling…no. It’s just a hunch. Yes, Satar?”
Theikha was stressed despite the expo going really well, and Satar halted.
“I can ask later if you need me to, Shaman—”
“No. We have time. Is it about our guests?”
The Great Shaman was a font of knowledge, and ever since her new heart, she had the vigor to tell stories all day long. Satar consulted her book.
“It’s…well, it’s not one of the guests, but it’s a name I thought was familiar. Corregrione. Apparently, one of the [Shamans] met someone claiming to be from Thunder’s Voice tribe with that name. Do you know it?”
Theikha’s brows drew together. Then she began to chuckle.
“Someone’s playing a joke. Corregrione…that’s familiar. You there—can you find a [Shaman] from the Wild Wastes tribes? They’d know that story, I believe. As for Thunder’s Voice, that tribe is so long past that—well.”
She sat down with Satar backstage as Adetr swore and kept tuning the piano and the other device—there were two big ones for the finale. Satar glanced at him as Theikha sighed.
“Thunder’s Voice. Let me think.”
“They had ‘the regard of mountains’?”
Satar prompted her, using her notes from the guest list. Theikha blinked and nodded.
“I remember! The eye of a Storm Giant! That was literal back then. A Storm Giant was so impressed by their heroism—it’s an old story. I must ask the [Shamans] of the Wild Wastes to tell it to me again. They were given the eye, like a Relic, to keep them safe. They certainly existed, and they had many deeds. In fact, Weatherfur descends from one of their people. But Corregrione…”
She frowned and looked at Satar as they waited for a Wild Wastes [Shaman]. Satar glanced at the main tent area.
“Maybe I should look for that Gnoll? It’s funny if they want to claim that name.”
“Funny. But perhaps ignorant. Or something else. If they knew Thunder’s Voice and that name—I will ask for a full accounting, but that isn’t the name I’d choose to impersonate. Corregrione. If I am not wrong, that is one of our ancestors famed for his ill deeds. Corregrione the Traveller. Corregrione…”
Theikha’s eyes closed in thought, then one eye snapped open with faint alarm and suspicion.
“The Immortal Tyrant’s Liar.”
 
——
 
“He never did anything wrong, you know.”
Corregrione had gotten up and was speaking to the Gnolls in the tent, smiling and talking to his people. They were somewhat taken aback by his odd speech, but recognized him as an outsider from another nation; rare, but they were quite warm to him.
“What did he do?”
Inkar gave the fellow [Traveller] a dark look of suspicion since he was in Nerrhavia’s company, but the Immortal Tyrant’s gaze was soft on the Gnoll.
“Nothing ill.”
She glanced at Inkar’s face.
“I swear it by…well, there is no oath large enough for me. I swear it by my word. He was a famous [Traveller]. The most famous in his time. He travelled to every continent. Chandrar’s great sands. Jungle and Dragonhome. Hell and Heavensward.”
“Heavensward, Your Majesty?”
Astival reacted to that; he knew Corregrione already, it seemed. Nerrhavia shook her head.
“An old name. The point is that Corregrione the traveller was so well-respected that when he came to the Immortal Empire, I welcomed him as a guest. We spoke. Not long, but I offered him a simple deal.”
Here it came. Inkar braced, but Nerrhavia just smiled as Corregrione walked outside for a moment.
“I asked him to write a book about my lands.”
Inkar stared at Nerrhavia, and the Immortal Tyrant elaborated.
“He has the great talent of making any place beautiful. Any land wondrous in his accounting of it. He can unearth moments; a [Traveller] to his core. So I asked him to venture across my empire and honestly take down the places he visited. You see—it sparked my people’s imaginations. From the Pits of Chemath to the spires of Hasitvor—he wrote of what he saw. Good and ill. Do you see why it was a problem?”
“Because he made your kingdom look pleasant.”
Nerrhavia flicked Inkar’s forehead, and Inkar’s head rang.
“Because he told truth. Good and ill. He was honest! And for that deed, I rewarded him as well any should. I treated him with naught but respect for his class and deeds, and he entered my empire and left, impressed with it. When he returned home, they judged him. Then executed Corregrione the Traveller for daring to aid the Immortal Tyrant.”
Hairs stood up on the back of Inkar’s neck. She glanced at the entrance to the tent where Corregrione had gone, and Nerrhavia stood to follow.
“Where did they…?”
“Here. At a Meeting of Tribes.”
Nerrhavia strode out after Corregrione to watch as the [Traveller] surveyed the lands in which he had died.
 
——
 
“They hung me here. I watched them build the scaffolds, for there was no tree the [Shamans] would desecrate with my corpse.”
Corregrione stood, one foot planted on a stone, staring out across the Great Plains of Izril. His fur was blowing, and he glanced down at the earthenworks of the Weatherfur tribe.
“The land has risen. Or else the old kingdom sunk. So few Heartlands. So few tribes. The children are the same.”
He stared at Cers running around with a friend and sparring in the grass, playing at [Shaman] and [Warrior]. Nerrhavia came to a halt with Astival, and Corregrione glanced at Inkar. Then at the Immortal Tyrant.
“I still love them. My death was bitter for aeons, which is why I crossed the sea and returned to Chandrar, Your Majesty. But these are still my people. If your return is to help them in any way, you have my loyalty.”
“Yes. I know.”
The Immortal Tyrant stood in the circle of sunlight opened by Corregrione’s Skill. Now, the air rustled as he lifted his staff. Inkar’s eyes were wide with apprehension, but the [Traveller] just sighed.
“A hundred nations in the Meeting of Tribes, and I saw how they looked at my people. Once, we were welcomed in any royal court. When a Doomherald spoke, armies listened. I grew so tired of hearing tales of the ‘wandering Gnoll’ as something to be expected. I never thought I would long to hear of our reputation again.”
He tapped the ground hard with his staff, thrusting the butt of it into the soil. Inkar felt like the earth shook slightly. The [Traveller] continued, voice rising.
“Let them at least see something worth their long trip. Gifts. That is all we ghosts can give. Gifts.”
Tap. Tap. Thum. 
Gnolls looked up, perking their ears. Below them, Cers and his friend turned, stumbling slightly. Corregrione winked at Inkar.
“Behold, now, the gift of [Travellers], Inkar.”
He raised his staff high—then brought it down. And his voice was quiet and rolled over the Great Plains of Izril.
“[Momentous Journey: Show Me the Sight of a Lifetime].”
Clouds rolled over the melting snow and grasslands beyond the Meeting of Tribes. Great and billowing. Blowing away in moments as Inkar’s eyes widened. Despite her fear, despite the uncertainty—her heart leapt in her chest.
She gasped, and Nerrhavia didn’t blink at all. But her face was slightly melancholy, as if she wished this amazed her. However, even Astival’s eyes opened as voices arose from around them.
Corregrione stood there, smiling, as he gazed down the hill and past it. Over the grasslands, rising from what had been just snow and mud and grass waiting for more sunlight, were—
Flowers.
Gigantic flowers. Inkar saw a violet bulb so large she guessed it was as big as a yurt, closed, in the distance. She saw an explosion of color crisscrossing the ground.
Fields of flowers, so many colors she couldn’t believe it! And—and some were tall and thin with weedy stalks that bent as a breeze blew, then sprang back upright.
“What’s going on?”
“The entire area is covered in plants! Is that Gaarhweed?”
A Gnoll recoiled from a huge stalk rising from the ground, almost like a vertical bush. A [Shaman] took one look and gave it its proper name.
“Spiather! The flowers—what happened? The Great Plains are blooming! They only do that—”
“Once a century. Maybe they’d stopped since I was born. Either way. Before I died, I could summon an event that took place only once a thousand years. I have lost some of my levels, Your Majesty.”
The great [Traveller] turned back towards the tent as people began flooding out of it to stare. Nerrhavia gave him an approving nod as Inkar stared at Corregrione’s face.
“A pleasant enough sight, Corregrione. Well done. So you know, Inkar. Falamizural was as high-level as Corregrione, but in the arts of magic. And war. She is terrified of me, for I was her death.”
“What did you do?”
A thousand floral scents were blowing Nerrhavia’s way and absolutely demolishing anyone with hayfever. But Nerrhavia just caught a blossom blown from the effects of Corregrione’s Skill on the wind. She inhaled, then flicked it back onto the breeze.
“Why, it was when my empire was expanding. She led her people against mine. Time and again. She was courageous, wise, a leader, and beyond my own champions in her magic. But she could not defeat my empire. So I brought down calamity on her people’s heads. Again and again until they begged for peace and cursed her for bringing about their suffering and flocked to my empire.”
Inkar’s skin chilled as Astival grinned, and Corregrione sighed and nodded. Nerrhavia spoke, as if trying to summarize Falamizural’s life into as short a tale as possible to get it over with.
“Then she flew and took wing for all who cried injustice in my empire. Fighting until there was no one left. Not a single voice which rose in support of hers, and she stood alone, driven to despair. So she took her own blade and tried to behead herself.”
She caught another flower and plucked petals off it. Inkar’s eyes were round.
“What—”
“I didn’t let her die. It was too amusing. I had her head preserved in the ways of Stitch-magic. Then I placed it on the wall of a palace where her home had been. I let her witness my empire grow and prosper for six hundred years.”
Nerrhavia heaved a huge sigh.
“Alas—then a brawl between Free Djinni guests destroyed her. Which is why Astival did not recall her story.”
“A fine one, Your Majesty. I wish I had heard it recounted by the [Bards].”
The man bowed to her, and Nerrhavia nodded, regretful.
“If we should ever have the time, I shall have it set to paper and sung again. Simply remember she is useful, Astival. As is Corregrione. Now, you had a question, child?”
