Other people simply had a pale image of what that might taste or feel like. Nerrhavia had always been able to pluck the string of an instrument and hear it sound in her head. Those in her courts had picked up similar tricks; it was something you could be taught.
She had hoped one of the ghosts had some kind of culture. Alas—none did.
“Astival never managed the knack. But he was merely a [General] in my courts. [Puppetmaster Sadivictus].”
A title for ‘general’, hence its substitution in the class name. Falamizural shifted; she hadn’t known that, of course. He had been born long, long after she’d died, in the last centuries of Nerrhavia’s reign, if her memory served.
He had been with her when her empire fell. She remembered seeing Merindue raising his head before it was tossed on a pyre and hearing death whispering her name and smiled.
“Oh, Merindue. I would trade a thousand thousand Astivals for you, though you would doubtless try to murder me the moment you had a chance. With far more confidence than you, Falamizural.”
The Garuda realized Nerrhavia was only speaking partly to her. She snapped, pointing her blade at the Immortal Tyrant’s heart.
“One of me is more than enough, Nerrhavia.”
The Immortal Tyrant took a sip from her wine cup and ignored the threat and blade entirely.
“Merindue was not in the throne room where I died. Few in that room survived, I gather. Those that came after had the sense to declare her [Queen]. She was an adequate ruler, a worthy foe. A brilliant subordinate before she took arms against me. Insult her memory by comparing yourself to her ever again and I will punish you.”
Falamizural flinched. Which essentially explained why Nerrhavia had no fear of the blade. If mere, unaugmented words could make a trained warrior flinch…Nerrhavia sighed and stopped playing.
“Astival and yourself are the best of my magicians. Which is a true pity. However, the great magic-users of my empire and every other made war against Seamwalkers.”
Bravely, valiantly, without a hope of salvation, they had battled the dead gods and horde of Seamwalkers. It stood to reason that the ghosts who had fled were either exceptionally good at surviving or cowards.
Falamizural had been one of the former, who’d fought her way to that lucky stroke, but Nerrhavia closed one eye and imagined a thousand women she’d rather have in the Garuda’s place.
She was good enough for some purposes. But Falamizural was a warrior-commander-spellcaster, even if she was the best at magic. For this era’s standards, she might well be an Archmage. Since Nerrhavia understood this era’s standards, that meant nothing to her.
“I will take you and Astival and Corregrione to the morrow’s events. I expect you to behave appropriately.”
The Garuda’s tongue flicked out of her beak nervously, equivalent to a Human or Stitch-person licking their lips.
“You have no more sway over me now that I have a body. You have no contract—you cannot control me.”
The Immortal Tyrant kept studying Falamizural with one bored eye.
“Keep our identities secret. You may announce yours, if you wish. I fully expect you to do as you please. I shall inform you if I wish anything done that you missed.”
The Garuda really didn’t like that. She opened her mouth, then remembered she had come here to kill Nerrhavia. She checked her sword, stared at the woman sitting there.
Yes, it would be so easy. She could lunge and run Nerrhavia through. Kill the greatest threat to the world as she saw it in the single swing of a blade. Falamizural’s arms began to shake. She flinched, staring at Nerrhavia, trying to meet those eyes.
Nerrhavia checked the position of the sun idly.
“Would you like me to turn around? I can humor you for a few more minutes.”
She raised an eyebrow, and the Garuda flushed, but she backed up a step—then another—and what she was fighting was obvious to Nerrhavia’s eyes.
Terror. So deep and ingrained that she could not imagine a world where she swung that sword and actually killed Nerrhavia.
The Immortal Tyrant thought it was understandable, if a bit of a let down. Falamizural had been one of her enemies in life. By the time she had perished, she had been beaten so utterly that it echoed across the countless aeons of her time as a ghost and up till now.
Merindue would be so much more entertaining. I could talk to her.
At last, Astival ended the Garuda’s frozen figure as he strode into the room, sword drawn. He stopped as Nerrhavia held up a hand, and Falamizural fled.
“Empress—”
He fell silent as Nerrhavia twitched her fingers. Her eyes were closed; she’d gotten bored of staring at Falamizural. She just sat there, hand held in the air, thinking. When she opened her eyes, he was kneeling, head bowed, waiting for her words.
The last member of her Immortal Empire, her final officer and commander, wasn’t her first pick either. But she had enough respect for his loyalty not to say it to his face.
He doubtless knew it, anyways.
“Allow Falamizural her foibles. If she actually attempts to kill me, I will be most gratified. The same for Corregrione. He was once a guest of my empire. Now, he must serve as a more useful tool until more may be fashioned.”
“By your will.”
He ducked his head, and she nodded.
“I shall tour the Meeting of Tribes tonight and attend their expo tomorrow. Ensure three elements are maintained.”
She flicked her fingers up. Without her usual servants, she had to be precise. Astival was capable, but he didn’t think as laterally as some. He was no…Erin Solstice. He could execute and innovate, but she truly needed some interesting servants.
She had a few candidates in mind.
“One. Keep an eye upon Kerash. Two. Ensure the seating remains appropriate. Three. Monitor the agents’ positions. They are unlikely to act tonight, but one may surprise me.”
Incompetence was the spice of any plan. Astival rose.
“It will be done.”
She motioned him out, then went back to sitting there. Thinking. Nerrhavia began to play again, a sound only she could hear. But she had a thought.
She always had thoughts.
Even when dead, she had thought and planned, though she had understood the possibility of coming back to life was remote.
One seldom got second chances. And she had never actually expected it. She had been the Immortal Tyrant. She had died.
That was all. She had been quite satisfied with her work. If one thing had tickled her, rather than nettled, it had been finding herself one among equals. Not many, but there had been Dragonlords and Giants, great rulers and legends she had known of.
Khelta, among others. Those she had respected in life and those she had scorned in this great meeting at the end of things. It had been pleasant. She had not necessarily been happy, but she had been…
Amongst peers.
Until the rot had set in, and Khelt had raised sands to guard Chandrar, and they had known a war was coming. Then Nerrhavia had been annoyed. For it turned out death was merely a holding pen for rotten, pathetic things to hunt amidst.
She had been annoyed, for she had foreseen something else in the back of her mind. A conclusion that had been confirmed by one moment.
The moment the dead God of Magic, Emerrhain, had reactivated Skills and magic and causality in the lands of the dead.
“We are all merely pieces of a game. The ranting of Goblin Kings now makes sense. The nature of Gods eludes me.”
The Immortal Tyrant had been learning in her month since Az’kerash and she had parted ways. Of what?
Well. Religion.
The one thing that had been unavailable to her, cordoned off from her understanding of the world by its absence—even, she suspected, mentally blocked.
That angered her, the idea that an entire part of her conception of the world had been excised artificially. It told her much of why this world operated as it did. The nature of Earth led her to several conclusions—but she wanted proof before solidifying any theory in her mind.
She had one conclusion, though:
“What was lost in the lands of the dead is irrecoverable. The value of a soul is greater than even I understood, or Khelta herself. Belavierr was, as always, correct.”
She would gloat about it, doubtless, if they ever met again. Nerrhavia rolled her eyes. If she understood how souls intersected with belief and divinity…well, there was something else she’d noted.
Hence the laughter. Nerrhavia stopped playing. She looked up and smiled.
In the moments between which she had destroyed that fake city and heard a world of people lament and the Skill had failed—
“It was entirely amusing. For one second, those figments of the Skill, those empty puppets, cried out in horror. Even the finest Golems and creations without Lifethread in my time could not weep like that. And yet—”
They had no souls. A fine distinction. Arbitrary, one might say. If it screamed and pleaded for life, was it not alive?
Nerrhavia could tell the difference. The most finely crafted marionette was nothing compared to the reality of even a rodent’s soul. One was fake. The other real.
Her soul was of some value to the dead gods. Ergo, there was an element to truth in this, even if this world was as artificial as she suspected. A commonality she shared with Earthers to some degree.
Here was where the Immortal Tyrant’s music grew mildly terrifying. She opened one eye, and their depths were plain brown. She had once been a humble Human woman in the failing Stitch-Empire of Ateverha.
She had kept her eyes even as she replaced flesh for cloth until she had become a Stitch-person in more than mere appearance. But the eyes…stared at something incorporeal, invisible, but that she had witnessed.
“For a second. A mere fragment of time—they reacted as people might. Yet the Skill failed. It froze over and ejected those inside rather than continue. For that was the moment, in order that the Skill might continue, that the figments of Earth-folk would require the spark of creation. Souls. Was it a failure to account for each variable? Or was it that the rules do not allow such things in this circumstance?”
She spoke, and at last, it became clear that the Immortal Tyrant was speaking to an empty room with no one lurking inside.
—But she hadn’t been speaking to herself, had she?
She stared at everything and nothing, and the Grand Design of Isthekenous experienced a flicker of something it couldn’t immediately qualify.
The Immortal Tyrant began to chuckle once more.
 
——
 
A lot had happened with Gnolls of late. And yes, that was Gnolls as a people, as generalizing as that was.
The war at the Meeting of Tribes had forced people to reckon with the species. It had certainly exposed a lot. But what was the upshot of all of it?
Well, a lot of sympathy for Gnolls, at least the ones who had been perceived as unfairly attacked. Resentment against the Walled Cities? No one liked a losing side, and the Walled Cities had been lumped with the Plain’s Eye tribe as ‘the bad guys’.
Unless you thought they had been onto something with the entire possibly-kill-all-Gnolls thing, in which case your opinion differed. And that, of course, ignored the take that Plain’s Eye had occupied, which had been thoroughly pro-Gnoll, just anti-Doombearer.
The point was, of course, that public opinion worldwide was sympathetic, but in aid of what? Nations had ‘grieved’ the loss of Gnolls.
Did that…translate into gold being sent to the survivors? Yes, actually! A few donations from individuals, some with healthy amounts attached. Avel, for instance, had made a donation to the Weatherfur tribe straight from the crown.
But it wasn’t as if people had seen the violence at the Great Plains and had the first reaction to send gold to the Gnolls.
Sympathy. Did that mean the Gnolls had a dozen treaties of mutual aid or conditional aid if they were attacked again?
No. They had people who were watching out for them. Which presumably meant they’d turn on the television and watch if someone began to kill more Gnolls. What the Gnollish tribes had after the Meeting of Tribes was a lot of their dead kindred.
The loss of multiple tribes, wholesale or in part like Steelfur. And increased hostilities with Drake cities. The regard and horror and sympathy of the world was worth spit.
That was how the Gnolls viewed things, and Inkar, who had spent the long winter with them, hadn’t gotten a soft earful of how they felt.
In fact, the Gnolls had gotten something huge. From Gnolls. And that was the New Lands of Izril. Guess who was coming to claim it? Everyone.
“It’s our land. I don’t care if no one’s explored it yet. An Archmage, our Archmage, raised it from the seas for us. If they want to tell us how sorry they are, they can shove off and stop trying to claim it.”
A Gnoll was loudly grousing over a shared dinner at the Longstalker Fang’s camp. It wasn’t the most germane of things to say; they had guests. However, the dignitaries from abroad had only rubbed salt into the collective wounds of the Gnolls here.
Here they were playing host to multiple nations for the trade expo while said nations were already in the New Lands, or preparing to be.
To their credit, at least some of the dignitaries seemed to understand this was a sore point. A pair of Nagas instantly made zipping motions to their Lizardfolk who wanted to talk about the issue.
The Minotaurs sitting across from Inkar were not so shy.
“That has been a matter of long debate in the House of Minos, if I may intrude in the conversation, Honored Deskie.”
Their leader was a Minotaur with silver-plated horns, female, with ceremonial-looking armor and a bodyguard of four. She had brought numerous gifts, which meant the Gnolls liked her; some of the delegates had brought nothing.
“Pardon the angry voices you hear, Tradespeaker Vitnay. It has been a hard winter.”
“It is not a groundless statement.”
The Minotauress shook her head. She puffed on a pipe she’d been smoking at the fire.
“If I may share—the House of Minos offered public debates on the morality of taking lands we believed were best claimed by Gnolls, or Izrilians if not them. In truth, also at the prospect of expanding from our small home. They raged for months; it was a topic which every Minotaur from young to old had opinions on. Even now, they may continue, but the conclusion we and our King reached was simple. Will you hear it?”
“With great interest.”
The Minotaur passed over a bowl of something leafy, and Inkar took some and put it in a pipe. She watched as Deskie added a coal to her pipe to smoke and copied her. It was quite fun, and the scent wasn’t annoying to other Gnolls in the open air. It felt like Inkar was inhaling a cloud without the need to cough.
