Oh, the Skill was very well made. It struggled to capture the full reality of people. It was still just a simulation. But for a moment, something real flashed across millions of half-souled people. A presence gave them a fraction of the true despair and terror they would actually feel.
It amused her so greatly. Not merely for the reasons one might think of her. The woman wore beauty like a contemptuous shield against her sins and laughed as though she had never been held to account for her deeds. The kind of laughter some people burst into when they saw a terrible tragedy and had to suppress. Hers grew louder when the blood pooled, but it wasn’t hysterical.
It was the laugh of someone who didn’t care who heard it or how they sounded. Full-throated, brimming with confidence. It filled the room, and it was unapologetically delighted. To the small cluster of non-Humans in the room—non-Earthers, real people—it made them all shiver.
Some with delight. Several with abject terror or fury.
A woman with blazing golden eyes had halted, hand reaching for her side—but she had no weapon. She stood there, fists clenching, eyes filled with grief and loss.
And fear.
A man standing in front of Nerrhavia and regarding the destruction with mingled awe, covetous greed, and wariness half-turned. His face was sharp, and while his Human form was less magnificent than his old body had been, he still seemed like a poised marionette or a sinister conductor of an orchestra.
He half-bowed up at her, eyes open with adoration and respect. A smile of his own on his face.
—An older man looked up from the images of horror on the screen, and his own gaze was disturbed and horrified. But he had none of the hatred towards Nerrhavia. Just a kind of wariness and awe of his own.
Those three, at least, Nerrhavia noticed as she laughed. Each reaction confirmed what she knew of them. She allowed herself to fully fill the room with laughter. Nostalgic. Not wild; refined, for all it was filled with her gaiety.
After all, she had laughed like this time and time again. Watching similar sights from afar. One should laugh at the destruction one wrought. Not that she had made it a policy to commit such acts often.
In the thousand years she had lived as the Immortal Tyrant ruling over Chandrar, her empire one of the greatest ever to exist, Nerrhavia had gone for centuries without a single act of mass bloodshed. She had triumphed in peace and war, at least, in her estimations.
At times, she had called for blood and drenched lands in oceans of it. But she didn’t need such weapons at all times to ensure peace. She was Nerrhavia.
Her name still echoed across Chandrar. Stitch-children still went to bed terrified of her name. Her infamy and ‘misdeeds’ were still legend.
From that, know her.
Nerrhavia. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was a superpower, the largest nation of Chandrar—born out of the shattered remnants of her empire after she had been deposed. All its might and reputation, if fading, was like snatched crumbs of authority fallen from her lifeless fingers. Not a single student of history would be ignorant of her deeds.
And yet—Nerrhavia’s laughter cut off, and she stared at the glowing image of destruction—
“Yet I was only humbled once in my existence. The company of ghosts merely made me equal. How pleasant. How disappointing.”
She trailed across this war room, looking from face to face. Then turned as the simulation began to crash.
“I have no equals in this fake world. Come, children. I have finished with fantasies.”
She waved a hand, and the conductor-like man, the old watcher, even the golden-eyed woman glaring at her all fell into place as the other ghosts instantly moved. Her will was unquestioned. If some of them hesitated—they walked with her out of the simulation.
Three dozen Gnolls walked out of [The World of You and Me] and into chaos. At least, they looked like Gnolls. Nerrhavia felt the fur covering her body and twitched her ears idly a few times before adopting a shocked look.
No one noticed. A few of the more keen-eyed Gnolls began to, and she crooked a finger and redirected their attention, moving an invisible finger to turn their heads to stare at Adetr Steelfur or Inkar. She nodded at one of the Gnolls.
“We go before the Great Shaman arrives.”
They slipped away, simply backing out of the crowd and around the glowing sphere of the world. Then all of them walked towards a wall of the tent. It was enchanted, and there were sentries to keep any of the visitors or curious Gnolls from entering.
They were fine at their jobs. Doubtless, they could stop any high-level [Rogue] of this time. But of the past? One of the company paused at the edge of the tent, produced a pair of scissors, and cut a square of cloth out in a flash. Nerrhavia stepped out, redirected a [Sentry]’s attention, and the ghost replaced the fabric. It instantly melded back into the wall, magic and all.
The three dozen Gnolls strode away from the tent, heading away from the camp. Once they were out of eyeshot, they could divest themselves of the forms and head to their base. They were silent; a few of them whispered quietly as possible, but no one chatted with the Gnoll striding at the head of the group.
Even wearing a Gnoll’s body, she had the most excellent of postures and walked as if she were at the center of the world. The wind blew across Nerrhavia’s face, and her fur rippled; she narrowed her eyes fractionally, and the cold air of early spring seemed to die down. She kept striding forwards, and no one dared speak for a while. Only the tall Gnoll wrapped in a cloak seemed at all at ease.
He had a walking staff and seemed exceedingly comfortable, probably because this was his body, not a disguise. He looked like a middle-aged Gnoll with tawny fur and green markings on his upper chest, shoulders, arms, and even the tips of his ears. At length, he growled softly as he glanced at the Earth Tent behind them.
“Your Majesty. Will the Gnolls still have access to the Skill after that—test?”
“I imagine so. The Skill is hardly so fragile. If it is like any other simulation Skill, it will not break from that alone. If I had intended to shatter it, Corregrione, I would have.”
“As you will it, Your Majesty.”
Corregrione ducked his head deferentially, but she flicked her fingers, her ring finger coming together with her thumb to make a faint circle, which flickered into another pose for a second, as if her hand were a bird, head rising as its wings spread.
Hand-signing. Reflex. There was no one with the wherewithal to understand her words, so she spoke in low-language, direct.
“My will is not against these tribes. Nor your people. If anything, their hospitality has been welcomed. I shall remember it. Rest your mind easily, Corregrione.”
“I shall, Your Majesty. I thank you on their behalf.”
The Gnoll’s voice was slightly more relieved, and Nerrhavia flicked her fingers in dismissal. She knew his desires, at least, in this. Her servant, the tall figure behind her, shot Corregrione a glare for his effrontery, but fell silent at a warning twitch of her fingers.
Astival was used to the courts in which he had lived all his lives. He acted as if there were that vast empire still, not a single ruler and a handful of ghosts and naught but memories. He was an unyielding measure of what had been in that regard.
Useful, but tedious. Nerrhavia had already understood how he would shatter if forced to bend too far from what he remembered. Yet a rod was unbreakable when used as it should be, and he was competent enough.
At least, for her purposes. 
Corregrione. Astival. And Falamizural, the glowering woman whose glare had not wavered since leaving the simulation, even if she currently appeared to be a Plains Gnoll.
They were the three most competent ghosts of the lot that had escaped the destruction of the deadlands and followed her into the lands of the living and into the short-lived alliance with Az’kerash. Up till now, they had been confined to the Jar of Souls, unable to act without bodies.
Partly, that had been due to the Necromancer’s many tasks and the need to perfect Nerrhavia’s form before any other. Another reason had been because their presence, even loyal Astival’s, would have been a complication she didn’t care for.
Now the alliance with the Necromancer was defunct, Nerrhavia had need of capable servants.
These would do. She was not best pleased with any. The cost of reviving had taken ten levels from each, including herself, and the paltry handful of ghosts were not all loyal to her. Yes, they had followed her when she told them to flee Kasigna’s final consumption of all, but a willingness to listen was not loyalty.
One would cling to any leaf when drowning at sea, and some had come simply because they had feared her enough to believe her words even at the end of death itself. They had been rewarded for that intelligence, of course; each one inhabited a body more or less to their satisfaction.
Including Nerrhavia herself. She didn’t truly care for it; the Necromancer had done his utmost, and it had elements she prized, like the valuable materials that went into the sinew and bone, but her old body had been far finer, and she had told Az’kerash as much. Partly to needle him, but partly to simply remind him that all of his vainglorious attitude towards his heroics in life, his title as Archmage of Wistram—
All of that made him a mere court mage in her time, one amongst many. True, he would have outlevelled most even in her era. But not Nerrhavia herself, and he had merely been the most powerful of his era.
Her era had outstripped his by far.
 
——
 
The base they had set up after departing Az’kerash’s castle was simple. Magical buildings, cloaked and placed not far from the Meeting of Tribes in the Great Plains. Space was at a premium here, and the buildings were functional, if far from any standard Nerrhavia held.
Magical buildings, like [Munizor’s Magnificent Mansion] and other alliterative-sounding names that were really simple dimensional tricks with pre-made furnishings. No proper defenses; they didn’t expect to be attacked, but Astival still tasked the ghosts with guard duty, as he should.
However, it was not a fortress. It was not, say…
 
A vast wall of Chemath Marble rising a thousand feet skywards. Blacker than the sun that shone above, a permanent eclipse, walls stained with blood, and the ground filled with bones and shattered armor of fallen challengers. Heartbeats drowned out by the tolling of bells that suffocated thought and reason. Then the gates rose, and the Immortal Tyrant’s keep revealed the first of her guardians—
 
Home would have been a fine base of operations. Not least because it would have had any number of her possessions left over to work with. Frankly, she would have had to watch the ghosts to ensure they didn’t loot her lesser treasures.
Her keep would have simplified any number of matters. Like armies. Or people who remembered her name and justifiably wanted her dead twice.
Her keep would have been able to give battle to every single tribe in the Great Plains and more. It would have made a splendid base.
…If she still had access to it. That was one of the things the other ghosts did not know. They simply believed she was withholding access to it because they were unworthy, which was true enough.
But the truth was that she couldn’t have entered her keep herself, even if she wished to.
Actually, a point of clarity there: she could find ways to return to her home of homes. It was simply that survival was not guaranteed, even for herself. Some might call that vexing. Nerrhavia considered it an annoyance to be rectified.
For now, she made do with simple magical buildings. After all, she had only a few ghosts, her Skills and levels—minus ten from life—and the knowledge she had accumulated in the deadlands.
Nerrhavia reasoned that it was a suitable handicap to place herself against any power of this world. If they were lucky, they would notice her presence and perhaps have a chance in the great game. But few even knew she was alive again.
 
——
 
Secrets and nocturnes. Nerrhavia dismissed her ‘court’ and retired to the largest building, where she sipped at some wine and the fingers of her left hand played a composition in the air. She listened, adjusted the rhythm until it was slightly slower, and pressed harder.
Ah, that was how it might have sounded when the composer played his piece.
“Delightful music. A world’s to savor. If I had known of it, I would have taken greater lengths to survive that I might have met it. Don’t you agree, Falamizural?”
There was no sound in the room. A mage’s light illuminated the Immortal Tyrant as she sat in a padded chair, afternoon light streaming through a window as snows melted slightly outside.
She had not turned around as she sat. And her fingers kept moving—pressing, and she had even closed her eyes. But the sound was only in her head.
She had been practicing the piano. Teaching herself how to play it. It had taken her a month to get to this point of satisfaction; she had regarded it as a challenge. Whether she could make enough of a master of herself by the time of the Gnolls’ expo.
There was no response, but Nerrhavia didn’t need to turn her head to know that the woman creeping up behind her with a sword raised had frozen.
Two clawed hands on the blade she had been about to swing down at Nerrhavia’s neck.
The Immortal Tyrant did turn, then, purely to admire Falamizural’s plumage, which was radiant. Unlike most Garuda, hers was white and black and dark blue. It made her appear as though she were cloaked in a night sky with pale white wings and the faintest gold at their tips.
The same for her eyes. The Garuda had requested a body like the one she’d had in life; almost every ghost had had the same request.
Those golden eyes were familiar. They had both known each other in life, but Falamizural flinched the moment Nerrhavia met her eyes. She backed up a step, sword still raised—then lowered it.
She had been shaking before she stole into the room. Hesitated as she lifted the blade. Even now, she, someone with a warrior class, quailed before the Immortal Tyrant.
“Another world for you to conquer, Em—Nerrhavia?”
She tried to spit, but her voice was tight, and Nerrhavia just placed the wine cup down and kept playing.
“You cannot hear it.”
She was disappointed by that. Falamizural stared at her fingers and shook her head wordlessly.
Nerrhavia could. If she pressed a finger down, she could know how it sounded. It was, she had realized when she was young, a trait few people had. If she imagined eating a bowl of soup, she could tell you how it tasted.
