Same with music, plays, or written things. A Gnoll had to go in and copy everything down. Usually, it was a Gnoll with splendid handwriting, and they’d begun getting classes like [Transcriber] or [Copycat] and Skills to boot.
Art now…that was tough. A few [Artists] had gone into the Earth-Skill and had produced no copies of Earth’s art—when Adetr had gone to find them, they’d been studying new art techniques and ideas and refused to just copy Earth-art over.
But it was machines, gadgets, engineering where things got tricky. Which, of course, was Adetr’s purview.
“The problem is—”
“Metallurgy. Tkrn, please stop.”
Inkar put her head down as Deskie yawned. Tkrn looked hurt, and Eska growled.
“Even Chieftain Mrell says he can’t keep quality to Earth-standards yet. At least, not without dedicated Skills. Anything with smaller bits of metal works though, yes?”
“Yes…but we want really big stuff. So we’re going to have to invent industry—”
Inkar tried to shoo him off.
“Yes, yes. Come back when you’ve done that, please.”
In truth, it wasn’t the wrong idea. Anything made of metal, especially things that needed to survive high tolerances—like an engine—needed to be strong. Even with enchantments, Adetr had found out that not everything could survive compressing a combustible material. To his cost.
There had been incidents as over-zealous Gnolls had pushed what was possible. For the expo, Feshi had told the Earth-researchers to make what was practical, not dangerous to life and limb, and marketable.
Hence the piano.
 
——
 
It was an amazing proof-of-concept. You see, the piano was simultaneously not on the level of, say, a computer or even a steam engine, which required so many moving parts figuratively and literally that it was beyond Gnollish ambitions.
Pianos had been invented in the 1700s of Earth and had similarities to other inventions of both Earth and this world. What made them so unique to Earth as opposed to this one were a few factors:
 
1. Mechanical complexity. The simple way a key moved internal levers so that an inner hammer struck the right wire to create a sound was beyond most species. Only a Drake or Minotaur [Engineer] would have the mindset and Skills to make it.
2. Material. Despite Inkar’s and Rose’s beliefs at the time, pianos had a number of components that ran beyond good quality wood. Piano wire, for instance, was a wire stretched across the piano, not string as Inkar had actually assumed. That also pushed most [Smiths] out of the running for making it.
3. Mass assembly. It was one thing to make a single work of art. Another for Gnolls to envision a system to create multiple pianos without variance or a lot of time per one.
 
Adetr had taken the challenge on in full. He had begun by implementing strict standards about how Gnolls were to lay out their blueprints and parts. No eyeballing things, no variance in output like the artisans were used to—identical pieces, especially with any Earth technology.
The goal was to measure everything three times and cut or forge once. Paper and parchment had become commodities in the Meeting of Tribes; if you didn’t have it laid out in a schematic, none of the artisans would make it.
He’d chosen pianos to attempt as one of the most ambitious offerings because of their size and probable value. Also, because they were a musical instrument so ubiquitous to Earth that almost any song could be played on one.
So the Gnolls had gotten to work. They had advantages: they could literally get a video and watch a piano being constructed or go up to one and take it apart to see how it worked.
That sometimes backfired when a really angry mall pianist in the simulation came by to see a bunch of assholes taking apart his piano—but it meant that Gnollish [Carvers] and [Carpenters] had a lot of confidence in the parts.
Assembly was a whole other matter. Many Gnolls took a look at the parts making up a piano and got a headache. Inkar had been the best and hadn’t understood why until Rose broke it down for Adetr.
“You’re all expecting to get a Skill to make it easy. No one here thinks outside the box. There is no box.”
Adetr had pointed to the piano frame.
“That’s a box.”
The point was that without anyone to learn from or the expectation of a class, Gnolls had to wrap their heads around the idea of, well, constructing things they had never thought of. It was like how they regarded Drake siege weapons as a type of magic. Inkar and Rose knew it was physics, even if both would have had trouble explaining them perfectly.
Inkar could see the counterweight of a trebuchet moving. She understood gravity and motion enough to infer how it worked. Gnolls looked at a trebuchet and didn’t get the relationships the Earthers did.
Adetr was actually one of the more adaptive Gnolls here. He sat and puzzled and frowned his way into understanding, but what happened when you had grumpy [Artisans] who tossed a bunch of screws and pieces of wood down and said it was impossible to make work right?
Well.
You sent them to class.
Literal class. There were about ten to twenty Gnoll children who went to school each day and sat in class and learned Earth lessons. Their parents had been dubious about it, but after being inducted into the Earth secrets, they’d agreed that if their children were willing, it was an investment in the future.
…It had a side-effect, of course.
 
——
 
“Sanrat! What are you doing?”
“Nothing!”
Rose had had to chase down one of the Gnoll boys who’d begun going to school. He turned guiltily on his way to have fun with some children from the simulation—by playing games on the computer at their house. The boy ran for it as Rose chased after him. She almost grabbed him, despite his agility, before he leapt onto an electric scooter and zoomed into traffic, laughing until he ran into Adetr.
 
——
 
Some of the children were more interested in smartphones or all the wonders of Earth and would forget that the food they ate in the fake reality didn’t actually give them nutrition. However! There were also Gnolls in their late teens or twenties, and they had a different sort of course.
 
——
 
“You’re so very, very helpful. Thank you for volunteering your time.”
A Human woman was looking on in a kind of dismay as Adetr straightened his vest and nodded to a group of six determined Gnolls ranging from twelve to twenty-four.
“Not at all Miss—er, Ma’am. We’ll have this built in no time flat. Ready?”
One of the Gnolls in ‘training’ was holding up a diagram with some apprehension, but the rest were balancing and assembling pieces of wood. The woman nodded, slightly taken aback.
Helpful Constructors was a non-profit charity organization that operated primarily in the United States of America…and Sweden. It was a local youth group that Rose had helped set up, and you could generally convince someone you belonged to the group if you fast-printed a logo onto a t-shirt or just worked with a church or something.
The entire idea of the non-profit was a ‘youth-based holistic approach to community engagement’, which had given Inkar a headache when Rose told Adetr to memorize it. And what they did was go around to older people and build furniture for them.
From IKEA. Or other brands. Even washers, dryer installations—Adetr was scheming how to do more complex work, but the act of putting together a chair from component parts generally taught the younger Gnolls how to get their heads around the act of construction.
More than one grateful fake Earth-person had watched a team of six growl at each other before managing to put together a bed frame or chair. And if it turned out someone had forgotten a key piece and the entire thing snapped…well, it was good it was a simulation, huh?
 
——
 
The end result was that, within a month, Adetr had more than enough Gnolls who had begun to fully embrace or think in Earth concepts. He found the best people to recruit were [Blacksmiths], artisans—obviously—younger people, by and large—
But also Gnolls who enjoyed blacksmith puzzles or were experts in rarer fields, like [Birdwatchers]—which was a class. They were only too happy to go and watch videos on Earth’s species and understand more about basic biology.
But for the purposes of the piano, the mechanics had been knocked down as well as the blueprints after many, many attempts to get the pieces machined to be as precise and accurate as possible. And the final part, the difficulty of construction?
Well. Thank Honored Deskie for that one.
 
——
 
“Metal wire. Metal wire. It’s too damn hard to make!”
Adetr had smashed a fist down as he and Chieftain Mrell had labored over the issue. A strand of the metal fiber that a piano called for, even a crude strand, was hard.
The Gnoll [Smiths] were working outdoor furnaces; portable ones, by and large. They could make armaments for their warriors and other necessities, but only a Drake forge in a big city had the capability to make long wire spools.
“We can build a forge, Adetr. We’re already working on laying the groundwork. I just can’t do it now.”
The best Mrell, the most expert smith, had gotten to was three strands of wire, and they weren’t identical. He tossed down his tools.
“You said this was like making chainmail, Adetr, and I took you at your word—until I remembered how many damn ways it’s made. You want identical steel wires? I know the technique; you forge a long wire of steel and then cut the pieces up after bending them. That’s how Master Demastel would have done that.”
The Dwarf he’d learned from had been an expert of metal. Adetr nodded, frowning.
“That’s what I assumed. Is chainmail not made like that?”
It might be strange for someone from the Steelfur tribe not to know armor that well considering how much Adetr fought, but if you thought about it…he had little need for armor to begin with.
“That’s how it’s made by the best [Smiths].”
Mrell corrected Adetr. He sighed as he regarded the wires.
“Demastel described it to me. You need a specialized ‘die’—not a dye for colors, something that narrows the metal as it runs through it. He said some Drake cities like Pallass might have the tools. Every other smith? They hand-hammer metal into wires. Or they make a sheet and punch the links out. Adetr, I don’t have the setup I need to make this wire.”
He turned to the younger Gnoll, and Adetr scratched his head, woebegone.
“We can build it for you. They have fancy machines you feed it through. I’ll search up older techniques of making it after this. I thought it’d be as easy as chainmail, though…”
Mrell just shook his head tiredly. Inkar watched nervously; Rose had left by this point, and the piano was nearing completion in every aspect but the most important ones.
The wires that produced the sound of the piano were devilishly hard for Gnolls to make. They had to not only be thin, perfectly identical, and pure—they had to withstand incredible force.
18,000 kilograms of force on the piano’s board! Already, they’d had to enchant the piano’s board, but the wire?
“I never had to make wire before. I’ll ask some smiths I know if they’ve done it.”
Mrell was shaking his head as the Earth research teams worried over the problem. That was when Honored Deskie came by.
“Oh dear. I heard shouting. Is this the piano? I just was in [The World of You and Me] and attended a concert. It was wonderful music.”
She was quite invested in the Earth projects and gave Inkar a bright smile as Inkar came over to hug her. Adetr nodded.
“Any insights with your time, Honored Deskie?”
“Only that I think it will impress our guests. I mostly spent time listening to the concert. Then I went on the internet web thing and…”
Deskie hesitated. Then leaned over to Inkar.
“Inkar. Your species has far too much lewd material online. Of far too many creatures.”
She gave Inkar a pointed look, and the Earther began to protest it wasn’t her fault. But Deskie was already heading over to the piano, shaking her head.
“The things I saw…what is the problem?”
Mrell explained the wire issue. Deskie listened as she eyed the places waiting for the wire, then snorted softly.
“Wire that thin? Humans and their technology. Adetr Steelfur, you silly cub.”
Then she pinched his ear as he gave her a bewildered look.
“What? What?”
“Not everything Earth does is the fastest way. Remember, for everything they do which is more ‘optimal’ than our world, we have something they cannot equal. How thin is it?”
He produced precise measurements, and Deskie hmmed.
“…I have no idea how thin that is. Here. Give me this, and I’ll give it a try. Hrm. Oh, my shoulders, it’s been ages since I had to do this.”
And with that, she took a bar of copper, handed it to Tkrn to carry since it was heavy, walked back to her spinning wheel, and sat down. Then—Inkar had felt that tingling on the back of her neck and seen the old [Magical Spinner] smile at her.
“[Spindle, Snag My Thread].”
She had done something Inkar couldn’t see. Attached one end of the copper bar to the spindle, then begun to work the wheel slowly. It had been difficult; the normally easy spinning wheel had tried to resist, but Deskie had begun to spin out a line of brilliant wire, at first only a small amount, then faster and faster as Tkrn gasped and Adetr slapped his forehead so hard he nearly knocked himself out.
There was a legend on Earth of a princess spinning straw into gold. Deskie might not have been that high-level, but the copper ‘thread’ she made was actually so fine it was too thin for the piano.
Piano wire obtained. ♪ Do doo doo! ♬
Rose had made the sound over the speaking stone when Inkar told her about it. She refused to elaborate what it meant.
 
——
 
Back to the present. Everyone could assure Eska that the piano was done. Absolutely done. It only needed tuning, and if someone broke it beyond needing another string, they would be murdered. With a copper wire garotte.
In short, all was in readiness for the expo tomorrow. Inkar had high hopes. If not for the problem with the Earth simulation, she would have been bouncing with excitement. Eska was giving Inkar, Tkrn, and Deskie a rundown of what tomorrow would look like.
“We’re just setting up seats and refreshments in the tent we’re hosting the event in. Theikha has been bossing everyone around. Including me. She keeps asking about the seating.”
Gnolls took a communal approach to tasks like these, so a Chieftain like Eska would be responsible for setting up the entire area with her tribe. It worked well, but she was clearly annoyed.
“Seating?”
“Yes, I place them down, and she puts them—it is a small thing. Shaman Theikha knows how important this is. Forget about it.”
