How far did they want to push the Gnolls? In lieu of an answer from the Walled Cities—well, an answer that satisfied—several Drake cities near the Great Plains made the choice to ingratiate themselves with their hosts. The most significant moment, though, was when a Reinhart drifted over to the shock of the other Five Families and asked what the Free Queen was drinking.
The answer seemed to amuse Cecille Reinhart. And while that was all and she received glares and hisses from her fellow Humans—
The Free Queen saw it as clearly as the Immortal Tyrant. And both of them smiled at that.
 
——
 
In the end, Nerrhavia’s Fallen took the entire sale, outbidding each and every other nation.
“We might see a lot of that. They took all five lots!”
It just went to show which nations were rich. Interestingly, Germina was bidding high, as was Calanfer, which belied the finances that Feshi understood both nations to have. Maybe they really wanted the Earth tech, and they were prepared to spend huge amounts on it.
The House of Minos was rich, and Ailendamus might not have known about Earth, but they had realized something was up and had been trying to get one of the electronics to no avail.
Wistram, Rhir, the Restful Three—all with way too much gold.
Oddly, Khelt wasn’t buying much of anything. The dignitary was there, applauding and dutifully consulting with Fetohep, but he seemed disinclined to do more than show off during the initial rounds of bidding. Whenever an item was actually about to be successfully bought, he desisted.
Almost as if he wanted to show off Khelt’s wealth rather than buy something.
He must have an Earther and not be interested. That was Feshi’s conclusion.
There was a second level at play in the room, and that was the way nations interacted with each other. Nerrhavia’s Fallen, for instance, was sitting with Rhir, Wistram, and a bunch of the bigger nations at a central table. Whereas most lesser kingdoms were relegated to the edges along with [Merchants].
Of the Chandrarian nations, only Khelt, the Empire of Sands, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and King of Destruction’s envoys had prime seating—and they were spaced well away from each other. Most nations hadn’t even realized Reim had a seat until the Stitch-man raised a little sign and Orelighn shouted ‘1,400 gold pieces, Reim’.
Then there was a hubbub of discontent. But what were the Gnolls going to do? Not invite a rich [King] who was going to spend money on their stuff?
Plus, he’d been fighting for them. And they remembered.
Still, Nerrhavia’s Fallen had more gold than anyone but the Empire of Sands, and after they took all the alchemical goods, Feshi heard a rumble of annoyance from behind them.
Lesser they might be, but the Stitch-folk kingdoms had realized how useful the alchemical ingredients were and tried to bid for one lot. They’d been knocked out of the bid by Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s wealth. Feshi saw a group of delegates glaring daggers at the Silk [Ambassador], who idly glanced over his shoulder and smirked at them.
“Which nations are those? Looks like Reneiz, definitely Scaied—”
Feshi found them on a map of Chandrar. Southwestern nations and a few to the southeast. Mostly bordering Nerrhavia’s Fallen. She’d heard they had fractious relationships with the superpower; Nerrhavia’s Fallen tended to get its way in everything it wanted.
“Fascinating. Reneiz doesn’t recognize a caste hierarchy between Stitch-folk.”
So that’s why one of their ambassadors was made of Hemp! And why Nerrhavia’s Fallen lot were ignoring them. Even when a small recess was called so the Gnolls could unveil smaller pieces and the delegates could get up and circulate and eat and talk—the [Ambassador] swanned straight past the Stitch-folk.
Even the [Diplomat] from Reim had cordial greetings with the wary Chandrarian nations. Well, Feshi just put this down as a fascinating lesson in politics in Chandrar. The Professor would have loved to teach a class in—
“Feshi. What did Chieftain Eska do to the seating plans? It’s a mess.”
Theikha caught Feshi and hissed at her. The [Shaman] had been busy until this moment, but she looked truly upset.
“What? The seating? Eska said she double-checked it.”
Feshi found a copy of the floor plan, and Theikha snatched it, then exclaimed.
“This is her plan? It looks nothing like—I drew it up! No wonder she kept insisting it was right! Who made this?”
She was aghast. Feshi peered worriedly at the seating.
“It doesn’t look…bad to me?”
The plan was pretty logical. Eska would have called out any inconsistencies. What you had were solid groupings by power and relevance. For instance, all the Chandrarian nations in one section of the room. Terandria in another, though they could certainly talk where the two sides met.
Walled Cities sat at one table and more important guests closer to the center. Theikha glanced at Feshi, then saw she didn’t understand.
“This is a terrible plan. If I find the [Shaman] or Chieftain who thought…look at how Nerrhavia’s Fallen is snubbing the other Stitch-folk nations. They should be either at the same table or far apart and scattered.”
Feshi analyzed the reasoning Theikha had given to arrive at that conclusion like this was a test from the Titan of Baleros. She snapped her fingers and groaned.
“Oh! Because putting them close by but not together means it looks like Nerrhavia’s Fallen is way more important. So the other nations get mad, and they can all tell they’re being snubbed.”
Which means they share collective animosity towards Nerrhavia’s Fallen, whereas if they were scattered, they’d just be talking with a Terandrian nation and a Balerosian one and feel individual.
The floor plan was reinforcing old grudges and stratifications of power. In fact, placing the Izrilians in one section was a pure mistake—the Five Families and Walled Cities’ delegations were exchanging icy comments as Human nobles and Drake city representatives shot barbed remarks at each other via scrying orbs.
“Too late to fix now. Let’s just hope the ability to get up and mingle where they please sorts it out.”
Theikha nodded and glanced around distractedly. She sniffed the air.
“Hrm. Yes. I’ll be back, Feshi. I need to check on something. Where’s Gamur and Garsine?”
Two of the most high-level Gnolls were both about—mostly to impress the rulers. Feshi said as much and suspected both were hiding rather than having to socialize.
“Have them wait backstage. I am going to…”
Theikha began walking around the room, glancing around, but she didn’t seem to know what she was looking for.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia was running her own commentary at the table, largely, it seemed, for Inkar’s benefit or because she was bored.
“I have always liked Gnolls. They have to work together to achieve their goals. Great tribes rise and fall, but eternally they are forced to do the most difficult of things: talk and discuss matters rather than give orders or even vote. It leads to splendid thinking at times.”
“Their people are fractious, however, Your Majesty.”
Astival was disapproving. Nerrhavia just sighed.
“Yes. They will not find the peace they covet in this age. Not with new technology arising. Much the opposite. How close to our vehicles are those magical carriages of Wistram?”
Astival had gone outside to check on the ones that had brought the dignitaries.
“Adequate for common folk. Mere bent magic. A jumped-up illusion spell.”
The Immortal Tyrant’s hands flickered again. No one seemed to know what they meant, even Astival, and it clearly bothered him. Nerrhavia ignored him once more as she turned a smile to Inkar.
“Good enough. You see, Inkar, this has happened before. In your world and mine. Nations that can react and see each other in real time are more aware of each other’s presence. For good and ill. I lived in the times you approach. We begin to see unpredictability in established relationships. Revolutions are happening in travel, communication…and food.”
She ticked down the three items off her fingers, the last hovering delicately.
“That is the basis for a worldly war.”
“Worldly war?”
The Immortal Tyrant sighed.
“My term for it. Yours were so…small. Only one continent engulfed in flames. I digress. Gnolls will not know peace now, nor for a long time to come, I predict.”
“They’re at peace now.”
Inkar didn’t like the blasé way Nerrhavia predicted these things. The Immortal Tyrant’s response was to raise her brows.
“Are they? Do you know how difficult peace is? I have sat in your fake world, Inkar.”
The Earth Tent! So that’s why it had been glitching! Inkar was trying to figure a way out of this problem. She could have used her clothing to teleport or screamed for Theikha, but the problem was…she couldn’t.
Nerrhavia had her heart in her pocket. All she could do was listen and talk, so she did, trying to gain some kind of advantage.
“What did you learn?”
Nerrhavia smiled at her.
“How you define words. For instance, you write of ‘peace’ as a period between the next war. Which is so terribly cynical even Vizir Hecrelunn would offer you a [Cheering] spell. I have a different definition.”
Inkar’s eyes began to cross in desperation. It was like meeting Erin Solstice but worse. That time, a hill had smiled at Inkar. This time, it was like the High Passes spoke, full of danger and able to squash her and everything around her without a thought.
And the mountain was interested in dictionary terms.
“I define peace as the period in which two peoples share a dream, a vision of mutual co-existence. Individuals may go against that grain, but peace does not exist so long as the peoples do not hope for it. Otherwise, it truly is a simple armistice before the next conflict.”
Nerrhavia drawled as she spoke.
“There has seldom been true peace between Gnolls and Drakes. I have appraised the situation between them.”
Her eyes darted to the Walled Cities and Gnolls, who were stiffly polite at best, glaring at each other in some cases. The Tyrant nodded.
“—It would have been preferable for them if Chaldion of Pallass remained. He masterminded much of the events leading up to this moment. However. In his absence, he has failed to clean the board. No one has stepped into his place. The Walled Cities are not united.”
“They never were united, Your Majesty. Even when there were far more of them.”
Corregrione spoke, his voice filled with contempt, and Nerrhavia exhaled.
“They were more united last year, Traveller.”
He instantly bowed.
“As you say, Your Majesty. Forgive me. This time home is bittersweet to see how the Heartlands diminished to one. Your admiration for my people gladdens my heart. But I wonder—if they had been part of your empire, would they now be a world power rather than struggling to survive?”
His eyes stole towards Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and the Immortal Tyrant tapped her lips. Inkar stared at Corregrione. He was clearly no servant like Astival. If these were some of the ghosts who’d survived…he was affiliated with Nerrhavia, but not directly. Falamizural seemed completely hostile. But why did both follow her?
Because they were terrified of what she might do. The Garuda got up abruptly, giving Inkar another pained look.
“I am going to circulate.”
“Please stop informing me when you do things.”
Nerrhavia waved her off. As Falamizural stalked away, Astival leaned over.
“Forgive me, Immortal Majesty. But is Falamizural an asset to be used? I confess, I do not know her value. Your toleration of her I do not understand.”
The first flicker of surprise ran over Nerrhavia’s face. Even, Inkar thought, regret.
“Truly? She was centuries before your time. You don’t know the tale of Falamizural, Astival? It was quite a good one. The last free wings of Qualvekkaras? The feather which falls in time of need?”
He shook his head, and Nerrhavia sipped from her cup.
“Well then. I must illuminate you. Corregrione’s tale is also worthy—I wonder if the Gnolls recall it?”
He ducked his head with that pained smile as Inkar leaned forwards to listen intently. Nerrhavia murmured to herself.
“If they do, I wonder how they tell it.”
 
——
 
Satar Silverfang was half watching the expo. At the moment, smaller tables had been set up, and people were crowding around, well…Earther tech.
Not full Earth technology. Think of it more like stopgaps. Stepping stones.
Things that Gnolls could make that Earthers would recognize and covet. Pieces of the puzzle they themselves were trying to assemble.
Like…electricity. Any [Lightning Mage] could fire a bolt, but how did you get up to the technology that powered computers? Or machines that could mass-produce items?
The answer was you didn’t jump to it in one go. You did the hard work first, by building the foundation to creating all the big things. Changing everything you did, from mentality to material to process. Even with Earth’s knowledge, Adetr had said outright it would take time to even lay the groundwork for such things. So what could Gnolls sell?
Well…
“Feast your eyes on this spark-generator! A handy way to make fire without magic!”
Chieftain Orelighn was really getting into his showmanship role. He gestured at a stack of odd pieces of metal aligned in a container of fluid. A Gnoll carefully connected a wire to both ends—then touched them together.
The spark was small, but made a [Mage] of Wistram jump. The Drake gave her compatriots a wide-eyed stare.
“That wasn’t magic! And it wasn’t a match!”
“No, it’s a lightning…thing. It has a bit of electricity, you know, the stuff lightning bolts have in them? Don’t ask me how it’s made, but it’s quite nifty—ow. Don’t, uh, don’t touch the wires.”
It was the predecessor to a modern ‘battery’, which Satar understood was what powered Rose’s smartphone and everything else. Adetr called it a ‘voltaic cell battery’, whatever that meant.
This item had mostly interested curious people and nations who knew about Earth-tech. It seemed that even Wistram didn’t have pure expertise on its side. Whereas other nations were crowding around tech clearly more useful. Eska was demonstrating the next product with all the genuine enthusiasm of someone who knew what she had. Pride, too.
“This is a spinning wheel developed by the Longstalker’s Fang tribe. Note how you can use a foot pedal to crank it? A single [Spinner] can do the job of three or more with Skills!”
They were showing off the technology that Inkar had invented to appreciation from the crowd. Then Chieftain Eska walked proudly over to a far more elaborate contraption.
“And this is a Spinning Deskie.”
“I thought we weren’t using that name.”
A Gnoll hissed at her, and Eska ignored them. She pointed, and one of the Stitch-folk gasped.
