It would be a combination of big objects presented in the center stage and smaller demonstrations the dignitaries could get up and even interact with. Food aplenty and drinks—Nerrhavia saw more than one ruler was eating while watching on their scrying orbs just to fit in.
Her conversation with Inkar was far more engaging a way to pass the time. The [Traveller] was trying to recall all she knew of Nerrhavia.
“You had a large empire. Almost all of Chandrar. The Immortal Tyrant. Then…you died, and they made Nerrhavia’s Fallen out of it. Because you did terrible things.”
She had zero details, as one might who’d vaguely heard of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and asked for an explanation before. Nerrhavia nodded agreeably.
So goes legacy. In a hundred years, a thousand, her name would cease to become something that even scared children. Dragonlords lived and ruled and made mighty deeds and perished. Then all forgot their names.
It was the angst of Dragons; she cared little for it. She knew what she’d done. In fact, the Merchant’s Guild amused her. It was, unknowingly, her greatest legacy to the world. She had thought the great roads that criss-crossed Chandrar would have counted, but apparently, they had been ripped up. Alas.
“I am sure you will still be able to find records of my ‘atrocities’. Poor Falamizural can attest to the fate of my enemies.”
The Garuda flinched as Inkar glanced at her. Nerrhavia flicked her fingers.
“—I conquered countless nations. My enemies suffered. Yet when my empire was at its grandest, travellers came to it and pronounced it safe and rich beyond belief. Such as Corregrione.”
The Gnoll ducked his head.
“It was splendid, Your Majesty. As I said, with its share of darkness—but I had met no nation I could not claim the same of. It was…”
He sighed.
“Beautiful.”
Hence why even in death he had followed and listened to her. He had seen what she had built. The Garuda gave him a look of wrath, and he looked at her with sympathy. The same with Inkar. Nerrhavia nodded and wet her lips.
“So then. It lasted for near a thousand years, child. Great people arose and were duly honored. Corruption I took great pleasure in stamping out. I allied myself with great powers, and yes, some were considered terrible for my time.”
Such as the Witch of Webs. But Nerrhavia just shrugged.
“—Yet I considered it an ideal empire, one which every other continent in the world treated with carefully and which endured for six hundred years in that state, ever prosperous, ever growing.”
“What happened?”
Inkar stared at Nerrhavia, her eyes narrowed. She was brave enough, and Nerrhavia smiled. Everyone else around the table leaned in, and she took a moment before replying.
“…I suppose, one day, I wondered why I gave face, even when it was expedient. I was more loved than feared, you know, despite all I did. Because that was more practical than fear. My enemies made taunts; I let them, for what did it matter? Then, I wearied of it. My great work ceased to matter as much to me. I spoke, and my enemies vanished.”
Her pupils contained shards of color, like the broken glass of windows, each reflecting cold, imperial light.
“I pushed for the entire world, not one mere empire. It barely overpowered me.”
Her eyes drank in Inkar’s, and her voice was quiet.
“It was so entertaining, falling. My worst moment as a ruler. Had I known there was so much left I could have accomplished, I would have worked harder.”
Inkar’s gaze was shocked, appalled, and Astival just nodded, proud despite how it had ended. Corregrione sighed, and Falamizural turned away. Nerrhavia went back to watching the show.
Boredom had been such a terrible thing.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Tribe’s expo started with introductions; a preface, if you would. The conceit to the other countries that Feshi gave was that these were inventions of the Gnolls. A great conflagration of talent to raise funds for the tribes.
Hugely sympathetic, really. The Gnolls had come up with all these ideas; wouldn’t you buy something? There were goods traditional to the tribes, of course, but it was all a lie.
Any nation worth their salt would take one look at some of the objects on display and know the Gnolls knew of Earth. But here, winning the game wasn’t calling the Gnolls on their knowledge.
That was banal. Idiotic. A move so direly stupid that even the King of Avel would call someone out for attempting it. Any nation which knew of Earth or had an Earther didn’t attend this expo to figure out if the Gnolls had an Earther.
They came to see how much the Gnolls knew and who else knew. The same, in truth, with the Gnolls.
Hence the rounded room with sightlines to each table. One could watch the reactions of various rulers or dignitaries and, more crucially, see what they bid on.
It was an auction. Any item people were interested in would be bid on with the resulting product to go to the nation who won the auction. Orders for more or any copies available would be then negotiated on with the ideal being a list of clients who’d buy from the Gnollish tribes here.
All this was naturally predicated on the Gnolls having something worth buying. And did they? Well, the first item they brought out was where the copper coin dropped.
“Before we get to the, ah, inventions, we have some minor salvage to sell. Our tribes go everywhere, and be it so humble to present before so many august rulers—”
Chieftain Orelighn was very nervous, but the Greenpaw’s Chieftain was reading from his script.
“—we have some metal scavenged by the Greenpaw tribe. Very high-quality!”
He didn’t look quite convincing. Nor did the object being hauled out by two dozen Gnolls. They’d buffed it up a bit, but the moment the King of Avel saw the piece of metal, he leaned over.
“Definitely a broken piece of something. Doesn’t look magical. Damn thing’s bent.”
It was indeed. It was a long…well, it was a long, off-white…sheet of metal? Orelighn hurried over.
“It fell out of the skies one day. Who knows, it might be part of one of the ancient sky-islands of old! See how it has these weird flaps? The metal is not like any steel we know of—”
A few titters at the mention of ‘sky islands’, and several dignitaries rolled their eyes in amusement. Feshi noted that in the back. As well as how Kaaz’s diplomat had just choked on her drink and slapped a finger to a speaking stone embedded in one ear.
Kaaz. Wistram. Rhir’s [Diplomat] didn’t react one inch, but he didn’t have to. The half-Elf from the Blighted Kingdom was the model of polite interest.
But when the bidding started, his was one of the first bids to go up on the piece of metal.
The wing of a plane.
Not all of it. Feshi and the other Chieftains had had a long talk with Rose and Inkar about selling the pieces of the plane. To be honest…looting it for pieces was already uncomfortable. Selling the dead children’s objects or belongings was unthinkable.
But a wing of the plane ‘explained’ a lot for nations. It certainly wasn’t as useful as the nations engaging in a bidding war thought it was.
Oh, certainly it could tell you a lot about aerodynamics, and the internal machinery and even the composition of the metal had to be worth a fortune in information. 
Unless you could just google how a plane was made or go inspect one in a simulation Skill. Mind you, Adetr was still trying to figure out how to gain access to a plane in a day’s time without being mobbed by airport security.
Even so, the bidding on the plane’s wing went up so high that people who didn’t understand what it was worth looked aghast. It was something when a Drake from Salazsar popped her monocle at the prices on the wing.
In the end, Kaaz took it, though the price had even Kaaz’s rich nobles a bit sick. Feshi had already identified Wistram, the Forgotten Wing, Rhir, and Pallass as groups that definitely had Earthers.
Fissival too, though they didn’t have a representative on the ground, just via scrying orb. But a number of smaller nations definitely gave clues they were aware of Earth. Even a nation called…Feshi frowned at her notes.
“Someone look up where ‘Lorandia’ is? I’ve never heard of it.”
Anyways, the point was that if you spent too much now, you’d never make it through the expo. Because no sooner had the bidding stopped on the plane’s wing than Orelighn, looking much happier now he’d heard how much it was worth, energetically brought something else out.
“Well, next we have another piece of salvage! We call it the, uh, half-Giant’s salad mixer!”
The what? People stared as a huge tube was carried in with Adetr’s help because it was so heavy. One of the Wistram [Mage]’s jaws dropped as Orelighn gingerly moved the rotating, somewhat-broken blades inside.
“Observe how it, uh—spins! You could definitely chop up a lot of Yellats with this.”
“Only if they’re as large as your legs. What the heck is—”
The King of Avel definitely had no idea what was going on. But everyone else took one look at the turbine of a jet engine and wanted it, even if it was almost completely busted.
Orelighn was the right Gnoll for the job. Mostly because he didn’t actually go in the Earth-tent much; his descriptions of the plane parts were, well, that of an outsider.
“Next we have these lovely seats! They’re, ah, very comfortable—”
He tried to make the airplane seats look good, and he really couldn’t pull it off. At this, the Rhirian ambassador held up a polite hand.
“Where did all these marvelously strange parts come from, Chieftain?”
Many people leaned forwards as Orelighn sighed.
“A tragic thing. They fell out of the skies! It must have hit a poor caravan of Humans because we found—well, we buried the poor people.”
“Did you…find any possessions or identification? Perhaps they were one of ours.”
A Reinhart spoke up, voice exceedingly polite. The Reinharts had sent their own [Lady] south; Feshi noted that was independent of the [Butler] representing Magnolia Reinhart.
“Alas, no. We searched, but it was all…burnt up. It was a terrible, terrible fire. We burned most of these seats, but these two were empty, and—”
“You burned them?”
A note of horror from one of the Pallassian Drakes. Feshi rolled her eyes as Orelighn huffed at the Drake. Even if they were desperate, no one wanted to sell off the belongings of children. Much less their bodies.
Wing, turbine, two seats, and a host of burnt electronics beyond the saving of even a [Repair] spell. Including Orelighn’s own ‘sparkmaker’, which was a burnt tablet that he demonstrated you could partially [Repair], then use to set off sparks.
Even nations unaware of Earth could study the curious junk and realize it was important. It was actually pretty depressing; for each group that stared at Orelighn’s cheerful face as he auctioned and described the goods and realized he was in the know, you had three who thought he was a savage, stupid Gnoll who had no idea what he’d found.
“Chieftain, [Message] for you.”
Feshi got a scroll midway through the meeting and glanced at it.
 
Well done. Can I make a personal bid on a few of the electronics?
—Niers
 
She rolled her eyes. But she had actually earmarked a few items for a private auction.
 
——
 
The stage was set for the expo after the salvage. The other nations were dutifully impressed that this was more than a charity event or a place to gawk, and it was time to consult the royal [Treasurer] and spend. To make it seem like this was an actual trade show, Feshi had organized the next items to be Gnollish creations.
Shockwoolie bolts of cloth. Alchemical reagents from Gaarh Marsh. Valuable furs and even bows by their artisans.
It was notable which nations were paying attention here as well. The alchemical ‘weeds’ from Gaarh Marsh triggered a bidding war with every nation who’d been paying attention to their [Alchemists].
Including at least one you wouldn’t expect.
“15,000 gold pieces.”
“30,000.”
“35,000!”
“45,000.”
The nations trying to move up by increments of less than ten thousand were not enjoying the richer ones who were tossing down ludicrous sums on the shipments. It was frankly obscene how much they could spend.
One of the lesser Drake cities’ representatives just threw up their claws in despair and swooned in their scrying orb. Then a click echoed, and a buyer who had been hitherto silent spoke.
“Fifty thousand gold pieces.”
There was no way for the speaker to hold up one of the tiny placard signs to indicate her desire to bid, so she simply held up the giant milkshake she’d been sipping. The gesture still caught the attention of all and sundry—and when they realized who had bit, there was an outcry.
The Free Queen of the Antinium ignored the gasps of horror and a second swooning as she sipped at her drink. Orelighn registered the bid.
“Fifty thousand. FiftythousandgoingoncedoIhear—”
“I protest!”
One of the other representatives shot to their feet, pointing at the Free Queen. Rhir’s [Diplomat] hadn’t spoken, but their stare was cold as ice.
Terandria’s were purely horrified and disgusted. Interestingly—Izril’s Drakes and Five Families kept silent. They knew who their neighbors were, but the non-Izrilian Humans objected vociferously to the Antinium’s presence.
“The Antinium are invited to this trade exhibition?”
A chorus of similar complaints rose from other delegates, but Orelighn replied with an unusually steely tone.
“They defended the Meeting of Tribes. The Free Queen was extended an invitation.”
None of the other Antinium Hives had been. A few Terandrians objected further, but Orelighn ignored them.
“Please keep from disparaging other guests, thank you. Fifty thousand. Going once—”
“Sixty! Thousand.”
 
——
 
The desire to keep Antinium from getting anything was petty, but it did drive up prices. The glares the Free Queen got she could hardly miss, but she sat there, seeming smug despite losing her bid.
Because she was there. And no other Antinium Queen was. In fact, she was allowing them to petition her to buy objects on display. The Grand Queen had refused to even join the other Queens watching via the Free Queen’s eyes.
Political fortunes had changed. Not just for the Antinium; their presence at this expo was a clear message. And it made the Drakes highly uncomfortable to see the Free Queen there.
The idea of a Gnollish alliance, or even a non-aggression pact, with Antinium would be disastrous. But who could blame them if they had been pushed to it? More than one Drake city began to sweat that possibility, and unlike any time before, they had no answers forthcoming from Pallass via Grand Strategist Chaldion.
