Garsine was looming ever-taller, and Astival kept his blade pressed to Theikha’s throat—then seemed to think it would do more if he aimed it at Garsine.
Which was correct. Nerrhavia raised an eyebrow at the [Shaman].
“Do you think you could stop me, Theikha? Now, if I were you, I would be seeking a way to aid tribes at the mercy of Drake cities—without endangering those here. A deniable force of Gnolls. The tribes always had them, but I imagine many died after the Doombringer disaster.”
Theikha stared at Nerrhavia, and the Immortal Tyrant went on.
“I would reach out to the one group truly apart from tribal affiliation. The only group that can truly be trusted. Most are in Salazsar. The Wanderer has a useful Skill, though he may soon find it is riskier than he wishes. The others will either become enemies of the tribes or allies. I would seek the latter, were I you, and make every accommodation. You may find there are more than you dreamed.”
The Great Shaman of the Gaarh Marsh tribe said nothing, digesting what Nerrhavia was saying.
“Why tell me?”
“A favor for the inconvenience, perhaps. Or to distract you for a minute.”
Theikha’s eyes blazed, and she tensed, but Nerrhavia didn’t do anything as ostentatious as checking a time spell or raising a hand to signal some forgotten agent to take a shot. She just kept staring at the skies.
“You didn’t think your guests would leave a child of Earth roaming, did you? Although—I really didn’t expect that to be their plan.”
She was actually dismayed about it. Either way, Theikha’s eyes widened. She lowered the staff, snapped at Gamur.
“Inkarr is in danger! Find her!”
Of course, it was too late for that. Nerrhavia heard a whistle shrilling, and Gamur whirled and ran, outpaced by Garsine Wallbreaker. Tkrn’s [Guardsman]’s whistle. And then another that shrieked into the air, so nostalgic that she closed her eyes a moment and smiled.
When she opened them, she saw a speck diving out of the sky.
 
——
 
They put two crossbow bolts through Inkar’s face and chest before she knew what had happened. She was running around to where Theikha had last been spotted when someone shot her.
Of course—since she was still alive, the crossbow bolts hadn’t worked. The [Traveller] got up and the feeling of two bolts lodged in her face was the most unpleasant in the world and—
No pain?
She got up, confused, and something buzzed and hovered in the air as Tkrn howled and looked around.
The whistle.
It was vibrating and emitting a latticed network of black tendrils. Slowly, Inkar pulled, and the first crossbow bolt came out of her face.
“Aaa—”
“Inkar!”
Tkrn pulled at the second one, thinking too late that it might be barbed, but it came out either way.
“What is—what is—”
Then a horned Demon with a blank face appeared out of the shadow of one of the tents and ran at them with a sword.
That was when Tkrn pulled out his whistle and drew the Eye Shield, deflecting a thrust at his body. The Demon [Assassin] was surprisingly slow and clumsy after dropping their crossbow. Tkrn backed up, continuing to sound the alarm via the whistle, and Inkar slowly took the Note of Implorement and blew.
—She thought the entire Great Plains heard it. Every [Warrior] was pounding towards her in a heartbeat. But Tkrn was fighting the Demon, whose blank face suddenly turned alert.
“…Kick].”
“Wh—”
Tkrn vanished. Inkar’s head spun, and she saw a shape falling over a group of sleeping yurts in the distance. The suddenly sharp-eyed Demon checked the bare sword he held.
“[Coating of Acid].”
Their voice was flat, but the dripping liquid running down their sword made Inkar back up fast. The Note of Implorement was not buzzing anymore, and she felt like that meant the next blow would kill her.
She would have teleported now, but the [Assassin] vanished—reappeared behind her, with a sword raised—
And Falamizural landed between them and Inkar and parried their sword with a ringing flash of light. Inkar flinched as acid sprayed past her, but a barrier had shielded her from the acid.
“Not while I draw breath.”
The Garuda spread her wing-arms, shielding Inkar, a look of relief in her eyes. As if she were uncertain of all else—but this she knew.
Falamizural was no [Paladin], but she lifted her sword high. As she had done countless times in the name of people she might never meet. For a line on the sand.
Summoner. Caller.
She was from a nation that only Nerrhavia remembered, and her class belonged to them. A different culture.
[She Who Summons Victory]. She waited as the assassin hesitated.
The Demon paused, eyes flicking to her, tensed—then lunged, blade aiming for Inkar. The Garuda did—something. She cast a spell or used a Skill. Falamizural spun, blade swinging down as she turned, and the [Assassin] landed in the grass a half dozen paces wide of Inkar.
He missed?
Then the Garuda cut off the Demon’s head and stabbed four times, running the blade through the body and leaving bloody holes. It was all one motion, so Inkar just saw the body crumple.
Falamizural spun and calmly pointed a glowing talon at another shadow—who stood up and raised his hands.
“Wait, waitwaitwaitwait—I’m just a counter-[Assassin]. I’m not a murderer! I work for Lady Reinhart!”
Theofore the Severely Underleveled held up his hands as his eyes went round. Not only had he failed to prevent Inkar’s untimely demise, he hadn’t even had a chance against the Demon.
“Move and die.”
“Can I tremble?”
Falamizural didn’t pay attention to him anyways. She scanned the area, then spoke as Gnolls poured into the area, shouting at her to drop her sword.
“That was the only one, I think. They were too fast. The whistle protected you.”
She looked crestfallen, and Inkar gasped.
“She saved my—someone help Tkrn!”
Gnolls went running after him, and Falamizural dropped her blade. But she looked both pleased and dismayed.
“What horned being is this? Not a Lucifen.”
She didn’t recognize a Demon? That was the only species Inkar could think it was. Falamizural gestured at the Note of Implorement.
“Its magic is out. It may take a month or more to recharge.”
“Wh—what is it?”
The Garuda made a face as Gamur raced over, looking for someone to fight and choosing Theofore, who ran screaming. Falamizural murmured.
“I saw it when I was hanging…a whistle to summon enforcers of the law. And to protect from accidents or violence. Children and those in less safe areas of the Immortal Empire wore them.”
…Was this a child’s emergency whistle? Inkar was lost for words. Then she stared after the [Assassin], and the Garuda paused.
“Does that Human have a Drake’s tail?”
“I think so.”
Even Gamur stared at it before Theofore hijacked one of the magical carriages and sped off. Then the Garuda blinked as Inkar hugged her, thanking her for saving her life. Embarrassed, she flew up and announced Tkrn was fine.
“A [Shaman] must have stopped him from falling.”
 
——
 
Tkrn was very unhappy.
“I think he broke my ribs! It was a Demon! A Demon!”
As if this day couldn’t get more dramatic. A nobleman from Terandria held a handkerchief over his face, horrified.
“An attack in the Great Plains of Izril? Demon killers do lurk everywhere! How did it get here?”
“Likely they heard of the Meeting of Tribes and wished to do as much harm as possible. We are only lucky this Human and Gnoll were spared the killing.”
A calm voice answered the Terandrian, and all eyes turned to a scrying orb and a very pale [Diplomat].
The Blighted Kingdom took charge of the situation. A [Bodyguard] stabbed the corpse several times, making sure it was absolutely dead, nevermind that Falamizural had done that. The half-Elf bowed to Inkar.
“I regret to inform you the presence of the Blighted Kingdom may have endangered the Meeting of Tribes. We shall, of course, make amends.”
He addressed that to Chieftain Feshi, who just shook her head.
“A Demon. Here. Frankly implaus—inconceivable.”
Her eyes flicked to Shaman Theikha, who said nothing, just stared at Inkar—along with a number of delegates, including Magus Telim. The High Mage chimed in.
“Wistram will also help with protective spells if nothing else! No one is killing young men and women. Miss Inkar, is it?”
He was giving her a look that said he knew exactly where she hailed from. Inkar decided not to mention the Note of Implorement, which as far as she was concerned trumped anything he could make for her.
It was open-and-shut as far as the delegates were concerned. Demon attack on the Gnolls! Of course, the smart ones who knew about Earth were putting more together.
This was an attack on the Gnolls’ Earther. Even nations without Earthers could see that, and the King of Bow’s voice was troubled and thoughtful.
“If she’s in danger, send her to Avel or—well, I’m sure the Gnolls can handle that. Killing young people. They really are monstrous. But why would a Demon go out of their way to try and kill a young woman and her lover—no offense, Miss, but you two aren’t that important—rather than someone like Shaman Theikha or Chieftain Feshi? It doesn’t make sense.”
Hey, that was right. And if the King of Avel got it…Archmage Eldavin was primed for a response, but a soothing voice interjected.
“The answer, Your Majesty of Avel, should be apparent to some. I regret that it is not a secret for open parlance.”
King Othius the Fourth sat there, and every eye turned to him. Eldavin’s head snapped around with genuine surprise.
“What? Secret? Your Majesty of Rhir, you know what this is in aid of?”
“Say rather, King Itreimedes, what the Demons hope to stop. I confess I jealously kept the information to myself, even in this moment. But some secrets must be shared. I invite you to speak with those who understand a modicum of the situation in due time.”
Heads turned, and a Pallassian Drake let out a huge sigh and nodded. Itreimedes’ eyes just narrowed, and he said nothing, uncharacteristically, but gave Othius a polite nod.
And there it was. Dead gods. The secret needed to be out, or so the Blighted Kingdom had decided. Which meant the great game was now going to be played worldwide. Would it hurt to ally with them? And Inkar…the young woman hid behind Chieftain Eska, who had protectively moved in front of her.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia wished it were cleverer. But she supposed it worked. So that was how Rhir operated.
What she saw was the Demon assassin was definitely a ‘Demon’. She had no doubt. But she very much doubted it came from the Demon’s kingdom. She wondered how many people had made it to that level of insight—which was still basic—and how many had stopped at the knowledge of Earth.
The Blighted Kingdom. She had wanted most of all to assess how they operated and what they were doing. Now that she had?
“Loyalty. Logistics. Manpower. Levels. Diplomacy. They are a highly ruthless, pragmatic, efficient, and adaptable nation.”
The Immortal Tyrant listed off their virtues, then smiled to herself.
“—And they cannot even take Rhir. I haven’t met a nation this entertaining since I was young. Excuse me?”
She raised her voice innocently, and every head turned to her as Othius fell silent, visibly annoyed at being cut off.
Gamur nearly punched her, but a glance at Theikha and he gave her the most insincere smile he could.
“What is it, Miss?”
“I was wondering—is this truly a Demon? It’s the first I’ve ever met. What a coincidence that one should leave Rhir, cross the seas, sneak across the Great Plains, and end up here. My, he even has horns. That would be how you know he is a Demon, wouldn’t you?”
“Fair point. There may be more. Spread out.”
The Pheislant [Ambassador] nodded to his bodyguard at once. However, the representative from the Iron Vanguard just tilted her head in her hands and began murmuring in a speaking stone.
“I imagine the Death of Magic may have had a hand in their mobility. She has the ability to strike anywhere at once.”
Othius spoke confidently, and the half-Elf [Diplomat] moved towards her. Nerrhavia stepped forwards as two of the bodyguards flanked her and leaned over. They spoke, hidden by privacy spells as a search for ‘more Demons’ began.
“Othius of Rhir.”
“You have me at a disadvantage, stranger.”
His tone was guarded, but he sat ensconced with a huge woman she recognized as a lesser [Queen], a [Mage] whose eyes spoke of time, and a court of nobles around him. Competent ones. That was the entire nature of Rhir she had gotten from them. Highly competent. Or given how long they’d fought this war…
“I am simply curious what you intend to offer me to make me…cease talking.”
The Blighted King stared down his nose at her. He was withered with age. She had seen countless people extend their lives artificially, and he did not wear his well. He was also hugely confident. Why? Ah yes.
[A King’s Truth]. So that was his trick. She suppressed yet another sigh.
“It would appear you are the one who owes the Blighted Kingdom a debt. One that shall be collected upon. Do you have anything you would present before the Blighted Throne?”
His eyes peered at her, and she felt his push on her skin. In response, Nerrhavia reached out and pulled and spoke sweetly.
“Only a question. Your Majesty, has the Blighted Kingdom ever lied to the many nations it signed its concords with? The nations who provide pledges of defense, aid, and supply to Rhir?”
 
——
 
Othius stared into eyes older than his that danced with amusement as if he were a doll in her hand. He was falling, falling—
“Y—”
He almost said it. Almost—then his jaw snapped shut with all the will in his body, so hard he nearly severed his tongue. Blood filled his mouth, and he jerked back.
“Your Majesty?”
She looked innocently at him as he spasmed against the throne, trying to look away from her, break eye contact. Those brown eyes danced with laughter and amusement in the second it took for the Blighted Queen to turn the scrying orb off with a sudden motion.
“Othius? What was—”
“Nereshal. Privacy.”
Othius spat blood from his mouth to the alarm of Hayvon and the others. Nereshal didn’t hesitate, though. He stopped time.
“Your Majesty, what—”
“By the sin of Arruif Yal. Kill her!”
The Blighted King’s voice shook, and he invoked the code word without a second thought. Nereshal’s eyes widened—then his pupils dilated hugely as the words activated memories and orders—
The [Chronomancer] felt as though someone had pulled back the curtains in the bedroom of his mind and flooded the room with light. Revealing deeds and actions he had hidden from himself. So that no enemy could pry his actions from his mind, even himself, if he was somehow subverted.
