She sat there, and the table went politely silent until Geilouna exploded in a hiss.
“Who was that?”
No one had an answer. Even Ielane du Marquin, trained in code phrases and court gestures and manners, felt like she’d just been riding around with a lance in hand like some [Knight] on horseback only to see a Dragonrider land and offer to joust.
Whatever that woman had been actually saying to her—even the language was beyond Ielane’s ability to understand. The woman had seemed idly bored.
And disappointed. She only looked around when she caught sight of a semi-transparent Drake flirting with a Garuda. Because, well—you had to stare at that.
 
——
 
“Nerul Gemscale, Diplomat of Salazsar but representing purely Wall Lord Ilvriss, Feathertalker Quova.”
The Drake was introducing himself to people left and right at the expo. He had just accosted a Garuda from the Shield Kingdom of Winds, Qualvekkaras, and the Garuda was tired of having to explain what a Shield Kingdom was and tell people unsubtly she was not from a Garuda tribe.
However, the Drake opened well, clearly knowing her title, and she bowed with one wing arm extended for a handshake before she realized he was intangible.
“A pleasure to meet—er—is this a scrying spell?”
Quova was greatly surprised as Nerul beamed at her.
“A type of projection Skill, Feathertalker. Apologies about the intangibility thing. But I have a cup of wine and no one’s kicked me out.”
The Garuda smiled pleasantly while she used [Information Dump: Ilvriss] to refresh herself on who this Nerul was.
Wall Lord Ilvriss…was the Wall Lord who’d appeared at the Great Plains of Izril on the Gnolls’ side. Clearly, the Gnolls would like him, but that wasn’t high on her list of important people given the nations in the room.
Then the thing Nerul said struck home, and Quova blinked.
“Kicked out?”
“Well, I’m self-invited.”
Nerul winked and shot her a grin as he took a generous sip from his cup of wine. The Garuda stared at him, then saw a white Gnoll girl edging over to wave at the Kaazian [Hundredlady], who was fuming after a defeat at the chess board.
“Whose child is—oh. White fur?”
The Kaazian stared at the girl, and despite her business and irritability, Quova smiled. Nerul cursed rather loudly and ran over to pick the Gnoll girl up under one arm. She squirmed and kicked as he apologized.
“Mrsha! This is diplomatic business. I’m the one sneaking in here. Excuse me, Hundredlady Ullana. This nosy child is from The Wandering Inn—she’s a Doombearer and helped at the Meeting of Tribes, so she thinks she’s invited anywhere she pleases.”
The Hundredlady accepted Nerul’s bow, and he backed up, offering profuse apologies at a louder volume than necessary. All quite fine—but Ullana’s eyes lit up as she put Mrsha together with the knowledge of Gnolls even an amateur like her would have.
“Wait, is that the child who was on the television?”
Nerul had already turned back to Quova and sheepishly introduced Mrsha. The girl wiggled her nose at the Garuda and then scribbled on a piece of parchment.
“Mrsha, Diplomat Quova. A little rascal who appears whenever I’m trying to work. Much like cats in scrying orbs, you know. I am terribly sorry—I could remove her.”
“I don’t find her that disturbing.”
If anything, she was a charming relief from the arrogant lot of ambassadors. Quova bent over.
“Hello, I am Feathertalker Quova of Qualvekkaras.”
To her surprise, Mrsha held up a rather elegantly written card.
Hi! I’m Mrsha! You’re very pretty!
Feathertalker Quova had a sunburst of feathers that drew other Garudas’ eyes; she’d been put out to realize the Garuda with splendid white wings outshone her, but she preened and was glad someone noticed.
“Mrsha, you don’t tell a Garuda they have splendid coloration. That’s quite rude; they know.”
Nerul shot Quova an admiring glance, and she smiled as coolly as she could at him.
“It helps with other species to know they’ve seen it, Diplomat. Ah—Wall Lord Ilvriss of House Gemscale, isn’t it? Qualvekkaras knows of his deeds, of course. Quite commendable. What is the good Wall Lord getting up to these days?”
Nerul chuckled as the Hundredlady followed with a cat, who backed up as Mrsha raised her arms to assert dominance over it.
“Just a bit of digging in the north, Diplomat.”
“In the north? With the Humans?”
“Well, yes. But—oh, Hundredlady! I apologize again!”
And then the Kaazian woman was there. She gave the [Diplomat] from Qualvekkaras a nod and interrupted the chat.
“I wished to assure you that no harm was done by the child, Diplomat…Nerul, wasn’t it? Kaaz greets thee, and—”
She hesitated, and Nerul stepped in like a piece of butter on a [Slippery Floor] spell.
“Qualvekkaras, Hundredlady. It trips up my tongue too. Splendid to meet one of the Shield Kingdom’s own. I am not taking up either of your time, am I? Mrsha, stop being a pest. No one cares about your title, Mrsha du Marquin, Slayer of Crelers. It was only a nest of two dozen.”
He sighed as Mrsha danced from foot to foot, and Hundredlady Ullana blinked.
“Crelers?”
Mrsha scribbled hurriedly as Nerul tried to shoo her off. He gave Diplomat Quova a harried look, and she smiled despite herself as he wiped at his brow with a handkerchief.
“As I was saying, my nephew is just digging in the north. Purely for buried treasure; yes, the Walled Families aren’t happy, but are they ever?”
He’s digging for super treasure! A buried Walled C—
Mrsha held up the card high so everyone could see it a second before Nerul grabbed the card, tore it up, tossed it in his wine cup, and swallowed it.
“Mrsha? Outside.”
He pointed, and she scampered off—only to circle around a handful of people and creep up on Nerul, who was definitely flustered by now. However, Ullana and Quova were hooked. The Garuda coughed into one claw.
“Tell me, ah, more about House Gemscale, Diplomat Nerul?”
“Oh, certainly! Where to begin? Well, Ilvriss isn’t the head of it at the moment. His father, Zail, had that little war with Fissival, and he’s now part of the Last Defenders of the Wall. I shan’t go into local Salazsarian politics. You get a bunch of elderly Drakes over Level 50 deciding to unretire and what a mess. My nephew’s rather stuffy. But he’s a good sort. Earnest. He just, ah, went north on a hunch after staying at The Wandering Inn for a bit. It’s been good for his health, even if the inn isn’t really that, uh, holistic a topic here.”
Nerul made a show of craning his neck around worriedly, and Diplomat Quova definitely thought the inn was a location non grata. However, if the Wall Lord had…wait a second, didn’t a Dullahan [General] have a [Garden of Sanctuary] at the inn?
Could it be that the Wall Lord had some secrets that even Qualvekkaras wanted to know?
And as if the thought and Nerul’s rather loud explanation had attracted them, one of the Dullahans from the Iron Vanguard came over. As did a fascinated Drowned Man who’d been following Mrsha.
“Pardon me, Hundredlady, Diplomats. I could not help but overhear. May I introduce myself?”
The Hundredlady nodded, and the Dullahan began to speak. And more and more people decided now was the time to come over.
Maybe it was the notecard. Or Nerul’s too-loud voice, or the fact that he and Mrsha were clear projections. Or the air of secrecy around them that was fascinating. In fact, more than one ruler had requested to enter the group around Nerul.
And the [Diplomat] was busy trying to shoo Mrsha away with one foot as she leaked information about what Ilvriss was doing. He was harried, distracted, genial, and amusing—
If you could have seen the rest of the [World’s Eye Theatre], you would have seen Dalimont and Ushar silently applauding as they watched Nerul work.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia herself almost gave the [Diplomat] applause as well. He was indeed very acceptable.
The old Lost Child gambit. She’d seen it done before, but the child, Mrsha, played her role as well as any with her notecards. She would have spoken with the [Diplomat] herself, but she sensed the expo was about to close. So, regretfully, Nerrhavia just remembered the [Diplomat]’s name.
She did have a role to play, after all.
The finale of the expo saw two things happen. The first was that Nerrhavia stretched and sighed.
“Ah, flesh after so long. Even the aches were pleasant until recently. Here. Take this.”
She pulled something out of her pocket and handed it to Inkar.
The Heartstone.
Inkar gasped as it began to melt and clasped it to her chest. She felt the unsettling distance between her heart and the gemstone vanish.
“But why—”
“You use your Skills without finesse. [Warriors] understand a [Power Strike] has nuance to it. A Skill may be forced or used lightly. You have the power to offer those you wish a gift that is generous or slight. Next time—think before you use it unwisely.”
Shards of light in her irises glowed, and Inkar backed away, shaking. She looked at the Garuda, who breathed a sigh of relief, and the Gnoll nodded as Inkar hesitated.
“What are you—”
“Ladies and Gentlemen, for our final demonstration, we would like to show you the things Gnolls value most! Music, art—stories.”
Chieftain Orelighn leapt onto stage, a showman, and Astival nodded at the Gnoll’s increased confidence. Everyone had returned to their seats as the final items went on display.
“What matters more than new forms of art? New ways for songs to be written? The Singer of Terandria has taken the world by storm. But she is limited—limited by the number of instruments. There are countless that can be played, but have you ever heard this kind of horn?”
The lights dimmed in the tent, and a Gnoll walked onto stage with an instrument Inkar recognized as she backed away from the table. Even the [Traveller] stopped. Because she had known that Mrell had helped forge a saxophone.
—She hadn’t been aware the Chieftain of the Demas Metal tribe was the one who was going to play it.
Shaman Theikha adjusted the light spells until he was standing in a cone of light. The Gnoll was blowing into the saxophone by himself at first—then several Gnolls joined in with accompanying instruments.
He was pretty good! He might not have had a ton of time to practice on the instrument, but the point was just to entertain and impress upon the rulers that there was a new instrument.
It played pretty well, despite a few squeaks when he missed a note, for the first forty seconds. Everyone was entertained—except maybe a little white Gnoll girl who was semi-transparent. She glowered as she folded her arms.
So The Wandering Inn was present! Rose wouldn’t have missed this. Inkar was looking for Theikha.
Mrell was just about to get into the groove of the way of the sax when there was a sound.
“A—CHOOO.”
Mrell faltered, and the Gnolls playing instruments all went off-timing, and the music wobbled to a stop. Everyone winced or flinched and turned.
At a table, one of the Pallassian Drakes had actually leaned out of the way of what she had assumed was the world’s most infectious sneeze. However, when everyone turned to see who it was, they just saw a glowing scrying orb.
“Oops. Pardon me.”
The Fissival Drake adjusted his volume down with a smug smile as he pretended to pat at his nose. He ignored the glowers from the three Walled Cities with representatives actually present.
“—Uh—”
Mrell had completely lost his groove. He looked around and began to try and repeat his song, but regaining the momentum and surprise factor was impossible.
Worse—Inkar heard a loud screech from the sax, and Mrell stopped and apologized. Then she heard titters in the crowd, and someone grabbed her shoulder.
“Those eggkissing bastards! Inkar! Inkar, they’re sabotaging us with Skills!”
Tkrn pointed accusingly at the Walled Cities who’d been snubbed. Inkar grabbed him in relief.
“Tkrn! Tkrn, where is Theikha?”
“Probably trying to stop them. I think they’re throwing Skills—it’s not just them. Some of the nations who know about you-know-what are also trying to mess us up!”
It was true. Inkar saw Mrell completely flub his third attempt to perform, and she doubted even nerves would cause him to drop the saxophone with a clatter.
No one had foreseen that foreign nations, alarmed at all the Earth-tech, might take it out on the Gnolls in hopes of lowering the prices. In fact, it could have even been groups like the Stitch-folk nations, tired of losing bids. Orelighn’s voice was strained.
“I’m sorry about that. The, ah, we’ll have the auctions at the end of our demonstrations so as not to slow things up. Next? Brass drums and a bass clarinet!”
Unfortunately, it only got worse from there. Inkar and Tkrn were searching for Theikha when, mid-demo for the metal drums, someone stepped on the tail of one of Kaaz’s lions. The crowd was not blind to what was going on.
As far as Inkar could see, the Gnolls had won a lot of points on the international stage with their display, so despite the mangled drum demonstration, Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Ambassador] rose to their feet along with several others, prompting a standing ovation for the embarrassed performers.
“Splendidly fascinating instruments. The Court of Silks desires them. If our counterparts will act with suitable decorum, I am sure we will all be impressed.”
The Stitch-man spoke in a carrying, pointed voice, inviting a snap from the [Diplomat] from Scaied.
“If our exalted neighbors in Nerrhavia’s Fallen would deign to allow us a chance to buy anything, I am sure we will all be happier. Truly, the coffers must be deep for Nerrhavia’s Fallen to buy so much with a war against Reim.”
That got angry murmurs, but the [Ambassador] just turned and sneered at her.
“The armies of Nerrhavia’s Fallen are splendidly equipped already, [Diplomat]. They are not so ill-funded that a single warrior from Khelt can send an entire army to their heels.”
He was, of course, referring to the Vizir Hecrelunn smashing the army of Scaied’s that had sieged the Monks of Sottheim. It was a mischaracterization, of course; Scaied had done a great job of bottling up the King of Destruction’s most dangerous vassals until a Revenant from older ages decided to take umbrage with them.
However, the [Cutting Remark] and whatever other Skill the [Ambassador] had used got outright laughter from around the room, and the [Diplomat] from Scaied stumbled and actually fell over.
“Oh, straight to her face! She’ll be feeling that one all week, Mrsha. Dead gods, that was brutal. I think it nearly drew blood. She’s definitely got a bruise.”
Nerul commented from the side with a huge bowl of popcorn on his lap. Inkar just groaned and wondered if The Wandering Inn could help. Against Nerrhavia?
