“—The end result was that of practicality. A harm may be done to Gnolls. Certainly, we may take land meant for them. But try as they might, even the most passionate Minotaurs would not deny that other nations would do the same. Thus, with bitter realism, I saw many Minotaurs struggle with idealism and hard truth. The King of Minos is of the same mind. She would rather claim what may be claimed and motivate our people rather than hold back and obtain nothing at all.”
“Even if it is a moral theft?”
Deskie smiled gently, and the Minotauress rolled her shoulders before nodding. The Beriad bodyguards around her were more uncomfortable, and one took the bowl Inkar passed to him with a huge bow.
“We acknowledge it and continue to make our ships ready.”
“Well and good. It is what I would expect. At least some admit it.”
A few of the Beriad glanced up, and Deskie continued, voice even. She was not calm—she had woven so many symbols and shrouds for the dead over the last six months that Inkar had seen Deskie was just too tired for more tears. But she was reasonable.
“Surely, Archmage Kishkeria herself understood what she raised would be taken at once. It is hard for a nomadic people to claim any land. Drakes are far better. It does not make me happy, no. But the sheer fact of the New Lands will allow some Gnoll tribes to settle there. Allow some expansion and space for generations to breathe. And indeed, perhaps invite other powers to southern Izril besides Drakes. We must think of these things, and not purely of bitterness, or we will not survive the new age.”
Her voice floated across the fires of people sitting around cooking pots, and Inkar heard some of the angry voices go quiet. The Gnolls were not happy to hear the words, because they were laced with a brutal pragmatism and bitterness. But Tradespeaker Vitnay just nodded with a bow of her huge, horned head.
“It is this which I shall report to the King of Minos. Not the grace nor courage nor reason of Gnolls, though there is much to admire in all respects. But the clear view that is still maintained of the future.”
“Living beyond the Walled Cities does that to one, Tradespeaker. Let us converse of more pleasant things, though.”
The Minotauress had the same thought, for she’d broken out a huge skin of what turned out to be a Minotaur-type mead. It was strong, and Tkrn sniffed it cautiously as Inkar held out a cup. Which got her a smile from Vitnay.
“You have fine companionship for this meal, Honored Deskie. Few Humans visit the Isles of Minos, but those who are granted access are memorable to me. They seek new experiences. Do you hail from many lands, Honored Inkar?”
“Until I came to Izril, very few, Tradespeaker. But I grew hungry to experience far more after meeting the Gnolls and their generosity.”
That was the truth, and Inkar had grown adept at this kind of question. Vitnay nodded, and a Naga chimed in with a grin and hiss to their words.
“Yesss. Your gifts are a delight, Traveller Inkar! I hope ours are the same?”
[Traveller’s Gift from Home], one of Inkar’s hospitality-themed Skills. It worked amazingly with other peoples, and she had given the Naga a woven breastband made of Shockwoolie fur the Naga was happily wearing under a huge winter coat; it mitigated all static electricity.
In return, Inkar had a lovely sheath made of crocodile skin for her belt knife. Tradespeaker Vitnay had received a more interesting gift, though: an entire screenplay of The Crucible, by Arthur Miller.
As a non-American, Inkar had to assume the Skill had just picked something from Earth the Minotauress might like. She hoped that, uh, wouldn’t cause issues.
But she’d received the most splendid saddle she’d ever seen, so over-engineered that all the Beriad had asked to inspect it and declared it a copy of the finest works from the House of Minos’ leatherworkers.
That was apparently due to Vitnay’s own Skill: [Magnificent Dealings]. The synergy had created a far higher-level gift, and this was why Inkar loved this world of classes and levels.
“A fascinating read. I must say I have already told the King of Minos they will wish to borrow a copy later. Disturbing. Entirely relatable.”
Vitnay confided in Inkar, and she nodded and decided she and Tkrn should see what the play was actually like. But mindful of Vitnay’s status as an ambassador for the trade expo, she pretended as though she knew all about it. Deskie was sharper, though, and chuckled.
“You may have received a taste of what we wish to offer tomorrow, yes? Just for a guest of your caliber, Tradespeaker. I hope the House of Minos will find something pleasing to purchase.”
“Hm. I have triple-checked we have funding with the Merchant’s Guild to cover any large amounts. It is of great interest, especially when we realized it was not traditional Gnollish goods we would be buying.”
Vitnay closed one eye as Tkrn grinned, and Inkar poked him in the side. The Nagas glanced at each other, and one of the Lizardfolk chimed in.
“Yes…what are we buying, by the way?”
“You must wait and see till tomorrow. Rest assured, we have labored hard on it, and we would not have called for this bazaar—excuse me, expo—without worthy items to show.”
Deskie assured two of the Balerosian delegations, and one of the Lizardfolk wiped her brow.
“Phew. We were wondering if this was just a fundraiser after that terrible battle. Which wouldn’t be bad! But if it’s going to be fun—”
One of the Nagas slapped his tail against her back, and she shut up. Everyone chuckled, and Inkar felt her heartbeat increase.
They had indeed worked hard on this. She exchanged a look with Honored Deskie, and the Gnoll [Spinner] sat with her back straight.
Yes. After all this loss and death, what did Gnolls have? Scant anything from other species. War or conflicts with lesser Drake cities. But they did have the knowledge of Earth, and Deskie had been overjoyed to realize her talents could help earn gold and tangible benefits from so many nations.
 
——
 
It was not an easy time to be a Gnollish tribe not in the Great Plains. Where the news channels often only skimmed over events, all Gnolls heard about bad news the moment it struck another tribe.
“Hrr. The Grovelind tribe has been officially ordered to leave by the Drake city of Pearlsia. They have a week to comply—or decide to fight. Another one after Woven Bladegrass sacked that town.”
They were debriefing after the dinner, and Honored Deskie was spinning some wool into simple thread, when Tkrn rushed in with the bad news. Deskie just exhaled through her nose.
“Then it means Chieftain Feshi was correct. Bitter as it will be. Has she denounced Woven Bladegrass?”
“Chieftain Akrisa did. It was a one-minute segment in an interview with Sir Relz. He had six people in the panel including her and him. Only two of them Gnolls.”
Tkrn’s face said all he felt about that. Deskie’s lips twisted as Inkar made a face of outrage. Deskie just shrugged.
“There, as I said to Vitnay, is the bitter reality of things. We must disavow them, and I only hope Chieftain Werri understands. She is a Chieftain and may speak with us.”
The Gnolls of the Meeting of Tribes were publicly cutting ties with Woven Bladegrass, who had continued to attack Drake cities in vengeance for the Walled Cities’ attacks at the Meeting of Tribes.
A number of Gnollish tribes had gone on the offensive against Drake cities for the betrayal. But Feshi and the majority of the tribes in the Great Plains were of a simple opinion.
“We cannot make war with the Drakes. Last year’s disaster is their victory. Unquestioned.”
“Not all the Walled Cities orchestrated Plain’s Eye doing what they did, though, Honored Deskie.”
Inkar pointed that out, and the [Spinner] patted her on the shoulder, a bleak look in her eyes. She was not Chieftain Eska, but Eska listened to her, and Deskie shook her head.
“Does it matter, Inkar? We have lost Chieftains, many high-level Gnolls, entire tribes. I would not be surprised if I heard this was all a great plan from the Cyclops of Pallass or the other old masterminds. We are now in a position where, if war comes, however many Drake cities knew nothing of the schemes—they are far more likely to win. I would rather have peace. But it means we must disavow tribes like Woven Bladegrass, who have every right to be furious.”
And the consequences would follow innocent Gnoll tribes, regardless. Inkar’s heart sank.
“Just another reason why we have to earn a lot of gold and remind everyone why the tribes matter! Gold buys mercenaries and weapons and everything else.”
Tkrn put in, brightening the mood a bit. The [Companion] looked around the small gathering, and Deskie smiled at him.
“Yes, and good friends like the House of Minos or even Liscor. More and more Silverfangs head there each day; it may become a second base for the Silverfang tribe. Akrisa herself says she would like to visit the city. If only because it seems she’ll eat every pancake in creation.”
For some reason, the Silverfang’s Chieftain really liked pancakes. With lots of syrup. Inkar smiled and ducked her head, and Deskie went on as Chieftain Eska pushed her way into the tent.
“I, myself, may be heading there soon. Hrm. If I agree to what is being offered.”
“What?”
Inkar, Tkrn, and Eska all barked. The Chieftain of Longstalker’s Fang strode over.
“Deskie! Are you really taking Rose’s mad offer seriously? We talked about this!”
The [Magical Spinner] raised a grey eyebrow.
“I recall you shouting at poor Rose. Then talking to me. I have thought about it, and if Miss Lyonette makes me a suitable offer…I do not wish to live in her inn, no.”
“Mostly because monsters attack it.”
Tkrn added under his breath, and Deskie sniffed.
“No, because of Mrsha. I adore small cubs, but she is growing, and a handful of children running underfoot will tire me out. A lovely house, I think, and plenty of room.”
“You can’t! You’re the greatest [Spinner] in all the tribes! You can’t become a City Gnoll.”
Eska pointed at Tkrn as if he were what Deskie would transform into, and he looked hurt as Inkar laughed and hugged him. But she listened as Deskie growled softly back.
“Eska. I am eighty-one years old now. How much longer would you have me keep riding with Longstalker’s Fang? The tribe cannot settle here; we are a herding tribe.”
“You can stay with our representatives. We’ll have a presence.”
“Miss Lyonette offered me enough gold to buy a dozen looms and food and comfort, Eska. I love this life, but a soft bed may not be the most unpleasant thing in the world to lie in. Much less the opportunity to take a number of [Spinners] and [Weavers] and work in a city as big as Liscor.”
Eska wouldn’t hear about it. She paced back and forth.
“But why?”
Deskie rolled her eyes.
“Why not, Eska? Think beyond me ‘becoming a City Gnoll’. You have said there is no difference. Your actions speak louder than those words, now. What is wrong with taking gold to be respected, to be influential and useful? We need this. We cannot keep ourselves in our proud, isolated tribes, only deigning to trade with Drakes and outsiders when necessary. It would not be a bad thing to be in Liscor either.”
“Why not?”
Inkar was curious, and again, Deskie wore that bleak but determined expression.
“Why, because an Antinium Hive is there. If next Drakes should attack the Great Plains of Izril, who will stand against them if four armies march? Six? The remaining tribes not broken apart by Xherw’s treachery? I would rather have allies, and if an Antinium Hive would make Manus hesitate, I will knit the Antinium any number of scarves.”
Chieftain Eska’s face had turned grave at Deskie’s words, and Inkar was again struck by how strategic the old Gnoll was. Deskie went on gently to the younger Eska, poking her in the thigh.
“I am not the only older Gnoll who has had these thoughts and discussions where you young ones can’t hear, Eska. Some are set in their ways, but if I make a decision, I hope you will listen. I would hate to part ways unhappily. Besides—”
Her eyes twinkled merrily.
“Retirement in a large city will not be so bad. Sewers and all the people I may find discouraging. But sitting and watching handsome young fellows of any species play these sports will be quite amusing to me.”
“Deskie…”
Eska groaned and tried to think of a counterargument. Tkrn was imagining Honored Deskie flirting with the staff at Wishdrinks, and rather than snap him out of his daydreams, Inkar laughed softly and spoke.
“You worked very hard for the upcoming expo, Deskie. I think the clothing you made will amaze—but most of all, the instruments.”
That distracted Eska, and Deskie gave Inkar a wink of gratitude. Eska instantly went in the other direction.
“Is it working? Adetr said it was down to the wire—”
“Not my wires.”
Deskie sniffed and rubbed at her shoulder. Eska amended her statement.
“Tuning the rods or whatever hit the strings. Wires. Whatever!”
“It’s just tuning, I think.”
Inkar spoke cautiously; she wasn’t a piano player, but the blueprint they’d laboriously hand-copied looked accurate to every part. The hardest part had been when they realized piano ‘strings’ were not actually strings, but metal wire.
Well, everything about a piano was hard, from the frame to the way each lever had to correspond to a push of a key. But Tkrn lit up with excitement.
“It should be fine. We had a heck of a time figuring out how to do blueprints like we do with everything from Earth. But now I think we figured it out so that we can have someone carve a piece to exacting dimensions and then have the [Smiths] do their bit and fit it all together. Adetr’s been fixated on measurements.”
“We know.”
Inkar, Eska, and Deskie chorused as one. The Steelfur’s Chieftain was one of the ones leading the charge into Earth’s technology, and he’d found how important it was to have perfect measurements when constructing something piece-by-piece.
It was a mix of easy and hard to copy something from Earth. Cooking recipes? Not the worst! The trick was either finding the exact ingredient like cacao, which was more a question of supply and demand and growing your own stuff, or finding a substitute.
Everything else, from blending to cooking at the right heat, could be approximated with Skills. And of course, there were all kinds of video tutorials online.
The Gnolls with cooking classes had a field day and actually occupied a very low percentage of Gnolls in [The World of You and Me]. One would go in, come out after a few hours, and then head into their kitchens to make whatever they’d decided to copy.
