The Gnoll walked with a long staff in hand, a traveller’s cloak thrown behind him. He looked like an owl with its feathers ruffled as his head cocked from sight to sight, but his gaze was that of pure nostalgia. One look at him and Inkar would have bet he was an Honored Gnoll of some tribe. He had the same presence as the others.
That of people who were high-level. However, if the Gnoll was more like a long-lost traveller returning home, smiling around, waving at little Gnoll cubs who ignored their elders for the more interesting people—
The tall Stitch-man gave Inkar the creeps. He strode around with a curious gait, his legs articulating each movement fluidly, but with a staccato quality to each component part of the action. Like he was an animatronic, a robot going through each stage of motion so quickly it became fluid—but was noticeably different.
His skin was pale, odd for a Stitch-man—and his entire body was elongated. He had a pointed chin, dark clothing like he was some kind of conductor, but a regal one, and he carried a simple sword at his waist. Yet clearly, he deferred to the woman walking in the center of the small group. Flanked by Gnoll and Stitch-man, the Garuda trailing behind.
She was just a woman. Dusky brown skin, plain winter clothes about her. She had dressed like a simple traveller, far from the flashy clothing of Kaaz’s nobles or the water-dress of Desonis. Her eyes were a plain brown as well. And yet it seemed to Inkar as though they beckoned her.
When she turned her head, the woman took in the world in a moment. Everything she saw was sorted into two camps. What was interesting and what was not. She never looked twice at the things that bored her.
Her hair was black like a raven’s feather. Inkar felt like there should have been stitchmarks on the woman’s arms, but her skin was just smooth and whole. A Human woman?
“Who is that?”
No one else seemed to notice her. The quartet fell into line with the other delegates, and few paid more than a second glance to this woman. Inkar began to walk closer. It was a compulsion.
 
——
 
“Welcome, honored guests. Your names, if you please?”
One of Longstalker Fang’s [Shamans] was checking people in line just to make sure they were supposed to be here. They addressed the Garuda first.
The Garuda blinked at the Gnoll, and her eyes slid leftwards to the woman in the center as Inkar hurried over. She opened her beak, then closed it with a soft click.
She said nothing. The [Shaman] hesitated.
“Er—your name, Miss? Your nation?”
The Garuda was silent. The [Shaman] hesitated.
“Excuse me? Sir, are you with them? One of the tribes, perhaps?”
The Gnoll said nothing either. He gave the [Shaman] a patient look, jerked his eyes sideways—the [Shaman] blinked, then spoke to the woman.
“Miss?”
“Hello. I am a guest of your people.”
The woman in the center spoke, her voice soft and confident. The [Shaman] dipped his head.
“May I know your nation, Your…Miss? Your name?”
“No. I am on your list.”
Inkar was wavering between getting closer, mindful of Eska’s words. She wondered what the poor [Shaman] would say to that, then the Gnoll ticked something on the list.
“So you are. Welcome, Your…Miss. May I know who your companions are?”
Inkar’s mouth opened. But the [Shaman] turned smoothly to the others as if that settled that. Maybe it did? Some guests might have anonymity clauses?
The others in the group were more forthcoming, however. The Stitch-man spoke first before the other two.
“Astival. Commander. That will do as a title.”
He did not elaborate further. The Gnoll went next and grinned.
“Corregrione. Lands sing your name, [Shaman]. I am indeed a Gnoll of the Heartlands. I walk the wayward path from the land of passing sands. I have brought no gift save my fur; forgive me. But may that be enough, tribes willing.”
The [Shaman]’s mouth opened, and Inkar’s ears lit up at the curious address. The [Shaman] stuttered.
“L-lands sing your name, Corregrione. Gracious, I haven’t heard that address except in the old stories.”
“Truly?”
Corregrione blinked, and the Gnoll straightened as he planted his staff in the ground. His cloak swept around him as he glanced around the Meeting of Tribes, and Inkar was greatly disappointed to realize it was just plain cloth like the rest of the apparel the group wore.
She felt it should have been more…something. But Deskie had taught her how to see magic in weaves, and he had none. Still—the Gnoll murmured.
“Greetings still, Keeper. Is it magic or stories you hold?”
“Magic? Stories? I’m, uh—a [Shaman] of magic, one supposes. Longstalker’s Fang.”
“Oh? Does your tribe wander, then?”
The newcomer glanced at the others in the group, but the woman seemed to be vaguely amused by the exchange, and the Stitch-man was blank-faced. The Garuda was just listening with acute attention, so the [Shaman] gave the foreign Gnoll a faint smile.
“Ye-es. We’re nomads. Famous for it, actually. You must be from abroad. The land of dust and…”
“Hrr. Chandrar. Forgive me. I spoke fancifully. It has been a long, long time since I last set foot on Izril’s plains. It is nostalgic for me, [Shaman]. If I could have, I would have brought the smallest of gifts. But my tribe is long gone. I recognize so few names.”
This, at least, drew the [Shaman]’s sympathy, and he ducked his head.
“…A more and more common tale. May I know which tribe you hailed from? There may be Gnolls who remember it.”
Corregrione hesitated. He looked at the woman who had refused to give her name, and she nodded, as if allowing it. He paused, as if thinking, then smiled.
“Once, they were called the Gnolls who held the regard of mountains. The Tribe of Thunder’s Voice.”
“I…don’t know it. But I will make a note of it. Welcome, brother. Do you have any title or class I should note?”
The [Shaman]’s look of brief doubt echoed Inkar’s own. She had never heard a Gnollish tribe with a name so fanciful. But the Gnoll took the welcome with a nod of his head.
“I have returned home. I am Corregrione, [Traveller]. Though I recognize only Gaarh Marsh and Weatherfur—let it be a fine day for homecoming.”
So saying, he struck the ground with the tip of his staff, and Inkar stared at him—then felt something on the back of her neck.
She looked up, shading her eyes, and gasped. The sky—!
It had been a grey morning, not the oppressive clouds of winter with snowflakes drifting down, but a sullen spring morning that might offer inclement weather in the form of sprinkles or a short downpour.
—At least, right up until a circle had opened in the clouds above, letting sunlight pour down. Blue skies shone on the Meeting of Tribes as Gnolls stopped dead in their tracks, pointing up.
Every Weatherfur Gnoll in the area instantly spun and dropped what they were doing. A clamor arose, and the [Shaman] noted Corregrione’s slight smile, and studied the Gnoll more intently.
Inkar thought her heart had stopped.
A [Traveller]? Her class?
“Did you just—?”
For answer, the Gnoll just lifted a furry finger to his lips. He smiled, and then Inkar knew he was an Honored Gnoll of some kind.
“The blessing of a traveller be upon you. I have walked the land of dust and passing rains for a thousand thousand miles. My home is a bittersweet memory. If it welcomes me a time, I shall rejoice.”
“It—it does indeed.”
The [Shaman] was looking around for Theikha, Eska, or someone to talk to, but then realized they had forgotten the final member of the group.
“I am terribly sorry, Miss. May I know your name and title and class?”
The Garuda bowed stiffly, glancing at the other three with distaste that was evident in her voice. It was soft, yet resonant.
“I am not with them. I am Falamizural. My home is no more. I am…”
Her beak closed, and she swallowed. For a second, she stood there, lost, and her eyes fell bleakly on the woman’s back. The unnamed woman never glanced back, and Falamizural whispered.
“I am no one you would remember.”
“I, uh, I see. Do you have anything I should note down, Lady Falamizural…?”
The [Shaman] was having a really hard time with the guests. Yet it seemed the title was appropriate. Falamizural whispered.
“‘Lady’. Yes, I suppose that fits. I am the one who is called on, even now.”
She turned her golden gaze to the [Shaman]. Then shot another challenging glance at the unnamed woman’s back. Her voice rose with a note of confidence.
“If any here are in danger, speak my name. I am the guardian of innocence. I was once counted among the glorious blades drawn for a cause, wherever it was needed. If a beast rises without a mind of reason, I shall slay it. I am warrior and spellcaster in service of life, not the halls of death nor any other aegis. I have not forgotten that.”
Pride. Grief. Uncertainty becoming resolve. She said all that without a hint of embarrassment, and the Gnoll [Shaman] stood there with a mouth open and tried to figure out how to write that down.
“Write [Paladin]. It is close enough.”
The unnamed woman advised the Gnoll after a moment, and the [Shaman] blinked at her. The Garuda gave the woman such a look of outrage that Inkar suspected the class was wholly inadequate as a descriptor.
“Be welcome to the Meeting of Tribes. The expo is about to start in twenty minutes.”
The [Shaman] almost fled this strange group to the next people in line. Unfortunately, the people behind the quartet had heard the entire thing.
“Your Majesty! May I greet the King of Avel and ask whom else I should introduce?”
A rather strained voice echoed from a scrying mirror behind the group of four.
“Er—yes. I am King Itreimedes of Avel, and with me is my court—you don’t need their names. Princess Kadane of Noelictus—wait. Hold on. I am the bow that shoots in the darkness. I am the arrow that strikes my foes—damn. Give me a second. I am the fletching of my kingdom—Kadane, where are you going? Kadane?”
The Garuda had flushed when she realized Itreimedes was either making fun of her or copying her to dreadful effect. She stepped back and spoke abruptly to the woman.
“I am leaving.”
“Mm.”
The woman still didn’t even turn her head. Falamizural hesitated.
“Am I…allowed to do that?”
A hefty sigh from the woman, who was flicking her fingers in a way both the Gnoll and Stitch-man, Corregrione and Astival, were paying attention to. They seemed to dance into curious signs.
Sign language? If so, Inkar couldn’t tell what it was saying, but it looked more elegant than even that.
“I told you to act as you wilt, Falamizural. Now approach, child. Or cease staring.”
That comment was directed at Inkar. Falamizural backed up a step, then spread her wings. She leapt into the air, giving Inkar a look that seemed warning. But then she banked into the skies and vanished.
Inkar would have stared after Falamizural, but she realized she’d been spotted. She had been staring.
“Ah. Hello, honored guests. I apologize. I am Inkar, a visitor to the Meeting of Tribes. May I greet you? As a [Traveller] to honored guests.”
Corregrione’s eyes lit up, and he smiled.
“A fellow [Traveller]? By your leave, Your Majesty, may I speak with her?”
Another sigh.
“These are not my courts, Corregrione. Do as you see fit.”
He strode forward and clasped Inkar’s hand warmly. Corregrione grinned and sniffed her, politely, and she sniffed back.
“I do not know how the greeting goes, so may I only say that tribes shelter you, Inkar who comes from lands I have not dreamed of yet?”
How did he know that? Inkar blinked; she’d been about to lie she was Terandrian or Izrilian, but one look at his face and she realized that would be an exercise in rudeness.
“Is that how I should say it, Mister Corregrione? He who comes from lands I have not dreamed of yet?”
He laughed gently and corrected her.
“For you, you might say Corregrione of lands we have both smelled or something similar. Or, since you wear the clothing of my people, you might call yourself Inkar of the Heartlands. Or Inkar of the wandering path. The name for travellers by my people. You smell of them. Have you been guest long?”
“For some time.”
She admitted, and he grinned.
“This is good. There are too few travellers here when once they roamed with us in great profusion. Not a single Selphid walks with the tribes, I am told. At least, not as one of us. And the Heartlands are only here. Half of Izril.”
“Is that not the Great Plains?”
She was confused, and a look of great sorrow and dismay crossed Corregrione’s face. He shook his head slowly.
“No. No, Inkar of Tribe’s Regard. The Heartlands are any land where Gnolls walk. There were once at least eight. From Chandrar to Baleros—only one place in Terandria. Ah, it is a difficult thing to see this. I wish I had not, and yet it still moves my heart. In both sorrow and determination. Your Majesty, it is a bitter thing.”
He turned to the woman again, and Inkar realized she was definitely royalty of some kind.
Astival looked offended.
“You speak too casually, Traveller. Mind yourself. The insolence of Falamizural is—”
The woman clicked her tongue.
“Astival. You have been twice warned. The courts are gone. Never shall they return. Let them do as they please. If I wish for Corregrione to be silent, or any other, I shall make it so.”
Instantly, he dropped to one knee, nevermind the grass and wet soil.
“I beg your forgiveness.”
His face was pale, and he ducked his head low. The woman twitched a finger.
“Rise.”
Corregrione had watched the entire exchange with a great deal of wariness. It was clear the four were connected, and he murmured to Inkar.
“Pardons again. I am in august company, and though I would love to speak to a fellow [Traveller]—I would not wish to offend. You and I are wayfarers; your class shall take you on great journeys, Inkar of the Heartlands. I am pleased to have met you.”
“You too. Oh—if you are here after the expo, will you have a moment to speak?”
Corregrione hesitated, glanced at the woman, and shrugged.
“I cannot say.”
Inkar danced from foot to foot. If only she could talk to this fascinating Gnoll! He almost smelled like different lands; hints of stories he could tell and contrast with anything he saw. Like he had brought a piece of that world beyond with him back here. All the sights she wanted to see.
People were still staring upwards at the hole in the sky; the delegations thought the Gnolls had done it and looked suitably impressed.
“—If nothing else, will you exchange a gift with me? A [Traveller’s Gift From Home]?”
She blurted out, and Corregrione’s eyes lit up. Even Astival glanced over, and the woman standing there…well, she kept staring ahead, but a slight smile had returned to her lips.
