She turned, and it was to Inkar that she spoke. The [Traveller] was staring at Nerrhavia, greatly disturbed and unable to run. Yes, Inkar had a question, but she had to struggle to even articulate it.
“Why…Your Majesty. Why don’t I fear you more?”
Even now, she was disturbed, unnerved by the display of power, afraid, yes, for the Gnolls—but she didn’t hate Nerrhavia or feel the same fear that was clearly in Falamizural’s heart.
If anything, Nerrhavia was more fascinating than anything. She was a thousand-year-old [Tyrant] who had probably killed more people than Inkar had ever met. And yet…
Nerrhavia’s smile was simply, amusedly bored. When she replied, it was like the [Magician] who carelessly revealed her tricks.
“Because, Inkar, I prefer you to find me charming. I cannot be so bad, can I? Keep thinking that way.”
She patted Inkar on the cheek like a fond grandmother. Then—
Inkar bit back a scream. She didn’t know why. She clutched at one eye, and Nerrhavia flicked her fingers—but they were clean. She pinked Inkar’s cheek as the [Traveller] felt nothing at all.
“—[Reverse Decision]. You see?”
What had—had—Nerrhavia turned and focused on someone coming their way.
“Splendid. Entertainment.”
A Stitch-man made his way past the people staring in awe at the Great Plains blooming. He looked like a warrior, but he bowed rather gracefully.
“I am [Diplomat] Sarkoi of Reim, friends from afar. I greet you in the King of Destruction’s name. If I may be so bold—might I trouble you for a few words, Your Ladyship? Forgive me if I err; I was merely drawn to you.”
The Stitch-man was from the King of Destruction? No wonder he stood alone! He had no visible [Bodyguards]; a bold choice given the glare he was getting from Pheislant’s [Ambassador].
However, he was one of the few people to approach Nerrhavia, and the Immortal Tyrant murmured.
“Interesting. You are granted a single question. But first tell me why you approached me, Sarkoi of Reim.”
The [Diplomat] bowed again.
“—You seemed to me to be one I could not miss, Your…Majesty. I have stood before King Flos of Reim and his Seven and in the courts of Reim when [Kings] and [Queens] stood with the highest-levelled people in the world, at the height of his empire. You I would approach first of all, even then.”
Inkar glanced at Nerrhavia, and the Immortal Tyrant smiled with genuine feeling.
“Well done. Ask your favor.”
“—Would you care to play a game of chess, Your Majesty?”
Sarkoi glanced at her, his eyes calculating, and Nerrhavia’s smile widened.
“No.”
“Then I shall take my leave.”
The [Diplomat] bowed again and retreated only after Nerrhavia nodded. It seemed like a failure, in Inkar’s eyes, but Nerrhavia’s gaze was approving.
“That one is doing better work than most [Diplomats] here. Note how he works, Astival.”
“Adequately.”
Indeed, the Stitch-man stood alone for barely a second after retreating from Nerrhavia’s presence. Like the others, he seemed to forget her soon after approaching, though a frown told Inkar he might remember a bit more. Still—within a moment, he was accosted.
“You there. Reim’s servant. You have nerve standing before Kaaz’s own after the bloodshed between our nations.”
Ah, the Kaazian delegation. Diplomats was, ah, too generous a word. The [Hundredlady] of Kaaz let her lions prowl around Sarkoi’s feet, growling ominously, but the Stitch-man simply bowed to her.
“Greetings to Kaaz Dorem Laegriser, Hundredlady Ullana.”
She glowered as she opened a fan in front of her face.
“Step backwards, man of the warlord Flos Reimarch. Knowing Kaaz’s full name does not a [Diplomat] make.”
“Yet I do know Kaaz’s full name, Your Ladyship. If that numbers me above others present, I would welcome it. I would welcome the chance to speak with you if you had the moment.”
The Hundredlady snorted as her group scoffed.
“Why would we exchange words with a servant of a hated foe?”
“Over a game of chess, even enemies may speak. Or is Kaaz not a worthy foe of Reim? It would behoove either of us to score a victory against the other for pride’s sake alone, or so I believe. His Majesty of Reim is not above celebrating a victory on the chessboard above his foes.”
Sarkoi countered. Hundredlady Ullana scoffed.
“A pedestrian pastime. I may accept, though these blooms fascinate me more. And why would I exchange words with you except to castigate your [King]? If you seek an alliance here, I can think of no nation foolish enough to accept, even Balerosian ones.”
That comment attracted a glare from a passing Gorgon, but Sarkoi’s smile was pleasant. A lion opened his mouth to take a bite from his leg—saw the Stitch-man glance down—and thought better of it.
“Kaaz itself does not stand among the best of friends in Terandria at this moment, Your Ladyship. Would it worsen ties to speak of amusing anecdotes from both our nations?”
Inkar had noticed Kaaz hadn’t interacted with the other Terandrian nations as much. Was this due to the rift between nations with the Ser Solstice incident? The Hundredlady appraised Sarkoi, then fanned herself.
“Speak. What could be so interesting?”
“Chemath Marble, Your Ladyship? Or perhaps the Horns of Hammerad? They are a popular team, and His Majesty of Reim had chance to meet them.”
“Chemath Marble? Ah, yes…and the Horns of Hammerad. You wouldn’t happen to have an autograph from Yvlon Byres, would you? Or the, ah, Antinium? Or [Necromancer]?”
“Perhaps, Your Ladyship…”
And off they went. Nerrhavia glanced at Astival.
“Passable. Chess intrigues me. You play it, of course.”
“No, Your Majesty.”
Astival looked confused, and Nerrhavia rolled her eyes and looked at Inkar as if to say ‘see what I have to work with’. Her fingers twisted to form a circle, and Astival flushed.
“You do play it, Astival. Clearly, you kept different company than I, of the ghosts. Chess. I have heard it said a Fraerling took credit for inventing it during this age. The Immortal Court practiced it, though it was not widespread.”
“Ah—Dragonlord’s Court, Your Majesty? Forgive me. I have some passing acquaintance with the game after all.”
Astival’s eyes lit up, and Nerrhavia nodded.
“Just so. I find it amusing how much significance it holds. Then again—”
She paused.
“…Dragons did know it. I speculated as to why. Now I see.”
Her eyes narrowed as she stared at Inkar, and the Earther’s heart beat faster, but Nerrhavia just gestured towards the tent.
“You have my leave to amuse yourself with the game, Astival. I may rank the [Diplomats] inside. Come, Inkar.”
She sighed as they made their way back inside the expo tent.
“—This tedious wait is almost over.”
She led them back to a table, and Inkar’s legs wobbled as she sat down. Then she saw something closing in the room.
The Immortal Tyrant’s plans coming together.
 
——
 
Falamizural could not understand what the Immortal Tyrant was up to. She noticed as much as she could; this place and time was far from her own, but she understood politics.
One of the things that did not surprise her was the animosity between Drake and Gnoll. For instance, despite the delegates from the Walled Cities being allowed to visit the expo, they were not treated like the other guests.
Pallass, Salazsar, and Oteslia—dead gods, were there only six Walled Cities left?—were treated civilly. But the Drakes from Fissival only realized how much they were being snubbed when it came time to bid on some items.
“Four thousand on the battery.”
A Drake held up a little sign on a stick, finally beating out one of the other nations on the voltaic battery. Even the cheapest items were going for ridiculous prices.
Chieftain Orelighn waited, and when there was no answering bid, he called out.
“Sold! The voltaic cell battery to Avel at three thousand pieces, nine hundred!”
“What? Yes! It is not a waste of money, you lot. Shut up, shut up.”
The King of Avel was celebrating as the Fissival Drake protested.
“Excuse me, I think there’s been an error. Hello? Hello?”
It took two more bids where they won only to have a Gnoll ‘miss’ the final bid and assign it to the second-place winner to catch on. Then they fumed. Manus, Zeres, and Fissival were all forced to watch as the bidding went on and left them empty-handed.
That…threatened trouble, or so Falamizural assumed. But Drakes and Gnolls had always hated each other. Like Stitch-folk and Truestone. Agelum and Lucifen. Dogs and cats.
She was going around the room, being social, trying to get a read on which nations were at least of good intention.
She had no idea what this Blighted Kingdom was. When she mentioned the Infernal Courts, someone had given her such an odd look she’d shut up.
It was hard to pretend you were from another nation when a majority of nations were represented here, especially since Garuda were apparently in only a few nations. Falamizural ended up claiming she was from ‘a tribe’ and got away depressingly easily.
“I am a [Mage] from Chandrar.”
That was honest enough. But then she got in trouble with a Wistram representative, a Magus Telim.
“Terras faction, Wistram. I flew here—somewhat literally, I’m afraid—to represent the Archmage of Memory. My, you have splendid mana, if that’s not rude of me.”
Since it was, she covered her body with her wings defensively, and Telim hesitated.
“I—er—you wouldn’t have ever visited Wistram by chance? We’re having a real gathering of [Mages] there, and new magic is always welcome. What specialty are you?”
“Summoning.”
“Oh! A [Summoner], eh? Do you go for old warriors or are we talking monsters here? Or are you someone who cares for the old [Plague of Rats] spell?”
Telim grinned with great interest, and Falamizural realized she’d said it wrong. She smiled politely.
“No, I’m not a [Summoner]. I…”
Then the explosion of flowers happened, and everyone was so busy heading outside that she lost the chance to clarify.
The next guest she introduced herself had the Bow of Avel, which at least was familiar. King Itreimedes leaned forwards.
“What kind of magic?”
“Calling magic.”
“Oh, splendid. There’s always need for that. All these scrying and communication spells.”
“No—I mean—not calling as in communication. Calling as in summoning. Beckoning magic.”
She was getting a bit frustrated. Falamizural demonstrated, beckoning a hand, and a wine cup flew off a startled Gnoll’s tray into her hand.
“F-fascinating.”
The King of Avel’s face said it was anything but. Falamizural was about to elaborate when she saw Nerrhavia walking across the floor and jumped out of the way so fast the King of Avel was left staring at the open air.
“Hello? Hello, Miss Falamizural? She’s gone. Drat! This is why we should have gone in person! Don’t give me that look. How was I supposed to know it would be this entertaining? It’s your job to tell me this kind of stuff!”
 
——
 
Nerrhavia sat down at a table and spoke.
“Good evening.”
Her guests looked up, and the introduction of a stranger to literal royalty was rude beyond belief—but no one thought to complain or have her shown away. Instead, someone scrambled to sit upright rather than peer into the scrying orb.
“Ah, good evening, Miss.”
By chance, Jecaina, the Arbiter Queen, had been put at one of the tables to view the tourniquet demo along with several other dignitaries, including a scrying orb from Calanfer. Queen Ielane didn’t acknowledge Nerrhavia, too busy whispering to her husband, who was practically frothing at the mouth with all the things he wanted to buy.
Nerrhavia’s fingers danced a complicated web of court-signs as she smiled, and Jecaina gave her a puzzled look.
“I am Queen Jecaina of Jecrass. Not married to my father, Raelt of Jecrass.”
“The Arbiter Queen. I wished to speak with you, however briefly. You are a [Queen] who pursues the same ideal I do.”
“I—thank you for your words. I do not feel very capable as a judge at this moment.”
Jecaina flushed with shame for reasons she couldn’t articulate. She had poise and training, but she wasn’t a match for the older rulers. Even so, she was notable for her fame, and a number of people listened as Nerrhavia spoke.
“It is a difficult choice, yet I admire it, Jecaina of Jecrass. Not least because you place yourself above every ruler present.”
Every head turned at that, and Queen Ielane’s snapped up. Jecaina jumped and grew nervous.
“I don’t! That is—what gives you that impression?”
Nerrhavia countered smoothly.
“What is an arbiter of crowns if not above even thrones? As I said, I admire your vision. But you must cease your fear of other nations. If the reach of your law and voice halts for fear of offending another ruler, then your class is meaningless. When you judge, you must do it without fear of the future. A difficult road indeed.”
Her fingers made another sign, and Queen Ielane paused as Nerrhavia then addressed the Rhirian [Diplomat], who straightened even further in their chair and adopted a look of intense concentration.
 
——
 
Who is that?
Queen Ielane had no idea. The woman sitting at the table had incredible poise, though, save for her fingers. Ielane might have taken it as a sign of nerves or a muscular issue causing the twitching, but—
“It’s far too artistic. Someone get me a quill and parchment. Hurry.”
One was put into her hands, and she began noting down the movement of the fingers, trying to work out how to record their movement. There was a subtlety to them—wait, her fingernails had markings on them; they were not all uniformly black.
A cipher?
Ielane wished her head weren’t still foggy even weeks after fighting off that half-Elf. She kept writing, trying to pay attention to the conversation as well as the words.
“—And you are Ielane du Marquin.”
“Well met, by the Eternal Throne.”
Ielane stopped writing as those eyes found her. She made a gesture of her own, a Drathian gesture for ‘respect’ as she gave the nod of rulers to the woman and wondered why she did that.
This has to be a foreign [Queen]. But which nation? Why have I never heard of her before?
The gaze that met Ielane’s eyes was faintly bored. Faintly…disappointed. The Queen of Calanfer had the intense urge to blush and mastered it.
The strange woman exchanged a few more pleasantries with the guests at the table, then stood and left. The entire time, a few of them, from Jecaina to Ielane to Queen Geilouna of Desonis, were filled with attention. But when the woman stood—
Ielane stared down at the scrawl of signs she’d been jotting down, fast as she could. She handed it to Dame Vensha.
“See if you can do—anything with that. I doubt I noted it down properly.”
