Yet it was not sunlight that flooded into his room, but crimson, as stained as his deeds. Knowledge he had hidden lest he begin to question it. The insight burned him—yet he knew what must be done. As ever. So he reached for a spell scroll to commit the sacrosanct.
By the sin of Arruif Yal. It would be done.
Othius felt the time bubble pop just in time to see the Immortal Tyrant yawn. She smiled at him insolently, confidently, and charmingly. Both in beauty and action. He didn’t feel the same pressure from her as the King of Destruction or the Death of Wings.
Othius could believe, in another moment, that he’d overreacted. That she was hardly worthy of the ultimate order he’d given Nereshal.
—He feared her more for that. 
The mask she wore never slipped.
 
——
 
A glowing contract appeared in front of Nerrhavia as she stood in a room that looked like some grand courtroom. Othius sat above her in a hall of echoing stone, surrounded by an audience, which stared down at Nerrhavia.
Faces of carven stone. Figures seated in benches. An audience of something that wasn’t a statue or Golem. Puppets?
Scowling faces. A room with only one door. A lectern stained at the base with the blood of those who had tried to violate the rules of this place.
A glowing scroll offering terms. And high above the Gnoll plains, a spell poised to fire if she refused.
Tier 7 magic.
He would erase the Meeting of Tribes and damn the consequences. That was how much he feared this woman, and he didn’t even know her name.
By contrast, Nerrhavia just glanced about the ancient room.
“The Arbitrage of Imperium. Is that your best?”
He flinched, the Blighted King sitting upon the throne.
“Sign.”
His voice rasped, and the contract flared warningly as it listed the terms. Sign or suffer annihilation.
He wasn’t sure if he wanted her to take the deal to shut up, be silent, and stop interfering in his plans. Or if he wanted to kill her.
Would it kill her? It had to. A direct strike could kill even an unwarded Death. But the woman—who was she? Which ghost?—just flicked the contract away.
“Send me something better.”
“Hah. You clearly don’t know what you’ve done.”
His lips twisted as the puppet-figures around the room began clattering their jaws in disapproval. This was no privileged room where two groups sat and negotiated in good faith. This was a room to compel weaker authorities.
In this very room, Silvenia Ettertree had been bound; even the Demons couldn’t speak so easily of any inconvenient truths.
The first penalty for refusal was pain. And any offered contract doubled in power.
The Tier 7 spell was widening in radius and intensity. It might turn the entire camp into a block of gold. How would he explain that to the rest of the world? 
The simplest way would be to decide who she had been after she was dead. If it was a great ghost of old—he could claim she was on the Demons’ side.
Kill her. His instincts were telling him she had to die. She had outmatched him in the authority of rulers. No one, not even the King of Destruction, could do that.
She had to die.
Chains laced with blood-red spikes had risen from the floor and lashed themselves around Nerrhavia’s arms. She stared at them, impassive, as the barbs dug into her flesh.
It was torturous for the Chains of Contempt to wrap around you. Othius had screamed, as a boy, when his mother taught him how to use this Skill passed from Blighted Ruler to Blighted Ruler. His skin crawled, and he waited for a sound. An expression.
Nothing. Her face was calm as she brushed at the chains.
“I expected to find a canny leader. Or a contemptuous immortal sitting on the Blighted Kingdom’s throne. I found neither. Just a half-man of both.”
“Who are you? Answer me and I may stave off your obliteration. There is a killing spell aimed at you—don’t think for a second I won’t unleash it on my enemies.”
Othius barked at Nerrhavia. She simply glanced up at him.
“King Othius the Fourth of the Blighted Kingdom. You have forgotten how this room works. You threaten me with the authority of the Arbitrage behind you. Then—I do the same.”
His heart skipped a beat. But to do that she had to have something to offer him, and he had never told her the r—
A contract made out of something black and leathery appeared in front of the Blighted King, written in red lines of light. He jerked back as Nerrhavia vanished. When Othius looked up—a woman sat across from him, on her own seat, with an army of jeering puppets arrayed behind her.
“How—?”
She couldn’t have prepared for this! Surely not! The contract proved that—it was worded simply. Othius stared at Nerrhavia’s demands, and his head jerked up.
“A hundred thousand [Slaves]? Transport to—”
“Free citizenry. I am sure Roshal supplies enough. Keep reading.”
Nerrhavia lounged in her chair, chains twined around her arms. Still ignoring the pain. Othius knew it had to be agonizing, but no matter how hard he stared, she refused to give him a glimpse of her pain. Her eyes were contemptuous.
“Time, Blighted King.”
Tic. Tic. Tic.
Othius felt the time running down, and then he began to sweat. He hadn’t thought she could turn this on him. He sped down the scroll. Refusal.
This Skill was older than the Creler Wars, older than Wistram Academy, or so he believed. Contracts in this place had three components; they were cruder than modern ones.
Demand, offer, and threat.
Payment, price, and punishment. This woman was offering her immediate departure for a ludicrous sum. She agreed to keep out of the Blighted Kingdom’s affairs for one day.
Ridiculous. He would have laughed at the effrontery if it hadn’t been for her attempt to get him to perjure his contracts with every nation in the world. Had she really been about to sever them? Othius kept reading, scanning for the enforcement clause.
She had to have a way to compel him or he could rip the contract to shreds and keep pressing her. He could unleash the spell on her. She didn’t h—
 
Clause of Refusal: Unleashing of spells [Disintegration Orb, Beam Dispersal]. [Hurricane of Flames], [A Hundred Thousand Seeking Arrows of Deathlight] on Paranfer, Blighted Kingdom capital. Target, Earthers.
 
An image appeared in Othius’ mind. The academy set up to teach the Earthers before they were made into capable [Heroes]. How many of them would be there this evening? Most, eating or…
A little bird made of pieces of parchment flew high, high overhead. So well-made that even the Blighted Kingdom’s spells hadn’t seen it.
“Anyone can merely threaten another with a spell from afar, Blighted King. I have seen the way other nations ‘negotiate’ and ‘threaten’ in this era. If you like, we can continue.”
Nerrhavia yawned lightly. Othius’ heart had begun to pound.
What—what tier were those spells? How had she…?
Kill her now. Activate the spell. He almost gave the order, then caught himself.
Wait. What if she wasn’t at the Meeting of Tribes? He’d destroy all that and risk her retribution. Or, if she had a way to escape before that spell fell—
“I—refuse.”
The Blighted King flinched and made a sound as red chains rose from the floor and wrapped around his arms and legs. He began to sweat, and the contract glowed as it flew back behind Nerrhavia.
One for one. The second time a contract was refused, the stakes grew far higher. The second time—the puppets on either side moved. Othius had never heard of a third refusal where the other party survived.
“Go ahead, then. Make me a better offer and I may desist, King Othius.”
He didn’t have one. Now, the Blighted King felt bolts of agony lancing into his arm. But he had suffered the pain before. He gritted his teeth.
“You…why are you interfering with the Gnolls?”
Seek information. He began composing a counter-offer as the woman sat there. She studied him, then she smiled.
“Because I’m seeking redemption.”
“What?”
Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant, folded her hands together.
“In my own way. I have beheld the end of the lands of death. The august company that even I was satisfied with—gone. The one ruler who I found myself indebted to, albeit against my will—gone.”
Her eyes flickered. She brushed at her arms blankly, as if she had forgotten what pain felt like, but she had found another kind of agony.
“Foes to humble even my empire. A cause worth living for—and I truly believed one should get only one chance or else spoil the—the game.”
Empire. Remember that. Othius was breathing shallowly as the woman went on.
“I clung to life where braver ghosts vanished. To a purpose. I knew the world, and that child, would need me. Someone who could do what she must. I shall be that great ally. Any atrocity I commit—better to take my hand than that of the six. Or is it five?”
He had no idea what she was talking about. The stranger sat across from him, and her eyes lifted to his face.
“You could even say I’ve grown fond of my own champions. Someone must balance this dreadful board. So you see, King Othius, I shine with altruism. Even I may have a second chance. Isn’t that so?”
Why did she laugh at that? The Blighted King didn’t buy any of her words for even a second. You could lie here. But the woman was just—stating her piece. As if she were trying to sway the audience of silent puppets watching the two rulers spar.
Or someone else.
Nerrhavia’s eyes flicked up to the air in this room that was claustrophobic, for all of its size. Her eyes sparkled like they were reflecting a burning city or armageddon’s fires.
“I cannot, surely, be that bad. Look at all the things I do. Witness my good intentions. And take me lightly, I pray thee. Call me the devil you need. The enemy of your enemy, at least. Trust me.”
The woman’s lips quivered. Then she began to chuckle, as if she couldn’t hold it in anymore. Nerrhavia looked past Othius.
“Can I charm you? Do you even have a name? The girl did not tender me with it, if so. I have nothing but the best of intentions. I swear.”
She placed one hand on her heart and raised the other, ignoring the Blighted King entirely. As if she were giving an oath. Blood dripped from her arms onto the ground, but Nerrhavia simply sat there, at her leisure. The Immortal Tyrant smiled at nothing at all.
“How can you not see the good I am doing? Admire me, for you have walked with me since I was a mortal girl. Love me for I fight your foes too, I believe. Or perhaps your masters. Then I shall teach you how to…”
She paused.
“Worship me. Gnolls. My wonderful allies.”
Her head turned, and Othius’ heart began to thud in his chest.
“Even my enemies. Better to be loved than feared. Yes. That’s how it is done, isn’t it? Now, come, Blighted King.”
She beckoned, and he realized he sat in a trap. One she’d laid from the start. The Immortal Tyrant gestured at him.
“Keep threatening me. So I may defend the brave Gnolls. So I may be the best and most twistedly altruistic of people.”
The audience of puppets around her began to clatter as Othius realized his time was running out. Sweat ran down his face as Nerrhavia beamed at him.
“I promise you. I shall be the heroine of my own tale till the moment I am not. Worship me until you reach the end of the [Hangman]’s noose.”
Then she waited for the Blighted King to make his next move. And he sat there. Sweating.
 
——
 
Falamizural, Astival, Corregrione, and Nerrhavia walked out of the Meeting of Tribes, and Nerrhavia clicked her tongue.
“We are done here.”
“What did we accomplish?”
Falamizural kept staring back towards Inkar and the Gnolls. She longed to join them, but Nerrhavia frightened her more than anything else in this world. Someone had to oppose or stop her.
Somehow. If she flew off, Falamizural would be more terrified of what the Immortal Tyrant was doing out of eyeshot.
For answer, Nerrhavia raised her brows.
“Aside from instigating strife? Tangibly, I helped sell a grand piano. In addition, I received this contract and quite a lot of material for our purposes from the Blighted Kingdom.”
Corregrione smiled as he leaned on his staff.
“That [King] seemed ready to murder you, Your Majesty. How did that become a bribe?”
“He realized he could buy my silence far more easily than murder me. Although his first offer was amusing. [The Golden Rays of Rhir] would strike my position if I did not sign an agreement to leave for a million gold pieces.”
Falamizural didn’t know the spell, but she frowned at the sky.
“Yet it did not.”
“I negotiated. Gold matters little. But the Blighted Kingdom had far more to offer me.”
—And they were backed onto a wall on which Nerrhavia could have exposed their charade with the Demons, or at least, set them to great trouble. Far better to buy her off at any cost. And if they had played at negotiations too long—the Queen of Contracts would have had her due.
Even Lucifen had learned that.
Astival’s bow was deep, and his face was filled with confidence, though he had no more idea of Nerrhavia’s plans than anyone else. Falamizural gritted her beak together, and Corregrione watched Nerrhavia cautiously. As someone might stare at a tree that was the only shelter against an impending storm, however twisted it was.
As for the Immortal Tyrant? She just kept listening to the song she had played. Smiling as her fingers danced on imaginary keys.
“You see, my followers. I keep my word. I repay my debts. My enemies suffer and die, as Falamizural can attest, and I shall be even crueler if the need comes upon me. But those I regard as useful and those I am indebted to I repay.”
She motioned.
“Now, come with me, and we shall continue on our long journey.”
“We won’t bother the minion of the Necromancer, Your Majesty?”
Astival glanced at one of the tribes, and Nerrhavia scoffed.
“That one? He is being a ‘good boy’, and I see no reason to change his attitude anymore than the entertaining skeleton’s. Perril Chandler is an exceedingly poor parent, only outmatched by Belavierr. No, the rest of the world awaits beyond the Meeting of Tribes.”
She began to walk away, and Corregrione murmured.
“And are we to save this world, Your Immortal Majesty?”
Nerrhavia turned and glanced back at the Meeting of Tribes once. Her lips curved upwards.
“If they are worthy.”
