Actually…could Theikha do a thing? Inkar hoped so. She spotted Theikha slipping outside and ran after her.
“Feshi! I need Theikha!”
“Well, you’ll have to wait. We have intruders poking around the Earther tents. Saboteurs, spies…maybe worse. She caught two already. They’re high-level.”
Cursing, Inkar ran after Theikha as a sweating Orelighn took the stage.
“Apologies for the disruptions, gentlemen and ladies. And Selphids. If we could have no more of that…we have a most splendid instrument I believe no one is familiar with. A revolution in music, I daresay. It is called a grand piano.”
Heads rose, and the Kaazian ambassador stopped soothing the lioness, who was still quietly yowling. Archmage Eldavin’s face filled a scrying orb as Telim levitated up for a better look.
Piano.
Piano.
Piano.
The hallmark of Earth in some ways. Something that this world hadn’t invented, though the pieces were all there. It was none other than Satar Silverfang who had volunteered to learn and play a simple piece on the piano.
Not chopsticks…but hardly something too complex. The problem with the piano that none of the Gnolls were going to mention was, uh—that it was made for Humans.
As in, Gnollish paws had trouble reaching some of the keys because they weren’t as similarly long. Satar had longer digits, so she’d been one of the best candidates. Drakes would probably do just fine, though their claws might make for odd interactions with the keys.
The sight of the piano and its interior made the audience gasp appreciatively. It was beautiful, whatever you wanted to say, and the Gnolls had painted it a lovely, traditional black color and polished every edge of it until it shone in the spotlight.
It gleamed, and it was perfectly tuned. A beaming Satar walked towards it as Orelighn explained how it worked. She took two steps onto the stage—
—And faceplanted as she tripped over nothing at all.
“Ooh. I say! [Inopportune Trip]! [Inopportune Trip]! Uncalled for!”
Nerul sprang to his feet as cries of dismay and winces of pity filled the room. Who had done it was hard to say. The Drakes were raising their hands on the scrying orbs; they’d been muted.
Satar sat up, and to her dismay, she had a nosebleed. Orelighn helped her up, and the visibly distressed Gnoll tried to get to the piano and begin to perform. She sat down as he fussed with a handkerchief and pressed down on a key, feeling at her teeth to see if they were chip—
CRACK.
The sound was that of a new wire on the piano snapping. It was an explosion of discordant sound, and Satar’s look of horror matched that of Orelighn.
Adetr Steelfur strode onto stage in a fury as Satar almost burst into tears.
“That could have taken someone’s eye out! Who did that?”
He roared at the guests, and a chorus of voices rose as people disavowed the sabotage, began pointing fingers—
A disaster. The expo was going pear-shaped right at the end, and at this point, the organizers were debating if they even wanted to demo any more products if this was how they were going to go.
It was upsetting after all their hard work. Adetr was at least repairing the piano string and tuning it back up, fearless of it snapping in his face.
This petty sabotage wouldn’t really matter, except that it would. It was a sign of contempt for the Gnolls. It was discourteous.
Most of all? It was just pathetic. So a woman stood up at the back of the room and amended her plans. Just slightly.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia walked past the tables of arguing diplomats and scrying orbs with rulers muttering amongst themselves and towards the center of the room.
At first, no one noticed her. It was only when she was about to walk onto the dais that Adetr, trying to talk Satar into another try, looked up.
“Hey. No one on stage. Er—Miss.”
His glower didn’t stop her. She walked forwards into the spotlight and took a seat at the piano, resting her fingers on the keys.
“Marvelous work, Chieftain Adetr Steelfur.”
“Thank you. Please get off—”
He began to stride towards her to escort her away, but he didn’t quite manage to do so. When Adetr thought about taking the woman by the shoulder and pulling her up—she was hardly much bigger than Rose—he couldn’t.
He stood there, brows furrowing.
Something is wrong. Who is this? Satar looked up as she pressed at a bloody nostril and gasped.
“You.”
“Me.”
Nerrhavia agreed. She began to play on the piano. The sound attracted the distracted room’s attention, and people began to focus on her.
Some of them, like Ielane, instantly sat up. Others just blinked and leaned forwards. And at least one—
CRACK.
This time, Nerrhavia hit another key, and another piano wire broke. Adetr snapped as well. He’d just—
[Return to Former Condition] was one of his new Skills. He’d used it up to fix the piano wire and re-tune it once! The second explosion of sound had him whirling to roar at the offender, politeness be damned.
Nerrhavia didn’t flinch when the piano wire snapped. She simply sighed and pressed the key down.
Plong. Adetr heard the note again. He blinked—turned back—and saw the piano wire.
It was frozen, mid-snap, a piece of the wire and piano torn free in the air. The delegates stared as the piano wire slowly drifted back down the way it had come.
Repairing itself.
Nerrhavia played the note again, and it sounded sweetly, perfectly re-tuned. She lifted a finger—then flicked it.
Adetr Steelfur heard nothing. He saw nothing happen. But he felt certain that whoever had activated that sabotage Skill—they had just had it come back straight at them.
“In lieu of our Gnollish hosts, I will perform a small piece this afternoon.”
Nerrhavia spoke to the surprised silence. She did not announce herself. Nor did she greet the monarchs. If this was offensive, well—none of them thought to protest.
Something strange was going on with Kaaz’s ambassadors. The lions, disgruntled from having to sit in a confined room so long, had been a quiet but persistent source of sound throughout the evening. When someone had stepped on one’s tail, they’d been more riled up.
But as Adetr backed up from the stage, he distinctly saw the entire pride of lions had gone still. They were facing Nerrhavia. And—he saw all nine of them were on all fours, front paws lowered while their hind claws raised. As if they were prostrating themselves.
“What the hell—?”
He backed up as Satar wavered.
“Adetr, what’s going on? Is that woman going to play? How does anyone know how to play the—”
“Satar. Do you see that? Are those lions…bowing?”
Adetr pointed, and Satar’s head whipped around. She stared. Then rubbed at her eyes. That’s what it looked like. The lions had lowered their heads. And they were…shaking?
Who was this stranger? The audience must have assumed she was someone being brought in to help the performance. The really stupid ones might have thought she was from Earth.
But before anyone could take in Nerrhavia, a Stitch-man stood up at the back of the room.
Astival. [Puppetmaster Sadivictus]. He rose to his feet in a single motion, and hundreds of people, Gnolls, dignitaries, guards—all stood with him if they hadn’t already.
It was unconscious. Instantaneous. Then, as one, they raised their hands and burst into thunderous applause.
The faces of the [Diplomats] were confused, and the applause was at first eerily uniform before becoming natural. Astival bowed as Nerrhavia flicked a finger without looking at him, and the applause stopped, and people began to sit.
“Excellent. Now—silence.”
She sat with back straight, hands spreading out on the keys, and there was silence. The Immortal Tyrant looked up with a smile and spoke, her voice resonant despite the lack of a speaking stone.
“I shall play a brief song to illustrate the value of this piano. It is often accompanied by other instruments. Though I am no [Singer], my voice shall suffice in this case. It is my favorite piece by a man who would have been welcomed in my courts. For wit, if nothing else.”
She paused for dramatic effect, and the [Light] spell over her head narrowed until it illuminated just her sitting at the piano.
“—This is a rousing, uplifting song guaranteed to cheer you up.”
And then she began to play.
At first, the music was slow and somber piano notes before they drifted off and Nerrhavia began to sing.

“When you attend a funeral, 
It is sad to think that sooner or 
Later those you love will do the same for you.
And you may have thought it tragic,
Not to mention other adjectives—
To think of all the weeping they will do.”
Her voice was deep and filled the room, almost like a lullaby. Then her left eyebrow quirked.
 
“But don’t you worry—”
 
Nerrhavia flashed a grin across the crowd of spellbound listeners, her eyes dancing from face to face, her teeth flashing ivory-pale with sudden amusement.

