Nu’s warning was dire but Delta watched as Doctor picked up Jack and carried him out of the room.“If it attacks my monsters… I’ll defend them. Simple as that.” she answered back and shook her head.“There’s nothing human in that thing… nothing to reason or bargain with… it’s just pure… hunger,” she said hoarsely, rubbing her cheek where she had been cut. Her avatar had an actual scratch.That was… scary if nothing else.“Come on Nu, let’s go drink to victory and plan more things,” she suggested and they both left the room to follow her monsters.---In the darkness of the room where the hole once stood… the dirt shifted and began to sink. The room grew still as single mushroom unearthed itself.It was a Bloodcurdler. The pure black cap that mutated on the second floor. It sat there for long moments before it inhaled. The lingering burning Mana of Delta being sucked in deeply. It began to glow darkly and deep under the room, the hole that was trying to rebirth itself paused as it felt burning roots strangle the earth… forming bars that the hole could not so easily bypass.The Bloodcurdler evolved once more, and fire became its weapon.---Across the sea… settled into a deep valley where miles around one could see a godly tree brushing clouds with the top of its branches. The Godly tree was buried deep and grew high. It saw many things. The World Tree, as people called it, watched the events of this world go by. Forever content to stay where it was and grow.Some would call it a Dungeon, but this was not correct by any means. It was a lifeform unto itself. It had grown and grown until even dragons and mighty elementals could not pierce its bark. Its many, many layers of growth grew different fruits, hosted different creatures, and even had some monster villages in a few parts.The luck of growing into a leyline source had boosted its already mighty powers to new heights. Now, it produced Mana for the surrounding lands.The country had grown rich and fertile simply due to the World Tree being here. Very few things could truly harm it now. Sometimes it forgot it could feel pain. Not unlike ten years ago.Where some firespitter had left a black mark on his trunk.That had angered the tree but the events that followed were interesting if nothing else. It felt one of its uppermost branches shift as the mightiest beast on his body moved. The tree paid it no mind. Their relationship was symbiotic.It defended the tree and the tree fed it where meat could not. At that moment, It felt the world shift. A slight change. His many roots spread much farther than this land, and one close to a land that once felt dead and rotten… now tinged with spicy life.There was a plant there… no, not a true plant but something close to it.“You are being active,” came a soft voice. The tree did not have eyes or a mouth. Every little bark of wood or leaf was the tree itself. The defender of its branches was staring out at the sunrise.“Beta… I feel there are those that would rise… like myself,” the tree spoke using the green around the beast that built a human like home in its branches.“Just what the world needs, another arrogant asshole tree,” Beta announced and her tail swished as a dozen stingers formed and dissolved as Beta tried to choose a form to move about in.“Perhaps, but this tree allowed the monster of monsters to live here, so respect shall be invoked,” the tree reminded.The tail was simply gone a second later and more arms appeared.“So you reminded me. I think something spiderish today… been a while since I was a spider. Maybe mix in some Iron Bear?” the woman said to herself.Beta. It had been a mewling pig goblin beast when the tree had taken it under its branches. Now… it had eaten like a glutton and become a true monster.“I’d prefer something like an ent or a dryad, but you care little for my opinion. I am telling you that in a distant land, there are powerful trees… and mushrooms… growing. It could challenge me for the leylines soon,” the tree stated.“So? You got dozens. Ya think people haven’t noticed there’s no Dungeons here? Come on, Ygg, be a smarter tree than that,” Beta lost her human form entirely to become a centipede with swords for legs.“One day, you will reveal to me what that name means, since you’re so amused by it,” The tree reminded.“Alright, Treebeard, keep your nuts in place. So some young plants are getting power. You want me to go and nip it in the bud?” The worm form sprouted dragon wings making Beta into some nightmare waiting to be seen.The tree thought… it searched its roots. For possibilities and problems.“No, there is a coven of dark witches to the north. They have unearthed one of my roots. They plan nothing good, I assume. Make them naught but a memory,” the tree said, and Beta turned into a pure human this time. Her actual form.It was of a human girl about the eve of her teens. The round shapely figure showed someone who ate well, but kept busy enough to make curves instead of energy reserves. In human terms, she would be seen as a rich daughter of some nobleman. All the food one could have, and the skin of a well-groomed person.It was hard to imagine that underneath those twinkling green eyes were a thousand monsters she could become and mix to make new forms.Beta… the monster of monsters.“Sure. You keep looking for that eye and I’ll keep you alive. That was the deal,” the woman fell from her branches before a soaring eagle flew off.Ygg knew that.It was getting closer to where that mythical eye of the lost Nameless one was.If Beta could find that… if the Tree could… They would both get their wishes.How exciting.--“I’ve chosen!” Dragon said as he slurped down more meat in the feast hall. Delta looked up as Jack and Doctor were striking up an odd friendship over chemicals. Jeb and Gnashly stopped shoveling food into their own mouths.“I am Draco!” Dragon announced. Vanguard, or Van as Delta took to calling him, shook his head.“‘Dragon’,” he said. Dozer nodded.“‘Dragon’ sounds less like a snot-nosed ponce going to whine at you,” he explained. Dragon crossed his arms.“You’re all ponces. Fine. I’m ‘Dragon’. I’m generic Dragon,” he threw his hands up. Delta had flashbacks to her wishes to Sis for no dragons. So far with a Kobold and now Dragon… Sis had listened to her in every way but the symbolic.“Dragon sounds cool! Like I can’t wait to tell people I have a mighty Dragon,” Delta promised. Dragon blinked at her before he pumped his impressive biceps.“Y-yeah! Well, duh, I am mighty,” he laughed as he reached for his goblet… missing twice.Vanguard met her eyes and smiled.It was a small tiny thing.Delta’s face went red and she sunk through the floor. Damn it, Nu! Why did you have to make him so handsome!She felt a ping.Delta reappeared.“Seth is up! He’s going to floor two!” she yelped and zoomed off.The silence in the hall was broken by Vanguard.“Seth is a… man?” he growled. Jack nodded.“Kinda a good-looking bloke with the power and actual non-assholeness to be decent,” he said, pointing to the kitchen. “Fera shared the gossip,” he added. Van glowered.“Don’t get protective over her before you’ve even spoken 10 words, it’s creepy,” Doctor chided. The look he got back was even darker.He rolled his non-visible eyes and went back to talking explosions with the interesting Kobold known as Jack.
