The tempo dropped, not gradually, but instantly. The lightness became heaviness, light turned into dark, and warmth into unease. The notes began to linger, as if moving through molasses. The music was hostile. It was Appalachian.It was older than the audience.It was American Gothic.

The guitar work, the solo, the smooth yet jarring shift was so impressive that William had stopped looking at Eppie for a whole ten seconds before his attention returned.

When he saw Eppie again, his chest constricted in a good way.

Lewd Minx! She had smeared her face! The eye makeup was smudged now, as was the lipstick. Her shirt was open at the first two buttons—not that Eppie had anything to show—and a shirt-tail had escaped. She shook out her hair, destroying the last of what had been prim and innocent. Why, with her cut lip, she almost looked like—William stopped himself short of that association.

The audience was impressed. Eppie was a theatre student; they reminded themselves. The performance was expected. It was fresh. She looked amazing. It was a dinner and a show.

The intro lasted several bars; however, William didn’t notice because his heart and soul were trying to absorb the sight of the girl with the messed-up lips.

Then, Eppie’s voice came on again, only it wasn’t the same sugary instrument. The girl was a wunderkind. Her voice was now mellow, low, hollow, accusatory. She was pulling from something and somewhere deep in her gut, her womb, and it wasn’t pretty.

My girl, my girl, don't lie to meTell me where did you sleep last night?

William shuddered. He felt inexplicably anxious, like the moment before the Tower of Terror dropped at Disney. By the second line, her register had dropped a full step. The lyrics were a threat, like a man demanding the darkness dark where his victim had gone. His sweetheart was dead. Her vowels were flat. Her consonants were spat from the teeth. There was seeping hatred and seething suspicion in her voice.

In the pines, in the pines where the sun don't ever shineI would shiver the whole night through

The answering verse was more oppressive than the first. Earlier, William couldn’t look away, but it was different now. He realised he was leaning forward. The girls beside him were no longer smiling. Bewildered, William tried to listen between the notes and read between the lines of the lyrics. Why was he feeling like this? Was this a performance? Eppie was a theatre kid. Was this some avant-garde bricolage musical theatre? He wanted to know. He wanted answers.

Then, out of the Blues, she gave them.

She bit and fought, her pain untoldNot far, not far, from hereHe left her bruised, her body coldHer head… was all we found

The lack of subtlety was what got William the most of all. There were songs that were dog whistles, and then there was this: a six-foot vuvuzela stunning a shitting dog. The changing room. The bench. The screaming, the struggle, the kicks. His trained strikes had landed like hammers thrown against a wet potato sack. Thwack—Thwack—Thwack— until she doubled over and hurled her guts out. After that, she understood. They both did. Resistance was reduced to endurance. Screams to guttural groans.

Mio had a recording. But Mio was gone. Gone from LAPA. She was gone from his life.That chapter of his life had closed! And yet, like an old Appalachian spectre, it had come back to haunt William.

He left her bruised, her body cold.

Who the fuck else knew? Lim? The boys? They won’t betray him, certainly not like this. If they wanted to knife him, they would first involve their families, then his father. They would not work through Euphemia. Then who the fuck was it? Mio? Did she come back? But Lim had been keeping an eye and ear out. There was nothing. The Mios never came back to that chicken shop in K-town. Valorie? Did Val find out? Was this Val’s revenge?Simone? Did that timid bitch—He looked up. FUCK— William swore under his breath. The girl on stage. Her eyes, her painfully baby-blue eyes, were like fucking spotlights. What did she know? What did he expect him to do? Did she know where the recording was? Did she have it?

My girl, my girl, don't lie to meTell me where did you sleep last night

FUCK— FUCK— FUCK— FUCK— FUCK—

In the pines, in the pinesWhere the sun don't ever shine

The fucking song was endless! Should he get up and leave? Would that be too strange? Would people look at William Chen leaving and remember it?

I would shiver the whole night through

There was a sliver of ice, shaped like a knife, migrating up his belly and moving into his sternum. It was shimmying up his throat; it was choking him. He couldn’t breathe, he felt lightheaded, like he was walking on air. His brain was on vibrate, his head filled with that sourceless, bumble-bee buzz of a nervous system kicking itself out of spite. The song was reaching its apex, and yet, Eppie’s greatest admirer was trapped in his seat, frozen to the spot, his limbs encased in ice, surrounded by the fingerless dark of the Appalachian woods.

In a mere three minutes, his songbird had murdered sleep—the sweet, innocent sleep that was the balm of sweet, sane minds, and until he had his answers, William Chen would never sleep again.

Eppie’s voice was different now. She had abandoned the plan submitted to Zara’s Music Chair. She was now entirely submerged in the [Sublime]. She was drowning in it.

My girl, my girl, don't lie to meTell me where did you sleep last nightIn the pines, in the pinesWhere the sun don't ever shine

She howled the last lines, the soul-cry emptying her chest cavity as she knelt over in pain. Her voice cracked, the vibrato lost its control, and her training was thrown out the window. Her [Persona] had become a wounded, mangled animal. She was channelling Mio, Mio in that locker room, on that bench.

For how long had Mio endured? Eppie dared not listen to the recording. The thick tape stock inside the cassette had cowed her into submission since the first day she saw it. And yet, she had listened. Euphemia had listened with her hand over her mouth, too afraid to move, while William cannibalised Mio’s [Causality].

I would shiver—— the whole night—— through————

Her voice broke past the point of comfort, past the point of dignity, into something primal. She made her captive audience witness to a grief that wasn’t theirs and made them ashamed. She made them understand that true heroism lay in human pain.

It’s about how much a girl’s body could bear.

Then—she ran out of breath and collapsed.Zara’s resonant cords punched her fall without missing a beat, bringing the song to a close.

Quest Advanced

[The Usurper of Hope]

You have begun your journey of reforming the Karmic Usurper, a being like yourself. You have temporarily disrupted the Usurper’s theft of Causality from others. Now, you must guide them to the path of Karmic Penance.

Your actions have reaped the Usurper’s Causality.Warning! The Usurper must be made to repent to complete this quest.

Failing this quest will result in immense loss of Karmic Causality

The auditorium stayed quiet for a long time, then the people stood and clapped, whistled and hooted, demanding an encore. With her depleted [Stamina], Eppie’s tired eyes moved past the notification toward the middle seat, the best in the house.

Like a man in the maw of a Mimic, William was being eaten alive by his seat from the inside out. From her crumpled posture, Eppie staggered to her feet.

William? Made to repent?What a god-damned joke.

What was it that Dr Cooper had taught her?

The final four lines are not the end. They are the destination of her arrival.

Euphemia Fontaine’s revenge has not arrived at the end. She was, at best, at the intermission.
