“And there’s that profundity transformed into raw brutality,” Adam said, looking wearily at Band. “I still need to speak with you about Vivalde.”

“Might. Not. Want. To. Speak. With. You.” Band turned away from Adam haughtily. “Have. Nothing. I. Want.”

Adam closed his eyes and gritted his teeth. “Well, you did it, Shiv. You found a bigger bastard than yourself.

“Yeah, he was waiting to do that to you,” Shiv said. Rejection was an easy way for Band to bother Adam.

“Need. More. Social. Skill,” Band told Shiv, deliberately ignoring Adam. The Gate Lord’s glare could have put a hole through a wall.

“So,” Whisper said, watching a few Umbrals pack away chunks of meat, “what do you have next for us, Insul?”

“Some scouting in the morning, some cooking in the afternoon. What might the evening bring?”

Shiv, Uva, and Adam shared a look.

“We need to keep these guys busy,” Shiv said, trying to keep his expressions controlled. “The orcs are great if they have a task, but if we let them just wander around, the likelihood of them hurting someone rises fast.”

“You still have First Blood prisoners inside your cape,” Uva reminded him. “That, and we need to make plans to deal with the Inquisition and lift the siege of Blackedge. The intellectual difficulty of these tasks should occupy their attention, somewhat.”

A wall of apprehension formed around Adam’s mind. “So, what, we’re going to invite them into the planning process too?”

“They’re experienced,” Shiv said, swallowing the discomfort hidden within that statement. “More experienced than any of us. They’ve lived more lives. They’re all at least True Masters, and if we give them a fight, they’ll throw everything they have at it.”

“Talking about what you’re going to do with us?” Tequila said, looking at the trio. His gaze skipped over Shiv and Uva to rest on Adam. “Oh. You’re the holdout.”

“What?” Adam said. The startlement in his voice betrayed his position immediately.

“You press your lips together hard when you have doubts,” Tequila said, tapping his bottom lip. “You’re used to watching other people, Gate Lord. But not watching yourself. Understandable, but still a flaw.”

Mortar let out a grunt of annoyance and wrapped a fist around the orc’s head. “Talking us out of a good fight again, dumb cunt. Just can’t stop acting like a detective, can you?”

“It was the best job I ever had,” Tequila said, his words muffled behind Mortar’s large, armored fingers.

“Yeah, especially considering you were half the serial killers in the city as well.”

“That's a lie—I was only three of the ten serial killers active at the time. And I killed most of the other serial killers as well, so my presence in the HKPD was still an overall benefit to the civilian population.”
