“It's my job to take care of you, even when you make huge messes.” Denise said and pat his hand. “Now eat and get back to your game.”

Ren nodded and ate. He didn't rush like Denise thought he would, and when he was done of the meal, thanked her again.

“You don't have to keep thanking me.” Denise said.

“I do if I don't want you to think I'm taking you for granted.” Ren said. “I'm not, by the way.”

Denise laughed. “I know you aren't.”

“Good.” Ren said. “Now drop your pants and let me thank you properly.”

“Excuse me?”

“I'm about to go on a desperate mission to save the entire game world.” Ren said. “I want to make sure I take the best feeling in this world with me.”

“Ren, I'm working.” Denise said. “You can't possibly think that...”

“You said it's your job to take care of me.” Ren said. “My tongue needs you.”

Denise snorted a laugh, and Ren pat the bed beside him. She took the rollaway cart away and climbed up on the bed to kneel beside him.

“You do realize this is a complete perversion of the nursing profession, don't you?”

“I can suspend you for the next 20 minutes if you want.” Ren said, and she looked at him.

“Actually, that's a good idea.” Denise said.

“You're suspended for 20 minutes, and can't work as my nurse.” Ren said and grinned. “Now drop 'em.”

Denise laughed and shook her head as she undid her pants, then pulled them and her underwear down to her knees.

“Turn around, please.” Ren said.

Denise managed to shuffle around enough to do that, and she felt a hand on her back. She bent over at the gentle urging, and she blushed at the embarrassing position as she rested her head on the bed.

“What a sight.” Ren said and kissed her there, and Denise didn't wonder why she was doing this for him anymore. True to his word, Ren used up all 20 minutes to make sure that Denise felt well and truly thanked. He picked up the VR headset and put it on, and had a huge smile on his face.

“Flow Login Start.”

*

Ren materialized back in the bedroom and saw that the maids were back in bed and in a pile. He put on his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and waved to Teepo, who flew down and landed on his shoulder. Ren activated Sneak, left the apartment, and went downstairs. He crept past Princess and the two dogs, and went outside. It was still dark out, since he still had most of the night left, and ran across the street.

“Hi, Ren.” Tee-one said. “Ruck and I finished the lumber yard, and added all the tools the workers would need.”

“Thanks, guys.” Ren said and took out his armor from inventory. “It's time to update this.”

“Oh, I agree. It's almost completely outdated.” Tee-one said. “Let's disassemble it so I can reforge it and enchant it, then use Double Infusion to enchant it again, then you can use Double Infusion.”

“Oh, boy!” Ren said, excitedly.

“I'll enchant all the diamonds again and use Double Infusion to double their enchantments.”

“Then I'll use Double Infusion on them, too.” Ren said and smiled. “Are we abusing that ability too much?”

“Yes, we are.” Tee-one said and smiled back. “Let's get to work.”
