There were problems with this condenser plan, though. Elemental condensers worked great in Ar’Cosmos. People there regularly used these machines in order to gather essence without going through the problems of making a dungeon and gathering essence through harvesting slimes. These essence condensers saved a lot of space in that way.

But they barely worked on Veird.

But, importantly, they did work! A little.

And so they tried using these machines. It was not working well. The volume produced by the machine was barely worth noting. A single chip of pure Benevolence a day, about the size of a gold coin, was about the same amount of Light Essence produced by a single light slime over its maturation cycle of 50 days.

They had about 10 of these machines working in the other rooms and they were getting a measurable amount of Benevolence Essence, but it had not been enough. A dungeon, working properly, would get the user the proper Elemental Body within a single day of slime production. So far, with their meager production, these people had made small, imperfect enchantments and small, imperfect spellwork.

It wasn’t enough.

Erick decided he would go visit the dungeon after this meeting, or however long this took, and try to make a Benevolence version of his [Kaleidoscopic Radiance]. It would probably be the only way to actually get that dungeon up and running, and to really give House Benevolence true access to its namesake.

Yes. That is what he would do later.

For now, he turned his thoughts back to the moment.

Ashia said, “This is the 15th confirmation in a long line of confirmations that undirected Benevolence causes plant growth, which is pretty great!” She glared at the two men who had been arguing, “That could have turned out very badly if your anger had caused that Benevolence to snap black. We still don’t know what actually causes that to happen.”

Raim shook his head, not believing Aisha’s warning. “It doesn’t snap black unless in the presence of an actual hostile force.”

Or if Erick decided it should, but he did not say that.

Clavog rolled his eyes, saying, “And you’re claiming not to be hostile! Preposterous!”

Erick interrupted the impending argument, saying, “Anyway! How are the prognostication efforts going?”

The iron man and the red orcol went silent.

Aisha said, “The talismans we’ve been able to make out of Benevolence Essence still allow me to glimpse the wall of problems coming in a hundred years, but not much more than that.”

Erick still hadn’t shown her inside his Gate Space yet, but then and there, he decided he would change that today, too.

Erick nodded, then began, “So we’re still at a bottleneck for actual Elemental Benevolence, and while we broadly know the larger applications, we still don’t know exactly what it does in smaller scenarios. So pick two people, Aisha, and we’re going into the Gate Space right now. You can see what the wall looks like for yourself.”

Aisha’s eyes went wide, and she wasn’t the only one. Instantly, everyone in the room was on an anticipatory edge. They all desperately wanted what Erick had just offered, but that just wasn’t going to happen. This was the first time he was actually offering to show them that space. Eventually, his Gate Space would be public access, for that was how he had constructed it to be, but not right now. Not until he knew the vulnerabilities of his Gate Space.

There was no way to really find that out, though, without inviting some people inside, and today was the day to invite some people inside.

Erick looked to Teressa, Kiri, and Tasar, saying, “And you’re all coming, too.”

Teressa seemed to relax with a quiet approval. She was ready to see the wall, too. Kiri was ready as well; Erick had not done much magic work with her in the last two months, and she absolutely wanted to see the Gate Space. He probably could have shown both of them the Gate Space long before now, but there just hadn’t been time. And now, there was time.

Tasar was the only real odd woman out, who was included just because she was here, but Erick felt he could trust her with this vulnerability.

He was pretty sure he could trust every single person in this room.

But only two of Aisha’s employees could join them.

Aisha made some rapid decisions, saying, “Raim. Clavog. Are you ready?”

The previously-fighting men were very ready.

Erick opened a [Gate] to the side of the room. Instead of sky or land or water appearing beyond the ring of lightning, it was a world of iridescent white, where a floating platform of white stone held a fountain burbling in the center, and a fractionally-sized Yggdrasil grew in the distance. A gentle breeze flowed out from the Gate Space and the elemental condenser, which had been reset to its lowest possible setting, began to chime and echo with the sound of Benevolence. Elemental Benevolence began to gather on the collection plate like growing bundles of sparks slowly settling down into a solid mass. Everyone in the room noticed this, of course, for the condenser chimed and tinkled as it worked.

But Erick was not leaving his Gate Space open and thus vulnerable to others while he wasn’t directly present. So he led the way into Benevolence and his people followed, some excited, some wary.

The Gate Space had changed a lot since its creation, but only in matters of size.

The floating white platform was the same columnar basalt design as before, except now it was a hundred meters across and some of the hexagonal stones had been replaced with dirt. Ferns and vines and sometimes small mushrooms grew from those loamy spaces, and especially where the fountain overflowed, pouring water into a channel in the platform, to flow out into space, to attach to Yggdrasil in the distance.

Yggdrasil looked like himself, but much smaller.

That fountain in the center was about twice as large as before. The outer rim was several meters in diameter, supporting a pool of water a good three meters deep. The stones that rose in the center supported a minor waterfall that fell into that pool, while a gentle pyre held in the air above that waterfall. That warm fiery space was shaped like the [Renew] rune, and the same runic design repeated everywhere inside the space, if one looked close enough.

Everyone was looking very closely at everything they could.

He was sure that soon enough, someone would recognize the spark of darkness that held in the very center of the land, inside the base of the waterfall. To Erick, it looked like an abyss and an open window into a certain dragon’s domain. That Dark dragon might actually gaze back, if he felt like it, but Erick didn’t look too closely, and Melemizargo was wherever he wanted to be, anyway.

Erick turned outward, to gaze upon the sky, away from Yggdrasil.

“Feels like the sky is about a kilometer away, or maybe only 850 meters.” Erick said, “It’s still growing at a steady rate. I have no idea why you can’t materialize more Benevolence outside.” And before Raim or Clavog actually spoke and suggested he leave a [Gate] open inside the condensing room, Erick added, “And I’m not leaving an opening to my Gate Space open when I’m not around. Speaking of which. Now that you are all inside—” With a flick of intent, Erick closed the opening. “—You can’t see the sky with the [Gate] open.”

His people briefly lost composure as he closed the [Gate], and they all realized that they were trapped in here, but then they all realized in their own, quick ways, that Erick wasn’t going to harm them. Kiri and Teressa recovered the quickest. Tasar and Aisha were a bit slower, but fast enough. Raim and Clavog didn’t recover until the sky started to shift. A gentle sound of distant thunder rumbled across the Gate Space as a flicker of brighter lightning created shadows upon the endless horizon.

Not a single person said a word as they all stared at the beyond.

Lightning flashed, and began to do more than that.

What appeared out of the heavens was exactly the same as the last time Erick had looked, only a few days ago. Lightning tangled upon itself and produced at least 47 dark spots that appeared in the distance. Some of those spots moved and joined with others, before coming back apart to become their own separate thing, so there might have been more than that, or maybe a few less. It had taken Erick a good hour of observation to actually understand that there were at least 47 problems on the horizon, so he doubted that anyone here was actually getting the full numerically-defined experience that he had, but that was fine.

Erick had no idea what any of the tangles actually meant, except for the one that was Bright Smile. Contrary to his first impression of that Carnage Dragon, Erick no longer believed that she was a danger to everyone, or at least not a conventional danger. It was quite realistic to assume that Bright Smile would go on to conquer the Fairy World and raise everyone under her ideals, and that could be a problem…

But that was a problem for later.

“As you can see,” Erick began explaining, “The web of tangles is all rather distant, and if you really look, you can see that almost all of them happen around the hundred year mark. It’s like a spider web that is deep at a specific layer, and not thick anywhere else. But if you look over there—” Erick pointed to a closer tangle. “—That one is about the only tangle that is closer than the hundred year wall. I’d estimate that one at 40 years out, but it’s moved deeper and shallower several times.

“None of these tangles are set. All of them move.

“In the beginning, Patriarch Xangu and the Red Dot Dragon were right up in front, almost at the very edge of the platform. Those were immediate problems. Those did not move; they just got closer and more solid, while that hundred year wall shifts every time I look at it.” Erick said, “I’m just guessing that that is a hundred years away, by the way, because that is the thing that makes the most sense. But it could be some other confluence. Whatever the case, it’s rather distant, and we’ll all still be around to fix it when it does happen.” Erick finished with, “So take a look around and do whatever you have to do for a while. Maybe half an hour?”

His people looked away from him, and focused on the sky.

Aisha stared, her eyes wide and flickering with iridescent magic of her own. Teressa stared at the sky, too, her eyes filled with grey light. Both of them were doing some sort of [Future Sight] or possibly [Witness]. Both of them were much more capable with prognostication than Erick, too, so maybe they would see more than he had seen.

Clavog and Raim began talking in small voices to each other, their previous anger completely forgotten as they tried to understand everything else around them. They spoke of the small [Renew] runes in the stone underfoot, and ringing the fountain, and in the paired mushrooms that grew from the soil like curving horns to barely touch at the tips, but with one tip enfolding the other. The mushrooms themselves grew in the shape of [Renew]. This land was weird. Much weirder than Ar’Cosmos.

And so, Erick let them explore.

Kiri and Tasar’s enthusiasm faded after a few minutes, their expressions both going softer, and more worrisome. Both of them looked a little lost.

Erick would get to Tasar soon enough, but first he went to Kiri, asking, “What’s up? What are you feeling?”

Kiri startled at Erick’s voice, and then she calmed. She was on the edge of a choice which had been building for a while now, and though she didn’t know how to best say it, she decided to simply get on with it. “I want to learn Spatial Magics.”

Erick’s heart had briefly pumped hard as he suddenly worried about what Kiri could possibly want, and why it had been such a difficulty for her to tell him until now, but Spatial Magics? That was a lot better than his worst possible fears!

Tasar had a different reaction, though. She whipped her head around to stare at Kiri, and then she glanced to Erick.

Erick was already smiling. “Of course—” And then he realized the depth of what Kiri was asking. “I mean... Spatial Magic is dangerous, but we’re past the initial deals I made with the Wayfarer’s Guild to not let anyone else know what they told me, and you have Sunny to brute force a lot of that experimentation.” Erick smiled again, saying, “I was expecting to eventually tell you all about all that stuff, so of course! Yes.”

“And then I want to walk the Worldly Path with you at the end of it.”

Tasar gasped.

Erick was only capable of uttering a rather unbalanced, “Uh?”

“Not for years more.” Kiri said, “But eventually.”

Erick recovered. “I mean. Yes— You know what that entails.”

“I can barely guess at everything that it entails...” Kiri turned to face the sky of lightning. “But I need to do more than I am—” She stopped speaking as she suddenly realized that they weren’t alone here in Erick’s Gate Space, and that they never were. Sheepishly, she whispered, “Talk later?”

Erick nodded. And then he prepared to hear Tasar’s naysaying.

Tasar stated, “I believe it would be a bad idea to allow anyone else to walk the Worldly Path at this moment in time.”

Erick turned to her. “I agree, and I am glad that Kiri has said that she would wait a few years. Hopefully this delay coincides with my own desire to not do too many things all at once.” Erick looked to Kiri.

Kiri nodded her head a little. “Yes. I can wait… But I want to do more than I am…” Her voice trailed off.

She left a lot unsaid. Like how she was bored, as Jane and Sitnakov had been bored. She was still young and powerful and needed to do something useful and Erick wasn’t giving her nearly enough to do, or spending nearly enough time teaching her lately. At the same time, she knew Erick had been busy, and that this was good work being done here, so she didn’t complain too loudly at all. In fact, this much right here was the most she had said on the subject in the last two months since they moved to Candlepoint.

“I want you to work with Mox to start expanding the lakeside to about a hundred kilometers out from the actual lake. I want to start bringing the real forest back to the crystal forest, and it’s time to start doing that.” Erick asked, “What do you say?”

Kiri stammered, “Ye— Yes! Of course!”

“Good. And also...” Erick turned back to Tasar. “Could you teach Kiri all there is to know of Spatial Magic? In return, I will tell you how to make a [Familiar] that has their own mana, and if you cannot do it on your own, I will do the same Wizardry I did for Kiri and Sizzi, for you.”

Tasar stood a bit straighter. “Uh.”

Kiri was barely able to hide her joy under a veneer of professionalism.

