Tasar’s thoughts solidified. She looked at Erick, her black and green metal eyes narrowed slightly. “So it was Wizardry?”

“Unintentional, and, as I said before, you probably won’t like what actually happened there.” Erick shrugged. “It’s nothing untoward, but you, personally, will have a problem with it.”

“… I’ll do it.” Tasar said, “If you allow me to walk the full Worldly Path with Miss Flamecrash when she decides to actually walk it.” She looked to Kiri. “Which won’t be for at least ten years at the absolute earliest.”

Erick was fine with that. He looked to Kiri.

Kiri nodded vigorously, saying, “Absolutely!”

Erick smiled gently. “Good. This is good. You two can talk a bit. I’m going to see what those two are up to.”

Erick walked away, leaving Kiri and Tasar to talk with each other. It was awkward for them, but they would get over it soon enough.

Erick looked to Aisha, Teressa, Raim, and Clavog. The four of them had barely paid any attention at all to the discussion between Kiri, Tasar, and Erick; they were fully focused on the lightning sky, either watching it through eyes of magic, or in deep discussion with each other over what they were seeing.

Erick chose to approach the two men, since they were actually able to talk. “What are you two seeing?”

Raim included Erick in the conversation with Clavog, saying, “We were discussing the various reasons why Benevolence might not be showing up on Veird, and I am of the opinion that you are keeping it all here, under your control. Perhaps we are too close to the center.” He added, “It is well known that Hullbreaker’s base of operations was superbly hidden from elemental detection magics, but perhaps it wasn’t so much hidden, as it was under his direct control when he was nearby. The condensers are meant to work with mana, after all; not magic.”

A good theory. Erick was glad of Raim’s expertise. But...

Clavog didn’t agree. “While my colleague’s ideas have merit, Hullbreaker did not have a Gate Space. He did have tight control over his Element, though, for it was only the stuff outside of his control that we were able to pick up on. I feel the answer to our lack of Benevolence is less the need for you to loosen up, my king, but instead to spread around more life. Look at these mushrooms! Benevolence has a clear connection to plants, and so, if you used Benevolence to sprout a bunch of life out there, perhaps this would be the best way to start spreading the growth of this Element.” Clavog said, “Plant life creates mana, too, after all.”

Raim said, “Of course the real problem is that you’re still connected to the Script, and all your mana production goes to the Core.”

Clavog nodded a little, wanting to see what Erick had to say about that.

Erick said, “That’s not going to change.”

Raim and Clavog both looked like they had lost an opportunity.

Clavog recovered, saying, “Eh. Making Benevolence plants will spur the growth of more Benevolence faster than most other methods, even if that mana is scrubbed inside the Core and distributed to whoever casts Benevolence spells.”

Raim said, “We’re pretty sure that every person you [Reincarnation]ed produces something close to Benevolence. It’s slow growth, but it’s steady growth. Probably for the best. We can’t stress the condensers any more than we already are.”

Clavog stood straight with surprise as he looked down at Raim, saying, “I did not expect you to say what I’ve been saying all along.”

Raim scowled a little as he shook his head. “Sometimes you have good ideas. Not always. But sometimes.”

Clavog laughed a little, saying, “And sometimes you have good ideas too, or at least you do when you finally accept that my ideas are for the best! Maybe—”

For a brief, shining moment, everything had been fine.

And then lightning crashed out of the sky, pouring into the eyes of Teressa and Aisha, into their souls like a river becoming tiny streams full of absolute power. And it was not stopping. Erick felt frozen in time as he watched it happen, like he was witnessing something important. Neither Teressa or Aisha looked in pain. Neither looked in distress. But only a fraction of a second had passed—

“Oh!” Teressa exclaimed, lightning still flashing through her eyes and out of her body to strike the platform at her feet, ferns and mushrooms and grasses erupting all around her boots. She wasn’t in pain at all, though her voice was deep with realized power. “It’s a war past the opening of worlds.”

Lightning conducted through Aisha, impacting the platform and spreading life all around her, too, as she spoke, “A war inside the mana.”

Teressa said, “An opening of [Gate]s.”

“A clashing outside of control.”

“It starts with the death of a god. The change of a goddess. An elevation outside of control.” Teressa said, “And it has markers long before that larger war.”

Aisha pointed at a clump of black lightning. “That one is a child born in light and raised on tales of darkness, who wishes control but who has no right to the power he wields. We will find him born in the winter of 1516, 79 years from now, in a village in the lands of the new Empress of Nelboor. He will be one of the few marked by Benevolence, and he must be killed to prevent a war.”

Teressa pointed to a clump of shadows. “That one is a boy who will become a man who wields [Small Spark] and [Metalshape] like a Wizard. He will be born in the metropolis of Candlepoint in 35 years. He will bring forth a new era in runework and computerization, and he will show us the way into every New World henceforth. He must be raised right.”

Aisha pointed to a different clump of lightning. “A woman who is a child, born into a Fairy World and raised under the depredations of dragons, she assassinates hope in the year 1535, a year before Yggdrasil matures. Her assassination of three heads of households causes a chain reaction that envelopes this world and the next. She must be murdered after her husband and child are consumed by a dragon.”

Teressa turned her sight left, and said, “That one is a dragon queen who turns her Fairy World into a land of honor. She is already known, and she must be supported. Her wars will end many lives but it is better than the alternative.”

The two prognosticators spoke, and the tableau of lightning changed.

Instead of an airy, unknown thing, it became an orderly set of knowns.

Over fifteen shadowy spots simply evaporated. Several condensed, becoming smaller and more manageable. Erick recognized the one that was Bright Smile long before Teressa pointed that one out, but now Bright Smile’s tangle was solid. Now, Erick was pretty sure he knew which way that dragon’s Benevolence marker fell. Bright Smile was an asset, but also a weight; a force for immense change that would be both bloody, and organized.

Teressa had pointed out two hopes that must be nourished.

Aisha had pointed out two weights that must be cast into the abyss.

And that was it. The moment was done.

Lightning retreated back into the sky, pulling away from Teressa and Aisha, leaving them ragged. Blood wept from Teressa’s empty eye sockets and poured from holes in her skin. Spots of blackened metal sparked upon Aisha. Teressa collapsed, but Aisha froze like a rusted automaton no longer able to move on her own.

Erick immediately evacuated Teressa to Oceanside’s hospital.

Aisha went to Stratagold, under Tasar’s quick care.

- - - -

Fifteen minutes of panic.

Half an hour of waiting.

An hour more of tests and then finally, confirmation that Teressa was okay, for now.

She was not okay. She might not ever be okay. But she was stable. Through the walls, Erick could see her soul and he knew there had been a change. Lightning had ripped through her body, leaving her damaged all throughout, but even while the doctors were healing her, all of that damage was healing at an accelerated rate. It almost looked like the damage from a [Soul Burn], but even that spell wasn’t this easy to heal from. Whatever the case, Teressa was healing rapidly, on her own. All the doctors could do was to administer the healing magics that they could.

More slight relief came when Aisha was able to report, on her own, that she was already recovering, physically, though the Inquisition wanted to talk to him when next he was able. She would be recovering at Stratagold for a day, though, and she would not be able to return to duty for a few days. Erick told her that was fine, and that he wished her a speedy recovery.

Apparently, her [Future Sight] had been transformed into [Benevolent Sight], which…

Was a thing.

‘It says ‘See the benevolent future’,’ Aisha sent, ‘Not much more than that. Sorry I cannot tell you more for that is all I know, as well.’

‘Don’t worry about it, Aisha. Worry about yourself. Get well soon.’

A soft warmth flowed through their connection. ‘I wish Teressa a speedy recovery, too.’

Their connection ended, and Erick continued to watch over Teressa while the soul specialist doctor continued to apply spells to the large woman.

Teressa was much worse off than Aisha.

Kirginatharp showed up half an hour later and did his own magic on Teressa. It was an easy meeting, politically; Erick had gotten over much of his anxiety around Kirginatharp, and the Headmaster had done the same for the Wizard of Candlepoint. It had been a hard meeting, emotionally.

When he was done inspecting the damage, Kirginatharp walked into the waiting room with Erick, Poi, and Kiri. He said, “Her soul is rearranging into something else. I don’t feel that any of this damage is permanent at all, though what comes out of this, I know not. Aisha seems to have gained [Benevolence Sight]. I imagine Miss Rednail’s change will be much more severe.”

Erick breathed deep, feeling a wave of anxiety come and then go. He was already focused on Teressa with his mana sense. Kirginatharp’s theory might prove to be true. Teressa’s soul was already stabilized, and fully inside her body, though she was still unconscious.

Kirginatharp continued, “I understand that both of them saw the deep future inside your Gate Space.”

Though the severity of the topic was massive, Erick easily answered, “That is what appeared to happen. Aisha and Teressa both plucked at the web of problems in a hundred years and made some predictions. You want a report? You’ll have it soon enough. I find it difficult to believe some of the things they said, for they were precise— Well. As precise as you can be with prognostication.” Erick wasn’t worried about the uncertain future, though. “It’s all happening multiple decades from now, anyway.”

Kirginatharp was not relieved. “Since it seems to be tentatively proven that you can very accurately predict certain specific end-of-the-world scenarios, I would ask that you don’t let the minor danger of exposing others to your Benevolence deter you from continuing to do so.”

Rage came to Erick like a sudden storm—

He shut that down. Erick ignored the pain of the moment. He took a deep breath, and said, “Whatever happens next time will happen under much better preparation.”

Kirginatharp studied Erick for a moment, then nodded. “It is a shame we could not meet again under better circumstances. Now if you will excuse me, I believe the doctor is waking Miss Rednail up—”

Erick redirected his mana senses toward Teressa. She was waking up.

“—And I expect you wish to talk with her, and with the doctor. I would speak with you about more [Reincarnation]s for other suitable people, and your desired recompense, but it need not happen now.” Kirginatharp gave a small nod, and stepped away. “Good day, Erick.”

Erick instantly rushed into the room with Teressa. Poi and Kiri followed close behind. The doctor stood to the side, waiting to speak, but he held his tongue for the moment.

Groggily, Teressa looked around. Her emerald eyes were different, now; a bit more white than before. But she still had eyes. The doctors weren’t sure if they would be able to bring those back, but they had.

She spotted Erick right away, and chuckled, saying, “I fell down on the job, Boss. Sorry.”

Erick let the tears flow, saying, “Ahhh… Don’t worry about it, Teressa.” He grabbed her hand. She was a bit cold. “You gave me something of a scare, there.”

“I saw everything, Erick.” They were such small words, but as Teressa spoke, the world seemed to pause. “It’s all fuzzy now, but I saw it all, and it was wonderful.”

Erick just smiled. “We can talk about all that later.” He sighed. “Gods. You gave me quite a scare!”

“You already said that.” Teressa gripped Erick’s hand, and then let go. “I’m fine, Boss.” She looked around. “How long was I out? And we’re at Oceanside now?”

Poi said, “It’s been about four hours.”

“You were like a lightning conductor in there,” Kiri said, “Just pulling down a storm into your eyes. Can you still see?”

Teressa blinked a bit, then said, “Yeah. Look— I— You didn’t need to bring me all the way here.” She swung her feet off the bed and got up, saying, “I’m perfectly fine.”

Erick had a minor panic, but the doctor didn’t say anything, and Teressa was moving fine. He didn’t stop her.

Teressa twisted her torso left and right, then touched her nose with her left pointer finger, and then did the same with her right pointer finger. “All fine. Can’t keep a good Juggernaut down!” She asked the doctor, “I’m good, right?”

The presiding soul doctor took a step forward. “You are not fine. I have no idea of the nature of your particular ailment, but though your soul looks fine right now, your soul is in turmoil. It is settling into a new configuration. This is the sort of damage one sees when a person breaks a tier 9 spell, or when someone suffers from prolonged [Soul Burn] torture. Something has happened to you.” He included Erick as he spoke to Teressa, “I was one of the inspectors for Wizard Flatt’s [Reincarnation], and you, Miss Rednail, might want to get your affairs in order in case you need to go down that path. When your soul settles, you might not be able to naturally expel rads, or you might feel your entire perspective on a beloved hobby is gone, or you might have a new hobby that you never before considered. Or you might simply wake up in the middle of the night and decide that everyone around you needs to die. You could lose control of your Rage.”

Teressa did not look worried, and that worried everyone else.

