The doctor noticed this too, but he simply continued, “Those are all outside possibilities considering the nature of your magical accident, or at least what I was allowed to know of it. Either way; bed rest till the settling is done, [Reincarnation] if the settling proves disastrous. You are lucky to still have a soul at all, considering what you looked like when you came in here. I venture to say that if your accident had happened to anyone with less Health or without Constitution, then they would have simply perished.” He said to Erick, “[Reincarnation] is a miracle. I hope you use it on more people. Miss Rednail is free to go at your convenience, but keep an eye on her. A very close eye. Good day.”

And then he walked out of the room. The doctor was incredibly uneasy around Erick, and so he had been perhaps curt, but he said everything that Erick needed to know.

Erick called out to him, “Thank you, doctor!” But the doctor kept walking. Erick kept the worry out of his voice as he happily turned back to Teressa, saying, “You heard the man! Bed rest for a week!”

Teressa scowled. “My soul looks fine. I’m looking at it right now.”

“It did not look fine.” Erick said, “You can take it easy for a while. Read a new book series, or something. That’s an order.”

Teressa laughed once, then sarcastically asked, “But who is going to cook? You haven’t cooked in two weeks.”

“I make breakfast sometimes! But you’re right. It’s past time I hired people to do that.” Erick said, “Or at least filled in some of the restaurants in the House. Got any suggestions?”

“Not really,” Kiri mumbled.

Teressa shrugged.

Poi instantly said, “A fish place.”

Erick smiled. “Sure— Oh! How about one of those world class Cooks from Songli?”

Teressa didn’t look too thrilled about that. But then she brightened. “If you can get one like that woman that worked for Tenebrae, then yes.”

“I remember that. She made a really good burger and strawberry milkshake.” Erick opened a [Gate] back to their home on Yggdrasil’s boughs, saying, “Maybe I could see if ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ wants to open a place in the House? I miss them, too.”

“Sure! I could go for the—” Teressa paused as she blinked at the air. “Ah. Those are weird.” She pulled some blue boxes out of the air and handed them off.

Caution!

You have mutated one of your spells in an unknown and potentially dangerous way!

If this was unintentional please see a Registrar or pray to Rozeta to have this change undone. Such a repairing will cost 1 point, or the completion of a Quest.

If someone else did this to you without your consent, please see a Registrar or pray to Rozeta to have this change undone. Such a repairing might be free.

This is your changed spell:

Future Sight X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana

See the future.

This spell has become:

Benevolent Future Sight X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana + variable cost

See the benevolent future.

Teressa said, “I think this means my soul is now actually settled.”

Erick glanced at the boxes, and at Teressa’s soul. It did seem more solid right now. Indistinguishable from anyone else’s normal soul, actually. He said, “Aisha’s [Future Sight] was changed the same way. We didn’t know what was going to happen to you, though. We were worried… And you don’t seem to be worried at all?” Erick frowned, saying the words that he was a bit worried to actually say, “You’re… completely fine?”

Teressa shrugged and walked forward, through the [Gate] back home, a faint smile upon her lips as she said, “I’m not worried about anything, actually. Not even worried that my eyes are different. I saw the future, and I know it’ll turn out well.”

A disturbing proclamation?

Or perhaps something good happening for once?

The fact was, that Erick wasn’t ready to relax at all, but after one very large accident, Teressa’s usual solid demeanor had softened to a peace-time ease. That simply shouldn’t happen. He glanced at Kiri, and Poi; both of them were worried the same as him.

The three of them followed Teressa back to the house, and Erick closed the [Gate] behind them.

- - - -

“No, you’re right. I did not see absolutely everything,” Aisha said, finally conceding the point that they wanted to hear. She was currently confined to bed rest, sitting in the bowl of crystal that would be her home for the next day while the healers came and went. It was all so very annoying. They didn’t believe her Sight! So she strongly reiterated, “I only saw every single major danger’s threat vector, where those dangers will start, and what they will look like. I even saw which world will be the next world! It’ll be Yoril! And it will be completely different from Veird in every way we think of as ‘normal’.”

Silence stretched, for Aisha had said everything she could say, and multiple times, too.

Kromolok was not convinced.

Riivo wanted to believe, but he was skeptical.

Tasar was present, in order to provide a separate witness. She withheld her judgment.

Queen Strelkova and King Alfonin were split; they would listen to their advisors and make some decisions afterward.

No one else was present in this small meeting room, in a tower in the White Palace at the center of Stratagold.

Strelkova broke the silence, asking, “Could Erick have made her see these things?”

The Queen of Stratagold was not asking Aisha, so Aisha did not answer.

“Highly doubtful,” Kromolok said, “Erick would have needed to see them himself and he has no knowledge of all of what Aisha Sighted. No; Erick made his [Gate] with the idea of letting it solve apocalyptic threats on its own, and so, I think this was our first real interaction with the [Gate] itself.”

Riivo nodded. “I agree with this assessment.”

Kromolok nodded, and then continued, “The nature of the Sights seen, though, and the fact that the sky changed, means that Aisha only saw one possible—”

Aisha frowned.

Kromolok stressed, “You only saw one possible future, Aisha. There is no way that anything you saw was set in adamantium, especially with our stance on Wizards shifting, and Erick being Erick, and all the Crystal Forest transforming into livable land within 40 years. Chaos is everywhere, and though you peered through that Chaos, Chaos is still Chaos.”

Riivo shook his head a little, saying, “Benevolence could be gathering problematic situations into nodes of change. It could be solidifying parts of the future into known unknowns. Transforming Chaos into Order.”

Kromolok shook his head, saying, “Benevolence is not Fate, ordinating events and ensuring those outcomes happen. Benevolence could, however, be ordinating events and ensuring that other people can see them and stop them, for Erick has already proven able to change the futures he sees through Benevolence. He executed that dragon and that patriarch, and those dangers dissipated. Simply by viewing the Benevolence Sky, Aisha changed those futures, too. If there is a fundamental difference between Fate and Benevolence, it is this: Fate makes odd things cascade in monumental ways, Benevolence lets you see when odd things will happen in order to stop or change those things.” Kromolok added, “Adding to that, Riivo, you have chosen to ignore the other half of what was Witnessed. Aisha merely saw all the bad, but Teressa saw all the good.”

“Teressa saw the possible good,” Riivo said, “She could be mistaken as well, and we won’t get the chance to officially interrogate her at all.”

More silence.

Aisha saw the question Alfonin would ask long before he actually asked it. And then—

Alfonin asked, “Are we okay with a deterministic future?”

It was a large question. One Aisha was still thinking of even as the King of Stratagold spoke those words. It was a question the wrought had answered on behalf of Veird and all of existence many times already:

No.

Clearly, no.

The future was meant to be held in the hands of mortals, and not in the hands of the gods, or the mana, or Wizards, or anyone or anything else.

Fate was Sealed in a blue box, buried deep in the Script. It leaked sometimes, but it was still mostly Sealed, and that was for the good of all. There were two others that were fully Sealed and Banned, and even Aisha had no idea of what those Elements had been; only that they had existed, and now they were gone. Gone from the world, gone from memory, gone from the mana.

Aisha was lost, though, for history had taught her which response was the most correct. She knew, based on historical fact and lived history and example after example, that the correct answer to Alfonin’s question was ‘no’. And yet...

Aisha answered, “Yes.”

Kromolok, Tasar, Riivo, Alfonin, and Strelkova looked to her.

Aisha said, “Benevolence is not Fate. Benevolence specifically allows for us to see the problems coming and then stop them. That’s how Erick made it. That is how it works. That is how I know that it works, fully and completely. But even with that knowing, the future still shifts. I saw the sky transform as I named the tangles. Most vanished. Some moved. Some were so… So complicated that I don’t fully remember all of them, but there was one...

“I saw it so clearly, and yet still through a fog.” Aisha felt herself pull away from her body, as her eyes lit with lightning. She viewed the room from outside herself, and then she went further. “I saw the trajectory of Benevolence itself.

“All of Erick’s Gate Space was itself a tangle; the [Small Spark] that would set the entire machine of the universe into motion. A twisting ocean of lightning. Everything connected to everything else, and Benevolence as that connection. It was a dark and bright thing. Good and Evil. Weal and woe. It was the start of other Gate Spaces made in other Elements. It was the start of everything, and it was so…” Like a great pit opening up, with void expanding everywhere, Aisha spoke, “Death and destruction, everywhere. Worlds vanishing in blinks.” The void turned around, and Aisha spoke from on high, “Worlds carved out of nothing and life given room to grow. The return of evil gods and galactic threats.

“The return of the Old Cosmology, but in a new shape, and in a new body.

“A [Reincarnation].

“I was briefly a goddess at that moment, watching it all unfold from my tiny body, far, far in the past… In the present.” Aisha’s eyes faded as she came back to herself, to a room filled with wide-eyed royalty, and powers-that-be. “And then it was gone. I saw so much more than what I remember. If Teressa had anything near the same experience, then… Then…” Aisha felt light, as though all her weights were lifted, and all the world would be fine, if only she could do what needed to be done, when it needed to be done. “I’m sure she’s feeling the same thing I am right now. Like everything makes sense, and nothing can go too wrong.”

More silence.

Strelkova quietly said, “You did not respond like that in our first questioning.”

Aisha nodded. “Benevolence tangles as it wonts to provide the best possible outcome for all. I am okay with being a conduit for this sort of change.”

Kromolok asked, “And you’re okay with seeing worlds break under apocalypse after apocalypse?”

Aisha was not okay with that at all, but she said, “I can handle the Sight of it all, if you can help with prevention.”

More silence.

And then Kromolok answered, “Some determinism is fine.”

Rozeta stepped into the room. She looked happy. “I agree.”
