Jamus sighed and pulled out some strips of cloth to bandage Rain’s hand. Rain let him work as he silently pondered everything that he had just learned. He flexed his hand once Jamus had finished wrapping his finger. It hurt, but he didn’t think there would be any lasting damage. He’d burned himself worse before from a microwaved pizza roll.

Jamus stepped back and nodded to himself.

“Well, at least that explains the language. Sorry for pressing you, Rain.”

“The language?”

“It is the overmana, from your class and your high clarity. It helps your mind learn and remember.”

The shocked expression on Rain’s face must have been exquisite, as Jamus broke out into raucous laughter.

“Wait, overmana… is that like overhealth? It’s making me… smarter?”

“Clearly not,” Tallheart slapped Rain on the back with a joking laugh. “I will be working on the <something>. Come help when you are done bothering Jamus.” He walked off towards the site of his project, leaving Rain and Jamus alone.

I don’t know if I like the idea of stats changing my brain… I mean, sure, who wouldn't want to be smarter, but… would I still be… me?

“Don’t mind Tallheart. He’s right though. It doesn’t make you smarter, it just helps your mind <something> things. High-level mages have very good memories, but there’s a limit. You are just a bit ahead of the game because of your class and your…build.”

“Oh. Still, I don’t understand. If people know about dynamo, why doesn’t everyone take it? You said there are others? Is there a stamina regen one? You could do the same thing, use skills that take stamina, and level up really fast because of all the experience.”

“Some do. You know Jaks from the guild? The man with all the scars? I did a job with him once. I think he’s a Vivificant, but I’m not sure. He heals really fast, but the overhealth might not be enough to deal with the… Anyway, yes, there are others with monolithic classes, but most don’t make it very far before they hit the cap. At least, not in one of the independent cities. Inside the <something> it’s another story.”

“Still, aren’t they… better? The monolithic classes?”

“Better is <something>. What level was the monster you killed? Do you think you could have killed it alone? As you are now? If you were at your cap, even?”

“No, I don’t think I have the damage, or the defense.”

Jamus nodded.

“Yes, you see the problem. To keep growing, you need to be able to fight stronger and stronger monsters. You could join a team, but eventually, something could go wrong and you could die. It is risky, doing what you are doing. You really have no defense?”

“I have a strength ring… For a few more days, at least… It isn’t going to explode too, is it?”

“Humph. No, that was only because you forced so much mana through the focus one. You overloaded the enchantment.”

“I was thinking of asking Tallheart to make me some armor...”

“It would be a start. I suppose the metal wouldn’t interfere with your auras like it does with targeted spells.”

“Wait, metal… interferes with… No, never-mind, later. Tallheart said I should stick to what I am good at. Do you think I can do that? Keep going with just pure clarity? Are there more class unlocks at higher levels?”

“Tallheart might be even crazier than you are. Take his advice at your own risk. As for class selections, there is another one at level 25, but most don’t reach it. That is the line between bronze and silver, by the way. You could do it, but… it might not be wise. It certainly wouldn’t be safe.”

“I have some ideas about that. I need more mana, though, if I want to make them work. Do you think a few points in focus would stop me from getting an upgrade to dynamo?”

“I don’t know. Higher rare classes are not common knowledge like the entry level ones.”

“Damn, what about skills? Is there a hidden skill to boost mana?”

“Humm, probably. I know of one that might be perfect for you. It isn’t hidden, though, just tier 2.”

“What is it?”

“Magical <something>, tier 2, magical utility. If you have both <something> focus and <something> clarity at level 10, you can unlock it. I’m assuming you already know what those are. It allows the stats to boost each other, partially. Most mages take it as soon as they can. It would let some of your clarity count towards your mana pool, but not your spell damage. It works in the other direction, too, but I don’t think you care about that.”

“That’s perfect! Ow!” Rain had clenched his hands in excitement and aggravated his injury. He slowly relaxed them and winced at the pulling sensation of the bandage against his burned skin.

“What about other hidden skills? Something that I can get right now? Do you know of any that would help? What are hidden skills, anyway?”

“I don’t know many hidden skills, but maybe there are some that would help. I don’t know. You’ll just have to keep looking.”

Rain looked to where Tallheart was piling more stones. It looked like he’d be fine without his help for a little while.

“Jamus, you said you have all day?”

“Yes, more or less, why? Got something in mind?”

Rain pulled his notebook out of his pack.

“Good. I just have a few questions...”
