Nobody was allowed to leave after the military commander had made his announcement. There were discussions amongst the people, but everyone was kept in the town hall while we waited. Our population had plummeted with almost every adult man leaving, so we could all comfortably remain here while the soldiers searched everything.There were perhaps ten guards here, and while they allowed some ale to be brought in, along with some chamber pots from the local tavern. There was no food there to bring in, and we were not allowed to take from any of the nearby homes. For the first few hours that was no issue, but once night fell the people were getting progressively angry.The anger receded only a small bit when the military commander, who's name I was told was Orin returned."We have searched the central village and determined that none of the deserters are hiding here, those of you who are able may go home, or may go to friends or relatives homes, you will not be permitted to leave the palisade."He delivered this message as the sun was setting. There were a few complaints, but most of those were only murmured.

We of course went to Barro's house. He had enough room, and knew I would happily provide a bit of dinner. We sat around the small fireplace and talked a bit about that day's events."I'm worried about dad." Was my opener."Don't be." This response was chorused from everyone in the room."But... but he's missing, and we don't know what happened. He could have gotten hurt or something." The others looked at each other for a few moments, before uncle Barro motioned me to come sit by him."Your dad's tougher than nails Alana, and he's got Mystien with him." Barro explained."Maybe they got attacked by bandits, or a monster," I complained."They were in a group of over thirty men, old men mostly, but armed men. Ain't no bandit gonna go after that, nor no monster, not round here at least. More than that, there was no sign of fighting, if there was, the army wouldn't be reacting like this," he told me."Then what happened?" I asked."What happened is they wanted to go. Who knows where they got off to, but they went on their own." Barro patted my head reassuringly."You boys don't know where they went do ya?" Barro looked over."No sir." Both boys shook their heads, "Kinda had a suspicion that something was going to happen, but dad didn't tell us they were all going to desert." Rod said."Don't go repeating that, none of you. That might get a bit of trouble for all of us stirred up." He looked at me, like I couldn't keep a secret. That was just rude. I was full on from another world and nobody knew; I could keep my mouth shut about important stuff. Mystien had even given me basic spy training. Okay, I was still six, but I was a very competent six-year-old."I won't," I pouted.

Around noon the next day we were all called back to the town hall.A few of the soldiers there looked downright pissed."We have begun the searches of the hamlets," declared Commander Orin, "If these are unsuccessful, and nobody steps forward, you will be allowed to return to your homes to gather your things. After which everyone will be restricted to the village until told otherwise." This announcement caused an angry wave through the crowd, one silenced by the group of angry, armed men who looked monumentally pissed."There were some incidents this morning while we began our search." That got everyone's attention. "And so I have a question for the lot of you. Why exactly, in the name of all good sense are there large boxes of bees spread throughout the hamlets?"I immediately understood the angry looking soldiers. I'd be cross too if I were doing a search, and upon throwing open the suspicious box in the middle of the field found it full of angry bees.I told myself not do laugh. 'No laughing, no laughing, don't imagine these jerks having a "SUDDENLY BEES!' moment' That didn't work. I buried my face in my mother's dress, hoping that my loss of composure might be taken as bawling. Being six had a few advantages.My oldest brother, bless him, stepped forward. "The hives are kept for honey production sir, makes it easy to get honey during the summer.""Explain that to me lad," came the response."It's like keeping a chicken, only you don't have to feed them, and instead of eggs, you get honey." Rod seemed to feel that that was explanation enough"That's... insane, but... okay," Orin said, rubbing his temples.After that we all returned to our respective places of shelter. Many of the people from the hamlets had family in town they could stay with, the rest were remaining at the town hall for the moment.As anyone could have predicted the soldiers found nothing. Nobody talked because nobody actually knew where the men had gone, or at least as far as I could tell they didn't. It came to pass that we were all going to be kept in the village proper for now. This was not the end of the world, as it was coming into winter, and almost everyone just holed into their houses for several months, but there were problems.It became apparent when we were allowed, under guard, to go and retrieve our things that the soldiers had left our homes in a right state. Some houses were left open for a full day and things were ruined. About one beehive per hamlet was knocked over. There was also no way we were going to be able to take all of our stuff with us, it just wouldn't fit. We took what we needed and locked up. I grabbed the old spindle I had first cast magic on, adding it to my belt, a bit of nostalgia was okay now and again. The livestock issue became apparent when we got back to the village.There was nowhere to put all of them. There was no way to feed all of them. Arrangements had to be made for chickens, pigs, and a handful of large stock animals. The fact that we were going through a minor famine, and had a drastically reduced population is the only reason it was even close to possible. Even then a fair number of the livestock so vital to our way of life had to be slaughtered and preserved for food.Since our little village would still be playing host to soldiers over the winter the townspeople were moved into vacant homes, or squished in with friends and relatives. It was highly uncomfortable for everyone. This led to an alltime low in the goodwill of our citizens to the soldiers, about twenty of whom had been assigned to deal with our village.

Several days after we were all moved in, Sara and Sandra showed up, along with several of the other children from our village."I really hate to impose upon you, but..." Sandra began, talking to my uncle who'd come to see why there were so many kids at his house."Out with it girl." Barro was a nice enough man, but he was very forward."Several of the families were getting a good bit of food from miss Alana. That situation has if anything worsened, but we're no longer receiving that aid. We've come to ask for help." I liked Sandra she was a polite girl, and my brother's girlfriend."I have no issue with it," I said when my uncle looked toward me.He left the arrangements to us, and it was decided that every day some people would come by to help me with my group casting, and I'd give them the bread made from it for their troubles.This went on for eight days before we were disturbed. My family, along with four of the children we knew were sitting around, bringing food into existence, when harsh knocks came from the door. We stopped and my uncle went to open it, revealing a line of men, led by Commander Orin and our mayor."Greetings," Orin said as he entered. "I've received some reports that an unusual number of different children come by every day." He looked at my uncle. "I'm sure I don't need to tell you that this unusual activity has led to a number of questions, ones that I'd like answered."I had a personal dislike for both Orin and all of his men. They hadn't actually been deliberately harming anyone in town, but they represented everything wrong with the system. Their actions did not harm those they disliked, and yet, they caused incredible suffering and damage to uninvolved bystanders."Well, ask your questions then." My lovely uncle was nothing if not curt."Straight to the point, I like it," the soldier stated as he moved in, looking us all over."We've noticed everyone who leaves seems to take bundles with them, bundles they didn't bring. What's in them?""Bread," Barro stated plainly.Orin raised an eyebrow at that statement, "Interesting, and where are you getting so much bread?""Alana, show him."I grumbled internally a bit, Then obediently sang a short tune, conjuring a small roll as he watched."Wait just a second, I didn't know you could do that!" the previously quiet mayor angrily interjected."That was by design mayor Malke." I told him, if he was going to join with those keeping us locked up, he was getting both barrels of rudeness.He was shushed by the military man, who came over to regard me. "That's a good trick, and the children coming by every day are for... Ah, using them to increase your power?"You could be reading stolen content. Head to the original site for the genuine story.I nodded.He seemed to be running some numbers in his head. "How many additional can you handle at once?" he asked."Around twenty, but I can't keep that going for long, I get better long term results with just under ten." If we were going to be telling him about me, it seemed proper to at least be honest."And you're Alana right? I've heard so much about you from the mayor. I was hoping you might help us out when the snows start to fall, being able to make food is just another good thing you could do." He smiled at me, almost like he was trying to be friends."You and your men have kept us locked up here, and you're causing irreparable damage to our village. I have no intention of helping you."He frowned a bit at that, "My men and I are just following our orders."My old world had prepped me for that excuse to an insane degree. "Many men have done evil things because they were just following orders."He sighed, "What the men of this town did, it can't go unanswered. If nothing was done it would be repeated everywhere, our country would fall apart, surely you understand this?""I do, but that does not mean I am happy about it."The commander thought for a few moments. "What about the men traveling to the front, surely you wouldn't begrudge them?""I wouldn't, but the mayor and army have had years to sort out these issues. If I continue to help them, it will just encourage them to never fix them."Every winter brought another surge. Men were gathered at the end of fall, just after their harvest. It was mostly those traveling long distances that ended up in trouble."Do you plan on continuing to make food for the townspeople?" I was actually surprised that this man hadn't gotten angry with me. The mayor on the other hand was fuming in the corner, looking ready to spit blood."I do." I did plan to, so there was no issue answering this one, and didn't see how it could hurt anything."If you were to move to the tavern you could more easily and fairly distribute it. You would also have volunteers to join your song at any time you wished." His suggestion was sensible, but I couldn't see his angle."I'll order my men not to enter if you do so, nor to take any of the bread you make." I narrowed my eyes at him."Why are you offering those terms?" He certainly knew they were suspicious."Because it will ultimately make my job easier. If the people are starving they will cause more problems, my men could be hurt if that happens. I am also from a town not unlike this, and do not wish to see the people come to harm." It seemed good reasoning. "Your cooperation in that will help the villagers. As well while I would prefer your direct aid, you will also be aiding me. Everyone wins this way."That was an astoundingly good argument. I looked to my uncle for his thoughts. Barro considered for a bit then nodded. "I'll make arrangements with the tavern owner. I imagine he'll be thrilled. If that's what you want."I nodded. Orin smiled and made his way to the door."That's it?!" the mayor burst out as he came to the threshold."What's it?""She's been hiding her abilities from me, intentionally refusing aid, to both of us, certainly..." he sputtered."She is a child. Even if she was obligated to tell us what she could do, which she isn't, the only ones who have the right to command her to labor are her parents and guardians. That aside, providing food is rendering aid. I am satisfied that there is no illegal action here and as the one placed in charge of the military men in this village my decision is final."The mayor was apoplectic while I reevaluated my opinions of Orin.

The tavern owner's name was Perry, and he was absolutely thrilled to have me. He was a very old man, but genial. Barro set us up so that people could come by in groups based on where they lived. A schedule was posted on the door and bread would be provided based on that. We ran six half hour sessions over a six hour period. When the session was going on there was a strict access list as to who could come in, and how much bread they could take, but during the breaks all were allowed to come and enjoy themselves. I had a generous plenty of time to recharge, and while my neighbors got less, it was at least very equal.I gained insight into why the push to get me to heal people was not too hard either. Just a couple of days before the snows began a priest arrived in town. It would seem both the mayor and Orin had called in every favor they could to bring the man, named Rosk, to stay with us for the winter.Rosk was in an interesting situation. Even though he was helping the army, an action that had made the mayor astoundingly unpopular, he seemed welcome everywhere. He was even allowed in the tavern at all times. He always raised his voice to help me summon more bread, but pointedly never took so much as a bite of it. He often gave me kind smiles while there too.These things eventually led me to speak to the man."I like your necklace." I finally called out one day. It was a weak excuse for trying to start a conversation.He looked down, fingering the medallion that hung to his chest, bearing the symbol of a shield. "Ah, the symbol of my order. It does bring me some comfort as well.""My teacher mentioned orders a few times, but didn't tell me much." That much was true. Mystien had mentioned them in passing a few times, but never given any real info on them. I'd assumed they were either unimportant, or he was waiting until later."I would imagine you don't interact with any of the orders too much in a town this small, so that's not overly surprising. Did you have some questions?"Giving me a blank check on asking questions was just too much, "Oh tons! So... what does your order believe?""That's an excellent place to start. We believe in protecting the weak, and providing them what shelter we can.""How so?""Well, for example we run most hospitals, orphanages, and the like, and also promote some rules and laws.""So your order has lots of healers?" That was news to me."Every order has lots of healers, mine is just more willing to put ourselves in danger to aid others.""Huh.""The military uses our services extensively, and the armies of most nations won't attack us or our patients.""Really? Why?""Firstly, because while we stay out of the fighting, if they did, our priests would turn their magic against any attackers." That was no joke. I knew priest type magic specialized in dealing with living things. I didn't know exactly what it could do when turned to combat, but I imagined it would be nasty. "Secondly, because we refuse to work with any army which makes flagrant violations of certain rules.""What kind of rules?""We have rules about the treatment of prisoners and conquered people, hospitals, and child soldiers.""Child soldiers?" I asked, that seemed a weird one."Yes, we believe that those under the age of majority shouldn't be forced into wars or hard labor.""Orin said something about only my parents being able to make me work." I thought that had been a weird statement at the time, if a very forward thinking one."He is not a priest, but he holds tightly to our beliefs. That would fall in line with them, your parents might assign you chores or work to help, but having a government force you to do so would be unacceptable." He gave me a pat on the head at that."In war as well?""Quite forbidden by our rules." His voice was a bit hard on that. I now understood why the young men had been passed over while the old ones were taken."Those are quite good rules," I mused."I think so, do you have any other questions?" He asked with a hint of amusement."Um... this might seem a bit odd, but why did you come here, rather than Hazelwood. They need a healer badly too.""We had a small enclave in Hazelwood, but the baron there harassed some of the young women under our protection, so he will do without." That was harsh, they were not playing with the leaving people high and dry threats. I made a mental note not to cross them without good reason."Similarly," he continued, "this village might be considered either prisoners due to war, or conquered people. By being here I can assure there is no misbehavior. I doubt Orin would do anything, but my being here protects him from accusations of it.""Should I know what the rules regarding us are?" I asked."Mostly that he cannot actively cause harm without reason, and that he must make and allow reasonable attempts to fulfill the needs of those he is stationed over.""So that's why he's allowing..." I waved a hand to indicate the tavern at large.

"Yes of course, may I ask one in return?"I nodded, he'd been amazingly nice to answer me so thoroughly."Were you forced or pressured into doing this? It's a very large amount for one so young. I was initially concerned when I heard about it, but you seem in good spirits and well taken care of."So that's why he spent so much time in here, he was keeping an eye on me."No, I was doing about the same for my neighbors before we were all ordered into the village. It seems the right thing to do."That got me another pat on the head.For the rest of the winter he and I would have light conversation whenever he came by. It was nice to have someone who I knew would not try to work me to the bone to wring out every benefit they could.
