The Head of Howlton grimaced. “I had heard such rumors through the network. I assume that her nature is meant to be an added weight behind your certainty?”

Tala nodded. “Indeed.”

“That is… unfortunate.” He sighed. “Still, if it comes to war, we will do what we can, even if it is just to be a rest stop to warriors in the area.”

She blinked a few times, pulling back slightly. She hadn’t even considered that. “That… that is very kind, thank you.”

He gave her an odd look. “That is not what you were seeking?”

She shook her head. “No. We wanted to ask if you would host a summit between gated humanity and the Major Houses.”

He stiffened. “That… That is a large ask.”

“We know.” Tala turned to Rane, and he took over.

“We understand that it would be putting you and yours in the crosshairs, but we would extract commitments of peace before we ever gave your location, and our own highly advanced people would be here to help keep that peace.”

“You two?” He seemed to be considering.

Rane shook his head, gesturing back to Tala. She gave a consoling smile to Head Paresh. “I will be taking back my position as Eskau of the House of Blood.”

Paresh’s eyes widened slightly, then he burst out laughing. “Are all the rumors true? Did you spit in a Sovereign’s eye after your husband chased him naked through the snow?”

Rane blinked a few times before frowning and opening his mouth to respond. Tala held up her hand to forestall him however. “We cannot discuss that, unfortunately.”

The village head seemed utterly taken aback, his voice small. “Are you saying…?”

Tala shook her head. “I am explicitly not saying anything on the topic. Now. What do you think about the summit?”

“Will you—and those of gated humanity—provide a guarantee of safety to my citizenry?"

Tala grimaced, but slowly nodded. “We cannot promise perfection, but we can promise to do everything in our power to guard their wellbeing.”

Paresh gave a small smile. “Good. If you had given such a promise, I would have denied you as over-optimistic about the event.” He seemed to contemplate, tapping his chin in thought, before nodding. “I’ll want more information on a lot of things… but I think it is doable.”

“Thank you. That will help tremendously.” Tala smiled.

Paresh sighed and gave a weak smile of his own. “Of course. It cost me nothing, and we will be negotiating for fees and such.”

“Understandable.” Not wanting the topic to fall back to Rane and the Sovereign, she chose the next subject. “I can’t help but notice that I haven’t felt any thumping in this region. Did you ever find the tomb of the clockwork thunder?” She now suspected that it was a cell for a magical beast, but there was no reason not to use the local term for it.

Paresh sighed, shaking his head. “Yes and no. An Eskau and Pillar from a Major House came through the area, and we avoided them. After they left, the thumping was gone, and we were able to trace their passage to the entrance. The entry room was ransacked and the seal strengthened.” He shrugged. “So, I suppose the payment went to those it was meant for.”

Tala nodded. “I suppose so.” She almost asked to see the cell, but shook off the impulse. She’d seen plenty of them over the years, and it was hardly the time. “Now, I imagine you have some administrative staff. Shall my adjunct talk with them to arrange the details of the summit?”

Paresh nodded. “Certainly. Will you and yours join me for dinner this night? I know you must leave in the morning, but there is no reason I cannot be hospitable."

Tala glanced at Rane and Lea, who both nodded. Terry was feigning sleep again. “Yes, I think we’d like that.”

“Then let’s get to it. The hour grows late.” He smiled and stepped forward, the magical and reality connections stretching and moving with him. He gestured and the floor opened to one side, a fully set table rising up into the space.

Tala gave him a look. “You knew we would accept?”

He shrugged. “I assumed. I’d have had the food used elsewhere if you had said no.”

She chuckled. “Very well.”

“So, shall we?”

“Indeed.”
