She was taking the time to study Flow in this form. It was powerful beyond what she remembered. It was the ultimate tool of separation, and she couldn’t remember why she hadn’t been using it more often.

Everything else she could do was like using a butterknife when compared to a well honed cleaver.

All of existence was laid out before her, and she realized something important.

She could decide what deserved to continue, and what should be ended. She was the final arbiter of all things.

The commander was more tenacious than she’d expected, but it didn’t matter. He was going to break his own soul-core if things continued much longer, and that would end him just as well.

No matter what, his fate was sealed, so she had all the time in the world.

Thinking of the soul-core drew Tala’s attention to it, and she suddenly saw the whole thing in a new light.

The soul was connected through existence to the next world, to the other half of its broken self, and that was the manner in which the Black Legionnaire was drawing power.

She could see that connection, the bridge made by the broken soul…

She could cut that connection, closing the gate and ending the flow of power.

…But that would be a maiming of the soul, the prisoner, the abused one. Could Tala bring herself to further harm one so wretched, so innocent in all this?

She frowned. Why not? Why would she hesitate to end that which was against her will?

A small voice was screaming in the back of her mind, but she didn’t pay it any mind.

She was the arbiter, and that soul was providing strength to the enemy.

She pulled back the sword, focused on the bridge.

The commander stumbled backward, eyes filling with fear, and Tala suddenly saw a reflection of her daughter in those eyes.

She hesitated, not for the sake of the commander—his end was still inevitable—but for the soul. Her daughter was such a soul, and she was going to destroy this one?

She shook her head to clear it, and she realized that she’d been about to make the wrong choice.

No.

She could not harm an innocent, abused soul. She would not.

The voice grew in strength. -Tala! I really need you to focus up. You’re being overwhelmed by the blade. Finish and let it go!-

She frowned. Was that true?

The commander was now just scrambling to get away, get closer to the core.

That would not do.

Tala flickered forward, briefly wondering why she hadn’t done so before.

-Because you didn’t need to. Your sense of time, and priority is being distorted.-

She grunted and waved away the alternate interface even as she took advantage of her new positioning.

Flow bit through the commander’s arm completely, causing it to trip and crash through a heavily reinforced door, the change in balance momentarily affecting it.

Magical defenses lashed out at the automaton to little effect, but this heavily secured room wasn’t empty.

From the side, a Revered level arcane—a defender of this hold who had clearly been left here as a final line of defense—hurled a lance of blue fire from behind cover.

Most of the magic was stripped back as it drew near the commander—just as that of the other defenses had been—leaving only a finger thick beam of power, but that struck the commander in the cheek even as it jerked to the side in an attempt to avoid the hit.

It drilled through its armor before punching back out, taking an artificial ear upon its exit.

The totality of its reality inscriptions were in turmoil, the power from the gate wavering as the throughput was far too much for the frayed soul to properly sustain.

Tala almost pulled back to wait and observe. After all, the thing’s existence would end soon enough. What need was there to rush?

She could take all the time she—

Tala roared, pushing off the influence of the imbalanced existence within Flow and cleaved off the other arm. Then, as the automaton arm was still spinning off to the side, she banished Flow and snapped forward with both hands, catching the still burning-hot head on either side.

The ‘larger view’ of things was stripped away as the ending-blade was dismissed, and she realized that she’d wasted far too much time.

Even as she made contact with the commander, she was already hurtling her will, her authority, her very soul against the cage that was trapping the soul-core and binding the powerful Black Legion spirit to it.

Existence itself shook around her, which was odd, but she didn’t have a spare thought for the oddity as the commander kicked at her feebly.

Then, its eyes twisted to take in the all-too-close hold-core. Tala hadn’t even noticed them arrive near it, and her eyes widened, understanding an instant too late.

The commander sent the last of its power at the vestige therein, knocking it free, and infecting the entire hold with reality once more.

Tala cursed.

A moment later—now fully uncontested—Tala fully overcame the working of magic and reality within the automaton head, shattering the construct.

Despite the chaos around her, she gingerly extended her will toward the trembling soul that had been within.

-TALA!-

Kinda busy. Evacuate the hold! Tala shoved Alat aside. She suspected that the lingering effects of the ending-blade were messing with her priorities, but this was important. She’d rejoin the outer fight in a moment. If she didn’t manage this collapse, a lot of people would die, and the central column might even be imperiled.

The commander’s final attack had been a spiteful action, but she really couldn’t expect anything else from these things.

Alat tried to press in again, but Tala held her back for a heartbeat even as she ushered the soul that had previously been the soul-core for the commander on to the next world. Then, and only then, did she mentally turn back to Alat. I need help here. Is my help with whatever is happening out there worth a catastrophic realignment of this hold?

Alat actually hesitated, and that very fact made Tala pale. Finally, Alat responded, even as she worked to drive their reality iron spikes into the edges of the hold to provide extra stability. -No. But it’s close.-

Let me know if the balance tips.

-Will do.-

The arcanes had actually already been evacuating, blessedly, so it took less than a minute to get the remainder free, and Tala evacuated right behind, pulling the infected dimensionality into herself to protect the innocents within the city around her.

She cried out in pain and dropped to her knees even as she returned to the superficial.

It took long seconds for her vision to clear and her perception to return. When it did, her eyes went wide.

Two massive automata stood on opposite sides of the central column, two others lay broken nearby—clearly the recipients of some of their contingencies—and her returning perception of the city found four more of the massive things in active clashes with Pillars and Eskau throughout the city.

The blood-covered Revered City Lord was clashing with two commanders, and they were clearly acting to keep him back as reality bent around the column of vestiges.

They’re really going to try to destroy it? Tala staggered to her feet even as power gathered around it.

At the same time, other magics flared into being, their most powerful workings coming to bear to keep the column whole.

They hadn’t been fools. They had all sorts of countermeasures in place.

In all honesty, unless a Sovereign decided to help the Legion, there was absolutely no way the column would be harmed. Still, she wanted to be closer. She would need to be in order to take advantage of the backlash of their failed attack, and…

The central plaza was suddenly smaller, a piece of Zeme cut free and anchored to one of the massive automata.

She stumbled at the sheer impossibility of such a feat.

They’d made a mini-cell… that could be moved?

They’d taken superficial dimensionality and clipped it from Zeme, pulling the surrounding space together. That defied all that she understood as possible below Sovereignty—at least without far more power than was present—and reality clearly agreed.

Cracks like those found at abandoned city sites immediately began growing around the anchor automaton with even small shifts from the titanic thing.

Even so, the other automata came and slammed into the anchor, twisting reality and carrying them both away.

Tala dropped to her knees as her very being screamed against the violation.

Existence was offended by the very act.

On top of the external pressure and displeasure, she fought the churning within her self as the remnants of the reality taint was driven from her newly claimed dimensionality. All the while, she tried to sort through her confusion.

The Black Legion titan hadn’t stayed long enough to cause much damage, but they had directly caused damage, and they in theory would continue to do so wherever they went.

It seemed that, beyond all expectation and assurances, the Black Legion had fundamentally changed. They were willing to harm reality, which shouldn’t have been possible given their nature. Bend it? Sure, but never harm without very great cause.

Either that, or Tala was misunderstanding their mindset or perspective…

-Tala.- The alternate interface’s tone carried a level of concern that immediately pulled Tala’s attention.

What now? She staggered back to her feet. There were still automata she could hunt. Lea was nearby, and she needed to get to her. Rane and Terry were outside the city and could likely use help as well. And—

-Tala!-

What? She snapped back in irritation.

-There was a dampening of magical communication that we just got through. No enemies sighted in the Cycling Cities or Wandering Wilds, but we weren’t the only southern city hit. -

What? Her tone was now one of confusion.

-Croi is in flames, communications are coming in from all over the south. So far we confirmed that at least ten cities have lost their central column including Croi. The world fragment was untouched, but some other holds are in ruins. Master Xeel is engaged in a city to the north-west, but he’s the only Archon who was able to arrive in time. He reports that he can’t keep the column protected for much longer… Tala, there is a senior commander there, supported by a standard one.-

Tala’s eyes went wide yet again. By the stars…

That… This was a disaster.

Still, she didn’t fall into despair; she couldn’t.

Gated humanity and their allies would have to change their approach. They had to pull together and find a way forward, but regardless of anything else, Tala felt the growing weight of one simple fact: This was only the beginning.

The End of Eskau, ReforgedBook 14 of Millennial Mage<Yes, I see the irony.>
