“— But I don’t think we need them, since we all seem to have the same experience there.” Krigea shook her head. “Back to the point: There is a disconnect in current lightning magic theory between the Small Shock experiment, [Lightning], and [Nature’s Fury]. You’d think we would have something truly Basic in the electricity vein before now. Like the Small Shock, but bigger. So I can only conclude that everyone must have misunderstood the phenomena, for all these years. I’m sure that part of this disconnect is that those two higher spells are derived from Mana Shaping 7 to Lightning. There has been no base lightning magic before you created [Call Lightning] that was not granted to followers of gods or certain demons, and… I can appreciate those deific forces in my life, but they’re not the most scholarly, and Rozeta never tells anyone how anything works.”

Zago must have seen Erick flinch. She asked, “Something wrong, Mage Flatt?”

“I had a conversation with Rozeta about my [Call Lightning], just this morning.”

The room got very intense. Krigea sat down, looking stunned.

Erick barreled on, trying not to lose focus. “Rozeta said ‘enough relevant entities don’t like your spell’ so it has to be changed. She mentioned a goddess of storms from Nergal who was ‘particularly unhappy’. She also said that ‘a lot of relevant entities like the rain part, so that’ll stay’… Or something to that effect. But the outcome was that [Call Lightning] doesn’t work against a weather [Ward] now.”

Krigea said, “Huh. But weather [Ward]s don’t stop mage lightning.”

“We’d have heard pretty fucking fast if something like that changed!” said Crimsonscale.

White Wrought said, “We must test this, right now.”

“Theory today, Rilas.” Zago said, “Weather [Ward]s have always stopped natural lightning, but with even the smallest amounts of a mage’s mana directing that lightning, a weather [Ward] is turned useless.” A smile spread upon her face. “This seems like a good basic spell, now. It was wildly too powerful before. Now, anyone can defend against it, just like how absorption wards are good against basic spell damage.”

Krigea said, “This spell will still be widely used, just not as much as before.”

“It’ll make more kids take [Ward].” Crimsonscale said, “More kids need to take [Ward]. I don’t know why they all don’t.”

“Because if they’re not a mage they can’t support the 500 point absorption wards everyone expects mages to have," Zago said. “Armies were already routinely using weather [Ward]s anyway, so this makes [Call Lightning] rather weak, but I’m sure that if you were to cast it with a Mana Alteration for Lightning, you could get around this restriction for a few hundred mana more.”

Crimsonscale said, “A 700 mana spell? That’s balanced against [Nature’s Fury], not counting the prerequisites.”

“Quite.” Zago said, “Moving right along~ How about that rain, Mage Flatt?”

Erick admitted, “I have no idea where that came from. I just wanted to make some lightning and the clouds and water are needed to create that lightning. I’m as pleasantly surprised as everyone that the rain is usable all on its own.”

That cause some pause among the group.

Krigea said, “500 mana, long duration, multiple uses… [Call Lightning] is not a basic spell, but it’s the one he was going for, and it is, technically, a basic spell. Something is not right.”

Another silence spread.

Zago said, “I disagree. The natural process described here is purportedly something so normal that everyone, thinking that lightning was something so grand, just couldn’t envision how simple the whole process truly is. The mana cost is a side effect of the necessary space needed to cause this natural process to begin. The duration is the same as for [Stoneshape] and other shaping skills, but there are not unlimited lightning bolts in a single [Call Lightning]. Every bolt called drops the… The ‘electrical charge’ present in the cloud. I think the true nature of this spell is that it creates the cloud and makes it rub up against itself, in some grand game of carpet and sock, with minimal mana spent to actually link the spell with the designated target. The rain is likely a result of throwing your mana into the air to create a watery cloud, and then not using that cloud. That mana in the cloud then decays and the natural result is rain.”

Her words hung in the air.

“Guildmaster Zago, I think you are wrong about that last part.” Krigea said, “There are no known cases of mana decaying into water.”

Zago hummed, then said, “The rain didn’t start until nearly the end of the first spell. The second spell was cast almost immediately, which might have captured some of the previous cloud that had yet to dissipate. This is when the rain really started, but even so, it was not a strong storm. I might not have all the facts yet, Krigea, but the logic is there.”

Krigea looked mollified as she nodded.

Crimsonscale said, “I think Krigea is correct about something being not right, though. Looking at all the other basic spells, [Call Lightning] does not fit. I think there is another gap, here, one that we could exploit to create a whole new set of lightning spells, as long as we think small and personal. Like how there are many different Force spells.”

Erick said, “I wouldn’t do that… I think you’d kill yourself if you tried to personally cast lightning.”

Crimsonscale asked, “And why is that?”

Zago gasped, excited.

Zago said, “Because the exchange of electrical charge is what causes damage! If you cast real lightning from your fingertips, you would also be subject to all the damage you have done.” She announced, “I think we have solved a real mystery here today, gentlemages! The reason why no one has invented real lightning magic without using the Mana Alteration for lightning is because they have, for one reason or another, not accounted for the damage done to themselves by the lightning they seek to control!” She laughed. “The Script knocks you unconscious with error messages if you try improper magic, but it also knocks you out if you try to harm yourself with your own magic. There are thousands of ways to cause error messages, and there’s no way to tell which Script protocol you tripped!” She laughed again, but only her daughter chuckled with her.

Krigea said, “I would accept that explanation. Preliminarily.”

Bronzescale said, “This is all well and good. But I’m going to require Erick to explain everything he said, all over again. Preferably with more detail.”

“Of course!” Zago smiled, saying, “Please, Mage Flatt. Start from the beginning again. We may have questions this time.”

Erick smiled. “Sure. So, this is an atom—“

“Right. That.” Zago cleared her throat, and said, “I got distracted, because you did create a spell and Rozeta has approved it, and all of that wonderful discussion. But infinitesimal magic is forbidden by the Script, so… Did Rozeta mention anything about that? It seems to me that you’re skirting a line. You should have gotten a warning from Irogh, at the very least. Rozeta would have said something about this, if it was a problem. So. Why is this... atom stuff, not a problem?”

Crimsonscale added, “Adding to this: we’ve known for a long time that fire consumes material to create itself, but we cannot make a fire spell by directly exploiting this property. We have to use Mana Altering 5 for Fire, in each and every case of fire spell creation. Can you explain this discrepancy? Why is ‘electricity’ allowed but fire is not?”

“A good addition,” Zago said. “Mage Flatt? Do you have an answer?”

The other people in the room stared at Erick, all of them waiting for an answer.

Erick thought for a moment, about what ‘infinitesimal magic’ could possibly mean—

Atomic magic. She’s talking about atomic magic. So is Crimsonscale.

“Ah! That? Rozeta did not mention anything about this being that sort of problem, but this isn’t really infinitesimal magic, if that is what I think you’re talking about. Electrical charge is the top-most layer of all atoms, and that layer is as changeable as clothes on a person. Electrical charge runs all living bodies and all brains, too, so electrical magic should not be interacting with the infinitesimal layer. Fire breaks down molecules, releasing energy from other molecules to make more fire and so on and so on, in a process that runs until all relevant materials are consumed, but electricity is not fire. They might look the same in some ways, but there is a fundamental difference.”

There was another pause.

Krigea said, “That would explain why lightning damage paralyzes the target.”

Crimsonscale said, “And why fire magic needs to go through Mana Altering 5. Fire seems in direct violation of the Sundering ban on both infinitesimal magic, and self-propagating magic.”

Zago chuckled, “More mysteries solved! Just like that!”

There were a few reluctant nods around the room.

“Okay! So!” Erick went back to the chalkboard, erasing old drawings and making new ones, explaining as he drew, “This is the modern visual representation of an atom. You got the proton and neutrons in the middle, and the electrons in a cloud on the outside. Atoms try to balance themselves with their surroundings to achieve the lowest possible energy state, usually with a net 0 electrical charge. This is a normal hydrogen atom. It always has 1 proton in the middle, 1 electron on the outside, and almost always 0 neutrons. This is an oxygen atom. It always has 8 protons in the middle and usually the same amount of neutrons or a little more, with some electrons on the outside. Hard to know the exact number of electrons there, because electrons are friendly, you see. They move around.

“Electrons are the glue that holds much larger friends together. I know these larger friend groups as molecules. Water is a molecule, one of the most interesting, and it’s composed of 2 hydrogen and 1 oxygen, with each hydrogen sharing its single electron with the oxygen. I’m focusing on water, because water is naturally electrically unbalanced. See the bend I have drawn here? This bend exists because of the nature of electrons. This makes the molecule have a positive charge on the hydrogen side, and a negative charge on the oxygen side, and because of this bend, this natural electrical propensity, a lot of things dissolve in water. Don’t ask me why, I kinda forgot why.

“It’s because of this ability to dissolve things that water is capable of carrying electrical currents, for only with some free electrons from some dissolved solids, can an electrical current move through water without turning that water back into hydrogen… and… Hmm. That part might be too complicated for now. Let’s erase that and talk about that later. For now, let’s focus on the free electrons, floating through space, and how that relates to electrical charge...”

The resulting lecture and conversation took the rest of the day. By the time the sun dipped down to the walls of Spur, everyone was ready to stop. For the day. They’d resume tomorrow in the morning, because that’s what Zago decided, and that was fine with Erick. She didn’t ask if that was okay, but it was. On the walk home, Erick was very glad that he remembered almost all of Jane’s high school and college-level physics homework.

… He probably got some of it wrong.

Shit.

… Oh well!

Ah! Fuck. He told the farmers he would go to the farms today.

Dammit.

Oh well.

Erick arrived at the Sewerhouse just in time for a massive dinner cooked by Savral, in which all of his team attended. They had invited Jane out for a test run in the Crystal Desert tomorrow, and she was eager to go. All of them kept calling it the Crystal Forest, though, for some bizarre reason. Erick still didn’t understand that, and all of Savral’s team didn’t understand why Erick didn’t understand. That was okay, though. Jane was on his side.

Al was on Erick’s side, too, because he didn’t understand the local custom either. He wasn’t originally from Spur. He was originally from ‘all over’. When Erick called him on that nonsense answer, Al just laughed.

- - - -

As Erick closed his eyes on yet another day on Veird, he wondered how magic actually worked.

Where did [Call Lightning]'s rain come from?

What happened to the thick air from a [Cleanse]?

What was mana, exactly?

How was it all connected?

Ahh. That was a good one. Good, mystical thoughts.

Erick didn’t need answers, but it was good to imagine them!

This is what magic should be.

… Sure, Erick was answering questions at the guild about scientific stuff, but that was just science. Science was great. Everyone should know more facts about how the physical world worked. Science lifted man to the moon and killed smallpox and made the internet.

But it wasn’t magic.
