“You want to ensure the next rising star isn’t antagonistic towards us,” Artemis said. “No, better than that. You want that person to consider us an ally already, or, at the very least, to recognize our respect for the new generation.”

“We are merely positioning ourselves for a change that is inevitable,” Nature’s Attendant nodded. “You have already seen some of the young geniuses from this new generation. I’m not even talking about the Chosen of the Malefic Viper, but those from his planet. Several of them are candidates to become another figurehead for the younger gods, and in the rest of the new universe, there is no lack of such candidates. Ell’Hakan, the former Chosen of Yip, was also a monstrous genius in his own right and only fell because he made an enemy of one superior to himself.”

“And a rising tide raises all boats,” Artemis muttered. “The competition amongst the generation will allow them to spur one another on to reach even greater heights. The Records will echo among them, creating an even stronger effect as they inadvertently help one another.”

“Dina has already experienced this,” the second-in-command of the Pantheon of Life said with a small smile. “Those fifty years in Nevermore were far more beneficial than I can even imagine. Not just for her immediate growth, but the Records from the connections she formed will help her Path greatly.”

“I will admit, I know little about Jake’s party members outside of the cursory,” Artemis confessed. “Well, I know Dina, and I’ve heard much about Sylphie, but the swordsman and the Unique Lifeform, not so much.”

“Yes... the swordsman,” Nature’s Attendant said. “A Unique Lifeform is a Unique Lifeform. Powerful by default, as is their birthright. However, that swordsman... I cannot quite find the words to describe him. He is overshadowed by his proximity to the Chosen of the Malefic Viper, but we cannot overlook or forget about him. Doing so would be a grave error.”

“He’s that powerful?” Artemis asked with some surprise. “I understand he’s a Transcendent, but from what I know, it’s not an overwhelming one. Glimpse of Spring, I believe it’s called?”

Nature’s Attendant smiled and shook his head. “The hint lies in the name. Glimpse. I’ve not been privy to it, but during his battle with Umbra in the Colosseum of Mortals, he fully unleashed it. Afterwards, the recording has been sealed, and the Court of Shadows refuses to share any information. All I do know is that afterwards, the swordsman’s danger rating in the Court of Shadows’ internal system was upgraded and is now equal to that of the Chosen of the Malefic Viper.”

Artemis frowned as she recalled the otherwise unassuming old-looking swordsman. Besides looking old, Artemis hadn’t picked up anything else special about him besides perhaps his calmness. She had seen the recording of her image losing to him in the Colosseum of Mortals, and from that alone, it was clear he was an extremely skilled swordsman, but still. The highest danger rating from the Court of Shadows was not easily achieved.

“Anyhow, enough talking about the future of the multiverse,” Nature’s Attendant said. “Instead, let us go plant a seed to further the relationship between the Pantheon of Life and the person who seems to be at the center of this new era. I also wouldn’t want to hold you here for too long, so you can get back to him.”

Artemis nodded as she and Nature’s Attendant teleported away toward the personal garden of the god. This conversation had been very clarifying to her, and she also felt that she was considered closer to the absolute apex of the Pantheon of Life than ever. Perhaps some of their thoughts and concerns also extended to her now, if she truly did continue to grow closer to Jake.

However, so did the expectations and hope she suspected Yggdrasil and Nature’s Attendant both held toward her. It was almost funny to consider the impulsive and emotional decision to pursue Jake that both her image in Nevermore and her true self outside had made would somehow become part of the considerations made by Primordials and other apex beings regarding the future of the entire multiverse.

Seeing her own recent progress after many years of stagnation, she also began to think that perhaps the rising tide of the new generation was a lot higher than even the top factions realized.
