...Knowing what little she knew of Song’s life and how horrible a person Jin Tok was, it felt silly to be jealous of the resilient half-cat, but Yan still couldn’t help herself.

Arm in arm with the both of them, Lin led them next door for lunch with Rain only to discover he was having a midday bath. Leaving the others to play with the twins and the animals, Yan snuck off to surprise her beloved and maybe steal a few kisses or more, but the moment she slipped inside the steamy, stone-brick bathhouse, she froze in place at the sight of Mila shushing her into silence. Taking her hand with a smile, the freckled red-head nodded at Rain sitting in the bathtub with eyes screwed shut and Sent, “He’s trying to make Chi Tea.”

Again? After waking from his stupor following the battle in Sinuji, making Chi Tea was first thing Rain tried, but to no avail. The jolly, heavy-set monk said Rain had reached a unique state of Balance, one which did away with the intelligence and reasoning of man to replace it with base instinct and bestial cunning. Honestly, it didn’t sound like something Rain would do, because he was always going on about understanding and simplifying the mysteries of the Martial Path, but everyone who’d seen him firsthand during the Wraith and Demon ambush agreed with the monk’s description of Rain’s behaviour, if not his conclusions.

A description which filled Yan with cold, unyielding terror, for any fool with eyes could see Rain’s ‘unique state of Balance’ was dangerously similar to the Defiled’s lack of Balance and restraint, and not even the good monk could convincingly answer how the two differed. Still, if anyone could stand firm when faced with the Father’s foul temptations, it would be the Mother’s Chosen Son, Falling Rain.

Resisting the urge to slip out of her clothes to do some tempting of her own, Yan tore her eyes away from Rain’s bony but broad shoulders to study Mila instead. “So,” she Sent, noting her friend’s flushed features and glowing smile, so different from the usual sullen glower. “You tried the restraints.” So red her cheeks matched her hair, Mila shrunk back and tried to cover her face, but Yan relentlessly pressed on by ‘trapping’ her in a bear hug. “Seeing how he’s still in one piece, I take it they worked well, but now it is your turn to share.”

While Rain and the others were fighting on the front lines, Yan had been beset on all sides by the devilish Da’in and an equally curious Mila, the two formidable warriors making fast friends in a matter of days. Together, they wrung out every sordid detail of Yan’s dalliances with Rain, and then they made her retell the same stories using entirely different words and adjectives. Mila’s interest was understandable enough, but Da’in had done it just to see Yan squirm, a fiendish, merciless woman with a tongue as sharp as her sword and a wit to match.

Luckily for Mila, that fox-eyed vixen wasn’t here to press her for specifics and Yan’s interest lay solely in giving her friend a taste of her own medicine, but there were still details aplenty. Usually so confident and domineering, this shy, blushing Mila was adorable to behold as she recounted her morning dalliance with Rain, a riveting tale of lust and submission which had Yan burning for more. So brave of Mila to place herself in such a compromising position for Rain and trust him not to go too far, but when she showed the bruises on her legs and the shards of her shattered restraints, Yan realized that there really wasn’t any other choice.

In hindsight, maybe it was a good thing Yan didn’t press Mila to consummate their marriage as a trio, though there was something to be said about the fiery girl’s shapely, milky-white thighs...

So captivated by their discussion, neither one noticed Rain until he stood to open the window and greeted Ping Ping lingering outside. “Hiya big girl,” he crooned, holding out a ladle of bathwater while Yan and Mila fanned their faces to cool their combined ardour. “You want a drink?” Squeaking happily at the sight of her favourite person, the Guardian Turtle left the water untouched and pressed her beak closer for a pat, a request Rain granted with a conflicted smile etched across his face. “Guess not. Sorry big girl. I’ll figure it out soon enough.”

After a thorough scritching, Rain bid the squeaking turtle farewell and sank back down into the water to ward away winter’s chill. “Oh hey,” he said, finally noticing Yan’s presence. “How was morning training?”

“Same as always,” Yan answered, sensing he didn’t want to talk about his failure to make Chi Tea or whatever it was he called it these days. “I could use a bath myself though, got all worked up and sweaty.” More from Mila’s story than sparring with Luo-Luo, but put both together with the sight of water dripping down Rain’s pale, adorable behind and Yan was ready to push him down and risk breaking something of his herself.

Without missing a beat, Rain grinned and replied, “Water’s still hot and there’s plenty of room. Enough to comfortably fit three.”

Unable to resist playing along, Yan weathered Mila’s glare and put on an expression of wide-eyed innocence. “Well, sister? What say we join him? You can finish telling me your story and maybe we can come up with a working solution together.” Leaning in to give Mila’s cheek a chaste, but lingering kiss, Yan whispered, “Or at least have fun trying.”

“Debauched perverts the both of you. Drain the tub when you’re done.” Stomping out with her cheeks aflame, Mila barked, “And if the two of you aren’t out by the time lunch is ready, we’re starting without you.”

The door slammed shut behind her and Yan burst into laughter. It wasn’t kind to make light of Mila’s difficulties, but she couldn’t resist. Wiping away a tear with a sigh, she turned to Rain and cupped his cheeks with a sigh. “Oh Mother in Heaven, I needed that. I think that might be the first time I’ve seen her scurry away with her tail between her legs.”

“Why?”

“Hmm?”

“Why did you need to be cheered up?” he clarified, kissing her palm while gazing up into her eyes. “What’s the matter?”

“It’s nothing.” He didn’t need to hear about her jealousy and insecurities, or about her fears and doubts. Right now, he needed her trust and support, and that was what he would get.

“It’s not nothing.” With a bright but conflicted smile, Rain leaned in close and rested his head in her arms, not quite hugging her for fear of getting her clothes wet, but it was close enough. “I’ve got a lot on my plate, but that doesn’t mean your problems don’t matter or I don’t have time to hear about your troubles. If you don’t want to talk about it, that’s fine, but I’m always here to lend an ear, shoulder, or whatever else you might need.” Gratified by the offer, she simply smiled back and shook her head, so he dropped the matter. “Well, the offer stands from now till eternity. Either way, it’s good to see your beautiful smile again, beloved,” he said, gesturing at his towel laying out of reach in silent request. “Now, let’s not keep – ”

Batting his hand aside, she instead pulled her tunic over her head and tossed it to the side, smirking as Rain’s jaw dropped and eyes went wide with lust and appreciation. Turning her back to him, she slowly slipped out of her trousers with a generous wiggle of her hips before sending them to join her tunic, giving Rain a moment to drink in the sight. “Ladle please,” she said over her shoulder, smiling as he came to his senses just long enough to understand human speech. “I wasn’t joking about needing a bath, but I need to rinse off before getting in.”

Which she did, though she took longer than necessary just so she could tease him a little more. While Mila might be satisfied with games of touch and kisses before marriage, Yan needed far more to slake her thirst, and temporary though his recovery might be, Rain was more than up to the task.

They were late for lunch, but it was well worth the wait.

Chapter Meme
