The doctor said goodbye and went back to her office, and Elise checked with the secretary to make sure her insurance was valid for the continuing care she would need, then paid the fee for the things that weren't covered. She walked out of the clinic and climbed into her Hummer H2 and sat there and trembled at the shock of what had just happened. She took several deep breaths and did her best to calm down.

“I'm pregnant.” Elise said and lightly touched her belly. “I'm really pregnant.”

Her cell phone beeped at her and she dug it out of her purse. She read the message Barbi had sent and thought about it, then told her to go right to Ren's house so they could speak in person. Elise put the cell phone away and started the vehicle, then drove back home to Ren's place.

Home. Elise thought and let a smile appear on her face. Our home.

*

Gloria rolled over in bed and she didn't know what to do. She had been so used to getting up early to go to class that her mornings were now a sleepless void that she desperately needed to fill. She thought about going into the game; but, she wasn't quite ready to face Ren after everything that had happened between them. She had been tempted to call him and tell him he was an ass for tossing her aside like he did; but, she also understood why he did it. It really did clear the way for her to make the important decision she needed to make, and it was easier because he had removed all the pressure she had on her mind over her thinking she had to abandon the research project... and him and Stella... to do it.

Gloria also hated that he had to do it, and that he did it for her sake. She wanted to let him know that he was right, that the tech company only wanted her to get at him, and that she was stupid for only thinking about how much money she could have gotten if only she had been a little smarter about how she handled things and wasn't that concerned with anyone else's feelings but her own. She rolled over in bed again and gripped her pillow hard and screamed her frustration into it. She sighed and rolled back over and stared up at the ceiling.

“I wish I had someone to tell me what to do.” Gloria said and sighed, then her phone beeped at her. She reached over to her nightstand and picked it up and saw it was a text from Steven, Stella's brother. She hit the call button and he picked up on the first ring.

“What the fuck do you want?” Gloria asked.

“What's wrong with this picture?” Steven asked and sent her a picture, and she saw a well-mounted alternator and attached fan belt, then she looked closely at it.

“You idiot!” Gloria said into the phone. “You used the wrong mounting bolt!”

“Hey, I'm not that stupid.” Steven said. “It came in this way.”

“What do you want me to do about it?” Gloria asked. “It's a simple solution.”

“Yeah, it would be... except for where the other end of the extra long bolt went.”

“Son of a bitch.” Gloria sighed. “I really hate homegrown mechanics that don't know their dick from a monkey wrench!”

Steven laughed. “At least it wasn't me this time.”

“This time.” Gloria said. “I guess Frank wants all hands on deck?”

“I wouldn't annoy you by calling if he didn't.” Steven said. “When can you get here?”

“Give me half an hour.” Gloria said. “I assume...”

“...it's a high priority client.” Steven said. “I'll let Frank know.”

“See you then.” Gloria said and hung up without letting him say goodbye, rolled out of bed and put the cell phone down, then stripped off her sleep clothes as she entered the bathroom. I guess I'm not wasting the whole morning doing nothing after all. She thought a little grumpily and hopped into the shower.
