Gleaming crystal towers dominated the horizon in every distant direction, some of those towers only a dozen kilometers away, others, over 50. If this were any other part of the world and if those towers were of normal size, then Erick wouldn’t have been able to see them past the curvature of Veird. But Erick was in the Brightwater, at least 20 kilometers below the surface of the planet, and yet he was only halfway down to the bottom of this place. The Brightwater District was a massive bowl, where bright white light hovered at the bottom like a perpetual cloud, hiding sight of the civilization that existed on the coasts of the lake at the center of it all.

This was a land where Shades had played at civilization for over 900 years.

But no longer.

Erick stepped through the sky, evading the woman chasing him, not exactly sure how to defuse the situation.

Caizoa, some last name, had been a member of a Wasteland-led party that had completed an artifact run of Ar’Kendrithyst’s Armory. She and her people had won the Black Star; a greater artifact of Koyabez that provided total immunity to everything, as well as allowed the user to find their target across entire worlds. Erick had understood the Black Star was supposed to go to someone else, but Caizoa now wore the Black Star upon her blue armor, like a burnt brooch, as she continued to follow Erick through the sky, crying some of the way. It was hard to tell. Her body and blue armor was like billowing sand, that moved as she moved like a demon possessed.

Technically, she was a demon. All incani were demons. Or, at least she would be, when she finally died her final death, and her soul slipped away to the pink moon in the sky known as Hell. Caizoa wouldn’t be dying for a long time, though. Not with that Black Star on her chest.

And that part frustrated Erick. She had that Black Star because she was going to use it to kill the Converter Angel out there, threatening the rest of the incani on Glaquin. Erick wasn’t quite sure what was going on here, and why she was gunning for him, but even if she managed to kill him, then she would die, wouldn’t she? According to what Quilatalap said, the Black Star decides the wearer's fate for each life they take. If she killed Erick, then wouldn’t she be killed in return?

Erick knew he was not some beacon of purity, or innocence, or anything like that. But he highly doubted that as an Avowed Pacifist, already vetted by the same god that empowered the Black Star, that Koyabez would be okay with his Black Star being used to kill him. Especially when Erick had already promised to use his power to hunt down the Converter Angel, himself.

So how had this happened? What sort of chain of events had led to Caizoa rushing at Erick with murder in her eyes and hatred in every swing of her three-meter long blue sword? Maybe Erick would never know. He certainly wasn’t going to find out right now, at least.

Caizoa screamed murder and stepped through the sky, trailing sand as she moved through the wind, coming just close enough to be too close. Erick stepped away, well before she could latch onto him with her tether. She screamed again, more frustrated than angry, this time.

Erick decided: Tania must have something to do with all of this nonsense.

Erick spoke through the light of the sky, his voice easily sounding over the hundreds of meters to Caizoa for he was not willing to get close, “Hey, Caizoa. What’s wrong?”

She screamed, “You killed my friends!”

“I did no such thing.” Erick thought for a moment, then asked, “Did Fallopolis do something?”

Caizoa yelled, “Of course she did! All you humans work together! All of you deserve to die!”

Erick decided there was only one way this was going to go.

He let her get close to him a dozen times. He let her attach her tether, several times. Each time, he moved his sunform self and the tethered part of him into Caizoa’s attack, and let her sever her own tether. Instead of telling her that her attacks were useless, he showed her.

She screamed obscenities. She recounted a dozen atrocities that Erick had never heard of. She spoke of the ‘weak-willed’ nobles who they had to kill to get their hands on the Black Star, to do what needed to be done.

“We had a plan!” Caizoa said, completely unfazed by how hard she had been fighting. She probably used some healing spells to keep her Health high, or maybe the Black Star negated the need for such resources, or maybe she had some Dexterity, cutting down on the Health costs of all her physical [Strike]s. “Then those pigfuckers wanted to get in bed with you! All because you promised them a [Gate] Network! But you’re a lying human!” She attacked. Erick let her, and then extricated himself from her attack as easy as a lizard leaving behind a tail. She screamed. She yelled, “As soon as you figure out that [Gate], you’re going to open portals to Celes! And then we’re all going to die!”

Erick had been silent up till then, but he couldn’t let those words stand unchallenged. “I would never do such a thing.”

“LIAR!”

“I would no—”

She yelled at him, drowning out his words as she continued to attack.

So Erick flickered the light next to her, ensuring that his voice could be heard and she could not drown him out, “Melemizargo wants a [Gate] to the moons as a part of his plan to destroy and harm the Script and Veird. Therefore, I would never make a [Gate] to the moons. To any of them.”

She stopped, her feet swirling sand as she hovered. With a crazed smile on her face and hate in her eyes, she happily said, “Then I guess I don’t need to fight you and kill you, do I! Okay! Nice! Why don’t you come closer so I can give you a hug.”

“… Take off the Black Star, first.”

She laughed out hate, and yelled, “I can’t! It’s a part of me until I die or displease it! You’ll just have to trust me that everything is fine, now!”

“I think I preferred when you were actively hunting me.” Erick said, “At least that felt more honest.”

She roared, and advanced, quickly covering the distance between them. Erick let it happen.

She attached her ethereal tether to his sunform and proceeded to swing her blue greatsword. Erick evaded without moving, having grown used to her simple attack style. She would attack and Erick would flow his sunform around her attack. Sometimes, she would attack, and then [Strike] in a different direction, rapidly shifting the arc of her sword, but even that much damage was not much of a threat.

He messed up a few times, and according to his mana sense and the density of his [Personal Ward], Caizoa was knocking off at least 50,000 defensive power with each [Strike]. It was a good thing his [Personal Ward] was worth 280,000 effective-Health, as Jane had called it once. But 50,000 wasn’t too much of a hit, and that only happened four times. Besides, it seemed that for all the Black Star’s power, even Caizoa wasn’t exempt from the Script’s 1 second global cooldown. Most of her attacks were normal sword swings.

Erick disengaged again, having Caizoa [Strike] her own tether to break her from him. She nearly didn’t hit her tether, this time, for she, too, was gaining some measure of acclimation to Erick’s flowing defense. But she did hit her tether, and then she roared again; inarticulate and angry.

Erick got far enough away to spend 17,000 mana to recast his [Personal Ward]. That much mana would come back over 13 minutes, but regenerating 200,000 defense would take about 2.5 hours. Erick did not have time for that. He did, however, have time to talk more to Caizoa, and to help her come to her senses.

… He probably had time.

Erick was up to 10 Ophiel, and he had eyes on a great deal of the Brightwater. Shades were killing Shades, all over, and none of them were currently coming after him, though he knew that would certainly change in the near future.

Over there, by the Palace District, Fallopolis was still fighting Queen. Fallopolis sent black beams thick as towers and black lightning fast as thinking at Queen, while Queen retaliated with kilometer-wide elemental roils and bounced black beams back at Fallopolis with elemental shields. It looked exactly as Erick figured an archmage duel would look. Way too flashy. Way too deadly. The Palace District was already burning down below, while bodies laid where they had fallen, and people tried to escape. Most of them rushed into the crystal towers outside of the Palace District, but it was not truly safe there, either.

A shade made of blood, who Erick now recognized as Crimsonair, the human Shade of Blood, stalked those clear-crystal districts, blood slashing through crystal towers like a storm of blades, searching for the opponent who had fled and destroying much of the land in the process. As a tower fell like some great tree, it fell toward the Brightwater, falling like a slow moving bomb, and then speeding up as it finally fell forward enough to fall free, into the Brightwater. Cascades of glowing water showered into the sky, as a great thwap sounded across the greater district.

Erick did not see where Crimsonair’s target, Cludolphis, the incani Shade of Mending, went. She was the one responsible for repairing the destruction of the larger battlefields. Erick could only wonder at what she was thinking right now, as Shade fought Shade, openly, and with all their might. Only a few crystal towers were falling forward, and into the brightwater. Some were collapsing where they broke, and then further breaking as they fell straight down, smashing and crashing and breaking as they went. Erick watched, momentarily, as he saw three parts of the bowl of the Brightwater District fall right then, in three very separate parts of the area. He held his breath, as some of those broken towers stopped falling.

The broken crystal just hovered there, like the levitating mountains in Truedark.

An explosion rocked the land to the north; the Temple District. Erick watched as a citadel tower of the Temple District began to teeter, as shadowflames licked up its length. And then that sight went out of sight, as Caizoa forced him further west.

Erick found himself on the shores of Truedark Arcanaeum. Just beyond Erick laid a land where mountains floated on nothing and the majority of Brightwater’s people lived. He had no real population numbers, but from his investigations just yesterday...

There were hundreds of thousands of people down there, and with a glance, Erick saw that the fight had progressed to this place, too. Castles made of stone were on fire. Mountains had been turned half-liquid, to fall upon the communities below and bury people under a billion tons of rock. Here and there amid the destruction, were giant balls of stone, literally half the size of the melted mountains.

Erick watched as Farix fought someone else; another incani, actually. Erick took a moment to pin down who the other guy was, and came up blank. No distinguishing magics, so far; many different Shades used stone magics. No distinguishing features, and it wasn’t like Killzone offered pictures of the Clergy.

Farix threw arcing [Force Bombs] that exploded the sky in various colors. The other guy picked up 500 meters of a mudslide, turned it into a giant ball, and hurled it at Farix, all in one smooth, fast motion. Ah. That was a recognizable spell. Erick knew the second guy, now. He was Mallor, the Shade of Granite. According to Killzone, he oversaw the Bottom Wall of Ar’Kendrithyst, down in the deep dark of the Lower Reaches. He was tied with Salvolanche, the human Shade of Stone, for weakest Shade in the city.

Mallor’s ball missed, because Farix dodged that shit as easily as stepping to the side. And then the ball hit the side of a mountain a kilometer away, obliterating several houses as it buried halfway into the dirt.

That was bad.

Erick decided to get involved.

He stepped toward the battlefield, leaving Caizoa far behind. Her fading roar of hatred vanished into the background as Erick stepped to the air a good distance from the fighting Shades. Farix and Mallor both noticed, right away. How could they not? Erick was a giant ball of sunshine right now, after all.

Erick asked, “What’s happening, guys?”

Farix yelled, “Tania has gone fucking insane! She’s killing everyone!”

“She has every right to kill whoever she wants!” Mallor yelled, “Lay down and die, Farix! If you don’t fight with us, you’re against us!”

Farix added, “And this fucker thinks she won’t kill him in the coming purge!”

Erick avoided Caizoa attacking from behind. Farix and Mallor paused their own fight to watch Erick’s and Caizoa’s, as the blue incani sliced through thin air, and Erick stepped back down onto the light of the sky, a good two hundred meters from where he was before. Caizoa screamed in impotence.

Erick thumbed at Caizoa. “Happen to know why she thinks I don’t want to help kill the Converter Angel?”

“Anopix didn’t trust you, and Tania doesn’t either!” Caizoa yelled, “Now hold still and die!”

“Yes.” Mallor sneered and spoke with wild glee, “Yes! Kill the Angel-fucker!”

Mallor acted faster than Caizoa. He magically gripped a good hundred meters of mud below, wrapped it into a ball, and hurtled it at Erick, all in under a second, breaking the sound barrier with the ball of rock as it rocketed his way. Erick dodged, of course—

… That ball wouldn’t hit a home somewhere, would it? … No. Probably not. Erick had been at the wrong angle. The ball continued on into the sky, arcing upward and… Shit. It probably would hit something.

