Something swirled in Erick’s own aura, like the start of a tsunami in the middle of the ocean, right after a quake had been set off far, far below. Without buildup, that wave crashed through Erick. A pulse from his soul erupted outward, blinding in its intensity of need, dimming his sight as it passed like an unseen weight upon the world.

That unseen weight flowed from Erick, into the dark glass, and into the body below the surface, wrapping around Hollowsaur’s core before sinking in and becoming one with the Shade’s entire being. The Shade’s Shroud folded back inward, a flower closing, back to how it had been before Erick had demanded the man’s life, and everything that went with it.

For a startling moment, Erick wondered what the fuck he had just done. And then he put aside thoughts of warcrimes and mind control. This obviously wasn’t mind control, after all. It was a blessing of sight and emotion that would link Hollowsaur back to the people he had tormented his entire life.

… If Erick had fucked up, maybe he would know sooner, rather than later.

A blue box appeared.

Blessing of Empathy, 30 seconds, Sound + Understanding + Acceptance, 1500 mana

Blessing magnifies when harm is committed.

[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]

That line of smaller boxes was inscrutable and worrying, but that was a thought for another time.

Erick acted fast. With one Ophiel, he instantly [Stoneshape]d the dark glass out from around the Shade, rapidly excavating Hollowsaur’s front half before taking a bit more care with the bones, and with the dull orb in the center of it all. Free of his glassy prison, the orb began rapidly sucking up mana, becoming a well in the manasphere, as all power flowed in.

The crack in the orb repaired itself, mostly. Blood appeared out of shadows, to flow into veins and arteries that came out of nowhere, and were supported on invisible scaffolding. And then the flow of mana flickered. The orb shimmered, and cracked again, as all the blood and nascent organs in Hollowsaur’s body fell from their scaffolding. The man was dying.

Erick hadn’t done enough.

But what could he do to help, more? He wasn’t too sure, but he had some ideas.

With a thought, Erick had the Ophiel with his go-bag, who was currently stationed far out of sight, step across the Brightwater and into sight, carrying the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] and a canteen of water. While that was happening, Erick had another Ophiel conjure a [Prismatic Ward] above the Shade’s body, while another [Stoneshape] turned the glass cavity into a true bowl, cupping all of Hollowsaur like a massive bathtub. The canteen of water emptied into an Ophiel’s grip, inside the [Prismatic Ward]. With a flick of [Cleanse] to clean out the water and the glass around Hollowsaur, but not Hollowsaur himself, an Ophiel released his [Duplication Aura]. Erick controlled the flow with his own solid lightform, so the high-pressure flow didn’t harm Hollowsaur. In a short while, Erick raised the water level around Hollowsaur, until the Shade was fully covered with minor-mana-potion water.

Shades were beings of mana, right? Erick had even trapped Hollowsaur and that other guy, Mallor, into a [Luminous Trap]. So even if they looked solid, they were not truly physical. Maybe. So a mana potion would help, right? Too bad Erick didn’t have any of those. The few stocks of potions he had seen in his various searches of this land, were here, in the Temple District, and those potions were very much gone.

The dark scaffold supporting Hollowsaur’s bones and bloody bits reappeared under the mana waters. As Erick watched, arteries and organs seemed to fluff up, as his white-orb center began to glow again.

With a command, another Ophiel turned on his [Cleanse Aura], but he didn’t inundate all of Hollowsaur at once. That would probably disturb the bones and building body parts too much. Instead, he manually moved the [Cleanse Aura] around the man, touching bones and blood, letting loose thick air under the water, like champagne bubbles. The veins around those bones were disturbed, but they came back into position fast enough.

Hollowsaur’s body came together even faster.

Erick touched the body with the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds].

Hollowsaur’s orb finally healed, the crack vanishing like it never was, as mana swirled down from all around, into the tank. Three seconds later, with a new heart sitting above his white orb, that heart pumped blood, and filled the tank with red. Erick was still able to watch with his mana sense, and an Ophiel’s [Blood Sight], as Hollowsaur repaired himself over the course of five minutes, eventually sucking all the water in the tank into his reformed body, exposing deep green skin that was unmarred by the man’s usual scars.

Erick sighed, hoping he had done the right thing.

Hollowsaur opened his eyes. They were not as bright as they had been, but they were still white. He said nothing, as he breathed. He stared up at nothing, while he laid there in his tank, and the world rained black waters all around their little [Weather Ward]ed area, but not upon him, or Erick, or Ophiel.

Hollowsaur clenched his fist at his side, then relaxed, as he touched the glass under himself. He sat up. He would not look at Erick. Erick did not speak, or force him to acknowledge anything.

A moment passed.

Hollowsaur gazed to his side, at the black glass landscape. Black rivulets ran down [Weather Ward] above, while Hollowsaur continued to stare.

Tears collected in his white eyes, and rolled off his face.

Erick waited.

Eventually, Hollowsaur said, “We’re not what he wants. I thought we were. Through everything… We did what he wanted… But it wasn’t… It wasn’t what he actually wanted. Was it?”

“A lot of people go through life pursuing things that are not good for them. I doubt the gods are any different than the rest of us.” Erick had made his voice kind, but now he turned stern, “The only way this is going to function is if you actually want to and then work towards a better future. Otherwise this arrangement is over before it can even begin.”

Hollowsaur laughed. He rubbed his eyes with the back of an arm. “Yeah.” He said, “I’m aware of the contract.” He breathed out, “Shit.” He touched his chest, and Erick saw the Shade’s soul flex. He said, “That’s some fucking… Some fucking Curse you got there.” He suddenly sobbed into his hands, heaving for a moment, right before his emotions overtook him and he just cried.

Erick watched as Hollowsaur’s soul turned chaotic and restless, and his heart beat hard atop the white core underneath. He watched as tendrils of something hopeful reached out from the man, attempting to connect to something out in the world, but failing. Erick wasn’t sure why he thought that Hollowsaur was trying to connect to someone, but it made sense. Or maybe Erick was just ascribing his own ideas to what he was seeing.

Hollowsaur suddenly cried even more, as he muttered, “Oooh, Spot. Fang…” He asked himself, “Why did I do that? Why… Why...”

Erick felt like reaching out to the man, but the day was young, and the war was still happening out there. So he said, “Hollowsaur.”

Hollowsaur snapped, “What?! Damn you!” Hollowsaur dropped his hands, showing a face full of anger. And then he blinked. Something shifted in his soul. He turned contrite, and worried, and chastised, all at once. He looked away, whispering, “Holy fuck. That’s some fucking curse you got there.”

“… It’s not a curse. It’s a blessing.”

“Ha!” Hollowsaur said, “Fuck you, I haven’t felt this way in 200 years. God. Wait.” He stared. “You.” His soul flickered, suddenly reaching out to Erick, only to be batted away by Erick’s own soul.

Erick frowned. “What the fu—”

“You got a connection to the Red Bitch, don’t you? I was free of her, dammit! FUCK YOU, ERICK.” Hollowsaur said, “I killed my pets so they couldn’t be used against me, and now you put your own damn leash around my neck! Fuck off and die!”

Normally, those sorts of words would have caused Erick pause, at the very least. But Hollowsaur’s anger had been an empty thing, directed at the air, and possibly at himself more than anyone else.

Erick ignored the man’s wants, and said, “I helped you because you helped those minotaurs become people again, even if you had to be forced into doing right. I returned your goodwill back to you, as one should do almost always.” He added, “And now, maybe you’ll actually be someone that others want to see in the world. It’ll be hard, and long, and distressing, but maybe you are worth saving. Maybe your life is worth living.”

“Then what about this damned curse?” Hollowsaur sneered, but his sneer faltered, even as his voice kept on going, “And your ability to ‘heal’ leaves much to be desired. What the fuck was this… tub… And a magic wand! That’s... Learn some... Learn some darn magic… already.” He looked away, whispering, “Shit.” He lifted a hand, and touched the world, vibrating a red string that Erick had not noticed till Hollowsaur touched it. “Fuuuuuck.”

“… What was that?”

Hollowsaur glared at Erick, but had no fire in his eyes, or his expression. “You reconnected me to the Red Dreaming. Asshole.” He laughed, to cry, as he repeated, “Fuck.”

“I did no such thing?”

“You’re connected to the Red Dreaming, aren’t you?” Hollowsaur had said, “I hadn’t put any stock in those rumors, but I guess they were true. So this is my torment—” He suddenly stopped talking, and with a heavy voice, said, “I need to fix the minotaurs.”

Erick had no trouble letting his anger show in his own glare. “What did you do.”

Hollowsaur eyed Erick. “I fucked them over bad.”

“Then let’s have you help them. Fix them properly. Can you still [Shadowalk]?”

Hollowsaur touched the shadows all around him. Then he wrapped them around his waist, covering his nudity as he stood up, taking a half-step into the air to stand on shadows. “Fuck… I guess I can.” And then he glanced to the air, narrowed his eyes, then suddenly paled, his green skin turning seafoam, looking like he had seen his own ghost. He seemed to be reading something.

A Script message, then? It had to be. Erick waited.

Hollowsaur took a deep breath and touched a suddenly-appearing blue box to slide it Erick’s way, saying, “Looks like your Curse has gained some divine recognition.”

Special Quest!

Repent, Sinner.

Years: 0/101

Deeds: 0/1001

Erick read the box, then said to Hollowsaur, “It’s not a curse. It’s a blessing.”

Hollowsaur snorted. Then he pointed up and out. “You’ve got a tagalong, you know?”

Erick said, “Yeah. I know.” He looked to the left, spotting Caizoa in the sky, exactly where she had been for the last ten minutes. Ignoring her, Erick turned to Hollowsaur, and said, “After a stop by the map, let’s go help those minotaurs.”

Erick stepped away, his sunform flickering as he left. Hollowsaur followed, flickering shadows.

A second later, Caizoa followed, trailing sand.
