Priestess did not deny it. She reveled in it, as she happily called out, “Erick! You should join us! Melemizargo surely has plans for you, too! We just all need to die to escape this current crisis! The faster the better!”

So she was insane.

Maybe he could work with that?

Erick rapidly thought about what was needed.

He turned his voice angry, which was not very hard, and forcefully said, “There will be no mass-suicide today, Priestess. I need you to help me figure out which Shades should live through this, and which should die. I demand this of you, here and now. So pull yourself together and HELP. ME.”

She chuckled; a friendly sound. “But Erick. The solution to our problems is already here. Just die with me, and it will all be better!” She was not insane in the usual way. Melemizargo had already brought her back several times, if her own words and those of Killzone could be trusted. But as the starlight in her eye sockets swirled, and she glimpsed people struggling against their captors, her voice took on a harsher tone, as she spoke to the captives and her priests, “Everything will be okay when we pass beyond the flames. It doesn’t hurt that much.” Priestess turned back toward Erick. “Come with us, Erick.”

He played along, “I’m not prepared for what comes after the resurrections. What sort of world are we going to fall into? And besides that, how am I supposed to make this Mana Generation Wizard Core without knowing more about all of that, first? I need you to tell me all about that. I need you alive!”

“No, you do not! Worldly affairs are meaningless in the face of Melemizargo’s displeasure!” Priestess spread her arms wide. Black flames licked across the sky, as she declared, “Die and be reborn with the rest of us!”

Erick came back to himself, recoiling from a destroyed Ophiel, just in time to see black flames roll across the Temple District like a Red Dot explosion. He was already five kilometers away, but he stepped backward, fast. He was barely fast enough.

Black flames washed across the Temple District like the unfurling of the world’s largest lotus. Petals of flickering flame blossomed outward, continuously, blasting away towers with their shockwaves, sundering crystal, evaporating the river, extinguishing all other colored fires and pushing back the Brightwater with concussive force.

Erick’s sunform flickered as the very air bent and broke, but he was far enough away to avoid the death and destruction which claimed everyone else. Fire passed him, and he withstood its destruction. And then the outward force turned inward. Erick watched as the black lotus turned into a mushroom, and rose in the sky, blackening the world as it passed, carving a hole into the ever-present light that rested like a false-sky across the whole Brightwater District.

The few other fires, the reds and greens and blues, were sucked into the sky as the black cloud lifted higher and higher, and winds whipped across the Brightwater and into the dark cloud. The lake followed the sudden inward tempest and broke its banks, flowing into the former Temple District. Massive plumes of steam lifted from the molten land, as the glass near the waters cracked and broke under temperature fractures.

A minute passed from explosion to black mushroom, before Priestess’s spell vanished completely into the sky above. Another minute passed, while Erick processed what he had seen, while he calculated the loss of life, and the aftermath. He looked upon the land, and felt despair, like a tiny knocking on his soul, loud enough to drown out the power of [Hunter’s Instincts]. The land of the Temple District looked like the outsides of Spur looked, after the Red Dot. All he saw before him was a land of glass that had been whipped up to stiff peaks, and burned, like the meringue coating of a freshly baked lemon pie.

Belatedly, he recalled seeing Caizoa’s sandform self flying through the air. She was not dead, at all. But apparently, explosions this large could overcome some of the Black Star’s invulnerability, and move the user with the power of excessive physical force. Erick filed that thought away for now. He filed away many of his weird, current thoughts, and tried to stay on track.

But what sort of track was he on? He had not exactly lied to Priestess. He had hoped to enlist her into finding those Shades worth saving. Maybe? Is that why he was here?

… Why was he here?

It was for allies, yes, but also…

Erick looked down upon absolute destruction, and felt his heart move back into the correct position. He could find temporary allies, yes, but if there were Shades that could be saved, then that would be good for a transition period, wouldn’t it?

He breathed out, and felt a minor panic, as he wondered just how insane the Clergy actually was. They had all seemed like perfectly normal Evil People until now…

But they were burning the Temple District specifically, weren’t they. They had lost their faith, when the secret got out that Melemizargo hated them all. That Melemizargo’s displeasure was why Tania had been Judging them and killing them these past days.

And that fact broke more than a few of them. Priestess had been broken, too. It was hard for Erick to imagine a sane person doing what she had done, even if it was true that she had come back to life multiple times because of Melemizargo’s desire. Erick doubted that all of those parishioners would be coming back. Did Priestess not see that?

Did Erick have that right? Priestess had been the off and on priestess for Melemizargo’s Clergy since before the Sundering. She was only a skeleton because she was an alvani, the child of an angel and a human, and alvani were impossible under the Script, ever since the Old Demons had killed all the Halves and made the incani.

… Erick put away those old thoughts. They were getting him nowhere.

The Temple District was gone. The fires that burned had been extinguished, either when the black bomb destroyed the place, or when the land had melted into liquid and then cooled into glass. Here and there, parts of the place had survived; the lee behind a particularly large temple, or where a boxy, sturdy building had managed to be buried by the blast, instead of being blown apart like so many others.

With a cold detachment, Erick thought about calling in some rains to cool the place down. But if he put water down there, it would steam up, and maybe kill anyone who had managed to find a place to hide out?

… No. That made no sense. Anyone down there who survived…

No one survived that. And if they did, they were probably under the glass, and praying that it would cool down faster.

Unsure what he was even doing anymore, but knowing that he really, really wanted to make it rain because he liked the rain and he felt like doing something that he wanted to do, Erick had an Ophiel cast a [Control Weather] into the sky, and hoped that it would be enough for whoever still lived; if anyone. It would take a while for the rains to fall, though. The Temple District was a good 30 kilometers below the surface of Veird.

The blackened sky turned to cold wind.

Five minutes passed before the rain reached all the way down to the glassed land, turning black as it fell through the sky above. Another four minutes passed before the rain managed to remain liquid long enough to actually touch the black glass. It didn’t remain liquid for long. Steam filled the sky. More minutes passed. Half a kilometer away, Caizoa stood in the air, her eyes affixed to the land ahead, tears rolling down her face. Erick could only guess at what she was seeing, and what she was thinking.

The Brightwater glowed down below, but Erick’s rains washed black ash into those waters, forming dark tendrils of ink that seemed to poison the light, dimming the radiance, turning the world a little bit colder. The glass of the Temple District crackled with a sound not unlike breaking glaciers.

With a thought, Erick moved on. He needed to find allies, right?

… Or he could help people survive this current crisis.

There were two ways to go about this. He could hunt Shades, and prevent more Red Dots from happening, or, he could… try to rescue people? Doing the first would automatically do the second.

… Whatever the case, he could try a different method to search for Shades. He considered the core at the center of each of them. Fallopolis had one. Priestess had one. Maybe they all did. What did it look like again? Oh yeah. A 10-15 cm wide white sphere, right where the stomach would be. Could he just search for something of that general size?

He tried it.

He got over three hundred positive results.

He almost sat down in the air and had a cry. 300 Shades? Fuck!

And then he noticed that only some of the blue dots moved around. The others were stationary. Maybe he had simply managed to get multiple results with his single search? It seemed likely. Or, at least, it seemed possible.

With [Hunter’s Instincts] allowing him to work through the pain in his heart, Erick decided to check the two orbs that remained in the Temple District, first.

The first orb was locked under a wave of black glass and inside of a building. With a wave of [Stoneshape], that glass came away like so much churning mud, to fall out and over into the pouring rain. The uncovered orb was nothing special. It was locked to the claws of a sculpture of Melemizargo, in what had likely been some sort of small worship center. It was almost like a grand-rad, in that it was solidified magic and a knot in the manasphere denser than most grand-rads, both sucking in and expelling mana in some sort of natural flow. It was definitely similar to the sphere at the center of Priestess, though Erick had never seen this kind of ‘flow’ among Priestess’s body, or the body of any other Shades. Maybe this was a dead Shade-core? Or something?

Erick left it behind, and stepped over to the other blue dot on the map.

He found what remained of Hollowsaur. Or, at least, what might have been Hollowsaur.

A plume of black glass rose from the surroundings, like a singular wave crested out of nowhere. Most of the interior was clouded, but Erick spied the searched-for orb inside of a charred skeleton. The bones were of orcol size, with a skull that had large lower fangs, exactly like an orcol. The orb was whole. The skeleton’s arms were crossed over the chest, protectively. Slight magics radiated from the white sphere, giving a gentle glow to the surrounding glass. This… was probably Hollowsaur.

… Was he still alive?

If Erick wasn’t in his sunform, he was sure he would have felt his heart sink. Hollowsaur’s orb still glowed. He might still be alive. So, the next question naturally flowed: Could Erick murder this man? Was that the right thing to do? To murder in cold blood, when presented the head of an enemy-of-the-world? Erick gazed upon the trapped skeleton with several sights. He felt himself go cold, even though the glass all around him was still billowing steam into the air, as he recognized a truth.

Erick whispered, “Holy shit you’re still alive.”

Hollowsaur responded with a pulse of light from his core that left him dimmer than before. Erick had an Ophiel set a [Weather Ward] up above to keep the black rain off of them.

“Severely weakened.” Erick said, “But alive.”

Erick watched as Hollowsaur’s orb ebbed brighter, radiating some sort of anger, but then it cracked, dimmed, and darkened; A candle flickering its last breath.

Panic swelled.

From the deepest, most true part of himself, Erick knew he could not kill this man. Not like this. Never like this. And yet, he couldn’t let the Shade die. And yet, he also couldn’t let him live.

Something else swelled in the mana and in the shadows and light all around. Power built, and demanded to be used. Like a flickering light on a dark street at night, Erick saw a way forward where he wouldn’t have to kill. After all, Veird was a world of magic.

And the solutions of ‘kill or regret’ was a silly binary, when you truly thought it over. Erick decided a few crucial things about himself in that moment. He decided to make his first Blessing.

Or maybe it was a Curse? Hard to say. ‘Both’ was surely an option, too.

Erick decided he wouldn't let his curse be a noose around Hollowsaur’s neck. It had to be something else. Something more honorable than that. Something that included way too much soul magic that Erick had read about, but not yet truly tested.

But that was okay, too.

Erick turned to flesh and bone, and breathed in the harsh air all around him, feeling the mana as it flowed through his body, and around his soul. It felt like an old friend visiting for the holiday.

“Hollowsaur.” Erick’s voice rumbled, “Hear me. This is a binding. You will accept it, or you will die.”

Hollowsaur’s corpse flickered, angrily, and then reluctantly. His orb glowed, for perhaps the last time. And then his defenses lowered, completely. Erick watched as the Shade’s soul unfurled, the Shroud breaking, exposing the interior, opening like a flower. And then Hollowsaur’s Shroud dropped, completely.

Erick saw Hollowsaur, in that moment, as he spoke in cadence, “A little help from me to thee, a blessing for you now to see, the people in the light who plea, for worlds where Shades are loved to be. Amends you’ll make eventually, a life well lived, a life lived free, but till then there is to be, a leash round you, without a key. Now tell me true, are we to see, the end of woe; rebirth of thee?”

