Erick stepped a bit higher into the sky, just in time for the next stone orb to come his way. An Ophiel shot off a [Prismatic Breaker] at the spell, which, of course, did nothing. It was stone moving at a very, very high speed, after all. But Erick didn’t stop there. Another Ophiel attempted to grab the passing boulder with [Stoneshape], and that, surprisingly, also still did nothing. Must have been Domain-empowered? That was the most obvious answer.

Erick stepped closer to Mallor, evading another orb, as Mallor ripped rocks from the ground and flattened them into rough blades. With a twist of his hands, Mallor sent the blades spinning around him like he was the center of the world’s largest blender—

As an Ophiel stepped into the blades, behind the Shade, sacrificing itself to cast a [Luminous Trap], while a second Ophiel, far out of the range of the blades, cast his entire self into the Variable cost to summon an ethereal blood ooze. That red goo gleefully slithered through the sky, slipping through spinning stone with the barest of resistance to strike Mallor right as the black orb sucked him into its dark depths.

Erick summoned another Ophiel, in preparation for something else to happen.

A black orb locked around Mallor. The blood ooze theoretically locked down his spell work. The swirling spikes fell to the ground. The mud below turned solid; maybe Mallor had been actively controlling it? Erick didn’t test his trap too thoroughly. He just stepped to the side, keeping well out of Mallor’s range but repositioning at the same time. As a second of no response turned into five, Erick noticed that while no part of Mallor stuck out of the black orb, the blood ooze did. The pokey parts of the red ooze moved around the void-black globe like suddenly raised and lowered islands of red gelatin. Mallor must have been struggling inside.

Erick was struggling outside, too, but only with the fact that his plan had actually worked. He still didn’t believe that [Luminous Trap] actually did what it looked to be doing. It was too useful against the Shades. But then again, maybe [Luminous Trap] was just the Shade-equivalent of a vampire’s weakness to sunlight?

… Did vampires exist on Veird?

Ah. Not now.

Erick let [Hunter’s Instincts] carry him right back to the moment; right back to the fight.

Because Caizoa looked to fuck up Erick’s [Luminous Trap] by sand-stepping right at the black void, with her sword raised, and then cleaving down with shadows licking the blade’s edge. A [Dispelling Strike]? Perhaps.

Farix, not one to miss an opportunity, had been preparing his own strike ever since Mallor was locked to the black orb. The Shade’s was a bit more magical than the warrior’s. About fifty coruscating [Force Bomb]s launched from Farix, to impact the black orb, right as Caizoa slashed through that void with her sword. Mallor’s rebirth into the world was cut short, as that part of the world briefly turned to burning reality.

Caizoa came out of that event completely unharmed.

Mallor did not.

As the pulsing, burning bombs finally dissipated, a burned corpse fell through the sky, further igniting as it did, turning to ash and dust, well before it could reach the solid land below. Mallor had died. Erick got a Participation Box for the kill. 70%. It wasn’t enough for a level. But...

He… He didn’t know how he felt about that.

In the process of thinking about Mallor’s death, Erick had accidentally let Caizoa get close enough to reapply her tether. Erick dodged a little, not making much of an effort to actually escape the attack and yet still doing so, as he wondered, again, how he felt about unintentionally killing a Shade. Caizoa roared, again. And as a matter of fact, now that her roar happened again, he noticed that it had been a rather constant roar, every minute and a half or thereabouts.

He asked, “Is that a [Roar] buff, or something you keep applying to yourself? I can’t really see anything that you do under all that divine fire.”

She did not answer, except to stare, as she attempted to cut him down. Again.

Farix noticed, and from a safe distance, asked, “What’s up with little miss Black Star and you?”

Erick moved himself out of the way of another [Strike]. “I have no idea.”

Caizoa attacked a dozen times before she could release another proper [Strike], which Erick also evaded. He was getting better at this, and Caizoa was only marginally improving. Her [Strike], characterized by the rapid directional shift of her sword, was her only truly dangerous attack, and that was on a 20 second timer.

Farix asked, “She does know that you’re obligated to help with the Converter Angel, right?”

Erick said, “I’m thinking that Tania wiped her memory selectively, or something. Maybe Quilatalap did it, for whatever reason. Obligations, perhaps? He did mention that memory wipes were necessary when giving out items like the Black Star.”

“No one touched my memory!” Caizoa roared, “You’re just the enemy in front of me and none of us are getting out of here for another six days!”

Farix crossed his arms, and said, “You could theoretically kill Tania and break the Feast Barrier, little girl, if you could actually manage to hit true occasionally.” He lifted one hand up, as if wondering what the fuck Caizoa was even thinking, as he said, “But then again, what the fuck are you even thinking, attacking any one of us at your level of mediocrity?”

“EVERYONE ELSE IS DEAD.”

Farix laughed. “So? Quilatalap can resurrect them.”

Caizoa swung her sword, empowering the 3 meter blue blade with a [Strike]. Erick flexed his sunform, and had her hit her own tether, releasing him from her grasp. He stepped away, getting well out of her range. Maybe, in a normal situation with normal 1-second global cooldowns, Caizoa would have been more of a threat. She could have almost instantly reapplied her tether. But in here, where it was 20 seconds between Skill use, Caizoa was rather mediocre.

Caizoa stared bloody murder at Erick, as she stood there, in the sky, her extremities and blue armor swirling away like sand off of a sandcastle, only to come back to her body to replace what had been blown away. Erick studied those sandy movements for a moment. She must have been running a [Stone Body] and [Air Body] at the same time. Erick had heard of Jane’s experience with a guy that ran [Air Body] and [Water Body] at the same time; that guy had looked like a seafoam wave in the shape of a person. Stone and Air, though, combined to make Sand, so that was normal enough.

Erick wondered, if he got [Greater Shadowalk], could he make himself an [Illusionwalk]? He probably could. But… Eh. He liked his sunform. If he went for an illusion form, then he’d need to make a [Domain of Illusion], too.

It was something to consider for the future, anyway.

Caizoa faced Farix. “Help me kill him and I won’t kill you.”

Erick watched as Farix burst into laughter.

“Ha!” The Shade shook his head at Caizoa, saying, “No wonder Tania gave you that Black Star. You’re an idiot.”

“And you’re a disgrace to incani and demons everywhere.”

Farix blinked a few times, then mumbled, “Like every stupid kid on their first day at Truedark—” He spoke louder, asking, “When you look at Erick, what do you see?”

“A human that will betray his oath to kill the Converter Angel the first chance he gets!” Caizoa said, “And it won’t be because he won’t try. He’ll fail because he will get too close to the Angel and fall under their sway, like all the others who had done so! Therefore, he must die before he gets too close to the bastard and becomes a threat unlike any other.”

Erick paused in thought. But only for a second. He said, “You have to get near them, right? That won’t happen.”

Caizoa glared at him from a hundred meters away. “You are an arrogant asshole. You would try to talk to the Angels, and they would turn you, and then use you against the rest of us.” She hefted her sword. “If you truly wish to assist our cause, please stand still, so that I can end a threat before it becomes one.”

“Ah. Interesting.” Farix said, “You have thought this out, if only a little.”

Caizoa’s glare shifted toward Farix, who was also a hundred meters from her. The three of them formed a sort-of triangle in the air, at the moment. She said, “You should die, too. But as a respect toward my late Uncle Anopix, I will let you live, if you help me kill Erick.”

“I repeat: you have only thought this out a little. You don’t actually know what the fuck you’re talking about, at all, and that includes your assessment of your ability to hurt me.” Farix waved. “Bye!”

He vanished in a flashing, black step.

Caizoa screamed at the sky, “Coward!”

Erick interrupted her, “Is there a way to protect against the Converter Angel’s conversion?”

Erick had been told and knew from a few different sources how Breach Demons worked. Once summoned to Veird through a ritual [Gate], a Breach Demon would go on a rampage, killing people with a gesture, and simultaneously replacing their souls with those of demons, or rather, the souls of dead incani, which would then begin to transform the body into a stronger vessel for their needs. Breach Demons were the stuff of nightmares released, and always summoned where a lot of humans had died. The summoning of a Breach Demon was a historical event that almost always happened once they were started. Erick’s high-profile, public prevention of the last Breach Demon was a historical first.

Converter Angels, however, were spies that dealt in subterfuge and the toppling of kingdoms. Erick had heard that a Converter Angel was responsible for the fall of the Lori Dukedom and the chain of events that caused the Wasteland Kingdoms. Where Breach Demons breached the body and reinstated a demon inside, a Converter Angels did exactly as their name implied. They transformed the soul of a target into one of the Heavenly Host of Celes, letting them keep everything about themselves, but firmly converting them to the side of the Angels. The only saving grace here, was that Converter Angels did not convert everyone in sight. They supposedly had limits, though Erick suspected those ‘limits’ were more practical than actual. The demons liked to rampage, but the angels liked to topple kingdoms with as little expenditure as possible.

Erick was just going to avoid the whole problem of subjecting himself to the angel by killing the creature from a good 12,000 kilometers away, or whatever.

Caizoa glared at Erick. “There is a way to protect against falling to the Angel. Let me kill you.”

“Ah. Well.” Erick sighed. “That’s not going to work for me.” He stepped far, far away, leaving the blue woman behind as he moved on. She would catch up soon enough. But whatever. Erick had some concerns at the moment, and Caizoa didn’t rank amongst any of them.

- - - -

Erick had three primary concerns.

The first, was that he needed to know why Fallopolis had been fighting Queen. He couldn’t quite tell why, but he had the distinct impression that Fallopolis would be better served elsewhere, wouldn’t she? Like, on the side of her fellow human Shades, fighting the incani, as they worked for Tania? Wasn’t she better served fighting Tania? Wasn’t that what Fallopolis had been planning on? Fallopolis had never told him her plans, but Erick got the distinct impression that her plans involved rounding up some idiots to fight with her, and then killing them all after she had won.

Erick’s second concern was more nebulous, but linked to the first. Where was Tania, anyway?

Erick sent a sunform Ophiel high, high into the sky, way above the Brightwater, where he could see out along the tops of the crystal spires all around, and into the red-purple crystals out in the normal part of Ar’Kendrithyst. With a cast, Ophiel launched a [Cascade Imaging] into the illusion-filled sky, and mapped the dead city, searching for Tania. Maybe something would show up? Maybe not.

Erick’s third, and largest concern, was for all the people caught in the crossfire. He wondered, perhaps, if he would have focused more on the people if he weren’t running [Hunter’s Instincts]. But he was running [Hunter’s Instincts], and a large part of him kept thinking of how resilient the people of this land must be, if they could live under the rules of the Shades. Most of them were probably fine, and hiding out in their own hiding space—

A telepathic connection tickled at his mind. It felt like it was from Fallopolis, but he was aware of how someone skilled enough could fool a telepathic connection. It had happened to him before, back when he was going up against the Daydropper Queen. So Erick ignored the call.

Thirty seconds later, while Erick was still deciding where to go next, the Ophiel beside his map, nearly 25 kilometers straight up, sent a concerned feeling. Erick glanced through that Ophiel, and saw Fallopolis standing in the air beside his white map, looking down at the blue dot that was near the Spire. Ah? What was she doing there?

It was nice to see that the map was able to find Tania, though.

But… Hmm.

Fallopolis smirked at Ophiel, and Erick felt another telepathic ping from the Shade in front of Ophiel, to Erick. He still didn’t pick up, but he did change his direction to straight up. Ten steps later, Erick stood a hundred meters from his map, and from ‘Fallopolis’. He kept a straight face, and gave away nothing, but this was not the woman who had walked beside him all the way to the Palace District. And now that he was closer, with more than a few Ophiel running more than a few different Sights all around, he could see the frayed edges of the lie in front of him.

