A phantom hand smooths my hair, but when I open my eyes, no one is there, though I can almost feel the imagined love and concern still lingering in the air. The pain has not lessened one bit, but there is work to be done, and my day unfolds as it has every other day in this hellhole, starting from a boot to my ribs and ending with dinner and a torture show. The days blur and my agony grows, the self-inflicted wounds never mending, but the next time the knife is thrown at my feet, there is almost no hesitation to my actions. The handle feels cool in my hands as I drive it through the guard’s boot, and in response, they flay my skin in long strips and slather salt into the wounds. They bind my arms and hang me up until my shoulders pop out of my joints. They beat my feet until the bones are shattered and work their way up to my neck. They slice the tip of my finger off and cauterize the wound, then slice some more and repeat.

Yet once they are done, death does not come, and I find myself staring at the knife once again.

And again, the knife goes into the guard’s boot. Left this time, since the right one moved out of the way.

More torment awaits in the form of an elaborate stretching device which slowly pulls me apart, and again, death is denied me. Up goes the knife, this time aimed at the crotch, and again, I am tortured to death. Knife, attack, torture, die. Knife, attack, torture, die. Knife, attack, torture, die. Each round takes an agonizing eternity, one which passes by in the blink of an eye, and soon, I spot the repetitions. Baked over coals, vivisected whilst alive, being literally torn apart by hand, these sorts of tortures stand out, so when you go through it twice, one tends to notice.

“You know,” I say, looking into the dark, unrecognizable faces of my tormentors as they hammer nails into my flesh, “I thought I blocked you from coming in, but apparently, it didn’t take.” The guards don’t respond and continue administering my beating, which hurts, but only because it’s so vivid. Still, I can ignore it enough to keep being cheeky, though it really should’ve stopped hurting by now. “...So you’re just going to ignore me and keep pretending this is real?” Focusing on my surroundings, I try to will the guards away alongside their torture implements, but my efforts are futile and the horrific scene remains. It’s not just the pain that feels real, everything else does too, from the hard, cold, uncomfortable surface of the slab I’m lying on to the fetid stench of sweating piggies mingling with the metallic tang of blood and unmistakable aroma of shit and piss. They were hammering nails into me, of course I’m gonna piss and shit, but just thinking about it like that brings the agony back to the forefront, and it takes some time to power through it. “Okay,” I mutter, mostly to myself since Gen-Shi isn’t in a talkative mood. “So you’ve gotten better at this illusion thing. Kudos to you. Still, this is my Natal Palace, which makes it my Domain, and I will not be bested by a village idiot delusional enough to think he’s become a monster out of legend.”

The guards finally stop hammering, much to my relief, but then a haughty, powerful chuckle shakes me to my core. “FOOLISH WORM,” the voice says, so loud it feels like my head is splitting from the inside, “YOU STILL THINK THIS YOUR DOMAIN?”

...

......

“Um... yes?” I mean, where else could it be?

The scene shifts and the void opens up around me, vast and infinite in all directions, yet filled with Spectres as far as the eye can see. Millions, billions, trillions, the scale is beyond my comprehension, but the air is thick with Spectres of every shape and size imaginable, writhing in obvious pain and agony. Again, the world shifts, but slower this time, the Spectres shrinking away to reveal even more Spectres and darkness, until the darkness turns to light and I realize I’ve been inside a single thread. The thread grows larger and my perspective widens, revealing more threads which gather to form a robe filled with shifting patterns, one worn by none other than Zhen Shi himself.

Not Gen-Shi. Seeing the real deal now, it amazes me I was stupid enough to believe the pretender in the first place. It’s the difference between a teddy bear and a ferocious grizzly, a shopping cart and formula one race car, a paper plane and a fighter jet. There is no mistaking the arrogance, confidence, and authority emanating from this man’s gaze, filled with the disdain I would have for a fly buzzing around my food.

And for good reason too. If Pong Pong’s eye was the moon, then a single thread on Zhen Shi’s robe was the galaxy that moon existed in, a difference in scale I can barely even comprehend.

...

I might be in over my head here. Just a little.

“The slave pen.” Understanding dawns as the memory sticks out in my mind, the dread and foreboding I felt that first time I left. “That’s how you got me out of my Natal Palace. You tricked me into walking out of my own accord.” There is no answer from Zhen Shi, and I notice his attention is no longer on me, his mind elsewhere whilst I stand broken and injured before him. The nails are still sticking out of my skin, and it’s agonizing just existing here, but somehow, the pain doesn’t affect my clarity of thought. My head still hurts something fierce though, my mind stuffed with cotton, and I realize it’s because I overexerted myself doing whatever it was I did helping Mister Rustram save Sai Chou. That’s probably why I fell for Zhen Shi’s lies, because my mind wasn’t in the right place, thoroughly exhausted by my expenditure of Chi. Or Heavenly Energy. Whatever.

“TROUBLESOME WORM.” His attention returning without warning, Zhen Shi’s gaze is not one of anger or contempt, but minor irritation, as if I were a lock of hair that constantly fell out of place or a slightly bent tine of his fork. “A WASTE OF THIS SOVEREIGN’S ATTENTION, YET ATTENTION LITTLE WORM DEMANDS.”

Gesturing at my nail studded arms, I retort, “Oh, I’m making this difficult for you? Sorry about that.”

Without warning, the nails grow searing hot and my flesh cooks around them, my screams ripped from my throat by the unbearable agony. The heat subsides, as does the pain, but the memory lingers and hangs heavily from my shoulders like a weight pushing me down. “DEFIANT DESPITE THE CIRCUMSTANCES, FOR LITTLE WORM IS TOO IGNORANT TO UNDERSTAND THEM.”

“Then how about you explain it so I understand?”

The agony returns, only this time worse than before. When I return to my senses, I find myself prostrated before Zhen Shi, my face pressed so low I can’t even see him, but somehow, I know he is directly in front of me. “THIS.” Stretching the single syllable out for longer than necessary, Zhen Shi’s tone is one of bored indifference rather than haughty satisfaction, the punishment meted out as if it were the most natural thing in the world. “THIS IS HOW LITTLE WORM SHOULD MAKE HIS REQUEST.”

“Eat shit you pompous – ”

The agony returns intensified four-fold, and I have plenty of time to regret my words before Zhen Shi speaks again. “DEFIANT, BUT MORTAL STILL. YOU STRUGGLE AND RESIST, BUT YOU WILL BREAK IN TIME, AND THIS SOVEREIGN HAS TIME APLENTY TO SPARE.”

And he’s right too, because this is his Natal Palace, and which means things are happening at the literal speed of thought. I could live through ten-thousand lifetimes of agony before a single second passes out in the real world, which means everything I just experienced, everything I just suffered through, everything I endured, likely happened in the blink of an eye, if that. Before I can come up with a pithy response, the agony returns greater than ever before, and agony is all I know, right up until oblivion comes to claim me.

...

I do not know how long I stay suspended in the sweet calm of oblivious serenity, but all too soon, my restless mind shifts itself into gear and sets my thoughts to stirring once more...

Chapter Meme
