The guards are fairly creative at punishing slackers, with nail pulling, skin flaying, and fiery branding being their go-to methods, but their arsenal runs deep. They always find new ways to surprise me, like the time one declared that slaves really only need their first three fingers on each hand to keep working without experiencing a loss in efficiency. If I dared to look up, I would see many of those guards wearing necklaces strung with collected fingers, though I am happy to say none of those fingers are mine. Toes are trickier, since we need them to walk properly, so we get to keep all of ours, but the guards like to beat the soles of our feet so every step brings fresh agony. They rarely punch slaves in the head, because it tends to knock us out, but similar to how we don’t need all our fingers, two eyes happens to be one more than we need to see. Noses are another trophy the guards like to take, and ears too, but usually, if things have gotten that far, it’s a sign they don’t intend to let the slave live, which is good since that means my face is still intact. They don’t particularly care for collecting teeth either though, because taking them doesn’t cause enough pain. Instead, they prefer to crack our teeth open and leave the nerves exposed, because then it hurts to eat, drink, and sometimes even breathe. I’ve still got a few good teeth left to me, though I’m liable to cut my tongue open if I were to run it over their jagged remains, and I thank the Heaven’s I don’t grind my teeth in my sleep, because otherwise I’d never get any rest.

Rest. Sleep. My only reprieve from this nightmare of a world, where I can drift into my happy dreams where no one can hurt me. I was strong in my dreams, a Warrior and Hero of great renown. Talented beyond belief, in fact, which makes sense since it’s my dream. I had wives, and family, and pets, and friends, all of whom loved and cherished me. I held a position of power and used it to collect great wealth, a man of great importance who was pivotal in so many matters of grave consequence. That’s who I get to be in the dream, but here, in the real world, I am nothing but a slave.

So silly, my idle little delusions, so fanciful and impractical. Wives? Ha! Who would want me, a weak, scrawny, worthless coward? Family? A real family would never sell their child into slavery, yet here I am. Pets? I must have been desperate to imagine so many of them, to pretend the rocks digging into my spine were rabbits snuggling into sleep, or the legs of other slaves laid out over my own to be a wildcat sprawled over me for warmth. Friends? I have no friends, no one to support me, because here in this world, it is eat or be eaten, and I am lucky to still have my insignificant life. Funny how I awakened to the Blessing of Water, because in real life, I’m always thirsty, and of course I learned how to cook, since I have nothing to fill my belly. My dreams were wish-fulfillment fantasy, much needed escapism to keep myself sane, but the sad, harsh truth of the matter is that there is no real escape.

No escape besides death that is, and despite this hellish existence, I so desperately want to live.

So I must surrender, give in to my despair, do away with all hope and accept my lot. I am a slave, and I will be so much more content if I just accept it. Hope. There is no hope. There is only ugly truth. I am a slave, and these fanciful dreams just make things so much worse when I inevitably wake up again, my hopes crushed by the reality of my situation. I am a slave. It’s time I acted like one. No more dreams, no more hopes, just surrender and obey, and everything will be fine.

But I can’t give up hope. Where there is life, there is hope, so without hope, there is no life, and despite all the pain and suffering, I want to live. Death is not an option, and thus, I will always have hope for a better future, so long as I still draw breath.

A sentiment my captors seem eager to beat out of me. Every time I return with a full basket of rocks, the waiting guard lashes me harder than before, scolding me for being slow despite my best efforts to hurry. I even switch to a bigger basket, but this earns me an even harsher lashing, and I come to accept this extra abuse as the new norm. Night falls, and the march back to the pens is long and arduous, with no sense of safety to be found when we arrive. The gates, the yard, the shack itself, everything is exactly as I left it this morning, yet somehow, wholly alien and unfamiliar. It doesn’t make sense, but there’s no time to investigate as the guards find a new hapless victim to torment, forcing me to hide in a nook and stare at my feet so as to avoid being picked next.

Neither food nor water are provided, compounding my misery even further. When it finally comes time to sleep, there are no sweet dreams to greet me, only a moment of darkness before the boot comes to wake me once again. My days pass in blurred agony as I am marked for torment, and try as I might to avoid it, the guards always find a reason to single me out. At first, it seems like nothing, just more expected abuse, but then barely an hour goes by without some form of punishment heaped onto me. Walking too slow? That’s a beating. Breathing too loud? Another beating. Look up briefly to stretch my neck? Hoo boy, that calls for a real beating. I soon forget the last time I ate or drank, but still my suffering persists, the guards demanding more with each passing day and my punishments escalating when I inevitably fail to meet their impossible expectations. Before long, my battered body is just one massive, ugly bruise in varying shades which run the spectrum from yellow to dark purple, and I have no tears left to cry during my all-too-brief moments of rest.

Then things get worse. They always get worse. It starts with a slight misstep as my large basket obscures my vision and I step on a sharp, jagged stone. In my efforts to avoid putting my full weight on it, I surge forward in hopes of tiptoeing over, but the jagged stone is longer than I expected and slips beneath my weight. Toppling forward, I upend my basket and the stones spill out across the mine floor. Panic wells up as I scramble to pick them all back up, but it’s already too late.

A pair of boots appear before me, but I don’t dare look up, grabbing rocks as quickly as I can with trembling hands, since after they beat me, they’ll make me do this anyways. Best to get as much done now while I’m still able to. “Ye see that?”

A second pair of boots emerge in my peripherals, and I choke back my sobs while redoubling my efforts, knowing tears will only egg them on. “That I did. Seems like the runt ‘ere grew some balls and tried to attack ye.”

What? “No! I didn’t, I swear I didn’t.”

An errant kick drives the air from my lungs, delivered by a third, unseen guard. “That’s what I say too. Ye calling us liars?”

“No, no, please, no, it was an accident.” As much as I would like to properly beg for mercy, I don’t dare stop loading rocks back into my basket, but there are just so many still left to go. “I slipped is all, I slipped.”

“Oh?” The first set of boots step close, and I can almost feel the guard’s breath on the back of my neck. “Ye slipped huh? What the rest of ye think? Slip, or attack?” Other guards chime in and for the life of me, I can’t tell which side is winning, but it seems I’m not without allies as a good number do say ‘slip’. I’ll still be beaten for my mistake, but at least I won’t be killed, so I work and pray they take pity on me. Long, agonizing seconds pass as my fate hangs in the balance, but then, a table knife falls in front of me and I freeze in place.

What’s happening here? Why did they give me a knife? It’s not the sharpest weapon in the world, but it can do some damage, especially if plunged in the right place. The guards all tower over me, so the neck is no good, but they stand with wide, open stances, meaning maybe I can aim for the crotch. I’d have to get real lucky to sever an artery though, assuming I can even drive the dull tip through a guard’s thick, leather pants. Liver? Same problem, not to mention any attempt on my part would put me right in smacking range. Or kicking range. Or elbow range. Hey, maybe things will work out and I kill one guard. Then I can grab his weapon and fight my way to freedom, whereupon I can sprout wings and fly away to a place of safety.

Yea right. I’m no warrior. I’m a slave. A weak, worthless, helpless slave who doesn’t want to die just yet.

“If it was a mistake,” the guard says, “Then ye can be forgiven.” Relief floods through me as I imagine I somehow passed a test by not reaching for the knife, only for said relief to be wrenched away by the guard’s next sentence. “But not without a show of contrition.” The other guards hoot and holler at the proclamation and my blood curdles in dismay, for I’ve seen this game before and know exactly how it’s played. Kicking the knife even closer to me, the guard says, “A finger’ll do nicely fer somethin’ like this. I’ll even let ye pick which one.”

Oh how I yearn to take up the knife and kill him, but I know how that ends. Poorly is how, and visions of inhuman pain and suffering flash through my mind, warning me to not do anything stupid. A moment of pain to escape hours of agony, it seems like a fair trade, so I take the knife with my right hand and lay the left one down flat, the pinky extended out to the side for a nice, clean cut. Again, I think to take up arms and fight, and again, all manner of horrific tortures flicker through my mind, culminating in one sorry existence where I am left blind, broken, and helpless, but still alive, my continued defiance earning me weeks upon weeks of constant, unending agony. Finally, I take a deep breath, line the knife up with the knuckle of my left pinky, my breath coming in short pants as I mentally fumble for any sort of escape.

And find none. So I grip the handle tight, and push down hard.

Pain seems too small a word to describe it, a sensation worse than anything I’ve ever experienced before and one I hope to never experience again. This loss of a finger should be nothing, but the single cut sends a wave of unspeakable agony coursing through my body, only to make the rounds and continue tormenting me for what feels like an eternity. I lost something today, something more than a finger and far more valuable yet. Today, I lost my pride and dignity, for rather than making them take from me what they will, I have surrendered a piece of myself not in hope of escape, but merely continued survival.

Maybe it would have been better to let them beat me. I can’t keep doing this anymore. There is no hope, only suffering ahead, so I should stop dragging it out and just give up.

But I can’t.

I wake once more in the unsettling slave pen, still alien despite all the days that have passed since I first arrived. How long has it been? Too long, and I have been lessened by the stay. My left hand has been bandaged and treated, my offering accepted and mercy given, but the absent pinky finger throbs with the searing heat of a burning sun, and I feel ashamed by my actions. I gave in, capitulated, made the choice to inflict this wound, which in a way, makes me complicit with my tormentors.

And yet, the next time the knife is dropped at my feet, the visions cross my mind again, and again, I chop off another finger. The fourth finger on the left hand, since it makes sense to keep all my mutilations to one side, but once the indescribable pain fades away and I regain consciousness, I can’t help but mourn its loss and wonder if I made a mistake. That’s my ring finger, the place where my wedding band would go, and while I don’t have a wife, I had two in my dreams, and I do miss them so. I don’t remember anything about them, or the other women in my dream-life, but I know I loved them, and they loved me. Even if they were figments of my imagination, does that make my love any less real?

No one loves me, not even myself. I am a weak, cowardly, worthless excuse for a human, an insignificant, eight-fingered slave without value. Why struggle when surrender would be so much easier? Why fight to live when death would free me?

Desperation and despair threaten to overwhelm me, but I will not give in. The third time the knife is thrown at my feet, my visions of resistance are so vivid and real, it comes as a surprise to find myself still crouched low to the ground, and the knife just barely out of reach. That’s the new game now, making me fetch the tool of my undoing, and loath as I am to play along, I do not want to die in so many horrific and unpleasant ways. I want to live, I want to escape, and so I crawl to the knife and grasp it in a three-fingered grip, idly wondering if I should’ve spread out the damage after all. Well, I guess it doesn’t make any difference if things continue in this way, so I grit my broken teeth and lop off my other pinky finger. No longer content to suffer in silence, I scream and flail without shame or regret, wholly embracing the pain because to do otherwise would leave me broken beyond repair.

