The weight of the world drops from my shoulders as I lay my weary head to rest, and Lin-Lin’s soothing presence wicks away what remains of my concerns and apprehensions.

I do not know how long I stay suspended in the sweet calm of oblivious serenity, but all too soon, my restless mind shifts itself into gear and sets my thoughts to stirring once more. It’s subtle at first, but all too soon, my peaceful slumber is tainted by the steady stirring of subconscious thoughts, here to once again ruin a perfectly good nap. Even half-conscious as I am, I can’t help but be annoyed by my stupid brain, because I am still so very, very tired. My head feels fogged up and my body weighed down, as if I drank too much and was buried beneath a mountain of sand. There’s a faint but constant ache coursing through my muscles, and the mere thought of getting up is unpleasant to the extreme, so I desperately hold fast to oblivion even as genuine sleep slips through my metaphorical fingers and relegates me to a restless, half-trance of unfulfilling dormancy.

Arms empty, seat unsteady, chest uncompressed, and head unsupported. A gust of cold air whisks away the soothing warmth as the world tumbles around me, but still my eyes sit sealed and my mind half-dormant, aware of these minor happenings around me without any of it feeling real. Is all this happening, or am I merely imagining it? A dream, it must be, a manifestation of my not-so-repressed anxieties bubbling over in my unconscious mind. Sleep. Rest. Recuperate. I need this, want this, because the real world is full of unpleasant, undesirable, unhappy things, and here, in the imagined wonderland of my dreaming mind, the world is what I make it.

My head settles into a warm, soft pillow and my arms wrap around a sturdy, reassuring presence, so for a time, all is right in dreamland. Oblivion returns, but the problem with oblivion is nothingness means no concept of time, so all too soon, my quiet rest is interrupted once more and my mind brought back to semi-conscious limbo. How long I blacked out for, I couldn’t say, but it feels like the blink of an eye, my head still stuffed with cotton and now my back is twinging in minor pain. At least it’s still warm and soft, but my mind refuses to fall idle and leave me in peace. At this point, I might as well give in and wake up. There’s still so much I need to do, though what it might be, I don’t really remember. There’s a vague sense of immediate danger, but again, it feels unreal somehow, like the remnants from a half-remembered, fast-fading dream.

And that, more than anything else, concerns me. Why can’t I remember anything? What was I so concerned about? Who is this warm presence supporting me? How much have I forgotten?

I remember...

Fear, but not immediate, nor was it personal, more of a general sense of dreaded concern.

Then surprise, because something happened, something unexpected which made me...

Amused. Not laugh out loud funny, only a slight exhale through the nose, but it was pleasant all the same.

What comes next is pure exhaustion, but in a good way, tinged with the satisfaction of a job well done. There’s something else, but try as I might, I can’t remember what. It’s important, I know that much, something wonderful and invaluable which I want back, but how can I reclaim that which I do not remember? I am empty without it, incomplete and unfulfilled, a man gasping for breath and dying of thirst while surrounded by air and water aplenty. What am I missing? What have I forgotten?

Whatever it was... it gave me warmth and stability, a sense of support and security unlike anything else. It was power and confidence coursing through me, for I knew I had something to rely on. It was restorative and comforting, a source of pride, pleasure, peace of mind, and happiness, everything right in the world and everything I hold dear.

It was love, plain and simple, and now, I fear I have lost it all.

But how can you lose what you never had?

The thought chills me to the core as the truth rears its ugly head, my dreams slipping away until all I have left is a memory of a memory. That’s all I ever had, a dream, a self-delusional fantasy put together by my anxious mind to give me an escape from the nightmares of the waking world. The thought registers and I sleep no longer as an all-too-familiar steel-toed boot hammers home in my ribs. “Wake up,” comes the guttural command, and I jump to my feet, not daring to fight back and careful to keep my eyes fixated on my dirty, shackled feet, covered in dirt, bruises, and dried blood a plenty. Across from them is a set of large, leather boots which dwarf my bare feet in size, only one of many ways in which I am outmatched. “Worthless slave. Ye’d sleep all day if I left ye to it.” A meaty hand smashes into my cheek, and I tumble back to the dirt floor, but instinct and self-preservation drive me to scramble back up lest I give the guard more reason to beat me.

I am a slave. I pick up rocks. That is my purpose, and my goal is to keep my head down and survive another day. That is all there is, and that is all I have. No more, no less. The fanciful lies fade away and the truth hits me in the gut like a hammer, and the loss of imagined warmth and happiness hurts more than the guard’s boot to my ribs.

My real memories come flooding back like a deluge of ice cold water as I join the line of slaves shuffling out into the familiar yard. Fresh scabs and old wounds register as my tally of aches and pains make themselves known, bruised heels, tender joints, and throbbing head, merely the worst of the bunch. Truth be told, a cold shower would be far more welcome than these unpleasant memories, if only to wash away the blood, grime, and sweat caked all over my body and perhaps dull the constant, unending pain. A dip in the river or a swim in the bay would be nice, but I can’t remember the last time I saw running water, or anything besides murky barrels of collected rainwater. Speaking of which, today’s barrel is almost emptied by the time my turn arrives, but despite my great thirst, I wait to see if there is anyone who wants seconds before I dare approach. Even among slaves, a hierarchy exists, one in which I, the smallest, scrawniest, most cowardly slave sits at the very bottom.

On the bright side, this means there’s nowhere to go but up.

On the contrary, things can always get worse.

As if fate wanted to prove the point, a hand grabs me by the scruff of the neck as I lean into the barrel, my lips so close yet so far from the murky, but potable water. “Enough slacking,” the guttural voice says, tossing me aside before I can quench my thirst. “Get in line. Time to go to work.”

How am I supposed to work without water? Or food for that matter? I’m so hungry, even tasteless slop seems like a meal fit for a king, but I dare not raise my voice in protest. Tired, hungry, thirsty, and broken, I shuffle into line and pray there are no more beatings, because I do not think I could bear one and continue working. If I go down, I won’t be able to get up and work, and I’ve seen what happens to those who don’t work. On cue, one of the slaves stumbles and falls, so I avert my gaze as the commotion begins, a sight I’ve seen a thousand times before and do not care to see again. The guards holler at the unfortunate soul to get up while beating him without mercy, interspersed with the slave’s pitiful screams as he futilely attempts to obey. Alas, his broken body and crushed spirit are not up to the task, and the guards take sadistic glee in slowly, but surely, killing the fallen, screaming slave.

Someone should step in and help. A hero to save the day. Twelve average warriors could take the compound, probably less if someone important shows up. The guards are brutal and bloodthirsty, but lazy and undisciplined. I’ve never seen them raise a weapon in practice or even use them against someone fighting back, only to threaten and torment the beaten and downtrodden slaves so consistently it’s almost as if they need to make room for new arrivals. That doesn’t make sense though, we’re slaves here to mine. Why would anyone want to keep replacing their slaves? I’ll keep my head down, work hard, and survive until whoever pays these guards comes by to see why their slaves keep dying, if only out of fiscal responsibility rather than the kindness of their hearts.

The screams continue behind me as I step up to the gates, and a wave of indeterminate terror washes over me before I can cross. Body frozen in shock, time comes to a standstill as my thoughts race at a million miles a second, weighing the costs and benefits of stepping forward in spite of my sudden, irrational dread versus the very real horrors taking place behind me. If I don’t leave, the guards will punish me, far worse than they’re punishing the poor soul who tripped and fell. I can see it now, the myriad of torments they will visit upon me. I can feel the imagined pain as if a distant, fading memory, and the thought of experiencing it in the flesh chills me to the core. On the other hand, a slow, painful death almost seems appealing opposed to what awaits me outside the gates, but I have no earthly idea why. It’s just... instinct, I suppose, unwillingness to proceed forward into the unknown, despite having made this journey hundreds, if not thousands of times already. It’s just the exit to the slave pens, which connects to a road leading to the mines. Why am I so afraid?

The real fear is what lurks behind, of being beaten, maimed, tortured, and tormented before the sweet release of death. It could be hours before that happens, days even, and if the guards are particularly creative, they could even make my suffering last for weeks.

And so I step past the threshold and out onto the road, my throat dry and stomach twisting at the sudden loss of safety and sanctuary. No, there was never any of either, not in the slave pens, and not in the mines ahead. Still, despite my overwhelming trepidation, there is no change to the situation save for the chains connecting me to the slave in front going taut as I hesitate in place. The very real fear of torture prods me ever forward, so step by careful step I proceed, but nothing out of the ordinary happens, save for the slave behind me growing impatient at my reticence and quietly urging me to hurry. My doom and gloom continues to persist, which is almost as terrible as actual suffering, but before long, we arrive at our destination. The open pit mines stand before me and I descend into the unwelcoming depths where I see a rack of picks waiting for me. Grabbing a handle without thinking, I heave with all my might, but the metal tool barely budges before a meaty hand smacks me down before the rack. “Idiot slave. Can barely even lift your arms, much less a tool. Quit wasting time and get to work.”

Right, right. I don’t break the rocks. I pick them up. Mumbling a fervent apology, I scurry off before I’m beaten again and grab the smallest basket I can find. Work time. Head down, back hunched, knees bent, and eyes on the ground. This is how I spend my day, crab-walking along the sides and filling my basket with rocks, careful to always be moving and never look idle. So desperate to look busy, I shuffle around the legs of stronger slaves and grab all the stones I can, ignoring the stinging cuts from flying shards of rock and the countless near-misses of swinging picks. It doesn’t take long for my calves to start burning, but I fight through the cramps and tension until my basket is full, at which point I can finally straighten up and stretch my screaming, tormented back and leg muscles. There’s no time to waste however, as I hurry over to the wagons and unload my haul, where a guard stands ready to reward me with a stinging strike of his leather lash. “This all ye got, ye slacker?” I know better than to answer out loud. Despite this, my cringing nod earns me another taste of the lash as the massive guard snarls, “Then work faster ye worthless shit.”

A beating is nothing. Verbal abuse is even less. The lash, a gentle encouragement compared to the horrors the guards save for those slaves who cannot work, so again, I keep my head lowered and hurry back to work. It’s a hard, gruelling life, but as I naively forgot earlier this morning, things can always get worse. This is my life, no matter how much I wish it were otherwise. With a little luck and a lot of hard work, hopefully I can avoid the worst of it today and keep myself in one piece. Tomorrow, it would be best if I did this all over again, because any deviation from the norm is usually for the worse. Say I stumble and fall on my way back to unload. That’ll earn me even more lashes when I finally arrive, since the guards keep careful track of all my contributions. The same will happen if I move too slowly, perhaps to relieve an agonizing cramp or take pressure off my wounded feet, which are usually bleeding from several cuts at any given time due to walking through a working mine without any shoes. Then there’s the days when I’m almost too tired to keep going and I can’t get up to work. Those are the worst, because hard, painful labour is so much better than the alternative: being made an example of to the others.

