“I see. And the Architects don’t intend to hide or move the city again…? Forgive me for being direct, the rest of you from the United Nations, but Paeth could use a smokescreen—”
It was Enchanter Ilekrome who answered for the others. He looked—worn out. Probably still magically recovering, but he had the eyes of someone who had seen miracles.
“Paeth cannot move again, Lord Titan. Not easily. Even if I dared to try and recreate the spell, we will not move. Hiding alone brought us no allies. This time, if we are assailed, it will be an army of Fraerlings and allies of the tall who defend us. We may fail within a year, or Paeth will no longer endure, but we will make this our home and let the rest of our kind see what occurs. There is no more Last Box to shelter. We have fulfilled our duty, and now…now we stand by the Tallfolk who have earned our respect. We will arm them and fight with them. And learn from each other, hopefully.”
Niers Astoragon let out a long breath and felt a shiver run down his back. He had so many questions, and the Council looked ready to answer. But the first and utmost thought on his mind was…Niers looked at Ilekrome and saw a truth there that made even him nervous.
The Last Box. That wasn’t even on par with Erin Solstice coming back from the dead. That was more like A’ctelios Salash getting up and doing a dance. Dead gods.
And he’d missed this? The Titan smiled.
“It would be my honor to hear it all at your convenience, Council. And if the Forgotten Wing company can provide soldiers or support to our allies—”
The Humans were looking nervous. The Architects glanced at each other, and the Titan’s words tumbled together. He saw Ekrn arguing with Heish, and he was fairly certain the Tallguard was saying, ‘let me say it’.
“Lord Titan—”
Heish began, but Ekrn spoke over her.
“The Forgotten Wing Company may be allies of Paeth in time, Lord Astoragon. But to be clear from the outset—we will not be part of any Great Company.”
“Sentry Leader Ekrn! Er—Commander Ekrn!”
Heish snapped, and the Council began a furious argument of clarifications, amendments, and explanations as Niers stood there.
 
——
 
The Titan’s face was hard to read, but Luan Khumalo could see the disappointment in a moment. Paige groaned, and Kirana looked like she wished Aiko had replaced her after all.
“Oh no. I asked Commander Ekrn not to say it right away!”
Ken whispered to Daly. The Bushranger’s leader groaned as he felt at his magical leg. He had a pair of Fraerling-made crossbows at his side, and the trusted forces were all armed with a caliber of weapons that even Fezimet would have feared.
…But he didn’t think making an enemy of the greatest [Strategist] in the world was a good idea. They needed help, and even if the Fraerlings could buy it on a promise, they had limits to their manufacturing capabilities. Daly whispered back to the others.
“Fecking fantastic. I thought we had the big mouths. Now how are we supposed to get him to help us find Geneva?”
Niers Astoragon’s head swiveled around, and Daly froze. The Titan of Baleros lifted one hand as the Council fell silent.
“—Regardless of anything else we settle on today, I can do that. Who grabbed her and why?”
Daly’s mouth worked, but he managed to get out a few words.
“Er—excuse me, Lord Niers—Titan. It—we think it was—”
Luan interrupted him smoothly. He looked at Niers and wondered if the little Fraerling was a relative of the man on the boat during the Summer Solstice. Or just like a more advanced Ekrn.
They’d find out. The Courier took a breath.
“The Bodies of Fellden did it, as far as we know. Selphids. We think Geneva’s alive and well. But we have no clues.”
The Titan’s eyes flickered. He cursed softly.
“The Minds. That will be trickier, but I assure you: I can retrieve her.”
The members of the United Nations company looked at each other, and Siri swallowed. She had wondered why Paeth was so reluctant to ally with one of their own, but one look at the Titan’s gaze told her why.
The greatest powers of the Selphids had been too dangerous for Paeth to consider going after even in the face of their new alliance. But with a few sentences and a single promise—
They were now in trouble. And yet, Niers’ eyes looked so longingly at this alliance between Tallfolk and Fraerlings. But once again—Chieftain Shaik’s words haunted him. Despite all he’d done…
Tiny man too scary.
 
——
 
It was hard to say who was more uncomfortable when they appeared in Invrisil. Pisces? Or Numbtongue?
They went through the door like a growing storm. From the moments the words left Erin’s mouth, it was like a hurricane building at sea.
First swept in tempest Lyonette, full of questions and objections. But when she realized Erin was serious, she threw her might behind Erin’s headwind.
“Ser Dalimont? Ser Sest and Ser Lormel, with you and Erin!”
The [Princess] pointed three of her [Knights] forwards. Obviously, an impossible chess move, except she’d already captured one Pawn.
Backup achieved, Erin negotiated who would not go to Invrisil. No Antinium. And definitely not Mrsha the Gale, who begged and pleaded and held onto Erin’s chair until she was removed by Lyonette. There could be shenanigans, and for once, they would not involve Mrsha.
“No more Goblins. Sorry, Gothica. Next time.”
The [Goth] did her signature pfft and blew the hair out of her face. But she didn’t argue; she had heard ‘next time’. Besides, the others cramped her style.
They didn’t make it to Liscor without incident, either. Lyonette had some kind of magical warning system for Zevara like a speaking stone or [Message] scroll, so the Watch Captain battened down all hatches.
A Watch escort conveyed Erin to the door and put the regular transports on hiatus. Erin peered suspiciously at the [Guards] escorting her.
“Y’know, this celebrity treatment’s sorta weird. Is it because I own the door? I still want it back.”
“We’re just trying to minimize the collateral damage, Miss Solstice.”
The Gnoll was sweating slightly as she peered at him. Erin puffed her cheeks out, then exhaled.
“Alright. But you know that I’m gonna get annoyed by being treated like a glass doll.”
“Better than an ice cube.”
Numbtongue muttered. He put out a fist, and Pisces blinked at it, before tapping it with his own. Erin’s laughter made both relax. Pisces was watching Erin. She knew he needed help. It was only Yvlon, who’d hurried back to the guild, who was getting in the way.
Well—this wouldn’t be so bad?
…Numbtongue was slightly tense. The only time he’d been in Invrisil was in disguise and under the arguably superior protection of the Players of Celum. With Jasi and Wesle and the others gone, it was Erin who had made the offer.
And as history had proven—she wasn’t exactly immune to sneak attacks. Numbtongue also remembered that a certain Named Adventurer was there. And Invrisil had run into Goblins recently.
“I could wear helmet, maybe?”
He suggested, and Erin twisted in her chair.
“Do you want to, Numbtongue?”
The [Bard] chewed this over.
“…Sort of. Seems like lots of panicking Humans might be dangerous.”
“Well, we’ll go once, and if it turns bad, we’ll duck out. Maybe the second time they’ll be more used to it. Like Liscor. But do you want to walk around in Invrisil without a helmet?”
The Hobgoblin bared his teeth.
“It would be nice.”
Erin’s eyes glinted.
“Yeah.”
The citizens of Liscor were watching Erin and the [Knights], along with Pisces and Numbtongue, head for the door. A small cyclone touching down on Invrisil’s beaches. Possibly never to grow past that. The Thronebearers were looking nervous; they didn’t know if they had the means to quell a full-scale riot.
Then came the squall from the side. Selys with the metaphorical steel chair! Erin’s head turned as a squad of marching boots heralded the arrival of none other than the one, the only—
“Captain Todi?”
The Gold-rank Captain and his squad of adventurers gave Erin an ironic salute.
“Miss Selys thought you might need an escort, Innkeeper Solstice. Mind if we join you? We’re veterans to the guard routine. Vetted by the Mercenary’s Guild for cross-class work, even.”
“That would be welcome, Miss Erin.”
Dalimont said, relieved, and Erin gave Selys an exasperated look as the [Heiress] waved from the background. Pisces glanced at the Drake, but then Erin was grudgingly adding Todi to the squad.
Then—they were in Invrisil, and the shouting began.
“Goblin!”
They didn’t even get out of the plaza where the door was now installed without the first man pointing at Numbtongue and reaching for a belt dagger. The [Bard] froze, but Erin cupped her hands to her mouth.
“Human! Watch out!”
She pointed accusatorially at the man, and his brain locked up for a crucial second. Erin pointed ahead towards the sign aiming for the Adventurer’s Guild.
“It’s a Goblin!”
Someone tried again, and the plaza fixed on Numbtongue like a beacon of fear and growing hostility. The [Innkeeper] was ready for it.
“[Crowd Control]. [Crowd Control]. [Crowd Control]. [Crowd Control]…”
She muttered under her breath. Then raised her voice. Her own shout eclipsed the regular voices as [Loud Voice] activated.
“Hobgoblin coming through! Don’t get in the way. He’s a busy guy. We have business at the Adventurer’s Guild. Move it! Don’t push! No autographs. Ser Dalimont, make a path.”
The [Knight] gave Erin a look of mild respect as he caught onto the plan. Instantly, he, Ser Lormel, and Ser Sest spread out around Erin, but began gesturing with their hands.
“One side, citizens!”
“Prithee, keep moving. Do not crowd—ten steps back, please! No autographs.”
It was like a magic password that flipped a switch in people’s heads. Especially in Invrisil, where the practice of autographs had really caught fire and become a worldwide phenomenon. Wait a second.
No autographs? That implied there was a reason to get said autographs. And if you weren’t allowed to have one, firstly, how dare you. Secondly—a Goblin giving out autographs?
All Erin needed was a second or two. A minute—and then it was hard to restart the ‘look out, a Goblin’ screams. You felt silly being the first one to retread that ground.
“It’s a monster! Call the Watch!”
Someone tried again. But Erin cheerfully shouted back.
“I said, clear a path. Gold-rank adventurers on the move! And a [Bard]! Captain Todi of Todi’s, uh, Super-Elites is too busy to sign autographs! So are Pisces and Numbtongue! Move it!”
Todi’s Super-Elites? Even the Gold-rank Captain was giving Erin a confused look, if somewhat gratified.
It was a very [Innkeeper]-y thing Erin was doing, combined with, well, a [Witch]’s attitude towards crowds. It wasn’t classic witch-behavior, and Erin had never taken Headology 101, but she was a fairly experienced veteran in the field. Her method, as many had observed, was continuously interjecting more confusion into the scene.
First you had a Goblin. Then she said no autographs. And while you were wrestling with this one, she flipped it on Gold-rank adventurers and Todi’s Super-Elites.
“Make way! Pisces the [Necromancer]—coming through! And Numbtongue the [Bard]. And Todi the…Super-Elite. Psst. Todi, what’s your class?”
Pisces had been listening to the entire rampage of Hurricane Erin with some amusement, but his body stiffened when she invoked his class. He looked at Erin, and then there was another round of exclamations.
“[Necromancer]? Did she say…?”
His class was not beloved in Izril. True, it wasn’t the Terandrian reaction, which would have been full-blown panic, even with Erin’s Skills and methods. But the Necromancer had cut a path from the north down to Liscor before he died, and his undead had struck the south too.
“Necromancer.”
The word was almost as reviled as Goblin. Ser Dalimont bent down.
“Miss Erin, perhaps this is not…”
She ignored him. Erin waved around cheerfully as a Watch Sergeant on patrol finally caught up with them.
“Stand back, sir. This group is under protection of the Thronebearers of Calanfer.”
“And Todi’s Super-Elites.”
The Gold-rank Captain chimed in as Ser Sest expertly blocked the patrol. The Watch Sergeant stared at Erin, Numbtongue, and spluttered.
“What’s going on—there’s a Goblin in my city?”
“That’s Numbtongue. [Bard]. We’re headed to the Adventurer’s Guild, so if you want to escort us, be my guest. This is Pisces, Gold-rank adventurer. On very important business with, um…Elia Arcsinger? He’s a [Necromancer] and my pal.”
“A nec—Arcsinger—”
Pisces was staring at Erin, and Numbtongue gave her a huge frown, but Erin kept rolling as he pushed her. The Watch Sergeant had a hurried conversation with Todi, who did know the score. A trio of gold coins and the patrol moved ahead, shouting at people to move aside.
This was really what Pisces had expected of Erin. And yet—he was conscious of the eyes on him as Erin kept shouting his class. Had she done that before? Perhaps she was using [Necromancer] to distract from Goblin, but it added to what he felt was unnecessary chaos.
“Maybe she’s out of practice.”
Numbtongue had the same opinion and whispered to Pisces as they approached the Adventurer’s Guild, down one of the most prosperous streets filled with restaurants, shops for magical items, and mundane goods like rope, potions, all to cater to the very rich adventurers who stopped by. Pisces didn’t know. Erin kept glancing at him.
They’d talk later.
He wanted it to be now. And as Pisces saw his team and the plethora of adventurers who turned and reacted to Numbtongue—he remembered why he hadn’t wanted to go to Invrisil.
It had completely slipped his mind with his urgent desire to talk to Erin. But even Ceria and Yvlon hadn’t insisted he back them up aside from the actual negotiations. Silver-rank adventurers milled around the central area of the Guild, and the Gold-ranks were in the back, the elite area where Pisces had met Todi to his displeasure the first time.
Yet—even without Erin’s class-dropping. Pisces the [Necromancer] stepped out of Erin’s group as she began to fend off adventurers, inserting a Goblin into Invrisil’s mind with a hammer. He let her do it and looked for his team.
And absolutely no one hurried up to him. Not the [Necromancer].
The adventurers knew who he was, unlike regular citizens. Then again—Pisces had [Famous Name], now. They knew who the Horns were—half were here because they had been part of the Village of the Dead raid.
Pisces recognized a few. Vuliel Drae, the Pithfire Hounds, and those were the teams in the Silver and Bronze-rank area.
