The famous ones, like Elia’s representative and the other Gold-rank teams, were probably in the back. Pisces saw a few heads nod cautiously at him, like Anith, and the Pithfire Hound’s leader looked like he was debating getting up.
Yet most of the looks were, if not outright hostile, exceptionally distrustful. In the world of Adventurers, Pisces occupied the class that many adventurers would fight against. He was the [Necromancer] raising undead in the crypt.
That he was also a member of the Horns of Hammerad put him in neutral territory. But—Pisces realized—
It was somewhat ironic that he was the only member of his team who stood alone. He wished Erin hadn’t mentioned his class.
 
——
 
The rest of the Horns of Hammerad were talking with adventurers. Ksmvr was in the common room—Pisces just didn’t spot him at first because of how many people were talking to him.
Yvlon was changing from Gold-rank back rooms to the front, and Ceria was talking with a half-Elf representing Arcsinger’s Bows. Pisces knew that because of the actual banner hanging behind the table filled with Gold-rank Captains in deep negotiations.
Ceria waved at Pisces, but she was speaking behind a [Silence] spell, and Pisces just took a moment to survey the room. Spot escape routes, check for spells, the practical things one did.
The other Gold-rank adventurers sized him up, but he was the pariah. And Pisces noticed—
Ksmvr was not. Ksmvr was the Antinium. And yet, Ksmvr was also Ksmvr of Chandrar. That [Journalist], Rémi Canada, had changed Ksmvr’s reputation.
He wasn’t ‘an Antinium adventurer’. He was the Antinium adventurer, so half the people surrounding him wanted to size him up. Some were challenging, but many were just curious to meet a representative of the Black Tide who seemed, well—personable. Even likable and, of course, fascinating.
“—I have indeed met Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. She does not make it a habit to be naked aside from regularly scheduled intervals.”
“Wh—really? How regular?”
Ksmvr gave the too-avid adventurer a blank stare.
“…As regularly as one bathes or changes clothes. Periodic nudity is a custom for most species, as I understand it.”
“That’s not the same.”
“But your clothes are off. I do not quite understand the stigma against a lack of clothes. Most Antinium are naked. We put on clothing to leave the Hive.”
“You’re all [Nudists]?”
“…I did not think we were. Oh dear. Maybe we will all gain the class?”
Ksmvr’s mandibles clacked together at the light laughter. He really was hard to dislike. At another table, Yvlon Byres had almost as many adventurers keen to talk to her for obvious reasons.
Her silver arms stood out. Pisces eyed a [Warrior] rotating his shoulder and wondered if someone had made the stupid mistake of challenging her to an arm-wrestling contest. The [Armsmistress] was in more serious talks with none other than Seborn and—Pisces saw with some gratification—Typhenous.
Neither Gold-rank adventurer had their team with them. They were representatives, Typhenous probably because Invrisil had been his home. He was also, frankly, the best option for cold-blooded negotiations compared to Revi, Halrac, or Briganda.
“…got to cut Prince Zenol and the others not here a fair portion.”
“Fair? Elia Arcsinger wants the Helm of Fire, and the Terlands are backing Eldertuin.”
“We had an agreement—”
Typhenous broke in smoothly.
“…Which the Silver-rank teams are justifiably nervous about. You know how things change, Yvlon. Many of the Gold-rank teams would like to, ah, claim certain items outright and relegate the rest to gold-distribution.”
Yvlon’s jaw clenched as she glanced up at some of the Gold-rank teams who seemed to be in a kind of alliance with Elia’s representative.
“Ceria called this raid. Our team did. We’ll be fair. Can I count on your teams to back us up, Seborn, Typhenous?”
“What loot are you going to give us? Alright—don’t turn your hands into a damn knife. Yes, Jelaqua’s all for it. But it’s going to be messy. Pisces. There he is.”
Seborn waved to Pisces, and the [Necromancer] approached. He recognized some adventurers vaguely, but it felt like a lifetime ago.
Even now, he got a few wary nods rather than effusive greetings. One of the [Strategists], an Owlkin Beastwoman, spoke in an eerie whisper reminiscent of hooting.
“Adventurer Jealnet. We were discussing fair distribution of the limited artifacts. Join us.”
“I—thank you, Adventurer…”
“Soew. [Strategist].”
“Of course. I’m, ah, partial to being called ‘Pisces’ as opposed to my last name.”
“Naturally.”
A few more adventurers came over as Pisces sat down and caught up on what was essentially a lot of arguing over who got what. Keldrass’ team, the Flamewardens, the ‘Silver-rank’ team of Maweil’s Reach, the three Minotaurs, and even a Gnoll representing the Pride of Kelia had all joined this discussion.
Old adventurers and young, each one trying to play nice and get an artifact or payout above the others. Pisces glanced at Yvlon.
“What, pray, did we actually recover from the raid beyond what the Horns took?”
Her smile was wry.
“You’d be amazed, Pisces. Did you see that Drake Revenant who cut up all the monsters?”
Pisces had actually watched the public video of the raid, so he nodded.
“A true monster. I’m amazed he was brought down.”
“Yeah, well—we got his sword. And he had a bag of holding full of high-grade artifacts. Before we pulled out, we looted monster parts from the big monsters—yanked a bunch of artifacts from the Skeleton Lords. But the main thing was the Helm of Fire. Everyone wants that.”
“I’ll take the sword.”
A burly [Warrior] joked. Everyone laughed, but Yvlon just nodded at the Adventurer’s Guild.
“The Guildmaster has it under lock and key, and [Thieves] have been going at it every week. No one’s been able to divide the loot while we were on Chandrar. They argued for nearly a month until it turned out we were alive.”
“…And graciously waited until our return for the most equitable distribution?”
Pisces’ lips quirked at his own joke, and Typhenous laughed. Yvlon rolled her eyes.
“No. They want what we found. It’s all loot recovered from the raid, so the claim is we should divide it under the same rules.”
“Ah.”
“Yep. However, Ceria’s been talking with the other teams, and she’s reminded them of something that might bite them—we have the claim on the Helm of Fire. One Relic, guaranteed.”
Now that would be…well, the other adventurers fell silent as Pisces bit his lip.
A Relic on par with the Heartflame Breastplate, for their team. Az’kerash had sent back a message. A very…confusing message that seemed to indicate he didn’t need the Helm of Fire as he had not fulfilled his obligations.
 
…to you, apprentice of death, I will cede the relic if it should aid your own studies. My armory is replete enough without it.
 
Very generous. Suspiciously generous. So thoughtful, in fact, that Pisces was wondering if that was a subtle hint telling him to absolutely donate the Helm of Fire or else. However, the Necromancer had assured him after a few tactfully worded questions that he meant what he said.
Pisces cast a [Silence] spell and whispered to Yvlon.
“We—could very well lift the claim on the Helm of Fire. Selys will be unhappy, but it is no longer mandatory.”
Her brows shot up.
“Selys wants it? Of course—the set. We might have to let her down, Pisces. It’s like swimming with Crelers here. Some teams have even been saying we should cut out groups that perished like Lifwail Blades. You know, the ones who were all wiped out?”
Pisces blinked. Part of what the Horns had done after the crypt raid was give proceeds from Albez to the dead adventurers.
“Truly? That seems exceptionally unchivalrous.”
“It’s not going to stand. I’ll let Ceria know about the Helm. You just…mingle. And don’t cause any fights. Why is Erin bringing Numbtongue here?”
Yvlon had finally noticed Erin. Pisces grimaced.
“I believe she’s introducing a Goblin to Invrisil.”
Yvlon just groaned and shook her head as she pushed herself up.
“Wonderful. Alright, wish me luck. And find me a calming tonic—if I hear one more idiot saying ‘the dead don’t need gold’—”
She stomped off. Ceria looked calm as ice, and Pisces wondered if it was her class—if anything, the representative from Elia looked nervous as he whispered in her ear.
“Pisces. Do you want to take a look at the inventory?”
“Let me check on Erin first, Seborn.”
The Drowned Man nodded as Pisces pushed himself up. He walked back into the common room and heard a familiar voice.
“[Bard]. B-A-R-D. Erin Solstice, The Wandering Inn. I post quests. Oh, and there’s Pisces! Pisces! Tell them I know you! I keep wanting to go in the back rooms, but apparently it’s only for Gold-ranks. That’s Pisces. He’s a guest at my inn. One of the first. [Necromancer]. N-E-C…you can probably spell that.”
Again, Pisces twitched. He saw a Silver-rank adventurer talking to Erin glance his way and recoil. Could Erin not ruin his reputation with any adventurer who hadn’t met him yet?
He began to walk towards her and felt angry. He didn’t care about the loot.
Really, truly, he didn’t. It felt hollow, meaningless, and…greedy.
He kept imagining Igheriz talking about the gold he’d receive for selling Pisces. It wasn’t the same, Pisces knew. But he felt hot, sweaty even after his bath.
Pisces just wanted to talk to Erin. Yet she was causing more trouble, and he heard his class on her lips.
[Necromancer]. [Necromancer]…Pisces thought that, in this moment, it was a title more reviled than Goblin or Antinium.
 
——
 
Numbtongue could tell Pisces was getting upset. The [Bard] was staying with Erin and Todi’s Elites. Ironically, Erin’s trick was sort of working. Most people were staring at Numbtongue and asking questions rather than going for a weapon.
Ksmvr helped. As did the escort of [Knights] and adventurers. Numbtongue was actually sitting at a table in the Adventurer’s Guild, practicing on his guitar. It seemed like a suitably fascinating thing to do.
Goblin on a guitar. He had begun work on the Pisces theme-track again. It still was hard.
Pisces wasn’t rock n’ roll. Nor was he ‘pop’—from Terandria’s Singer. Not exactly. Maybe it fit a bit? Pisces was the Horns. Were the Horns…?
They were an odd group. Griffon Hunt was a kind of serious melody that went into hard action. Determined, wounded—they could sort of fit with rock, but were more like a marching song that you could insert into another genre.
The Halfseekers, by contrast, were that chaotic pop. Up and down, highs and lows. They had been the first team to have a Goblin adventurer. They had known betrayal, but they kept going, the friend of outcasts. More classic heroes who, yes, went in hard.
They’d killed a Drake [General] in battle. The Horns? No less important. They’d killed an Adult Creler and stormed the Village of the Dead. So they did fit with that kind of music.
And yet—Numbtongue looked at Ceria and remembered her nearly choking to death on a mouthful of food. Being broiled in a hot tub for ‘training’. Their dynamic, Pisces’ dynamic, didn’t do the seriousness.
“Hmm. Got to work on this one. I need more good musics.”
“What’s that, Numbtongue? Doesn’t Kevin have a playlist on his you-know-what? Actually, I hear there are song crystals all over. Why don’t we get some?”
Erin heard him as she rolled by. Numbtongue brightened up, and a few Bronze-rank adventurers clustering around heard her.
“The Guild has some music. Hey, where’s the song crystal player? And the scrying orb—maybe the Singer’s on?”
They obliged Numbtongue with a catalog of music, and he listened to a few tunes with one ear as the scrying orb came alight.
And Pisces still looked unhappy. Most of the adventurers glancing at him had his class on their lips.
“Erin. Maybe stop telling people his class?”
Numbtongue whispered to Erin. Even the Thronebearers, especially Dalimont, looked at Pisces with a reserve as Erin reminded them of who he was. Yet the [Innkeeper] just turned to the Goblin.
“It’s who he is, Numbtongue. I know what you said. I’ve got a plan, don’t worry.”
“Just don’t hurt him.”
The [Innkeeper] stared into the Goblin’s serious face as Todi walked over to Pisces with a drink. She glanced at Pisces as he smiled weakly at Todi.
“…I’ll try.”
 
——
 
Captain Todi sat down with a fake smile that Pisces returned.
“Not fun being the [Necromancer], I guess? Miss Erin’s doing you no favors, but hey, less leeches. Your time in the sun to shine. I knew it when you two walked into this guild the first time—you were going to stand out.”
“I’m—so grateful you recognized that, Captain Todi.”
You obsequious liar. Todi had all the foresight of Mrsha in front of a cookie jar. Pisces was sure that even if Todi was working for Selys, he didn’t like the Horns or Pisces.
As proof, Todi’s glance was a little too long on Ceria, talking with the most famous teams in Invrisil. There was frank jealousy in his eyes.
“Maybe we should have jumped in on the raid—but then we might have been dead. Play it safe. That’s how my team got to Gold-rank. Todi’s Super-Elites. I’m changing the name. Like it?”
“It’s certainly…unique. I am sure your team would have been a tremendous asset if you had joined in.”
“Yeah, absolutely.”
Todi drained the mug. Then he came out with it.
“Not every team gets as lucky as yours. Emergency-teleporting to Chandrar? I’m glad you’re not full to your heads with ego. You got what one in a thousand teams does—a lucky break.”
“I know that.”
Pisces’ jaw clenched. Finding that scroll and activating it—the [Paladin] coming back to life—yet Todi went on.
“You shook Chandrar right up. Coming off that ship with a [Hero] or whatever, and that undead king-thing?”
“Fetohep of Khelt.”
“Sure. Chandrar’s a fucking weird place, right? Just don’t get in over your head, that’s my advice. Not ill-intentioned. I just see people jump into the fire, thinking they’re now invincible, and they get chewed out. Rhir’s Hells, even Elia Arcsinger did it when she was named Named-rank, back in the day.”
“I will take that under advisement. Believe me—I’ve been humbled.”
Igheriz’s name still itched on his chest. Pisces stared at Todi.
“We’ve made a number of enemies. Like Roshal, Nerrhavia’s Fallen in part—we are well aware of how outmatched we are but for luck and opportunity and allies far above our means. I credit Erin Solstice with much of our survival.”
