You’d realize that over breakfast, with his friends, not once did he sass anyone. Something was wrong, and the person who realized it most was Pisces.
 
——
 
Survivor’s guilt was an odd thing. No. Forget that. Guilt was an odd thing. After the dust had settled—wondering what you’d done wrong, how you could have changed things. Regretting everything—
It was tough. Even if you were thousands of years old, it was difficult. Oh, perhaps you stopped caring about certain people. But—Ryoka Griffin suspected that you cared about some people nonetheless. And when they died, it was the same.
In the days after war, the ghosts returning to Izril and the tricks of the Faerie King, after a single soul was brought back to life—then two, one Human, one Dragon—after betrayal and killing Fithea and telling the immortals of Ailendamus everything, there was only one question on no one’s mind:
Whatever had happened to Ryoka Griffin?
And did anyone care?
No, no, that was harsh. Tyrion Veltras cared. Her friends cared, but Ryoka Griffin was the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Aside from being generally unscryable, people were used to her popping out of nowhere, being chased by something new.
A few notes in the Mage and Runner’s Guilds for reports of her were all the lengths Erin and others had gone to right now. They might well suspect Ryoka was torn up from betraying Eldavin and the actions of the Ailendamus war—still ongoing, by the way.
Ryoka had done a lot of thinking. Some crying, but healthy crying. She had looked at her mistakes, and she’d made a lot of old ones and some new ones. She…regretted a lot of things, even if some of the events couldn’t have been predicted, like Fithea’s betrayal.
She hoped she would learn and feared that she was doomed to keep never changing. And wasn’t that the worst thing of all, to never grow?
However, Ryoka Griffin raised her head and decided she had made peace with her actions. The manacles on her arms and legs clinked as she tried to get comfortable.
Yep. The prison cell never got more homey no matter how many hours she was in it.
A real prison cell, by the way. Ryoka had sort of hoped for a house arrest, but Ailendamus had a dungeon, and they’d tossed her into it.
A sliver of light from a window far too small for anything but air to pass through. Moldy bricks, and rats?
There was one every hour. Roaches too, giant ones. And other pests. The guards fed Ryoka halfway decent food, probably from the banquet hall, but Ryoka had found maggots in the food twice.
She wasn’t sure if the torture would come after that or this was the torture. Nor was Ryoka exactly panicking.
Not…exactly.
Okay, it was bad. And in any other circumstance, like Valeterisa’s mansion or a Walled City’s jail, Ryoka would have been seriously worried about her wellbeing, let alone freedom. However, this prison had some, ah, nuance to it.
For instance, Ryoka was pretty sure she was the only important prisoner-of-state in the cells. She didn’t base that on her cellmates.
“No, no! Not the rack! Not the—”
A screaming man, half-naked, flailing with spittle, was being dragged out of his cell by two burly figures in black hoods. He had blood on his fingers, and he looked like he was twisting the bones out of his body to get free.
The other prisoners that Ryoka could see looked no better. One hadn’t moved for two days, and black flies were ominously flying around the body. Another was a whimpering pile of bloody rags.
As for the captors—Ryoka thought they were the archetype of unthinking brutes. The only thing she saw in their eyes was boredom—or malice. Their clothes were black but still stained with liquid, and the entire prison complex was often filled with moaning or distant screams.
It smelled just fine. Sort of musty, and there was the faint hint of magical sage, that tingling in the nostrils that signaled magic. Oh—and the brutes who kept dragging prisoners out for torture weren’t Ryoka’s guards.
They were actually Dame Chorisa and another [Knight] of the Thirsting Veil. Ryoka saw the two bringing her food, and they were the only ones standing guard at the entrance to the dungeon. They looked disturbed by the screaming, or had—now, Ryoka thought they’d brought earplugs.
Which was a bad idea for guards for a cell of Ailendamus’ worst prisoners. If this were an actual prison.
Ryoka had her doubts. The lack of smell despite the streaks of color on the walls was one clue.
Another was that each time the brutish thugs took out a prisoner, it was a different person. And critically, they never seemed to put anyone back in the dungeon. Which might indicate the dungeon’s tortures were horrible and final, but Ryoka had other, subtler clues.
Like the roach about four feet long that skittered past her cell door. Yes, it was disgusting…but it was also just a bit too big. Dungeons had pests, but lice would disturb Ryoka more than a giant roach that even the jailors wouldn’t tolerate.
Also, the rat that kept appearing was the same one. It would run about, squeaking, in the exact same pattern and then disappear in a hole in the walls. It ran through the piece of apple Ryoka had tossed into its path as if it wasn’t there.
The chains were real. The dungeon was fake. The visitors were also real, and Ryoka was expecting Visophecin. Or Itorin. Or Oesca or her mother or a number of people soon.
But it wouldn’t be a dungeon without torture. And the person who had imprisoned her, who had ordered Ryoka thrown into the dungeon, Duke Rhisveri, was a depraved tyrant. He had thought up some clever tortures despite what Ryoka suspected was an injunction on physical harm by the other immortals.
It was beginning again. Ryoka saw two helmeted heads peeking into the prison. With sympathy? Or were they just watching?
Her captors could not stop what came next. The prison dimmed, and the world turned so dark the only thing visible was that bar of light from the window. And then…once again, it happened.
A figure rose from the ground. It looked like—a miniature Ryoka Griffin. She stood there like a little figurine, twice the size of a Fraerling, so one foot tall, barefoot, with the cloth strips bound to her feet, bouncing on her toes, wearing loose running clothing. She even had two missing fingers.
Ryoka stared at the image of herself, and then a series of flowing lines, deep green, appeared in the dark air above the miniature figure.
 
You are standing in a dark room in the Adventurer’s Guild of Tisekn. The windows are closed. Dust lines the floor. There are a few objects on the counter, but they are impossible to make out.
“Excuse me, can you turn on the light?”
A woman calls out. She is silhouetted in the doorway. You can hear lively chatter from beyond. A lantern sits on a table with a little Wand of Sparks.
>> What do you do?
 
It was really, truly amazing. No, she hadn’t told anyone about this particular bit of flavor from her world. Someone had just come up with it himself.
Ryoka sighed.
“I turn on the light.”
 
>> Ryoka Griffin is not intelligent enough to turn on a lantern without specific instructions.
 
“Go fuck yourself.”
 
>> Ryoka Griffin is not capable of that action. No one else is interested.
 
“I pick up the Wand of Sparks, then.”
Instantly, the little figure of Ryoka Griffin went over and picked up the wand. Ryoka sighed.
“I use the Wand of Sparks on the lantern.”
Mini Ryoka Griffin pointed the wand at the lantern. A shower of sparks lit the wick, and a glow enveloped what looked like a fairly interesting room full of items to pick up and the figure in the doorway.
“I pick up the lantern.”
Mini Ryoka went to pick up the lantern. Then she knocked it over.
The real Ryoka sighed as the lantern shattered on the table. Instantly, the merry sounds in the distance died down and a woman shrieked.
“It’s a fire! Put it out!”
“I stomp on the fire.”
The miniature Ryoka began to stomp, but the flames just spread around the stomps—in fact, the sparks and embers began to light up the rest of the room from her motions.
“Oh, come on. That’s not how it works. I…put out the flames with my wind. Hello? I can do that. I suck out the air from the room. I—too late now.”
The entire room was a bonfire. The woman in the doorway screamed as the fire enveloped her, and Ryoka saw more words writing themselves in the air as the miniature Ryoka was engulfed too.
 
The fire consumes the entire building. The kindly Guildmistress is set ablaze. She dies horribly. You are burning, and the guild is being evacuated.
Eight people are dead. They all burned to death. You miraculously survive because of course you do, but eight innocent people are immolated beyond recognition. Another man is crippled for life.
The Guildmistress was pregnant.
 
“Oh, come on.”
The next image cuts to a funeral. The figures were lining up, sobbing and throwing themselves at a line of coffins, when Ryoka twisted in her chains enough to face the other way. She ignored the text screen.
…Unfortunately, that wasn’t the end of it. It never was. Ryoka was debating humming loudly when the miniature funeral suddenly vanished and the air cleared.
She turned her head, and to her relief—there stood Viscount Visophecin. The Lucifen looked mildly amused by her expression, but he leaned slightly against the cell wall, waiting for her to untangle herself from the chains.
As always, no one had seen him come in.
“I presume I have not interrupted anything?”
“No. Not unless you count the world’s first text-based adventure.”
He raised his brows, and Ryoka sighed.
“It’s…actually, I can explain right now. How many hours do you have?”
The Lucifen clicked his tongue and drew in the air. Ryoka saw a magical timepiece appear, and he studied the hands.
“Pressing little, I fear. I wished to see you and inquire as to your…health?”
Ryoka tried to shrug and smile.
“Good. I guess. Am I, uh, going to get out today?”
“We are continuing to press the issue. I wished to tell you that Lord Tyrion Veltras continues to maintain his presence along the border. He will not relent until you are freed.”
Visophecin raised his voice slightly, although it was still as calm as ever. Ryoka and the Lucifen waited, but nothing happened.
“What…was that display?”
After a second, the Lucifen lowered his voice. Ryoka raised her brows.
“I told you, it gets weird when no one’s around.”
“I see. I believed it was—different.”
Both he and Ryoka fell silent for a moment, because it was just odd. The person maintaining all the illusions never responded to the criticisms. Nor did he show himself, but Ryoka had to believe he was watching. The things she saw were sometimes on autopilot, but some were so inventive a mind had to be coming up with them, if not actively watching her.
“Perhaps we should continue our discussions of what you call the Lands of the Fae. Or, if you prefer, I have more news from around the world. Of note—the Gnoll tribes who have left for Chandrar have finally been identified. What is your opinion on the future of…”
Visophecin was about to begin a thorough breakdown of Ryoka’s opinions on most recent events, which could be entertaining enough until it slipped into pure tedium. Ryoka doubted it was all purely to get her to spill valuable information.
He just liked to debate world events and politics, and he seldom got bored. Ryoka had made the mistake of trying to discuss different market-based concepts with him, and he’d been so fascinated he’d called in six Lucifen who took notes and debated for eight hours.
She had better things to do, like hang in place and stare at the wall. However, before the Lucifen could continue their discussion, the air darkened again.
Visophecin nearly dispelled the illusion, but then…froze. He couldn’t help it. His eyes opened wide, and Ryoka saw the most horrific thing yet appear.
Her jaw dropped as a giant…serpentine…sock puppet arose out of the flagstones. Then another puppet appeared, looking like her.
Two more appeared, a Griffin puppet and a withered tree-puppet. Ryoka’s stomach churned as the puppet of Fithea joined one of Rhisveri, Ryoka, and Gilaw.
“Hell’s contracts. What is…?”
Visophecin’s words were drowned out by a bright, sunny voice from the Rhisveri-puppet.
“What a lovely day it is! My kingdom is flourishing, and I want for nothing. In my generosity, I have allowed even a worthless thief certain privileges. Isn’t that right, thief?”
The Ryoka puppet nodded and opened what Ryoka thought was a too-big mouth, even for puppet standards.
“That’s right! I am a worthless ingrate, but I am eternally grateful for your forbearance despite all the transgressions I have made. Speaking of which—good day, Fithea!”
“Hello, Ryoka. What is that you’re holding?”
“A flaming sword. I am going to kill you. Because whenever I appear, people die. I am a curse upon the world, ahahahaha!”
A flaming sword began to burn the Dryad’s puppet. Visophecin’s mouth hung open as the Gilaw puppet croaked.
“Mother. You have killed my mother.”
The Rhisveri puppet nodded.
“That is correct. What should I do with such a murderer?”
The Ryoka puppet flung the sword away and pretended to look innocent as a chorus of Lucifen and Agelum and other immortal puppets appeared. They chorused as one, led by a suspiciously familiar Lucifen in a suit.
“Let her go! We are brainless incompetents who trust a single mortal implicitly! It doesn’t matter that she murdered the last Dryad in existence.”
The growl interrupted the cheerful voice—then was replaced by Ryoka giggling in an unnatural voice.
“That’s right! I’m just a silly mortal, tee-hee! It’s not my fault that I get everyone killed.”
The Rhisveri-puppet nodded with a slack-jawed expression clearly meant to convey idiocy.
“Well, I cannot argue with that. You’re free to go, Ryoka! In fact, let me give you some treasures from my personal vault. What will you do now?”
The Ryoka-puppet appeared to think for a moment.
“I think I’ll visit the nearest orphanage and burn it down.”
“Oh? But there are none in Ailendamus due to our superior system of government.”
“Don’t worry! There will be after I accidentally murder all the adults in the next town. Bye~!”
She began to head off to the side as the other puppets ducked away. Ryoka thought that might be the end of it, and Visophecin clearly did, because he was turning to whisper to her.
“What is…?”
Then he turned as an entire town popped up and a bunch of innocent townspeople meandered about as Ryoka cheerfully waved her sword at them.
“Oh, and look! Here’s my best friend, Cara, the treacherous Singer of Terandria with her hammer!”
The Lucifen’s stare almost made Ryoka laugh. Almost…but she whispered back.
“This could go on for an hour.”
