Ylawes Byres or maybe, uh…Ylawes Byres might fit that. And if Numbtongue did his song, there would be a lot of sarcastic overtones.
No—you know what? Someone who deserved that heroism, the emotion, the despair, and the glory in all its full rawness was Headscratcher. Or Zel Shivertail. Sadness and glory without any prevarication, because that was just how they lived and died.
Perhaps that Drake as well. Sserys of Liscor.
Not Pisces. So…what was left?
Next came sadness. The bitterness. The despair. The…shining soul poking through all the shit the world hurled at him?
It didn’t fit. Pisces wasn’t that gloomy. It sort of worked—Numbtongue felt like there should be at least melancholy if not sadness there, but Pisces was both successful, triumphant, and in pain.
Pain…how about something grand. Grand and dark, like…
“[Echoing Strings]. [Counter Melody].”
Now this was opera. Dark opera, the grim soundtrack of a figure standing alone in a graveyard under a moonlit night. The music to fit a villainous hero’s smile. A figure dressed all in black standing against the shrouded abyss as the mists revealed a gargantuan horror creeping below. Numbtongue’s [Counter Melody] Skill let him play two melodies at once—but he had to know what the first one sounded like.
A dueling echo of wailing strings and a sharp refrain screaming torment into the night. Yes…was the air darkening in the room? Did you smell blood and thunder on the horizon?
Did you see a grinning Goblin [Goth] and a Vampire vibing out in the background? Numbtongue glanced up at Gothica and Fierre.
“…Nah.”
Okay, maybe he’d gone too far here. His music had gone way too far into, well, goth. And it was attracting the posers. Gothica and Fierre looked incredibly disappointed as Numbtongue filed that song away into the ‘not playing this sober’ category.
Somewhere between that and the heroism. A kind of…thoughtful edginess. Yes, wasn’t that Pisces? A bit embarrassing. But that was also Pisces—Numbtongue had seen Erin calling him out. It all fit.
…So why did he think that was wrong? It was like Numbtongue was doing everything right, but doing it wrong.
As if I’m playing the Erin that people talk about, not the Erin who’s actually there. And when he realized that, the Hobgoblin decided he should talk to Pisces. If only because the [Necromancer] had been sitting for three hours without doing much of anything. Not really hearing Numbtongue and watching Erin.
“Hey.”
Pisces jumped as Numbtongue walked over and sat down. The [Necromancer] stared at Numbtongue.
“Er…good morning to you, Numbtongue.”
“Thanks. Mind if I sit?”
“Not at all. If you want to—”
Pisces looked around, thinking, perhaps, that Numbtongue was moving, but then he realized the Hobgoblin was there for him. He blinked at Numbtongue.
“Not…at all. I assume you have finished your musical soliloquies? They were quite profound, to judge by the audience.”
Ah, now there was the language Numbtongue liked. The Hobgoblin grinned. Pisces spoke like some of the books the Hob had stolen as a child. All big words.
“Nah, my music isn’t good enough yet.”
“I see. I see. Well, as first attempts go, they were pleasant to the ear. I imagine it must be enjoyable to be a [Bard] and compose your art all day.”
“Hmm. Maybe. It’s not art.”
“Ah—well then. To each their own definition.”
The conversation was a bit like yanking teeth. Pisces was clearly distracted and making light chatter, and Numbtongue didn’t know him.
Do I make fun of him sniffing or ask him if his robes are clean? Erin’s rapport with Pisces was a bit…straightforwards. Pisces seemed uncomfortable and was clearly already looking for a moment to bail.
“Not that I am an expert in musical culture. Cosmopolitan I and Ceria are not, despite hailing from three continents now. Quite embarrassing, actually.”
“Mhm. But you two are adventurers. You don’t ingratiate yourself into bourgeois societies and experience, um…contemporary hospitalities of the nations you visit. No, wait. Nations you second yourself to.”
Pisces was nodding absently in the way of someone trying to get out of the conversation. Then his brow furrowed, and he blinked.
“We—don’t. That is to say, I habitually attempt to enjoy the modern leisures of the populace, but it occurs to me that I—and the Horns of Hammerad at large—do not always use the thoroughfares that would put us into proximity with the latest trends. The Players of Celum rather came to us, being the broadest outlier to that example.”
He chose his words carefully and, Numbtongue thought, rather deliberately. The Hobgoblin took a long sip from his cup.
“An astute observation. But the Players of Celum’s vivid arrival in the cultural zeitgeist is an event I would expect the Horns of Hammerad to bear witness to. Given the juxtaposition of new forms of entertainment with the more express development of ideas on natural frontiers of nations, both conceptually and literally.”
The two stared at each other as Pisces’ eyes narrowed, and his lips moved faintly, trying to keep up. Numbtongue wasn’t even sure if what he’d said made sense, but he delivered it smoothly.
Mrsha poked her head up from over the table, dazed. Her head swung back to Pisces as he slowly inhaled through his nose.
“That is—a fundamental conceit of most nations, and a systematic flaw in the development of the ethos, perhaps, of the complacent citizenry or governance that tolerates such approaches to new—I should say—innovative refinements in any particular field. I quite concur with the phenomenon, not with the tolerance of this method of advancing our culture as a totality.”
Mrsha’s head spun, and she let go of the table and fell onto her back. Mrsha the Wordy couldn’t even get a word in edgewise. She was outmatched!
Numbtongue met Pisces’ challenging stare and sucked on his teeth for a second.
“I vouchsafe your thesis as profoundly correct.”
The [Necromancer] and [Bard] stared at each other for a second—and then both of them burst out laughing, and Pisces shook Numbtongue’s hand. Passing by, Ishkr rubbed at his ears as the two congratulated each other on their outstanding verbiage.
It just sounded like verbal diarrhea to him.
 
——
 
“I forgot you were a [Bard]. You truly did learn the entire lexicon of the common tongue, didn’t you?”
Pisces looked more energized in that moment than he had in two weeks. Numbtongue modestly shrugged.
“I lived in sewers. I stole books. There was a store…I took a dictionary.”
“Oh, that would explain much. Yet you speak so…well, fluently.”
“Lots of practice. I wanted to be friends with the Humans.”
“Ah. And how did that turn out?”
The [Necromancer] froze slightly, and Numbtongue smiled bitterly.
“They went into the sewers and tried to kill all of us.”
Pisces looked at Numbtongue, and the [Bard] lifted a drink.
“Goblin classic.”
He had told that story to other people, but never so…casually. It was a terrible story, but Pisces simply inhaled, realized Numbtongue did not want his deepest sympathies, and nodded.
“I had a similar tale about growing up as a [Necromancer]…I don’t know if I’ve ever told it to you in mixed company?”
“I’ve heard it.”
“Oh, I see. Then my condolences. I, er, have no one to blame but my own desire to sound quite academic and mage-like as a young man. You know, it does work at times.”
“Really? People think you know lots of magic?”
Pisces plucked at his white robes.
“The correct attire, the right attitude…it worked about forty percent of the time. I would walk into a Merchant’s Guild in a small town and pretend to be waiting for my important delivery. Or be representing another [Mage]. I didn’t have my seal on me or ‘how dare you ask me for proof’? I collected the item—then left town in a hurry.”
“Ooh. Nice trick. What happens if you were caught?”
“[Flash Step]. Illusory spells. Then I turn myself invisible. Most towns or villages have no one capable of seeing through the spell. Nor are they wise enough to figure out how to locate me.”
“I thought Erin hit you with a frying pan?”
Pisces sniffed.
“…I didn’t think she would actually throw it at me. I was a giant, pustulous monster.”
“That’s Erin for you.”
They were having a convivial chat. Although…Numbtongue still had no more insight into how to ‘play’ Pisces’ song. He knew now that it was probably not gothic rock, nor the pure heroic music for sure. Pisces was too…
Unique for that. If anything, he seemed as uncertain as Numbtongue as to who he was. The odd [Necromancer] in a Gold-rank team. The Hobgoblin found himself smiling naturally and almost forgot his song and Pisces’ woes for a second.
Right up until a ghostly claw poked him in the side, of course. He didn’t really feel it, but Reiss whispered in his ear.
“Let me talk to him. He’s a [Necromancer]. So was I.”
Pyrite poked Numbtongue from the other side.
“I want to eat a Spider Succulent.”
Shorthilt poked Numbtongue’s sword.
“I want to cut something.”
 
——
 
It eternally amazed Pisces, even though he should surely expect it. Even so—it was the quality of Erin’s inn that he just made…well, if not friends, then likable acquaintances so easily.
The first had, of course, been Ksmvr. But Olesm and now Numbtongue were just fun to be around.
Not even them. Pisces suspected he and Halrac would only have exchanged words in a fight to the death or at the tip of an arrow before coming to The Wandering Inn.
“Finding someone else as erudite a conversationalist is a pleasure.”
“F-forsooth.”
Mrsha held up a notecard hesitantly. Numbtongue and Pisces looked at her as she tried to qualify for the conversation.
She fled their amused smiles more than the scorn and arrows of any words. Pisces chuckled, and Numbtongue grinned.
Then Erin emerged from the kitchen, and Pisces’ stomach clenched.
She was out again. He’d missed the last—eight times? Enough.
Say it. Just get up and say—
Erin was sniffing the air, and Pisces thought she was mocking him, but she wheeled around randomly. He clenched his jaw, forgetting the moment.
He had to. He’d feel better. He hoped he would. At the very least—
He hadn’t even told the other Horns. He’d tell them after Erin.
Say it. Sayitsayitsayitsayitsayitsayitsayit—
His head lowered. Pisces was afraid and ashamed. He couldn’t even have explained it. Just…he didn’t say it.
Pisces had never told anyone he was—sad. Or hurt. Or needed help. He had never expected to say those words. Not since Gewilena and Feren and being a boy.
So they caught, like pebbles of truth trying to roll through miles of gravel, no matter how hard he threw them out of his heart. He wished Erin would pry them out of him.
That would be easier. That was, in part, why he liked her so much. Because she had once looked at him and saw the person he hoped he might be. Or was afraid he could be.
But no, she was just rolling about as the silly [Innkeeper], sniffing the air. Mrsha thought Erin was mocking her…right up until Erin pointed up.
“Aha! I see you up there! And I can smell you too, even if no one else can! Come down here, please.”
There was no response. Pisces, however, sat up, and so did Numbtongue. Erin folded her arms.
“I know you’re there. No, uh, free beds? Wait, do you have a room here? I’ll…”
And then Shriekblade appeared. She swung down out of the rafters, and Pisces jerked in his seat. He hadn’t noticed her! One second nothing, then he remembered there was an insane Named Adventurer in the inn.
Not just Saliss. But one who was known for her violence. It was as if he forgot she existed—it had to be a Skill.
Along with the scarred Drake’s presence came a smell. Mrsha clapped two paws over her nose and ran, yelping, and Ishkr gagged. Even Pisces and Numbtongue smelled it. The Hob covered his nose, and Pisces picked up the pungent odors he had sometimes, uh, smelled on himself.
That was, of someone who had been living in their clothes for two weeks. And who stepped in a puddle and thought that was fine. And so was the mold. True, flies began avoiding him, but that was a net benefit, and you got used to—
Erin turned green up close, but she held her ground.
“You stink, Tessa.”
“How do you smell me? No one can smell me. Not even Gnolls.”
Tessa’s smell was not just down to her living in her clothes. She had what looked like food stains on her clothing. She was apparently a messy eater. So imagine a fourteen-day-old meatball that had gelled with some ice cream and…
Erin covered her nose.
“It’s my inn. You can stay here, and really, you need a room, but take a bath. Now.”
“I can jump in a stream.”
“Bath. Do we have a batht—”
“No.”
Ishkr and Lyonette both chorused instantly. Pisces was fairly certain there was a copper bathtub, or some kind of wooden one, but Ishkr was adamant.
“She should go to Liscor’s bathhouse, Miss Erin.”
“Ooh, good point.”
The guests instantly protested, though. A Drake, Menolit, waved an urgent claw.
“No, wait! Go to Pallass’! Theirs are better!”
“Yeah, I want to have a bath today! Pallass is a Walled City! They’re superior!”
“I’ve always said that baths equal Pallass. We just can’t compete. I’ll put it in writing.”
Unfortunately, Erin was in no mood to bully past the door guards in Pallass. She pointed at Tessa.
“Liscor’s got bathhouses. Um…go for it.”
“I’ll just—”
“No! Bathe with soap! Shampoo! Brushes!”
Erin was getting really distressed by the smell. She waved her arms and turned to Lyonette.
“We should have a big bathroom here. At least a shower. Let’s build one—but for now—”
“Okay. I’ll go.”
Tessa was clearly not in the mood to argue. She headed for the door, and Erin narrowed her eyes at the Drake’s back. That was a fast turnaround, and as Pisces could have told you…
“Waitaminute. You’re lying. Do you have a change of clothes?”
Tessa’s shoulders hunched.
“Yes. Somewhere. I’m going to the bathhouses.”
Erin patently didn’t believe her. The [Innkeeper]’s head swung around, but Lyonette put up her hands.
“I have to help finish making food, and you’re busy.”
“Ishk—”
“No.”
The flat refusal made Erin blink. She switched targets and brightened up.
“Numbtongue! You’re looking smelly. Why don’t you walk Tessa to the bathhouse? And Pisces! Do you bathe?”
Both Hob and [Necromancer] were insulted at the insinuation. However—before either could protest, Erin was directing them to the public bathhouse. Tessa glowered as they found themselves standing outside.
“I bathe.”
Numbtongue began counting on his fingers.
“…Eight days ago. At the Wailant farm.”
“Did you shower since then?”
The Hob gave Pisces a blandly insulted look.
