“Rhisveri. It does matter.”
“Shut up. You’re delusional. Wait, what am I saying? You always were—”
“It matters.”
“Not to me. You’re projecting.”
Ryoka shook her head slightly. She met the puppet-Rhisveri’s eyes and felt stupid and surreal doing so. Yet that carefully artificial voice. The slips, like how perfect that Dryad looked, conjured from memory. All of it.
“It does matter, Rhisveri. Or why would you be doing all this? Why…”
“What I do with my spare time is amuse myself.”
The puppet was sounding annoyed and the voice—deeper. Ryoka Griffin stared at him and felt the chains clink. The wind was whispering to her at the entrance to the prison.
“Then, Rhisveri—why can’t you look me in the eye?”
The puppet jerked around. Two glassy eyes rotated to face her.
“What are you talking about? I’m looking—oh. You damn…”
The wind blew through the prison. No…that wasn’t quite right. The breeze that had been blocked from the closed door filtered through the cracks. It whispered into the room, and it blew through the walls and prisoners. Through the illusion, carrying it away in filaments of color.
Ryoka watched the magic vanishing. The air tore away like a cheap piece of paper, revealing the truth. Just a matter of perspective. It had taken her two weeks to see through it.
The filthy flagstones vanished, replaced by pristine marble. The cell doors flickered away, revealing a huge head that shifted away as a vast, serpentine body coiled around the room twitched.
Only the chains remained, attached to a simple [Wall of Stone]. And around her, facing her, was the Wyrm.
Rhisveri’s sock puppet turned around comically and then drooped. It faded into the floor as Rhisveri himself stared down at Ryoka. The Wyrm whispered as she looked up at him.
“Well, well. You surprise me. Is that how she felt the moment she died, I wonder? Just surprise—then pain. Then nothing. Would that it were as quick as a blink. My brother took hours to die. I saw him, you know. Or did you plan that too?”
Pretenses lost, his head slunk down to stare at her. One eye, larger than she was, blinked its slitted pupil. Ryoka shook her head.
“I didn’t know about that. Rhisveri—”
“Emotions. I did not weep one tear when my brother died. I laughed for a day in triumph. I have never wept. They say snake tears exist, but this Wyrm mourns not. He feels nothing. He should not. Not for a mere Dryad. Not for a single half-Elf. So why indeed do this?”
He looked around blankly. The rat-illusion scurried across the floor, as if it were still in the cells. Rhisveri flicked his tongue, and it vanished. Ryoka opened her mouth, but his head moved away.
“She was a traitor, in the end. She would have killed me. Menorkel and Gilaw both testified. As if she could. But if she were careful…she could have wreaked great havoc. I owe you for that. A servant who turns to disloyalty never deserved respect. A traitor negates any sympathy, you understand?”
“I understand what you’re saying.”
Rhisveri nodded reasonably.
“Exactly. Why would I bother to remember her as more than a lesson or as the first sign of my new enemy? I am aware of my foes. They have some charm or influence. That’s all. Maybe they struck her mind. Dryads are weak to parasites. Beings of nature can be affected. Maybe there’s rot in the forests she once claimed.”
“You think that could have happened?”
It almost made sense. Ryoka was blinking in the unaccustomed light. Had she really been here all this time? Wait, no wonder she hadn’t had to use the restroom once. Rhisveri absently moved his tail.
“I’ve…sent agents to investigate. It would make no sense, otherwise. Otherwise…she truly had a distaste for my power. Fithea surely knew what I would do if I learned of her treachery. However, I can only suspect she was mad with her desire for her forests. Seeing the traces of another world’s great forests on you did not help.”
“Yes. She believed.”
Ryoka whispered. Fithea’s haunted look of desperation followed her. Rhisveri nodded.
“Weakness. There’s no simpler explanation. Disappointing, really. I promised her to rebuild the forests. If she waited two hundred…no, just fifty more years, she would have seen the largest forest in Terandria. A bunch of groves, you see. They’ll spread and grow. A large circle—she tended them obsessively. Now I suppose I’ll chop them down.”
“Don’t do that.”
The Wind Runner whispered. Rhisveri pretended to be flipping through some maps.
“Perhaps not. The half-Elves always make such a fuss. But who knows? I promised her new forests, and that is how she repaid me. No faith at all in me. I could understand betrayal of anyone else, but I, who could grant any wish? Who could—revive the dead themselves?”
He turned one eye to stare meaningfully at Ryoka. Rhisveri went back to shaking his head. He plucked something out from the tomes of books and maps neatly organized. A worn book, the cover thick with bark and lichen.
With some distaste, he showed it to Ryoka.
“Do you see? It keeps contaminating my shelves with moss. She gave me that book. You know—I found her underground?”
“I think someone told me that, once.”
Rhisveri ignored that. He went on, absently studying the book, flipping through it.
“I met a strange Dryad underground before I ever surfaced. I had no real desire to eat her—being made of stone. We couldn’t communicate, obviously. But she taught me her language, and I had read common, just never spoken it. I often credit her with a small edge in my battle with my brothers and sisters. She taught me the foundations of most magics. I have long since surpassed her. Still. It was amusing to see a stone Dryad casting fire magic.”
“You knew her that long?”
One eye blinked at Ryoka.
“Yes. And she was already stone, then. How does it feel to know you ended…? No, don’t answer that. Fithea was the first immortal I graced with Ailendamus’ protections. Her wishes were the most difficult. I’m almost grateful you freed me of her nagging.”
“I—”
“If you say you’re sorry again, I will melt you. I just cannot believe she was so treacherous. I would have honored my words. That’s all. That’s all she was to me, and all I should waste on her. A moment’s self-reflection. A wary mirror for knives at my back. So why have I wasted so much time, indeed? Enough for even a half-trained thief to worm her wind through my spells.”
The Wyrm stared past Ryoka. Then, abruptly, he put his head on the ground and stared at her again. The chains around Ryoka broke. She fell to the ground and rubbed at her limbs.
“Am I…?”
“No. Be quiet. You know, Visophecin has told me House Shoel will force the issue tomorrow. Half the immortals, including Sophridel, who knew Fithea before me—are on your side. The other half are undecided. Only a few want you dead. Lady Paterghost is one of them.”
“Oh. She hates me. I think. I don’t know why.”
“Yes. But she is a vocal minority. It behooves me not to execute an associate of the Faerie King. You stole my scroll. You have ruined parts of my palace, gotten one of my trusted advisors killed, but even a bunch of haughty ghosts tell me I have more important matters. As if my own brother would utter a word without trying to manipulate me. He is gone. They’re all gone.”
Rhisveri’s pupils dilated.
“Can you see the dead, Ryoka Griffin?”
“No. You can?”
The Wyrm had proven that, of course, but he just snorted. Then his head rose, and he stared around. A tremor ran through his body.
“…I see nothing. The barriers are gone, but there are not even my pesky siblings. Not one across the breadth of Ailendamus. I see only emptiness, as if there never was. You know, I spoke to my mother.”
The Wind Runner stared up at Rhisveri. He clarified, turning his head again.
“Briefly. I gained little from the association. The others were far more practical. But it is an answer to how she sounded. Now there was a Great Wyrm. So venomous she would have poisoned the land with words alone. She had few associates, I imagine. Even her mate, my ‘father’ as you would dub him, she ate.”
He was rambling. Ryoka listened as Rhisveri switched from topic to topic. Then he looked down at her again and sighed, that sickly-sweet odor of acid and chemicals.
“…There is nothing to gain from me killing you. Nor even any real reason to accuse you when I know the nature of my true enemies in large. So. How much obol have you left? Do you have any…great artifacts? That sword, for instance.”
He sniffed about her, as if searching for treasure.
“I don’t really want the autographs. I think they’d keep me up.”
“What? You want—money? Are you serious?”
The Wyrm simply raised his head and fixed Ryoka with a long stare.
“Yes. Bribe me. Promise me—oh, something I believe. Swear to bring me back another scroll or a treasure. I want you to convince me to let you live.”
“But you just said…”
The Wyrm coiled around Ryoka, but loosely, giving her plenty of room. He lay with his head sideways on the floor, staring past her.
“I know what I said. Now you’re the one not listening. I’m…asking you to appeal to my baser instincts, Ryoka. Force me to let you go. Turn my nature against me. Give me something. Because I want to kill you.”
His head rose, and his mouth opened. Acidic venom dripped to the ground, a mist that began to sting Ryoka’s body like fire. She flinched away, and the wind blew defensively, but blood began to run from evaporated skin. With—effort—Rhisveri jerked his head back.
“Let my base mind rule over my higher one. Because…all of my superior mind, my consciousness, my understanding of everything? It wants to kill you right here for no reason other than you killed Fithea. I want to neither forgive nor forget till the end of time. So give me another reason.”
He closed his mouth. Ryoka’s hands, raised to cover her face, fell down as Rhisveri turned away. He lay down, staring at his side, his serpentine body.
“Rhisveri…”
There was no reply. Ryoka turned to go, and the snake’s body moved slightly to show her the door that the [Knights] guarded.
“Leave this capital and I will be your death. Find a way to persuade me. I’ll think of something. Or this will pass. This weakness, if I wait long enough. Surely.”
His voice followed her as Ryoka put one hand on the doorknob. She looked back, and the Wyrm was curling in on himself. His thunderous voice was gone, and a little sock-Rhisveri popped up from the floor.
“Do you want to know something silly, Ryoka Griffin?”
It bobbed left and right, a silly thing. The Wind Runner looked down at him. She bent over.
“No. Tell me?”
The ridiculous child’s toy opened and closed its mouth as it whispered a secret into her ear.
“…I always thought I’d see them again. As ghosts, you see? You can copy any spell if you build a kingdom with grand enough spellcasters. After all, someone made that scroll to raise the dead. I never thought death itself would vanish. Silly me.”
Ryoka’s eyes did predictable, Human things. The Wyrm’s eyes were clear like a toy’s. The Wind Runner rubbed her face on her sleeve.
“I see. That’s so clever. And silly. Excuse me.”
The door opened and closed with a click. The Wyrm lay there a while. With every fiber of his being, he was trying not to kill her.
 
——
 
In some ways, Niers Astoragon was more emotionally mature than a thousands-year-old Wyrm or a twenty-three-year-old [Necromancer]. That meant that he didn’t have giant, gaping holes in his soul. Even Peclir Im was different.
If the other two bled, he had scars. He had seen his great dreams come crashing down into ash. A Goblin King’s madness. A dead [Strategist]’s curse.
A frozen [Innkeeper] and more.
So you know what hurt him? What hurt Niers Astoragon was not another fallen edifice of his ambitions.
What hurt him was seeing a dream coming to reality. Without his being any part of it.
Paeth on the Coast looked like a giant redwood tree had suddenly, inexplicably, grown up overnight in Talenqual. It towered over the modest Lizardfolk mud-brick buildings and the plain wood structures.
The ruins of the Featherfolk Brigade’s headquarters were mostly gone, and an entire thousand-foot space had been cleared around Paeth. A large amount of space for a Fraerling—less for Tallfolk.
However, each inch of the circle was lined with warning signs which became auditory if anyone looked like they were crossing into that boundary.
“No Tallfolk are to approach within a thousand feet of Paeth save those with special dispensation! This is not your last warning, but we will not hesitate to use spells. Disintegration begins in a hundred feet.”
…And that was the kind of warning you took seriously if you had seen what the Fraerlings had done to parts of the city. The battle for Talenqual had ended after some exceptionally bloody street-combat judging from the four reports Niers had read, but both sides had reinforcements they could pull.
Especially the Featherfolk Brigade, who had forces across the region. However, the sight of their commander, Fezimet, being melted by a laser had knocked the fight out of the Lizardfolk. They had surrendered, and now Talenqual was in different hands.
But whose? The answer was apparent as Niers saw a group of Dullahans, Humans, Lizardfolk, and Centaurs patrolling the gates.
“Halt and identify yourselves! This city is under the protection of the United Nations company and Gravetender’s Fist!”
The nervous Dullahan on the wall had been a Silver-rank Captain if Niers’ notes were correct. Captain Eldima, the Rustless Vanguard. One of his lieutenants called out.
“We are the Forgotten Wing Company, as we have [Messaged]! We come under truce—Lord Astoragon rides with us!”
“The Titan?”
Whispers. The cityfolk had a shell-shocked look of people who’d seen real fighting of late. Well, the burned forests spelled economic disaster in the long term. Yet they still stared at the palanquin and the flag of the Forgotten Wing company as if he were the most extraordinary thing to see.
Not a Fraerling City. Oh, and the palanquin was actually just filled with a Chest of Holding, incidentally. A glorified supply wagon. Niers always rode with his second-highest-level commander to chat and issue rapid orders.
Apparently, their arrival hadn’t gotten to the gate guard, who waited for this confirmation. Niers didn’t blame the leadership at all—if he understood things, the mercenaries who’d fought for Paeth had signed on for temporary guard-duty along with Gravetender’s Fist, who had joined the United Nations company.
