It might be difficult, even for someone who knew him, to spot the difference at first. The clues were all there, but you know how he lied. He lied in words, actions, and even to himself. Perhaps he was more lie than man, now.
So, yes, given the circumstances, it was entirely forgivable not to see the changes in him. An absence when he might normally interject witty observations into conversation like one interjected air into veins. A hesitation that was more visible the longer you noticed old habits that didn’t resurface.
Perhaps their recent experiences had changed him for the better. That was another reasonable conclusion, until you saw a shadow hanging on his shoulder even in the daytime. The things unsaid.
The entire past might be better if he had been more honest with his feelings. Unlike anything else that had happened to him, though, this was the hardest thing to talk about. But he had to talk—or go mad.
 
——
 
It was better that it had been him.
That was Pisces’ conclusion at the end of it. Not that any of it had been good, except the death of a few monsters calling themselves men.
But better it was me than the other three. Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr—especially Ksmvr. The Antinium would not have deserved it. No one did, but Ksmvr was a child.
Yvlon—Yvlon would have died. Not because she was any less tough or enduring, but because she did not suffer fools nor travesty.
And Ceria? Pisces thought she might have survived it, just like him. Even so, he would have given that role to no one else.
Of course not. It was he, after all, who had proposed going to the Village of the Dead for the Helm of Fire and begun this entire debacle. He was only grateful that the other three had not suffered worse.
Ksmvr had fought his way out of an arena and led a rebellion. So had Yvlon, to an extent, and Ceria had navigated the deadliest nation of [Pirates] above land—and fought an Adult Creler.
They had all gone through a lot. He still dreamed, sometimes, that this was all an illusion. Then he woke up with the collar on his neck and the Emir Riqre was staring down at him. And before he tumbled out of his bed, thrashing and shouting, then grateful for the [Silence] spells, Pisces felt just a moment of relief.
For it meant Cawe wasn’t dead.
…Then he looked at the ceiling of The Wandering Inn and felt the comfortable sheets, the safe place where Erin Solstice was alive around him, and the guilt and relief redoubled. And Pisces Jealnet, as he sat, eyes red for lack of sleep but unwilling to rest, swore to himself again that today would be the day.
He hoped it would. But he was also afraid of just saying it. How…pathetic was that? Yet, day by day he waited, and Erin Solstice recovered from her death. And he told himself he wouldn’t wait for her to ask but tell her all he’d seen.
 
——
 
“Fifteen days, now.”
Pisces’ comment over breakfast was casual, but the rest of the three adventurers sitting at his table reacted. Ceria took a huge bite of yesterday’s soup and talked as she chewed.
“Fifteen? Dead gods, it feels shorter. Doesn’t it feel shorter? Erin’s been back from the dead fifteen days.”
“And she still cannot walk. Her recovery rate is substantially less than an Antinium Worker or Soldier.”
Ksmvr observed as Yvlon tossed a napkin roll at Ceria. Pisces watched as a young woman in a wheelchair slowed to glower mock-angrily at Ksmvr.
“Hey! I heard that! You’re supposed to whisper insults, Ksmvr.”
“But how would you hear them? Also, that is not an insult, Miss Erin. Merely an observation.”
“Yeah, but it’s rude. Haven’t the Horns taught you any tact yet?”
Ksmvr looked at Pisces, Yvlon, and Ceria.
“No.”
Erin eyed the other three. She nodded slowly.
“Yeah, that’s fair. Maybe you should intern with Griffon Hunt or something. Carry on.”
She rolled on her way to breakfast, and Yvlon snorted.
“Griffon Hunt? Between them and the Halfseekers or Silver Swords, I suppose that makes the most sense to Erin, but honestly—Halrac? Not tactful, just irritable. Ulrien was in his way, but Revi? Typhenous is tactful.”
This was the perfect moment for Pisces to interject a comment about Revi’s tact still exceeding Yvlon’s fist in your gut. Or some other pithy comment. He thought about it, but again—
It wasn’t that he didn’t want to say it or he was trying to be nice. It was just…in the milliseconds of time where he could have said that and gotten an elbow and irate look, Pisces didn’t. And so Ceria slipped in a comment with a grin.
“Typhenous is a snake, Yvlon. He’s smooth—not tactful. Half the time, he just makes fun of you without you knowing. And all three are still better than us.”
“Better than you three, maybe. I can be tactful, Ceria.”
“Yes, and a bear can dance. Name one time you were tactful.”
“In—we were separated, so you didn’t see me, Ceria.”
“Okay. How tactful were you when the Silver Killer of Izril was punching her way out of Nerrhavia’s Fallen? They said you left five hundred dead on the first day.”
“Who says—I did not. I told you, it was all exaggeration. It was probably Rexel, or Leprel. My teammates in the arena.”
Yvlon reddened, and Ceria cackled.
“No one, actually. But isn’t it a great rumor?”
Yvlon’s severe look didn’t deter the half-Elf one bit.
“If I were you, I’d stop after the Order of Solstice incident.”
Ceria waved this off cheerfully.
“What’s the worst that could happen, Yvlon? And before you answer—what’s the worst that could happen to us? But let’s just settle one thing: you can’t pretend you’re the odd one out every time we get called crazy or tactless. You can be tactful, you just never are. A Hollowstone Deceiver changes his shell only once a year.”
“Ooh. I appreciate this local proverb, Ceria. Let me try. Jexishe the Friendly Creler still murders tens of thousands every year. Do not trust her.”
Pisces blinked. Ceria tilted her head, and her eyes lit up as Yvlon rolled her eyes.
“Ksmvr…”
“Jexishe the what, Ksmvr? Someone’s got a pet Creler?”
Ksmvr glanced about and lowered his voice and mandibles conspiratorially.
“No, Ceria, Pisces. Yvlon tells me this is wrong, but I have asked Bird, and he swears it is true. There is a friendly Creler who served with the Forgotten Wing Company.”
“Ksmvr—”
Yvlon put her head in her hands as Ceria began cackling with laughter again. Pisces’ lips twitched, but Ksmvr was adamant.
“I asked Yellow Splatters and Mrsha, and both told me they had heard the same story.”
“Because Bird is a liar. And so is Mrsha!”
The argument attracted a betrayed look from a passing Gnoll. Mrsha sniffed and looked ready to burst into tears. Then, at Yvlon’s long stare, she shrugged and padded off. Fair.
It was such a convivial moment that Pisces was enjoying it. Or…his smile faded. Was he trying too hard to enjoy it? Was he aware he should enjoy it?
Was this even funny? When you got to it, what a waste it was to tell silly stories like this. How—mundane. How wasteful.
Was Merr alive? Eloque, Qshom, Bearig, and the others? What was he doing here? Pisces turned his head, and sitting across from him not a table away, banging her spoon on the table with Mrsha as a harried Lyonette headed out of the kitchen, scolding both, was Erin Solstice.
She was so close that Pisces could get up, sit down, and tell her right then and there that he had been a [Slave]. That he had met a monster named Riqre and seen worse than what Crelers did. That he had left his friends and, perhaps, part of himself behind on Chandrar.
…But he didn’t. Pisces stared at the back of Erin’s head. Now was not the time.
After breakfast. She should eat, and besides, Mrsha was there. He needed a private moment.
“—Pisces? [Mental Clarity] to Pisces.”
Ceria snapped her fingers in front of Pisces, and he jerked. His head snapped back, and he had his hands on the table before he relaxed.
His old friend gave him an amused glance.
“Save that for later. Are you doing anything before 2?”
“Two…”
Pisces’ brow furrowed. Ordinarily, he would have pretended he knew what was going on. This time, Ceria just sighed.
“Two. As in, two in the afternoon when we go to Invrisil’s Adventurer’s Guild, to talk about the loot from the Village of the Dead?”
“Oh.”
Ksmvr happily chipped in.
“Your attendance is mandatory. Please do not be late. Until then, I shall be touring Invrisil for gifts.”
“Gifts…? I’ll go with you if you’re shopping. You still might run into people who panic at the sight of an Antinium, Ksmvr. But why do you need gifts?”
Yvlon seemed surprised. Ksmvr sighed.
“It has escaped my knowledge, and I did not have time to do so anyways, but apparently one brings gifts from their travels abroad. Bird and Mrsha have suggested I purchase gifts as amenities in Invrisil. Snacks. Do you have any recommendations?”
Yvlon’s head slowly rotated, and a little Gnoll girl hunched her shoulders at the table opposite theirs.
“Oh, we can certainly discuss the issue, Ksmvr. But some shopping will be a good way to pass the time. I don’t relish arguing over our loot. The teams want what we picked up. So what’s the plan, Ceria?”
The half-Elf scratched at her head as Pisces turned to her. He had the spellbook he’d recovered upstairs, and he worked on it every day. Ceria hadn’t mentioned where the circlet had gone, and as for Yvlon, she had the two rings that had yet to be worn and a pair of scrolls. Ksmvr had left his sword back on Chandrar.
Pisces was understandably worried all the treasure they’d taken might be in danger, but Ceria didn’t look too concerned.
“We can’t avoid them forever, Yvlon. We did nearly die, so our claim is strong, and there’s gear from the rest of the raid to divide as well. Treasure-division is a huge game of politics and backstabbing. I’ll speak to some of the other team leaders. Besides, Prince Zenol is far removed from here—I think we’ll be as equitable as possible.”
“Well, Elia Arcsinger’s representative has been claiming her team is owed a big share. Everyone wants the Helm of Fire, and I don’t know if we’re going to get it. Pisces, how badly do we need it? Pisces?”
Once again, it went back to Chandrar. Pisces started and looked at Yvlon.
“I—it would be exceptionally unfortunate if we didn’t get it, Yvlon. Promises were made.”
“But Erin’s alive. So—what’s the reward from your client worth?”
Pisces bit his tongue. What’s it worth? Not being slain and reanimated as corpses. He hadn’t told them it was the Necromancer he’d contacted.
Pretend. Pisces steepled his fingers, sniffed self-consciously, and remembered how much Eloque and the others laughed at that. His team just waited as he chose his words, pretending to look less concerned than he was. Which was still very concerned, but to his friends, it would look like he was playing it casual when he really was concerned.
Lies within lies. His specialty.
“I—would consider it a rich patron who might be displeased in more than words if we were to renege. I will ask about the fee being waived but…”
Az’kerash might be unhappy. Then again, he alternated between a cold, admonishing voice, speaking as if Pisces were an insect on the path to true Necromancy to…well, what Pisces had thought he might be like, the wise Archmage of Death.
At any rate, Ceria nodded seriously.
“That might actually help if we claim it was promised. Alright, break, team. Pisces, you can join us…”
“I may stay here.”
Pisces turned back to Erin as the rest of his team split up. Now. Perfect. It might not be long enough to say the entire story, but Erin had finished eating a breakfast burrito and was chatting with Mrsha, Lyonette, and Numbtongue.
“Erin, may I request a moment of your time?”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t turn around. She wheeled over to the kitchen, ignoring Pisces. Because…he hadn’t said the words out loud.
They’d caught in his mouth. He hesitated, and then it was too late, again.
“Alright! Look out, kitchen, here I come! You might think you won yesterday, but today, I’ll take you down! Are you ready for battle, Lyonette?”
“Erin, we’re making doughnuts.”
Erin waved a finger at Lyonette. She glanced at Pisces as Mrsha offered to be a [Taste Tester].
“Nah, nah. We’re making Spider Succulents. Remember? My new creation?”
“Spider what now?”
Ceria paused with one hand on the doorknob, and so did Ksmvr. Yvlon grimaced, but Erin waved her hands.
“No, it’s not bugs this time! It’s this dough ball we’re gonna fill with custard and coat in chocolate or something nice and make teeny little legs! I’m thinking jerky. So they’ll look like spiders, see!”
“…And this is meant to be appetizing?”
Yvlon was appalled as she said what most people were thinking. Erin just grinned.
“Well, it’s unique! I heard a lot of guests like the bug-vibe, not just the Antinium. So why not lean into it? But that’ll be on our menus tonight. Something not even Imani can copy!”
“I can copy it. But I won’t.”
Imani put on her own apron as she headed for the door for her own job. Erin shook her head at Imani’s back.
“That’s the mundane dish. We’re also perfecting…a bisque. I mean, a magical one. How’s that, Imani?”
The [Chef] turned in the doorway.
“…What’s magic about the bisque?”
The [Innkeeper] scratched at her head.
“Well, y’know my Scaleguard Sandwich? ™, copyright, can’t steal?”
“Yes…”
“I’m making the muscle-version of it. It’ll have, uh…venison. And bone. And other stuff! We’re nailing down the ingredients, but it’ll be in my magical lineup! Scaleguard Sandwich and, um…Bulkup Bisque! I already came up with the name. I was gonna go ‘Beefcake Bisque’, but there’s no actual beefcake in there. And Mrsha kept laughing.”
Erin beamed around, and Pisces felt the vague need to applaud.
He did not. However, it was clear that Erin was actually developing her inn’s menu. She was turning towards the kitchen, and he had missed his opportunity to talk to her.
“Pisces, you wanna taste-test my stuff?”
The [Necromancer] froze halfway up the stairs. He looked at Erin, and Numbtongue, sitting and pulling out his guitar, gave Pisces a warning shake of the head.
It could be an opportunity—but Pisces shook his head.
“No. Perhaps another time, Erin?”
He smiled, and Erin shrugged.
“Your loss.”
She wheeled away, and after fifteen seconds, Pisces kicked himself for not taking her offer. What was wrong with him?
Another day. He had more time. He’d…Pisces went back upstairs and read from his spellbook as he composed a message to Az’kerash. He had things to do.
It was just—if you went back over that conversation, if you were listening to Pisces alone, and you knew to look—
