“We’re here to take Jungle Tails to account. If a Fraerling city is held hostage and if our people are alive—we will free them. Great Company or not. Paeth is free to do what they wish, but we’ll have words. But you were only half-right. We came here seeking Forgotten Wing support, and your Foliana agreed to lend us soldiers, resources, and your academy. We’ll be headquartering here, rather than any one city in case of reprisals and so that we’re unified. You are not our commander, but I will be working with you.”
The hairs on the back of his neck were rising. Niers saw the Fraerlings nodding and felt the buzz in his academy. So many Fraerlings. Thousands?
But he’d built Elvallian to hold that many. They’d have to open the old rooms, ensure everything was safe—Niers looked into the eyes of the Tallguard, and she was not afraid of him. She knew exactly who he was. That was why she’d sought him out.
“The second reason we came in such numbers is because every single one of us might be needed. If it was just Nagas, we’d send kill-teams into their forts when we found them. However, our Farspeakers have been talking, and we agree—no one city alone can hope to pierce into the Dyed Lands. The colors are not ceasing their advance. Monsters are overrunning cities nonstop. It’s not just Fraerlings in danger.”
The Dyed Lands. Niers exhaled, and Gindal spoke up.
“If my people are there—I will find them. But if not, a Great Company needs to halt this disaster. Worse might follow. Niers Astoragon, are you willing to send the Forgotten Wing at this foe?”
It was a formality, but they all watched his expression. And oh, but he tried. The Titan did his best—
But was it wrong that he smiled? Despite the loss of life, despite the danger? He knew it was wrong, because it would be costly and people would die—
Yet, at last. At last, a foe without morality. A cause—people to save. The Titan of Baleros looked around and saw his people in his home. He straightened his back and nodded.
“I couldn’t build you a city. Nor keep other settlements safe. I will admit, the Forgotten Wing company guards its own interests, and we grab for power.”
He looked from face to face as they watched him.
“…I can’t protect or save or liberate. But war? I can do war. Welcome to the Forgotten Wing Company.”
Then, at last—he did smile.
 
——
 
Rhisveri Zessoprical stood among the immortals of Ailendamus. Well, it was impossible for him to stand with his real body, but his representative stood.
Better that than a sock puppet. If that was the judge and arbiter, Ryoka Griffin would laugh her way to the headsman’s block.
…Was it going to be that? She didn’t think so. She hoped not. If she was going to die—well, Ryoka thought it would be so fast no one could stop him.
So she waited as Visophecin and the others watched Rhisveri. He looked…calm. Menorkel was there. Gilaw was not.
She didn’t want to look at Ryoka. Even now, Menorkel gazed at Ryoka, replaying Fithea’s death.
There was a remove in the immortals, and many gazed at Ryoka with more wariness than they had shown any other mortal. She had brought death to Ailendamus, but even more—the knowledge that their great kingdom might not be the biggest fish. The ocean was pouring in, and they were afraid.
Fearful people did silly things. Perhaps immortals had learned their lessons, but Rhisveri was learning what it was like to lose someone. Possibly for the first time.
Yet he spoke, rather grandly, into the silence.
“Here stands a thief.”
Oh no, not again. Uziel rolled his eyes, and Visophecin looked exasperated. However, Rhisveri went on.
“Here stands a thief. A knave who has not only stolen the knightly virtues of several members of Ailendamus’ most elite warriors—”
Ryoka turned beet red. He was bringing that up?
“—But a murderer who has slain Fithea, the last of Dryads. She has attempted bribery of heads of state, endangered the life of Ailendamus’ royal family, slandered a number of those present—”
“Oh, come on. Rhisveri. Will you really do this? You might as well add kicking Sariant Lambs to her list of crimes.”
Uziel wheeled his chair around and snapped at Rhisveri. One of the Merfolk looked horrified.
“She did that?”
“If she did, I vote to pardon her on the spot.”
Azemith called out lightly, and chuckles ran through the crowd. Rhisveri, however, just stared at Azemith until the Lucifen’s expression darkened and she fell silent.
There was a danger in the air, and Visophecin was watching Ryoka. He had one hand in his pocket, and the Wind Runner didn’t know it, but he had a dart enchanted with a [Teleportation] spell coded to go through Ailendamus’ wards.
It might hurt, but it would hurt less than Rhisveri melting her. The Wyrm was…too calm.
“She has done more damage to Ailendamus than any one individual. More, even, than Archmage Eldavin. Yet many of those gathered here claim she is no more than a hapless agent and should be pardoned and treated as an ally.”
The Duke turned to Sophridel, and the Elemental of Masks spoke up.
“She is worth far more alive than dead, Rhisveri. That is purely logical. You may add disruption to the Court of Masks and attempted assassination of an Archmage to her crimes.”
Rhisveri snorted lightly.
“I will. Although I take your meaning. All of these crimes may be excused. All—save one. And that is slaying an Immortal of Ailendamus. I have said it—there can be no other answer than death.”
“Hear, hear! Off with her head!”
Lady Paterghost pumped one fist into the air before Nube made her take it down. No one else joined in, much to her displeasure. Rhisveri was looking at Ryoka.
What was his answer to his rage and sadness? She hadn’t figured out a suitable bribe before he summoned her here. There was no bribe, frankly. Offering something for a life, any life, let alone a Dryad’s?
“—I have deliberated long on this matter. At last, I have decided Ryoka Griffin is free to go pending one condition.”
The immortals looked astonished. Even Visophecin. Then worried—this sudden about face did not bode well. Ryoka gulped.
“If I can just say—”
A Rhisveri sock-puppet popped out of the ground, smacked her so hard the stick broke, and vanished. The immortals stared at the swearing Courier and then at Rhisveri. He pretended nothing had happened, and even for the ageless of Ailendamus—you really had to doubt the proof of your eyes.
“As I was saying. I am willing to overlook the death of Fithea given the circumstances, but a price must be paid. A price…rendered unto me and Ailendamus. Fitting for the death of the last Dryad. Ryoka Griffin. You came here to save your friend, this ‘Erin Solstice’, and steal a treasure to effect that. A task beyond belief. An impossible quest, one might say. Since <Quests> seem to be the thing of the day, I think I shall assign you one as well. Though I have no Skills, I will enforce it with a simple…time limit.”
He pointed at her, and Ryoka’s heart sank. Uh oh. Rhisveri pondered, tapping his lips.
“One year. Oh, very well, ten.”
He amended it as Visophecin shot him a long glare. Rhisveri snapped his fingers.
“Ten—and until that moment, Ryoka Griffin is not to set foot in Ailendamus. She will contact no immortals nor have any aid rendered to her, not even word or look. Ten years and she dies if every soldier in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory must hunt her down. I’m sure ten is enough for a task just as impossible as the first.”
She’d done impossible quests before. Ryoka licked her lips. How bad could it be? Rhisveri’s smile was too-wide.
“Are you ready, Courier?”
“I—I am. How can I redeem myself, Duke Rhisveri?”
The Wyrm raised one hand.
“You slew the last Dryad in the world. The last of a race. Her dream was for her kind to flourish, and it will be centuries, millenia, perhaps, before a forest in Ailendamus can bear her kind.”
Uh oh. Ryoka knew what he was going to say before he said it. Sweat began to roll down her spine.
Rhisveri went on.
“Then—it would be eminently suitable for you to make this up by finding a child to fulfill that wish. Render unto Ailendamus a Dryad. Find a child or let a forest birth one into the world and bring them here.”
Oh no. Ryoka was sweating now, and the Lucifen and Agelum were protesting. But the other immortals were nodding. Rhisveri held up one finger with a smile.
“Ah—but one more thing, Ryoka Griffin? As Fithea was of this world—so must the Dryad be. No outsiders. Ten years. When you leave, a geas will bind you and slay you if you so much as send a [Message] to anyone here.”
Ten years. An impossible task. Visophecin was arguing along with Sophridel, but the Wyrm’s eyes fixed Ryoka with a look.
Anger, grief…and almost hope. Desire. Not just greed. He was such a damn liar.
Show me her future. Show me another. Can you do it?
Ryoka Griffin closed her eyes as the immortals looked at her. She bowed her head…then a thought occurred to her.
“Wait a second. Maybe…”
She had a sudden thought. Didn’t she know of a certain seed? It was a super-long shot, but she suddenly recalled—
The Wyrm’s face went slack as Ryoka’s look of determined despair gave way to a sudden thought. He glanced at Visophecin, and the Lucifen’s eyebrows had vanished into his hairline.
“Wait. You don’t know where a Dryad child is, do you?”
“N-no. But I’ll try to—I mean, who would?”
Ryoka put her hands behind her back. Lady Paterghost stage-whispered to the others.
“She is lying.”
“Even one of my fair cousins could tell you that. You know where a Dryad’s child is? No, you must know where a seed is.”
“I don’t—”
Ryoka flushed, and Rhisveri looked sideways at Uziel. The Agelum was chortling. Rhisveri looked left and right.
“…I also want an elixir of immortality. Do you know where to find one of those? Oh, and a flying island.”
He spoke incredibly sarcastically. Ryoka shook her head. But then hesitated.
If King Arthur was in the lands of the fae…why not Gilgamesh or something? And would a spaceship count as—?
The immortals of Ailendamus watched Ryoka’s face. One of the Merfolk raised a hand.
“Ask her if she can also produce a fountain of youth. See? She’s thinking about it.”
The exasperated Wyrm silenced the others, but he looked at her. Questioningly. Ryoka raised her head to meet his gaze and nodded.
“I don’t know if I can do it—but I can try.”
The Wyrm nodded. He raised one hand, and Ryoka felt the magic in the room intensify.
“In that case, I bind you to your task. Stand back. The [Greater Geas] will—”
Rhisveri broke off. The magic surging around the room, visible like mist in the air, abruptly went still. All the immortals looked at him—then up.
A shrill siren began to blare from one of Uziel’s pendants. A high-pitched whine above most people’s hearing came out of one of Visophecin’s rings. Rhisveri’s eyes opened wide, and he cursed.
“Name of Djinni! What’s breaking through the—”
Sophridel spoke urgently.
“Someone is shattering our teleport wards. They’re teleporting over the border.”
“It’s the Archmage!”
One of the immortals shouted in alarm. Visophecin’s eyes narrowed.
“No. It’s not. To arms.”
Ryoka’s head slowly rose, and Rhisveri’s eyes found her. She felt her heart squeeze in her chest suddenly.
There was only one person it could be. Only one would have reason to be here. She was running outside with the others when they saw the air warp. It was almost unnoticed in the clouds, but Ryoka saw something emerge. She didn’t see what it was—it vanished too soon, and Azemith cursed.
“It went invisible! [Greater Invisibility]. Did I see it right?”
“Yes. You did. I think a guest has come to Ailendamus. Rhisveri?”
“I am going to greet him. I didn’t expect this. Bold, to teleport in. He must fear nothing.”
The Wyrm whispered. His fake form vanished, and Ryoka whirled to the palace in alarm.
Bold indeed, to teleport into the nest of immortals. It bespoke an arrogance typical of his kind—enough to alarm even Visophecin because of the sheer confidence.
Or—perhaps—if you thought about it another way—it was the act of a Dragon who reached the sea and decided there was no way he was going to fly or float across that. Azemith looked at Visophecin.
“Was it a…?”
The Lucifen looked at Ryoka and nodded.
“Yes. It was a Dragon.”
 
——
 
[Goblin Soulbard Level 37!]
[Skill – Song: Ballad of the Horns of Hammerad created.]
