“An hour?”
It was almost funny. Almost—and the other things the Wyrm was creating. He’d been doing it for two weeks, now.
Almost hilarious, because she didn’t think she was going to die. And yet—Ryoka stared as her puppet began to ‘accidentally’ decapitate people in the village with Cara wielding a giant hammer and beating the other puppets to death. While singing.
Bits of ‘blood’, gore, Ryoka professing how sad she was and none of it was her fault—yes, it was pointed, and yes, it was stupid.
But she watched a little child-puppet leaning over another dead one.
“Mother. Mother? Wake up. I don’t want you to go.”
It whispered, hugging the dead puppet-body. Maybe the rest of it was fake. Maybe this was all an act to get on her nerves or hurt her.
But the voice whispering behind the puppet-child was his. Two fake cloth hands reached down and shook the body, so gently. Then urgently. Then stopped, and a pair of fake, sewn eyes stared around vacantly at nothing at all.
And it sounded…Ryoka closed her eyes.
It was the best play she’d ever seen, if it was acting.
 
——
 
“I want an armada.”
“Who’s going to pay for it?”
“Me. I’ll damn well fund the ships myself if I have to. But we need an armada. We have forces abroad.”
“That you sent. This sounds like a problem you made.”
“Well, yes. And now it’s your problem. So—what are we going to do about it? We nearly lost to Jungle Tails. We need to restructure. Oh—and I need two companies in Talenqual yesterday.”
Niers Astoragon enjoyed his games of slow chess. He often practiced a laid-out schedule where he would teach his classes, keep the company running, and maintain order in the Forgotten Wing Company’s vast domain.
Right now, he was a whirling dervish flinging out orders and requests, and the [Servants] and [Strategists] rushing past the breakfast table where he and Foliana were still debating were a symbol of how much was happening.
Foliana munched on an odd meal. It looked like…steel wool. Literal steel wool covered in honey. She spat some out.
“Mm. I think Peclir Im lied to me.”
“You actually took him seriously when he said that was his favorite food?”
Even Niers was distracted for a second. Foliana shrugged. She reached for a plate of spaghetti with, of all things, deadly amentus fruits squeezed into a cup.
“Sometimes people tell the truth. I killed a Lizardwoman who ate mud. Just mud. From houses. Mm. Spaghetti.”
She slurped down a few noodles and concentrated.
“…Still too far. Damn.”
“No Antinium on Baleros?”
Niers asked half-sarcastically, but Foliana treated it like a real question.
“If there are, they don’t like spaghetti. Good to know. Or the Slayer liking this was a lie. Also good to know.”
“…How do you learn these things? I have [Spy] reports, and I have never, ever, seen anything about what Klbkch the Slayer considers his favorite food.”
For answer, Foliana just pulled something out of her bag of holding and laid it on the table.
“My sources are better than yours, see?”
The Titan had to stand up from his breakfast seat to get a look at the pamphlet of paper. He saw a fairly colorful title—Foliana paid for color—a city surrounded by water, and a big #2 next to the name.
 
The Liscorian Gazette.
 
Below were subheadings listing the articles within as the catchy title and covers hadn’t been perfected yet.
 
Containing: the Birds of Liscor, a column by Bird the Antinium. An exclusive interview with Senior Guardsman Klbkch by [Reporter] Drassi on hobbies, love life, and more! Your Top 10 worst monster encounters, ranked! And more! 
(Chess Monthly now sold separately.)
 
The Titan’s mouth worked as he read through the magazine. He glanced up.
“What love life…?”
“It was a lie.”
Even Three-Color Stalker was disappointed about that. But hey, it was definitely pushing sales. Niers sat back in his chair. After a moment, he resumed talking.
“—The Iron Vanguard will try to destroy them. So I want a fleet.”
“Got a better idea than watching them burn this time?”
“As a matter of fact—yes. We’ll beg, borrow, steal, or buy as many ships as we can.”
“Mm. And how is this my best [Strategist]?”
Foliana fished some earwax out of her ear and flicked it at him. Niers smugly dodged it.
“Because this time, Perorn is doing the hoofwork with our coin. We’ll ferry our troops from Baleros. Intrigued?”
The giant Squirrel thought about it. She nodded at Niers and then gave him one of her long stares. Disconcerting, as all three colors ran together.
“Are you sure you’re well?”
Niers Astoragon gave her a tight smile.
“I’m as well as I need to be. I learned some lessons in Izril, Foliana. Complacency is one of them. I want Jungle Tails dead. Slap a 10,000 gold bounty on anyone above [Captain] in rank. Clemency without questions for any [Soldiers] who turn over their superior’s head. Now if you’ll excuse me, I have some Goblins to talk to. And my fellow Fraerlings.”
He left her at the table. Foliana was still recuperating, and so they’d taken inspiration from The Wandering Inn. She refused to get on a floating pedestal, much less a Golem-carried chair or the other methods of transport elderly figures used.
However, Foliana would accept a wheelchair to which she had attached two pieces of plywood that spun around at wheel-level. It would kneecap everyone not standing clear of her.
The fact that she could even move around much less be an obnoxious hazard showed just how effective those Shards of Relief had been. Niers marched towards the open Fraer-ways as one of the servants placed a little ramp so he could climb up into the hidden tunnels throughout the academy.
Rich, bacoina-wood floors. Glass featured heavily in the Fraer-ways—carpets, not so much. Niers had imported some art, but since the Forgotten Wing Company didn’t have a community so much as younger Fraerlings who signed up for a few years, it was a bit sparse.
Hanging Tallfolk art was impossible, and while some fancied themselves good enough to carve poems on grains of rice, the writing looked rough when you were Niers’ size.
No carpets. Lots of glass. Niers had long since known they looked more like an expensive tunnel system than a home. He nodded to a few young Fraerlings who greeted him with clear relief and excitement.
“Lord Astoragon, it’s good to have you back. The representatives—”
“I’m on my way just after this next meeting. Isn’t it Oiex? I hope you stayed out of trouble during the fighting.”
The fighting. Niers slowed to talk to the younger Fraerling, who looked a bit older than the boy who’d run away to see the outside world and come here.
“A lot of the Tallfolk died. On our side, I mean, Lord Astoragon. I’m glad we won. And the—traitors—Tallguard Ekrn and Explorer Gindal got them, but I saw some of the fighting. I was backing up the security! I never thought I’d fight other Fraerlings.”
His look was uneasy—that of someone who had always thought that while the other species could be dangerous or alluring, his people were just good. It was the face of someone realizing he might have to fight his own people.
Normal Fraerlings never considered that. Niers? He patted Oiex on the shoulder.
“That’s a perspective I hope you’ll think of—but it’s not something to obsess over or live by. It’ll change you, inform you no matter where you go. Home or elsewhere.”
“I—might go home a bit, sir. Once this is all done. To see how it feels.”
The young man hung his head, but Niers just smiled.
“Everyone should visit home. I do it now and then—take a month or two off.”
He wondered if he’d ever see Oiex again as the Fraerling looked relieved. Niers took the time to talk to Oiex and the other Fraerlings, despite his urgent business.
He had to show himself in Elvallian again. He’d gone drinking in the bar and just—talked—all night long. He’d stayed on the same mug, only sipping it to wet his throat.
Well, you didn’t exactly chug an Elixir of the Copper Tongue. Niers had filled the mug with that, knowing he’d be talking, not having fun.
That was called, in [Strategist] terms, ‘planning ahead’. Foresight—preparation—whatever you wanted to call it, half of teaching new students was just getting them to think like that in all regards.
It was something Niers hadn’t been doing of late. He’d been acting like a [Tactician] in parts, reacting. The Titan had reflected on his mistakes, and he would continue to do so.
For now? He was back, and what Niers Astoragon did when he was back was what Bird did for fun:
He lied. If he had the [Liar] class, Niers was probably pushing Level 50 by now. But he didn’t need the class—it was part of being a [Strategist].
Oiex? Niers hadn’t gone home in forty years. It was something you said. Happening to go out for a drink on the town? Purely intentional, as was putting an aphid in the ears of anyone wanting to talk to him and vent or get reassurance.
Even the ground upon which he walked, the Fraer-ways, were a lie. As the Fraerlings who had come to the academy had discovered—they had been designed to capture hostile forces if need be. Each section could be locked down by the top commanding officers. The glass wasn’t a way for the Fraerlings to look out. It was a way for the Tallfolk to look in.
…The lack of carpets was just because of how much of a pain they were to clean. Also, insects and rodents loved chewing on the damn stuff.
Busy, busy. Niers hurried down the Fraer-ways at a jog after meeting a few fellow Fraerlings. He had no end of work.
For instance, one of the things he did was call a meeting with the Selphids who formed his vanguard in battles. His [Immortals], his [Lineholders]; the fearless vanguard.
Even they’d been chewed up by Jungle Tails’ attack. Yet they greeted Niers with loud enough cheers.
“Titan, you never disappoint. I was wondering if you’d fly in on a bird at the end, but teleporting a Goblin army will do enough. Are we on deployment against Jungle Tails?”
One of the [Diehard Warriors]—a lower-level version of [Immortal]—greeted Niers cheerfully. Someone had blasted part of her true body apart, but she was recovering.
He wondered if she’d lost memory or some mobility—yet Selphids could regenerate given time. And the grin her Lizardfolk body gave him was big enough.
“Eager on adding another dozen bodies to your collection?”
The dry comment provoked uproarious laughter. These were veterans—they’d done their mourning already. When they’d sallied, they knew the risks. You laughed, here. Later, you continued talking it out.
“I’m sending four back home. One for each of my family. Aside from my sister—she married in. Lizardfolk.”
Niers grinned as the Selphids tallied up one of the reasons they fought for him—access to bodies. It was hard for regular Selphids to get good, fresh bodies, much less high-quality ones. Selphids in his army were awarded the battlefield dead in many cases. The Forgotten Wing company had agreements with some of their enemies, like the other great Companies, not to poach their dead, but Jungle Tails had no such protections. He nodded to the other [Mercenaries].
“She can stuff hers, then. I just stopped by to congratulate you all. And I’d say my hand slipped—but like Nagas, I’m going to fill my bag of holding with all this worthless metal. Alright, bring it in.”
He motioned, and one of his [Generals] marched into the room with an actual Chest of Holding and began tossing out bags of coin. The first Selphid who caught it opened it and eyed the gold and silver inside appreciatively.
The silver was there to make the bag feel hefty, but it was a sizable bonus. The Selphids cheered as Niers shouted.
“Drinks are on you all for a month. This is just a token of my appreciation for staying when it got hot in the soup. I know it might be straightforward, but as I’ve observed, nothing makes a Selphid happier than a cold body and a handful of gold.”
They laughed harder at that. Niers didn’t stay long, and in truth—he didn’t think they needed him to.
It really was straightforward. You didn’t need to lie to the career soldiers who’d been with Forgotten Wing through thick or thin. Niers would spread the joy with the other soldiers later today, but he did make a point of doing it himself.
We reward your loyalty. Plain and simple.
Maelstrom’s Howling, the Centaur Great Company, was made up of almost every semi-nomadic Centaur clan. They vied for support, and it was more political, a point of pride that their leader, Fellstrider, had to juggle.
The Iron Vanguard were Dullahans, essentially, and loyalty was a huge factor in keeping their troops. Culturally, it was probably easier for the Seer of Steel. Both obviously had enticements, but Niers was straightforward.
It also meant he’d lose the [Mercenaries] once they decided their time was up and they wanted to retire. He’d found Selphids were the most inclined to keep going, hence forming a vanguard with them—they didn’t care about losing limbs, and they lived longer than Lizardfolk and Dullahans on average.
From that basis, that single idea, Niers had spent decades until the Forgotten Wing company was second in how many Selphids it employed in all of Baleros. They won him wars.
Still, he was reminded of another group that had fought for no pay at all. They had gone deep into enemy territory, and their daily allocation was food and each other’s company. You couldn’t have bought that with gold, yet the Fellowship of the Inn had charged into armies where [Veterans] would have balked.
Antinium. Goblins. Oh, and a few others. But what a time.
Niers had entire spreadsheets of classes and soldiers under his command. He sometimes rotated them around so he had an entire unit of soldiers with a specific Skill like [Evasive Dodge], for instance.
But they were statistics to him. He cared, but even the rare classes were only assets.
The Fellowship of the Inn had been—interesting. He remembered their names, like Infinitypear, Gothica, and their classes had just popped up like mushrooms.
Low-level children on a suicide mission. Nothing like it for levelling. Niers wondered how he’d incorporate an Antinium battalion into his forces.
Sappers, probably. I’d have hundreds of tunnels in key areas, and if an enemy army came, they’d just drop into a pit-trap. The Antinium never fight in regular combat, just kill monsters underground and then take out a support beam and clean up.
That was Olesm’s mistake, honestly. Niers had caught up on Hectval, and the young [Strategos] had gone into the grinder against Manus and won. However, he’d treated his Antinium like an exotic set of infantry. True, they’d done amazingly well, but he wasn’t creative enough.
