Not him? Niers Astoragon slunk back to his academy, landing the war-pigeon in the aviary, and stood at the entrance to the Fraer-ways a second.
Foliana was already there to greet him. It might have been Perorn—but the Centauress was another continent away. The Squirrel Beastkin rolled her deathtrap wheelchair around.
“They didn’t want you, did they? Mm. Thought so.”
“I’m so thankful you didn’t tell me beforehand. I couldn’t do with you rubbing it in.”
Niers briskly fed the bird some grapes, patting it on the beak as he avoided looking at her. One giant, furry paw reached up.
“Poor Titan. There, there.”
Niers let her pat the pigeon on the head. He just shook his head and stood as tall as possible. Although his dignity didn’t exactly matter in the aviary, with birds of all sizes chirping, cawing, or honking at him. It was getting fuller than usual. Had the [Beast Master] imported a trained goose? Niers was not riding that thing. He turned to Foliana, smiling ruefully.
“I’m proud of them, truly. They opened their Last Box, you know. They saw…Gnomes. At least, one of them did.”
“Really?”
The patting slowed, and Foliana poked her head up as the pigeon cooed. She offered a hand, and Niers stepped onto it.
“They didn’t say much. Apparently, the Last Box was a kind of weapon against something? The other cities aren’t sure if Paeth is crazy or lying or whether their Last Boxes no longer matter. Neither am I, but the Fraerling who saw the Gnome, Ilekrome, swears that saved his city.”
“Ghosts.”
Foliana wheeled Niers down from the aviary. He nodded, making notes for his spy network.
“Paeth is looking for someone—they didn’t want to tell me who. I’ll try to get it out of the [Strategists]. They might work with Paeth and Talenqual. Who knows?”
“Will they be coming back for lessons?”
“Yes…and won’t that be interesting?”
Niers almost smiled, wondering if Feshi would—no, not her. But it would be something to have the Diamond Swords of Serept sharing a place with Fraerling magic. He looked forwards to that. Foliana hummed quietly.
“And the Goblin told you no.”
“…She did. Although I have an idea about that. Maybe. Something—but we won’t keep the other cities, I think. We’ll have two cities and about six minor ones. That will do, and we’ll put diplomacy first for the others. Don’t worry about it.”
“I’m not. In all of this running about, did you even eat lunch?”
Niers’ stomach rumbled slightly. He opened his mouth and saw the bloody sunlight streaming through the window as evening deepened.
“—I’m sure I had some snacks in one of the meetings. Haven’t you eaten?”
“Mm. I was going to have a bite just now. Let’s go get food.”
In her way, he supposed the Squirrel Beastkin was being considerate of him. Now, if Perorn were here—he was sure she’d be her annoying self. He hated that she could read him, but if anyone could…
“I guess I can put off meeting Emissary Vuul for a few more minutes. We could do a formal dinner—but I don’t think you’ll go for that.”
Foliana rolled down past the Fraer-ways placed overhead in most hallways. Niers spotted a few servants running down the hallways. Must be rats again. Damn. They were in a hurry. Or maybe they were just having races.
To be young. A pair of servants rushed upwards with baskets heaped with food. Cut small in familiar Fraerling-sized portions. Niers looked amused.
“Going to stuff me full? Or is Vuul—ah, wait. Gindal needs supplies. Can we send a war-hawk with a bag of holding ahead of the troops?”
“Mhm. Good idea. Hmm—let’s eat here.”
Foliana diverted from the dining room. Niers supposed she wanted something poetic, like sipping cups of tea from the balcony. Then she’d tell him he wasn’t old and say something to cheer him up.
A game of chess. He swore he’d seen Erin Solstice in the background with those crazy adventurers.
“The thing about the Goblins is…I had a thought on how to at least make things whole with Reiryul and the other cities. It’s a long shot, but—wait a second. Where are we going?”
They weren’t headed to any balcony or a regular room. Niers had been so lost in his own melancholy-tinged thoughts he hadn’t noticed something was up at first.
Just like when Peclir had betrayed him—only this time, he glanced up and saw the glint in Foliana’s gaze. The too-casual way she turned her wheelchair.
“Foliana…I’m not in the mood for—hey!”
She grabbed him as Niers backed up. Her fingers encircled his arms, and he wiggled, outraged, but didn’t activate any of his artifacts. The Squirrel gave him a big smile—then hopped out of her wheelchair.
“Put me down, you giant rat! Put me down. I’m not going to play your games. Oh no. Don’t you dare—”
He saw the world move crazily as she raised her arm back. He knew what she was going to do and roared.
“You crazy rod—”
Then she threw him. For a [Rogue], it was an easy toss. She could put a knife in an opponent’s eye at a thousand paces—hurling a Fraerling through the air without breaking his neck was only a matter of the right motion.
Niers went spinning through the air, not sure where she was yeeting him. His long shout turned into alarm when he saw—she was throwing him straight at a wall.
That was going to hurt, armor or not! Niers braced himself and saw a blur bound past him.
Foliana. She was so fast that she could throw a ball into the air and run to where it was landing if she wanted. He saw her bound over to the wood paneling—and like the Dead Rogue’s Casket—
She slid the panel aside. The secret compartment opened, and Niers realized it was one of the entrances they had built into the Fraer-ways—
“—ent! Gah!”
Niers crashed into Fraer-ways and slid down a table, scattering plates, cups, and paper as shouts and screams broke out. He crashed into a chair, went flying over the other end, and landed on his feet.
He remembered his Tallguard training enough to execute an emergency course-corrective flip. Niers was actually proud of that one. He stumbled upright and drew his sword.
“Foliana, you are a dead woman! Three-Color Stalker loses an eye today! I did it to the Witch of Webs. I’ll do it to you!”
The angry Fraerling was charging across the room at the smirking Squirrel closing the hatch when he saw a cowering figure in front of him.
“Ah, cats. Emissary Vuul? I apologize for—”
Niers froze, sword drawn. That tore it. Foliana, that idiot, had officially severed ties with Reiryul. Niers reached down with his other hand, and then, finally, the room caught up around him.
He’d crashed through a lot of paper and porcelain. Not just your average amount for a Fraerling emissary’s dinner. Piles of paper, really.
And enough to have fed all his guests. Which made sense if Gindal and the other representatives were eating with Vuul, but Niers was almost sure the [Explorer] would rather eat in acid rain than with the Emissary.
Also, two baskets of food would feed every Fraerling, including the servants and Niers, in the citadel for weeks. The hurrying servants he’d seen came together with Niers’ noting the birds in the aviary in one moment.
The Titan slowly looked down at the Fraerling whom he’d never met, then heard someone clear her throat. He looked up and saw a Fraerling sitting at the table with both boots resting on the wood.
“You know how to make an entrance, Titan. Next time, couldya not scatter half our maps to the winds?”
The [Grandmaster Strategist] looked at a woman who reminded him of Ekrn. Not because the hair was the same—hers was fury-red and combed. But her leather armor and the spear leaning against the table were the kind of gear a Fraerling used to mobile fights in the open carried.
She also had actual scars, which made her different from regular Fraerlings at once. In fact—a black eyepatch with an eye painted over the top was giving him the evil eye.
Literally. Niers felt like it was draining some of his energy until the Fraerling flipped the eyepatch up and revealed an empty eye socket. She put her boots down as the rest of the room got up.
“Trapped rooms. I am going to insist we relocate headquarters to a room without access by Tallfolk. Or at least Three-Color Stalker. Our Tallguard didn’t even see it coming.”
A grumbling Fraerling climbed back on what looked like a scrying orb with a pillow on top. He balanced on it as it zoomed left and right, and the papers still landing flew back into their piles.
“That’s on us, Thremagus. We cede our role to Itelloi’s Tallguard. They at least noticed it coming.”
Niers’ head turned, and a man, a Fraerling man, spoke with a slightly muffled sound. Mostly because of the adamantium helmet he wore.
The Crelerbane Armor warrior nodded to a shadow who had dodged Niers when he came flying into the room and pulled two more Fraerlings out of the way. She nodded and flicked a weighted dagger towards Foliana’s fingers as the [Rogue] went to close the opening.
Niers saw a blur—and the dagger came flying back. The Fraerling wearing a shifting veil of shadows caught the dagger.
“Nimble. For a Tallfolk.”
“Titan of Baleros. Good to see you! You’re looking as exciting as ever!”
Before Niers could say anything, the last figure in the room strode up, seized Niers, and nearly cracked his ribs.
The biggest Fraerling yet, a huge, broad-shouldered figure, grinned widely as he squeezed Niers out of breath. He put Niers down, and the Titan saw a beetle shell armor, bright blue with a slightly prismatic shine to it, covering his body.
“Commander Rozcal? What is Reton’s Tallguard doing here?”
Niers recognized this Fraerling of all the others. The far south of Baleros was hot, humid, and the Fraerlings there were protected by the Tallguard of Reton. Their leader was famous for wrestling giant beetles.
Rozcal laughed.
“Waiting for you! I didn’t think you’d come flying in, but that’s just like the first time we met. Dragging an entire army onto my doorstep with you and that blasted squirrel. Foliana’s looking well. We brought de-cursing artifacts as a gift, but apparently some [Innkeeper] beat us to it!”
Niers Astoragon, once he could breathe, looked around and saw the room again, clearly. The Fraerling with her boots up on her table raised one hand.
“Lord Titan. I’m going to call you Titan or Niers. Please do likewise. Eirnos of Culqe of Eyes. And to be clear—we’re not going to go on officer-killing runs for your wars. My Tallguard don’t go on suicide missions.”
He just looked at her. Niers’ mind was spinning, but he didn’t miss the other armed Fraerlings and helpers clustered at the entrances to the Meeting Rooms. Watching him. Not all were as cool as the ones in this room. They pointed at him, and then Niers felt it.
[Battlefield Awareness]. He could pull up an awareness of the surrounding area. Even if they weren’t foes—his ability to see things from above via [Hawk’s Surveillance] was no help here, but Niers could still get a rough count.
How many Fraerlings are in my academy?
He couldn’t count them. The Fraer-ways hummed with motion, and then Niers saw Explorer Gindal, righting a cup of spilled tea. He looked around and spoke.
“I apologize, guests of the Forgotten Wing Company. My commander, Foliana, likes to play pranks. I hope I haven’t disturbed much?”
“It’s your cutlery.”
Eirnos tossed a broken bit of plate back on the table. The other Fraerlings sat down, and Niers looked around.
Damn Foliana. The obvious thing to do would be to say, ‘what’s happening?’ and get a response. But that was embarrassing. It was a game, and so he improvised.
“I’m sure this has been asked but can I get you anything? Are you all settled?”
“We could use your actual reports on the movement of Jungle Tails. And—frankly—we’re going to want more rooms. Actual, Tallfolk rooms.”
Eirnos seemed to be in charge, because she answered while checking her nails. Her boots were still up, and Niers stared at them.
The boots stayed where they were.
“Is it—Commander Eirnos? I’ve never been to Culqe.”
Niers tried. The Fraerling woman smiled at him, and he thought she knew he had no idea what was going on.
“Technically, I’m Commander of the Tallguard for my region. If you’ve never heard of Culqe and have no idea what it is, let’s keep it that way. If the Titan doesn’t know—we’re doing our jobs. I think I’ve been appointed—what was it? Iuncuta-Commander in interim. I don’t report to you, in other words. But we’ll share resources.”
“Naturally.”
Niers tried again. The other Fraerlings were all watching him, and Rozcal’s chuckle was loud behind Niers.
“Three-Color Stalker didn’t tell him after all. I told you she was like that.”
Gindal laughed, and the room filled with chuckles as Niers sighed and relaxed. The jig was up. He raised his hands.
“I can guess. Let me give it one shot.”
His heart was pounding out of his chest. He nodded to the embarrassed Fraerling in armor.
“Crelerbane forces. At least…three Tallguard representatives, and I’m counting two Commanders of entire Tallguard regions.”
He nodded at Rozcal and Eirnos. He got nods, and the shadowy Fraerling raised her hand.
“I’m not a commander. Just our representative. A huge admirer, Titan.”
Niers blinked, and then went on, somewhat unsteadily. A feeling was rising in his chest, and he gazed around as he made logic out of this.
“—This is an unprecedented meeting. If I’m right, my academy has thousands of Fraerlings in it.”
“More arriving tomorrow. But go on.”
Eirnos looked at him, and Niers took a breath. That all but confirmed it.
“Your title. That’s old-language. Might I ask what it means?”
Her eyes glinted, and she grinned. She had pointed teeth—some difference in biology?
“Iuncuta means ‘combination’. A fancy title for someone appointed joint head of…”
“…A multi-settlement task force. You’re here about the ransomed Fraerling city.”
Niers finished. His heart was pounding, but no other reason in the world would make so many Fraerlings gather. He amended that.
“Either that or you’re here on behalf of Paeth. Or to take me to task for failing to protect Oierdressql.”
He hoped it wasn’t that last one, but the Fraerlings nodded. Each one, the [Mage] on the floating seat, Eirnos, Rozcal, took a seat as they faced the Titan. Eirnos spoke, pointing one finger at him.
“You’re correct, Titan. We represent over sixteen cities.”
Sixteen? Niers had never been to that many actual cities in his life. Even other Fraerlings didn’t know where their cousins were exactly, for safety. Yet Eirnos went on.
