And that wasn’t something Niers could argue with. He slowly nodded.
“…Then we should discuss your exit and where you want to go. I can give you an escort or arrange an opening. Do you have a map of the region?”
Shaik smiled gratefully, and he gave her a map to let her figure things out. She even let him have some mushrooms in exchange for an army’s worth of supplies, which was putting it very cheaply in his eyes.
Good business, something for something, and so on. Yet…Niers wearily sat as he headed back to his academy.
The world still remembered Niers had been allies with Velan. They would never forget his mistakes, and neither would he.
Yet the Goblins remembered it too. They were afraid of him? The Titan put his head back as he stared up at the sky.
He had a feeling about the Antinium. He wanted to talk to Erin Solstice about it—she assured him they were people. She saw the same things in Goblins he had, and he wanted to talk to her. But perhaps he was wrong about Antinium. Wrong about her. A fool never learned from his mistakes, and all the mistakes he’d made about trusting people, Peclir, Velan, the rest?
I’m fine, Foliana. He really was. It was just busy. Just owning up to his mistakes. The Forgotten Wing Company would have less Fraerling allies, and the Fraer-ways had never been filled with his people as he imagined. He had forces on Izril, and wasn’t that a big step?
But just once…Niers’ lips moved as he spoke, with no one there to hear him.
“Just once. I’d like to bet on the right thing.”
 
——
 
Numbtongue had a huge problem. It was really eating him up. And that was—why wasn’t he levelling up more?
He was a Level 36 [Goblin Soulbard]. That’s right. He had leveled from his adventure to save Mrsha.
…Once.
It was a huge problem for the Hobgoblin, and he felt like it deserved some attention from his brain. Everyone else had leveled, and yes, he was a Level 30+ [Bard], so asking for more levels was a lot, but it was a war. Surely he deserved two, maybe three levels?
But no. One. The Hobgoblin was sitting at his table, strumming the guitar as he relaxed in the pleasant inn.
And that was what it was. Pleasant. Good food, good people…he was happy again. He had feared he might never be happy again when Erin died. Now?
Now, joy was sticking a ‘kick me’ note on Mrsha’s back and waiting for the little Gnoll to freak out. She kept doing it to people after Kevin showed her the trick, but the face of horror and betrayal as Bird lightly tapped her butt with one foot made Numbtongue laugh until he was nearly sick.
She punched his leg until he grabbed her and gave her a world-ending noogie. And Gnolls were all fur, so you could really mess up their hair.
Then he smiled. So yes, the levels were the only problem on his mind.
Unfortunately, he sort of knew what the problem was. Pyrite, Reiss, and even Shorthilt’s ghosts stared at him from the table, and Numbtongue whistled as he ignored the looks.
“A [Bard] is not a [Warrior].”
The Goblin Lord whispered. Reiss’ half-formed ghost flickered…broken memory. Was it mending? Or was it still torn from whatever had happened to him?
Shorthilt nodded a few times.
“Singing-Goblins should sing. Stupid.”
Pyrite tried to eat Numbtongue’s fork and then grunted.
“[Bards] do fight.”
Reiss and Shorthilt both turned slightly, and both ghosts gave the big Hob a glare for not backing them up. Pyrite elaborated as he burped.
“…You fight the wrong way.”
Numbtongue sighed. The problem with ghosts was that they told you in no uncertain terms what they thought. You know the conscience in the back of your head? Ghosts were louder, and they also called you names.
“I’m trying. What do I do?”
All three Goblin ghosts spoke at the same time.
“Make music.”
“Perform to others.”
“Lots of sex.”
This time, Pyrite and Reiss turned to Shorthilt. The Hobgoblin [Weapon Expert] put his claws behind his head and grinned.
“What? It work. Little Fraerling said so.”
Niers had, in fact, said just that, but Numbtongue had steadfastly ignored his advice. The Titan of Baleros knew how most classes worked, and he had pointed out to Numbtongue that the Hobgoblin was actually a really bad [Bard].
Not because Numbtongue couldn’t sing or make music. He had, in fact, taught himself to play the guitar to a very high level by himself, which was quite amazing. The problem was that he was, uh…
Audience-shy. Numbtongue was not the exceptionally performative type all the time. He had quite enjoyed the band he’d put together, and he did make music. But he just didn’t do it enough. He was not, like Niers, a huge showoff.
The Titan had countered that by saying that if Numbtongue popped in and out of a hundred beds, he’d probably level up. [Bards] were, apparently, infamous for more than just their entertainment. And just like chess actually leveled up the [Strategist] class…
Well. Well. Numbtongue was just grateful the ghosts were not always physically present. Now that he thought about it…it was going to be really awkward the next time he had some fun.
But it wasn’t something he was going to do to level up! Although…he wondered if that were a good excuse.
Still, the Hobgoblin stubbornly continued playing. He was going to try. If Erin Solstice could try to make food, he, Numbtongue, would try to make music.
So he began to play. Numbtongue had made the Ballad of the Redfangs, although it still needed work. Yet he felt like his first performance would be…themed music.
It would be the song for Erin Solstice or the guests of her inn. The Hob closed his eyes as Erin rattled around in the kitchen and occasionally went ‘oh no!’ or ‘aha!’. Pisces sat at a table, drumming his fingers. He looked—distracted. He’d gone upstairs and come right back down, and he wasn’t playing with Mrsha or studying magic.
Anyways, Numbtongue tuned him out as he searched for the sounds.
He had never taken classic education in anything. So the Hob’s way of thinking about music went like this:
Each song was a theme. Each person was represented by the notes. Music was a language. For instance, high-pitched notes could be airy and light—or annoying—or the screaming climax of a guitar solo. Or they could be eerie. Just like there was nuance in how you said a word, the six strings on a guitar had a wealth of meaning.
So—how would you explain Erin? If you were superficial, Numbtongue thought you’d capture that frantic energy, have some kind of rapid, chaotic, friendly-merry song.
He spat on that idea. Erin could be those things, but the Hob remembered when she had first met them. Shyly, awkwardly, thanking them for fighting for her.
Erin was at her best with a slow tempo. With…his claws drifted lower on the strings, and he began to pluck.
A slow, building melody that sang like magic. Magic and kindness. In the end—Erin’s music was almost sad, but almost…and it should build into a kind of glorious, full sound, adding more refrains.
Yes. That was the story of Erin Solstice. Quiet at first, then building. She was easy, in a sense. You just had to make the most beautiful music you could think of.
That was how the Goblin thought of her. He was too shy to ever say it. But he could play it.
The Gnoll girl leaping around stopped trying to pick a fight with Bird and listened as Numbtongue played. He stopped and started, but there were the beginnings of something in the music already. Mrsha scribbled on some parchment.
“3/10. Good start. Is this the Erin-song?”
Numbtongue read her note and scowled. He nodded and grunted.
“Yeah.”
Mrsha eagerly wrote below it.
“Do my song too! I want a big, epic song! With lightning!”
She waved her paws, and Numbtongue thought about it. With a smile, he began to play.
Plonk, plink. A silly, stupid-sounding series of notes came out of his guitar, like an aimless butterfly smacking into a glass window repeatedly. The harmonic equivalent of ‘dur-dur-dur’.
Mrsha narrowed her eyes and glared at Numbtongue. She looked around for Lyonette, then wrote a word on the notecard and held it up.
He laughed as she scampered away. Bird happily repeated the word a few times until Lyonette came to tell him not to say that—then chased after Mrsha.
Well, that was just to be mean. If Numbtongue thought about Mrsha’s music…
Yes. It started light. Airy, carefree. Innocent, that was a better word for it. Yet—as you felt like this was such a beautiful, happy song…it turned dark.
The notes slowed down and crept lower. Like shadows. Like…growing older. Monsters in the distance. A dark moment—
And you were right back to the happy part. No, the happy part was now tinged by melancholy. But perhaps it was lighter because it was earned. Wistful, now.
“…Ow.”
It actually hurt Numbtongue a bit. Yet he had the concept in mind, and it suited Mrsha. A happy, brave, annoying little sister. Despite all that had gone past.
He decided he’d work on both songs and add them to his playing arsenal. Maybe demo them with the evening crowd.
Not once did Numbtongue have any lyrics to add. He felt that was too unsubtle. You didn’t tell people ‘Mrsha’s had a sad life but she’s survived it all, and that’s amazing for someone so young’. You implied it. You showed them without saying it. And if they didn’t get it, well.
“Hey Numbtongue, is that you making that music? It sounded pretty neat! I really like the cute music.”
Erin Solstice poked her head out of the kitchen with a big smile. She had some hot Spider Succulents still hot from the oven.
“Wanna try a Spider Donut? No spiders inside.”
Numbtongue warily picked one up and took a bite. It was sweet, fried dough with an inner filing and some salty jerky for the legs. Not bad! He licked his fingers and gave Erin a thumbs-up.
“Tasty.”
“Alright! Hey—Pisces, you try some.”
Erin was looking around for victims, and Numbtongue saw Pisces blink.
“I…ah, thank you.”
“Not going out to negotiate for your items yet, Pisces?”
“No, not quite, Erin. I—”
Pisces fell silent for a moment, and Numbtongue saw him take a bite of the Spider Succulents. The Hob blinked. Erin waited, but Pisces just smiled weakly.
“This is quite tasty.”
“Right? And Lyonette says ‘you can’t sell spiders’! Shows what she knows. Say, Pisces, I wanted to ask you something. Did you like the chests of weapons and stuff that Fetohep sent you? I never got to ask if they helped or something.”
The eavesdropping [Bard]—a very class-y thing to do—blinked in astonishment. The chests of what now?
Pisces reacted almost as dramatically. He coughed until Erin gave him a mug of water.
“The—? You really did send them? I wondered why they appeared out of thin air. The cost to teleport them! They were Chests of Holding, no less!”
“Yep. Well, y’know, I asked Fetohep, and he’s super-rich. I think he put…watermelons in them?”
“Among other things. It was a boon. You…you did that? But you were—dead.”
Pisces looked at Erin, disbelieving. She smiled a bit sadly.
“Well, you know how it is. Fetohep’s technically dead—I was able to get a message through. Did it help?”
Then the [Necromancer]’s face changed. Numbtongue, chewing on some of the jerky, saw Pisces hunch. Not withdrawing or getting angry like he sometimes did. More…wearily.
Numbtongue recognized that look. The [Bard]’s ears perked up as Pisces searched for words, then raised his head.
“More than you could know. Thank you.”
Erin’s smile was gentle and, Numbtongue thought, careful.
“I’m so glad.”
She waited a beat—but Pisces said nothing more. He struggled to, and Numbtongue saw Erin waiting—then there was a crash.
“Mrsha! The pan—”
“Oh no. My treats! Pisces, one second.”
Mrsha raced out of the kitchen as the rest of the Spider Succulents fell onto the floor. Pisces sagged back, and Numbtongue saw his look of frustration.
Interesting. Well, more than that. Concerning. Erin raced past Numbtongue, but she gave him a look as he glanced at her.
He wasn’t sure if it meant stay out of it or not. But it was something. So—the Hob stared at Pisces and began to pick up on the clues.
Oh.
Hrm.
Something was different about him. It was the way the [Necromancer] just sat at the table without really staring at anything. Not really tasting his food. Looking at the kitchen and hesitating.
Pisces Jealnet.
Numbtongue really didn’t know him that well. They’d talked. Pisces had a sharp tongue, which made Numbtongue chortle, but he was sort of ‘one of the adventurers’. Numbtongue thought he’d talked to Jelaqua more, one-on-one, but the two knew each other, and when Pisces glanced up and saw Numbtongue looking his way, he gave him a smile.
“Ah, very good food, isn’t it?”
“Mhm.”
Numbtongue nodded. And that was about it. It was, uh, hard to strike up a conversation. Maybe that was why Numbtongue was having trouble with his class.
To break the silence, Numbtongue decided he should come up with some more music. He had Erin down—and Mrsha—he just had to refine the theme into music. Coming up with the basic flow of the song was harder for him.
Lyonette was another matter…Numbtongue wasn’t really in the mood to study classical Terandrian waltzes and incorporate those into some kind of song. Because, obviously, that was how you wrote her.
Bird? Numbtongue had no idea how to do his song justice. Bird’s theme song was Bird singing his own songs.
But Pisces…now, here was a challenge. Numbtongue’s brow furrowed. He knew Pisces’ history. Which was somewhat sad. A [Necromancer] expelled from Wistram, bad stuff before that being persecuted, coming to the inn, being heroic…but he was also the sniffing sasser.
A brilliant duelist. A gifted spellcaster. Arrogance and talent and a genuinely good person at times. Someone who’d helped down an Adult Creler.
And now…a shadow over him.
How did that translate into music? Numbtongue gave it a shot.
 
——
 
Three hours later, Numbtongue put down his third cup of goat’s milk and sighed. By now, a small audience had gathered, and they were listening while snacking.
But the Goblin wasn’t happy.
First, he’d gone for a kind of operadic rock, the kind of electric music that Kevin claimed was a genre in his world. But it was too…action-packed. It fit more to Yvlon. Actually, for her, Numbtongue thought heavy metal might do. Refined, noble music that transitioned into a berserk solo with incoherent screaming.
But not Pisces. Numbtongue had done some heroic music next, the kind of inspiring journey of the true underdog reaching the top. Yet it didn’t—fit.
Pisces wasn’t a [Hero]. He was an adventurer. He had great moments, but was he just…heroic?
Numbtongue didn’t think so, and that was no knock on Pisces! Few people blazed with pure, exemplary heroic conduct every second.
