Because he wasn’t the only one having a hard time. No, he didn’t want Numbtongue to suffer.
But it meant the Hobgoblin cared enough to feel guilty.
“It was a—trial. An ordeal, Numbtongue. I do not think I can put it into proper words. Thank you for your consideration.”
Pisces tried to assure him he understood. Numbtongue settled back.
“I’m supposed to be a [Bard]. I wish I had words to say something. ‘Is bad’ sounds stupid.”
“You have helped immensely. I was unable to say—if I talk to Erin, it will be a load off my mind.”
Numbtongue pointed a finger at Pisces.
“I’ll get her. Promise. Mrsha or Bird or even that stupid Fraerling won’t stop you. Or the rainy [Lord]. I’ll toss the chess board down the outhouse.”
Pisces laughed at that.
“You don’t need to go that far. I’m sure she can…help. I hope she can. Not that I expect anyone to—I will see what she says. I’m just a bit affected by it all. As you see. Some scars don’t change. I won’t ask anyone to heal that.”
He indicated the brand sardonically, but that was a lie. He hoped. However, as Numbtongue wrestled with a reply, someone spoke up from next to the two in the hot tub.
“Try the Faerie Flower tonic. You’ll forget your pains. I do. That’s why I’ll stay here forever.”
And then Tessa was there. Numbtongue kicked at her reflexively, and Pisces lifted a finger, but Tessa just pulled the Hobs’ foot up, and he went underwater. When he resurfaced, she was staring at him.
The [Bard] relaxed…and both wondered how long she’d been listening. Long enough to hear everything. Pisces stared at Shriekblade and then away.
She was, like Numbtongue, naked. The Hob glimpsed at the Drake and then stared. Completely unapologetically—she wasn’t being shy either.
“Nice scars.”
“Yeah. Yours reminds me of the Guild. The Assassin’s Guild. Some of the recruits from Chandrar had that. Roshal.”
She pointed one claw at Pisces, and his skin chilled. The bath was no longer quite so inviting.
“I…presume you’ve heard everything?”
He felt angry, but Pisces had a sudden recollection of every conversation he’d eavesdropped upon, and there were hundreds. Tessa shrugged.
“I was bored.”
“Then leave.”
Numbtongue glowered. Tessa blinked at him.
“I thought I had to stay with you. I’ve been waiting for you to get out.”
“Oh.”
Pisces and Numbtongue looked at each other. Tessa went on, unconcerned. She jerked a thumb at Pisces.
“You should get that scar covered up. The Goblin’s right. That’s how [Slavers] track down their quarry. Hints like that. But they probably know your face, anyways. They’ll stay away from you on Izril, probably. Don’t go near ports, I guess. Or get an official release from Roshal.”
“A…release?”
Pisces felt himself baring his teeth in a snarl. Tessa just nodded.
“To say you’re not a [Slave]. They might get rid of the class, too. You don’t want Roshal chasing you.”
“They made me a slave without recourse or reason. I did nothing wrong.”
“Mhm. That’s what they do. If you say it loud, they might do it for free. Or hire an [Assassin].”
He knew she was giving him actual advice, but Pisces clenched one hand in the water. Tessa gazed at him, and then she tugged at his towel.
“Oho.”
“Stop that!”
The [Necromancer] turned red. Tessa though—grinned. She stretched and smiled.
“I feel great. The Faerie Flower drink works. I haven’t felt this good in ever. Does Liscor have a brothel? I’ll visit it tonight. I haven’t wanted to in years.”
The Human and Goblin exchanged a look as Tessa relaxed.
“Everything is great. You should be lucky, [Necromancer]. Ask for the tonic I have. Or just drink potions to forget then take it. You’ll need more if you become a Named-rank adventurer. You’re halfway there.”
“I…am?”
Shriekblade had closed her eyes and was resting her neck-spines in the water. She spoke to the ceiling.
“Of course you are. They say all Named Adventurers are crazy. Saliss always says that. He’s right. You’ll fit right in. You should be happy you were a [Slave].”
“Happy?”
Pisces’ voice rose, and Shriekblade shrugged, still not opening her eyes.
“Whatever. You got free. If you’re alive, you’ll level faster. That’s why you and the Goblin are lucky. You’re both over Level 30 but below Level 40. You’ll get there soon.”
She opened her eyes and stared at Pisces.
“You’re on the edge, aren’t you? I bet you have more than just [Necromancer] classes. Have they been levelling up?”
“How do you…?”
Pisces had indeed leveled in all his classes, but mostly in [Mage] and…[Slave]. But Tessa just shook her head.
“Once you hit Level 30 in [Mage]—no, wait. Level 29—and if you reach Level 39 in [Necromancer], then you’ll do it. It’ll all become one class. Then you’ll be one of us. But it won’t be lying around here. You’ll kill some great monster and lose your hand. Or watch someone die. And you, the Goblin—you’ll do it too. You just need more of these, see?”
She gestured down, and both Numbtongue and Pisces stared at her chest. Then they realized she didn’t mean breasts, but scars.
“The more you have, the higher you go. It makes you stronger. That’s the secret.”
She stopped talking and sank below the water. No bubbles floated up. She stared up through the water, like a corpse. Pisces saw in her gaze a flicker of the same emptiness in Azam’s eyes. Or Eloque’s.
Numbtongue stared at Tessa then glanced at Pisces. Slowly, he took a bowl of soap and briskly mixed up a lather until it covered Tessa from the surface. He nodded to Pisces as he stood up.
“Let’s go find Erin. Ignore her.”
Their clothes were waiting right outside the curtains. Pisces walked out feeling—if not refreshed, then cleaner. Tessa followed silently, and Pisces looked at Numbtongue with budding friendship. Tessa…the Named-rank Adventurer followed them to the inn and then vanished.
Then Numbtongue went to speak to Erin. He came out of the kitchen with a thumbs-up, and Pisces sighed. Erin rolled out a moment later.
“Hey, Pisces. You got a second?”
The [Necromancer] inhaled, nodded to Numbtongue—and the door burst open. An irate Yvlon stalked into The Wandering Inn.
“Pisces! The negotiations are beginning in less than an hour! We told you to meet at the Adventurer’s Guild at midday, remember?”
The [Necromancer] thunked his head into the table repeatedly as Yvlon hesitated, about to drag him off.
“Er. Pisces?”
Erin Solstice just glanced at her friend and then nodded to Numbtongue.
“I’ll go with you guys. Numbtongue, wanna push me to Invrisil?”
Pisces’ head rose as the [Innkeeper] smiled.
 
——
 
Listen. Say what you wanted about the medium, but it was still an effective torture. If not for the reasons the designer thought…it had an effect.
Hanging there in her chains, bombarded by plays about how horrible she was—it was a super-effective tactic on Ryoka Griffin.
Guilt was her special power, after all. She snapped after a gift was sent into the prison.
Namely, an eight by six portrait by one of Ailendamus’ most gifted artists. A rush job, obviously, but framed in one of those gold-gilded frames that couldn’t make up its mind about what it was supposed to be—the vaguely leaf-like corners twirling together as if it was supposed to replace the art or add to it.
Gaudy, ostentatious, and named The Wind Runner’s Triumph. It had a very flattering Ryoka Griffin, wind blowing behind her, carrying a package in one hand and her Faeblade in the other, posing on a hill, her bare feet covered with blood.
Mostly because the ‘hill’ was made up of bodies of people, their faces twisted in agonized poses. Not only Human; it was a really diverse cast of every species in the world.
In the foreground, you had a line of people being run through with pikes from which hung banners that read, ‘consequences’, ‘self-evaluation’, ‘rampant theft’, and so on.
Ryoka spent about eight minutes with the painting before she finally snapped.
“I’m sorry! What do you want me to say? I never wanted to kill her. Blame me for everything—stealing, for using your scroll! But she was going to kill Gilaw and Menorkel. I’m sorry. Please…just let me go or be done with this.”
She shouted in the jail, and no one responded for a good minute. The wind howled outside, but somehow, the Wyrm had managed to ban it from her prison.
In that sense, he was better than Valeterisa, or he knew his enemies. Ryoka actually tried to tear free of the chains, but she only succeeded in wrenching her shoulder.
Enchanted. Obviously. For the first time, she had a real moment of fear about ever being free.
Yes, Visophecin and friendship and blah blah, Faerie King. But…
Rhisveri was the Wyrm of Ailendamus. If he really didn’t want her free or wanted her dead, who could stop him?
Then, once again, the air darkened, and it arose from the floor. A sock puppet…Wyrm. Bits of cloth comprised his neck-fin, and it opened and closed its mouth as if the puppet was being held up by a hand.
“Oh, now she protests? I’m so sorry I killed the last Dryad. Oops. Silly me! That stupid Wyrm should let you go free right now. Let me just get the key. La~la~la~. Where did I put it?”
The high-pitched voice of Rhisveri as he pretended to search for a key caused Ryoka to snap again.
“I told you, it wasn’t…it wasn’t her fault, either. It was whomever was behind her. Kas—”
She hesitated. The puppet turned its blank eyes to her.
“Kasigna. So you said. Some random person I have never heard of before, ever, suborned Fithea’s loyalties. Oh, wow, I guess I’ll just send Ailendamus to war against her! And a bunch of dead people.”
“You know I’m telling the truth, Rhisveri. The ghosts. You saw them. The Faerie King—”
“What I know is that one person held that flaming sword and burned Fithea to death. One person. I’m supposed to just let her walk off. Fithea was a minister of Ailendamus. Let’s assume she was some arrogant noble who challenged a visiting dignitary, insulted their honor, and got herself killed in an honor-duel. There are still consequences.”
“I don’t know what to do. I just want to live, Rhisveri.”
The sock-Rhisveri slapped his head into the wall.
“Wowie. I never considered that. You wanted to live. And here I thought you just wanted to die. You know who else wanted to live? FITHEA. No, wait. She only outlived her forest and all her people because she didn’t feel like dying for thousands of years. It’s not like she hoped to revive her kind or anything. It’s—oh, look. Here come the tears.”
Ryoka was really trying. But they still rolled down her cheeks, hot and wet. Rhisveri’s sock puppet produced a floating handkerchief and blew it.
“Don’t cry! Oh, my poor heart. Tears? Tears solve everything. All is forgiven.”
The Wind Runner choked out the words.
“I’m sorry. I—I know what she meant. Just—”
She didn’t know what to say, but the sock puppet interrupted her suddenly.
“Meant? Oh, you think I’m personally, emotionally affected. Nonsense. Don’t be stupid. Fithea was just an irreplaceable asset. This is about accountability. Something the Lucifen, for some reason, can’t grasp. I blame inbreeding with the Agelum.”
The tears slowed. Ryoka tried to wipe her face.
“Wh—you’re not serious.”
“Me, affected? I mean, Rhisveri? Ridiculous. Fithea was the last Dryad. She was the last of her kind. That means something. In a grand sense—like a work of art, being burned to a crisp by a Wind Runner with a magic sword, who later stole my Scroll of Resurrection. I’m angry about it. Intellectually. But I’m a logical being. Everyone dies.”
“A logical being.”
The Rhisveri-puppet nodded up and down.
“Do you think this hurt Ailendamus forever? Fithea, General Dioname—don’t be so conceited. Ailendamus was built to replace them. I could lose eight Legions of the Hydra and we would have more to fill the ranks. No, you don’t get it.”
A pair of spectacles floated down and hovered in front of the sock-Rhisveri’s face. He bent down, came up with a pointer-stick, and tapped a floating blackboard.
“You see, Ryoka, when you murder someone, anyone normal gets ‘angry’. I’m going to write this word here. I want you to memorize it. ‘Morality’.”
He wrote both words on the chalk-board and underlined them. But the young woman was just…gazing at the cloth-Rhisveri.
“I’m unhappy because you have threatened a foreign nation. Murdered a high-ranking member and stolen an irreplaceable relic. We call that ‘hostility’. That’s why I’m mad, not because of Fithea’s life. Now—are you listening? Because you have a stupid look on your face, but that’s your default, so I can’t really tell if this is sinking in or not.”
Ryoka whispered back.
“You cared for Fithea. Don’t…don’t do that. Not for her. Or Dionamella.”
Sock-Rhisveri retorted.
“And if you knew her, you’d know she was called ‘Dioname’. Don’t patronize me. I mean, Rhisveri. He’s a Wyrm. You’re a Human. Keep your worthless perspective out of this. Nothing is worse than your anthropomorphizing of every other species and object to your perspective. Wyrms do not have ‘friends’. They respect people. However, Fithea was old. She was going to die eventually.”
The puppet spat out the pointer stick. It ‘looked’ at Ryoka, and a bunch of burning flames appeared.
They looked like…people. One stretched its wings, cawing, and Ryoka recognized Gilaw. Another swished a cape unnecessarily, and she took it to be Visophecin. A swimming group of tiny flames, a hammering figure…
And there, standing next to a singing giant, was a withered tree. Ryoka’s heart clenched, but the puppet-Rhisveri just casually surveyed the lot. There was a glowing green bar hovering next to the flames, some kind of meter. The words ‘Ailendamus’ Strength’ was hovering on top of it.
“These are all assets. Irreplaceable, but not essential. Now, what happened was this: a variable vanished. A number went down.”
The flame flickered out. The glowing bar lowered slightly. The puppet nodded to Ryoka.
“That’s what happened. You affected a nation—so well done, you idiot. But nothing happened to me, personally. Why would it? She’s not part of me. You Humans think you’re connected to each other. In what way? Telepathically? Magically? These are just thoughts in your primitive minds. Dur. Dur. Dur.”
A stick smacked Ryoka on the head a few times as the puppet grabbed its stick and whacked her. Hard. Yet Ryoka’s sudden silence seemed to annoy the puppet more than her tears.
“What? The silent treatment? Okay, let me get my play I’m going to feature in Sophridel’s new theatre. It’s entitled, ‘The Casualties of Ryoka Griffin’, by…”
