Typhenous had poked his head out of the back rooms. He began choking with laughter, and Erin waved her hands as Pisces recoiled.
“Okay, maybe not that name. But—here’s Numbtongue as well. Numbtongue the [Bard]. Numbtongue the…”
“Don’t give me a name. You’re bad at it.”
The Hobgoblin calmly covered Erin’s mouth, and she looked indignant. But her little speech…Pisces saw people looking confused. Then he wondered if her visit to Invrisil had just been for Numbtongue.
No, of course not. He bent down.
“Erin? You have never, to my knowledge, ever bragged once about our association before now. Why the sudden change of heart?”
The [Innkeeper] beamed up at Pisces, a bit misty-eyed.
“Silly. That’s because you had such a huge ego that it would have gone to your head. You were always sniffing and telling everyone how great you were at magic. And yeah, you had a lot of talent, and you were a good person deep down. Buried. Like, a mile down—”
“I understand. What happened?”
The [Innkeeper] dropped her joking. She sniffed, rubbed at her eyes, then smiled up at him.
“—That Pisces was the same guy who went into the Crypt of Liscor and fought Skinner. He was the same person, fundamentally, who went into Albez. Even the person who fought the Adult Creler. But when you went into the Village of the Dead and everything that came after?”
A gentle finger poked Pisces in the belly.
“…He’s changed a bit. It might go to his head—but this Pisces is the guy who bested Roshal. He’s a true Gold-rank adventurer who met the Death of Chains and sailed with Fetohep of Khelt and the King of Destruction. When they meet you, if someone only sees a [Necromancer], they deserve a kick up the butt. That’s why I’m saying it.”
She gestured around at the guild, the street.
“Be prouder of your class, Pisces. Because you represent it.”
Nervously, beet-red, Erin looked up and saw Pisces’ mouth open. He stood there, looking stupefied, and Erin laughed.
“Don’t let it make you too big-headed. Okay?”
She whirled her chair around. And then Pisces felt like the clouds opened. He held his friends’ letter and knew they were alive. He looked up—and it was like a beam of light was shining down, illuminating him.
The first adventurer pushed forwards, glancing at Erin.
“—I don’t know if I’ve ever introduced myself, but we were in the raid together. [All-Terrain Ranger]. I saw your behemoth-thing clear a street when we were about to get swarmed. I thought I’d never get a chance to thank you. Muskrat’s the name.”
“Muskrat? Er—Pisces. I have to thank you for fighting with us.”
“Thanks.”
The Silver-rank sort of deserved his name; he had a scruffy face full of hair all about the same length, from beard and cheeks to head, so it did sort of feel like a feral animal was inhabiting his face. Yet he sat down, and Pisces saw Erin wheel over with some drinks.
“Order up!”
She left them alone, and more adventurers drifted over. Muskrat was not the only adventurer to make a beeline to Pisces. The [Necromancer] pointed at a familiar young man with faintly burnt robes.
“Levil—Pithfire Hounds? Ryoka’s friend? [Inferno Mage]?”
“You remember! And it’s [Inferno Pyromancer] now. Long-burning flames. Nearly burnt down a forest on a request while we’ve been waiting here. Say—you don’t know what’s going on in the back-rooms, do you? Us Silvers are stuck in here hoping the Gold-ranks don’t cut us out. Your friend Yvlon and some like Typhenous are good enough to clue us in, but we’re feeling sort of nervous.”
Pisces glanced towards the back rooms and at Todi. He was all too conscious of how it must feel to be barred from the ‘elite’ circle.
“If I know Ceria and Yvlon, a fair deal is all but guaranteed. They—I will do my utmost to make it fair. I am familiar with…favoritism.”
He tried to assure Levil and the other anxious Silver-ranks. Then, a loud commotion made him turn his head.
“Wh—everyone look at the scrying orb! Look!”
The Fraerlings had finished their deliberations in the background. They were going down a list of top 5 adventurers. Noa was happily listing them off.
“Number one is the Titan of Baleros, Lord Astoragon. Obviously. I know he’s retired, but still. Second? I really like the Stargnoll. She’s the youngest Named-rank adventurer in the world! Third. Um. Third is probably Ksmvr of Chandrar. Because he’s an Antinium. Then I think I’d choose the Hell’s Warden of the sea—Resk, what’s her name…?”
Ksmvr. Suddenly, the Antinium was on the news. Ksmvr looked around as the Adventurer’s Guild erupted into cheers and shouting.
“Ksmvr—get in here! You’re on the news!”
Ceria kicked open the door to the back rooms, and Ksmvr got up. So famous even Fraerlings knew his name. Pisces was smiling for Ksmvr, but the Antinium [Skirmisher] turned.
“Comrade Pisces, shall we go?”
Levil fell silent as he grinned at Ksmvr. Pisces heard a clamor from the Gold-ranks, who were not immune to fame.
“—Maybe we can have Ksmvr live-react via scrying orb. Someone contact Wistram—or Drassi—I do know her.”
Keldrass was talking excitedly. Pisces was getting up when he saw the Silver-ranks gazing longingly into the back rooms. Captain Todi was already striding self-importantly forwards. And Pisces had an idea.
He sat right back down. Ksmvr halted on his way into the ranks of Gold-ranks.
“Pisces? What are you doing?”
“I—shall remain right out here, Ksmvr. Take a seat. My legs are exhausted, anyways. And there are more adventurers outside than in. If there are accolades—let them be here.”
Pisces looked around and saw a pair of twinkling eyes. He snapped his fingers and sniffed.
“[Innkeep]! A round for the table, if you would be so good.”
Erin pretended to grumble, but she snatched some drinks from the nearest counter and wheeled them over on her lap.
“Just once, for you, Pisces.”
The Antinium hesitated only a moment, then he clacked his mandibles together.
“Oh, of course. Dominance. You are always ahead of me, Pisces. Indeed. Drinks! Yes.”
He sat down awkwardly, and Pisces heard the notes of confusion from inside. The Gold-rank adventurers hesitated as they realized Ksmvr wasn’t joining them. And Pisces…he saw Todi come right out the door with Typhenous, who hurried to get a seat next to Ksmvr and Pisces. Then—it was like how Erin treated Invrisil.
Pushing and pulling until a dam burst and the Gold-ranks came out of their hiding spots. Especially as a [Mage]—the same vice-Guildmaster from before—came hurtling down the road with a camera crew. He put a huge smile on his face, adjusted his robes, and spoke.
“Is this on? I’m [Vice Guildmaster] Heroom from Invrisil, reporting into Wistram News Network! Ksmvr of Chandrar is, in fact, here, and if Tallguard Noa would like to say a few words—”
Pandemonium. Pisces had gotten up to help extract Erin from the press of bodies. Grumbling at being in a wheelchair, he and Numbtongue rescued her to a safe distance. Pisces found his chair was occupied—by no less than Captain Todi.
Rolling his eyes, the [Necromancer] saw Yvlon in a heated argument with a Gold-rank Captain refusing to look her in the eyes. She was looking dangerously mad.
Ceria was still arguing with the half-Elf from Elia’s team, who kept grabbing her arm, looking more and more distressed. Ceria was ignoring the man, glancing at Ksmvr and Erin with far more interest. And the drinks.
Pisces, though…he was smiling. The crowd outside the Adventurer’s Guild now had more than the Watch or civilians pointing at Numbtongue. They were pressing in, calling for autographs from Ksmvr, trying to get on camera.
“Whoof. And it’s not even my fault this time. See? I don’t cause that much chaos.”
Erin was talking to Numbtongue as they stood near the edge of the crowd. Some people were asking the adventurers to pass autographs to Ksmvr.
Adventurers being adventurers, half of them just signed the slips of cardboard and passed them right back. Someone actually handed Pisces a piece of cardboard.
“I’m sorry, Ksmvr is quite busy. I don’t believe he has time to sign anything.”
Pisces was actually tempted despite himself, but a trio of people—a Human man, woman, and a Gnoll, all younger than twenty—pointed at Pisces.
“No, you! Can you sign it for us?”
“Me? I…?”
Erin turned with delight as Pisces had a wet quill thrust at him. Flustered, he scrawled his name, saw how poor the signature looked, and tried to correct it. But the young woman who’d asked him for it was delighted. She had travel-robes on with the others, and she smelled a bit like dust, and Pisces supposed she too could have used a bath.
“Thank you! You’re him, right? Pisces the [Necromancer]?”
“That’s me.”
He glanced at Erin, and she shrugged, smiling. The young woman had bright indigo eyes. She leaned forward as she took the autograph card.
“I was hoping to meet you. You’re an inspiration. Silvaria be with thee, friend!”
Pisces’ head snapped up. He turned, but she leapt back into the crowd, looking delighted. He caught sight of her pulling her hood up, and Erin frowned.
“What was that, Pisces? Did she just say…?”
“Silvaria’s gone. What did that mean?”
Pisces saw the trio pause and whispered.
“That’s…an old phrase for how we identify each other. They’re [Necromancers].”
The trio stopped and stared at Pisces. With awe on their faces as they fought for the card. Pisces looked at Erin, and she laughed.
“You have fans.”
“I have…fans?”
And then it hit Pisces that not all the people looking for Ksmvr or his way were entirely hostile. Some looked just—impressed. Like they were seeing Jasi or Wesle.
Like they had at Albez. And then Pisces turned and heard his name.
“Pisces Jealnet, also a member of the Horns of Hammerad. A [Necromancer]. What do you think about that, Miss Noa?”
Heroom was still interviewing the Fraerling, and Pisces had missed Ksmvr’s undoubtedly-hilarious exchange. Alas! But the next thing the Fraerling said was heard the world over.
“[Necromancers]? Great! We have, like, a hundred in Paeth. Is he the one who made that giant Frost-Behemoth during the raid? He’s so cool as well! Can I see him?”
Then every head turned to him. The young [Necromancers] pointed and screamed. Erin threw up her hands and laughed. Pisces saw the scrying orb turn to him, and the letter flashed in his mind.
 
We saw you on the scrying orb.
 
Were they seeing him now, as Heroom tried to fight his way over? Ksmvr was getting up, but he was tangled with the adventurers. Yvlon was shouting at the Gold-rank Captain, and Ceria was trying to get up as the other half-Elf clung to her robes, pleading.
And Pisces? He looked around and didn’t really know what to do. Erin gave him a slight nudge, and he stumbled forwards. The young man looked back, and she smiled.
“Pisces—”
 
——
 
The Hobgoblin began to play. So that was what it was. He saw Pisces stumble forward, his white robes slightly messy. His untidy brown hair blew in the wind, but when he caught himself, it was gracefully enough. He turned, and you could see the rapier he carried swing around at his side, catching the light.
A [Fencer]’s grace. And a [Necromancer]’s magic. A slightly supercilious, handsome young man who could embarrass himself or be that hero.
What kind of music did he deserve? Numbtongue had it. No power ballad. But yes, it was pop. Sort of.
The song was both bouncy and melancholy. Happily sad, with all the energy that deserved a chorus on the refrain. Erin’s head turned as Numbtongue began to play.
He didn’t quite have the words to express what this was. But then—he’d never heard the terminology he needed. Euro pop, perhaps. Or a disco song from the 1970’s. Glam rock?
Nostalgic. The [Necromancer] looked around, bewildered, then realized that Heroom wouldn’t make it to him. The television crew was being mobbed by adventurers trying to get their five seconds of fame.
But he was in frame. What would he show the world, the watching fans, young and two hundred years old, his comrades in Chandrar, and Noa?
The Gold-rank adventurer paused—then turned his back. He spread his legs slightly, relaxed his shoulders—and up came one arm.
He raised a thumb and stood there, as if he was signaling for a cab on Earth. A Hobgoblin’s gesture. A simple sign to show anyone everything was okay.
It was either cool or embarrassing, and you could take whichever one you wanted. Erin was clapping her hands and laughing, and Numbtongue couldn’t see Pisces’ face, but the Hobgoblin thought he was smiling.
The Hob played on, that chaotic, happy-sad song. And the Horns of Hammerad came out of the crowd. Dignified?
Ksmvr came crowd-surfacing out of the sea and landed on his back-shell, waving all four arms around as he tried to rock back up to his feet.
A giant metal fist punched a Gold-rank Captain past Pisces and Ksmvr as Yvlon, wiping blood from one nostril, advanced on her opponent. She froze as she saw the scrying orb and tried to smile and hide her bloody fist behind her back. She made a peace sign with two fingers.
Last came Ceria, who flipped the half-Elf clinging onto her over the table. She landed on a chest and grabbed a mug and basket of french fries. She swung herself into place next to Pisces, drinking unapologetically in that glimpse of them.
The Horns of Hammerad. Then, Pisces was laughing and trying to look impressive. And he was sure—the laughter wasn’t just coming from Captain Todi and his friends.
In Pomle, the Fraerlings, and whomever you wanted—they were either laughing or cheering and shouting his name.
The [Necromancer]. Yes. But say it right.
This was Pisces, the [Necromancer]. Member of the Horns of Hammerad.
The one you liked. Pisces rubbed at one teary eye and nodded at Erin. At last—he thought he was ready to talk to her.
 
——
 
Smile. A young Fraerling was laughing, around Tallfolk, and she looked like the happiest person in the world. For a moment.
Dreams did come true. Just not for everyone. Yet Niers Astoragon had been the first Fraerling out in the world. If not for his company, perhaps this wouldn’t have followed.
That was an older man’s reward, he supposed. Even so—Niers flew back from Paeth on the Coast after an entire day of talking. He couldn’t spare any more, and while he’d be back—he didn’t have a part in this new city as a contributor.
He was an outsider. Niers couldn’t even blame Ekrn for the decision; the Fraerling’s choice had been as pragmatic as anything else. The Forgotten Wing company was a dangerous ally for Paeth, who would want to play the board.
Having a powerful Fraerling city backing an individual Great Company made it a target for destruction.
It was just—
