However, the leadership was probably ashambles because a number of officers were dead. Quallet Marshhand, the leader of Gravetender’s Fist, had gone down with a number of others in the fighting.
Still, the response was fairly fast, and the Dullahan relaxed as one of the four people helping keep Talenqual running in the aftermath galloped to the gates and ordered them open.
A Centauress that Niers recognized shouted as she flew out the gates.
“Professor—”
Marian, one of his top students, looked about to cry herself. Niers was astonished to see her moving, but he shouted an order instantly.
“Open fire!”
Marian stumbled, and bows swung up along the lines of the Forgotten Wing’s forces, nearly two thousand strong. A single arrow struck her as she swerved, and a painted arrowhead fell to the ground as Niers called out. The defenders were frozen, but he just shouted at Marian.
“Did you check it was me, Marian? Or would Jungle Tails have marched right in after you went down?”
The Centauress turned beet red and cantered over to him.
“Professor! I recognized Lieutenant Hewilst, and your coming was public knowledge! And the [Message] spell—”
“I am just teasing you, Marian. After this battle, I don’t know if I even need you back at class. Come here.”
Niers Astoragon leapt from a Dullahan’s shoulder, and Marian held out her hands as he landed. He beamed up at her and swept a hat from his head.
“Well done. Here I thought Wil’s team would have the biggest story to tell when they came back. How did it feel to fight one of Baleros’ mid-level companies and win?”
“If that was only the middle…Unicorn’s hooves, Professor. We had a thousand soldiers against forty times that number. I thought we were dead. And you—is Professor Fleethoof really in Izril?”
Niers laughed.
“She is, and you can write her an essay on defying the odds. You’re just lucky she isn’t here to chew you out. But you did it. Umina, Cameral, Kissilt?”
“Waiting for you, sir. I mean, they’re busy—”
“I’m sure they are, and I’m sure you need to show me to whomever’s leading the city. But I just wanted to tease you—and to say you’ve done it.”
“Er…which thing exactly, Professor? Graduate? Because after today, I’m sure I need another year of class.”
Marian pleaded with him nervously. Niers shook his head.
“No. I mean—you’ve survived a battle you thought you had no chance of winning. You took part in an event that someone in Rhir or Terandria will hear about. Your name, Marian, might not be the loudest spoken, but when you say, ‘I was at Talenqual when Paeth appeared’, most people in the world will sit up and take notice. How does it feel?”
The Centaur, so quick on her feet and with her tongue, stumbled on a reply. Niers just smiled and felt…good. Just a tiny bit. Marian turned red with pride, and that was important too.
He meant every word. But he was also inspecting Marian’s hooves. To be more precise, her foremost right leg. Because…he was fairly certain she shouldn’t have been walking.
The Centauress noticed the glance.
“Professor, did you hear about the battle?”
“I read your report. I’m not going to lecture you—”
“Please, do. I know my mistakes.”
“—now, I was going to say. We’ll be analyzing your battles in class.”
“Oh, of course.”
Niers looked down at Marian’s leg as the Centauress laughed. She went on after a moment.
“…I thought I could take out the enemy commander. I had my shot. Venaz turned out to be right—one unkillable leader nearly turned over the battle. I…well. I found out what happens when you make that mistake in battle. Do you think I should have done it differently?”
Her leg had been gone—eaten up to her torso by the crazed Quexal. Now, a strange prosthesis had replaced it. It looked like a hardlight projection of some kind. Like [Light Bridge], but sculpted into a leg that moved almost as nimbly as her old leg had.
Fraerling technology. Even Perorn didn’t have that—although she only had a war wound, so it wasn’t as if she’d ever wanted to amputate her leg. Yet on this scope? Niers looked up and answered slowly.
“I would have probably taken that risk. Especially if I thought I had a chance of ending the battle.”
Marian smiled weakly.
“That’s…good to know, sir. I’m not the only one who got chewed up. I’m—grateful, if anything. I can actually walk. You can do it with three legs or even two, or at least, stand. But—”
Centaurs who couldn’t run about were crippled. And their culture had a stigma against it. Niers just nodded.
“I was exceptionally happy to see you come through those gates, lack of caution or not. Now…who am I meeting?”
 
——
 
Marian’s leg was not the only sign of Paeth being in Talenqual. They had been here two weeks, and the rubble was still not all swept away. There was a heavy presence of soldiers watching for trouble, but the city already looked different than any other part of Baleros, including Elvallian.
First was the clinic. It was practically untouched in the fighting; both sides had avoided the Last Light’s practice, and two more had popped up across the city. Geneva Scala had always maintained that a [Doctor] alone could not hope to tend to a single town, let alone a city, but she had never had much support outside her small company.
The new owners of the city who knew her had taken her ideas to heart. As well as the influence of…somewhere else.
Lizardfolk were laying down a thick, tar-like substance that Marian told Niers would form a smooth surface even better than concrete for roads.
“And you just had the recipe lying around?”
“No, Professor. The Fraerling [Alchemists] mixed it up. They did a few trial runs based on the local resources and some…accounts.”
She looked shifty, and Niers sighed.
“Marian. I sent you here to investigate the Humans. I assume they’ve taken you into their confidences, but believe me, I knew what you were looking for.”
“You knew—of course you did.”
Marian covered her face, and Niers chuckled.
“Alright, roads. Someone knows the benefit of good transportation. But I’ll wait till I talk t—is that a Fraerling over there?”
He whirled around and pointed, and Marian jumped. A Fraerling looked up from the window of a building—Niers’ shout was so loud half the street and his guards turned.
“…Is that the Titan?”
Both Niers and the other Fraerling just gawked at each other. You had to understand—a Fraerling in the wild was the strangest, craziest thing Niers had ever seen. Yet there she was, just standing behind some glass in a shop with a bunch of Lizardfolk, two Dullahans, and a Human.
“What in the name of aphids is—”
The entire convoy halted, and Marian trotted into the shop as Niers had to investigate. The Fraerling blinked at Niers and then nodded.
“Lord Astoragon. I needed a volunteer. Do you have ten minutes?”
“I—what? Volunteer for what, exactly?”
The Fraerling’s eyes glinted, and only then did Niers see the oddly padded tables, the diagrams of various bodies, and the oils and such around the room. The Fraerling pointed.
“Shirt and armor off, if you please. Or at least the armor.”
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon lay face-first on a table, questioning his life choices.
“Each part of the body is connected. There’s actually a muscle that runs all the way from the bone up the arm and down the hand. If we sliced open someone, you’d see it.”
Someone ran a finger down his back as she moved his arm to demonstrate, and his audience murmured. The Titan muttered.
“I’ll do it myself. Just let me—aaahhaha. That stings!”
The cry came from the [Masseuse] gently poking his shoulder in a place that made his arm jerk. She gave him a long look, and the Fraerling woman looked up to her trainees.
“It seems the Titan of Baleros has shoulder pain. Which you’d want to loosen up. There’s a basic test you can run on most humanoid bodies, from Dullahans to Centaurs, that shows if a muscle-area is in distress. Now, each species, each person varies, but there is a logic to it. For instance, if you stretch out Lord Astoragon’s arm like this, you are acting on the muscles that are sore. Here and here.”
She took his arm in two of hers, and Niers groaned.
“I didn’t come here to pull my arms off—hey, that feels good.”
The stretch was actually very painful since he’d been sitting at a desk for ages doing paperwork—but then he felt his arm limber up.
“I’m expediting about a few hours of stretching each day for a week. And some salve will keep the muscle fresh. If I were an expert—which I am not—I could make a [Warrior] as flexible as a [Body Dancer]. Very lucrative. I specialize in restoring mobility.”
“Would this work on someone very old, Miss Porwinke? I’d be worried about tearing their muscles.”
“You work them up to it. And in fact, you want to have them building the muscle they’re neglecting. Now, I think I felt at least some Galas-muscle here, and that behaves differently. Give me five more minutes, Lord Astoragon?”
For fixing his shoulder pain, she could have fifty. Niers had forgotten what it was like to have a massage.
Even if he’d cared to waste Signim, most Tallfolk had all the knowledge of massages from mentorships, not a Fraerling’s knowledge of the body combined with their alchemical prowess. What this Fraerling was teaching her students was probably the height of massage-therapy.
It was also probably a course in biology beyond what many [Healers] had. And she was standing in this shop…in front of Tallfolk…unafraid and teaching them.
Porwinke talked to Niers after her short demo with someone her size. He rubbed at his shoulder, which felt great, and raised his brows.
“Teaching Tallfolk. Don’t tell me you’ve done this before? Were you Tallguard?”
“How’d you know? I was still shaking the first four times I did it, but those volunteers want to learn, they’re very respectful of me, and they’ll share some of their profits for a few years with Paeth.”
“And teaching them how to massage at such a high level…?”
The [Masseuse] hesitated.
“You’d have to ask Guidance Heish and the Architects about that, Lord Astoragon. I’m doing everything I can to help rebuild Paeth. A few gold coins could pay for the entire city’s food supply, and I hope to earn more than that. I’m aware of the risk, but massages were deemed acceptable. Alchemy? Not so much. Even so—Paeth is in clear sight. We can’t take the cat back out of the bag of holding. And I say, let it rot.”
That was a Fraerling expression that flipped the Tallfolk’s affection for the sadistic murderous felines with how Fraerlings got rid of them. But Niers got the message.
He left with Marian and saw more Fraerlings. Not many, but now that he looked, he saw a [Master Architect] advising some [Builders] on constructing new buildings. A [Mage] was floating near a cowed Centaur and correcting him as he tried to cast a proper [Light] spell for the mage-globes.
Fraerling magic-tech. 
Niers had long ago wondered what would happen if the Fraerlings brought their full innovation into the open. His assumption was the Tallfolk would steal it until they had no need of Fraerlings or hold them for ransom.
This—this, though, was like his best-case scenario. Fraerlings introducing innovation while holding onto dangerous ideas. Collaboration. Mutual dependance.
All it had taken was a Human man arriving by accident. The needs of a Fraerling city under danger. And the courage to fight a war against an entire company.
To say Niers was incredibly torn when he met with Kenjiro Murata was an understatement. The [Diplomat] welcomed the Titan to Talenqual, and quite gracefully too.
“Lord Astoragon, I have hoped you might come to the city. Can we make your company welcome in any way? Your students talk exceptionally highly of you.”
He had a Drathian accent. Niers smiled as he nodded to the young man. Kenjiro hadn’t been flustered about trying to shake Niers’ hand or offering a finger or something stupid. He’d just given a very elegant bow which Niers had returned.
“We won’t strain your resources, Diplomat Kenjiro. In truth, I am simply in awe of Paeth’s survival. I hoped to talk with their leaders as well as your company’s. May I ask if they have time to meet with me?”
Very polite. Niers wondered who Ken would claim was in charge, but the young man surprised him with a glance towards the tree-city in the distance.
“I believe they have just finished a conference, Lord Astoragon. You will be able to meet with the leaders of Paeth shortly.”
Niers’ brows rose—and then rose higher as he was introduced to a group along with Ken that he recognized from various meetings.
“The joint Fraerling-Tallfolk Council of Paeth. Leaders of the United Nations: Engineer Paige, Captain Daly, myself, Ranger Siri, Rower Luan, and Housekeeper Kirana. And the Architects of Paeth. Farspeaker Humalepre, Judiciary Honst, Tallguard Commander Ekrn, Enchanter Ilekrome, Guidance Heish—”
He knew some of them. The Architects—no. Not except for the glowering Tallguard leader, Ekrn, who Niers felt like he had encountered once. But Luan Khumalo?
Yes. Niers waited till the introductions were done and spoke.
“I would like to greet Paeth’s Council with the utmost respect for what has happened here. I’m agog—and I would like to reassure you all that my mission here is entirely peaceful and, I hope, beneficial to all. I believe I’ve met some of you. Courier Luan, from Daquin. And Commander Ekrn? Is the Tallguard of Feiland now part of Paeth proper?”
Luan nodded with a smile. Niers noted that Daly Sullivan’s leg was giving off a faint glow beneath the table. As for Siri, two of her wooden fingers clicked on the table.
More prostheses. The Tallfolk counterparts of the Architects looked very young, and Niers wondered if this would last. On the other hand, it might reassure the Fraerlings more than grizzled political leaders.
The familiar Fraerling had a head of spiked, white hair and enough scars to instantly make him Tallguard. However, he also had a crossbow that made Niers feel like checking his amulets just by looking at it and a pair of deadly swords. Ekrn was armed to the teeth even in a peaceful mission, and he didn’t hide it.
“Titan of Baleros. I’m surprised you remember.”
Alright, what did I do to him? Niers didn’t remember, but it must have been something. He suspected Guidance Heish kicked Ekrn under the table, because the Commander took a moment to grimace before continuing.
“—Feiland’s functionally no more. We’re replenishing our ranks, but we’ve rolled in our forces with Paeth. We will continue to serve other cities, but Paeth is clearly in need of protection.”
