“I have a bucket from the well. I dump it over my head after morning workout.”
Pisces sniffed and wished he hadn’t.
“Well, I take care of my personal body odor. There is such a thing as [Cleanse] spells. And odor spells besides.”
“Yeah, cast one on me and we’ll go inside.”
Tessa brightened up. Pisces was about to agree when Numbtongue frowned.
“Wait. When did you last shower or bathe, then?”
The [Necromancer] had to think about it.
“Well…given my usual routine…I don’t think I’ve ever been in Liscor’s bath house per se. I had what was known as a steam bath in Chandrar. About two months ago. Before that…one supposes I used the stream from time to time before mastering [Cleanse]. But I don’t think I bathed—no. Not in that city. Nor—hm. W-Wistram was seven years ago, but I’m sure between then and now—”
Tessa was giving Pisces an approving nod past Numbtongue’s look of horror.
“You only bathe when you’re covered in blood. Or you roll around in dirt until it’s mostly gone. Everything dries off.”
Even the Redfangs of the High Passes had standards. In fact, an Antinium Worker with silver antennae coming up the hill walked wide of the three, and Silveran’s look of horror made Pisces reconsider.
“…Perhaps a bath would not kill us.”
 
——
 
It was hard to say who horrified the bathing attendants most. Pisces was a Human and a [Necromancer], but they didn’t have to know that.
However, Tessa’s smell was beaten by her telling them Pisces hadn’t bathed in seven years—an exaggeration.
And Numbtongue was a Goblin.
All three had somehow forgotten that. The guards hadn’t stopped Numbtongue as he went into Liscor. They’d been more staring at Tessa and pinching their noses.
Yet…this was the first time a Hob had been to a bathhouse. Would they turn him away?
The attendants thought about it. Numbtongue had the cheerful face of a Hob who was prepared to be turned away. And just as prepared to call an [Innkeeper] to make the bath house explode if he didn’t get his soap.
“We have a private bathing area. Miss, um, Tessa?”
“Mm.”
Tessa’s glare made the Drake attendant squeak.
“Adventurer Tessa! One room for you, and another two for these fine gentlemen…this way! And please, we’ll take your clothing and have it washed by the time you’re done. Please put it in, um. This basket.”
They had male and female public bathing areas, but it was clear that Numbtongue and Tessa would cause too much of a stir. The Hob seemed content with this, and he spent much of the time admiring the tiled bathroom and putting his toe in the hot water.
Bathhouses were an interesting concept to Pisces. They were all under one large roof, but the ‘private’ rooms and public areas were separated by walls that didn’t stretch up to the ceiling. So you could hear other bathers.
Still, this was quite private with the curtain, and there was a hot pool and a cold one you could jump in. You washed yourself before entering the cleaner water, but given the public nature of the bath house, Pisces spotted tools to regularly clean the pools of fur, scales, or dirt.
“…Some minor runes to keep this pool hot. I assume this one’s trying to cleanse the water, hence their assurances it is all ‘magically clean’. It is about as effective as a cup of water in an inferno.”
The [Necromancer] was still enjoying this moment with Numbtongue enough to chat as if he were with the Horns. And in fact—he slapped his forehead as he began to wash himself.
“The House of Byres! I did enter a hot bath just this year!”
“One. Still dirty. Why’s the cleaning rune not working?”
Numbtongue had decided he might enjoy this experience. There was also a lot of shampoo and soaps, and he poured them all into one bowl. Then he shucked his clothes off.
Pisces got a really good, slightly unwanted look at Numbtongue before he whirled away. The Goblin had no sense of public or private! Then again—there were stories of naked Hobgoblins who had crept around The Wandering Inn when they first arrived.
And yes. Everyone was curious. It turned out that Hobs looked mostly like Humans. Pisces turned back to the curtain and saw it move slightly as someone hurried off.
Numbtongue was completely unconcerned. He dumped the soap over himself, chortling as it became a huge pile of colored foam, and then took a taste of the shampoo before spitting it out. As bathers went—Pisces still suspected they beat the average child.
He found a towel for modesty before he removed his robes and put them in a bucket. You lowered it on a rope, and it went down…hopefully to reappear later.
Brisky, Pisces used some warm water to remove only a slight layer of dirt. He spoke absent-mindedly.
“You see, a cleansing spell is hard to scale up. Like, ah, purifying salt water. Or else countries would never want for water, even in Chandrar. That rune could purify a cup of water very well. It would be about forty minutes for an average cup.”
“Ah. Dirty water? Don’t drink.”
Numbtongue was already relaxed, fully naked, legs spread, in the most aggressive pose that Pisces had seen in a hot bath. The [Necromancer] almost wished they’d gone to the public bathhouse.
Numbtongue had the same energy as an old man, regardless of species, who would lean on you—naked—while having a casual chat.
Pisces entered the water with the towel around his waist, and the instant he was in, he saw why people bathed.
“Oh. This is quite salubrious.”
Numbtongue was up to his ears in the water, but he raised his head long enough to grin, pleased. The hot water was wonderful on the skin.
“You really do talk like that all the time?”
“It’s a habit, I’m afraid. I could see this being quite the hobby. A private bathing space is very nice. Perhaps I will go here with Ksmvr—he lacks for such experiences. And it is quite pleasant to be isolated.”
“Mhm.”
Numbtongue gave Pisces an odd look and a frown, but the [Necromancer] was relaxing already. He eyed the wall connecting his room to Tessa’s.
“One fears for the bath Miss Tessa got into though, eh? The cleaning bill will—gah!”
He ducked as one of the baskets filled with shampoos came flying over the wall. Numbtongue lazily blocked a block of soap, took a bite, and spat it out.
“I don’t see what the point is. Tastes terrible.”
He seemed to be addressing the blank air to his left. Didn’t Pisces recall something interesting with his class…? The [Necromancer] lowered his voice as Tessa could clearly hear him.
Despite his reservations, he had to admit, the second Named-rank adventurer he’d been in close proximity with for any time fascinated him. Saliss was an [Alchemist], so aside from his dodging abilities and amazing ability to create, it was hard to see what separated someone of his level from the ordinary.
Yet Tessa could hide her smell from a Gnoll, and she clearly had the ability to hear as well as one too. Pisces decided this bath would be a nice time to talk with Numbtongue and forget about talking to Erin. Later.
He had almost forgotten about that and was about to inquire of Numbtongue who he kept talking to when the Hob nodded at Pisces.
“Where did you get that? Looks like a brand.”
For a second, Pisces didn’t know what he was talking about. Then he glanced down and saw the outline of—a name. Raised flesh. A scar, a brand from hot iron.
IGHERIZ.
The [Necromancer] froze up and then—
 
——
 
Numbtongue caught him as Pisces was halfway out the curtains. Pisces had stopped, because he realized his robes were gone and he’d have to walk back with a towel over his chest and pelvis.
Yet it was not wanting to show anyone that word that halted him, more than immodesty. Pisces was about to cast [Invisibility], but Numbtongue stopped Pisces.
“Wait.”
Pisces’ breath was ragged, and he was panting. He was flushed—but not with the heat of the bath. Hot and cold. His heart was racing a mile a minute.
“Don’t tell anyone you saw—that’s—”
He had forgotten all about it. Of course—he didn’t look at himself in the mirror because of that. Same with bathing. Now, it felt like it was alive with pain again. He could remember that [Slaver]’s face.
Until it was eclipsed by Numbtongue grabbing Pisces and using his one arm to hurl Pisces into the cold bath.
The cold shock of the allegedly therapeutic hot-to-cold transition woke Pisces up. He flailed about, and Numbtongue offered him a hand.
“What are you—”
“Bath’s not done. Come on.”
Pisces hesitated, but Numbtongue offered the hot pool, and the [Necromancer] covered his chest with one arm.
“I believe I’m done. This is—private. Please understand.”
He was still breathing hard. Numbtongue nodded.
“I won’t tell anyone. I know scars. You going to get rid of it? Cover it? Ask Ulvama.”
Pisces stopped with one hand on the curtain, the [Invisibility] spell on his lips. He turned around.
“—What does that mean?”
The [Bard] waved him back towards the water. Now he looked at Pisces like—
Too knowingly. Pisces wanted to kick Numbtongue into the water, and he had a feeling about how well that would go. Yet his ire evaporated a bit when Numbtongue spoke again.
“Redfangs have that. Sometimes. We use paint or bigger scars. Or you take this scar and make it like claw marks. With a knife. Lots of fun.”
“Fun…?”
Numbtongue saw the [Necromancer]’s uncomprehending look. He pointed to his bicep.
“Right here. Big scar. Or brand on back, shoulder? ‘Damn Goblin’, or something? Or just other scars? Covers it up. Changes it. Ulvama is a [Shaman]. She can make them go poof.”
He waggled his fingers. Pisces looked at him, and the words registered.
“Goblins have scars like that?”
He found himself sitting with his legs in the water as Numbtongue explained. Of course Goblins had that. Not every Goblin died in an encounter with adventurers. Sometimes they were captured. Sometimes they lived. Adventurers could be creative. Or whomever else captured a Goblin.
“I had no idea. Did you…?”
“Nope. Just scars. Like this, see? Evil skeleton.”
Pisces bit his tongue as Numbtongue showed him a scar on his ribs. The [Necromancer] saw Numbtongue wave a claw at him.
“I won’t say anything. Go poke Ulvama if you want. Otherwise, I forget.”
He didn’t ask what happened. In that sense—perhaps the Goblin could guess. He was certainly trying to be considerate. Pisces hesitated. Then the words came out, faster and faster after the first one. And the relief he felt—
“I was captured as a [Slave] by Roshal’s caravans. That’s how I got the scar. The Stitch-man who gave it to me is dead.”
It was said and done. Pisces closed his eyes and felt like he released a breath he’d been holding since reaching safety. He opened his eyes just as fast and saw Numbtongue look up at him.
He wasn’t Erin. He wasn’t the one Pisces had wanted to confess to. But he was someone…and Pisces felt a sudden moment of terror. Right up until Numbtongue raised a fist.
Water dripped off his green skin and his own scars as his fingernails, neatly-filed for playing his guitar, clenched together. One thumb rose straight up.
“Good.”
That was all he said for a moment. He waggled his fist at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] blinked, then gingerly touched a fist to Numbtongue’s. The [Bard] lowered his hand and nodded.
“Would have had to get on a boat to kill him, otherwise. Long trip.”
He leaned back in the waters, and Pisces sat there. They were almost casual words. Almost—until you remembered Numbtongue was a Goblin and meant them. The [Bard] looked at Pisces, then nodded to the opposite side.
This time, Pisces got back in the hot water. He hesitated, then uncrossed his arm. His skin felt like it burned, but Numbtongue only glanced at it once.
“What happened?”
And just like that, the story came out of Pisces. Not smoothly—he had never told it, and he started with Igheriz dying and the Death of Chains before realizing where he was and trying to start at the Village of the Dead raid.
He had to abbreviate too, because the bath house was noisy and attendants checked in to deliver the robes and ask if they needed anything. But Numbtongue listened, and he understood.
[Slave], Igheriz, Cawe and Bearig, Eloque, a monster named Riqre, Azam, and then freedom at great cost. 
The branding was almost skipped because of the rest. Those three weeks had defined Pisces’ journey in Chandrar more than any other part.
The [Bard] did not say much. He listened. And he was good at that. When Pisces was done and the silence was stretching out—Numbtongue nodded at Pisces’ chest.
“Scar from Igheriz? You should make it a bird. Two wings. Would look good.”
That was his comment? Pisces started—then saw Numbtongue’s serious gaze.
“You think so?”
“Redfangs wear our brothers and sisters. Our paint is them. If you want—never forget. Just a thought.”
“Thank you. I’ll consider it.”
It was such a Goblin-comment that Pisces didn’t have a follow-up. Nor did Numbtongue, it seemed. He put his head back, stared up, then looked back at Pisces.
“Did you tell Erin yet? Your team?”
“No. Not yet. I…haven’t been able to find the moment.”
“Hm.”
Numbtongue stared at his hand. He looked guilty, but the effect of skin pruning in water had distracted him since it was the first time he’d been in water so long. He tried to rub the wrinkles out on his arm, looking concerned, and Pisces almost smiled.
“…Want me to talk to Erin when we get back?”
Pisces started.
“Talk to—”
“For a big chat. It’s easy. I’ll pull her away from silly cooking or anything. She should listen.”
Numbtongue looked serious. Pisces bit his tongue.
“I—I would actually appreciate that, Numbtongue. Truly. Perhaps tonight?”
“Yes. Good.”
It was like pushing on a [Forcewall] and finding no resistance. So he’d get a chance to talk to Erin, barring any disaster? It was a relief—and it made him more nervous.
But he was grateful, truly. It was just that Numbtongue was sitting in the water. He glanced right and left. The bath was still no less hot, but Numbtongue seemed less pleased now. He glared at what looked like three spots then—abruptly—punched the water.
“Useless! I don’t know what to say, you say something!”
He pointed at an invisible presence, and Pisces stared at him. The Hob turned guiltily to Pisces.
“Sorry. I…”
He struggled for words. Then the [Soulbard] shook his head. He looked at Pisces helplessly.
“Bad things happened. It’s good the [Slavers] are dead. Your friend was brave. Erin…Erin would know what to say. You should talk to her.”
He looked extremely guilty, because he didn’t know what he was supposed to say. And again, Pisces felt almost a moment of…relief.
