Goblins, now…Goblins surprised you. Niers didn’t have to think how he’d employ them.
He could remember. Goblins would make semi-autonomous warbands who surprised their allies and enemies alike. There was nothing like telling a Goblin Chieftain to ‘go wild’ and give them enough resources. Tulm the Mithril’s head would split open from the chaos they caused, all without you having to do more than ship them healing potions.
“Healing potions. Does anyone have a report on Eir Gel? What the hell happened to Hesheit, and why didn’t Tulm deal with it?”
Niers snapped into a speaking stone as he headed to his next destination. He got the report on the go and grunted.
“Wonderful. I assume we’ve bought up all the Eir Gel we can find? Buy all the potions. I don’t care how expensive it gets.”
Tulm was probably already doing that. Niers sighed.
“We’re in trouble.”
No healing potions meant more casualties. It meant companies were more afraid of losing troops. It also meant he was probably going to come out on top against his enemies.
Selphids, again. Less healing potion per wound and expendable bodies.
“That’s what you get for being a one-species army. Eat Creler eggs, Tulm.”
He smiled about that.
Right up until he met with the Fraerlings representing the cities and settlements who had come here. Emissary Vuul of Reiryul Crystalhome. Paeth on the Coast—well, they’d only left one Fraerling. Sentry Leader Ekrn and Guidance Heish had gone back to their city long ago. And…Torteth of Colors, which had been in the Dyed Lands.
What might be the last Fraerlings of that settlement were waiting for him. Explorer Gindal and the Fraerlings in his company.
All of them greeted the Titan quite civilly. Even the annoying Emissary. Niers had sent refreshments ahead, and they were eating the Tallfolk’s infinite larder. Yet they didn’t seem intent on feasting. In fact, they were refreshingly straightforward.
“Reiryul is considering withdrawing from our alliance with the Forgotten Wing Company. As is Yuite under Waters and Comost Lightdrenched.”
Niers had been expecting it. Even so—that hurt. He took a deep breath.
“Emissary Vuul, that is difficult news. Can I talk you out of it? I understand we have let you down.”
“Fraerlings have been under attack, Lord Astoragon. Cities you swore to protect. Oierdressql is gone. Hundreds of thousands of Fraerlings are dead. Paeth was nearly lost, and another city is being held hostage. They might all be dead—at the very least, they’re captive to the Jungle Tails company. They would not be if your trusted advisor, this Peclir Im, didn’t know where they were.”
Vuul was an obnoxious man that Niers had met before. A puffed up city-Fraerling unlike Tallguard. Yet the horror in his voice, the disbelief?
That was earned. Niers head lowered.
“…Peclir had no idea where they were. I never gave out the locations. I swear to you all. That is no excuse, but I was not so lax. My guess is that he did have access to the shipments we sent. He traced our dropoffs. I am considering every city we have done business with for the last twenty years in danger. Regardless of any decision—my forces will intercept and destroy any Tallfolk attempting to gain access to your locations.”
The other representatives nodded. Vuul was mildly relieved, but he pointed at Paeth’s single Tallguard representative.
“How do you intend on making amends for Oierdressql and Paeth?”
“I will be heading to Talenqual directly today. My soldiers are already moving to secure the region. If Paeth wishes to relocate—I don’t know how they managed to move their city. But we will ensure they are safe.”
A Fraerling city in the open. The first in an age. Something to excite—if it hadn’t come on calamity’s heels. Yet even Niers felt a chill run down his entire body as one of the representatives of Comost whispered.
“They opened their Last Box. I have heard tales that it is gone. Whatever you hear with your own ears, Lord Astoragon—we would like to know. Even if Comost is…separate from the Forgotten Wing company.”
“I will inform you all of what I learn. However…would you accept two thousand Tallfolk soldiers in the region? One of my Chess Towers with a garrison?”
He needed the Fraerling Cities, but they wanted to withdraw from their arrangement. They supplied magical artifacts beyond the quality of any other civilization—and the precious Signim.
Even a single city could only give away so much, and Niers’ stock was practically emptied. Yet each representative instantly balked at the offer.
“Having Tallfolk near us is what destroyed Oierdressql, Titan. Not your soldiers or any others. If we are still hidden—we will stay that way. We crave protection. Not discovery.”
That was the conundrum of all Fraerlings. They would love a few Tallfolk to punch out jungle cats and destroy Creler nests and other threats. However, the Tallfolk were inherently untrustworthy or just susceptible to spies. Niers posting his forces in number was a beacon.
“We understand the treachery was unavoidable, Lord Astoragon. Yet you must understand—this is for our cities’ good. Unless you have a better compromise, we will regretfully sever ties.”
“Give me a day or two to make a suitable counteroffer.”
Foliana’s traps? Double the resources they were given? Niers didn’t know, but even Vuul agreed to that. As for Gindal…the [Explorer] had been quiet in the opening, but Niers turned and gave him a respectful nod.
“Explorer Gindal. I’m…sorry for your loss.”
“You had nothing to do with the Dyed Lands. Or if you did—I’d be impressed.”
The scarred Fraerling had a sense of humor. Niers smiled himself, but it was pained. Gindal had the crossbow that Ekrn had given him. He played with it, checking the mechanisms as he spoke.
“Our home is gone. Or, if it’s alive, it’s been centuries. Not just Torteth of Colors; three other smaller Fraerling settlements vanished, and one more is on the outskirts of The Dyed Lands. Monsters are rampaging across the region, but I’m told Homnel is safe.”
The other Fraerlings fell silent. Another disaster for their species, yet The Dyed Lands’ sudden advance in time was concerning for the continent, the world. It was among the things Niers had on his list.
And there were so many. The Titan nodded.
“What can I do for you, Gindal? I owe you greatly for protecting my company and stymying the traitors. If you want an escort to try to find Torteth…or adventurers?”
Gindal hesitated. His people looked at him as he put the crossbow down on the meeting table.
“My assumption is Torteth is gone. Or, if they’re there, no one I know is alive. Not unless that time-shift event let—no. Nor will I take my company into a death zone we don’t know without precautions. Escort to Homnel will do. I understand the need for secrecy, but frankly, the monster reports we’ve heard are horrific. How many Tallfolk can you give us?”
“I can have six thousand and two Chess Towers on the move within an hour. If you would like, I will place them at the nearest town or road. A peacekeeping force.”
“That would be welcome. Thank you.”
Niers turned to one of the Fraerlings in his company.
“Maps. Gindal, where should they be headed…? I will inform the commander and their second officer of the situation. No one else will know about the proximity of a Fraerling city.”
Even he didn’t know where Homnel was, but he did after Gindal indicated a location for Niers’ forces to rally. That was the thing—you could guess.
Like Reiryul or Paeth, there were locations away from Tallfolk that had a good proximity to natural resources or safety. That was how Peclir had wormed his way into finding Oierdressql.
Damn him. And damn Niers for not taking more precautions.
His fault. The older the Titan got, no, even after his adventures on Izril, the more he thought—
How much of this was his fault?
Losing his leg in the High Passes was due to overconfidence. Wanting his ‘adventure’. Not meeting Erin Solstice was due to him putting it off, being complacent, distracted by romance.
He could have done so much. The Fraerlings who had died on Baleros were because he had been on Izril.
He hadn’t even managed to make an impact in the final battle with the Gnolls and Drakes because Belavierr had thrown him back home. Just…pulled him off the board.
Humiliating? Yes. Shameful? Absolutely.
But what struck Niers as he moved to his third appointment before he flew to Paeth was that he was remembered for his deeds.
Named Adventurer who conquered the Labyrinth of Souls. Founder of the Forgotten Wing Company. The [Strategist] who had pushed the King of Destruction back. 
And so on. Yet Niers…
His career was also founded upon his mistakes. He could never escape them.
Once, the Forgotten Wing Company had been known as the company that fielded the most Selphids outside of the Selphid-dedicated company. Even more than The Bodies of Fellden, by virtue of their sheer size.
Yet that wasn’t what had outraged the world. It was also the fact that the Forgotten Wing Company had been the second-largest employer of that hated species. Had forged contracts and risen to Great Company by virtue, in part, with their alliance with that Goblin Lord.
Velan the Kind.
Once, they had Goblins.
 
——
 
Chieftain Shaik of the Ghostly Hand tribe wasn’t that mad about being teleported a continent away.
That was Goblins for you. She landed on her feet. She wasn’t even that mad about being transported into a battleground; her mushroom-laced arrows had destroyed every Lizardfolk clump around her troops and turned the battle into a rout.
She was grinning as her Goblins feasted on the generous provisions Niers kept sending to them. They were camped far from Elvallian; far enough that Niers needed to ride for nearly an hour to meet them.
So if we attack, they can vanish. Nevertheless, Niers had brought only a small bodyguard as a show of good faith, and he wanted this to go well.
“Chieftain Shaik, my Skill to send you back hasn’t recharged, and frankly—I don’t know when it will. I’d also like Perorn to stay in Izril, but I want to hear you out first.”
The Chieftain was sitting, petting her Shield Spiders, which crawled around her. Gross. However, she just shrugged as Niers sat on a pedestal at head-height.
“No. We don’t need to go back. Lomost left their homes. Drakes are stupid-mad. Home was gone already. Here? Baleros is…wet. Lots of bugs. Different trees.”
She poked at the soil and opened her mouth, as if tasting the humid climate. The Goblin Chieftain pointed at some concerned Goblins digging up soil and…eating it? They spat it back out and grumbled as they carried little pots around.
“[Growers] not sure if mushrooms grow bad here or super-good. We find out.”
“Can I purchase some mushrooms? And perhaps instructions on how to grow them?”
Niers really, really wanted them. Shaik opened her mouth and laughed.
“Can try. Mushrooms very hard. Even other Goblins cannot. Maybe you can? Sure, sure. How about one hundred thousand gold pieces per mushroom.”
“Do you want that in gold pieces or in other forms?”
She stopped laughing and gazed at Niers’ deadpan expression. Then Shaik offered him a wry smile.
“Scary small man of Baleros. I know you. Goblins know you. The smart Chieftains.”
“I’m honored. In truth, Chieftain Shaik, I didn’t come here just to assure you that we want a peaceful relationship or to purchase mushrooms. I realize you’re far from home. I’m…interested in offering you a mercenary contract with my company. Not all your Goblins, but your warriors and tribe in general. We’ll give you security, payment, and we have land you can settle in. What do you think?”
Goblins liked straightforward offers, not dancing. Shaik blinked at Niers, and her eyes opened wide. One of Niers’ escorts murmured.
“Lord Astoragon…”
He held up a hand. If Perorn were here, she would have already been trying to kick him. But she wasn’t, and Foliana hadn’t objected.
Niers played chess every day. One game in the mornings. Erin Solstice didn’t always write more than a ‘hi’ or ‘good game’, but he’d thought about her question.
What do you think about Goblins?
He knew what he’d thought in the past and how it had gone down. This time…one tribe like Shaik’s was small enough. And she was not Goblin Lord material—yet. If she did become one, that would change things.
But one tribe? Especially one that produced the amazing alchemical regents? Erin hadn’t asked him to help Shaik, if she even knew the tribe was here. 
If she asked him, what would he say?
He was willing to toss down a hundred thousand gold in a heartbeat for the chance to get ethereal arrows for his forces. Erin had an inn. Did she want a new wing? Did she know he’d offer?
Should he? Well, Perorn had definite ideas about pushing his influence.
This, though, wasn’t about Erin. Okay, it wasn’t just about Erin. Shaik mulled the question over seriously, without asking for time. She closed her eyes, hummed under her breath, and then opened them.
“No.”
Niers exhaled.
“May I ask why?”
Shaik gave Niers a brilliantly sharp smile. She patted a spiderling crawling through her hair. Niers eyed it. Was that a different spider than a Shield Spider? Yes, it had long legs—a Spear Spider? The Goblins seemed like they were already trying to domesticate the local breeds. Shaik shrugged as she let the spider crawl onto one hand.
“You too scary. Everyone knows the tiny man is actually a Titan. You say one thing—but if you say the other, who can stop you? Not my tribe.”
“I could give you a magical contract…”
“No. Not just trust, Niers Astoragon.”
Shaik let the spider crawl onto the ground where it began to ‘play’ with the Shield Spiders. She gave Niers a long look.
“You knew Velan.”
His stomach sank. Niers slowly nodded, resting his hands on his knees.
“I did. I allied with him, and I was a good-faith ally until the end.”
“Yes. Then you went to Izril and killed him. Fair. He was Goblin King. Goblin Kings are scary.”
Shaik said that all seriously and looked at Niers. Her crimson eyes were different than any other species except maybe Fierre’s—and only her irises were red—but they were still eyes. The corner of the Goblin Chieftain’s eyes pinched a bit, and Niers saw then how old she was, not just by Goblin standards, but just any standards.
She might be his age. She looked younger, but the Ghostly Hand chieftain—for all she was the daughter of the last one—was old. Old by leading, old in years. Old in the weariness of people who counted death in numbers, not by names.
“I bear you no grudge, scary Titan. But you killed Velan. You saw him die. I want peace for my tribe. You are not peace. You are war. So, no.”
