“As you wish.” Ren said, and started to let the Mana flow down his arms and into his hands, which were slowly caressing her back. She took in several deep breaths as the Mana entered her, and Ren felt how much she enjoyed the sensations of being fed Mana and having someone to cuddle at the same time. He took his time and dragged it out, and when he reached the 1,000 Mana mark, quickly shoved another 500 Mana into her.

“AHH!” The Earth being gasped and gripped him tightly as her body's soft glow went bright for an instant. She panted as she tried to calm down, and looked at him as she shook her head. “Why did you do that?”

“I thought you wanted me to.” Ren said. “I could feel your disappointment when my offering was coming to an end.” He smiled. “I didn't want you to be disappointed.”

She chuckled and ran a hand through his hair. “You are a dangerous combination of abilities.”

“You know it.” Ren said and let her go.

She released her tight hold on him, but didn't let go. The ground rippled under her feet and she slowly sank into it, which dragged her breasts down over him. She stopped when her face was even with his, and she wrapped her arms back around him.

“That's a neat trick.” Ren said as the tips of her breasts poked him in the chest.

“I don't want you to get a sore neck when you kiss me.” The Earth being said.

“That's very considerate of you.” Ren said and kissed her, then poured another 500 Mana into her. She broke the kiss and looked at him.

“Stop that.” She admonished. “You're distracting me.”

“I'm not sorry.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“You're going to keep doing it, aren't you?”

“Probably.”

The Earth being took a deep breath, which pushed her chest into him harder, and she sighed. “All right, what do you want me to do?”

“Please line the sides of the pool with smooth rock, but leave the bottom alone.” Ren said. “I would do it myself; but, I don't have a spell for Rock Wall.”

“That's a very simple request, and not really worth 2,000 Mana.” She said and tilted her head slightly to the side. “What do you really want?”

“This is the part I wasn't sure if you would do for me.” Ren said. “I need a thin layer of impenetrable rock about 30 feet below the roost I made for the succubi, and if possible, cover the outside of it as well.”

The Earth being let him go and rose up to stand on the burrow floor, then paced back and forth. “The pool is easy, I can do that right now.” She came to a stop and waved her hand once, twice, and then again. “It's done.” She said and kept pacing back and forth. “Impenetrable rock, though...”

“I can give you all the Mana you need.” Ren said. “Or as much as you want, whichever is greater.”

“Good.” She said. “I'll need it.” She didn't wear a path in the dirt; but, she should have with how fast she was walking. “Can I bring help?”

Ren thought about the other Earth beings, and sighed. “I can't believe I'm saying this; but, as long as they aren't male.”

“Why not?”

“Hugging you without any clothes on and feeding you Mana is a delight.” Ren said. “I do not want to do the same thing to the men.”

“That would make you uncomfortable?”

“Yes.” Ren sighed. “I'm worried they would be excited and turned on like you are.”

“Oh.” She said, and then smiled. “I won't bring anyone that might put you in that situation.”

“Thanks.”

“Wait here, and I'll be back in a few minutes.” She said as the wall rippled beside her and she ran into it. The ripples disappeared and she left Ren alone and 20 feet underground. After a few minutes, she came back out of the wall and had two other Earth beings with her; and he was relieved that they were both female. One of the three stepped forward and hugged him, and he looked at the other two.

“I would like to apologize that I can't normally tell you apart.” Ren said, and he felt their amusement. “I can feel your emotions, though.” He said and carefully pointed to one of the other two. “You were the one that was here and went to get the others.”

The one that held him let him go, and the other stepped forward and hugged him. “How did you know?”

“I can see that you're still excited because of my Mana offering.” Ren grinned, and she laughed.

“Such a simple solution to my trick.” She said and hugged him tightly. “How will you tell us apart when we are all excited in the same way?”

“By your reluctance.” Ren said, and he felt surprise from them. “One of you is definitely not a hugger.”

The one he mentioned laughed the same laugh as the others. “You really can feel our emotions.”

Ren nodded. “I can just give you the Mana if we hold hands.” He said. “We don't have to hug.”

She nodded and held a hand out. Ren took it and looked at the first one.

“How much Mana do you need?”

“At least 5,000 each.” She said. “It's a huge thing you have built to cover with impenetrable rock.”

“There's 20 succubi to take care of, and I needed room inside to add corrupted dirt.” Ren said. “That way, they would have a normal space to live in, and still technically be undergound.”

“You are very considerate to those corrupted creatures.”

“They are mine now, so I'll take care of them.” Ren said. “Plus, I want to protect the surrounding dirt from being infected.”

“That is a good answer.” The one that held his hand said. “You may begin.”

“Do you want a blast or a flow?” Ren asked, and she smiled.

“A strong steady flow, that way I don't collapse from it.”

Ren chose 5,000 Mana and held her hand tightly as he poured the Mana out and into her. She caught her breath as he filled her up with Mana at a constant rate, and when she took it all, her body glowed brightly.

“S-sisters!” The Earth being exclaimed and dropped to her knees and hugged herself.

“Are you all right?” Ren asked.

“She's fine.” The one hugging him said, and he reached a hand out for the other one. She smiled and stepped close and hugged him as the other let him go.

“Blast, please.” She said.

Ren hugged her back and chose 5,000 Mana; then shoved it into her through his hands.

“AHHH!” She yelled and dropped to her knees as her body glowed just as much as the first one did. The last one wrapped her arms around Ren from behind, and leaned down to rest her chin on his shoulder.

“Give me a mix, like you did before.” She whispered in his ear. “I apparently like that, now.”

Ren took out a Major Healing wand and refilled his Mana, then hugged her arms. He poured 2,500 Mana into her in a steady stream, then shoved the last 2,500 Mana into her. She didn't cry out, though. Her arms let him go as she slowly slid to her knees and hugged herself like the other two. It took them several minutes to recover enough to stand, and Ren told them specifically what he wanted done.

The three Earth beings slipped into the burrow's walls and disappeared.
