Kerrin’s face fell at the tough reality. There was no place for a level twenty in a battle against Death Knights and Liches. Even just getting close enough to the ice or death auras may be enough to kill someone that low, and the Guildmaster had basically told her to stay out of it, for her own safety.

But there was more than one way to contribute.

“I feel I should point out something important,” Ali said, interrupting. “If you earn a mastery or knowledge skill advancement in the dungeon, I have a chance of earning reputation and gaining a point of Authority. I can use Authority to make stronger bosses – far stronger, in fact.” Sure, it was just a chance, and low-level advancements came with a far lower chance, but it wasn’t nothing – and who knew if one more point of Authority might turn the battle.

“How much Authority do you have?” Kerrin blurted out, and then clamped a hand to her lips while flushing a bright crimson at the faux pas.

Given the circumstances, Ali didn’t mind answering, certainly not when it meant people’s lives might be saved. “I have a whole two points left at the moment – not even enough to make my away team. I spent every other point on the defenders already. More would be extremely valuable.” To her surprise, a sudden spark of determination kindled in the young druid’s eyes and spread like wildfire across the lower-level adventurers on the outskirts of the guild hall – like a spell proliferation wave as they realized a way they could make a meaningful contribution.

“Any class?” Kerrin asked. “Not just combat?”

“Yes, any,” Ali confirmed.

“I’ll make sure to let the crafters and the Academy know, too,” Kerrin said, a sudden look of purpose on her face. Excited murmuring spread throughout the room.

“That’s a great idea, Kerrin,” Vivian said above the hubbub.

The conversation drifted then to strategy, defenses, logistics, and the selection of the raid group members.

“One of us should stay with Ali,” Mato said, his gruff voice filled with concern.

“I agree,” Calen answered.

“Hey, I can look after myself, you know,” Ali said.

“Yes, I know you can,” Malika said. “I’ll stay. Just promise you’ll make the raid group a super-healer Elite, please? I don’t want to hear that the boys got squished without my Healing Mantra.”

“You don’t have to, Malika,” Ali said, surprised and more than a little moved by her friends’ concerns.

“I know. I’m sure it will be just hiding behind your ridiculous monsters the whole time, but I can help train the novices and bronze-levels and hopefully get you a few more points of Authority, and if I can hit two-fifty in the process, you’ll earn three more points.” But despite the casual lightness and self-deprecation in her words and tone, there was a glint of unbreakable adamant steel in her gaze, and a firm set to her jaw that betrayed far more serious concerns.

Malika needs this just as much as I did. Ali smiled at her friend, receiving a rather grim smile in return. Alright, Malika. You’re not exactly far behind. Now, what else…

Before Ali could challenge her friend’s reasoning, in a distant cavern nestled underground to the far northeast, her domain surged, flooding her Sylvan and filling the underground chamber with a storm of green. Undead crumbled in droves, and Ali’s chime rang out in a soft, bright chorus.

Your Sylvan Storm has reached level 250 (+2).Your Sylvan Storm has met the requirements for class evolution.

There it is! Ali’s relief was palpable. With the three points she would earn for the Sylvan Storm’s tier-up, she would not only be able to field a new, powerful minion, but she would have the points to make the minion team she needed to protect her friends.

***

Ali glanced over her monsters one more time, examining them critically. She had almost sweated blood weighing their strengths and abilities, calculating efficiencies and synergistic skills to produce the optimal group. Every item had been recrafted and reconsidered more times than she could count. Still, she was unsatisfied. A persistent undercurrent nagged at her in the back of her mind, tightening her chest. Her stomach churned uncomfortably.

“It’s ok, Ali, we can take care of ourselves,” Mato said, comfortingly, eyes soft with worry or concern. “My advancement was very strong. Azryet’s patronage unlocked those void force shields his dragons have.”

Why’s he worried about me? He’s the one attacking the Lich’s dungeon.

But it was true, she was fussing now. Procrastinating when this group was already the best she could manage.

I just hope it’s enough. She pressed her lips together firmly. It had better be enough. That Umbral Lance or those horrors will hammer the final nail into our coffins otherwise.

“What do they all do?” Lyeneru asked, drawing the attention of the entire room. It had cleared out dramatically, and only the higher-level adventurers who were to participate in the raid were present, along with those of the Southport delegation that were off shift. All the lower-levels were out training or studying, or ferrying fresh potions and items from the crafters’ labs and workshops.

Ali’s gaze lingered over the five minions – both towering and tiny – standing quietly in the guild hall while the adventurers finished up their preparations. In their construction, she had blessed each with a single precious point of Authority. Every single point she had. They positively sparkled with energy, a gleaming, radiant foundation that leaked out into the room, reminding her of that indefinable quality of substance and weight she saw in Calen and Mato after their evolutions. Even with mundane senses, there was something about them. Do I look like that?

The conversation among the other adventurers died as they all turned to stare.

Ali walked over to stand before her newest third-tier minion, freshly raised.

Sylvan Storm – Sylvan Elf / Plant – level 250 (Nature / Lightning).

“I gave the Sylvan Storm Deadshot,” Ali said, indicating the tall, slender elven-tree hybrid surveying the room with delicate, inquisitive eyes. But there was nothing delicate about the pair of legendary bows Ali had given her, nor the competent way she held them in both her right hands. “You may recognize it as that ridiculous attack Nendir had.”

Lyeneru winced.

Advancing her Sylvan Storm boss to the third tier had earned her a far more potent archer, and three points of Authority – the other two points for this group had come from Kerrin’s inspired motivation setting half the guild to training. Following Calen’s advice, Ali had equipped the Sylvan Storm with three combat-focused rings – including two of the parasitic ones – and a storage ring filled with a wide selection of potions and alternate bows to increase her versatility. One advantage of having four hands.

Mirianth [Terminal Velocity] – Kobold – level 252 (Holy).

“This is the Elite healer I promised,” Ali said, meeting Malika’s gaze and gesturing to the named kobold priest, only slightly taller than she was. It happened to be the same priest who had fallen to her death from the Islands of Aalion, now resummoned a tier higher and with far greater power. “I gave her Zone of Destruction.”

The little kobold stood with hands clasped before her, head bowed, using her Prayer skill, sending visible pulses of holy magic radiating out into the guild hall.

“Zone of Destruction? How does that work for a healer?” Lyeneru’s brow furrowed slightly.

“It works like a domain magic version of Consecration,” Ali explained. She had borrowed the holy version of this domain magic skill from Azryet during one of their trades. “It will heal allies and damage enemies; all you have to do is stand in the fires.” She had verified that it had both the Healing and the Holy traits, and so its power would benefit from most of the kobold’s support skills and aptitudes, and, of course, holy damage should be incredibly effective against a dungeon full of undead.

“Thanks, Ali,” Malika said, clearly appreciating the potent area healing enhancement she was offering the raid team.

Ali moved to the next member of her team.

Carnage Berserker – Giant Troll – level 251 (Blood).

“I gave the berserker Amplify Skill on Blood Rage,” she said, pointing upward at the towering Carnage Berserker. At the third tier, her berserkers towered even taller and more massive, with muscles the size and texture of boulders clearly visible even when standing at rest. She decided to keep Tol’brekk and his unique The Rage of Aman Rak class with her, and instead, she summoned a fresh berserker with a third-tier version of the Carnage Berserker class to support the Crypt of Kings raid. “It dramatically increases the damage boost from her rage – it works very well with her tier-three skill advances.”

“That might be a bit challenging,” Lyeneru said.

“I have enhanced control over their emotions now, so you shouldn’t need to worry too much.” It wasn’t perfect, by any stretch of the imagination, but tiering up Martial Insight had definitely improved the quality of her communication and control of her minions. Not that control was typically a problem, but the berserker’s blood rage was a unique skill.

“Ok, I’m trusting you on that one,” Lyeneru said. “What about the others?”

Divine Archon – Celestial Sun Elf – level 252 (Holy).

Next, Ali pointed to the towering Sun Elf Archon, casually handling a Holy Avenger greatsword that was likely heavier than most of the adventurers staring at it.

“I gave the Divine Archon the Amplify Skill enhancement on her Celestial Sword,” she said. It was the same approach she had used for her first World Walker, and it had proved highly effective. Celestial Sword was both a sword mastery, and it also allowed the Archon to throw her sword, filling a room with devastating whirling blade images. Definitely a powerful tool against hordes of undead. “And don’t forget, the Divine Archon can heal too; you should treat her like a paladin.”

“Thanks for the damage!” Havok cheered, waving a matching, though much smaller, holy sword.

Lyeneru nodded while a ragged cheer made its way around the onlookers, before turning her gaze to the final minion and visibly straightening up.

Nendir [The Purified] – Celestial Wood Elf – level 251 (Soul).

The Soul Archon, who had once been a storied Wood Elf, stood quietly at ease, his eyes alert and missing nothing. Once she realized the dead were not attacking Ciradyl, Ali had reclaimed him from the Well of Souls. Although he could now summon a bow of pure soul magic, the steady weight of Lunaré’s Lament rested easily in his hand. Tall – though not quite as imposing as the Divine Archon – it was clear that he had once been a Wood Elf, even to those who had not known his face. He had dark skin of mottled forest tones and long, flowing brown hair, but he would never be mistaken for a normal Elf. His eyes were solid white and shone with visible radiance, and his body was cloaked in a shimmery, veil-like aura that rippled and swirled whenever he moved. According to his skill descriptions, the veil would conceal his presence in combat or on hunts, and from what she had observed so far, it was remarkably effective, allowing repeated use of Ambush to punish even the slightest lapses in attention.

He was her most powerful archer, and they would all need his skills before the end. It was just too bad she couldn’t leverage his additional powers that came from proximity to the Well of Souls, but his titles and skills would be invaluable wielded against the dead.

Ali’s choices of third-tier minions were still quite limited. Other than the ones she had already introduced, she had only the Archer Wight, a couple of Azryet’s dragons, and the Fractured Archon. Being undead, the wight of course required an attachment to a death-affinity biome in her domain, so it was not useful for a dungeon break. Dragons would struggle in several spots inside the Crypt of Kings, and between the Fractured Archon and the Soul Archon, the choice had been obvious. While the Divine Archon had earned a place with potent holy magic, the Soul Archon seemed to be the perfect assassin against the dead.

“The Soul Archon has aptitudes that dramatically increase damage to undead, skills for tracking undead, and various improvements to critical damage against undead. I gave him Undead Slayer.” Ali quickly shared the skill sheet with Lyeneru and Vivian.

“Well,” Lyeneru said after a few moments. “That’s really something, isn’t it?”

Vivian just raised an eyebrow and let out a low whistle of appreciation.

They weren’t the only minions she was sending with the group, but they were by far the most significant. Ali included several utility classes, like her witch doctors for decursing, a blood shaman for an alternative source of healing, and several classes picked for their unique perception skills or curses, like her eye demons. But for pure combat, her Authority-enhanced World Walker Elites would be the powerhouses.

“It’s too bad we won’t have Malika’s Clarity for all the fear auras,” Calen said.

“I agree with Malika’s assessment,” Lyeneru said. “Having her here to protect Aliandra is smarter and offers her a quicker path to the third tier, which we desperately need. We are taking Weldin Thriftpenny, so we should adjust on the fly.”

“You shouldn’t have to worry about my minions on that account, either,” Ali said, absorbing the blunt admission that the Night Elf saw Malika’s role as her bodyguard. “I stocked them all with Eternal Reverie potions, and Veylis’ Final Word in combination with the Eye of the Lich will grant all my minions a sixty-five percent resistance to death magic and an additional thirty-five percent resistance to fear effects.”

Calen let out a low whistle. “Wow, Ali. You’ve thought of everything!”

“I just hope I haven’t missed anything,” she corrected. “How’s about –”

“I’ll review everything. Maybe a tweak or two?” He had the grace to look extremely doubtful. “Thanks for the knowledge!” He winked at Havok.

“Knowledge good. Damage better,” came the predictable response. The Goblin gestured eloquently to the assembled minions Ali had prepared. “That good damage!”

“Ok. Then, it looks like we’re ready,” Lyeneru said. “Those of you who are coming on the raid, please double-check to make sure you have escape potions and all the elixirs from the list Calen provided. I will not be fishing you out of the Nightmare if you were too cheap to buy enough Mental Fortitude elixirs.”

