Several hours later and holding off bone-weary exhaustion by sheer willpower, Ali wobbled into the guild hall and collapsed onto the couch in the small gap between Malika and Mato. Even the normal hubbub of a roomful of people coming down off their adrenaline rush was a relief after being forced to endure the continuous detonations of magic and the unrelenting shaking of the battlements. The din had been mind-numbing. Of course, Ali could still hear the clash from the battlements through the ears of her many minions. She glanced at Mato, wondering if he’d somehow unlocked a density advancement – his body felt like granite beside her.

“Ok, everyone. You all have your shifts. For those coming up next, I’d encourage you to get whatever sleep you can,” Vivian announced, and the general commotion of many simultaneous conversations faded as everyone directed their attention to her. She consulted a few notes clearly scribbled down in a hasty hand.

“I saw you flying,” Ali whispered, nudging Mato gently – any harder and she feared she might bruise her elbow.

“That scoundrel tricked me,” Mato whispered back, taking her cue not to interrupt Vivian while she was talking. “He said he got a new skill that let him teleport me to the army. He didn’t say it would be from so high up!”

Calen did not turn, but Ali saw a ghost of a smile curving his lips, emphasized by the flexing of the unusual lines of light etched into his skin by his Celestial advancement. Whatever he’d earned, it had to have been influenced by those Fractured Archons they’d fought in the stormy ruins of Aalion.

“Tabitha commissioned Basil to find some of the spiciest fire-affinity peppers you’ve ever seen. Want me to grow some, so you can spice up his stew next time?” Ali asked.

“Oh, that’s evil, Ali!” Mato gasped. “When can you do it?”

Beside them, Calen coughed.

“I have a few things I want to discuss with regard to strategy before letting you all go,” Vivian said. “Firstly, Aliandra, how are things elsewhere?”

Ali cut off her seditious conversation hastily and answered, “There are still undead pouring out of the Crypt of Kings portal, assaulting the Well of Divinity.” She could still feel the magic of the Death Knights and the righteous justice of her Divine Archons as they waged war across the small island. Whatever his inscrutable reasons, it was clear that Nevyn Eld desperately wanted to claim the Well of Divinity for himself, and he hadn’t let up for an instant. It was too bad for him that her guardian was ideally suited for its defense. “My Divine Archon just killed Haverron again.”

At least that meant there would be a little less urgency for the next few hours before the Devastation Knight was respawned.

Vivian nodded. “Good. Holding so far. What else?”

Her senses scanned across her domain. “Ciradyl is quiet. Undead wraiths patrol the outskirts of the city, but the Well of Souls appears to be working.” She had no idea what exactly it was doing, but any undead approaching the influence of the Well seemed to get confused and wander off. She had more than enough sentries there, and many of the Wood Elves were running continuous scouting patrols – even shooting the undead through the Well’s barrier did not break the concealment spell.

“That seems to be good news,” Lyeneru said. “He must not get his hands on the Wells.”

“Naia’s cavern is holding steady,” Ali continued. Helping her friend had been touch-and-go for a while at first, but then her Authority began trickling in. First from Mato and Calen’s advancements, and then in sporadic bursts as the occasional defender made a Mastery breakthrough during the fighting. She had spent it as fast as it had come in, splitting her efforts between the walls protecting Myrin’s Keep and the tunnels in Naia’s caverns.

Now, that point was holding steady. The combination of her Sylvan Storm with the unique abilities she had granted it, and that cavern chokepoint she had found, was proving to be a very effective blockade against the invading undead. Admittedly, the incursion there was nowhere near the size of the vast armies Nevyn Eld had encamped outside the South Gate, nor did they seem to have the power to drag a raid boss across the portal boundary as she’d seen at the Well of Divinity, but Ali had high hopes for her Sylvan Storm. If it survived with all the support bosses and minions she’d summoned, it should clear level two hundred and fifty soon, giving her another third-tier minion and more of the much-needed Authority. Right now, her pool was dry.

“Thank you, Aliandra,” Vivian said. “For the rest of you, I want you to concentrate on your assignments and hang in there. Dig in and defend the town. I’m certain Southport will send aid as soon as they regroup. All we need to do is hold off the army for a week or two.”

That offhand comment was met with groans and grumbling, but Ali could tell even the Guildmaster was hiding her true feelings in an effort to keep morale from collapsing. The undead forces arrayed against them – revealed by Calen’s scouting and Ali’s own Greater Dispel – were far larger than even the craziest estimates of the force that had laid siege to Southport. Certainly, far larger than Vivian or Lyeneru had expected. The Blind Lich had shown his hand and now seemed content to settle in, grinding them down with the inevitability of creeping death. Ali’s eyes turned to Calen, remembering how he had speculated about the cooldown of that devastating umbral attack which had shattered their battlements and vaporized far too many strong defenders. If the Lich could keep doing that… if he hit one of their lynchpins…

“I think we should attack,” Calen said.

“Attack?” Ali echoed, but she kept her surprise quiet as she glanced at Calen. The eruption of exclamations and noise across the room was loud enough without her adding to it. How could they even go on the offensive against such an enormous army?

“Attack,” he repeated. “Attack before he levels more of the town.”

The immense hum of the Blind Lich’s distant Umbral Lance rattled bookshelves and shook the walls as he vaporized another segment of the battlements along with several nearby buildings. Why did I just think that? Inviting trouble! Ali threw up several barriers to block the dead from accessing the town, immensely grateful that the Lich’s devastating artillery spell had a significant recharge. She would have to rebuild the walls again, but her domain-enhanced barrier would hold till after the meeting.

“You have a plan, I take it?” Lyeneru asked, characteristically holding her surprise and glancing at Calen with curiosity.

Has she come to respect him that much already?

“The Blind Lich has shown his hand, revealing himself and his full force. We now know exactly where he is for the first time.”

Aha! Suddenly, Ali knew what Calen was getting at. He didn’t plan to attack the army. They had made a plan back in Azryet’s library, and he hadn’t given up on it, despite the Lich failing to play his part properly.

“I think it’s the perfect opportunity to strike at his heart. We’d always planned to lure him out of his home base in the Crypt of Kings so that we could sneak in and capture his Phylactery. The fact that he’s here instead of wasting his armies against the defenses we built around Lira’s World Tree doesn’t change the strategy. We cannot win this battle head-on, even if we wipe out his armies and destroy his avatar with the providence of the gods, he will always retreat and rebuild, coming at us again and again, until we are worn down and crumble away. No, we must take this opportunity and rip him out at the root.”

Ali had to admit that while her friend looked mostly like he had before, the changes in his appearance and voice due to the Celestial path he’d earned lent him a definitive edge of confidence and poise. There was surprising weight to his words. To his presence.

“What makes you think we can do that? That the plan is still viable?” Lyeneru asked, but the legendary Pathfinder was considering his words with the full weight of her attention and extensive experience.

“We have two more third-tier people,” he said. “Yourself, Ali, Mato, and me. The guild proved that the platinum raid groups teamed up can tackle monsters in the third tier when we cleared the Well of Corruption, so I’m confident that Kryostria and the Three Kings should be beatable. Provided the Blind Lich doesn’t discover what we’re doing before we win.”

“So, you think that with four third-tier classes and the full raid group, we have a chance to defeat the Blind Lich’s personal dungeon?” Lyeneru asked.

“I don’t think it gets better than this,” Calen said. “Obviously, it won’t be easy, and it will no doubt fail if we’re discovered, but if we don’t take this opportunity, we will lose the war – I am obviously worried about us pulling back from Myrin’s Keep, here, but I don’t think we’ll get another similar opportunity.”

“I agree,” Lyeneru said, a dark expression crossing her eyes. “I do not believe we are strong enough to hold him off for long.”

It was a daring plan, and one Ali wouldn’t have ordinarily expected from someone as calm and rational as Calen – but it was filled to the brim with his signature brilliance, and he sat with an air of confidence that was hard to argue against.

Unfortunately, there was only one problem. “I think you all are forgetting that I can’t go,” Ali said ruefully. “Not if you want to keep the mission a secret.” As if on cue, a dark orb suddenly popped into existence above her head, and Calen’s arrow pierced it before anyone could even flinch, pinning it to the guild’s ‘Looking for Group’ board. Black ichor leaked from the eye, dripping down the board from the puncture, causing more than a few of the lower-level adventurers to blanche or shudder at the brief brush with the Eldritch presence.

Calen’s face fell as the truth of her words settled in. Wherever she went, Baaoht Yll’shuum would surely find her. Now that the Blind Lich had revived, the eldritch being would undoubtedly keep him apprised of her whereabouts.

“What would our strategy be for Myrin’s Keep in the meantime?” Vivian asked, posing the obvious question. “There are a lot of people who need protection. If we cannot hold off his armies with our current forces, sending the strongest off to fight in the Crypt of Kings will cripple us. How does Nevyn Eld have so many high-level minions?”

“Some of our skills scale really well at the higher levels,” Seth observed soberly from the corner where he sat, offering a sobering explanation for the sheer size of the Blind Lich’s gigantic necromantic summoning.

“Can you protect the town with just your bosses, Aliandra?” Vivian asked. “Can you match him?”

“I have more than enough minions to teleport back and forth whenever I need, but…” Can I match that power? How can anyone? Ali could still see the endless hordes of undead throwing themselves relentlessly at their defensive line. Her breath caught in her throat at the immensity of it.

Before she could finish her thought, a familiar voice cut through the murmuring.

“Perhaps we may be of service?” Moira Sangrey said, stepping into the hall, followed by her team.

Witch – Human – level 203 (Lightning / Arcane)

“Moira? What are you doing here?” Vivian asked. Then she corrected at once, “Not that your team is unwelcome, mind you. It’s just a surprise to see you.”

But Moira was not alone. Nor was it just her team that had arrived. Platinum-ranked adventurers filed into the guild hall in a continuous line.

“We read your report that the Lich had arrived at Myrin’s Keep, and we decided to come to defend Aliandra,” Moira said flatly, as if she took Vivian’s comment as a personal challenge. The Guildmaster made to raise her hand in apology.

“Me?” Ali squawked.

“Yes, you,” Moira said, grinning.

“You would cross the kingdom to defend a dungeon?” Lyeneru asked, but her tone wasn’t one of shock or surprise – more a cautious hope.

“This is no longer about dungeons or ancient fears. We must cast off old superstitions and grudges for our very existence is threatened,” Moira stated. “We have faced the Lich’s armies without rest. We know them well enough. Aliandra is the most important resource on the side of the living – she cannot be allowed to fall. The longer she lives, the stronger we grow. The Blind Lich knows this; it is the reason he’s here.”

Ali’s eyes widened at the words, and the line of platinum-ranked adventurers – most of whom she recognized from granting them their first evolutions. They returned? They all returned?

Also, she had another chilling realization. The Lich failed to deal with me early on. Somehow, I failed to attract his notice, just too weak and insignificant. Now he’s here for the endgame. He isn’t going to stop until we’re all wiped out of existence, is he?

“It sounds like you have a bold plan, and simply need someone to guard your home base?” Moira said. “We know how to hold the siege against the Lich’s armies. We will guard the walls while you take the fight to him.”

“Your service is greatly appreciated,” Vivian said, nodding her head respectfully.

Moira cleared her throat, “Um, we could use some fresh consumables and supplies. We came without restocking.”

“That we can help with,” Vivian smiled. “Chat with Weldin at the guild store, and he can get whatever you need. We also have two gods handling buffs. I suggest you take advantage of those.”

That comment got a few strangled coughs and gasps.

“I have a suggestion,” Ali said, considering her abilities carefully. She had aggressively burned all her Authority, shoring up the town’s defenses, but during the long battle, several people had earned advancements, and she now had a whopping total of two points. “While I cannot join the away team personally, I can fight remotely. My last evolution gave me some substantial bonuses for dungeon breaks. I can make a party of third-tier Elite minions and send them with you to the Crypt of Kings.”

“Elite dungeon breaks? That ability is ridiculous,” Lyeneru muttered, but it was the radiant grin on Calen’s face that told Ali everything she needed to know.

“In that case, I will remain here and help coordinate the defenses of Myrin’s Keep,” Vivian said. “Lyeneru, perhaps you can lead the raid?”

“Certainly,” Lyeneru said.

“What can we do?”

Ali glanced up at the sound of a familiar voice and instantly recognized the druid, Kerrin. A follower of Lira’s – just barely at level twenty.

“Focus on your studies and training, Kerrin,” Vivian said.

