“Of course I do! This is fantastic!” Erick said, “How did you make this?”

Erick had arrived at the ‘Human House’, as they called it, and been treated to a whirlwind tour of the place. The three graduates of Oceanside had moved in to Spur over the last several days, bringing with them three libraries of various sizes, a large amount of herbs, vegetables, and fruits, and more arcane equipment than Erick had names for.

There were…

Baubles and trinkets, spin jets and pipettes,

Glass flasks, bronze burners, face masks, pot turners,

Bio reactors, high duty compactors

Freezers and fume hoods, tweezers and chipped wood

Heat disks and cold sinks, small whisks and chain links

Jars of green slime and clocks stopped in time

Bone fertilizer and auto-resizers

Shakers and mixers, plant growth elixirs

Books about runes, and boxes of shrooms

Humidifiers and drawers full of pliers

Wax for more candles and twine to make sandals

A blood centrifuge and damn—!

That motherfucking thing was huge!

That’s where Erick had to stop the tour. What the hell did they need a blood centrifuge that big for? But then Maia and Ramizi set him down for some not-tomato cake and he couldn’t rightly leave before he had cake. That would be rude!

Ramizi said, “I made this cake using that centrifuge you saw. The big big one. Sugar sells well.”

“… It’s not a blood centrifuge?”

Ramizi and Maia laughed.

Maia said, “You can fit four people in that thing! Why— Oh.” She smirked. “We’re not spinning people to death in there. I mean. We did torment those freshmen last year. But they deserved it.”

“Scrying for test answers! Tsk tsk!” Ramizi said, “Should have spun the brats ‘til they puked.”

Erick smiled as he ate his purple not-tomato cake. It was quite good.

“Where are you all adventuring? Jane told me she's just going for levels right now, but what do you actually do out there? ‘Adventuring’?”

“Haven’t been to the Dead City yet, but that’s just an approval away from happening. Mostly we hunt monsters for rads, then use those rads to make things.” Ramizi said, “Monster parts can be used to make things, too, but that’s pretty rare.”

“Monster parts?" Erick said, "I haven't heard that before."

Maia explained, “The shadow that lives on the monsters of Ar’Kendrithyst doesn’t always go away when you kill one of them, if you kill them right and butcher them correctly. You can use that for a lot of minor things, but one of the main uses is to make a full set of armor. It’s damned expensive, but if your entire body is covered by shadow armor, you can ‘eat’ the armor to permanently get the [Shadowalk] skill. It’s like a [Blink] crossed with a weightless [Ward] and a [Magic Mouth] and a host of other smaller effects, but only usable in the shadows. Doesn’t always work out for the person using the armor, though. Sometimes you get inferior versions, like [Shadowblend]. That’s basically a bad [Invisibility].”

Erick immediately saw a problem with shadow abilities. “Wouldn’t using a skill or armor like that in town get you killed? I once saw a guy disintegrate a shadowolf to ash with a single look.”

Ramizi nodded. “Yeah. Don’t [Shadowalk] near Ar’Kendrithyst.”

“That’s a minor restriction.” Maia ate a bite of her own not-tomato cake. “Ar'Kendrithyst is one of only three spots in the entire world with this concentration of shadowmonsters.”

Ramizi said, “Outside of here, shadow abilities probably won’t get you gibbed by some dude with a hardon for murdering shadows, and they’re incredibly useful. Even the most basic ability, [Shadowsight], lets you see in the dark. It’s black and white, but still a fantastic ability.”

“Is a lot of stuff like that? A full set of special armor and you get special abilities?”

Maia hummed, thinking.

Ramizi said, “No. I wouldn’t say so. But you can get a lot of weird abilities if you know where to look.”

Maia scowled. “There’s quite a few, Ram. There’s [Shadowalk], [Fire Body], and all the rest of the elemental Body abilities. [Stone Body] and [Water Body] are the two most useful, and all of them come from a full set of elemental armor, which is used and then gone forever.”

“And the only two you didn’t mention were [Lightwalk] and [Air Body], and that’s literally all of the Body abilities. So no. I wouldn’t say that there are a lot of stuff that you can wear and get abilities from.”

Maia scoffed at him. “Feh!”

Ramizi continued, “You can get a lot of weird abilities if you know where to look. It’s rare, but occasionally you do find strange rads that have crystallized monster skills. To use those rads you have to have the Class: Monster Mage, but you can get a lot of weird skills. The Script for monsters is a lot more open than the Script for people, but it’s all small-time I-desperately-need-to-live shit. Mostly survival stuff and killing-things-smaller-than-you stuff.”

Erick asked, “You can only have one Class, right?”

“Correct,” Maia said.

“Then I guess I’m full on that.”

“About that.” Ramizi, a bit more intense than before, casually said, “Show me your Class, I’ll show you mine.”

Maia punched Ramizi in the arm. “Sorry, Archmage. Ram’s an asshole.”

“What?” Ramizi protested.

Erick smirked. “I could—”

“No.” Maia said, “You really shouldn’t entertain the idea of showing your Class to people. I know you already have, but only because you didn’t know what you were doing.” She glared at Ramizi. “You want to tell him why it’s a bad idea to show off the specifics of your Class?”

Erick said, “It’s not a big deal—”

Ramizi sighed. “It is a big deal.” He said, “Sorry. I should not have asked for that. It’s like asking to know the weaknesses of the person you’re talking with. It’s… It's a very private affair. Or a prelude to violence.”

Erick glanced at Poi. Poi nodded, but remained silent.

Maia said, “I know you’re not from around here, so it might not seem like a big deal to you, but it is a very big deal to show off any part of your Status, and especially your Class.”

Erick hmm’d. He said, “Okay. Well. How about an overview, then? Because I don’t really know what’s so private about the whole thing and I’m interested in knowing some more about what a Class actually does.”

Maia frowned.

Ramizi said, “I’m a Force Mage. All my Force spells are cheaper and they do more HP damage.”

Maia frowned at Ramizi.

He just smiled at her.

Erick said, “Particle Mage. I can invent Particle spells easier—”

The both of them perked up, a lot.

“—and there’s some stuff about ability to affect Particle spells. Have you guys gotten all the memos on Particle magic? You said that a bunch of restrictions came rolling down the Script. But what happened, exactly?”

Maia said, “You’re… You’re just leaving ability points out there for others to take!”

“… That’s the part you focus on? Not what Particle magic actually is?”

“Whatever! I can’t use it. Now about those points! Archmage Flatt, you must—”

“It’s perfectly okay for me to leave points on the table. If other people actually understand what I’m doing, and are expanding upon what I started, then that’s a good thing. No one builds good public works if they don’t allow the public to participate.” Erick was almost going to say some trite comparison to ‘They didn’t build Rome in a day’, but Al could have built ancient Rome in, like, seven days. Probably. “I might be able to build a city all on my own, but I wouldn’t want to live there by myself.”

Maia said, “Your analogy is weird; I can kinda understand what you’re saying. But at the same time, I really, really can’t. You’re not the adventuring type. I’ll be surprised if you ever get past level 35, which means you have, at most—”

Erick smirked. “Now who’s talking about who’s privates?”

Maia shook her head, and continued, “You have at most 32 more ability points in your career, not counting inventions and other achievements. And that’s only if you go out and kill some monsters and get some levels. The thing is, is that you could easily spend all 32 of those points on abilities or spells, but you don’t even have a Scion yet. And only 20 Willpower!” Flustered, she said, “Pardon my forwardness, Archmage, but you’re making a mistake by not making more spells while you can.”

Erick finished the last bite of his not-tomato cake, and said, “Thank you for your concern. I probably will be making more spells, soon. Lord knows my daughter would love me to start thinking like her. But that’s just not who I am. If other people get there before I do, then that means the knowledge is spreading, and that is a good thing.” Erick stood. “Thank you for your hospitality. You two— Three? You three should come over when I finally get a house in the neighborhood. Where is Eduard, anyway?”

Maia sighed, then laid back in her seat. She spoke to the ceiling, “When his new spells got restricted yesterday he tried to push against those restrictions. Error backlash laid him out for the night; he's still recovering in bed.”

Erick winced. “Yet another reason to leave the experimenting to others. Tell Eduard I said hello, and good luck. Good luck to both of you, too.”

“You’re making a mistake, Archmage.”

“It’s my mistake to make.” He added, “And it occurs to me that you said you did not think you could create any fire spells. I think you are wrong. Stop thinking of fire as consuming and destroying. Think of it as particles moving faster, like how cold is particles moving slower.”

Maia went from uncaring acceptance, to completely focused, to realizing what she looked like and settling down a bit. She nodded.

Ramizi said, “Let me escort you out, Archmage.”

“Thank you. You can both call me Erick, you know.”

Ramizi smiled. “Between Mages that’s fine, but you went and invented a school of magic and a whole lotta shit besides. You’re an Archmage, Archmage. Good luck with that.”

- - - -

Erick [Blink]ed up to the third floor of the Sewerhouse. Poi stayed by his side.

Erick walked in to his apartment and sat on the couch. He almost laid down for a nap. But then he didn’t. He stared at the ceiling.

He turned to Poi. “Am I making a mistake?”

“Like you said: It’s yours to make.”

Erick nodded.

Then he got up, and said, “I guess I have mana to spend.”

Poi nodded. “To the roof?”

“To the roof!”
