As the 16 scouts close in on my location, I think about how easy it would be to kill them all before they even take their next breaths. With only two days left until the abyss completely recedes and I have to face their leaders anyway, expediting the process and antagonizing them to come to the Dark Continent early would be the worst move I can make right now.

I crush a teleport crystal and find myself back inside the shielded bunker below the city, letting out a unique aura once I'm inside.

I imbue strong true core divine threads into my mana while activating my master of illusion buff, creating an identical image of what they scanned the last time they were here.

It now appears like there is nothing more powerful than newly awakened orange cores among us—other than Ember. I make my own presence nonexistent, concealing my core behind my purple barrier and using stealth to disappear. However, I change the perceived image of Ember's core to be identical to the bronze dragon I faced when I first met Raven.

It's an easy feat, as the pure yellow divine energy inside it now is equivalent in thread contents to that bronze dragon; the only oddity is that it's still expanding in size and hasn't collapsed yet. Ember's yellow core is twice the size mine was when I collapsed it. His has golden and silver strands of divine energy that keep it stable while simultaneously forcing it from collapsing while he stacks more yellow threads inside.

I believe if the scouts get a proper reading on whatever is taking place here now, it will be even more suspicious than if I simply changed the scene to portray Ember as an already awakened True Core.

After seeing Redgrave's divine flames for myself, I'm confident that even this high level of power will not make them bat an eye. At the same time, it will quell their suspicions from the faulty reading before.

—

I stay still, holding my breath while the scouts perform their scans.

It takes less than ten minutes once they arrive, and moments later they fly off to the west as if nothing happened, satisfied with the new data.

Once they're completely out of my senses, I release my buffs and skills, letting out a sigh.

Then, as if waiting for my experiment to finish, I feel a light pulse of energy coming from Maria's core to my right side. Her eyes open, glowing bright yellow yet still piercing blue underneath.

She looks around the room, meets my gaze, and stands up with a grin. I can't help but point out the obvious with a smile of my own.

"You've consolidated your yellow core... congrats."

She looks down at her hands, then around the room, observing the others.

Abby is on the verge of awakening her yellow core, well past halfway there, while Fisher and Lydia have about ten percent of the necessary threads cycling through their bright orange cores.

She looks up at me again and replies, "I have. But this power... it's too much. If even this isn't enough, then whatever battle we're preparing for will split this world in two..."

The corners of my lips turn up, but behind my smile, I agree with her. Whatever happens in the next few days will permanently change this entire world. I reply with a nod.

"Indeed."

Over the next few minutes, I give Maria a brief explanation of everything that has transpired since she began consolidating her red core days ago—from my initial fight with Raven to my new knowledge of the throne and the originators from both The Saint and my encounter with the unique artifact on Palmyra.

This all leads to the description of the strength of Redgrave's divine flames around Central and what little I know of the Big Three, other than them being powerful rulers of this world who know of us, yet still believe we are mere ants.

I tell her of my own efforts to grow stronger, first with divine energy from the true cores I defeat, and now by creating links of loyalty throughout the lands I control.

Everyone else in the room overhears our conversation, but their minds are focused on healing and consolidating divine threads.

Maria's eyes widen the more I talk, not with fear, but with awe.

My story of the past coming to an end is perfectly timed with a voice in my head from Bri, telling me it's time to visit the Vice Region. I let Maria in on the link the moment I hear it.

"Your double created a teleport platform to the capital last night. I believe you have the crystal necessary to come. Rodrigo has gathered all contracted hunters in the region, and many citizens in the capital have gathered in Vice City expecting an urgent emergency announcement. Are you ready?"

I pull out a white teleport gem and reply, shifting my appearance to the flaming masked man gaining influence through smaller cities, now about to make a grand public appearance.

Maria grabs onto my arm, and reflexively, my purple barrier morphs around her to contain her yellow aura.

She speaks up, "I'm coming too. I want to watch... There isn't much energy left here. The others only have so much to consolidate their yellows, and Ember needs enough excess to establish his true core. It would be best for me to get used to my new power in the outside world with the time we have left."

I crush my teleport crystal, sharing my conceal skill with Maria.

—

Many Crimson Army members, merchants, and extra help to control the crowds now and inform those who have questions once my speech here today is done. They have been handpicked by Bri, and a small group of Crimson Army Elites along with Bri and Rodrigo wait for me in Vice City Association's headquarters, now taken over from the inside by loyal followers.

When the flash of white light within the top floor's penthouse suite that was once the Regional Director's subsides, two figures emerge.

One is a familiar face, myself as the Flame Emperor. However, the second wears a glowing bright blue mask that appears to freeze the air around it.

The illusion of ice freezing even the ground she walks on frightens those who look too long, and her flowing blue and white dress compliments my red and black flaming suit perfectly.

We walk forward toward the full glass window overlooking all of Vice City as the sun rises, and I see hundreds of thousands of people standing in the streets below. Millions more surround the outer districts connected to the main city, but they're not in my direct line of sight.

Bri's voice echoes behind me.

"The stage is yours."

I raise a hand, using mana manipulation, earth magic, and telekinesis to pull off the windowpane before me.

As it falls into my item storage, I walk to the edge of the building with Maria by my side. She lets go of my hand while I take a step and float upward.

"Good luck, Jay."

In the same moment, I activate my master of illusion buff, screech, and release an aura of intimidation that ripples through the entire city.

My presence today is hundreds of times larger than it was above Palmyra, and it does its job perfectly; before I even say a word, it feels as if the entire region has gone silent, and all eyes are on me.

"Good morning, citizens of the Vice Region. You may call me The Flame Emperor. Your Regional Director has stepped down, and as I now rule the Dark Continent and the Eight Great Regions, it's safe to say, I am your leader."

I send a small ping of telepathy to Maria, and she jumps from the penthouse floor to float beside me in the air.

I update the massive illusion in the sky to show her next to me before speaking again.

"A second great war is coming, and I need your support to save this world."

I let my aura grow stronger, shaking the entire city, keeping meticulous track of the hunters I'm pressuring to ensure none pass out but understand I'm serious and unfathomably strong.

Simultaneously, I fill the sky behind the image of Maria and myself with images of strong beings.

First, I show images of all my teammates, including Fisher, Lydia, Abby, Ember, Arie and Luna, each wearing masks that mirror their magic abilities.

Among them, I place Rodrigo's face and other popular B-Class hunters in the Vice Region, strategically chosen by Bri, who are local stars in the news to build trust with the public.

Behind them, I mentally map the figures of everyone in the Crimson Army, and behind them, everyone residing in the Crimson City.

Bri sends many messages through a transmission tablet, notifying hunter's below to release pure mana throughout the streets, increasing the density in the air to give everyone a rush. Simultaneously, item boxes filled with magic gear and gifts rain down on the streets.

I speak again, raising my aura's pressure further.

"Just like 50 years ago, there will be another struggle for power on this world, as dungeons, magic, and power divide us all. I will not lie like your past leaders and pretend to tell you the full story, but there are powers far greater than the monsters you fight in dungeons. I am one of those powers, and wish to be a symbol of hope and absolute strength for those of you that will not be on the front lines in the coming days."

I let my aura out even more, making it clear that my power is beyond anyone's comprehension here before I speak again.

"I'm sure many of you have heard the rumors from surrounding towns. Others may have visited my growing empire in the Dark Continent. There are many knowledgeable hunters here that will answer all your questions once I leave. For now, know that our walls have been broken, and we are a single nation, only strong if we are one. Swear your loyalty to me, and I vow that not a single innocent citizen throughout the Crimson Empire will be killed in this second Great War."

More pure mana fills the air, and I feel links of loyalty beginning to form.

I make my massive illusion fill the sky, projecting the image of every link of loyalty I've created so far, showing over half a million individuals above.

With each new link that forms, a new face appears in the sky before the Crimson Army.

I align the illusions with the locations of new links, so those in the crowd can see when their fellow hunters, merchants, and citizens form bonds.

"Fight beside me if you wish, take advantage of our powerful hunters to train, meet our influential craftsmen for unique items, and even gain new skills. Swearing your loyalty to me today will change history."

For those who form links, I share temporary skills on their status screens, all at the mythic rank, while easing my immense, domineering aura, allowing the crowd to think more clearly.

While I haven't shared enough information for the average citizen to fully understand what is going on, there is enough mob mentality in place with pure mana to soothe the senses, and the depiction of a fiery god in the sky to sway enough minds to get the ball rolling.

As I go silent, the streets erupt with noise.

With hundreds of thousands looking up at me from the city below, and over a million able to see my illusion and hear my words throughout Vice City and its surrounding districts, someone quickly realizes they have a new skill, and word spreads fast.

Status screens open all around the capital, and the number of loyalty links grows faster and faster.

Cheers and roars of excitement fill the streets, and to top it all off, I temporarily share a portion of my mana control with every newly joined link to amplify their reactions and spread my influence faster while the initial hype is still effective.

Floating beside Maria in the sky, I watch as the links of loyalty in my Rising Emperor's Domain skyrocket.

It takes less than two minutes before my total links surpass one million.

A notification rings in my ears as another perk unlocks. My eyes widen as I begin to read what the [Rising Emperor's Dominance] perk grants me while the links of loyalty continue to rise.
