Swallowing his disappointment, Jorani helped Awdar sit up straight and held the bowl to his mouth. “Sure does. You in luck, because this is fresh cooked soup made by the bossman himself. Drink up. The Medical Saint will be comin’ by to check on ye soon enough, so try not to throw up on him, yea?”

After slurping down half a bowl, Awdar sat back and sighed. “Delicious soup and a Healer? Me own mum never treated me half this good.”

Resisting the urge to finish the bowl, Jorani chuckled and said, “I hear ye. Way I see it, ain’t no one know what’s gonna happen after ye die, but I know fer a fact the bossman’ll treat us right, dead or alive. Better than we deserve, if I’m bein’ honest.”

“Suppose yer right.” Nodding his head, Awdar looked much recovered after half a bowl of soup, leaving Jorani to wonder what in the hell went into making it. “Can’t be lettin’ him down, now can I?”

“Sure, but soldierin’ on ain’t the way to make him proud.” Patting his friend on the back, Jorani said, “You do what’s right fer you and show him you were worth the effort. Don’t matter if it’s as a soldier, guard, farmer, or even a whore, you live yer life happy and that’s how ye’ll pay him back.”

“You happy Jor? Bein’ a soldier?”

“Sure am. Happier once I get me a taste of this soup.”

And the strange thing was, Jorani wasn’t lying. Despite all the fighting, killing, and almost dying, he really was happy. As a soldier, he served a purpose in fighting off the Defiled, and not only was he getting stronger with each passing day, he had the bossman’s trust and command of his squad back. He hadn’t seen the old bastard since their meeting in Nan Ping, Daxian kept to himself, and nowadays, Jorani was closer with his lovely little sisters than ever. Time was, playing house would’ve had Jorani running for the hills, but there was something nice about sitting down for a meal with Sorya and Anrhi without trying to get into their dresses. Not to say he’d stopped trying entirely, but it was nice to have a family again and know there were people waiting for his safe return.

And maybe, just maybe, his little sisters would help Jorani find a proper wife. His options were looking slim now that he knew Kimi and Siyar were a thing. Ciro only had eyes for Ravil and A-Gui was crazy if she thought Jorani was going to fight Wang Bao for her affection, which left precious few single and age appropriate women in the retinue. Maybe he ought to expand his horizons and see if Sai Chou wanted a drink or five. She couldn’t be too much older, maybe early thirties, early forties at the most, but it was hard to tell underneath all the dirt and blood. Still, she seemed like an earnest woman, albeit one far too devoted to turtles for his tastes, but if he wanted a woman to protect him, then Sai Chou was undoubtedly the strongest in the retinue, an axe-wielding, Aura Capable, Expert waiting for Jorani to sweep her off her feet.

Right after Awdar stopped throwing up. Such were the sacrifices a scout leader must make, putting the health and safety of his crew before his own happiness.

Chapter Meme
