A shard of ice hurtles through the air only to be swept away by a firebird of Tenjin’s crafting, the flames so detailed and lifelike it’s a wonder it doesn’t sing and chirp along the way. Though unable to match a Peak Expert in one-on-one combat, Tenjin is more than capable of keeping Mao Jianghong in check unless the former Guard Captain of Sanshu cares to show his face and engage in melee combat. Never one to sit idle, Tenjin conjures a second firebird to replace the first, and I can only watch in befuddled amazement as it flaps its wings and takes flight with the same effortless grace and control I’ve seen from Roc. As it soars through the skies, it unleashes feathery bolts of flame down upon the Defiled below, and while its effectiveness is far from a match for Yan’s seemingly endless Wind Blades, the firebird’s circling presence overhead is enough to unnerve all but the most fearless of foes, for one can never be sure who Tenjin will target next. Broken Blade Pichai holds firm atop the battlements even as his fellow Southerners die in droves, a single sword holding back the tide threatening to engulf and overwhelm him. The Chosen Runic Armour might as well not exist as his sabre homes in on every weakness and opening presented to him to kill his foes outright. It’s not speed or power that makes him so formidable, but sheer precision and foresight, skills he no doubt honed for more than half a century while suffering from the effects of a Shattered Core. While far from the strongest Warrior on this battlefield, I would daresay claim that none could surpass Broken Blade Pichai in sheer willpower alone, and for this, the man has my heartfelt respect and admiration as he holds out long enough for reinforcements to make their way over to his side. When the tide of Defiled is finally thrown back, the stalwart Southerner staggers ever so slightly before straightening up to stand tall, for even with a Half-Demon’s spear embedded in his chest and lung, he refuses to show weakness before the Enemy.

Though he was of no help to me in restoring my Shattered Core, I never held that against him, because he was living proof that the pain and suffering could be endured. Without him, I might well have given up in despair, because even though they called him the Broken Blade, his spirit remained whole and unbroken even after so many years of suffering. It warms my heart to see his name returned to glory, and now that his Core has been restored, I sense that he might well rise up as the next Living Legend of the South, surpassing even Marshal Quyen Huong and his chosen patsy of a Colonel General, Nanda Bayin.

All across the city, more and more Imperial Peak Experts reveal themselves to stem the tide of Enemy Peak Experts, Chieftains, Chosen, and Half-Demon alike. We might be outnumbered by the rank-and-file, but at the highest level of Martial Skill, the Imperials hold the upper hand so long as the Demons are kept in check. The battle will be hard fought, but the victor has yet to be determined, with thousands dying every minute as the battle accelerates to new heights. Even the Old Wolf is no longer able to ignore it as he mutters something about immature pups before disappearing from my side, leaving me alone once more on the battlements. No matter how hard I try to predict the flow of battle, it’s all but impossible for me to make sense of the madness as Hongji pulls out all the stops and deploys every single Peak Expert available to him save for one, namely Akanai who remains Concealed and ready to strike down Bai Qi the second he makes a move himself. The Enemy Commander General has yet to show his face since my arrival, and he'll hesitate to do so until Akanai reveals herself, because she’s put him in his place twice before and now he lacks the courage to try a third time. This alone is enough to raise the spirits of the defenders, for though the tribesmen and Chosen still outnumber the Imperial rank and file, we are slowly but surely whittling away at their numbers while our Peak Experts go toe to toe with their best and brightest, and even the greatest Warrior of the traitor legions is still too afraid to show his –

A whisper of warning is all I have before a wall of water surges into existence before me, because even though I have been content to stand in place like a fool, Pong Pong has never once let his guard down since our arrival in Shi Bei. It’s his water shield that saves my life, but even he is not powerful enough to stop the Lord of Martial Peace as he brings his Green Dragon Crescent Blade down in a powerful killing blow. The water parts before the Honed edge of the tinted Spiritual Weapon, but not fast enough to avoid the explosive sonic boom trailing in the polearm’s wake, one which Reverberates off the nine rings embedded in the back of the blade to even further Amplify the weapon’s speed and power. That’s all I can see in the brief glimpse I catch before it arrives before my eyes, the Prince of Barbarity himself deigning to make an appearance just to take my lowly life. In his eyes, the battle is all but won once I’m taken off the field, for then his army of Demons can sweep forth to relieve the beleaguered Defiled Peak Experts while the Half-Demons unleash their emotional Aura with only Li-Li to defend against it. All of this flashes through my mind as the Green Dragon Crescent Blade descends upon me, and without Pong Pong’s assistance, I might well already be dead, but his efforts bought me just enough time to put my newfangled theory to the test, albeit in circumstances far more dire than I originally imagined.

Forget chemical compounds, electrons, quantum physics, and all that nonsense. All of that is useful, but far too complex for me to understand just yet. I have a tendency to take the simple and make it complex, by taking a simple premise and trying to break it down into its core components in order to study and understand its inner workings. The Abbot has long since touted this, and I wholeheartedly agree, but I also believe his method of oversimplifying things is also flawed in its own way. He’s someone who believes what goes up, must come down, and that is enough for him, but even though I don’t disagree with the statement, I would much rather look into the matter and find definitive proof. Neither of us are wrong, not exactly, but neither of us are right either, because there is a time and place for each method depending on the situation.

So for now, I must embrace ignorance and just go with what I know works, and what I know best is crafting Keystones.

There within my Natal Palace which is not a Natal Palace, I neither struggle nor surrender as I harness the Energy of the Heavens to clad myself in my replica Legate’s armour, complete with personalized animal motifs and runes that aren’t really runes, because I just made everything up in my head. That doesn’t matter though, because even though the armour this image was based on wasn’t Runic in nature, the armour I wear within my Natal Palace is most definitely Runic Plate, simply because I have Willed it to be so. Of course, the armour is worn only by my Soul within the Void, and will do nothing to stop Bai Qi’s massive glaive from cutting me down where I stand in reality. As I Deploy my Domain however, I envision it plating my physical form in the exact same manner as the Runic armour within my Natal Palace, a feat easily accomplished thanks to the link between my body, mind, and soul, a rudimentary one formed by the incomplete refinement I’ve already undergone. Though invisible to the human eye, I can feel my Domain as it billows out across my skin and takes shape in the physical world, the contours and edges settling in against my frame like a true suit of Runic Armour would. This is not merely Domain Plating, nor is it Domain Manifestation, but something that is more than the former but less than the latter which will protect me better than any real Runic Armour ever could.

The blade strikes true against my left shoulder, but the roaring bear pauldron catches the bulk of the force. Even knowing how strong Bai Qi is, I am both figuratively and literally blown away by the sheer power of his attack. This is more than mere muscle, Reinforcement, and Amplification, more than the Honing and Reverberation which I’ve already noted. No, his power stems not from a combination of skills, but a melding of them to form something else altogether, a force I’ve no name for just yet. Were I wearing real Runic armour with a Core to sustain it, this singular strike would be enough to drain my reserves dry and overpower the Runic defenses, but the Heavens surge through me in desperate desire to heed my Will. The ‘Runes’ hold fast, and the brunt of the blow is absorbed by a combination of defensive forces that let only a fraction of a fraction of Bai Qi’s attack through, but even this miniscule portion of remaining power which seeps through is enough to rip the air from my lungs and send me hurtling away at breakneck speeds.

Beneath the pauldron adorning my left shoulder, the skin splits, muscles rupture, ligaments tear and bones fracture beneath the force of Bai Qi’s blow, and the whiplash as I tumble across hard stone into a sea of armoured Imperials is nothing to sneeze at either. Coming to a crashing halt against a tower wall some fifty plus metres away from where I originally stood, I do my best not to throw up as I sink into a boneless puddle of relief and vindication, because the Keystone Runic Armour actually fucking worked. A stream of cool energy surges through me as Taddy sets to mending my wounds, and the sight of my sweet wifey’s beautiful brown eyes fills me with love and joy as she holds maybe two-dozen fingers up in front of my face to check if I have a concussion, but that’s all beside the fact. No, the true reason for my near maniacal laughter is because even as Bai Qi’s glaive rocked my world and nearly ended my whole career, I was able to catch a single glimpse of the Enemy Commander’s face, and it is a sight I will never forget so long as I live and breathe.

For the Lord of Martial Peace never expected the Herald of the Storms to respond so quickly to his attack, and the look of sheer surprised panic etched across his features as my Grand-Mentor’s twin-crescent halberd swept towards his neck is well worth the price of admission.

Get fucking rekt Bai Qi. Check and mate, bitch.

Chapter Meme
