Philosophical musings aside, something tells me that the expenditure of life force is the reason why Buddy is so up in arms about my recent actions. Not just Healing Alsantset, which I will never regret, but because merging with Blobby comes at the cost of my continued existence. Now I’m not entirely sure what will happen if I use up all my life force, but I can make an educated guess and say it’d probably mean game over. I have far too much going for me in this life to risk re-rolling for my next one so early however, so this means no more merging with Blobby to Materialize my Domain, not unless my hand is forced. This gives me yet another reason not to escalate this war and turn it into a battle between Divinities, because it might literally cost me my life to stop it. Even though the Old Wolf quickly figured out how to keep the Energy of the Heavens from running rampant and nuking everything around him after a simple explanation, I lack the ability to do the same without help from an Elemental Spirit, help which does not come for free apparently. That being said, knowing that it’s possible without Blobby’s help comes as much relief, because it means I can eventually learn how to do it myself.

Still, seeing the Old Wolf pick up the trick so easily was an eye-opening experience indeed, once again showing just how far I still have yet to go before I reach the Peak. In fact, I would even go as far as to say that even Divinities have a ways to go themselves, because regardless of what lofty titles they might call themselves, they are still mortal yet. I’m not saying the Old Wolf is weak, and far from it in fact, for hidden within his seemingly simplistic punch was enough power to kill another Divinity with a single blow, a feat I’m not sure Taddy could match. My Teacher is a kind-hearted man who can kill you with a touch, but it’s hard to imagine him matching the sheer force of the Old Wolf’s punch. It wasn’t power derived from speed, as there was no sonic boom, nor was it raw strength either, seeing how the Phantom’s head didn’t explode so much as rupture into a puff of bone and blood. I have no idea how he did it, but the Old Wolf’s strike was more powerful than a hundred Shooting Stars hidden within the most simple and basic of straight punches.

And yet powerful though he might be, even he doesn’t have this all figured out, which shows just how far the Dao extends. Most believe that Divinities are the be-all-and-end-all to the Martial Path, because we see them standing up high and think they have reached the peak, but only those who have ascended to those same lofty heights can see the even taller mountain hidden within the clouds above.

As for me? Well, I’m climbing the same mountain as everyone else, but while others are making their way up the steep cliffs with little more than hands, feet, and grit, I’m doing my best to cheat my way to the top using whatever tools I can while simultaneously trying to build a ski lift, or at least carve out a set of stairs so others can follow in my path. Which way is better? Difficult to say really. Even though I’m progressing faster than my peers and might soon reach that first plateau decades before my peers, the others are going slow and steady while using the arduous journey to temper themselves along the way. Not to say my Path is wrong, but there are benefits and downsides to both, and it’s perfectly fine for me to make a few mistakes along the way, so long as I stay true to myself. I won’t lie and claim Zhen Shi’s offers to join him haven’t been even a little tempting, because I feel like I could learn a lot from his eight-hundred years of research, nor can I claim I don’t regret rejecting Shen Zhen Wu’s multiple offers to work together, but I’m… content with where my decisions have brought me. Would I do things differently if I could? Sure, but I could never bring myself to work with Zhen Shi, nor would I ever willingly sell myself into servitude and become Shen Zhen Wu’s back-up Seneschal, even if they shared a relationship that was akin to family.

All this means I will have to make do without their knowledge and find my own way forward, but let’s be real here; even if I had both Zhen Shi and Shen ZhenWu at my mercy and answering all my questions in full, I would’ve still ended up doing my own thing in the end, because that’s just the sort of person I am.

Thus, in order to learn as much as I can about the Dao, I do my best to remain conscious as I rest and recuperate while watching the battle continue to unfold. The first few minutes following the Phantom’s death are tense and filled with uncertainty as I dread the arrival of a second Enemy Divinity, but none are forthcoming. They’ve been cowed by the Old Wolf’s superlative show of strength, because no one could’ve ever imagined that the Phantom would die in one hit, and none are willing to dare risk his ire, not when he has no need to hold back. It wasn’t just his power that did it either, nor were my Aural Swords as defining a factor as I would like, because the most important reason why the Phantom died so easily is because the Old Wolf gives zero fucks. He had no proof I could maintain reality and keep him from nuking Shi Bei, nothing save for the word of three Divinities to go on. Even then, he didn’t hesitate to strike even before the Phantom appeared, his full power unleashed the moment he sensed his unsuspecting quarry approaching, all because he trusted me to do what he likely believed was wholly impossible or he didn’t care about the consequences if things should go wrong.

Probably a combination of both, but he held nothing back in that punch. A good thing too, because if he'd hesitated even for a moment, my Aural Swords would not have bought me enough time to avoid injury and the Phantom might have killed me outright.

It’s also possible the Enemy Divinities aren’t moving because they’re unable to find me now that Guard Leader has us both Concealed. Granted, I haven’t moved a single step which isn’t great, but even if I could bring myself to interrupt the Old Wolf napping with his chin on my shoulder, I’d really rather not move unless I have to, because I don’t have much in the tank left to spare.

As the minutes tick by and I find my bearings once again, I gather enough strength to fumble for a water skin and carefully quench my thirst before splashing my face to wash away the sand and clear my thoughts. A bit of prepared Deflection keeps the Old Wolf from getting sprayed, but given the violent fluttering of his wolfy ears, I suspect he noticed all the same. Muttering a muted apology, I take in the ebb and flow of the battle and notice a clear escalation of events as more and more Peak Experts are thrown into the fray. The reason is clear as the Runic Cannons sing their symphony of doom and destruction while raining intermittent death upon the battlefield, picking and choosing their targets carefully to make the best use of what limited ammunition remains. The Enemy is desperate to remove these devastating weapons of war from the battlefield, but thanks to Hongji’s careful instructions regarding when and where to shoot from, the Cannoneers continue killing armoured Chosen in droves while their hidden protectors pick off the Wraiths and Peak Experts sent to silence them.

It's easy to see Hongji’s direct hand in all this, as well as Bai Qi’s orders on the other side, two brilliant tactical minds playing out a game of chess with the lives of millions at stake. A group of eight Peak Expert Chosen appear at the Northern gates in an effort to force their way through the Imperial blockade, a tempting target for the Cannons if there ever was one, but the defenders hold firm and fight on despite the odds stacked against them. Peak Experts though they might be, the Enemy Chosen will still need a few minutes to overrun the Imperial position, and as the seconds tick by in agonizing slowness, I find myself wondering just where the Cannons have disappeared to. Just as I ready to give the order myself, a trio of booming shots sound out, but not at the Northern Gate. Instead, it’s along the eastern stretch of the outer walls where Wugang, Yelu Shi, and OuYang YuHuan unleash hell upon a Concealed cadre of Chosen attempting to sneak their way through no-man’s land so they can flank the northern defenders. Only now do I realize the attack on the northern gate was a feint, a costly sacrifice to lure out the Cannons at which point the flanking force would strike, but Hongji was far too clever to take the bait. Not content with merely massacring the flanking forces, a dozen Imperial Peak Experts descend upon the Northern Gates from three directions, encircling the Enemy Chosen and slaughtering them in the chaos and confusion.

Similar scenes play out across the city, though not all turn out for the best as Hongji and Bai Qi trade move after move upon the chessboard that is our battlefield. Naaran leaps into battle with a feral snarl etched across his otherwise impassive expression, wielding his spear in a manner unlike any I’ve ever seen before. Given how it’s just a pointy stick, I figured there wasn’t much variation in how one would use it, a belief which was largely reinforced by real life examples. There are thousands upon thousands of sword styles, but most spear users fight with the same limited pool of stances and movements, ones generally meant to take advantage of their range. Stab, strike, and circle pretty much sums up the gist of spear fighting, or so I thought until just now as Naaran displays his true strength for the very first time in a feral and savage display of ferocity.

Against the Mataram Patriarch, he was restrained and defensive, because he knew he was outmatched in every measurable metric, but here on the wall of Shi Bei, he is in his element, for his strength lies not in duels, but in wholesale slaughter. Unlike dad who hunts his foes like a bloodthirsty predator, Naaran puts me in mind of a majestic stag, the king of the forest who stands firm against all comers. Though mild and benign in nature, those who test him will earn themselves the fury of antler and hoof, a picture which resonates with how Naaran fends off wave after wave of Defiled threatening to overrun my position. His Movements are unlike anything I’ve ever seen in the Forms before, different from anything I’ve seen from any other Warrior in fact. It’s neither graceful nor beautiful, but rough and efficient, an almost boorish manner of fighting that is frighteningly effective, for he strikes to kill and nothing less. The spear comes alive in his hands, but not solely as a spear, sometimes appearing as club, or staff, or even a sword if need be. Never once does his weapon sit still in his hands, perpetually in motion as he sweeps his way through the crowd as if sweeping leaves off the stones of his courtyard manor. From his indifferent expression, it would appear as if his true strength is so deep and fathomless he has no need to give it his all, a laid back and almost casual style that explodes with speed, violence, and momentum without warning under threat, before returning to the calm and soothing movements that are deceptively quick.

This is my Grandfather, Naaran of the Iron Banner, a Warrior I would be a fool not to learn from.

Much as I would love to see more of him in action, my attention is split a thousand ways as the reports from my Natal Souls pour in. A reinforcing squad comprised of six of Nian Zu’s Famed Fifty fall into dire straits as they’re ambushed by Wraiths en route to reinforce the West Gate, and by the time Hongji musters up a squad to support them, only two of the six remain. Jeong Hyo-Lynn remains deadlocked with her formidable Half-Demon foe, until a second hammer-wielding Bristleboar throws himself into the fray and sends the Sword Saint flying from the battlements. Reeling from the impact but largely uninjured, the formidable widow recovers just in time to avoid death at the hands of a third Bristleboar hammer brother, and against all odds, she remains unscathed as she retreats before a flurry of blows from the well-coordinated trio. Unwilling to pursue her too far beyond the outer walls, the Half-Demon Bristleboars turn their attention back to the post the Sword Saint had been forced to abandon, no doubt intent on wreaking havoc upon the Imperial defenders, but Hongji is two steps ahead of the three little piggies and sends the big bad wolf over to dispatch them.

Namely my dad and hero, Baatar of the Bekhai, who falls upon those Bristleboars in a fury alongside Gerel and Yaruq. Together, these three Warriors of the Iron Banner make short and bloody work of their unprepared foes in a show of unprecedented coordination. It all happens in the blink of an eye as Yaruq breaks open the Bristleboar Brothers’ formation while Dad brings down the Crescent Moon upon his chosen target, smashing through the formidable Half-Demon’s guard and leaving him wide open for Gerel’s killing blow. Distract, overpower, and kill, each Warrior plays their role to perfection like cogs in a well-oiled machine, and this scene repeats itself twice more in quick succession until the hammer brothers are all dead and gone, their bodies already melting away into the sand even as Dad’s figure fades into Concealment before padding off in search of yet another target.

