There are limits for a reason.

I don’t mean in a legal, ethical, or mathematical sense, though I suppose there are reasons for those limits too. I’m talking about mental and physiological limits here though, and probably spiritual ones as well, given how past experience has shown me how various aspects of the body, mind, and soul are all intrinsically linked in some way, shape, or form. That’s the human condition in a nutshell, isn’t it? To grow stronger, faster, and smarter as we progress through our trials and tribulations until our lives come to their inevitable end, only to enter the cycle of reincarnation and start a fresh life anew. Thus, our transient experience of a lifetime is also limited, in that most will shuffle off this mortal coil long before reaching their first century, without ever having come close to reaching their full potential.

All of which sets the standard for a Martial Warrior as one who seeks to surpass those mortal limits and become more than just human.

So why limit myself to a Path that has already been defined? Especially one which has no basis in empirical data and relies far too much on accumulated experience, which is hit and miss at best. Not to knock the wisdom of my forebearers, but I’d much rather build on a foundation of facts and science rather than unproven conjectures that ‘just work’. In fact, given how the Energy of the Heavens responds so strongly to emotions, I would argue that the process of harnessing it is so personal and intimate that it’s downright impossible to create a ‘standardized’ Path, something that works for 100% of the human population. Now granted, all this is merely a different and longer-winded way of saying we must each find our own Path, something everyone has been telling me since day one, but even a stopped clock is right twice a day and I’m a stubborn man who needs to justify what I believe in order to wholly believe it.

All that being said, I have pushed myself far beyond the limits of my… more than mortal yet less than divine existence, and the experience is unpleasant to say the least. Exhaustion doesn’t even begin to describe how I feel right now, so weary and drained it takes an effort of will just to remain standing on two feet, to say nothing of the effort it takes to keep my heavy head up and leaden eyelids open as the battle for Shi Bei surges to an all time high. My thoughts are sluggish and focus limited, and more than once I’ve found myself thinking about nothing at all as I slip briefly into senseless oblivion, only to come hurtling back to vigilant awareness as my Natal Souls remind me of the stakes at hand.

This would all be so fascinating if I wasn’t so exhausted, because despite teetering on the brink of collapse, my Natal Souls are still toiling away at near peak efficiency as they oversee the battle and everything else around me. There they sit in their uncomfortable office chairs, tap-tap-tapping away at their keyboards in an over-exaggerated manner while uttering some nonsensible quip every now and then. It’s shamefully cringe-inducing to hear them butcher a Scottish accent while screaming about how it ‘canna be done, captain’, but it’s all in good fun, so I can hardly deny them even this much.

Though now that I’ve experienced my peculiar brand of humour second-hand, I’ll make a note to maybe cut back on the quips in the future, or at least verbalizing them in the presence of other people…

It’s odd seeing my Natal Souls so full of energy given how exhausted I am, but I suppose it makes sense. Despite being intrinsically linked portions of my soul, mind, and personality, they’re technically distinct spiritual entities and therefore unconstrained by the limits of my frail mortal shell, which raises so very many questions. How do they think if they don’t have a physical brain? They’re connected to mine, tethered to my body, mind, and soul in ways I can barely comprehend much less explain, but if they’re unaffected by my exhaustion, then it stands to reason they’re not using my poor, overtaxed physical brain. Maybe they have Spirit Brains, a central processing unit which the entirety of their Spiritual existence is built around, or maybe they are the processing unit in and of themselves, one that is merely shaped like me because I created them in my own image. I mean, even if they have hearts, lungs, livers, intestines, or any other sort of organs necessary for human life, my Natal Souls don’t need them to survive, because… well, they’re Natal Souls after all, not living, breathing, physical entities.

In short, my Natal Souls are really just another form of Keystone, complex ones capable of independent thoughts and emotions which are all derived from a snapshot of my own psyche. My Natal Souls work out of the Call Centre of the Void mostly because it keeps them out of the way while providing them with the necessary infrastructure to do their jobs without having to go through me. This means the Call Centre itself is another form of Keystone, and that it’s really just Keystones all the way down. This is an example of me taking the simple and making it complex, because most of what I can do is actually just based on a simple concept, that of taking an icon or image and using the memories and emotions it portrays as a means to express my Will.

So how would I simplify it? Well, the first thing that comes to mind is the fact that I have two Natal Souls on weapons duty. Given how my Spiritual Weapons are already akin to Keystones, couldn’t I just skip the middleman and just let my weapons control themselves? Theoretically, the answer is a resounding yes, but then it raises so many questions and concerns that I wouldn’t even know where to even start. A wise man once said, “When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail”, a concept which could prove disastrous when applied to a sword that controls its own actions. There’s another saying that goes, “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it”, but then you run into a concept known as the ‘Golden hammer’, in which you use the same tools to complete a new project even if there are vastly different constraints. The general idea of the golden hammer is that you’ve fallen into a comfort zone where you keep doing things the same way every time despite there being better alternatives out there, ones you might not even be aware of because you never bothered looking in the first place. You stick with what’s familiar rather than seek out more efficient methods, which isn’t always the best way to go about life. Take running for example. Everyone knows how to run, but it takes time, practice, training, and guidance to run using the most optimal method for the standard human person. Knowing this, I would not dare to even claim that I’ve mastered the use of Keystones, as I suspect there are a multitude of improvements yet to be made.

Plus, the idea of a Sword Soul just seems right, yanno? A spiritual Entity wholly focused on the Dao of the Sword, because it is a sword, and therefore One With the Sword in the most complete manner possible. Just imagine the heights I could reach with a Sword Soul guiding my hand in combat or fighting alongside me as an independent entity without having to dedicate so much real estate to the Call Centre of the Void. I’ve already determined that having the Call Centre fixed in existence within my Natal Palace is adversely affecting the flow of Heavenly Energy throughout my Spiritual System, but while the benefits far outweigh the costs, that doesn’t mean I should just accept the expense as a necessary tax and give up on trying to work around it.

A thankless task, this pursuit of the truth, but one I take great delight in. A shame all this war and bloodshed keeps getting in the way though, because I would love to start up a think tank of Martial Warriors dedicated to uncovering the secrets of the Dao and explaining them in a logical and coherent manner…

Despite feeling dead on my feet, I can’t help but smile as I consider the implications of everything I’ve discovered and put together these last few hours, discoveries which I suspect will not only take several lifetimes to unravel and understand, but will forever change the way the Outer Provinces perceive the Martial Path. A heartening thought to end on, because my singular brain cell is already overworked as things stand and I can’t afford to go out of commission just yet. Face and morale are reason enough to fight through the enervation, but the Old Wolf’s slumbering presence gives me even more motivation to keep steady and upright, because he is just too damn cute to wake and too precious to let come to harm. There’s something so endearing about how he just snuggled right up against me, resting his chin and chest against me with an oh-so-contented sigh. While it sounds weird and creepy, he does it in a way that is just so natural and… not innocent, but devoid of ulterior motive. He’s tired and needs a shoulder to lean on, but not just any shoulder. My shoulder, because he trusts me enough to let down his guard here in the midst of battle and wholly rely on me for support and protection.

It sounds a little rude and demeaning to even think it, but this is not a level of trust I would have believed a human being was capable of displaying. Not even babies are this trusting, since they’ll take the time to process new experiences before accepting or rejecting them, smiling or crying to express their satisfaction or discontent. As for the old wolf, he’s not exactly happy with the current state of affairs, nor is he wholly dissatisfied either, merely… accepting of his necessity to rest and of my ability to keep him safe. It sounds so simple and basic in theory, but the fact that he's able to instantly fall asleep only a few minutes after slaughtering an Enemy Divinity with a single punch speaks volumes to this trust and exhaustion. It’s more than just fatigue and physical exertion however, though that’s more of a guess than anything else, mostly because of the fact that Divinities are supposed to live for thousands of years, yet the Old Wolf is visually the most ancient of them all by far. Out of all the Divinities I’ve met, the next oldest looking one would be Vyakhya, pre-Demonification of course, but as far as I can tell, he was pretty young by Divinity standards. Then you have Monk Bones who only recently ascended, and gone is the skeletal, decrepit living corpse of old, replaced by a younger and healthier version of himself that still looks old, but not near-starved and dying like before. While it’s possible that a Divinity’s appearance is based on the age they ascended, there are shenanigans about that dictate their appearance and vitality, but none of this fits for Ancestral Beasts. Guan Suo remembered growing up alongside Ping Ping, and I’ve watched Lin-Lin grow from a bright-eyed adolescent into the beautiful and charming young woman she is today, meaning Ancestral Beasts most definitely are affected by the passing of time, and the old wolf is supposedly old enough to remember a time before the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains bore that name. That being said, I suspect Ancestral Beasts age similarly to Martial Warriors, in that after reaching a point wherein they appear like a fit, healthy, and attractive sixty-year-old, they pretty much stay that way until they’re in their last half-century of life.

Take Grandpa Du for example, who more or less still looks fit as a fiddle and could run circles around me for days without rest. Without actually knowing their ages, it’d be difficult to tell if Grandpa Du was older than Nian Zu who’s a decade younger, or even my actual grandfather Naaran who's only eighty-years-young, yet bears a rugged, almost timeless profile that could put him anywhere from sixty to a hundred years old depending on the light. Then there’s the really old Martial Warriors, those with only a handful of years left to live. I’ve not seen it play out first hand, but I hear things, mostly from Yan who knows that Grandpa Du is fast approaching his limits. The decline hits hard and moves fast in those last few years, going from hale and healthy in body and mind to feeble and decrepit in a matter of months. The first example that comes to mind is Mitsue Juichi, who upon first impression cemented himself in my mind as an imposing, albeit slightly overweight and over-painted grandfather in the twilight of his life, but still healthy enough to go about his day without assistance. To say that his haggard appearance in Meng Sha came as a shock would be an understatement, though admittedly this was more so due to the lack of makeup and long weeks out in the desert rather than the two years that’d passed since I first laid eyes on him. Even then though, I could see just how much he’d declined since I met him almost two years ago, not just from the wrinkles on his face but his overall bearing which made it seem as if he had one foot in the grave.

Suffice it to say that Martial Warriors age gracefully, until they reach a certain point around a hundred and fifteen before taking a turn for the worse, assuming they ever make it that far. From what I’ve learned in Taddy’s lessons and real-life examples, there are plenty of health issues even Healing can’t fix, and the rigours of age stand chief among them. I’m guessing it has much to do with the mysterious Life Force which I only recently became aware of, the special ingredient that makes life… what it is, I suppose. The chemical X that gives us our kick, that ineffable quality which differentiates humans and animals from minerals and microbes, and an expendable source of power which even the Energy of the Heavens is unable to replenish, else why would the Old Wolf have ever allowed himself to grow old?

