“And you succeeded with remarkable ease, no less.” Valor sighed with satisfaction. “I am glad to see you took my words to heart immediately and didn’t just throw yourself at my wards to learn through death after death. A part of me expected and accepted that; that was the behavior the System engendered inside you—a set of behaviors I thought would take far more effort than expected to break. But you learned immediately! And you adapted wonderfully. A fly! Your Biomancy. Your Chronomancy. This is what I need you to commit to mind and spirit. Creativity and understanding. Of me. Of yourself. Of your environment. This is the true nature of Stealth—your ability to use the patterns of existence to mask your person. What you did just now would have surprised a great many foes possessed of Legendary Awareness, because you preyed upon their assumptions.”

“I, uh, yeah,” Shiv mumbled. “Wait, where were you—Valor, were you… Were you behind me this whole time?”

The ancient Legend patted Shiv on the shoulder. “Yes. Which brings me to the matter of your Awareness.”

“It’s bad?”

“No; quite good in fact. You’re just not using it very well. What you did with your Biomancy should lend itself to your Awareness as well. The eyes of a hawk; the senses of an animal or insect. The enchantments provided by your armor. But protection and detection are more than that. It will not be easy for you to sense or counter me, but with a swarm manifested around you as a first line of detection, you can mimic aspects of my wards as well using what magic you already possess.”

Shiv considered that and winced. “Yeah, so—”

“I know about how your fly can’t live for longer than a minute—I was observing you while Helix and Ekkihurst coached you aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp.”

“T-the entire time?” Shiv muttered.

“Most of it,” Valor answered. “It’s not that hard to traverse the world with sufficient Dimensionality—another limitation we must address on your part. But for now, I think it is time that we push your Stealth over the edge to the next evolution. Is it at 200?”

“Yeah—wait, how did you know—”

“And your Intimidation hasn’t evolved yet either. Good. Then the new legend you gained from this exercise might be enough for the right skill to develop.”

“What skill?” Shiv asked. “Valor, what are you planning?”

“Nothing until I am certain you have the right one,” the lich replied simply. “If not, it will be time for you to use that Secondary Skill Reward from the Usurper-Narrator to gain an actual Stealth Skill to make up for this shortcoming.” Valor then pointed even deeper into the woods—and snapped his fingers. A splash of Dimensionality pulsed out, and a new presence appeared in the woods.

Shiv used his Atlas to leap over into the organic entity he sensed, and he found himself gazing out from the eyes of a hyperventilating Frost Giant bound by chains of adamantine. Though the Jotun struggled hard, he grew no closer to escape, and he bellowed out for the Warrior, the Child, and the Crone to give him strength.

“Now,” Valor continued. “You are to envelop that portion of the forest in darkness and terrify the Frost Giant. When you close, I will kill you to ensure your skill levels go over the edge, and a fusion takes place.”

“I’m still not sure what skill you want me to get, Valor,” Shiv replied.

“It will be a pleasant surprise, in case we do succeed. But, as a reward and a final part of this exercise, do humor me, my boy.”

Though a bit of apprehension bit at Shiv, he shrugged and committed himself to the task.

Stalking and terrifying a random Jotun was child’s play compared to sneaking up on Valor. Shiv didn’t even do anything fancy; he just activated his Creeping Void and stomped closer and closer to the Frost Giant. As he grew close, he laid eyes on the bound form of the blue-skinned behemoth. The Frost Giant twitched and struggled, trying to break free as he heard Shiv’s coming. More than that, he sniffed and gasped before his eyes came aglow with violet brilliance. Then, it was like the Creeping Void had no worth at all.

The Frost Giant went from swinging his gaze around to locking onto Shiv in an instant—and the instant he did, the Jotun soiled himself.

“I’m, uh, here to wear your skin,” Shiv greeted him.

“O-oh, Warrior! Warrior! Give me s-s-strength!” The Jotun let out a shaky roar—which broke off into a screech as Shiv's body promptly exploded in a flash of red mana and splattered all over him.

A half-second later, another one of Shiv’s bodies snapped across time to arrive next to Valor as the final levels for this endeavor arrived and a dense shroud of animated nothingness leaked out from Shiv’s evolving soul.

Skill Evolution: The Creeping Void (Master) > Thalassophobifier (Heroic)

Skill Evolution: Shape of Monstrosity (Master) > Incarnation of Dread (Heroic)

Skill Fusion: Thalassophobifier (Heroic) - Incarnation of Dread (Heroic) > Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null (Heroic) 203
