Mastery of the Stealth Skill demands the commitment of a Pathbearer to understanding not only themselves or their skills and capabilities, but also their environment and the limitations of their enemy's Awareness. Stealth is a holistic education. It allows you to observe the world at rest, for stealth is you blending into the lack. It is you going unseen, beneath the waves in the undertow, slipping between the cracks. You ape that which goes unnoticed, that which is discarded, that which is unseen, unheard, unknown.

To fully achieve this state, you must comprehend what fits and what does not. Furthermore, you must see the patterns of existence, for any deviation will expose you. Thus, Stealth is also the art of preparation and intelligence. If you do not know how your enemy sees, what senses they possess, then you are running Stealth on a gamble, and a gamble is no assurance at all. You might as well walk into a storm blind, painted black upon the precipice of midnight, hoping that darkness is your guardian.

Such is not enough. This is not mastery, but simply forsaking responsibility. If you are to possess a Stealth Skill worth anything at all, if you are to honor the legend and your own existence, you must understand the fundamentals of the patterns. The pattern of existence, the pattern of yourself, the pattern of your enemies. It is in the intersection of these patterns, where things are synchronized and aligned, that you go unseen.

As such, the first step to attaining true self is learning what exists in your environment and immersing yourself in it. Let us begin this lesson with you observing all that is around you. Consider the shadows, consider the noise you make, consider your scent, and consider what else is in the room. What has been watching you beneath or beyond your notice?

Study the insects, the fleas, the roaches, the mice. Study them and consider how they operate. There is great wisdom to be gained from observing the natural world and its myriad creatures. There is a reason, after all, that there are still prey left in this realm of predators.

The prey survives without bloodshed. The prey survives in defiance of strife. And I find that to be a most sublime truth.

—Born to Darkness: A Memory Crystal Containing the Philosophies and Methods of Valor Thann

421

The Art of the Unseen

“Tonight’s going to be the night, Valor,” Shiv whispered to himself in a frustrated, desperate breath. “Tonight is when I’ll finally sneak up on you.”

He studied Valor through borrowed eyes. The mana of his Atlas flared bright, connecting his gaze to that of a hawk. It was not a living bird, but a deceased animal that Shiv puppeted using his Biomancy. He triggered the bioelectric signals within the hawk's decayed mind, and thus granted himself an opportunity to use his Atlas of the Flesh Scryer to look out from the dead creature. With a single head of his mana hydra extended kilometers up into the sky, shaped in a wide arch to avoid detection, Shiv angled the hawk's eyes and found Valor once more.

The ancient Undying knelt in front of a pallid pond. The waters undulated softly in the wind, showing the dim reflection of the broken moon as well as the sickly green glow of Valor's eyes. He appeared to be meditating, and perhaps he was, but in truth, he was waiting for Shiv to approach.

He'd learned that this was a trap on the first day.

Originally, he'd tried to close in faster by using his Creeping Void to coat the area in darkness, but that strategy proved folly. The agreement they had was that Shiv needed to surprise Valor once before he took him on as a proper disciple in the way of darkness and things unseen, which itself was a prerequisite for taking him up north to infiltrate the land of the Frost Giants. At the time, it seemed a paltry thing to overcome, but then came the stipulations: Shiv was to surprise Valor within the span of five days. Furthermore, he was not allowed to use his Continuity Error to bypass the greatest aspects of the challenge. Finally, if discovered, he was not to resist Valor's retaliation and to keep himself barren of magic-resistant Shapeless Tides.

Shiv was on the last day now.

And he had something extra special prepared for Valor: a fly.

***

Five days ago…

Shiv swam from shadow to shadow, feeling like a serpent in the dark, slowly closing in on where Valor was. A faint glint of vitality guided him; he knew his master to be close, felt the heat of his existence, and savored this moment of impending victory.

Even without his Continuity Error skill, Shiv had a vast toolset that lent itself towards stealth and subterfuge. His Creeping Void was useful for concealment, but he could still trigger his Silhouette. And above that, there was the last morsel: his frying pan allowed him to cook darkness and consume shadows, to become one with them. There were even mixtures Shiv had learned of that fused water with darkness, which allowed him to treat the dark as a pond all its own.

Unseen, he leapt between trees and the columns of black they cast across the ground. With every second, he drew closer, and as he approached the clearing—

Something snapped in the air. A crackle went through the atmosphere.

Then came the light.

A blinding wave of illumination bent and curved unnaturally across the foliage, sweeping through the woods. In an instant, all shadows were banished, and Shiv's body, alchemized into fluid darkness, evaporated along with them. Death took him, and he was taught the toll of relying too much on his Last Morsel.

Furthermore, he was instructed on a greater problem still: Valor had always known he was there. Somehow he'd sensed Shiv and retaliated with something that Shiv failed to anticipate—a spell of Pyromancy geared toward pure illumination rather than heat or force.

In the aftermath, as Shiv returned with a new body in tow, he found Valor chuckling. In the distance, the great cannons of Fortress-City Vermind gleamed bright beneath the moonlight.

This exercise took place close to the Republic's north-most bastion, Havel Van Stormhalt’s once-home. It was now in the hands of Legend-Advisor Mandering—granted full governorship over the city and all other estates owned by House Stormhalt by Veronica after Havel attempted to install more of his loyalists in key positions, a sad attempt to keep control over his small section of the Republic after he'd already shamed himself.

The expendable Avatars were all stationed within the fortress city's primary barracks and busy with sparring against one another alongside Shiv's other body and Jessica. Everyone was in position to move quickly once reconnaissance was deemed completed. The core force could trespass into the north at any given moment while growing accustomed to each other's methods during their waiting period. Shiv had fought some of the Ascendants before, but then they'd held themselves back, unwilling to destroy him for his worth as a Pathbearer and a means of experimentation. His worth was greater than almost anything on Integrated Earth, even the dozen or so Legendary skills the System gave as a reward.

But while his primary surface body struggled against the Ascendants and their Avatars in contests of power, the puzzle that was Valor's test for him proved a much greater problem.

Shiv was thrice a Legend now. His physical indestructibility and his Shapeless Tides made him more than a match for just about anyone in force-on-force situations. And even if he couldn't overwhelm a god, most of them couldn't tear him asunder in an instant either—much to the Endbreaker's dismay.

Yet it was at the hands of Valor, here in the wilderness beneath the city, that Shiv felt feeble and humiliated. “How the hells did you know I was coming? That trick worked on everyone else.”

“I used a version of this tactic myself in the past,” Valor replied, his voice filled with mirth. “And let me tell you something, Shiv: There is nothing that refreshes an old Pathbearer more than seeing someone their far junior thinking they came up with something new, only to realize it was a reinvention of a wheel that their elder created centuries before their birth. But I also want you to understand something else, Shiv. Before, I trained you through direct advice, because I was lacking many aspects of myself. But now, closer to who I was, I am going to offer you direct instruction. This is the cost: you must solve the puzzle. If you wish to approach me, to lay your thumb upon my back and make me jolt out of my meditative state, then you are to work for it, and brute force and death alone will not be your solution. It cannot. I have suppressed my senses. I am deep in meditation. It is not my awareness that betrays you; it is something else entirely, or many other things besides.”

Shiv contemplated his master's words, and a few assumptions came to mind. “If it's not your Awareness… You probably have a bunch of magical wards activated, right? Wait, can I ask you questions? Since I'm trying to sneak up on you, is it right for you to help me?”

“Of course,” Valor answered without any hesitation. “What master would I be if I did not help my disciple overcome my capabilities? To answer your question: yes. I sensed your mana the moment you set foot into the forest. I allowed you to get close not because I was ignorant of your presence, but simply because I wished to maximize the effectiveness of my Illumination spell. And before you ask, no, it is not a powerful spell. I would barely consider it a cantrip.”

“So, what attunements do you have active?” Shiv asked.

“All of them, naturally.”

Shiv almost did a double-take, but caught himself before his jaw could drop. Of course he has all of them active. Why wouldn't he?

If Valor noticed his momentary shock, he didn't comment. “Primarily Dimensionality, however. You will do well to internalize this, Shiv: If you are trying to contend with someone and they wish to observe and sense all moving matter within the zone of their control, Dimensionality is the means they use. Dimensionality encompasses space, and all objects exist within it. This law, this understanding of the attunement and its lore, makes it a stifling thing for most Pathbearers who walk the Path of the Thief, Assassin, or Shadow.”

“But there are ways around it?” Shiv guessed.

“As there are ways around everything, yes. It is not that you have to vanish into a far-flung dimension to hide from another's notice. Your Continuity Error makes you the single being across integration capable of such a thing, but I will not see you made less so through over-reliance on a Unique Skill. You need to have more options, but before you gain more options, you need to educate yourself. Overcome my detection spells. Figure out the parameter I have set for you. That is my first challenge. I will tell you no more about the spells I have left in place, but I will not stop you from consulting anyone else—or begging another for aid, if you choose to do so.”

“I'm allowed to get outside help?” That surprised Shiv altogether. “Like, I could get a Legend in Stealth to basically beat this challenge for me? Doesn't seem to be very useful for my personal improvement.”

Valor let out a hearty, grandfatherly laugh. “Incorrect, my foolish, assumptive disciple. Everything must be used to further the ends of yourself. Everything you do not know is fatal. Your ignorance cannot shroud you. Your ignorance is someone else's awareness, and so this is my first lesson: If you are not certain what security, what abilities, what awareness, what skills your enemy possesses, then you are not to approach them blindly. Though you are deathless and though defeat is nourishment and not a sting for you, you are not to waste your lives anymore. You will be as all other Pathbearers who seek the highest path in martial virtue: prepared, disciplined, and studious. Now, when you are ready, come to me and try again.”

***

Three days ago…

Adjusting to Valor's protective perimeter took two days: two days of studying, preparation, consultation, and securing an added enchantment to his vestments.

Enchantment Added: Manasight

Equipment: [Vestments of the Undying Cook]

Tier: Narrative/Master

Condition: Fine

Composition: Voidmantid Ceramic; Bloodroach Chitin; Deepcrawler Silk; Fleshdrinker Fungi; Bone Adamantine; Cabbage; Broccoli; Cream; Beef; Chicken; Turkey…(>+1000)

Enchantments > Manasight; Compound Ocular Network; Antennal Resonance; Pheromonic Cipher; Master Regeneration; Magnified Vibrosense; Trauma Mantle; Myomeric Amplification; Mycelial Interface; Binding

When he activated Manasight, it allowed him to glimpse all lores of magic available on Integrated Earth. It drowned out the material world and highlighted the wavelengths of attuned magic, while also painting unattuned mana in a veil of quivering black and white. Through this enchantment, he witnessed the sheer depth of the protections Valor used to guard himself and grimaced at the challenge at hand.

Where the Illumination spell was a paltry thing in terms of raw mana, the wards Valor had woven in place were not at all. They were densely layered, thin but without holes. Rippling waves crashed out from hidden circles of coiling mana shaped around Valor. The worst part about the spell was how unceasing and incessant it was. Valor had codified a replicating feature into the ward pattern, which somehow made it cast itself in regular intervals without requiring his active touch. Thus there came the thresholds of detection, sweeping out in all directions as a vast sphere. There was no surprising him through subterranean subterfuge or aerial descent: one had to slip through those protections one after another, repeatedly—or go unnoticed altogether.

When Can Hu added the enchantment for Shiv, it gave him a suggestion of how he might do just that.

