“The principles of Magical Resistance can be applied to Stealth as well, Pathbearer Shiv. Think of how your Shapeless Tides mimic attuned magic. That is how you resist magic, by becoming a parallel attunement and pushing back in equal measure. However, the Skill Fusion of Stealth and Magical Resistance necessary to achieve such an effect is uncommon indeed, and a Pathbearer who would be willing to invest such a boon into a piece of equipment is more than exceedingly rare. Such an item is thus as valuable as a mountain of mithril for many who walk the paths unseen.”

“Okay, so if I can't get that, then how am I supposed to circumvent it?” Shiv asked.

“If this was my task,” Can Hu hummed, “I would focus on Dimensionality.”

“Dimensionality? Why? What's up with it? You want me to tap into it somehow?”

“Dimensionality is the study of spaces, and its mana must process everything that passes through a space constructed or contained by the lore, from distortions to ordinary objects. Considering the environment at hand, you might be able to slip through if you manage to completely replicate the structures of something in the area. Remember this, Shiv. Use all your skills. You have control over time. You can anchor yourself to another being, and so perhaps it doesn't need to be you that closes in on Valor. Perhaps it can be a thrall in your stead. Or an insect.”

With that, a light went on inside Shiv, a light that led to another group of experts he needed to consult.

***

Two days ago…

“I must say, Insul, you surprise me.” Helix nodded appreciatively at the way Shiv was shaping and concentrating that single node of Biomancy mana. “I anticipated far more stress and misery on your part before you finally created some version of life, but the tumors you're infesting inside this thing aside, it might actually live for a while.”

Shiv just scoffed. He was in no mood to be mocked. He'd been at this for hours upon hours. He'd strained both his vessel at the Canterbury and this other version of himself back at Gate Piety to create his first effigy of life. It didn't need to live long. It didn't even need to last for a minute, just a few seconds. In those few seconds, it needed to flap its wings and travel in a straight line. That's all he required of it. That's all it would take to close in on Valor.

Stealth was more about being hidden. Stealth was about being noticed and then disregarded as unnoteworthy. There were countless insects in the woods. The wilderness chittered with life, and with that realization did Shiv's strategy shift from straightforward to creative. It was time to circumvent all his master's protections and surprise him outright.

But even that was easier said than done. Shiv's mastery of Biomancy was lacking, and so he strained his academy body like never before, memorizing text after text, diagram after diagram, from the simplest creatures to the more complicated. Though bugs were small and far less chaotic compared to human biology, they still possessed a vast ecosystem inside themselves. But Shiv's efforts did not prove fruitless. His constant struggle drove his mind and his constantly tested recollection to new heights, and thus he was granted a reward to help him along his quest: an Evolution to his Memorization Skill.

Skill Evolution: Memorization (Initiate) > Snapshot (Adept) 51

Snapshot was not a sophisticated skill. It was not a flashy skill. It was not a remarkable skill, aside from how it allowed Shiv to review a single instance from his past. In its current state, it reached back a week at maximum. Yet, everything within that week could be perfectly recalled in a sudden snapshot. It wasn't a long-term archive, but it was truly useful so long as he viewed something within the span of a single week.

As he flipped through page after page in his academy texts, Shiv found himself spared of the tome altogether. Any time he needed to consult or review a part of the organic architecture he sought to build, he simply needed to focus, and the images and diagrams would be conjured before his eyes in an instant.

“I'm not mocking you, Insul. I'm genuinely being honest. You are still a neophyte, yet you possess a commitment and attention to detail that I would dare say would leave most orcs envious.” Helix adjusted his glasses and grinned. “And I do not think it is arrogant on my part to lay claim to some of your great progress. In fact, without me I suspect you would still be groping in the dark, grasping for the most basic of details. After all, it was I who told you what separated the thorax from one of the legs. What a terrible misstep to make!”

Now, Helix was definitely mocking him. Shiv clenched his teeth and reminded himself that Helix was one of the good ones, or so he thought. Of all the orcs, Helix was committed to a single and utmost respectable path of racism: the eradication of all vampires.

“Now, now, Hero Helix, do not distract our promising Biomancer.” Ekkihurst the Sculptor laughed like a kindly grandfather, but his mana blended in with Shiv, and slowly he guided him to fix a few critical flaws. “Pay attention here, now, Deathless! Do not over-extend and cause these tissues to mix. They cannot! You are causing a sort of tumorous cascade here, because the biology cannot comprehend this. Biology wishes to work! It is of the natural order. It is of evolution. You do not need to choke it so desperately. You simply need to tell the body a story that makes sense, to make the patterns align. Once you have that foundational structure established, the body will take care of itself. Here, move these parts out and place these parts in.”

The Sculptor poured a series of minute mana constructs within Shiv's Aegis of Assimilation. Shiv paused his own biocrafting to marvel at Ekkihurst's skill. A second ago, the Sculptor had nothing. His mana field was barren. Now, in a heartbeat, with a single gesture and a wrinkle of a smile, he granted Shiv everything he needed, and each piece was pristine. They were like bricks to an ever-collapsing building Shiv was failing to build—a building that Shiv only ever got close to building because his undeserved Heroic-Tier Biomancy allowed him to dissect literal fleas into mana simulations. From there, he reconstructed a creature of his own, a creature that mimicked everything that came before, and even still he fell short repeatedly. He tried thousands of times that day. His Legion of Self skill, along with his newly improved Memorization, allowed him to take in information that would take a normal Adept months in mere hours.

But even so, after a few thousand failures, it was still only with the support of Ekkihurst that Shiv managed to create his first, albeit flawed and terminally ill, form of life.

The fly emerged from his mana hydra, shedding free of the bright red Biomancy to become a thing of actual chitin and biology.

As he achieved this, Shiv couldn't help but pump a fist in triumph. It was somewhat muted by the fact Ekkihurst had to help him at the end, but even so, he'd come close. He'd built so much of the creature, gone through so much intellectual effort. For once, he'd truly made something instead of destroying it. For once, he created using his Biomancy rather than just battering with it.

The insect flickered its wings for a moment, hovered in the air, and pirouetted around him, desperate to fly. Yet as thirty seconds passed, Shiv watched the fly spasm and then drop before it was carried away by the winds. He caught it using his Biomancy, dissected it in a burst of mana, and it returned to a simulated representation of its material self.

“I need to make it last longer,” Shiv muttered.

“You need to make it do a lot more than that, Insul,” Helix rebutted. “I get the idea, and it is a good one. Anchoring yourself to that creature and allowing yourself to jump across time to ambush the old skeleton is useful. Except, how are you going to make the fly actually approach Valor? Have you thought about that?”

Shiv opened and closed his mouth several times, but words failed to emerge. Instead, he made a series of awkward noises as his brain collapsed in on itself in a fit of inward frustration. “Fuckkkkk…”

“Ah, but this isn't a big problem either.” Ekkihurst shook his head and tutted. “Do not be so rigid! You're already trying to be creative, so keep your mind open some more. Animals are predictable. They have instincts. What do all living things want? To mate and eat. You simply need to give this fly, this thing so small of mind yet so defined by natural instinct, a reason to go toward Legend Thann! Or at least toward the rough area he resides in…”

And so, Shiv blinked to himself as another idea came into form. Another step in his roundabout process of circumventing Valor's many protections.

Once more, he triggered his new Snapshot skill, and from within a tome detailing the lifespan and habits of a common Yellowstone fly, he pulled up a section on pheromones and food…

***

Present…

As Shiv prepared to close in, he didn't move himself. Instead, he remained where he was, hidden far away, and tossed out a being created by his Biomancy. A living fly, one he'd spent the better part of two days learning to shape it.

Please work. Please don't fuck me right now. Please don't fuck me! Shiv prayed toward no god in particular as he placed a single, trembling finger behind his fly, beckoning it to fly free. Before he launched it far, however, he imprinted himself temporally upon the fly, so that he could follow it across time. This instance of contact would be carried from present into future if only the fly would get close to Valor at all.

To that end, Shiv sprinkled a series of pheromones all over the place where Valor meditated. The location where his master resided hadn't changed for the past few days, and so he drenched the lakeside in a strong scent that was meant to lure the common Yellowstone fly. After an awkward moment where it hovered high and then drooped low, Shiv felt his heart plunge like a rock from the heavens. He thought it was about to die. He thought the biological instability was taking hold, despite him managing to elevate its lifespan to a full minute. Then it rose once more and began circling around a tree before flying further into the clearing. A long breath slipped out from Shiv, and he projected his gaze through the fly using his Atlas of the Flesh Scryer.

Its progress was awkward and slow. It was dying. It knew it was dying, and so its movements were erratic. Its limbs twitched violently, but its wings, by some miracle or design, flew fine. It glided toward that point of food, toward the only thing it truly understood, as the rest of its internal biology suffered a fatal series of failures.

Unseen scents lured it toward Valor, and Shiv saw his master's billowing robe as the fly slipped through threshold after threshold, passing by the attuned wards without ever incurring a response from Valor.

Instead of dying over and over again trying to solve Valor's puzzle, Shiv decided to sidestep the node entirely, and it was thanks to Valor's own advice that he found himself here.

In an instant, to Shiv's rising disbelief and pleasure, the fly drew close, and by pure chance alone, it fell from the air as its life escaped it. But it fell within the confines of Valor's concentric spells. Shiv triggered his anchor point and leapt across time. His finger resided upon the mat once more as his body circumvented space and the lore of dimensions altogether using the lore of time.

In the next instant, Shiv planted a single finger on Valor's spine. He took no chances. He halted time. Everything went still, everything but himself and his Harbinger. A boundless field of brightest gold gleamed, rippling with enkindled flame and translucence, as Shiv made contact with his master.

And he realized that this wasn't Valor at all.

His hand slipped through a veil of quivering light, and he found himself pressed against a sculpture of bone and dancing shadow.

This was a decoy.

Shiv went rigid and flung himself back in time. He escaped from the forest. He abandoned his attempt. He blinked back to where he'd stood a moment prior—and found Valor right in front of him. “HOLY SHI—”

Valor reached out and clasped Shiv’s shoulder before he could flee. “Fantastically done, Shiv.”

The Creeping Void 198 > 200 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Aegis of Assimilation 177

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 169

Tactics 23

Scheming Bastard 39

“Is it?” Shiv said. “I mean… I…” His head whipped toward the lake, and he found himself dry of words. “That… Your decoy still has—I didn’t actually—”

“Yes, you technically didn’t manage to surprise me, but that is because I was monitoring you this entire time,” Valor explained. “Furthermore, it is not an expendable decoy in that my left hand is actually attached to the false body, hence the vitality. As such, you succeeded in the exercise regardless.”

Shiv stared at Valor, struggling to accept he'd actually succeeded.

