“[Incineration Bolts] took down three of our people right away. Felair and two others managed to take clipping blows. I eliminated five threats as soon as I saw our people were unprepared. I emptied the hideout, eliminating the threat. When the fight was over, Felair insisted on casting a [Witness] as quick as he could. I applied first aid, then went and helped those I could. When I came back, he had discovered that people claiming to be of the Cinnabar Hand had been there not an hour ago.

“They were worried about this new [Cascade Imaging] and the degree with which it had been used to empty Spur of many different threats. But they had become tired of waiting for a response from Archmage Flatt, so they left. Before that, one of them laid on a [Scry] bed while the other two protected that one person from the other five people in the base. In Felair’s [Witness], he saw between nine and eleven people total.

“Felair imagined that the Hand was [Scry]ing Spur, watching for a response. There was some hostility between the residents of the base and the three who were supposedly of the Hand.” Fillarina turned to Merit, saying, “Through seeing the subvocalizations of one of the residents of the base when they were telepathically talking to the Hand, the Hand claimed that you captured three of their people in today’s raids. The Hand themselves gave no secrets away, but the people at the listening post were not the Hand.”

Merit’s face broke into a harsh smile. She said, “We captured ten people today, each wanted for smaller crimes. I have executed none. Yet.” She asked, “I suppose I will have to wait to speak to Felair to get the full description of who they might have been talking of?”

“Yes.” Fillarina said, “The healing required to keep him alive was extensive, and his condition was exacerbated by his unwillingness to seek help right away. He will be asleep for a few more hours, at least. You might get more out of him, but I doubt it. According to what Felair told me, there was a great deal of hostility between the two groups, mainly in regard to how the Hunter community and the Hand are dealing with each other in the face of people hunting them from all sides.

“The Hand is organized, but running. The Hunters are unorganized. There has been some chatter about the Hand dropping a lot of their requirements for joining, though. So we might see a lot of untrained people organized into a big force, soon enough.

Fillarina continued, “As for the reason they decided to test Archmage Flatt’s defenses, we are not quite sure, though it would be simple to lay the reasoning for this at the rumors that Archmage Flatt has somehow learned to see through [Polymorph]. That reasoning might even be correct.”

Erick said, “I haven’t, though!”

Silverite said, “That might not matter, in the end.” She said, “Continue, Fillarina.”

Fillarina nodded, “There’s not much left. The base was well appointed, but it was clearly a hunter listening post of some kind, with chairs designed for extended [Scry]ing and coded missives hiding in the walls. It was not a Hand hideout, but it might have been getting turned into one. Also, the defenders were half consumed with destroying everything they could, while they were also holding us off long enough for a few of them to escape.”

Eduard said, “Our people would like the location of this listening post.”

“And you will have it, as soon as we’re done here, and we’re almost done.” Silverite spoke, “People died to bring us this vital intelligence, and to warn us that we have three Cinnabar Hand in custody as a result of the day’s events, though that might be a ruse of some sort; we will find out. The attack on Archmage Flatt’s residence is a part of this, but as to what part, we do not know. I am of the opinion that the simplest answer here in the correct one. They are scared, and they are willing to go to war because of this.” She said, “I want everyone here to do their part to discover what happened today with the pixies in town, the hidden dream worms, the potential Hand in custody, and the attack on Archmage Flatt’s house.”

“Pardon me.” Tyli spoke, “The Headmaster wishes to express that the boulder was obviously just a test of Archmage Flatt’s capability to track a person. The next time they attack it will not be a part of any test.” Tyli turned to Erick, and said, “Allying with Messalina’s crusade to kill the Hand would be a fool’s choice, for it might very well be that this sideways attack is actually from that cursed woman, and she is trying to get you to run to her for support.” She sat straight, speaking to everyone, as she said, “That is all.”

Silverite acknowledged the Headmaster’s sentiments with, “We will be exploring all options.” She spoke to the room, “Our Sin Seeker thought that they divined the truth of our ne'er-do-wells in custody, but we will be going over them all again. Some of them might be Hand, or not, but all of them are worthy of Exile. If we cannot divine the truth, I might just exile all of them, anyway. If the Headmaster wishes to bring in his own Sin Seeker, we would welcome the second opinion.”

Tyli said, “He does, and he will. Our Seeker will be arriving in three hours, to participate in any way they can.”

Silverite said, “Acceptable. Thank you.” She continued, “With Archmage Flatt’s ability to [Scan] for biological markers all the way out to the Thousand Kilometer Ring, events are likely to get very difficult, very fast. We need the threat of the Hand and Messalina to end, soon, because the Dead City is changing. We suspect we have months until Ar’Kendrithyst makes their move, but I doubt that timeline.” She turned to Erick. “We have pieces of cloud giants for you to track, if that would work. Is there anything else you think you might need?”

Erick said, “I can [Scan] for active magic, too. But—”

Zago exclaimed, “Holy fucking shit!”

Mog laughed loud. Ramizi and Eduard both said something to each other, while Tyli frowned.

Silverite noticed, “Mage Tyli?”

Erick saw the problem, and quickly said, “Only if I have that magic, myself, is what I was trying to say. I don’t have [Force Trap], and I guess that Mage Tyli’s concern is because I wasn’t able to find her [Stone Trap]s she used to defend my house on Oceanside. I don’t have a lot of the other magics some of you might have.” He added, “This inability to work with magic you don’t have seems to be a running theme.”

Tyli smiled faintly, saying, “Ah. So that was the trouble.”

Zago chuckled, then said, “Much more reasonable! This is a known nuance of the Script.”

Mog smiled. She asked, “Then we need to authorize some illegal spells, don’t we?”

“Done.” Silverite said, “Authorized and witnessed by all of you fine people here.” She said, “[Invisibility] and [Force Trap] are permissible for now. [Induce Emotion] would be a good way for you to end a fight without needing to kill someone, too. This is also authorized. You’re going to need to get a teacher to unlock that mind magic, though.”

Erick bought the first two spells. He would ask Poi about [Induce Emotions], later.

Invisibility 1, instant, touch, 100 mana + Variable

A person or item touched becomes unseen for 1 minute per spell level.

Moving while Invisible incurs a cost.

Exp: 0/100

Force Trap 1, instant, close range, 10 mana + Variable

Place a trap that deals Variable force damage in a small area. Trap lasts 1 hour per spell level.

Exp: 0/100

Erick said, “I could search the forest for [Personal Ward]s or just [Ward]s, if you wish to look for hunters that way.”

Zago muttered, “Now that’s just unfair.”

Merit said, “I think I’m in love.”

Mog went from smiling, to utterly serious and stone faced.

Eduard said, “We can be ready to go in an hour. Either to assault a cloud giant city, or retrieve hunters or the Hand out in the forest.”

Zago added, “The Mage Guild will be ready to scout whatever locations Erick discovers.”

“We’ll be ready, too.” Mog’s shoulders relaxed a fraction as she said, “Three separate cloud giant assault teams are waiting for their targets. They could also pivot to hunt hunters, or the Hand. Whatever is necessary to end this shit going on around here.”

Erick asked, “Who are we going to go after first? The hunters, or Messalina?”

Silverite said, “Merit will deal with the people in custody from her end, along with Oceanside’s Sin Seeker when they arrive, but you, Archmage Flatt, will be given blood samples to track those people using your own methods, tomorrow, to find out where they have been in the past however-long. If any of them do prove to be the Hand, we will be handing them over to Messalina. I would prefer the Life Binder to have her pound of flesh and to go away, but I would like to know where she is so I can personally share my displeasure at her recent actions.”

“Then I’ll look for Messalina, first.” He added, “There might be a way to find other suspicious people at the same time.”

- - - -

Erick set an Ophiel into the front yard to maintain and clarify a 500 kilometer map, the distance at which the Headmaster said Messalina was near Spur, while he stayed inside in the sunroom, directing the map’s formation from the safety of his [Prismatic Ward] and the walls of his house. He watched from the window as white fog turned into flat land, and [Scry] eyes popped into existence to check on the map every few minutes. The spell was currently searching for [Ward]. The city was an expected mess of blue dots. To the south, Ar’Kendrithyst was an unexpected plethora of blue dots, much denser than Erick had expected.

But to the north, scattered here and there, were small gatherings of blue dots on the ground. Spur had already sent out people to begin the investigation of every single one, first with [Scry], thanks to the Mage Guild, then with Mog’s and the Headmaster’s prepared forces, depending on what the [Scry] turned up.

Mostly, they found people camping in the desert. Sometimes, though, the people they found would blip away before anyone could ask them who they were. It wasn’t damning, but it was suspicious.

It was late. The stars shone outside, while [Cascade Imaging] flickered a cold light in the cold desert sky, high above the city. It might have only been midnight, but Erick had already been awake for over 24 hours, since Oceanside was 5 hours ahead. But he didn’t feel tired.

Poi and Teressa were already in bed, sleeping while they could, both of them showing that they were still soldiers; still willing to take whatever rest they could. Rats and Kiri were both awake. Both of them for different reasons. Rats had crashed hard once the house had been put back together and he found his room comfortably remade. He awoke later, and now his sleep schedule was ‘well and truly fucked’, according to him. Kiri just couldn’t sleep. She was young, so that made sense. A lot of things had happened today, and would continue to happen as long as active threats remained.

Erick had no idea why he was still feeling perfectly lucid, but Rozeta’s Recovery likely had a lot to do with that. The coftea helped, too.

Kiri walked into the room carrying a fresh coftea pot. She filled Erick’s mug on the table, then refilled her own. She handed Erick his mug, sipping her own as she did so. Erick took his cup, and sipped, as he returned to looking out the window, and the resolving map.

Kiri said, “That’s a lot more blue than I expected in the Dead City.”

“That’s just the top layer, too. The spell can’t image that deep.”

“… Have you ever searched for… you know who?”

Erick almost laughed, but he just chuckled nervously, then said, “It’s a scary image, that one.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide. She sipped her coftea. She looked at her coftea. “This needs some alcohol.”

Erick smiled. “Maybe later—” A new target appeared on the map. He lost his smile, as he said, “Blue dots in the air. A lot of them. Two hundred kilometers to the north.”

“Must be Messalina.” Kiri guessed, “Took a while for the spell to propagate?” She glanced up a bit, at the translucent [Scry] orbs floating in the manasphere around the map, adding, “They see it, too. That’s a lot more [Scry] orbs than before.”

Four [Scry] eyes floating around the map turned into dozens. Some of them bumped into other [Scry] orbs, popping both of the orbs in the process. Their controllers must have recast the spell; the orbs reappeared around the map, and this time they maintained a distance from each other.

Erick asked, “Do you feel safe here, Kiri?”

Kiri sighed. She smiled. “As safe as anywhere, when places like Odaali and the Life Binder’s village can be wiped out—”

A woman’s voice vibrated the window, “Erick Flatt. This is Messalina. They’re coming for you. Get out of there while you still can.”

Erick felt his blood run cold, then hot, as he activated [Hunter’s Instincts]. The world seemed to slow, as his mind raced faster, and faster. As a calm descended upon him, he said, “Kiri. Retreat to a secondary location.” He sent to Poi, ‘Wake up. Someone claiming to be Messalina has warned of an imminent attack.’

Kiri dropped her coftea mug. Sunny perked up around her shoulder.

Erick turned his attention toward the outside. He had positioned nine Ophiel outside of the house hours earlier, yet still inside the Restful air of the house; still covered by the [Prismatic Ward]. They were like tiny parakeets on the windowsills and the roof and the towers, waiting and watching for an attack. At Erick’s new command, they all came to attention. Each of them searched for figures in the night, or hidden attacks. Four of them immediately activated [Detect Intent Aura], looking for a discrepancy in the darkness—

The Ophiel on the roof responded with a wordless warning. Another two Ophiel looked up, and Erick looked with them.

A pale red dot flashed high above, higher than Erick’s flaring white orb. It began to fall, like a single star plucked from the sky and sent tumbling down.

Erick came back to himself. Kiri’s mug crashed to the ground, spilling hot liquid across Erick’s pants, flickering his white [Personal Ward]. He didn’t care about that right now. He yelled at her, “Retreat! That’s an order!”

“I’m staying, asshole!” Kiri yelled, “That skill makes you mean, you know!” Kiri’s green scales flushed dark. Sunny took to the air. Green armor materialized around Kiri’s body, as she demanded, “Put on your armor!”

