The streets were empty except for some guards. Military law was in effect, and they were on patrol to ensure its enforcement. Twice, the guards almost approached Erick when they saw him walking openly in the street, but each time recognition dawned on them well before they opened their mouths. Erick, Poi, and Kiri walked on, to the Sewerhouse.

They reached the sewerhouse without incident.

The golden three-story building had been broken. Grey and orange stone showed through flaking golden wardpaint that clung to the stone that remained, and on the flat surfaces of the debris surrounding the building. The top two floors were barely there. Rubble piled against the walls, like someone had temporarily shoved it to the side. Sunlight filtered down all the way to the front room, where fountains usually gave the tiled and ostentatious space a sense of grandeur unlike any other place in Spur. The front doors were gone. The fountains were silent. Al was inside the front room, sitting in a chair in the sunlight, alone.

Al was a giant, brown-green orcol man, who usually wore dark clothes fit for a sultan-mobster, all pinstriped with gold and tight vested, but with loose and airy arms and legs. Right now, he was shirtless in the sun, but he was not relaxing. He was in mourning, and he had obviously lost a terrible fight. His pants were torn. Blood had dried across his body, and soaked his dark pants. He took a swig from a giant liquor bottle, then lowered the bottle, placing it on a short, solid glass table, to the side. Erick couldn’t quite tell what that table was from his angle, standing outside of the remains of the Sewerhouse.

Al watched Erick, Poi, and Kiri stand outside of his house. He said nothing, but instead gave the three of them a single questioning raised eyebrow.

“Hello, Al.” Erick said, “I heard. I’m sorry.”

Al sneered, then picked the bottle back up and took another swig—

He paused. He looked at Erick again. He sneered wider, saying, “Fucking heaven and hell. You went and switched Scions.”

“I did not.” Erick stepped forward, over the broken wall, into the Sewerhouse saying, “I just… got an unexpected… boo...” His words left him, as he looked down at the glass table to Al’s side.

It was not a solid glass table. It was a casket. Inside the box, was Savral. The blackscale dragonkin rested inside the stone, poised and clean, with his arms over his chest and mended clothes. Al set the bottle back down on his son’s casket. Glass met crystal, with a loud ‘bonk’.

It was an odd noise, completely at odds with everything Erick was seeing.

Al said, “You got an open line to the Life Binder? I want Savral revived.”

Erick looked back up at his friend. He said, “Okay. I’ll see what I can do. She’s going to want something. I’ll see if I can pay it for you.”

“Good man.” Al said, “I can pay. Don’t worry about that.”

“… I want to help, Al.”

Al grabbed his bottle and took another swig. He said, “Okay. You can pay.” He added, “You can leave now, too.”

- - - -

Erick walked back home and everything felt surreal, from the near empty streets, to the silence hanging in the air, to the faces peering out from windows to see who was walking around outside, before they quickly vanished back into the dark interiors of their homes. Poi telepathically rattled off casualty numbers at Erick because he asked him to, but far from making everything seem real, it just made everything feel stranger. Like he was walking through a dream.

He opened his Status to make sure he wasn’t wormed. The numbers came up. He closed the blue box.

He and Archmage Opal and all the guards and the Headmaster Elites, and everyone else, had stopped the worst from happening, but the Cinnabar Hand and their various hunters and Caradogh had killed a fair number of people. At least it was confirmed now that Caradogh was fully involved in the attack. No one had any idea where he was, though, and all of Erick’s various maps turned up thousands of potential spots, but no Caradogh; not yet, anyway.

Four hundred and seventy three people had died in the attack, so far, but thousands were missing. Many of the confirmed deaths were either people in charge or those close to people in charge. Many of them were business people with shops down Market Street, or around the Adventurer’s District. The Courthouse lost ten guards, and a handful of lawyers and office workers. A good forty adventurers were dead. A hundred farmers were killed. The numbers went on and on.

Silverite and the people in charge decided that the attack was meant to do one thing, directly:

This attack was meant to hurt Spur for years to come.

And as for reasoning for the attack, there were two accepted ideas among the people in charge:

One: The dying remnants of the Hand allied with every single remaining hunter, and with the help of Caradogh, they had attacked Spur hoping to wipe the town off the map, in order to destroy Erick’s theoretical magic from coming to fruition.

Merit and everyone else was still checking on the veracity of that idea, using whatever methods they usually used; Erick didn’t want to know, not right now.

Or Two: Portal had backed the attack, through Caradogh.

It was a variation on the first idea, but if it was true, it meant dark times ahead.

With that in mind, Erick telling Poi, who told whoever he told about the two kids who stole the horn, placed Portal’s quick no-nonsense takedown of those two kids in a new light. Portal was hoping to avoid looking like an enemy.

Silverite and the people in charge over at Portal were currently in closed door meetings discussing… whatever they were discussing. Erick was not privy to whatever went on behind those closed doors.

Erick got home and went inside; he went right to the sunroom, back into position behind the dense air of the house, standing over the map hanging outside his window. Silverite and Merit had already requested other searches, through Poi, mostly for guards or citizens or other people missing since the attack. Erick had been directing Ophiel to blip back and forth between the Courthouse and the Guardhouse to pick up those samples, and continue the search. Now, back inside his house, he saw those blue dots on the map in front of him, and [Scry] eyes hovering around the map.

He adjusted the map as requested. He also brought those samples to his other Ophiel, hanging out around the Crystal Forest with their own maps. Sometimes the blue dots appeared on those other maps.

Sometimes, the dots were just people saying that they were escaping the dangers of Spur. Sometimes, they were wounded in the attack, and they were passed out in the Crystal Forest after having [Teleport]ed away from their attackers.

That was how Erick found out he was done hunting for hunters. Now, he was searching for survivors. He felt a bit better at everything, because of that.

And while all of that was happening, Erick asked Poi to contact a certain someone.

After a hundred searches and another hour, Poi spoke up, “She’ll contact you in a few minutes. But I must warn you, if it looks like she’s trying to control you, I’m pulling you out.”

Erick sighed out, trying to force himself to relax. He said, “Thank you, Poi.” Erick sat down in a chair by the window, watching the thousand kilometer map sitting just outside his window. “I wonder what she’ll want.”

Two minutes later, a voice came to Erick, ‘Greetings, Erick. Glad to see my warning last night was more than enough time for you to save most of your people.’

‘Hello, Messalina. My friend’s son is dead. He wants a revival. What is this going to cost me?’

‘Right to it, then! I do love directness in a man, but fret not! Today this service will cost you absolutely nothing, but it would be nice if your people would stop trying to infiltrate my city.’ She added, ‘Just because you found me, doesn’t mean I welcome you to bloody up my front lawn.’

‘Has Silverite slapped you around yet? She said she wanted to share her displeasure at your recent actions.'

‘That is simply no way to talk to a lady. Maybe your friend’s child should stay dead.’

‘… Sorry. I apologize. I have been under some stress, lately.’

‘I completely understand.’ Messalina sent, ‘I was recently under some horrible stress, too. But now that you’ve dropped a hundred hunters in your town and I already stole their souls for questioning, I am feeling rather great! You didn’t catch the Red Dot mage, but now I know who they are as an individual, and I plan on bringing them to justice. Fine, righteous justice!’

Erick’s blood burned with demand. He asked, ‘Who are they?’

‘My revenge first, Erick.’ Messalina sent, ‘When I’m done, then you can have them, though I doubt you’ll get anything useful out of an empty soul.’

‘I can help you find them. They’ve already eluded you this much. They might throw you off their scent, again.’

‘This time I have memories and threads of Fate to trace, and my Sin Seekers are the best in the world. I will give you this much, though: Spur managed to kill two of the group that killed my village. I will kill the remaining three.’ She sent, ‘Do be careful of Caradogh, though. He is a devious man, who always has a backup plan. I am fairly certain that this was his second to last ditch attempt. His final attempt will be considerably darker in tone, for sure. As for the revival of your friend’s son, just tell me who it is, and I’ll go fetch them myself.’

‘… Al Noraki’s son, Savral Noraki. Savral was killed because… I don’t know why they killed him. Al wants him back. That’s all I need to know.’

‘They killed him because every single hunter still existent in the Crystal Forest was hired or goaded into action by Caradogh, of course. The Sewermaster was a target because of his level. The son likely got in the way. This is very basic stuff, Erick.’

‘… I have had a very busy day.’

‘I can relate. Don’t worry about Savral. I’ll get it done.’ Joy and satisfaction flooded through the connection, as Messalina sent, ‘Thank you, Erick. I know we never entered into a formal bargain of trade, but I feel as though I still owe you something more than this. I hate owing anyone anything, so ask something more of me, please.’

‘You can tell me what those pixies and dream worms were doing in Spur.’

A smile carried through her words, ‘Caradogh was the Lower Trademaster of Portal, my dear Erick. That man has pockets as deep and as hidden around the world as Kirginatharp’s own. But they’re probably depleted now. Every single one I knew about, I stole. But who knows? He certainly had dark market connections all across the Letri Ocean, and many of those were with coastal pixie enclaves. Point is, is that they are not my slaves. The pixies are free actors that he probably paid well, and if he had succeeded, he would have become a leader of the Cinnabar Hand unlike we have seen in at least two hundred years. But he failed, thanks to you.’  She added, ‘I meant it about watching for one more attack from him. He’s as murderous as a shadowcat these days.’

‘… I can’t help but feel that you’ve been secretly working with him while everyone else thinks he fled his position because the Headmaster was after him— Ah. No. You slipped that information into our previous talk on purpose, to get Caradogh to hate me even more. I bet it didn’t take much to get him to gather up all of the hunters he possibly could, to try and kill me.’ Erick continued, ‘Were you hands-on at all, for any of that? How many course corrections were necessary for today to happen? Where you would win, even if I failed, because you were just waiting for the hunters and the Hand to make themselves known at all, weren’t you? And now you have your way to find your final killers.’

Simultaneously, all across the Crystal Forest, Erick searched for ‘pixie’.

Every single map lit up with dozens of blue dots.

Erick quickly reset the maps back to their previous searches, and sent an apology to Merit for the interruption in service.

Erick sent to Messalina, ‘You could have at least helped my people take down our targets, but I didn’t hear about a single pixie helping in any single strike.’

Bright joy filled the connection, as Messalina sent, ‘Such an overactive imagination!’ She laughed, then said, ‘For what it’s worth, I made him hate me, too.’ She asked, ‘Just to be clear. You do want me to revive this ‘Savral’ fellow, right? Not rip his soul apart so that he can’t ever find his True Peace? And probably ruin everything forever between you and Al?’

‘… Please revive Savral, for Al. Thank you.’

‘You’re ever so welcome. See you around, Erick!’

Erick’s connection to Messalina snapped. He breathed deep. He turned to Poi, asking, “How did Silverite’s raid on Messalina’s cloud city go?”

“Badly.” Poi said, “No deaths, but the Headmaster’s people went to the cloud city with our own soldiers. They were in the sky and just about to fight through her front door when the Red Dot came.”

“So… Either she was working with them the whole time, or the hunters were waiting for those Elites and soldiers to leave, or maybe Messalina even saw that I was searching for [Ward] and she cast some highly visible ones out there in order to draw out some soldiers... which is exactly what Caradogh was waiting for...” Erick asked, “Or am I overthinking?”

“No.” Poi said, “Silverite has already expressed this opinion.”

“Is she still talking to Portal?”

“Yes.”

Erick nodded. He turned his attention back to the map. He asked, “Are there more targets? Did they find this one, yet?”

“They have not, but that doesn’t matter. It’s time to move on.” Poi said, “Merit has more targets for you to pick up at the Guardhouse.”

Erick nodded, and sent Ophiel blipping to pick up the next few pounds of flesh.

Ophiel appeared on the edge of a plain stone room that was filled with guards in silver armor, and lots of chalkboards. Everyone was talking to everyone else, but Ophiel wasn’t here for the talk; he was here for the samples. A table down to the left was already set with three new targets; a hairbrush, a few horn clippings, and a few scattered red scales, each on their own metal dish.

The guard overlooking the samples said to Ophiel, “Three possible survivors. They should be close.”

Erick used Ophiel to Handy Aura the samples into the air, as he used [Prestidigitation] to say, “Okay.”

