Erick wrestled with an unknown, angry emotion, as he searched for fault in Kiri’s words. He found none. He flashed white across his body. Cloth armor materialized like a robe with some extras, covering his arms and legs. It even had a cowl that bunched up around his neck, protecting that area, but it could be pulled over his head, too, if needed. It was strong as kevlar but reinforced with metal bands around his torso, inside the cloth. He said, “Fine. Armored up.” He asked, “Where are the rest of your [Familiar]s?”

“Around. Just like how you did yours.” Kiri looked up at the window, saying, “We should get away from the window. No point in giving them an easy attack vector.”

“It’s coming from the sky, Kiri—”

Poi rushed into the room, saying, “We need to evacua—”

“I got this.” Erick said, “I’ll be right back.”

“You don’t!” Poi said, “That’s a magnitude—”

Erick did not hear the rest of Poi’s words. He had work to do. As he fell into Ophiel’s senses, he quickly worked several angles at once. He sent a message to Silverite, telling her what was happening; he did not wait for a response. He took the Ophiel by the map and canceled the spell, then recast it much closer to the ground, searching for ‘people’. The cascading orb came into existence just high enough to clip the entire Human District. In a second, blue dots appeared on the map, but there were no visible people on the dark stone around the house. The Ophiel running the [Detect Intent Aura]s reoriented themselves. They spotted the people in the darkness, like they were blank spaces in a snowstorm. Erick did nothing to them, not right yet, but he did recognize that they were there, and slowly creeping up on the house. Some of them paused. They understood that they had been spotted. Some of them kept coming, slowly, either not understanding anything, or knowing more than him; Erick couldn’t tell.

The pale red dot in the sky was still falling, too. Erick flickered an Ophiel upward. That Ophiel instantly disintegrated into formless ash when it got within a hundred meters of the descending red dot. For a brief moment, as he came back to himself, Erick was surprised. That Ophiel should have had about 6700 effective Health, but simply being near the red dot caused it to fall apart? That did not bode well.

Erick summoned another Ophiel.

The second Ophiel went in surrounded by a [Pure Reflection Ward]. He survived his initial exposure, but the power of the red dot showed itself as Ophiel, with his perfected magic reflection active, became like a rock in a dark stream full of phosphorescence. Invisible power caught on Ophiel’s many winged body, flaring into visibility, turning night into day as the winged [Familiar] became an unintentional flamethrower, blinding him for all the light, but showing all the Ophiel on the ground exactly what they were up against.

The pale red dot was an ocean of power, released as a point, filling the sky with invisible heat. The reflective Ophiel near that dot was like an ant subjected to a tide of power, and he was losing his grip. All that heat was not just magic, but a force upon the world that would not be denied.

Erick maneuvered the reflective Ophiel directly under the moving dot, dragging light and fire behind him like some unseen godzilla breathing fire across the night. The red dot struck the [Familiar].

Briefly, the spell bounced.

Erick came back to himself, just in time to see the sky turn fully red outside of the sunroom’s windows. Fire crashed in every direction. Up, mostly, but also out and down. Ophiel had managed to deflect the spell, but it still exploded. Red flames reached for the city.

A sudden barrier of opalescent energy capped Spur from wall to wall, kilometers across; a soap bubble protecting against an attack designed to wipe out a city. A thought occurred to Erick. Was this red dot the spell that turned Messalina’s village into a crater?

Erick watched as fire warred against a bubble. The bubble won. Fire burned everything that was not covered, glassing the land outside of the walls.

Barely any time had passed since the attack started.

The invisible people in the front yard were already moving. They had been moving since Erick last heard Poi yell something about ‘magnitude’. Red bolts of fire launched from hidden positions all around the property. They were attacking at the same time that the red dot turned the sky into fire.

Kiri and Sunny were already on the defensive. Erick watched for the briefest moment, as fire bolts curved in the air around green couatls and flew back at their attackers. She missed on her return throws, a lot, and some [Incineration Bolt]s still struck the house, damaging the dense air, but she kept most of the bolts from striking. She was doing good work. More than enough, even. Many bolts were still in the air when Erick stepped into the fight.

Every single Ophiel still on the house looked down upon the surrounding battlefield with hundreds of eyes. With slicing clarity and over the course of ten seconds, the eyes of every Ophiel turned green. A hundred green-white coruscating lines of force clipped across the land like disco lasers, attempting to slice and cut without leaving any room for escape.

Erick did not expect this tactic to work. He expected deflections, avoidance, damage soaked into nothing, and retreat. What he got were a dozen bodies clipped into melting slices of meat, and another ten people’s blood spilled across the ground. Those ten people did not stick around. They vanished in colored blips of light that appeared out of nowhere, their [Invisible] selves flickering with their magical signatures as they cast the spells to get away.

A distant part of him, upon seeing the devastation he had wrought, thought ‘That’s what 50 + 2 times Willpower damage per second will do’. Even with Ophiel’s lesser Stats compared to Erick’s, that was still 180 damage for the briefest touch, and another 180 damage over the next four seconds. Another part of him was crying in a corner of his mind, puking, staring at the bodies on the ground with the hundred eyes of Ophiel. But since [Hunter’s Instincts] was active, his clinical side remained in control.

Fires burned outside and on the barrier above, but the [Incineration Bolt] assault was over. Every single enemy combatant was gone, for now.

Kiri spoke first, “Is… Is that it?”

Erick, his own eyes fixed upon the map outside his house, quickly said, “No.” As the fires above the opal bubble across Spur winked out, and the bubble flaked away, he had Ophiel gather up blood from the places where people had attacked. “Not over. Not yet.”

Merit and Silverite’s voices came to him after ten minutes; there had been attacks all over the city, each one going off as the red dot fell from the sky. Erick was too busy right now to give all of that its proper attention, so he told them some nonsense about how he was okay, and everyone was okay, as he gathered blood, and body parts. A hand. A leg. An arm. Not a head, though; that one was dead. His own attackers had gotten away, but not for long.

Erick got back to work. He had Ophiel float beside the map outside of the sunroom and hold onto a finger. Through his [Familiar], and still inside the safety of his [Prismatic Ward], Erick recast [Cascade Imaging] high, high into the sky.

Poi spoke to the air, to include Erick in whatever conversation he was having, saying, “Yes. He’s searching for the fleeing attackers now. I already see dots appearing on the map. Looks like this one was a native, too, either impostor or natural and active in the town… Affirmative. I will let him know.”

Erick stared at the map forming outside his window.

Poi said, “They attacked the jailhouse, too. They attacked a lot of places. There are casualties.”

“Tell them to bring any body parts or whatever here or tell me where I need to go to get them. I’ll search for whoever they want.” Erick added, “If Messalina contacts us, tell her she will have to wait her turn to get the bodies I dropped. Unless Silverite has a problem with that?”

“… Messalina doesn’t need the body to get the soul.” Poi said, “If Messalina was ready for this, then she already has them.”

Erick stomped down a sudden rage warring in his chest, as he continued to look down, out of the window of his sunroom, as the blue dot on Spur remained blue, and the thousand kilometers around Spur continued to materialize out of the white fog.

Another blue dot appeared to the south, not too far. Maybe only a hundred kilometers.

The thing about searching for DNA was that it wasn’t a perfect system. Sure, it could track people over great distances and cross contamination ensured that [Polymorph] was not a proof against Erick’s form of detection, but Erick had learned yesterday that finding extra dots on the map did not mean that a person was actually at any of those dots.

He also learned that people were a lot less smart than he thought they were. Sometimes a person was active all over town and in a few other places here and there, but when a dot pinged in the middle of nowhere, that was usually a hiding hole of some sort.

Finding those hiding holes was the hard part, but not anymore. Erick was practically able to make a list of where a person had been, and through the power of his Ophiel, checking every single one of those locations was easy enough.

As for this latest dot, Erick sent a pair of Ophiel to the far off dot in the desert. The two winged [Familiar]s instantly found a trail of blood leading nowhere, in the middle of the dark desert.

Erick infused Ophiel with [Hunter’s Instincts]. He watched from the eyes of each of them, as each of them turned harder, their wings sharper, their eyes slitted and brighter white than before. They looked down, and temporary instincts told them that their prey was still here. People were yelling down below, under the sand.

[Stoneshape] ripped the ground apart in great rocky masses. Sand fountained as a home appeared out of the ground. Books flew. Cloth and food scattered. Little wooden swords and building blocks with letters on each side, fell into the sands, or broke. A human father, or a husband, or someone, held a dying human woman, as their children and he all gathered around their loved one, and stared at the suddenly open sky. Their mother was never going to stare at anything ever again. She was already dead. Ophiel could tell; she had died in that moment, right then, with blood pouring from her sides, her arms in tatters, and her face partially melted.

Erick controlled his overwhelming emotions long enough to message Merit about the location. Ophiel blipped away, as people in silver guard’s armor blipped in.

Erick moved onto the next target.

The first target threatened to turn Erick into a wreck. He could still hear the wails of children crying over their dead mother. But tracking down and finding the other attackers was emotionally uncomplicated.

There were a pair of people who lived under a pile of rocks with their collections of bloody knives, and piles of humanoid limbs. An orcol pinged over in Kal’Duresh, and that was a minor political incident, but Erick later heard that Baroness Pirazel Xelxex was happy that one of the Hand had been uncovered in her city. A trio of humans pinged in Frontier, each living in different locations. Viscount Andro Helix was not happy about losing a member of his guard and two great bakers, but their recent downturn in quality of baked goods led credence to the idea that they had not been themselves for months.

Four of his own attackers took a lot longer to find.

Erick stayed up late, well into morning the next day, tracking down blood from one 1000 kilometer ring to the next; from the foothills of the Mondariska mountains in the east, to Vindin in the far north, to the edge of the Wasteland Kingdoms in the west and everywhere in between. He left Ophiel scattered at these locations powering maps, waiting for their next target. Each of those Ophiel dropped a [Prismatic Ward] nearby, too, so they had a way to easily regain their mana.

It was a confusing day.

Merit dropped off samples from other attacks on Spur. This led to fifteen other targets being found across the Crystal Forest. The attack at the jailhouse had been successful in retrieving three people; Fillarina’s intel from Felair had been correct. Once the Hand’s full attack was underway, members of the Hand had come and rescued their people and killed everyone they could on the way into the jailhouse. They even knew where the anti-[Teleport] runes had been; they disabled those and left the easy way, in several blips.

Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] found those targets, and the three people that had been in her custody. Merit’s vengeance was bloody, swift, and absolute. Erick did not know any of the three people in custody. He was glad for that.

A few targets got away completely.

The day also got away from Erick.

Erick stood by the window of his sunroom, staring at the map outside while the late afternoon sun spilled light across his feet. The time to rain on the farms had come and gone, but he had been busy, and Silverite had placed the city in a state of emergency; nothing was happening today except for military action.

As Erick stared at the map outside his window, he was only half present in the moment. He was also looking through Ophiel’s eyes at similar maps scattered across the Crystal Forest, searching for the final targets; the ones who had gotten away. Either they had left the desert, or they were much more careful about keeping their [Polymorph] forms in separate lives, or they had cleaned themselves in ways that the others did not.

The orcol discovered in Kel’Duresh was completely clean, but they must have worn [Conjure Armor] that transferred DNA, or maybe they thought [Cleanse] got rid of everything. Or maybe they had made a mistake somewhere in the past and cross contaminated their home in that tiered city with the DNA of the body they used to hunt people. Erick didn’t know for sure. He would likely never know. But he did know that a killer was dead, and that was good.

The Baroness’s words to Erick, delivered to him through Poi, might have been thankful, but there was obviously some strain in that relationship as a direct result of Erick’s ability to hunt people down so easily.

Erick turned to Poi, asking, “How did she say it, again?”

“‘Thank you for your magics. I am sure that they will be used well, and not abused at all. Thank you for inventing this wonderful new method’. End quote.” Poi said, “It was slightly more sarcastic than that.”

“Yeah… She’s not happy.”

Poi said, “You should get some rest, sir.”

“I’m not tired.”

“Please don’t make me have to keep up with you, like this.”

