“I have to practice somewhere,” Edmund countered. “If you don’t want me to hit the walls, give me something to hit.”

“I’ve got plenty of things for you to hit,” Liam said, raising a finger to point towards the open exit. “They’re right through there.”

Edmund glared at him before returning to his testing, making a point of walking down the hall to build as much space as possible between himself and the back wall. He’d at least make an attempt at avoiding attacks on the structure itself—pissing off Liam felt like an easy way to commit suicide.

He cast Smoke Lash once more, feeling the spell take more out of him than Flame Dart ever did. Rather than attacking with it, he counted the seconds, reaching twenty before the smoke dispersed. It was hardly an eternity, but Edmund knew better than anyone how long twenty seconds lasted in a fight. Most fights didn’t go that long.

He practiced with the spell for some time, trying and failing to use it as an edge to activate Rend, before ultimately deciding its true strength lay not in its offensive potential, but in its utility. He’d found, for all intents and purposes, a rope that he’d never lose or break.

Edmund spent an hour repeatedly whipping the lash around various corners and doorknobs, getting a feeling for every potential use he could train with the limited targets the floor provided. He took breaks every few attempts to recover his focus, the new spell taking a heavy toll on his mind. He doubted he’d be able to cast it more than once in a fight, not without slowing himself down too much.

The dungeon mobs, to Edmund’s chagrin, didn’t respawn. He didn’t bother asking Liam why, deciding ultimately it didn’t matter. Most likely it had something to do with the connection between the warden and his charges. Given Urliel’s unique title, he got the impression Liam couldn’t—or wouldn’t—just pop another one of him into existence.

Training out of the way, Edmund approached the silver chest next to the exit. With neither hesitation nor reverence, he swung it open.

Ebonsteel Helmet

Provides major protection against magic and piercing damage. Vulnerable to blunt force damage.

Edmund grinned. The black helm with its brutally sharp edges was the spitting image of the one Urliel had worn. He wondered if the protection against magic damage was an enchantment or a natural property of ebonsteel, but for the time being decided it didn’t matter. He put it on.

The visor pressed his hair down over his eyes, an issue Edmund fixed with a few sweeps of his fingers. A few quick jerks of his head confirmed the helm fit perfectly, following his movement with neither delay nor difficulty, its neck guard sliding frictionlessly across his breastplate. No matter how he moved, his eyes remained aligned with the eyeholes.

The small part of him that regretted not asking Liam for a dagger to replace Rat’s Fang faded away as he tested out the helmet. His head had been unprotected for far too long. Urliel’s strike to his cheek and lip could just have easily taken out his eye or throat, two targets his newest piece of loot helped guard. He could make do without a short-range weapon for one floor.

Happy with his growth, his new title, and his latest piece of equipment, Edmund set his sights on the exit. He flashed a tired look back at Liam, who smiled and waved at him in his obnoxiously cheerful way.

With a sigh, Edmund grabbed his spear, muttered a soft lament for the loss of the dagger that had gotten him so far, and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 9

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Flame Dart spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 4- Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 4 - Gain minor health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 5 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 2 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while alone.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Novice

The second step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.
