So he held off. He kept moving, traversing the three parallel hallways and the perpendicular corridors connecting them. For some time he circled, evading the warden as he did its job for it, checking in on the various prisoners. An hour passed, then another. Edmund gave it three more.

He waited as long as he could without putting himself at risk of dehydration for lack of soil to draw from, pushing himself long past the dungeon’s normal respawn timer just in case.

Not a single wretch reappeared.

Only then did he seek out the warden.

Warden Urliel, The Crimson Hand

The name didn’t shine red like that of the rare boss he’d slain on the second floor. It did bear the same crown as the other bosses he’d faced, but another image hovered above the smoky text:

A white skull.

Edmund didn’t stop to wonder what the symbol meant, nor whether or not it would’ve appeared differently had he appraised it before killing the wretches. He didn’t question how the title of crimson hand described a being with one hand of dark gray and one clad in ebon armor. His foe was in sight, and its back was turned.

Edmund charged.

He held his breath as he ran. His footsteps silenced by his shadowhide boots, only the racing of his heart and warmth of his skin could’ve possibly alerted the warden to his presence.

It spun on him, raising its armored hand to meet Edmund’s approach. Black tendrils burst from its palm, racing through the gloomy air towards Edmund.

He swept at them with his spear, attempting at first to parry or disperse whatever spell the warden had cast. The spider leg passed right through the twirling shadows.

Edmund jumped to the left, his shoulder slamming against the wall as the warden’s spell flew past him. He pushed off against the stone with his elbow, rebuilding his momentum as much as he could before the tip of his weapon reached Urliel’s armor.

His blow struck the behemoth just above the knee, skidding up across its leg plate to find a seam in the jailer’s armor at its waist. It sunk in an inch, then another, then another, the force repelling Edmund’s spear far greater than the familiar resistance of flesh to such puncturing. Still the spear sank deeper.

It was only when Edmund knew for sure his spear tip had pushed well past the thick armor that he activated Rend.

Or tried to, that is.

However he tugged at that muscle that’d always been there, Rend refused to work. A flurry of ideas shot through Edmund’s mind as to why, everything between some kind of spell-blocking effect of Urliel’s to the force of the impact dulling his spear too much, but at the moment, why his ability had failed didn’t matter.

He had to move.

Edmund planted his feet and yanked at the shaft of his spear. It didn’t budge. He dropped it then and there, unwilling to stay in one place any longer. He’d have to do this without it.

Curiously enough, even as Edmund released his grip on the weapon, it didn’t fall. It didn’t sag. It simply hung there, almost entirely parallel to the floor, supported exclusively by the few inches at its tip that sat embedded in the warden’s hip.

Edmund darted in, his hand shooting towards Rat’s Fang at his waist as he moved.

Urliel swiped his gloved hand at him, a seemingly nonsensical motion while Edmund was still out of reach.

Edmund dodged back anyway.

Two shallow scores carved themselves into his breastplate, failing to pierce the pale gray chitin.

One raked across his cheek, cleaving his upper lip and biting into his lower.

Edmund exhaled sharply, biting back the surge of adrenaline-dulled pain. His thoughts raced past it, trying to work out what exactly Urliel could and couldn’t do. Already the warden had launched two separate attacks and managed to trap his spear. Edmund scrambled to find a weakness, some pattern or gap in the jailer’s defenses he could exploit. Only one came to mind.

Both attacks had come from its armored left hand. Even now its right arm hung limply at its side.

Edmund leapt for it.

The warden swept its left hand at him once more, this time carving three scores in the back of Edmund’s chest plate. One pierced it entirely, drawing a thin line of blood down his lower back. Shards of chitin from the gash in his armor dug into the wound, sending fresh pain blossoming down Edmund’s spine with every movement. He ignored it.

He landed in a roll to the warden’s right. The thing’s right arm didn’t move to stop him, the blow it’d managed with its left apparently the best it could manage.

Edmund didn’t stop to breathe. He pushed off against the ground to rise to his feet, now behind the bulky jailer. Urliel tried to turn to face him, but the spear still wedged in its hip slammed against the stone wall. Without removing the weapon, the warden had no way to maneuver in the tight space.

Edmund had no intention of giving it the opportunity.

With a single step of running start, Edmund leapt up onto Urliel’s back, wrapping his left arm around the behemoth’s neck and his legs around its torso. With his right hand, he reversed his grip on Rat’s Fang, and plunged it into the Urliel’s left eye.

The dagger snapped in two.

The blade flew wildly from the spot it should’ve pierced, the jagged breakpoint slicing a gash in Edmund’s wrist as it traveled. Luckily, his shadowhide vambrace stopped it reaching a major artery.

For the first time in Thrax knew how long, the hateful clouds of panic gathered in Edmund’s mind. He was out of weapons.

In desperation more than any real hope it would actually work, Edmund discarded the broken handle of Rat’s Fang to lower his palm over Urliel’s eye. He cast two Flame Darts, both adding their costs to the growing fog in Edmund’s mind, both washing harmlessly over the warden’s helmet.

Panic mounted. Edmund’s heart raced. Urliel clawed at his left arm, carving three deep gashes down to the bone, even through his vambrace. Still Edmund hung on. There had to be something he could do, some weapon he could bring to bear against this mountainous threat. Piercing attacks didn’t work. His paltry magic didn’t work. He had to have something left in his arsenal.

He blinked and looked up, an idea flashing through his mind as he gazed at the smoke that hung in the air above the warden’s head.

Warden Urliel, The Crimson Hand

Edmund gulped as he realized what he had to do.

Touch the unreal.

Edmund lurched forward, swinging up with his right hand at the ethereal text that floated above him. His grasp closed around the illusory smoke, and found solidity where there was none. He pulled.

The words stayed where they were, but a tendril of smoke came away in his grip, a lash trailing off from the words that existed to him and only him.

He wrapped it once around his right hand before releasing his left’s grip on Urliel’s neck. He wrapped the tendril of smoke around it too. Then, with gritted teeth, a racing heart, and sheer determination to overcome the agony the task sent racing down his wounded arm, Edmund pulled.

The cord of smoke hung taut around the warden’s throat. Edmund pulled harder.

In retrospect, the jailer’s weakness had been obvious. From the moment he’d first set foot on the floor, it hadn’t been the clank of its armor or thud of its footsteps that Edmund had tracked. It’d been the raspy, labored breathing.

Edmund put an end to that.

Twice Urliel swiped in desperation at the smoke around its neck, and twice its armored hand passed cleanly through the unreal noose. The behemoth heaved once, then twice, then its struggles stopped. At first it sagged, then it stumbled, then it collapsed to its knees.

A clatter rang out as Edmund’s spear fell from the jailer’s hip and hit the ground. Not long after, the warden itself followed suit.

Edmund didn’t release his grip on the ethereal smoke until the dungeon reclaimed its monster.

Edmund heaved. The smoke dissipated. Adrenaline faded, and agony took its place. Blood dripped down his face, his back, and his left arm. He stumbled to the right, his shoulder slamming into the wall as he fell against it. In that moment, he wanted nothing more than to collapse to the floor and lie down while his wounds recovered, but he couldn’t do that.

First he had to get his armor off.

The act itself was agonizing as he wrenched the jagged, torn chitin away from the gash in his back, but Edmund was no stranger to pain. Even without mighty adrenaline to help him push past it, he could do what had to be done.

It wasn’t until he’d finally collapsed, his bloody chest plate discarded onto the floor, that a slow, rhythmic clapping reached his ear.

“Artfully done,” Liam said. “Wielding Madness like a weapon like that takes commitment. Or desperation. Or both.”

Edmund simply grunted at him, the still healing wound through his lip barring him from forming actual words.

Liam made a show of looking him up and down. “You’re going to need another bath. You’re lucky there’s another hub world coming up, assuming you survive the ninth floor, of course.”

Edmund grunted again.

“Or maybe I’m the lucky one.” Liam tilted his head. “You don’t really have to smell yourself, do you?”

Clenching his jaw for a moment, Edmund bit back the pain to growl two words that he found worth every ounce of the agony they caused. “Fuck. You.”

“Yeah, yeah, you don’t have to be so testy. Why don’t you take a look at your constellation. I’ve found rewards generally put you humans in a good mood.”

Edmund made a point of glaring at Liam before shutting his eyes and following the dungeon’s suggestion, ignoring, for the moment, his newly available Aspect selection in favor of the much more interesting piece of text hovering just below his sigils.

The Crimson Hand

Edmund blinked his eyes open and met Liam’s gaze. “What’s it mean?”

Liam flashed a patronizing grin. “Assuming you’re asking about what I think you’re asking about, it means you’ve unlocked a new title.”

Edmund grunted, raising an eyebrow to communicate his meaning.

Liam sighed. “You really should’ve done some reading before coming down here. Maybe talked to someone?” He shook his head. “Titles are kind of like sigils, but they’re different in a few key ways. Both come with some sort of immediate, tangible bonus, which I’m sure you’ll see if you look a little closer at yours. Unlike sigils, you can have more than three titles at once, so you’ll never have to pick between which titles you want to keep. The flip side is that titles are rarer. A lot rarer.”

Edmund made the ‘so what’ noise without moving his wounded lips.

“They’re unique,” Liam said plainly. “There can only be one Crimson Hand, and since you’ve killed the last one, now that’s you. Not all titles pass on to the holder’s killer—a lot are hereditary, some are tied to a challenge or ritual of some sort, it’s a big multiverse. Anyway, the stat bonus or whatever is nice, but the real point of titles is they designate ownership of something.”

Edmund scowled at the empty floor where Urliel’s corpse had once lain.

“Right. Obviously he didn’t have the thing on him. You would’ve died if he did.”

Edmund’s eyes widened. That, at least, explained why the jailer had refused to use its—his, apparently—right hand. He was missing some crucial piece of gear, presumably a glove, given the nature of the title.

“Anyway, somewhere out there is a gauntlet that technically belongs to you now. I won’t say where or who has it—no spoilers—but I can guarantee if you look hard enough you’ll find it eventually.”

Edmund grunted, dismissing the obnoxious avatar and shutting his eyes again to take another look at his new title. As he focused in on it, a description popped up.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Edmund’s eyes popped open and glanced over to where Rat’s Fang lay broken on the ground. The warden had had more than a minor resistance to piercing damage. He wondered if the title could be upgraded in the same way as his path of the azure fox. Either way, he’d have to get a hold of this dread gauntlet, intimidating name or otherwise.

Shaking his head and returning to his constellation, Edmund focused in on his Aspects. He’d known going into the floor which he’d choose, so he didn’t hesitate to make the selection.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Edmund paused, a number of conflicting thoughts coursing through his mind as he reread the Aspect description. Sorcery was supposed to be the confluence of Elements and Chaos, not Madness. He knew that. How had Madness delivered it to him?

The reference to smoke stood out to him, the theme appearing yet again in his Madness-touched abilities. He wondered if it had something to do with the fire spell Elements had given him, or if Madness’s higher resonance had simply taken over any affinity for fire he might’ve had. The question of why, of all things, Madness manifested as smoke in the first place still shadowed his thoughts, but he knew he wouldn’t be finding that answer any time soon, not unless he could find someone else with the Aspect. It wasn’t a popular one for good reason.

Neither Madness nor Elements showed any change in description other than the increase in level, a fact Edmund had expected yet still struck as disappointing. He’d hoped for a more substantial upgrade to Flame Dart. On the other side, he found it entirely possible that Smoke Lash made the fire spell obsolete. He’d have to test it.

Liam left him in silence while he puzzled over his constellation, a behavior Edmund took every advantage of by refusing to return to reality until his Perseverance had mostly mended his wounded mouth. His back and arm and lip still ached when he finally stood, but at least he could use them.

Liam watched him stand. “Get anything interesting?”

Edmund didn’t answer, his focus drawn to the newly-carved channel in his mind. He raised his hand and delivered it his will.

A tendril of smoke wafted into existence, twirling around his wrist and stretching out into the space ahead. He pulled his arm back and whipped it forward, the Smoke Lash slicing through the air to strike the far wall. It scored a small slash in the stone, far less than Rend might have, but a great deal more than Flame Dart could’ve managed.

Better still, when he swung again, no new loss of focus clouded his mind. It seemed that, once summoned, he could fit in multiple strikes with his newest weapon. He lashed out one more time, willing the whip to shorten, and it cracked loudly in the air. Moments later, it dissipated into the ether.

Liam glared at him. “What did I tell you about attempted tunneling?”

