Edmund emerged into a narrow hallway, his shadowhide boots stepping softly across the even floor. Carved and mortared stone lined the walls and ceiling, its gray surface cold and uninviting. The smokeless torches hung in sconces, their tops decorated with studded iron rings through which the flame rose.

Liam didn’t show himself.

Perfectly happy to be left alone, Edmund surveyed the space around him.

The walls stretched some five feet apart, giving him just enough space to maneuver his spear, but not enough to do so easily. Torchlight flickered ceaselessly, illuminating the entire space in that familiar orange gloom of cramped underground spaces. A pervading sense of moisture hung in the air, an oddity, Edmund thought, given the chill that seemed to radiate from the stones around him.

The hall was cold and damp and lit just enough to exist without shadows. Had he expected something welcoming, Edmund would’ve been disappointed.

He hadn’t.

As per usual, the floor beyond his current position lay obscured by a bend in the path, forcing him to distance himself from the entrance if he wanted to know what threats the level would pose. Edmund understood the reasoning for it—the Depths didn’t want people scouting out a floor from the safety of the entrance. If he wanted to know more, he’d have to leave escape behind.

Having no intention of leaving the dungeon one way or another, Edmund didn’t care. He pressed forward.

With his footsteps silent, the sound of his breath and the beat of his pulse in his ear seemed to fill the corridor. On instinct more than anything else, Edmund strove to silence both, as if whatever lurked up ahead could hear his heartbeat.

Around the bend he found a long, straight hallway, at the end of which sat a wooden door, tall and welcoming.

The exit stood open. He just had to get there.

Edmund counted three junctions in the hallway where perpendicular paths intersected his, as well as a series of smaller doors along the walls. He didn’t bother counting them, they were so many.

With a watchful eye towards the hall ahead and all three intersections, Edmund approached the closest door. It stood not much taller than he, its front consisting of iron panels with tightly fitted seams. Right at Edmund’s eye level was a small square gap, through which three iron bars ran vertically, the gaps between them narrow enough to allow no more than a finger to reach through.

Edmund flashed a careful glance down the long hall before turning to investigate the door further. He tried to peer through the hole without getting too close, but his eyes caught only shadows. He’d have to put his face at risk of surprise attack to get a better look.

Leaving the hole behind, Edmund moved his attention to the latch. He prodded at the simple yet sturdy locking mechanism with his spear, fiddling with it from arm’s length in search of hidden needles or triggers. He’d only covered half of it when it appeared.

The sound of its breath reached Edmund first, deep and raspy and pained, full of phlegm and difficulty, like at any moment it would break out into a fit of coughing that never came. Edmund turned just in time to watch it round the nearest corner.

The thing stood eight feet tall, its humanoid figure covered head to toe in jagged black armor. It didn’t shine in the torchlight like obsidian, but seemed to drink in the light around it and offer little in return. Its edges were sharp and brutal, every joint and corner a weapon to be wielded. Only two visible signs of the creature beneath showed through the armor. The first was a pair of glowing red eyes beneath the dark visor.

The second was its bare right hand.

While a deep black gauntlet with clawed fingers protected its left, its right hand stood exposed, the only evidence of the thing’s true appearance. Its flesh was dark gray and sickly, layered in scars down to its gnarled and crooked fingers.

Every premonition, every beat of his heart, every instinct he’d trained over grueling months in the Eternal Depths screamed at Edmund that this being meant death. He couldn’t put his finger on why. He didn’t try. The thing was moving towards him, and something about it, something about the layout of the floor itself, itched at the back of Edmund’s mind.

Without a thought his hand darted for the door handle. He’d face whatever lay beyond rather than the visage of death that bore down upon him. He slipped inside, shutting the door behind him as silently as possible, keeping a hand on the inside doorknob to keep it from latching. In a quick and quiet motion, he swept Rat’s Fang from his belt and slid it into the mechanism, keeping the door unlatched while, hopefully, making it look shut from the outside.

It was only then that he turned to face the cell’s occupant, and it was a cell, that much was clear. The room stretched only eight feet in each direction, its only amenities a single torch and the chains bolted to the back wall. The wretch within lay curled in a ball in the corner, its ribs and pelvis protruding from its taut, hairless, white skin. It wore only a ragged brown loincloth and an iron collar around its neck.

Edmund let it be for the moment, keeping a careful eye on the rise and fall of its chest and the regular shivers that shook its entire body. He held his breath.

Just outside, the ragged, labored breathing grew louder. It scraped through the air, piercing even the metal door to grate at Edmund’s ears. He stilled. His heart pounded. The creature chained to the wall let out a quiet whine. Edmund froze, mind racing with the fear that the prisoner had alerted the beast outside to his presence. He thought, for a moment, to end its suffering, but such an action would surely make too much noise.

So he waited. Tense seconds dragged on as the raspy breaths reached their peak and slowly began to fade. Only when his enhanced ears could no longer pick up the noise from beyond the cell door did Edmund finally exhale.

He paused to stare down at the creature on the floor, wracking his brain to decide on the best course of action. His nobler side insisted he free it, break the chains around its neck and let it loose from its cell. His paranoid side argued that the thing clearly wasn’t human, and was just as likely to try and kill him as thank him for his efforts. Edmund dismissed the thought as unviable. Whether or not the thing attacked him, breaking it free bore a very real risk of alerting the thing standing guard outside.

That left him with two options: leave the wretch be, or put it out of its misery. Monster spawned by the dungeon or otherwise, something within Edmund rebelled against the idea of murdering something chained to the wall. Putting it down also carried a similar risk as letting it go. He had no idea what would and what wouldn’t alert the warden that wandered the halls.

So he left it there, leaving the other options open for a point in the future when he’d gathered more information.

His mind wrestled with the idea of intent as he stepped back into the now-empty hallway. What did Liam expect from him? Was the warden a boss to be slain or a mechanic to be avoided? Why lock up other monsters in the cells?

Edmund decided it didn’t matter. Clearing floors as intended didn’t drop rare sigils or hidden loot.

He made it four steps down the narrow hall before the ragged breathing reached his ear once more. Edmund didn’t hesitate. He darted forward, towards the junction from which the warden approached, and grabbed the handle of the nearest cell door. He swung it open and slipped inside, closing the door behind him and jamming the latch with Rat’s Fang.

He was greeted by the sharp and ominous sound of a chain snapping.

Edmund whirled around, leveling his spear at the cell’s occupant. He was too slow.

The side of his spear tip tapped against the ribcage of the skeletal, pale-skinned humanoid, the thing already inside his reach.

Edmund reacted on instinct, well familiar with such situations. He let his spear fall to the floor with a clatter, abandoning the weapon now that its range made it a hindrance. This would be harder with Rat’s Fang occupied keeping the door from locking behind him, but Edmund had trained for this, against rats, against spiders, against mantises. He didn’t need weapons.

He lowered his unprotected head and dove for the charging creature, angling his motion and twisting his neck to collide with the thing off-center.

Fiery agony raced through him as one of the beast’s long claws slashed down Edmund’s exposed upper arm. A dissonant scrape pained his ears as the creature’s other hand raked across his cuirass. Edmund ignored both.

He crashed into the creature’s torso, the left side of his head slamming painfully into the thing’s ribcage. It absorbed his momentum, not even stumbling as he collided with it.

But that didn’t matter.

His left pauldron, its tip pointed in replica of the rockjaws he’d fought on the fifth floor, pressed into the flesh between his foe’s ribs. It was all Edmund needed.

He wrapped his arms around the thing, holding himself to it even as it clawed at his exposed arms and neck, pressed the tip of his pauldron into its chest, and activated Rend.

The ability, awkwardly aimed and limited in its motion, failed to cut the monster entirely in half. About three inches of flesh and bone kept it technically in one piece as it collapsed to the stone floor, dead.

Edmund fell on top of it, wrenching his arms out from under it to avoid slamming his elbows against the hard stone. He took two breaths, one short and sharp and one long and purposeful, then pushed himself up. He wanted to get a good look at the thing before the dungeon reclaimed it.

Of its pale, boney, and gangly limbs he’d seen enough. Each of its twelve fingers stretched nearly twice as long as Edmund’s own, ending in sharp and brutal points. Each and every one of them glimmered red in the torchlight, Edmund’s blood painting them in sharp contrast to the alabaster skin beneath.

Just like the one in the previous cell, the creature wore naught but a ragged loincloth. Unlike the one in the previous cell, Edmund could see this one’s face.

Or lack thereof.

Beneath a hairless scalp, upon the stretch of skin where eyes and a nose should’ve been, was only a wide horizontal seam. Edmund leaned in and pulled back its lipless maw to reveal a row of pointed teeth. The mouth stretched far wider and sat far higher upon the thing’s head than any humanoid Edmund had heard of. He wondered exactly what it was he’d fought. Madness answered.

Faceless Wretch

In the adjunct realm of Ir’Kalinath, only the foulest of criminals face their greatest of punishments. The chains they wear siphon away their very souls, draining them of every ounce of humanity over the years for the sole purpose of empowering the guard that watches over them.

By the time he’d finished reading the tendrils of smoke in the air, the corpse before him had dissolved into the aether. It didn’t matter. He had what he needed.

The prisoners were empowering the warden. Whether that would end with their lives remained unknown, but if Edmund knew Liam, the answer was yes. He wondered how many other delvers had figured it out, how many had simply assumed the purpose of the floor was to dodge the warden and fight its prisoners while hiding from it until they could make it to the exit.

He supposed it came down to how many people realized the wretches made the warden more powerful. How many people knew of Ir’Kalinath? What even was an adjunct realm?

One way or another, Madness had done what it did best, and revealed a path he hadn’t considered before. The way out was already open, which meant most delvers would’ve slipped past the warden and continued on. Killing the warden had to be worth a prize of its own.

Edmund gathered up his fallen spear and pressed his ear to the door to listen for any trace of the ragged breathing that marked the warden’s presence. Hearing none, he grabbed Rat’s Fang and stepped back out into the hall. He made straight for the next cell, not bothering to wait for the warden to force him into hiding.

Again the wretch within snapped the chain around its neck and charged him. This time, Edmund was ready.

His weapon already in position, the beast never found a way past Edmund’s reach. It died with a spear through its neck.

Edmund paused over the wretch’s corpse, a stab of something aching at the back of his mind. It wasn’t guilt. It couldn’t have been guilt. These things were dungeon mobs. They were trying to kill him. They had wicked claws and no face and an unnatural mouth that threatened to devour him.

But they’d been human once.

Edmund left it lying in a pool of its own blood, stepping back through the cell door he hadn’t bothered to close and returning to the hallway. It wasn’t real, he told himself. These things were constructs, created by Liam with the sole purpose of suffering—their own and that they inflicted on passing delvers. Their blood wasn’t on Edmund’s hands. It was on Liam’s. The only real way to end their suffering would be to end the cruelty that founded it in the first place.

Anything, in Edmund’s mind, could be justified in pursuit of that goal.

So on he went.

From door to door he traveled, a salesman bearing death in his briefcase. He hid when the noise of labored breathing reached his ear, and shut each cell door behind him as he moved on. Perhaps the warden wouldn’t notice what he was doing.

By the time he returned to the first cell in which he’d hid, he’d long grown if not comfortable with the slaughter, at least accepting. He might’ve invoked it by seeking them out, but the wretches did try to kill him, after all.

Except for that first one.

When Edmund returned to it, he found it still laying there, curled up against the back wall. It didn’t roar. It didn’t shift. It didn’t break its chains and charge him.

Edmund killed it anyway.

It had to be done, he argued, ignoring the open exit to the next floor. It wasn’t human, not anymore. Any act of violence is acceptable in pursuit of violence’s progenitor. And yet, of all the wretches he’d slain, this one’s blood seemed to stain his spear tip all the more. It shone brighter, dripped louder, caught the torchlight and Edmund’s eye at the same moment.

And then he moved on.

He circled the entire floor three times, stopping at every cell to check and recheck that no wretch remained in occupation. At first he tried not to think about what would happen if one respawned while he fought the warden, but once he’d slain them all Edmund knew he’d have to prepare for that eventuality.

