They had no choice but to keep going while their brave soldiers laid down their lives to buy them time. Sevona sighed, taking in her garden one final time before following August out of her cloister. A crowd approaching a thousand waited by the back gates, most of their faces at least somewhat familiar.

They were the scholars, sages, divine craftsmen, and engineers who possessed the skills necessary to rebuild civilization from the ground up. Each master was accompanied by a group of youths whose spirits shone like stars. The hope of the next generation, the talents who would build upon the newly erected foundation.

The expedition met Sevona’s gaze with a mélange of expressions. Fear, relief, and shame were the main themes. They knew the capital would fall, that their neighbors and friends would die while they slunk away. They grappled with the weight of responsibility hoisted on their shoulders, knowing the torch would go out should they fail.

“We must move with haste,” Sevona said, conjuring a mount for each member.

She had no choice. Real beasts could no longer be trusted, especially not for such an important task. The expense for such a small miracle was nothing, yet the divinity within her trembled. She’d spent too much over the past years, and the horror of war had turned dreams into nightmares. Sevona didn’t even dare connect to the dreamworld any longer, afraid she’d expose herself to something she couldn’t control.

There was no fanfare and no lofty promises. This was a desperate retreat when all else had failed. The group slipped out under the cover of dusk, guided by August and his handpicked soldiers. They rode without stopping deep into the night. When the mounts succumbed, Sevona conjured new ones.

Sevona felt the evil closing in, treating them like easy prey now that they’d left the safety of Aylen Gan’s formations. It tainted the pulse of the earth and transformed the inhabitants who relied on its sustenance. Sevona could see the eyes staring at their party from a distance; she could sense their inner struggle as they slowly lost control over their growing malice.

There was nothing Sevona could do but urge her subjects to increase their pace. She could barely protect their group from the corruption, let alone the countless beasts making the forest their home. Her soldiers understood her plight and silently took over the task of finding their destination. One by one, they cut themselves with a skinning knife, deducing the path from the truths hidden in their blood.

Each bloodletting diluted the blessings Sevona had imparted over the years, but there were no better options. The forest had grown thorny, and the lodge’s location wasn’t fixed. Unfortunately, the expense meant her soldiers weren’t at their strongest when the prowling beasts could no longer suppress the madness in their hearts.

An earth-shattering howl shook the forest, its voice trembling with barbaric hunger and raw power. The roar alone was enough to make the artisans pale in fear and cause half the children to keel over. Sevona waved her hand, releasing a soothing fragrance that dispelled their fear-induced hallucinations. If only she could do the same with the ones eyeing their party.

The call had shattered the final bonds of camaraderie holding back the denizens of the forest. A veritable flood of beasts came rushing in, led by a pack of wolves.

“Open a path!” August roared, his whole body igniting with holy power as he brandished his sword.

The blade fell, and the sun rose on the forest for a short moment. Countless beasts were incinerated by August’s consecrated wrath, and his elites channeled their pent-up anger into tearing apart the stragglers. Only the wolf king, whose body was so permeated by sin that it had left its sanity and the limits of its bloodline behind, remained standing.

Her brave champion didn’t shy away from the crackling ball of destruction gathered in the beast’s maw. He shot forth, holding the beast down while the soldiers urged the civilians on. They rode over a sea of corpses, the intense corruption in their bodies leaving Sevona near delirious. August rejoined them, bloodied and somber, a few minutes later. He was given only a minute’s respite before the next wave hit them.

Hours passed, and soldiers became martyrs one after another as they fought their way toward the lodge and their final hope of salvation. Sevona knew the lodge wasn’t powerful enough to shield them against the grand trend sweeping through the world, but it could send them far, far away. Somewhere the evil wouldn’t be able to reach.

Sevona hoped it wasn’t too late, that she wasn’t too drained to open a path. Her vision was a blur from tears and exhaustion. She had no energy to spare for anything except keeping her shrinking number of subjects free from corruption. A sharp pain in her chest woke her up, and she realized there were no beasts left. There were only her and her champion, hidden in a grand illusion.

“What use is a Goddess who cannot protect her flock?” August said with steely eyes as he ripped out her Divine Core. “Our fate will be decided by man.”

Sevona fell to her knees, blood and divinity pouring out of the cavity in her chest. Her mind was in disarray from having her essence stripped away. The queen was fading, gradually replaced by the young, scared woman chosen to bear the burden of office all those years ago. Seeing her loyal guard place her heart into a densely inscribed sphere sparked a vague idea, bringing her back to the present.

“I’m sorry I wasn’t enough,” Sevona whispered to August’s fading back. “I pray you will be.”

Her vision blurred as she slumped onto the ground. She could no longer hear the calls of berserk beasts or the wails of her subjects. There was only the pulse of the earth and the dream no longer within reach. As her final act, Sevona asked for a cleansing rain that would wash the filth away.
