Viv decided not to attend the negotiations. It took a good week for delegates to even come, and that was with shaman sorcery that allowed ancestors to ‘speak to each other’ or something. Probably a variant of the goldy altar far speech ‘technology’ rulers used to talk to each other when it was urgent. As a meeting point, the tribes decided on a historically peaceful spot west of the hidden valley. A tent was set to receive the guests. It looked old and, if Viv had to be honest, a little ratty.

Envoys arrived on the back of pakar, one for the River Tribe to the South, and one from the Tribe of the Shores to the north. The Tribe of the Shore delegate looked like he was coming to attend a funeral, and the River Tribe one, a wrestling competition… as the incumbent champion. It didn’t bode well, and Viv’s presence wouldn’t improve things.

First of all, if she showed up, the envoys would question the Red Tribe’s authority. They would also assume she would be willing to give shit and she wasn’t. Her ship’s stores were so empty they were now eating kark food, and the rest of the metal was meant to keep the landship going. As for the gold, She’d taken it to ask for Rakan’s treatment later. Paying more money wasn’t part of the deal. The gods knew Harrak was permanently strapped for cash.

In order to still learn what was going on, Viv would be eavesdropping, and by eavesdropping, she meant staying thirty meters away from the tent, upwind, so the noise level would be manageable. The lady warrior Sala would offer translation.

Viv almost started when the screamings began, but the kark woman’s calm told her it was normal. Each tribe invoked their ancestors to promise they wouldn’t draw their weapons, a vital step in any kark communication apparently, only, each one was trying to outdo the other in imprecations to show how honorable they were, how their forefathers were the most noble, and more specifically, in which situation they’d kicked the other tribes’ ancestors’ asses.

Viv wasn’t convinced this would help.

At least, the voices were easily recognizable. The Shore tribe’s envoy talked like his dog had just died, the River guy sounded seconds away from gutting someone, and Marruk was a woman.

Viv followed the negotiations with a cup of warm kava and stoic patience. Her opinion was that since the Red Tribe had fought alone for so long, it would be disastrous to ask for more help at the very last minute, but she was also pragmatic. Her hosts had bled too much to take any chances now. If she were in a similar situation, Viv wasn’t sure how she would react. In any case, the negotiations started pretty well in the sense that no one had died yet. Marruk explained at length that the Red Tribe had won a major engagement and that their enemies were exhausted. Now was the time to strike but they could use some help.

“They have heard it before,” Sala explained. “Both tribes sent token help during the last siege. They withdrew without shedding much blood once it was clear the battle was lost. COWARDS! Sorry.”

Viv massaged her left ear with a wince. That one had caught her by surprise. Did danger sense not work with sound-based attacks?

Marruk made an impassioned plea on the future, unity, prosperity, and hope. She sang the praises of her own mercenary group, all kark taken from different tribes and different walks of life, some even of the female persuasion. The answer was swift and unfortunate. The shore tribe eagerly reminded Marruk that her second, Odon the Bellicose, was banned from his Mountain tribe because he was a murderer. That didn’t stop Marruk who cleverly talked about second chances as well. Viv recognized some of the talking points of the clergy of Efestar. The old girl had been learning.

It was frankly amazing to see how much she’d progressed as a leader.

Again, the envoys replied.

“Both tribes are listing their difficulties! That is a good sign. It means they want to extract more concessions.”

“So they’re taking Marruk’s offer seriously.”

“Who would not?” Sala boasted. “Have we not steel in our hands and the blood of our foes at our feet? Red Tribe! Red Tribe! Sorry.”

“That’s ok, I was ready this time.”

A second cup of kava made Viv miss cappuccino terribly. The discussions grew tense. Sala growled.

“They dare! They ask for half of our armor! Half! They are not for Marruk to give.”

Viv had to admit that a hundred and fifty sets of heavy armor were a massive ransom. Gods, if it weren't for the yries and their steelworks, Viv couldn’t even dress her heavies. It was a totally ridiculous request.

“Marruk is telling them that they do not have steel to offer now as they need it to fight. She said the armor belongs to her soldiers personally, not to her, and that they follow because they want to. She offers food, shields, and future steel shipments.”

It was wise, Viv agreed. She pretty much had a guaranteed trade agreement and military alliance with New Harrak at this stage, so they would definitely get access to some decent steel. Viv had told Marruk she needed something to offer as well as a bottom price. She had obviously taken the advice to heart.

“They ignored her offer. They are now asking about the landship.”

Viv tsked. Some people could not see beyond what was just under their noses. Greed ruled the steppes, it seemed.

“Marruk repeats that the landship is not hers, and therefore not for her to give. She repeats that she can promise steel later if they join their forces to her. She told them that so long as the war goes on, the trade from the east will not resume, so it is in their interest too.”

“The shore tribe don’t have ships?”

“They have no wood, Your Majesty.”

The sentences came faster now, and the tone was more tense. The River tribe asked for half of their armor again, to which Marruk replied the same as before. Eventually, the stout warchief lost her patience.

“She is telling them what she has to offer, and to choose from among those, and not to ask what she cannot give.”

It annoyed Viv that they wouldn’t even ask after the price, or how much steel they could get. She hated irrational people. They could just ask oaths off the Red Tribe and get some really good terms. What was wrong with them?

The River guy replied in a strident voice. Nothing different from the usual. What warned Viv that something was off was the silence that came with his words. Nobody else was talking. According to her understanding of kark culture, it was a terrible sign.

“Oh,” Viv’s translator gasped. “He just insulted Marruk’s mother.”

“Oh shit.”

There was a noise like ceramic hitting cartilage. An instant later, the entire side of the tent collapsed in a cacophony of warcries. Marruk bulldozed the larger kark ambassador through five meters before slamming him down in what would have been an impressive feat of wrestling. Before anyone could react, she straddled the dazzled man, and then proceeded to beat the ever-loving shit out of him.

Things went downhill after that. The Shore tribe regretfully announced they wouldn’t help while the two other delegations started a general brawl. True to their promises, they didn’t pull weapons, so at least their stats kept both sides alive. The savagery of the battle eclipsed that of the expedition massacre if only because the Red Tribe didn’t have to stay in a tight formation, so they just went for it. A huge River Tribe bodyguard finally managed to pull Marruk off the battered ambassador right before her dad came to the rescue. To Viv’s immense surprise, the now purple man rose to his feet with a scream of outrage. The dude must have lived the life of an anvil to take that level of punishment and still stand. Maybe it was a skill born from the necessity of the asshole lifestyle.

Viv took a sip of hot kava. She would never have guessed that kark diplomacy could be such a good spectator sport. Led by the brilliant tag team of Matar and Marruk, the Red Tribe immediately went on the offensive with brilliant exchanges that put the opposition on the back foot, only held back by the River Tribe’s powerful bodyguard and the last line of the ambassador, a peerless defender. Odon the Bellicose holding the red center freed the rest of the team as the massive warrior merely bull rushed all opposition, but it was the lateral work of Tylek the Shadow Hunter that finally managed to exhaust the resilience of team River, culminating in a Marruk vs ambassador mutual take down for a final score of twelve to five fighters standing (forfeited).

Their anger spent, both sides separated with a few last bruised glares. The tent was totalled while all hopes of getting reinforcement on this end were dashed for good. A very productive day.

“I guess that’s it. Time to go home.”

“I hope you will not think us barbarians,” Sala whispered with shame.

The only thing Viv was thinking was that she’d cut off her left leg to watch a New Zealand versus Red Tribe rugby match.

***

A grim assembly gathered around the command table, deep in the bowels of the landship. Matar and his shaman stood slightly confused since they were in the kark equivalent of a gold vault. Marruk was more stoic, as the official commander-in-chief. As for Viv, she was doing her best to keep Irao in her mind as the elusive Hadal used some weird skill to convince her he didn’t exist. It was an uphill battle.

Wait, what was she doing?

“The border fortress,” Marruk said in Imperial.

She pointed at the lynchpin of the Lutenese defenses on the large map in front of them. The map showed two mounds on either side of a river, and a fortress next to it. The fringes of the steppes extended north and south. From the protected stronghold, horse riders could attack any village in the vicinity. The fortress overlooked exceptionally fertile grounds for the region, and it could last indefinitely unless besieged. Anyone surrounding the city would also need to worry about prompt Lutenese reinforcement while the flat grounds on the eastern side favored cavalry engagements. It was a nightmarish place to take for the kark.

“We have three problems. One, we don’t have enough soldiers. It’s always harder to attack a castle than to defend it and we simply don’t have the advantage.”

“That might be less important since you have me,” Viv said.

“That may be so, and Arthur said she would help. It leaves us with two problems. The first is the gate. Can you also arrange that?”

“They have enchanted the gate. Against black mana,” a voice said, and Viv swore under her breath.

The old assassin had managed to disappear while she was looking. How was he even doing that?

“Okay. So yeah, it would be harder. I can always breach the walls but I imagine it would make for a difficult assault. I’ll check with Frosthawk.”

“The third problem is that they always know we’re coming.”

Viv wasn’t sure how big of a problem that was. There was plenty of stuff people could see coming and they couldn’t do shit about it. Marruk was still right though. Why give the foe any information? And she was intrigued, also.

“Is that a scout thing?”

“No,” Irao said.

“They always detect our patrols. Even our hunters! Even when they make sure they cannot possibly be seen from the walls by always keeping rocks or earth between them! It is a mystery. Even our shamans have failed to find how they do it,” Marruk said somberly.

She had a brief talk with her father. The head shakes confirmed nobody knew how the Pure League managed it. Now, Viv was really intrigued.

“I’m going to find out,” she said. “Alright, we have three tasks: one, finish training the new recruits to have as many soldiers as possible.”

“And give them shields. We won’t go far without those.”

“Fair enough. Two, find a way to open the gate that might not involve me. Three, find out how they always manage to spot approaching war parties.”

***

Viv sat in front of Frosthawk, unsure on how to broach the subject. The proud archmage clearly saw the landship as his pet project. It had been built in his city. Hell, it was his baby.

And Viv was going to do terrible things to it.

“Look… we need a way to breach the gates without me.”

He was seeing it coming. She could tell from the heavy sigh, the way he slapped a hand over his eyes.

“Let me guess… you want to use the landship.”

“I am merely asking if there is a possibility…”

“You want to use the landship as a high-speed battering ram.”

Viv forced the next words out.

“And also as an armored personnel carrier. If we could strap Marruk’s team…”

“The gods dammit.”

Now Viv felt like shit.

“Look, I’m just asking. I don’t want to—”

“The landship has a ram configuration. It was designed that way.”

“...”

“...”

“What?”

“I said, it was designed with ramming capabilities. I’m not pissed because you suggested using it that way. I’m pissed because I bet two gold talents with Lord Warcrime that you wouldn’t suggest it this season, and he won. And it wasn’t even close either.”

“Wow. Am I that predictable?”

“Honestly, in some ways, yes. Wasn’t it you who said that it wasn’t about what something was designed to do but about what it could accomplish?”

“Hm, that made Solfis weirdly annoyed.”

“So yes, indeed, your question was within the realm of possibilities. Is there a single Harrakan machine that cannot ram its target?”

“Honestly I should make it our design doctrine. All of our stuff should be able to ram their stuff. I mean, I would, but I’m confident it will come back to bite me in the ass in the distant future if I did.”

***

