The device flew high above the steppes. Said device consisted of a spacious wood basket capable of holding three people, equipped with a heating enchantment. Four gravitite stones held the basket aloft under a balloon that could be heated to increase elevation. It was a remarkable piece of engineering — deceptively simple — and the secret weapon in Luten’s intelligence arsenal. Manned by a crew of three, the balloon hovered under the wispy clouds, high above the steppes. The powerful winds of this region forced the operator to increase and decrease elevation in order to prevent the balloon from drifting too far. Even then, they were specialized scouts, capable of detecting movement with the acuity of eagles. Three scouts, one for each shift because the task was mentally taxing, were relieved every week by a cadre of air mages who also brought supplies and victuals along with their replacements, for the balloon was not allowed to land. Strict protocols helped keep its existence a secret from competing powers. Occasionally, the cadre also helped move the balloon back to the sky above the fortress, when the winds all blew in the wrong direction.

With the basket, no kark incursion had ever closed on the fortress, or even the surrounding estates, without the scouts noticing and relaying word back to the fortress by way of specially enchanted paper. Most officers believed an attack was imminent, therefore the current scouts were among the most talented. Presently, one of the scouts surveyed the land while another slept, and the third heated some soup from a can. All three flinched when the basket rocked. The sleeper woke up in a fit.

It had never happened before.

They looked around and found them. It was rather hard to miss a dragon and the elemental archmage hovering nearby. The dragon was still a juvenile, yet large enough that she couldn’t fit inside of the basket. Her serpentine head swiveled inside of the basket as she peered around curiously. Meanwhile, powerful claws gripped the railing, digging into the varnished wood with uncaring strength.

Interesting!

Mother, we need to acquire gravitite.

I shall ask Judgment how to make more.

“Is it for commercial use?”

Mother! I am not just interested in getting more gold, you know?

“Uhu.”

Also, you cornered the transportation market.

The crew remained silent while the woman with void eyes inspected the enchantments. In theory, they ought to sacrifice themselves to protect Lutenese techniques, throwing their lives in a heroic attempt to stop two of the deadliest entities on the continent. In reality, they were poorly paid members of a scorned path with families to feed, families they were now missing terribly. Nobody moved. One of them started praying.

“Yeah, so, She-Who-Feasts-On-Many-And-Collects-Much here noticed something unusual floating on the currents, and we found you. I am going out on a limb here and assuming you have a way to contact your employers.”

Three pairs of eyes found the box where the enchanted paper was kept.

“In there? Hmm.”

There was a lock, then the lock was gone. The witch ruffled through the paper with curiosity. Her voice was strangely audible over the howl of the wind.

“I see. To be perfectly honest, your deaths mean nothing to me. You are no warriors. It is enough that I found the balloon, so I have no objections to letting you go.”

Hope kindled in the hearts of the men, though they remained circumspect. The witch had a reputation for ruthlessness, yet some said she was honorable in a way. She was very clear in her threats before they were carried out. Survival and a mad, almost feverish relief briefly battled patriotism in the hearts of the men. They won. The witch smiled.

“Now, I assume you must check up with your base on occasion?”

The scouts looked at each other. They had no idea what she was talking about.

“You send regular updates to your superiors to tell them everything is fine?”

“No?” one of the men hazarded.

“Why would we?” another said.

The woman rolled her eyes.

“Your security leaves much to be desired. When are you set to be replaced?”

“In five days,” one of the scouts immediately replied.

Another fell to his knees.

“Neriad forgive us…”

Shame filled their hearts.

“Good. I will be taking that paper of yours. You will remain here for five days, and I’ll be keeping an eye out. If I found out you moved anywhere, well, you wouldn’t believe what I do to people who abuse my mercy.”

“I can swear an oath!” one offered, but she refused.

“I know the worth of an oath made under duress. They tend to have a lot of wiggle room if they even take. No. Do as I say and you will not die an agonizing death by dragon fire.”

The men were only too happy to oblige. Only after the woman left did they realize one of the enchanted gravitite stones was missing. It wouldn’t send them plummeting to the ground but it would make their superiors very angry.

It was beyond them, however, and so they just thanked their lucky stars that they would live to see another day.
