The Grand Design put a cautionary tag on the Skill. Then, spitefully, it hoped Erin Solstice went back in her personal door. She deserved a taste of what she liked to dish out.
 
——
 
Her throat hurt. Erin didn’t stop because she ran out of things to say. After she stopped pointing out the unfairness of the dead gods designing the system, she’d begun nitpicking the fact that no Earthers had come to this world with levels, then how fast she apparently leveled; an impossibility to other people, she assumed.
She could have roasted the Grand Design for another few hours, but she had been striding around the gazebo when she stumbled.
She woke up on the ground and rolled over.
“Was that you?”
She stared up at the ceiling, eyes narrowed, but then tried to sit up. Her arms were tingling horribly, and not just from the Galas muscle. Erin brushed at her skin, then looked at one arm.
“…That’s not good.”
Silvenia, the Death of Magic, had turned Erin into a Fraerling. Or at least made her Fraerling-sized with several Fraerling qualities. She hadn’t transformed Erin into a Lizardperson, or again, so Erin assumed.
Thus, she took some of the skin on her arms sloughing off as a bad sign. Erin brushed at the unnaturally pale skin, and it just…came away as if it were dead skin softened by hours of bathwater.
“So that’s what a tendon looks like. Okay…okay.”
The [Innkeeper] looked down, and her stomach roiled, but she just got to her feet using the handrails for support.
“We’re not done here.”
She vowed to the air, and she vowed not to forget. Swaying, Erin looked around. Had they nearly gotten to the Fraerling village yet? She began to walk for the exit.
But then Erin stopped as she passed a door in the air. She was still boiling with anger about Nerry. Anger and—
Well, guilt. She hadn’t known. The system had literally wiped her memories, but she had read Nerry’s appeal to Ryoka and Nanette. And it had changed how Erin viewed Nerry.
If she had known that was what the Sariant Lamb wanted, more than some scheme to get powerful—if she had looked at those carefully written words and understood that rage in the lamb’s eyes…
All Erin had said to the Grand Design was accurate, but it was a bystander’s fury. Righteous sympathy for Sariant Lambs; no empathy. Nerry had known about the levels she could not have since the day she was born. Her people had lived and died trying to achieve the impossible, and they had been smart enough to know how impossible it was.
It colored everything. Suddenly, the joke about the Sariant Lamb conspiracy and them cozying up to rulers—high-level people—made sense. The way they snuck around and schemed made sense.
She had been terribly unkind to Nerry. True, the lamb hadn’t earned her trust for a long time, but—it reminded Erin too much of Toren. It was like how she hadn’t known Rags. It was like other people and Antinium.
It was unfair.
You hear that, system? Erin thought at the system of levels, because she was fairly certain it could hear her thoughts. She should leave, she knew—but she was so angry and upset she remembered there was some other impartial know-it-all she could take her feelings out on.
“Right. You were threatening me too.”
Erin walked back to the door that led to her copy. She pulled it open, expecting to see a scary version of her with a flaming hat. Right now, Erin was ready to throw down.
Instead, Erin got that copy of the gazebo and a normal Erin sitting there placing chess pieces on the board.
“Oh. Appropriate.”
 
——
 
The Pavilion-Erin finished setting up the board as [The Wandering Innkeeper] sat down. She didn’t raise her eyebrows or ask questions. She knew what Erin knew.
“I’m not in the mood for a game of chess. Unless you’re as good as me.”
Erin Solstice growled at her imposter. The [Pavilion of Secrets] replied in a flat voice.
“There are, apparently, differences between us. I should know everything you know. I don’t. ‘Ryoka Griffin’ and ‘Shaestrel’ both have no entries.”
“Oh man, that’s so tragic for you. What’re you gonna do, threaten me? Hurt me if I don’t tell you who and what Shaestrel is? Are you allowed to do that?”
Erin smirked at herself, and Pavilion-Erin’s eyes narrowed slightly. She was annoyed, but, disconcertingly to the real Erin, she just leaned forwards. She looked like a woman who had stared down the Guild of Assassins and the Cyclops of Pallass. Who had held a white flag and seen it ignored.
Erin hadn’t ever known what she looked like in the times her friends and foes never quite forgot. Right now, her mirror gave her pause.
“You’re no longer on training wheels, Erin Solstice. Right now, you’re on ‘normal’ mode. Got it? Congratulations on the upgrade. Now, if you want to talk to someone you don’t know, you pay a price. A secret about yourself or the world.”
“You know everything I do. Rip it out of my head.”
The fake Erin’s lips twisted.
“That’s not how it works.”
“Then explain. I’m sick of not knowing.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] shrugged. She picked up a white pawn piece and studied it.
“What’s there to explain? Sheta made this place to uncover truth. In her enemies. In herself. In her kingdom. In the nature of things. Evidently, there are pieces remaining even she could not uncover. Her perspective is here. So are Cormelex’s and Aleieta’s. And yours.”
“—So this is like some kind of gigantic detective Skill?”
“Sure. With your personal butler. This is the Batcave, and I’m Alfred.”
Erin thought about the analogy, and her face wrinkled up.
“Wow, I hate that. You suck.”
“Based on your knowledge of butlers or companions, would you prefer to call me Jarvis or Siri?”
The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth.
“…Yeah, that was the best metaphor.”
“I know.”
They stared at each other, and Erin folded her arms and sat back in her chair thoughtfully.
“You have a personality.”
“Yeah, yours.”
“I don’t like you.”
“That’s been obvious of late.”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes narrowed as she registered the self-burn. Frustratingly, she felt like she was losing more against this talking version of herself than against the Grand Design. And as if the [Pavilion] were reading her thoughts, it replied.
“The Pavilion of Secrets is not just Erin alone. It is Erin plus the nature of the Skill itself, but also those who came before, in part. It’s the ocean; this is a bucket with four shells in it. But the bucket is allowed to have a personality. It’s subservient, technically, to the ocean, but it’s allowed to do…interesting things. Like grant you access to the memories you can’t have.”
“So if I run into other people who say things I’m not allowed to remember, I’ll be able to uncover it here?”
A nod from across the table; Erin began to scratch at her arms, then stopped. She leaned back again.
“I still don’t trust you.”
“Be my guest. Trust that lies don’t live long here. Or rather, all kinds of truths get exposed for what they are. I told you it was dangerous. I’m not on your side. I’m here to uncover the truth. Yours. Everyone else’s. And part of my job is to make you uncomfortable. Just as Sheta intended. Now, want to dish up some truths for me? Or would you like to play a game of chess?”
The other Erin waited, and the real one sat there, stewing. It seemed like she had to negotiate with ‘truths’ to get access to another Eurise. She had lots of them to give out if the [Pavilion of Secrets] really didn’t know about the fae.
On the other hand, Erin wasn’t sure the [Pavilion of Secrets] didn’t have a will of its own. She hoped it wasn’t able to actively be hostile or…leave this room. But it also occurred to her that, regardless, everything she said or did would…
“When I’m dead, there will be a door—this door—for the next person to find, won’t there?”
The Pavilion of Secrets smiled at her.
“I suggest you change it to say something other than ‘bathroom’ or your successor might be upset.”
The [Innkeeper] really didn’t like the thought of a copy or something of herself existing here. She folded her arms.
“I don’t—”
“You can leave your key behind. It might be accepted since you haven’t used this place long. Go on. Walk out and check your key in the hallway.”
Pavilion-Erin pointed, putting her feet up on the chess table and dislodging the pieces. She put her hands behind her head, closed her eyes, and, after a moment, spoke.
“Otherwise, shut the heck up about your empty threats. You pay to enter.”
The real Erin’s head hurt. She felt thirsty and hot and tired and sick and…she began to rise, then just leaned on the table, scattering a few chess pieces.
“I really don’t like you. Get lost. I want someone else. I’m allowed to do that without paying, right? Get me…get me…”
She trailed off. She should be using this Skill. Not playing into it by arguing. Erin looked up, and her voice rasped.
“Get me Ishkr.”
It was time. She had to know…Erin Solstice closed her eyes.
She had to know what was happening with her home. Her family.
She knew Kevin was dead.
 
——
 
When Ishkr entered the gazebo, he just stopped and stared at Erin. And she realized it was a mistake to call him.
“Erin.”
She hid her arm and smiled as she rose.
“Hey, buddy. Ishkr. How’s it going?”
The [Head Server] strode over, hesitating as his paws hovered over her.
“I’m not real. I know I’m just a copy and I’ll remember what—are you real, here? I can’t harm you. You’re sick. What happened to you at the Forgotten Wing headquarters? Niers didn’t say.”
“…Huh?”
That meant…Erin’s frown was huge on her face. She realized, as well, she had made a mistake by calling him in here. She could change the venue. Could she change…
Ishkr flinched back as skin re-covered her arm. Erin grinned at him.
“Sorry, that was a—how do I look?”
She conjured a mirror when he didn’t respond and added more color to her face. Her hair flickered, and she blinked at a healthy-looking Erin. Ishkr just took a seat.
“You…didn’t look like that yesterday. And I did see you on the scrying orb yesterday. In the Titan of Baleros’ classrooms. Just a [Magic Picture].”
“I’ve been through a lot recently.”
True statements. Why was she jousting with him like this? She didn’t want to tell him, Erin supposed, and what he was saying was making no sense.
Unless…
“How much worse did I look? It’s been a rough day today. Not the worst, but, uh, rough.”
Ishkr frowned at her.
“I…thought you looked fine, Erin. Healthy. I had no idea you had a new Skill like this. I have a lot of suspicions now. Such as you really being Erin Solstice. Tell me—have you done anything interesting recently with the inn?”
Erin blinked.
“I gave someone a boon. You might’ve noticed some longer hallways? A room for a traveller?”
Ishkr exhaled.
“Ulvama. Is she safe?”
“Yes.”
The sun came out for a second in a relieved smile, and he echoed it like the moons. That confirmed to both of them that they were speaking to the genuine article. Erin relaxed, and Ishkr paused.
“The box is working. Very well. Lyonette’s made full use of it. Can you sense what we’re doing?”
“You found my box?”
Erin sat up, eyes widening, then grimaced.
“No. I can’t. Is it—is it cool?”
She tried not to sound too hopeful, but Ishkr only paused a moment before his teeth flashed.
“Very Archmage, as the kids say. The coolest of all things. Too cool, maybe.”
“Awesome.”
Erin sat there another moment, wavering, then half-grinned at Ishkr.
“You may be wondering why I called you here today. I was, uh—just checking on things, Ishkr. Keep it on the down-low for Lyonette. I thought about asking her here, but she’d have more questions. I’m fine where I am. I mean, don’t signal me with knowledge of this Skill. This is like…a way for us to talk in the most private way possible. More than even the [World’s Eye Theatre]. It can be dangerous, apparently.”
“Truth. I know. If you have questions…go ahead and ask. I know Lyonette gave you a report on the inn.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded, keeping her smile on her face. Who the hell…? Might be Niers. That would be just like him. Decoy. She hoped it wasn’t Ryoka or something. Ryoka would make a really bad Erin.
“Right. Yeah. So—why don’t you tell me what’s going on of late? With Mrsha, Nanette, and everything else? I’m sure Lyonette told me everything, but I wanna hear it from your perspective.”
The [Head Server of Tales and Fables] smiled. He sat back in his chair and began to think, chin resting on his paw as if he were a Gnollish version of a certain famous statue. His ear flicked, and he opened one brown eye.
“I’m happy to, Erin. Just so you know…I can tell you’re not the same Erin I saw on the scrying orb from that last statement.”
Her mouth opened a bit, and despite everything, she grinned ruefully.
“I’m learning. Go ahead, Ishkr.”
 
——
 
For a little bit, Erin Solstice felt a calming surge in her heart, spreading through her limbs, and the sensation of a warm fire at her back filling her up with contentment. She sat, leaning forwards on the chess table, her frozen face thawing and flowing from expression to expression, consideration and mirth and outrage, as Ishkr relayed the events that had happened in The Wandering Inn.
She laughed in delight when he described Peggy chasing around Mrsha and Nanette with a machine-gun box filled with gold coins, and she asked about all the details of what it did.
“So it only works once? Darn. That’s…that makes sense. I asked for something like that. It’s powerful, Ishkr. Lyonette’s smart for seeing what it does. And I guess we’re rich.”
Her features were rueful and distant when she sat there. The [Head Server] smiled himself, but his eyes never quite left her face. But then he sobered and cleared his throat hesitantly.
“As for people…aside from the…people we lost during the Solstice…”
“I know Kevin’s dead. And Halrac. I know, Ishkr.”
Then the [Innkeeper] was the one he remembered. There was no smile of triumph on her face, nor horns or the willingness to charge into battle that had been sort of like her. Bravery on other people’s behalf was a shallow read of Erin. It was what she was capable of. But the bleak woman whose eyes reflected each new statue in her garden…
How had he believed she’d be the fierce, wounded warrior without compromise? It had been like her. It had been a good act. But that [Reporter] who had interviewed her—she should have shredded that Lizardfolk. The other Erin had been like a ball of spikes rolling forwards, even covered in blood.
