This one was like a handful of glass shards squeezed in a bare palm. Yet the question that told him it was still her was—
“Is anyone we know in danger? The Horns? Ryoka? Rabbiteater? I lost track of them all.”
Ishkr was quick to assure her most of them were accounted for.
“Ryoka’s fine. I believe they’re searching for Rabbiteater, but Lyonette can get in touch with him via the theatre. He’s fine, and Ksmvr and Vofea are with him. The Horns, minus those two, have washed up on Chandrar, and they’re having…adventures.”
Erin relaxed. Then her features grew troubled.
“Chandrar? Again? Pisces shouldn’t be there. At least they’re together, right?”
She looked at Ishkr sharply, and he confirmed they were. The Gnoll smiled, then hesitated.
“I, ah, they’re all in one piece. They even ran into the King of Destruction, but got out of it without trouble, I think.”
“Ishkr. What aren’t you telling me?”
He squirmed, but the Gnoll muttered after a second.
“—IheardarumorCeriaandYvlongotmarried.”
“Hah? With each other? What?”
The [Innkeeper]’s face went amazingly blank, and Ishkr gritted his teeth.
“It’s not confirmed by them. It was on the scrying orb.”
“With who?”
“…Have you heard of High King Perric of Medain?”
For a few minutes, Erin’s head emptied of all critical information about Sariants, the nature of the [Pavilion of Secrets], her concerns about Baleros, imposters, and filled with the image of some fellow who had not only a harem, but had married Yvlon. And Ceria.
Both, apparently, and at the same time.
“A statue. You said there’s a statue. Show me.”
“Er, I don’t have any paper or ink…”
“You can show me memories. Go ahead, Ishkr.”
The Gnoll squirmed and fidgeted—then showed Erin an image he’d seen on a scrying orb. Erin’s face went blank.
“I see. Married, eh?”
“It, uh, it’s hotly denied by them, and I choose to believe Yvlon’s words over the High King’s. Ceria was a bit catatonic from something else, and they were in a bunch of trouble, but they were all clear on that point. Lyonette is going to get more out of them, but there’s always something happening. You know the inn.”
“Like what?”
“Oh, we had a games night a bit ago. Elections…Rheirgest is settling down around us.”
“Rheirgest? Those villagers. What about them?”
Ishkr dodged telling Erin about the Tolveilouka and Sockman Rhisveri threat. She just nodded as she listened to his explanations about the necromancer village, drumming her fingers on the table. Well, two of them. The other three only twitched. Ishkr glanced down and then at Erin.
“I think that’s it. I don’t want to keep you from your tasks, Erin. Are you with Ulvama? Do you need help?”
“We’ll be fine. She’ll be fine. We’re with good people. I don’t—”
Erin glanced down at her fingers, then casually grinned at him and folded her arms.
“—So long as that’s all. Anyone else in trouble?”
‘No.’ How he wished he could say that. Ishkr tried for a bit, then exhaled and stopped staring into the void.
“There may be something with the Silver Swords. Mrsha found them, and we’re devoting everything we can. Lyonette’s heading to the Merchant’s Guild. She might be there today, actually, and believe me, she can throw a lot of weight around.”
And may the Eternal Throne help anyone who offers her a chair.
“The Silver Swords? They’re in the New Lands, aren’t they? Tell me.”
Nothing would do but for Ishkr to give Erin another update, and her face turned pale.
“That’s like the Oregon Trail.”
“The what?”
“Nevermind. I know what you’re talking about, Ishkr. If Ylawes is in trouble…I’ll try to do something on my end. Please give them all the support.”
He nodded encouragingly.
“Mrsha is very useful, actually. She’s the only person who can run around and scout for them all the time. I think they’re not in immediate danger.”
That was the best he could come up with. Erin gave him a nod and another smile, but she was standing.
“Sounds like I have some work. Then I’ll see you when I see you, Ishkr. Keep this private from Lyonette. I mean, you’ll see Erin on the orb—”
“I’ll see someone. Will I talk to you tomorrow?”
“Sure. I’ll give you a call if I can.”
She nodded as he walked towards the door. Ishkr glanced back once and hesitated there.
“Erin. Do you need help?”
“I’ve got some coming right now. Just—keep this private, okay? No need to worry anyone, especially if I’m looking good and kicking butt out there.”
She gave him a grin, and Ishkr stood there, unconvinced, his paw on the doorknob.
“If there’s anything I can do…”
“Careful about promises here. This is a learning experience for me and you, Ishkr. What level are you, by the by?”
The [Innkeeper] winked at Ishkr, but he only gave her a serious stare.
“A Level 39 [Head Server of Tales and Fables]. I leveled up three times last night. I’m looking forward to the next one.”
Erin’s mouth fell open in delight and astonishment. Ishkr paused with his hand on the doorknob.
“If you have anything to ask me, go ahead. Here or anywhere else. Are you going to be alright, Erin?”
He looked at her, and [The Wandering Innkeeper] managed a reply after a moment.
“I’m pretty sure I’ll live, Ishkr.”
He exhaled, nodded, stepped through the door, and she muttered.
“…Whether I deserve it or not.”
She didn’t mean for him to hear it, but Erin had forgotten how well Gnolls ears worked. Nor did she expect to see Ishkr stop halfway out of the door, body vanishing into nothingness. He turned his head, and that placid brown gaze fixed her with all of the quiet intensity she had always known he had.
“I’m telling Lyonette, Bird, Nanette, Mrsha, and the others. They deserve to know. Numbtongue might not, but he’ll learn anyways. Give me a bit to level. Then I’ll figure out a way to help you.”
He held onto the door as the [Pavilion of Secrets] tried to make him vanish. The [Innkeeper] gave him a refreshingly wide-eyed look as her best employee hung onto the door.
“I don’t want you to die either, Ishkr.”
She rasped, voice hoarse and filled with all the scars she was covering. Ishkr reached up and adjusted a tie on his new uniform.
“If you don’t contact me again, I’ll have to go to Baleros. It’s humid there, and I’ll hate it, even if Liska shaves me in my sleep like she threatens to do.”
His left arm, head, and upper torso were all that was left. He grinned at Erin, like a boy, the expression she only saw in his eyes.
“The Wandering Inn doesn’t stop until the last person in it chooses to. Check in when you’re better. Or else.”
She met his eyes until he vanished like passing mist, and she hung her head. Too ashamed to reply.
“But I do deserve it.”
Erin was relieved she couldn’t hear Ishkr’s reply.
 
——
 
Erin took a second to rub at her side. Pain was crawling up it, but she felt better in the [Pavilion of Secrets], now she thought about it.
Just why didn’t hit her until she heard a deep cough straight from the lungs. She turned, and Pavilion-Erin hacked again.
“What’s up with you? Got fur in your throat?”
“Nope. Just coughing. There’s no air here.”
The Pavilion-Erin stared at the real one, and Erin folded her arms.
“I can lie with my appearance.”
“You’re technically showing Ishkr what you looked like before.”
“So I can lie.”
The other-Erin rolled her eyes and sighed.
“The worst lies are the ones we tell ourselves. Anyone else?”
“You bet. I want the—wait.”
Erin hesitated. Ishkr was one thing, but was it smart to…?
Married. She paused a moment, then glanced down at her arms. Conjured a mirror again and frowned.
“Give me one second. Then—yes, I have someone in mind.”
 
——
 
The High King of Medain, King Perric Reoustinal, stopped in the door that had opened to admit him into this peculiar place. He stared at the person sitting in the simple chair, the [Innkeeper] in an apron, lounging at the table, hale, hearty, just like he’d last seen in the Titan’s company, and he suppressed a shiver.
The thing to do in moments like this was to pretend you were in control. Which he was because he should be. So High King Perric raised an amused eyebrow.
“Innkeeper Erin Solstice. What a magnificent new Skill! Good day to you. I suppose I should get used to this sort of little arrangement given my new relationship to Ceria and Yvlon, shouldn’t I? I would remind you to call in advance, but I’m quite delighted by the spontaneity this time, so I’ll let it slide.”
He flounced over to the table and saw her feet were up on the table with the chess board, so he put his boots up, crossing his legs. Erin stared at him and put her feet down.
“High King Perric. I’m glad you know me.”
“How can one not know the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn? The world’s still in a to-do about that battle at sea. But since this is a private Skill, I don’t mind meeting you. Officially, things are dicey, of course. Do remember me to the Titan of Baleros. We’ve corresponded via me writing to his magazine.”
He cursed at the slip up on the last part, but Erin just frowned at him.
“Right. I talk to him all the time. I invited you here, Your Majesty, because I had a few questions about your marriage to Ceria and Yvlon. I hope you can answer them for me. Such as whether or not they’re actually married to you or if that was an exaggeration.”
Sweat didn’t quite bead on Perric’s forehead, but the precursor prickle certainly began to tingle across his back and on his scalp. His mind tried to run ahead of the conversation and found it was out of shape, but he had enough experience to cover it all with a gregarious laugh.
“Miss Solstice, didn’t you see my scrying orb announcement of the event?”
“Oh, I’ve been caught up on the details. But you know how people lie. Even on scrying orbs. Are you married to them?”
“I consider them part of my harem already. If you’re asking if we’ve properly consummated things after all the little rituals, no.”
The High King waggled his eyebrows at Erin. The [Innkeeper]’s features tried to squeeze themselves off her face for a second. She actually half-turned in her seat, as if to ask a question, then relaxed.
“—Nope, thank you for your truthful answer. Did Ceria and Yvlon agree to this?”
“I’m sure I’ll soon be able to provide you with a contract to your satisfaction, if you’re looking for legal proof, Miss Erin.”
“So they don’t want this.”
The High King laughed heartily.
“They will be overjoyed with the situation as soon as we settle things after their adventure in Chandrar, Miss Erin. Few women resist my charms after a few nights in my company.”
His eyebrows raised and fell, and he looked her up and down and decided this was an excellent opportunity. If she had Skills this powerful, she had to be, what, Level 40 at least? And she didn’t look that poorly…you could do a lot with hair.
“You know, there’s always room in my palace for another lovely lady. I can assure you that anything the Titan of Baleros can do, I can do b—beyond a doubt I can make the attempt. And my partners have never complained afterwards.”
His eyebrows were at this point moving in slow waves across his forehead. Erin Solstice opened her mouth and stared at the insect-like crawl of hair slowly flopping across his brows.
“…You have amazing eyebrows. I am not interested in marriage, Perric.”
“King Perric.”
“Sure, as long as that lasts. Offer me a hand in marriage again and I may take it.”
The High King beamed until the way she’d phrased that hit home, along with the previous sentence. Then he frowned.
“I warn you, Miss Erin, I am highly amusable, but a bit of discourtesy might be replied in kind. You wouldn’t want me to have to redress all this with Ceria and Yvlon when they’re next in my company, would you?”
Erin took a calming breath and smiled.
“Not at all. And I quite understand what’s going on now, Perric. I’m sure you and Ceria and Yvlon have a relationship. I’d reconsider any actions against the Horns, if I were you. Even if your crown is gone and you’re so eager to make sure you’re properly married.”
He twitched, and his hand almost went up to his bare head. Perric moderated the edge to his next words.
“Is that a threat, Miss Erin? Titan or not, I’d be careful about even insinuating such things to the High King of Medain.”
She cocked her head at him. He wondered if she were in bed with the Titan. How would that work? He was about to be more explicit with his threats when Erin Solstice’s eyes lit up.
“I suppose there’s nothing for it. Perric, I’d hate for you to go after the Horns of Hammerad and waste time. Your oh-so-valuable time, which I believe matters greatly to you and possibly someone else. Especially when your kingdom could be wiped out in a second. Well, a proverbial second. It might take five minutes.”
He froze, about to snap back.
“B-by you?”
You weren’t allowed to lie here. That had to just be a hypothetical. Erin laughed.
“Oh, no. Not by me. But definitely by a force that could actively exist and definitely would murder you in a heartbeat.”
“Ah, well, the Death of Magic isn’t going to leave Rhir anytime soon—”
He relaxed slightly, seeing what her game was. Erin gave him a bright smile. It widened. Then the void of nothing behind her flickered. High King Perric saw blackness, but not the void of infinity.
A gaping hole of an eye socket moved backwards—so huge that the entire gazebo would have almost fit into it. The High King froze, then leapt out of his chair, reaching for a sword that he didn’t have here.
“What—what is—”
A skull of half-melted face like wax pulled back, and limbs of articulated bone covered with dripping flesh rose. Not a Human’s skeleton; nor any he could name. The creature turned, and Perric’s gorge rose as another figure rose upwards, shedding infinity like drops of water. It was covered in little holes all over its body, and things were crawling out of it—
It’s taller than my palace. He knew, without a doubt, whatever it was—was real. Something Erin Solstice had seen before. Perric only recalled Erin Solstice’s presence when she spoke, and he half-turned, unable to keep staring at the two titans.
“Seamwalkers. There are only two of them. Sorry. Let me show you the first wave.”
Then the entire world began to shift. More figures began to walk out of the void, and Perric’s heart stopped in his chest. He turned his head, body shaking like a leaf.
“Wh—what is—”
“Seamwalkers, Your Majesty. I ran into this lot a while back. Didn’t you hear?”
The [Innkeeper] sat at the table, feet on the board, eyes locked on him.
