It didn’t take more than a second of hard swallowing from her counterpart before Erin began to realize that this…not-a-clone of her wasn’t behaving like the [Pavilion of Secrets] at all. Her eyes widened, then narrowed.
A few comments from Ishkr, Perric, and her own thoughts on the matter slotted together in Erin’s mind with a sudden click. Wouldn’t that make sense? And it was just the thing Niers might come up with, maybe. But Erin suspected a certain half-Elven [Archmage] would think it was hilarious.
Oh no.
Oh yes. Erin Solstice said nothing as ‘Erin Solstice’ stood there. The other her managed to calm her breathing after a second. She took one breath and steadied herself. Checked her hands and feet.
When she gazed up, she was afraid. But she held herself tense, as if ready for anything. Not exactly defiant; she glanced around the gazebo, at Erin, then swallowed.
“I’m…sorry. Please don’t reveal me. I woke up like this. I’ve been doing my best since then.”
It was her voice. Erin stared at that image of herself without scars. No…Nerry…spoke.
Facts. Nerry was wearing her face. Nerry was using her body. Nerry was the Erin that was apparently in the Titan of Baleros’ company.
What did you say to that? Well—Erin might have had more opinions if she hadn’t been sparring with a clone of herself for the last few weeks. She had the incredibly mean temptation to summon the [Pavilion of Secrets] just so they could be extra confusing.
Just to be sure, Erin spoke.
“Nerry. Is that you?”
A flinch was her answer. The [Innkeeper] let out a slow breath. Nerry spoke quickly, spreading her arms, and she even had some of Erin’s mannerisms down flat.
“No one knows where you are. I—I haven’t done anything to endanger you. I told them to come after me. I mean, you, but—please, let me have this chance. Please, Erin.”
“You…you’re speaking. Hold on, I’m still on that part. How are you speaking English so well?”
The [Innkeeper] saw her own mouth moving, and she felt like Nerry had even nailed the faint midwestern accent. The transformed lamb took a few steps sideways, as if afraid Erin was about to drop kick her. She was so—nervous. Was this really Nerry or had someone made a filing mistake?
“I had weeks to practice it. And to learn how to stand and walk and do everything.”
“Were you on a stupid plank too?”
“Yes? Where are you?”
“I have no real clue, even now.”
Erin rubbed at her chin. She felt like she needed to be outraged here or say something appropriate. Like ‘give me back my face’! Or…
The memory of that lamb holding back tears as she showed Ryoka the truth flashed before the [Innkeeper]’s eyes, and the impulse to tease Nerry faded. Slowly, Erin walked forwards and gestured.
“I just wanted to talk. I didn’t know where you were or what you looked like until just now. Sit, Nerry. I’m not mad. I think I get it. This is…one of my new Skills. It’s called the [Pavilion of Secrets], and it allows me to talk to people. And remember things I shouldn’t. Like the Sariants’ trials.”
Erin had the refreshing image of herself gasping, her eyes going round. Nerry sat, clumsily, and the sense of surreality at seeing her own face moving, but a different person behind it, grew with each passing moment.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was one thing; it was unnerving, but it was Erin, in a way. This…was Nerry. She had familiar hands, but she clasped them together at the table, interweaving the fingers, shuffling her feet. Clearing her throat. Little things that made a different person.
But she has my face. She said nothing, just looked at Erin.
Wide-eyed with terror. Was she that afraid of the [Innkeeper] after all? Or…
“Why are you so afraid, Nerry? What are you thinking? How are things?”
The Sariant stopped and seemed to think for a long time. There was no fast answer forthcoming. She glanced at Erin, stared down at her fingers, which she wiggled, then looked around at the gazebo. Then craned her head up.
“…This is it. That’s what I thought when I woke up with your body, Erin. I didn’t know whether you were alive or dead when I was drifting at sea. I didn’t know if Ryoka made it or Ulvama…we still haven’t found Ulvama.”
“She’s alive. With me.”
“Good. Keep her that way. And stay away. They all want you dead, Erin. The King of Erribathe, Roshal—they’ve been sending [Assassins] from the moment they learned you were alive. The Blighted Kingdom too, I think.”
“They’re after you. I mean, me—but they think I’m you. You have to get out of there. Find someone to change you into someone else.”
Nerry’s voice rose.
“No. This is everything I could have asked for. This is what I want.”
Now it was the [Innkeeper]’s turn to do the staring in disbelief bit. Nerry tried to explain. She touched her chest.
“I—look at me. They think I’m you. When I woke up, I thought that this was the greatest chance in the world. None of my people, none of them will get an opportunity like this. If we could, we’d be raiding mages’ laboratories for [Polymorph] spells and potions. But this is magic cast by the Death of Magic herself. No one can tell I’m a Sariant. They think I’m you.”
“And they want me dead.”
Nerry nodded.
“Exactly. They hate me. I have the chance to keep them from killing you and—and make allies and defy your enemies in your name. Let me do it, Erin. Please. If enough keep coming after me, or even one over Level 57…”
Her eyes were distant with terrible hope, and Erin felt her skin chilling. You damn, heartless Grand Design—
“The Trial of Esteem. That’s crazy.”
Nerry gave Erin an incredulous look, and her voice rose in hope.
“Yes! It would be worth it if I got one person closer to the goal. But if I do everything perfect…Niers. Foliana. I might fulfill it entirely. Even the other Trials, maybe. Look at me. I have hands. A voice. I can’t tell anyone but Ryoka and Erek about the trials, but everything else I can do.”
“Whoa. Whoa. Erek? The Orangutan? Seve—Erek’s with you?”
Nerry nodded as the [Innkeeper] held up her hand.
“Of course. He’s the only person who can understand why it’s worth it.”
“Dying. As me. So you can fulfill that stupid trial put on your species.”
Erin clarified just so she understood Nerry’s point of view. And she got a smile that lacked for fear. That was it, she realized. It wasn’t that Nerry was afraid of death. She had been terrified Erin would expose her and cut the charade short or that Erin was going to undo the transformation.
“I don’t know where you are, Erin. But let me do this for you. Please? It will help you, and it’s the greatest chance I will ever get in my life. It matters far more than me. It’s a glorious gift that the Death of Magic gave to us. And I will be grateful to her forever, no matter what happens.”
“Don’t talk like that.”
The [Innkeeper] felt terribly cold as she looked at that wild smile filled with hope and certainty of death. It reminded her of how Goblins smiled. She pictured the cute little lamb headbutting her and realized it really was Nerry.
It was just that Nerry, the little lamb, had never really smiled at anything because she’d never had much to smile about. The only time Erin had ever seen her light up was at the idea she was like her namesake, Nerrhavia.
What a terrible, miserable world I live in. Somehow still with more chances than Earth. Erin rested her chin on her hands.
“I get it. But Nerry. I want you to live. I’m far from Niers or civilization, I think. You can’t get killed trying to be me.”
She got a laugh and a cocky grin with all of Nerry’s teeth for a moment.
“Believe me—I’m doing my best not to die. I’ve already found an, uh—a way to mimic some of your powers. Guess who showed up after you? Someone called ‘Paxere’ of the ‘Lucifen’—”
“Visophecin’s lot? What did they do to you?”
Erin leapt to her feet, and Nerry waved her hands in a very good Erin approximation.
“Wait, wait. It’s settled. I tricked them. All they wanted was your soul.”
That was not the kind of thing a girl who had been raised in a Protestant church necessarily found reassuring, even if Erin hadn’t ever really been in the faith and moved away from it as she’d gotten older. The [Innkeeper] touched her chest.
“Explain.”
Nerry had just gotten to the part about trading her soul with Paxere when Erin’s eyes bulged. When the Sariant activated her Warform, she heard hiccuping.
The [Innkeeper] was head down on the table, hitting it with one fist. When she raised her head, she was trying not to burst out into guffaws.
“You sold your soul to a devil? A lamb—”
Erin’s face didn’t know whether to be appalled or filled with hilarity. Nerry just grinned like a Drake.
“It’s just my soul. For a fighting chance, I’d trade so much more.”
She meant that as a kind of reassurance, but the [Innkeeper] lost her mirth and sat there.
“Oh, Nerry. Why didn’t I realize what was going on with you? I should have.”
“No one does. It’s not your fault. I just hoped you’d give me a chance to impress you. I wanted one more person for the Trial of Esteem, and your inn was the best shot. This is everything I could have wished for. Thank you, Erin. Please, don’t be offended.”
Nerry reached across the table, then hesitated as she met Erin’s eyes.
“Tell me what you want me to do and I’ll do it. I swear. Anything. I’m going to try to find Rabbiteater and keep everyone from attacking your inn. If you want me to make alliances or peace with anyone, I will. I’m trying to convince Niers to help. I’ll even make peace with Erribathe, if I can. If they’d take an arm—tell me where to go, and I’ll die and you can pop up later and pretend you have nine lives.”
“Don’t speak like that ever again.”
Nerry flinched as Erin met her eyes. [The Wandering Innkeeper] looked away. She took a huge breath in, then let it out. Slowly.
“Nerry. I had no idea about the <Trials of Leveling>. If I had, this would have been so much easier. I would have trusted you, because I would have understood what you were trying to do so much sooner. Now? At least, soon, I think, you’ll be one step closer to that goal.”
The Sariant’s breath caught in her chest as the Level 55 [Wandering Innkeeper] looked at her. Erin slowly tightened her hand on Nerry’s, as much as the [Pavilion of Secrets] would allow.
“I understand why you’re doing this. But you can’t just die—”
Her eyes flickered.
“—you can’t die. Got it? You matter too much. To your people. To your friends. Wow, that’s not…”
She trailed off, and Nerry burst out.
“I’m sorry I couldn’t ask permission. I’ll try not to interfere with your relationships. I…I’ll try.”
Erin re-focused on the Sariant, and her eyes sharpened.
“You have to tell Ryoka. She’ll figure it out. Niers…he might.”
“I don’t think he did? He really, uh, likes you. I’ll try my best not to mess anything up either way before you get here.”
The [Innkeeper]’s expression said, clearly, she didn’t want to know all the details there. But she just shook her head.
“I understand what’s going on, Nerry. I would have been really upset if I…well, let’s just say you’re not the only person running around looking like me. Which is really weird that there’s more than one. Let me just ask you one thing. We should talk about what’s happening—were you in some kind of battle?”
There was a lot to catch up on. Nerry nodded as Erin moved the chair closer to the table.
“Ask anything.”
“Why are you doing it all for your people, even if you die?”
Of all the questions—Nerry chortled until she realized Erin was serious. Then she gave the [Innkeeper] a pitying, envious look.
“It’s not just loyalty. We’re all selfish…people. I’d love to tell the other idiots to eat their udders and live my life. But what kind of life? Sariant Lambs are tiny when they’re born, and we don’t get bigger. We’re either lap pets or food. Why? Levels.”
Her eyes grew distant.
“If we just had those, we wouldn’t be devoured by the dozens by wild dogs. We wouldn’t be forced to beg and scrounge.”
Erin believed Nerry; she had to. But she lifted a hand.
“Isn’t that an exaggeration, Nerry? I heard animals love Sariants. You charm even Wyverns, don’t you?”
Throughout the entire conversation, Nerry had alternated from nervousness to hope to intense interest, desperation, and relief. However, now, Erin saw a flicker in the depths of those hazel eyes that was familiar.
There it was. Erin had been doubting it, for a moment, but here was the disdain and rage that had defined the little Sariant Lamb. Only, this time, she was allowed to speak, and speak she did, venom in her words.
“Of course that’s what—what [Beast Tamers] and [Encyclopedists] write down. We’re an entry in monster manuals and Adventurer’s Guild notes saying to grab us because we’re worth gold. Taming Wyverns? Do you know how many Sariants they eat or crush underfoot until they realize we’re trying to charm them? Dogs think we’re cute. When they’re starving, what do you think they do? When we’re near a group that can feed themselves and us, they love us. When things get hard, they do the same thing the smart species do and toss us in a bag over a bridge.”
Like…stories of people abandoning pets they didn’t want. Then Erin saw all too clearly the horror in Nerry’s eyes.
“I get it.”
“Really? You do? Amazing. Then you must know exactly what our lovely owners do to things they think are cute pets. You must know how good Humans and other species are at taking care of pets. Like a child who thinks we’re fun to kick. And if someone bites him, they’re put down.”
Nerry’s eyes were dripping.
“—And what you’re supposed to do when you get sent as a replacement because it matters and they might have information you need is—you cuddle up to the stupid brat and smile. And maybe, if you’re lucky, you get to steal an engagement ring when he’s older and plant it in his bedroom for his fiancé to find. But that’s just a dream. You do your job and hope it mattered.”
That was too specific to be an example made up on the spot. Erin cleared her throat.
“What about being sent to spy on a crazy [Innkeeper]?”
“I was prepared for the Goblins to eat me, or Mrsha to bully me to death. Before I knew her. I didn’t care about surviving back then. I still don’t. But this chance.”
Nerry squeezed her hands to her chest and looked at her fingers as if they were the most important things in the world. She turned a wretched face to Erin.
“I—I’m writing down things. I know even the Titan of Baleros can’t read it. But if I hide it among his works. Maybe someday—”
“Stop.”
