He seemed like a good man. At least, he’d offered to help the moment he saw her. But she didn’t know him. Not really. Their conversations had largely been about where they were in relation to each other. He’d been open enough, but Erin had tried to keep her cards close to her chest.
The Fraerling hadn’t visibly reacted when she spoke her name or mentioned Ulvama’s appearance. But he didn’t have to react.
“I suppose when we get to your village, we’ll be guests of yours? I hope you, uh, have room for a giant beetle and a really angry hamster.”
Erin watched Eurise’s face, and his eyes flicked up to hers.
“I reckon we have space. A big beetle ain’t the largest thing we’ve had to corral. So you’re closer by…well, it took Roja four days to locate the spot after her airdrop. You think you’re bringing any trouble with you. Monsters or the like?”
“Monsters? I don’t think any are following me. Of the monster-y kind. Airdrop? Wow, do you have, like…birds that you can travel with?”
Erin forced a chuckle, keeping her tone level. Eurise blinked at her and scrubbed a hand through his hair.
“—One or two birds, but not many. There’s other ways to drop. So no monster-y monsters. How many of the other kind?”
There it was. Erin had tried to dance around the truth, but she was still learning the rules. And here was the thing: as Fetohep had told her with her first trial run, there were rules to this place.
And Eurise knew the rules. Anyone who entered this room did automatically. That was the fairness built into the system. Erin, of course, had a lot of unfairness she could employ—once she learned how. But she didn’t want to.
Even so…the silence built up like the wariness between the two, and Erin felt like it had grown meeting after meeting. The problem, for her, was simple.
She couldn’t lie. Neither could he. When Erin had hesitated, she’d cursed because she’d had a thought.
Bringing any trouble with you? Monsters or the like? No, no monsters like Skinner.
But monsters like Roshal? She could not, in this place, lie about that. Erin smiled weakly.
“None close by, I hope. And we’ll be guests?”
He said nothing. Eurise tapped his fingers on the table, looking her up and down.
“Ah reckon you’ll be my guests. The rest of the lot aren’t always as keen on new things. But yeah. Guests. We’ll…”
He lapsed into silence. That calculation between his eyes—and then Eurise sighed.
“Rest assured, Miss Erin. We’ll get a [Healer] to you first thing. And if you were so inclined to give us more hints, I’ll do my best to find you, whatever comes next. Because I don’t think I’ll be able to look forwards to these little chats in another week’s time.”
“Huh? Whaddya mean?”
For answer, the Fraerling just raised a hand and waved it up and down his face.
“You’re dying pretty slow compared to some. But you are dying. Aren’t you?”
In any other place in the world, she could have lied to him. Smiled or laughed or acted dumb. Here?
The [Innkeeper] raised her eyes to his, and her sunken expression and the pallor of her skin told the Fraerling one thing. But when she spoke—both of them understood it was the truth.
“Yeah. I guess I am.”
He said nothing. Just fiddled at his side for a moment, then sighed.
“Damn. I wish I had something to chew on. I’ll see about sending two more kids I know. I’ve been searching, Miss Erin. But it’s a big jungle. Maybe you should start a fire. That might work.”
Erin Solstice looked at her hands, then at the Fraerling. She saw her one hope to survive in this place. What did Eurise see?
 
——
 
He saw a woman who refused to tell him her class, who could call him into this dangerous place, who was clearly, day after day, fading away. Who was still suspicious of him.
She saw someone she couldn’t quite read. Someone she wanted to trust—but couldn’t. Erin whispered.
“I could offer you a snack. And maybe I could help with the perspective thing. So long as you tell me one thing, Eurise.”
“‘Sabit risky. But go on.”
He raised his brows, and Erin’s hazel eyes flickered with a threat. The Fraerling almost reached for a knife he knew wouldn’t help here, and his back crawled.
“—When we get there. Will my friend Ulvama be safe? Even if she’s a Goblin?”
She looked him in the eyes, and the Fraerling paused.
“I hope so. But if you don’t mind me being honest, the others already have reservations.”
“Will you try to keep her safe?”
She pressed him, and the Fraerling raised a hand and scratched at his chin.
“That depends on whether or not I think that’s the right call to make. Sorry I can’t be more certain, but fair’s fair, right?”
Erin looked at him, nodding, but the wall she threw up was like nothing he’d ever seen, even in the big cities with their fancy Gnomeventions—though they’d laughed at him when he called them that.
“Well, I hope everything turns out well.”
She smiled at him, and the Fraerling sat there, vibrating, before he spat what had boiled him the last few days.
“You’re dying, aintcha? How long do you have to wait, Erin? Take the risk! I am!”
He leaned over urgently, and she beamed at him.
“I don’t want to put Ulvama in danger.”
“Listen, danger she’ll be in from a few unhappy folks. I can’t promise she’ll be safe—but it’s not like we’re raring to kill Goblins out here. Dead gods, we haven’t seen a Goblin for a decade! As for you—we’re more inclined to help than not.”
We just don’t want a giant crater a thousand feet across where one of the villages should be. Roja had been clear about how much damage had been done and how dangerous she’d thought the ants might have been.
One woman had taken them all out. Erin leaned on the table.
“I want your help, Eurise, I do.”
He folded his arms, getting angrier now.
“I don’t think that’s true, nevermind the laws of this place. Elsewise, you’d be more specific about who and where you are. My job’s keeping my home safe, and you’re soundin’ like the second-most dangerous person to ever appear here.”
“Second-most? I want hel…”
Erin raised her eyebrows and tried to speak. Then stopped. Her eyes crossed, and she tried again.
“I want…Ulvama and I need assistance.”
Strange. He stared at her as she grinned and brushed at her hair. Why did she say it like that? Thinking of the rules he’d pondered over—it had to mean something was a lie there.
She wanted help. For her friend. She kept talking about her friend. But herself? He wondered if she were alone, if she’d have even called him up. Or just sat down and waited to…
Dead gods, he had a headache. And a damn compulsion to yank this stranger out of the quicksand she was buried to the neck in. Eurise tried again.
“Listen, Miss Erin. Take a gamble with me. I think you’re not making it the end of this week without someone to help you. Your friend? Trust that we don’t kill strangers for being strange.”
“She’s a Goblin. If she gets hurt or worse because of me—I don’t know what I’ll do, Eurise.”
To you or your home. The Fraerling felt his skin crawl. He’d heard threats made before by other Fraerlings, in hot blood and cold. How did a half-sprouted Human like her learn to make threats like that?
Who had done enough to her—he stared at the burns on her neck and wrists. Bad ones, as if it had been better to melt her skin off than be tethered by…
“What in Rhir’s hells do you think we’re going to do? What happened to you?”
“Me? Nothing terrible. She’s been hurt worse. It won’t happen again, Eurise.”
And she smiled. Dead gods. Eurise’s fingers twitched.
They were at an impasse. Trust had to be established on one end or another, and he had a feeling she had more cards in this room than he did. Eurise was not a great and amazing thinker of multiple angles. He had the approach that one angle mattered, and that was the one you punched down. In this place—well, he was doing his best.
“I don’t know what else to say, Miss. How can I assure you beyond good intentions, which I swear I have?”
“I dunno, Eurise. You know what they say about good intentions and hell.”
“…Nope.”
She stared at him and then shrugged. A thought seemed to occur to Erin, and she swayed in her chair a bit before focusing on him.
She’s going to die.
“Say, who’s the most dangerous person who ever came to your village?”
Eurise hesitated, trying to calculate how this would affect their conversation. Poorly? But he felt like it was a good conversation point to convince her, potentially. So he grinned.
“Oh, that? It comes from the swamp you keep passing. You know?”
“Drowned Elf Swamp? Yeah, it’s a crazy name. Does that mean real Elves? Ulvama couldn’t believe it when I…”
Erin’s voice trailed off, and Eurise filled the conversation.
“What? Naw. At least, not that we remember. But it’s a good name. Had it since as long as anyone’s been here. Almost as old as my home—that’s the oldest village. Comes way back from when my great-great-something ancestors were kicking about here. One day, a storm blew in, and with it—one of the Tallfolk washed up. Drowning in the swamp. Hence the name.”
“You mean a Drowned Person, then?”
Erin frowned, and Eurise waved a hand.
“Half-drowned to tell of it! But nah. My folk fished her out, treated her wounds, and after a while, she got well enough to fly off. Big to-do about the entire thing. She was mighty grateful and did all kinds of explaining and spellcasting, and we thought nothing of it aside from her being quite the story. Funny, though…when we told the story of the swamp to some outsider Fraerlings a long time later…”
I’m told they had an expression on their faces much like the one I’m seeing now. The [Innkeeper]’s face had gone sharp, and Eurise murmured.
“…I think she was a very big deal.”
“What was her name? This half-Elf?”
“Why don’t you tell me?”
He countered, quite enjoying this. So the old stories were true. All the local villages had strict rules on telling the old tale to outsiders these days—not Tallfolk, outsider Fraerlings. Eurise hadn’t heard of a Tallfolk about in so long he doubted it would have occurred to anyone.
But her reaction made him think the rule might be important. Because Erin Solstice spoke slowly, as if it mattered.
“Silvenia. The Death of Magic?”
“I heard she was more like an Archmage, but sure. You speak as if she’s still alive. It’d be near two thousand years back. Popular old story, one of the oldest we’ve got aside from tales of Gnomes. Why?”
She stared at him, and it seemed like Eurise could actually see pieces falling into place behind her eyes. Erin muttered.
“So that’s why she—and you took her in?”
“Yep. I mean, not me. My great-something ancestors. They say she went on to do great and terrible things. Or that we rescued some kind of monster.”
Eurise closed one eye, as if he were sighting down an arrow at Erin. She looked hardly more dangerous than the soggy half-Elf they said they’d dragged up like fish. But—he looked her in the eyes.
“Is that like you or your friend?”
For a long time, the woman said and did nothing. She just studied him, as if she were trying to turn him inside out and inspect the very grain of his soul. Eurise wasn’t sure he wanted to know what she saw or thought, but it felt like a battle was going on unseen.
Then she sighed. Sighed and spoke.
“What do Fraerlings eat for snacks in your village?”
Of all the questions—Eurise felt at his pocket.
“Well, I had a nali-stick right here. Delicious stuff. Sweeter’n someone else’s sins. You ever had them?”
“Yeah. They’re super sweet. Do you like sweet things?”
“Mayhaps.”
He gave her a suspicious look. He’d been teased about his sweet tooth before; not recently, and not in arm’s reach. But the [Innkeeper] just lifted a hand—concentrated—and handed him something.
“Try this.”
He stared at a swirl of something white and glistening, then at the cone of, well, batter in her hand. Eurise took the cone, felt how cold it was, and blinked at Erin.
“I knew there was something to this place that you could do. Is this poison?”
She smiled.
“Only in a dietary sense.”
“Is it…filled with mind-controlling stuff? Something nasty?”
“Sugar. Milk. Are you lactose intolerant?”
“I tolerate lots of things.”
He supposed that meant it was safe and if he’d failed to ask the right question—Eurise took a bite out of the top of the ice cream swirl and nearly spat it out.
“It’s cold!”
He chewed furiously, then realized how soft it was. Erin laughed.
“You’re supposed to lick it!”
“I didn’t see no instruction book. What’s this?”
“Ice cream. I make it in my inn.”
“Your what?”
Eurise blinked, and Erin Solstice raised a hand. He jumped out of his seat as it changed into a wooden chair and whirled as a different room than the void appeared around him. Tables, chairs, a running flash of white fur—an inn, only sized for him, appeared, and Erin Solstice spoke.
“I’m an [Innkeeper].”
“You’re a what?”
That was not what he had guessed. Nor anyone else. Eurise kept licking the ice cream cone and had the distinct impression that, as real as it tasted, only the memory was going to follow him back into reality. But Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper], just sat there.
“I’m an [Innkeeper], Eurise. Not an [Archmage]. But I have done…terrible things. I do have monsters after me. Bad ones that look like people. I don’t think they know where I am. I think Silvenia sent me here because she knew no one would guess where this is. And I know I’m dying.”
She flexed one hand, grimacing as if that alone hurt, and then looked up.
“I want to keep living, I guess. I want Ulvama to be safe. If I take her to your village, will you promise me you’ll try to keep her safe?”
“Of course. If she’s no monster herself.”
That was the best he could promise, but Erin still wavered. She was going to send him away again without details. Eurise had been doing his best, but dancing around was never his thing. And this—
“Listen. Just tell me what you can. Ah know yer worried about your friend. So’m I. But my job is to keep people safe. An’ right now, I’m watching someone waste away. Ah’ve been spending weeks searching every which way, and I don’t think we have time t’ keep doing this.”
His hands clenched in frustration, wanting to hit something. Not her. The [Innkeeper] rasped at him.
“Listen. We’re both doing what we have to to protect our homes.”
His head jerked at her, not a nod nor a shake of the head, but something in between.
