Never again. She tried to promise herself she wouldn’t backslide again. She hadn’t been thinking. She—looked at the Hobgoblin, who began to fall asleep again despite her best intentions. After a while, the [Innkeeper] helped Ulvama get to her cot and put a new blanket over her. Erin locked the Battle Hamster out and sat in the spare healer’s bed.
She was tired, but not sleepy. Erin Solstice sat there a while. Then she produced a key and stared at it for a long time.
She vanished. But not before leaving a note, and she made sure to come back before the Hobgoblin woke up.
 
——
 
“Look who’s not a pile of goo.”
The Pavilion of Secrets sat across from Erin, smiling sardonically as she closed a book. The Antinium Wars, by Krsysl Wordsmith. She theatrically checked her arm.
“Going to add any more scars between now and tomorrow?”
Erin didn’t rise to the bait. She felt relaxed, and she wondered if this was the Pavilion’s strategy to get her to do something—or if she was just this mean to people sometimes. She didn’t really like her options.
“I think I owe you an apology. And thanks for helping me realize what was going on.”
“That would be a first. Erin Solstice, admitting she’s wrong.”
“Oh, come on. I admit when I’m wrong.”
“Name me the last time you did that.”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated. The Pavilion cut in.
“Five minutes ago with Ulvama doesn’t count.”
Erin decided to drop the subject and gave her counterpart a huge smile.
“—You know what, I think we got off to the wrong start. You’re sort of a jerk, but so am I. And you’re not against me entirely or you’d have let me die. You know what our real problem is? I keep thinking of you as ‘other me’ or ‘fake me’ or Doppelganger Erin. You need a name.”
The Pavilion of Secrets raised one eyebrow.
“…No.”
“Pavvy. Short for—”
“I’ll call you ‘Eri’ or ‘Sweetcheeks’ like that one Drake tried before you decked him.”
“Hey. Don’t be hurtful. What about P…Perin?”
The Pavilion of Secrets opened her book again and sighed hugely.
“With your ability to come up with names, I’m doomed to an existence of pain and sorrows. You have things to do. Rabbiteater first?”
Erin waggled a finger at the Pavilion with a smile.
“You’re not getting out of this. But yeah. Rabbiteater. Then…”
Erin’s voice trailed off, and she grimaced, feeling at her remade arms. She had a few things to do.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater was the easiest meeting. Which said a lot, because the moment he saw her looking better—he ripped off his helmet and began to snot on her as he gave her a hug that lifted her off the ground.
“Don’t die, stupid. You’re supposed to be smart. Not like Seraphel.”
“I’m sorry. Sorry, Rabbit. I messed up. Ulvama already poked me to death.”
“Good. But don’t die. I’m sick of people I like dying.”
She ruffled his hair, and he only let go after a long while. Then Erin looked at him.
“I guess I still don’t look good. Are you okay, Rabbiteater? What’s that about trouble?”
“Oh. That. I told the truth so you’d get worried. We’re only lost in a jungle with angry people who want to kill us.”
He tried to wave that off, and Erin raised her eyebrows.
“Like who?”
He ticked off people on his fingers.
“Uh. Erribathe. The Iron Vanguard, maybe. [Pirates], I guess. Jungle Tails?”
“Waitwaitwait—why are you at odds with Jungle Tails?”
Rabbiteater brightened up.
“Oh, that’s easy. Niers is on your side, and I’m on your side since I’m a Knight of Solstice. So they want us all dead. Plus, we’re in their territory, so Seraphel says they want us extra dead because Terandrians used to have colonies and wars with Lizardfolk because they’re idiots and did that with everyone.”
Erin slapped her forehead.
“Wonderful.”
“I did that too!”
The Hobgoblin grinned at her, and Erin got a map.
“Okay. Where are you on this map of Baleros?”
“Here? Or here. Or here. Or…”
He indicated the entire southeastern coast, and Erin groaned.
“Can’t you scry or use a spell to locate yourself or something?”
“It doesn’t—”
“It doesn’t work like that. I know. Well, poop. At least Niers knows you’re missing. I’ll try to find you myself. I’m sort of—I’m not exactly in shape to fight another war. But I’ll get to you as soon as I can.”
He gave her a serious look.
“We’ve got all kinds of [Soldiers] and [Knights] here. Although they’re Thronebearers, so they’re not much good. But Badarrow is here, and he’s worth, like, a hundred…thousand…Thronebearers. We even have Ksmvr and that furry goat person.”
“…Who?”
“Vofea.”
“Who? Explain that one to me—I know you’ve got help, Rabbiteater. But I’ll check on you. And I promise…”
Erin patted his hand.
“I’ll do my best to survive.”
“You better. Or I’ll punch you.”
He raised a fist, and Erin laughed, but guiltily because she heard the wobble in his voice. She hung her head until he hugged her again.
 
——
 
The second person that Erin contacted was harder. He came striding forwards, helmet under one arm. Like Rabbiteater. But unlike the [Champion], who still seemed to have that glow about him that he had kept since the battle at sea, his counterpart, Ylawes Byres, looked like something had removed what he’d always had.
His confidence, his simple bravery and idealistic virtue. Certainly, some of his body weight. He looked terrible, and Erin half-rose from her seat, appalled by what she saw. When Ylawes saw her—his consternation echoed her expression.
It was hard to say who had it worse. He sat down hard, staring at the scars around her neck and on her wrists. She looked at his cheekbones, which were too pronounced, and the grit and quality of his armor, which had even developed rust.
“You look terrible.”
“Erin. You’re…who did this to you, and where are they?”
Ylawes’ voice was gritty, and he coughed when he spoke. Erin glanced down at her wrists.
“Dead people.”
“Good. Pardon me. I shouldn’t be surprised. After Mrsha found us—I should have known she’d signal you.”
Ylawes took a deep breath, and he seemed to relax for a second. Erin gave him a rueful grin.
“It’s not quite that simple. I heard about your situation yesterday. I’ve been out of contact with the rest of the world for a bit.”
“So have we. Is…I was told I was in both places at once. Good. We have to keep moving.”
He half-turned in his seat, and Erin reassured him that not only was what they said true and memorable, he’d just remember the contents of their conversation. Ylawes relaxed a bit. The second question he asked was telling.
“—Do you have anything to eat? Even if it’s not…real…”
A hamburger appeared, and he grabbed it. Erin watched him inhale it and conjured more food. She wondered if it was the wrong thing to do; after he began choking on a mouthful of spaghetti, she spoke.
“Ylawes. What is going on?”
He looked up, gulping down a glass of blue fruit juice.
“The New Lands are a gigantic…not a trap, but they’re going to send countless expeditions to their deaths. It’s not easy to settle, Erin. Magic’s dying here. I had to turn against my employers to get my team and a bunch of people to safety. We’re trying to get to safety. Mrsha promised to find help. We—we could use it.”
That was a confusing statement, and Erin made Ylawes tell her more or less what had happened. The instant she understood his issue, from the lack of farmable soil to magic itself being drained, she winced.
And I thought Ulvama and I were in a bad spot. If we hadn’t had any magic…her first few days had been made considerably easier by her ability to start fires and so on. She didn’t want to imagine what happened in a place where you couldn’t grow food, at least, non-native crops.
“I get it. So you’re making for civilization as fast as you can.”
“—If we can. We’re too far out to survive with the supplies we have. We need to hunt or fish or find something. Mrsha’s scouting for us, and as long as we stay away from certain areas, she can contact us with what she finds. You…wouldn’t happen to have any ideas, would you?”
He looked like someone had beaten him down with his own shield. Erin had seen Ylawes Byres in a bad way before;  he’d gone up against even Facestealer. But he had never seemed defeated.
Right now, he did, and Erin wanted to give him a pep talk. But the problem with the [Pavilion of Secrets] was that there were rules. And something slipped out before she could stop it.
“You know, Ylawes. I never liked you as much as your siblings. I didn’t know Ysara, but I always thought you were more of a jerk than Yvlon. You were always a bit high-and-mighty, especially about Goblins, to me.”
She—hadn’t meant it to come out like that, but the words had refused to sound nicer in her mouth. Ylawes stopped eating and glanced up at her. He swallowed—hard. Then his head sunk.
“I see. I’ve…always respected you greatly, Erin.”
She flinched slightly.
“It was just—I know you fought Goblins at Esthelm. You were always the [Knight] in shining armor. The Aragorn, and Dawil was Gimli, but cooler, and Falene was not Legolas…ask someone from Earth to explain that to you. What I mean was…you were a vision of good that I was always afraid of. Because Goblins were evil. And I wondered if someday you and I would stand on opposite sides.”
That was before she had seen him take Normen’s side against Elia Arcsinger. Ylawes sat there, burger half-raised, and put it down absently.
“Before Esthelm, it probably would have happened that way. I was changing before I met you. I did kill Goblins at Esthelm. But that was where I met Headscratcher and the others. I never told you or anyone else about them. I…wanted to slay them. But I couldn’t.”
Her guilty head rose, and her eyes opened wide and fixed the [Knight] with a look that changed how she saw him. And he had never told that to her. Or anyone.
That silly [Knight] with his polished armor, like Yvlon had been before the façade fell away and exposed the real her, had always seemed to be to like glitter paint, too gaudy and earnest to be real. Yet even she, even the [Innkeeper] who was supposed to know better—didn’t realize that even when you scratched it, even when you dug down—all you found was more silver.
“I’m sorry. I should have realized who you were.”
Her voice was laden; his was heavy, and he avoided her eyes as if it were his fault.
“So should I. I thought I was House Byres for the longest time, Erin. A mirror of all our great deeds that I could only keep aspiring to. It turns out I…I might have been chasing an illusion. Now I’m trying to find out what’s even true.”
He passed a hand over his eyes. The [Innkeeper] couldn’t apologize enough. So she just whispered.
“You were just chasing your reflection, dummy.”
He had the audacity to look at her as if he didn’t know what that meant, while his teammates and anyone who truly knew him would explain it kindly in ways he would always fail to grasp.
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes flickered over Ylawes’ face. The confidence that had drained out of him and the weight that had appeared on his shoulders since his home was attacked. Her voice was gravelly a second.
“Well—you can believe me when I tell you that here. I never hated you, Ylawes. It was just…”
“I’m no Yvlon. I get that, now. I’m no Pisces or Ceria or a Ksmvr either. Not a Halrac. I understand. Believe me, Erin. I see why I ended up here.”
He scrubbed at his dirty hair, leaning on the table as if it were the only thing keeping him upright. Erin murmured.
“Yeah, you’re not. But I’ve never been prouder of you than now. Which is weird. I’m not your parents. We’re not the best of friends. Still. I’m proud. I know how hard it was to break your promise.”
His head rose slightly with that classic Ylawesian disbelief that made you want to punch him sometimes. As if the world could not be so different from how he believed it to be.
“Proud?”
His voice cracked. Erin looked him in the eyes.
“You did the right thing. You always do. We differ on what the right thing is, but I will always trust you to do what’s best for people.”
“And keep my word. Look at what Byres honor is worth now.”
His lips twisted, and he pushed away the mess of food. Erin made the plates vanish before they could tip over the table and hit the floor. She looked him in the eyes.
“Ylawes Byres, your integrity ran up against your word. The right part of you won. Maybe it wasn’t the best idea to go with the Consortium of Whatever They Were Called. You should have left earlier or turned back. But you still did the right thing. And I…”
The [Innkeeper] lapsed into silence, and her head turned, as if thinking. She gave Ylawes a frown.
“—Ylawes. Do you trust me?”
“Yes.”
He answered without thinking. The [Innkeeper] twitched again and closed her eyes.
“Then I’ll try to deserve it. Give me a second, Ylawes. Then I’m going to ask you to trust me.”
He didn’t know what that meant, but he stood and nodded.
“I’ll be waiting.”
 
——
 
He didn’t have long to wait. The [Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon] walked back into the room where Erin stood, sighing, and she pushed herself up.
“I have something for you.”
“Dawil says he hopes I’m not having a fever dream. Infinitypear and Rasktooth believe. Vuliel Drae’s split down the middle on whether I’m sick in the head.”
Erin chuckled, and he came to lean against the railing of the gazebo with her. Ylawes shuddered as he beheld the infinite void.
“This is a kind of power that I never wanted nor dreamed of.”
“Yeah.”
She glanced at him and seemed to take in that unnatural vista, then shook herself. The [Innkeeper] had no image of the New Lands to conjure, but she drew in the air with a glowing finger.
“You’re moving down a long river, right? I don’t know where you are—but believe me, someone does. This Skill does.”
“That’s right. We’ll be heading eastwards once we find a spot to leave it. Right now, it’s giving us the occasional fish. That…matters a lot.”
Erin nodded. She took a huge breath.
“Okay. You need to trust me on this, Ylawes. I want you to stop heading south along the river and head slightly northwest. Ford the river, but stick to it.”
The [Knight] stiffened.
“Are you certain?”
“Dead certain. I know how that sounds, but there should be a number of places you can cross where the water gets shallow enough. Head up along the river, Ylawes.”
“That’s almost the way we came. Erin—”
She met his eyes, and that conversation about trust was at the front of both of their minds.
