Erin didn’t mean it as in ‘don’t do that’. She meant…Nerry was babbling now, a smile on her face like someone unleashing curls of madness from her heart where they had been locked away, unable to even be articulated.
“I-it wouldn’t have been so bad, you know? We could have lived and hidden or figured out ways to be comfy enough. But every ten years, we’re told it can be done. Earn levels. Every decade. It drives us crazy. We were made to be cute little animals. If you could sacrifice anything to give everyone a chance—”
She turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] rubbed at her eyes.
“Yeah. Okay. You’re a pretty brave lamb, Nerry. I…dead gods. Is that even your name? What’s your real name? What should I call you?”
The question made Nerry smile. Gently, she shook her head.
“You mean my name among lambs? Don’t worry. I like Nerry. My name’s always been what I was called by my…owners. Nerry. I like that. It’s not cute. It’s someone I would be, if I could. Someone who mattered. Otherwise, I’m just a location. A number. I’m ‘The Wandering Inn’ and your contact. If I were dead or hurt…they’re probably figuring out a replacement now. Call me Nerry.”
The [Innkeeper] actively retreated from asking more about the lambs. She wanted…and didn’t want to know. So she cleared her throat again.
“How many lambs…how many people do lambs have like you across the world? Heroes?”
Nerry spat on the table, and Erin stared at the glob of spit. The Sariant had venom in her tone, but not for Erin.
“You think that’s something that’s true since you can say it here. I wish that were a compliment. Hero? It’s not altruism, I’ll tell you that. When we’re all desperately clinging onto the edge of a cliff by our teeth, everyone has to pull together. That’s all. If I had levels tomorrow, I’d…figure out what having a choice is like.”
She turned her head away, pretending she had something in her eyes. Erin was silent, digesting all this, and Nerry was shaking in relief as she came down from the panic that had filled her when she had seen that [Innkeeper] here and thought she had been summoned for judgment.
Maybe it had been judgment, but it was the gentlest Nerry had known. And it occurred to her that it was this that allowed her a moment to ask a question she’d wanted to know too.
“Erin. I have a question for you, if I can ask. For the—act.”
“What? Go ahead. You can ask. Sorry, I’ve been…what is it?”
Nerry looked Erin in the eye and flashed back to when she had first left Paeth and put her acting to the real test. Aloof, scarred, bitterly intense—not all of those were emotions she had to fake. She knew war, if not on the scope of Baleros. But then had come a question from the [Reporter] she’d had to answer as best she could.
“There was a…a [Reporter] who interviewed you after the battle. I did the best I could.”
“Didja punch him? I might have done that.”
Erin grinned, and Nerry filed that away. She shook her head, though, serious.
“No, he asked…he asked me about the [Prince] you killed.”
“Who? The one going after Rabbiteater?”
Nerry nodded to herself as Erin frowned. So the lamb had been close to the truth. The [Innkeeper] remembered, but she shook her head.
“I don’t even know his name. Erribathe was his kingdom? I just—”
“It was about him. Listen. The question was—‘is there anything you would say to those who lost someone during that battle? Would you like to clarify anything? Was your action—killing Prince Iradoren, the [Prince of Men] of Erribathe—justified in your eyes?’ I, uh, answered with your words.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Nerry an inquisitive glance, and Nerry murmured.
“I have run out of regrets.”
She saw Erin’s expression and rushed on, nervous.
“I—I heard you say that. At the end. I thought it made sense. I was wondering what you would say if it had been you.”
“I see. What would I say…can you show me?”
“Show you?”
Erin lifted a hand, and the scene changed to that of The Wandering Inn. Nerry realized she could do that too and showed Erin the Lizardman [Reporter]. She had understood this place was, in some way, artificial, but no one as of yet had matched Fetohep’s insight into the nature of Skills. Even so, the lamb understood what she could do; her control was as excellent as his.
 
 
Erin Solstice had a bemused look, as if she’d never actually been interviewed on the spot like this before. And perhaps she hadn’t, not like this.
“A comment. You mean why I did it?”
“Yes…or if you have regrets. I’m getting a [Memo] from our producers, one second…”
The Lizardman closed his eyes and repeated, seemingly verbatim.
“Is there anything you would say to those who lost someone during that battle? Any reason. Any…I’m being told not to say ‘excuse’ or ‘justification’. Reason it is.”
 
The fake Erin stood in the memory, an internally sweating Nerry staring up at the image of the wounded [Innkeeper] and reciting the words that had stayed with her at the end of everything.
—The [Innkeeper] in the [Pavilion of Secrets] had her chance to speak as the memory halted. She looked at Nerry. Then closed her eyes.
“Something to say to those who lost someone during the battle? Reasons?”
She stopped as Nerry listened along with the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Then the [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“Does it matter what reasons I have? Families, parents, friends don’t want to hear my reasons. It won’t stop them. It wouldn’t stop me. I did it because I thought it mattered.”
She looked at the frozen image of the journalist, and her eyes weren’t cold, but they were distant.
“It’s not something I can put into a single sentence for television or the newspaper. If you had no idea why we went, you can learn. If that [Prince]’s father wants to know—”
She turned to Nerry.
“—Someday, he’ll ask me himself. The reason is the same. I only hope…that next time, I will be in the same place for the same reason. I’ll always be afraid I won’t be able to go the next time I have a choice.”
Her eyes ran with regrets; her hat was filled with them, and the flames poured downwards over her hair. Her scars—Nerry looked at Erin and wondered how anyone could fall for her little trick. The owner of The Wandering Inn turned away from the vision and gazed at the Sariant Lamb sitting there.
“I’m sorry. That’s all. I hate battles. But ours aren’t done. So, Nerry…”
She reached out, and her fingers tentatively touched her own face. Erin’s face twisted up.
“It’s not always fun being Erin Solstice. I’m sorry. And thank you. And if there’s anything I can give you—”
She hugged herself and whispered.
“I give you my blessing.”
The Sariant went still, and she looked up, despite being taller than the real Erin Solstice, and saw hazel eyes shining with compassion and regret and mirth. And wonders. Then Erin Solstice gently kissed Nerry’s forehead and said:
“[Boon of the Guest: Erin Solstice].”
Then she threw back her head and laughed like a [Witch], an [Innkeeper], and a crazy Human.
 
——
 
It took Erin a long time to talk to Nerry, and she did a double-check on Ulvama to make sure the [Shaman] wasn’t panicking or awake, but it was still late night when she returned.
Erin yawned, then entered the [Pavilion of Secrets] one last time. When she saw the Pavilion sitting there, she rubbed at her back.
“I might hit the hay soon. How am I doing?”
“I’m sorry. I’m not qualified to give an assessment of your work.”
The Pavilion rolled her eyes in answer to Erin’s frowning query and pointed a finger up. Erin sighed.
“Seriously? Well, I think I did an okay job. I’m tired, Pavilion. This Skill is too powerful. Also, it involves a lot of talking.”
“What a pity you have such an antisocial class. [Innkeeper].”
Erin ignored the jab.
“I used to play chess. Chess isn’t a talky game.”
“You wanted to be a chess commentator.”
“Shutup.”
Erin Solstice rubbed at her face. Then she sat there for a while.
“Apologies to my friends. Healthier Erin. Help those who can be helped.”
“Apologies to Maxy?”
“Never.”
Erin’s gaze grew dark. Then she sighed, staring at nothing in particular.
“I guess I remember why I should fear you, Pavilion. I can talk to my enemies and allies here. Use truth to manipulate them, can’t I? I can wreak havoc with nations.”
“Oh, yes.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] would have said more, if she could, but she just waited. Waited to see what Erin Solstice did. Even the Grand Design couldn’t predict how the people who used it would act. That was the fascination.
Erin Solstice opened one eye wide, staring at her foes. Clever foes, who could turn this place on her. Uncertain allies. Dead things that had no place in this world.
“Allies. Enemies. And you can find people I don’t know, like Eurise or Tserre, using my insight. I killed…someone from Earth. I don’t even know his name. But I remember them. You could find them too.”
“Would you like to speak to them?”
“—No. I want to speak to someone I have never met. The Earthers from—Rhir? They’re on one side. Maybe I can change their minds, but I think they definitely have opinions about me. I don’t want to speak to Rémi Canada. Not right now. Or even the others.”
Erin was staring at an idea in her mind, and the Pavilion was smiling. [The Wandering Innkeeper] turned, and her eyes lit up with the insight that the Titan had fallen in love with. A terrible burden and caution. But she decided to try.
“Pavilion. Find the most dangerous Earther in this world you can for me. But—”
She stopped her copy.
“—Find the most dangerous one willing to listen to me. The one I consider the most dangerous, whom I have a chance of speaking to and being listened to. For better or worse.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] began chuckling. She rose and bowed.
“Your wish is my command.”
 
——
 
The door to the [Pavilion of Secrets] opened and revealed a young woman sitting at a table to the Earther who was invited into it. It revealed Erin Solstice.
She looked—unique. She was placing chess pieces on the table; that was the ordinary thing. Her hair was white and wispy and had fallen out in places, and scars touched her wrists, her neck; she wore them like reminders.
She had no hat. No visible hat at this moment, at any rate, but she was smoking on a pipe filled with pale-white flames. She took it from her lips and smiled as the newcomer halted.
“Hi there. I’m Erin Solstice. And you are?”
Slowly, someone walked forwards, staring around, but after a moment of hesitation, they slung the chair around and sat, straddling the back of it and peering at her. The young man rested his chin on his arms and gave her a peculiar look.
“I reckon that’s a dangerous thing to say here. You some monstrous thing or a villain?”
“Maybe. But I’m from Earth, just like you. Do you need help?”
“D’you?”
She tilted her head at him, looking up and down at the Earther’s clothing, which was definitely still from their world.
“You must be brand new. I don’t recall you, and I’ve met tons of us.”
“So there’re more of us. Is there organization on this side? Does the military have a base or something? Where do I go?”
He seized onto that truth, and she nodded to herself, eyes flicking up and down.
“If you mean military as in another nation, there are tons. If you mean home…which military?”
“America, of course. The good old US of A?”
He sounded insulted at the question, and she grinned.
“Well, there are lots of non-Americans here.”
“Your name’s familiar. You’re from home, aren’t you? I’ve got a posse of us I’m keeping together. Are you trying to help, or are we playing twenty questions?”
He squinted at her, and Erin shook her head.
“I’d love to help. Do you want to play chess? It’s okay if you don’t. Let me try again.”
She held out a hand, and he stared at the scars on her wrist before taking it gingerly. Erin nodded into his eyes.
“This is how you do it in this world. Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper]. You don’t have to say what your class is if you don’t want.”
The young man knew the rules. So he wavered for a good while before he replied, choosing each word from memory and placing them in a line until they rang to his satisfaction.
“—The [Innkeeper] from Earth called, and the [Gunslinger] answered.”
Then he grinned with all the pride in the world, fantasy and stories shining through his eyes. And she?
The [Innkeeper] sighed.
