A furry figure and a Goblin whirled around, and instantly, the hamster got to its feet and raised its paws. Erin stomped forwards, scowling, and saw the hamster with one eye, slightly matted, tangled brown fur, waiting like a boxer in the ring for her approach.
The Battle Hamster was the second new companion for Erin and Ulvama. It was a fierce, oddly powerful rodent capable of what Erin called ‘rodent-fu’—Ulvama refused to call it that—and it was about as dangerous as the Corumdon Beetle.
However, the menacing mafia hamster, which lived by extorting other rodents out of their food, was a bit less threatening today.
Mostly because it had gigantic, puffed-out cheeks, which contained all of the nuts that were supposed to be Erin’s breakfast. She strode up to it, and the hamster warily tensed.
“You stole my nuts!”
The hamster didn’t reply. It just glowered at Erin, and she glared back. She knew from experience the Battle Hamster was winding up for one of its weird kicks that hurt like heck, [Aspect of the Inn: Reinforced Structure] or not.
However, before it moved, Ulvama leapt to her feet.
“Erin! You’re awake. Hamster, back.”
She fearlessly interposed herself between the hamster and Erin, and the two stopped bristling at each other. The hamster wiggled its face at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] pointed at it.
“Ulvama, it ate the nuts!”
“Yah, but it’s cute. See?”
Ulvama grinned and pinched at the hamster’s ridiculous cheeks. The hamster, accordingly, swatted at her arm, but she affectionately rubbed its head. Erin had no idea why Ulvama was so nice to the annoying thing. They weren’t buddies. She and the hamster knew they weren’t buddies.
“It’s got my breakfast is what it has. Now they’ll be covered in hamster drool!”
Erin complained, and Ulvama fished around at her side.
“I thought of that. Here. Have this.”
To Erin’s delight, she pulled out what turned out to be half of the salamander tail she must have cooked for breakfast wrapped in leaves. Erin took it and sat down after a moment. The hamster loomed over her until Ulvama tsked at it.
“You, sit there. Sit!”
She tried to force it down with all her weight, but the hamster just got onto all fours and deliberately moved into where Ulvama had sat and lay down. It seemed to be smugly smirking at Erin, who bit a chunk of lizard meat off as she glared at it.
Ulvama squeezed between the two to keep peace, but kept smiling as she put an arm around Erin’s shoulder and another on the hamster’s back.
“There. See? All is good. How—how was your sleep, Erin?”
She and the hamster gave Erin a side-eye, and the [Innkeeper] yawned. She scratched at her side.
“Uh…good? I was out a long time, huh. What time is it?”
“Almost noon.”
“Noon?”
Erin leapt to her feet and nearly fell off the beetle’s head. Ulvama grabbed her legs, and Erin lost half her breakfast—cursing, she pulled herself upright and saw the hamster had grabbed Ulvama’s shoulder to pull her back.
“Damn. My breakfast! Eh, I wasn’t that hungry.”
Erin sighed and sat back down. Ulvama eyed her as the beetle clacked its mandibles beneath them. Whether it was listening to her or not—she patted its head.
“We can make more. We have to stop and get more food anyways. You didn’t miss much. Hamster and I were just making more paint. See?”
She had an empty acorn shell as a bowl and a bunch of dust from the campfires she was mixing with water to form the basis of a crude paste. With the help of clay, Ulvama had gotten a decent orange.
“Is that, uh—is that going to be useful for your magic?”
Ulvama made a face.
“If you put more colors into it—maybe. I was showing the hamster my power. So it obeys me. See?”
Now, Erin could make out faint markings on the hamster’s white underbelly. It looked a bit grumpy as it brushed at the paint, but it did listen to Ulvama.
More or less. Erin saw the familiar whorls of Ulvama’s shamanic magic—but she grinned as she bit into another piece of lizard meat.
“What’s that symbol for?”
Ulvama turned red as Erin pointed at a little smiley face drawn on the hamster’s belly. The Battle Hamster seemed to sense Erin’s amusement and began to furiously scrub at the markings as Erin snrked with amusement.
“That is to make it happier! It might not have worked.”
The hamster spat out one of the acorns it had swallowed and used it to rub its fur in a remarkable display of ingenuity. Ulvama groaned and tried to stop it from erasing all the magic.
“No! No, stop! That one makes you jump higher! See? You keep that one—beetle! Beetle, we’re stopping soon! Find a good spot for food!”
She waved her arms, shouting at the two critters, and Erin felt the beetle slow a bit beneath them. How much either animal actually got she didn’t know, but she stared ahead and saw a lot of big, smoothed rocks on what looked like a rocky plateau.
They were high on a ridge of some kind, passing above the swamp below. It was the route that Erin had chosen that would lead them eastwards to Eurise and, in theory, help. They could have stayed put, of course, but Erin wasn’t sure if the army ants were following for revenge, and besides, moving made her and Ulvama feel like they were getting somewhere.
The rocks didn’t look like they had edible food; there were hundreds of thousands of them blanketing the ground, the result of some kind of geological activity to create the smooth gravel. Erin just bet there were nasty bugs down there, but she tapped the beetle’s head and slid down a bit to point.
“That way! Head down towards those trees over there, okay, buddy?”
The beetle obligingly changed direction, and Erin smiled at it. The hamster, meanwhile, had decided to start eating its nuts. It spat them up inside the tent and then came out with two saliva-covered ones, which it began to break open with its paws.
It glared at her. She glared at it. Ulvama brightly moved between the two again.
“Maybe we should make more pillows, Erin. So you don’t bump around all the time. Hamster is very good as a pillow, but he wakes up.”
Erin eyed the hamster balefully.
“He doesn’t let me sleep on him. And should we call him ‘hamster’ all the time? What about a name? Like Mr. Annoying. We could call the beetle, uh…Bob?”
Ulvama stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] tried again.
“Roy?”
“They are beetle and hamster. Do they need names? Maybe they have some already.”
“Greydamster of Paws?”
Ulvama snorted as she took a sip from a water flask. Erin smiled at the appalled look on the [Shaman]’s face, mingling hilarity and chagrin.
“Aha! That’s another Erin joke for the win! Six days in a row!”
“Is a bad joke. You keep telling it and it doesn’t get funnier.”
“Makes you laugh, though.”
The Hobgoblin shook her head in exasperation.
“Greydath is dangerous.”
The beetle climbed down towards an inviting patch of trees covered by moss that seemed to carpet everything. Ulvama found one of her spears, and Erin grinned as she checked for any noticeable threats. The hamster stuffed acorn bits into its mouth.
“Maybe it’s actually Greydath in disguise. What if Silvenia polymorphed him too? And that’d make the beetle—Nerry! Issat you, Nerry?”
Ulvama didn’t quite chuckle this time, but she rolled her eyes.
“If that happened—the hamster is Nerry. Greydath is too important to make fun of, Erin. And too dangerous. You know—that’s a good word for today. Greydath Pasai. Lord Greydath. Goblin Lord Greydath.”
“Oh, is that the word for Goblin Lord?”
Erin glanced up from her meal. It was the half a salamander tail they’d been eating the last three days, and it wasn’t really appealing to her; she’d lost half of the breakfast, yet only managed three cubes of meat. That was probably enough for anyone’s breakfast, so she tucked the other two pieces back in the leaves.
Ulvama frowned at that, but she glanced at Erin.
“Yep. We have words for ‘Chieftain’, ‘Lord’, and ‘King’. Different from…other species with same things. Greydath is one of the Goblin Lords. He…I…you should be a bit respectful.”
“I thought he blew up my tower. With Bird in it. And Rags doesn’t like him.”
Erin stood up as the beetle huffed towards the nearest tree. The hamster got up too; they all knew that once the beetle started devouring sap, it would be vertical and refuse to let go for a good hour at least.
Ulvama hesitated, and her voice lowered.
“I know. He is not kind. But I know of him from my first tribe. Molten Stone. And before them…he is a Goblin Lord among Goblin Lords.”
“…Not like the new ones. Right?”
Erin stopped for a second, and they had a moment where she was reminded of the wider world. Of Goblin Lords and the secrets of their kind—and Ulvama nodded.
“He is one of five I know of. From stories. Five old Goblin Lords.”
“One for each continent. Save Rhir. And the island of Goblins. Are you sure they’re all alive?”
Five Goblin Lords existing when the world had done its utmost to kill Greydath seemed improbable, but Ulvama was certain the one on the Isle of Goblins lived. The [Shaman] shrugged.
“Maybe. Greydath, yes. Izikere Pasai—yes. That is how it should be, Erin. Maybe not how it is. Greydath should stay on Izril. Maybe the ones on Chandrar, Terandria, and Baleros aren’t alive.”
“I can’t imagine the one on Terandria living long with all those jerks around.”
Erin grumbled. She saw the beetle climbing for a tree root and pointed.
“Hey, those look like some maybe-edible mushrooms. And the hamster’s already looking for nuts or people to rob. Take it easy on your poor victims, hamster-dude!”
She shook a fist at the hamster, who was indeed standing on his toes, craning his head to look for seed-bearing trees or rodents he could extort. He, of course, ignored her, and Erin tensed to leap down.
Ulvama jumped first, having learned it was hard to actually fall and hurt herself. She had a spear, bow, and pack to store all the food they wanted to put in the tent. She looked back as Erin grinned and did a hop.
“So tell me about the other Goblin Lords.”
That was what Erin said, or began to say. But midway through her leap onto the ground, something peculiar happened.
Erin felt a flash run through her head and suddenly felt lightheaded and unsure of—of—
She toppled off the beetle’s shell as Ulvama shouted and the Battle Hamster turned.
“Erin!?”
 
——
 
Ulvama saw the [Innkeeper] fall and leapt for her as Erin’s eyes rolled up in her head. She was a foot too far away and too slow—but the Battle Hamster wasn’t.
It darted forwards and squatted on all fours as Erin fell off the beetle’s shell. The stupid beetle didn’t notice at first, and Erin bounced off the hamster’s back and onto the ground.
Swearing in both languages she knew, Ulvama ran forwards.
“Beetle! Stop! Come back!”
Alerted by the tone of her voice, the beetle stopped climbing the tree and turned. It saw Erin lying there, with the hamster sniffing her, and made a mistake.
It tried to fly at Ulvama instinctively, and the [Shaman] groaned as she heard its wings snapping the ropes that kept the tent anchored.
“No, nonono—aspat!”
—There went the tent. It fell, and the beetle flew down at them, turned, saw the tent, and clacked its mandibles together.
Oops.
That didn’t matter right now. Ulvama bent down, feeling at Erin’s head, and the [Innkeeper] was already moving.
“Huh? Whuh—darn, I tripped.”
She sat up slowly, shaking her head, and visibly leaned over at the motion, as if the simple act had rotated her sense of gravity. Ulvama saw Erin’s eyes glance up.
“Hey, Ulvama. Sorry about that. I, uh—lost my balance.”
Erin grinned, looking embarrassed, and for a moment, Ulvama almost believed it. But she was a [Shaman], and she felt that slight presence about her that made her suspect Erin was using a Skill on her. Or her aura. Or her Erin-ness.
The [Shaman] grinned and patted Erin on the arm, pretending like it was working.
“You clumsy person. Look what the beetle did.”
That distracted Erin enough from Ulvama’s face, and the [Innkeeper] got up and covered her eyes.
“Aw. Aw. Dude, really?”
She looked at the beetle, who was, by now, shuffling all six of its legs around. Ulvama clenched one hand, then smiled and called out.
“Let’s fix tent later. Looks like we need more rope, Erin.”
“I just made some last time! Okay, what if I do the rope and you hunt for food?”
“Is good idea. Come on, hamster. And don’t trip any more, Erin!”
Ulvama hurried off towards the mushrooms with the hamster as Erin rolled her eyes and grumbled about beetles who couldn’t remember to stop flying. Ulvama rounded part of a tree, then peeked back at Erin. The hamster did likewise, and both saw Erin put a hand to her head after she had glanced around to make sure Ulvama was gone. She slowly sat down, and Ulvama bit her fingernails.
“She’s getting worse.”
Whether or not the Battle Hamster understood—it just regarded her, then raced up a tree after a flicker of movement, and an alarmed squirrel’s voice sounded from overhead. But Ulvama hadn’t missed how little Erin had eaten. Nor how long she was sleeping in.
The dizziness spells were new and not from hunger, she feared. The [Shaman] bent and began to inspect a mushroom, then brushed at her eyes. She had no time for that!
They had to find Erin’s help soon. Or she was afraid the [Innkeeper] wasn’t going to make it.
 
——
 
It took them two hours to get the tent back on the beetle’s back and load it up with scavenged food. During that time, Ulvama kept an eye on Erin and found reasons for Erin to do jobs that involved her sitting and using her color Skill, rather than moving about.
The beetle and hamster mostly secured their own food, but the beetle brought back a number of leaves and bark for Erin to repurpose, and even the hamster brought back two dozen large nuts that the two cracked and added to their supplies. A horde of very unhappy squirrels told Ulvama much extortion had been done.
Maybe the two animals understood what was wrong with Erin. Certainly, the hamster seemed to get something was off; the beetle was more simple in Ulvama’s estimation. What was wrong with Erin?
The diagnosis was simple, as Ulvama understood it. Lack of appetite, sleeping longer, dizziness, and lack of general coordination. On the first few days of riding the beetle, Erin had been surefooted. She was a [Dancer], someone who could fight on a moving ship without real issues; she was actually very coordinated naturally. The last few days, the stumbling had gotten pronounced.
