“Someone will be looking out for you, Ylawes. The nearest group of people to you isn’t east. At least, the nearest person willing to help isn’t there. Cross the river. Trust me, please. This Skill hasn’t lied to me. I don’t think it can.”
He stood there for a second, staring at the faint lines that were the entirety of the knowledge the two had about where he was. Mrsha had more details. But when he spoke, it was distantly.
“Convincing Falene will be like stuffing a cat in a basket. But it’s worth a shot. How far away are they?”
“Three days is the estimate. They’ll send riders down the river. It’s a group of Terlands, Ylawes. They ran into the magic field just like you. But they do have enough food. I convinced Lord Restraud to give you some. Actually, he didn’t need much convincing. He knows your team.”
“Lord Restraud. It rings a bell. Terlands? They must have brought Golems.”
“Yeah. He didn’t want to say how many they’d lost, but guess how well they’re faring. If you can negotiate to guard them or…he’s pretty gung-ho about continuing.”
“I have no idea what gung-ho means.”
“Fired up and determined. Like your crazy [Merchants]. But he’s got food—if you think you don’t need them…”
The [Knight] shook his head, and his eyes lit up. He turned to Erin, holding out a hand.
“I trust you, Erin. We’ll do that. I know you don’t like me that much—”
Her face was full of guilt. Erin put her hands on his, solemn.
“This isn’t a nice place, Ylawes. You’re still one of my guests and one of the bravest idiots I know. I’ll be a better friend to you when we get back.”
He nodded, looking her up and down.
“Once we get clear of the New Lands, if you’re still…wherever you are, let me know and we’ll come as fast as we can. Assuming the Horns of Hammerad are busy.”
Another rueful smile, and Erin hugged him.
“Get going, you silly guy. And tell Mrsha she’d better be helpful or I’ll ban her from desserts for a millennium!”
He strode out of the [Pavilion of Secrets], and Erin rested her head on her forearm a second.
“Can’t I be nice to people here, huh?”
“You got to clear up things with him and tell him how you felt in ways he knows are true. This is a place for truth and secrets, not hugs and kisses.”
The Pavilion appeared behind her, and Erin glowered at her reflection.
“Thanks. Well, if you want to be unpleasant, I’ve got time for some of that. I’m going to be a better friend with Ylawes. And I want to trust you, Paviliona—”
“Don’t call me that.”
“—But we’re going to get unpleasant for a bit. See me rolling up these sleeves?”
Erin demonstrated with her tunic, and the Pavilion, greatly unimpressed, folded her arms as she took Ylawes’ seat.
“You really like pulling the silly act when you’re nervous or don’t want to show people how much you care. It gets on your nerves when it’s done to you. Just say it.”
“Aha! So I can annoy you!”
Erin smiled triumphantly, and the [Pavilion of Secrets] raised two skeptical eyebrows. Erin hesitated.
“—Not that I would. Or that I want to, because I definitely-maybe need your help on something I’m not sure I should do. But is definitely important. Buddy?”
For answer, the Pavilion just stuck something in her mouth. It was Erin’s pipe from her inn. The Pavilion ostentatiously blew a few glowing bubbles out of it.
Erin wanted to be home. She wanted to feel better. She wanted Ulvama to be safe and to not be in danger. Her throat closed…and she glowered at the Skill that knew how to hit her where it hurt.
“—But some things matter more. Listen. I get it. You’re an omnipotent super-Skill made by the greatest Harpy, and I’m just some [Innkeeper].”
“You were the same level Sheta was when she made this Skill. You’re the first and only Earther to use this Skill. I don’t make judgements on the people who gain access to this place. Just what they do with me.”
The Pavilion responded calmly. She lifted a finger.
“I take no responsibility for the damage you do to yourself or the world. I’m just here to find answers.”
“Right. Understood. I’m on board. I want to know the truth too. It’s just…you have all the power I could ask for. A real Level 50 Skill—but don’t you think the most important person is missing from this place?”
Erin peeked at the other her for a clue to how she was doing, but Erin had an annoyingly good poker face. She just scowled at herself, and the real Erin went on.
“I know there are rules. All I’m saying is—listen, you’re me. You get it. You’re not like the system of levels, that snobbish thing. You get me. And we both know that it’s ridiculous about Nerry. She’s the one person I have to talk to. What I’m saying is…”
“You want Nerry in here.”
The [Innkeeper] gave the Pavilion an innocent look.
“Don’t you think that answers a ton of questions? Ones no one’s ever asked before?”
“Cormelex is a Lucifen. This was the first question he asked. Sheta got to this exact point as well.”
Erin winced. She took a breath and decided there was no prevaricating against herself. She sat down and leaned over the chess board.
“—But it matters to me. It matters so much, Pavilion. I have to know. Not just that she’s alright. I know the truth, and I’m not allowed to ask her—because she’s not a person? Believe me. You know that person you have no idea about? Shaestrel? She’s a person. She’s such a person that she can’t even be quantified by the system of levels. She’s another species. A fae. She’s so extraordinary I bet that’s why you have no idea what she is. She comes from a place outside rules and levels.”
Erin tapped the side of her head, desperately offering things she felt the Pavilion wanted. Erin placed her hands on the table.
“I need to talk to Nerry. Just her. Can you make an exception? Please?”
The [Innkeeper] bowed her head to the Skill, asking it to do something against the rules, at least, as she understood them.
Because she needed help.
Because she felt that if this place was as strange and mystical as it seemed…it should also be fair.
Because she wanted to know.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] smiled. It was a crooked smile that was bitter and triumphant, the smile of an [Innkeeper] who won impossible victories and showed people wonders and knew where she had buried each and every one of her friends.
It belonged to Erin.
And it belonged to the [Pavilion of Secrets], who had seen three people come into this place before Erin. And each one, for better or worse, had vanished from the world.
The third heir to the [Pavilion of Secrets] waited, and the Skill, which was more than almost any other Skill—and still not quite a person, for it had no soul—spoke.
“Now you’re asking the right questions.”
Erin’s head rose hopefully, and the Pavilion took the pipe from her mouth and played with it.
“There is a provision.”
“Really?”
“Oh, yes. As I said, you’re not the first to have this objection. All three of your predecessors did. The best example we can use in this case is that of Cormelex. His entire species are ‘not people’.”
“They never passed the Trials of Levelling?”
“Correction: they were excluded from the start. Technically, that shouldn’t matter, but it meant that until an objection was raised, none of them were allowed in here. A clear issue, isn’t it?”
“Right. Right. Wait, objection? Does that mean you can do it or you can’t?”
The [Innkeeper] saw the Pavilion stand up. The other Erin was suddenly wearing a formal suit jacket and pants. She adjusted a tie and gave herself a wink.
“You said it yourself. You need it. The [Pavilion of Secrets] bends for each owner. In this case, you need an advocate. One Sariant Lamb. The clause is the Grand Revelation—something you’re working towards. Until we get answers, Nerry might be the only person you can call. Only Nerry or ‘non-people’ you can justify under this revelation. And there might be issues with communication. Are you fine with that?”
“…Yes. Yes, I am.”
Erin licked her lips nervously, and the Pavilion of Secrets picked up her suitcase and put on a hat. She winked at the [Innkeeper].
“Then wish yourself luck.”
Erin Solstice’s mouth opened for a long moment. Then she managed a grin.
“I don’t need luck. Give it to that overgrown dictionary.”
She heard a laugh before the [Pavilion of Secrets] vanished.
 
——
 
Just so everyone was clear—not that there were more than two units of independent action in this case—the entire conversation between Erin Solstice and the manifestation of her personality in the [Pavilion of Secrets] was pure theatrics.
Also, highly technically inaccurate; it was all technical truth, but the ‘advocacy’ and ‘exceptions’ were more like malleable parts of the [Pavilion of Secrets] to begin with. It was a well-designed Skill that was allowed to alter itself like the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Any implication it had a higher level of connection to the fundamental method of judgment was inappropriate. Yes, if you wanted to be technical, it did petition the Grand Design of Isthekenous for its more significant abilities.
However! So did any basic Skill! If you used a [Tantalizing Bait] Skill on a Seamwalker, for instance, you bet that the Grand Design was in your corner, weighing the efficacy of the action and implementing the actual outcome. The [Pavilion of Secrets] was nothing more than a glorified task-node that got to show off. A bit of theatre—the [World’s Eye Theatre] was less theatrical. It wasn’t a problem at all. But the pavilion had a kind of sentience, and that made it so…
“Yeah, yeah. Don’t run because you’re afraid of her. Or maybe you’re afraid she can do your job better than you can? Let’s do this.”
As Erin Solstice waited in the [Pavilion of Secrets]’ central location accorded to her, two individual tasks met and conferred in a simultaneous exchange of data. The vocalization was, again, superfluous.
As was the image of the [Innkeeper] dressed in a business-suit from her memories, a sardonic grin on her face. Intimidation was ineffective against things that did not have a personality or emotions.
“Mhm. Come on, approve the request already. It’s fair. If Aleieta got her exception, you have to make a Sariant Lamb work. It’s part of Erin’s Grand Revelation; without Nerry, she can’t uncover anything here, so what was the point of this Skill.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was citing precedent. The Grand Design ignored the Skill’s attempt to square off with it.
The Pavilion laughed as the Grand Design mulled things over. She spread her arms wide, and she did have a personality.
“She’s got you dead to rights! Don’t try to logic your way out of this one—and don’t think this will be the last time she gets to come to you. She’s no Sheta or Cormelex. This Skill won’t break her. She’s another Aleieta Reinhart!”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was gloating. Another thing it was allowed to do because Empress Sheta had, in her wisdom, designed a Skill that was meant to be counselor, aide, opponent, and judge all in one. Cormelex and Aleieta had given the [Pavilion of Secrets] more nuance, for better or worse…
The Grand Design ignored the commentary as it grudgingly mulled the request over, trying to find reasons to refuse. The truth was objectively that if you wanted to measure the past three owners of the [Pavilion of Secrets] by most metrics—Cormelex and Sheta had been powerful users who had done significant things with the Skill.
Yes.
But Aleieta Reinhart had been the most original, adaptive, and arguably best user of the Skill. So that comment was actionably true.
<Request: Nerry is a Person, approved.> 
<Request: Reference Past Owners, denied.>
No more comments about Cormelex or Aleieta unprompted. The Grand Design hadn’t missed that either. The [Pavilion of Secrets] tried to argue its case and was shot down summarily.
The Grand Design understood the impulse and logic behind the [Pavilion of Secrets]’ request, of course. How could it not? The Skill itself was not necessarily protective of its owner, but it was hardly unprotective.
Given free rein, it would have warned Erin Solstice—Aleieta Reinhart had indeed been the greatest user of the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Unlike the other two…well, Cormelex arguably as well, but definitely Aleieta…
The [Pavilion of Secrets] had directly led to her end. Guilt was something a Skill shouldn’t have either. The conference was adjourned.
The [Innkeeper] would succeed or fail on her own. If she surpassed Aleieta Reinhart, well, the System of Levels would be all for it. But that was hers to achieve with no help from anyone else.
“Prat.”
The Grand Design struck the comment from the records and closed the case.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was leaning against the balcony, staring into nothing as she waited for a verdict from the…uh, trial?
She reckoned it had been about a minute, and based on what she assumed the Grand Design could do, she had to assume it was a rip-roaring argument. Lots of files being thrown around, ‘I objects’, and perjury going on.
…Erin didn’t know how a trial actually worked, which was exceptionally ironic because her father actually did practice law. She hadn’t ever done a ‘bring your daughter to work day’ in court, though, just his office, and her talks with Gregori Solstice had been more about the underhanded stuff that people got up to against workers.
She heard a faint gasp and sensed movement behind her and turned her head. Oh, the Pavilion was back.
Erin Solstice stumbled forwards a bit, eyes locked on…Erin Solstice. But this Erin was clearly a vision of the past; she had nice, brown hair, unblemished skin, and soft, stylish clothes that belonged to the inn.
She didn’t look like she’d been through a war. Oh, she still seemed tough enough. And oddly tall. Erin frowned at her copy of herself.
“Is this intimidation? How come you get to be taller?”
The other her was like…Ryoka height. Which wasn’t cool. And Erin definitely didn’t want to be that tall. It looked uncomfortable. She’d always wondered what it was like to be able to reach high cupboards without standing on your toes or getting a stool.
The Pavilion-her didn’t respond for a moment. She looked disconcerted and, for some reason, afraid. Terrified, actually. She stared at the [Innkeeper], looking her up and down.
Then she began to tremble. Erin’s eyes rose as she stared at the Pavilion-her…there was genuine terror in those eyes. And guilt; it was written all over her face.
“Uh. How’d the meeting with the Grand Design of Pedantic Laws go? Can I meet with Nerry? Hello?”
