“Fair, fair. So are you an [Archmage] coincidentally landing here after a magical firefight with Wistram Academy and possibly allied with so-called Demons? Or are you really an [Innkeeper] in the company of a Hobgoblin [Shaman] who just escaped a sea battle with [Pirates]? Because frankly, you’re joining the annals of history in our little village.”
Erin blinked at Bowom, then began to chuckle. He grinned at her, and she started laughing, then stopped because she saw Ulvama stir.
“I’m…an [Innkeeper], yeah. I escaped from some [Pirates], and I guess I washed up here. After said [Archmage] turned me into a little person.”
Bowom digested the entire statement, and the smile that had never left his face grew and grew.
“Now that’s crazy. You’ll fit right in. Welcome to Dretonamis!”
This time, Erin gave him an imaginary handshake in the air, and he laughed. Then she yawned and put her head back.
…After a few minutes, Erin stared at the ceiling.
“Poop. I can’t sleep. Did someone use a Skill on m—waitasec. [Quick Recovery]?”
She sometimes forgot that Skill even existed. But that might also explain how fast she’d woken up. Bowom tapped his chin thoughtfully.
“Makes sense. Little passive Skills add up at your level. And it is your level that’s doing the heavy lifting here. The brawling twins are focused on fighting and toughness, but you could probably trade punches with them. Doctor’s orders are to not do that for a day.”
The who? Erin was about to ask, but then Bowom opened the doors, and Erin got her first view of the Fraerling village. That was enough for a moment.
The village of Dretonamis might not have been a Fraerling city, but it was something. Erin saw her house, a giant geode carved out for the purposes of healing, was one of many set more or less along a street. The next house over was a giant stump hollowed out with little windows set with blown glass, aglow by night.
Like her image of a tiny person’s house. Across the street from that was a gigantic shell converted into a home; another Fraerling had an ancient helmet, clearly refurbished multiple times, turned into a small home. But each one had things that surprised her.
No. Wait. How was she seeing all this? Erin was sitting in her gel-basin, not peering over Bowom’s shoulder. She shouldn’t have been able to see the entire street from here, let alone at this distance, without pristine night vision.
Yet…it was like her vision of the buildings beyond zoomed and curved around Bowom’s shoulder. It felt like Erin knew the places, or sensed them. It was…
[Lesser Authority: Buildings]. Was this what Laken described as his [Emperor] senses?
“Aw, poop. I’m a mini-[Emperor] now.”
“Don’t worry! We can clean up any of that! Dropping the mini-emperor. I like that expression.”
Bowom shut the door before Erin could shout clarifications at him. Red-faced, she continued sensing the area beyond. And she could sense rather a lot.
For instance, the stump had a gigantic loft that Erin could ‘see’ from her position—the geode healing hut was evidently higher up than the buildings down the street—and she saw several huge birds snuggled up in what looked suspiciously like a giant pillow-nest. One had a nightcap. And the giant shell had, on the side of it, a huge sword attached to it.
The sword was ten inches long and too big to stow in the hut itself; if a Fraerling of ordinary size wielded that blade, it was bigger than they were.
The helmet-house was extraordinarily normal except for the fact that a Fraerling had decided that the front door should be the visor, and yellow light was spilling from the eye sockets and grille in the visor, giving it an eerie look by night.
“Whoa.”
Erin sat there, processing this new ability, and then heard Bowom shouting into the night.
“Patient is aliiiiiiiiiiiive—oops, wait, the Hobgoblin’s asleep. PATIENT IS AL—”
Ulvama, amazingly, didn’t wake up as Bowom’s voice bounced around the village. Erin released her new power, but not before she sensed a Fraerling do a leap over one of the houses and come bounding this way.
Fraerling village. Erin lay there for a second. Alive.
“I’m a big dummy.”
She began to sniff as she saw Ulvama lying there, and she wondered how worried the Hobgoblin had been. Rabbiteater. Maxy. Perric…no, wait, ignore him.
“I think I need therapy.”
After a while, Erin croaked. Then she saw two slitted crimson eyes open, and Ulvama jerked upright. It was the first thing the Hobgoblin heard Erin Solstice say. Then she shouted in relief, and the Battle Hamster rolled over and covered his ears.
Incidentally, this entire time, the Corumdon Beetle had been engaged in a tug of war with Zemmy, Mera, and eighteen other Fraerlings. Not one versus twenty. Six versus fifteen.
He was on the side that lost.
Fraerlings were sort of crazy in this village.
 
——
 
“Hey, Zemmy.”
“Hey, Mera.”
Two Fraerlings walked up to each other, a young man and a young woman. Both were…sixteen years old? Mera had a snack in her hands, and Zemmy had been chatting with his friends.
With a resigned air, she put the snack down, and he walked forwards. Then they broke into a run, and Zemmy executed a jump kick that sent Mera flying down the street. Erin watched as the swearing Fraerling charged back, punched her friend, and he went flying into his friends, who scattered like bowling pins. Erin stopped sipping a bowl of broth to stare at the two.
“…Huh.”
Then the two went about their day. Mera picked up her snack, and Zemmy called out.
“Since we’re not hunting for the lost duo, y’wanna go fishing tomorrow?”
“Maybe. I want to talk to them.”
They walked off, waving, and the only upset people were Zemmy’s friends, who instantly began punching him in the arm when they picked themselves up. They weren’t half as tough as he was to judge by their winces and swearing.
The [Innkeeper] didn’t quite get what the two’s deal was.
Erin Solstice sat on a little bench, a piece of carved wood, outside the Healer’s House. Or the Getwell Geode as Bowom had referred to it. She had some pale linen clothing on and a blanket wrapped around her shoulders. She was sipping a rather tasteless broth that was what Bowom had prescribed her given her recovering body.
Okay, correction. The moment the Fraerlings realized she’d woken up, he’d been quickly exiled, and a Fraerling [Healer] had pulled Erin aside and told her not to accept any experimental procedures he offered.
The upshot was that they had pronounced Erin ‘disturbingly healthy’ and let her try food, albeit only liquids. There was a promise for more checkups and a conversation with Eurise and the Fraerling leaders tomorrow.
Erin didn’t fear that. She was more afraid of the person sitting next to her, next to a sleepy hamster. The Battle Hamster was pretty grumpy about being woken up, and he was nibbling on a bunch of dried fruits that he’d been given. But Ulvama was fully awake.
The [Innkeeper] avoided her gaze.
“Do you think it’s, like, a bit they do?”
“Looks like a painful one. They’re both over Level 30.”
“How can you tell?”
Ulvama waved a hand down.
“Look at them.”
Erin had to admit, she normally didn’t see someone fly that far from a punch, even from her [Minotaur Punch]. Yes, Fraerlings were stronger and lighter than regular Humans, so physics did odd things, but no one actually bounced or went flying from a kick like they were in an action movie or cartoon. And the two got up like it only smarted.
“Weird. Niers said to me once that Fraerlings levelled up faster than Tallfolk. But Level 30 at sixteen or something?”
“Look who’s talking.”
Touché. Erin shuffled a bit and took another sip of her broth. She didn’t know what to…
“Don’t do that again.”
Erin avoided the [Shaman]’s stare. She hunched her shoulders, aware Ulvama was staring at her, crimson eyes glowing in the darkness. Several Fraerlings strolling down the village street glanced up.
“There’s gotta be at least a few hundred people in this village, y’know?”
“Erin. You tried to hurt yourself in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. You knew help was coming, so you stayed there. Eurise and I couldn’t help you. You nearly melted. Don’t do it again.”
“In my defense…I didn’t do it consciously. At first. I was distracted. I got angry because of—”
Ulvama scooted closer to Erin. She moved her head as Erin tried to look left—she found herself nose-to-nose with the Battle Hamster, who had circled around. Both of them stared at Erin.
“If you died, it would be my fault.”
“What? No!”
“I tried to take care of you. I went to a Fraerling village where I thought I’d get killed, because I was afraid you were dying. And you tried to kill yourself.”
“I didn’t want t—”
The Hobgoblin leaned forwards.
“Look at me. I’m not Lyonette or Ishkr. You don’t lie to me. You did exactly that. You promised to get me home. Now how do I trust you? Or leave you alone? If you vanish, what happens to me? To Rabbiteater? To Mrsha and your inn? Say you won’t ever do it again.”
This wasn’t a Skill or magic. It was just…being a [Shaman]. Or being Ulvama. Erin didn’t flush. She felt—ashamed.
“I’m sorry. I thought you were going to be okay, so I lingered…”
“I don’t want to just survive. I want to go home. With you. If that’s not your goal, tell me now so I can beat you up since the Fraerlings are good at healing.”
Poke. Poke. Anyone else would have gotten a slap for poking Erin in the cheek. The [Innkeeper] just tried to hunch away from Ulvama until the Battle Hamster copied Ulvama. She slapped his paw down. Ulvama’s voice broke as Erin turned back to her.
“Do you know how I felt?”
The intense conversation the two were having had the effect, incidentally, of driving away Fraerlings dying to meet the new visitors. Erin and Ulvama were the first travellers to come to the village of Dretonamis in ages. They were a real, reclusive Fraerling village, apparently.
So more than one Fraerling who spotted them wandered up for a quick chat—heard Ulvama talking—
“—I can’t stop you from hurting yourself. That’s what’s scary. Only you can. You think you don’t matter. Do you want to see how it hurts me? Or Rabbiteater? Or anyone else who cares about you? What do I tell them? Maybe you should write a letter, because I don’t know. I was there and Erin decided she should die.”
“Listen. I—I didn’t think—”
“Yes, you did. You know exactly what you’re doing. Don’t. Lie. To. Me.”
A pair of Fraerlings slowly backed away from the steps leading up to the geode and hurried in the exact opposite direction. One of them wiped theatrically at her brows.
“Dead gods. Maybe let’s let Eurise talk to them first.”
“Yeah. Scariest Goblin I’ve ever met.”
 
——
 
Erin was beet red, and her eyes were stinging. Ulvama was castigating her with more vehemence than she had shown anyone since the Mountain City tribe. It was a real return to form for the sarcastic, bitter Goblin.
She—spoiled the effect because tears kept travelling from her eyes and running down her cheeks. Or maybe that made it so much more…
“I won’t do it again. I promise.”
On her other side, the Battle Hamster was punching Erin now and then. She appreciated that. Erin said nothing as Ulvama’s voice trailed off. Then the Hobgoblin hugged her.
“Please don’t. I’m tired of losing Chieftains. I’m tired of losing friends.”
“I w—”
Erin’s throat closed.
“I won’t. I’m really, really—”
Sorry. She sat there, the humid night wind blowing across her face, and felt smaller and more pathetic than High King Perric of Medain. At least he was an honest dirtbag.
“I think the [Pavilion of Secrets] saved my life. And Rabbiteater. And a stranger. They’ve been…kind to me. People I don’t know. I thought the entire world was out to get me, but they’re not.”
After a while, Erin began to talk, and Ulvama said nothing. She just leaned on Erin, as if she had run out of energy. She looked so exhausted that Erin realized the Hobgoblin had pushed herself to get them here.
I didn’t even notice. Erin began to move the blanket to drape it over Ulvama. A pair of paws snatched it—Erin and Ulvama turned.
The Battle Hamster rolled itself into a ball with the blanket, and Erin realized he’d stolen her broth too. That made Human and Goblin chuckle. Ulvama wiped her face on Erin’s shoulder.
“I thought you said it was scary and evil.”
“It is. But it might still be…a bit of me. It wants to know the truth. And the truth was that I was in denial. It got it out of me. I want to go back and try again with it.”
Ulvama’s hands tightened warningly on Erin’s shoulder.
“I just said—”
The [Innkeeper] patted Ulvama’s hand and felt a tingle running up her arms. She flexed her hands worriedly, but she seemed to be fine. There was a small divot running down her left arm where her skin had…fallen off. Another little mark of her mistakes.
She was lucky for nothing more. Her hair was still discolored and yet to be regrown; she wasn’t going to return to her old self overnight. Perhaps she never would again, but she looked Ulvama in the eyes at last.
“I’m not going to get myself hurt this time, Ulvama. Promise. But I think I scared Rabbiteater. And Ishkr.”
“Oh. Right. Yah. You have to tell him you’re alive.”
Ulvama admitted that, and Erin stared into the distance.
“I think I understand more of what the [Pavilion of Secrets] is for. I wish I could take you inside. If I was at my inn, I’d let you go everywhere with me to make sure I was fine, Ulvama. Promise. But I can’t. I can’t even tell you what I learned about Nerry…”
“Is she alive?”
Erin half shook her head.
“She’s not a person. But maybe…no. I know something about Nerry that no one is allowed to know. If I tell you, you’ll forget. The [Pavilion of Secrets] lets me remember. Only Ryoka and Nanette know the truth. Guess why?”
The [Shaman] gave Erin a confused, alarmed look, but she only had to think for a second.
“Rulebreakers. No levels?”
“Yup.”
“There’s something about Sariant Lambs only Rulebreakers are allowed to know? What?”
Ulvama’s eyes were alight with curiosity, and Erin sighed.
“If only I could tell you. It changes…so much.”
And she wondered, as she looked at Ulvama, if Goblins and Antinium, if Fraerlings and every species had fulfilled those requirements. Then Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“Nine-hundred-foot tower. If you didn’t scale that down for Fraerlings, you stupid system of levels—”
Ulvama rubbed at her ears, frowning.
“Did you say something, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] let go of her ire. For now. For tonight, she just sat there as Ulvama yawned. And she let herself be properly guilty and stupid.
