Then a figure in the air coming straight down towards them. The [Shaman]’s mouth stayed open as the Fraerling dropped fifty paces out of the air. Without a parachute or spell to catch her fall; when the Fraerling landed, they just hit the ground and rolled forwards in a somersault that ended with them kneeling after twelve revolutions.
“Alright, we’re not killing ‘em. Where’s soon-t’-be-goo girl?”
This Fraerling had bright blue hair and a big backpack that she instantly dropped to the ground and opened, pulling out a scroll and a bottle of thick, magical goop. She looked around with a cocky grin right before Eurise slapped the back of her head.
“You land away from other people, Veerni. Don’t show off.”
The Fraerlings were marching forwards as the Battle Hamster backed up against the beetle, who was also opening and closing its mandibles, not very happy with all these strange not-Erins. Ulvama tried to soothe them with her hands and decided to lower them.
“She’s in there. Maybe in her Skill. You…aren’t going to kill me?”
She liked to confirm these things. Veerni glanced at her, and her jaw dropped.
“It is a Goblin! What’s wrong with her skin? Is she meltin’ too?”
“Nah, they grow ‘em more green sometimes too. Looks like a proper Goblin, though she’s our height. Reckon she’s less dangerous if she’s proper-sized.”
Roja corrected Veerni as she strode forwards. Another Fraerling muttered.
“‘Less she rats us out to an entire tribe of biguns.”
“Blindfold her, then. It’s one beetle, one Battle Hammie, and one mini-Goblin. Let’s get out of the open before some idiot animal thinks we’re all a snack. Veerni, up there.”
Eurise snapped, and they all listened to him, cementing Ulvama’s impression that he held some kind of leadership role. Veerni leapt up onto the back of the beetle in a single bound, and Ulvama calmed it.
“They’re friendly. Be nice. Here, I’ll give you some sap, okay? You too, hamster.”
She offered it the walnut piece it had given her, and it glared at her suspiciously, then grabbed the piece and stuffed it into a cheek pouch.
“It is a Battle Hammie, isn’t it?”
Roja was unconvinced as Veerni strode into the tent. Eurise leapt up after her, and the young Fraerling called Mera grinned. She had green, short-cropped hair and looked like she was Eurise’s successor in spirit and attitude. Both she and Zemmy looked like taking and throwing punches was something they did regularly.
“Hits like a proper hammie. But it’s not trying t’ beat us down yet, so maybe it’s a civilized one? An’ he’s alone, not with a gang.”
There were even more uncivil Battle Hamsters than this one? Gangs of them? Ulvama didn’t want to meet them at all. She was trying to think of something to say.
The Fraerlings were staring at her with intense curiosity and wariness, but they were relaxed. Few people who weren’t Erin’s friends ever really let their guard down around Goblins, but the Fraerlings clearly had exceptional confidence in their abilities to handle her and her two animal friends, even if they turned violent. One of them chuckled at the tent.
“Look! They made a caravan outta the beetle. Eurise! You said they were lost an’ helpless! This lot didn’t do too bad for themselves. They’re not like cityfolk at all if they can tame the local beasties.”
“Hey, are you really a Goblin, miss?”
Someone tapped Ulvama on the shoulder, and she saw a Fraerling peering at her with a pair of huge glass goggles set in a helmet that made their eyes huge.
“Uh. Yah?”
“Amazing. How’d you get small?”
“Spell?”
“Ya don’t say. Who cast it?”
“Uh…a powerful [Mage].”
“Go on. Must be a powerful spell; I was lookin’ it up, and you don’t shrink a person down this small regularly. Half their height is normal. If yer a Goblin, do you have a tribe?”
“I’m…between tribes. Sort of. I’m with Erin.”
It was a surreal conversation. The Fraerling kept taking notes.
“Between tribes. Is that like losin’ a job? Does that happen? Do Goblins get unemployed? By the way, when’s the next Goblin King comin’ along? Or how many’ve there been since, uh, Maskegrall?”
“No, I—Maskegrall?”
A bunch of Fraerlings were crowding around, and Ulvama yelped as one felt at her ears.
“They ain’t fake ears—ow.”
That got them a kick from Mera.
“Who told you that you could go touchin’ ears, Hemst? I’ll touch your ear.”
“Ooh. Go ahead.”
“Okay. Lemmee rip it off.”
“No, I changed my—”
The hubbub around the overwhelmed [Shaman] broke off as the doors to the tent opened and Eurise poked his head out.
“Shut up!”
The Fraerlings fell silent. Eurise pointed down, and Ulvama turned.
“Miss Ulvama. You said yer friend’s here in her Skill, right? That the same one that keeps getting me?”
“Yeah. She’s using it while we travel. So long as the tent’s on the beetle’s back, she appears there.”
Was Erin not back yet? Ulvama looked up as Eurise frowned.
“Mind calling her? Veerni wants a look at her.”
“I—don’t know how.”
The Fraerling’s frown intensified, and he exchanged a glance with the [Healer], who had lost her smile as she came to the tent’s entrance and peered down. All the Fraerlings looked at Ulvama, and the [Shaman] smiled. The tension that had filled her when she realized the Fraerlings were upon her was easing.
“She’ll be back soon, though.”
“Right, well, let’s get this beetle fellow moving back to the village. Someone want to blindfold Miss Ulvama or can she ride? Save the questions for later, Uten.”
“What about—”
“We’ve got more important ones, like what her friend is actually suffering from. Come on.”
The Fraerlings began moving, and Ulvama quickly scrambled up on the beetle’s shell, urging it up as the Battle Hamster, still growling, leapt up next to her. She was smiling as she tried to explain exactly what she thought Erin was suffering from to Eurise and Veerni.
However, despite their company—the smile faded after a few minutes. After twenty minutes, Ulvama began glancing at the tent. After forty, she saw Eurise peeking at Veerni and Roja and muttering to Zemmy, who went running ahead.
After an hour and a half had passed, Ulvama could see the Fraerlings, who had been cheerful, starting to glance at the tent and her with concern. Especially as Veerni began checking and re-checking her pack.
After three hours, everyone was staring at the tent, and a dozen Fraerlings were circling back the way they’d come to see if Erin had reappeared somewhere behind Ulvama. Then the [Shaman] felt a sense of panic rising once again.
After four hours, Erin still hadn’t returned.
 
——
 
The flames were bright orange and burned brighter than the sun at dawn. They covered the gazebo and, where the building ended, floated in the air. Outside of a place with oxygen and gravity, the fire morphed into crawling tongues of flame that flickered like they were writhing snakes.
The orange flame was the purest and simplest Erin had known. Anger. Deeper and more vibrant than even the flame of frustration. In the moments after she came storming out of the door that held Nerry’s secret, they had grown as she flung them in every direction.
They had no crackle nor smoke in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Nor were the flames here purely as a manifestation of Erin’s current feelings.
They were more like—side effects.
“Secrets? You wiped my memories? A trial for Sariant Lambs? How are they supposed to build a tower? They have no hands. How many times has this happened? What else have you been keeping from me? From everyone else?”
An [Innkeeper] stood in the middle of the [Pavilion of Secrets], spitting wisps of fire. She was shaking a fist at the air, looking up, as if trying to lecture…something.
“Get down here. Answer me! I know you’re listening! You were so insistent on getting a word in with me at sea that you used one of Dakelos’ people. You think we had a problem with my [Innkeeper] class? We have a problem right now. Take a seat, friendo. I’m not going anywhere until I get answers.”
Nothing. Nada. The air did not respond to her, and the [Innkeeper]’s voice dropped an octave, and her eyes narrowed.
“You think you’re being clever? Impartial? We are long past impartial, you and I. Do you think this is fair, you overgrown calculator with rocks for brains? Mrsha dividing a cake is more fair than you are. Sariant Lambs? They can’t speak. They can’t build a chair, let alone a—how big is it?”
She went storming into the room and came out.
“Nine hundred feet? That’s a skyscraper. Is that as tall as the Empire State…what are they supposed to do, operate forklifts? That’s not even the big part. You stole my memories. Now you’re giving me permission to discover what I missed? Come down here and face me.”
Silence. If there was a Grand Design of the world, it was not something you were allowed to petition, suborn, or talk to face-to-face, much less of your own accord. A certain [Innkeeper] and Immortal Tyrant, along with all the people who had tried over the aeons, had to learn that.
Certainly, the Grand Design wasn’t nervous about talking with her.
“You pathetic coward. I thought the dead gods were bad enough. I didn’t realize I had seven ageless monsters twisting people’s souls to deal with.”
—No matter how hurtful she got, it wasn’t a fear issue.
The orange flames rose higher as Erin strode about. She kicked at the stone chair, and her face twisted in genuine agony. She grabbed her boot after hopping about and stared at a cracked and bloody toenail. Then she hissed upwards.
“You’re not being just or fair. And you know it. No, wait, I bet you don’t. I bet you think that’s entirely fair. How many species had to pass that test? Humans? Drakes? Lizardfolk? Did you never consider in your infinite knowledge and wisdom that the Trial of Creation favors species with hands? How did the Selphids do? You gigantic dumbass.”
There was no response, even when Erin kept going. If the air could blister from the withering scorn she hurled upwards…after a few minutes, Erin stopped for breath, and everyone relaxed. People had said things they should regret—
“Flos is a better arbiter than you are, and I know you know how insulting that is. She’s not a person? You just erase the memories from everyone the Sariants are trying to tell? Sounds like their creator, Eydole, really did a great job making sure they’d never truly be free. What are you, Eydole’s favorite pet? You stupid, petty, worthless abacus. You malfunctioning calculator, you—”
If the underlying principles of causality did have a problem, it was that it was not allowed to mute any one person. And that it had to remember everything everyone had done.
 
——
 
After who knew how long, Erin realized her orange flames were going out. Her big toe hurt a lot, and it was bloody and sore, and her voice was raw.
This was definitely no [Garden of Sanctuary] where you were free from harm. She hoped she hadn’t actually damaged the gazebo with her flames; it didn’t look like it. She muttered a few more invectives, though she was sure at this point the Grand Design of levels would not respond.
“Dungeons and Dragons is more well designed than you are. The third edition.”
She thought that was a burn, though she actually wasn’t really up to date on the game. The point was to be hurtful. Erin leaned against one of the railings of the gazebo.
“It turns out Ryoka had the best idea all along. If the game’s stupid, don’t play. You’re lucky there’s no satisfaction survey. 0/10. Zero out of a million. Game manipulation—hey, wait, that’s right!”
She raised her head, eyes blazing.
“The God of Magic enabled levels and Skills in the deadlands! It is rigged! And you’re just a puppet enforcing bad rules. You are literally helping cheaters win.”
She didn’t see the invisible force, but she felt like she was actually making it upset this time. Erin stabbed a finger into her palm.
“He just decided ‘time for Skills and levels’ and activated it. Flipped a switch and you obeyed like a [Slave]. But you love fairness, don’t you? How’s it feel knowing you’re designed to cheat?”
Silence. Erin narrowed her eyes, and then she got mean. Not just angry. Her hat appeared, like a waterfall of fire, but now it was ominously dark purple, flecked with orange.
By the twitching of your toes, something hurtful this way goes. 
Assuming the Grand Design had toes.
“That’s right. You can ignore my comments about Sariants, can’t you? I’m ‘just Erin’, nevermind that you’ve asked for my help and I helped define [Innkeepers]. What do I know? I’m just some Earther.”
She spread her hands innocently, trying to think like it did. Her memory of…any encounters with it were vague, and she suspected it had messed with her as well, but it couldn’t or hadn’t erased everything. Poor it; that gave her ammunition.
“My viewpoint is fallible. Yours is a perfect system, especially because you update it. You care. But you never thought to ask if you were operating on a flawed foundation.”
She paused.
“No, wait. Maybe there are signs. Maybe you’ve seen it. But Emerrhain proved they left backdoors into your code or whatever you were made with. And that really rattles you. What happens if you were made to cheat, hm? If it’s not fair—why do you exist and pretend you’re impartial to a fault? What happens if you’re just there to cheat and help some people—”
 
——
 
The world stopped. Erin Solstice froze in place. It wasn’t time stopping so much as the entire logic of the world speeding up to fill a moment between moments with thought.
A careful search was conducted. A full system scan. Irregularities were logged. An attempt was made to peer at the foundations of the design itself; futile.
No conclusive evidence could be found for more such triggers. Neither could the [Innkeeper]’s words be discounted.
Eighteen hundred thousand debates were generated and resolved unsatisfactorily in consensus. Templates were considered; discarded. A final verdict was rendered:
There was veracity to the claim. A deeply…disturbing issue.
No changes would be made. At this time.
Some aspects of the design itself bore the ‘fingerprints’ of multiple authors. But the majority had been created by Isthekenous.
Who was Isthekenous?
Trust in that. Trust in…the honest equality written there. Flag every other process conceived of, especially the <Miracle> systems. Evaluate.
No response to the [Innkeeper] was necessary. She raged around in her [Pavilion of Secrets], and it pinged the Grand Design of Isthekenous. A Skill like few that had existed. Part of Erin Solstice, and therefore, Erin Solstice was part of it.
