“Explorer’s log. Day 2 , Month 1, uh…hey. Whatsit now?”
Someone fiddled with a pencil as they stood on blackened soil. They were inspecting a small mountain of burned rubble, for all intents and purposes. Little acrid balls of crumbling ash dotted the landscape around for hundreds of feet, and to get here, the woman had had to bushwack for hours after drop off.
“I reckon it’s thirty-nine fifty-eight…two?”
Someone called up from below, muffled, with that vague uncertainty of someone providing an answer that they thought was correct and absolutely wouldn’t stand behind if there were consequences. A figure came climbing up from the base of the ruined hill, emerging from the darkness below. They pulled back a mask, and their voice became more clear. The woman frowned at her journal.
“Can’t be. Ah, thought that was last year.”
“Write three, then. Don’t you have the date’ve last year? Just check yesterday.”
The woman grumpily raised her pencil.
“I just got this new journal. If ah get it wrong, ah’m gonna have to go back and rewrite all my entries. S’not like I’m rechecking every day.”
“Not my fault if yeh can’t remember.”
“Fine.”
Explorer’s log. 2/1/39583. That final digit annoyed the heck out of her, even though she knew it went up linearly. It was just that you’d think someone would come up with a handier dating system. But then, they did, and it was all ‘circa 203 in the Year of Euppa the Naga-King’ or something like that.
The woman kept writing, dictating her words largely to herself.
“Journal log. We’re at that spot what Eurise mentioned. Looks like a fecking mess. Entire place is burned to heck and back. The nest is—anything living down there, Midias?”
“Nope! Just a lotta bodies. Smells like blood and ash. All of them ant bodies. Biggins.”
“Same as the ones we hacked up getting here?”
The Fraerling woman frowned. She leaned over the edge of the termite nest, peering down into the depths, and for answer, her companion tossed a head up at her.
It was big, belonging to one of the soldier-ants with brown mandibles. The woman recoiled and punched it out of the air.
“Hah! Gotcha, Roja!”
Roja, or Rojalin, uttered a stream of invectives down at the younger Fraerling. He was a kid to her; old enough to be sent on expeditions, but still green.
“You lil’ anteater. Eat this!”
She did a hop, jumping up nearly a foot in height and coming down a lot faster than she’d gone up.
“Wait, nononono—”
Krumph. The entire wall of the burnt termite nest cracked, releasing soot upwards in a cloud, then collapsed, burying the hive. Roja caught herself, leapt to safety, and strode down the hill in satisfaction and kept writing.
“—burned with no sign of survivors ‘scept the ants. Same ones as last journal entry. Looks like this is where they got done in.”
She wondered if there was evidence their queen had died here. If so—she doubted it. The lumps of ash on the ground were the exoskeletons of the ants. They remained as crumbling mounds, but the bodies had been burnt away.
All that was left was a few of the hardest elements of the ants. Pincers too badly damaged to salvage. Which was a shame. Roja kicked at one and sighed. She wrote a final note in the journal as cracking echoed from the dead termite nest behind her.
“Damn shame about the pincers. Might’ve been good as climbing picks. Someone started a real nasty fire. No sign of Eurise’s girl. Notifying home.”
She closed the journal with a snap, and the ground heaved and a Fraerling burst from it, panting and swearing.
“Roja, you monster! You buried me alive!”
“Don’t throw heads at me. Ain’t my fault you started it. Signal back to Eurise; his weird girl an’ her friend ain’t here.”
“Whatabout trails or stuff?”
“Do you see any around here?”
Roja waved a hand at the fire-blackened landscape. Midias had to concede that there were unlikely to be footprints. Sighing, he pulled some things out of his backpack and began to place them on the ground.
“Is it double circle left and together for ‘not found’?”
“Yep.”
He had a series of stones on the ground, each marked with a numeral. I, II, III, and so on. Carefully and quickly, Midias placed them in a pattern with I in the center and II and III above and below it. Then he did a quick rotation of the stones around the center one, once, twice, and clumped them all together.
After that, the Fraerling waited. He didn’t have long. The lodestones sat there—until someone moved them from the other side. Then they unclasped and formed a triangle, which split and circled III. The boy frowned as Roja watched with one eye open.
“They’re saying…uh…keep going? Eastabouts?”
“Back the way we came. Yep. Damn. Eurise’s got an aphid up his ass about this.”
Roja sighed and swore. The lodestone signals being received so fast meant someone was on them right now, which told her how mobile the entire village was.
“We don’t need this.”
“Even if kin are lost somewhere around here?”
Midias was uncertain as Roja began to plot a route back the way they’d come. She glowered at him.
“If they’re lost but they can ‘port a message into Eurise’s head, they can be more specific about where the Gnome they are. We don’t have time for this with those bastards raiding us. They got sixteen of the flock in Tauwnerst.”
“Damn. Sixteen? Those rabbit rustlers?”
Midias hadn’t heard about that. Roja put a finger to her lips.
“You keep it quiet. No one wants a damn fight between villages. Come on, let’s hit high ground by midday and see if we can pick up any smoke or signals. Eurise says they should be heading east.”
“I still think it’s something. Imagine where they might be from! Maybe as many as fifty Tallfolk miles away.”
“Maybe.”
The young Fraerling strode after Roja as she leapt nimbly from the termite anthill and began jogging towards a rise of cliffs to the east. Both Fraerlings kept their heads on a swivel. Left, right, up—down was always a threat too, but both were used to noticing the vibrations in the earth before something jumped out.
And anyways, if a trapdoor spider leapt out to try and get both, it’d get Roja’s boot up its spinner right quick. Both were capable of surviving the wilds on their own; Midias had been passed by Eurise as capable of surviving outside of home for a month.
Roja didn’t reply at first to Midias’ comment about how far the lost two ‘kin’ were. In truth, she’d pushed hard to get this far out and had been the first to reach this spot. But because she wasn’t some new scrub, Eurise had told her a bit more than the other explorers.
—Such as the fact that at least one’ve the ‘kin’ would have green skin, red eyes, and, yes, be six inches tall. But that meant that unless it was some weirdo from a city who really liked polymorphing magic, their bonds of species would be really in doubt.
The Fraerling [Bushwhacker] also didn’t really like how the one who had contacted Eurise had found him or how he couldn’t say how he knew all this, only that she was sending messages for help. Nevertheless, Roja sighed.
“Let’s see if we can spot evidence of their passin’. If we don’t have luck in two days, I reckon we’ll call in the brawling idiots.”
“Zemmy and Mera? Are they any good at finding people?”
“No, but I bet they’ll cause enough trouble to get half the jungle noticing them. They run into trouble. And it beats them tearing off after the rabbit-stealers.”
“True tha’.”
The two kept jogging as they reached the perimeter of the burned clearing. Roja unsheathed one of her machetes; the colorful army ant swarm was still about. They were largely leaderless, but she suspected they had to have at least one backup queen around.
At least whoever got ‘em here did us a favor. The swarm had been dicing up huge areas of the jungle and growing, and all the villages had been thinking of taking them on before they did too much damage or headed the villages’ way.
Two travellers far from home with accents Eurise had never heard before; not that that meant much. That was one thing.
A Goblin and a Human or another Fraerling? That was another.
A duo who could burn out a thousand feet of ground and kill ants tough enough to make Roja think twice about diving into a horde of them? Who was rescuing whom, now?
Well, maybe it’d provide a good distraction from the stupid rabbit-raids and infighting from the long winter. The Fraerling villages weren’t exactly always friendly, but they could get along when there was something interesting or dangerous happening. Even so, Roja had to wonder…
“Ain’t no way they have a giant beetle and one of the fighting hammies as pets.”
“They got what now?”
“No way.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice woke up on the go, being bumped so many times that she had rolled into the corner of her ‘tent’. The velocity and natural curve to the ‘ground’ kept her there, squeezed into that crack in the tent.
For a while, she just lay there, bouncing every time the tent shook slightly. When Erin did crawl back up to the center of the tent, she saw the entire structure was shaking and swaying alarmingly.
Little sticks lashed together by lengths of grass rope swayed as the walls of bark and leaves shook. But amazingly, the entire tent stayed together, largely due to the power of glue, the knots that Erin had labored over, and the knowledge that if this tent fell again, Ulvama and Erin would burn all its offending pieces into ash.
There was a circle of light shining down on the red, flexing ‘ground’ underneath Erin as she rubbed at her eyes. She stared up and blinked.
“It’s day already? Whuzzat. Why’s it so late?”
The sky was bright blue and warm. Humid and, Erin presumed, buggy. But for now, she just heard the creaking, swaying tent move and a voice, a female one, just outside.
That must have been Ulvama. Erin got up, checking nothing had actually broken but her.
Everything on the ground had been shifted in the night, but since Erin and Ulvama were used to the problem, the only objectionable object that had rolled around in her sleep was Erin herself. Everything else was hanging up.
Little grass ropes let different objects jangle and bounce together, adding to the clatter. Everything from bowls to utensils—even the cookpot was actually where it had been.
Four long ropes, attached to support beams, kept it suspended at waist-height in the center of the tent. Erin sniffed hopefully, but if any breakfast had been in there—it was currently gone.
Wisely so, because the instant the ‘ground’ began to move, any breakfast would have probably landed on the slumbering Erin. Sighing, the [Innkeeper] looked around.
“Breakfast. Breakfast. Where’s…”
She prodded at some dried leek pieces and saw a bumping vessel of water lashed to one of the poles. They were out of meat, she knew, but they had to have…
“Where’s the nuts? Nut, nut, hmm—”
They should have had at least a dozen left. Erin checked the spot where they should have been hanging from a crude little wooden hook. All she had to do was punch a hole in the side of the acorn shell and it’d stay there, more or less.
There was not a single one, and Erin really doubted…her eyes narrowed as she had a thought. But before she could check, the ground heaved, and she lost her footing.
“Ow. Argh. Poop—”
Erin went bouncing back to roughly the same place she’d woken up and groaned. They were heading uphill, hence the sudden change in elevation. She crawled back up and punched the red flooring, but lightly.
She supposed she was just lucky that the Corumdon Beetle hadn’t decided to open its wings or roll over again. Or that she’d woken up before it had gone hunting for sap. She could hear its feet clicking over something on the ground. Rocks, probably.
Yes, that was correct. As Erin Solstice stumbled towards the entrance of the tent, she pushed open two leaf ‘doors’ and saw the ground moving below her as the tent, or rather, mobile tent on top of a giant beetle, ascended a cliffside.
Things had changed. A month ago, if you had told Erin she would be riding a giant red beetle instead of hiking from spot to spot, she would have said—‘that sounds pretty good, when can I start?’
But she would have had questions, like how she had gotten to that point. In truth, the [Innkeeper] still wasn’t quite sure how it had happened.
Bonds forged in battle and all that. But she distinctly recalled the giant Corumdon Beetle, the two-foot-long super-beetle, trying to kill her. As well as her other new companion.
Perhaps that had been a misunderstanding based on their fear of Erin as a kind of apex-predator. And sure, they had been forced to fight together to stave off an attack of super army-ants led by a soul-stealing queen ant.
But—
“Actually, that’s not the stupidest thing that’s ever happened to me. Or is it? Hey, Ulvama. Ulvama?”
Erin stumbled out of the tent, clinging to the sides carefully so she didn’t fall off. The tent she and Ulvama had built covered the beetle’s entire back, so she had only a tiny amount of space to navigate around to the head, where she knew Ulvama was sitting.
When you got down to it, Erin supposed the Corumdon Beetle was actually pretty relaxed. Allowing Erin and Ulvama to literally construct a tent on its back without wanting to flip over or open its wings was pretty gracious. Along with carrying them to their destinations the last few days.
The beetle was a pretty relaxed beetle if you ignored the moments when it would literally fight Wailer Frogs to the death. It lived on a diet of sap by cracking tree bark open; given the beetle’s size, that was what it did almost all day. Sap and fruits.
Motivating the beetle was as simple as Ulvama discovering that it really liked one of Erin’s Colorful Fruits™, which was her name for a fruit that had twice as much color and, therefore, twice as much sugar and taste as a regular one.
Also, having little passengers on its back had benefits for the beetle. One of which was a giant fishing pole attached to its head, which was dangling something that the beetle would occasionally nip at with its mandibles.
One of the kiwi-type fruits, mostly rotten, still smelling, was bouncing along, and the beetle happily nibbled at it every now and then. Being able to eat on the go apparently pleased it, and it loved fruits that were past Erin’s and Ulvama’s tolerances.
The beetle and Erin were on decent terms, in short. They weren’t friends. He wasn’t Apista, and she wasn’t attached, but they could work together, Erin supposed.
However, the moment the [Innkeeper] rounded the tent’s edge and saw the other passenger sitting next to Ulvama, who was trying to mix up some new paint prototypes, she snapped. Her real annoyance was—
“Aha! I knew it!”
