It wasn’t hunger; that was one of the symptoms. Ulvama had eaten half that salamander’s tail for breakfast, a huge quantity proportional to her stomach, and she could eat a ton of food each day. That was a Fraerling’s constitution, Ulvama guessed; Erin could survive on a few bits of the lizard meat, but she should have had an appetite.
No, the cause was simple, and Ulvama had seen it before, albeit never so bad.
Mana poisoning. No, wait, mana overexposure.
Mana poisoning, where you drank too many mana potions, was actually far more survivable. Ogres as a species did it to improve themselves; they had practically distilled down to a science how much mana they could imbibe. That wouldn’t kill you, by and large, and the effects were a lot faster.
Overexposure to magical radiation…that was different. All those Tier 5+ spells that had come down during the war at sea had poisoned Erin. Perhaps Ulvama too, but Erin had been the target. The symptoms were obvious.
Her hair. Erin acted as if nothing were wrong, pushing the tent around with ease due to her [Lesser Strength], and she wore a cheerful expression as she joked along—but she forgot what she looked like.
Her light-brown hair, tinted a bit orange, was normally as plain and innocent as she was not; now, it seemed like color was leeching out of the hair, starting from her brows, counting the days she had been without help.
It had fallen out in chunks on the left side of her scalp, and Ulvama knew hair; some should have regrown by now, but it was just fuzz, less than a relative-inch long. When she smiled at Ulvama, it sometimes seemed like she was back on the ship. Still waiting for the moment the skies fell down.
Still, she didn’t complain. So Ulvama didn’t point out what was obvious to her. The Goblin just tried to keep Erin from exerting herself and hoped—hoped—they would find someone who could help.
She couldn’t. This was wildly outside her area of expertise. A broken bone, a fever, even parasites she could treat. They could have easily bled off an excess of magic. But what happened if your very skin seemed ready to dissolve from the damage it had taken?
There were only two things she could do: keep them moving and keep Erin fed and healthy as possible. That was why, after two hours, when they were sitting in the tent and making a stew for lunch, Ulvama broached the same subject she’d brought up more and more these last few weeks.
“Say, Erin. Maybe you should see if we’re on the right track with the Fraerling person.”
Erin paused. She stood over the suspended cooking pot and a small fire she had started in a well-anchored brazier. The beetle was very chill, but starting fires on its back was a faux pas, hence the cooking setup.
She was making a sap-nut-fat stew…which was better than it sounded. First, Erin took some of the fat they’d harvested and fried some of the nuts in it. When they had softened up, she added a bit of the sap the Corumdon Beetle had harvested, then filled the pot with dried fruits.
The mushrooms went on the side, and the two dipped the pieces of shrooms into the stew-stuff. There was a curious dissonance between the sweet lumps of fruit and sap that gelled with the fat and nuts, but if you focused on the deep-fried nuts, they were refreshingly crunchy and filling. Add in a mushroom and, if it wasn’t too moist, you could pretend it was a weird-tasting bread and enjoy the meal a bit.
Most of Erin’s guests would have sent this back to the kitchen, but it was filling, energy-packed food, which was what both knew they needed. Plus, the lack of sweet was how Erin seemed to prefer food these days.
The Battle Hamster, who had turned over his collection of nuts to the group stores, refused to even touch the mushrooms and grudgingly sniffed and nibbled at the stew. Erin paused as she raised a spoon to her lips.
Ulvama wasn’t eating right away. She was putting something on Erin’s arms, drawing sigils that flared to life, then turned dead and the ash-paint dried up. Ulvama would scrape it away into a bowl and toss it out the tent; Erin just tried to keep it from getting in her food.
“C’mon, Ulvama. The food’s getting cold. Do we have to do this…twice a day now?”
“Just a bit. Humor me. Almost done…”
Ulvama applied six more sigils, each of which sparked and went dead, and Erin sighed in relief as Ulvama took a bowl and helped herself to the food and ate with an appetite.
She wasn’t going to say it was a pain in the ass or ineffective…she definitely felt a tingling sensation every time Ulvama did it, but it did sometimes get annoying. And ticklish. She had forbidden Ulvama from doing more on her back. The Hobgoblin took a huge bite of soup and glanced at Erin.
“So how about talking to Eurise?”
“What, now?”
“Sure. Why not? Use the [Pavilion of Secrets]. It’s not like we have other things to do.”
“I dunno. Weren’t we gonna talk about Goblin Lords?”
Ulvama sighed.
“It’s not that interesting. Besides—what if we’re going the wrong way?”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t look quite convinced.
“I talked to him just yesterday. I don’t want to bother the guy. He said he’s searching as hard as he can.”
“What if he knows where we are? Big plateau. Filled with round rocks? Might help.”
Ulvama wheedled, and Erin shrugged.
“Okay. But if you need help navigating or something—”
“I’ll be fine. I’ll eat food. You, uh, go check where we are when you’re finished. The sooner we find Fraerlings, the sooner I can get a bath. With soap.”
Ulvama made a show of scratching at her arms and wrinkling her nose at her improvised clothing. That seemed to work. Erin glanced at her and then grinned.
“Hey, luxuries are incoming! I promise. I’ll go bother him and fiddle with the [Pavilion] in a sec. Just don’t let the tent go off the beetle, got it? I’ll come back to make sure nothing happens, like a giant bug attack.”
“No bigger bugs than this one.”
Ulvama fondly patted the beetle’s shell, and Erin nodded. She began to chomp down her stew to Ulvama’s delight. After a few moments, the Goblin went to check on the ropes they’d anchored the tent with.
An interesting facet of Erin’s [Pavilion of Secrets] Skill was that if she activated it while riding something like the beetle, she would vanish—but reappear on the beetle’s back, so long as it was conceivable she wouldn’t have fallen off.
Ulvama supposed that was a way to make sure the Skill couldn’t let Erin, say, vanish from any ship in the world if she pleased and just reappear in the ocean. It did help a lot for the purposes of letting Erin experiment on the move.
When she came in from checking the sturdy bindings, Erin had already vanished. But the hamster was there, sniffing the stew pot.
“If you want to eat, go ahead.”
Ulvama checked Erin’s bowl, but it was empty. The Battle Hamster stared at her with one big, round eye.
She had no idea how smart it was. Ulvama had gotten a new Skill after the fight with the ants—well, multiple new Skills.
She hadn’t had much time or ability to experiment with [Earthshape] or [Masterful Holder Rune], both of which were very exciting, but [Boss Around Wildlife] was pretty clear in its uses.
It didn’t let her control wildlife, but she could bully or cajole; essentially, it was what she was good at. Still, the hamster was a hamster. It might have been as smart as a dog, but Ulvama squatted down.
“What? What do you want to say? [Flash of Insight].”
She cast a [Shaman]’s spell, and the hamster twitched slightly as she augmented its understanding of the world. The spell was supposed to be used to give Goblins a push in solving a problem—or a stubborn Hobgoblin to realize when they were in an intractable battle or making a mistake.
In this case, the hamster paused, then sniffed the stew pot. Then it crawled over, sniffed the bowl, and then looked at Ulvama.
The Hobgoblin’s heart sank. She checked the bowl, then mimed tossing it back in the pot. The hamster had no notion of nodding for yes or no, but it bumped the bowl with her hand.
“She has to eat.”
She sat down and put her head in her hands. Then—Ulvama felt the shaking coming on, and her eyes began to water. The hamster sat next to her, and she buried her face in its fur. After a few minutes, Ulvama got up.
“Hurry. Hurry. [Frantic Marching]! Beetle—run!”
She cast a spell, and the Corumdon Beetle took off, moving as fast as they dared, as they did every time Erin was asleep or vanished. Ulvama scanned the landscape, casting a spell to enhance her vision. For something. Anything.
Erin was running out of time.
 
——
 
Erin felt better in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. There she could stop and lean on an invisible wall in the hallway, and it didn’t matter if she fell a few times on the way to the gazebo; there was no real gravity here.
“I’m…okay. I can make it. Come on. Pull yourself together. Ulvama’s counting on you.”
The flashes of lightheadedness were getting worse. Every now and then, Erin would take a step and feel a shock run from head to toe. She’d never felt like that before. She knew she should eat, but she felt like she’d be violently sick if she ate more than a few bites.
Fainting off the beetle had been stupid. Erin leaned against the door she knew well, the one marked ‘bathroom’.
Her door, leading to herself or whomever she wanted to meet. The irony was that she hadn’t done much exploring of the [Pavilion of Secrets] during their long journey. Between working on the tent and communicating with the Fraerling, Eurise, she’d been pretty focused.
“I keep sleeping for, like, twelve hours? Longer? I feel so…tired, though. It’s gonna be fine. We’re almost there. I just need to find Eurise.”
And hope he has a [Healer] for…? Erin paused as her hand rested on the brass knob. As ever, she hesitated. Then she threw the door open, stepped through, and entered that room in the middle of nowhere.
But it was never empty. She was never alone in here. There was always someone else who sat across the chess board in that copy of the gazebo surrounded by pure infinity.
Erin Solstice met Erin Solstice’s eyes. The doppelganger was rattling around a cup with what sounded like dice inside. She glanced up, and Erin, the real Erin, brushed at her hair and realized more had fallen out. She felt at her cheeks, and her clone smiled with none of the exhaustion Erin felt.
“You’re not fooling Ulvama. She knows you’re dying as much as you do.”
Sometimes, her doppelganger seemed merely like a function of the pavilion. Sometimes, she’d unload a comment like that. And it always hurt.
Erin sat down, grateful for the chair, and rasped as she leaned on the table.
“I don’t get it. Are you supposed to ask me for personal truths or just facilitate the meetings here? Or are you here to try and torture me?”
“I’m here to show you what you’re like. I’m the mirror no one wants. As Sheta intended. If you want, I can be even more of you.”
The other Erin rolled out the dice from the cup, and the real Erin noted the roll—3 and 4. Rather disappointingly normal. Snake eyes, now that would have been appropriate.
“You mean I can meet me?”
“If you’d like.”
“How dangerous is that?”
“How dangerous are you?”
The real Erin resisted the urge to punch herself in the face. She snapped at her copy.
“Get me Eurise. I don’t have to keep paying a fee since I know his name, right?”
The not-Erin smiled, stood, and walked over to a door that had appeared behind her. She turned the knob and gave Erin a two-fingered salute.
“Nope. Enjoy.”
When the real Erin looked down at where the dice had been, they were gone. Grumbling, she folded her arms.
“Fricking Skill-based copies of me with know-it-all, omnipotent vibes. I’m not like that at all.”
She glared ahead at the closed door, and someone spoke behind her and to her right.
“Yeh say that, Miss. But from where I’m leanin’, yer pretty good at grabbing me even if I ain’t napping. Pretty omnisomething yourself.”
She whirled, and Eurise was there. The Fraerling she had met three weeks ago, hair greying but wearing a vest of dyed spidersilk and the same boots as before, as if he had slept in his clothing. He looked as civil as a man who wore apparel made out of insect secretions could be and as if he had beaten down half the jungle with his scarred hands.
Fraerling. Friend, or so Erin hoped.
She had called him into this room by requesting ‘someone who could help me’, the nearest candidate for the job. It had occurred to Erin in the time since that whether he would, or how much, was relative.
But he seemed like a good person, so maybe she’d gotten lucky. Eurise turned; he’d been staring out into the void.
“I never remember this place when I wake. That’s what’s disturbin’.”
He had an accent to his speech that truncated some of his words, and it was similar to some Erin had heard, but faintly different. The Fraerling walked over and sat himself down.
“What’s new, Miss Erin Solstice?”
He said that without a hint of recognition in his voice, for all she’d told him her name five days ago. That told Erin he didn’t have access to the news, or he was an exceptional actor.
“Uh—just checking in on where we are. We’re on this huge plateau of rocks. Little ones—well, little to a tall person. Round. Overlooking the swamp? Ulvama, my friend, thought we could get directions from there.”
Eurise folded his arms, closed his eyes, and thought.
“Rocky plateaus. Over Drowned Elf Swamp?”
“That’s right.”
He cracked one eye open.
“No idea where that is.”
Erin sighed.
“Darn. Thought so. We’re still heading east, I think. Is, uh—are you thinking we’re on the right trail?”
Eurise studied her face, and he sat up a bit.
“One’ve my people, Roja, found that termite nest you mentioned. I got a message saying you weren’t there.”
“Really?”
Erin’s heart leapt, and she sat forward. That meant they’d missed them! Eurise nodded and fiddled with the chessboard.
“Damn shame I can’t bring a map in here. Right, well, that means you’re on the right track towards us. Lotta ways to miss with the swamp and where we are, but it’s hopeful.”
“Are…are there smokestacks or something we could navigate towards? All we see when we stare out over the forest is a lotta trees. Those deadwood spires way back were helpful—”
“Speaking Spires. Yeah, we don’t have any near us. Nor smoke; leastways nothing you can see. We’ve gotta keep secret, y’know. Hm. Anything you’d see from above…”
The [Innkeeper] fidgeted in her chair as Eurise tried to think of any landmarks. She knew they had to be close, and a thought occurred to her. She hadn’t…used a lot of the [Pavilion of Secrets]’ features with Eurise, even the few she knew about.
She was cautious.
