It was long overdue. Erin had to know her little friend was alright. The language barrier might be a real problem, but Erin had high hopes something in the pavilion could overcome it. Or else they’d just have to write.
But to her surprise, the Pavilion-Erin just smiled once.
“Unfortunately, that cannot be done.”
“…Hm? Why’s that?”
The other Erin began to smoke on the nali-stick with a flick of fire from a thumb, as if it were a cigarette.
“Nerry is not a person.”
Now, Erin felt a tingling down her neck. She peered at the fake Erin, frowning at her.
“I know Nerry’s smart enough. She’s got the ability to write. And—”
—was there something she was forgetting? Erin frowned and rubbed at her head. The other her watched carefully.
“Oh, yes you are. But let me be clear. Even if I wanted to—Nerry is not a person. She’s a Sariant Lamb. Nerrhavia, now, that’s a person. Nerry’s not.”
“Oh come on. She can use wands, and I bet if she could speak, the things she’d say. She’s a person.”
Erin folded her arms, but now her mind was alight. Pavilion-Erin shrugged.
“I don’t make the rules.”
“Interesting…then what about Ryoka?”
Also on her list. The Pavilion smiled.
“Ah, that’s a person.”
“But she’s got no levels, unless things have really changed.”
“She’s eligible. Therefore. Person. Logic.”
Pavilion-Erin tapped the side of her head, then rolled her eyes.
“According to someone. Don’t look at me.”
“Then what about…Teriarch?”
It seemed like Erin was onto something, because Pavilion-Erin nodded.
“Want him?”
“Wait, but you said—”
“He has no levels. But his species is…acknowledged as a people. Just disqualified from levelling. Do you understand?”
“I think I do.”
This was more revealing than Erin had anticipated. Not least because her eyes were narrowed and she kept holding onto a thought that was going round and round in her head.
—somethingyouforgotaboutNerryyouforgot—
“The rules are different here, you know. Not that I’m giving myself a hint or anything like that.”
The Pavilion went back to staring out into the distance, and Erin Solstice took a breath.
“While I have you—while I’m here, I can’t access the other aspects of the inn. The door that was marked with Sheta’s stuff is gone, for instance.”
“Yep. You are just in this feature of the Pavilion. Me, you, and whomever you call.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“Then…before you go, I guess I will call on Ryoka.”
Of all the people, if Nerry was first, Ryoka was probably second because of how much she would be worrying and getting into trouble. Lyonette was a close third, but Erin…didn’t know what to say to her. She didn’t want to know what the inn was like after she’d left and everything that had happened.
Ryoka—she wasn’t sure if she was ready, but the Pavilion of Secrets just nodded.
“Ryoka Griffin it is. If you d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d—”
The word began repeating, and the Pavilion-Erin repeated the same gesture of taking her nali-stick from her mouth. Erin Solstice backed up.
“Oh heck. That’s not supposed to—”
Darkness. Absolute and sudden. The light vanished. The gazebo vanished. There was only a door in the distance, where the [Garden of Sanctuary] waited. And—Erin turned her head. She saw a vast door ahead of her, wings on the door closed. A hovering set of words bracketed in a familiar way was just above it.
It said—
[The Palace of Fates].
Erin started for it—
“Well, that was new.”
Pavilion-Erin was sitting at the chess table. Erin froze; the door was gone, the lights had returned, and the other her looked—intrigued.
“Ryoka Griffin is now officially off-limits.”
“What the fuck was—”
“I don’t know. But it was interesting, wasn’t it?”
The other Erin frowned deeply, looking almost as intrigued as the [Innkeeper]. But now, Erin’s mind was racing.
“Aha. I knew something was up with Ryoka. Heck! Why didn’t I think about it? If Ryoka’s off limits, give me Shaestrel!”
She made a triumphant fist. The Pavilion stared at Erin, and the fake Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“…Who?”
Oh snap. Erin’s open-mouthed look of shock turned into an expression of delight. Then she backed up.
“Uh, no one. Nope. Nobody. Glad to talk to you. Let’s do this again, me.”
“Interesting.”
The Pavilion-Erin got to her feet so fast the real Erin felt for the door at once. The other her strode around the table.
“Now that’s what I was made to find out—”
 
——
 
The amount of pleasure Erin Solstice got from slamming the door on her own face was indescribable.
The [Innkeeper] stood there, panting, as she stared at the bathroom door that led to that portion of the Skill, but she didn’t see the doorknob moving, and after a moment, she wiped cold sweat from her brow.
“Aha! Erin Solstice 1, Pavilion 0! Take that, loser!”
She shook her fist at the air.
“Now I’ve got something on you! And if you think I’m not gonna use it—”
She opened the door to gloat at herself. Always a mistake. Because when you got down to it, Erin Solstice was not a fun person to get on the bad side of.
The door opened, and Erin saw a copy of the room she stood in. With one change.
The lights were all out. It wasn’t like last time, that sheer nothingness where the gazebo ceased to exist. It was just pitch black. Oh—and Erin Solstice, the Pavilion-Erin, was standing in front of the chess table.
She had a flaming [Witch]’s hat on her head. Black flames, and she was staring at the real Erin.
“You now have something I want. Congratulations. The next time you enter this room, there will be a price. Now look behind you and see what I was made for.”
The [Innkeeper] really regretted opening the door. She stood there, unwilling to commit the cardinal sin of horror movies and turn around.
“N-nuh. What if I just, uh—”
“Turn around.”
The door slammed shut. Erin squeezed her eyes shut.
“Okay. If I turn around and there’s a monster behind me or something really horrific, I swear I’m—I’m gonna be really disappointed this is how it ends. Aaah!”
She turned, saw a new door had appeared, and fell over on the ground.
“…That’s relieving and disappointing.”
The new door sat across from the quartet of doors that Erin was used to. It was, in fact, further away from the gazebo, hanging in the void but connected to it by a concrete path with grass sprouting from the sides. Erin stared at it.
“Well, hold up.”
New door. The layout of the gazebo was now, as Erin would describe it to Ulvama, more than a single road leading to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Now there were two paths. One that led to a little door that had just appeared, and another back to the garden.
Three, if you counted the place where Erin had seen the [Palace of Fates], but the walkway was as yet invisible; the door hidden.
Erin was pretty sure she had not been meant to see that one. But she also categorized this new door as distinctly separate from the ones she had.
“Okay, my personal door leads to the alter-me who is totally not terrifying right now. The Sheta, Cormelex, and Aleieta doors lead to…somewhere I haven’t explored because that’s scary too. This new door leads to something that the [Pavilion of Secrets] was made for.”
Doors. Open ‘em and you might not like what you find. Now Erin had no real reason to keep using the one she’d been trying. She just…really didn’t want to use any of the other doors, even the new one.
The irony of the gazebo was, of course, there was no bathroom when Erin really needed one. She danced from foot to foot, but decided she could hold it. Also…she really didn’t want to go into her door and ask her clone for a bathroom.
Okay, I can do this. It’s not going to be as bad as a clone of me, is it? Erin walked to the door that clearly had belonged to the last Harpy Empress, Sheta.
She hesitated.
“It’s not as if…hey! What’s behind door number two?”
She yanked the door to the Harpy Empress’ room open, smiled—and stopped.
Erin stared at the mass of feathers and a hanging amulet with that familiar insignia. Then she gazed up. And up.
The last Empress of Harpies stared down at Erin, a Human’s head on a feathered body, but far, far larger than normal. As if she were a half-Giant. Feathers sprouted from her neck, and her eyes were huge in her still face.
“Hello, Erin Solstice.”
The [Innkeeper] shut the door. She backed away from the door. She ran down the path leading to the gazebo, towards the [Garden of Sanctuary] entrance, and stopped.
“Wha—wha—what was that?”
What was it with this place and people that shouldn’t be alive being here? Like Sheta! And possibly herself! But mostly Sheta!
“Is that—Pavilion-Sheta? Is—are we doing this?”
For some reason, Erin had the impression that what had been in the Harpy Empress’ door had not been the gazebo she was now used to. But she really, really didn’t want to check.
Instead, Erin, with a bad feeling about all this, slunk over to the next door, which was black and had red metal filigree and whatnot. Very fancy. Very…Devilish.
“Yeah, yeah. You’re so cool, Cormelex. I heard this place broke you. If you’re in that door waiting to jumpscare me like some kind of boogieman, I’ll punch you so hard…Visophecin’ll feel it.”
Erin raised a fist and peeked into this door after a few minutes of psyching herself up.
She did not come face-to-face with a Visophecin-like Devil waiting to scare the daylights out of her. Instead, Erin’s peek rewarded her with a lounge-like room. A group of people sitting at a table.
She stared. They turned to her, greyer of skin, eyes crimson, and she saw more than one had a tail. One was holding a platter, dressed like a waiter; there was an old Lucifen sitting at a table with a child, a woman in red—
A voice spoke from beyond, pleasant and calm. She couldn’t tell which one.
“Would you like to know how it broke me, Erin Solstice? Prey, enter.”
She shut the door. Erin stared at the one for Aleieta Reinhart. She reached for it.
“…You know what, let’s see what that new door is about. Oh boy, I love new doors!”
Those rooms struck Erin as intrinsically more scary and frightening than even herself. She knew what she was capable of. But those?
It occurred to her that her [Dangersense] hadn’t actually gone off at any of those three doors when it had for the one that led to herself. But that only made Erin more uneasy. If she had nothing to fear from Cormelex, she’d eat her hat.
The last door and the last part of the [Pavilion of Secrets] was weird. It was a door alright. Solid. Wood.
It reminded her of the doors in her inn. It was, in fact, exactly like the doors on the second floor of her inn. The guest bedrooms. But there were two things different about this one.
First, the nameplate. The brass nameplate she had ordered for all her regular guests did not exist in reality. Perhaps it should. But if so, someone should have adjusted the handle, which was meant for people. Because the nameplate simply read:
‘Nerry’.
Below it, someone had made a cute Sariant Lamb out of wool, but given it a frowny face instead of a smile. It was like a child’s piece of art, and Erin stared at it, confused.
“This looks like something Mrsha would make.”
After a second, her face fell.
“Wait a second. This looks like something I’d make. Aw.”
At this point, she had no idea what to expect behind the door, but she was hopeful it was less terrifying than anything else in the pavilion, so she took the handle.
“Nerry, I love you. Well, I don’t. But if I find you in there and you do anything remotely horrifying, I will kick you. And believe me, I’m pretty sure I can take you out in a fight.”
She closed her eyes as she opened the door with a click that felt way too loud. Then Erin stared and stared and stared some more.
“…The heck is this?”
The room contained, well, a familiar scene. It was of Nerry, on all fours, writing on something on the ground with Erin standing there and a giant blob of static distortion next to both of them.
The static was like a warp in reality. But it wasn’t pure nothingness. It had, disconcertingly, a pair of long pants on and a t-shirt. Even a belt and—Erin stared at it—
“Is…is that a bra?”
She walked into that copy of her inn that contained Nerry and herself, frozen in time, and stared at the static.
Yep. It had a bra, underwear, a belt laden with items. It was, in fact—
“Ryoka. It’s Ryoka. This was when she showed me Nerry could write!”
Erin remembered the moment clearly. Why the heck was—
“Right. Ryoka’s all messed up. Because of the f—”
Erin hesitated.
“Because of the you-know-what. Which I know and the Pavilion doesn’t. But why is it showing me this scene?”
She walked around, checking the window, stubbing her toe on the floor—it was a perfect replica of the inn by winter. In fact, if she remembered right she was going to unveil the beach soon after this moment.
“Yeah, this is from then. What’s up with that? Nerry. I thought you weren’t a person?”
Well, she wasn’t as far as the [Pavilion of Secrets] was concerned. But given this was a snapshot of time…Erin spread her hands.
“Okay, world! We have a creepy not-Ryoka, Nerry, me—what is this door about? Huuh? Show me!”
With that—the memory began to play out. The real Erin leapt as a familiar voice filled the room.
“I think I do. They’re not safe, Ryoka. I might be safe, but…we’ll see. For now, let’s figure out another secret.”
Erin Solstice hobbled forwards, rubbing at her back. Still not quite nimbe, despite being out of her wheelchair. Dead gods, her wheelchair. How long had…?
Someone backed up around the static, and Erin remembered.
“Nanette! Right, you were there!”
The real Erin danced around her image, then just gave up and walked through the fake her, shivering. They were all reading from Nerry’s scroll as the Sariant Lamb, looking unusually emotional, wrote.
‘Please, take me as seriously as Nanette. Please…care.’
Erin remembered that, of course. It was the moment that she had looked at Nerry not as an evil, dangerous pest, but as someone fighting for something. Now she was replaying the memory, she could see how fiercely Nanette was staring at the lamb.
Not with the purest quill of kindness as Erin had assumed, but sharp eyes. Observing. Judging.
“Just like Califor. You are seeing if she’s worth helping. And you—”
Erin stared at the Ryoka image, who had folded her arms—at least, by the context of her clothing. Erin gazed at the place Ryoka was apparently lost to even to the [Pavilion of Secrets].
“…You’re always like that, Ryoka. And hey, you got mud and snow all over my inn. Look at the tracks!”
Erin frowned at the floor, then sighed at herself.
