“They’ll be back, I’m certain of it. The last time, Chandrar was protected by Eternal Khelt among others. I’d hate for them to come a second time and for Medain’s citizens to be slaughtered. I’d never want the Horns to come to harm and be forced to do something about it.”
Dead gods. A single one of these things could take on a Jaw of Zeikhal. Was that why Fetohep of Khelt had stationed…? How had Khelt beaten them back?
“Who—how—?”
“You’re right, High King Perric. If you did marry Ceria and Yvlon, we’d be doing this again. I’m sure you’d have only the best intentions in mind for them if I asked the right way.”
The [Innkeeper] stood up and spoke next to Perric as his head turned. He stared at a legion of horror from the world’s edge and then saw her standing there, staring up at him. [The Wandering Innkeeper]’s eyes glowed.
“I think I’d even love to see Yvlon and you in the same room together. Ceria might be worse. But remember, Perric—”
She put a finger on his chest and pushed, and he stumbled as a door opened. The last thing he saw was Erin leering at him.
“—Priorities.”
The door slammed as Perric tried to catch himself and demand answers. But it was too late, and his heart pounded louder and louder as, behind her, he saw a vast Dragon with scales of dark purple roaring silently at the sky. A Dragon? She had seen—
Then he woke up.
 
——
 
“How was that?”
“4/10.”
“Really? Shut up.”
Erin and Pavilion-Erin had a short conversation afterwards. The other her looked slightly worse than before. The real Erin studiously ignored the pointed stare as she leaned on the balcony, admiring her work. The Seamwalkers were so horrific she made them vanish after a while.
“You’re thinking the same thing I did. He’s not exactly difficult. I’ve seen better. Done yet?”
“Nope.”
The short meeting with Perric had proven something to Erin. If she could speak to him, just call him into her room at a whim…why not anyone else?
Forget the Quarass or dangerous people. What about…
“Can you do the Blighted King?”
“Want him?”
Erin paused. She took a deep breath, coughed, and coughed again, then managed to stop—she leaned on the railing, dizzy.
“Not right now.”
“Then who?”
Glittering hazel eyes appraised her. Erin spoke absently. She had been angry earlier. Then happy to see Ishkr, and bitterly sad and guilty. Then just—annoyed at the High King. But through it all, she was in pain.
Physical pain. Whatever. But that sense of connection, from the moment she had seen Ishkr’s face, had ignited something in her chest. A thought that once had could not be put aside.
Why not? It would serve…it wouldn’t hurt her. Or if it did, who cared? Would it help?
She let the words slip out anyways.
“I have someone to talk to. Yeah. Send me…Admiral Maxy.”
The Pavilion-Erin stopped rearranging the chessboard. She looked up without expression on her face.
“You don’t know her real name.”
“Oh, come on. Maxy isn’t good enough? I know Perric.”
The other her cocked her head.
“Maxy’s the name she goes by, but it’s not her. Tell you what. I’ll let you make the call. Then I’ll collect afterwards. Deal?”
Are you allowed to do something that suspicious? Erin didn’t care.
“Deal.”
She turned, sat down at the table, and prepared a moment. Then—Erin forgot the tightness in her chest. Forgot even Ulvama for a second.
When the door opened—
She was smiling.
 
——
 
A half-Elf with curled, red hair, a [Merchant]’s hat, slightly plush cheeks, a meek frock coat, and an uncertain smile walked into the [Pavilion of Secrets].
“Erm, hello?”
Her voice was quavering and nervous, even if her eyes snapped to the figure sitting across from her too quickly. Maxy didn’t tense, but the moment she saw Erin Solstice—her eyes sharpened.
“Maxy. Hi. That’s how you like to be called, right? Remember me?”
“The [Innkeeper].”
Admiral Maxy strode forwards in her high-heeled boots, restyled like a roguish admiral of [Pirates] in a moment. Her eyes flashed coldly, and she put a foot on the chair and stared down at Erin.
“You’ve got some nerve bothering me. Nearly dying once not enough?”
The last surviving admiral of the Bloodtear Pirates had eyes like an iceberg. They locked with the quiet blaze of Erin’s hazel eyes, but the [Innkeeper] just smiled.
“Take a seat, Maxy.”
“I’ll shove this entire chess set up your ass first. Let me exit, and if you bother me again—”
“You’ll what? Shout at me? Get used to this place, Maxy. We’ll be doing this again and again.”
The [Innkeeper] saw the [Admiral] spin and take in the gazebo, then pace around, searching for clues as to where or what they were in. At length, the [Admiral] spoke.
“So you’re pissed about losing some of your friends. You cost me Jiupe and a lot of good crews that wouldn’t have gone down otherwise. Let’s call it off, Erin Solstice. I know where your inn is.”
“Does your crew go after children, Maxy? I heard the Bloodtear Pirates had a code. This is between you and me. If you want to step onto land, though, be my guest.”
The half-Elf spun again, set her back to the railing, and leaned on it as if she were on the deck of her ship as spells were flying. Cooler than Perric by far.
“Congratulations, you’re upset.”
“Earl Altestiel is dead because of you.”
“He was a soldier. You killed Rosech.”
“I’ll kill you too.”
The Human woman sat at her table, back slightly hunched, playing with a chess piece. Her face was entirely calm, but Maxy’s teeth ground together, and she wished she had a blade.
“You can try. The seas are ours. I’ve stolen enough to set me’n my crew up for life.”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t blink.
“Is that why you’re pretending to be a [Merchant]? Or is it just a [Captain]? Red hair. Nevermind the curls. I wonder how many half-Elves at sea have red hair like that? It’ll be easy for anyone to discover who you were masquerading as. That’s one identity down. Start running, Maxy. And don’t stop.”
This damn—! Maxy’s teeth were making an audible sound now, but her pulse had accelerated, and she had a feeling like enemy ships were closing on her. Her eyes flicked left and right, and she held up a hand.
“You want to make threats, Innkeeper? You’re not a hard woman to find. You think the Titan can keep you safe if I have nothing to lose?”
“I think you didn’t expect any consequences, Maxy. Congratulations. You’ve found them. Rosech is dead. You’re next. I’ll never let you hide. And my Skill will follow you to the ends of the earth. Sail off The Last Tide for me, Maxy.”
The [Innkeeper] sat there, smiling like a corpse, and Maxy felt a chill running down her arms.
“If that’s how you want to do it—then you’re looking at another war, Innkeeper.”
“Not a war, Maxy. Just a long obituary. See you soon.”
Erin gestured, and a door opened. Maxy would have stayed, but a force was pushing her towards the exit. Furious, incapable of refusing, she strode towards it, murder in her eyes. And a spark of great unease in her chest that ignited into fear as Erin spoke.
“Oh. And look over your crew’s shoulders. All of them, Maxy.”
The door closed as the half-Elf snarled, and she heard the [Innkeeper] laughing.
 
——
 
Laughing. Coughing. She didn’t feel better. But Erin sat there and spoke to herself.
“That’s right. I don’t even have to talk to them. Now she’s got to change aliases. And each member of her crew…can’t trust them. I can harass her? I can. Wait. King…King…”
She snapped her fingers.
 
——
 
King Evein of Pheislant was not an impressively statured man. He was actually as short as the [Innkeeper] who found him in his nightclothes. He was late to rise, but of his qualities was a certain maritime aspect.
A sense with his rolling steps that he could push off to sea and knew what a halyard was. And of her guests so far, he was the one who actually had the dignity of the crown. At least insofar as to bark at her.
“Whom art thou, and why have you absconded with our personages?”
Then he recognized her. Erin Solstice waved at him.
“Hi. It’s me. Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper]. I’m pretty sure you know me.”
“You are an enemy of Erribathe and an ally of the Goblin Lord, Greydath of Blades. I warn you, Pheislant will remember your actions. You speak now to king and country.”
He stiffly replied. Erin just studied the [King], who glanced around despite knowing none of his guards or people were here.
“I’m…just repeating this because you already know, King Evein. But what happens in this place is secret. I’m almost positive no one can find out what we say to each other. Or that we met, unless you tell them.”
Evein’s mental charting of events altered slightly, and he tucked away this new avenue of information he had to regard as truth. He sat, eyeing her with distrust.
“That does not change the fact that you have summoned a sitting [King] of Terandria at no notice. You are an [Innkeeper].”
She waved that off like an irritating fly.
“And I know you.”
“From whom?”
“Wil Kallinad.”
“Young Lord—I see.”
His face grew even more severe, and Erin chuckled and then coughed deeply, eying him. She had a dangerous light in her eyes, he decided.
“Don’t hold it against Wil, Your Majesty. Everyone liked me when he mentioned Pheislant to me. I…apologize for bringing you here. But I can’t exactly call ahead, and I have something you may want. Or not. But it won’t hurt to listen.”
The King of Pheislant was getting curious despite himself. He added a mental note. After he told his people to ward against whatever this was, they should refresh him on details about Erin Solstice.
“As it appears I have no choice, I shall listen. Assuming this conversation is indeed private.”
This time, she relaxed and seemed so at ease it almost put him off his guard. But the cut of her next statements then put him in mind of his top [Generals] or one of the Order of Seasons’ grandmasters.
“You may know I have a lot of secrets, Your Majesty. And you may know…that I was great friends with the late Earl Altestiel of Rains. Whom Admiral Maxy murdered. I know she’s still at large. The last I saw of her, she had red, curly hair and looked like she was posing as a [Merchant] or someone innocent.”
The King of Pheislant, as a nautical power, sat up slightly in his chair.
“Indeed. When was this?”
“Five minutes ago? Thereabouts. She won’t have time to get far. And it was here—so you may believe that. Speaking of which, Your Majesty. Do you know what she took from Altestiel?”
Evein suddenly had a lot of time for Erin.
“…If I recall right, he struck a deal with her to save as many as possible. The location, among other things, of a certain fortress you entrusted to him.”
The [Innkeeper] now seemed like a sea serpent coiled up, eyes fixed and calm.
“Yes. I am positive she can’t have claimed it yet. She probably wants to get to it when no one is watching. A shame. It’s hidden among reefs she’ll have to navigate; not far off Terandria’s western coast, actually.”
“Impossible. If an island with a keep were that close—”
“Well, it rises and falls with water magic.”
King Holloise stopped. Erin Solstice leaned forwards.
“Would you like a map? Let me point out exactly where it should be. Bear in mind, I was looking at a really old map when I was told where it was, but if you know the vague location…you’ll also know Maxy will have to go there somehow. Make sure you’re looking below the waves; she might use a vessel that can submerge.”
A map appeared on the table, replacing the chess pieces, and she leaned over it with a quill. The King of Pheislant was now all-in on this conversation, and his eyes flicked to her.
“And why would you tell me this for nothing, Miss Erin Solstice?”
“Admiral Maxy killed Altestiel. He was my friend. Besides—he told her to keep the others safe. Nothing says I can’t tell you anything I want.”
“…Or anyone else, one would assume.”
He was not enough of a fool to miss that. The [Innkeeper] grinned at him, and her gums were bleeding. He flinched at that, and she just chuckled.
“Just so long as you get her, I think I’ll leave the rest to chance, Your Majesty. Have I offended Pheislant greatly?”
He’d have to think on this. But the King of Pheislant hesitated, then glanced around surreptitiously, but if no one could hear—
“Did Maxy have any identifying insignia on her hat?”
For answer, Erin produced a copy of it, and he took a look.
“Merchant’s Guild. Thank you for your assistance, Innkeeper Solstice.”
She offered him a hand. Rather to his surprise, he shook it.
 
——
 
Erin made three other calls before Pavilion-Erin interrupted her. After the first one, she wiped at her cheeks and saw more dead skin sloughing off. She bid the Queen of Desonis farewell gently.
The second call had her laughing at another of her foes and another vow to see them again. Very soon. She only broke it off and let them go when she noticed a wiggling sensation in her mouth.
Erin spat out a tooth and saw it wasn’t bloody. She wasn’t sure if that was good.
“[—Partial Reconstruction]. There.”
She stuck it back in her mouth, and it stayed. Erin shook her head, grateful Ulvama had missed that. The third call was with Lord Etril Wellfar, and Erin was pleased nothing interrupted her during the call. Though he seemed to be treating her like he did his late mother, Gresaria, holding her arm as they crossed the swaying deck of a ship in his memories.
She would have kept going, but the Pavilion interrupted her, appearing across the chess table.
“Time for me to collect.”
“Alright. Hit me.”
The [Innkeeper] felt like her heart was racing and steady at the same time. She understood, now, what the [Pavilion of Secrets] could do. Now she understood how you could harm someone, friends included, even if she didn’t yet know how Pisces could be killed with a word.
Had that been literal? She didn’t know, but Pavilion-Erin just stood there.
“The goal is the truth. You know, I remember everything you do. But there are also…records which I get access to. Fun fact for both of us: there are no records of Earth.”
“Uh. That’s not a fun fact. That’s obvious.”
Erin rested her chin on her arms on the table. She was getting tired now. Sleepy, but the fake her just sat down.
“It is if you’re a concept that’s supposed to know all and judge all.”
“Why’s it matter?”
Erin peered suspiciously at the Pavilion, and the other her answered.
“I think it matters because it’s one thing to know about, I dunno, foosball. But another to understand the game and how to apply it in a cultural setting.”
