“There’s a spread. I, and I mean your personality, sorts through everyone who qualifies and makes a choice. I prioritized efficiency and chose who you’d choose. Next…”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice waited as the [Pavilion of Secrets] chose in the same span of time the Grand Design of high-and-mighty-everything did. It was indeed the ocean, and this was a mere bucket compared to the vast, unending sea.
But this bucket had personality. It had many functions, but in the end…
Enemy. They could be, and they could be allies, of a kind. The [Pavilion of Secrets] had been created for exactly what it said on the tin. Secrets.
Did Erin Solstice really think it was there just to torture her? It was her. And not her. And learning who she was along with Erin herself.
There were actually a number of candidates who could fulfill that final request. A simple request from Erin: convince her to get the help she needed. Help her leave.
Each one was worthy in their way. They could do it. The list was long, winding, and had everyone from a one-armed Minotaur to a sniffy [Necromancer] to even, possibly, a skeleton with a really bad relationship with its own creators.
But the [Pavilion of Secrets] chose the best, just like Erin would. One of the fastest, certainly.
He entered the gazebo and caught his breath as soon as the introduction had told him what this place was and what the rules were. The figure stepped forwards and spoke.
“Erin. Are you okay?”
She opened her eyes, and she couldn’t focus on the face, but she smiled and recognized the voice and presence.
“I don’t think so. I don’t think I’ve been okay for a long while, Rabbiteater.”
He slid his visor up, then knelt down.
“Can I help?”
“Maybe? I gotta leave this place, but I’m afraid to. And I might not be able to move. I’ve been beating myself up a bit.”
“Don’t do that.”
The Hobgoblin was wearing [Knight]’s armor. Up till this moment, he’d been sweating in the jungle’s humidity and swearing. But while he didn’t know where he was or what was going on—it didn’t matter. He seldom did.
Slowly, he bent down and picked Erin Solstice up, holding her in his arms. Rabbiteater grunted; not at the weight, but at the lack of it, and turned.
“I see a door. Also…another you pointing at it. Is that normal?”
“Yeah. Ignore her. She’s just really scary.”
“She’s you. Makes sense.”
The [Knight] began striding down the steps and, after a moment, spoke.
“If I take you out of here—you going to be okay?”
“I think better than if I stay, yeah. Is everything good with you? How’s things?”
She was trying to sound conversational. The Hobgoblin looked down at the [Innkeeper], who could barely keep her head up, and hesitated. Then he coughed and did something based on his understanding of Erin.
“Is pretty good. Yeah. Little stuff is happening—well, sorta litt—sorta big.”
“Big?”
She stirred. Rabbiteater strode faster, speaking quickly. But gently.
“Yeah. Maybe we’re being hunted or lost or hunted and lost and stuff. But we’ll be f—hmm. We have Seraphel. We’ll be not-fine.”
Her eyes opened, and her pupils focused on his face with a frown as he smiled with all his teeth. He passed by another Erin Solstice and gave her a thumbs up, scary or not. Erin tried to reach for his arm.
“I’ll find you. I’ve got Ulvama.”
“Nah, we’re better than we were at sea. Which is…like…fine? Not gonna die, anyways. At least, today. Probably.”
Her head rose more. She began to smile, and he swore he saw her breathing harder. The [Knight] pulled the door open.
“I’ll see you tomorrow, Erin. Promise.”
Then he carried her through as he thought he saw a jungle’s light and tent around him. Somewhere, an [Innkeeper] stirred. But all she remembered was a Goblin’s smile and a thumbs up.
Rabbiteater kept the thumbs up in his head until he woke up from his nap. He made sure he wasn’t still needed.
Then he allowed himself to grasp at his chest and his fingers to shake, because there was nothing they could do. The Hobgoblin’s legs pumped as he ran as if the world were water, holding back his leaden limbs that had barely held an [Innkeeper]’s weight. He ran, shouting with a cracking voice for his friends that they might lie to him. Like a child fleeing the shaking sky.
 
——
 
Erin popped back into reality in the tent and lay there a second.
“Ow.”
Everything hurt. The crawling, itching on her skin was terrible. She lay there—and for a moment, it would have been easier to close her eyes.
But she remembered Rabbiteater’s smile. And her conversations with the pavilion. And Nerry. And because no one else was going to remember but Ryoka and Nanette—
Because she guessed she wanted to live after all, Erin gasped. Then she whispered with all the air she had left.
—And her [Loud Voice] Skill.
“Ulvama? Ulvama!”
There was a shout of surprise. Someone whirled—saw her lying there, and hollered at the top of his lungs.
“Eurise! She’s up! Dead gods, she looks worse than—”
Someone vaulted into the tent, knocking the Fraerling aside, and Ulvama was there, or at least, a green blob. Someone else rushed forwards.
“Gnomes, she looks bad!”
“Erin! Erin! Where were—help her!”
Erin croaked as she waved a hand.
“Don’t—don’t—”
“Can we pick her up?”
Eurise’s voice. Erin felt Ulvama seize one leg; she was rolled into a corner of the tent, and the female Fraerling was speaking.
“We gotta work on her fast! Hey! Drink this!”
She proffered a jar, and Erin rasped.
“Don’t dispel me. Concentrate the mana with a sponge. I’ve got Internalized Apotheotic…dissonance stuff.”
“Yeah, we got the no dispel part. Now drink! Wait, someone write down what she said—”
Oh. Erin weakly opened her mouth, only to find Ulvama had the jar and was pouring it down her throat. She tried not to gag or spit it back up. And then—she was being carried as Ulvama kept feeding her the liquid, bits at a time so Erin didn’t suffocate.
“Sorry. I think I was still trying to hurt myself.”
“Dummy. You call for me and I’ll hit you in the Pavilion.”
Ulvama’s voice faded away as Erin closed her eyes and heard a babble of concerned voices.
“—ooh. That’s really not good.”
“—tagious?”
“—looks like if you sneeze, she’d go flying—”
“—way. Gnomes take it, if five villages can’t save her, no city can. Get the magicore!”
Then she was drifting off, but what Erin meant to say, she hoped she got to Ulvama. Which was—
“Sorry. I think I was afraid of being honest with you.”
Or what she really thought of Erin. Then the [Innkeeper] went to sleep for a bit. The last thought she had was that maybe, just maybe…
Maybe she needed more help than she thought.
 
——
 
The first thing she noticed was that she was moist. Not in, like, the most pleasant of ways. Erin had sort of been hoping for a warm bed and that feeling of waking up in the morning when you were allowed to sleep in.
Instead, it felt more like she’d fallen asleep in a bathtub that had gotten tepidly cold; only, the water was thick. It was, in fact, like toothpaste and very uncomfortable. After a bit of wiggling, Erin opened her eyes.
The first thing she saw was a rather interesting ceiling. It was fractal; light shone down from outside—moonlight, soft and radiant—but it was only visible as a blur through a softly glowing crystal wall flecked with bits of dirt and elements caught inside of it.
Erin was in a giant, carved-out crystal geode, and it shone around her as she wiggled again. Then she realized she was enmeshed in a smelly, pale-green substance.
“Aw.”
Erin spoke, or at least, tried to speak. Her throat was sore and coated in something nasty. She coughed and realized her lungs didn’t hurt. When she coughed, the entire suspension of green slime wobbled.
Erin had seen Star Wars, where Luke Skywalker was suspended in one of those futuristic healing tank things. That was like—a secondary option to the bed, even if it looked really uncomfortable. A bunch of slime in what was essentially a giant vat of the stuff wasn’t her first option.
And instead of a cool suspension, Erin realized she was in a kind of hammock that could lock her into place. She wiggled a bit and then realized she could move her fingers.
“Whoa.”
Wibble. Wobble. Erin flexed her toes, raised one arm, and saw, to her surprise and gratification, that it was looking a lot less mushy than before. The green gel-stuff was covering her up to her neck, and while it didn’t feel good—she was definitely better than when she had passed out.
She was also, and this was a bit concerning, naked. Erin turned red and instantly tried to sit up. She managed it after only two tries.
Huh, I feel really good. It was only after she sat up and dislodged some of the healing jello—which was how she was going to dignify it—that Erin realized someone had doodled on her as she slept.
Okay…it had to be Ulvama. Only the [Shaman] would paint a bunch of symbols on Erin’s arms and legs. Erin stared down at her stomach and snorted.
There was a smiley face on her stomach. If that was magic—her laughter made her cough out some more gross stuff. Then she noticed Ulvama.
The Hobgoblin was sleeping on a ball of fluff next to a bunch of much more comfy-looking cots over to the side. She looked exhausted; she was curled up on the Battle Hamster, whose mouth was open and from which Erin swore she heard a familiar snoring sound.
The laughter made someone else in the room whirl. Erin saw a figure turn to her and instantly covered her chest. But the Fraerling threw up his arms.
“Aha! You’re alive! And within my margin—I won my bet! Yes!”
He pumped three arms, and Erin was so busy staring at him she even forgot her nudity for a second. Not that the slime showed that much; the [Healer] waved at her.
“Hello! I’m one of the people who saved your life, not some slime-obsessed voyeur. I know, it was one or the other. No, don’t get up. Actually, can you stand up?”
“I’m naked.”
Erin coughed and growled. The Fraerling waved that off as he strode over with a lopsided gait. He didn’t have a white lab coat, but he did have an apron of some kind over a hand-stitched puffy suit that went up to his hands. He had on an open kilt around his lower torso for reasons that became obvious. Erin stared at the Fraerling’s huge, self-satisfied smile, a chin you could use like a hammer, his three arms…and what looked like a beetle’s leg.
“You’re my first non-Fraerling patient—well, humanoid patient—and I’m delighted we didn’t lose you. Shame about your legs. I think they’re in this jar, but hey, what can you do?”
He held up a jar of green goop, and Erin stared at it—then down at her legs. Her intact, flesh-and-blood legs waved, and her toes flexed.
The Fraerling slapped his chest and laughed heartily. At this point, Erin’s gratitude towards her savior was being tempered by an assessment of his character. But she’d met Fraerlings before.
“You got a towel?”
“Ah! No towels. Don’t worry, I can stare past you. You’re still a bit melty. But the good news, jokes aside, is that you were more and less in one piece. I don’t know how you figured out what was wrong with you, but you were spot on, and it saved us time figuring out which symptoms you had. Good job on that—the records show that anyone who gets overloaded like that turns into a puddle, but wherever you were seemed to keep your form very stable. And the rest we managed to scrape up and paste back on.”
“…Is that a joke?”
The Fraerling rubbed his hands together.
“Absolutely not. However! You’ve only been asleep for about seven hours. I told the others you’d be up and at it soon. Level 50s are tough, and you, Miss Erin Solstice, had the benefit of a healing Skill. Not just ours, I mean.”
He gestured at her, and Erin did feel remarkably fine.
“What Skill?”
“Your [Shaman] friend thinks it was [Partial Reconstruction]. All the little pieces kept reattaching themselves, which meant I didn’t even have to graft a limb. And I had some splendid limbs. Where are my manners? Bowom, [Doctor].”
He held out a hand and pumped it up and down in the air, still looking to the side. Erin blinked at him, and her mind took over.
“…[Mad Doctor].”
“Hah! Wait, how do you know that? Is my class that common where you come from?”
Erin didn’t exactly need to be the most savvy person to know that if a Fraerling had three arms and an insect leg, he was on the strange side of medicine. However, he seemed fairly competent.
“Don’t scrub at the green stuff, please. It’s all the mending jelly we’ve got; after we purged you of magic, we dunked you in the stuff to accelerate the healing. You can get out as soon as we run a few tests. An hour or two tops.”
“Two hours? What if I have to pee or stuff?”
He gave her a brief stare until she reddened.
“I mean, I’d say go for it, but I’d be surprised if you’ve got anything left in those guts of yours. The entire batch is going to get tossed anyways. Speaking of which! I was really upset your internal organs seemed to be more or less intact. I was hoping that any food or other material in your intestines would be mixed in your body and I’d have to perform exploratory surgery to get it out—”
He heaved a huge sigh.
“—But alas. I mean, congrats! You owe a big debt to Eurise, you know. And your [Shaman] friend. She made sure we knew what we were dealing with the moment you popped back here.”
His joking manner seemed to both be sincere and meant to be reassuring. Erin looked at Ulvama.
“I should have gone with her and not wasted so much time. I nearly died by being stupid.”
“Or missed the chance for some amazing new limbs!”
Bowom whispered, then shook his head. He gave her a kinder look as he leaned on the side of the vat. Erin decided she was too grateful to be embarrassed; she couldn’t object to having her life saved. The [Mad Doctor] nodded at Erin.
“Frankly, I think your judgment was a tad impaired by nearly turning into a slime yourself. And it was certainly enough fun for me. All the magic-users here are having a blast with the magic we pulled out of you. High-quality stuff.”
“You…pulled the magic out of me, and you’re going to use it?”
The [Doctor] smiled as he rubbed his hands together.
“Why not? Transfer some to magicore, isolate it, and no one would ever know it was from a shrunken Human. Someone really wanted you dead.”
“Yeah. They still do.”
