“Got it. Can’t make [Champion of the Foos] without knowing the intricacies of the game. So you want to know about me?”
“Say, rather, I’m getting to know myself.”
Pavilion-Erin sat there, and the real Erin cracked an irked eye open.
“You’ve got my memories.”
“Yeah, and I have actions you’ve performed. Of the Erin Solstice here in this world. I don’t know the one who was on Earth. I don’t know…much about you, really.”
“Oh come on, you know my favorite food, color, and when I last pooed.”
The Pavilion rolled her eyes heavenwards.
“—And that’s the old Solstice deflection technique. Is it hereditary? Here’s the thing: I don’t know. Erin Solstice never talks about her life before entering this world. Isn’t that odd? You’ve never mentioned once what you got for Christmas. You don’t mention where you grew up, where you went to school. I know these things, but you never told Mrsha how you felt about school or being the only girl who stuck around in the chess club or…”
She prowled around the table as the [Innkeeper] glowered at her. The Pavilion stopped. Turned.
“Half of that is because you can’t remember. Another interesting condition. That will change now that you have this Skill.”
“So I get to remember about Sariants when I leave? Whoopee. Is that what you want? Knowledge of Shaestrel? Stories from home? Seems like a small price to pay.”
Erin Solstice didn’t mind giving that up. But the other her just stood there, inspecting her with eyes that were too calculating—then became round and innocent.
“Who, me? Nah, that’s like…I dunno. Too important? Y’know what I think I wanna ask? No, wait, I want to make a suggestion. Can I do that?”
She clapped her hands together, and Erin gave herself a suspicious look.
“You can knock off the dumb Erin routine.”
“You mean—normal Erin routine. Hah! Gottem. Finger guns.”
This—was going to take some getting used to. Erin didn’t dignify her clone’s remarks with a response. Then the other Erin hit her with it.
“I suggest Roshal next. I’m thinking Thatalocian. He’s the most likely to be hospitable to your questions.”
Erin Solstice felt a cold hand douse the malicious vindication she’d been feeling.
“And why in the name of Admiral Maxy’s burning ship would I do that?”
The Pavilion of Secrets smiled down at her.
“Well. He probably understands how to properly torture people. With word and deed. When they catch Maxy, or the Bloodfeast Raiders’ leader—whom you can remember now—you’re going to want to make it count. You only get one shot at it after all.”
The [Innkeeper] slumped at the table and didn’t move for a second. She’d put her head down. But her body just froze up until two eyes rose, and the full, baleful glare of a [Witch] met the image of hers.
“I—”
“—want to hurt them. Don’t worry. I won’t tell. I know exactly what you want to do. Do you think the others haven’t asked how much this place can do?”
The Pavilion of Secrets had a hat upon her head. Black flames rising from her hair. She swept out a hand, indicating the empty world beyond.
“Cormelex wanted to know. But not just him. They deserve it. Why not ask? Thatalocian will never tell. He’ll give you the information for free, even if the two of you are at odds. You’re certain of that. Tell me, Erin. How much longer are you going to sit and torture them? And yourself?”
The hat kept burning as the [Innkeeper] looked up, and the room flickered. For a moment, Erin Solstice saw a different room. A neatly made bed, a little computer with that old, big monitor at a table next to a chess board and a shelf of books on chess. And—she heard a song.
One of hers, not Ryoka’s iPhone songs that had formed the backdrop of songs in this world. Or rather, not ‘hers’, but one that Erin remembered. She saw a girl sitting on her bed with a bowl of popcorn—with yeast on it—staring open-mouthed at the computer screen.
This Erin Solstice was probably only eleven years old. And she was hearing, for the first time, spoken latin in song.
A movie she would watch once and never again for seven years, then several more times. It was a Disney movie; The Hunchback of Notre Dame. The song was—
Hellfire.
The image paused, and the [Pavilion of Secrets] sat on the bed.
“Disney kid. You really loved the movies when you were a kid.”
“What are you doing?”
[The Wandering Innkeeper] stood in the doorway, the frozen image of her childhood before her. She knew this moment. It was surreal to see herself like this, but that was all.
Erin had no hat of black flames. She was just cold. The Pavilion wearing her face screwed it up in frustration.
“I’m doing what I was made for: seeking answers. From others. About the world. About you.”
Erin folded her arms.
“I’m not thinking of Disney movies right now. And I don’t need advice on whom to call in here. I am not going to speak to Thatalocian.”
“Then why can you hear the music in your head?”
To that, Erin Solstice had no answer. The song kept playing, and she remembered how freaked out she’d been as a kid. Of all the Disney movies, including the copious ones with a lot of parental death, when you got down to it—this was probably the most intense.
For this moment above them all. Young Erin hadn’t even gotten to understand the depths of the singer’s—Bishop Frollo’s—sin nor what the song was really about until she was older. But in large, even if you had never heard it, the song was simple.
It was about sin. Fear of damnation. Temptation.
She looked away from the flickering old computer screen as the young Erin nearly dropped her bowl of popcorn.
“I am going to kill Maxy. Don’t talk me out of it.”
“How about yourself? How’s your right arm feel? How many fingers am I holding up?”
The Pavilion challenged her. Erin Solstice saw two fingers rise. The image of her bedroom vanished; Erin sat in the chair across from her. Shuffling the deck of cards. This time, they were tarot cards, and she held up a predictable one.
Death. The image of the grim reaper glinted in the light.
“You know that Eurise is coming for you.”
“Yeah. He should be here by now.”
“Ulvama could be in danger.”
“She’s not. He doesn’t seem like a monster.”
“They’re probably waiting to heal you.”
Erin lifted a mirror and stared at her real face.
“Yeah.”
She sat down slowly; her legs hurt too much to stand, and the Pavilion of Secrets placed another card on the table.
“If that’s ‘the Fool’, I’m going to punch you.”
“You’d probably enjoy that. You knew you were getting worse. You could have taken a nap outside. Instead, you stayed in here. Going after your enemies. Which includes you? That’s my question, by the way. Answer.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] stared at Erin with that intense gaze that belonged to [The Wandering Innkeeper]. But curiously. Impartially, in a way. With none of the loathing that the real Erin would have had there.
Erin Solstice hung her head. When she spoke, it was with a hoarse chuckle.
“Checkmate. Not bad. I didn’t even see it coming.”
“I am you. Answer the question.”
The [Innkeeper] sat there with only herself to judge. Her vision was getting fuzzier, but even if she wanted to stand up and head out of here—it was a long way to that door in the distance. And both of them knew how long she’d waited.
“Have you ever considered that I…no. You want honesty, Pavilion? Bring back the young me for a second, would you?”
“Sure thing.”
—There she was. A young Erin Solstice running down the hallway to her parents, arms raised. Goofy, silly, way too good at chess—wearing slippers and a t-shirt with a rook on it.
Erin waited until she saw two people beginning to exit their room. Shauna and Gregori Solstice. But she stopped the memory before she saw their faces.
“I think she’s gone. I did my best, Pavilion. I think even after I came back from the dead there was still a bit of her. But I don’t think she’s me anymore. The kid that my parents remember’s gone. I think she was a good kid. I dunno. But I don’t think they’ll recognize me, even if I go back.”
“It’s only been a year. Possibly three or more given how time works.”
The Pavilion of Secrets looked at her. Erin Solstice shook her head, and her chest hurt. Not just with pain from her deteriorating body, but realization.
“—No. I realized it when I was drifting at sea. Today, I figured out how to articulate it. I don’t think I have good intentions anymore.”
She blinked, and the fake her was watching her curiously now.
“Does anyone?”
Erin nodded stiffly.
“I think so. I think most people do, even if they do terrible things. But I don’t. Part of me wondered if I should leave instead of keep wrecking parts of the world selfishly.”
She looked at her burnt wrists.
“I used to think I could make the world better. Now, I’ve tried again and again. All I learned was how to make it emptier. That’s not…better.”
The [Innkeeper] looked up, and she was still damnably guilty. Somehow. And angry for it.
“I’m afraid. Afraid—not just that if I get up and leave, I’ll let Maxy get away. All the people who killed friends of mine. I’m afraid—they’ll be like Tyrion Veltras. A guest of my inn!”
She slammed a hand down and looked at it. Her arguments with Ryoka flashed before her eyes. She knew—she had seen him riding against the Draugr. But that was not what kept flashing by her eyes.
—She saw him riding down on the Goblins at Liscor. And she always would. But the familiar fury in her chest wasn’t as strong as before. Erin looked up, and there were tears in her eyes.
“I’m not as angry as I used to be. I should be. Do I hate Tyrion? Yes. But do I see a stupid father who’s dumb and inconsiderate and thought he was doing the right thing and dumb and violent and dumb and—”
Her throat closed up a second.
“I will never forgive him for what he did. But I fear that. Okay? I want them dead. Maxy. Yazdil. I don’t want to live in a world with them in it. I would rather take them off the board forever than compromise and let them breathe another moment.”
She stared at the chess board and picked up a black pawn, then tossed it aside.
“—And I know that I’ll kill everyone I love trying to do that. This Erin Solstice doesn’t help people. I’m afraid if I continue like this, Ulvama won’t ever go home. And that’s my fault.”
Her eyes were blurry, and she wiped at them. She wanted to be miserable. In pain. She wanted to sit here—had wanted it so badly that now it was too late to rise.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] sat across from her, listening to Erin’s confession that she was too afraid to even tell Ulvama. Because…she didn’t want her friend to look at her like she deserved.
“Not bad, as secrets go.”
A knight bounced off the other Erin’s head as Erin threw it at her. The [Innkeeper] leaned on the table.
“I guess I really messed up this time, huh?”
“Maybe. But you were honest with me. So let me be honest with you, Erin.”
The copy of her leaned forwards, and the [Innkeeper] raised her head. She saw something like dancing amusement in those artificial eyes, and understanding. Expectations as heavy as the hat on her head, whether you saw it or not.
“I don’t think you’re done changing. I think there’s more for Erin Solstice to discover. You still haven’t found the thing you came back from the dead for, remember? Love.”
“Really? That’s what you’re worried about?”
Erin almost laughed, but her head hung. Yet her doppelganger just studied her with careful eyes.
“I think you can find it. And I don’t think it’s the end, Erin Solstice.”
“Unless you’ve got a forklift, I really don’t see a way out of here. Or you carry me.”
The other Erin shook her head.
“I’m not allowed to. But there is a way out. You just have to ask. You just have to want it.”
Slowly, the [Innkeeper] raised her head. She looked at her arms and closed her eyes.
“—Am I paid up on secrets?”
“Sure. I’ll take the next one on credit.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] waited, and Erin Solstice spoke.
“Then get me someone who can tell me how to save my life. First…someone who knows what’s wrong with me.”
She leaned on the table, vision fuzzing, feeling her body tingle horribly. No pain; that was a bad sign. The glamor over her body was gone. She knew she had to be looking worse—and though her head didn’t rise, she heard a soft voice inhale sharply.
“You’re dying. That’s not mana burn. That’s mana dissolution.”
A terse, clipped tone sounded in Erin’s ears, not shocked or alarmed, but forceful. In command. Erin mumbled.
“It got really bad all of a sudden.”
“You must be high-level. Or that ‘bad’ should have literally melted your bones—I’ve seen worse. How close are you to a [Mage] or [Healer], whoever you are?”
Brisk, cold hands felt at Erin’s head, then opened her eyes, and a voice sighed.
“Your eyes haven’t begun to run yet. They can save you if you’re fast. Tell them you have Internalized Apotheotic Magical Dissonance. IAMD. Or if they don’t understand that—meltblood overload. Understand?”
“Help might be…here. D’you know how to fix this? Whomever you are?”
Erin saw a blob and heard a tsking sound.
“I see. You called for help. Well, listen closely. I don’t know what kind of experts you’re about to meet, and you had better hope they’re good. But just in case, tell them this: do not dispel the mana in your body. You have been overloaded by hostile spells to the point where it has sunk into your very skin and bones. Dispel it and you will let it out all at once.”
“…That’s not, like, in a fart, right?”
The woman did not laugh.
“Try explosion. Tell them to concentrate it. If they have to sacrifice a limb, they can pull it out of you. Swallowing raw magicore would be preferable if they can’t figure out anything else. They should know how to create mana-absorbing sponges. You need as much as possible—then they can reverse your damage. Got it?”
“Sponge. Right. Thanks.”
The figure checked Erin over again, then rose to her feet and turned.
“…I’m leaving. Good luck, whomever you are. What is your name?”
“Erin.”
There was a pause as the figure strode over to the door and stopped. She turned back, and Erin caught a hint of surprise in her voice.
“Would that be Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper]?”
“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out, buddy. Who’re you?”
Erin squinted, and the blob of silver that might have been hair on top of a face stared at her. Then softly replied.
“Tserre. Good luck.”
The door closed, and Erin tilted her head.
“…Wuzzat the best person?”
