“Listen. You have to start exercising more. Believe me, when you’re running down the beach from crabs—we really could have used a bit more stamina. Got it?”
She was trying to be funny, mostly because she was confused. She knew this scene. She remembered it vividly. After that, they’d had a talk with Saliss about who he really was: a Turnscale. Not that it mattered. Well, it did, but Saliss was her friend.
And then she had rolled into the [World’s Eye Theatre] and warned the Earthers and everyone else about the dead gods.
A momentous day. What was there to miss? Erin stood there, and Nerry kicked over two scrolls to Ryoka and Nanette, and Erin frowned.
“Hm? Wait, did Nerry have more to say after that? Why wasn’t I there for…huh?”
Wait a moment. She was still sitting there as Ryoka unfurled the next scroll, read, and began to swear, Nanette’s precious ears or not. Nanette stood up on her tiptoes, and Erin frowned at the scrolls.
‘We were not created by an [Archmage] as many species were, but by Eydole the…’
“Wait, what’s this? What’s this?”
Erin did a double-take. She stared at the image of herself, then at the scrolls. Was this Sariant Lamb backstory? She’d never read this before! She’d gone downstairs and then met Saliss!
Why did the recording of events show her sitting there? Admittedly, the other Erin was frowning and staring at Nanette and Ryoka, but it made no sense.
Current-Erin’s head was exploding, and she rubbed at her temples. No, she hadn’t—
Then the past her spoke.
“It’s blank.”
Ryoka and Nanette turned to stare at the [Innkeeper], and past-Erin looked down at the scroll with a huge frown of puzzlement.
“It’s blank. What are you reading, Nanette, Ryoka?”
Current-Erin, Nanette, and Ryoka, all exchanged looks, equally bewildered. But current-Erin saw the reactions of Nanette and Ryoka, and a sudden, ominous feeling stole over her.
“No way.”
She watched as Ryoka turned to Erin and held the scroll up.
“You see nothing?”
“No.”
Nerry bit Ryoka’s leg, and Ryoka read from the scroll. Current-Erin read over her shoulder.
“…No one who is of classes and levels can know or remember what we speak of. We have tried. Only the ‘levelless’, who some call Rulebreakers, can even understand.”
“…Ryoka? It’s blank, I said.”
The past Erin was speaking with a huge frown, oblivious to what she was being told, and the Erin standing in the [Pavilion of Secrets] suddenly felt an itchy, terribly uneasy feeling run down her entire body.
Slowly, the Wind Runner looked up.
“Didn’t you hear me, Erin?”
“Hear what? Ryoka, Saliss is about to break something. Is Nerry giving you invisible ink or something?”
The entire scene stopped, and the real Erin Solstice, [The Wandering Innkeeper], slowly clenched her hands. She turned, eyes wide, breathing heavily.
“You damn…bastards. You—! Was it the six? Was it you?”
She shouted, looking around for that eternal, omnipresent being. The system of levels itself. It had messed with her head! She didn’t remember any of this. But she saw this snapshot of the world, isolated from the effect now, and she was getting angry.
So this was the power Sheta had craved! This was the nature of the [Pavilion of Secrets]! True secrets.
Secrets so powerful or so restricted only people like Ryoka and Nanette, who were levelless, were allowed to understand them. Secrets about—
Erin swung around.
“Nerry? What were you trying to tell me?”
She knelt down and stared at the little lamb. Then, slowly, she began to read the scroll over Ryoka’s shoulder. Then Erin’s mouth opened in horror and outrage.
Then she finally saw it. Something she wasn’t supposed to know. Erin Solstice slowly mouthed the words out loud.
“The Trials of Levelling.”
At last, she saw it. A piece of the puzzle. The entire puzzle slowly sliding into place. And when she did—
[The Wandering Innkeeper] lost her temper.
 
——
 
“She’s nicer than you think, you know.”
Ulvama spoke to the Battle Hamster as he decided the activity that most suited their rapid descent downhill was to clean his balls. He had curled up to perform the act, and he shot Ulvama an inquisitive look.
She really didn’t think he understood words. But the Hobgoblin pointed back, and he glanced towards the tent where Erin had vanished and stiffened. He recognized places, locations, and people, at least insofar as she was speaking about Erin.
“She’s a very kind, silly person. Most of the time.”
The [Shaman] saw a thoroughly unconvinced look as she smiled. Yeah, right, lady. The memory of Erin going hand-to-hand with the beetle and hamster and trying to burn an entire army of ants to death was fresh in Ulvama’s mind too.
She tapped the Corumdon Beetle on the head, and it couldn’t roll its eyes or do more than lift its head slightly, but she decided it was listening too.
“She is. She’s a good person. Whatever that means.”
The beetle clacked its mandibles together a few times as it ran as fast as it could down the plateau towards the hidden Fraerling village.
“She is. She’s just dying. But if she were better, she’d be your best friend and help you more than you’re worth. If I were Anazurhe or…if I were a better [Shaman], I’d be able to save her.”
The Goblin sat there, hunched, as she held the crude reins she used to signal the beetle. It was her fault. She was the [Shaman]. Erin was the [Chieftain]. In this scenario, Ulvama was the healthy one with more knowledge and magic, nevermind that Erin was the [Witch].
The sigils she’d drawn on Erin were the only reason the [Innkeeper] was still alive. At least, Ulvama thought so. They were [Mana Holder] runes; the best she could draw with paint made of literal mud and non-magical brushes and colors.
Each one should have had the capacity of a Tier 2 spell even so; they overloaded and released some of the mana in Erin’s body. Ulvama had used up her daily allotment each day, but she wasn’t even close to relieving the pressure on Erin. And it looked like things were turning for the worst. Rapidly.
She was failing. She’d been so relieved when Erin showed up—that she wasn’t alone and going to die. Now?
Ulvama glanced back at the hut. She hadn’t felt like this since she was half her level and small. Underleveled.
Being above Level 30 had been fine for Tremborag’s mountain. He hadn’t been Level 50; she didn’t know if he’d even been above Level 40. Tremborag had never shared information that important, even with her. But Erin took on threats of a magnitude greater than even Tyrion Veltras.
If only I had tried harder. The Hobgoblin tried not to cry. Goblins didn’t shed tears. It was one of the lies they liked to tell themselves. Just like how other Goblins could be ‘not-Goblin’. It was easy to kill another tribe if they weren’t really proper Goblins. It was easy to do what you had to.
So preoccupied was Ulvama with her frantic need to get Erin help that she didn’t notice the Battle Hamster moving until he handed her a piece of walnut. She stared at his scarred features and smiled a bit. He didn’t nuzzle her or do anything so affectionate, but she reached out and patted his head.
He, accordingly, bit her hand, but lightly. The [Shaman] turned ahead and glanced at her arm. One of the crude symbols made with the ash-paint and Erin’s color magic had lit up; a viridian glow turning orange.
Oh. That was right. The [Shaman] reached over her back and pulled out the thorn spear, for all the good it’d do. She could call down fire, at least. The Battle Hamster wiggled its nose and flicked its ears; the beetle kept running.
She knew Fraerlings might be as predisposed to Goblins as any other species. That was to say, murderous. Any sensible [Shaman] of a tribe like the Mountain City one should have slipped away once she found their location, rather than risk being executed.
Silly Ulvama. This is how Goblins die. 
“Keep the Chieftain alive. Too many people are counting on her. When Tremborag died, all the Goblins who needed him, whether he was good or not, were lost. This one has to make it. Okay.”
Her hand was shaking. Ulvama closed her eyes a second, then opened them wide. She pulled on the reins, and the confused Corumdon Beetle shook its head before remembering that meant ‘slow’. It came to a stop, skidding down some of the stones that rolled down the rocky slope like boulders before entering high grass.
Ulvama slowly stood up. She was trembling, but for a moment, the Goblin held her head high. She lifted the spear overhead like what she was: a guide on a journey. Where her tribe’s survival mattered more than what happened to her. Then she pointed wordlessly to the tent and dropped the thorn-spear and held up her hands.
She was braver than her fear. And more than one pair of eyes wondered if it was their imagination or the others saw it.
The Battle Hamster rose on all fours, head shifting right and left suddenly, fur bristling. It made a weird squalling sound, a guttural clicking in its throat—then leapt off the beetle’s back like a comet. It went straight for a tall blade of grass that rustled—and a figure bounded out and collided with the hamster.
Ulvama saw the Battle Hamster land on all fours, shaking its head, as another figure, a Fraerling six inches tall, hit the ground with an oath. She shouted.
“Hamster! No!”
If that’s the last thing I say, I’ll be really upset. But she didn’t move as she saw the young woman make a beckoning motion at the wary Battle Hamster. She raised her fists with a cocksure grin.
Then the grass rustled and a dozen more Fraerlings appeared, several holding bows that weren’t quite aimed at Ulvama. The beetle jerked in surprise and almost fanned its wings before it remembered.
Please don’t kill me. The [Shaman] was afraid to close her eyes because it might be the last thing she’d do. She heard a warning whistle.
“Oi. Mera, don’t fight the hammie. Zemmy, you too.”
A second Fraerling, a young man, paused in bounding over to join the rumble with the Battle Hamster. He groaned as he skidded to a stop. The Battle Hamster was growling, clearly wary of the young woman who’d knocked it out of the air.
Level 30? At least. The young woman—Mera?—turned as the fellow called Zemmy ran over. Ulvama’s eyes were focused on a grey-haired Fraerling standing on top of a swaying blade of grass, eying her up and down. He had on a vest that left his arms bare, and he looked like he was ready to throw down with a dozen hamsters and win. He felt like the old Hobs she had known who obeyed no orders. They roamed around their tribes and came back with monsters they’d killed. Those who even Tremborag had listened to.
That had to be Eurise. He studied Ulvama with one eyebrow raised as a Fraerling with a bow spat.
“It is a damn Battle Hammie. Howabout tha’?”
They had accents that truncated some of the words. Ulvama blinked, but the bow was trained on her midriff. The female Fraerling tilted her head down and sighed.
“Hey. Zemmy. Mera. Now’s not the time t—”
Ulvama looked over, as the Fraerling sighed, just in time to see both Zemmy and Mera stride up to each other, arms spread as if they were reuniting. Before her confused eyes, and the hamster’s, the two got within hugging range, then simultaneously threw a punch.
The Hobgoblin had never actually seen two people simultaneously connect fist-to-jaw like that. Even in a battle. Much less with the explosive effects here.
Mera ate an uppercut that sent her in an arc over a piece of grass while Zemmy took a fist to his nose that sent him hurtling back in a blur the way he’d come, slamming into the ground and rolling until he came back on his feet. The two stomped back to each other.
“Was that a [Grand Punch], Mera, you bastard?”
The female Fraerling slapped her face with her hand.
“That’s right. And it’s better’n your [Sky Hook], Zemmy. I learned it last week.”
“Didn’t work on the hammy, did it?”
“Oh, you want to try your luck on it? Or see who’s better right now?”
She had a lip she’d bitten from the uppercut, and he was covering his nose, though it wasn’t bleeding. Then they stood face to face, snapping at each other as the Battle Hamster stared at both of them, clearly wondering what the heck was going on.
…Those two are either in love with each other or siblings. Ulvama wasn’t sure which it was. She was still uncertain of her continued mortality, but the sighing Fraerlings gave her hope this wasn’t going to be her end.
“You two. Knock it off. Hey, Ulvama, ain’t it?”
Eurise snapped as the two younger Fraerlings turned guiltily to stare at her. Ulvama’s heart leapt.
“Yah. That’s me.”
She tried to keep her voice steady. Eurise nodded.
“Got Erin with you? Yer right where we thought.”
“She’s in there. In her Skill, I think. We—we’re glad to see you.”
He wasn’t attacking her, and he hadn’t called her a monster. Good start. Eurise raised an eyebrow.
“She talks like a normal person, don’t she? Toldja, Roja. Y’wanna lower the bow yet?”
The Fraerling with the bow who’d snapped at Zemmy and Mera eyed Ulvama, but she relaxed on the bowstring a bit.
“Might as well. Now who’s the one who burned an entire colony of ants down? Hey, y’all, move up! Tellim we’ve found the beetle! Get Veerni down here now! Is she melting?”
Ulvama took a second to realize they meant Erin. The Fraerling woman hopped off her grass stem and strode forwards, and the dozen Fraerlings approached on foot. Ulvama patted the beetle’s head as it swung left and right—then both she and the beetle started.
Forty or more Fraerlings walked out from behind grass stems in the distance. Most weren’t holding weapons; the rest were stowing them, and Ulvama’s mouth dropped.
They were definitely ready for trouble. She noticed all the Fraerlings had clothing more or less as rugged as Eurise’s; there was good quality hide or leather or whatever Fraerlings used. Lots of it was chitin-like, but each piece was distinctly different.
They looked like a group of adventurers wearing monster parts. Ulvama saw one Fraerling woman push up a helmet with two eye holes fashioned out of bone, and an axe that looked made out of a tooth. Another was wearing what had to be a spider’s head converted into a hat.
A whistle from overhead made Ulvama stop dismounting the beetle. She was still holding her hands up, but Eurise seemed relaxed as he strode forwards.
“There’s our [Healer]. Y’wanna get Erin? She was in a bad way. Veerni wants a look at her now.”
He pointed up, and Ulvama’s mouth opened as, from high above, a bird flew down. It was some kind of relative of the blue jay, but with a more tropical pattern of green and yellow. Ulvama saw spread wings, a flicker—
