“What’re you, a Tallguard? Seems to me…seems to me that sometimes y’hafta do what’s right and hang secrecy. I can’t promise I’m going to take your friend’s side. I can’t. I can’t rightly tell if this is some clever trick. But if you’re out there, start hollering and I’ll come running.”
He slumped in his chair until his feet were splayed out on the gazebo’s floor. Eurise stared past Erin.
“If you didn’t want that, why did y’ call for me?”
He lay there as the searchlight of her inquisitorial eyes swept over him again and again. But no matter how many times she disassembled, all she got was…Eurise. Staring at her like she really was a stranger.
“Ah’m no Fraerling of the big cities, Miss. I’m no hero looking to slay Giants. I haven’t seen enough to slay. We’re all on a little adventure in our corner of nowhere, and ah’d love to say it’s always fun. But I’ve found too many people under my care a minute too late. Give me a chance, or fer my heart, leave me alone.”
It wasn’t an ultimatum. But it was an earnest plea. The [Innkeeper] kept studying Eurise a moment, then seemed to grow embarrassed. She closed her eyes and spoke softy.
“Then—I guess I’m out of time. Please don’t be a trick, Eurise. I’m really tired of making mistakes that hurt people.”
Her eyes stayed closed, and he wanted to say he wasn’t the mistake this time. That he thought a random somebody who could make a magical gazebo and draw him into it was a lot scarier. But before he could, the image of the inn flickered—and he saw a giant fricking beetle, a Battle Hamster, a tiny Goblin—all scuttling along a section of rocks high above the Drowned Elf Marsh.
At least—he thought it was Drowned Elf Marsh. Eurise whirled, staring about.
“You could do this the entire time?”
“Yeah.”
Erin walked through the air and pointed back the way she’d come.
“That’s where we fought the ants. Do you know where we are from that?”
“I—”
He realized he was still holding the ice cream cone, then spun and hurled it as far as he could in the other direction. Eurise strode around, staring.
“You’re high up. I don’t…hmm…wait.”
This entire view was disorienting to him, but there were familiar aspects. He cocked his head, trying to rotate the view in his mind, then just strode back and stared from another angle.
“Wait a sec. There’s that big mangrove tree there that I recognize. All this stone stuff I don’t. But if this was part of the Simsheni Cliffline…you got a lotta lizards there?”
“I ate one for breakfast this morning. It looked like this.”
Erin conjured the image of an open-mouthed salamander that Eurise definitely recognized. He snapped his fingers.
“Well, tickle my Gnomes. I think I know where you are.”
They weren’t far at all! They were veering off the wrong way, though—he hesitated. Then decided she’d earned trust too.
“My village is Dretonamis; right about here.”
He aimed at the approximate location in the trees. Erin stared sharply at the spot and began to trace a line from her location to there.
“We can head that way.”
“Do that. And I’ll tell everyone where you are. We’ll be there as soon as I can rustle up a welcoming committee.”
Eurise spun, mind full of ideas, and Erin stood there, watching him.
“A welcoming committee to say ‘hi’ or take us into custody? Or something else?”
He snapped slightly and strode up to her and nearly shoved his finger up her nose.
“A welcoming committee to figure out how to keep you from melting into a pile of magic goo! D’you want help or not?”
He shouted at her, and the [Innkeeper] recoiled, blinked at him, then smiled once. It was like the thunderheads of her expression parted, wariness, pain, loss—and the real person behind her emerged. Only, the wary [Innkeeper] and the young woman were the same.
“I think I do, Eurise. Thank you. Thank—”
 
——
 
And then, of course, he didn’t wake up, but Eurise stopped in the middle of hiking down a trail towards Drowned Elf Marsh again. His mind had wandered, and he slapped a gnat out of his face and came to a complete standstill.
A group of seven other Fraerlings nearly walked into him and dodged around. One stared at him.
“What’s the matter, Eurise? We searching again or not?”
“Hells to that.”
The Fraerling spun. He had no idea where they were relative to the cliffs, and it didn’t matter. Zemmy, or Zemermial, the stocky Fraerling, blinked at him.
“What about the lost—”
“I know right where they are! Back to the village—move it! And tell them I need anything that flies over there now! Get all the [Healers] too! Come on!”
Eurise charged back the way he’d come, so fast he left a trail of wind behind. Zemmy began to run after him, then heard shouts from the others.
He slowed down; Zemmy was the only person who could keep pace with Eurise when the Fraerling ran. One of the [Explorers], Toza, panted.
“Did he have another one of those visions he keeps going on about?”
Zemmy just grinned and motioned.
“If he did, sounds like he knows exactly where they are! Come on! Mera’s going to hate missing this!”
Then the search and rescue mission became just a rescue mission. And Zemmy couldn’t wait to find this mysterious duo that had all the olds worried.
What did they even have to worry about? It wasn’t even a Tallfolk, just two high-level normal people. Sure, maybe one of them might be a bad sort like the damn Cottontail Raiders, but how bad could they be?
Eurise was over Level 50, and Zemmy wasn’t bad at fighting either. If a problem came along that Eurise couldn’t out-punch, well, Zemmy hadn’t found it.
 
——
 
When Erin told Ulvama the good news, the Hobgoblin stared at her—then leapt up with a cry of relief and threw her arms around the [Innkeeper].
“Yes! They’re coming?”
“We can go meet them. They’re right…there.”
Erin pointed to the spot she’d memorized, and Ulvama turned.
“We will! And they know—”
She paused and gestured at herself, and Erin took her arm.
“I told Eurise, and he promised to help keep you safe if he could. Are you sure you’re okay with it?”
“Eh, they’re Fraerlings. Probably it’s okay. And you need help.”
Ulvama waved the first part away and poked Erin in the chest. The [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“I’m fine, honest, Ulvama. Hey, beetle, why are you stopped?”
The beetle had collapsed onto his six legs when Erin reappeared and only grudgingly got up now. Ulvama hesitated.
“He, uh, decided to run. Maybe give him a few minutes before we go that way?”
“Sure.”
Ulvama seemed to be relaxing and happier already at the news, which made Erin guilty about not trusting Eurise before. She hesitated, loath to remove the smile, and then coughed.
“Uh. I tried to make sure he was a good guy. He seems like one. But do we have a Plan B if this goes pear-shaped?”
“Pear…shaped?”
“Poorly?”
Erin tried, and Ulvama nodded.
“No, I get what you mean by context. Why is pear-shaped bad? What do you have against pears?”
The [Innkeeper] had to own, of all the questions today, she had no idea how to answer this one.
“Because pears…have a big butt part? So if things go pear shaped it means they’re, I dunno, going bad?”
Ulvama stared at her. Erin threw up her hands.
“I don’t have a problem with pears.”
“Sounds like it. Pears is very nice looking. So is big butts. Pineapples are ugly looking.”
“I—okay, they’re spiky. Do we have a plan for if things go bad?”
“Yah. We think about that after they go bad. Right now, he said he’s helping get you healing, right?”
Erin nodded reluctantly, and Ulvama nodded decisively. The rest of the world could wait for that. She was so focused it made Erin’s heart hurt. So the [Innkeeper] sat down, and Ulvama offered her some more walnut.
“Maybe you take a bite of this? Water?”
“I can do water.”
Erin felt shriven of the weight on her shoulders, but also more lightheaded than she wanted to be. She took a few sips of water and exhaled.
“If—it goes bad, I could use my [Pavilion of Secrets] Skill to summon help.”
“Right. Who?”
“Well, we’re definitely on Baleros now, and I got the name of the village. I don’t want to do it, but—Niers?”
Ulvama frowned at Erin, perplexed.
“Why not Niers?”
Erin didn’t want to get into it, but she exhaled, then looked around. The plateau they had still yet to leave had a good view of the surrounding foliage, mainly, but there were mountains or hills in the distance…and a lot more jungle. They couldn’t even see the sea from here.
“I thought about it, but…Niers is an unsubtle guy, Ulvama.”
“The Titan. Unsubtle.”
The Hobgoblin raised one eyebrow, and Erin protested.
“Well, he is. Did you see the Daquin thing? I don’t mean he’s unsubtle, but he can’t scratch his butt without his enemies wondering if that’s code for, like, a Tier 8 spell.”
“Aah. Right. If he sent help, they’d notice.”
Erin nodded, glancing up surreptitiously.
“We’re safe because no one but Eurise and his people knows where we are. And I can’t help but imagine this was Silvenia’s plan. Guess what I just learned?”
She related the Drowned Elf Marsh story, and Ulvama sighed.
“Old people. Always got too many memories and tricks. But what if the Fraerlings can signal Niers or we tell him where we are and he’s subtle?”
Erin sat there.
“I still don’t want to, Ulvama. Not just because I…I might not want to get any attention right now. I like Niers. I think he’s what I need to become.”
“But…”
The [Shaman] prompted her after Erin was silent, and Erin pointed.
“You see that mountain over there? Niers would move that mountain.”
“To impress you.”
Ulvama gave Erin a sharp look, and Erin flushed slightly.
“Yeah. Maybe.”
“Yeah, definitely.”
“It—doesn’t matter. The point is, he’d move that mountain. But what about the people who live on it or next to it? He’d move that mountain if he had to, Ulvama. And…so would I.”
Erin took a breath and made a hard admission, as if the pavilion were still influencing her.
“I did move a mountain. I can pretend that there aren’t any people living there or that they don’t matter. I can do it for a while. I’m afraid to ask Niers if he still remembers the people.”
For a while, Ulvama said nothing as Erin admitted one of the reasons she held Niers at arm’s length. If she and Niers were connected by who they might be…she whispered.
“I’m afraid he’ll become Chaldion.”
The [Shaman] nodded slowly.
“Yeah. If he wrinkles that much, he’ll become a raisin.”
The laugh burst out of Erin, indignant, but Ulvama ruffled her hair and smiled.
“I get your reason. But maybe…someone else should be told about us? The [Pavilion of Secrets] has power. Aside from your box that doesn’t exist—”
“Hey, it definitely exists, and it’s awesome.”
“—Aside from that, what else can you do?”
Erin sighed.
“I was afraid you’d ask that. I bet I could use the power more. I spent all my time talking to Eurise, and I could have shown him more of where we were. Maybe…”
She glanced over her shoulder at the tent, though technically she could activate the [Pavilion of Secrets] wherever. Ulvama sat crosslegged, and Erin realized she had made a comb and was taming the Battle Hamster in the most insidious of ways.
Ulvama was combing his fur. And he really liked that. The grumpy hamster would sit and let her undo tangles in his fur and scratch and remove dirt and sticks. For some reason, he looked incredibly smug as he sat there. She flicked some dirt at him, and the hamster glared at her with his one eye.
“Okay, let’s think of people to inform. I had a list of people I want to try the pavilion on—but only after I’m experienced.”
“Go on.”
Ulvama took a sip of water and passed the flask back to Erin. The [Innkeeper] gulped another mouthful down determinedly.
“Well, the Quarass, Nerrhavia, Nereshal, Velan the K—”
Ulvama sprayed out her water onto the hamster’s back, eliciting a squeak of outrage and Erin’s laughter.
“Quarass? Nerrhavia? Velan the—are you mad?”
Ulvama shook Erin so hard the [Innkeeper] felt her thoughts bouncing around like pinballs. She wobbled, and Ulvama hurriedly let her go.
“Sorry. Is you stupid? Are you stupid or just pretending? Those are the most dangerous people to invite!”
“Yeah, but they’re the most valuable.”
Any one of them would have answers she sought. Ulvama just stared at Erin. Her voice dropped suddenly.
“Can you invite a Goblin King into the [Pavilion of Secrets]?”
Erin winked at her, savoring the [Shaman]’s expression.
“Only one way to find out.”
 
——
 
Jokes aside, when Erin did go back to the [Pavilion of Secrets], it was mostly to avoid showing Ulvama more of her feeling faint. The Hobgoblin agreed to take them towards the village’s location, and Erin decided to keep experimenting.
…With this incredibly dangerous Skill she had been warned about in no uncertain terms. Could anyone blame her for being hesitant?
“The truth is dangerous. I am dangerous.”
Erin chickened out of exploring the rest of the pavilion and took the easy way out. Going face-to-face with her doppelganger, again. Which said something about the difficulty level here.
Erin was ready for anything, but she strode through the door with—
“I talked to Eurise. There. Happy?”
“Good for you.”
Her counterpart was leaning on the gazebo’s railing, staring out at nothing, chewing a nali-stick. She turned.
“You want to talk about what that was just now?”
“Just what?”
Erin stared at herself with a frown and got a shrug.
“Suit yourself. Go ahead and ask.”
She waited, and Erin stood there, trying to not sound nervous.
“If I asked for Velan the Kind or—”
“We’re not doing hypotheticals. Cormelex loved those. They work as well on yourself as they did on him.”
Pavilion-Erin’s voice was flat. Erin glowered at herself and wished she had any way to threaten her counterpart. Or bribe her. Or have anything but the suspicion she was talking to something far closer to the true nature of the system of levels than she was comfortable with.
Mostly—she wished it wasn’t based on her.
“Okay. You want action? I got action, buddy.”
Flat, hazel eyes and a tone like a lead bar to the knees interrupted her.
“I’m not doing the South Park routine. I don’t care how nervous you are. In fact, you know that the more horrific things I say, the more you can feel assured I’m some malevolent force. I’m not, Erin. You want to play with fire? Go ahead, but there is no Maviola anymore.”
The [Innkeeper] was really starting to hate this place. There was no bluffing it that she could see, so she glowered.
“Fine. Get me Nerry.”
