Because of the tension, I got a few laughs from my joke. A few imperials walked up, thanking me for the show, saving them, and getting them out of this situation. I pulled different injured albony out of my pocket dimension, having Kessiah heal them one at a time without so much pressure.

I watched her work, impressed by her finesse. She learned the anatomy of the albony inside and out, allowing her to save fatal wounds of all kinds. Unlike most healing, she remade anything missing, so it wasn't a bandaid fix. Her recovery fixed everything but the mind itself.

However, she wasn't perfect. Hybridized soldiers couldn't be saved with her alone, and surgeons carved up any infected soldiers, trying to get enough living tissue to rebuild the main body. Any infections near someone's head spelled a rapid end, and too much missing tissue led to blood loss.

I couldn't handle anything technical but walked up to the surgeon's tables. With my strength, I could pinch off any Hybridized areas near the end of the infection sites. My armor could eat the leftovers, though stopping my armor from eating untainted tissues was difficult. I drained so quickly that I ended up using single wires and tapping them onto infected sites. My armor soaked it up like dabbing a napkin on water.

Despite my lack of proficiency, I eased the surgeon's jobs by orders of magnitudes. We finished within two hours, and I met up with Kessiah. She got her credits, counting them. I offered a high five.

"Hey, teamwork makes the dream work. Eh?"

She frowned at me. I lowered my hand.

"What's up."

She shook her head.

"It's nothing. I just wanted to do this on my own for once."

I furrowed my brow.

"You did. I can't heal at all."

She pointed at the cleanup.

"You know, there's a lot of steps that go into healing. It's not just helping regenerate. There's sanitation, decontamination, debridement, and other stuff. You're helping with all that."

I grabbed my arm and wrenched it off. As I did, I liquefied the connective parts so I didn't bust the glass nearby from how loud it would've been. Raising the injured arm, my tissues flooded like a cup filling with water.

"You can do this for other people. I can't do that, and trust me, I've tried. Hell, I'm worried I won't be able to continue with removing the infected-"

"Debridement. Technically, it's Hybrid debridement, but we don't call it that."

I leaned back.

"Well, my armor keeps soaking energy up faster and faster. It's becoming more difficult to keep it in check."

I peered around at my golems.

"Hm, but maybe I could specialize some of the golems for that. They're not quite as powerful as I am, but they'd still smash someone apart with a slight mistake."

Kessiah scoffed.

"Sounds hard."

I furrowed my brow.

"But not impossible...You ready to head back?"

Kessiah put her hands on her hips.

"Sure. I just got another job, but that can wait if you need me."

I leaned in.

"What's the job?"

Kessiah peered off.

"Hmm. It's for some albony royals. Apparently, that lottery thing didn't end up going too well for them. They're paying big bucks to make this happen fast, but you're the boss-"

I raised my hand.

"Actually, what I want can wait. Where is this?"

Kessiah peered at her nails.

"It's at their capital, Ostaltia."

My eyes widened.

"Let's go. Now."

I lifted her with a gravity well.

"No time to explain."

She pointed at me.

"Hey, you can't just grab me like this."

I set her down.

"Do you mind?"

She smirked.

"Nope."

I rolled my eyes and picked her up with a gravity well. I pointed at the vessel.

"Can they warp us there?"

"We need a main drive. There's one at Saphigia's center."

I pulled us out of the area before one of the soldiers pointed at the body I had left behind. They shouted.

"What are we going to do with this?"

I waved a hand, pulling it with me. Kessiah crossed her arms.

"What the hell happened at the lottery?"

I winced.

"It's a long story."
