Fightipilota tried to reactivate her thrusters, take off, anything, hammering on the controls. She couldn’t see! She disengaged the seal of her cockpit, and dirt showered off her, affording her a view of the Goblin King. He was right in front of her.
Fightipilota froze up. She should kneel. Or obey whatever he said. Some kind of voice in her was saying that—she pictured Chieftain Rags and yanked a dagger out of its sheath as she took hold of the flight stick, trying to get her craft up—
The Goblin King had another weapon in his hands. A throwing axe. He raised it—then spun. This time, she saw him set his stance and even activate a Skill.
The thunder and explosion in the air still sent the Goblin King flying. The shockwave hit Fighti’s craft and flicked it; she hit the ground and would have been thrown from her chair but for the harness.
Shields gone, plane screaming damage warnings at her. What the hell had hit her? Not her—the Goblin King.
It was like a Giant had struck a flint and tinder, and the Goblin King was the tinder. There was another boom—and a vehicle rolled forwards, firing again.
The biggest tank Fightipilota had seen in the entire battle was storming after the Goblin King, firing a trail of tracer-rounds through the darkness as he leapt away. Fightipilota felt the oppressive figure retreating and started breathing again. Then she decided to hell with it and undid her seatbelt. She leapt out of her harness and shouted.
“Mrsha!”
The [Fighter Pilot] left her aircraft and ran over the ground to where she’d seen the Gnoll girl. When she got there, she halted. Someone else had beaten her there.
Chieftain Rags had Mrsha in her arms. Fightipilota wasn’t sure if she should…pick Mrsha up. But her Rags just panted at her.
“We need to get her to a city. She needs blood. They shot her with Evercut Arrows—Bullets.”
“Damn idiots! Come on—this way!”
Fightipilota pointed and then tried to support Mrsha so they didn’t jostle her about. They ran her to the fighter plane, and Fighti hopped in it, relieved to see the dashboard was still glowing.
“Get in.”
“You take Mrsha—”
“Get in.”
Rags hesitated, then squeezed herself into the one-woman cockpit with Fighti. Mrsha was on her lap; Rags was squeezed against the cockpit’s canopy as it closed. As Fighti reactivated the engines and got it levitating, someone raised a wand and wrote in the air.
You actually did it. You found a fighter plane. Good for you.
Neither Goblin had realized Mrsha was still awake. Fighti grinned down at Mrsha desperately.
“Yep. Got the class too. You just—lay there. Don’t move, okay? We’ll get you to the hospital.”
“New Celum. Or—anywhere. Where’s the speaking stone?”
Fighti flipped a few switches as she transitioned from the hovering mode to flying. She heard countless voices as she pointed; Rags toggled the dial, flipping through radio channels.
“This is Chieftain Rags. Goblin Lord, we’re in Fighti’s aircraft. Keep the Goblin King away.”
“Who? Fighti, what are you—”
The enraged voice of Major Hotwing was cut off as the voice of the Goblin Lord rasped.
“He’s fighting the Alliance’s armor. But he’s still aiming for you. Get out of here. New Celum Airbase, direct that plane to your hospital and have transfusions of Gnoll blood B4. I don’t care how you have to get it. Teleport it. We’ll get it from soldiers on this battlefield if we have to.”
Fighti took the plane up as fast as she could without rocking Mrsha. Blood was on her flight suit, and she kept glancing down at the girl. Trying to smile.
Mrsha’s eyes were so—calm. Unsurprised. Like someone waiting, holding onto the edge of a cliff. Chieftain Rags breathed at Fighti.
“Where’s the damn door?”
“New Celum. In the streets. Should I…?”
“—No, the hospital has better medicine. Get us there—now.”
Fighti accelerated to maximum speed, taking them out of the Floodplains and through the canyon that ran north. She didn’t want to try to climb over the mountains to get there, even the shorter ones in the High Passes. Besides—they were moving at incredible speed. Her speedometer said they were in excess of a hundred and eighty miles per hour. Celum would take…what? Thirty three minutes?
The [Fighter Pilot] glanced down at Mrsha and flipped open the teleportation toggle. She hit it once, twice, aiming for the longest jumps she could, then realized it was actually slowing them down because she had to adjust with each jump. The Goblin directed all the energy she could into her engines.
After a second, Rags cursed.
“He’s following us.”
“No way. You sure?”
All the hairs on the [Fighter Pilot]’s neck rose, and Rags turned her head to stare down through the plane at something. Fighti felt it too.
It was like the biggest beast in the High Passes, compressed into a tiny form, running after them. She heard a voice confirming it a second later.
“The Goblin King has broken away and is following the three of you! Fightipilota, I am going to take you to New Celum directly. Reduce speed and prepare for transit!”
“How—? Right! Ready!”
Suddenly understanding, Fighti reduced speed, then felt the Goblin Lord of Civilizations activate her Skill again. The world zoomed suddenly, turning to starry lines and a blur—and then a second later, they emerged in a thunderclap of air.
They’d just moved at the speed of sound. Fighti saw the landscape had entirely shifted from the brown ground and smoke. A city was below them, darkened by rain, but aglow with too-bright colors. Their umbrella shield spells were activated alongside the neon lights, and more voices were speaking from the radio. Fightipilota didn’t hesitate, but took her plane down.
“Hotwing! Where’s that hospital thing?”
She shouted at the other voices until they directed her to a glowing rooftop with a bunch of Goblins waving at her. Fighti hit the levitation spells again and came down as fast as she could without jostling her passengers. She was still hearing voices from the battlefield behind her. Goblin Lord Rags spoke.
“He’s accelerating. Encircle him—ignore those Alliance tanks. Let them fire on him! Just slow him down! I’m heading after him. Finish the battle. Rags, he’s running, and he’s—fast.”
Neither Goblin replied as the cockpit popped open. They saw a dome of light—a waiting team of Goblins, all dressed in those familiar scrubs Rags had seen. The [Doctors] and technicians rushed forwards the instant the cockpit opened.
“Don’t lift her! Let me see—”
They shoved Fightipilota and Rags aside, and then the two Goblins were running after the floating stretcher. What relieved Fightipilota was the red bag of blood and other fluids they connected to Mrsha’s arm. But they didn’t have much—and she knew what their problem was.
“Evercut enchantments? What kind of monsters shoot a child with—?”
Healing potions wouldn’t work. It looked like they were taking pieces of stretchy, pink flesh and stapling them over the wounds the girl had, but that wasn’t any kind of medicine Fightipilota wanted to see in the future.
To her this was a brutal method of closing wounds. Almost like they’d gone back to Redfang-style medicine. She answered the offhand comment of the lead [Surgeon].
“Us.”
That distracted the Goblin medical staff for a second, so Chieftain Rags dragged Fighti back.
 
——
 
They found themselves outside the operating room, watching. There was a window to see into the operating room from above.
Fighti wished there wasn’t. Goblins, adult Hobs, were crowded around a tiny little body in the middle of the room. They were trying to repair…everything?
She had seen wounds in battle, participated in patching someone up without a healing potion many times, but the [Fighter Pilot] still had to look away. Her claws were cutting into the palms of her hands. She looked around, desperate to do something—but no one was listening to her.
Fightipilota’s authority had ended when they left the airplane. However Chieftain Rags’ took over. She shook Fighti twice, before the Goblin tore her eyes away from the red blood and the tools working on Mrsha.
“What? What?”
She nearly punched Rags for distracting her, but the Chieftain’s voice grounded her.
“Show me, exactly, where the root is, Fighti. We can all leave. We just have to reach the root and get out of here. You—tell those doctors—”
They had to find the entrance to the operating room, and Rags grabbed someone rushing towards the doors. The orderly recoiled.
“Don’t touch my outfit! You’ll contaminate the operating room!”
The Goblin shrieked at Rags, and the Chieftain roared back.
“You have fifteen minutes! Tell the doctors that! Then we need a stretcher to get Mrsha out of here.”
“Are you insane? You’ll kill her! We need to put her in a [Stasis] spell until we have a second shipment of blood—”
Rags’ voice was deceptively calm. She pointed out the door, and Fightipilota sensed it too.
“There is no time. The Goblin King is coming to finish the job. Fifteen minutes. Or less. Go.”
She shoved the orderly through the doors, and Fighti saw the team inside glance up, then redouble their speed. The [Fighter Pilot] yanked her eyes away from the girl.
“There’s no way he can run that fast. Celum is a hundred miles from Liscor.”
“He’s the Goblin King. Besides, we need to get to the door.”
That was all Chieftain Rags said, so Fightipilota believed her. At last, the Goblin let herself feel again and rubbed at her face. She realized she was getting Mrsha’s blood all over her.
“That—was Rabbiteater. Yeah? He didn’t look like—”
“It was the Goblin King. He took over Rabbiteater. Rabbiteater’s still in there, but the Goblin King is the one who killed Erin and everyone else in this world. He’s…the first Goblin King. The one who wants to end everything. We have to leave before he reaches us. Now, I understand.”
Rags wiped at her own face, and Fightipilota opened and closed her mouth. Then she searched around.
She needed a weapon.
 
——
 
Sixteen minutes in, Rags made the call. She strode into the operating room.
“We have to go.”
The doctors nearly threw her out with a Skill, but she was higher-level. She didn’t aim her revolver at the [Surgeon] who was barring her way, but he seemed ready to take a bullet to stop her. Only her reasoned argument swayed him.
“The Goblin King is coming. He’ll tear this entire hospital, this city apart to kill my friend. She has to go. Help me.”
He hesitated—then seemed to understand how dire it was. Even so, they wasted precious minutes on getting a new stretcher for Mrsha, another floating one.
Rags stared at Mrsha during that time. The girl was…
Not better. She’d seen them trying to heal her, pulling bullets out and trying to seal her bleeding, but it looked like a raw patch of flesh over—the girl had tubes hooked into her arms. Blood pumping into her little body.
She was, somehow, still awake. Mrsha blinked up at Rags as the [Surgeon] ran with them, shouting instructions.
“You cannot put her in more danger, do you understand? She needs a second transfusion. B4 blood. I don’t care what the Goblin Lord says—”
“Got it. Run! [Rapid Retreat]!”
They sped down the hospital’s corridors with none of the triumph Rags had felt before. She passed by soldiers who’d been teleported from the front. Goblins who turned and gawked at her, Fightipilota, and Mrsha.
How long did it take to get out of the hospital’s front doors? Landing from the sky plus the transit to and from the operating room and the wasted time…call it thirty minutes even? At least someone had had the foresight to park an ambulance outside, ready to go.
How fast could the Goblin King run? Sixty miles per hour? Faster? Fightipilota had pulled the location of her arrival up on the smartphone she’d stolen. She navigated as a stupid Goblin’s voice gave them directions.
Ten minutes of moving through the damn city, even with the sirens going. At one point, Rags leaned out the window, intending to fire the revolver at the ground to get the damn cars in her way moving. She didn’t care if it was a red light.
The driver and surgeon kept her from doing that—and it seemed like the Goblin Lord shared Rags’ mood. The arrowstorm sirens began blaring, and then all the vehicles left the street.
“Almost there—almost—there! I think it’s here!”
Fightipilota screeched, and the ambulance came to a stop. Rags bailed out of the back, swivelling around in the middle of the neon-lit square, barrier spells shining above everyone like a thousand magical umbrellas.
A city of the future. She turned and helped move the stretcher out of the ambulance. It floated there as Mrsha raised her head slightly.
Almost.
She wrote with a glowing fingernail. Rags grinned at her.
“We’re going to get home. Just wait—Fighti!”
The Goblin [Fighter Pilot] was running back and forth, desperately searching the air for where the root was. The problem was that she’d been in the center of the square, and it was raining again. Rags heard the city’s alarms shrieking louder, but no storm of arrows was falling from the sky. However, she guessed that Lord Xitegen’s deadly rain of arrows would plague the north, perhaps forever. The legacy of the Lord of House Terland.
“We can’t make this future any worse, at least. There’s that.”
The [Emergency Driver] and [Surgeon] gave her such a strange look at the wild grin on Rags’ face. Rags took a deep breath.
“Almost, huh?”
She swivelled around slowly as Fightipilota’s desperate searching of the air halted. Rags lifted the revolver and pulled the trigger. It clicked.
Right. Ammunition. She pulled the crossbow from her side and fired it. The enchanted bolt struck the armored figure in the chestplate and lodged point-deep.
He didn’t move. In the center of the rainswept city plaza, with the lights of advertisements and electric billboards shining down on him, he seemed to be as out-of-place as she was.
A battered figure in armor, with a damaged sword and shield, standing, hunched, in the plaza across from them. His chest rose and fell, and blood washed off his armor onto the ground, but the stain of red just kept spreading no matter how much rain fell. More and more blood, an ocean of it leaking from his boots.
The Goblin King.
He was panting for air, but he’d run here. All the way from the Floodplains of Liscor.
“Just stop. We’re not going to be here any longer. Leave us alone.”
Rags fired again, then reached for her sword. Too late, she remembered it was broken. The figure charged, and then there was gunfire. A roaring shape passed overhead and fired, tearing up the ground.
“Fighti!?”
