Rags saw the Skyshadow plane pass overhead as the Goblin King turned, drawing that throwing hatchet back. But it wasn’t Fighti—
Major Hotwing angled the aircraft again, coming in for another attack run. He fired, catching the Goblin King with a burst of rounds, and the Goblin King threw the axe.
The aircraft struck the ground and crumpled as Fighti screamed, and Rags seized Mrsha. They were running, now, and the Goblin King wanted them. He snapped the neck of the [Surgeon] who tried to get in his way. Then there was another boom of air.
This one nearly knocked him off his feet, but the [Supersonic Repositioning] Skill didn’t have enough force. It just let you move from one space to another—fast.
That was enough. Goblin Lord Rags pointed.
“Fire.”
An entire company of Goblins opened fire. The Goblin King charged into them, and now Ragathsi was running. They were all converging on the door. Fightipilota had hold of something in the air, and her head disappeared.
The sight of a headless Goblin who wasn’t a casualty of the Goblin King distracted even the Goblin Lord. She swung around.
“Oh.”
Curiosity flared beneath her weary gaze, and excitement. Then she twisted around, raised her submachine gun, and her bodyguard tensed around her. But Ragathsi held her fire. The Goblin King was too close.
The [Soldiers] were dead. The Goblin King stood amidst their bodies, and now she could see the Goblin beneath the armor. It was torn so badly by the bullet holes she saw his flesh beneath, bloody and red—but it was already healing.
So was the armor. It regrew like a second skin, and that endless gaze burned in the sockets, the rage that had endured since the founding of their world. Her nightmare and sin, her greatest failing.
That monster.
The Goblin King was holding Chieftain Rags by the neck, using her as a shield as he stalked towards Fightipilota.
How many of our people have you killed? A vise of steel was around Rags’ throat, but if she could have asked how many he’d slaughtered—the Goblin King’s gaze was dispassionate behind the visor of his helmet. But he, too, was curious.
“Close the door. Go!” 
Rags rasped, twisting her head towards Fightipilota. The Goblin pulled her head out of the door and hesitated.
She saw the Goblin King coming and let go of the root. She held the dagger up against it, and Rags wondered what would happen if they were all disconnected from the door. No one would shut it from the outside, so it would just be—severance.
“Lower that blade.”
The Goblin King gave the command, and Fightipilota’s arm jerked. Then it came down, trembling. She tried to resist, but his authority over her was absolute.
He wasn’t her Chieftain. He was the Goblin King, and his will be done. Rags was seeing spots, but she had a thought. A kind of…realization. She forced the words out of her mouth.
“Playthings. Playthings. That’s why we have to obey you. It’s what we were made to do.”
Follow a Goblin King. If you were designing an ‘evil monster’ species, why not? It made so much sense. Only, the first Goblin King had been too powerful, and every Goblin King since had become instruments to his will.
Or was this all part of the original grand design? Either way—the Goblin King didn’t appreciate the comment. His grip tightened on Rags’ throat, and she convulsed.
“Let go or I will end you, Rabbiteater. It will be both of us.”
Ragathsi had her finger on the trigger of her submachine gun, and she was too calm. In response, the Goblin King just chuckled. He tossed Rags down, and she gasped for air. He didn’t need a hostage; they were all within his range.
“This city will die without you and I. That Human is coming. Can’t you hear him killing his way towards us?”
There was a thundering sound in the distance, above the sirens and rain and screaming. The Goblin Lord’s eyes flicked southwards.
“All this way? Go kill him.”
“No. I can tell it’s all falling apart. That endless voice Isthekenous made is falling apart. I can see fate’s tendrils through this door. It smells oh so faintly of that resplendent meddler-king. That grandiose ruler of pranksters, the irreverent folk who chose a side and never deigned to justify themselves. Show me.”
“Don’t do it. He’ll slaughter everything.”
The Goblin Lord warned Fightipilota. Chieftain Rags pushed herself up and aimed her crossbow at the Goblin King’s back. If they fired, they died—and he might die, but the root would be gone. The Goblin King knew that, and he hesitated, because even he didn’t know what lay beyond the door.
They paused as the thunder grew louder, a metal rumble tearing through the city. The person who broke the stalemate was Mrsha. She sat up and, holding her side, slipped to the ground. Chieftain Rags whispered.
“Mrsha. Don’t—”
The girl held up a wand as the Goblin King glanced at her. She wrote in the air.
Come with us, then. Both of you. We cannot stop you, and you cannot stop us. We’ll both be trapped here if you try to kill us.
“Mrsha—”
Chieftain Rags didn’t want to imagine what would happen if he were unleashed. Not now, not here. But Mrsha was baring her teeth, and they were bloody. She had the same final thought as her counterpart.
“Your other war. What lies beyond?”
Your dead gods. And someone trying to make new ones.
How he twitched at that. The Goblin King snarled, and he raised an arm, as if to backhand the girl and make her vanish. But he hesitated.
“I have always known they survived. I know all their names. They who rot and die in darkness deserve nothing more. How do you know them? Who has escaped their just fate?”
She didn’t answer as the crimson light from his helmet shone over her. The Doombearer was giggling silently as she limped over to the door. Rags got up, and she and Fightipilota stood there. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was gazing between the two.
I don’t know, but it is all falling apart. Come, come now. Don’t be scared. Just promise me something, King of Goblins. Slaughter. Destroy everything. There’s a lot that does need destroying. But promise me you’ll only destroy what needs to be destroyed. Our inn is beyond there. Our family. Protect them.
A bargain with the Goblin King. He didn’t laugh or snort, but he replied, amused.
“Why would I listen to a dying child?”
Mrsha’s eyes flicked up, and she gave him a puzzled expression as she took hold of the root. She traced one last message in the air as she pulled herself through the door, and Fightipilota seized her paw. Rags grabbed Fighti’s arm and saw the golden, glowing letters in the air.
I wasn’t talking to you.
The Goblin King stiffened, and for a moment, another figure rose to the surface, like a bubble of hope. In every way, he became lesser, for a moment.
Less imposing. Less powerful. Less able to defy reality itself. The glow of crimson light faded behind the helmet—and for one moment, they saw the Goblin King of Traitors.
A [Knight], a [Champion], a man wearing armor, not anything more. A figure to stand in your nightmares, against everything wrong.
The raindrops changed color. That was the only difference. Rabbiteater held out his hands, and they fell, glowing drops of rain in every color, like the fire of the woman he had killed. A beautiful rain glistening off his armor. Each drop of shining light worth more than the Goblin King’s might.
The Goblin King who should have been gazed at the child, and his voice was weak, but he nodded to her.
“I’ll try. Go.”
For a moment, Rabbiteater held the Goblin King and his rage back and lifted his hand as the three travellers whirled.
Then Rags, Mrsha, and Fighti were moving between worlds, and Rags saw Fighti helping Mrsha step through the gate. Chieftain Rags yanked her hand back as the Goblin King reached for her—and another hand caught her wrist.
The [Chieftain] twisted—but the taller Goblin just clung on. Ragathsi winked as she held onto Rags’ arm.
“I couldn’t resist. Go.”
She pushed, and Rags stumbled and crossed the divide in the air. The other Goblins in Rags’ bodyguard leapt after her, seizing her armor, her shoulders—the last of all was the Goblin with headphones. He didn’t seize the root. Instead, he swung his sword as the Goblin King grabbed the root—
And cut it off. The Goblin King recoiled, root in his hand, and the [Blademaster] hooted in victory. Then the Goblin wearing headphones twirled on the spot, his music blasting as he faced the Goblin King alone.
 
——
 
They tumbled into the Palace of Fates. Mrsha in Fightipilota’s arms. The Goblin Lord, her [Bodyguards], and Chieftain Rags.
“Huh?”
They had all twisted, assuming the Goblin King would follow them. They could actually see through the doorway, which came as a shock to only Mrsha, Rags, and Fightipilota.
The black censor wall was gone. Had they broken it by coming through the other side? Or had their knowledge of the Goblin King revealed this world?
What they saw was the root, falling to pieces and turning to dust—and the Goblin King on the other side of the door.
He hadn’t made it. The Goblin King was so quick—but there was the leaping, dancing, musical [Blademaster] on the other side of the door. He was freestyling, sword in his hands, breakdancing on the floor, twisting his legs around in the air, grinning as he flipped onto his feet and waited for the Goblin King’s wrath.
The figure hadn’t moved. He was just standing there, tilting his head left and right. Rabbiteater was gone, again. But they’d done it.
Chieftain Rags was grinning even as she eyed the Goblin Lord warily. Then—her smile melted away as she felt a horrific sense of déjà vu.
Mrsha gave Chieftain Rags a weary eye as Fightipilota grabbed the door with her free hand. The Goblin [Fighter Pilot] slammed the door shut.
The door bounced off something. The [Fighter Pilot] recoiled as an armored hand reached through the barrier in the air. It was covered by the finest membrane, like a bubble, but even thinner.
“It gave me Skills fitting of me. [Hands of the Uncreator]. There is nothing made of Isthekenous’ design I cannot undo.”
Another hand emerged through the door frame. Then, the Goblin King ripped the air in half. The Goblins holding Mrsha backed away as rain blew through into the [Palace of Fates].
“Run.”
Both Ragses said that. Fightipilota began to run, and then they heard the screaming.
The [Palace of Fates] was filled with screams. Fighting. Something terrible was happening. Rags peered at Mrsha, and the girl was nodding. It always went like this. Only this time—
The Goblin King stepped forwards, through the window he’d torn open. The [Blademaster] followed with a howl, racing after his Goblin Lord.
The open tear in the air was closing—as one, no, two desperate beings tried to mend the gap in reality. The Goblin King stepped through, then turned around and threw up a hand.
An explosion blew the hallway in the [Palace of Fates] apart. Someone had fired through the doorway and hit the Goblin King.
Chieftain Rags glanced over her shoulder as she ran and saw the Goblin King leap out of the flames and miniature black holes. There was another explosion, but whomever was firing at him lost their angle. The Goblin King ignored the fire around him.
He was casting around. Inspecting the other doors. Like someone trying to find where to begin pulling this place apart.
Rags saw the Goblin King begin to run at them, truce ended. A white paw rose; the corridor flickered, and he vanished.
The most basic trick in the [Palace of Fates] caught the Goblin King off-guard. Mrsha lowered her paw and nodded at Rags. In the distance, they heard a low sound. Then the palace began to shake.
“This is the end.”
Yes. It is. Let’s go find out what it looks like.
The Gnoll girl wrote, then closed her eyes. She took a breath, and then they emerged into the hallways amidst glowing, open doors. Fightipilota felt Mrsha slip from her arms and grabbed for her. Then she gazed up—and saw the madness before her.
 
——
 
The Goblin King ran, a howl of contempt on his lips for the playthings, for this world of shifting sand. Most of all, for the dead gods. The portal he’d torn open hung there, growing wider with each passing second.
There were voices from beyond. Goblins screaming for their missing Goblin Lord. A war at its ending.
One last weapon of war rolled to a stop and depressed the barrels of the turret as far as they would go, but there was no way to fit the massive tank into the gap in the air. So, a hatch opened at the top, and a single figure emerged, ignoring the voices of caution.
He ducked as bullets sparked off the tank; someone else popped up, and the turret swivelled and opened fire. But the man—and he was a man, over forty years old now, wearing a flak jacket festooned with red shells, just eyed the hole in the air.
“That door’s too small to fit through. Hold this position as long as you can, then follow me through if you’re able. Fall back if they overwhelm your position. I’m going after them.”
They were all screaming at him to stay, as if they could win with Lord Xitegen dead. He knew it was suicide; the [Engineer] unslung a custom-built shotgun from his back and racked the chamber once.
But he’d seen that Gnoll girl, and it had been a long, long time since he’d felt that old magic. Better to follow it than wonder forever.
“Narnia, here I come a second time.”
Kevin Hall strode through the crack, ducking as it grew over his head. He swept left and right, then decided to follow the screaming. Despite it all—he was chuckling as he ran.
Like how a man laughed at the end of the world. He followed them all, and as for that white Gnoll girl bringing more doom to the end of her plans and dreams?
She finally came home.
 
——
 
<Primary Dimension — The High Passes, 2nd Army Main Camp outside of Monster Fortification #1, designation “Goblinhome”>
 
The rank just below [General] in any Drake army was [Commander] or, depending on the hierarchy, [Colonel]. This might seem confusing to the uninitiated, but there was a logic to it.
You see, in other hierarchical structures like those of Earth, you had a [General]. Then below them a [Lieutenant General]. And below that a [Major General]. And then a [Brigadier General], and then you started wondering how many damn [Generals] you had. People tried to make it easier by calling them ‘four-star Generals’, but that didn’t work in this world.
[General] was a class, and an army could only…generate so many officer ranks depending on its size, organization, and the city or nation it came from. So, rare was the army that had [Colonels]; even the King of Destruction didn’t bother with that class.
In practice, ranks generally went like this.
