The thick cane kneecapped the Dullahan woman so fast she was lying on her side, holding her leg before she could move. That was the thing about canes or long pieces of wood.
When you got right down to it, they were very good at directing force onto bits of other people’s bodies. And few people took them seriously—until they saw you swing one into their heads or someone’s knees and realized you had the muscle to use them. That was why Witch Agratha loved them so.
She stood there, and nine [Witches] got to their feet, putting on their hats or tossing off their shawls. One of them dropped an illusion spell, and a Drake [Mage] pointed at her.
“[Witches]! [Paralys—]”
Witch Thallisa beat her to the draw, flicked an orange bird towards the Drake, which exploded in a flash that sent the Drake tumbling across the room. The Great Witch twirled the wand across her fingers, and another young woman got up.
Alevica pointed her wand at the Pallassians, teeth bared. She was panting with nerves.
They were attacking a Walled City! Which was great—also horrifying. But she’d called in the cavalry. Hedag sauntered forwards, axe on her shoulders, and now the Pallassians were surrounded on three sides.
“We are the City of Inventions, and you are aiding monsters! Put down your weapons!”
The Drakes formed a circle, and Laken Godart sat up in his chair.
“I am the [Emperor] of Riverfarm, and this inn is under my protection. Draw your weapons and you will regret it.”
The Drakes still hesitated with that quintessential arrogance of people that came from one of the most important cities in the world. Some upstart empire and an inn wouldn’t force them to surrender!
“Where’s the [Major]?”
They were waiting for the Drake [Major] to reappear; he was Level 37, and he’d even the score, [Emperor] and [Witches] or not. It was inconceivable even a bunch of those bush-things could take him down so easily.
Which was true. So when the common room of the inn opened, the hands that hurled the Drake [Major] into the room weren’t those of the Shamblers. They didn’t have hands.
But the glowing red eyes of a big Skeleton Bruiser revealed a posse of undead, and behind them, a dozen [Necromancers]. Master Elosaith nodded to Ishkr, then eyed the surprise [Witches] and [Emperor].
The old village head was beaming, though he was missing some teeth. Rain poured down behind him and the [Necromancers] posing against the open doorway. They were lit by the lurid glow of the undead’s eye sockets. And behind them, the corridor had gone silent. Deathly silent; a few stragglers from Pallass were surrounded. A trembling Drake had six blades encircling his throat.
Skeletal eyes fixed on the Pallassians as they slowly advanced into the room. Elosaith’s voice was clear and carrying, as if there were no other sound in the world. Like a man speaking in the middle of a graveyard at midnight.
“Thought you needed some backup. Looks like I was wrong.”
“Undead! Formation!”
One of the [Soldiers] shouted as he swung a spear up and pointed it at the undead. But at this point—the Eye of Pallass clutching at her knee gazed up, counted, and raised her hands.
“You must contact Strategist Esor in Pallass, now!”
She said that while surrendering. The other soldiers glanced at her and thought they had a chance. Then the [Soldier] with the spear felt someone poke him in the side. He looked down, then up.
The Gecko of Liscor was grinning at him. Spearmaster Relc had snuck up on the Pallassians, and now they were all within his range. Behind him, Archmage Valeterisa was floating behind a dozen barrier spells.
“[Bound Spell: Chain Lightning]. [Bound Spell: Chain Lightning]. [Bound Spell…um…Chain Lightning]. Oh, and [Spell Alteration: Selective Targeting]. Very important.”
Her hands crackled with lightning as she took aim at the Pallassians, who promptly dropped their weapons and raised their hands.
“You can’t do this!”
“Yeah, yeah. You’re all under arrest or something. I don’t have the authority to arrest you, but I think we can kick you back to Pallass. How about it, Ishkr?”
“Get them out of here. Your Majesty—why are you here?”
“My [Witch] told me there was a problem. So I brought as many people as I could. When I heard there were Pallassian soldiers, we decided to enter the inn quietly. It seems I wasn’t needed.”
The [Emperor] seemed a bit disgruntled at not being the hero of the hour, but he clapped his hands briskly.
“Take me to Lyonette.”
“No.”
The Unseen Emperor faltered. Ishkr called over to Elosaith.
“How many high-level undead do you have? Everyone, I want you to prepare for a fight. I’m going back in there. I’ll let you know what’s happening. But no one, and I mean no one, enters this inn unless they’re high-level and on our side. Got it?”
“What about Pallass?”
Yelroan called out, and Ishkr nodded at him.
“Can you talk to General Edellein or someone in charge?”
“Me? I—alright.”
The inn was in a frenzy, and Emperor Laken stood there as Gamel shouted, outraged.
“His Majesty gave you orders! Whatever the issue is, we are here to resolve it—”
Ishkr swung around. He knew that Laken couldn’t see him, so he laughed, weary, with that manic edge to his voice.
“Your entire army couldn’t solve this. Welcome to The Wandering Inn, Your Majesty.”
He offered Laken a sardonic bow as the [Emperor]’s face went slack. The Gnoll glanced at the open door to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“No one can stop what’s coming next. Get ready. Evacuate everyone else.”
The [Witches] stirred as Ishkr panted, swaying. Witch Thallisa called out.
“Young man, we are higher-level than you think. And our job is solving problems.”
It was true; [Witches] didn’t like to be told there was anything they couldn’t handle. The Gnoll regarded them. Then he began laughing. Hysterically.
 
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
“What’s happening?”
It was a question that was being asked across multiple worlds. What was going on? In the future, everyone could see Painted Antinium surrounding The Wandering Inn. Thousands—and they were fortifying the ground.
It reminded Pisces Jealnet, captain of the Horns of Hammerad, of those old days when the inn felt like it was the center of the universe. It just went to show, he supposed, that some things never changed.
Only this time, he wasn’t on the side of the Painted Antinium. At least—they weren’t letting him through. When he tried to advance, hands raised, spears lowered towards him.
“Captain Jealnet. Step back or die.”
“It’s Pisces. Please. Come on, you know me. We’re friends. I daresay I’m one of Pawn’s few friends. Acquaintances, surely!”
The [Necromancer] tried his best winning smile on the Painted Antinium. Sadly, it worked about as well as on most of his ex-wives.
“Move back or die.”
They didn’t exaggerate, so Pisces quickly stepped back. He ostentatiously brushed at his robes, covering some light magical armor, and sniffed.
“Damn. Well, so much for that. We can either fight our way in or wait. But we haven’t heard from the other Rags or anyone else. Where’s Moore?”
“Still inside, I think. Dude, can’t you sneak in somehow?”
Kevin Hall was resting on his motorcycle, and Pisces glowered at him.
“Even if you hadn’t said that in earshot of the Painted Antinium, they could detect someone with [Greater Invisibility]. I’m not a [Rogue]!”
“Sorry, dude, just asking.”
The adventurer felt nostalgic, out of place, wrongfooted—classic The Wandering Inn syndrome, really. Typical Solstice moments.
It had been so long. He realized the rest of his team had caught up now. Gold-rankers, a panting half-Giant, two half-Elves, one with a bow, the other with twin scimitars, a Stitch-man—well, kid, really—
The new Horns of Hammerad. None of them were from the old days, and all were wide-eyed at seeing Kevin Hall, two Archmages of Wistram, so many stories.
“Captain Pisces, what’s going on?”
They whispered at him, and Pisces stared at the children and felt old. He did. Even though they were technically older than he’d been when he’d made Gold-rank. But some of them were literally children, like Temoin, the [Summoner] Stitch-boy.
“I’m not sure. Just get ready for a scrap. It could turn into one if this is really like the old days. But don’t start anything.”
He met Temoin’s eyes, and the [Summoner] protested.
“I won’t! ‘Sides, auntie always said the Horns of Hammerad started every fight.”
The other Gold-rankers who’d grown up on stories of the ‘original’ Horns of Hammerad eyed Pisces. The [Necromancer] groaned.
“Don’t listen to Revi. She was the worst of Griffon Hunt. She started just as many fights with her tongue.”
“She said you’d say that.”
Temoin grinned smugly, and it just reinforced to Pisces why he should never take adventurers who were related to his ex-wives. In this case, Temoin was one of Revi’s second-nephews. Kevin came over with his motorcycle.
“Temoin, right? Hey, it’s good to see you! You were a kid last time Revi and I met. I still can’t believe Pisces left her.”
The Stitch-boy jumped, then shook Kevin’s hand.
“I can—I mean—hi, Aunt!”
Someone pulled his ear off his head, and Revi Cotton appeared. The [Summoner] seemed as good as ever, which wasn’t hard for a Stitch-woman, but the glare she gave Pisces hadn’t reduced in sharpness.
“What’s going on, and why is it your fault? Pisces?”
“Revi. Not my fault. This one’s all Pawn, Moore, and potentially Rags. Well, two Ragses. And another Mrsha? Two Mrshas.”
Pisces was trying to explain as Imani rolled to a stop in Magnolia’s carriage, and more people appeared. It was a menagerie of old faces.
“Two Ragses? What are you talking about? Temoin, your stitching’s all loose. What did I tell you about knots?”
“Aunt!”
She began stitching his ear back on his head as the Gold-ranker squirmed. Pisces saw someone else float over.
“Mons. Montressa!”
He waved at her, using her old nickname, and she grimaced.
“Pisces, what is this mess? First I hear of Goblins being caught trying to use a portal station, then the Painted Antinium nearly fought Rhir? Where’s Moore? He told me he’d have the city in hand, but I just heard they caught someone infested at the gates.”
Everyone’s head swung around, and Pisces paled.
“What? How?”
Montressa only had some information to go off of—so she dialed someone up and called.
“Lyonette? Where are you? We’re all outside the inn—”
Lyonette walked out of the crowd, and Pisces went to hug her. She was pale-faced.
“Where’s Mrsha? Is she inside the inn? Pawn won’t tell me what’s going on, and the Painted Antinium won’t speak to me.”
Not even to her? More people approached, all old faces. Temile, wearing a full suit and mask from playing The Phantom of the Opera, seeming distinctly nervous, with some of the famous Players of Celum. Relc pushing along his daughter, Embria, Yvlon Byres, standing as far away from Pisces as possible and talking to Krshia and Selys—ex-wife #1—
The only person who didn’t join the hubbub was Ceria. She floated there, casting spells, trying to find out what was going on inside the inn and clearly failing. She didn’t get annoyed. She didn’t get exasperated. It was like a block of ice and intelligence floating there.
Pisces jerked his eyes away from her. Yvlon’s stare could have melted a tundra. Old friendships, grievances, loss—all of it was here. A glorious day, a sad one, filled with hope and possibility.
That’s what it had been meant to be. But what was this? Pisces had no clue. He was speculating, asking about the infested situation, until Lyonette dropped a Tier 6 spell into the conversation.
“The infested child was—I swear it was Mrsha. My Mrsha from ten years ago, and a Hobgoblin. I thought I was losing my mind. Moore refused to tell me what—”
“We saw them too! Only, we saw Rags, and I swear I saw Rianchi and Dyeda and Redscar. But they are dead. Rianchi and Redscar are.”
Kevin broke in, and Pisces felt the hairs on the back of his neck rise. He gazed at the inn, and Lyonette’s jaw worked.
“It sounds like a bad joke from Grimalkin. Remember his old theories…?”
The [Councilwoman] shook her head, and Lyonette rubbed at one eye.
“Don’t do that to him. I miss…wait. No way.”
Imani was peering at the inn. She murmured.
“We have to find out. If Pawn’s blockading it off, it means something important’s going on. There are enough of us to force our way in.”
“Nuh-uh. Don’t even think of it. The Painted Antinium don’t play around, Imani. I once saw one of them kill six people in a bar fight over someone saying Erin wasn’t a goddess.”
Kevin grabbed her shoulder, pale-faced. Imani glowered at him.
“I don’t mean by force! Let me give them a Snoop Pie. Lyonette? I could use some charm Skills.”
She headed towards the Antinium after grabbing something out of her wagon. Pisces watched, then shaded his eyes.
“[Witches]. Dead gods, they either heard about Nanette or they were coming for the reunion.”
A trio of [Witches] on broomsticks were descending; there were flight laws around Liscor, but they claimed immunity to the laws that governed most other people. That was contentious, but [Witches] were contentious in general. All of them had armored vests on, and he bet they were carrying nasty weapons. These days, [Witches] were armed, flying problem-solvers who could use magic or just kick down a door with steel-toed boots.
One of them had green skin, though Pisces only knew that because he knew her; you’d never see it behind her facemask and body armor.
Changing times. Why was he so nostalgic? Pisces saw the doors open as Imani and Lyonette were rebuffed. Someone went stumbling out—
Lord Moore. And Rags. The Goblin Lord and half-Giant were being escorted roughly down the hill, then they were followed by Mrsha!
“What’s going on? Even Mrsha?”
“Don’t do this! Tell him to come back—”
Mrsha was howling, but the Antinium just shoved her away and formed a cordon.
“There will be no second warning. If you have any faith in your hearts—keep back and keep silent. Seal the perimeter. Kill anyone who attempts entry. Even friends of the inn.”
The [Paladin]’s words were cold, but also filled with such zeal and hope they gave Pisces shivers. He strode over to the trio.
“What’s going on?”
Moore was white-faced, uncharacteristically rattled, and Rags just whirled.
“I’m summoning my tribe. We need an army.”
They were in agreement about that, but Lord Moore still hesitated. Fighting the Painted Antinium was a disastrous outcome for both sides, no matter who won. Mrsha, clearly thought the same thing.
“Dare we stop him? If he’s right, Rags—”
