They’d still have Erin, right? But the Goblin Lord of Dreams spun and screamed at her.
“This is not how it should be! We can bring her back, but this is madness! I will not let him damn worlds and do nothing.”
Everyone went silent. Rags strode away, and the Painted Antinium watched her grimly. Pisces had thought they were all on the same side. His head swung to Mrsha.
Bring her back? His heart fluttered in his treacherous chest, and he saw her turn to him.
“Oh, Pisces! We have to stop—”
Pisces’ head rose towards the inn, and then he felt it, even before Mrsha began trying to explain. Archmage Ceria Springwalker’s cold face slowly turned, and Pisces saw the Painted Antinium pulling more reinforcements from abroad.
Then—he really wished Drassi wasn’t broadcasting this on the news. Because he had a feeling they were running out of time.
Yet he still didn’t know what was going on.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 1 — “Better Days”>
 
If you were standing still and trying to figure out what was going on, you were already too late. That was the tragedy. Time was running out.
There was a door to true reality, and it could close at any moment. It already had—once. The entire world was a figment, a Skill, and you might continue existing after the door closed or the Skill de-activated. But would you take the chance?
No.
The immortals were moving. No, they were running. This wasn’t a disaster, a war, or their identities or locations being leaked. This was oblivion, and at this very moment, three of them were heading for the door with everything. Everything that mattered.
Picture the scene. You had just found out this was a fake reality. You have time and means to pack things away, to carry artifacts with you on the off chance you’ll keep them. What do you grab? How much time do you waste?
The answer might surprise you.
Teriarch, in his cave, grabbed the most valuable relics and prizes from his hoard, swept them into a containment spell, and dithered for exactly five minutes and eleven seconds before he took wing from his cave, cursing himself for a fool. Because he had been here before.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
Belavierr wasted zero seconds, zero minutes. She abandoned everything and ran for the door.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 1 — “Better Days”>
 
Az’kerash took twenty-two minutes. He was striding through his castle, shouting for his Chosen to grab everything of value, orchestrating all his buried undead to rise and plotting a path through the Bloodfields. He was hampered by his minions.
“Master? Why are we leaving? What is—”
“Don’t argue, Ijvani! Go! Stand in the teleportation room! Get Bea, Oom, Toren—everyone! Kerash. Kerash is too far—”
He was agonizing; the Necromancer saw the skeleton and healing slime skidding around the corridors of the castle, running from Venitra. They had no time for this! But he wasn’t panicking; he wanted to take all of his magic and minions, you see. He was preparing for an exit from this reality in force.
Az’kerash might have actually taken longer, taken as much as an hour or two getting ready, but on the twenty-third minute, his monitoring spells detected movement around the inn.
Namely, the Dragonlord of Flames landing, visible for the world to see, smashing through one of the walls, and vanishing into the inn.
Teriarch, in public, probably on television, broadcasting that he was alive and well—and heading straight out of this reality into the real one. Az’kerash saw that—then panicked.
“—Teleporting. Activate the ritual now, Ijvani! Now!”
He already had the coordinates locked. Too late, Az’kerash realized his mistake. How seriously the Dragonlord had taken this revelation. His mental broadcast was for all his Chosen.
“We are going! Now! Kill nothing—just go to the place where Ishkr is holding the root and do not harm him! Go through! If you feel me disappear, follow! Go!”
“Master! But what is—”
The teleportation spell took ten long, long minutes to activate. Which sounded like plenty of time, but the Chosen and Az’kerash were scattered through his castle, he seized everything he could as the ritual spell began to activate, then [Flash Stepped] towards his teleportation room.
Ijvani was standing dutifully to attention with a Chest of Holding containing his best artifacts. Bea appeared, panting, carrying another bag filled with books from the library. No Venitra, no Toren, no Wesixa or…
“To me, my Chosen! Now!”
Devail made it in the thirty-eight seconds of Az’kerash throwing all of his mana into the [Long-Ranged Mass Teleport] spell. He leapt forwards, and Venitra appeared down the hall. She had Toren, Healing Slime, and a Chest of Holding from the armory containing lesser relics she was dragging behind her.
“Master! Wait for me! Mast—”
Az’kerash saw her running. If he canceled the spell, he’d require another thirty-seven seconds and mana he didn’t have to activate it. His heart ached in his chest.
“Follow.”
He disappeared, and Venitra’s cry was torn from his ears as the world shifted around them. For a few moments, they entered the world of twisting reality that was the teleportation spell—then Az’kerash popped out onto the Floodplains of Liscor, just in front of The Wandering Inn.
“Venitra? Master, you left…”
Ijvani stared at the place where her friend had been. The Necromancer of Terandria breathed, and he felt terror in his heart.
“We are entering the inn. Disguises. [Mass Illusion]. Do not raise an alarm. Bea, touch nothing. Come on. We are all gone if we…if we can, I will try to recover her.”
We are all of us fake, my children, myself.
Pisces. I could take Pisces and his team.
The Necromancer stumbled for the door, wearing the guise of a Plains Gnoll. The inn was already in chaos; fittingly, the sky above was black, and an eclipse shone from above. Like his eyes, almost devoid of light.
It was the Winter Solstice after all.
Today.
This day.
 
——
 
“—just smashed through! Then he was gone! I swear I saw a Dragon! Seriously, Erin!”
Relc Grasstongue was in the middle of the shattered inn, snow pouring in, as people peeked out of the beach [Garden of Sanctuary] and stared at the wreckage.
The [Innkeeper] had once told Relc she’d met a Dragon, and he hadn’t believed her. She wished she could feel smug now. She glanced up towards the second floor of the inn. She could see a rattled Gnoll gazing down at her.
“Ishkr, you good?”
“Hanging on, Erin! But he went through! He—went through!”
Ishkr was very shaken, as a Gnoll who’d just been grabbed by a Dragon might be. The Dragonlord had passed through the door, which had expanded to accommodate him.
But the Gnoll [Server] still held the root, like he’d been told to do by the real Lyonette on the other side. Erin licked her lips.
“I know it’s a Dragon, Relc.”
“You believe me? Wait—really?”
“Yeah. I do. I think….I think we should get everyone up there. Into that—just get everyone, Relc.”
“Who? Mrsha, Lyonette?”
Erin turned to the [Guardsman]. He was half-grinning, in the way of people who were trying to deny the worst was actually happening. Because, after all, it hadn’t. Not really.
Not in this world. But the [Innkeeper] thought about what she’d seen, noticed, and the other Mrsha, and she took a breath as her heart began to beat painfully in her chest.
“Yeah. Everyone. Right now. Go!”
She pushed Relc, and he stumbled towards the beach garden. Then he began shouting, but everyone was coming out to see what was the matter anyways.
“Erin, that door…Pyrite’s inside, and Kevin. Should we all go?”
No one was certain what lay beyond, which was part of why they hesitated. But at that very moment, someone came out of the air. Erin drew her knife to throw, then lowered it.
“Headscratcher!”
The Goblin Lord strode down the stairs after taking a moment to gawk at the destruction to the inn. He rumbled as he reached Erin.
“You okay? I saw the Dragon go through. He running.”
“I—yes, we’re fine. No one’s hurt except the inn. What’s going on in there?”
“More bad things. An army. Might be on our side, might not.”
That was cryptic and made Erin wish Pyrite had come back; Pyrite had a gift with words, like Numbtongue. But she was relieved to see the Redfang. Headscratcher had a hand on his axe, though, which was concerning.
The Goblin Lord of Sorrows was shaken from everything he’d witnessed, but he’d returned—to make sure things on this side were good. An important thing, as it turned out.
“Okay, an army? What’s in there, Headscratcher? Seriously?”
“Another future. Lots of them. Army is Antinium from a bad future. They might not attack us—but scary.”
He shrugged; that was as far as he’d gotten, and Erin nodded. Her head flicked left, and two other people started.
Moore and Halrac. Halrac had his invisible bow in hand; he’d actually fired a shot at the Dragonlord as the Brass Dragon had gone past. It had, uh, done absolutely nothing. Erin glanced at the door and despite Headscratcher’s warnings, her decision remained unchanged.
Something was wrong.
She could…almost hear it. Sense it, perhaps. They all could. At first, no one, not even Erin Solstice herself, had sensed that opening into the [Palace of Fates] and the nigh-invisible Faerie Flower root. Even when she had noticed Mrsha vanishing and reappearing, it had been hard to trace.
But now, it was as clear as day to Erin there was a kind of…hole in her inn. A doorway that was calling increasingly loudly to her to enter.
She could not hear the words being spoken. But she could feel them. If she could have heard it, the voice would have said this.
 
<ERROR; PROCESSING LIMIT REACHED.>
 
<ERROR; PROCESSING LIMIT REACHED. ERROR IN FUNCTION.>
 
<ERROR; PROCESSING LIMIT REACHED. ERROR; PROCESSING LIMIT REACHED.>
 
The notifications kept coming, like the beating of a disrupted heart. Faster and faster, each time a bit louder. And with each notification, that crack in her reality seemed to grow…
The [Innkeeper] whispered.
“Halrac, Moore? Go. I’ll get everyone through.”
The half-Giant bit his lip.
“Erin, are you sure? It’s not as if—”
“I think if Teriarch just ran for it, we should go. Now.”
They hesitated, and Moore palely rose. He turned to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Ulinde. I need to get Ulinde, Seborn, Jelaqua—and our things—”
“Don’t do that. I’ll send them after you. Just go!”
Erin’s voice rose with that dreadful certainty in her now. She had seen how terrified Teriarch was. If that giant Dragon was so afraid…she barely noticed as more people entered the inn.
“Hello, hello. What’s all this, then? We’re just searching for a quick place to rest—don’t mind us.”
A weakly-grinning Gnoll entered the inn with three others, all of whom had chests or big packs. Erin’s eyes slid towards them as she beckoned.
“Peggy! Get everyone out of the beach. This isn’t a drill! Do it now! Sorry, the inn’s closed—”
She saw the Gnolls walking past her, towards the stairs. They had a familiar…one of them was familiar to her. Not their face. Their aura. Erin’s head spun. She saw the Gnoll in front was tall, gangly, and afraid, and he smiled at her.
“We just need to…to…”
He trailed off and eyed the stairs. Erin stared at him, then forced a smile onto her face.
“Go for it. We have a spare bedroom on the third floor.”
She stepped back, ushering them forwards, and he ducked his head awkwardly. The Gnoll was halfway up the stairs, helping one of the others pull the huge trunk up, when someone spoke in Erin’s ear.
“Erin. Get back in the beach garden. I’m having Perorn assemble her forces. That’s not a Gnoll. It’s a monster.”
She jumped and nearly swatted Niers Astoragon. He was on her shoulder. He’d snuck up there—again! Headscratcher nearly slapped Niers off as well, but the Titan was intent.
He was staring at the Gnoll quartet, and his teeth were bared.
“Altestiel, Belchaus, Ilvriss, all our highest-level people are on alert. Just stall them, but don’t get close. My poison detection spells are going off. I’ll bring Foliana here if I have to—”
“No, let them go, Niers.”
Erin put out her hand, and he stepped onto it. The tiny [Strategist] gave Erin a look. More people were coming out of the garden. The Horns, confusion growing to concern as they saw the damage. Grimalkin and Pryde…
“Erin, that’s not a regular guest. I don’t know who you think—”
“I recognize one of them. It’s one of the adventurers who murdered Ulrien. Don’t. Start. Anything, Niers. Not right now. Something terribly bad is going on. So bad that I think—”
Erin’s eyes found the Necromancer as he tugged the chest up the stairs, and she shook her head. Niers’ mouth opened in an incredulous smile.
“Erin, those are horrors over there. If what I think I’m seeing is right—that is him. The Necromancer.”
His Ring of Greater Sight on his hand. He never took it off with Foliana about. He pointed at the undead Lich, and Erin snapped at him.
“Niers, shut up and listen to me! There is worse happening!”
The [Strategist] bristled, then her tone got through to him. Erin handed Niers to Headscratcher.
“Headscratcher, explain! Lyonette? Lyonette, get over here!”
The Goblin Lord put Niers on his shoulder and began to explain to him, which wasn’t optimal because Headscratcher was no Numbtongue or Pyrite, and he couldn’t explain it all like them.
The two saw Erin marshalling people in the inn, directing those who were merely guests for the beach out of the inn via the portal door, and moving her friends towards the stairs. She hadn’t told them to go to Ishkr—yet.
“Whoa. What happened to the inn?”
Ceria exclaimed, lowering some sunglasses she’d been wearing while tanning on the beach. The [Cryomancer] was in her bathing suit, literally, and she saw Pisces warily glancing around.
“My rapier’s in my rooms.”
The [Necromancer] was no [Slave] of Roshal in this world. He didn’t have his bone rapier. He was starting for the stairs when someone came down and grabbed his shoulder.
“Pisces, is that you? Excellent, come with me. And, uh, bring your team.”
The odd Gnoll. Niers and Headscratcher stiffened, and Pisces recoiled.
“Sir? I’m afraid I don’t know—”
The [Necromancer] only had swim trunks on, and he didn’t know this Gnoll—until the Gnoll leaned forwards.
“I taught you a bit of swordplay, among other things. We’ve been talking. Every week. It’s me, Per…ric. Perric! No relation to King Perric of Medain.”
“P-P-Perric?”
Suddenly, Pisces went white. He stood stock-still as his team peered at the Gnoll. Ceria scratched her chin.
