“Pisces has a pen-pal? That’s…odd.”
“Yes, and I have something to show you. Urgently. Come on.”
The Gnoll wanted to guide Pisces up the stairs with terrific strength, but Pisces was, suddenly, afraid. He gaped at Erin, his team.
“Sir—what are you doing here? You shouldn’t be about at your age. W-what—”
“It’s all going to be okay. Just come with me. I swear. I want to help. I want to…save you.”
Such earnest words. Such ominous words if you were Pisces. He began to struggle, and Yvlon stepped forwards.
“Pisces, who’s your friend? Excuse me, sir…”
The [Armsmistress] was advancing, and it began a struggle for Pisces at the stairs. Erin swung around as more people entered the inn.
 
<ERROR; PROCESSING LIMIT REACHED. ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
The voice spoke, and the world—flickered. So fast that no one caught it, not even the Necromancer. The tiniest of moments when everything halted and failed.
A gap.
Then the world kept moving with one addition to it that had not been there a moment ago. The crowd of visitors rushed towards the inn.
“Wistram News Network, Noass, here. Did someone see—?”
“Hey, there’s a huge hole in your inn! Where’s Mrsha? It’s time to play!”
“Hello, I would like a drink. And a place to rest.”
Noass, Ekirra, and a Human man entered the inn, followed by more crowds. Erin shouted at them.
“Get the fuck out of here! Not you, Ekirra. Go find Mrsha—now. Everyone else, out. Pisces, go with him!”
She spun and pointed, and the [Necromancer], both of them, were astonished. Erin was turning the crowd back with great effort. Ekirra gazed at her face, then ran towards Mrsha. Noass was protesting.
“You can’t keep the truth away from me! What’s going on? The public deserves to know! Is that a real Dragon or—”
“I am thirsty. I would like a drink, Miss.”
The Human walked forwards, and Erin shoved at Noass, turning her head towards the beach. The inn was crowded, the winds were blowing in, and then she glanced at the man again.
He was just a man in robes. Clean-shaven, but ordinary. But he wasn’t moving back in the face of her [Inn’s Aura], and something about him…she stopped.
“Do I know you? Have we met?”
The closer he got, the more disheveled he looked. Wretched, actually. The man wore grand robes, fit for a [Grand Mage]—or even better—but they were tattered, and his skin was beyond parched. A tattered hood covered most of his face as Erin tilted her head to see him. The man’s eyes glittered in their sockets, and he reached out.
“Not we. But I am so very hungry and thirsty. I was trapped with no way out. But look. They did not foresee this.”
“Sorry to hear that, buddy. There’s a drink in the kitchen. Go get that…”
Erin recoiled from the grasping hand. She didn’t know why. But she wasn’t fast enough. His palm grazed her arm as she took a step back. It was just a touch. Erin—
Vanished.
There was nothing else. She just disappeared, and her clothing and possessions fell into a pile on the ground. The man licked his lips and laughed, and Niers and Headscratcher gazed up from their discussion.
The Necromancer and Pisces stopped struggling. Lyonette made a sound as Mrsha hung in her arms, blinking at…nothing. The [Innkeeper] was gone.
“Erin?”
The figure turned and licked his lips.
“Ah. Ahaha. Yes. This is enough.”
“What—what was that? Teleportation? Did we get that on—”
Noass was dumbfounded. He gaped at the camera-Drake, then recoiled as the hand reached out. The man touched his chest, and then Noass faded away as well. Then the camera-Drake tried to dodge—
The scrying mirror hit the ground and cracked as Niers breathed.
“Erin?”
Then the man threw back the hood of his robes and chuckled.
“I am free. I did it, you damned tricksters. You couldn’t predict everything! I am Emerrhain, and I cannot be bested—”
Thunk. He blinked, stumbled, and eyed the tiny bolt coming out of his chest a moment before it detonated with all the force of a [Fireball]. People screamed and fell back, and Lyonette dove to the floor, shielding Mrsha. When the blast cleared—the man was just standing there.
“Exactly like Kasignel. Excellent.”
He strode over and began touching the people at the entrance to the inn. They were consumed; a scrum of them were gone before the ones behind realized something was wrong and tried to back up. And he fell on them, touching, hands moving and erasing them. Mouth open with delight, like a starving figure eating a feast—
“Erin?”
Pisces whispered. The Necromancer seized his arm.
“We have to go. Come on!”
The Horns of Hammerad didn’t move. Then—Pisces conjured a flaming rapier and descended the stairs. His face was white, but he advanced on the God of Magic without a word.
“Don’t fight him!”
The Necromancer gazed down at Emerrhain and saw his head twist around.
“There’s the exit. Fools.”
He came for the door—until something kicked him through the air like a mule. The God of Magic went tumbling down the hill outside the inn and came up, blinking. Unhurt. He stared at the wall of water that had flicked him like a bug.
“He’s invincible to Tier 4 magic. Move the geography, not him. Perorn, get over here! I am going to kill him. Clear this inn.”
Niers Astoragon was standing on a table, face utterly blank as he gave orders. Earl Altestiel stood there, hands raised, as Queen Geilouna trembled in the cold.
“What’s happening? We were in the garden, and then it—vanished—”
The inn. Doors and cupboards were exploding as their contents no longer fit in the compartments of holding. The inn groaned and shrieked, and Niers Astoragon never took his eyes off the grinning man walking up the hill. This time, Emerrhain cut a wall of water in half with a wave of his hand.
“Evacuate the inn.”
“No.”
Headscratcher’s eyes glowed. He cast around for his brothers, and they were there, staring at the inn. They jerked when he spoke, and the Goblin Lord of Sorrows felt stronger than he had ever thought was possible.
“All of you. Get to Ishkr. Run.”
The God of Magic walked forwards, smiling and opening his arms wide, like a man who believed he was entitled to the world. The first volley of arrows struck the ground around him, and then it was chaos.
It was all—falling apart.
 
——
 
<Nowhere, Formerly Kasignel>
 
Kasigna, the Maiden, and Kasigna, the Crone, watched it happen, just as both had known it would. Death watched too, a score of them.
How had he done it? The answer was simple.
“His prison. It was sealed in every way and means, I am sure. But not from an identical world. There must have been a door. If there were even the tiniest connection, he would have wormed his way through. All he needed was this.”
 
<ERROR; PROCESSING LIMIT REACHED. ERROR IN—>
 
They all heard it, and the two dead goddesses felt the infinitesimal flicker of the system itself failing. A gap into which someone could do…anything. If they existed beyond the Grand Design itself. Emerrhain had seized that advantage.
He was surely not the only one who had noticed. And there were other aspects that gave them power, especially in that world. After all, it was the Winter Solstice, there.
A Solstice. A moment of power, nevermind it was another reality. Emerrhain was absorbing all that energy, devouring the souls there. Then—what would he do? Likely, he’d pull himself out of his world and infiltrate another reality where he wasn’t in The Last Box, just in the same geographic location.
He must have been buried deep, but that was their nature.
Survivors.
They always survived. Now, the God of Magic was at a banquet of souls once more. The Crone murmured.
“I did not know we could absorb them like the ghosts. It must be that they are Skill-made. Not yet anchored like the living. Do you see it? He has taken his chance. Now, it is our turn.”
She pointed at another of those half-real realities generated by the roots. Kasigna intended to go to the future, where so many were gathered around the Painted Antinium and the inn. A bounty for her.
“You and I will secure enough power to rebuild our strength. Now—”
She was drawing the veil between realities apart with effort, forming her own ‘door’ to walk into the other world, when she realized the Maiden hadn’t moved.
“No.”
Kasigna, the younger, was gazing down at Emerrhain, full of confidence and triumph once more. She locked eyes with the Crone, glittering with malevolent triumph, but none of that was in the younger Goddess of Death.
“You have another plan? Another place?”
“Neither. Are you not tired of it? This repetition? Are you not ashamed to steal souls while we are watched?”
The Maiden pointed, and the Crone hesitated. The eyes of Death were upon her, but she snarled an answer.
“We have always done what we must to survive. Of all concepts, Death should understand that!”
The Crone turned to point at their audience and flinched.
They were smiling. Not a smile of acknowledgement, necessarily, or agreement. Just that grinning skull’s smile across each and every face. The Maiden argued with herself.
“That is not my perspective.”
“Stay here and wither, then! But we are one being—and you know your end will come without more souls!”
The Crone whirled. She tore the veil open and began to enter the world beyond. The city. She set foot in it, a greedy, wizened Drake reaching out for the first passersby.
Kasigna the Maiden stood there. And it was she who bowed to the silent reapers watching her.
“I am ashamed. You are here for a great reason. Not for me. Why? Will you not give me guidance?”
They did not reply, and she heaved a huge sigh.
“—Of course. Then I shall find it myself.”
So she sat, head in her hands, watching. For mortals, for that child who had started it all—
It only grew worse by the second.
The doors. The ones with the roots were—gaps in reality. And they were getting—
Bigger.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
At first, it was just enough space for a root to appear. But the longer The One Saved held it, the more he felt air coming through, heard voices on the other end. By the end of the fistfight with Rhisveri, it had become about the size of a gold coin in diameter, and he could hear the faintest voices.
After an hour, some of the Painted Antinium could peer through the head-sized hole. Or put hands through while the others marched past him.
Now—it was larger than a door, a spreading crack in reality that splintered in each direction, and the world frayed as the hole opened wider. It was expanding faster and faster.
“Tell Apostle Pawn something is wrong.”
The One Saved did not let go. He was the largest of the Painted Antinium, the strongest. He had been told Heaven rested on him holding the root, and so he would not let go for anything. But he told the Painted Antinium marching through to fetch the [Apostle]. The tip of the crack in reality was almost at the roof beams, now, and bits of wood kept falling into the [Palace of Fates], chipped away from the inn’s ceiling.
This was Wrong. The One Saved believed that the salvation of The Wandering Inn would not destroy even the smallest part of it. So he waited—and outside, he heard the arguments between the friends of the inn, who were Friends of the Inn in the teachings of Goddess Solstice, arguing with the faithful.
And this too struck The One Saved as Wrong, for were they not on the same side under Her?
 
——
 
“Let us in. We just want to see. We are all friends of Erin Solstice here, but we must see. Don’t make this a battle.”
Pisces Jealnet’s voice was reasonable. His hand on his enchanted rapier was less reasonable. Montressa, Moore, Yvlon, and the other highest-level friends of the inn were right behind him and mostly unreasonable.
The Painted Antinium knew very little fear, but they could count levels. The ones in front of Pisces kept their spears pointed at him, but they hesitated.
“By order of Apostle Pawn—”
“Get him out here. Mrsha is here, and Lyonette.”
“His Holiness is not to be disturbed—”
Someone lost her patience. Selys Shivertail pointed a finger at the Painted Antinium, and the [Guildmistress] snapped.
“[Listen to Me]. You are going to disturb him right now or we are going to walk into that inn. And unless you want to lose every single high-level ally on the continent, you won’t make this a battle. Get moving!”
The Painted Antinium peeked at each other, and one backed up.
“I—I will ask. Stay there.”
They vanished, but that left the problem of everyone having to stand and wait for a reply. Which wasn’t ideal, because Pisces had this sense they were running out of time. How did he know?
Well, he had never been the greatest of [Mages]. Selys had always gotten on him for not doing more studying at Wistram, and he’d actually gone back with Revi to study until being around Ceria and her altered state thanks to the circlet and amulet had been too much. Then Jecaina had funded a library for him, but that had been pretty much the backbone of discontent with the third—
You know what? His ex-wives aside, Pisces just wasn’t as good a [Mage] as he was an adventurer. But Montressa was, and the Archmage of Barriers was muttering to him.
“They’re blocking most of my spells, but some of it doesn’t make sense, Pisces. I got an explorator spell in there that measures space, and it’s returning infinity.”
“…What?”
“Infinite space. It mapped out the inn, then entered—somewhere—and I barely got a few tracers back. I fired over five hundred, and two reached me; they seemed to think there were hallways and—there’s something in there. If I know, she knows.”
She meant the Archmage of Frost. Ceria Springwalker was growing more animated as she cast spells, and that meant she thought there was something valuable there too. It hurt Pisces to see her, but he steeled himself and walked over.
“Ceria.”
“Pisces. We must enter the inn. The Painted Antinium are hoarding something of extreme value. A pocket dimension.”
She spoke absently to him, no other words for years of not seeing each other. Pisces bared his teeth, his best attempt at a smile.
“You mean, a Solstice event.”
“Hm? Oh, yes, I recall that being the word for such things. How long will you wait before we force entry?”
Pisces was aware of everyone else watching Ceria with as much reserve. Yvlon was trembling; he replied slowly.
“…Five minutes.”
That was a sign of how much his instincts as a Named-rank adventurer were saying something was wrong. At his words, those not able to fight, like Kevin, drew back, but even Imani produced an emergency wand.
One of the [Witches] pulled out a gun with a click-clack, and Pisces eyed them. The Painted Antinium were growing restless, now, sensing the danger.
