Not just from the Horns. Multiple news crews had appeared with Drassi, and now they were trying warily to get into the inn as well. Drassi herself appeared, breathless, abandoning her news crew.
“Hey, everyone. What’s going on? I’m not on the job—sorry about the commotion, but I thought it wasn’t going to be this! My [Journalist] instincts are going off, and it’s telling me this is the scoop of the century. Not necessarily in a good way.”
Pisces turned to catch her up to speed, but Selys beat him to it. Drassi swore under her breath.
“That’s not good. Pawn’s already crazy—”
“Hey!”
That came from Lyonette. Drassi went on.
“—Absolutely crazy. I interviewed him after the volcano thing. He’s got Rhir riled up, and everyone with a [Dangersense], [Newsworthy Event], or other Skill is focused on the inn. Mrsha, what’s in there?”
Every eye focused on the young woman, and she looked up. Moore was sitting with her, and the girl wrestled with the truth, then spoke.
“Another world. Many of them. But Pawn doesn’t need to go through! We can revive Erin! We know how.”
“What did you just say?”
Pisces felt all the hairs on his neck rise and whirled. But not to Mrsha; he gazed at Ceria, and her eyes came up, gleaming. They were green, not the pale blue he remembered on the [Cryomancer]’s face. Montressa and Pisces exchanged a look, and Lyonette paled.
“Mrsha! How—?”
It got worse. Lord Moore and Embria received an alert from Liscor at the same time, and the Watch Commander cursed.
“Something’s in Liscor, attacking people! Moore—”
He hesitated, and then it happened. There was a scream. Pisces’ blade was in his hand. He whirled—and saw a Drake clawing at a spear in his chest. Some idiot from the news channels had tried to sneak past the Painted Antinium, and they’d run him through.
“Dead gods.”
Pisces whispered as the Drake’s desperate clawing stopped. He was dead before they could even try to heal him. The Painted Antinium wrenched the spear out, and the television crews fled backwards.
“That’s it. Embria, assemble the Watch. No one else dies here.”
Lord Moore’s voice was heavy. Embria raised her speaking stone to her lips. She hesitated, then bit off a single word.
“Witch.”
A woman, tall beyond belief, dressed in robes so darkly blue they might as well have been black, was striding across the Floodplains. Not up and down the hills, over them. Through the air, holding her hat on her head. A little, too-thin figure was following her, and Pisces recognized Nanette, the Witch of Sorrows, first.
Then someone murmured.
“Belavierr.”
The Witch of Webs silenced the screams, the alarms beginning to come from Liscor, the spectators, even the guests of the inn. The Painted Antinium pivoted towards her as she walked forwards, and Montressa breathed.
“That monster. She swore to stay away from Mrsha. We have to stop—”
The Archmage of Barriers made Pisces recall Belavierr’s threats against Mrsha. He set himself; the young woman was visibly trembling as Lyonette put her arms out, shielding her.
“Belavierr! You swore never to approach my daughter! Begone! Begone, for your promise upon your craft!”
The Witch of Webs didn’t stop walking, but she slowed a second. She didn’t seem well. Her usually blank face was taut, and there was something lurking behind her ringed eyes.
Fear. When Lyonette spoke, she jerked, and her skin writhed. Her shadow halted, as if part of Belavierr was trying to move back. But she kept walking, and Pisces saw something rip out of her face.
Threads. They spooled out of Belavierr’s flesh, threads of every color, her magic and power itself. Without a single backwards glance, the [Witch] produced a pair of shears and cut the lines of power.
“Did she just rip out her craft?”
Imani squeaked. Nanette gathered the threads up in her arms. She handed a skein of power to Belavierr, and the Witch took it. She knitted something out of the thread, needles flashing into the air, and a bird made of red stood upon her hand. It tilted its head, spread its wings, and then flew at the Painted Antinium. It grew bigger and bigger until the ichor-colored bird was larger than the inn. The Painted Antinium gazed up—
[The Carrion-Hawk of Amegedia Vair].
Pisces had tackled Selys to the ground. When he glanced up, the thing was breathing on the inn, spewing smaller birds of blood. A barrier of faith was shielding the inn, but the Tier 7 monstrosity was on the attack.
“Get to Liscor! Fall back!”
Relc roared, and Pisces drew his sword.
“No. Kill Belavierr! Stop her!”
As soon as he said it, he wondered if he was insane. She had dozens of those skeins of her power. And she looked—
But The Wandering Inn was right there, and he had always, always defended it until the moment he was too late. So Pisces Jealnet stepped forwards, and the Horns of Hammerad were with him.
Young and old. Montressa fell in, and even Archmage Ceria, though her face was as calm as ever.
“Stitch Witch. I am familiar to you. You know me. Shall we parlay and join forces?”
Ceria’s voice was treacherous—Pisces jerked around as Belavierr walked towards them. The Stitch Witch’s eyes narrowed as she focused on Ceria, but then she shook her head. As if Ceria were important any other day but today. Belavierr reached down and pulled something up as Pisces tensed.
She lifted a shrivelled, shrunken head from her belt. Dead flesh. Eyes stitched open. Belavierr spoke to the head.
“Cara. Scream for me.”
Pisces saw the mummified head open its mouth. Then the [Banshee’s Shriek] spell hit him a second after he covered his ears. He convulsed as agony flashed through him, trying to [Silence] the voice that wailed death into his soul.
When it stopped, finally, an age later, he rose, deaf, blood running from his ears, and saw everyone but Ceria was on the ground. Belavierr was at the inn’s door.
She disappeared through it, ducking her head to let the tip of her hat pass into the opening. Pisces forced himself up on one arm.
Taken out like a Bronze-rank…the Singer of Terandria? That’s why she was missing. Monster.
—But it was a decade after Erin Solstice had died. The Demon King was dead. They lived in the future, painful and bright, filled with the resplendent light of the Empire of Rhir and the King of Reclamation and his [Heroes]. And the painful radiance of faith.
A pillar of light shot down from the heavens and speared the bloody carrion-bird through the back. The air flashed like someone shooting fireworks up, but there was no flare of mana.
Faith. Pisces saw Antinium crawling up the vast bird, cutting down the lesser monsters it was birthing with blades of color. One clasped her hands together as the bird pecked down, tearing the [Priest]’s shell apart.
Green blood. The Antinium collapsed, a third of her body torn away by the razor beak and teeth. Light shone from her eyes and her damaged innards. A terrible, cutting light, which blasted away the Carrion-Hawk’s face. It recoiled, mouth open in a scream he couldn’t hear, and the light focused on it, piercing holes into its body made of blood.
“The inn.”
Pisces helped up Montressa; the scream had pierced her barriers. The Archmage mouthed at him, then she touched his arm, and his shattered eardrums mended.
Abruptly, Pisces heard the horns blowing, the shouts, and the unearthly howl of the carrion-bird. Then a whumph.
The inn’s roof exploded outwards. Pisces flinched and saw a familiar sight.
The inn. A glowing sword erupted out of it, then a shower of needles blew out the side.
“The inn! Stop her!”
Moore roared as he got to his feet. Pisces was focused on the horror the Painted Antinium were fighting.
“That bird! We have to stop it! On me, Horns of Hammerad! Ceria, lock it down—”
He ran for the bird as it reared back on its haunches and shrieked. Hundreds of droplets of blood fell from its wingtips, morphing into carrion birds. Pisces knew it was some kind of summoning horror. The longer they let it live…
The screaming horror’s head vanished. One second it was opening its beak to the skies, red as sinew, blood forming a gaping socket, beak edged with teeth, screaming like a barghest—
Then someone cut its head off. Pisces’ eyes opened wide, and he stumbled to a halt. It was so fast that even he, a Level 48 [Adventurer of Necromantic Duels], could barely see it move.
He swore he saw a red katana being wielded by a…half-naked half-Elf? Pisces’ eyes focused on the figure.
“It’s him again.”
He breathed as more blood fountained up from the Carrion-Hawk’s head, trying to rebuild itself. However, the Painted Antinium began focusing their miracles on it, disintegrating the magical construct.
That half-Elf—he had faded away the moment he attacked, and Pisces only knew he was there because it wasn’t the first time he’d seen the figure. Or had a miracle happen when he and his team were in mortal danger. Pisces swung around, about to ask if anyone else had seen that, then the inn’s tower exploded.
A second pillar of light shattered the roof, and there was a shriek from inside the inn—then silence. Pisces turned and saw The Wandering Inn in ruins.
The Stitch Witch had destroyed that beloved building in seconds. He could see parts of the common room from here. Pisces began running. He was halfway up the hill when someone shouted.
“Pisces!”
Archmage Montressa threw up a barrier just in time. The Captain of the Horns leapt back, and a hand slammed into the barrier in the air.
“Back! gET bAck oR DIe!”
A [Paladin] had two swords and two shields raised overhead. The Soldier was shaking with fury. The Painted Antinium had re-formed around the inn, and hundreds were pouring out of the air.
“The Stitch Witch! Let us fight her, you idiots!”
Pisces roared. He would have charged forwards again, but squads of [Crusaders] armed with their crossbows knelt at the top of the hill and pointed down at him. The [Paladin] swung around.
“She has left through the door. The Apostle Pawn will slay her. Get back or perish.”
This was insanity! Pisces took another step, then dodged a hail of crossbow bolts. He backed up, swearing.
“They’ve gone crazy!”
“We have to fight our way in. I request reinforcements from the Watch. Hm. Summoning [Greater Ice Elementals].”
Ceria agreed calmly. She began creating huge blocks of ice, and the Painted Antinium rebuilt their lines deeper. There had to be two thousand around the inn, and more had entered it already.
They’re pulling every single Painted Antinium in the world to this spot. Pisces turned to Moore.
“We can’t make war on the Painted Antinium. They’re the only thing that gives Liscor—that gives the Hives and everyone else strength!”
Without them, the Terandrians in the north would push on Liscor! But Moore just leaned on his staff like the old days, head hanging low.
“We must reach that door. Embria, the Watch.”
“Something is in Liscor, killing our people!”
Madness; oh, Pisces forgot how he used to hate this feeling of mad helplessness. He stood there as his friends and the other guests of the inn rejoined him.
One fact was clear: the Stitch Witch had vanished into the same spot that Pawn had gone. That was enough to alarm anyone with half a brainstem.
The world’s oldest and most powerful [Witch] had just gone against the Painted Antinium for a reason. Not only that; she had just sacrificed an unbelievable amount of power, forsworn herself—
For what? If every eye was not on The Wandering Inn right now, Pisces would drink the entire valley of blood that was the Carrion-Hawk. There was only one problem.
The inn was open to the sky. The Painted Antinium had an army around it, but they could not hide what was inside of it. Even as his eyes found the inn, Pisces saw the edge of…something.
Poking up over the shattered roof. Higher than the common room. An edge, like the most complex spiderweb hanging in the air, showing him…something on the other side.
The [Necromancer] stopped, and all thoughts of everything else fled his mind. He stood there and saw the door to the [Palace of Fates] growing. Growing wider, even as the Antinium tried to project walls of faith around it.
“Moore. Mrsha. What is that?”
Mrsha lifted her face upwards, and it was despairing. The tear in reality kept growing. Wider and wider, and she whispered.
“No. He has to close the door.”
—But Pawn wasn’t there. The One Saved still stood in the destroyed center of the inn, needles buried in his carapace, pierced by the poisoned water. He had failed to stop the Stitch Witch. But the door would stay open.
He would never let go. The Antinium’s head rose as magical spells probed the entrance. Scrying spells beheld a portal to another realm. And these people, made from a Skill, soulless—at least by the definition of the Grand Design of Isthekenous—saw reality waiting for them.
In the hush, as blood ran downhill and pieces of wood fell, clattering to the floor of the inn, the Painted Antinium’s faith beheld their holiest of sites in ruins. On this, their promised day of glory.
Their faith shone ever brighter, and they had need of it. For two minutes, there was only the panting, desperate silence and the faint voices echoing from the world beyond.
Then the first [Heroes] of Rhir teleported into the Floodplains with soldiers of the Blighted Kingdom.
They launched the first wave of assault on the hill instantaneously.
 
 
<Primary Dimension – [The Garden of Sanctuary], Sheta’s First Garden>
 
The Dragonlord of Flames, Terrium Archelis Dorishe, stumbled. For once, he had a right to it.
His right foreleg was snapped; his wings were filled with holes. He was using magic to support himself, a limb of emerald magic that supported his right side as he walked, but the rest of his limbs had given in.
He fell, and that hurt too. His shredded brass scales revealed red flesh underneath; his hide pierced. At least, he did not bleed.
One of his wings was braced to keep the bones at the right angles. He looked smaller; he knew he was smaller, having lost layers of his scales against the Draconic Titan. He had not been wounded thusly since the Creler Wars.
Perhaps not so badly, even then. He might have come closer to death, but never taken so many sheer wounds.
The Halfling, then the Draconic Titan. Even during the Creler Wars, when he had battled the worst of Crelers, he had gauged his strength, retreated rather than take unnecessary risks. He had held his life like a precious thing—too precious.
In this era where I am needed most, I am at my weakest. The Brass Dragon didn’t feel like the victor of a battle.
