In the same cave, though that particular Teriarch was barely able to keep awake for more than an hour. A sleeping Dragon mourning the passing of Lady Magnolia Reinhart years earlier. Uncaring of anything in the world. Willing to part with the meagerest treasures of his hoard to avoid battle.
Even so, Pawn didn’t discount the threat of another Brass Dragon running around. How dangerous might he be? His Painted Antinium could surely defeat him if it came to battle; they had repulsed entire nations in battle, and survived their secret and often forbidden weapons of annihilation. A Dragon was one entity, however large. It could be hurt, and killed.
But it would be costly. Could they afford to let the Dragon roam around? This [Palace of Fates] was an asset beyond value, and if they did not secure it before going to Erin Solstice…
Another crack.
Crack and crack. Pawn realized he was mumbling the word to himself, and he straightened.
“We will find and negotiate with this interloper. Secure every door that has a root in it. Unless you object, Lyonette?”
He challenged her, and she opened her mouth to refuse when the door that had caused all this trouble bulged—and someone burst out of that world.
“Run! Run!”
Selys Shivertail, holding Ekirra, dashed out of the door, looking behind her, pale-faced. Tears were running down her cheeks, and she was breathless, dressed in a one-piece bathing suit—and then Mrsha followed her.
Another Mrsha. And another Lyonette. They ran outside, and the child was howling, trying to turn around as her mother carried her.
“What?”
The [Apostle] recoiled, and the two Lyonettes locked gazes. The younger Lyonette skidded to a halt; like Selys, she had on a bathing suit, but her face was bloodless.
“Wh—what’s—”
More people were pouring through the door suddenly. Drakes and Gnolls and Humans that Pawn recognized. They were fleeing, and the real Lyonette raised her hands.
“Stop! Stop! You can’t do this! Why are you—”
“Run! That thing is coming after us!”
Menolit roared and shoved a terrified Visma forwards. They were all covered in sand or damp with water—many were in swimsuits. Again, that stumped Pawn the most. He stood there as they flooded forwards, running from—
“What’s going on? Why is Teriarch here? You can’t come in here!”
Real Lyonette seized her counterpart. In answer, the [Princess] opened her mouth, then screamed.
“He killed Erin! Something’s in the inn, and he just killed Erin and Noass.”
The [Apostle]’s head turned, and all his thoughts ended. The real Lyonette swayed.
“What? Who—?”
“E—Emerrhain. He called himself—Niers is trying to kill him with everyone else, but nothing’s working. I—”
The door opened, and Pawn moved. He threw both Lyonettes behind him in a single motion as someone came through the door.
A Gnoll, thin and lanky, with a trio of other Gnolls carrying Chests of Holding. Just one Gnoll among the others, eyes flicking right and left—or so he appeared.
Pawn saw the Necromancer for what he truly was in a heartbeat. His eyes picked out the undead hiding behind his illusion, the monstrous death-magic—and the means by which he had become a true Lich. The undead halted as he focused on Pawn.
“Oh my. It’s terrible. Quick, someone evacuate the children—that thing won’t die. It’s not even alive, I think…”
He played dumb for a second. Then Pawn swung his club, and Az’kerash dodged backwards, nearly going through the door again. The [Apostle] saw both Lyonettes stumbling, realized no one saw what he did, and spoke.
“Undead monstrosity. Kill it.”
The [Crusaders] around him charged without a word, Antinium Workers holding spears. They blazed with faith and power—the [Necromancer] flicked his fingers, and a wall of blackness arose.
[Void Wall]. Tier 6 magic.
—The Antinium Workers’ spears pierced through, and the two [Crusaders] charged at the Necromancer, who was so surprised he hesitated. Then he stepped backwards—and stopped.
His reaction was impeccable; he would have avoided the Antinium’s stabbing charge, but his children didn’t know that. A sword had parried one of the Antinium’s spears; the Worker jerked back as Devail slashed across the throat of the Antinium, blade cutting deep into a gorget but failing to strike chitin.
The second Antinium’s spear was buried in Bea’s chest. The Plague Zombie had thrown herself forwards and fearlessly blocked the spear. Her illusion faded, and everyone recoiled from the rotted corpse of the woman.
For a moment, Az’kerash just seemed wary, glancing at the Antinium, frowning as if puzzled how they had undone his magic so effortlessly. Then he heard a gasp.
“It hurts. It…hurts? Master?”
Bea was staring at the blade glowing a bright blue in her chest. It shouldn’t have harmed her; she was dead. Strike her heart, even destroy her head, she’d recover. She was the Necromancer’s masterp—
The Worker tore the spear up, and the Plague Zombie crumpled as the glow flickered in her eyes. She reached up as the Necromancer saw her wounds fail to heal.
“Master—”
“Bea. Hold on. [Greater Reanim—]”
Pawn swung his finger down.
“[Condemned by Hellfire].”
The Plague Zombie screamed as red flames consumed her. Grey, grasping hands dragged her down into a pit as flames roared upwards, and Az’kerash’s magic flowed around her and then—a face turned to ash.
Master?
Gone. Devail slashed at the Worker, who took a stab through the eye socket of their armor and then backed up. Like the other undead, he stared at the place the zombie had been. Az’kerash lifted his eyes and met Pawn’s bright gaze.
He drew a wand without a word, and Pawn swung his censer up.
[Greater Miracle: Shield of the Faithful]!
A thousand splinters of diamond hit the miracle and froze in place. The [Necromancer] fired a stream of pale light into the miracle.
[Disintegration Ray]. Pawn’s voice rose.
“Antinium, to me! Undead!”
The Necromancer backed up a step; more Antinium were already charging.
“Ijvani, Devail, flee.”
His black eyes were locked on Pawn the entire time. He fired another spell—a flaming meteor crashed against the [Greater Miracle], and Pawn felt it failing. But he kept his censer raised, bluffing.
Six meteors and the miracle was about to break—but it was enough. The Necromancer lowered his hand and faded away. [Greater Invisibility]. Then he was running.
Pawn bellowed.
“Kill the undead. Do not let it escape the [Palace of Fates]!”
He wavered, then spun.
“[Paladins]. Enter that door and kill whatever is attacking that world’s inn.”
He pointed, and the two Worker-[Crusaders] flinched as they looked at him. Pawn spoke.
“You two will not repeat anything you have heard here. Go!”
Suddenly, it was chaos. The two Lyonettes shouted for their people to come with them—one of them was yelling at him, but Pawn did not care. He was about to enter the door himself, to slay whatever it was that had committed the ultimate sin, when someone else called his name.
“Apostle! Something is—”
Then he felt a familiar presence at his back and spun. He heard the sounds of an explosion and a voice. A woman, cackling in delight. Pain and amusement wending its way through that laughter of a [Witch] who cared nothing for the world.
Belavierr. Pawn whispered.
“Not her.”
 
——
 
She’d broken through the inn. He could see dead Antinium on both sides of the door; acid was running down the walls of the corridor.
“She attacked the Painted Antinium.”
“Hunt her. Slay her and that undead.”
This was simple. This was essential. But then Pawn heard the warning from the open door. It seemed…bigger, on his side of it. As if he could see more.
“Rhir is assailing our position! Apostle!”
Then the cracks became breaks in the glass, and Pawn saw it. He stood in the [Palace of Fates] and realized the doorway was breaking. The [Palace of Fates] was screaming now. He swore he could hear the very hallways groaning as they began to fill with bodies, and Pawn gave the only orders he could.
“Slaughter them all. Hold that door and bring all the Painted Antinium through—then sever the root!”
“Apostle—they are sending [Heroes]. There are two dozen already! Send our [Paladins] back!”
A voice begged him from the other side. Pawn halted, and Purple Smile signed.
“[I will hold the door. Apostle, the [Witch].]”
“I will slay her this time. Go, and She watches over you, Purple Smile! The rest of you, to me! Defend our salvation or all is lost!”
Pawn’s voice was desperate, and he swung around as he saw more doors buckling outwards. He realized something was terribly, terribly wrong. A Gnoll poked his head out of a door and waved a paw.
“Hey, it’s me again. The—uh—root thing is getting bigger. What’s—”
Knight Brunkr of the past locked eyes with the glowing-eyed Pawn of the future and an army of faithful Antinium. His mouth stopped working, and he stood there, petrified.
All the doors were beginning to open? Pawn heard screams, and he knew there were monsters trying to flee their worlds, into this one. He heard roars, two ungodly loud ones—and suddenly, he was calm.
He began chuckling. All the Painted Antinium stared at him, and then Pawn’s faith was restored. For you see—he understood, now.
“Ah. Ahaha. This. This is our final battle. If it were easy, it would make no sense. Painted Antinium! This is our final hour of this mundane, petty world! Fight! In Her name!”
Then he was running with holy wrath in his hands and his heart, and he was laughing as the Painted Antinium began to wage their final war against everything in their way. Desperate, faithful—the sky above him warped to that vision that had sustained him so long.
Faith without end. He had everything to gain.
And everything to lose.
A single crack.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flames was limping past doors he recognized when he met himself. Each door was of a fate that had never happened, and oh…he knew them all.
They hurt. They tore his mortal soul out of his ancient body, and he wept yellow tears upon the marble, for he had forgotten so much. But each door reminded him.
“Why did you make this place, Sheta? Why—”
He knew why. The [Garden of Sanctuary] had always been her forlorn wish, for a single place where she could protect her friends from the harsh realities of the world. These places were her broken dreams.
And he could pluck someone from them, was that it? Revive someone?
The Dragon saw the flaw in Mrsha’s plan in a moment. You see—as with all things, he’d done this before. He saw the fallacy of bringing someone who looked like someone you had lost, but wasn’t, back into this world.
He had seen it with Golems, with imposters, Skills, tricks, twins, [Polymorph] spells, and sometimes…he touched his own chest…you were just revived from the dead, but not quite right.
“If I could—”
The smart thing to do would be to steal a—a Relic from the doors. Or would it be to summon someone worthy? Even if they were fake—imagine Saracandre herself, the first Dragonlord of Gems, who could help manage this world of chaos! Or—or a host of Dragons, if it were possible! Let them live and be different people, but live.
And Nirayicel, his daughter—
A golden tear splashed on the ground, the color of pyrite. The Dragonlord halted, drawing in shuddering breaths, for he understood.
He would do it too.
He rounded a corridor, his tail leaving dust and bits of ash from the Mortemdefieir’s body on the palace floor, and walked past a long hallway of mirrors. Then, he came nose-to-nose with a Brass Dragon, bigger than he was by almost fifteen percent, scales overgrown, overweight—though he held it well—but nevertheless, one of the largest Dragons that had ever lived.
A being of such magical power he radiated it, and whose head recoiled as his metallic mane shimmered. Cerulean and heliotrope eyes locking on the wounded Teriarch’s face.
The other Dragon was muttering to himself.
“—had to do it, you see. I simply had to—very lucky there was a spare key or whatnot. Now, where’s the damn—huh?”
He stopped, drew back when he saw the wounded Teriarch, and grinned, uncertain.
“Tamaroth’s beard. Another like-minded soul. What door did you escape from?”
The real Teriarch said nothing. He just stood there, thinking, as the chattier Teriarch of the beach garden, the one playing at being Demsleth, spoke. He eyed Teriarch’s broken leg, his wings, and his scales.
“What did that to you? No, don’t say it—the Creler Wars. Naturally. You must have realized it was all a simulation and escaped. Well done. Rather trim, wasn’t I, six thousand years ago? Nevermind Magnolia’s snide comments…it’s all about scale-shedding. I’ve kept mine because it’s armor, in the end, and I can always ditch them in times of need.”
Right, the secret technique of Brass Dragons. Teriarch hadn’t lied to Erin—well, he had. But most Dragons didn’t actually wholesale shed their scales, just one or two at a time. He’d learned the technique of turning his scales into a fake Dragon.
The other Dragon was still running his mouth. He held out a magnanimous wing, indicating a huge, enchanted Chest of Holding he was dragging behind himself.
“I managed to escape with some of my possessions. Do you know the way out? I intend to disguise myself, then, well, get a lay of the land, or this other world’s land, so to speak. Rather tragic, this place, isn’t it?”
He waited for a reply, finally noticing the other Dragon’s long silence. The real, wounded Teriarch cleared his throat after a moment.
“You escaped your door. Naturally. For clarity, may I ask where you came from?”
“Oh, I believe it would probably be close to modern reality—or so I gleaned. A better future, actually. Certainly very paradisiacal. I was lounging around on a beach as Demsleth, you know? Then I realized what was going on.”
“The beach. Of course. And you remember Magnolia? You left her behind.”
The Dragonlord’s voice was flat. The Beach Teriarch scratched at his chin, embarrassed.
“Well—I did. I could go back for her or send a simulacrum to…we must live, after all, musn’t we?”
He gave the other Teriarch an ashamed grin, then turned his head away.
“Good idea. I’ll just—wait. Then you are from a future like mine. What would possess you to get so gravely injured? Was it a Creler in the High Passes? The Wyvern Lord and, what, a few Earth Elemental Lords? Adventurers? What?”
He goggled at Teriarch’s wounds. The Dragonlord breathed in and out and raised his broken leg.
“Actually, a Draconic Warrior from the City of Graves escaped the Kingdom of Trolls. I didn’t manage to kill it.”
