“Is there a Gnoll child in there? A Doombearer? Get me a transport. Air!”
Both Ragses started forwards, and the Goblin Lord pointed at the location on the map as the war room burst into a frenzy. A green dot appeared, zooming towards the bunker, but one of the [Strategists] was pointing to red dots that instantly veered towards it.
“Lord, we can’t. It will be shot down—”
Ragathsi overrunned her; she slashed a hand, and blue dots moved to intercept. She was giving orders without even speaking.
“Transport, now! Secure that child, commander! Confirm, a white Gnoll child!”
The commander’s voice was slow to reply.
“It’s not…a white Gnoll child, Lord.”
“What?”
Chieftain Rags spun on her heel, confused. Was there a second Gnoll girl out there in this battlefield? Then she heard the commander’s voice go uncertain.
“It’s a red-furred…o aspat. Ten trok-zech! Trok-zech! Ten hir [Medic], tak!”
Rags understood only part of the fluent Goblin. She didn’t need to hear more. The blood drained from her face, and she turned. The Goblin Lord’s head rose.
“Get me the best medical team you can. Flying transport. Move.”
They emerged from the bunker as an aircraft like the larger command cruiser descended from the skies and hovered in the air. Now the thunder was reaching its peak, and somewhere, the Goblin King was laughing.
Then it all fell—silent.
 
——
 
—She woke up when someone began cutting the burning steel off her. The good news was it didn’t hurt. The bad news was that it should have.
Almost there.
The girl didn’t feel warm. But she didn’t feel cold either. Just a bit chilly, like someone waiting to warm up by the fire. She felt tired, and she wanted someone to hold her and tell her a story.
Someone had told her a story, you know. When she’d first come to this place with her plan in mind, she’d found a door and gone through it. She’d asked a question of the person inside, the dying young woman lying on a raft.
“—off! Get it off! [Medic]! Lord Ragathsi is coming! Secure this area!”
Something was lying on top of her. No…it and she were connected. The pieces dug into her, then the pressure released as something began to lift. The girl waited.
She had told Mrsha a story, the woman in the door. It was a simple story to answer Mrsha’s big question about what she was about to do. Erin Solstice had told her the truth.
Yes. You could do magic. You could work wonders or do the impossible.
It just cost a lot. How much you were willing to pay—the burned [Innkeeper] had grinned as she showed Mrsha her scars and pointed to the wreckage around her. Even if it wasn’t you.
Someone always paid the cost.
“The Goblin King is moving this way. Hurry! Get it off—”
Mrsha had known that. She felt the prison of metal finally release its grip on her, but they didn’t immediately pull her out. Instead, the scary people with no faces pried the metal apart further. Then stopped.
“Aspat. That’s—potion! Potion!”
They splashed liquid on her. Nothing changed, and the figures shouted louder.
“—[Medic]! We need transfusions and burn jelly! Those were Evercut Rounds! Get down there and lift—don’t pull—you’ll tear her in—”
They were trying to put her on a stretcher when gunfire burst out again, and they dropped her. A line of Humans advanced out of the smoke and engaged the Goblins. Mrsha tried to get up. And she realized she could. She sat up and saw why the Goblins hadn’t immediately recognized her as a Doombearer.
Her fur was crimson. The Gnoll touched the tacky, damp fur covered in her own blood.
Well, that’s one way to stop being a white Gnoll. Almost done. She nearly got to her feet; she got her knees under her, then faltered.
“Stay down!”
Who shouted it at her? Which side? Mrsha didn’t really care. They were slaughtering each other. This wasn’t her world; she wished she could feel for these future peoples, but she was so tired.
All my fault. But I promised to try.
Her head rose as she sat there, holding her leaking side, and then she turned. The Humans firing at the last Goblins on the ground whirled around, and she heard a cry from their lips. They all felt it.
The girl looked up, and a figure halted on the battlefield.
The Goblin King.
 
——
 
They’d caught him after all. Or had he caught them?
The armored figure was still moving. But walking, now. Winded.
A sword was buried in his chest, aimed at his heart. But it had missed and struck the right side of his body.
So close. Almost—the Goblin’s armor was bent, and there were holes leaking blood in it. But he stood, walking towards the figure who’d fallen down.
A sword was buried in the other man’s chest. They’d traded blows. A glowing woman was trying to kill him from above. The Archmage of Dawn collapsed in the sky, her blood raining down around them, but neither man looked up.
The Goblin King pulled his sword out of the slumped figure and inspected those eyes. A dead man gazed up at him. Dead—but still moving. He spat as he tried to rise.
They did not always look like this. So many shrieked, begged, or simply froze. But this man wore that face that wearied the Goblin King most.
That eternal gaze of defiance.
A hand reached up and gripped the blade in the Goblin King’s chest. The Goblin seized the arm and removed the sword.
He planted the second sword in the throat of the man—but the expression of defiance never shifted. Never wavered. The Goblin King snarled as the Archmage of Dawn pointed, and the light shone bright.
The Goblin King swung his arm up to throw the sword at the woman above, and hands seized him. He, the strongest being in the world, beat at the corpse that locked its hands around his neck.
Squeezed until the metal of his armor crunched and his very throat was in the bare hands. The Goblin King stabbed again and again as the Archmage swooped away, and that gaze never stopped haunting him. Even when there were no more eyes to stare.
At last, the Goblin King broke the grip and got to his feet, coughing. He turned to end it. Then looked back over his shoulder.
Headless, arms severed—even as the mortals despaired—
The Goblin King still felt those eyes on him, weighing him down with nothing but contempt.
The Goblin King spat onto the ground from his ruined visor, then retreated from the corpse.
 
——
 
Xitegen was dead. Mrsha felt him go. Everyone did.
That vast, bluff, brave, and immovable presence supporting Mrsha from behind had suddenly vanished. Like a castle at your back collapsing into dust. She heard a sigh—and Mrsha had an image of that overweight fellow, Lord Xitegen. His clothing was bloodied, and he wore an expression of genuine regret as he bowed.
A magnificent man, wounded and bloodied by war—bowing as low as he could, as if he were apologizing to her. Apologizing to them all, for failing to do the impossible. When he raised his head, she saw how profoundly weary he was. Weary—a boy who had never asked to be a warrior, who had lost everything and continued on.
He would have been relieved to lay down his burdens, if only he could have done one last thing. So, regretfully, he bowed—then stepped back, and that tension left him; he became a boy again, tears of regret in his eyes. Never strong enough.
But he had tried. Mrsha wept for him, a kindred spirit.
Then, Lord Xitegen stepped back again, and she knew he was dead. Mrsha gazed over the smoky battlefield and knew from the swirling smoke and flames where the Goblin King stood. She saw something flying upwards into the sky.
Arrows. Lord Xitegen’s famous Skill was activating one last time. Arrows rose upwards—then rained down. A storm of them falling over friend and foe. Raining from the sky—then blowing northwards.
They kept falling by the thousands. More and more of them. More than even Lord Xitegen’s Skill could create. Mrsha sat there as a new weather pattern swept across Izril and the High Passes. A rain of arrows, created by the death of the highest-level [Lord] of Izril.
Goodbye. She hadn’t even known him, not really. Mrsha’s eyes still stung. She lay there as the Humans advanced, crying out for vengeance—until the roar of wind and more gunfire drowned them out.
“There! She’s there!”
Chieftain Rags found her, somehow, amidst all of the bodies. She ran over, screaming and shouting, and a tall Goblin in worn armor with a heart that rumbled strode over. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations gazed down, touched Mrsha, and spoke.
“[Fight Until the Last]. Medics! Evercut wounds! Transfusions—now!”
More Goblins came running. One took a single look at Mrsha and made a sound. That’s how you knew it was really bad. Mrsha lay there as they tried to load her onto a stretcher.
“We need Gnollish blood. We don’t have—someone contact New Celum. Get the hospitals in every city north of here to search for Gnollish blood, B4.”
“Flesh patch. [Hemostatic Pause]! Just stop that—close all those wounds. Goblin Lord, she cannot move. Don’t sit up!”
That last one was for Mrsha. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations ignored the voices.
“He’s coming. Get this plane moving. Head to New Celum—now—”
Then she cursed. Mrsha didn’t see what was going on—she heard snarls, a shout; Chieftain Rags was there, just behind the press of bodies working on her.
“Mrsha. Hold on. We’ll get you to the inn. There are Gnolls there. Liscor’s blood bank—Mrsha?”
I know. We’re almost home. 
They were rising into the sky when the front of their plane disappeared. Then they were going down—a Goblin grabbed Mrsha and screamed.
“[Protect the Patie—]”
Whumph.
She tumbled, then hit the ground.
It was him. He had no right to be here, not after Lord Xitegen—but even the Goblin King felt less…present. Wounded. He was hurt. But he was still the eternal Goblin King, and she felt his hand at her throat, clutching at her heart.
Silly Goblin King. She was already…
Mrsha lay there, then heard more screaming. Rags’ voice. Two of them. One was roaring in fury. The other was familiar and quiet.
“Stay away from her.”
The girl sat up as someone lifted the metal off her. When she gazed up, there he was.
The Goblin King.
One last problem. She bared her teeth silently at him, snarling.
 
——
 
His armor was even more battered than before. There was a hole in it along his chest, a gash exposing scarred green flesh beneath. He was grievously wounded.
He didn’t care. The armored figure tossed the wreckage of the aircraft off the Gnoll girl, ignoring the revolver that Chieftain Rags was pointing at his head. He squatted down.
“Curious. Now, I feel like…I am the one dreaming. I am and always have been myself. Is it showing me this strange dream? Now it all feels fake. Even Rabbiteater. Except for me. And you. And you.”
His claw moved, pointing at Mrsha, Rags, and touching his own chest. Even the Goblin Lord of Civilizations was…
“But it doesn’t matter. If it is one or a thousand, worlds must burn. And I have damned worlds they tried to make, empires made out of the suffering of my people.”
The Goblin King reached down for Mrsha. The girl stared silently up at him as Rags fired. This time, the Goblin King held up a hand and blocked the round. He twisted and punched the Goblin Chieftain. She went flying. The Goblin King swivelled and blocked a cut from the musical [Blademaster].
The Goblin Lord and her bodyguard attacked. The Goblin King swung his sword and cut one of her people in two. He took two rounds from the rifle of one of her bodyguards, then punched the Goblin away. He grabbed a spell in midair and snapped it. Then the Goblin Lord was grappling with him. The Goblin King’s helmeted head went back, and he headbutted her. Once, twice—she sagged and then tried to stab him with a sword—
He tossed her so far that she was a speck. Then, as if nothing had happened, he bent down. The Goblin King reached out and picked up the card written with the girl’s own blood. He stopped; the helmet tilted, and he read it, bemused.
“A request? A war besides this one. No, I won’t listen. You are making Rabbiteater weak. If there is another war, I will find it.”
So saying, he bent down again, dismissing her words. The Alliance’s army was fighting the Goblins around them. Somewhere, they were massing for a final push, and a behemoth of a tank was rolling this way at speed with a promise for the Goblin King carved into each shell.
He didn’t care. Fighter planes were falling from the sky around the Goblin King as the Goblins won control of the airspace and began strafing the Alliance’s forces. The Goblin King glanced up, as if a thought had suddenly struck him. The dented helmet tilted up, and he breathed another familiar name in two voices.
“Four. Fightipilota?”
 
——
 
A strange, blue bird descended until it was hovering over the ground.
Hovering, not flying. The base of the aircraft had opened, revealing glowing runes which stabilized the aircraft. Levitation spells. It bobbed, a toy plane amidst this sea of battle.
There was a Goblin inside, one hand on the control stick, goggles on her face. The Goblin [Fighter Pilot] saluted the Goblin King with two fingers.
“Hi, Rabbiteater.”
Fightipilota ran her eyes up and down the stranger wearing her comrade’s body. Then she pulled the triggers on her flight stick and held them down.
The Skyshadow’s guns roared, and the Goblin King brought up his shield just in time. The oversized autocannon rounds deflected off it; Fightipilota juked left with the levitation runes and shot him in the legs.
Then she jabbed a trigger, and a pair of magical rays shot out from under the autocannons and hit the Goblin King as he stumbled. He burst into flames—then quenched them, but his armor was still superheated, glowing red or orange in places. The Goblin King sprang away, forcing his shredded legs to move. Fightipilota kept firing. A round tore into his side and she saw blood spurt from the wound—but he raised his shield and deflected the rest of the shots.
Every voice in her headset was screaming at her. Fightipilota turned off her radio and took off. She came up—and down, still firing. A bounding, leaping shape jumped away from her. Then he threw something at her.
Her craft blink-teleported left just in time; the cone of air generated by him throwing his sword made her tumble.
The levitation spells steadied her as Fightipilota tried to track the bounding figure, but he was too fast. She circled, and he kicked the ground. It looked like a wall had appeared; the spray of dirt took her shields from maximum to 6%, and her craft hit the ground.
“Uh. Shit.”
