[Soldier], [Sergeant], [Captain], [Lieutenant], and sometimes, [Major] and [Colonel]. [Commander] was the wild-card. Anyone could get the class, so it was used as the shoo-in at the company level all the way up to regimental. Throw in [Strategists] and other classes and you had an eclectic system of military varying by species and location.
So. The Drake who spoke into the scrying orb was a [Goblinslayer Supremacy Colonel] named Rathiss Ivscele. His eye sockets were scarred by deep cut marks that made it hard to stare at him long; his eyes were intact, but he had nearly had both gouged out by a Goblin during the Second Antinium War.
Long funnels of flesh had been gouged out of his very bones, and though they had long since become scar tissue, the web of scars around his eyes almost resembled a mask—at a distance.
At this time, he was the highest-ranking officer in Pallass’ 2nd Army. There were five other [Colonels] present; all were lower-level than him. Two were non-[Slayers]; the other three had the same kind of class as Rathiss and had deferred to him.
2nd Army was in a crisis of command. General Shirka had been removed from duty, effective immediately. The entire vanguard and its command structure had refused to replace her and had been ordered to stand down.
The order came straight from Pallass, from High Command itself. A Drake [General] disobeying orders? Unthinkable!
…But the orders were bad. General Edellein had his own tail shoved so far up his ass it was coming out of his mouth. Goblins had fought alongside 2nd Army against the Titan, and it was a damned stupid order to attack them in their entrenched fortress that lay just beyond the trapped valley.
2nd Army could see it from here; they were well out of range of their own ballistae’s ability to fire on the Goblins. Mostly because the Goblins had siege weapons too. And the Goblins were ready, Rathiss knew.
Oh yes, he could sense them there. His [Foesense], [Advanced Dangersense], and other Skills were telling him they were in the rocks. Probably dug into the canyon walls. If 2nd Army advanced, they’d bleed.
Bad orders. So, Shirka had walked, but Edellein needed someone to get the job done. He’d been faced with a second crisis that might have resulted in a disaster. 2nd Army loved Shirka. They were closer to her than most armies were with their [Generals]. She might be newer, but her Skill and her reputation among her own soldiers meant most of her ranking officers might have followed her example.
Except for the [Slayers]. They were old-guard veterans from the Antinium Wars. [Antinium Slayers]. [Monster Slayers].
[Goblin Slayers]. They liked General Shirka. She’d won their respect. But in this particular case…
“Ah, Colonel Rathiss! Wonderful! The damn communication spells are finally working. Sorry about that. Encryption on both ends, you know. The [Mages] get slower each time.”
Edellein’s voice was chipper, conversational. Rathiss, and several other officers eavesdropping on the call while drinking tea, didn’t like it.
Shirka got to the point. Also, who the hell threw the [Mages] under the wagon, even as a joke? They were doing their jobs.
“Sir. I am in temporary command of 2nd Army, following your orders. There is dissent in the ranks.”
Rathiss’ eye-gouging stare made Edellein wince; he was in a war room in Pallass with a few [Strategists] and his people visible behind him. Another thing Rathiss didn’t like; it meant this conversation would be all over 1st Army. It was just different operational styles. Edellein took a gulp of what was not wine, or Chaldion would have beaten him to death with the nearest object available. If the Cyclops had still been functional, that was.
“Ye-es. Nasty business, that. This is for your discretion, Colonel Rathiss. General Shirka is, at this moment, standing down with her forces in the High Passes. They have orders to hold position until this business is settled. You understand she defied a direct order?”
“Yessir. After putting the Draconic Titan to flight. Has pursuit and destruction been initiated?”
“What? No. Not at this time. It’s gravely injured, as far as we can tell, and pursuit into the mountains is suicide, or so I’m told.”
Another grimace and gulp. Edellein’s eyes flicked over Rathiss, and he was savvy in his ways. He had the reputation of being a [General] who was better at politics than he was at war. How much that said about his political acumen was up for debate.
“We have a monster problem, Colonel. And General Shirka’s judgement has been compromised. Are you prepared to lead 2nd Army and get the job done?”
Rathiss had been asked the same question last night. Though the real question neither Drake was stating outright was…will 2nd Army follow orders?
Here was the thing. [Soldiers] were [Soldiers]. Many might want to follow General Shirka, but they weren’t with her, and their entire thing was obeying the chain of command. Rathiss was well-liked among all species of 2nd Army, nevermind his [Supremacy Colonel] class; that was more about his ability to triumph and push his forces ahead.
“We’ve lost some of our best leadership, General. Our [General], [Spearmaster], and our [Strategist] are all out of this battle.”
“Yes, but you are the backbone of 2nd Army. How many [Slayers] are there?”
Edellein should have known the answer. Rathiss broke down the ranks by class, and Edellein nodded.
“General Shirka left ample forces to take Goblinhome.”
General Shirka left them here because she didn’t trust them to fight alongside Goblins. Which was fair. Rathiss might have balked at her orders. But it also meant there were high-level anti-Goblin specialists here.
“Even so. We’re understrength, General.”
“Against Goblins?”
1st Army’s [General] was actually making Rathiss angry. Edellein glanced past Rathiss, and the [Colonel] narrowed his eyes.
“They have Frost Wyverns. Our Oldbloods can’t hold the skies against them, especially if that Wyvern Lord shows up on their side. Can we count on Manus’ wings? However, we outnumber them two-to-one. ”
That was a conservative estimate. There were thirty thousand [Soldiers] here. However—this was a siege. Edellein drummed his claws on the table.
“Manus’ air forces are a bit chewed up right now, Colonel. If I can route some of our own fliers your way, that would deal with the aerial problem. Three Wings? Led by [Wing Commander] Asiv, a nephew from 3rd Army. Solid. He’s already heading north to relieve General Shirka of command formally.”
“…That would work, sir. I believe 2nd Army will not have any insurrection in the ranks beyond grumbling. We will attempt to draw the Goblins out of their fortress. Their Chieftain is nearby; she won’t get past our cordon.”
“Ah, bait the rats out of the cave. Very good, very good. And once you’re finished with this, Colonel, I think we might discuss an elevation in r—”
The [Goblinslayer] spoke over Edellein as if he were ordering a [Counterfire] Skill.
“—I’m sure General Shirka’s return will bolster morale at that point, sir. Though hunting the Draconic Titan sounds like a wet Gnoll in a thunderstorm, if you don’t mind me saying so.”
He followed the inappropriate interruption with his own attempt at a casual smile. It looked like he was being stabbed.
High General Edellein reacted to the hint instantly, and only the tiniest crease of his brows revealed the smile on his face as anything but genuine.
“I hate tunnel-fighting. Naturally, General Shirka will have to account to High Command and perhaps the Assembly of Crafts over this, but I am, personally, fighting for the fairest treatment possible. Emotions running high. 2nd Army wouldn’t do without its [General], would it, Colonel Rathiss?”
“No, sir. We’ll make do for this moment, given the circumstances.”
And there it was. Edellein’s eyes narrowed slightly, then he was all smiles, going over the plan of attack, and the message was sent. Rathiss didn’t turn around to note the non-[Slayer] officers stepping back, and he didn’t have to tell General Edellein that a deal had been struck. The [General] got it.
The last thing Pallass needed was a revolt among its [Soldiers]. Those were the ones with all the weapons and training and levels. General Shirka had made her stand. Her veterans disagreed with her judgement, but they could get past it.
All they had to do was kill the Goblins. What Rathiss didn’t do was underestimate the foe.
“Intelligence about the Goblins is needed, sir. I’m ordering the ballistae to advance and start cracking the walls, and we will begin tearing down their defences at the valley mouth. It will take time; they have a superior vantage on us, and we will have to shield the artillery from counterfire. But I would like to know of any other—complications.”
Like that giant damn, pink, flaming comet everyone saw. Or the Wyvern Lord. Or…General Edellein nodded.
“It’s forthcoming, Colonel.”
He didn’t like surprises any more than other soldiers. 2nd Army did not intend to bleed overmuch on this. But High Command was worried, and their answers were not here, but at that place.
The Wandering Inn. Colonel Rathiss grunted and wrote it off his bucket list of places to visit. Maybe he’d stare at it on the way back. He turned as the scrying orb shut off.
“Flaming munitions. Set the outer wall on fire.”
Shouts went up, and the two ballistae began rolling forwards. The siege of Goblinhome had begun. The [Colonel] swept his eyes across the moving [Soldiers] and nodded at his fellow officers. A mere third of the forces advanced towards the valley mouth. The rest remained, mounted units checking all sides.
Waiting for the rest of the Goblins.
 
——
 
<Primary Dimension — The Wandering Inn, Common Room>
 
What. Was. Going. On?
Not just that battle against the Draconic Titan. That was what ‘everyone’ was still focused on, but it was becoming increasingly apparent something was happening in The Wandering Inn that any veteran could recognize.
“Where’s Lyonette?”
Relc Grasstongue was on-duty, but he was off-duty. He stood in the inn, not having a drink, but prowling around, investigating. Zevara had sent him, or rather, ratified his request.
“Down there. Wherever ‘there’ is. I would be there because it sounds fascinating, but I don’t wish to encounter another emotional blow.”
Valeterisa was sitting and staring at a table; they weren’t a direct part of it…but the two’s conversation was instantly noted and logged and compared against other statements made.
Several Drakes, Gnolls, and a pair of Dullahans were trying to appear normal, but anyone with eyes could tell they were military. They had come in, ordered drinks, and tried to just hang out, but their agitation had only grown. After the Mortemdefieir Titan incident…the stress upon them had become a boulder. They had orders from an increasingly anxious High Command to find out what was going on.
The problem was that the entire staff of the inn save for the Calanferians had vanished. Lyonette du Marquin was gone. Mrsha, gone.
Every important person in the inn had disappeared into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and no one could get access in or out. Fair was fair; the new Humans seemed just as confused and worried. But [Soldiers] did not like worry.
Amidst all this, people were still flowing in and out of the inn. Most were just using it for transit, but you also had [Farmers], country yokels who came in with literal straw in their hair, and sat down.
“Dead gods, is this th’ inn I’ve heard so much about? Fancy as can be. Could I have one of them blue fruit drinks?”
They might have been from Celum or any village, really. They wore [Farmer]’s clothes and came in a group, nearly two dozen of them, men and women. Another group of all-female guests swept in; [Merchants] or middle-class women. One of them had a thick cane, which she leaned on.
“Oh my! The inn! It’s so quaint, but delightful…Miss, could we have a seat for nine?”
She caught one of the new Calanferian servants, Xinthe, and received a beaming, if distracted, smile.
“This way, Miss. Can I take your order…?”
Service was a bit interrupted. Calanferians were dashing in and out of the kitchen, taking orders from the only ranking staff member in the inn. Calescent.
“Cups are in that cabinet. Juice there. I need someone to cut up blue fruits. Carefully. I’ll show you how to do it. Otherwise, it’s poison.”
“I have [Poison Detection], sir.”
—A Human man hurried up, trying not to stare at the Goblin, but the [Spice Chef] was too busy for his awkwardness. In a way, this was the most naturalizing thing ever. Nevermind he was a Goblin; they had a damn inn to run, and it was hard because the new staff didn’t know where anything was. Only the [Field of Preservation] let them come out with food and drink regularly.
“L-lad! Over here!”
One of the [Farmers] helped an awkward young man into a seat; he’d nearly collided with some of the nervous Drakes, and the [Farmer] caught him and ushered him into a chair where he read the menu…upside down.
“Country idiots.”
A Drake swore and ignored the glares he got from the table. He’d just gotten another message from General Edellein, so the [Major] got up and strode over.
“Excuse me. I’ve been waiting for two hours. I wish to speak to the current proprietress of the inn. Now. I am on the business of Pallass and 1st Army.”
“I’m sorry, sir. Miss Lyonette is unavailable.”
Xinthe smiled and curtsied, and the Drake leaned forwards and showed her his badge underneath his plain clothing.
“In that case, I insist on access to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. This is a matter of war! This inn is collaborating with Goblins in direct conflict with 2nd Army, and I have the authority to lock down the door from Pallass and place this entire building on a blacklist!”
The young woman was trying to earnestly protest.
“We can’t let you in, sir. We don’t have the ability.”
“You will get me someone in charge, or—”
The argument was interrupted by a too-friendly hand falling on the Drake’s shoulder. He half-spun, and his buddies got up slightly. A male adventurer was standing there.
“Hey, sir. Let’s all calm down, yeah? We’re in charge of making sure no one causes trouble in this inn, got it?”
Blaik, one of the Silver-rank adventurers of Gemhammer, wore that friendly grin of a [Miner] a head taller than the Drake—and his entire team was in the inn. Captain Todi was speaking with Embria in a corner of the inn, looking worried. He hadn’t gone to the [Palace of Fates]. Neither had Master Elosaith, who’d left after coming back from the grove meeting.
Ages ago. The [Major] turned to face Blaik.
“I require answers. Now. Let go of me.”
