For one dazzling moment, it was a child standing at a festival of the future. An airplane roared overhead, and orange smoke trailed from its open belly that became a vivid, glowing rain of fire as it touched the ground. The airplane curved up, past a colorful, green blimp, flying high overhead, propellers spinning in the deafening, ringing silence.
Airplanes and blimps and all kinds of flying machines were in the sky. Dragonplanes, made out of fabric, flexing as their wings caught the air like the Ancestors of old. Oldbloods flying upwards on their wings, breathing Dragonfire, [Mages] using [Flight] spells, encased in glowing barriers.
From afar, it was a beautiful display. You couldn’t see the bodies. At a distance, the roar of artillery and the chattering of gunfire, like a Giant’s teeth striking, wasn’t all-consuming.
The bloom of artillery shells that sent dirt and bodies flying apart might seem like a flower of fire from above, and you wouldn’t smell the gunpowder in the air, nor the blood, nor hear the voices crackling over radios, desperate and defiant until they ceased.
For one moment, the Gnoll child standing in the medical camp, with white canvas roofs, could believe the lie. Then the first pieces of ash began to fall from overhead, the wind blew blood with the stench of the gunpowder and death towards her. Her ears popped and rang with the thud of explosions rattling her bones and the thunder of gunfire. Mrsha saw the planes dropping out of the skies, twirling pieces of flaming wreckage falling like leaves over a forest fire.
The illusion of the festival shifted—into a vision of hell. The girl flinched as another artillery shell hit the ground close to the rear of Xitegen’s army. It was a stray shot, which continued to explode as pieces shot out of the crater and exploded around the initial burst.
“Boom Tree Shell!”
One piece went spiraling straight at Mrsha and detonated. She flinched, but the glowing blue shield around the medical tents merely rippled, and pieces of metal hung in the air a moment before dropping, spent of their kinetic energy, to the ground.
Stray round. The Goblins weren’t targeting Xitegen’s medical camp, which was far beyond the clash of the two armies. If they had been, Mrsha would already be dead.
Nevertheless, the explosive round had blinded the girl’s eyes, and rubbing them only cleared them a few seconds; then the Floodplains of Liscor lit up again and the girl couldn’t see for all the spots in her vision. The lights flashing across the Floodplains from the gunfire dazzled her eyes; there was too much to see in every direction.
The gunfire? Someone had put earmuffs on her linked to Lord Xitegen’s alliance forces for her own protection, but Mrsha’s ears were still ringing and ringing, an endless tinnitus from the blasts of sound.
Smell? All she smelled was fire and blood. This was a battlefield. She knew battlefields, not as a warrior or strategist, but as someone who had simply seen them, been on them.
This was like any battlefield she had known. It was just—
Faster.
They died faster.
Both armies were too close. They should have been spread out across a hundred miles, but their mutual desire to annihilate each other had led them here, to this place. The opening volleys were ripping apart troops in the open.
Artillery. Like long-ranged spells, but you couldn’t see the death falling until it blew open the ground, only hear it whistling as it came down. Then they fired their guns such that anything caught out in the open without armor was instantly dead.
Hence the flat ground. Perfect for killing the foe. The opening engagement had killed—Mrsha couldn’t guess. Now, she saw the ground shifting.
Earth magic. In the future—it was Moore’s magic, the humble school that Viceria Strongheart belonged to, that ruled the battlefield. Because—Mrsha saw an entire stretch of ground lowering as walls rose, and [Soldiers] streamed down ramps of earth, which absorbed the deadly shells raining down around them.
She couldn’t see what it was at first, so Mrsha activated a Skill.
[Other Me’s Skills — Hawk Eyes]!
That allowed her to pick out what the strange formations on the ground were.
Trenches. Xitegen’s army was creating a network of trenches and obscuring their forces from the Goblins in real time. The same thing was happening on the Goblins’ side of the battlefield—only, their lines were glittering with…Mrsha tried to see from the explosions.
Stone? She swore she saw stone covering the ground, turning sections into concrete warrens from which the Goblins could fight. Bunkers, built into the passageways—and [Soldiers].
She had a view of one new trench from her perspective, and the girl saw a squad of Goblins advancing down it, trying to push their attack on the Alliance. They all took cover as a shell blew apart the ground next to the trench; smoke poured around them, and dirt cascaded down into the walkway.
The squad of Goblins emerged out of the smoke and nearly walked into another group of Drake [Soldiers] from Manus. Both sides opened fire instantly. Mrsha didn’t see the bullets. She just saw figures toppling over, taking cover—the magical flash of a barrier spell being deployed. The Drakes hid around the trench’s passageways, firing at the invading Goblins, who had a magical barrier, an oval of glowing, pink light, which protected them.
One of the Goblins threw a small, round object, and the Drakes tried to run—
Another explosion, smaller. The Goblins’ barrier flickered out as a Drake exhaled flames onto it, and one of the Goblins ran out, arms flailing, until the [Soldier] jerked and fell over.
They kept firing.
 
——
 
Twelve Goblins versus nine Drakes. Both sides killed each other in the time it took Mrsha’s heart to beat twenty-nine times.
Five Goblins were on their feet after the shootout. They were stepping over the corpses of the Drake [Soldiers], firing a single shot into each body. Then, one of the Goblins checking on their buddies looked up. Whirled as if shouting to the others—
A thump, so faint Mrsha barely felt it. The ground fountained up in a shower, and then there were no Goblins on their feet.
The trench was a crater of ash where the two groups had fought. All was still for a few seconds.
Two more squads of Goblins advanced, these ones under domes of light. More squads of the Alliance moved to cover the trench, firing as walls of earth rose to provide defensive cover. Smoke rolled over that section of the battlefield, thick and green, and covered the advancing Goblins…
Then someone covered Mrsha’s eyes. Doctor Withra. She was waiting for the first patients to come to her. The battle had barely begun, and right now…if there was anyone alive, they were far from the back lines. Far from healing.
The Drake’s voice was hoarse; she was used to this sight, but she was giving Mrsha an agonized stare, as if a fresh set of eyes made it so much worse. She whispered as she tried to pull Mrsha back.
“Don’t look. Children shouldn’t see this kind of thing.”
Mrsha wrote in the air absently.
I have to see the future. Not because I can stop it. Just so I know what’s coming.
The Drake’s expression was bleak, but she did take her hands away.
Mrsha had lost track of the trenchline and the area she’d been watching. Something else caught her attention: rolling shapes moving down the center of the battlefield, using tunnels and walls of stone and dirt for cover. Doctor Withra pointed to it.
“That’s Engineer Kevin’s armor—tanks.”
They seemed so strange, to Mrsha. Like armored bugs with those treads. There were tanks rolling forwards, stopping to fire and lurching back a few paces with each shot—complete versions of the one Mrsha had found. They resembled angry beetles with long noses to her, spitting flames at each other and exploding, seemingly at random.
That was the thing. Mrsha couldn’t see the shells and bullets. Sometimes, a spell would flash across her vision, and she did see some soldiers with swords, but it was like a guessing game. People would fall over and die because someone pointed a gun at them and it flashed. There was no time to react. Even arrows you could see most of the time.
You blinked and you died. Mrsha heard voices now, crackling across the headset. It must have been tuned to a command frequency, because she kept hearing Xitegen’s voice among others.
“Assail the Goblin King now. Put a hole through those magical shields—”
“The Goblin Lord has too many protective layers, Lord Xitegen. Once he breaks formation—”
“Damn those shields. Kill them. This entire battle revolves around those two. Advance. Advance!”
His army was moving forwards. Just like he’d promised, there was no large-scale maneuvering—the Alliance and Goblins were scything each other down. Neither group was retreating.
—But there were Skills at play. Mrsha heard a boom and flinched; a group of Goblins appeared on the western edge of the battlefield and began attacking. Another group moving at the speed of sound where the Goblin Lord of Civilizations willed it. She heard a curse.
“They’re repositioning. Kevin!”
Then another voice spoke, a man’s voice, the barest bit familiar. A cracked grin of a voice, strained, like someone trying to tell a joke at a party and failing.
“I see them. Breaking off five to intercept. Clear me a path towards the Goblin King.”
Kevin? He sounded like…
Like…
Erin at the Winter Solstice.
Mrsha shivered; she saw five of the smaller tanks break off and move towards the Goblins, firing as they went. They passed by the largest tank on the battlefield by far, a rust-red behemoth turning a turret with two barrels and obliterating Goblin tanks with each shot. This warmachine led the column pushing straight down the middle of the battlefield. It was fast—it accelerated like a bullet as the ground exploded behind it, and a glowing, blue nimbus around it flickered.
“That’s the Tortoise. The personal carrier of Master Engineer Kevin.”
I know. He’s going to kill Rabbiteater?
Kevin and Rabbiteater. Doctor Withra gave Mrsha an odd look; she was used to just calling him the Goblin King, but to Mrsha, they were just her two friends.
Suddenly, Mrsha understood the naming of the tank. A story from Earth that Erin had told her that had never made sense.
Tortoise and the hare. It was a Kevin thing to do. A joke—but when had he become a soldier?
Where’s my Rags? I just want to go home.
Mrsha had no clue, none, where her Rags might be. But that was the thing. Even in the future where war was faster, some things didn’t change.
Skills, at least. Mrsha closed her eyes as the first bodies began coming in.
“[Life-Saving Intervention]! Doctor—”
Soldiers were appearing, teleporting into the beds or being carried back. Skills were keeping some of them alive, and the Drake doctor turned and ran, already shouting orders. Mrsha stood there, next to the armored jeeps parked with the few soldiers assigned to guard this point, and closed her eyes.
[Other Me’s Skills – Find My Friend].
There. She opened her eyes and realized that her Rags was pretty much dead center in the battle, on the other side of all the chaos. A massive, metal-and-stone bunker was under siege, refusing to crack despite the constant flashes of artillery bursting on it.
Probably where Goblin Lord Rags was.
Great. Then Mrsha glanced up, and her eyes went round as her Skill told her someone else was here.
Fighti? No way.
 
——
 
The girl was so distracted that she didn’t sense the danger to her for a good moment. After all, why would there be any? The Goblins weren’t focusing on Xitegen’s back lines; they were trying to stop his insane advance towards the Goblin Lord of Civilizations and their Goblin King. Even then, the medical camp had shields and soldiers.
Mrsha was a single child in all this chaos, and only the Goblin Lord had any inkling of who she was and why she mattered. She was safe.
Safe…until an armored head rose across the Floodplains and seemed to sniff the air in turn. A voice spoke from the depths of a helmet.
“Mrsha?”
Then the Goblin King spoke, and his was the more terrible of the two beings.
“I sense fate curling. A class unlike any other. Impossible, like the child.”
“Mrsha.”
The Goblin King hadn’t moved. He stood in the opening throes of the battlefield behind so many magical shield spells that the air had become a miasma of dazzling lights, walls of power trying to keep him from harm.
He had been plotting his charge, and the Alliance coming towards him had slowed to a crawl, anticipating it. When he moved, the entire battlefield would change. But the Goblin King was distracted. He ignored the orders being given to him by Ragathsi and spoke to himself.
“A ghost. Go back to sleep.”
It wasn’t an argument; there was no equality here. The Goblin King dictated everything, and his will was a vast ocean. A tiny island was the other voice, Rabbiteater’s remaining will, so often lost. But right now…
That dreamy voice replied, an exhausted, empty tone of someone who had lost everything. Adrift, grasping for one last straw in the wind. Rabbiteater the Traitor replied softly.
“That day you last died. You hesitated. Velan refused to dodge.”
A conclusion he had come to.
A way out.
The Goblin King bared his teeth in a snarl of annoyance.
“Our people need us. This battle is not yet over. If I must, then I will remove your ghosts.”
“No.”
Rabbiteater tried to resist, but it was impossible. The Goblin King’s head snapped around, and he focused, picking out the child among all of them on the Floodplains.
They had been standing at what seemed to be the bottom of another sea; practically submerged by so many barrier spells that the flashes of light were muted high, high overhead. Now, the Goblin King awoke from his stupor. To his right and his left, he could see elements like the Battleborn waiting for his move. Supporting units, prepared to advance and capitalize on his openings—but not follow him, nor obey his orders.
He was alone. An irreplaceable, hated piece on Ragathsi’s board. The Goblin King grinned behind his helmet, a smile so twisted and drenched in the misery of other beings that it had forgotten any other moments but death.
The Goblin King took a step, and everyone around and behind him reacted.
“He’s moving—”
The Goblin King leapt out of that bubble of protection, passing through the magic in the air and erasing it on contact. Not towards Lord Xitegen and his vanguard, but past them.
He soared over the rolling Alliance tanks, above the squirming anthills of [Soldiers], who glanced up at him. Then he landed in an open section of ground. Ahead of him, the Alliance was firing from behind gigantic seith manacore shields of energy that let them attack with impunity.
