“Why don’t you sit down, pal? We don’t want any trouble with you and your buddies, buddy.”
Blaik was doing his best Erin Solstice impression, which, under the circumstances, wasn’t the best idea. The Drake’s eyes narrowed, and he brushed Blaik’s hand off his shoulder as five more Pallassians got up.
Active-duty [Soldiers], Eyes of Pallass, and 2nd Army’s people on leave. All with different reasons for being protective of their forces abroad, unified by the fact that this was not subtle.
“By order of the City of Inventions, you will grant me access to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Now. Or I will force entry.”
The [Major]’s voice was too cool, and Blaik was about to grab his shoulder and escort him out of the inn when he noticed the Drake had a hand on his sword hilt. And it was an enchanted blade.
[Dangersense]. The Silver-ranked adventurer hesitated, and two of his friends squared up. The air grew tenser, and Xinthe hurried over.
“Guests, please. This is an inn! No one can gain entry to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Magus Grimalkin himself failed. Why don’t you sit down, and I’ll try querying Miss Lyonette again.”
That didn’t defuse the situation, but the Pallassian [Major] heard sense in the woman’s words. But then, if she couldn’t enter the garden herself…his head followed Xinthe as she strode back.
Towards the kitchen and the only member of staff left. Calescent.
A Goblin. Of course, intelligence and a connection to Goblinhome.
“Him.”
The Drake pointed, and his squad advanced on the kitchen. The [Spice Chef] didn’t realize the danger he was in, nor did Blaik for a crucial moment. The Silver-ranker was muttering insults at the Drakes’ backs.
The Drake [Major] passed a trio of servants hurrying out of the kitchen, stepped into the doorframe, and at that exact moment, Ishkr Silverfang appeared behind the bar’s counter with someone else.
The two Gnolls stumbled, and Yelroan lowered a bloody cloth from his nose.
“I’m gonna hurl.”
“Here.”
Ishkr handed him a cup, and the [Mathematician] opened his mouth—then held it in. He sat down hard, and Ishkr handed him a cleaner bar rag. Both Gnolls appeared beat up, but Ishkr didn’t take a moment. He just whirled around.
“Xinthe, Todi, Earlia! Calescent, I need a word! Where’s Elosaith? Have any Goblins from Goblinhome arrived—?”
At his words, the entire inn focused on him, and Todi, Xinthe, and Earlia all appeared. Calescent emerged from his kitchen, worried, and the [Major] stepped back.
“Excuse m—”
Todi brushed past him, and they all gathered around Ishkr. Everyone leaned in.
“What happened, Ishkr? Yelroan, who decked you?”
“Pawn.”
“What? Pawn—”
Ishkr lifted a finger to his lips. He was breathing hard, and yes, his uniform was banged around and had a bit of his blood on it. His eyes were—manic.
“Hold on. [For Your Ears Only]. Listen—”
He began speaking as, abruptly, all sound ceased and his mouth blurred as if someone had turned a rectangle of air around it blurry. The spies, guests—the entire inn watched as the others recoiled.
What? Captain Earlia was rubbing at one ear as she probably said that. Todi was groaning, and Calescent drew a knife and a bag of spices—then relaxed as Yelroan put up two paws. The [Mathematician] was waving his arms around overhead.
What was going on? Well, Captain Todi drew his Wand of Fireballs from his belt, grim—then he visibly blanched, and his face drained of color. He put the wand back in his belt, held up his hands, shaking his head.
Earlia, the former [Miner] and captain of Gemhammer, glanced at her team, hefting her warhammer and gesticulating. Ishkr was shaking his head nonstop. He pointed as a pair of Goblins raced into the inn, summoned by one of the Calanferians.
“Is bad! Ishkr, someone just sent Dyeda a [Message]! Student Rags in danger and Goblinhome! They attacking! We need—”
They entered the Skill and began screaming at Ishkr. Then, after listening for a moment, their shrieking stopped, and they wore looks of such horror that Ishkr had to stop. He closed his eyes—then pointed a finger towards the door.
The Skill ended. Ishkr strode out of it, calling to the others.
“—Fast as we can. Lock down the inn. I’m getting Relc, Valeterisa, and everyone above Level 40 I can find. Excuse me, everyone! The Wandering Inn is closing! Leave, now!”
He hopped on a table to shout that. Now, when you heard that—what did you think was going on? At his words, every regular guest who knew the score got up, tossed coins on the table, or just went.
“I’m not getting eaten by Crelers. Come on. Let’s go!”
Menolit grabbed for one of his friends, hauling up the protesting Gnoll who wasn’t done with his pizza slice. The rest of the guests, like the new [Farmers] and the Pallassians, didn’t move. The [Major] blocked Ishkr’s way as the Gnoll stormed into the hallway.
“Excuse me, sir—”
“Not now. Get out of the inn. Don’t mind the bill. Liska! Liska, stop letting people into the inn! This is an emergency! Liska!”
After a second, Ishkr’s sister came to the hallway. She blinked at Ishkr, clearly having spent the last few hours lounging on the couch.
“What? Ishkr, what’s—”
“There’s a crisis going on. I’ll explain everything. Just transit everyone out of here, and—”
Ishkr stormed for the door, then a clawed hand yanked him back.
“In the name of Pallass and 2nd Army, I demand answers. You will accompany me to Pallass. Now!”
The [Major] had lost his temper. The Gnoll [Server] tried to break the Major’s grip.
“I don’t have time for this. Wait—tell General Edellein or someone in charge to stop attacking Goblinhome. Tell them to come here, and I’ll try to get Lyonette to—”
“General Edellein is not your lackey. You are coming with me. Squad, form up!”
The [Major] barked, and his ‘squad’ of different groups appeared. A Gnoll hissed at him.
“We are not kidnapping a citizen of Liscor! Server Ishkr, we desperately need a word.”
“Let go.”
Ishkr was agitated, unusually so. He swivelled, and the Drake growled. But that familiar hand fell on his arm.
“This guy bothering you, Ishkr? Just say the word and—aaah! Fuck!”
Blaik tried to yank the [Major] back, and the Drake seized his arm and levered it up. The bigger man tried to fight, but the [Major] had [Enhanced Strength].
“Let him go! Let him—”
The Silver-rank adventurers grabbed for the [Major] and found higher-level [Soldiers] checking them. A female Dullahan flipped Fea when the woman lunged; Timgal got a boot behind his knees, then one on his back.
Silver-rankers. Earlia and Todi halted, both of them with hands on their weapons as they counted. Pallass had sent eleven people into the inn. And more were coming out of the portal room before Liska sealed the door on them.
“You are coming with me now. Someone get the [Mathematician] and the Goblin.”
The [Major] growled at Ishkr. The [Head Server of Tales and Fables] eyed the Drake. He was the affable Ishkr, the pleasant, mild-mannered Gnoll who kept the inn running in the background. On any other day, he probably would have gone with the Drake, injected some sense into Edellein’s skull, then teleported back to the inn just in time to serve someone a blue fruit juice with ice in it.
At this moment, the Gnoll was aware of an army of faith-based Antinium in the [Palace of Fates]. He had just seen people who should be dead, and Mrsha and Rags had vanished right before his eyes. He rubbed at a bruise on his chin and muttered under his breath.
“So that’s why Erin’s right again. Sometimes, it’s just the fastest way. Never hitting Level 50?”
His comments made little sense; they were to himself. The [Major] hauled Ishkr several steps down the hallway, then felt the Gnoll break his grip.
“Don’t make me arrest you!”
The Drake spun, and Ishkr hit him in the face with a mug. It was a big, glass mug, one of those steins that you could pour a generous helping of ale into.
It didn’t break when it thunked into the Drake’s temple. So Ishkr hit him in the face with it again, and the mug snapped off by the handle.
The [Major] went cross eyed for a second and staggered, but that was about all. Then his face went hostile. Ishkr punched him in the face. The Drake didn’t move, and Ishkr winced. His face was like stone.
“Arrest—”
The Drake grabbed Ishkr and teleported. The Gnoll stumbled back.
[Emergency Evacuation]. 
An outraged Drake landed outside in the rain and leapt to his feet. The rest of the Pallassians reacted with soldiers’ instincts.
“Get them!”
The Dullahan dodged one of Ishkr’s paws and swept his legs. Ishkr went down, cursing, and she yanked his arm up.
Yelroan hit her with a chair. The [Mathematician] kicked the Dullahan off Ishkr as the Gnoll teleported, reappearing in the common room behind the bar. The normally equanimous Yelroan was as agitated as the [Server].
Everyone stared as he brought the chair down a second time on the Eye of Pallass—then Earlia threw a punch that did flatten a Drake rushing at Yelroan. Todi kicked another [Soldier] straight between the legs and headbutted the screaming Drake.
“Kick them back to Pallass!”
A brawl began in seconds as the angry Pallassians swarmed towards Gemhammer, and the Calanferian staff, Rianchi, Dyeda, and Calescent began fighting in the hallway. Ishkr reappeared with mugs and began tossing them into the melee; they were filled with hot, spicy soup, and he was amazingly good at hitting people’s heads.
“What’s going on? What’s going—”
Liska was the most unprepared for the fighting. She actually ducked back into the Room of Portals and watched as the security for the inn began fighting Pallass’ soldiers. The inn had the advantage for about eight seconds. Then the [Major] tore the door to the inn open and charged at Blaik.
“[Heavy Blow]!”
The Silver-rank man threw a punch; the [Major] caught it.
[Rapid Counter]. His return punch took Blaik off his feet and out of consciousness. The Eye of Pallass flipped back onto her feet and swept Earlia’s legs out from under her.
They were higher-level. Calescent and Todi gave a good accounting of themselves, one with his patented death-spice he blew into people’s faces and low-blows; Todi with even lower-blows. But the [Major] just stormed forwards, knocked two [Servants] down with quick punches, and seized Ishkr. He ignored the Gnoll and dragged him towards the door.
“Hey, let go of him! Let go of—get away from the door!”
Liska was struggling by the [Door of Portals]; a Drake had set it to Pallass, and more [Soldiers] were coming out. In armor. Six made it out, then one slammed into an invisible wall.
The [Doorgnoll] grinned triumphantly before someone pushed her into the wall and twisted her arm up.
“Open the door! Now!”
Liska froze in genuine trepidation. This was Pallass’ Watch—no, their actual army. She hesitated—the door opened again.
“Keep the door closed!”
Calescent kicked one of the Drakes back through the portal door, slowing the others. One of the [Soldiers] reached for his sword.
“[Hamstring Cut]!”
The Drake lunged as the [Spice Chef] cursed. A flash of light interrupted the Skill, and the Drake went blind. He stumbled and ran into the Goblin’s fist.
Yelroan’s sunglasses were cracked, but the Gnoll’s [Skillblocking Flash] turned off all the Pallassian’s Skills. The [Major] felt Ishkr touch his shoulder and twisted—
 
——
 
—He appeared outside in the rain again. This time, he was surrounded by what looked like angry caterpillars that were half-bush, half-mud.
The Shamblers jumped on him.
 
——
 
Ishkr appeared in the common room of the inn with Liska, and the Calanferian staff whirled. The Gnoll shouted.
“Liska, keep the door closed! Get rid of these idiots!”
“Get them!”
The rest of the inn’s security dashed back into the common room as the Pallassians, three dozen of them, poured forwards. The staff gulped.
They were hand-picked by Ielane for their talents in a lot of things, and countering the odd [Assassin] or supporting the Thronebearers were in their skill sets, but they weren’t full-time [Warriors]. They were facing some of Pallass’ finest, and all the [Servants] had were buckets and brooms.
They did have Relc and Valeterisa, but one of the [Soldiers] instantly pointed at the [Spearmaster], who had his spear in his claws.
“Stay out of this or we’ll draw blades.”
Relc hesitated, eyes on Valeterisa. If she cast a spell, the situation would get lethal—fast. Not just because they were crazy; Valeterisa didn’t know the word restraint. Even so—Relc tensed, and a full group of four broke off to face him.
“Get out of my inn.”
Ishkr growled. He was counting the odds, and he really didn’t like them, but he’d lost one fistfight for the fate of the inn already. His paws were on one of Numbtongue’s hidden crossbows, and he was wondering how far this would go.
The Pallassians hesitated, aware of the inn’s reputation for lethality, but they had the advantage. They spread out, moving past the tables of frozen guests yet to leave.
Like the [Farmers]. One of them leaned back at his table.
“What’s this? Looks like a scrap. Why don’t we all calm down, gents and ladies?”
He raised his straw hat and hooked his thumbs into his overalls as he stood. One of the [Soldiers] put out a hand.
“One side, sir. Don’t get involved. This is a matter for the Walled Cities, not civilians.”
The [Farmer] gave him an earnest, crook-toothed smile. At his table, the rest of the men and women got up, save for the young man who was still reading his upside-down menu.
“I reckon it is our concern. Y’see, we like this inn. And so what if it’s a Walled City? The Unseen Empire’s got a stake here too, don’t it?”
“The what?”
Half of the Pallassian’s warning Skills had activated when the man began talking. But then Master Ram threw a competent right hook into the [Soldier]’s face, and the rest of Riverfarm’s people rose.
[Farmers]. Village-folk. The only person actually in disguise was Beniar, who leapt to his feet as Gamel covered Laken Godart.
“By order of His Majesty, stand the fuck down or we’ll beat you there!”
It wasn’t the most official statement, but it worked. Laken Godart grinned to himself as he tossed the menu down, using Gamel as his eyes. The Pallassians swung around, cursing, but without real terror.
“Country yokels. Watch out for their swing.”
The Dullahan Eye of Pallass advised the others, retreating as they formed a semicircle towards the far wall. She bumped into a table, spun slightly, and saw a woman getting to her feet with her cane.
“Stay down, Miss—shittails—”
