The Goblin King drew his sword. The oldest of beings spoke with distaste and contempt, like someone opening a convenient box.
“[Cleave the Mortal World].”
The Goblin King swung his sword, and everything in front of him vanished. Golem Soldiers surrounded by crackling electromagic shields, two Armadillo-tanks firing towards him, a squad following a Battle Golem into combat—
Gone. Even in the frenzy of this battlefield, it left a gap that took time to close—and that open wound in the Alliance’s lines gave the Goblin King a clear shot at another unique figure.
A [Lord], wearing his ancestor’s clothing, unarmored, turning his head towards the Goblin King as he jogged forwards, a sword in his hands. The air was still around Lord Xitegen, but every passing second, more arrows flew from the storm above his head, raining down on the Goblins’ forces. They locked gazes, and Lord Ragathsi spoke in the Goblin King’s ear.
“Xitegen. Kill him!”
The Goblin King ignored her howling. He ran, outpacing the roaring fighter planes trying to strafe the enemy and give him cover. Straight into a storm of metal as every [Soldier] and tank around Lord Xitegen fired on him.
Hundreds of bullets and armor-piercing rounds struck his armor and tossed the Goblin King backwards. That—hurt. Rabbiteater’s armor was stronger than Adamantium. His body was enhanced by countless Skills, but the sheer kinetic force of the storm of wrath would have pulverized his innards, armor or not. The first time they’d done this, it had nearly killed him.
Nearly. These days, the Goblin King understood how to stop it. He threw up his other hand; his shield seemed to expand until it was covering the ground in front of him, and the hammering impacts ceased for a precious second.
In that opening, the Goblin King drew Skills together, magic as well, weaving the two from the many lives he’d held. It wasn’t easy, but it could be done. For wars of magic, you focused your aura and became a constant in a shifting sea of mana. With his bare hands, he could tear apart Djinni.
For this?
He expanded his aura and turned the air solid as steel. Reinforcing the ground, the magical barriers. As Sóve had once done—the Island Queen spoke with the Goblin King. Two souls uniting in intent.
“[Realm of the Eternal Tempest]. [Freeze the World].”
Thus, the air thickened until it was as if it were packed a thousand times denser, and it froze, a cloud of naught but air.
Next, he called upon a Goblin King who had held a fortress and made the air itself even stronger. Another who had been a Terandrian and learned their ways until she had reached this point; the aura reinforced the air.
Velan, nearly last. This aspect of himself spoke with more reluctance, but he did speak.
[Body: Rapid Regeneration]. And—[Body: Greater Bludgeoning Resistance].
The being who was all Goblin Kings, but always himself, was cocooned in waves of armor that hung in the air and moved with him. He appeared to be a tempest, a literal storm of cold and might racing across the ground.
Xitegen’s army fired at him and destroyed the air, bullets and magical spells sinking into the protections the Goblin King had created, ablating each tendril of air, lodging in the condensed atmosphere of his aura—that was how it was done, you see.
An expendable shield that lasted just long enough. The Goblin King took fire in the last microseconds of his charge; it tore into his armor. A [Lucky Round] burned through his guts, and he ignored it; his body was already healing.
Then he was upon the first [Soldier], and he swung his sword through the Gnoll and kept moving. His body crashed into a Minotaur and hurled the corpse aside. The Goblin King kept running, killing as many from sheer impacts as his swinging sword. They had not expected him to try to get past them; he was in the second ranks before they could even react.
He was not immortal. He just had so many lives to draw upon. Using so many Skills and spells tired him; it was his current body, Rabbiteater’s, that he had to fall back on now.
That was enough. Xitegen was running towards him, and perhaps, if they had met at that moment, the Goblin King might have died. But—the Goblin King tore left, grinning, away from the heart of the Alliance’s forces. They tried to catch him, but now he was running.
Like a rabbit. Away from the roaring line of tanks that had been moving to surround him and cut him off.
Catch me if you can, the Goblin King thought at his pursuers. A childish thought, from a child to a world of toys. Stop me.
Try and stop me.
 
——
 
“—Sixth rank and he’s still moving! He’s not aiming at Lord Xitegen or Engineer Kevin!”
Mrsha could see the Goblin King’s charge. She could feel it. She was shaking; it was as if the entire High Passes were being pulled forward by a single being, collapsing on the Alliance’s forces.
How could anyone stop that? It felt like the Goblin King was charging at her, though that was ridiculous. Those poor [Soldiers].
Xitegen’s voice.
“Pierce his armor before they can re-shield him! All forces: Char rounds, anti-healing munitions. I want him dead.”
Then—Kevin’s.
“I’m coming. Hold him down and I’ll finish this.”
The cyclone of arrows and that defiant aura that marked Lord Xitegen’s position was indeed bearing down on the Goblin King. But then Mrsha heard a curse. Xitegen, once more. A breathless realization, and a note of fear.
“It’s—he’s not aiming at us. It’s her.”
For a second, the words didn’t register in her head. Mrsha had heard a second sound, and someone else had stolen her attention.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was moving. Mrsha heard a roaring sound…no, she didn’t hear it. She was too far away. She felt it.
Rm. Rmrmrmrmmmrmmmrmmmm.
Then it became a roar, like a car without a muffler, the roar of an engine. The Goblin Lord was attacking.
A single figure appeared out in the open in front of her fortress. Just a tiny dot—but when the Goblin Lord of Civilizations strode forwards, her people seemed to come alive, fighting harder, moving faster, blazing with inspiration.
The true heart of the Goblins pointed, and a wing of fighter planes scythed downwards, saving a platoon of Goblins from a rank of firing tanks. She glanced right, and artillery began to target magical barriers protecting a position of the Alliance forces. Dying Goblins looked up as [Medics] leapt off aircraft, diving towards them with [Feather Hop] spells that caught them at the last moment.
She was the entire battlefield. Every element was under her control; the Goblins fought like the Antinium of Izril could only have dreamed of twenty years ago. And yet the Goblin Lord herself was a weapon. She pointed something—a weapon?—and a blazing line of fire swept over the Alliance’s forces. Then she became a blur, racing into combat.
It was her heart that Mrsha was sensing. A mechanical heart, a piston of metal and magic burning like an ember in the Goblin Lord’s chest, combusting, sending her blood through her body in a never-ending torrent of fury.
But the Goblin King was still the more terrifying of the two. And he kept…approaching…
He was slicing west along Xitegen’s vanguard, avoiding plunging into them, running, and Xitegen’s forces kept pivoting. Where was he trying to strike? Artillery on the back lines? The…western flank? Was he cutting out to plunge back in? The rear itself? Why? They’d surround him and kill him. There was nothing there. Nothing except—
A Gnoll child. She realized it at the same time Lord Xitegen did, and he roared into the speaking stone.
“It’s you. Mrsha. He’s after Mrsha! Doctor Withra, send her south! Summon the Lightning Runner! Don’t let him reach your camp!”
 
——
 
The Goblins realized the Goblin King’s target as well. The Goblin Lord’s furious advance towards Xitegen actually curved away, but she was as unable to stop the Goblin King as Xitegen. Both gave desperate orders.
Too late, too late. Chieftain Rags began to run, and someone tackled her from inside the command bunker. She tried to fight them off her.
Mrsha! Not Mrsha! 
Across the battlefield, the Gnoll girl sighed.
 
——
 
She really, truly hadn’t believed it would happen again.
Not in the future. Not on this battlefield where everything was beyond even the best of her friends. This war would have been beyond Teriarch, yet somehow, exhaustingly, it always boiled down to the same old song and dance.
Mrsha saw Doctor Withra running to her. The medical camp was a flurry of panic as they realized the Goblin King was charging at them. The [Doctor] had a pistol in her hand. A single sidearm, and she pointed.
A healer, prepared to kill and die to protect her patients. She was pointing towards the center of the camp, next to the magical generators projecting the blue magical shield.
“Right there in the center, Mrsha. We’ll cover you.”
The blue shields rippled, like a bubble about to burst. Mrsha’s eyes fixed on the desperate Drake in her army fatigues.
Doctor Withra was going to die. She wouldn’t stop the Goblin King. Not one second. Mrsha knew it, Withra knew it.
Xitegen knew it.
“Evacuate her now, Withra!”
“She can’t outrun the Goblin King! Nothing can!”
The [Doctor] shouted back. Mrsha glanced at a figure who’d leapt into one of the remaining jeeps. He was Xitegen’s driver; he must not have had a combat class. The Human man glanced up.
“I’ll take her. But I can’t outrun that thing.”
The storm was pushing forwards, like a knife through the Alliance’s forces. They had maybe a minute. Withra grabbed Mrsha’s arm.
“Lord Xitegen can reinforce our position. If you take her out there, she’ll be in the middle of a battlefield.”
No good solutions. Then a voice crackled over the stone, muted by gunfire and explosions, but so terribly familiar.
“Send her my way. I can stop Rabbiteater this time. Mrsha? Is that really you? This way.”
Kevin. It was always Kevin, somehow. Mrsha glanced at the [Driver], and his eyes lit up. He grabbed something and began charting a course. Withra hesitated—it was Mrsha who leapt into the jeep.
The Human man grinned at Mrsha, and he had brown skin, a once-broken nose, and he raised something to his lips and kissed it. Then he spoke in a husky voice with a faded accent she couldn’t place.
“Hold on. Don’t raise your head for anything.”
The [Driver] gunned the engines. Doctor Withra turned, gazing over her shoulder. Mrsha glanced back at her once, and then the car accelerated, so blindingly fast she felt like Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage would have been in slow-motion.
The world became a blur—and behind her, Mrsha saw the air darken. The tempest fell over the medical camp, and the Drake [Doctor] turned, firing. An armored figure with glowing red light coming from their helmet dashed into the camp, almost lightly, trailing debris and death behind him carelessly.
Like…a child who had smashed through a dozen sets of toys. He searched around as the shockwave behind him caught up, and the Goblin King met Mrsha du Marquin’s eyes. He pointed at her.
Her heart stopped.
It didn’t beat as Mrsha collapsed in the car, convulsing—the hand jerked away as bullets struck his helmet, and her heart restarted in her chest.
Mrsha lay there as the jeep swerved, and the [Driver] swore an unending litany of curses. She poked her head up, behind the armored glass, and saw the Goblin King running after them.
Goodbye, Belavierr nightmares. Hello, new ones. But she felt like he was—slower. Wounded?
Or was someone fighting him inside his own body? The girl sat there one second until they hit the battlefield, racing through the Alliance’s lines. They passed by the first bunkers of stone, zooming past long tubes of metal spitting fire upwards, then under the shadow of summoned fortifications. Even a castle, manned by [Soldiers] who fired from the crumbling ramparts. Then past the first of the trenches, heading towards that giant Goblin bunker-fortress in the distance.
Mrsha’s heart plunged in her chest as they shot down a ramp, scattering [Soldiers] who were locked together in hand-to-hand combat with special forces fighting behind their lines.
Then she was in the middle of a warzone. The Goblin King slowed as he ran into Xitegen’s forces, coming to kill him, and everyone was lost in a sea of battle and death.
“Hold on and keep your head down! That bastard—he’s on us! Vai pra puta que te pariu!”
He roared something back at the shape neither of them could see, but could feel pursuing them, and Mrsha blinked up at the stranger and saw something wrapped around one hand. Her eyes fixed on a golden cross, and she realized something.
Oh. He’s an Earther. 
The jeep swerved as thunder shook it; someone was firing at them, and Mrsha jerked and ducked down as spiderwebs appeared in the glass on her door. The [Driver] spun them right, so his side was taking fire, and accelerated.
For nineteen seconds, Mrsha just sat there in her surreal little bubble as the jeep shuddered and swerved, and she could still be that child everyone tried to save. Then she heard a poc sound and peered up.
The car slowed. Her driver was leaning on the wheel. There was a hole in the side of his helmet, still smoking, and blood. He gazed blankly ahead, dead weight resting on the wheel. The girl stared at him. Then, slowly, she climbed out of her seat. Opened the door and pushed him out.
Sorry.
He fell, and a golden cross tumbled to the ground, still clutched in his fist. The girl peered down at the bloody seat and the levers on the floor of the car. She had watched him driving this thing just in case, asked him how it worked. Mrsha bent down and anchored a [Tripvine] spell to the accelerator, nailing it to the floor. Then her paws rose, and she grabbed the wheel, clumsily, as the car sped into motion.
Then it was just a child, swerving and speeding into the battlefield, as a monster chased her, warriors fighting and dying around her.
Just like it had always been.
The car accelerated up the ramp of dirt, carrying Mrsha past the next layer of the trenches, and it flew as it emerged, catching air for a moment—Mrsha saw a group of Gnolls blink up at her, and then the jeep struck the open ground and went roaring forwards.
There was blood on her paws. She kept wiping at it as she jerked the wheel, sliding, skidding—she hit something, and the car spun, then the wheels finally got purchase and dragged her forwards.
Past a second line of Drakes in trenches, who peeked up and nearly shot at her until they stared at the girl driving past them, eyes wide with terror, white fur blowing behind her. She began to turn towards them, then saw the Goblin King running from the right—so she swerved left.
