The Tribe of Dreams and Liscor’s Watch. They were streaming up the hill, and Lord Moore was ushering people out of Liscor. Pisces heard him shouting.
“To the inn! Get to the inn! Listen to me—I know there is fighting and danger! Stay in the city if you choose—but I am telling any of you who remember The Wandering Inn: go. There may be no hope for anyone who is left behind.”
“Madness.”
Civilians were running up the hill as lightning rained down and Rhir and the Painted Antinium fought. Pisces saw the Reinhart army riding towards them—he whirled as someone ran.
“Mrsha!”
“This is all my fault. I have to go!”
The young woman had her wand out. Pisces saw Lyonette trying to stop her.
“Pisces, talk some sense into her!”
The Captain of the Horns of Hammerad cast around, and he felt the desperation and horror of everyone. He met Mrsha’s guilty, desperate eyes and took a breath.
“They’ll destroy Erin’s inn if they keep this up. With her inside. Horns of Hammerad—we’re getting to that inn. The Blighted Kingdom is our enemy, and the Painted Antinium as well if they fight back. Charge.”
He meant his new team, but as he began to run up the hill, he saw Yvlon alongside him. And Ceria—Pisces saw her unleashing her frost elementals at the Blighted Kingdom and spells he had no idea she’d learned. For one moment, Pisces laughed and ran—
Then he stepped into the bubble of the [Hero of Turns]’s Skill. He saw [Soldiers] running into the inn fighting with desperate, frozen Painted Antinium, and heard a voice.
“Oh hey, high-levelers. Leave them to me.”
At the door of the inn, the [Hero of Turns] was already there. More and more of the Blighted King’s forces were charging into the world beyond, fighting with Painted Antinium—Pisces wanted to lift his rapier and challenge this stranger.
But he couldn’t.
Not his turn. And the [Hero of Turns] was gazing at the frozen group. He ignored Pisces.
“Armor class is way too high. Who’s…aha.”
He pointed at someone behind Pisces—a Liscorian civilian, wide-eyed, frozen mid-run. The [Hero of Turns] drew his bow.
“That’s a civilian.”
Pisces’ voice was too-calm in his ears. The [Hero of Turns] gave him a blank look.
“Right, but it lets me hit that group of Goblins if I leapfrog off her. I thought you adventurers were good at strategy.”
He fired his arrow, and the voice spoke.
 
<ERROR. UNABLE TO SUSTAIN COHESION. [THE PALACE OF FATES] IS MALFUNCTIONING. CRITICAL ERROR.>
 
Then—every door—
Cracked.
