Plague, creeping up from the sewers into a city of the unwary, infesting their skin, the seeds of contagion flaring and stealing lives in seconds.
The falling blade of a guillotine, covered in blood.
 
Aspects. She was all these things and more. Thousands upon thousands of versions of the same thing. She was an idea. A concept with nuance and personality—
A Goddess of Death. This was her domain, and Erin saw Kasigna reach out a hand.
“Nowhere to run. Take my hand, Erin Solstice.”
“That was my friend. I will kill you, whoever you are. Give. Him. Back.”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes were blazing hazel, and she began to burn with black flames, even in the lands of the dead. She strode forwards, and suddenly, her cheeks were flushed with heat. She wore a striped t-shirt, the same as the first day she had entered this world.
Color. Temperature. Kasigna’s hands reached greedily for the [Innkeeper], but the Putrid One spoke.
“Erin. Stay back. The rest of you, stop that old woman. You must learn your powers.”
He saw the danger and was on his feet, wary. But the [Innkeeper] only hesitated one moment. She saw Kasigna point down towards her friends.
The running Goblins of Rags’ tribe, Pisces fighting Rhirian soldiers as he tried to get to the inn with Mrsha.
“Choose, little woman.”
If she could steal lives with a touch—Erin Solstice gritted her teeth. She came forwards, as the Crone knew she would, ignoring the Putrid One’s voice. Erin raised her fist as she walked at the Goddess of Death.
They met—and Kasigna touched Erin’s arm.
Death. The very concept of it stole into Erin Solstice’s body.
Crossbow bolts. Blood. Poison. A final smile.
She paled. Her body flickered—and the Goddess of Death began to draw on the power in Erin Solstice. Then the [Innkeeper]’s fist rose, and she punched Kasigna.
The old woman’s head actually rotated around and carried her body with it. She stumbled back and felt at her face. That—had hurt her.
Erin felt it. But the satisfaction was gone a second later as she felt the strength leaving her. Kasigna—the Crone simply laughed.
“You cannot do more than hurt this shell. Come, again.”
She stepped forwards, and Erin tried to imagine punching that image of the noble lady standing by the bedside. That was easy—but how did you punch a plague? A guillotine?
Kasigna touched her arm, and the [Innkeeper] swung again—then jerked backwards. The Putrid One came forwards, hissing.
“You have to hurt her differently!”
The [Innkeeper] was retreating now, away from the laughing Kasigna, who simply walked at the rest of her beloved ghosts as they began to flee, but too slowly, unable to run in this place. That forced the [Innkeeper] to block the Goddess of Death’s path. They met once again, and Erin Solstice tried to hurt the other goddess.
Learn how the divine did battle—Kasigna’s laughter grew with each moment they connected. The [Innkeeper] tried to destroy her with a blow, with knives, with ideas and words and will—and death simply grasped her hand and pulled something out of her. Faith, ideas, the very concept that made Erin—Erin. And the laughter kept growing. Not louder.
Realer.
In the world, the world of mortals, the Painted Antinium slowed in their fighting and gazed upwards. They felt something flickering, something real pressing against their souls. A glorious, wondrous spark. But their joy and faith was also met by terror. For it was—
Flickering out.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”, The Floodplains of Liscor>
 
As a matter of fact, it was only after twenty-one [Heroes] had died that they summoned him. Jospiere, the [Hero of Turns], made the journey from his mansion to the war room where the strategists were all panicking in a single turn.
He had fast movement speed. And he was able to get the gist of what was going on and see the portal to another world all at once, and that convinced him he wanted to go through it.
Home. That was his instinct. Or if not home, something worth risking his life for.
It took him only three turns to get down to the Floodplains. Each ‘turn’ was an interval of varying time. For instance, in battles, it was every six seconds. Outside of battle, it was more like six minutes.
To him, of course, and anyone in his area-of-effect, a ‘turn’ felt like however long it took until it ended. And to the [Hero of Turns], that meant he had the biggest advantage any gamer from his world had.
Time. Well, he’d hoped he could ‘save’ his position and rewind back to it, but it seemed like that was too much power for his level. This was more than enough.
He could talk, think, and use every action he wanted to within his turn—obviously, he had cooldowns and other limitations to his action and movement points, but it meant that any event that came up was predictable, most of the time.
There could be an [Assassin] who ambushed him and got a surprise turn, but if he detected them while they were in hiding, even if he hadn’t known they were there, he could come up with countermeasures.
So—by the time he teleported onto the Floodplains, he’d chosen his spot, his mode of attack, and run all the numbers. He loved the numbers.
One turn to move. Two turns for the teleportation spell and transit. Then—
His turn started.
 
——
 
Floodplains of Liscor. Grass everywhere, what wasn’t blown apart by all the fighting. Jospiere stepped out into a frozen world. Everyone had stopped. Soldiers, Antinium, the people running towards the inn, Goblins, everyone.
“What—what’s going on? I can’t move! Help! Fucking help!”
A [Hero] was on his knees, holding a double-bladed sword that glowed like a damn lightsaber. He was some third or fourth or maybe even fifth-waver. Blood was running down one arm, and he was freaking out.
Looks like someone nailed him with one of those damn holy miracles. Jospiere glanced over and saw a bunch of icons pop up. He tapped on one in the air. A bubble popped up, based on his knowledge and different appraisal Skills.
 
<Status Effect: Curse of the Faithless — Malus to morale, coordination, armor efficacity, strength.>
 
Jospiere shuddered.
“Fucking nasty. Okay, [Priests] first.”
He heard more voices around him, many sounding in confusion—relief from the [Soldiers] who knew him. The idiot [Hero] was still screaming.
“What’s going on? Why can’t I move?”
“Hey, shut the fuck up. I’m here. Talking’s a free action.”
Jospiere snapped back and resisted the urge to cast a [Mass Hush] spell; he had to use every action point carefully. The fact that everyone else got to mouth off really annoyed the shit out of him sometimes.
“Who’s that?”
“The [Hero of Turns]! Oh snap, they’re fucked now. Jospiere, they killed Marie!”
“Marie? That’s too bad. They got twenty-one of you idiots. When your turn comes, charge the enemy and don’t friendly fire me or I’ll gut you, got it? Put every buff on me.”
The [Hero of Turns] reckoned he didn’t need their help, but just in case, he gave them succinct orders, then checked out the Antinium. The inn was just within range of his Skill. He actually saw some idiots running back and forth and freezing as they entered his domain.
Jospiere cracked his fingers.
“Right. Here I go.”
The key to winning any battle with a lot of dangerous combatants was action economy. He kept explaining it to people from this world, but even people from Earth who didn’t play enough games didn’t get it.
Every turn you got movement points, action points. When you ran out, you had to ‘end turn’ and let the other buggers whale on you. And gamble you had high enough armor class, spell resistance.
Fuck that. Jospiere had asked for and gotten Skills that fit his understanding of how you could roll an enemy in one turn. Much like how a super-fast [Warrior] could dice opponents before they even got a chance to move.
The basis was a simple Skill: [Cleaving Attack]. It meant you killed one person and you got a free attack against another, so long as they were within reach. Of course, you needed long arms for that.
Or—a second Skill that let you move. Like, say…Jospiere drew an enchanted Longbow of Perfect Aim and an arrow from his pack. He eyed it.
A Deathslayer Arrow, minus the explosive components. Pierced almost anything. And…he surveyed the Painted Antinium, who were audibly praying and trying to figure out what was going on.
[Greater Appraisal] was another aspect of his important tools for this part. Jospiere flicked over Antinium, and their stats came up.
 
Name: Thenice Hopeshell
Species: Painted Antinium
Class: [Crusader of the Inn’s Faith], Level 33
Deity: Erin Solstice
Hitpoints: 88/116
Armor Class: 28
Strength: 21
Dexterity…
 
“Twenty-eight? Fuck that. These guys have way too much HP.”
Jospiere glanced around, taking his time, because, well, he had all of it. He was searching for someone within good range of the others, and he finally found a [Priest] who hadn’t buffed himself properly.
There. Cloth armor and no miracles. Jospiere drew the arrow to his cheek, spoke, and loosed.
“[Teleport Shot]. [Perfect Headshot]. And—bam.”
He fired and appeared as an arrow struck the Antinium in the head. The [Priest] collapsed, dead. He and Jospiere were the only thing that moved; the other Antinium around Jospiere spoke.
“What was that? I cannot see.”
“Priest Ager is dead. A [Hero] has appeared. Fight.”
“I cannot—”
Jospiere put his bow away and drew his sword. He had [Free Swap: Equipment] otherwise he’d lose action points on this. He grinned as he hefted his enchanted greatsword up.
“Shame about that. Ready or not, here I come.”
Then he walked forwards and began killing Antinium. Each time he struck, it was at their heads, and he killed them. But not every Antinium.
Jospiere worked his way around the base of the inn, killing any Antinium he could reach who had a blindspot or lower defenses. He ignored the [Paladins] who called furiously for him to attack them.
Good strategy meant you wiped out all the lower-level ones first. He ran into one hiccup: he swung at a low-level [Spear Crusader], and his sword bounced off the Antinium’s neck.
“Damn. Reroll!”
He had just enough action points to kill the Antinium on the second try. There was a luck-based element to this as well. One in twenty times, Jospiere might just fail to do any damage or double his attack or automatically succeed in…
If you played tabletop games, you got it. The key was minimizing the risks. He killed forty-nine Antinium before he couldn’t reach any more with his movement points, despite [Haste] and his other buffs.
“Okay, [Leaping Attack]!”
Jospiere jumped and bisected another Antinium ten feet away. He grinned as a frozen [Archer] stared at him in mute horror.
“Get it? It’s a -4 to attack, but I get to keep doing it. Where’s your goddess now? I was told you guys were tough.”
“Apostle Pawn will slay you. We are the faithful, and when you die, She will punish you.”
The Worker spoke quietly. Jospiere didn’t like that, so he killed the Worker—or tried to.
His sword bounced off the Worker, and Jospiere recoiled. He’d succeeded in his attack roll! But something had interfered.
A miracle? The Worker’s insect eyes blazed in triumph, and Jospiere faltered—then swore.
“Fuck it, [Extra Action Points]! Fuck you!”
He threw a dagger through the Antinium’s eye and killed the Worker. Shakily, Jospiere whirled.
That was his extra action for the battle. It didn’t matter. He had to—
He kept performing [Leaping Attacks] until he’d killed a hundred and twenty-two of the Painted Antinium. It was quiet by the time Jospiere failed an attack roll on one of their [Mages]. He stopped, panting, and wiped his brows.
First, they’d cursed him, shouted defiance, or tried to break his Skill. Then they’d tried to trick him or play mind games…they always went quiet in the end.
Waiting for his turn to end.
A hundred and twenty-two Antinium down in the course of six seconds. The outside world was also frozen, and Jospiere saw people moving in slow motion. They always did that, somehow keeping pace with his Skill. It was super neat, even if he wished the entire world were within his Skill.
Anyways. He lowered his greatsword as he stood in the middle of the Painted Antinium formation. After this, the turn would go to the next side, and they’d move. It went him, allies, enemies, outsiders, with rare exceptions.
He was surrounded by Antinium who’d get to full attack roll on him. A bad place to be in, even with all his armor and stats.
Jospiere ended his turn.
“Hey guys, just so you know, I’ll be back next turn, but try to roll a critical hit, huh? And keep praying. That’s definitely working.”
The [Hero of Turns] gave them a wink, a salute—then he vanished and reappeared with the Rhirian soldiers.
Someone had [Emergency Teleported] him back. Jospiere sighed as he relaxed. A [Mage] of Rhir began buffing him, and he lazily gave orders.
“Okay, listen up. Don’t move! You have limited action points and movement points, so I’ll give you orders. You—start casting [Flame Walls] where I point. Don’t walk over there—okay, you might be dead. Just…”
He gave up and just let them do their thing after a while. There were higher-level combatants on the other side of the inn, but he reckoned he could take all the Painted Antinium here out in six turns without reinforcements. And if there was trouble—well—that was what you had all the other [Heroes] and soldiers for.
Jospiere grinned and wondered how much experience he was getting. Hopefully, enough to level. Then his eyes stole to that portal in the air again.
Home?
 
——
 
A butcher. The [Hero] who appeared on the battlefield slaughtered the Painted Antinium so fast Pisces couldn’t keep up. He seemed to teleport from spot to spot, killing them with a single slash before they could react. Then they charged and swung and stopped for a microsecond, and he butchered them again.
Pisces didn’t understand—until Montressa grabbed him and stopped him from running in. She was pale-faced.
“Pisces! That’s the [Hero of Turns]! One of Rhir’s secret weapons! If you get close, you’re stuck within his Skill! Stay back!”
“He’s in front of the inn! We have to get in there. The Painted Antinium are getting slaughtered!”
Pisces snapped; Montressa whispered as she glanced at the inn.
“And they’re fighting Rhir’s army, so both sides are distracted. We have to get to the inn. Come on!”
They had an army at last. Everyone who could fight was heading up the hill, towards the inn. Kevin and Imani were supporting the advance, using the pink carriage as a mobile shield. But the real army was…
