“Stone speaks. Well, there goes that as a cave. I’d better alert Magnolia in this world. Then again, who knows if it will happen in this one? Do you need any recovery magic? Though, we’re quite bad at it. Taletevirion! I could go back for him—”
The other Dragonlord was turning back and forth, and Teriarch smiled as he lifted his broken foreleg.
“It’s not that bad. Can you see the bone?”
“As a matter of fact? Yes. Though it’s properly set. What did—”
The Beach Teriarch stretched his neck out to eye the broken leg with a wince, and the real Dragonlord of Flames leapt. His teeth snapped over the other Dragonlord’s neck, and he bit.
Metal bent and tore, and scales gave way until he tasted metallic blood. The other Dragonlord roared.
“What are—”
Then he flung one wing up, trying to throw the Dragonlord off. It didn’t work; Teriarch was at his copy’s neck, trying to bite his head off.
It was one of the most direct ways to kill another Dragon. His teeth were grinding against the metal scales, digging deeper. The other Dragonlord was panicking, out of shape, off-guard—
But he was still a Dragonlord of ancient days. His tail slapped the ground—
—And every scale on his left flank detonated outwards.
The impact kicked Teriarch across the ground, and he felt searing agony as chunks of metal struck his innards. Most of it still glanced off his scales.
He blew up his own scales. True desperation. Teriarch heard a roar and saw the other Dragon clasping a claw to his neck. He melted the scales around the wound, sealing it off, roaring; he had chunks of his own scales embedded in his left side.
“Are you mad? What—”
He stopped as the wounded Dragonlord got to his feet. Beach Teriarch’s eyes focused.
“Oh. Oh. You’re the real one. I only want to live—”
He saw the true Dragonlord of Flames open his mouth, and from the depths of the glowing maw was only a word:
“Burn.”
Fire hot enough to scorch another flame Dragon roared outwards—and the second Dragonlord exhaled at the same time. Orange-red flames of pure heat met purple—the Beach Dragon recoiled, howling as he tried to keep it back from him.
He was out of practice; his breath was weak, and he was used to sleeping all day. However, the true Dragonlord was exhausted from his battle. He gasped; his Dragonbreath stopped, and the heat and smoke and fire washed over him.
It barely hurt. He lunged again, with his three good legs, and slammed into the other Dragon. Then they were clawing at each other, biting…
A bad match. One was wounded with only three intact limbs; the other was overweight, lopsided due to his destroyed scales, unprepared mentally or physically for the battle.
But they had done this enough; the Beach Dragon wedged a claw into the real one’s side and tore more scales loose, trying to gouge out his counterpart’s innards. He screamed as the true Teriarch bit his claw and nearly took a digit off—then tried to back away. That earned him another bite, and he locked eyes with a Brass Dragon oozing blood from his mouth, eyes wild with death.
The Dragon from the days of the beach and that more hopeful world retreated as the other Dragonlord advanced. Then he spoke.
“Parlay! Parlay! I only want to live—and if there can only be one, let it be!”
He ducked left, and the true Teriarch saw something hovering in the air behind the Dragonlord of Flames.
A halberd, glowing with magic. Straight out of the Dragonlord of Flames’ vault. The Halberd of Giant’s Force—
It hit him as he tried to dodge, and the blow knocked him senseless for a moment. He gaped up as it chopped down and spoke.
“[Barrier of—]”
The halberd’s second strike was deflected by a simple Tier 2 spell. But more weapons were emerging from the Dragonlord’s chest. He was using his weapons against—
The triumphant Beach Teriarch was grinning with his own savagery, confident he could best this wounded copy of himself with this arsenal! He had no [Dragonslayer]’s weapons, because only a fool carried the weapons of his own demise around. But an entire arsenal of Arrows of Annihilation would—
He saw them spill out of the Chest of Holding, and his mind flickered. Wait, he hadn’t levitated them. They pointed at him, and he screamed.
“[Prison of th—]”
 
——
 
The explosions deafened the real Teriarch and bought him time to knock the Halberd of Giant’s Force away. That fool had made the mistake of leaving his Chest of Holding open for anyone to use it. Well, another Teriarch, at any rate.
The other Dragon emerged from the smoke, denuded of scales on the left side of his face. But then he was ready to kill. They charged at each other, unwilling to let the other use the magical artifacts in close combat.
Madness. The two howling Dragons fought across the [Palace of Fates], destroying hallways, as mortals saw them and fled. Neither one backed down, then.
After all—if Ryoka was one thing, and Mrsha another—
The Dragonlord of Flames hated himself more than anyone else.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”, Kasignel>
 
It was all going wrong. And still, it wasn’t clear what was going on.
“Tolveilouka! Why is Rhir attacking? What’s going on? Are Mrsha and Pisces and the others safe?”
The ghost of Erin in the future was panicking. She did not know what was going on; the confusion about the multiple versions of Rags and Mrsha from the past was one thing, but this?
This was a disaster. The Putrid One, Zacheales, sat, frowning, as a panting half-Elf replied.
“I don’t know! Stop shouting at me, you worthless woman! Master—Master, that portal in the air is madness. It looks—real. As if the world I know, even you, were fake.”
“I know. We can see it, Tolveilouka.”
“Rhir is—you can?”
The half-Elf Revenant stopped, but the ghosts could all see it. It wasn’t as…visible, but they could sense the air distorting there. As if what was being opened were so all-encompassing, even the lands of the dead felt it.
“I want to go into it.”
That dreamy voice came from the ghost of Ksmvr, who sat in the deadlands. Not because Heaven had been denied for him, but because he didn’t want to be separated from his team. He was waiting for them.
Ksmvr was one of sixteen Antinium in the deadlands. All sixteen were Antinium that Erin had known. Sixteen Antinium out of all the souls who had ever died.
They shouldn’t have been there. They were supposed to go somewhere…else. But they’d come here when they died. The ghost of Erin had been so happy.
Because she’d wanted it with all her heart.
Now, Erin turned to Ksmvr as the Putrid One glanced at her.
“Don’t go just yet, Ksmvr. Tolveilouka, protect the inn.”
“So you want me to reveal myself to the Blighted Kingdom? Say the word, Master, but it will be war to the bitter end!”
Tolveilouka’s ardor was up after seeing the Witch of Webs vanish. Yet he was cautious; he didn’t like beings of faith as they seemed to be direct counters against the undead, and he was warning his master.
“Master, everyone is headed for that door. I count thirty-seven [Heroes] of Rhir. More than they have committed to any war since putting down A’ctelios Salash—and I would bet every single world power is making for this place as fast as they can teleport.”
It was a kind of—urge that even the ghosts felt. Go through. We have to go through. If only to know if this entire world is a…lie.
The Putrid One gazed at Erin, and she spoke.
“I have to make sure my friends are safe. Please, Zacheales.”
“I wish to know what lies in there. The Blighted Kingdom would surely use it—Tolveilouka, my champion. Summon every undead from my village. Protect Erin Solstice’s guests. Follow her orders.”
The Putrid One’s orders made the half-Elf they could see, standing and watching the battle from afar, look up. The widest smile Erin had ever seen stretched across Tolveilouka’s face. He bowed, a slim half-Elf hiding a horror of death and plague.
“By your will, my Master.”
He bounded forwards a step, then turned and began casting magic. Activating the undead in the Putrid One’s lair.
Chaos. Dead Erin was sick of it. She had made her own kind of peace with her death, for all her fire and passion. She was just…afraid for her friends. The young woman hugged her knees to her chest and whispered.
“Why today? Why…all for me, Pawn? He sounded a bit crazy, didn’t he, Zacheales?”
The Putrid One looked over absently. As ever, she couldn’t fully read him; he replied in a disinterested sort of way.
“He has the same passion to you as Tolveilouka does for me.”
Erin shook her head.
“…That’s a bad thing. A real bad thing. I think I’ve—I’ve been in denial. Why didn’t you warn me?”
For answer, the half-Elf smiled, and she saw that pitiless apathy she sometimes hated about him, for all she needed him.
“Why, because it was amusing to see what he would do. And if he revived you, Tolveilouka would do the same.”
Silently, the [Innkeeper] met his eyes as the ghosts around her shifted. Ksmvr made a ‘I could punch him’ gesture behind the half-Elf’s head, but Erin shook her head. She had known she was allying with a monster.
Instead, she stared down at her hands.
“I feel tingly. Like I can almost…touch something sometimes. I have to stop this. Tolveilouka is fighting. If only I could—make these idiots go away.”
Sometimes, she felt like she could see the real world. Just in her head, like she was imagining it. If she closed her eyes…
 
She could see thirty-seven [Heroes], half of them hanging in the air, throwing spells down at the Painted Antinium. A horrific slaughter—but not all one way.
The Antinium’s faith-based Miracles were killing [Soldiers] of Rhir, who kept appearing in those beams of light by the hundred. The Antinium were being destroyed on the hill, though, unable to maneuver; only the [Heroes]’ orders not to damage the inn were keeping them from leveling the entire place.
Wave after wave of [Soldiers] came racing up the hill, Rhir’s finest—and when they met the faithful, they died, faith cutting through their magic and armor. But the sky still blazed with more magic than faith.
Her people were losing. And there was a bad thing in Liscor. A rotting corpse, far fouler than Tolveilouka. 
 
Erin’s eyes snapped open. It was all in her head, but recently, she’d begun feeling…strange. She didn’t notice the Putrid One’s eyes opening slowly or the other ghosts sitting up.
“If only those idiots in the sky would just…vanish. But they’re so heavy. They’re flying or standing on invisible platforms. Way too high up to be hit. If only…”
Unconsciously, Erin waved her hand, like someone trying to wipe away a smear of grease. Her questing fingers reached out, and for a second, she felt them connect with something.
 
In her mind, the figures hovering in the air fell, flailing in confusion. A quarter hit the ground; the rest slow-fell or teleported away.
 
“Hm. What was that?”
Erin blinked at her fingers, and the Putrid One’s eyes glittered.
“Tolveilouka. Report.”
“M-Master? I just saw every [Hero] in the sky lose their spells. They fell—some died quite hilariously—did you do that?”
For answer, the Putrid One just began to chuckle and laugh, a pleasant chuckle from a nobleman at a dinner table. He threw his head back and gazed at Erin Solstice as the…ghost…raised her head.
Who was the weak one begging the kind monster for aid again? 
This time, the divine [Innkeeper] drew upon the faith more strongly. She reached out—and picked up a knot of [Soldiers] charging up the hill.
Erin gazed down at the wiggling, screaming figures in her ‘hand’, and saw the Painted Antinium gazing upwards. The horrified eyes of the few members of Rhir’s faithful found her too.
What did they see? A hand reaching down from the heavens? The eyes of…
Erin tossed the figures over the mountains. It tired her, greatly, and she sat down.
“Why can I…? No. This isn’t right. It shouldn’t be possible.”
She gazed at her hands once more, and Ksmvr seized her shoulder. The [Skirmisher] might have had weaker theology, but he knew what mattered.
“The Horns. Protect the Horns, Erin.”
“—Right.”
Of course, Ksmvr was correct. Erin rose to her feet, and now her hazel eyes were blazing. Even so, she held out her hands and murmured.
“I never thought he could do it. By belief alone. Perhaps that is what it is to be divine. Just have someone believe in you forever. But if so, then Elvis Presley’s a god among gods. Are the rules different here?”
A voice answered her, greatly displeased, cracked and bitter and vengeful, but self-satisfied as well.
“Such rules were made against my will. Made too easy by the overeager. You should not have that power, but a copy of an unfinished tool made you. So you have it, child. All the better, for I need it.”
Erin Solstice’s head came up sharply, and a figure strode out of Liscor. She was a tiny speck from where Erin and the others were, but she grew with each step. An old woman, impossibly ancient.
A Crone.
“Who are you? If you are dead, please report to Magus Grimalkin for any questions and—”
Ksmvr strode forwards to intercept what he thought was another ghost. Erin called out.
“Ksmvr, don’t! She’s—it’s a corpse!”
Ksmvr turned, confused. Of course the woman was dead. Then he saw the old woman reach for him. And he wondered why she appeared like an old Antinium woman. Antinium didn’t get so—
The ghost adventurer was recoiling when he vanished. Erin felt him go.
Eaten.
As if the jaws of that woman had opened and closed and swallowed him entirely. Erin focused suddenly. The Putrid One rose to his feet.
“Ah.”
“Ksmvr? Give him back.”
“Foe of mine. You vex me in every world. But this time, there is no escape. This is still my domain. Shall we war, little would-be goddess? You know not how it’s done. I am Kasigna, child. Your foe.”
The Crone walked forwards, and Erin saw her for what she really was. A dead corpse shuffling out of sheer spite and will. Someone so destroyed, so unmade and forgotten she had begun to run over ages…
But also, someone like Erin. Her appearance was merely an ‘old woman’. Not of any one species or age either. If you regarded her one way, you could describe an old Human woman, say, with a crooked nose, one drooping eye, withered skin—
But that would only be one aspect of her.
Her true nature was a layer deeper. She became the old woman to anyone who beheld her. But to Erin’s eyes…she saw death.
 
A regal, ancient woman wearing robes of high station, standing over the bed of a dying man, incense drifting from the burning coals she placed on the scales. A judge in death.
