He felt like a coward, fleeing when he should have marshalled 2nd Army and attacked the Titan before it could rebuild its strength. They had both spent everything. The Titan had one core left. If Teriarch were daring, if he were willing to bet his life, he could end this.
Instead, he was here, limping through The Wandering Inn, searching for answers. No…running away.
His nerve had failed him at the last. He knew he was fleeing under the guise of seeking reinforcements. He had looked death in the eye and flinched. For a moment, he lay there in the shadow of her wings.
A statue of a young Harpy stood in the original [Garden of Sanctuary], just as it had been in his memory, one of the few times Teriarch had ever been allowed in here.
Sheta had been so shy when she showed it to him. She’d been…what, seventeen years old when it had come to her?
A [First Princess] by virtue of the others having died. A too-old girl faced with the burdens of leadership in her troubled Empire, confiding in the Dragon Protector to the throne. 
It hurt him to look at that statue. The shadow of her spread wings shamed him too much, so the Dragonlord pushed one claw under him, digging his talons into the soil, and rose.
Dirt fell away from his filthy scales, and he raised a ragged mane upwards.
“You never told me about the rest of it. Not this [Pavilion of Secrets]. Not this palace. Did I mean so little to you? Or…did you not trust me with it?”
He had been her guide, her companion, her first warrior, her teacher—never anything so damning as a lover, no matter what the courts had said. She had spent more time in his company than any other being save Dragons.
He had taught her everything he knew of morality and the weary weight of this life. And she had—not always done what he believed was the best. She had committed tragedies, but she had still ended the Empire of Iltanus. The last Empire of Harpies had not thrashed about as it lay to die, painting its exit with blood and misery.
Perhaps it should have, for so few remembered it. And her people were a fragment of a fragment on Rhir, thought of as no more than monsters.
“I tried to protect them. Truly, I did. But they were a people like any other, with heroes and villains, and I—grew tired. Where is it? And how? Where is your palace, Sheta? I am weary. I tried to fight, and I was bested. I was never the strongest or most cunning or bravest of the Dragonlords. Merely the last.”
He was wandering around in a circle in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The Dragonlord had slipped in, unseen, via The Wandering Inn. By the roof, you see; that hole in the domed ceiling. What did people think it was for?
Sunlight, a connection to the world beyond, weather, yes…but it had always been meant as a way for fliers to enter and exit, especially those too large to enter any door. A way in, if you knew how to ask for it. If you had wings.
—But he couldn’t find it. No matter how hard he searched. The Dragon peered around the different biomes, places Sheta had wanted to visit or been to, her little embodiment of the world in this private place.
“Where is it? Rhisveri guarded it like his life depended on it, the fool. It has to be…but if she had that kind of power, would I have not known it? She never had the strength to bring back the dead, beyond the Scrolls of Resurrection. Madness, yes. She knew things even I did not. The Queen With a Thousand Ears. I never thought it of you, dear Sheta. Only that you knew so much…”
He was rambling. Walking in circles around the hill until he collapsed again, like an ant in a death spiral.
Then he lay there, not weeping, because he was too ashamed to do so in the shadow of the first girl he had failed so utterly.
 
——
 
How long he lay there, the Dragonlord could not have said. But at some point, he opened his eyes as a peculiar sound filled his ears. A buzzing.
A bee came along, flying in such an erratic pattern it seemed not even she knew where her wings would take her next. Forwards while spinning, up and down, corkscrewing, juking, the most chaotic flier he had ever seen.
She landed on his snout, and the Dragonlord’s exhalation nearly blew Apista out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She buzzed around him as the Dragonlord’s weary eyes followed her. Apista waved one antennae at him, as if to say—
“Enough. I am so weary. [Translation: Animalspeech]. What?”
Apista…hesitated.
Wait, he could understand her? 
“Yes.”
The Dragon buzzed at her with a voice like the largest metal bee in the world. Apista whirled back, astonished and a little mortified. No one had ever spoken to her! Redscar had come close with some generous misinterpretations of her actual internal voice due to his [Beast Tamer] class, and so had Lyonette, Mrsha, and Niers, but this—
“Where is the [Palace of Fates]? Where has everyone gone?”
His eyes transfixed and held Apista. She wasn’t sure if she should tell him, but the Dragonlord’s authority was a weight in her mind. Apista vibrated in place, then confessed.
So, the weary Dragonlord rose.
“Below Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]? Imposs…roots. I see. I see. Doors and people coming through? Thank you.”
In the end, it was what he had suspected. The Dragonlord didn’t question it. Another time, his mind would be aflame with possibilities, denial, a need to control or stop what would surely happen.
It has already happened. It befits this day. I need help.
So he crawled out of this place and found a door that opened down into the [Palace of Fates]. The Dragonlord’s heart skipped a beat, despite it all, as he stared down into the opening.
Then he eyed the door, the Human-sized door, which was smaller than his head was. He sighed as Apista buzzed around him, then waved a claw.
The bee flew, staring, around the vast door that opened for a single moment, wide enough for Teriarch to walk through with his wings open—then heard a curse.
The hole in the [Palace of Fates] was still too small for him. The Dragonlord reached down, and stone and dirt cascaded below. Then he fell into the [Palace of Fates], struck the ground hard enough to make the stone crack—looked up—
And sighed.
Everything slowed still further. Terrium Archelis Dorishe spoke, his voice echoing in these dreadful, familiar halls.
“The Palace of Iltanus. Sheta. What did you do?”
Then he limped forwards, and for one moment, he saw a proud Dragon, armored in ancient metal, striding through these marble hallways in the palace set on the highest mountain of Izril, Harpies flying past the windows.
The Dragon’s neck was arched, his mismatched eyes glowing as smoke smoldered from his mouth when he spoke. He walked like a [King], or a cat, speaking to the little child who hopped like a sparrow from spot to spot, trying to land only on tiles with green on them, a fluttering Harpy girl with a lopsided silver crown on her head.
Once upon a time. Then the image was gone, and he only saw a broken old Dragon in the mirror, scarred and wounded. Onwards, he went.
Searching for salvation.
 
——
 
Apostle Pawn stood at the greatest moment of his existence, the apotheosis of his beloved Goddess, Erin Solstice. A day he had longed to see for ten years.
His army of Painted Antinium grew with each passing minute, assembling in the courtyard he had summoned out of the [Palace of Fates]; the faithful, prepared to protect Erin Solstice, to usher in that better ending for her in each and every world.
And it was all going wrong.
He’d denied it at first. Tried to pretend that he couldn’t see the cracks, but they had been there from the start. The sheet of mosaic glass that was his faith, that image of the future he knew was correct and righteous…had no give to it. Every mark against it was a sin to be corrected, expunged by any means necessary, lest it ruin perfection.
That first crack had been placed there by Mrsha and Rags, though. The real ones. The Goblin had questioned whether Erin would have truly wanted to be a goddess. It was…
A question that Pawn had been vexed by, before. Because it was so ridiculous. Others had asked him that, and he had told them the truth in his heart: what she believed she was was not what she should be or was. Her nature was divine. If he could set her on the throne of Heaven itself, he would.
That was not what had shaken him. Everyone from his Lyonette to other members of his faith had asked the question, and his answer had always been enough. It was the other thing that Rags had said.
You are so incredibly cruel. She’d break from it all.
You will make her so miserable.
He couldn’t make that voice go away. Nor could he erase the vision that Mrsha had given him. That woman lying there on the raft.
Not the cheerful [Innkeeper] waving the white flag, performing small miracles, the center of his existence. Her death had kept her body preserved, had made her into an idea in his head. But he had seen a person in that door.
No divine being. Even now, that door called to Pawn. But he feared it; he looked anywhere but there as he preached his sermon.
For there was, for the first time in nearly a decade, a tiny shred of doubt in his faith. He did not know if his miracles could save her.
Those were the first two cracks. The third had been the omen given to him, a vision of his defeat. At the hands of a younger Lyonette, no less.
It could be avoided. It would be, but the knowledge he could lose, even now, provoked doubt in Pawn’s mind. Had he not said that this would be the final victory?
What if it…wasn’t? What if this was but one more step? What if he was wrong?
—The cracks were spreading. But his class was proof he was doing the right thing. Pawn clung to that. And he could not let down the Painted Antinium.
“Prepare to march!”
They stirred, and Pawn saw, out of the corner of his eyes, a figure duck back along one of the hallways. His vision had improved; his new class had granted him even stronger eyesight than before. Antinium had compound eyes, and they viewed the world differently than other species, he knew.
In his case, he could focus on any one point with such ease, he clearly made out the face of Peggy as she ducked back. So, the beings of this world were waiting for him.
Lyonette could destroy his army. It would be so easy to tell his people to just…do what had to be done. Not to harm the inn’s family or guests, but to just go. He didn’t know what would provoke that omen of defeat, though, so Pawn spoke as the Painted Antinium clasped fists to their armor and prayed.
“We will first sally forth to the inn above and secure it. Thence, we shall do battle against this…Titan of filth that threatens the Goblins of this time. Our third act shall be to travel this world to the side of Erin Solstice. Then we shall witness her, alive, and she shall name her enemies to us. The first foe she speaks shall vanish from this world, and all who stand with them shall be condemned to Hell.”
The prayers grew louder, and Pawn glanced again at the Goblin spying on him. There. It was so crystal-clear what he was doing. Who could argue with the logic of any of it?
Then came another crack in the form of Purple Smile. The [Paladin] was one of the faithful, but he had always been close to Yellow Splatters…he was above doubt, of course, but still, he often spoke with caution. As now, Purple Smile hand-signed.
“[Apostle. What if we are attacked? An army of Pallass was mentioned. There are many ignorant to the Antinium in this time, as in ours.]”
“Defend yourselves. If you are given battle—show restraint until the blood of the faithful flows. Then remove the threat.”
“[—By your will.]”
Purple Smile struck his breastplate, a note slower than the rest of Pawn’s bodyguard. Doubt was visible in his every hand-gesture.
Crack, crack. Pawn envisioned the cost of battle with Pallass, even the Pallass of ten years ago, and his voice grew waspish.
“They must see our strength. All shall be done swiftly; we shall march under my Skill to this ‘Titan’, then to Erin Solstice’s side. Our first battle against her foes shall set her strength in this world.”
“[And our own one, Apostle? The inn is…unsecured. Guests of the inn and world powers are observing us.]”
“A rearguard shall hold it.”
“[How long should they prepare for?]”
He didn’t know. Normally, these questions were not difficult, but they were cracks, getting in the way of this grand moment. Pawn snapped.
“Three days! Let them admit no one for three days and nights! That is more than enough time to do all that need be done. Have the crusade ready to march within fifteen minutes!”
He knew, even when giving the order, it wouldn’t be done that fast. Even disciplined soldiers like the Painted Antinium were mid-prayer, and they’d come through the door in a stream, not in their formations. So he had to wait while they milled about below him like, well, ants.
Almost. Almost—then came the scream and the sounds of chaos from that hallway Peggy had been down. Pawn reacted as the Antinium nearest the spot advanced.
“What is happening?”
He did not have the trick of this place, so he had to stride from the dais; there was a deep, booming voice. Shouting.
“Stop! Stop! Don’t let—what’s going on?”
 
——
 
When Pawn reached the hallway, he found half the Knights of Solstice were down, the other half running after—someone. That did not surprise him—the [Knights] on the ground, that was.
They were a pathetic, silly lot. Unbefitting of their title. However, Younger Lyonette was distraught. She was pointing at something—but when she whirled to him, she seemed more horrified still.
Highly hurtful.
“What was that sound?”
“It—it—it was him. Again? The—the—”
One of the [Crusaders] knelt and answered, cutting off Lyonette’s suboptimal methods of getting to the point, another habit he loved of her, even if it was sometimes a problem.
“A Dragon, Apostle. It exited the door.”
Pawn glanced at the doors, which were too small to let The One Saved in, let alone…
“No.”
Another [Crusader] chimed in, holding an amber-encased splinter of the inn to her mandibles.
“It did, Holiness. The door grew to allow it passage. Then it ran, apologizing. We would have given chase, except for your orders…”
An apologizing Dragon? Lyonette backed up a step from Pawn.
“You don’t know who it is. We’ll find and deal with him. Someone—”
She was rapidly separating herself from his affection for his Lyonette. The [Apostle] interrupted her.
“The Dragonlord of Flames. I have met him.”
“What? You have? When? You shouldn’t have if—”
“We encountered him on one of our crusades for a cure for Erin Solstice. He still lives, I believe.”
