Across the no-man’s land, past a burning tank, an explosive round hitting the ground and blowing fragments of dirt into the windshield like shrapnel. The car listed, and Mrsha swung the wheel frantically left—then curved right, around the crater.
The Goblin King leapt at her and missed—an explosion sent him flying past Mrsha, and she flinched, but kept going.
There was an art to this. She was, perhaps, one of the best people in the world at this.
Running for her life while a battle raged around her. The secret was to keep moving, to never stop. Friend, foe, it didn’t matter—you ran. And zig-zagged—Mrsha was twisting the wheel right and left, leaving a snake-like trail in the ground.
You ran at the enemy, you did what no one was expecting—a line of Goblin tanks was firing at retreating Drake [Soldiers]. One of those terrifying turrets swung towards her, and her jeep roared towards it, then twisted left at the last second. It fired, and Mrsha went deafer as heat blasted over one window of the jeep, but then she was racing alongside the tank—and deeper into enemy lines.
Yes. You kept running. Until the moment you stopped. That was the only trick there was to it. The girl swung the wheel desperately, trying to move away from the tanks, but her car began to skid—she wrestled with the wheel, trying to get it to move forwards again, but she was helpless until the wheels finally obeyed her.
Mrsha didn’t understand how to drive this car. It didn’t matter—go faster. She swung the wheel around, and the car listed onto one side.
The girl felt the car nearly roll—she was on one wheel for a terrifying moment—then she saw Goblin infantry.
They were advancing. Mrsha swerved away from them as she zigzagged back towards the Alliance’s lines, and both sides were firing. At each other, at the vehicle, at the Goblin King.
Luck, her insane speed, the Goblin King all saved the girl from being a target. A Doombearer’s luck and the hesitation of [Soldiers] who saw a child driving a car at breakneck speed through the battlefield.
—Then another salvo of smokescreen rounds hit the area and turned everything dark. Both sides were fighting in close-quarters, warriors drawing enchanted blades and assailing tanks; War Golems advancing to be cut down by magical munitions.
The first round blew a hole through Mrsha’s car, tearing open the back door. She swerved right.
She didn’t know where she was going.
The Gnoll girl nearly ran over a squad in the smoke. No clue which species it was; their masks swivelled up, and they opened fire.
Half the bullets cracked on the glass, leaving spiderwebs over her vision. The other half went through. Mrsha bent over the wheel and kept going. After a moment, she felt at her side.
She was bleeding. The girl bent lower over the steering wheel, giggling. She hit something—the car roared as it strained against something, then tore left, leaving a part of it behind. More gunfire. The child kept laughing as the bullets punched into the car around her.
You weren’t supposed to make it. At last, she was getting what she’d escaped so long. At l—
Something hit the car with a roar of sound, and she stopped laughing. The impact snapped her back in the seat, and she reached for the wheel. Then the gunfire grew louder. The next impact twisted the vehicle, and she was rolling, still reaching for the wheel.
Run and run. Until—
—you—
—stop.
 
——
 
They had lost sight of Mrsha. Both Ragses were fighting now, side-by-side. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations did not advance recklessly into battle like the Goblin King.
He was expendable. She was not.
Her heart was roaring, an engine in her chest, and it seemed to bring that weary form to life. She pointed.
“Reposition. Kill those batteries.”
A bomber flickered out of the air and appeared above the spot she wanted gone. It unleashed its payload. The Goblin Lord spun.
“Battleborn 1st. Go.”
She activated another Skill, and Lord Rags sensed Goblins moving in another point of the battlefield turning into Fomirelins, each and every one of them, and hitting the Alliance’s lines.
Then the enemy was on them; they had reached the command bunker in the center of the Goblin’s lines. Thousands of Goblins were within, firing to defend the blackened walls, while medical and command teams worked in the center of the creation. The Drakes charged into the killzone at the base of the fortress.
“Pallass! For Pallass and—”
Drakes. Chieftain Rags didn’t hear the rest. The Goblin with a sword and headphones jumped and cut the first Drake’s head off. Then he was dancing amidst them, his sword cleaving off limbs, killing the squad as they tried to turn and fire.
[Blademaster].
“Find me that child! Hold the line, here! Battleborn 2nd!”
The Goblin Lord pulled more reinforcements out of the air, and then it was pure battle. Not that Chieftain Rags saw much of it. One of the other [Bodyguards] checked her to the ground. He pulled up a rifle and began shooting behind a low metal cover. It shuddered, and his personal barrier spell flashed until it went out.
Rags raised the revolver she’d been given by Captain Leafpear, but she had no familiarity with it. The Goblin next to her was firing so fast through the smoke and chaos that she couldn’t see half his targets. He must have had a Skill to differentiate friend from foe; Rags nearly shot her older incarnation when the Goblin Lord appeared.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was still gleaming. Not with an aura or with battle-lust; her right arm was metal. Her chest was dully reflective, and the cylinder of metal over the left side of her chest kept pumping in and out of her body, steam and orange light escaping each time it retracted.
Like a Golem of war—but her face was that of an older Goblin, teeth bared, eyes shining crimson. She pointed her metallic hand as her other held the submachine gun at the ready.
“Tanks coming. Fall back! Get her into the bunker! Blades!”
Now, Rags saw the new symmetry of warfare. Guns killed everything so damn fast. Unless you had armor—even if you had armor—they were too powerful. But tanks?
They rolled forwards, and one ignored an explosion on its Adamantium armor. Turrets turned, firing machine guns and larger guns as the Goblins fell back into the bunker and trenches.
You needed a bigger gun to kill a tank. So that meant artillery or your own tanks or heavy weapons. Or—
A sword.
The headphone wearing [Blademaster] appeared on the body of one of the Alliance tanks. He crept up on the vehicle, then sliced the turret off. He heaved, and it went flying, then he leapt into the crew compartments.
When he emerged a moment later, Rags heard music thumping from his headphones. There was more blood on his sword. The [Blademaster] leapt for the next vehicle.
The Battleborn 2nd went with him, Goblins armed with enchanted blades, intent on carving up the heavy armor in close-quarters combat. They ran straight into armored figures. Gnolls, Drakes, Humans, Golems—most carried their own blades as well as sidearms.
Then it became a melee that Rags was familiar with, but she didn’t move from her position at the bunker’s mouth. Everyone here was wearing the future-armor or traditional plate armor.
The plate armor was mithril at worst. Chieftain Rags didn’t dare move, even for Mrsha.
Where was she?
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations finally raised her weapons as she met the armored column. She barked one last order, raised one finger, and the air became pure lightning. It blasted everything in front of her that wasn’t a Goblin with pure electrical force—several [Soldiers] dropped, but most, amazingly, came on, staggering.
So Ragathsi brought up the submachine gun in her other hand and squeezed the trigger. Her magical weapon discharged the first piece of paper out the other end. From the muzzle of her magical gun came…
A [Fireball]. A blooming, familiar orb of orange and red. Not a [Fast Fireball]. Not a [Grand Fireball], let alone a [Siege Fireball].
Just a regular Tier 3 spell. It shot forwards, fast as a baseball, and detonated on the first [Soldier] it came across. Every time a talisman cycled through the gun, another [Fireball] exited the muzzle. It was less like a gun and more like a…a wand that ran on magical ammunition.
Only, infinitely more advanced. Rags’ eyes caught one of the spiraling, spent ‘cartridges’ of the spell, and she saw it was unrolled, a tube of intricately-written parchment, each inch of it covered in writing so intricate, it almost seemed to be a pure square of red from a distance.
Magic. A scroll, miniaturized from its usual size of a two or even three-foot long scroll into a tube of paper rolled up to be shorter and thinner than her finger. Not hand-printed, but written with magical ink printed by machines and gemstone dyes.
Each time the submachine gun ‘fired’, another tube ran through the inner workings of the Relic-class weapon, activating the spell in full, forming the strands of fire together, and launching them—in the milliseconds it took each round to fire.
No [Pyromancer] could process spells that fast. No mortal mind—the [Fireballs] kept shooting from the muzzle of the gun as spent scrolls of paper fluttered down around the Goblin Lord of Civilizations like confetti.
The submachine gun fired hundreds of [Fireballs] in the first minute it roared. Then the Goblin Lord yanked another clip from her belt and attached it; it began firing more [Fireballs].
The shockwaves of the first [Fireballs] were flipping the tanks backwards, thousands of pounds of metal hurled back from the kinetic force of the blasts alone. The ground was shaking; an earthquake from the nonstop explosions. But the Goblin Lord of Civilizations kept firing, sweeping her gun right and left, a wild grin on her face.
Abruptly, she stopped midway through the clip. Spoke one word.
“Advance.”
Chieftain Rags saw the only tanks in one piece were on their sides, Adamantium armor dented and smoking. The blasts had tossed Alliance soldiers into the air, if not killed them outright.
“Wh—wh—”
The Goblin Lord caught Rags’ eye and bared her teeth. That bloodthirsty smile of someone relishing battle, despite it all..
“There are only five of these in all of Izril. Each one costs…well. The budget of a Domed City every time it goes to battle.”
She hefted the weapon onto her shoulder, and it wasn’t even smoking. It wasn’t even warmed up. The most devastating weapon that Rags had ever seen—even dreamed of—rested on Ragathsi’s shoulder.
It could have turned the tides of the Creler Wars—any war it existed in. It had wiped out a wave of the Alliance’s soldiers, and with it, you could best an army of Pallass. Become a one-Goblin army. Even threaten the Goblin King.
All these things were true, but Chieftain Rags’ eyes found the Goblin Lord’s weapon—and her heart didn’t soar at the achievement of Goblins. It simply squeezed a bit.
“What a waste.”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations’ broad smile faltered, and she gave the Chieftain an uncomprehending look. Some of her bodyguards glanced at the Chieftain with just as much confusion.
A waste? The most impressive weapon in this, or any other world? A—
The Goblin Chieftain thought of Erin Solstice’s cake, which had too much frosting and wasn’t good for you. Or Kevin’s bicycles, which were inferior to magical carriages or the [Portal Door]. Or…she couldn’t picture anything this future held, because she was from the past.
But she wished she could have seen it. A vision of what might have been, something to inspire and amaze her. A [Garden of Sanctuary], but made in technology and out of genius, rather than a Skill.
Instead…her eyes fell on the submachine gun, and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations’ smile faltered. She lowered the weapon and gazed at it, as if only now seeing it.
“All it can do is kill.”
The rest of the [Soldiers] eyed Rags without comprehension. But Ragathsi got it. She murmured, no longer able to meet her younger self’s eyes.
“I’ve forgotten how to make anything else, these last twenty years. Come on; let’s find Mrsha.”
She swept an arm out, gathering her bodyguard to her in a single gesture. They fell into a single unit around the Goblin Lord, and she descended into her bunker until she realized that her younger counterpart hadn’t, in fact, moved.
Chieftain Rags was still transfixed, gazing at the burning bodies. When she jerked to attention, they locked gazes, and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations licked her lips. The pinnacle of Goblin culture, their new era of rational achievement and superiority, encountered the judgement of the simple Goblin she’d used to be.
She didn’t like it. Unsettled, the Goblin Lord averted her eyes. She snapped at one of her aides.
“Find me Mrsha.”
They retreated into the bunker, and descended down flights of stairs into the war room, where the [Strategists] and other coordinators of the army were demanding answers to the same question: where was Mrsha? They were asking the question of soldiers fighting for their lives and getting few answers.
The Goblin Lord’s eyes were locked on the main projection of the warfront. A gold-colored icon was meeting a purple one in the confusion of the battlefield; an entire sea of red dots surrounded the purple icon, and only a few blue ones had made it that far in.
“Lord Xitegen is engaging the Goblin King.”
The most important moment of this war—the Goblin Lord tore her eyes away from it and traced a line over the table.
“She was headed this way. Plot her trajectory.”
A Goblin did before indicating the smokescreen that had overwhelmed the vision of everyone engaged. Ragathsi’s eyes flickered as she performed calculations too fast for the younger Rags to keep up with.
Then she highlighted several blue units.
“These ones.”
She strode over to another monitor and spoke into it as one of the Goblins pressed a button.
“Firescorch Company. This is Command. Has a Gnoll child in a vehicle passed your position? Any vehicle besides a tank at all? Keep the child alive at all costs.”
It took her a few seconds to get a response. The crack of gunfire and the screams of pain filled the air behind the breathless voice.
“Lord…? Vehicle? Gnoll child?”
“Have you seen one? A white Gnoll girl.”
There was a moment of silence as the gunfire grew louder, and then the company commander snapped back.
“We’re under assault from—nol-fina tihma? Se tai pilamast nol-fina si chep-kep tihma? Chóvain tihma? Ten pies mapakava’n tan va, kru tithil Mirak Pasai!”
She slipped into Goblin, screaming the question, and both Ragses waited. The Chieftain’s fingernails were digging into her palms. After a break in the gunfire, a response came back.
“We saw one. And a child! We thought it was a trap—”
