I put my hands over my ears and hummed to myself as I made my way over to where our impromptu band was performing its first show. The room looked a lot like a classroom, along with an array of school desks. On the back wall, there was an assortment of instruments in various states of wear and tear.

And then there were Stephen, Liz, and Ash, performing like they'd never done anything else in their lives. Liz even made a show of levitating two drumsticks while she held another two in her hands.

Now that was a curious detail. There wasn't a single human in history who possessed that muscle memory. Yet she was doing it without looking remotely bothered by the insane multitasking involved.

Among the various instruments was even a single cello. I walked over and began tuning it, using knowledge and experience I hadn't possessed an hour ago. I even knew how disuse had harmed the instrument and what it would have sounded like when it was still new.

Just as I had finished tuning, I heard Sarah and the others approaching. Lucy was with them, regaling them with the tale of how we'd burned down Madison Square Garden.

"...and then 'crack,' and the thing got obliterated. And then Eve was slightly bleeding out and slightly on fire and slightly screwed. But as you can see, she's here now, so obviously everything went according to plan." They finished their retelling just as they entered.

"Hey, Eve. Figured I'd let your friends know why you are the freaking Sin-Slayer, while the rest of the city is twiddling their thumbs."

"They are not. And I got lucky."

They seemed unbothered by my reservations and walked past the desks toward our band. Only now did I notice that they were carrying some kind of flyer held in one hand.

I made out the word 'autism' before Sarah distracted me by very obviously approaching me while trying not to be obvious about it.

"Hey, there." She drew out the 'hey.' "How you doing, slayer?"

I smiled up at her. "Surprisingly great, considering everything. But also seven seconds away from imploding, unless you tell me what the secrecy is about."

She drummed her fingers along the flat of No Quarter's blade. Oddly adorable if one didn't consider the nature of the weapon.

"I wasn't sure if this was nice, or rude, or stupid, or whatever. So I cleared it up with Jamie, who promised me you'd appreciate it."

"Yes?"

She held out her hand and manifested a dead rat into her grip. Not a regular rat, either. A giant, dog-sized rat with red eyes. Its tongue lolled out.

"With you doing the whole Catch Them All thing, and the eating-the-hearts-of-your-foes thing, I figured that you might be able to use this? Inaaya said it's not poisonous. Though maybe wash it down with a bottle of whiskey. Or disinfectant."

She'd brought me a dead rodent. To eat. How fortunate that I liked cats almost as much as dogs.

I laughed as I took the rat and pulled it into my own inventory.

"You like it?" she asked.

"Very much. Thank you. That's a wonderful gift. If I can make proper use of it today, it might save me a giant headache."

She tilted her head. "Headache?"

"I want to make a shape I got today permanent. The owl you saw me lift off with earlier. It has some specific properties I want to keep, which I'll tell you more about later. Any additional shape I can get my hands on and get a single kill in will help."

"Huh. Cool. Glad you like it."

"It also completes my scavenger set. Crow, hyena, and rat. Feels fitting."

"I'd have brought you the bigger one, too, but that one wouldn't fit into my inventory, and there wasn't enough time to carve out her heart."

I briefly wondered what the crown's reward would have been for killing a giant dire rat queen.

"Please never risk anyone's life to get me another heart to eat. I already get my fair share."

"Oh, right! That reminds me," Sarah turned to Inaaya. She and Alex were chatting with Jamie and Ash. "Ina! Show her your crown." Sarah turned back to me. "You are both queens now."

Inaaya shook her head. "I will not. That thing is disgusting. I'll wear it to combat if necessary, but it's…" Her voice trailed off, and she visibly shuddered.

Sarah leaned in and lowered her voice. "She's right. It's really disgusting. Do you know what a rat king is? It looks like a rat king cast in bronze and shaped into a crown. Makes her spells poisonous."

I, too, shuddered at the mental image. At some point, a line from Lucy—probably directed at Ash—had appeared in my Guide chat.

["Check that out. You'd have felt right at home here, even before the end of the world."]

Lucy wasn't anywhere to be seen anymore, and neither was the flyer. I actually wasn't sure whether they could take objects with them when they vanished.

Ash met my eyes across the room and gave me a puzzled look. He seemed far more concerned than another stupid Lucy joke warranted.

Sarah's fingers drumming on No Quarter pulled me out of it.

"That does sound disgusting and very useful. You and I know how bad poison can be," I replied.

She hadn't been oblivious to my sudden distraction but still played along. "Fuck. Yeah. Would've preferred it if she'd gotten something to cure them."

"Same, Sarah. Same."

I took a mental note to seek pack leaders that could be associated with damage over time effects. Maybe eventually the crown would grant me some kind of resistance to those.

"Was it true what your devil—what Lucy said? You set fire to the place and briefly wanted to end the world?"

"Obviously that's oversimplified, but yeah. Remember how annoyed I was at that boar shape? Yeah, that one was a trap. I wasn't even angry when I sprung it, but I was absolutely not prepared for the bullshit F—the Blessing would throw at me."

Sarah let out an amused huff. "You knew it would be bad and still did it."

"Yeah. I really need to get better at this. At—all of it. Doing well in the Apocalypse is not a skill they teach in school. Not that I paid much attention."

"And here I thought you'd been a teacher's pet."

I laughed, but didn't fully feel it. Jamie was very distracted, and it was distracting me in turn.

Sarah noticed my gaze and followed it to Jamie.

"He hit level twenty," I said. "Seems to be a tough choice."

"But you don't know?" she asked.

"Nope, we haven't had an opportunity to discuss them yet."

Sarah shifted her feet around. "Mind if I join in on that discussion?"

I hadn't expected that. "Why?"

"I'm getting close to that choice myself. I'd both like to know what options he's presented with, considering we are both living that whack-monsters-with-swords fantasy, and hear how you two think about those. Alex and Ina are both very smart but still haven't fully adjusted to thinking in the terms of our new reality, you know?"

I was reminded of her remark about not turning the best player into a coach. "You are dealing with it pretty well yourself, I'd say. But yeah, I don't mind you joining in on that. Whether Jamie is fine probably depends on the options he got."

"I'm just turning everything into a sports metaphor. It helps, but I'm not sure it's ideal."

"Hey, without our wrestling practice"—Sarah chuckled—"our actual wrestling practice, I'm not sure how I would have dealt with that gryphon."

"You have to show me."

"Yes, I will. Not sure when. Depends on what's next. You might see me as a siren, though."

I waved Jamie over, who pulled out of his talk with the others to join Sarah and me.

"Let's discuss your options, okay? You seem bothered by them. Mind if Sarah joins?"

Jamie looked a bit surprised at the request but shook his head. "Not at all. I'd include everyone if you wouldn't… you know, disassociate as soon as more than four people are talking at once."

I had nothing to respond to that with. So I didn't and instead pulled that cello into my inventory and began walking out of the room, to both Jamie's and Sarah's amusement.

I walked ahead of them in search of another suitable room, but something amused Jamie even more as I did. When I turned to see what had amused them, they both very much looked like neither had ever done anything wrong in their lives.

"No conspiring against the Sin Slayer," I mumbled.

"I'd never," Sarah insisted.

"Yes, ma'am. No conspiracy, ma'am."

I sighed. We ended up settling into what had to be this place's office, though it was just two desks placed face-to-face and a couple of filing cabinets to the sides. It was only slightly weird to see paperwork lying around that I knew would never get filed.

Since I didn't want to hog the chairs, I hopped onto one of the cabinets.

"Okay Jamie, what are the final choices?"

They had both settled into an office chair each, and Sarah had put No Quarter on a desk, scattering paperwork in the process.

"Before we begin," Jamie said. "You know that thing is evil, right?"

"Only as evil as I allow her to be. We have an understanding, and so far she's playing ball. Though I expect the unexpected but inevitable betrayal. Did Eve tell you how she saved my life last night?"

"Eve or the sword?"

"Well, I meant the sword, but it was both of them." Sarah looked over at me, the unspoken question in her eyes: was she free to tell Jamie what had happened? I nodded.

"So, one of those assassins got me with their poisoned blades—"

"Like the thing I got hit with," I added.

"—like what Eve got hit with before. But she—the sword, I mean—can drain the life of those we strike. So Eve turned into a living IV and sustained me through it all. I'd say that she deserves some respect until proven evil. The sword that is. Well, Eve, too."

Jamie took a while to take that all in. "Okay," was all he said.

"So? Do any of your classes come with an option to improve your healing to remove debuffs?"

"Oddly, no. I guess I didn't pay enough attention to that aspect of my kit, and so the Blessing ignored it, too."

"Bummer. Okay, hit us."

"So, you already know about Cavalier. I get to summon a holy steed, bonuses for charged attacks, and shared resistances with my mount."

I had to resist the urge to threaten him with murder for that one. Because those bonuses were a lot more powerful than I had anticipated. I hadn't even fully processed the consequences when Sarah pulled me out of my thoughts.

"Hey, Eve. Mind sharing those thoughts with the class? I somehow suspect you'll say 'next' without ever sharing what's going through your mind right now."

"Yes, right. So, this is obviously a strong kit. Jamie gets resistances against things he kills. A long enough battle, or a series of very targeted assassinations, and he and his mount could be just about invulnerable against anything he goes up against. And that's ignoring the… other aspect of this." I paused to gather my thoughts.

"Which is?"

"Me. Especially my gryphon shape. He got this stupid lance that combines bonuses of his 'mount' with his own. I deal a ton of extra damage for going fast. We could legitimately shred through foes we'd have no chance against in a fair fight. This might quickly become Mammon-slaying power."

"But we aren't going to go for that," Jamie said.

"No?" Sarah asked.

"I think it requires things to be too neat to work. It'd only work where a horse, even a magically enhanced one, could maneuver, or it'd cost Eve all of her flexibility. I'm not sure the whole would be greater than the sum of its parts, so to speak."

I nodded along until he was finished. "Next," I said, winking at Sarah.

"There is Crusader. Growing bonuses as a fight continues, including some advantages for my entire party."

"Hey, I got similar stuff," Sarah said. "It's neat, but also not always useful. Once fights stretch too long, something has gone wrong already. Like suddenly being utterly swarmed by giant rats."

"Yeah, I feel similar. As long as I'm with Eve, we already have a lot of staying power. This would solve a problem we don't really have."

"But?" I asked.

"But it's not like the remaining two."

"Which I won't like?"

"Nope."