Brodie was a tall guy, older than Connie, with a ruddy complexion and a slight paunch. When she handed him her phone so that he and Alden could meet, he panicked. At least, Alden hoped it was panic that made him start talking about the different upholstery options available for this model of recreational vehicle. If he normally introduced himself that way, then it was going to be up to Connie to make friends for both of them.

After a few minutes, she took the phone back from him and walked to the RV’s bedroom to get some privacy…or maybe just to rescue Alden and Brodie from each other.

“I was going to let him sell me the UV-resistant fabric,” said Alden.

She was still wearing a huge smile. “I told him already that we’d do the wedding whenever you could come. You do want to come?”

“Of course I do.”

Will you have kids?

“I don’t think the timing matters too much. I’m not really interested in doing one of those big extravaganzas with a flock of doves and a Wrightwork dance floor.”

Will I get to know them?

“Are you sure?” he asked. “I know the people who could make you a magic wedding dress.”

She shook her head. There was a giant bouquet of red roses reflected in the mirrored door of the closet behind her. “No. I can’t imagine what something like that would cost!”

“I have a pretty good idea.”

If they play baseball, will you remember to pick them up from practice?

“I love you, Aunt Connie.”

Will they know the person I grew up with at all? Or did Thegund make her disappear, too?

“Love you, too, Alden. You know, you really do look so grown up in your uniform.”

******

******

“How far are you behind now?” Lute asked.

“An hour and forty-eight minutes,” Alden grumbled as he stalked into the kitchen for a drink. Haoyu had been back for a while, and the apartment smelled good from whatever he’d put in the slow cooker.

Lute played a mocking trill on Angela Aubergine. The harp had been moved into the living room since the last time Alden had passed through.

“Hot Potatoes can do it all,” Alden said, yanking open the fridge.

“Hot Potatoes is a mental performance athlete you invented, and he lives in a world where nothing ever interrupts him.”

“I’m pretty sure I’m just having a rough start, and tomorrow the schedule will work.”

“Are you two speaking in code on purpose?” Lexi asked. “Should you be mental texting about whatever this scheme is instead?”

He was standing in the middle of the kitchen with a line of marshmallows on the floor in front of him, one hand clenched by his side while the other gripped Writher’s handle. The chain whip was inching toward the nearest marshmallow almost shyly.

“Alden decided to cram twelve hours of work into seven this afternoon,” Lute said. “That’s what I’ve gathered from the things he says every time he emerges from his room. It sounds to me like he has to eat dinner on the toilet while he plots world domination if he wants to get back on track.”

“I made vegan American food,” Haoyu announced, coming down the hall damp-haired from his bath. “But you can eat it whenever or save it if you want.”

“Vegan American food?”

“Yes. I said I’d cook a bunch of food you could eat, remember? But you haven’t been here regularly, and then we had all the Thanksgiving things to finish.”

Alden’s memory was fried after spending all afternoon and evening trying to get everything on his list done. Dredging up the promise Haoyu was talking about took him a while.

When he managed to send me the long message during the disaster. He apologized because he was worried he’d been rude on the bus and said he’d cook for me.

“I do remember. What are we having?”

“Sloppy joes. But with veggie stuff instead of beef.” Haoyu stepped over the line of marshmallows, and went to look in his cooker. “Do you like it?”

“I can’t actually recall the last time I had one. But yeah. I do.”

So while his avatar continued to race ahead of him, he ate sloppy joes with his roommates.

Unlike certain other Joes, they weren’t at all disappointing.

******

Alden was in the MPE gym, in his suit, by 9:45 PM. He wouldn’t have the whole floor to himself for his private lesson; it was currently sectioned off into eight large blocks, and four of them were already in use, since the barriers had been made opaque to provide the occupants with some privacy.

Big Snake was there early, too, waiting in one of the corner blocks with his arms akimbo in a pose that was reminiscent of some of his more memorable superhero imagery.

If he just had on his cowboy boots…

I hope this all goes well.

“Hi, Instructor Waker,” he said when he reached the man. “Thanks for donating time tonight.”

“Thank you! Think of how embarrassin’ it would have been if I’d volunteered and none of my students wanted to see my face outside of class.”

“I don’t think that would happen. I brought you something.”

“What’s this now?” Big Snake asked as Alden presented him with a yogurt container full of hot leftovers and a hamburger bun in cling wrap.

“It’s from Haoyu. He thought you might like it. He has a slow cooker.”

Lexi had argued that giving a teacher a cup of sandwich filling was odd. Haoyu had countered that lots of people gave teachers homemade sweets, so why wouldn’t homemade savories be welcome, too?

“It’s a vegan sloppy joe,” Alden said.

Big Snake was already pouring it onto the bun, which looked snack-sized in his hand. He took a big bite out of it and chewed. “That’s the kind of pre-workout snack you want, isn’t it?” he said after he’d swallowed. “Since you’re here early, and I’m here early, let’s talk for a minute.”

Alden nodded. A few seconds later the walls of their block went opaque.

“No sound in or out,” said the instructor, nodding at the nearest wall of the spacious rectangular block. “And we can have drones film or not depending on what you want. Some people don’t like ‘em.”

He took another huge bite and gulped it down. “I’ve got lots to say, and there’s plenty I can teach. But we’ve only got a couple of hours here, so what are you hopin’ we’ll do with the time you’ve earned?”

It was actually such a difficult question. Alden had spent a significant portion of his evening thinking it through. I need help with the bokabv of course, had been his first thought, but the more he tried to figure out the specifics of what he’d ask Instructor Waker for, the more he realized he was doing a decent job already of prepping for the most obvious stuff. Getting his shield in front of a charging foe was something he could practice for hours at North of North if he wanted; the MPE gym would be better, but not so much better that he needed that to be the main thing they did tonight.

“There have been a few times recently when I’ve felt like I was getting closer to some important realizations about my skill, or maybe just like I was more in synch with it. I thought it would be…”

The word I’m looking for definitely isn’t fun.

“I thought it would be valuable to try to repeat some of those moments here in the gym. I don’t really expect to have a breakthrough in a single night, but it would good to dig into those situations a little more and there’s not time in regular class.”

“Yeahhh,” said the instructor, smiling, “you want to try the catchin’ again! Eyes closed! Some more dangerous projectiles than last time?”

“I would like to do that.”

“And maybe a little somethin’ like last night? Torsten thought you might have had a good moment there when he hit you with the crate. We should save heavy hits on your skill for the end, though, so we don’t fatigue you too much.”

“That would be good, too.”

“Got somethin’ else?”

Alden swallowed. “There was this small, near-drowning incident during the flood? And I’m pretty sure the dueling block can get pitch black, and the suit can make me feel like I can’t breathe, and I could hold one of those realistic dummies we have in the storage room and you could, like, toss me around a little and rip it out of my arms while I’m trying to save it?”

Big Snake was still smiling.

That’s a good sign.

“Could we try that once?”

“Hell no,” Big Snake said. “I’m gonna go get us some tennis balls.”

******
