By the time I got to the currency exchange center in Mt. Verner proper, I floated a dozen empty vials beside me. I dumped them into a trash receptacle before walking up to the exchange center. The receptionist wasn't a remnant, instead being a native from Springfield. I couldn't remember their name, but the orange hair and blue eyes looked undeniably Irish. He had freckles and broad shoulders, and the guy looked like he pulled ladies left and right.

Good for him. Either way, his eyes widened as I stepped up.

"Hello, guildleader. Is there anything I can do for you?"

I nodded.

"I need standard dungeoneering supplies, a cloak that hides my status from leveled individuals, and normal-looking clothes for a wanderer."

The receptionist peered up at me, recognition glowing over his face.

"An infiltration mission? Say no more. I'll get you just what you need. Before I do, do you have a budget?"

I shrugged.

"This can't pass fifty million credits."

His face paled.

"Oh my god...What in the world were you thinking we had in stock?"

"I'd imagine quite a bit since you can order it from some of the interconnected empires we've allied with, right?"

"Of course, but even then, fifty million is a price tag reserved for scarce, esoteric goods."

I smiled.

"Good. I can get some pretty good-looking mundane gear then."

The receptionist scoffed.

"Alexander was right about you. You do get right to the point. The aura's there too. Man, crazy."

I furrowed my brow.

"Alexander? Which one?"

"The arcane mage. He talked about a lesson about pain tolerance with you."

I snapped my fingers.

"Ah, him. How's he been doing?"

"Oh, he's great. He's actually my older brother. He helped keep me alive during the culling, and he's been raising our little sister for a while now. I send him money from time to time for whatever she needs. I visit too, but he lives out in the countryside of the city. I only make it over twice a week."

"The countryside, huh? That sounds like it's outside the barrier of the city. Not that it's my place to judge, but that seems unadvisable, given he cares for a child."

The receptionist waved his hands.

"Oh, he's in the city confines. Your barrier covers lots of extra space, and even after all this time, we're still filling in the gaps."

I put my hand on my hips.

"Well, hell yeah. I'm glad to hear it. By the way, what's your name?"

He reached out a hand.

"Connor."

I grabbed his hand.

"Daniel. What will the cloak cost? And a rifle or some normal-looking weapons."

Connor scratched the side of his head.

"The cloak is the only item worth talking about price-wise. To get a good one, it's going to cost around three to four million credits. I'll cut our share of the proceeds as this is helping the guildleader out. It doesn't seem right to profit off you, given we're in business due to, well, you."

I opened my pocket dimension before handing him one of my premade rings.

"Thank you kindly."

He gawked at the item as if I handed him a gold bullion.

"This...This is too much. These aren't sold, so the prices aren't set, but they're far higher than the cloak costs."

I scoffed.

"Maybe if I was paying for it using this, but this is a gift. It's for the little sister. She doesn't have to wear it all the time, but anytime you guys are traveling, it can help keep her safe."

Connor stood, the ring weighing his hand down. After a moment, tears fell down his face. I leaned back, my face aghast.

"Oh man, I, uh, what's going on?"

He waved his hand.

"I...Just...This is incredible. Thank you."

I peered back and forth, an intense quiet settling on us in a strangling fashion. It felt like such an overreaction to me, yet he carried on as if this was expected, all the while immersed in a wave of emotion. I could hardly take it, so I gestured to the cloak.

"So uh...How does the cloak work?"

Connor wiped his face.

"Ahem...It, uh, it will hide your title and status from anyone at or below level five thousand. What makes the cloak special is that it hides from level 5,000 as well. Most items like this miss that threshold."

I nodded.

"So only classers can see through it, and they're much rarer than cappers?"

Connor nodded.

"That's the gist of it. It's quite protective and can pull up lower attribute totals if that's something you struggle with. Knowing you, that's not something you have to worry about."

I shrugged.

"If it's raw attribute totals, probably not. Using them? Well, that's a different story. Anyways, thanks for getting me sorted out. I appreciate."

He bowed far too deeply while holding the ring.

"No, thank you. Thank you so much. Our family is forever in your debt. Thank you again."

As I walked off, I had to shake off some unease. Connor had held that trinket like he was Gollum, and I handed him the one ring. In essence, I might have, and it further drove home how alienated I'd become. After passing through my suite, I changed into the new garbs and altered the size of myself.

I still stood tall at nine feet, but I wouldn't be mistaken for a classer or guildsman. In dark leather, I had a hood over my head and a variety of consumables meant for combat. Daggers lined my chest, the metal glinting. Several vials hummed at my side, the potions thrumming out with volatility and promise.

Ok, look, I mimicked a cheap version of Terra.

There, I said it. I didn't know a single other real dungeoneer, and he had this grizzled look that felt down to Earth. My other guildmates barely wore armor since their bodies outdid what most protection provided. It would make me stick out like a sore thumb if I followed that fashion trend. It would also be nice to try out some of these other combat techniques using daggers and consumables. A sword, too, maybe.

I wouldn't be an expert, but I could probably manage, given my immense statistical advantages. The other odd part of the outfit was actually wearing it. I hadn't worn clothes in a long time, and I wore the leathers like a cat forced into an ornate and itchy Christmas sweater. Either way, I headed out of the fifth floor of Mt. Verner and headed towards the city proper.

After passing the lavish streets and decadent designs, I passed a few alleyways to a newer district. It was three miles from the city center, but it still used the architect golem's primary visual aesthetic. However, this place carried signs of being 'poor' relative to my guild's weird standards.

Most buildings lacked integrated enchantments. In the developed part of Springfield, most buildings had all kinds of buffs that augmented whoever rested or worked within. Here, people existed in the sphere of only my own citywide boons. My bonuses dwarfed most buildings' integrated runes, but while mine revolved around pragmatism, these runes oozed comfort.

For example, skilled enchanters created self-regulating and individualized mana constructs. Depending on a person's preference, these constructs modified their surroundings on the fly. It made temperature easy to forget, given how controlled it was. The same could be said for gravitation, where decadent bussinesses lightened the load a touch for a sense of ease inside their building.

My brain thought of how that would soften a person's bones over time, but by now, I had already established that I was a total weirdo. Other signs of being oh so very poor were a lack of crystalized mana or my armor pieces. Torix's alumni banners also steered clear of this district alongside signs of being a part of the guild's wars.

That's why I passed the unenchanted buildings and not quite so ornate lamps. It all screamed of opulent luxury to me, but the average level here sat in the upper hundreds. Think 500-1,000. People turned rowdier, and they carried less leveled gear. Some people didn't even shower every day, and a few of the buildings already showed slight wear and tear from lacking maintenance.

I passed through the streets, the entire time feeling like an imposter. I was, so that sensation fit right in. I would've been far more nervous if not for how little attention I garnered. No one even gave me a second glance, my cloak giving me exactly what I hoped for - anonymity. As I walked by, a few people talked trash about The Harbinger and his policies.

I couldn't help but have a hidden grin across my face at their griping.

Even better, they complained about absurd trivialities. In general, I had a policy that certain people whined and complained, no matter the circumstances. You gave them ten thousand dollars? It could've been a hundred. Did you save their children from a car accident? You should've paid for full coverage on their insurance policy for them as well.

The more absurd their complaints, the more you could respect what they complained about. Ergo, these people complained about how powerful the golems were, how hard it was to get a legacy, and how the Harbinger hadn't cleared all the eldritch on Earth. It was a long list of entitled complaints, and that meant I was doing pretty well.

Still, I hadn't harvested all I needed after mingling in the masses. After passing a building that already had water damage on one corner of an immaculately sculptured roof, I stepped to the downstairs level of another low-lit basement. A sign at the front declared - Joshua's Gingertown, Where Fun Meets Taste. I wasn't the biggest fan of the title, but I liked the old wooden sign quite a bit.

As I stepped into the tavern, I relished my surroundings. The place emulated a vintage-styled English pub. A set of barrels and old wooden stools lined the bar. Sawdust spread out over the floor to clean up beer and spilled spirits. Old kerosene lamps lit over the tables, and the smell of cigars and whiskey drifted through the air.

It impressed me. Sourcing all of these pieces was far more difficult than simply making gold or marble. Even more so, the owner stood and served at the barkeep, his vest and rugged mustache putting a smile on my face despite my envy. I had always wanted to grow out a mustache, but alas, I quit growing a beard after integrating into my armor.

A profound and deep sadness welled within me. My desire for a mustache would never be sated, so could my life ever truly be complete? Most definitely not, but I trekked forward in spite of it all. As I sat down at the bar on one of the barrels, I was stunned at how profoundly uncomfortable it was.

Ignoring the angular wood beneath me, I met the barkeep's eye. He gave me a gesture of recognition before finishing up two other member's drinks. He walked over, polishing his glass.

"I haven't seen you around here. New to Springfield?"

I nodded.

"I'm trying the town on for size. It seemed stable enough, and I heard the guild's strong. If I'm honest, I never expected all of this."

Joshua shook his head.

"You're telling me. I arrived here a few months ago, and I remember the first time I saw a Vanguard golem. I damn near shat myself right there."

I laughed.

"The ones with red eyes?"

Joshua shivered.

"They don't come into the town proper much anymore, but for a while, they were here all the time. I could hardly sleep at night. I kept thinking one of those thirty-foot-tall metal titans would come and eat me."

An early twenties man at one of the tables raised a drink.

"Like Attack on Titan?"

The barkeep sneered.

"Ugh. Kids and their animame."

He spoke the last word as if fusing the words anime and edamame. He gave me a look of defeat.

"I was thinking more of an Evangelion angel myself, but all these youngsters know about is the newer stuff before the culling."

I leaned back.

"Huh, you sounded like you never watched any anime."

"Oh, I never said that. There're some good shows nested in the medium, just like anywhere else. It's a shame we lost a lot of the more niche shows after all the electronics failed, but most scavengers have been able to retain a lot of the more popular shows using tapes and CDs."

I nodded.

"Oh. I didn't know people were restoring lost culture. That's good to hear."

Joshua kept polishing his glass, though it was already sheened.

"People do when and where they can. It's tough, but a few cities like this have really opened people up to less militant pursuits. It turns out that not many people talk about Mozart or Shakespeare when monsters are running spikes through your throat."

I scoffed.

"Who'd of guessed?"

Joshua smiled.

"It would be a hell of a way to go, wouldn't it? Speaking lines from Hamlet or Macbeth as a monster tore your head off?"

I reached out a hand.

"It would. By the way, the name's Daniel."

"Mine's Joshua, though you probably knew that already. What brings you here?"

I peered around.

"I've been looking for a dungeoneering group. I'm also trying to get a lay of the land."

Joshua raised a brow.

"Where you from?"

"Castle Rock Colorado."

"Oooh. Nice area. I had a cousin who moved there. I don't know what happened to him, but I like to think he moved to the actual Castle Rock and lived atop it like some king."

I adjusted my hood, keeping my face in darkness for the most part.

"The actual Castle Rock was a dungeon, though the legion recently cleared it. That's part of why I came here. That, and I can't help but wonder if the guild's everything people say it is. I mean, can it be?"

Joshua's grin reached his eyes.

"It's that and more, son. That and more."

The mid-twenties man behind us let out a loud boo.

"You just like that they helped you build your bar."

Joshua raised his glass.

"Damn right, I am. And besides, why wouldn't I be?"

The mid-twenties man shouted back.

"Because you're not a charity case."

The innkeeper fired back.

"Says you. I don't want people thinking I won't take free credits."

The mid-twenties man snapped.

"Shameless."

Joshua sneered.

"Hypocrite."

The tension faded in an instant as they laughed. I tilted my head at the man and his crew.

"Who are they?"

Joshua rolled his eyes.

