Diesel

Scott guffawed.

"Don't get me started on communications or electricity. This is what we call the dark ages, fellas."

I cracked my knuckles.

"Well, now, that's what we're here to fix. Isn't it?"

My team cheered. I flushed a bit from the support before rubbing my hands together in excitement.

"So everybody, let's get this show on the road."

Chapter Begin

Daniel

After about two weeks of study, I uncovered a lot about magical theory and the history of its development across Xanathar, Torix's home world. None of what I uncovered applied to my magic, leaving me listless and bored. It reminded me why I dabbled so little in actual magic theory.

The primary model from that world involved immersing one's self into a zone of thought. These mental states emulated the primary forms of mana from augmentation to dominion. At this point, I summoned those mana types as if they arose from within rather than having to think through them.

A mere burst of feeling or emotion surged mana out, so I no longer needed careful consideration. In fact, suppressing the mentality of the energies was a much more useful field of study for me. However, the research into mana poisoning was paper thin. Few sorcerers lined up to be guinea pigs for the research, and you couldn't gain valid data by forcing individuals into a study. It warped the data, making it unusable.

The studying did help me incorporate a bit more precision using lower volumes of mana than before, but the last two weeks amounted to little in the grand scheme of things. As I moved around the suite, those thoughts muddled my research and study, though that could've been the after-effects of my wounds.

By now, the scars had begun fading ever so slightly from my skin. The light gray thunderbolt marks turned jagged as bits of black metal grew into them like roots. My head still rang like a bell all the time, and I could barely move the dimensions inside my body. Despite resting, only eleven minds swarmed in my psionic domain, and by now, I worried about my full recovery.

If I couldn't recuperate, Blegara might be lost to an end-state eldritch. Anytime I forced out more than I could handle, the scars across me grew, setting me further back. By now, I had resigned myself for at least a month of subpar functioning unless I found a better means of healing. It left a bitter taste in my mouth, but all I could do was press on.

At the same time, it wasn't all bad. Portions of my memory healed. I could recall tiny bits of my conversations with Marcella, and the first memory involved a piece of intel. Apparently, my guildmates wreaked havoc after gaining the legacy I let loose on the world. I never considered the prospect in detail, so that had been eye-opening.

Sure, my legacy helped augment people, but I hadn't thought of how much it warped people's lives. I checked it out.

Legacy Menu

Below is a list of various achieved legacies alongside their bonuses. Legacies are awards that may be granted to select guild members, and they may be granted on a deferential basis.

Sovereign | Sovereign Class Legacy | Tier S+ | Grants +110 to all attributes. +11% to base stats. Note - Only available to Followers.

Endless & Undying | Endurance Legacy | Tier S++++++++++++++++++++++ | Grants 1,200 endurance, 1,000 willpower, 350 intelligence, 300 constitution, 150 strength, 100 luck, 100 perception, 100 dexterity, and 50 charisma. +15% health, mana, and stamina generation. +5% health, mana, and stamina total.

Willful | Willpower Legacy | Tier S++++++++++++ | Gants 900 willpower, 750 endurance, 250 intelligence, 125 constitution, and 90 strength.

Meticulous | Intelligence Legacy | Tier S+++ | Grants 500 intelligence, 450 willpower, 250 endurance, and 115 constitution.

Orbital | Constitution Legacy | Tier S++ | Grants 400 constitution, 300 strength, and 250 endurance.

Powerful | Strength Legacy | Tier S | Grants 300 Strength, 100 constitution, and 250 endurance.

Aware | Perception Legacy | Tier A+ | Grants 150 Perception, 250 endurance, and 200 willpower.

Fortunate | Luck Legacy | Tier A+ | Grants 300 luck, 60 charisma, and 250 endurance.

Leadership | Charisma Legacy | Tier A+ | Grants 200 charisma, 150 luck, and 250 endurance.

Note - All legacies require at least level 300. They must also be a member of your guild. This bonus does not apply to you, only to those who join your guild after meeting whatever parameters you set. Legacy bonuses do not count towards tree or perk unlocks.

After accessing the legacy menu, my best one for a normal person granted 3,350 stat points. An average person averaged a bit less than two stat points per level-up, assuming they could afford dungeon cores. In that situation, my legacy granted around 2,000 levels worth of stats, not including the percentage multipliers.

That made my legacy guildmates much stronger than a normal person. If you combined that with the rings, better training, and access to better class variants, then guild membership was a potent steroid to anyone fully initiated. I hadn't considered how much that would affect a society under my rule since the menu seemed to always help more than it hurt.

Making people more powerful would help them fight monsters, so it seemed like a good thing. In general, it was, but it carried pros and cons. Only looking at one half of that equation, the one that felt nice to look at...That kind of shallow thinking wasn't befitting of a ruler, let alone one that ruled over worlds.

At the same time, I healed into a shadow of my former self. I could move my dimensions once more, and mana called forth from my fingertips like water from a hose. However, I wasn't ready to face any meaningful foe like the rogue eldritch on Blegara. Althea hadn't visited a single time either, though we messaged multiple times a day. Apparently, The Shattered Spires needed more help than they anticipated.

That gave me a window of time to work with. Doing so, I came up with a simple plan to broaden my perspective. The problem arose from my status; I was simply too high up in my organization. At this point, people revered me like some deity when I was nothing of the sort. I needed help just like everybody else, and I couldn't get a proper understanding of how people lived in my guild since they wouldn't be honest knowing who I was.

That disconnect resulted in roaming legacy wielders that devastated entire settlements. I couldn't help if I was so blatantly ignorant, so I left my room while initiating a plan. I passed by marble hallways and decadent mana lamps before pacing down to the residential and financial sector of Mt. Verner.

As I did, my appearance garnered more than a few stares, many bowing to me. It made me uncomfortable as always, their reverence more like cold water than a cozy warmth. It was a dichotomy of reverential treatment. Its purpose was to demonstrate thoughts of praise and regard. It also alienated whoever was treated in such a way.

And my presence was like a soul-sucking alien as people hushed their conversations while I passed by. Despite the nigh scathing veneration, I peered at the changes to the district. All along the stalactites above, phosphorescent ivies glowed from the rooftops. They carried flowers that glistened like moonlight, and mana saturated the air like an electric current.

It vitilized the people here, everyone awake at all hours in a city that never slept. They spent time working, talking, and beautifying this place. The residents carved out more of the cavern, taking out huge portions while supporting the ceiling using enchantments. The unobtrusive design enabled nature to take center stage, and the broadened avenues allowed for parks, sidewalks, and broader streets.

Trees grew here, some of them blooming flowers and fruit I'd never seen. Flecks of silver speckled pears, each leaf glowing vibrant shades of lilac and violet. Along the branches, orchids bloomed, their petals flapping like butterflies on their branches. Even the grass let out wonderful chimes as a gentle wind coursed through the tunnel. A gentle harmonizing music rang through the city like the sound of rain.

The architecture incorporated stone to match the exposed portions of the cavern walls, all of it polished and sculptured. I marveled at homes full of families and successful adventuring groups. Different crests and insignias lined their grand entryways. Inspecting closer, many of those insignia boasted a skull with two burning eyes alongside a symbol of magic, from conjuration staves to ritual ingredients.

Torix's college created an upper crust of society here. Another product of his teachings, birds of mana floated between each home. These mana constructs chirped and sang like normal birds, and they left contrails of glowing mana behind them. To feed, they sat at the mana lamps and soaked in the light, many dancing to compete for the best spots.

Enchantments lined every doorway, offering further support and structure to the solid homes. In fact, a close inspection revealed metal walls layered for maximal strength. A high-level individual could break them down, but a lower-level person would struggle. To be fair, most of those here leveled to around the two to three thousand mark.

They rarely reached the level cap, but they'd seen their fair share of war from Elysium and Yawm alike. Different marks on homes demonstrated that. A world tree showed their participation against Yawm. An ocean full of life meant they fought on Blegara. A spire of twisted metal meant they faced Elysium.

These people walked with scars along their hands, faces, and necks. They must've considered the wounds to be a part of themselves, as I did. It was an eccentricity of the system. At times, a person's scars fade. At other times, they regenerated while covered in them. For me, it seemed as though reforming slowly brought them about.

Rapid healing scoured my body clean of any blemishes, but I never liked that appearance. I preferred the grit and imperfections. They reminded me of who I was. From walking around, it seemed I wasn't the only one. Aside from Torix's insignias, many families boasted any artifacts they owned that I created.

Banners on their front yards exposed symbols of rings, swords, and rifles, all below a symbol of my face and eyes in a menacing glare. They had different amounts of symbols, from multiple rings to only one artifact on them. In general, the more artifacts a banner had, the larger the home it rested on. It seemed to be a potent status symbol.

Either way, I wanted to stay here and enjoy the residential district, but a sense of unease at my inactivity ate at me. As if hounded, I kept myself active and passed the precinct before walking into the financial one. They held the same visual motif, though the buildings differed in both purpose and design.

The grander, more ornate structures housed larger spaces for various activities. I found runic enchantment shops, bookstores, obelisk repair centers, and one of Althea and Kessiah's pharmacies. As I passed by, I found the store's name. The Althsiah, Home of Your Cure. It sounded way better than I expected, considering they just mushed their names together.

It arrested my attention, and I couldn't help myself. I walked into the store. Inside, hundreds of vials lined the shelves. They contained a variety of taglines for the many origins of their goods. Blood tinctures, mana imbibed elixirs, docile symbiotes, they even had a section for berzerking brews. I picked up a few of them, each vial carefully crafted to hold their different contents.

The blood tinctures came with immunosuppressant pills alongside certifications of their disease-free status. The elixirs were bundled beside powdered mana crystals and instructional pamphlets. If someone wanted a stronger effect, they simply had to mix the extra powder in. That particular variety of warnings and wavers came alongside the thick glass bottles.

The symbiotes were clusters of various beneficial organisms. Every creature held some kind of drawback and benefit, each of them designed to bring out the best of certain builds. One set of living contact lenses augmented the sight and lessened the hand jitters of snipers, but they also muted one's emotions while active. Another set of bracers had claws to latch onto a person's hands. They gave extra strength and fervor in combat, but they caused poor precision and motor function for several days after their activations. They even came with night sweats for a week after.

Curiosity burned in my chest at the sight of them, so I put several dozen bottles into my dimensional storage while taking other bottles off of the shelves. After buying the supplies, I popped open several vials to try the mixtures. It was a fine way to blow a few thousand credits, as each vial was a liquified experience.

The berserker brews held ascendant mana molded to various upping herbs and stimulants. They caused the jitters from a fried nervous system. The boosting elixirs gave a temporary bonus to a stat before damaging the body in turn. Considering how resilient everyone's bodies were after systemization, it was a fine tradeoff.

In fact, that also solved many of the problems of addiction. Most of these compounds were absorbed and processed in minutes. Any withdrawals also occurred over the minutes thereafter, reducing the development of a dependence. Of course, Althea and Kessiah did their best to minimize addiction rates. To be honest, someone would have to make the compounds addictive on purpose to get past the system's innate safeguards.

I couldn't help but wonder how aspirin caused problems with the gialgathens based on what Neel said. I pondered about him for a while as I wafted in the enchanted liquids like some insane convict going through his last bender. My own composition weakened the effects of the compounds by orders of magnitudes, but I enjoyed them nonetheless.

