"Oh, that miscreant? That's Jamal. Those two other members are Nissa and his sister Jasmine. They were friends that found each other after the culling."

A spark of pain shot through my chest. For some reason, the group reminded me of Michael and Kelsey. Before I settled that emotion, a hand tapped my shoulder. The man from the table walked up.

He wore a set of leather armor, each piece a different color and enchanted by a different set of hands. His dreads hung by the sides of his face, wooden beads styling the strands of hair. He wore earrings, and he had the kind of smile that was somehow charming and offputting at the same time. Hmm, it was kind of like a pug in effect, though not at all in appearance. Jamal leaned against the aged oak of the bar.

"I heard you asking about us from the table. Do you mind telling me what you're trying to dig up?"

I mirrored his posture.

"I'm trying to find a dungeoneering group. I wanted to get my feet wet after traveling here, but it's been harder to find a group than I expected."

Sympathy arose on Jamal's face.

"I get that. We struggled to find larger subsections of the guild that would take us too. We're either nowhere near the requirements for a mission, or we're woefully overprepared. I'm not saying it to brag, but I'm level twenty-five hundred already. I'm not guarding someone's caravan as they travel the countryside if you know what I mean."

In all honesty, that sounded like a fine job to me, but I didn't probe further. I gestured to his table.

"Do you mind if I sit with you all then?"

Jamal gestured to Nissa and Jasmine.

"We're welcome to talk business anytime. Plus, you seem competent enough."

I raised a brow.

"Appearances can be deceiving."

Jamal tilted his head.

"You have no situational awareness. You didn't even flinch whenever my hand grazed my knife handle just now."

I furrowed my brow.

"Why would I?"

He pointed at me.

"See, that's how I know you know a thing or two. You're not even framing your questions as if I could threaten you."

I scoffed.

"You can't. You'd die to a golem or worse if you tried."

Jamal sat at his table behind me. He smiled.

"Thing is, I could've still sliced your head clean off your shoulders before you noticed, golems or not. That never even crossed your mind, though, did it?"

His knife would shatter like glass, so no, it hadn't. I gave him a sheepish grin.

"Honestly, it hadn't."

Jamal waved me over.

"My point exactly. Our crew could use another fighter to help round out our support package. It's not like we're lacking per se, but it would be nice to know we're covered."

I raised my hands.

"I'm game then."

I reached their table. Jasmine eyed me like a tiger in the grass. Like her brother, she wore dreads and beads in her hair, though she used darker-colored woods. Her skin tone was brighter than her brothers, closer to caramel than dark Earth. She also used vicious iconography on each of her wooden beads, from wolfs tearing prey apart to cthulian imagery of eldritch horrors. A scar traced her chin, the laceration from something jagged and not sharp.

She frowned at me.

"You remind me of this arrogant prick I knew in high school."

I leaned against the table.

"How so? Cause it can't be my dashing good looks."

I dripped sarcasm, but Jasmine narrowed her eyes.

"So you think you're handsome?"

"To goblins, maybe."

She slapped my shoulder.

"You can take a bit of heat and a joke. That's enough for me."

Nissa frowned. She wore enchanted robes, and her gear dwarfed the others in quality. Tattoos wrapped around her neck, and she kept her hair short in a brunette bob. Her fair skin carried freckles from many lost battles against the sun, and she was also the youngest of the group while wearing circular glasses. They reminded me of Harry Potter's glasses, actually.

She raised her brow.

"We don't even know if this guy can do anything. Or if he'll kill us."

I leaned against my hand.

"What's that going to get me, exactly?"

Nissa hit her staff against the ground.

"Our equipment, at the least."

I furrowed my brow.

"And a bounty, one that exceeds the worth of your collective gear severalfold. I'll ruin my reputation here as well, and I won't be able to join the guild, given my criminal record. In essence, I'd give my future away for the chance at gaining equipment I could work my way to having over a few years."

I frowned.

"It's a bad trade, isn't it?"

Nissa adjusted her robes.

"It sounds like you've given murdering us a lot of thought."

I peered at the bar's aged oaken walls.

"More like I've thought about the concept of murdering in general. Either way, I understand the ramifications well enough to know what I'd be losing in the exchange, assuming I survived it. That should be comforting enough."

Nissa adjusted her glasses, wiping off some grime.

"I suppose, though I'm still not fully in favor of this guy joining our group."

Jamal clapped his hands together.

"We can't know unless we try, right? I say we go for it."

I leaned back up.

"Ah, great. When's the trip?"

Jamal raised his hands.

"We've got a job lined up, but we're fine with postponing for a few weeks while you get ready."

I waved a hand.

"I'm ready now."

Nissa squinted at me.

"You're telling me you run into a dungeon without any prep work?"

I rolled a hand at her.

"I'm assuming I can read your group's prepared documentation as we travel. As far as supplies go, I'm topped off and have what I need."

Jamal cracked his neck.

"There's only one last thing to verify."

He put a hand up.

"Let's see if you have any power in that arm."

I spread my hands.

"I'm not planning on wrestling an eldritch to the ground anytime soon if I can help it."

Jamal's eyes lit with a competitive fire.

"You never know if you'll have the choice. Now come on, or you're not joining the group."

I gave the rest of the bar a cursory glance. I found no other groups, so I turned back to this one and shrugged.

"Alright. Let's do this."

I put my hand on the table, an internal bar of steel offering plenty of support for our arm-wrestle. To be honest, I hadn't arm-wrestled since I was in high school. I had no qualms about it, though I remember there was a risk of breaking someone's arm if you used the wrong angles of force or something.

Either way, I planned on losing steadily but well enough to earn respect. As I grabbed the guy's hand, his eyes widened, and he laughed.

"Dude, you feel like you're made of steel."

I grinned.

"I have plenty of hand conditioning skills."

He took a breath before starting the countdown.

"If you say so. Ok. Three. Two. One. Go."

He began the epic battle of monumental proportions. I had to emulate the jittering of a muscular struggle, though the guy also cranked my arm and hand from a weird angle. It felt like he understood the game much better than I did, and it put me in a position where he leaned over my arm while I could only curl him.

Nissa rolled her eyes.

"You literally had an arm wrestling club before the system. Why do you even do this?"

Jamal flashed a cheeky grin and spoke through a strained breath.

"The glory, Nissa. The glory."

I shook as he pressed down onto my hand. As his face flushed, I clenched my jaw, trying to appear like I was in a stoic struggle. After a while, I let the guy win, and he leaned back. He put his hands up.

"The man. The myth. Undefeated."

The girls rolled their eyes.

"Childish," Nissa mouthed.

"Stupid," Jasmine murmured.

I shook my hand as if wringing out some discomfort.

"Gah, you got me."

Jamal smiled.

"It was a good match. That seals the deal. We'll see if you're a fit, new guy."

They ordered me a few rounds of drinks, and Joshua hung around the table for a while. As Jamal handed me the drink, a subtle sharpness entered his gaze. He spoke with nonchalance.

"This brewery has a few connections with Torix and his crazy poison brews. Now, we're not poisoning you or anything, but this booze works for anyone at around level 2,000 and some investment in endurance, constitution, and, well, you know, the basics."

I nodded.

"I can handle that then."

Jamal smiled.

"Pray tell, what couldn't you handle?"

He wanted to know my level range since my cloak hid that info. I offered the drink for a cheers.

"Something meant for someone at level three or four thousand."

Jamal clanked the glass.

"You'll fit right in then."

I tossed the drink back, and my metabolism eviscerated the poor booze and poison like a rabid bear challenging a puppy to a death match. After a few more drinks, we talked for several hours, discussing the dungeon, life outside of dungeoneering, and plans for the future. By the time we finished talking, they had warmed up to my knife abilities and consumable-based strategy.

It had been fun, though my acting skill wasn't good enough to pull off being inebriated. That's why I left them fumbling about on their table before walking back to Joshua. As I did, I raised a hand.

"Do you have any rooms?"

He pointed a hand at me, his eyes piercing.

"Listen here and listen well. If anything happens to them in that dungeon, I'll set a golem on you, boy."

I leaned against the bar.

"What's making you think I'll be so hostile?"

Joshua sneered.

"I poured booze in your glass that'd make cappers fumble around like wiggly noodles. You haven't even flinched. Hell, you didn't even notice it was a higher grade of booze than the others at the table."

Damn. He got me. I sighed.

"Look, I'm not here to start anything. I'm collecting info."

Joshua leaned toward me. He met my eye.

"Those kids. They're all they got in this world. I've seen them and got to know them well. They're good people. They treat other dungeoneers well. They've brought back quite a few groups to this town. They follow the law. So, if they disappear in that dungeon with you, then I'll pay every dime I've got to get the worst bounty on your head that I can. Am I clear?"

I met his eye, and a sympathetic smile traced my lips.

"They will come to no harm while I am with them. I can promise you that much."

Joshua held my gaze for a moment before pulling back. He went back to polishing his glass.

"Good. As long as we're clear on that, then I hope for your safe and profitable travels, wanderer."

I pointed my thumb at them.

"But I'm asking, in all honesty, do you have the rooms?"

Joshua tilted his head at the back.

"There's a staircase leading to a few hollowed-out spaces with beds. Make sure the dehumidifiers are on; otherwise, it gets dank in there."

I went over and picked the three adventurers up, two on my shoulders and one held in my arm. As I passed him, he eyed me again. He shook his head.

"If you're trying to appear normal, you're doing a horrible job of it. You're not even leaving cracks in this old wood while carrying three mid-leveled adventurers."

I scratched the back of my head.

"And you're a lot sharper than most bartenders tend to be."

Joshua smirked.

"You could say that."

I waved a hand as I walked into the backrooms.

"I guess we both have a few secrets."

He nodded.

"It would seem so. Sleep well, traveler."

As I stepped back to the old rooms, I found a line of brutal cave rooms, ones carved out of solid rock and supported via scaffolding. My golems made this abomination in about three seconds, and I wanted to fix the place then and there. I didn't, but damn, did I want to. After setting each member into their own bed, I sat down and rested on my own cot.

It had been years since I slept, and for the first time in a long while, I closed my eyes. As I drifted to sleep, I couldn't help but have a goofy grin plastered to my face. This had been a lot of fun despite the fact I could read their life histories in my status. I also knew whether they lied or told the truth by their heart rates alone.

In fact, I knew full well the innkeeper had rooms back here. None of that mattered because this was the most normal I had felt since before the system arrived. Alongside the normalcy, a cascade of nostalgia and warmth for a rose-tinted past came alongside it all. It reminded me of long nights staying up too late in high school while watching horror movies with Michael and Kelsey.

This whole evening had carried the same energy as one of Kelsey's pranks that ended just right, not too far over the line but still crazy enough to get a laugh out of me and Michael. In that regard, this had been like a homecoming of my old self which was something I hadn't felt in a long time.

I raised my hands, and beyond the concealing magic of my cloak, the bright scars still traced my skin. They reminded me of my mortality, the wounds from a mad god. They were reminiscent of moon slices spreading over dark steel. Before this trip, I worried about being able to recover to my full might.

However, my wounds gave as much as they took. Today, I was a normal man, or at least closer to one. I held down a laugh as I relished in the weakness these scars gave me. It was like entering a world where others could see me for who I was, not what I could do, and that was a refreshing feeling. As I settled into slumber, I found more empathy for the Old Ones.

And I could see why they wished for weakness.
