Chapter 62

Chloe led the group upstairs, into a small corridor lit in the same purple light as the rest of the establishment. She opened one of the doors that lined both walls and entered, Veron following into a reasonably spacious room with several leather armchairs, sofas, and a small bar of its own. Everything was black, from the leather of the furniture, to the round table at the center of the room, to the very walls. The windows looked tinted, showing slight suggestions of the redder light from the alley outside and the slight outline of its shape. Several lamps bathed the room in purplish and indirect illumination.

Veron noticed the abstract paintings on the walls, a little confused with everything he saw. It felt like he had stepped into a nightclub somewhere in New York or Berlin, just that instead of muffled techno, he now heard very faint notes of a harp.

“I know you said no drinks, but you're here with a first layer Balt chest. Which means no matter if you choose to sell or not, drinks are on the house.”

Veron was still standing as Isaac found a spot on one of the couches. Ailis chose one of the armchairs.

“I'll take whatever you recommend,” Isaac said. “Something dry.”

“For me just water is fine,” Ailis said.

Elke glanced at Veron. She remained standing.

Carefully, Veron removed the pieces of stone keeping the chest to his back and then set it down on the table.

“And for you two?” Chloe asked, choosing a few bottles and two glasses.

“Do you have tea?” Veron asked.

Some ten minutes later, they all had their drinks. Chloe sat down opposite the group, not commenting on the still standing Elke. “You're an iron team. That's quite a lucky find. Care to share how you got a hold of it?”

Veron looked at the others, finding that they were looking at him too. I see. I’ll be doing the talking then.

“We came across a necromancer and killed it. Isaac over there is a tracker,” Veron said, seeing Chloe nod in understanding. “And I have an Earth Harmony.” He paused for a moment and considered. “We did come here because of the chest but we found something else with the necromancer and wondered if you could help us with that too.”

He hadn't missed the small sleeve on the belt that Chloe wore. It looked similar to the sheaths of Silvie’s and Reka’s wands.

“The chest was hidden in the back wall of H19,” Veron added. “If you were looking for specifics.” He offered the knowledge both to see if maybe the Luna Inn could be a future source of information on where treasures had been found, and as an indirect offer to pay for a relic identification.

“We're always interested to learn where treasures were found. Do you want to show me the additional thing you retrieved?”

Veron gestured to Isaac, who got the small spear out of his pack and set it down on the table.

Chloe moved a little closer to it, though she didn't touch the weapon. As Veron had expected, she opened the small sleeve fastened to her belt and got out a wand engraved with golden runes. Its tip glowed with a slight blue hue that was almost imperceptible in the purple light. She drew into the air where it looked like magic lingered for a short moment. Veron felt drawn in by the light and felt a very slight tension in the room. He could feel his heartbeat and then the sensation passed again.

Funny how that goes. We didn't go in with the goal to find treasure, but now that we can maybe earn some actual gold, I'm feeling pretty tense.

He looked at Chloe with expectation.

Veron knew it wasn't just the potential of better gear. Gold meant he could look for information too; Treasures he could find if he came back in time and returned to Anvakar, and more so all his questions about his situation and time magic itself.

“It is a relic,” Chloe said.

Veron made a fist as he smiled. Isaac raised his glass in cheers and Ailis leaned back with a sigh.

“Off around adequate quality I would judge. It's called The Serpent's Fury, it’s of the Blood Path, and I believe it should be some kind of medium range offensive Blood Tool. It seems you were lucky twice then.”

“Seems like we were,” Veron said. “We appreciate the info.”

Veron drank from his tea and sighed. “About the Balt lockbox then, what options do we have?”

Chloe sat back down and smiled. “Several. We offer to buy unopened lockboxes from the first layer for twenty-eight gold coins at the moment. This price is not negotiable. If you merely wish to have it opened securely, we may offer that service for one gold coin.”

“And if we do part with the chest, would you be interested in buying the relic too?”

“Yes. I think I could offer you thirty-eight gold for the relic, but I would have to check with the owner.”

Veron blinked his eyes. “We'll have to discuss as well. Before we do, are there any other options for the box? I'm interested to know what's in there.”

“You wouldn’t be the first. And yes, we understand the allure of potential wealth. There is a deal that I can offer to an iron team like yourselves. We pay you eight gold, the chest is opened, and we each split the value of whatever is inside fifty fifty. Or we can pay you fifteen gold and the split is seventy thirty in our favor. If you sell us the unopened box, we won't tell you what was inside. Both to incentivize any of the other options and also because of some… let’s say difficulties… that have arisen in the past.”

“How do we know we can trust you?” Ailis asked.

Chloe didn’t seem fazed by the direct question.

“In terms of the value of the relic or the box, you are free to make your own inquiries about the prices. If we open the chest and you have chosen one of the presented options, you may hire an unaffiliated Infuser, Alchemist, Vessel Maker, or whatever other expert is required to determine the value of the contents. As to our general reputation, you are free to inquire about that too. We buy quite a few of these lockboxes throughout the year, and plenty of other treasures. In sum, the deals we offer benefit us because we open quite a few of them. But you only have one of them, and the risk is yours to choose.”

“Thank you. That sounds good,” Veron said. “We would like a moment to discuss if that’s alright?”

“Of course. You may find me at the bar downstairs if you have questions or come to a decision.” Chloe stood up, gave them a slight nod and left the room quietly before she closed the door behind herself.

“So, what are we thinking?” Veron asked in a whisper.

“Thirty-eight gold,” Elke murmured.

He looked at her and smiled. “Right? It seems like a pretty good deal. And she seems very upfront about the options and prices.”

“Which either means there is a lot of competition for these items,” Isaac said. “Or that's just how they do business here. It's in line with what Sonny told us, and if he hasn't colluded with them, I'm inclined to trust the deals.”

“It all seems reasonable, but I would still like to have another opinion,” Ailis said.

“Maybe two of us can leave to look for someone to come here?” Veron suggested. “So that we don’t draw as much attention again, walking around with the chest.”

“I know a few potential shops. But to get someone here would cost at least twenty silver,” Isaac said.

“We're talking about thirty-eight gold at least, I think it's worth to check, if everyone agrees?” Veron said.

“I'll go with Isaac then,” Elke said.

“Good. What about the box then? I understand that twenty-eight gold is a lot of coin but I can't help but feel interested in the other deals too.”

“I kind of agree,” Isaac said. “We would still be losing either twenty or thirteen gold compared to just selling the locked box, if there’s nothing of value in there, but at least we would have eight gold for sure, and the potential for a lot more.”

“Maybe I'm a pessimist, but I still think the best option is to sell it and forget about it. It's twenty-eight gold for certain,” Ailis said.

Veron glanced at Elke.

She shrugged. “Any of those numbers is a lot of money. I see Ailis’ point, but I also don't know how often we would even find a lockbox like that. I think it's worth taking at least some risk.”

“Let's vote on it then,” Veron said. “Between selling the box and choosing one of the split options?”

The others nodded and they had their vote. Ailis was the only one who wanted to sell it fully, so they voted between the eight gold and fifteen gold options, which came out fifty fifty.

“Which means the leader decides,” Ailis said.

Isaac nodded, as did Elke.

Veron mainly just wanted to know what was in the chest, and having voted to choose the riskier option, he decided to now choose the fifteen gold one, to make sure the decision wouldn't drive a wedge between the team, with both Elke and Ailis having chosen the less risky option. “We go with the fifteen gold option. I'll check with Chloe about hiring an external infuser to share their opinion, and then you two can be off while we wait.”

Veron got the impression that all of them seemed okay with his decision. Checking with Chloe, he got confirmation and the others left right after.

Veron and Ailis waited for the others in the small room. He hoped that nobody had followed them all the way down here in the hopes of stealing from them. Before his anxiety could build, the others returned, with a man in tow.

He was tall and dressed in a black shirt and vest, spectacles on his nose. The man looked around the room with sharp eyes, his gaze landing on the chest and then the relic. “Wallace Elmwacht of the Northern Twins, a pleasure to make your acquaintance. I understand you are looking for an appraisal?”

Veron got up and greeted the man. “Yes. We have a relic and would like to know what it's worth. And if you have knowledge on Balt lockboxes, we'd also like to know how much this one could be sold for.”

“Yes, yes, then let's see.” He walked over and quickly looked over the box, then repeated what Chloe had done with the relic and adjusted his spectacles. “The lockbox is from the first layer, but I'm sure you know that. Prices have generally ranged between fifteen and thirty-five gold in the last five years. You would be hard-pressed to find anyone offering thirty or more however, except if you could offer several of the boxes at once or had some other additional artifacts. As for the relic, it’s called The Serpent’s Fury. A Blood tool relic of an offensive nature. It should prove popular in the southern cities, which means the price is a bit higher than usual for an adequate relic. I would say it hovers around thirty-five to forty-five gold, but as an iron team I assume it would be difficult for you to negotiate above forty.”

Veron exchanged glances with the team.

“Any other questions?”

“Not yet. Thank you for coming, Mr. Elmwacht. We may have the box opened later, is it possible for you to remain down at the bar for a little while until we have discussed our options?” Veron said.

The man gave him a slight nod. “Of course.” He said and left.

“So, we're going through with it? We sell the relic here and choose the fifteen gold option for the chest.”

The others confirmed. Ailis said he should negotiate for forty gold for the relic. Then they called for Chloe again and let her know about their decision, Veron informing Mr. Elmwacht too. The Runic Path agreed to stay and offer his advice on what was in the box.

Chloe told them to take the items and follow her, then led them out and to the back of the corridor where she knocked on another door. A voice called them in before they entered a spacious room.

Something about it felt strange to Veron. The light was the same purple and pink, the room a mix of office, workspace, and collection, various crowded workbenches standing between shelves full of curiosities, safes, and metal boxes of drawers. Half the room was dedicated to a workspace to the right, with tools and metal walls that looked moveable and made to potentially withstand whatever traps that Sonny had mentioned in relation to the lockbox. There was a canvas too, with a strange painting in the works that Veron focused on for a short moment. It looked like the ocean, a storm raging. Veron looked away when he started to feel a little queasy.

A woman sat at one of the workbenches, in a metal chair with wheels like those of an office chair. She looked to be in her forties, black hair and pale skin, dressed in a white silk robe covered in flowing silver patterns. She wore silver ornaments in her hair, wore several necklaces, a dozen rings on her fingers, and earrings. Most striking were her eyes, mirroring the same purple and pink hue of the entire establishment. She looked up from a thick book when they entered.

“Welcome, travelers, adventurers, mages, fighters, and collectors,” the woman said and stood up with a strangely flowing motion.

Veron didn’t know if he should feel on edge or profoundly relaxed. He felt like there was magic here, but he had no clue what it was.

“I’m Lucie… and I hear you have a lockbox?” the woman said and smiled, something about the expression was eerie. She felt almost locked in place for a moment, then pointed to the workspace. “We will buy the relic, our offer is thirty-eight gold, and I understand you have chosen the fifteen gold option for the box?”

“Yes, though for the relic, we would like to ask for forty gold, as advised by our external contact. He will check the contents of the box too, to confirm its value, or lack thereof,” Veron said.

Lucie nodded along. “Yes, yees. Well, you see, thirty-eight seems fair, though you are an iron team, and I understand your wish to squeeze every little whittle bit out of this treasure you have found. Thirty nine, and if you wish for protection on your return up through the Circles, we will offer that, free of charge. Chloe, Adan will accompany them, if they so wish.”

Protection. Yeah.

Maybe the others shouldn’t have left alone after all.

“Very well,” Chloe said. “You may leave the relic on the table over there.”

Isaac went and set it down.

“You understand the terms? Whatever is in this interesting little thing, we will pay you thirty percent of its estimated value. Plus a lump sum of fifteen gold,” Lucie said.

“We understand the terms,” Veron said.

Lucie smiled and handed Chloe a purse. She then walked up to Veron who was carrying the box, getting somewhat close.

Lucie was a bit smaller than him, and looked up at him with purple eyes. She blinked. “There is something peculiar about you, Elemental.” She held the stare and then broke it suddenly, looking at the box instead. “May I?”

“Go ahead,” Veron said, watching her as she effortlessly took the chest from him and moved it over to the metal table at the center of the workspace.

He shuddered slightly. Something strange about me? What does that mean? Can she tell something about the time magic?

The words she chooses, the way she moves, the painting, and everything else in this room… it’s… strange. I hope this is over quickly.

“Now. You never know. Sometimes these explode in a big boom. Sometimes there are poison clouds, or even a trapped chaos beast, so I advise you to stand behind the steel walls while I open this precious gift of the dungeon.” Lucie made some gestures with her hands, indicating impatience as the team looked at each other and then got behind cover.

Chloe put gold coins into a small cloth bag before she joined them.

The upper sections of the steel walls were inlaid with thick glass, letting them see Lucie work.

“She’s going to be safe, right?” Isaac asked, glancing at Chloe.

“Oh, don’t worry. This is just a first layer box, there should be little danger,” Chloe reassured them.

Veron watched as Lucie dragged a toolbox over to the table and grabbed a few fine instruments from it. She twirled a lockpick and got to work, murmuring to herself for a few seconds before a click resounded and she giggled. A moment later, she opened the box and checked the inside.

“Oh. Interesting,” she said and touched something else.

Veron heard another click and then a puffing sound.

Lucie sniffed the air. “Oh, this is… Isidian rot. You should probably leave the room for five minutes until it has settled.”

“Go, leave,” Chloe said in a hurried voice. “This poison would kill you!”

“There’s a vessel here!” Lucie called out as they all rushed to the door. “Your box wasn’t a bust!”

Chloe closed the door behind herself with a slightly pale expression. She checked her hair and looked at the waiting group. “My apologies. Lucie is an expert, but she sometimes forgets how dangerous certain poisons are to lower leveled Paths. We shall give it ten minutes, and don’t worry, it won’t leak through the door.”

“Isidian rot,” Ailis repeated. “Odorless, invisible poison. Deadly to anyone below the Durable rank.”

“If not treated immediately,” Chloe said. “You’re well informed. It’s one of the more dangerous substances we’ve seen in Balt boxes. Either way, it seems like you’ll make a little more coin from this one.”