Akilah jumped on that, looking happier to be on firmer ground. “Yes, I can give you very basic healing guides. But you should be aware that healing is also a personal art, and much depends on your skills. Do you have any open skills slots?"

"No," he said. "I only have one healing skill."

"I would recommend that you add more with your next level, though I'm sure that you'll want some nonsense like combat or weaponry." He did not quite roll his eyes.

Thomas hesitated, then decided to ease into what he really wanted to know. "There is one thing. It's a little odd."

"Yes?"

"Back when I was level two, I was able to expand my healing mana into a sort of sense for life force, using Adaptation mana."

"You speak of Abilities,” Akilah said promptly. “And you achieved this through Adaptation?” At Thomas’s nod he said, “Odd, most of the time I see that from Evolution mana. In any case, Abilities are pseudo-skills. Occasionally when someone with a much practiced Ability dies in a dungeon, it will appear as a skill shard. It is like when one teaches themselves how to play an instrument without any training from a master.” He shrugged. "Most of the time the self-learner archives this imperfectly. That is why a skill is preferred. As for you, expanding a sense is fairly common. Adaptation tends to stretch the borders of what you already have."

He’d done more than ‘stretch the borders’ with his Purge ability, but there was probably an explanation for that, too. "I absorbed a lot of Adaptation," Thomas said dryly.

"Watch out for that," Akilah warned. "Until you burn through it, you’ll think that you can change the world, when in fact you'll be babbling like an idiot. In fact," he added, "you have a mana channeler in your team, don’t you? Zach will be particularly susceptible to mana effects unless he absorbs skills to blunt it." He rose and got a guide from a nearby desk drawer and handed it Thomas. It was written in Elvish, but thanks to the System, Thomas could read it.

"This is a good explanation of the mana types,” Akilah explained, “what you will often see, and what is good to balance the common types out. Here, we often have Shadow, which tends to make people more subtle and reclusive. Certainly not the worst effects, and is easily balanced by other elements, such as Wood or Ice."

"Not Light?" Thomas asked, keeping back a smile.

"Yes, and Light, but as you can imagine, it is controversial within Dark elf society. From my reading, your planet has other base elements. I would recommend either more Earth or Air for your teammate. Water may actually do him harm.”

“What about Jo’s Poison mana?” Thomas asked, because Zach had a pretty good idea of his own mana balance, unless he over or under-did it, which he'd done both.

On second thought, he’d read through this guide carefully.

"From what I read in her core, she seems to have a balanced mix. Nothing personality-altering."

That brought up another point he wanted to know. "How bad does mana alter personality?"

Akilah hesitated. "It's somewhat of a risk. Generally, healthy individuals have a sense of what is too much for them. Using your planet’s elements as an example, a person who starts only with Water will find they are more prone to, uh, flow around or through difficult events. If they are emotionally balanced, their spirit will likely start craving Earth or Air before long. However, this becomes complicated when you have inconvenient Gifts which weigh sharply toward a mana type, or when they get their hands on an advanced mana they cannot hope to handle yet. Then there is Healing mana, which is its own category."

He and Thomas shared an ironic look on that before Akilah continued. “If your teammate continues down the path of Poison into the higher levels, she will have to ensure that she has excellent mana control. Or add a skill which will safely use that mana. She will not want to accidentally inject poison into, say, a meal that she is cooking. I did not read her as the type to overindulge in Poison, but it is worth mentioning."

Yeah, Thomas would definitely be reading over this guide. Meanwhile, Akilah seemed to have completely calmed down from his earlier upset. Now was the time to push.

"Going back to Sateryn," he said, "When I saw how sick Prinn–uh, Lady Prinna was, I wasn't certain that I could heal her. Sateryn refused to take her to a local hospital. I said that I would bring her here, and he refused again.” He looked hard at Akilah. “But would you have healed her? With the problems between your peoples?"

Akilah sucked in a breath, tightened his lips, then nodded. "Yes. But, as you can imagine, it would have come with distinct political ramifications. The Wood elves are our allies, and while Lady Prinna is the beloved sister of the future king—he is not king yet. Of course the Light elves would not be happy with us. They rarely are, but they have the ability to make our lives a little bit more miserable than they normally do.”

So it wasn’t so much about speciesism as it would have been a thorny political issue.

Of course, that raised another question.

"Do Dark elves have a royal family?"

"No," Akilah said shortly. "We used to, but they were assassinated in the chaos of the System Integration. Even the Wood elf royals are a cousin branch to the original rulers, and they have little political power outside of their people. As I said, we are a shattered race." He spread his hands. "It is why we hope to start anew, from under the Light elves' thumbs."

"The Light elves will have a colony on Earth, too?" Thomas confirmed.

"Yes, in your… Arizona, I believe it’s called." Akilah smiled a little wickedly. "From what little I have read of human history, you are not a people to take kindly to being pushed around. That will be a surprise for the arrogant fools.”

____

Akilah ended up giving him several other guides, though they were of limited value. One was an alchemy guide consisting of cures made from elven plants. The last guide was one of Elven anatomy. Thomas promised himself he would study it in his copious free time.

Speaking of free time, it was easy to find Zach and Jo right outside the marketplace. He normally expected Zach to be the enthusiastic one, but for once, Jo was practically bouncing.

"We found the currency exchange," she blurted, before Thomas could spill the tea about Sateryn and that Akilah was angling for an escort.

He paused, a little thrown. "The... what?"

"Yeah, bro," Zach said. "Currency exchange from Shadows to USD. There's a guy who has a booth, and apparently he was able to get connections to banks on Earth."

"Really?" he said, but was wondering why both had manic glints in their eyes. "What's the catch?"

"The catch is none of the elves think that hard currency is going to survive four more months on Earth. So, from their point of view, they're ripping us off," Jo said, with a grin.

"Um, are they?"

"I have no idea," Jo said. "But they consider dollars ‘worthless little pieces of paper,' as he called it."

"He's giving us fifty bucks a Shadow," Zach said. "Limit is a hundred Shadows an exchange."

Thomas looked between them. Wood mana, which had been the majority of their drops, was worth more than Shadow mana, so that conversion worked in their favor. They all had a lot of Shadows. "Are you saying..."

"I have about five-thousand in my pocket," Jo said. "And, since I hear money is not going to be worth the paper it's printed on in a few months, I intend to go home and spend it on as much stuff as possible."

"Well, Hell," Thomas said. "Show me where this place is."
