An arrow flashed into brilliance right as it struck the Shard of Flame. Calen appeared, sprinting back toward the door as his stealth illusion dropped. The Shard of Flame glided across the rocky ground, hissing with surging flames. The dark orange Magmite lurched up out of the lava, cascading liquid rock and waves of shimmering heat as it surged forward, body grinding as the relatively cooler air caused chunks of its surface to darken like interlocking plates.

“There’s something else!” Ali shouted as the sharp eyes of her Kobolds caught sight of churning from the river of molten rock. Several misshapen blobs hauled themselves up out of the depths of the lava river, splashing molten rock across the rocky banks. Extrusions appeared and vanished, stretching forth from their amorphous shapes to drag themselves across the ground. The surfaces of their bodies immediately began to blacken, hardening and cracking as they came into contact with the cooler air, leaving fissures and cracks that glowed an angry red from the heat within. Cooling chunks of rock were immediately reabsorbed into their bodies, and they left glowing trails of molten rock behind them like deadly slug trails.

Lava Lurker – Ooze – level 35-40 (Lava) x5

“Five oozes!” Ali yelled and, as Calen glanced backward, she added, “Lava affinity.”

Malika called over, “More oozes for your collection, Ali.”

“Switch targets,” Calen said, modifying their strategy on the fly with crisp, clipped directions. “Malika, take the Shard. Mato, get the rest. Separate them and kill the Shard first.”

It took Ali a few moments longer than him to puzzle it out, but as usual, his strategic thinking made sense. While Malika had much-improved resistance to fire damage now, Mato still sported a vastly larger health total and far better armor. His Swipe and his Challenging Roar were area attacks, suited for securing multiple targets simultaneously, while Malika would fare better against a single foe. Not to mention, the Shard of Flame needed to be separated from everything else if they were to stand a chance of killing it without it regenerating.

Malika and Mato shifted positions smoothly at the doorway as Calen bolted between them and into the Landing. The group of fire and lava monsters had spread out behind him, with the faster Shard of Flame almost keeping up with his incredible speed, and the ungainly Lava Lurkers bringing up the rear.

Ali focused her senses, studying the unfamiliar lava-affinity mana as the first elemental foe glided into the room to receive a smack in what passed for a face from Malika’s fist. The aura of flame spilled into the Landing as the Shard of Flame surged across the threshold, now chasing Malika. A broad volley of Firebolts sprayed out and Ali was suddenly fully engaged, summoning barriers in rapid succession to save her minions – most of them too low-level to survive more than one or two direct hits.

With a surprisingly wet smack that launched droplets of lava into the air and a deep roar, Mato gathered up the Magmite and the five animated blobs of angry lava, dragging them into a corner in a growing puddle of melted rock and leaving the stench of singed fur and burnt flesh lingering in the air.

Ali kept her senses grounded in the perception skills of her Acolytes. Mato faced an unknown level sixty elemental, and she had no idea what it was capable of. It lobbed a blob of molten rock at him, which splattered across his guard, burning as it dripped down his armor and hide. Instantly, her Acolytes responded with their strongest healing spells. But, while his health took heavy damage from the onslaught of ooze tentacle slaps and lava boulders, it seemed her healers had it under control. A massive Swipe that trailed traces of green nature-affinity mana sprayed molten rock across the wall, and Mato’s health stabilized dramatically as his personal healing skill settled upon him.

Ali shifted her attention to the Shard of Flame. Malika dodged with mesmerizing grace, holding the monster far from the heat of the lava elementals. “Attack,” she said, relaying her command in both Goblin and Draconic. A delicate formation of lightning magic infused the Shard of Flame, the only visible sign of her shaman’s vulnerability curse. Instantly, it was followed by a triple strike of Lightning Bolts as three mail-clad shamans sprinted toward it following the two Hobgoblins. The slower attacks of the Bone Mages and archers followed soon after, and then suddenly all her Kobold rogues appeared, striking with their Ambush and daggers.

Ali was just getting used to the cadence of Mato and Malika’s health when the Magmite lofted a heavy molten boulder right across the chamber, aimed at her Acolytes. She responded in an instant, summoning a heavy barrier in front of the wide-eyed Kobolds, but to their credit, they barely hesitated in their healing spells. The lava ball splatted with a resounding smack against the golden barrier, deforming into a glowing pancake from the force. The moment Ali dismissed the barrier, it fell to the ground in a sizzling mass of heat and viscous blackening lava. Across the room, a formation flickered in the colors of lava affinity, and then the Magmite suddenly appeared in the new molten puddle.

“Teleport! Magmite!” Ali yelled, scrambling to throw up barriers and move her kobolds as the elemental launched a radial volley of sizzling rock in all directions.

“Shit, aah…” Calen said, scrambling away.

“Bone walls!” Ali snapped, trying to predict the next volley of lava bolts while Calen figured out a plan. Bone mana surged behind a barrier and several sturdy walls of bone materialized, penning the Magmite into a small enclosure. Not for long. It continued spewing a rain of high-velocity lava chunks at the walls, and they began to smoke and crack as the heat and impacts took their toll.

“Kill the Shard quickly,” Calen urged, turning the chamber into noon-day brightness with his powerful Righteous Fury skill. “Let’s do this!”

The Shard of Flame was below half health already, but as Ali turned to focus her attention on it, a large mana surge erupted from behind the makeshift bone prison containing the Magmite. She didn’t even have time to call it out before a torrent of fist-sized molten gobs of rock fountained up and outward from the Magmite, raining down upon the entire battlefield.

In panic, Ali summoned barriers to protect herself and her healers, but the lava boulders landed on the Shard of Flame too, and, to her horror, she saw its health rising in jumps and jolts with each flaming impact.

“It’s healing!” Ali yelled. In that moment she banished all her barrier magic, instead summoning a large shield above the Shard of Flame, protecting it from the sudden meteor storm. First one, then two, and even a third Kobold flared with holy light as they all activated their Devotion skills in quick succession, trying desperately to keep up with the sudden room-wide assault.

In the shadow of the Shard, Kobolds and Goblins scrambled to take advantage of the overhead shield, but several were too slow, crushed to a pulp by sizzling meteors and burned up by the aura of flame. Even the ones that survived were given no respite, every single strike against the Shard of Flame was met with retaliatory blasts of fire from the elemental.

Ali grimaced as one of her Acolytes was unlucky enough to be struck by three boulders in quick succession, smashed to the ground as a smoking pulp. Two of her Bone Mages took unfortunately timed Firebolts and meteors simultaneously and were knocked into a pool of lava. Their mana reservations snapped nearly instantaneously.

“Shard down. Malika, get that Magmite next.” Calen’s voice remained surprisingly calm amid the chaos, and Ali took some measure of comfort in that. At least one of them was not panicking.

Malika reached the Magmite as the bone walls crumbled and came tumbling down. As she punched it, the fountain of deadly lava ceased abruptly. But the elemental immediately teleported away, arriving, conspicuously, on top of another chunk of lava it had launched. Alone again, it began launching more chunks of lava at whatever was nearby, and Ali’s attention was fully occupied with predicting and reacting to block as many as she could. It was not like the elemental of lava had a face or anything resembling a clear front, and the lava bolts were fired in whatever direction it wanted, making guessing its target quite a challenging task.

Malika outpaced everyone, and reached the Magmite in record time, while the much slower Goblins and Kobolds scrambled across the rocky ground, trying to avoid the molten debris that littered the floor. But by the time her melee minions reached it, it teleported again.

“Fuck, that’s annoying,” Malika grumbled, but she was after it in a flash.

After a frustrating game of cat-and-mouse with the Magmite teleporting all over the show every twenty seconds, it finally stopped. But instead of relief, Ali recognized the magical formation within it. “Meteor storm!” she yelled, throwing up barriers above the healers this time and urging them to group up to reduce the damage. But amid the frenetic panic of barriers and falling lava, there was a kind of blessing – the Magmite remained rooted to the spot, and the rogues and shamans tore into it with a fury outmatched only by Malika’s speed.

“It’s almost dead,” Ali called out, after checking with her Acolyte’s Healer’s Sight. Sure enough, a few seconds later, the animated lava collapsed to the ground in a sizzling, bubbling pile.

Right as Ali breathed a sigh of relief, an intense burst of mana erupted from its corpse and a huge detonation shook the cavern. The Kobolds stumbled, falling to the ground while shards of rock rained down from the ceiling. Ali threw up a defensive barrier just as the shockwave hit her, preventing herself from being slammed into the wall, but every other creature in the cavern was blasted away from the explosion. Well, except for Malika, of course. She dodged it.

Two rogues, already low on health, died instantly, their corpses tossed into the lava like limp rags. Calen would have landed in the lava too, but he summoned his wings and was now flying over the lava carrying Ali’s last remaining rogue which he had fished out of the pool. It still dripped lava from its smoking scales. Her last Bone Mage died outright from the impact, and she found herself down to one Acolyte, two shamans, and the two significantly more robust Hobgoblins. The only Acolyte bowed its head to use its Prayer ability with her mana pool run completely dry. Aah, bigger minions…

Mato, still tangled up with five lava-affinity oozes, stood in a pool of molten rock caused by the proximity heat emitted from their bodies. His fur was permanently on fire while his constantly regenerating flesh cooked.

“Malika, I’m out of heals!” Ali yelled.

“Gotcha,” Malika said, sprinting into the fray. Mato’s powerful regeneration skill meant he wasn’t in critical shape, but without the help of her Acolytes, the oozes were very definitely winning – but Malika arrived, and her healing magic flashed, restoring a large chunk of his health and Ali re-engaged with her remaining minions.

“Keep at them,” Calen said, splitting magical arrows from his bow to hit all of the oozes.

“Totems,” Ali commanded, and her remaining Storm Shamans dropped their Lightning Novas on the oozes and unleashed their Lightning Bolts in staccato strobing pulses of deafening magic. Only then did the Lava Lurkers begin to fall, collapsing one at a time in rapidly darkening puddles of lava. A long path of molten rock marked the passage around the edge of the cavern where Mato had dragged the monsters along to avoid standing in the lava they left in their wakes.

The seared and sorry remnants of Ali’s minion army stood about after the last Lava Lurker collapsed in a searing hot puddle. Most were dead, burnt to a crisp, or lost in the pools or rivers. She had even lost the mage that was her source of extra intelligence. Losing intelligence reduced almost everything for her – her barriers were weakened, and she could summon fewer of them. Her minion boosts from Martial Insight and Empowered Summoner scaled based on her intelligence attribute, and with the lost bonus, everything had weakened dramatically.

It’s a good thing I didn’t lose my wisdom bonus, she thought soberly, glancing at her one remaining Acolyte. Losing a large number of her reserved minions again would have been a real pain. Not for the first time she wished she had a much longer range on her skill – having to bring her source of wisdom along with her into the dungeon made her attributes vulnerable to accidents.

“Why do you look so glum?” Malika asked, plopping herself down next to her. “Look, the Magmite dropped a full essence of flame – not a lesser one – and this lava one, too. I wonder if Weldin will give me full value for this?”

“I don’t know,” Ali answered. The craziness of the fight, her decimated minions, everything seemed hard. She had been trying so hard to cope with the damage but, in the end, Malika had needed to heal Mato to keep everyone alive.

“You can tell me.”

“I guess I’m just weak. After we defeated the boss in the Landing, I thought I was getting stronger, but the first pull after we finally get the door open and I’m down to five minions and struggling.”

“It was a hard fight, and we’ve never seen that Magmite before,” Malika said. At least she wasn’t dismissing her concerns. “You know, most of your minions are in the low twenties, they’re definitely going to struggle going up against level sixty monsters. Especially with that ridiculous meteor shower and corpse explosion.”

Malika spoke sense, but Ali was still frustrated. “It just feels like I’m pulling the team down.”

“That’s exactly how I felt when I couldn’t tank a Living Flame,” Malika said, sympathizing. “Sometimes your abilities are just a poor match for the fight, and sometimes you learn something or earn an advancement, and the problem goes away. You’re not weak, Ali, some of your best monsters are just a bad fit for this dungeon, and you’ll improve as we find more.”

“You sacrificed some of your minions to ensure the Shard of Flame died. That was a very strategic call,” Calen pointed out, joining them. “And the Magmite definitely shoots less if it’s tanked, so we know that for next time.”

“Thank you,” she said. And somehow, she did feel a bit better. “Maybe we need to more actively plan and hunt for minion skills and levels? Ones that won’t get swatted so easily?”

“We can definitely talk about that,” Calen agreed.

