Ice magic holds the power to still the very heartbeat of the world, turning breath to frost and life into frozen statues that shatter at the slightest touch. It is the eternal beauty of frozen silence, the embodiment of winter’s wrath.- Kryostria [The Frozen Scourge], Elder Frost Dragon.

Distillate of Quenching – level 53 (Ice / Water / Fire)Apply: Quench a source of Living Flame. Charges: 20Created by Morwynne Fizzlebang – “Do not drop!”Potion

Ali examined the potion Morwynne had set carefully on the table before them. It radiated an aura of cold so intense, that it caused water to condense out of the air onto the glass and the tabletop around it, freezing into sparkling crystals of ice. It was a remarkable creation; various affinities of mana swirled together within the vial. The liquid was a deep cobalt blue, and it slowly stirred around within the vial without any apparent external force as if animated from within. The ice mana was continually freezing the liquid, while the fire mana thawed it. Both were mediated by the presence of the water mana and somehow the entire concoction conspired to sit there, stable within the vial, with just the slight glow and ice crystals to show that something complex was going on within.

“This is delicate, so handle it with care,” Morwynne said, none of her usual invective and profanity present in her instructions. “The ingredients you provided were quite potent, you will only need a drop. That’s why there are twenty charges. If you bump it too hard, I think the mana potentialities might decohere and there might be some exothermic realignment of the thermal matrix.”

“What?” Ali blurted out.

“It’ll detonate,” Morwynne explained, spreading her hands dramatically. “Boom.”

Somehow, Ali wasn’t all that surprised. After all, this was the first time she had been in Pretty Powerful Potions when some concoction hadn’t actively been in the process of ‘decohering’ its ‘thermal matrix’ right when she arrived.

Morwynne retrieved several containers. “These are the extra Essence of Ice from dismantling the Death Knight’s gear. The cost of hiring the water mage, and the engineer to dismantle the gear, miscellaneous ingredients, and my labor comes to forty gold.” Morwynne waggled her hand briefly, “Give or take. Or if you prefer, you can pay with one of those Essence of Living Flame. I know that’s a little in my favor, so I’ll throw in a couple of trays of mana potions for your thirsty friend to make it worth your while.”

There was a cough from Calen, but Morwynne just grinned wider at that.

“That’s fair,” Malika said, retrieving another essence and handing it over, and then gently picking up the distillate and storing it.

“Thank you!” Morwynne said. “The essence was super fun to work with. I even earned a level up!” The excited, hyper-energetic tone Ali had come to associate with the Gnomish alchemist returned in full force. “If you ever find more work like that, please let me know. Even the engineer and water mage I hired were so excited to work with such advanced reagents, that they gave us a discount.”

“We might just do that,” Ali said. “After we figure out the other two doors.” She was already somewhat apprehensive about what might be entailed to unlock the Rune of Hellfire, but that was a problem for later.

“Oh, and don’t use it on the elementals directly,” Morwynne said. “It will damage them, probably a lot. But a punch is a lot cheaper.” She giggled at her own joke and waved happily as they all turned to leave.

As Mato closed the door behind them, Ali heard a clatter of something being dropped and glass shattering, followed by a muffled bang and some cyan-colored smoke billowed out from under the door. The continuous stream of dwarven profanity that ensued could be heard quite far down the street.

They took a day off to rest, and besides the hand-to-hand class she gave at the guild, Malika decided to spend the time meditating and consolidating her gains with light training.

Soul Monk has reached level 48 (+2).+20 attribute points.

Of the twenty points she had gained for the last delve, she spent five each on wisdom, dexterity, and endurance. These were the attributes that had the largest impact on her skills and rerunning all her drills and forms had been sufficient to familiarize herself with her new gains. Two points went to vitality, just due to the ridiculous fire damage down in the dungeon, and then she had spent one each on strength, perception, and intelligence – all of which provided important synergies with her main skills.

Martial Artist has reached level 26.Soul Strike has reached level 29 (+2).Healing Mantra has reached level 32 (+2).Perfect Body has reached level 19.Soul Armor has reached level 25 (+2).Second Wind has reached level 14.Soul Sight has reached level 10.Appraise has reached level 15.

The next day, armed with the fancy potion Morwynne had made, the team decided to fight their way down to the Landing again, clearing all the respawned elementals.

Only this time it was vastly easier.

Malika could scarcely believe just how much difference her skill advancement in Soul Armor, and two more levels, could make. She felt like she barely needed to heal – which wasn’t technically true – but, by comparison to the panic-fueled rollercoaster of damage and reaction that had been her experience of the dungeon up till now, this series of fights felt positively breezy. Even against the highest-level Living Flame boss elementals, she could now hold her own. She might not have the ridiculous armor and health Mato did, but with the fire elixir and her Soul Armor, she now enjoyed a whopping forty-five percent reduction applied to all sources of fire damage. Nearly half of any damage she failed to dodge, or block, was efficiently eliminated by her Soul Armor.

Definitely my favorite skill right now. See? Keep pushing through and the gains will come. At least there was no more need for meditating in lava baths. Although… if it had gained her such an important upgrade… Perhaps it’s time to consult with Rezan again? At the very least, she meant to read through the other books of the Nine Paths when she got back to the library.

Soul Armor’s resistance bonus scaled up with every point she had invested into wisdom but so did Perfect Body – further increasing her most important attributes. With the dramatic increase in her resilience against the ridiculous fire damage, the few extra points of vitality she gained went even further. Instead of relief like the first time, it was with a sense of joy that she finally stood over the corpse of her clone of the Living Flame boss after a fight that had been noticeably less frantic.

“That was much easier,” she said.

“It seemed so,” Calen agreed.

“You have no idea,” Ali said. “Remember, my Acolytes can see your health.”

“It’s impressive they didn’t die of stress last time, then,” Malika joked. She bent down to collect the essences dropped by the elementals, walked out into the Landing, and approached the flaming rune on the massive stone doorway. With a small infusion of mana, she called the strange, potent, and frightfully expensive potion Morwynne had crafted to her hand.

Distillate of Quenching.

“I hope this thing works,” she muttered, trickling just a little healing into her hand to prevent her flesh from freezing, taking extreme care not to jostle or bump the large vial of slowly swirling blue liquid.

“It will work,” Ali said, with unexpected confidence. Malika glanced at her, but she just smiled back.

“I hope you’re right,” she said. “Here goes nothing.” Reaching toward the Rune of Living Flame, she uncorked the vial. Beside her, she could see the energy in Ali’s diaphragm freeze as she held her breath. So, she isn’t that confident after all, Malika realized, trying to ignore the irrational spike of worry that it wouldn’t work for some reason. She tipped the vial, letting a small drop of the liquid trickle down the smooth stone surface of the door. A sharp sizzling sound accompanied a dense puff of cerulean-blue smoke as the drop touched the rune. The air filled with an acrid chemical odor that made her eyes tear up instantly.

For a moment nothing much happened, but then, deep within the center of the Rune of Living Flame, a small flicker of blue ice appeared, slowly growing outward in crystalline form as it consumed the flame, freezing it in place. The sizzling sound continued accompanied by the sharp cracking of stone, until finally, the whole thing stopped, a beautiful flame sculpture now made entirely from cobalt-blue ice instead of fire.

“Now there’s something,” Mato said, giving off a low whistle of appreciation.

Click.

A long, vertical crack appeared exactly up the center of the stone door, followed by a shower of ancient dust, fragments of stone that had been welded to the door by the unrelenting heat.

“The mana shield protecting the door is gone,” Ali announced.

“You’re up,” Malika said, nudging Mato.

“Right,” he answered, shifting to his Bear Form and bracing a massive shoulder against the thick slab of stone in the doorway. Then he pushed.

Malika’s skin crawled with the heavy grinding of stone scraping across rock, and then the door swung open to reveal the mines beyond.

Beyond the doorway was the most immense cavern Malika had ever seen – a vast sprawling chamber of rock. Evidence of different levels of excavation were haphazardly connected by ramps and paths. Many huge pillars of stone had been left bracing the ceiling as if the miners had left them there reluctantly, simply because they needed something to hold up the vast weight of rock that hung overhead.

“That’s big,” Calen said, his eyes sparkling as he surveyed the terrain.

Malika could almost imagine the dwarves delving down here, hunting for ore and minerals with their skills and picks, but instead of miners, scaffolding, and carts, the entire space was lit with the glow of countless roaming elementals of fire, and pools and falls of lava spilling out of fissures in the walls and draining away to who knew where. “A lot of monsters,” she pointed out.

In the distance, on the lowest terrace, she stared down on an amphitheater of stone and the singular elemental of fire that, even from this distance, dwarfed anything she had ever faced.

“What is that…thing?” Ali whispered.

“Inferno,” Calen said quietly, squinting into the distance. “It is a raid boss, and it identifies as a fire elemental called Inferno. Unique.”

“That looks like it might be fun,” Mato said, having transformed back, but he too spoke in a quiet voice, staring at the monster in the distance.

“Inferno? Just like the rune?” Malika asked.

“Yes,” Calen answered. “I’m willing to bet we have to kill that to open the next door.”

Well, Morwynne might get her wish to make a new potion.

Variant: Flame Broodmother added to Imprint: Spider.

Ali was happy the clear down to the Landing had gone much smoother, and even happier that Morwynne’s expensive concoction had defeated the Rune of Living Flame. But what made her happiest was her newest spider variant. Even with their improved levels and vastly better understanding and experience with the fight, the Flame Broodmother was still a formidable foe. She mostly used Sparkling Oozes on it now, but that meant switching up the bulk of her forces in the middle of the clear, and then once again for the Living Flame clone boss. A substantial amount of time was spent on summoning.

Now she was doing it again. With the two levels she had gained from both the Flame Broodmother and the Living Flames, she had increased her wisdom attribute substantially and now had at least a little breathing room in her mana pool.

“Looks like a Shard of Flame and some new elemental type called a Magmite,” Calen said, calling the first group they would face within the giant mining cavern. “Magmite is sixty.”

“Ok,” Ali said. The Living Flame boss was still not easy, by any stretch of the imagination, and she had lost several minions to the explosions and the tremendous auras of flame. But without those in play, she decided to resummon her Storm Shamans for the next part – the lightning damage was certainly effective, provided she could keep the low-level Goblins alive.

Finally ready, she got up and studied the monsters. “Can you identify that?” Calen asked, pointing right at it, but Ali didn’t need his direction, it was clearly visible to her just from the dense knot of unfamiliar mana in the area.

Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 41 (Fire)Magmite – Elemental – level 60 (Lava)

“The lava elemental?” she asked. Its dirty orange body shimmered in the intense heat, almost invisible in the river of lava that cascaded down the ramp and vanished through a sinkhole to somewhere deeper underground.

“Is that what it is?” Calen said. “Explorer was struggling to identify the damage type. It just updated now.”

“It updated just because I told you what affinity it has?” Ali asked, suddenly curious.

“Explorer has the knowledge trait,” he said. “The more I learn…”

“Aah, that makes sense,” Ali said. His skill sounded surprisingly similar to her Sage of Learning – it couldn’t manufacture knowledge from the void, but if she knew anything peripherally relevant, it could help her draw inferences and conclusions with startling accuracy. Right there and then, she made a mental note to ask Ryn to prioritize more tracking books for their library acquisitions. And probably a few of the more esoteric monster compendiums.

She glanced back at the elementals they faced and could see why Calen would call them together, right beside the squat Magmite, perched upon a half-melted rocky outcrop near the river, hovered the Shard of Flame, presumably basking in the heat and mana welling up out of the lava itself. “How should we do this?”

“Let’s have Mato tank the Shard and Malika on the Magmite. We kill the Magmite first,” Calen said. He sounded a little uncertain but, given the fact they had never seen the lava elemental before, and none of them had any idea what it might do, that was not too surprising.

“Ok. I’m ready,” Ali said, adding her confirmation to those of Mato and Malika before Calen vanished and headed out into the furnace of heat through the doorway. She was getting a little better at tracking him with her mana sight, able to see the soft pulse of the holy restoration magic healing him against the searing, scorching heat.

