Apparently, it had been the work of years to create such a powerful construct, and while she had other types at her disposal, none were expected to be quite as effective.

As the Black Legion pulled back, the magical winds visibly abated.

There was a flurry of activity around each tower, and between each and the city itself as Mages were changed out and fixes were executed in the momentary reprieve.

One Archon clearly decided that this was close enough to the Leshkin war to deserve some of the cards usually reserved for that.

As such, a series of wall-segments began to manifest from whatever storage they’d been secreted in, filling in the gap between two towers.

It was only a two-hundred yard stretch—and that seemed to exhaust that Archon’s supply—but it inspired others, and soon there were fortifications connecting each of the towers, offering at least temporary enhanced defense.

Archons flew high on various magics, clearly spying down on the automata, and by their movements, it was obvious that this wasn’t a true retreat.

Indeed, less than a quarter-hour after the last legionnaire had vanished into the forest, they appeared again.

This time, the front line was entirely juggernauts—or whatever the equivalent was for the legion—each with a towershield that looked impressive even at the tremendous distance that they were seeing them from.

The mobile rampart of metal advanced, the smaller units behind the larger, and the process began again.

Still, the whole retreat and refactoring of the force had burned nearly an hour, and Terry was soon to join the others of the Sappherrous family.

Massive boulders smashed into the oncoming metal.

Wind tore at the front with renewed fervor, slowing the ponderous measured pace of the juggernauts even further.

But it didn’t stop them.

They drew closer and closer, shrugging off every attempt to keep them at bay.

Finally, a woman made herself known on the wall at the center of the arc of this push.

Her fiery hair was held in a tight braid against the breeze, and her inscriptions were already blazing when Tala noticed her

Lea grinned. “Hard to tell from this angle, but that’s Mistress Jenna, I presume?”

Rane nodded. “Looks like her.”

Behind the woman—in great arcs that looked almost like growing wings of blue—ice started appearing nearly all the way back at the true city walls as heat was drawn forth and funneled into the woman.

It took less than ten seconds, but still so far away, Tala felt like it took hours.

In that moment, Terry flickered into being within the sanctum, eyes already locked on the view of the battle that they were racing toward.

Mistress Jenna almost gently thrust her hand forward, and a finger-thick column of light flashed out.

When it encountered the reality field, only then did the containing magics break apart.

The resulting blast did not match Mistress Jean’s attack in scope, but it proved far more focused.

Even with the magics stripped away, it could only spread out so much with barely a dozen yards of space.

The heat impacted the front line, obliterating three juggernauts and causing one more to each side to slump inward as the side toward the blast melted too much to support their great weight.

The heat was far less in total as well, so the hit only radiated back another dozen yards before dispersing too much to cause true damage.

Still, it was a solid blow, eradicating another chunk of automata.

It also did one more thing.

Standing nearly dead center of the otherwise slagged beings was an automaton that seemed entirely unaffected.

It radiated a solidity that Tala could somehow perceive even through the imperfectly conveyed view.

A simple-seeming sword was held in a lazy grip as it regarded the Archon atop the makeshift wall.

There was a moment of stillness before that blade swung an unhurried arc.

The line of grass along the previous path of the Reforged’s attack suddenly charred like a fuse burning back toward Bandfast’s outer defenses. The magic that had protected it from the mundane heat somehow removed retroactively.

All across the front, magics flared, sparked, and sputtered as it failed to oppose the working of reality.

Then, Mistress Jenna screamed.

Tala’s enhanced view only barely picked up the heat-blisters that blossomed across the woman’s entire body, destroying her inscriptions and dropping her into a disfigured mess.

Healers responded almost instantly, ensuring that the Reforged likely would be recovered in minutes, but it highlighted something that made Tala’s blood run cold.

That was a true concept blade, entirely living up to the legends she’d heard.

Moreover, it was being wielded by something far above a mere commander.

That was either a senior commander, something new, or else the leader of the Black Legion had finally taken to the field.
