Taking a moment to cuddle with Lin, we watch a group of kids playing with Aurie, the cubs, and the pups. Their laughter is a balm for the soul and I’m not the only one who enjoys it. Parents, caretakers, and people passing by all have smiles on their faces, the joy of children a wonderful thing to behold, especially in these dark times. Losing the Western Province has everyone in a foul mood and for good reason. Their faith has been tested, the insurmountable Walls breached and the Western Province lost. Though news of how close the Northern Wall came to disaster was suppressed, it’s easy to wonder and figure out what would’ve happened if it did.

So yea, hearing children laugh and play is a welcome change from all the social unrest and crippling anxiety they must be feeling. Hell, if it wasn’t for this school of mine, many of them wouldn’t even have food to eat.

Having watched long enough, I give Lin one last hug and clap Pran on the back while aiming a kick at the sitting Viyan and Birca. “Enough lollygagging, get back to work.” It’s good to see familiar faces again, but the pair of degenerate gamblers have changed little in my absence, only slightly more tanned than I last saw them. Pran and Saluk are dutiful as ever, knuckling their foreheads and shouting “Yes boss,” before grabbing a massive crate each.

“Is good thing, school,” Saluk says, grinning as he effortlessly lifts a box heavier than I can drag.

“Boss is good man,” Pran replies, nodding to no one in particular. “If there is school when Pran and Saluk young, then no bad times.” Pran’s Common is better than Saluk’s but not by much.

They must’ve had it rough as children, most half-beasts do. “Where are you from? I’ve never met anyone else with an accent like yours.”

Saluk smiles sheepishly and answers, “Sanshu.”

Seeing my confusion, Pran adds, “Pran and Saluk very tiny when Mama die. Village no want Pran and Saluk, so we go to city, yes? Guards no let us in, no coin, no skill, no worth. Live outside many winters.”

“Only Pran and Saluk,” Saluk continues, a wistful look on his face. “Bad times.”

Damn. Trying to brighten the mood, I ask, “So what brought you to the army?”

Smiling, Pran answers, “Pran and Saluk kill bad man and friends, take club and boots.”

“Very shiny and purple, good club,” Saluk adds.

“Pran and Saluk go to trade dead man’s things, need bandage and herb for cuts. Guards see club and surround Pran and Saluk, ask where we get. Bring guards to see bad man.” Shrugging, Pran concludes his tale with, “Next day, is soldier. Is good life. Have food and bed, meet Bulat and Ravil, then meet Boss. Good, good, good.” Humming in a rich baritone, the two brothers stride off with their boxes and get back to work, leaving me, Viyan, and Birca staring at one another in shock.

Without any training, Pran and Saluk killed a bandit with a Spiritual Weapon and were forcibly enlisted in the army. I’ll bet everything I own their bounty money was pocketed by the guards too. Shaking my head, I ask, “What about you two? How’d you join the army?” Maybe they've also got some noble backstory I can feel good about.

“Got caught filchin’ a noble’s coin-purse,” Viyan answers with a shrug, unrepentant and unashamed. “He wasn’t a horrible sort, gave me a choice: lose my hands or join the army.”

Dammit. “And you?” I ask Birca, almost afraid to hear the answer. Out of all my former soldiers, I’d say Ravil is the most intimidating. Next would be Birca, a man with the face of a gorilla and the manners to boot.

“Tale as old as any. I fell in love and slept with a merchant’s daughter,” he answers, giving me a roguish wink, so at odds with his rough, villainous look. “Got caught and the family claimed I raped her to save face, so it was the rope fer me. Luckily, my girl pleaded with her daddy and he wasn’t a soulless bastard. She married the man of his choice and in return, he greased a few palms so I’d get sent to the army. Looked her up last time I was in the city. She looked happy. Husband seemed like a good enough sort. Dressed in fine silks and eating good food, it was better’n anything I could give her. They had a kid, too old to be his if ye know what I mean, so there’s that.”

Silva marches by with a coil of rope, pretending to work as he says, “He’s a fucking liar, ain’t a woman alive who’d sleep with his ugly ass without gettin’ paid first. Hell, ye can’t even go whoring with him cause the ladies raise their prices every time he shows up. Me ‘n him joined for the same reason, because we’re idiots with more courage than sense. Join the army, be a hero, that sort of nonsense, and we bought it.”

Embarrassed to be caught lying, Birca scurries away, cursing Silva as they go. Shaking my head, I return to work putting together another ger. Whatever, they’re a bunch of idiots, crooks, and scoundrels, but they’re my idiots, crooks, and scoundrels. Along with Rustram, Bulat, and Ravil, they’re the only survivors of my original cripples and I intend to treat them right. Pran and Saluk are at the top of the list for Spiritual Weapons, but those other three have promise.

Hell, compared to a lot of my new retinue, they’re downright elites.

...

Well... there’s a depressing thought.

Chapter Meme
