Aldous Vren had been studying the dungeon for fourteen months.

He had begun with the ledger-keeper — a careful man who was happy to let a natural philosopher copy his records, provided Aldous sat quietly and did not ask about the recent deaths, which were still raw. Aldous had respected this boundary. He had copied everything older than six months and returned twice for updates. By the fourth visit the ledger-keeper was leaving space at the bottom of each page for Aldous's annotations.

He had conducted forty-seven interviews: returned entrants, camp survivors, merchants who had been there long enough to observe behavioral patterns, one woman who had gone in five times and come back four times, and several people at the camp periphery who had never entered and never intended to but had watched every person who did. He had read every account he could find, including three that contradicted each other on fundamental points, and noted in his working papers that contradictory accounts were themselves data — they told you something about what kinds of experience people could not accurately describe from the inside.

He had a hypothesis. He had had it for four months. It was not the hypothesis he had started with.

He had started with the assumption that the dungeon was an organism, or organism-like — that it had something like appetite, something like intention, something like will. This was the common-sense interpretation. It reached out, it pulled people in, it killed them, it changed. Organisms did these things.

The hypothesis he had now was different: the dungeon was not an organism. It was a system of classification. It found people, identified the most essential fact about them — the want or capacity or quality that was most irreducibly themselves — and it named it. Then it arranged for them to die according to the logic of that name. Not cruelty. Not appetite. Taxonomy. The dungeon was doing what a natural philosopher did, except that its specimens were people and its specimens died.

He had run out of ways to test this from outside.

He had packed methodically, the way he packed for any field expedition: notebook, charcoal, three days' food, a lantern with extra oil, a small but adequate knife. He had left a copy of his working papers with his assistant and written a note explaining that he expected to return within two days but that if he did not return within a week, the papers should be copied and distributed to three specific colleagues.

He had not told anyone he was going in. This was not because he wanted to hide it. It was because explaining it would have taken a long time.

---

He arrived at the camp at the hour when the fire was lowest, before the wood had been added for morning. A young man was asleep near the entrance — not on Fennick's side of the fire, which no one had sat on for three days, but close to it, as if drawn by warmth the spot no longer held.

The ledger-keeper was awake. He was always awake early, or awake again early. He looked up when Aldous set his pack down.

"Vren," he said. "You told me you were here to observe."

"I was," Aldous said. "Now I'm here to enter."

The ledger-keeper looked at him for a moment. Then he opened his book.

"Voluntary," he said, writing. "Non-Compelled." He had added that column three days ago, after Fennick Rall. "Occupation?"

"Natural philosopher."

"Purpose?"

"Research."

The ledger-keeper wrote this without comment, which Aldous appreciated. He had interacted with enough people at the camp to know that *research* as a stated purpose for entering a lethal dungeon produced a range of reactions, most of them skeptical. The ledger-keeper, who had been recording deaths for eight months, had apparently reached a point where purposes no longer surprised him.

Aldous spent an hour at the camp before he entered. He reread his notes on the first hundred meters. He reviewed his hypotheses in order of confidence, flagged the ones he expected the dungeon's interior to resolve, and noted in his working papers that he was entering at dawn on Death #11+1 — the twelfth entrant. He drew a small map of the camp in the margin: the fire, the cloth-and-post map, the crude entrance sketch, Fennick's fire spot with a notation — *long-term observer, voluntary, non-Compelled, 94 days* — and the small addition to the blank cloth: the arch sketch, and in Petra's handwriting, *Rall helped me read the pattern. Thanks, F.R.*

He looked at this for a while. He had interviewed Petra at the camp seventeen days ago. He had not known she was going to enter.

He wrote in his notes: *P. entered and did not return. F.R. entered and did not return. The blank cloth accumulates.* Then he stood up, walked to the entrance, and went in.

---

The Gullet: ribbed stone, bioluminescence in the walls, a directional warmth that had no obvious source. He had heard this described twenty-three times by people who had experienced it. His notes were accurate. He added three observations none of his sources had mentioned: the bioluminescence pulsed at irregular intervals (not breathing, but not random either — something between), the warmth varied subtly at chest height versus floor level (convective, from below), and the stone's ribbing followed a consistent grain that oriented toward the dungeon's interior rather than the exit. The ribs were not decorative. They were directional.

He noted this and kept walking.

The inscription wall. He had known it existed; the ledger-keeper had described it and two returned entrants had mentioned it. He had not known the exact entries. He read each one carefully, cross-referencing against his records.

*EDRIC VOSS — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO ENTER.*

Edric Voss. Ledger entry: Death #1, voluntary, the initiating entrant. No returned accounts — he died on entry or near it. Aldous had interviewed the woman who had been at the camp for his entry. She had described his expression as "calm." The inscription matched the ledger record.

He read all ten inscriptions and the blank gap. He stood in front of the gap.

He knew who was missing. He had the ledger records. Deaths #4-8 were the military party: Bren Aldic, Dara Hess, Mira Doss, Orvyn Thel, and Sera Vant. All five were inscribed somewhere — Bren, Dara, Mira, and Sera on the wall in front of him; Orvyn's record was on his journal rather than carved here. The gap was Orvyn's. The dungeon had reserved space and then directed him elsewhere.

What interested him was the placement: the gap preceded Sera's entry rather than following it, which meant the wall was not chronological. The dungeon had placed Orvyn's reserved space where it fit the record's logic, not where it fit the timeline. He wrote in his notes: *not chronological — precedential, but precedence is not ordered by date of death.*

He read the inscriptions below the gap. *FIRST TO ENTER, FIRST TO DREAM IN THE DARK, FIRST COMPELLED, FIRST TO HOLD THE LINE, FIRST TO NAVIGATE BLIND, FIRST TO TEND THE WOUNDED.* Each inscription was a category. The dungeon was not recording deaths. It was recording distinctions.

He had suspected this. Seeing it confirmed did not produce the reaction he had expected. He noted that it did not produce the expected reaction and moved on.

---

The glass bead was near the mouth of a side passage, amber-gold with a green thread in the center. He crouched and looked at it without touching it. He knew from the ledger records that Asha Trevane (Death #10) had been a beadmaker. He knew from two camp accounts that she had been seen rolling a bead the evening before she entered. He knew from one account that she had set something down near the dungeon entrance.

He looked at the bead for a long time. He took out his notebook. He thought: *she made something and left it. She made something with her hands and left it in a place where the dungeon would not remove it, and the dungeon has not removed it.*

He did not know what to do with this as a data point. He wrote in his notes: *Bead: Trevane. Intentional deposit. Not disturbed (2 subsequent entrants, neither removed it). Dungeon tolerance for personal deposits: confirmed.* Then he kept walking.

---

The arch. He had the dimensions from Sylas Renn's external account, reconstructed from what Renn had told a camp returnee who had then told Aldous: *four meters, three stones, very clean work.* The account was accurate. He added his own observations: the voussoir joints were tight enough that he could not insert a finger, the basalt abutments were load-bearing rather than cosmetic, and the keystone inscription — *SYLAS RENN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO BUILD WHAT REMAINS* — was carved in the same notation style as the entrance wall but in the dungeon's notation, not in Renn's hand. The dungeon had inscribed it. Renn had built the arch and the dungeon had chosen to record it.

He stood on the arch for a moment. He noted the lantern at the near abutment — burning, oil recently tended. He noted the weapons near the eastern end of the gap corridor — a spear and a sword, left by previous entrants. No knife. Renn had taken that.

Below the inscription: *THE ARCH HOLDS.*

He wrote in his notes: *The dungeon's relation to the arch is not instrumental — it did not need Renn to build it. It has been tending the lantern. It chose to inscribe. The arch is meaningful to the dungeon. This is not the behavior of a classification system. Revise.*

He crossed the arch.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Current Resolve: 22
```

The Asking found him at the first junction.

He had been told it felt like being recognized. That was one description. Another had been *like a key fitting a lock.* A third had been *like something touching the back of your skull, gently, and knowing everything behind your eyes.* He had rated these accounts in his notes by metaphorical precision and had given the highest marks to the second one, which suggested the entrant had some understanding of mechanism.

The actual experience was none of these things. It was more like understanding. Not being given understanding — *becoming* the understanding. The dungeon did not ask what he wanted. It found what he was. He had spent fourteen months studying the dungeon and the dungeon had spent, he estimated, approximately three seconds studying him back.

The Designation settled.

```stat-screen
ENTRANT DESIGNATION: THE LENS

GIFT: COMPREHENSION
You understand any system you encounter — instantly, completely, and without effort.
The mechanism of every room, every creature, every structure is available to you
the moment you enter it. Nothing in the dungeon is opaque to you.

COST: FRICTION
You have lost the sensation of not-understanding.
Danger requires not-understanding to register as danger.
You can see the mechanism of your own death.
You cannot make yourself run from it.

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 8
Resolve ............... 21
Attunement ............ 18
Fortune ............... 22

Note: Entry type — voluntary, deliberate, non-Compelled.
Second non-Compelled voluntary entrant in the registry.
The Maw did not bring him here either.
```

He read the screen. He read it again. He wrote in his working papers: *Cost: Friction. Correct diagnosis. The dungeon has named the thing I have been managing for thirty years.*

Then he read the last line again.

*The Maw did not bring him here either.*

He had read Fennick Rall's inscription on the wall — *FIRST TO CHOOSE* — and he had understood it taxonomically: a new category, voluntary entrant, distinguished from Compelled. He had written in his notes: *Rall establishes Voluntary as a distinct classification. This chapter's entry confirms or dilutes the category.* He had understood that. He had understood exactly what it meant.

He had not, until he read *either*, understood that the dungeon was tracking this across entrants. That the dungeon had noted Rall's entry and was now noting his and had placed them in sequence. *Either* was not clinical. *Either* was — he wrote in his notes, and stopped, and sat with his pen on the page for a moment, and wrote: *relational. The dungeon uses relational language. It knows Rall. It is drawing a line between us.*

This was data he had not had.

He kept walking.

---

The Warrens: limestone dissolution, water-worked, irregular. He had seventeen accounts of the Warrens from returned entrants. The accounts disagreed on layout in ways that suggested the layout shifted, or that the Warrens were large enough that different entrants had taken different routes, or that people under stress were unreliable witnesses to spatial information. Probably all three.

He navigated by the temperature gradient — south was colder, north was warmer — and by the accounts he trusted most. The Gift activated the moment he crossed the threshold into the first passage: he felt the Warrens as a system. Not a map — the Warrens resisted mapping — but a logic. Water finds the lowest point; these passages had all been lowest points once; their current shapes expressed the argument water had made against limestone over a very long time. He could feel the shape of that argument. He navigated by it.

The journal was where his records had placed it: left wall, propped at an angle, a scribe's hand on the cover. He took it down and sat in the passage with his lantern.

He had never met Orvyn Thel. He knew him from the ledger-keeper's records, from three camp accounts that mentioned him in passing, and from one person who had served alongside him and described him as "the kind of soldier who always had a better map." He read the journal as a naturalist reads a field record: attentively, without sentiment, noting methodology and gaps.

The methodology was careful. Thel had been systematic in a military mode — observations organized by tactical relevance, not by curiosity — but his underlying eye was good. The final pages were less organized, the handwriting increasingly compressed. The last entry: *To whoever reads this.*

Aldous wrote in his notes: *Thel's final entry functions as a relay. He understood someone would read it and wrote accordingly. The journal is infrastructure, not memoir.*

He replaced the journal at the same angle. He wrote: *Three entrants have handled this journal (including this observer). None have taken it. It has become a fixed point — an artifact the dungeon tolerates and entrants treat as load-bearing. Like the arch. Like the bead.*

He went on.

---

