Blinking, Huushal’s words froze in his throat, noting the confidence in Rain’s shoulders as he studied the area. Good, he was doing better already. Changing his plan at the last second, Huushal replied, “Then we split up to save time. We know their goal, so we each head to a different outpost. You go east, I'll go Northeast. Remember, the Major wants prisoners to question, we need to know how so many Defiled appeared in the heart of the Province.”

“Be safe Huu. We'll drink when this is done.” Clasping his hand, Rain led his people away without further ado. The thrill of the chase coursing through him, Huushal ignored the trails and rode for the next closest outpost. After four hours riding, his scouts came across the slaughtered remains of a patrol, their bodies still cooling in death. Knowing the Enemy was near, he unsheathed his saber and signalled for his Sentinels to fan out.

The afternoon sun shone brightly down upon them but the forest canopy provided plenty of shadows to hide in, Huushal’s people approaching unseen. The second outpost soon came into sight, the main gate closed and walls empty as it sat in the middle of the clearing, his ears picking up the sound of laughter coming from inside the walls. Ever the patient hunter, he waited until his scouts returned, informing him the side gate was open and the soldiers slaughtered. The Enemy celebrated within, desecrating the bodies of the dead in their unholy rituals, their victory making them bold and lazy with only a handful of sentries posted. Filled with righteous anger, his lip curled in disgust as he gave his orders in absolute silence, waiting as his instructions filtered through the entire group.

Taking the lead, Jaga stalked silently through the trees and out into the field, padding across the grass with long, eager bounds. Without a word, Huushal rode through the open side gate cleaving a surprised Defiled warrior in two as he passed. The shocked expressions and cries of alarm of the Defiled warriors filled him with glee and he took full advantage by riding head long into the fray, his Sentinels following his lead in complete, unified silence, an unstoppable force of avenging apparitions appearing from thin air.

Reacting like warriors, the Defiled scrambled to their feet and drew their weapons, but his Sentinels were already upon them, striking them down with ease. Trusting his Sentinels, Huushal gave in to the frenzied lust for battle and rode about the outpost in search of worthy prey. One strike, one kill, he moved unobstructed through the outpost, crashing through flimsy doors and wooden walls only to find more weaklings.

Too pitiful, too worthless, where was the challenge?

Riding into the barracks, a blur of motion alerted Huushal. Slashing out of reflex, his saber rang out as it crashed against a weapon. The ingrained response saved his life, parrying a strike meant to pierce through his heart and killing the offending Wraith before a massive Defiled warrior tackled him from Jaga’s back. Roaring in anger, Huushal dropped his saber and wrestled with the Enemy atop him, struggling to keep its sword from cutting into his flesh.

Flat on his back, Huushal held the Defiled away from him as it bore its weight down upon his chest. Gritting his teeth, he focused all his strength into his fingers as the sword dropped closer, centimetre by centimetre. After long, exhausting seconds, the sword’s tip kissed his cheek as he was rewarded with the crack of bones and a cry of pain. The strength faded from the Defiled’s body and Huushal flung it aside, his chest heaving with exertion as a cold sweat trickled down his neck.

Too close.

Gathering his wits about him, he sat up and reached for his saber, freezing in place as the Enemy’s Aura washed over him. His heart pounding, every instinct inside him screamed to run even as his muscles locked into place. Stepping out from around the corner, a well-groomed, recognizable bandit appeared, clearing the blood from his sword with a flick of his wrist.

“Well what do we have here?” Laughing Dragon drawled. “Ye must be the young wolf. And here I was worried ye was Falling Rain. Fucking savages, yer all a pain in me arse. Can ye condense yer Aura too, boy? Yer pet certainly can’t.”

Staring past the bandit, Huushal’s eyes settled on Jaga’s prone body laid out across the hallway, his heart breaking at the sight. Swallowing his grief, he looked Laughing Dragon in the eye, a cool calm settling over him in this time of death. “No need to piss your pants, you got lucky this time. Rain will come take your head soon enough.”

His words had the desired effect, the smile falling from Laughing Dragon’s face as his eyes filled with anger and hate, his weapon raising to deal the killing blow. Huushal watched with open eyes, unafraid.

Sorry Ma, your boy just ain't good enough.

Chapter Meme
