“As I said yesterday, we will begin with a few preliminary tests to see where I need to start with my instruction, but almost all of that can be skipped.” Singer Kaffi said, “Let us move right along to the creation of the Rift that you have planned. Explain the tier work you have done and the goal of your final outcome.”

The privacy functions were off, but the stone amphitheater room was still exceedingly quiet. Ezekiel could hear his heartbeat. He could hear the heartbeats of Kaffi, sitting three meters away from him, on the same stone ledge as himself. He could even hear the heartbeats of his people, Julia, Paul, and Tiffany, sitting on the other side of the room. They were nervous in their own unique ways.

Kaffi was not nervous at all, which was normal, he supposed, for an Enforcer for a High Clan. If Ezekiel were to be even more exact about what he was seeing there, he would say that Kaffi was relaxed. As though it was finally testing day after preparing for so long. Which made sense. His own presence here was sort of like a test, and at least it was an event that Kaffi had said that the entirety of the Highlands had prepared for.

Ezekiel wondered, briefly, how nervous or excited the High Clans had been when they had found out that he was creating magic on the other side of the world by singing at the manasphere? A question for the future, for sure.

Ezekiel answered, “[Force Wave] and [Force Bomb] combined into [Prime Area] for tier 2, which I already have, then shifted to Firelight for tier 3 which I also already have, in [Firelight Shift]. The next step is to take [Firelight Shift] and a Rift-understanding of [Force Wall] to make a tier 4 spell. Alternatively, I could ignore my [Firelight Shift] spell and remake the Rift at tier 3, putting [Force Wall], Mana Altering to Firelight, [Prime Area], and the working for a Rift into one step.”

Kaffi asked, “Do you have a successful Rift version of a [Force Wall]?”

“No.”

“Explain your understanding of a Rift.”

“… Okay. Well.” Ezekiel considered, then he said, “Rifts are sort of like Shifts, but not... Shifts can only affect what happens inside of their own designated area, with minimal affect outside of the area, but a Rift’s effects linger as a buff or debuff well after someone has stepped out of its area of effect, only vanishing after the ‘cloying’-Shift has been used up. But a Rift is not a true buff or debuff, though, since it isn’t actually shifting a person’s aura into something else; it’s just stacking power onto the top of the aura.” He said, “A different way to work a shift is into a direction of personal control, instead of random empowerment. This other direction is known as a Domain.”

Kaffi paused, then said, “Though Rift, Shift, and Domain exist on the same axis, this is not how I would explain that axis at all. You have listed the breakdowns between each field of magic related to Rift work like some warband general fresh from the academy, listing out all the enemy’s forces before you attack, and before you have any experience in the field.

“There is an easier way to think of Rifts, and it is this: A Rift is the imposition of a resonance in the manasphere which causes the magics of everyone nearby to heighten due to harmonic sympathy. A side-effect of this magic is that spells which are harmonically opposed to the Rift are lessened. This resonance lingers on the people it touches, as opposed to Shifts, which have that resonance contained into a specific area.”

“Huh.” Ezekiel said, “That’s a more elegant philosophy, for sure.”

“Do you still want to make your Rift today? I can show you a few examples of Rifts if you wish.”

“Yes, and yes.” Ezekiel gestured to the large space in the middle of the room. “I’d like to see some Rift examples. The adjustments I need to make to my own Rift experiment will be minimal, I think.”

Kaffi gestured to the center of the room. A pulse of light appeared, like a crack in Reality, rapidly becoming a ball of ethereal water that cascaded blue glows into the rest of the room and kicked up a shimmering ripple on the edges of everyone exposed; outlining them in white-blue glows. The epicenter of the spell reminded Ezekiel of his own [Cascade Imaging] spell, but as seen from underwater.

Ezekiel felt like he was at the bottom of a pool, in a good way.

With a second gesture, Kaffi handed him a blue box.

Waterglow Rift, instant, medium range, 150 mana

Conjure a large rift of waterglow which empowers light and water magics, while hampering fire and shadow magics. Causes all affected to enter Rest. Lasts 10 minutes + exposure.

Kaffi said, “This [Waterglow Rift] is the spell I would teach healers or those looking to become healers. But this one—” She canceled the previous spell and cast another into the air.

The glowing water turned darker, but not shadowed. The various lingering glows of the previous spell vanished completely as the new spell settled in, giving the impression of the deep ocean. Ezekiel was still at the bottom of a pool, but he imagined turning around to make sure that the bottom was still there, and instead, he just found endless ocean depths. It was unsettling, for sure.

Kaffi handed out a different blue box.

Water Rift, instant, medium range, 150 mana

Conjure a large rift of water which empowers water essence creatures. Lasts 24 hours.

Kaffi said, “This is what I would teach someone looking to start and farm a Water Essence dungeon. But for us Singers, this is not enough. I know that we did not agree to go down this route, but I feel I should show you what we Singers can actually do with our chanting, and aura control.

“One of our main advantages as Singers is that we can mold the magics we already have into something slightly different, without creating new magics. This is a benefit because with our techniques, we won’t trigger the ten, hundred, or thousand day penalties for making a magic wrong.

“It is like using Mana Altering to make a new spell, but until you actually commit, you won’t make the spell. We have taken this phenomenon a step further, to apply this trick to all magic, which enables us to experiment a lot more than a normal mage.” She said, “Observe. Tell me what you feel after this slight shift in this magic.”

She pointed to the watery orb in the center of the room, dismissing it in preparation for the next to come. The air around her body flexed as she cast. Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure what she had done with her aura, but it was something.

The resulting cascading blue orb was different than the [Water Rift] from before. That feeling of being in the open ocean vanished. Instead, it now felt as though he sat on a boat in the open ocean, listening to the waves lap gently, Restfully.

He was at Rest.

He hummed, thinking.

She was either lying, or telling the truth, and since Kaffi was obviously trying to pull him deeper into the Highlands, to get him to consider staying, she was likely telling the truth.

The next concern was this: They were supposed to do aura work, and maybe talk a bit about his Rift concern, but here she was, showing him how to chant to change his already available spellwork into something adjacent to what it already was.

He was interested, for sure. No problems there.

… So he let it happen.

He said, “You made your [Water Rift] Restful.”

“Yes.” Kaffi said, “It is the same spell as before, but I have aura controlled the casting of the spell in order to shift it slightly away from the deep, watery depth it was, into something more calm and applicable to everyone. This is both a nuanced version of what is possible, and an application of the skills I have been working on my entire life. A much easier way to see this application of chanting control is to witness a spell like this in action.” She handed him a blue box.

Favorable Wind, instant, medium range, 50 mana

A burst of wind hinders enemies and speeds allies in a large area. Lasts 1 minute.

She dismissed the watery Rift in the middle of the room and cast her new spell. White flows burst from a point, expanding into the entire amphitheater space. White wisps, like something less than fog, touched upon every person, clinging to them.

Kaffi said, “This is the base spell. I have designated that Odin there as an ally, but the other as an enemy.”

She spoke of the two extra Odins in the room, still fluttering about, as opposed to the one on his shoulder which just watched. One of the Odin flew faster than normal, with the wind always at his back, but the ‘enemy’ Odin was hindered, with the wind always pushing away from the direction he tried to fly. Odin played with Odin, like a quick bird tumbling around another bird that had an invisible weight attached to his wings. Odin seemed to be enjoying the novel experience. But...

Ezekiel said, “I’m not sure I appreciate one of my Odins being labeled as an enemy for your display.”

Kaffi smirked. “I don’t have many non-damaging spells with which to demonstrate the power of aura control and Singer techniques.” She lifted her hand again, and said, “And this is the same spell but altered wholly toward the speed of allies.” She cast again, flickering her control. Wind filled the room.

The ‘ally’ Odin began joyfully whipping around the amphitheater, buoyed by a fierce wind at his back, while the other Odin struggled to catch up. The invisible weight was gone, though; that much was easy to see.

Ezekiel said, “You’ve adjusted the strength of the buff, moving almost all of it toward the support of allies.”

“Correct.” Kaffi said, “With our Singer techniques and a proper aura control, you can adjust where the division of power lies within all of your spellwork that contains divisions of power.”

“Ah.” Ezekiel said, “I see how this would be useful for Rift work.”

Practically all Rift work had a division between buffing and debuffing.

“Exactly.” Kaffi said, “Rifts are intrinsically buff and debuff spells, which means that to know all of our Singer techniques is to be able to work your Rift magic much better. You can have double powered Water magics instead of empowered Water and depowered Fire, or you can shift that same Rift toward drastically hindering all Fire magic.

“You can also use this technique to get around some of the limitations of combining magic.

“Say you wish to have your [Fireball] do even more of its magic damage over time, instead of upfront. Or you want the large damage-over-time [Fireball] you’ve made to release all that power at once. Normally, you would either need to make multiple spells to do this, and in some cases, like [Fireball], you cannot use the same combination you already have so you would need to break the [Fireball] you have and start again, or use some esoteric, less-useful combination. But using our aura control techniques, you can use the same spell you already have and shift it as necessary in the moment, as battle dictates. No need to use a less-optimal spell in combat because the spell you want to use won’t fit the situation. No need to attempt to make a new spell in the middle of combat and put yourself at risk for a worthless spell—” She cut herself off.

Ezekiel watched as Kaffi realized that she was pushing too hard.

Kaffi breathed. She said, “I feel I am trying to sell you on the Highlands more and more, and have gone off on a slight tangent. Apologies. It vexes me that you are not willing to consider staying, permanently. But…” She blinked away her concern, then said, “Anyway. All that we teach is connected. All magic is connected. To know some unimportant facet of magic today is to understand next year’s issue. Thus, this exploration of Rift magic has taken me down a path you did not ask to go…

“Anyway. Would you like to try making your Rift now?”

Ezekiel said, “Yes. Do you have any pointers you wish to share?”

“If you have not made a Rift out of the base [Force Wall] then I suggest you do that today. The spell you’re looking for is something like this one.” Kaffi handed him a box.

Force Rift, instant, medium range, 100 mana

Conjure a rift to empower most magic in a large area. Lasts 10 minutes.

Ezekiel read the description, then he checked the Script for [Force Rift], just to be sure. He found nothing. This wasn’t one of those you could just spend a point and get.

“How would you make this one?” Kaffi asked.

He said, “Altering.”

“Most would guess Shaping.”

“I would have too, before I learned some tricks from a certain Archmage a while ago. Shaping changes the shape. The point of a Rift is, like you have said, to create a resonant reaction in the manasphere and touch the auras of all nearby. Altering is how you buff and debuff. Shaping does nothing for that.”

And that was a tip from Archmage Syllea, who knew all about buffs and Mana Altering; a field in which Ezekiel had barely touched, besides to understand some of the ideas behind it all. It seemed that he would be using much of that knowledge today, and it was about darn time!

Kaffi nodded. She watched and waited.

Ezekiel held out a hand and channeled mana through his [Force Wall]. An immaterial, magenta demarcation of solidity took hold in the protrusion of mana pouring from his palm. Instantly, he was annoyed. He could hear the perfect pitch of [Force Wall] and what it wanted to do, but his current Mana Altering for simple magenta coloring was tainting the vision of his magic. It added a… purple note to his spellwork; he wasn’t quite sure how to describe it other than by color.

He shook his hand out, dispersing sounds and feelings into so much broken, glittering mana.

Kaffi picked up on his thoughts, through his actions, saying, “That’s going to be a problem for delicate spell creation. Your rings, [Personal Ward], and every active spell on your person is also going to be a problem when learning aura control. Especially your [Greater Lightwalk], as that is using your aura, and you can’t be using your aura when learning aura control.

“We could always turn the privacy functions back on for this spell creation part, but for the aura control part, you would have to be a lot more trusting than you are, and I’m not going to ask you to do that. The most I am going to do is inform you now of what will hold you back.” She considered, then added, “I might inform you a few more times, in the future, if it looks like we’re not gaining any ground.”

Ezekiel considered for a moment. Then he had an Odin flit to the door and turn the privacy on.

