Lingxing remained in her pillow, and did not react to Kaffi’s presence as quickly as she could have. Oh, sure, she was aware Kaffi was here, but this was her place of power, and Kaffi would do well to act like it. After ten seconds, Lixgxing raised a hand, a single finger, while she continued to stare out into the Void.

Kaffi waited.

Everything to keep up appearances.

Lingxing blinked, her purple eyes returning to her as the Void pulled back. She turned to Kaffi, then she cast the Void into the space around the room. The sky in the windows vanished, replaced with endless black. The world went away, and it was just the two of them.

Lingxing relaxed out of her pillow to stand, composing herself by quick increments, considering her age. She looked to Kaffi with a slight disappointment in her purple eyes. Kaffi waited.

Lingxing sighed, and said, “Give me the bad news.”

“There is none.” Kaffi said, “Ezekiel is Erick Flatt.”

For a moment the Void flickered; surprise and distress interrupting Lingxing’s control, but only barely.

Lingxing narrowed her now-violent eyes. “You’re fucking with me.” She started to huff, saying, “Don’t do this to me, grandma! I mean it! Is he a dragon? Some ploy by the Clans? Some body snatcher? Is Erick Flatt dead and we have an impostor in our—”

Kaffi burst out laughing. Great lungfuls of joyful guffaws. Sudden tears ran down her face for she could not contain her happiness at her trick, and at the truth of her news.

Lingxing’s frown deepened.

And then Kaffi said, “You should have seen the look on your face!”

Lingxing seemed to lose twenty years from her face as she realized that, No; Kaffi wasn’t fucking with her at all. Her purple eyes relaxed and her angry mouth turned into something much brighter. Then she went back the other way, back to calculating anger. “You’re truly serious.”

Kaffi was still laughing but she had controlled it down to small chuckles. “Serious as Soul Magic! Ezekiel is Erick Flatt.” She handed out the Rift magics the world’s maybe-strongest (non-wrought, non-dragon, non-immortal) archmage had just made, saying, “Look at this shit! He’s as good as Tixi or Erizod. You remember Erizod, don’t you?”

“Bah! I know who Erizod was, grandmother.” Lingxing read the blue boxes quickly, then looked up and said, “This Sun Rift. This does multiplying damage based on all active opposing spellwork?”

“Yes.” Kaffi said, “It’s a rare manifestation of that particular Element and it’s exactly as dangerous as it reads.”

“This makes me even more mad.” Lingxing was suddenly deeply disappointed. “Blast it all. I was hoping he was just another Scion.”

“Oh don’t be like that.” Kaffi said, “I know you’re disappointed that we didn’t get a new resource, but no one else is going to get him, either. He’s tied to Spur. We don’t even have to calculate around that mess anymore.” She said, “Though Star Song is getting some deep claws into him. Might want to step in there.”

“Our Tixi can probably do this Sun Rift if he wanted to. Have you met Nirzir yet? She could do this, too.”

“Oh? Who’s Nirzir?”

“Still young. Matriculated this year. Daughter to Erizod’s daughter.”

Kaffi’s eyes widened in genuine surprise. “Living in Holorulo?”

“Yes, of course.”

“I must go see them, then.” Kaffi rapidly added, “Some other time.”

“Yes. Some other time.” Lingxing paused in thought, then said, “He is doing well with Star Song, isn’t he? Hmmm.” She decided, “I want a meeting with Ezekiel. Make it happen.”

“As you wish. I will inform him tomorrow at our next session.”

“What else happened in the training?” Lingxing said, “You’ll have to tell me all about it. I shall make us tea, grandmother.”

Kaffi took a seat on a pillow in the sun, opposite Lingxing’s, and started talking. Soon, the scents of plum tea filled the air, as words painted ever more interesting pictures.
