“No.” Paul said, “I considered Perception for a long time but ultimately, Perception is a helping hand to do what I am already capable of doing. Constitution is something I am not capable of doing; it is a blanket reduction on all the damage you take, outside of Wards and temporary damage. But that’s the superficial effect. The true effect is that it makes every part of you tougher. You become truly resistant to damage, and when your [Personal Ward] goes down, that toughness truly shines. It’s the most life-saving of the Stats.” He added, “As for not getting Intelligence: My magic is not traditional magic. It has little bearing on the bonuses of Intelligence.”

Julia said, “Really? Okay. Supernatural spells; sure.”

Tiffany said, “I’m gonna do it, too. I want Constitution, too.”

Julia whipped around to Tiffany, saying, “Really? Not Intelligence? You’re already rather tough.”

Tiffany frowned. She grimaced, thinking. “Yeah. … Yeah. No. … I don’t know.” She flummoxed, “I don’t know, Boss. Yes. I want one of them. Not sure which, though. Ask me some other day.”

Ezekiel said, “Of course. Take your time.” He looked to Julia. “Do you want one of these New Stats?”

Paul interrupted, “I changed my mind. I don’t want any.”

Everyone looked to him again.

Paul shrugged, “I changed my mind.”

Suddenly exasperated, Julia rapidly said, “None for me either!” She added, “But I do want some more points anyway. Got any Quests? I need at least one more point for another Class Ability.”

Ezekiel paused. Then said, “I have some extra points.” He had 23 extra points and he didn’t need to use a single one at the moment. But. There were those Health-cost debuff Spells, [Blind], [Deaf], [Dumb], [Infection], [Cause Wounds], and [Weak]… They could be interesting to have, right? Maybe. But that was more of a ‘far off idea’ than a current idea. He was also looking at the 10 point cost to complete the Worldly Path, if needed, to get [Gate] right away. And there were other Restricted spells out there, like [Duplicate], that would cost him 5 points to get... Though he didn’t know of a single one. With all that in mind, he didn’t need all of his 23 extra points, and if Julia did, then the solution was easy. He said, “I can make a Quest for—”

“No,” Julia said.

There was another option.

“I still haven’t assigned those other two points from Tadashi’s Quest, either.” Ezekiel said, “I was waiting for you guys to play a game for them, or something.”

Julia frowned. Paul smirked.

Tiffany laughed. “I thought you gave them to yourself right after I joked about it.”

“I have no pressing need for them, so you three can figure out who gets them. Two points is basically a whole level!”

Paul looked to Julia and Tiffany, and said, “I would not use them at the moment.”

Tiffany said, “Eh. Me either.”

They all looked to Julia.

Julia frowned. “No. I’m not going to take them because I’d use them—”

Ezekiel assigned her one point, joking, “You will take your point and be happy about it!”

Julia sighed. Contentment, embarrassment, a little bit of anger, and some deep joy, all battled for a place on her face. A smile came upon her, unwanted, but she said nothing.

Tiffany teased her, “The young master gets all the bonuses.”

Julia scoffed.

Paul joined in, “Nepotism at its finest.”

Julia began, “Now that’s just unfa—”

Ezekiel assigned her another point, saying, “And you can have the third one, too. Wouldn’t want you to be sitting at 0 points, after all!”

Julia went rock-solid silent.

Tiffany laughed, as Paul chuckled.

Julia turned away, softly saying, “Thank you.” And then went over and hugged her father.

Ezekiel hugged her back, saying, “What level are you anyway? Want to hunt some big monsters?”

Julia laughed into his shoulder.

Tiffany proclaimed, “I want to hunt big monsters.”

Paul groaned; a small noise, compared to Julia’s second outburst of laughter.

She broke away from her father, saying, “I want to hunt a Thunder Bird or a Lightning Shrieker. I’m not sure which would be better.” She added, “And after today, I think I want to explore some archives and look for a Familiar Form that could help with aura control. There has to be one of them right?”

“Oh!” Ezekiel said, “That’s a good point. There probably is. Also, there are Shriekers on the Quest Board. I saw one yesterday, but I don’t think we should do this.” In a scatter of moments, Ezekiel had found the Quest in question, and handed it out.

Special Quest!

Kill the monstrous Lightning Shrieker located in the South East Tribulation Mountains.

This is a dangerous Quest.

Begin at the Desolate Harmony Plateau in the center of the Dry Highlands, then head east till you reach the South East Tribulation Mountains, then go south 3350 kilometers. When you spot a mountain that is desolation instead of green, you will have found the lair of the Lightning Shrieker. Kill it, and allow for Thunder Birds to once again nest in the area.

This Quest has been active for <7 months>.

Reward: 2 points; optional meeting with High Clan Void Song.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Grand Elder Lingxing Void Song.

While they read, Ezekiel said, “The Quest was uploaded with precise directions, meaning that finding the target is not the problem with this Quest. What are Shriekers?”

Julia’s smile came back in full force as she read. “They’re the monstrous form of the Thunder Bird. I don’t know much beyond that.”

Tiffany turned uncertain. She hummed, thinking.

Paul said, “No. Please, no.”

“I would go with Paul’s recommendation here. If it’s worth two points and has been active for 7 months, something is wrong with this Quest, or it truly is that dangerous.” Ezekiel said, “We can scout it out and ask around, though. No harm in that.”

“Hm. I’m gonna need to read up on those more than I have.” Julia said, “I need to get to a Registrar and get an Ability Slot Increase Quest, anyway. Anyone happen to know where they are in this part of the world? I’ve kept an eye out, but I haven’t actually seen any.”

“They’re at the Void Temple, down one of the side hallways.” Tiffany said, “Looked like long lines, too.”

“Ah.” Julia said, “Then… I kinda want to do that. As soon as possible.”

An Odin blipped into the space room, holding a ring. He dropped it into Ezekiel’s hand, as Ezekiel said, “I made Tadashi’s ring while we were talking so that’s where I wanted to go next, but we can stop over at the Void Temple, too.” He held the plain-looking silver ring up, saying, “Sure no one wants Intelligence before we head out?”

Julia briefly stared at the ring. Tiffany and Paul both glanced at it, and looked away.

Moments passed in silence.

“Alright then.” Ezekiel put the ring into a pocket in the sash around his waist. “Let’s head out to Star Song, then. Or the Void Temple, first?”

Julia said, “I can go to the Temple on my own. Let’s go see Star Song. We can ask them about Shriekers and such— Wait a second. What are you actually going to tell Star Song about chemistry?”

“Well…” Ezekiel asked, “What do you think I should tell them? I want to solve chelation for them, and for me, in case anyone should ever want to pull that sort of shit on me… Or against anyone, really. I have to say: I have a strong urge to solve this problem for the whole of the world, but… I’m not willing to walk over the Highlands to do that. Yet. They seem like decent people to me.” He asked, “Do they seem decent to you all?”

Julia went silent in thought.

Paul said, “They’re better than most.”

“This place is fine, I guess.” Tiffany said, “But I don’t like how the people around here are so willing to be limited. To voluntarily live under the Void Song and under laws that allow their higher-ups to kill them at a whim.” She added, “I haven’t seen any murders either, but I’ve seen some shit go down in the alleyways that would not be allowed back home. And the nobles are nobles, so that’s shitty, too. ...But they’re not as bad as the ones back home in the Wasteland, or the Republic.” She shrugged.

Ezekiel said, “I’ve kept a few hundred eyes out with Odin, but I haven’t seen any murders either. But, the nobility is nobility. Back where we come from, the nobility had mostly been abolished, but our histories paint a similar picture of the nobility we’ve found here in the Highlands, and even back home with the Viscount of Frontier and the Baroness of Kal’Duresh. I think this is just the nature of power, when you’re forced to be violently powerful to keep your power in a world of violence.”

Tiffany frowned. “They’re not this bad back in Treehome.”

Paul said, “Treehome is uncommonly good.”

“Ha!” Tiffany said, “True enough.”

Julia said, “I think the people here are progressive and good when compared to what this world does to people.” She added, “That’s my objective opinion. But subjectively, we can’t trust them yet, and you should limit what you give them.”

Tiffany said, “Okay. Yeah. I agree with that.”

“They’re better than most,” Paul repeated. “But they’re not anywhere close to perfect.”

Ezekiel said, “Fair point.” He added, “So I am thinking about giving them the bare bones of the Periodic Table along with a basic chemistry lesson about electron shells and chemical bonds. Do you remember the types of bonds, Julia?” Julia eyed her father, looking wary and questioning, then she shook her head ever so slightly. He continued, “There’s ionic, covalent, hydrogen, and Van Der Waals.” He said, “And the Periodic Table is not just a listing of elements, but of electron shells and free electrons and a whole lot more. If someone well versed in particles saw the Table they’d see a lot more than what other people see, so it would probably take years or maybe decades for anyone here to understand it, but it could be a great map to the future of Particle Magic! I figure if I give some deserving alchemists this sort of information, then this world will advance to a decent level of chemistry fast enough.” He added, “I could also talk about the chemistries I’ve heard of, but we never covered them in your homework or in any of the video or wikipedia jaunts I drowned in, and so I don’t really know much of them. There’s Organic, Inorganic, Physical, Analytical, and Biochemistry. I’d imagine that Veird chemistry would be different though; different categories. Or maybe they’d just add in ‘Magichemistry’, or something like that. Keeping ‘Alchemy’ as the name of the field seems rather primitive to me, but, then again, Alchemy is a science on Veird, so your guess is as good as mine.”

Julia frowned. She seemed unwilling to voice her objection; likely because she had so many that she didn’t know where to start. In a similar manner, Tiffany scrunched her eyebrows, thinking.

Paul said, “Maybe you should not do that.”

“That’s also an option. Likely the one I’m gonna take, too.” Ezekiel said, “Honestly, I should spend some time learning chemistry on my own. But who has the time! I certainly don’t— Oh!” He had an idea, and said, “I have an idea. I could hand out Intelligence rings and the Periodic table to the top ten alchemists in the world. Make a Quest of it. Put some parameters out there to weed out the worst ones. Now there’s some scientific advancement for you.”

Julia stopped wrestling with her emotions and solidly said, “Don’t do that. For sure, do not do that.”

“Yeah…” Ezekiel considered; he’d likely want to give the Periodic Table to some people in Spur, or Candlepoint, or…

Maybe he should talk to Rozeta about that, first? Maybe… Maybe not.

He could at least seek Phagar’s opinion.

“Anyway! Want to see the spells I made?” Ezekiel handed out his new spells, saying, “They’re pretty great. You should make a Rift, too, Julia.”

Julia, Tiffany, and to a much lesser extent, Paul, each read, and each disbelieved.

Julia exclaimed, “Willpower damage per second ‘For each opposed active magic’?!” She looked at her father. “For each? Is that what I was seeing? Back in that room?”

Tiffany joked, “If you weren’t already on a watch-list, you would be now!”

Paul just smirked.

Julia said, “I only got a few ticks for 150, but then I put up a [Defend] and was still taking 150! This is why!” She deadpanned, “This seems like cheating, dad.”

“You haven’t turned those notifications off?” Ezekiel said, “I did that a long time ago.”

Julia barreled past his question, saying, “This means that Kaffi likely knows your Willpower.”

“Eh.” Ezekiel asked, “So what? There’s no way they didn’t know my Stats already.”

- - - -

Sister Kaffi walked up the spiraling staircase, crossing the paths of the occasional acolyte who shuffled to the side and bowed. Kaffi continued upward.

Eventually, she reached the office of the Grand Elder. The stately white-stone door stood at the end of a short reception area. Kaffi nodded to the senior acolyte on desk today while walking to the door; she did not need an invitation and thus she did not need to speak to the boy. The acolyte noticed, then returned to his paperwork; today was a normal day, after all.

Nothing special happening here.

Kaffi knocked on the door, then went in. She closed the door behind her.

Grand Elder Lingxing Void Song sat on a large purple pillow in the bright sun, her eyes glittering with the power of the black Void. Her stare reached across the Highlands to somewhere important, no doubt. Her skin was as white as Kaffi’s own, but a lot more wrinkled. No horns, either. Both white skin and lack of horns was a true sign of High Clan breeding, kept intact ever since the Compact of Songli all those centuries ago. Lingxing was lucky enough to be born with zero need for blood editing, which was one of the many reasons why she had risen so far in Void Song.

Kaffi was also one of those reasons that Lingxing had risen so far. A small, but important one. All the rest was Lingxing, herself. The woman was exactly who you’d want as a Grand Elder. Strict, but compassionate, exceedingly brilliant in matters of state, and not afraid to get her hands dirty to make her world a better place. She wasn’t a slouch on the power scale, either, but power wasn’t strictly necessary when it came to being a leader. Kaffi had power, but she was definitely no leader. Not at all.

