Despite my woeful incompetence and inability to handle the tasks at hand, I had to admit one thing - this was my dream job. I loved tinkering around with interesting engineering projects. I have ever since I participated in a class project involving toothpicks. All the kids made all kinds of different shapes to see who could construct the tallest tower and which one could support the most weight.

In the end, I won the height parameter but only got second place in weight bearing. I took a breath, knowing that it shouldn't have bothered me. It still did, but that's also why I made more toothpick towers. I kept on making them until I constructed a tower that reached the classroom ceiling and could hold textbooks.

It took far too long and required an unreal amount of elephant peanuts, but I'd done it. The thing was, I didn't work with toothpicks anymore. People's lives were on the line, and that pressure was a heavy thing. Heavier than textbooks, at least. That's why even as I finished up the first iteration of plans for the building, I knew we'd review and revise several times before finalizing the project.

Speaking of, the team arrived in the distance. I could already see their wind-burned faces, and I smiled. The architect golems traveled fast enough to rip normal human skin off, but systemization gave us the fortitude to survive a trip in their gravity wells. I wish they carried us more like the guildleader because his gravitation pulled the wind along with us. It was more like falling than getting dragged in a rocket car. But hey, beggars couldn't be choosers.

My team came into full view. Thirteen other engineers, ritualists, and runic practitioners huddled into three gravity wells around the architect. The majestic, almost alien architect golem landed beside me, one sharpened foot landing on the ground like a metal ballerina of death. I gulped as it bowed.

"Diesel. It's good to see you once more."

I coughed.

"Ah, you too, Archy."

"I have told you before that I require no name."

"And I told you that it's easier talking to a doom-robot named Archy."

It set the other team members down.

"Then I shall do as you ask, friend of my creator."

I shivered. Even after several months, these golems creeped me the hell out. I'm not saying they weren't helpful, polite, or powerful. On the contrary, this single golem could likely kill the entire city if it wanted to. Somehow, that paled in comparison to Daniel. I could hardly wrap my mind around it.

Interrupting my thoughts, the team walked over on wobbly legs. I held up a hand and shook the hand the tallest one here.

"It's good to see you, Jim. How are the kids?" I said.

Jim let my hand go.

"Oh, same old, same old. They've been studying in one of those schools Althea opened alongside Torix. How are your kiddies doing?"

I scratched the back of my head.

"Oh, they're doing good. Samantha had a fever the other day and we just about died from worrying."

Jim waved me off.

"Oh, don't mind that kind of thing. The system makes sickness less of an issue."

I put my hands on my hips.

"Sure, but not until you're integrated. That doesn't happen until you stop growing."

Scott walked up.

"Oh, come on, man, you know that even small populations can keep dormant versions of diseases alive for long periods. And you know how it is. Even if we're immune, the children aren't."

I raised my hands.

"Listen, I don't need another lecture on vaccines. I get them. I'm just not militant to anyone who doesn't."

Scott sighed.

"You say that until your daughter gets sick."

I sharpened my eyes.

"Bad manners, Scott."

Scott furrowed his brow.

"Huh. It was. Sorry."

I gestured at The Empire State Building.

"We got bigger fish to fry anyway. Guess who did this?"

Scott's eyes grew distant. He murmured, but everyone heard him.

"The Harbinger."

A quiet passed over the others, a solemnity pressing down on everyone. The fear and reverence were palpable, and I let it soak for a bit before I nodded.

"That's right. He's making sure we get to keep our job. Speaking of-"

I motioned my hand at all of this city that surrounded us.

"This...This has got to go. Do you see the transportation system here?"

Jim winced.

"Can you imagine handling sanitation when there are no actual pipelines?"

Scott guffawed.

"Don't get me started on communications or electricity. This is what we call the dark ages, fellas."

I cracked my knuckles.

"Well, now, that's what we're here to fix. Isn't it?"

My team cheered. I flushed a bit from the support before rubbing my hands together in excitement.

"So everybody, let's get this show on the road."
