He received no answer, but did not expect one, letting her think through her moves as he promptly won game after game, taking time to elaborate on certain stratagems as he played, and after half an hour, the slave was able to hold out for 10 to 15 moves, a marked improvement. Giving Akanai's daughter a look, he scolded her lightly. “Letting the game drag on for no reason gives her the illusion that she has made no mistakes. That is no way to learn. Failure gives her the opportunity to try again more rationally.” The girl snorted and crossed her arms, and he could sense the dialogue between mother and child, likely unflattering to him.

The sound of his guards apprehending someone made him look away from the game, and his guards soon dragged in the struggling, one-armed Rain. His eyes narrowed at the sight of him, this foul-mouthed braggart that had so antagonized Kai, but he quickly sighed and had his guards release the boy, returning to his game of chess. With windblown hair and ragged clothes, the boy would have looked pitiful even in a city alongside the beggars, there was little point in holding a grudge. Children would speak out of turn, and a savage child could not be expected to be well mannered.

Akanai spoke to the boy, and he listened, affecting an attitude of indifference. “You are well, boy? I heard of your progress from Tokta, your sister is worried for you.”

“I'm fine, thanks. Arm hurts, feels like it's being chewed on by an acid spewing lizard, but other than that, I'm 100%... minus the arm. So.. .92%? I dunno.” The little timid boy kept glancing over, his head down and shoulders slouching, as if trying to hide in his own shadow. Pitiful, this was the child who had upset Kai so badly that he dared to risk antagonizing the Society? Foolish disciple.

“Are you well enough for the Forms? It has been some time since we last trained together, I look forward to gauging your progress.”

Oh? Was the boy Akanai's disciple? Stealthily watching them as he continued to play chess, the boy's Forms impressed him, moving as if unhindered by his missing arm with a grace and poise rarely seen in one so young, his beautifully crafted sword moving in deadly arcs as Akanai looked on and corrected a few of his movements. Difficult as it was to admit, he was more skilled than Kai had been at his age, more skilled than any young talent he had ever met, but in the end, it was only demonstrating the Forms. Warriors who focused solely on the Forms were quickly overshadowed by others who spent the time and dedication learning to manipulate their chi. The little deer girl would surpass him in a year if she were not already stronger than him, the half-beasts usually only surpassed by humans later in life.

He studied the boy's movements for a moment, Prancing Stride combined with Rising Steps, while his arms struck out savagely, Darting Fang and Uplifts the Sequoia, four Forms at once, all working in harmony. Power and grace, the boy moved and reset, trying it again and again, adjusting his movements each time, learning through trial and error. Two steps, stab, twist and gouge, and he would stop, shaking his head at some problem, before trying again, all while Akanai watched silently, offering no guidance for his problem. A chance to show his superiority at last.

Smiling to himself, he strode forward and took charge. “Hmph. Feel honored boy, for I will explain for you what it is that you have yet to grasp.” The boy jumped aside at his voice, his eyes wide as he backed away and Min Gyu smiled wolfishly at him, holding his attention. Shedding his outer robes and allowing Kyung to catch them, he stretched his arms and knees before he began. “Observe.” Moving slowly, he performed a half-dozen variations of the first two movements while lecturing him. “The strength comes from the footwork, rather than the final attack. Toe-heel, slide and step, four parts to the movement, and after each part you can feint or attack. There is no need to limit yourself to attacking after the full movement, or even using the same attack each time. You could perform Swiping the Rushes, or step back with Gliding Wing, or move into an even closer position with Balance on Windy Leaf. Those are just a few options, there are endless variations to this subset of movements. There is no 'correct' combination as you seem to be searching for, rather they all have their place.”

Throwing a smug smile at Akanai's impassive expression, he saw the understanding in the boy's face and basked in the immense satisfaction that came from having guided a young talent. Straightening up, he arched his back, eyes shut in a grimace as he worked out the knots in his spine. Lamenting in silence at how age was the one enemy he could not defeat, he slowly shuffled back to his chair, content over his minor victory over Akanai, packing his pipe once again to ease the aches.

Ordering his guards to begin cooking a lavish lunch, he chuckled to himself at his devious plan. He was outside of Akanai's camp, he had given instruction to her disciple, and now, he would have her eat at his table, playing the gracious host in contrast to her inhospitable demeanor this past seven days, shaming her actions with his superiority. While he laughed silently, the boy continued to practice under Akanai's watch, but she stopped him only after half an hour, citing the need to rest. With all his other flaws, the boy lacked stamina as well. Shameful. “Your progress is barely passable, but this is all for today. I heard that Tokta had to cut a tumor the size of a fist from you, it must have been unpleasant. Do you intend to return to your healing tonight?"

“Absolutely. The sooner I finish regenerating my arm, the happier I'll be, the pain is worse than I expected, but I'll manage.”

Hearing their conversation, Min Gyu could not help but stare in disbelief, his mind racing to decide if he had heard wrong or misinterpreted their conversation. “Boy, you are not having your arm regenerated, but actually learning on your own?” At the boy's affirmation, his mind began to spin as he worked through the implications. Talented, far too talented, for Akanai to have so many prodigies in her care was simply the Mother showing favor! The daughter, the deer girl, the boy, and even the slave now, each of them were tremendously talented, and who knew how many others Akanai had hidden away? It was no wonder she could be so indifferent to the deer girls plight. It was simply unacceptable, that hateful woman could eat the loss of a single one without shedding a tear.

Unable to contain his indignation, he marched himself to the deer girl, rudely interrupting her mediation without a second thought. “Your name?”

Blinking as she came out of her trance, the deer girl looked forlorn and upset, stuttering over her words. Stomping his foot into the grass, he left a small indent and snarled, “Are you daft, girl? I asked for your name!” The wind fluttered up around him, raising grass and dirt in his anger.

“Lieutenant General, this one's name is Adujan.” Startled, yet still able to show deference, she replied in the manner of a soldier. Good.

Throwing away all propriety, he announced his intentions for all to hear. “As you already know, I am Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu. Should you wish to become my student, then kneel before me, kowtow thrice, pledge obedience, and I shall raise you into a warrior without peer.” He stood proudly, his arms behind his back, head held high, waiting to hear her gratefully accept his tutelage, along with the torrent of anger and indignation from Akanai, then envy of the other children.

And he waited.

And waited.

...

How long was this damn brat going to make him wait?

Chapter Meme
