The trip to the next portal wouldn’t be that long, and Jake thought about doing some alchemy, as he could maybe get one potion batch done, but instead decided to be responsible. He received many system notifications after killing the B-grades, and since they were now in the Central Domain, they all looked a little different from before.

You have slain [Blackcrest Dragon – lvl 358] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level. 1154 Prima Credits earned.

Experience-wise, the fight hadn’t really moved the needle much, as they had all been on the weaker end, but the gain in Prima Credits was not to be ignored. Each kill gave him at least 350 PC, as you got one per level of the person you killed, and most had at least gained a little since entering the Central Domain. The black dragon was the one with the most Credits, while the other dragon and tracker were not too far behind.

With this many Prima Credits gained and having met up with Jasper and Sandy, Jake reached out to Miranda, feeling a bit proud of himself for remembering to do so. She quickly used her ritual to establish the connection, and she instantly had a good idea of why he’d reached out.

“So, you either found a massive treasure hoard of some kind, or you killed a lot of people... seeing the way the Prima Credits came in, I have a feeling it’s the latter. Not complaining, we earned more than 50,000 Prima Credits, but I feel inclined to question the source,” Miranda said, not sounding concerned at all.

“It is indeed the latter. I found myself in a... situation. Not caused by me, mind you. I happened to run into Jasper and Sandy, who had met up earlier, and as can only be expected, the two of them...”

He proceeded to explain recent happenings, and Jake tried to guess all the factions the people he’d killed had come from, but he really had no idea. It did appear that not all the people Sandy and Jasper had pissed off proceeded to chase them, and that one guy from the Court of Shadows had also wisely bailed the second he saw them, so the two of them didn’t know who they’d killed either.

By the time Jake was done, Miranda took a moment to contemplate.

“So, in summary, Sandy and Jasper stole something, the robbed people came for justice and were killed as a result, and now you potentially soured relationships with the majority of large factions in the multiverse... guess it was only a matter of time, and at least you got decent Prima Credits out of it. Also, not really surprising, hearing those two are involved, and throwing you into the mix... yeah, that’s one trio of overpowered maniacs I wouldn’t want to run into either, much less be stupid enough to pursue.”
