Your group has defeated Fractured Archon – Celestial – level 257 (Wind / Light)Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 232.+10 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 142 (+2).Arcane Recall has reached level 78.Barrier has reached level 122 (+2).Sage of Learning has reached level 106.Martial Insight has reached level 134 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 120 (+2).Minion Teleport has reached level 81.

“Hey! I wasn’t ready yet!” Ali stared at the notification in disbelief and disappointment. Never had she felt so let down by the notification of a dangerous monster dying.

The ideas shimmered, hovering in her mind still, but now with nowhere to go.

“That was a smart steal, Ali,” Calen said, flying over to her. “The images make him very robust; he went down extremely quickly after they dropped.”

“But…” Ali began, staring at the corpse of alabaster lying where it had fallen in a crumpled heap surrounded by shattered and burning branches.

“What’s wrong, Ali?” Malika asked, joining them. “We got it.”

“I had so many things I wanted to try…” Grumpily, Ali tossed three points each into wisdom and perception, and the remaining four into intelligence.

Malika just smiled, “We can get Calen to find you another one to play with.”

Suddenly, the disappointment vanished, and she smiled happily. Of course, there would be more of them, and they could find them all. And then she could try every idea…

“Ali…” Mato’s mental voice quavered.

“Shit! Sorry, Mato!” she yelled, and quickly flew the terrified bear back down to the ground.

He hopped off the barrier, digging his claws into the ground, just standing there for a moment, looking like he was experiencing a transcendent moment.

“That worked pretty well,” Calen said, a tiny hint of a grin appearing on his face. “Maybe you should try unlocking a flying skill?”

“Fuck, no,” Mato answered, drawing a shuddering breath.

“Scared?” Calen teased.

Mato glared at him like one who’d just been stabbed in the heart by his closest friend. While Mato had clearly been terrified in the air, he looked far more confident now that his feet were planted on firm ground. Instead, he said, “Do you know how ridiculous a flying bear would look?”

“I don’t know, maybe you could have some shiny white angel wings?” Ali suggested, trying but failing miserably to hide her grin. “Maybe little cute ones that pop out of your back?”

“Oh no, not you too, Ali? I thought you were on my side!” Mato exclaimed, squinting comically as he wrestled with the fact that there were eight of her and he had no idea where to look.

“She is the one who flew you around the battlefield, you know?” Malika retorted.

“Seriously? It would be one thing if I were a butterfly, or an angel, or something,” Mato grumped. “But no, I’m a bear. Or a tree, who would ever believe a flying tree?”

Ali just laughed and flew over to the corpse of the Fractured Archon. While she hadn’t had much opportunity to experiment with the Celestial Mirror Image skill she had stolen, she could still study its effects as it slowly faded.

It seemed to be a magical buff that vastly increased her health and magical resistance. And if she was understanding the magical formations correctly, it should have the same effect on armor and evasion. It seemed the Celestial Mirror Images increased her defenses and health by a hundred percent each, resulting in eight hundred percent more. And the images shared all her attributes.

No wonder it died so fast. The moment she had stolen the spell, she had also stolen the lion’s share of its defensive abilities and the vast majority of its health.

Hmm. I might be able to dismantle this, too.

Only after the skill expired did she land beside the corpse and deconstruct it.

Variant: Radiant Orb added to Imprint: Elemental.

“Where is the Well?” Ali asked, handing several essences to Malika for storage.

“Over this way,” Calen said, his face suddenly unreadable. “Let me show you.”

They all followed Calen across the still-smoldering ruins of the forest as he led them toward the center of the strange island. It was quite clear to Ali what kind of chase Calen had endured to draw the Fractured Archon to their ambush, and she stared at his back in astonishment.

But before she could say anything, they emerged into a wide clearing. The first thing she noticed was the torrent of wildly roiling, holy-affinity mana boiling off from the pile of floating rock hovering a few meters above the grass. Jets burst forth at random, leaving twisting whorls and vortices to spiral down to the ground, where they shattered and deposited briefly glowing bubbles. Wind tore through the fount of strangely out of place mana, whipping it into a frenzy and stripping it off in sheets of spray, not entirely unlike breakers smashing into a rocky shore.

Ali’s heart sank.

Of the mystical Well of Divinity, the artifact as ancient as civilization itself, all that remained was wild mana and a few floating rocks that hovered roughly in a circle. And nowhere in sight was any of the water that had once filled it.

How will I ever get a vial now?

Naia wobbled her way across the floor of the guild hall, consuming crumbs, dropped food, and dirt absently as she made her way to the reception desk. She stretched herself upward with a long pseudopod and then pulled herself up onto the desk and bounced a bit, careful not to mess up the papers.

“Oh! Hi, Naia,” Mieriel said cheerfully. “How can I help you?”

“I want to make a quest,” Naia said. It had been Calen who had suggested it a while ago, but back then, she had been rather afraid of asking because she had no idea what it had meant.

“What kind of quest?” Mieriel asked, adjusting the strange device she wore on her face. Naia had given up on asking about every peculiarity these strange humans had. No, she’s an Elf, not a human. She didn’t know exactly why that was such a big deal to them, but apparently it mattered. Naia just knew they all shared the same limited body that couldn’t squish through holes. Or cracks. So limiting.

“I want people to shoot my oozes,” she said.

“What?” Mieriel asked, with what Naia decided sounded a lot like surprise.

“I want people to shoot my oozes… with different magic types,” she said, trying again. “I can sometimes learn a new kind of ooze when that happens. Azryet said I should collect them all.”

“Do you have a reward in mind?”

“Reward?”

“Something to pay people who take your quest?”

Oh. These people and their strange obsession with things. “I don’t think I have any things to give.”

“Hmm…” Mieriel said, pausing for a moment in thought. “I think I have an idea for you, then. Why don’t you offer yourself as a sparring partner in the arena, and have people fight your oozes there? That way, they can practice their skills, and you might get the ooze you wanted? The rings will even heal your oozes.”

“Ok!” She was glad she had come to talk with Mieriel. She had good ideas.

“Ok, I’ll make your quest. Is there anything else I can help you with?”

“Can you shoot my oozes too? I don’t have mind magic yet,” Naia asked.

“I don’t think so, Naia,” Mieriel said. “You’re immune to most of my magic.”

“Why?”

“I think it’s because oozes don’t have a mind.”

“But I can think!”

“Yes, but it doesn’t seem to work the same way as other minds. At least, my magic doesn’t work on you. But you could try up on the battlements – Ali has made a Psychomancer demon, which has a powerful mind-blast. Maybe you can learn mind magic that way?”

“Ok, thank you!” Naia said, bobbing up and down. Now she had a quest and a good lead. More than one, she reminded herself. Calen had given her a few other good ideas, and she still had to take Azryet up on his offer to go demon hunting.

Most of her slimes and oozes were too low-level to be useful. However, she had witnessed many adventurers growing stronger by fighting the monsters in Ali’s dungeon, and she was sure by now Ali wouldn’t mind.

I have a lot of work to do, she thought, but the ideas all filled her with a thrill of excitement.

A smaller person who smelled of steel and chocolate cookies approached. “Need damage?” Havok asked. “Holy fire is best!”

“Holy fire?” Naia asked, rippling her membrane in excitement.

“Yes! Havok show! Come!”

Naia reached out an eager pseudopod, and Havok grabbed it without hesitation. As Naia blobbed after him toward the church, she stole the cookie crumbs from his fingertips. Chocolate is nice! She had so many questions. Why is chocolate so nice? Is chocolate holy? Is there chocolate damage?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
