e as the book lifted itself off the counter under its own power. The cover of the book had two large eyes.The cover had no words but a large engraved symbol that seemed to almost look like a face.“Blasted woman, how many times have I told you not to simply push me off in my sleep?” the book spun in mid-air to snap at a bored Paige.“Tom, watch over Poppy. I need to sort some of the new shipment,” Paige instructed. Poppy had never seen a talking book. She didn’t know how to feel about her favorite medium suddenly speaking.It was her most and least favorite things in the world combined. A talking tale book.“A guide?! I am a tome of powerful magic, in a single sweep I have brought kingdoms to their knees! I have been used by the most dangerous magicians and witches the world has ever known, and you want me to be a guide? I refuse. I simply refuse,” Tom snapped again.Poppy felt the shop go still.Paige took off her glasses and turned to Tom with a blank expression.“Do you want to go back in the box?” she asked simply. Tom faltered as he stuttered.“I-I-I, I say. Now see here, I will not be bullied into servitude...” Tom blustered. Paige raised one finger and Tom quickly cut her off.“But as a respected keeper of tomes. I will do you a favor. I do hope you appreciate my loyal service,” Tom finished, with just a hint of acid to his words. Poppy took a step back as Tom turned to her.“Girl, state your destination so this torment may end. I have things to do and magical theorems to complete,” he said with a pompous drawl. Poppy looked at the amused Paige who went back to her work.“Tom, I want to-” she began but the book spun faster than she thought it could move.“I will be referred as ‘Master Tome of Magic’ by oneself. I am the tome that people have given their lives to find. I will be given my respect,” he responded waspishly. Poppy tilted her head.“Names too big. Nyeh, Tom is fine. Show me some good books,” she instructed. The book's attitude was grating and that suited Poppy just fine. Anger was an easier emotion to control. Tom slowly looked around at the hall of books.“Your request is both vague and infuriating. Perhaps you like to add some more words to your phrasing so I may parse what you want? Perhaps ‘exciting’ or ‘Dark’. I shall even take ‘a red cover’,” Tom stressed. Poppy felt just a touch of a smile on her face.“I want to see your best books. I can read... nyeh, I guess they can have some pictures in them if you want to add them to the list,” she spoke slowly in a tone she knew would annoy the book.Tom gave her a long hard stare.“I do not like you, little girl,” he stated, floating down a side passage. The book’s grumblings making him easy to follow.“How about this one? The early guide to royal desert eating habits of the north, fifth edition!” Tom sudden pulled on a book with some unseen force.“No,” Poppy put it back. Tom yanked on another one randomly.“The... uh... complete history of Durence. The battle of the heroes and the End See-” he began but Poppy put it back.“No,” she continued on, curious where the passage led.“I do believe that I am the guide here, please stay behind me at all times or I shall turn us right back around,” Tom called. Poppy saw a clean-looking book and pulled on it.The shelf spun and Tom’s startled cry mirrored Poppy’s yelp as they were moved into a new hallway by the rotating floor. They ended up in a dustier part of the shop. Old lamps and older books sat there.Tom looked left and right before he turned to her.“How have you managed to get us lost so quickly? Hm, one second...” he muttered and flew straight up. Halfway up, a colony of bats screeched out from a shelf and Tom screeched right back as he began to slap them away with his face.Poppy just watched.Tom may have talked, but as a book he was proving to be very entertaining.This had been a good trip so far.Poppy allowed a small smile as Tom floated back down, his pages ruffled and voice a little high.“Come... I think I saw a familiar encyclopedia a few rows over. An ex, best not to make eye contact,” he wheezed out.“What was she an encyclopedia of?” she had to ask. Tom paused.“Stretching,” he stated with a blank tone and floated onwards. Poppy felt a little let down. She was hoping for something exciting. Looking around she began to scan the shelves as she walked.She saw an old cookbook and grabbed it. Her Dad might like it.It’s pages looked stained but it looked very well-loved.It reminded Poppy of herself.“Blasted comics! Pick up your sleeves and don’t backchat me!” Tom thundered to a shelf in the distance. Poppy had the feeling it might take a while to get back so she lowered her hood and enjoyed the quiet isolation in the shop, bar Tom’s muttering.She hoped Deo was having fun.She plucked a comic that showed a heroic knight on its cover.Deo would enjoy this
