They sighed, then fixed Ryoka with more huge stares.
“Why don’t you come in? Tell us where you come from, girl. Tell us what you seek.”
“We’ll let you dine with us in whatever viewpoint you please!”
“And even help you. If you give us something in return.”
…Yep. They were doing the exact same thing as Sikeri. And Ryoka had no time for this! She had no time for the giant, either. She bit her lip.
“Honored sisters. I’m delighted by the invitation. But I have nothing to give you. And my business is er…actually, I have a friend coming you probably don’t want to meet.”
She had a sudden thought and smiled. The three Wyrms narrowed their eyes and twined a bit…closer together.
“Friend? We fear nothing, girl.”
“Not even your large protector from the forest. We are three and she is one.”
“You may have met Sikeri, but we are far more than she.”
Great. Super-Wyrms. But Ryoka remembered something. Wyrm they might be, but they were the same kind as Teriarch. And the boy in the city, for that matter. She licked her lips.
“This is all true, great sisters. Greatest of the Wyrms. Er—peerless beauties with a hoard even Dragons would envy and cry in shame to behold.”
The largest made a crooning sound and bent her head lower.
“Go on. I like you. I’d rather like to keep you.”
“Ah, but you wouldn’t. Because my friend is coming. And—you can tell I’m telling the truth, obviously. You won’t like to meet him. The King of Knights is coming, and he has Caliburn—”
The shriek turned Ryoka deaf. She saw—
 
—-
 
The three sisters ran for their cottage. One of them hit a remote and steel shutters began to slide down in front of the entrance. They slammed windows shut, screaming.
“The King? You awakened him?”
“Begone! Get lost!”
“Don’t let him bring that wretched sword near us! Shoo!”
They threw things out the window. Vases, a painting—Ryoka dodged a handbag and decided her perspectives needed work. She ran on, wondering if it had been a magical force field in reality or if Wyrms actually invested in security. Probably. But who supplied that kind of thing? Gnomes?
Ryoka ran on as the Wyrms harangued her—then ran back and picked up the handbag. She ran off as they shouted every manner of insult at her for stealing it. But she really wanted to know what the hell it was.
She was journeying across the lands of the fae. And like Nama—Ryoka flicked through adventures that took hours or days. She stopped by a potluck filled with what she thought were feathered folk of all kinds. She travelled past the fields of grass and fire, and only Nama’s foot wraps kept her feet from being incinerated.
She bribed the Phoenix with the handbag to slow the Wild Hunt as the storm blew across the old worlds, angering all the denizens. Fire and steam and ice raged behind her.
Stories. Ryoka Griffin had only one more encounter of note. That was—an encounter of note because it was less wondrous than all the others which were all noteworthy, if that made sense.
She was nearly at the next place when she found six people wandering about, looking terrified. Ryoka slowed as they hid behind a rock, babbling to each other.
She was used to this by now and switched across the layers of—
An artificial glow illuminated the dark landscape. One of the figures turned—and Ryoka heard a crackle. She saw the other five react. Three brought up something in their hands. Ryoka stared and her jaw dropped as she saw the flickering visors. The machined armor. The guns—
She dove a second before they discharged. Flashes of light burned across the dis—
Pew, pew! The little toy guns emitted the blasting sound and light flashed across Ryoka’s torso. She landed and the figures panicked.
“Another one! Keep firing!”
They took cover behind the little rock, toy guns blazing at her. Ryoka got up shakily. She did not try to change perspectives.
It looked like six…adults…in plastic toy costumes. They were shooting at her, shouting with the crackle of a radio in the background as their toy guns played little lights off Ryoka’s torso.
“No effect! Commander—”
“Fall back! Fall back to Rally Point 12!”
They got out behind their boulder and started running. Ryoka stared at them.
“No fucking way. Hey! Hey!”
She ran after them. They were fast. Well-trained, and they all looked like soldiers. One turned around, saw Ryoka, and pulled—
She flinched as the plastic grenade landed next to her and exploded into confetti. The others kept running, shouting about ‘hit—no effect!’ On a hunch, Ryoka switched back to—
The dirt was still showering down and she jumped back from the glowing, red-hot crater of superheated stone and dirt—Ryoka saw plumes of smoke from the broken landscape. She saw another glowing flash—
“Holy shit!”
Ryoka ducked. A nerf-gun pellet bounced off her chest. Was that a missile? She stared down at it shakily. Then she saw the others fleeing.
No way. But…they stared over their shoulders as Ryoka ran after them, shouting.
“It’s catching up to us at maximum velocity, Commander!”
“Hold! Turn and switch to close quarters weapons!”
They whirled and drew…plastic knives. Ryoka saw behind the visors, distinctly alien features—she held up her hands.
“Whoa! Hold on! Listen! I’m not going to hurt you!”
The six froze. One of them adjusted his helmet.
“—Can’t make it out, Commander. Sounds like some kind of sonic-based language. I can translate—”
“Doesn’t look dangerous. But we can’t tell.”
“Lower your weapons!”
The leader of the six held up an authoritative hand. Ryoka was scratching her head. She really wanted to switch back—but she had a feeling she’d gotten lucky those two times. If this was real—these people were packing serious firepower.
Which appeared to her to be toy guns and Halloween-costume armor. Which made sense if it was…
“Hey. Um. You. Can you understand me?”
She pointed at one of the figures, who jerked slightly. It raised a hand.
“Hold on. I don’t have enough of a sample, Commander. It’s definitely trying to communicate…”
Were they stupid or something? Or…Ryoka’s eyes narrowed. They all had big moon landing-type helmets on. She kept hearing the crackle of radios. She was certain this was all an…analogy to what they really were, but no one else had been unable to hear her.
On a hunch, she strode forwards, hands raised. Instantly, three of them brought up their guns.
Pew, pew! Light harmlessly played across her chest.
“Back up! Back—”
Ryoka grabbed the figure she’d pointed at and yanked the helmet off. He flailed at her, stabbing her six times with the plastic knife.
“Ow. Ow. Stop that, would you?”
She yanked off the helmet and shouted at the figure. If he’d gone hand-to-hand he would have hurt her. He was taller than she was, and she saw pale orange skin, some strange horizontal…were they even eyes?
He jerked back, shouting in alarm.
“Suit seal compromised! She tore off my helmet like it was—wait. What?”
Ryoka backed away as the others blazed their guns at her.
“Hey. Can you hear me now?”
The figure raised a hand.
“Cease fire! Cease fire! I just established communications!”
He looked around wildly.
“I’m—I’m not dead? I’m breathing—”
“Soldier! Restore your gear now before—”
“Can you tell her to shut up?”
Ryoka pointed at the commander. The soldier hesitated.
“Commander, are you getting any of what this person’s saying?”
He stared at her. And seemed to see her at last. Indeed, he looked around incredulously—then at his toy gun.
“What is this?”
“We don’t have any communications with this creature. Just the sonic communications which we haven’t translated—”
“Tell them to take off the helmets. They’re getting in the way.”
The…alien…stared at Ryoka. She stared back. He holstered his firearm, staring at the cheap toy, then at Ryoka.
“…How do I know this isn’t a trick?”
Ryoka sighed.
“Well, if I wanted to, I probably could have kicked all your asses. Your guns aren’t working.”
His eyes widened.
“You’re familiar with firearms? You have an understanding of technology?”
“Yes I do. What are you, wearing, spacesuits?”
He frowned.
“…You mean our battle armor? And our rifles…”
He glanced at the toy gun. Ryoka shook her head.
“What are you doing? You don’t bring technology into the lands of the fae! They’re toys! Are you—mortal? Are you from space?”
The stranger gave Ryoka a long, puzzled look.
“We’re all from space. Unless this place doesn’t have a stratosphere? Is it even a planet? Are you from here…Miss?”
“Nope. So you’re spacefaring people?”
“That’s right. What planet are you from?”
He was muttering into his toy wrist-radio to the others. Glancing at Ryoka. She saw a fake-looking scanner beam play over her and folded her arms.
“I see that. Stop scanning me!”
She snapped at one of the helmeted figures. He recoiled and the beam snapped off.
“But I was scanning her on a non-refractable wavelength—”
Ryoka wasn’t sure if the Kings Arthurs was crazier—or this was. The figure looked at her uncertainly.
“Your home star? Miss?”
“Um. I don’t know what it is. We just called it the sun. Sol? And I’m from Earth.”
Ryoka saw the alien look around. One of the others cautiously removed his helmet and gaped at her and then his suit and weapons. The alien raised a finger—one of eight.
“Which Earth?”
 
—-
 
Communication took about twenty minutes. Forty, before their commander removed her helmet. Ryoka was sitting on a rock, as they looked around, mystified.
“Perspective? Magic? Commander, this is clearly misinformation.”
One whispered through their crackling radio network. Ryoka threw a rock at him.
“If I’m wrong, why can I hear you and why are your guns as good as spit, huh?”
She flickered down the layers of perspective and—
–They were tall. Ryoka gulped as she stared up at one of the giant suits of armor and the half-translucent visor. It did indeed resemble something close to a moon-landing helmet. But set into the kind of battle gear that belonged in science fiction.
The barrel of one of the guns tracked her, glowing with unspent power. She saw one of the figures, helmet off, blink. The others reacted at once.
“Hold on. Now I’m getting all kinds of scans. Basic biology. Unknown dimensional compartment, but Threat Rating of Three—no advanced metallurgy, no dangerous chemical compounds—”
Ryoka switched back and the toy-armor and weapons returned. She took a breath.
“You’re in the wrong place for your kind of weapons.”
“I think that has become clear.”
The commander sighed. She had four eyes, each one unmoving and spaced around her head. Like…those security cameras, Ryoka decided. She also lacked a mouth; Ryoka wasn’t sure where the sound was coming from. Probably a translation.
“Ryoka Griffin. You resemble some of the peoples we’ve met on our travels in our…dimension. Can you explain where we are?”
“The lands of the fae. I told you.”
The others shook their heads. One was consulting a little hologram-display.
“We don’t know what that is.”
“Then how did you get here?”
The commander sighed.
“This is classified. But we’ve lost an entire Victory Company to this disastrous affair. Take a look at this. Soldier?”
She gestured and one brought out a primitive TV screen. Ryoka was sure it was more impressive, but she saw a cartoonish representation of planets, a bunch of aliens holding hands…
“This is our federation. We’re currently under threat with a second empire—and looking for options to turn the battle in our favor. We discovered this…gateway and activated it after sixteen years of research. The phenomena defied scientific understanding, so I was tasked with leading a Victory Company into this place to conduct research.”
“Er. You came on the Summer Solstice?”
“What’s that? Is she referring to a horological event? According to which star?”
The others muttered. The commander looked at Ryoka and shook her head.
“This phenomena occurs every sixty two years.”
She stressed it, as if years were longer for her than Ryoka. The City Runner shook her head.
“I guess time’s different for your place than mine. Look—you need to get out. The gates will close when the Summer Solstice day ends.”
The others looked up, suddenly nervous. The commander gave Ryoka a wretched look.
“We’ve been trying for the last eighty days, Miss Ryoka. What do you mean, it will close in a day? We’ve been wandering this place—our entire Victory Company was lost the moment we entered that damn city! We brought in enough firepower to level five planets and they ate our vehicles like it was paper!”
Ryoka felt bad for this person. If she had done poorly—they had no idea what to expect. The poor people had brought technology to a magic fight.
“How did you survive this far?”
“Our weapons worked on some opponents. Others? It was as effective as you. We were split up. Two entire strike groups made it out of the city while the rest retreated to our entry point. We made it here…but kept taking casualties. A giant…thing…devoured an entire strike team.”
That bastard with the three eyes. Ryoka gulped.
“How many people are in…a strike group?”
“Counting robotics?”
“No.”
“Four hundred.”
Ryoka blanched. The commander nodded.
“That’s about what we’ve been dealing with. We have no direction; our sensors are broken and we’ve been able to communicate with exactly three things before you.”
That made sense if they kept their helmets on. Ryoka patted the commander on the shoulder, gingerly. The alien woman blinked at the gesture.
“Look. You need to go back the way you’ve come. Keep your helmets off, be polite—um—”
They were never going to make it. Even if she could give them the crash course on fae rules, they were going to die. But Ryoka had a sudden idea.
“…If we can get to the forest, I know someone who can take you back.”
The commander looked at Ryoka warily.
“I’m not in the fashion of trusting strangers, Miss. But we’ll take any help we can get. However, my mission is to find something that will justify this loss—”
“Contact! My sensors just overloaded! Four hundred kilometers out—”
One of the soldiers screamed and Ryoka saw a bit of smoke emanating from his helmet. The rest scrambled to their feet. She raised her hands.
“What? What? Don’t do that!”
They had their toy weapons raised. One was shouting at the commander and she put the radio up to her ear.
“Energy signatures just broke my systems, commander! Threat Rating has no scale for this! Recommend evac!”
She looked at Ryoka, worried. The young woman looked over her shoulder. She knew who it was.
The Wild H—
