She walked out of the forest with Nama. Behind her, the wind howled.
The blizzard was beyond anything Ryoka had ever seen or could ask the wind to be. A storm that would herald the end of other worlds. An ice age in itself.
She left it behind her. Sheltered by her strange protector she’d met in the forest, and the King of Camelot’s sword.
The two had put the Wild Hunt to flight. Ryoka stared back wonderingly, then at the furry, slightly round figure with spectacles and the spoon which had laid low faerie warriors.
Perspective. She felt ashamed and silly. And relieved.
For all the land of the fae had horrible in it, like the truths revealed in the city, there were good people. Fair and foul, and indifferent.
She’d been rather foolish, hadn’t she?
Ryoka saw her thoughts leak out, like words. And Nama saw them too. She smiled widely as the young woman’s eyes widened.
“Yes, but few mortals do well the first time. Far harder than asking a bird to swim. Which some can do. Everything that makes sense to you is wrong, you see?”
She gestured; and flicked them forwards in the conversation, so that Ryoka understood and was nodding. That was what she had been doing the entire time.
Only, now, Ryoka was seeing it. Acclimatizing to this world.
“What funny words you people have. Words for everything. Or you try.”
The Wind Runner nodded. Then she made a conscious effort to…
Nama’s eyes fixed Ryoka and she adjusted the spectacles. After a while, she hopped over a stump, and flicked her tail.
“…Do you have something to say?”
Ryoka grinned. So that was how Sikeri had done it. She let Nama catch that thought and the kindly hostess harrumphed.
“Don’t be excited because you mastered your own thoughts, Ryoka Griffin. Beyond here—well, we’re in at last.”
The young woman’s smile faded. She looked up—and gasped.
In. Past the forest and city. Both things were locations in the realm of the fae. Outer realms. Ryoka understood there might be more. But she also knew this was where she needed to be.
Closer to the heart of the fae. Closer to the faerie king’s court. And thusly—
She stared across a meadow, towards an ancient, medieval farmhouse and fields of wheat. A lone tree sat idly upon the hilltop overlooking it all, and a stream passed by a slowly-turning water wheel. A village beyond.
“What is this?”
“This—is in. Past here, you will reach the courts of the fae. But this—look awhile. You know what it is.”
Ryoka did. A village. But she took Nama’s meaning and flicked across her perceptions. If she looked at it like…
Mundane. The tree remained. The village, the people, the farmer and his family moving around the fields? Vanished. Only the tree on the hilltop, and a little…
Toy set. Everything she had seen in miniature, a little plastic river, static figurines, dollhouses…Ryoka blinked.
Grand. The village sat there. The tree remained. People moved about; children fought, rather viciously too, in the mud. Laughter and quietus and…
Decay. The houses were empty. Run-down, long-abandoned. A few looked as though someone had tried to repair them. But weeds had overtaken the fields, time eroded rooftops.
Ghosts wandered this place, laughing, calling out. Ghosts of people. Humans. And the tree—
…Was a man, sitting on the hill, watching them play. He looked old. He looked like bark and root and like Silver Pine. Perhaps less august, but…
“Oh.”
“Do you see?”
Nama was watching Ryoka approvingly. This was but one part of this place. And Ryoka looked past the village, towards great caves set into the mountainside. Something moved across them, some vast shape.
Another denizen. Another flash of insight.
“This place isn’t one thing, is it? It’s…the old world.”
“Many old worlds. You see it now, don’t you?”
Ryoka did. It was like…looking at a bunch of tiny states, or plots of land. Where the treant’s village ended—there was someone else’s domain. The giant mountainside and caves, a grassy expanse as far as the eye could see with grass like fire and a shimmering heat haze…
“Homes.”
Ryoka looked at Nama for confirmation. Again, she nodded.
“More permanent than the city, in truth. One was meant for guests. This? This is what they brought. It was not here a while ago. Or half so large.”
The Wind Runner stared past the many linked places. Few strayed from their areas; and why should they? They had everything they wanted. But some did, talking, walking about.
It looked to her like a glorious place. She would have loved to walk through the village, eat and talk to the locals and know what their lives had been like. Not in some perspectives; the ghost-village would have been terribly sad and she feared to know what it looked like in horror. But here were legends and their homes.
But from another perspective? Ryoka looked again and saw…
“…This looks like a refugee camp. How many people have fled here?”
Nama leaned on a walking staff, which had replaced the ladle. She peered up at Ryoka, suspiciously.
“You say this as if you are surprised, Ryoka. Everything dies. So why not worlds? In the past, they did not come here. But of late, he has allowed them to flee here. Like that large thing which tried to eat you. But mostly, they behave.”
Another clue in place. That was why Melidore had offered Mavika and the [Witches] sanctuary. When their craft died and their time had come.
Ryoka shivered. It was merciful, generous even. But it was a downer on the lands of the fae.
“Yes, well, it is my home. And such is the mood of the place. When he feels happy, things will change.”
A tap on Ryoka’s head from the staff. Ryoka winced. Nama stared out, pointing ahead.
“You need to go in to find your Ivolethe. I would come with you, but…if I go, there will be conflict. Then again, maybe I should.”
She hitched up her apron, reminding Ryoka of her disastrous city expedition. Ryoka held up her hands.
“No, wait. I’m getting better, Nama. You’ve done enough. I can guard my thoughts and see better.”
“I suppose you can.”
The hostess conceded after she eyed Ryoka up and down. She didn’t look convinced, though. She stood among the trees—suddenly she and Ryoka were far apart.
“I’ll be right here! Call my name if you get into trouble! But only do so if you must—you will have to run twice if I venture forth!”
Because she’d cause a fuss? Or lots of fights? Ryoka glanced back at the forest. The blizzard still raged; she hoped the King of Chivalry would be fine. Then again…if he wasn’t fine, Ryoka was dead.
Tentatively, she jogged forwards into the old world. She would have stayed, wandered up to the treant, walked across every home and asked each person why they were here and their story.
But this was not a forever-land. Time…was ticking on. Time was running out.
 
—-
 
Six times. Tyrion stood with his sword drawn, in the narrowing circle of safety. Beyond there—the fae fought. Not all of them, and not all with the same perfection of skill as Melidore and the warriors.
But they fought. Driving back the shadows. And the four.
Six times Melidore cut the bearded man’s arm from his shoulder. Each time, the shining sword severed something, and provoked pain.
Yet six times the figure came onwards, forcing the fae back with a sword of his own. They locked blades and Melidore forced the figure back.
But one refused to stay cut. Tyrion half-understood what Melidore was trying to do. Cut, and cut again until the arm stayed severed!
It was this moment. This time. With each step into the party, the four seemed more real. Less rotten. They were coming for the mortals, and Tyrion, despite himself, feared to challenge…
“My name is _______! Say it!”
The leader of men howled. The Humans and other non-fae covered their ears and screamed. Laken was holding up a hand, backing up.
Slowly, the circle narrowed. Tyrion wondered if this was a last stand. But why then did Melidore not order a retreat? He saw the fae looking up as he whirled to confront the dancing man. He repeated the gesture, and so did the warriors. The fae. What were they staring at?
The moons. They were rising overhead, both of them. And somehow—faster than they should have. So fast Tyrion saw its progress through the sky. Melidore was pointing upwards, beseeching the celestial bodies.
“Come! Come, fair ladies! End this wretched moment!”
The four advanced. And Tyrion understood.
It was a race against time. The shortest night. He stepped forwards with sword raised and cut at a flickering sight in the air.
“Until the day ends! Families of Izril! Until the day ends! Keep them back!”
The Flowers of Izril started. Laken Godart’s head turned and his face changed as he understood what Tyrion had seen.
“To arms!”
Magic bloomed as the mortals began throwing spells, cutting and fleeing back into the lines of safety. Halrac loosed an arrow—
The huntress caught it. She put it to her bow and shot it through one of the faerie warriors. The figure stumbled, but refused to fall.
“Hurry, hurry.”
They whispered. They were getting more desperate. They advanced further, desperate. Tyrion saw Melidore snarl. He raised his sword and—
 
—-
 
The second time, Ryoka sensed the giant tiptoeing up behind her. The malice oozed at her. She whirled and looked…up…
There he was again. A giant to make Zamea look tiny. Three eyes, staring. So large he might have been the same kind that had fought…other beings…in the age where he had come from.
“Mortal. Another mortal! The one that got away. My belly is filled today. Today is a good day!”
He was in a good mood. Ryoka blanched as she saw blood around his mouth. She backed up as the hands reached down.
Nama. Ryoka felt the name rise to her lips unbidden. She had walked through the amalgamation of worlds for hours, and the forest was distant behind her. She was passing under the shadow of the mountain and network of vast caves, each of which could have swallowed her, if not the titan.
No! Not yet! Ryoka remembered Nama’s warning. She backed up.
“Stay back!”
The hand reached down. Ryoka flung herself sideways and the wind blew her just past the fingers as they dug into the earth. The hand scooped up a huge amount of dirt and rock and rose. The figure sifted through it, then one of his eyes fixed on Ryoka.
“Quick mortal. Come here!”
She had to do something. Ryoka scrambled to her feet. And she thought—
 
—-
 
Three rather lovely, sinuous ladies leaned on the windowsills and watched as a screaming young woman ducked—then straightened. They had a lovely mountain cottage; handmade, really. No, wait—
The mountain was just a foothill, and they’d built into it, carving the stone gently to make a home for the three of them. But the humble façade belied the interior, which was like a mansion any million—billionaire would envy.
Was that an indoor pool? Marble tiles—Ryoka’s head turned.
She saw an oafish man with three eyes and a club look around. He was…about eight feet tall. And looked rather like the giant, only in miniature.
“Huh?”
Ryoka heard a cackle of laughter from the three sisters as they peered at Ryoka.
“Would you look at that? Darling girl! She has that idiot dead to rights!”
“How long has that fool been wandering about? And a mortal gets the best of him?”
The figure was scratching his head. he stared at Ryoka.
“You got large. Is this a trick? If it’s a trickster god, I’ll eat him and scatter his bones across the world!”
He waved his club around furiously. The three sisters sneered at him as he looked around, perhaps for some other presence. Ryoka stared at him.
“It worked!”
Perspective. And the giant had none. He stared at Ryoka and then his face turned into a huge grin.
“More of you to eat, then!”
He raised the club and ran at her. Ryoka hesitated. He was still eight feet tall! Huge, like a wall of flesh running at her! She—
…Pulled out the Pepperspray Potion and tossed it in his face. The brute screamed, surprisingly high-pitched, and writhed on the ground.
The three sisters collapsed into gales of laughter as they emerged from their home. Ryoka stared at the empty bottle, and then the brute. She turned—
 
—-
 
Unbidden, the world shifted back. The mountain sat above her, so vast it could have been one of the High Passes. The world was shaking.
Ryoka saw the titan writhing on the ground, screaming such curses the air itself turned black and fled his presence. She shook so hard her bones tried to vibrate out of her—
“Enough. Begone, you pesst!”
Someone hissed. The giant’s howl became a distant thing, for all he thrashed and the shaking stopped. Ryoka turned…
Three Wyrms peered down at her, each one smiling with so many teeth that their vast heads looked like forests of ivory unto themselves. They had emerged from the caves and were staring at her.
“How smart! Of all the trespassers who made it this far, none had the sense to look at him differently!”
“She smells of the forest. And the city. Did you go through both?”
“And strange and powerful meetings. She has protectors, this one. No wonder she made it this far. Will we let her go further?”
Ryoka heard the three voices speaking a sibilant tongue she could not understand. But meaning was clear. She stared up at the Wyrms.
Oh no, not more of them.
Fortunately, she caught that thought before it leaked. The three twined around her, moving over each other to form a circle with their bodies.
“Um. Hello! Honored Wyrms. I’m sorry about that. That guy’s been following me about—”
Ryoka desperately willed herself to see the three socialites and their mansion-home. But the oldest of them, with dark green scales mixed with chalk-grey, laughed.
“None of that now. We won’t be reduced so easily. Our perspective matters more than yours. What is your name, smart mortal?”
“Er…Cherise.”
One of the vast tongues flicked. All three frowned. One of them turned to the others.
“Is she actually trying to lie to us? She’s managed to hide her thoughts.”
“Cheh. Mortals. And here I was beginning to like her.”
Ryoka wished the automatic translation in her head wasn’t so…normal. It made the vast Wyrms less awesomely terrifying—
And she should be terrified.
“Try again.”
The smallest advised Ryoka. And small was comparative; her scales were dark red, fading to a kind of orange-green that would have fit luminous caverns of fungi in the dark. Ryoka had a feeling the Wyrms weren’t outdoor-types.
“I’m uh—Ryoka. Look, I’m just passing through.”
“We know. But we’re curious how you got here. We smell one of our friends on you.”
“S-Sikeri?”
The others looked at each other, giant heads turning.
“Oh, the party.”
“The party.”
“That greedy-guts must have gone to an interesting one! I should have gone too!”
