The King of Chivalry walked across the ground, whistling, with his two companions. The young boy Arthur, the old one, and the glowing sword was resting on the young King’s shoulder. Ryoka gasped in relief.
“Arthur!”
“You could power half the stars in the federation with that thing! Our suit’s systems are shutting—aaah!”
Behind her, the other five were rolling on the ground, crying out. Ryoka looked at the commander. Helmet off—she put her face in her hands.
“…Is that what we’ve been doing this entire time?”
“Yep.”
 
—-
 
It was refreshing to meet people who were worse than she was at this. Really. Ryoka yanked off the helmets with the commander before Arthur walked the forty paces or so over. She made introductions.
“Milady Warrior, an honor.”
The oldest King bowed. The commander stared at him as the others muttered about ‘sensor readings’ and ‘no biological life signs detected’. But their leader had a more…adaptive mind. She bowed, copying Ryoka’s gesture stiffly.
“What happened to the Wild Hunt? Nama?”
The young King with the sword grinned with plain delight.
“They fled rather than fight, especially when they found you gone! Your great protector is safe. It would take the entire hunt, rather than a fraction, to bring her down.”
“Wait, that wasn’t the entire hunt?”
“Of course not. Did you think all of them would hunt you? It was barely more than a handful.”
Ryoka scuffed at the ground. That hurt her feelings a bit. But then she looked at the King of Knights.
“…Why are you here, though?”
“To escort you in. We’re going for a walk.”
The boy informed Ryoka with grave dignity. She could only bow to that.
“Can you help this lot too? They’re lost and I’m afraid they’ll never make it back to the gateways before the solstice ends. They’ll be trapped here. And definitely die.”
The six shuddered. The King of Chivalry nodded, gravely.
“Of course. Let us walk to the Courts of the Fae. Then—I shall return these to their destination.”
“Who…are you? Sir King? And may I ask—is that…war weapon something that could be obtained, here?”
The commander didn’t even seem to recognize his form of address. King Arthur Pendragon smiled as she stared at his sword.
“Only if you have the will to take its burden. I would not if I were you. But tell me of your troubles, warrior.”
And so the unlikely party marched. The three Kings. The visitors from another time far more advanced than Ryoka’s, clinging together in a tight knot and looking terrified as children.
Ryoka expected more trials. More travails. But in truth—her journey ended with that last eventful encounter.
All those they passed did not trouble the King of Albion. They bowed, or called out greetings, or slunk away rather than challenge him. He walked on, and on—
Until they came to the last place. The inner place, perhaps second only to the heart of the fae.
Here was the Court of the Summer Fae and Winter. Ryoka stared up at the vast, hallowed structure. Seeing where the countless miniature worlds, the patchwork of homes, ended.
There, on the border between things, before the land turned into the home of the fae—a place where anything was possible, the greatest danger still, perhaps—
Ryoka saw a group of people arguing.
They were all rather tall, slender, elfin without being exactly Elves. Somehow, Ryoka knew this. They were, in fact, like larger copies of figures she’d once seen in moving crystal and ice, or dancing among mortals in the party.
Her breath caught. Her eyes went wide. She beheld the arguing fae—each one adorned in the colors of their court. Not the lively, gay colors of summer.
The subdued magnificence of the Winter Court.
They were arguing loudly, fighting. Two sides, one smaller, trying to get away from the larger mob. Ryoka saw a female form being yanked back by the angry ones wanting her to stay.
“Forbidden! Absolutely forbidden! The Wild Hunt has her!”
“Hah! Ye foolish bastards. If they got her so easily, where are their ringing horns of triumph? Let go, I said! Let go!”
“He will be more wroth with you than he has any other for thousands of years! Do not do it for one petty mortal! Ivolethe!”
The figure strained as they dragged at her clothes. Then her head turned. The arguing fae at the border stopped. Their eyes bulged. King Arthur laughed as he rested on his sword and the other two bowed.
Ryoka stepped forwards as the female figure tore loose of the suddenly-slack hands.
“Ivolethe?”
There she was. Her skin was blue, like the very crystal and ice she had been when she met Ryoka. She was tall! Taller than Ryoka, six foot three, perhaps. She looked like a courtier at a noble court. Or—
Flicker.
A bunch of swooping faeries argued in the air, stupefaction lost.
 
“The King of Chivalry! He walks about? Why here? Why now?”
“Strangers from other worlds! More mortals? What fools they be, even today!”
“What happened to Melidore? Why did he let her through?”
 
They flew at Ryoka angrily. She moved her persp—
Each one was so old. They had the radiance of Melidore about them, each and every one. They were ideas, history, parts of stories all in one. Like condensed stacks of information and personality at the same time as being wondrous figures. Ryoka cried out in a pain, tearing at her eyes—
Someone touched her. And the overwhelming glory of the faerie court faded. Ryoka saw a gentle hand, two icy eyes. A familiar voice.
Not as high and ringing as before. And the figure certainly wasn’t as small. But it was the same cool touch, the same, half-mocking smile.
Ivolethe bent, and eyed Ryoka as the visions ceased.
“Ye great fool. Always, you have to look. Always, you have to ask questions, poke your nose where you don’t belong. Kick your bare feet into everything you see. You defied the will of our king, dared the Wild Hunt to come after ye, and walked into the land where no mortal belongs.”
She bent slightly, so they were eye-to-eye. Her wings shimmered at her back, her clothes moved as the wind blew gently around her. Ryoka Griffin looked into those eyes. At the smile.
“I—I—I did it for a friend. Because I really wanted to see her. Because I had to. That’s what friends do, right?”
A gentle snort. Ryoka felt a cold finger flick her on the forehead. And then, Ivolethe embraced her.
“You are my most foolish friend I have ever made among mortals, Ryoka Griffin. But you did come. Be welcome!”
The other fae muttered darkly. Some laughed, and applauded Ryoka, or stomped off in a fury, threatening to tell him.
Ryoka heard none of it. After so long, she had done it. She embraced Ivolethe. She had lost so many friends. Seen so many terrible things. At last, at long last…
She had gotten one back. And in that moment, Ryoka’s long journey ended.
Everything was well again.
If only for a moment.
 
—-
 
Ryoka was smiling and crying when she let go of Ivolethe. It was a hug she had been waiting for, without knowing it, for so long.
“Ye crying child. How did you ever manage to get this far?”
Ivolethe said that, in a voice that was almost normal, not her magical fae voice. But she didn’t mean it. Her eyes were glimmering themselves.
And she was here. Ryoka could touch her.
The adventure had ended. She didn’t realize it at first. Ryoka breathed out.
“The Wild Hunt’s chasing me, Ivolethe. We might have to run. Even with King Arthur. And this is Commander…I can’t pronounce her name. And—”
“Shh.”
“But—”
“Shh, you silly girl.”
A cold finger pressed against Ryoka’s lips. Ivolethe turned and nodded to the King of Chivalry. The oldest nodded back as the boy bowed awkwardly, and the younger King inclined his head. He did not bow, even to the fae.
“Milady. May I leave Miss Ryoka Griffin in your care?”
“Yes. And I thank you, King of the Sword. We must thank those who helped this one. But we shall return to meet you again before the day ends.”
“Surely.”
The three in one nodded. Ryoka blinked.
“But the Wild Hunt—”
“Forget about them. You found me. And now, you are under my protection.”
“But they’re the Wild Hunt.”
“And I am Ivolethe!”
The faerie snapped back. Ryoka opened her mouth, and then it struck her.
She had come here to find Ivolethe. The Winter Fae grinned.
“Yes. And whilst my kind prevented me from reaching ye, I bet them you would make it. Neither they nor the cold hunters will trouble you. Nor any other.”
She looked around triumphantly. The Wind Runner opened her mouth.
“…But you were trying to find me, weren’t you?”
The Winter Fae hesitated. She glowered at Ryoka and muttered.
“I might have grown nervous. Ye are a fool. I imagined you wandering off into a trap somewhere, or angering the prouder folks.”
“What, me? I’d never do that.”
The young woman scoffed. She avoided Ivolethe’s gaze as the faerie raised an eyebrow. Ryoka coughed.
“So what now?”
Her answer was a smile.
“Now? Now, we are here, Ryoka. We will talk! But first, we must do what is right. The King of Chivalry and yon children helped you get here. Did anyone else worth thanking?”
Ryoka nodded.
“One. Well, a number of people. A Dragon, a phoenix—some people gave me food—but one person in particular. Someone called Nama—she’s waiting for me at the forest’s edge.”
“Then we shall see her and thank her properly.”
Ivolethe decided. She pointed back the way they’d come. Ryoka protested.
“But it was so long. And I know time isn’t unlimited here, Ivolethe. I came here for—”
“Would you stop worrying for one moment?”
A hand took Ryoka’s and Ivolethe glared back at her, truly irate. She reached over and flicked Ryoka’s ear. The young woman swore.
“That hurt!”
“Well, good. I was too small to beat you properly all those other times! You need it! I told you: you are with me. And my friend will not come to harm.”
So saying, Ivolethe pulled Ryoka past the fae. They scoffed at her and she made a rude gesture in reply.
“Come find me, kin! Or does this mortal who walked here not merit a single moment of yer time?”
“Paugh! We will see, Ivolethe!”
They shouted her name, but that was not her…name. Just what Ryoka had come to think of her as. She heard Ivolethe’s true name, or a whisper of it behind the meaning in her mind and shivered.
“Ivolethe?”
“Time enough for names and all that later. Come, come.”
The faerie dragged Ryoka back the way they’d come. Ryoka feared they would run out of time. But the Winter Fae stopped and smiled back at Ryoka.
“My friend. Do you remember the lesson I taught you? Tell me. How do you fly?”
The Wind Runner stopped. Her heart leapt.
“You step into the sky—”
Her feet left the ground. Ryoka Griffin cried out in shock. But Ivolethe just laughed. And her laughter was magic. She took Ryoka’s hand.
And all that had passed before became the journey. This?
This was the wonder at the end of the rainbow. The moment she had won. Ryoka left the ground and flew after Ivolethe.
The eternal summer sky over the old worlds turned grey. Dark—but not depressing. Below, the peoples who had come to the land of the fae from their homes looked up.
Snowflakes began falling from the sky. Fat, billowing down, as the wind blew. And among the sky, two figures flew over the land.
Ivolethe let go of Ryoka and she was floating. Flying, without aid of the wind. Wonderingly, she flew after Ivolethe as the fae dove.
This was not the power of the wind. This…was a dream. The truest magic. Ryoka only had to think and she dove, skimming across the ground.
She saw all the way she had come flash past in a moment. The three sisters, hissing angrily up at her. The Phoenix, flying and raising a wing.
And the Wild Hunt. They were returning to the Court of the Fae. They looked up as Ryoka halted in the air. The hounds bayed. The warriors raised their weapons.
But they did not strike her down. They saluted her, the quarry who escaped. And they bowed to Ivolethe. She laughed as she flew over them, urging Ryoka onwards. The wind howled around them, delighting in the company, but Ryoka did not feel the chill.
The farmers and village people of memory pointed up to her as she flew overhead. Ryoka gaped down at them with much the same expression on her face.
Flying. This was Ivolethe’s power. Ryoka stared at her friend, flitting through the air as nimbly as she had as a Frost Faerie in the other world.
“Ivolethe. Who are you?”
The fae turned, laughing.
“I’m the same person I have always been. Your friend! Come—I see your protector. There! You met one of them?”
She stared. Ryoka gazed down. And there was Nama.
The little hostess blinked up, and smiled as Ivolethe alighted on the ground lightly in front of her. Ryoka realized the fae was barefoot too. Ivolethe bowed slightly.
“Ah, they call you Nama, do they not?”
“And your little friend calls you Ivolethe. Well met.”
Nama smiled as she saw Ryoka.
“You found her, child.”
“I did. Thank you, Nama. Ivolethe and I came back to say thank you. Truly.”
“Yes. We did. On behalf of the Winter Court, I thank you, Nama. You have done much for my foolish friend. Is there aught you desire for this deed?”
Ivolethe swept a more formal bow, which surprised Ryoka. She was speaking to…something much higher than Nama’s head. The little furry woman raised the spoon as she adjusted her apron.
“It was a pleasant thing. I ask for nothing but the memory of it.”
The fae nodded slowly.
“Then I thank you twice. As does my friend.”
She nudged Ryoka. The young woman started.
“Thank you so much, Nama.”
She blushed. She’d been trying to figure out—the woman smiled at her. Nama’s furry paws grasped Ryoka’s for a second.
“I enjoyed it. You have met your friend. Be well, Ryoka Griffin. If you ever come back here—visit me again. But I doubt it will be so.”
“Thank you.”
Tears sprang into Ryoka’s eyes. But Nama did not prolong the farewell. She gently touched Ryoka’s cheeks with her furry hands. Then turned.
“Kneel.”
Ivolethe whispered to Ryoka. The Wind Runner looked at her. Then she did, bowing her head. Ivolethe kept the bow. She looked at Ryoka as Nama walked back into the forest.
“You are luckier than I could have dreamed. To have met her.”
“She protected me from a giant. And—the Wild Hunt. And some of the lesser fae.”
“Aye. She could do that. You are lucky she was kindly.”
“Could she not be?”
The young woman felt a slight bit of unease in her chest. She gazed after Nama.
“She’s a Brownie, right? A type of…”
Ivolethe was staring at Ryoka. She shook her head slowly. Then narrowed her eyes.
“Ah. She’s fixed an image in your head. No Brownie could have held off the Wild Hunt. You silly…silly thing. Did you not ask yourself who could do that?”
“I…but she looks like…”
