Exactly what she wanted Ryoka to see. She had never said she was a Brownie. Ivolethe nodded.
“What do you think I see?”
So saying, she reached out and touched Ryoka’s eyelids gently. And Ryoka looked up.
The forest of world trees rose higher than she could see, even if she craned back her head. Unimaginably vast.
The forest of the fae, where the Sword in the Stone rested. And all things could live there. Even—
“I chose the largest tree I could find. And it is still a bit too small.”
In the place where Nama had been, the vast trees shifted as something passed them by. Ryoka’s legs stopped working. Just as well she was kneeling.
“She lost her husband and her child.”
“Yes. No doubt she did. And she was still kind to you. Be grateful.”
Ivolethe bowed again. And then rose and took Ryoka’s hand. The young woman stared at her.
“This place is so wonderful. And horrible.”
“Would you have it any other way?”
She laughed at Ryoka. Then, Ivolethe pointed.
“Now we have thanked the one who matters. We will meet some of the others again. But it is time, Ryoka.”
“Time?”
Ryoka’s nerves hummed. She looked at Ivolethe. Yet her friend was just smiling.
“Yes. Time. Let us fly. I will show you the delights of my world.”
“But Ivolethe—I need your help. Erin—”
“Tell me about it.”
The faerie leapt into the air. Ryoka copied her, flying higher as the world disappeared below her. Ivolethe laughed, swooping around.
“Don’t fly like a straight line, fool! Fly like this!”
She dove corkscrewing about and pulling up out of the dive in a near-vertical climb. Like the Frost Faeries always flew. Ryoka tried to copy her. She shouted in delight and alarm.
“But Ivolethe!”
“Tell me your woes! I know some of them! But tell me! We have time!”
“We do?”
Ryoka slowed. The Frost Faerie drifted back to her, sitting on the air.
“We do. You have won the time. So let go, my dear friend, and tell me everything. You have been gone such a short time as we count such things. So why did I miss you?”
She mock-glared. And then seized Ryoka in an aerial hug again, swinging her down, then letting Ryoka fly across the sky. The young woman caught herself and flew back. She tackled Ivolethe. And the two were laughing.
Their time was not unlimited. But Ivolethe had promised Ryoka and so it was. As night passed across the Summer Solstice of every world—the sun shone in Avalon. They flew across the many lands of the fae. They landed, talking, meeting folk.
Laughing, jesting, telling each other stories of what had passed.
For the shortest night—the briefest day. That was Ryoka’s gift for all she had done. Ivolethe took her flying. She called the wind and blew them like tiny leaves into the tallest tree imaginable. Taller than imagination, and perched upon the branches.
Ryoka ran across a single leaf, marveling at it, and Ivolethe made it fall. Ryoka rode it down, a natural rollercoaster flipping and dancing through the air to the ground.
They stole sweets from other fae, bringing back their gifts from other worlds. They danced upon frozen lakes, and then watched them warm and fled the angry behemoths in the depths.
There was no danger here. Not with Ivolethe. Even the King of Chivalry’s aegis couldn’t compare to her presence. She was of this land. A member of the highest court. The Winter Fae.
It was glorious. And too brief. Ryoka and Ivolethe paused, gasping, and Ryoka pointed at the fading sun, which had only begun to move when she had met Ivolethe.
“It’s not long enough! Even this is too short, Ivolethe!”
She wanted to weep, even as she was having the best moments of her life. The faerie shook her head, sadly, and happily.
“It never will be. That is what makes it so precious. That is why we envy you mortal folk, for all your pain and grief and suffering. It matters. Each moment you draw breath matters more to you than we.”
“We only have this short day to talk?”
Ryoka grabbed Ivolethe’s hands. The faerie scoffed at her words.
“Only a day? Yes! You did what few have ever done. Do you think it was a small feat? Do you think it changed nothing? You won a day in the land of the fae. Do not think you will ever be the same.”
It was true. Ryoka had no idea what would happen when she returned. Nor did Ivolethe. She was not all-seeing, all-knowing.
She was not a god. But she was powerful. Strong enough to command the Wild Hunt to abandon its chase. To defy the faerie king’s order. She scoffed at that last as they sat, watching a waterfall’s mists drift into an abyss.
“Anyone can defy his orders. From the lowest pixie to the greatest of our court. But no one can escape his wrath.”
“Was he angry with you?”
Ryoka turned anxiously, feet dangling over the drop into blackness. Ivolethe turned her head, her smile waning slightly.
“A bit. I interfered with your death. Such things are not done lightly. Let alone in your world.”
“Is mine special?”
“We have sworn not to interfere. So he punished me, yes. Most of it was just what you know. That we might never meet again.”
“But we are.”
“So we are.”
Ivolethe was so sanguine about it that Ryoka narrowed her eyes.
“Ivolethe…what happened?”
“I was punished. Part of it was prophecy. No doubt I will be punished again for meeting you. It is…whatever.”
She flicked her fingers, so casual that Ryoka knew it was not. She also knew her friend didn’t want to say what had happened. Ryoka’s fingers tightened on the crumbling stone cliff.
“Did it—hurt?”
The Winter Faerie paused for a moment.
“Only a bit. We are immortal, Ryoka. I would have suffered ten thousand times that to meet with you.”
Ryoka sniffed. Ivolethe kicked her off the cliff. She shouted as Ryoka caught herself and flew back up.
“Stop sniveling! Today is a grand day! My friend has done what few could even dream! Let us laugh! Let us celebrate and not weep until afterwards! Let the consequences come! But this time is for you and me. I am proud of you.”
“You are?”
Ivolethe reached down and pulled Ryoka up.
“Of course I am, fool.”
The young woman smiled. She saw Ivolethe roll her eyes.
“You must hear something to believe it? You have the ego of a mole. I am proud of you, again. How many times do you wish me to say it?”
“A few more?”
The faerie took wing, snorting. But her voice drifted down to Ryoka as she flew off to another sight.
“I am proud of you. I am proud of you. How many more times…?”
 
—-
 
They were alike. That was why they were friends. For Ryoka, Ivolethe happily defied the will of the faerie king, no matter what he might do.
“Be honest, Ivolethe. What could he do to you?”
“The worst of it? Do you really want to know?”
“Really. Please.”
Ivolethe thought about this.
“For such as this…he might lock me in a place without light or sound or sensation. Take away my form and imprison me in a wretched body. Until a star was born and died.”
“…Fuck.”
“He probably will not. That was a punishment for the old days. I think he will be wrathful, but not that much.”
Ivolethe hastened to assure Ryoka. She paused, and then her smile turned melancholy.
“I truly doubt he will be that wrathful. He will respect your journey. And he does not punish us as in the old ways so much. We are too few, these days.”
Ryoka looked at Ivolethe. The truth about the faerie lands—all secrets—they were one of the reasons she’d come.
“Ivolethe…I came for Erin. She’s—half-alive. Half-dead. Neither.”
“Aye. We will do something about that.”
“We will?”
Ivolethe nodded.
“As much as can be done.”
“Should we—petition the faerie king for aid? I could do it. If it means he isn’t angry at you—”
Smack. Ivolethe hit Ryoka. With a fist, rather than a palm. Ryoka rubbed at her shoulder.
“Ow! What the hell, Ivolethe!”
“Are you stupid? You want to invoke the Faerie King? He’ll punish us both. You nearly did it at the party didn’t you?”
“I—ow! Ow! Maybe! I thought it might help?”
“Help? Does his name and the idea of mercy often join hands and dance about in your mind?”
Ivolethe had Ryoka’s ear and was shouting into it. The faerie looked delighted at being able to push Ryoka about; Ryoka remembered doing that to the little faerie. She winced as Ivolethe let go of her ear.
“Okay, bad idea. But we need help!”
“And I’m not good enough? He is too much! If you had spoken his name, even in your world…”
“But I don’t know his name. Only…well, one of the ones in stories.”
The Frost Fae looked disgusted. She thought for a second, floated off, then called over.
“Oi, Wind Runner of Reizmelt!”
“Ah.”
“Hey you. You over there with the black hair! Ye cunt of an idiot! Do any of these names not fit you?”
“I get it! Fine! But what would have happened if I called his name?”
That was a better question. Ivolethe floated around, and found a stone on the ground. She tossed it.
“There. Which side did that stone land on?”
“Um…I’m going to assume that was rhetorical.”
Ivolethe grinned toothily.
“That was the aspect of him you would have summoned.”
“Ah. Shit.”
“Exactly. You might have summoned nothing at all, most like. If the other fae watched you, it was to see what would happen. Perhaps he would have been all sunshine and rainbows, and pardoned me and given you ten thousand cures for your friend while dancing ye about! Or perhaps your entire party would have disappeared.”
Ryoka gulped. Ivolethe shook her head, disgusted. Then she turned and gave Ryoka a tiny look of approval.
“…I say this. But you did not say his name. And you bypassed the petty Wyrm and one of the Summer Court. That Melidore, I will make him suffer for his tricks.”
She growled, speaking his true name behind the half-name Ryoka heard. The Wind Runner blinked.
“You know him?”
“He is…about my station. Once, he was of both courts. These days? He only walks among the Summer Fae. He does not wish to visit your world in winter.”
Ryoka whistled.
“Really. But he was so powerful. Er—no offense, Ivolethe.”
Her glare told Ryoka she took all the offense. She put her hands on her hips.
“He took his form. I took the form of ice and magic. It was far weaker. Do I look weaker than Melidore here?”
She pointedly looked around. Snow began falling once more. Ryoka raised her hands.
“No, no! You’re—amazing. Magnificent.”
“Yes.”
The Wind Runner hesitated. She lifted a finger.
“…But Ivolethe. I have to bring this up. I—carried you around in my pocket! I fed you snacks!”
She looked at the Winter Fae, who answered only to the Faerie King, and tried to conflate her with the petty little Winter Sprite who ate wasps and such and begged for treats. Ivolethe stared at Ryoka. Her mouth worked a few times in puzzlement.
“Ryoka. Answer me something, honestly. D’you not want to sit in a great huge blanket and eat snacks the size of your head all day?”
The young woman thought about this.
“I envy you so much.”
 
—-
 
As their day drew onwards, their talk became more serious. Ryoka told Ivolethe of Erin’s condition and her history. The Frost Faerie was puzzled.
“Why did you come to this world for a cure for her? Your world has more miracles and tonics to revive her than this.”
“Really? More than the land of the fae?”
Ivolethe shrugged.
“More easily accessed, shall we say. You want a cure for death? There are many! But do you think they are easily gotten? Your world is…cheaper.”
That seemed like a polite way of saying it had wholesale miracles. Ryoka remembered how Nama had taken three healing potions as a gift.
“So my world…”
“The rules are bent in ways few are. Or do you think Skills make sense?”
Ivolethe’s eyes glinted. Ryoka nodded slowly.
“Will you tell me about why that is?”
“No. It is dangerous.”
“Even now?”
“If you got back home—yes. And you are smart enough to know a bit of why that is.”
Ryoka did. Or she had suspicions. Ivolethe changed the subject abruptly.
“Before we think of ways to cure that fool Erin who danced in front of crossbows, let us talk about your failings, Ryoka.”
“Which ones?”
Ivolethe spun. She sniffed Ryoka, pointedly jabbing her in the neck and then plucking at her hair.
“You met a Witch. The Witch of Witches, who has in her nature the same immortality as a Dragon’s get. And you did not instantly run off? You also consorted with Vampires? Oh, the most safest of beings to deal with! And you cured one of their sickness!”
She screamed happily in Ryoka’s ear. She was enjoying chastising Ryoka. The Wind Runner was too, a bit.
“I did it for you! You daft cunt!”
Ryoka saw Ivolethe recoil. And then the Winter Fae started laughing. So did Ryoka. After a moment, Ivolethe leapt up.
“You could not stay away from immortal folk for two seconds, eh? Well, the Vampire child sounds less dangerous than the Witch.”
That reminded Ryoka. She raised a finger.
“Also a Djinni. Karsaeu-Dequoa wants to tell you that she misses you.”
Ivolethe sighed.
“And we they. Poor slaves, they are. Fine. Ye met some of the old folk and acquitted yourself well. Sometimes.”
She raised an admonishing finger as she looked at Ryoka.
“But you don’t have enough caution! You are too weak to survive their wrath, for all you court their amusement and affection! Like a minnow who keeps the company of whales, ye are. For that matter—hm. Don’t take off yer clothes. But turn around. Open your mouth. Stick out your tongue.”
Ryoka blinked. She did, and Ivolethe flitted about her, peering intently. She cried out.
“Aha! I knew it! Ye have a thread on ye.”
“What? Where?”
Ryoka panicked. Ivolethe plucked something. Ryoka shouted.
“My hair!”
“Not your hair. A thread. See?”
Ivolethe yanked a strand of hair out of Ryoka’s scalp. It came out with some blood and skin. Ryoka stared at it. It was indeed…thread. It glistened blackly.
“Oh no. Belavierr?”
“Mhm. She must have touched ye. That one lays plans like webs. However—”
Ivolethe briskly drew the thread up. Then she snapped it between her pale hands briskly. Ryoka gasped.
“Ivolethe! Can you do that?”
“Of course I can.”
The thread turned to ice and fell to pieces. Ivolethe drew them up with a pointing finger and blew.
“Return to your mistress with my gift! For my friend’s troubles, have at ye, you stupid Witch!”
 
—-
 
Belavierr the Stitch Witch was at work on the balcony of the Necromancer’s castle when she stirred.
“What broke it?”
Az’kerash felt it too. He stopped his work, warily. He felt a chill coat his entire castle in a second, despite the layers of magical protections.
“Dead gods. What? Belav—!”
An avalanche of snow poured out of the sky onto the dark castle out of the summer sky. Belavierr raised a hand—
The entire castle was buried in ice.
 
—-
 
