“You come from that world and you—no. Go. Go. I pardon you the insult once. Go. And see properly this time. Then, ponder what you ask Ivolethe to do.”
Her wrath had faded abruptly. Turning to sadness and realization. The others looked at Ryoka, and pointed.
“Go.”
They spoke. Ryoka stumbled back. She saw Ivolethe looking at Eniav, nodding her head, as if in thanks for sparing Ryoka.
“Let us go, Ryoka. It is time you saw.”
 
—-
 
The day was coming to its end. And all that had been wrought—began where it ended.
Amid the gateways on the hills. And the blooms among the hilltops.
Ryoka flew back the way she’d come, blurring past the city and leaving all those she had met behind in an instant. And like stories—she realized something had been leading her into the land of the fae only so she could return.
Because the answer had been in front of her the entire time. She had walked past it.
The hills were there. Each one with menhirs, giant primitive stones like Stonehenge. Gateways to another place at the right time.
“The lands of the fae connect to all realms. Well—some gateways break. Some have no magic for them.”
Ivolethe pointed out a hill where the stones had fallen, the portals breaking. Ryoka saw the soldiers in the distance, making for their home. She raised a hand and they did likewise.
“In times long past, all folks came here. This was a place of great meetings. Danger—always danger, but it was so filled that on this day countless hilltops would be alive. Children would stumble deep into the lands of the fae. Travellers likewise! Heroes on great journeys! And even…gods.”
Ryoka jerked at the soft word. Ivolethe held up a hand.
“From other worlds. You understand?”
“I…I think I do. But there’s something I’m missing. This place is a refuge, now. Something terrible has happened. Why are no faeries born?”
“You know. Put it together. Here we are, Ryoka Griffin. As Eniav said. Look and see.”
Where it all began.
The hilltop where Ryoka and Ivolethe alighted was as Ryoka remembered it. And she had noticed something, the first time she looked around.
There were flowers here. In such profusion, in such number as to be incomparable to other hilltops. Now—Ryoka wondered why.
Some hilltops had no flowers. Others? One. Some, and these were rare even among infinity, many.
None with more than here. Here.
A dread understanding filled Ryoka. She looked at Ivolethe. And the flowers she would never, could never, step on.
“See.”
The Frost Fae whispered. And Ryoka—
—Saw.
