“Ivolethe! What did you do?”
Ryoka stared. She had seen the power go through the frozen strands before it vanished. Ivolethe grinned and dusted her hands.
“I told you. I have power, here. I just warned that fool weaver what happens when she interferes with my friends.”
“Won’t you get in trouble?”
“I am already in trouble. Ryoka. Ryoka, Ryoka, Ryoka.”
The Winter Fae took Ryoka’s hands in hers. She looked Ryoka in the eye, the spirit of mischief and…honest friendship there.
“You came to me for aid. You shall have it. I shall break every law I can for you. After all—we are friends.”
Ryoka felt her skin prickling. But her smile was as wide as could be. No holds barred. Not on this day of days.
They were flying about, looking for the visitors from space. Ryoka was talking to Ivolethe about Melidore.
“He hated our world. He came to the party, he said, for nothing.”
“Aye. Do not hold his actions too much against him. I shall beat him until he is bloody, after all.”
“Um. Okay.”
Ivolethe nodded. Her gaze was sympathetic as much as it was annoyed with her kind.
“And he was different, an age ago. He was of one court, not half of the whole. He laughed; he was a merry prankster. He still is one of those things. But your world has made him bitter.”
“My world?”
“The one you came from.”
Ivolethe clarified. Ryoka blinked. Innworld alone had made Melidore the way he was? Ivolethe was nostalgic and playful as she pointed down; Ryoka saw the three Kings from afar, the six aliens—and some of the fae host, all walking through the city. She was sure they’d been untroubled.
“When he was of old? He would have been the party of parties! He loved mortals more than most of our court. Er…just as well he wasn’t his old self, then. In ages past he would have bedded a dozen and put a faerie’s child in all of ye. You would have born them a full year and day and woken with flowers and gifts and no babe…”
Ryoka spluttered. Ivolethe was looking pointedly over her shoulder as she descended.
“What, me? Give me some credit!”
“Are you saying that you would not have been interested had he come to you as such?”
“I have standards!”
“Yes. Mostly for those who live many times your lifespan.”
Ivolethe snorted. Ryoka was beet red as she touched down upon the ground.
“I wouldn’t have gotten pregnant—”
“Yes you would. And there would be a new faerie, in those days! You would have woken with gifts in your arms, and—”
Ivolethe’s face abruptly fell as she turned, from a dance into a stumble. Ryoka saw her laughter turn to sadness at once.
“—that was then. We do not have children anymore. None are born to the fae.”
“What? Why?”
“You will see before you go.”
Ivolethe’s smile had vanished. She looked—so sad. Just for a second. Then she turned her head.
“Later. Let us at least meet with this lot. King of Knights! Ryoka wishes to say ‘thank you’ more formally. My kin, we make for the outside.”
“So you intend to defy his will to the fullest, Ivolethe? He will take away your wings.”
One of the Court of the Fae cried out in disgust. They were not always summer or winter, Ryoka saw. They could be more things, here. They regarded Ryoka sternly. She ducked her head guiltily, but Ivolethe just kicked the speaker in a good imitation of Ryoka.
“Bah! You forget yourself, Eniav! You have forgotten what friendship means with mortals! It means—happiness! Passing delights! Breaking rules and burning down cities! Hah!”
She laughed wildly as the other fae scoffed. They weren’t the wild partying fae that Ryoka was familiar with. She suspected few of them went to become Winter Fae. Indeed—Ivolethe was the spirit of rebellion and flight among them.
She had never been as silly or capricious as the other Winter Sprites, by the same token. One of them stared at Ryoka with thinly-veiled annoyance.
“If you must do this—”
Ryoka missed the rest. The six travellers led by the commander had come over, anxiously.
“Miss Ryoka. We’ve been talking and we seem to be close to where we started.”
“If we survive the city.”
The orange soldier looked dourly around, his toy-gun abandoned. He looked ready for a fist-fight and his eight-digited fists were probably a better bet. Ryoka indicated the King of Chivalry.
“You’ll be safe.”
“Somehow, I’m sure of that. Which is odd because it makes no sense.”
The commander fretted. She looked—weary. No doubt if they’d been here for eighty days in their perception. She was clearly anxious to return home, but her fear caused her to grab Ryoka’s arm.
“Listen. We came here for a weapon. We’ve lost a Victory Company. Nearly two hundred ships!”
“You mean its two hundred ships you put through here?”
Ryoka half-screamed. The commander flinched.
“We came here under the assumption our weapons would work. I hope more than I think made it back. But…we need something. Is there nothing we could trade for?”
“You mean, with your weapons?”
Ryoka indicated the cheap plastic. The commander sighed. Ryoka thought. And her travels in this world…her eyes opened wide.
The fae, including Ivolethe, stopped arguing and pulling hair and kicking each other to peer over as Ryoka leaned forwards.
“I have an idea. I can’t guarantee it’ll work but—do you have gold? Synthesizers? Jewels? Treasure?”
“We…do. Or we could procure some. Why?”
The other aliens listened closely. Ryoka pointed. She had multiple people she could have directed them to, but she felt this was fair.
“A little ways in here there’s a…kid with a stick. Don’t go over the wall he has, and definitely beg Arthur to take you. But trade for the stick.”
“A stick.”
The woman said faintly. Ryoka smiled.
“You might see it as something different if you put on your helmet. And it might be a stick—but imagine what it could do to, uh, battleship armor?”
A gleam entered the commander’s eyes. She whirled to her soldiers.
“Communicate with the fleet if we have anyone still at the gate. Get me all the—did she say a basic element?”
“Sounds like it. We’ll get jewels too. Thank you!”
The soldier saluted Ryoka. She hoped it helped. Also—that she was doing a good thing.
“Very smart. You would have been a good person to have in my kingdom. I wish I could take you.”
Ryoka started. She looked around. The boy-squire Arthur looked up at her.
“Your Majesty. Thank you. I think Ivolethe is going to take me away. So we might not meet…”
He nodded and extended a small hand to shake.
“I could not lift the blade yet. I’ll learn swordsmanship. And how to be a King from Merlin, I suppose. I’m not looking forwards to meeting him, from what the others have told me.”
Ryoka peered at the boy. He was earnest, wearing his squire’s tunic—
And old with the knowledge of what is to come.
“I don’t want to destabilize the time-space continuum, sire…”
The commander and her forces turned worriedly. Ryoka ignored them.
“…but are you sure about your decision?”
The young Arthur laughed. He was only ten, but he looked so old—until he laughed. Then he was the boy again.
“I think so. I must. If Camelot is to rise. If Albion is to be saved—I must take up the sword. I see the hour of my death.”
He indicated the old Arthur. The young Arthur Pendragon closed his eyes.
“…But that is a fine thing. Because I can choose it. And I choose to be more good than ill in this world. Is that not a worthy use of a life for anyone?”
He looked up at Ryoka. She knelt.
“Yes. I wish everyone thought like you. It’s just—heavy.”
Understatement of the year. The young Arthur’s lips quirked as the soldiers begged the older two to show them to the child living in the rubble. He watched them go, the shining Caliburn keeping all evil back, and turned to Ryoka. He hesitated.
“Can I tell you something?”
For a moment he was a boy again, anxiously looking at his older selves and standing on tiptoes to whisper. He deserved to be that, so Ryoka knelt and listened.
“Of course, Arthur.”
He nodded and whispered into her ear.
“I don’t like my older selves. They told me everything. My—second self I don’t like the most. He talks about his glories too much. Parties, his accolades. He talks about things like how many women he’s slept with. He says I’ll enjoy it, but it seems…not as important as making sure my people are happy. And when I die—”
The boy shuddered as he stared at the pierced armor, the bloody back of the King. He shook his head.
“It’s not that I fear it. Not…too much. But the old me tells me how I fail. Those around me. Lancelot will hang himself. My wife—Merlin—my son.”
He reached out to Ryoka, then controlled himself, squeezing his fists tight.
“I don’t want to make those mistakes. I am not afraid of dying, but failing. The only reason I would not bear the sword is if—someone could not make my mistakes. I wish I could take you—take this knowledge and do it right.”
“So do I. I’m sorry, Arthur. I think we all want that.”
The boy nodded miserably.
“But it’s already done, as you said.”
Ryoka’s heart broke for the boy. She should not have been there. It should have been the [Innkeeper] who would be King. Who might have taken his sword and told him something incredibly stupid like ‘let’s go together, do things right, and break the time space fabric forever! No Killing Goblins! Huzzah!’
But Ryoka was just Ryoka. She didn’t have any giant words of wisdom. Any simple grace. She thought of something to say. And she had a stupid, Ryoka-thought.
She half-smiled and dug around in her bag of holding for something.
“Arthur. I don’t think I can give you something to take with you. And I’m afraid of the…consequences if I could give you a note. But maybe…you could give me something?”
She proffered a square of white cardboard and a quill. The boy blinked at it. Ryoka held them out.
“May I have your autograph, Arthur? So I can show it to people and tell them what you wanted to do wherever I go?”
It was just a silly thing. Ryoka felt embarrassed just as she asked. But Arthur looked—pleased. He glanced over his shoulder at the place the two older Kings had been.
“Don’t you want one from them? They are the King of Chivalry. I’m just Arthur at this moment.”
Ryoka smiled. She didn’t know how to resolve the angst of doomed fate or failure—much less how to be a good friend. But she did know how to cheer a kid up. She shook her head.
“I’m sure it’s worth the most. For here is the boy who could be the King of Chivalry.”
His eyes brightened. And a true smile touched his lips. Arthur took the quill, and dipped it into the inkpot. He wrote on the cardboard.
It could have taken seconds, or hours. He labored on it. When he handed it back, Ryoka saw a splendid signature crossing the page. More artful than mere lettering.
“There you are. It’s not very good. I’m just learning my letters. But it looks nice, doesn’t it?”
Arthur looked up at her anxiously. Ryoka smiled and nodded.
“I’ll treasure it forever. Thank you, your Majesty.”
He beamed at her. Ryoka wondered what Welsh scholars would have made of that handwriting. She neglected to tell Arthur she couldn’t read the signature.
She was saying goodbye when she realized the two other Kings were standing beside her. Both of their arms were folded. Ryoka jumped.
The two Arthurs were staring at Ryoka. Haughtily. Time being what it was—the commander already had a stick and was swishing it about, talking about ‘unknown composite substances’ with her team. The oldest Arthur coughed.
“Have you no need for the signature of the King of Albion, Miss?”
Ryoka hesitated. The boy Arthur looked downcast. Ryoka produced two more cardboard pieces and the quill and inkpot.
“…Can I have one for some friends? Multiple, actually.”
She turned, and winked at the boy. And he laughed. Ryoka reflected that…she really should have waited for the three Wyrm sisters to throw more stuff at her.
She wondered what that handbag had been.
 
—-
 
“You will drive your friend against the king of these lands, Ryoka Griffin. And she will never prevail against his wrath. She has already done too much. Tell her enough.”
After saying goodbye to the King of Chivalry and shaking the hands of each, Ryoka found the fae waiting. Ivolethe was standing apart, arms folded. Ryoka slowed.
“I would—but we’re friends. And she won’t be punished…that much?”
The fae raised their eyebrows. Ivolethe scowled at Ryoka.
“Ignore them. They know nothing of sacrifice!”
“She will not get away lightly. And believe us—even we suffer. Even we die!”
A male of the Summer Court warned Ryoka. The Wind Runner hesitated. She looked back at Ivolethe. Then she grew angry.
“Well, maybe I need help! Ivolethe is going to help me bring back my friend. My friend, who once nearly stole Excalibur from the grave of the King of Chivalry! My friend, who defends Goblins and once led an army of them! Who entertained your kin, sir! Erin Solstice! Remember her name! If you knew her, you would help too and damn the consequences!”
The Kings, the aliens, and the fae blinked as Ryoka pointed back the way she’d come. Ivolethe smiled.
“Sometimes we have to risk our lives. I did so for the chance to meet my friend! Isn’t it right to fight for what is just? When evil comes, will you simply turn away and hide here?”
Ivolethe’s smile vanished. The King of Chivalry hesitated. The young King raised a gauntleted hand.
“Miss Ryoka. I would watch your words.”
A buzzing filled the air. The Court of the Fae’s eyes narrowed. Ryoka blinked as their surprise turned to wrath.
“You dare to accuse us of cowardice? Us?”
The Summer Fae hissed at her, his eyes blazing. Ryoka gulped.
“I only meant—this cause—”
“Your petty, mortal cause? A single life? Should we march from our realm and bear arms for your war? Theirs?”
The soldiers flinched as a fae furiously pointed, her garments of frost shimmering in the fading day. She spat at Ryoka’s feet and frost bloomed around the spot.
“How many times, mortal? How many times should we do so? We have marched ten thousand ten thousand times for your ends of the world. Our kin have sacrificed themselves time and again for mortal friends. Do you think you are the first? We worry for Ivolethe because we fear what she will do for one life!”
Another piece of puzzle at the sudden wrath. Ryoka backed away.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t know.”
She whispered. The angry court of the fae advanced on her—then the wrath ceased, abruptly.
“You did not.”
The frozen fae, Eniav, shook her head slightly. Incredulously. She looked at Ryoka.
