It wasn’t perfect. Matt watched as an anteater used its tongue to pickpocket a passing human. He watched an elephant using its size to cut in front of a dozen other people who were waiting in line. He watched a human dumping fish scraps in a river that would lead to a beaver's den with a malicious grin on his face. But that was all ok. It was people being people. There weren't the systematic issues he had feared would exist under a polite facade.

He and Liz spent a full week exploring the world undercover as low-Tier tourists. Amusingly enough, they were scammed twice, but that was the only issue they ran into even when pretending to be low-Tier visitors, which wasn’t too bad all things considered. In return, they got to see the planet from ground level and experience a good bit of what it had to offer.

When they left, Matt just felt it would be a shame that in a few generations, a few dozen at most, the world would look no different from most Empire worlds with a majority of the population being human. Bloodlines didn’t linger forever, and after three generations of marrying humans without reinforcing a bloodline, it would fade to nonexistence for their progeny. Even those animal traits which existed in the mortal population and were genetically inheritable would eventually fade, as the Empire's aesthetic sensibilities took hold and the recessive genes weren’t reinforced.

The Monster Collective paid exorbitant amounts to ensure that bloodline reinforcing items were readily available to prevent the dilution of bloodlines, but that wasn’t possible in the Empire. They just didn’t have enough spare tax revenue to fund such an effort nor the political will to do so, nor did they have the Monster Collective’s methods. They weren’t exactly state secrets but their bloodline research was only one step removed.

Liz was trying to create similar cheap-but-effective bloodline reinforcing items with her research team, but it was slow going at best.

Still, they both thoroughly enjoyed their time there and intended to bring Aster to visit before things changed too much so she could appreciate the almost idyllic world.

Their final world on their tour was from the Clans.

All of the dwarves had remained behind in the Clans proper, but that didn’t remove their cultural impact.

While the shortness present was greatly exaggerated in comparison to the movies, with the average height only being slightly shorter than in the Empire at around 5'5 for the men instead of the 4'5 typical seen in movies.

Where Matt really felt the difference was the public buildings which had been made to dwarven standards. He nearly bumped his head on the ceiling of the planet’s capital castle until he gave up and used his Rubberfruit flexibility to compress himself a good foot in height.

Interestingly enough, a good portion of the humans, mostly the wealthy, had chosen to remain in the Clans instead of coming with their world to the Empire.

Matt knew humans weren’t treated badly, but he would have expected those humans with some power or wealth would be happy to move to the Empire where there weren't any barriers to their upward social mobility.

However, while the stories about Clans shortness were exaggerated, their crafting culture certainly wasn’t. Even among mortals, crafts were seen as a way to leave a mark upon the world. And while the planet couldn’t really be said to specialize in anything, a planet full of relatively-dedicated craftsmen was quite the boon to their fiefdom, but only time would tell how long that tradition and culture of crafting and excellence would last. But, given the planet was Tier 15, a good number of immortals had grown up with that culture in mind, and immortals rarely strayed from their mortal roots. So, Matt gave it good odds on becoming a noteworthy crafting hub in their burgeoning duchy.

There weren’t any major issues for them to solve but they did spend a few days with Count Felipe, who had been an expert in dwarven culture before earning his bid for a noble title.

His cultural understanding had made him a shoe in for the position, and from everything they could see, he was leading the planet into textbook integration.

As they left their last stop, their ship turned its bow to the Capital, where they would be meeting with other dukes of the Empire.
