Overall, it seemed to him like the people who had moved to Arbor Felix were a bunch of troublemakers who detested the idea of anyone having meaningful power over another. That would be a fine stance, but from what he could see, they’d taken no meaningful steps within their own groups to prevent warlords from forming. He translated that to mean they were mad that they didn’t have power, and in doing so, sought to stop anyone else from having power. It was childish, and sadly, it was now Baroness Bennani’s and thereby his problem to deal with.

The real sticking points were the mandatory education, healthcare, and awakening laws. Their chosen level of technological development fell well below Imperial standards for sanitation, and without a centralized education system, they also fell afoul of that. Plus, the idea of Awakening seemed to outright offend a bunch of the elders who wholeheartedly wanted to be free of cultivation.

Liz asked a question Matt hadn’t considered. “Why didn’t they just stay in the Republic if they hadn’t even passed the first generation?”

“I’ve talked to the local elders about that. Some of them did. They originally had closer to two hundred million settlers, with close to fifty million or so pulling back. The remainder are seeming to hope that they can just do what they wanted to do anyway with the Empire. They are also the poorest of the settlers, the ones who had sold everything to come here. If they had gone back to the Republic, they would have been in an even worse place than they were before they got the chance to settle Arbor Felix.”

Matt contemplated that while he scanned the world around him more thoroughly this time. Like most veil worlds, it was a low-Tier planet. Tier 2 in this case. That was an incredibly low Tier which would struggle to self-sustain a cultivator population, and even with the Empire’s investment into such low-Tier worlds, it would take thousands of years before it reached Tier 5 at the slow pace those resources were allocated.

It was, in fact, barely Tier 2. It must have naturally Tiered up fairly recently in the planet's history, and Matt wondered just how such a world had developed essence.

From everything they knew, worlds simply needed to reach a concentration of mana created from unawakened life until essence was formed. Most worlds had rich ecosystems with abundant, even if non-human, life. Arbor Felix seemed an oddity in that that didn’t seem to be the case.

Or, it hadn’t been the case before the world was settled.

Matt could see where the animals the settlers had seeded the world with were out competing the local fauna, but that was typical of any settling of a new world. Even the non settled continents didn’t have very much biomass, all together.

For all the things Arbor Felix wasn't, it was one thing above all: peaceful.

Even the forests seemed to lack any substantial predator populations, with nothing large enough to readily hunt humans.

None of that helped the world, but it did give Matt a few ideas.

As for the planet at hand… There was only so much they could do to accommodate their desired lifestyle, as while the Empire did have allowances for nomadic lifestyles, it would require tradeoffs that Matt wasn’t sure the settlers could accept.

But his ideas could work, and it might get this planet working decades before it would otherwise get off its feet.

That was, if they wanted to get that involved. He was feeling a little blade-shy after Soerilia.

Turning to Liz, he asked at Tier 26 speeds, “Do we want to try and solve this?”

Liz seemed to be thinking in the same vein and agreed immediately. “I have a few ideas. What are you thinking?”

Matt gestured for her to take the lead.

“Practically speaking,” she started, “Almost all of the people who are most vocal about not wanting to be part of the Empire are past mandatory Awakening age. We could just… ignore them. Let them live out their lives for the next couple of decades. If we want to be the largest assholes we can exercise our rights to lordship to arrest the people who aren’t that old and Awaken them. Until someone is Awakened, they’re legally our property, or Baroness Fatiha’s rather, so it’s not even bending our charter to do it. If we want to put an end to this we can go in swords drawn and force our will upon them.”

Matt grimaced at that last part. The fact that every unawakened child was the legal property of their local noble, only protected by child protection laws, was one of his more unpleasant discoveries when he was being taught noble laws. The thought of ever having been the property of the Junipers still made him feel sick, even after all these years. Serfdom was still legally part of the law, but luckily, those laws were part of a larger section that only applied to the unawakened.

Or, not so luckily. It wasn’t a secret that universal awakening was primarily a ploy by Empress Agatha to de facto end serfdom, and thereby weaken noble power. The official reason at the time was that she wanted to simply rejuvenate the armies with fresh immortals in the wake of the civil war but that excuse hardly held up to scrutiny then, and it surely didn't after all of her other reforms. But the actual law was still on the books and was unpleasant to think about let alone consider using.

“That's a shit idea and you know it. What is your real idea?”

Liz let out a small grin as he proved just how well he knew her. “I was thinking that we could set them up with a mobile tablet-based education system typical for nomadic cultures. Their chosen tech level will prove to be a problem, but if we provide them with some mid-Tier portable sanitation formations that draw in ambient mana power themselves, we could bring their health requirements up to the basic levels. Then boom, we’ve solved most of their issues while not running roughshod over their wants. It’s not like any of that would be expensive for us.”

Matt pondered the idea for a minute, running through ways it could play out and looking for issues. “Really, the issue is the opportunity cost. Think about how much permanent infrastructure that much money could buy. It’s not a bad idea though. Question is, do we want to present our solutions to the Baroness, or do we let her sort it out herself?”

Matt was loath to actually give it up and walk away without helping, but his talk with Leon was fresh in his mind. He should either get involved or leave it be, and right now… he didn’t trust himself with getting involved.

Liz seemed to agree with him. “Let’s give her our idea and offer funding, but leave it up to Baroness Bennani. We can check in with her in a few decades to see how it went either way. Our job is to help our lesser nobles not hold their hands.”

In agreement, they wished Baroness Bennani well, and they took their leave to go to the next planet on their tour.

Thankfully, the next five were well handled by their local nobles with no major issues that Matt and Liz needed to intervene in, which let them actually treat their tour like a mini-vacation.

That streak was broken when they arrived at Dehsu. There, they found the former Federation world was struggling to adapt to the Empire's less restrictive culture. Instead of enjoying their newfound freedoms, they were lashing out with near daily protests that halted vital industries and caused chaos.

From what Viscount Ralfie Everet explained, he was trying to go through with a slow and steady approach, but thanks to the Federation’s indoctrination and culture, the planet was unified in their resistance and any attempts to crack down on the protests just spawned more protests. It was about as bad a case of a bad integration as was possible without issues like Matt had caused.

The records about similar planets indicated that the best method to win over such a planet was exactly what Leon had recommended: wait it out. In a few generations without reinforcement from on high, the population would be less indoctrinated, and from there, they could start the typical integration methods.

That was, unless they were willing to forcefully relocate the majority of the planet's population onto other worlds. That had been tried before, and while it worked, it caused short-term issues on every world the dissidents were sent to.

Instead of jumping to that extreme, Viscount Everet wanted funds to pay for a larger guard contingent as well as an expansion to his administration.

Matt didn’t like either of those requests. Viscount Everet didn’t seem dishonest but neither of those methods were said to have appreciable effects in such a situation. Sure they could fund the increases, but he suspected the increased presences of not only guards but administrative overseers would simply lead to more push back from the planet.

That said, he didn’t have a better answer and neither did Liz. He just doubted that any show of force would convince people to play nice. As a Tier 10 world, they had a fairly robust population as well as having a healthy population of delvers.

They might not have enough power to actually rebel, but with how unified they were, unless Matt and Liz wanted to authorize extreme measures, Viscount Everet was going to be forced to go slow with his integration.

In the end, it was more a question of what kind of rulers he and Liz wanted to be. Did they want to be the type to just look at the historical figures and make decisions mainly based on that, or did they want to give their subjects unconditional support when they had problems?

Not that they would fall on either extreme, but this was an important moment to set the precedent.

After talking it over with Liz, they agreed to fund the increase in guards with the understanding that Viscount Everet wouldn’t be using them to try and force reforms on the population. They wanted to support their vassals, but they also didn’t want to help them into a bad decision either.

Too much support in this case could all too easily lead to a bloodbath, and it wouldn’t be the immortal guards who would be bleeding at the end. If they were willing to allow that to happen, they might as well just cut out the middleman and kill everyone themselves. There were reports of that happening with particularly stubborn planets from all Great Powers.

Matt wished he could just pay for everyone to be returned to the Federation, but unlike the Republic, they didn’t have a history of taking people back as refugees.

That decision was made for them, and then they were expected to follow.

In the end, after a large amount of discussion, Matt and Liz agreed to build out an island which, once it was habitable, could serve as a place to dump the worst of the instigators. Without previous buildings and such, any private methods of communication would have to go through the planetary AI, and could therefore be controlled.

It wasn’t ideal or nice, but it would hopefully blunt the edge of the rebellions without resorting to executions, which would end up causing mass rebellion, which would only lead to more executions.

Liz shivered the moment they entered their ship. “I feel gross for okaying that. I don’t know what else we could do, but I didn’t like that.”

Matt wholeheartedly agreed and pulled her into a side hug as they returned to their ship.

Thankfully, their next world was something they were both looking forward to.

A planet from the Monster Collective.

It was only a Tier 4 world, but it was one that was distinctly different.

Most obviously were the bloodlines. As a Tier 26 who knew what to look for, he could spot several bloodline cores in people who didn’t have any spiritual shielding up, and it was both more and less than he’d expected simultaneously. At least there didn’t seem to be any obvious discrimination between those who did have bloodlines and those who didn’t…

Matt frowned as he spotted someone with decidedly no bloodline, but still had goat legs. He needed to reassess how to spot bloodline-holders, apparently. Almost all of these people were under Tier 15, and several weren’t even awakened, so they should have no reliable way to reshape their bodies, which meant they’d been born semi-beastly. And that wasn’t even counting the number of full-fledged citizens who were just in beast form, something even rarer in the Empire.

He was really curious what percentage of people who lived here actually had bloodlines, but he wouldn’t find out at least until the Empire AI was up and started taking census data. For now, he just enjoyed the novelty of seeing a wolf-man open the door for a family of three fully human-looking individuals.

A city over, a human woman didn’t even look up from her book as she let a snake wearing a hat use her leg to reach the bench she was sitting on. They didn’t seem to know each other, as the snake didn’t use the small speaker hidden inside its hat to translate the beast language into something humans could understand to do anything more than politely thank her.

Thanks to the varied body shapes and sizes, there were also a number of differences in familiar things. Doors all had motion sensors and all non-residential doors were of the sliding variety to ensure the smaller species weren't hurt by a door opened or closed too quickly. Public water fountains either had multiple layers for those of different heights and ran constantly, or had levers that anyone of any size could trigger.

