Erick was not. “… Unless you had a reason for making such a thing, and you don’t remember.”

Rozeta frowned a little, shaking her head. “I really don’t believe we would do such a thing, Erick.”

… And that’s what it was, for now.

Erick stood, saying, “It was nice to talk, Rozeta. Looks like it’s back to work for me.”

Rozeta nodded. “Always a pleasure, Erick.”

- - - -

Erick stepped through a ring of white lightning, leaving behind the frozen Splinter Mountains of Continental Nergal to stand upon the castle fortifications surrounding the Grand Dungeon of Storm’s Edge. The sky in the distant northwest was cloudy with thunderheads piled high, like an ever-stretching pile of cotton that wisped out here and there in flatter sheets, where the air density was set slightly different within the space of the Script. Below those clouds, not visible from this location due to mountains, was Everbless’ Cove and Yggdrasil’s brother himself. Directly north from Erick lay the monster road, where Everbless’ anti-meme’d avatar, Gold Taker, funneled thick, mana-laden air and monsters toward the dungeon, located here, in the center of the island, to this valley located between many mountains.

The place was honestly looking rather great.

It was still a very large valley of flat stone and high walls, but those walls had been transformed from temporary fortifications into permanent structures filled with solidness and some bureaucracy. Erick had [Gate]d directly onto one of the side fortifications, so he wouldn’t step right into the major fortifications to the south, where a large intake center and barracks had been placed.

The land outside of the fortifications and the fortifications themselves had become refugee detainment centers and rife with protective spellworks, layered with node networks that were much more guarded than the anti-magics strewn throughout the air.

Erick turned his attentions toward the valley floor.

Inside of the fortifications lay the main, flat dungeon ground. Instead of short valleys and raised areas all throughout the many square kilometers of the valley, which had served to guide monsters to dungeon portals for dungeons 1 through 7, the monster roads led directly to monster intake portals, located to the very edges of the valley floor. Those monster entrances were specifically for monsters, and they were guarded as such.

The main entrance to the dungeon, for people, stood exposed in the center of the valley, like a 10 meter-wide black disk, set upon the face of a white circle of stone just so that people would go through the proper side, and not the backside. All around that entrance were a few scattered lookout towers, with colored lines of stone upon the valley floor. Those lines were like the Gate District’s direction lines, to help guide people in and out and all that jazz. To Erick’s All-Seeing Eye, the place down there was absolutely layered with power.

Not a whole lot of people down there, though.

Just some guards here and there. There were a lot more guards and otherwise inside the fortifications and outside of the main valley, all of them getting ready for the Prophesied Storm, while the dungeon entrance itself looked rather… Unguarded. There was a single skeleton standing in front of the black portal and a bunch of surrounding, invisible magics… Which was probably enough for Quilatalap… Or rather, ‘Vanya’.

Was Quilatalap still incognito? As far as Erick knew his cover hadn’t been blown at all.

Erick stood where he entered the valley, very clearly visible to all who might look his way, very much out of place on top of the fortification, keeping his own eyes peeled as Ophiel flew everywhere, looking at everything. He was waiting.

Soon, his welcome wagon appeared.

The Archmage of the Regent, Lady Wiloza Tidewalker, was an older woman with tanned skin and her grey hair done up in a bun. She was publicly a Stone Mage, but in reality she was an Ooze Mage with a focus on Stone. The elderly woman appeared at the Gate that led to Storm’s Edge, rushing forward through the small crowd, telling slow guards off as she cleared the no-flying zone and took to the air, flying in Erick’s direction. By the time she arrived all of her worries at Erick’s arrival had vanished under professionalism and she was much better put together.

Wiloza landed beside him. “Greetings, Wizard Flatt. What brings you here?”

“Greetings, Wiloza. I’m checking up on everything. The Prophecy is either 4 days or 10 days or 4 months away, and I heard the Shield might be ready for pickup.”

Wiloza winced. And then she tried, “Are you sure there are no better prognostications than… That scattering of unknown dates?”

“Apologies, but that’s the truth. Sometimes these things are funky that way. If you pardon the spellwork, though.” Erick raised his hand and looked to Wiloza, and Wiloza was calm. So Erick cast a Privacy around them. They could still see out, but to everyone looking their way, they wouldn’t see anything at all. Erick lowered his hand. “I am going to be doing checks every now and again going forward, looking for lightning-ringed persons—” Wiloza gasped a little, but she maintained. Erick continued, “I hope not to find one, but there is that possibility, and so I will be looking into that. Do you want some enchanted glasses or a ring to let you do your own looking? The glasses are better than the ring. Either way, I must warn you that if you do see anyone that you cannot do anything against them. You must report them to me, directly. I am deadly serious about this restriction, Wiloza. Also, you will give the ring back after this Storm passes without trying to dissect how it works, and without giving it to anyone else.”

To hand out a Benevolence Ring, as some people called them, was a very big deal.

Wiloza and Erick both knew what he was saying.

The ring and the glasses were highly regulated items, all of them numbered and kept track of inside the Benevolence research department, but they weren’t that enchanted or powerful at all. Mostly, they were complicated runic web workings with a bunch of tracking spells and solidification magics and a Drain/[Renew] that allowed the whole thing to function in certain ways first and lesser ways secondarily. Their primary function was to be located, so that Erick and House Benevolence knew where they were at all times. Their secondary function was the [Benevolence Detection] spell, which was a simple spell that Erick cast himself, which he could cancel at any point in time with a concentrated thought.

Wiloza smoothly said, “I accept this restriction. I’ll take a ring. Can they be tricked?”

Erick plucked a ring from his pocket, but what he really did was reach through a small [Gate] into House Benevolence, into the detection cases where everything was labeled and tracked. He picked up Ring 7 and marked it down on the list, which automatically alerted both the Offices of Enforcement and Magic to this action. With ring in hand, Erick cast the [Benevolence Detection] spell on the ring, and a bit of [Renew] activated the various other magics upon the thing. He canceled the tiny [Gate] and handed the ring over.

Erick said, “They can be tricked. I wouldn’t rely on them fully.”

They couldn’t be tricked; not really. Erick had done extensive testing, through many experiments. Even if someone projected an illusion of a lightning ring around their neck, or if they used Benevolence to make a ring around their neck, those paltry things just didn’t compare to the real thing. A ring-wearer or a glasses-user could instantly tell the difference.

They would just know.

The only real way they could be ‘tricked’ was by severity. Sometimes the loss of life which led to a Benevolence ring appearing on a target was as few as tens of people, for some wearers of the ring were very sensitive to that sort of thing. But [Benevolence Detection] didn’t just trigger on those who would kill, or harm. It triggered on those who would help and support their communities and the world, like some healers and teachers.

That was why these things were so highly regulated.

There was no way to know which way Benevolence swung on any given ring without some investigation.

Erick felt he could trust Wiloza, though.

Wiloza put the ring on a finger, saying, “No such thing as Shadeproof, is there.”

Erick smiled at that. “No, there is not.” And then he asked, “So how are things out here? Outside of the dungeon?”

Wiloza seemed to relax a little bit as she said, “Massive influx of people. Just as big of an exit, though. Real estate prices are in massive flux from people trying to leave and nobles buying up all they can because they want to stay and then there’s development on the south side of the island where the storms never get too bad. Lotta people are expecting this whole thing to blow over. The Priestesses of Sininindi are giving us trouble with evacuation plans, though. So if you want to put your finger on a scale, that’s probably a good place to start.”

Erick was almost disappointed that there was a problem with the priests at all, but Tiza Nindi would go to the grave hating him, so this news wasn’t too much of a surprise. “Is Tiza still blaming me for the coming Storm?”

“Not openly, but quietly, yes. She raised a stink over some Aroidos trying to come back to Storm’s Edge, too, and from there it was a whole big thing with the Reincarnated and all that.”

“… I’ll visit her later. What else?”

Wiloza smiled a little, saying, “Vanya has managed to get 39 out of 147 inhabited islands of the Archipelago to sign on for her dungeon evacuation protocol, and yeah, that’s not much, but it’s good enough, and maybe 20-ish of those might actually keep their words! More might join in when the lightning starts flowing, and...”

As Wiloza talked, Erick felt she had an easy sort of way about her these days. Probably because she didn’t have to worry about any Aroidos going crazy anymore, and there hadn’t been a single dungeon incident at all ever since Quilatalap took over. And then Erick asked about that, and Wiloza told him what he already knew to be true. And then she told him something else.

“We’ve even got some delvers delving in the last few weeks,” Wiloza said, as though that wasn’t a big fucking deal.

“I thought the dungeon was closed to delvers,” Erick said.

“Most delving, yes, but Vanya opened up two wings of her grand dungeon, and they’re working out well. The Water Temple and the Stone Temple. The dungeon does need to be mana positive, after all.” Wiloza shrugged. “Or at least that’s what Vanya tells me.”

That’s what Quilatalap had told him, too, but Erick didn’t think the guy was going to actually open them for delvers for… A while? Well. Erick wasn't sure. For ‘a while’, at least. And yet… Yeah. This was normal for Quilatalap. He liked people testing themselves against his creations, and he liked to test his creations, too. So if parts of the dungeon were ready, then sure, he would open it for people to test themselves against.

Erick said, “Thanks for the updates, Wiloza. It’s time for me to go inside.”

Wiloza bowed.

Erick canceled the Privacy and did a little show of transforming into Benevolent Lightning to ‘lightstep’ to the dungeon entrance. He chuckled to himself as he thought of Tiza Nindi watching, because she was always watching whenever Erick showed up, and she always complained of him using lightning at all. It was kinda fun to ‘go out of his way’ to purposefully use ‘lightning’ when he visited Storm’s Edge—

He and Debby had laughed about that once, when he told her that, before she went on her meme-hunt…

Erick sighed a little, then he straightened up and nodded at the skeleton ‘guarding’ the main gate. The skeleton nodded back, then stuck a hand into the black entrance to the dungeon. He pulled his hand back, and then bowed toward Erick. The skeleton had signaled someone inside, then; probably Quilatalap.

Erick strode into darkness.
