“Okay I have to—” Emily began, but failed to finish, because she transformed into a man, her purple coloring of her nails and hair transforming into something brighter, more magenta than purple, which had been Emily’s original way to mark her as different from the others. He was remarkably handsome, with broad shoulders and just a bit taller than Erick, while his coloring was obviously demi. He had a concerned look on his face as he said, “I’m Evan.” Evan threw up his hands, saying, “That’s all! … Uh.” He demurred, “… Yeah.”

Erick smiled and took his son in for a hug, holding him tight. Evan was frigid for a moment, and then Erick said, “I’m glad you have decided to live your best life. Love you, Evan.”

Evan thawed in great big sobs as he hugged back.

Yggdrasil tried to back away—

Erick grabbed Yggdrasil with a free hand and pulled him into the hug. His huge arms went around both of them and Evan chuckled. Ophiel wasn't sure what was happening, but he joined in, too.

And since Erick had his two boys with him —and one eventual boy when Ophiel materialized— he decided it was time for a Talk. “Now you both know to use protection when you have sex with girls, right? There’s this nice little plant that grows in Nelboor that deadens the little swimmers for a day—”

Yggdrasil muttered, “I know not to—”

Evan laughed loud.

And Jane came back out to the group, for it wasn’t like ‘the guys’ were being quiet at all.

Jane said, “Okay fine. We go for a wake. We can just do that. It doesn’t have to be planned. Debby would have wanted it.”

Candice rose out of her bed like a zombie, muttering about how she was ready for a party, too, and then Beth and Abigail followed.

Evan told Erick, “I’m still into dudes, dad; my ‘swimmers’ don’t matter.”

Erick laughed as he nodded. “That’s one way to ensure no accidental pregnancies.”

Jane clapped her hands, drawing attention, as she said, “Who wants to go get Solomon back out here for the wake? And also where are we going?”

Everyone froze.

Erick said, “He’s not going to…” Erick stopped. “You know what? I will still ask him, and then try dragging. If he doesn’t give in to that or if he zaps me then he can stay behind.”

- - - -

Guile said, “See that! They are coming back to you.”

Solomon wiped away a tear, as he shut the [Viewing Screen]. He was sitting on the edge of his bed in the dungeon house. Guile was on his own cat bed at the side of the room, in the sun, or at least in the light that passed for the sun down here. Solomon sniffled, then said “They didn’t have to. I’m not going.”

“… Are you positive you didn’t want to go?”

“I’m not going,” Solomon said. To go would be to acknowledge that Jane was dead. “Same reason I didn’t go to the funeral.”

Guile looked like he was going to choose his next words carefully, and Solomon suddenly hated him for that, and for all the ills in his many different lives. That sudden hatred was completely irrational, for Guile never fucked up his life before, but Solomon still hated him anyway.

Guile picked up on some of that sudden hate, so he paused. And then he reconfigured his thoughts and plainly stated, “Right now you are in a state of disharmony. I didn’t catch much of what happened in that clearing, but I caught some, and you were split across ten thousand lifetimes and blasted with the memories of ten thousand horrors.” He pointed two golden tails toward Solomon’s wrist, where the black Bracelet was a broken tattoo on his skin and soul. “That is broken, but it is mendable. But like all horrors in life, running from the truth only empowers them more. You, my servant Solomon, need to have a clean meeting with this reality that Jane is dead, and that Jane has always been dead—”

Solomon crackled with lightning. White sparks clattered across his bed, leaving black holes in the fabric and setting a small fire to the headboard. For some reason that loss of control pissed him off more than anything else… And at that thought, at the ridiculous idea something could actually be worse than what had happened yesterday, Solomon sobbed again.

Guile waited.

Solomon sighed, breathed, and looked at his wrist. “How do I repair it?”

“There is no perfect repair possible. But you can mend it. You can make it functional despite the complete lack of animating soul within that working. To do that, you need to clean it up some. Like when repairing a broken vase, one must first gather the pieces and then glue them all back together, making up for what was lost in the breaking in one way or another. Glue of some sort is a popular choice.

“Luckily, you already know what the main purpose of this broken artifact is; to Remember. Everything about it is based on that. Also luckily, this artifact is already a part of your own soul.

“All of that makes what comes next easier.

“You have a broken soul, Solomon. It was not broken before the Bracelet touched you, but in the touching of that Bracelet, you have gained perspective that most never gain. And so, like the missing parts of the bracelet, you are missing parts of yourself. Repairing a soul that has seen multiple realities is not easy, for in most cases all extra lives lived usually result in a clouding of purpose.

“But your repair is easy, because your purpose has clarified, instead of clouded over.

“Most of the healing will simply take time. Souls repair on their own. Therefore there is a very good chance that the Bracelet and its power will come to you in time. But this is doubtful. And so, you must actively repair it, and to do that, you need a unified vision for what comes next, because you are not a single vase anymore.

“Mending a broken vase is easy enough, but you have become ten thousand broken vases.

“So you must find a focal point to build around. A Truth.” Like a fox knowing more than he should, Guile said, “And with the death of the hero Jane, you have found most of your Truth. Now you just need to put that to ordered words. And not today, either. Don’t even think about your Truth right now. Take a week of mourning. Of slower repair. And come back to this problem later.

“But first, you must acknowledge that the vase has been broken. Otherwise how will you ever see the pieces you are missing?”

Solomon sighed, then tried to countermand Guile’s logic. “Souls are not vases.”

Guile leveled a soft glare at Solomon, saying, “Stop being pedantic with the ancient fox that has done more to help people find their own Paths in life than you will ever be capable of knowing. And go to your daughter’s wake. You missed the funeral, and that will already haunt you for all the rest of your existence.”

Solomon felt his stomach drop as the truth of Guile’s words hit him squarely in the chest. He whispered, “I should have gone.”

“Yes you should have, but you chose not to. It was a bad choice. Those happen. Now make a better choice.”

Solomon’s stomach dropped again. “… I always make the bad choices, don’t I. I’m the Erick that makes the bad choices.”

Guile hopped off of his bed and up onto Solomon’s. He sat next to him, saying, “Then aren’t we both glad I’m here to help you make better ones.”

Solomon sighed. He thought. And then he stood.

Guile nodded, and then he transformed into a golden bracer that was already upon Solomon’s right forearm.

Solomon walked out of his bedroom and went to the foyer where Poi and Erick both stood, waiting for him. Solomon said to Poi, “Sorry about yelling at you.”

Poi shook his head. “Nothing to be sorry about.”

A certain weight fell from Solomon’s shoulders, and then he looked to Erick, and said, “Okay. So a wake. Did… Did anyone plan it?”

“We’ll play it by ear.” Erick transformed into a male demi with pale purple skin and tiny horns, adding, “We’re all going out as a family to this place they all love in Songli. This is the general form.”

Solomon nodded, and then he transformed, too. “Yeah. This works.”

Ophiel turned into a bright magenta bird, perfectly shaped and tweeting in tiny thunder sounds.

Solomon blinked. Was this really—

“Clan Phoenix, yes,” Erick said, smiling. “Patriarch Xue is gonna have some enforcers making sure we have a good night and aren’t bothered. It’s time to get wasted.”

Solomon smiled a little. “And spicy food, right?”

Erick nodded. “I am sure I will be shitting fire tomorrow.”

“It’s what she would have wanted.”

- - - -

It was two days before they were ready to get back to ‘work’; to rescuing useful artifacts and people from the Dark. There was a discussion before they proceeded, though, with everyone standing in the kitchen of the house under the dungeon.

The current list of items to be rescued stood to the side.

Solomon waved a hand at the list and the 1-10 list gained a number 0; an addition at the top before all others.

Erick frowned. “You want to go after the Lifeblood Heart?” That was the main item that Rozeta wanted, for it doubled the mana production of every living thing near it, and ‘near it’ was the size of an entire region of stars; light years across. Or at least that’s what Rozeta’s projections detailed. Space was different here in the New Cosmology, and the effect of the Heart would either be greatly extended or greatly shrunk. It was hard to know. The plan to retrieve the Lifeblood Heart had a thousand similar problems with completely unknown ways to account for them, and the main problem hadn’t even been accounted for. Erick said, “That thing will fly right out of here, Solomon.”

Solomon said, “I acknowledge the possibility that we can’t retrieve it because it might just fly away, and that it might be too early to try for it. But I want to try.”

Silence.

“Even if Rozeta gets it, she doesn’t have a good way to hold it down,” Evan said.

“I think it will fly away into the other walls around the dungeon, right into the Dark,” Jane said. “Lost forever.”

“We won’t even get that far,” Candice said, “The Heart won’t come through the Black Gate. It’ll fly right out of the view into the Dark. We’ll be lucky if we get to see it for a single moment before it zips away! Gone forever.”

Guile stepped forward. “Actually, I am not sure if it would fly away. With proper Grand Wizardry, and with proper planning, it could be sucked right through the Black Gate and instantly anchored to Veird’s core. This would, of course, require Melemizargo’s agreement and Rozeta’s agreement and all the other Relevant Entities agreeing to a certain course of events, but the manaminer of Veird, the Script, already grabs mana production and produces that mana inside the Core, instead of letting individuals produce their own mana. It should not be that difficult for Veird’s Core to take in the production of the Heart, and maybe even selectively open mana flows here and there to make sure the Heart remains inside this manasphere for a while. There are records of the Heart flying by Old Cosmology manaminers and those places gaining control of the Heart for a short while. Compared to those old manaminers, the Script is absolutely stronger, in many different ways.”

More silence.

Erick said, “An agreement of that level is never going to happen. But! I would like to know why you want the Heart, Solomon.”

“Because I feel I could Ignite into Wizardry if I had double mana production,” Solomon said. “I and all the girls and Evan have hit a wall with mana production increases gained through dungeon kills. We could all continue doing that slow path, of course, but permanent increases past 500,000-ish mana per day is about as much as an un-Ignited soul can handle. Steady mana production gains tapers off long before that, at around 300,000. However, having more mana production means more of an imprint upon oneself and the mana, and so, if we were to double our mana production, then all of us would have over a million mana per day, and that’s low-level Wizard-levels right there. From there, we’re all an Ignition away from having that much mana and more, permanently.”

Guile nodded.

He had put Solomon up to this?

… No. That was too paranoid. Solomon wanted solutions, and Guile had solutions.

Solomon said, “But! I agree that this is a risky venture, which is why I numbered it 0, instead of 1. I’d like for us to get started on the necessities for all of this, while we continue to go through the normal list, but I want the Lifeblood Heart at the top. I really want to try and figure out how to get that Heart here, to Veird. And I want your help.” And then he said, “I don’t want to leave my Jane behind.”

Solomon had spilled some of his story, his memories of other realities, while they had all been drinking as a family. His experience of holding Debby’s hand had been similar to how everyone had experienced a weirdness of different lives when they broke that dungeon core at the beginning of all this. At that dungeon core breaking, most of the girls experienced lives as different slimes, but most notably Evan had been born a boy and lived his life raised by his mother instead of Erick, while Debby had experienced one partial memory stream as Erick, because her slime had been rather close to the one that actually became Solomon. It had been a chance of fate that Erick had picked Solomon to be Solomon, and not Debby, and the other way around, too. Just ten centimeters to the left, and… Things would have been different.

This recent business with the Bracelet was ten thousand times deeper than that core breaking.

Into the silence, Jane spoke first. “Okay. I’m not sure how I can help, but I will try.”

Erick said, “I’ll go talk to some gods.”

Solomon breathed deep, looking relieved. “Thank you.”

- - - -

“This close to the Prophesied Storm, Erick?” Rozeta asked. “Seriously? And that’s not even getting into all the other…” She stopped. She looked concerned. “Is he okay? Mentally?”

Erick decided to go to the Orrery of Rozeta down in Continental Nergal to have a talk with Rozeta without any of the others being present. He met with the Goddess of the Script in a tall tower south of the Orrery, on a separate mountain peak. To the north, beyond a very large window, lay the Orrery; a grand diagram of the solar system of Veird that took up an entire mountain top. Snow gathered on the surrounding mountains, but not on the grand moving spheres of platinum and platinum-inlaid-adamantium, as they floated in a dance dictated by physics and made possible through magic. The sun at the center was beaten copper, and it glimmered red-gold in the cold light of the real sun overhead.

