Half were naked. By which, they were wearing nothing at all. Not even loincloths. They had armor which they’d put on, but they liked their bare…fur…
Well, at least Cirille couldn’t see anything. But the Drakes looked disgusted and the Gnolls weren’t looking too friendly either. Merish folded his arms as he looked Cirille up and down.
He was taller than she was. Over seven feet high, brawny; carrying an axe with some kind of paint on it. For that matter—the Gnoll had no armor. He had very light, cloth clothing, but his fur was dyed. Blue, white—some kind of intricate pattern.
“Pleased to meet you, Chief Warrior. I hope we will be able to work together for the duration of our assignment.”
He did not shake her claw.
“Hrr. One hopes so, but reality makes me believe that this will not happen, no, Commander Cirille.”
Cirille cursed internally. Damn that jumped-up [Secretary]. The problem was that on paper, it made sense. Put fighters from the same continent together, especially since they weren’t large enough to constitute their own armies. But there were…issues…with putting Plains Gnolls under a Drake’s command.
“Chief Warrior Merish, let me assure you that I have no intention of taking direct command for your forces. I’m aware that the Plains tribes do not have the time or…inclination to drill with my commands. I’ll let you command your force semi-independent of mine.”
The Gnoll looked thoughtful at this—but Shellc muttered in a whisper that would have gone unnoticed in a Drake-only room.
“Plus, damned Gnolls can’t handle military discipline.”
Cirille longed to turn around and kick Shellc across the head. Around the barracks, Gnolls looked up. Merish’s eyes narrowed.
“We will fight alongside your formations, Commander. That is all, I think.”
“Thank you, Chief Warrior. Excuse my [Captain].”
Cirille reached back and slapped the Drake with an open claw. After a second, she looked around the room.
“The only thing I need from you, Warrior Merish, is an accounting of your weapons. Which units fight with swords, bows, for example. We could use Gnoll [Hunters]; our troops are mainly spears, swords. Infantry.”
Gnolls were devilishly good with bows, as Cirille had reason to know. Merish nodded to all of this.
“I will tell you. First, I have two hundred archers of the—”
“In writing, Chief Warrior?”
The Gnoll stared at her uncomprehendingly. He lowered his paw, which had been pointing.
“…All of it?”
One of the Drakes made a sound. Fortunately, Ossky kicked the offender, which was probably Shellc again. Cirille had another headache.
“If it’s…an issue, I can task one of my officers to record the data. Major Galle? He’s from Pallass.”
“Ah.”
Merrik eyed the Drake warily. But Galle produced a scroll of parchment and proceeded to take notes as the Chief Warrior recited the various groups under his command. He had a better oral memory than Cirille; she had no doubt he’d memorize each name. He must not have problems with the day-codes.
“Excellent.”
Galle had annotated the flowery descriptions into utilitarian descriptions. [Archer] company, 200, etc. Merish frowned at the writing, but made no comment. Cirille realized there was one last thing she had to ask.
“You’ve brought sixty warriors yourself, Chief Warrior. Can I assume they’re infantry?”
“Hrr. Heavy infantry. Warriors, yes.”
“And their classes? And yours? What’s your level, roughly, Warrior Merish?”
Cirille waited. She heard nothing but silence. She glanced up.
“Chief Warrior Merish?”
The Gnoll had folded his arms again.
“My class is my class, Commander Cirille. It is not something the Walled Cities need to know.”
The Drake [Commander] blew out her cheeks. She’d been very patient. But enough was enough. She narrowed her eyes at the Gnoll and put a snap into her voice as if she was addressing a rookie on the training fields.
“Chief Warrior Merish, if you’re working under my command, I expect to at least know the basics of the warriors I’m commanding. If you have an objection to telling me your class, as well as the Gnolls fighting with you—please make it to Bastion-General Quiteil.”
And good luck. The Gnoll looked annoyed. His ears went flat, and he looked around. At last, he growled a reluctant answer.
“Hrr. Very well. I am a [Shamanic Warrior]. Of the Plain’s Eye tribe.”
Cirille blinked. She knew that tribe. One of the largest, and of course, [Shaman]-oriented. But…
“A what? I’ve never heard of a [Shamanic Warrior], Warrior Merish. Can you elaborate?”
He harrumphed under his breath and growled for a second.
“A magic warrior. Like a [Spellblade], yes? Only—different. We are suited to heavy fighting. Not as fragile. Our fur becomes armor, our blades cut steel.”
He gestured at the bone axe hanging by his side. Cirille blinked.
“Enchanted weapons and armor. Got it.”
“I am pleased my class fits so well into your military boxes of understanding.”
The Chief Warrior replied stiffly. Cirille sighed. It was time to try to at least bridge the gap between them. She held out her claw again, hoping he’d do what was best for both groups. The Gnolls were watching and no doubt, listening in.
“Believe me, I’m no happier than you are. I hope we won’t have to do more than just patrol together, Chief Warrior. But we’re both here to fight Demons. I’d be pleased if we can do that without incidents.”
Merish thought about it. Slowly, the Gnoll reached out and shook her hand. It was awkward; claws and paw. But they did it and nodded at each other.
“Nothing would give me greater satisfaction. Commander.”
“Thank you. In that case…I will see you later. We’re moving out at first light. Gate 27, Level 4. Er…”
“We will be there.”
She nodded at him. The Drake stepped back and her officers saluted. Merish and the other leaders of their divisions did not, but they nodded. Cirille was walking away when she had a thought.
“Chief Warrior Merish—you’ve met the Bastion-General?”
He glanced at her.
“Yes. Briefly.”
It must have been as short as her encounter from the dissatisfaction moving across his face. Cirille felt a moment of empathy. She nodded.
“Do you recall a…patch on his arm?”
She gestured. The Gnoll blinked. he looked at her.
“Yes. The Corruption has him. I do not know anything else.”
“I see. Thank you.”
 
—-
 
Corruption. Rhir’s blighted lands were not just a word. The skies, the earth—all of it had a taint to it. And in time, it affected people, animals—
Twisting them. It was rare in the capital, but Cirille understood closer to demon territory, it could affect you over time.
Mostly natives to Rhir; outsiders hadn’t lived there all their lives. It could twist you in any number of ways. Often not harmful or beneficial, but there were exceptions.
She noticed it among Rhir’s [Soldiers], the ones standing on duty close to the walls. There was a lot of space though, and behind tactical fallback lines on the massive battlements as she went touring, Cirille saw a few more marks of corruption.
An odd color of eye there. A patch of changed skin, like Quiteil, or something more extreme. One woman’s face didn’t move as she laughed with the others while leaning on a bow. It had turned to something like glass.
“Ugh. How can anyone live here? I’m glad we’re gone after the year, Commander. Imagine if I started growing fur? Or skin?”
“Shut it, Captain Shellc. Don’t cause trouble with the Gnolls.”
“I won’t if they don’t shed on me, Commander. But I don’t envy you having to deal with them, especially that arrogant…”
Captain Shellc groused as he marched in formation after Commander Cirille. The officers followed the commander. She looked around. And she saw on this stretch of wall, one of the major roads heading north to the front lines—
The irregulars.
It seemed officers were the only ones allowed on the walls, or smaller detachments at most. 4th Wall was a tight ship but it still allowed the soldiers to move about, socialize; there were even places for them to drill, exercise, relax deeper in the fortress-wall. But the open air of the 4th wall was appealing.
Cirille looked up, into clear skies, turning grayer the further she went towards Demon lands. In the distance, past the curving wall lay the sea. Too far to see, but the fresh air blowing towards her reminded her how small Rhir was compared to Izril. And yet—
It began to rain. Cirille got one drop in the eye.
“Damn.”
Ossky cursed with a flash of light. The Drakes groaned as the skies opened up. Cirille stomped towards an overhang; a tower mounted with a catapult. The Drakes had supplied the designs. Or the Minotaurs.
“Damn. This is just what we need! Marching in this is going to be hell on the equipment, Commander!”
Shellc groused. Ossky nodded; she preferred not to speak if necessary. The Drakes huddled as it poured in an instant. Hot rain too; Rhir was weird.
“Don’t worry. This is just a flash-shower. It’ll clear up in a moment.”
A voice from the left made the Drakes turn. A woman was sitting on a little footrest of stone at the base of the tower. She hadn’t moved; she’d been in cover before the rain began. Now, it dripped down, landing on the brim of her black hat.
“Excuse me?”
“It’s stopping in five minutes. This is a [Flash Rain] spell. Someone must want water. You get used to it. Rhir’s smart about rain. See? Quiteil notified every one of the change. He never lets anything slide.”
The Human woman nodded across the tower. Other groups had already taken shelter and the [Soldiers] were sheltering from the rain. Cirille blinked.
“Huh. Er—we didn’t hear about it.”
“You must have taken his time up. He tells everyone else. You can’t interrupt him when he speaks. But you have to get used to him.”
“I see.”
Cirille blushed as her officers glanced sideways at her. She cleared her throat.
“You must be one of the officers.”
The woman glanced up. She had something in her hands, Cirille saw. And she’d been adjusting it with a set of metal tools. She raised a hand in greeting as Cirille edged over; the clouds were already beginning to let up the downpour, as the woman had said.
“The Hunter’s Guild’s finest.”
The woman’s hat was large. Her clothing long and dark. Underneath it she wore leather armor. She carried an oversized crossbow even a large man would have had trouble bearing. The Featherweight Runes shone to Cirille’s eyes. As well as half a dozen more.
“Huntress Delezza of Noelictus. Veteran [Demon Hunter] of the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria, on assignment.”
She nodded at Cirille, casually. Delezza was slowly loading a bolt into her crossbow, winding the hand-crank up. Four more, two men, one woman, and one a male half-Elf, all dressed in the same style, were standing to attention.
“Cirille Bitterclaw. [Commander] of the Drake forces sent to Rhir.”
Delezza held out a gloved hand and the two shook. The [Huntress] grinned; a scar across her lips stretched slightly.
“Are you on Hell’s Patrol as well?”
“…Not today. My division was assigned to the 4th Wall pending further duties.”
“Ah. They’ll make use of you soon enough. Myself—I’m on permanent patrol duty. And teaching the rookies.”
The Human woman jerked a thumb at the four [Hunters]. They all touched their hats; it was unusual to Cirille, but she’d heard of Terandrian [Hunters]. Delezza was examining the crossbow.
“Huh. Sight’s off. Hand me a corrector. That one.”
It was a bit of enchanted glass. One of her [Hunter] apprentices passed it to the [Demon Hunter]. Cirille eyed the oversized weapon.
“That’s standard for a [Hunter], is it, uh—Hunter Delezza?”
The woman glanced up. She aimed, ignoring the fact that the bolt was loaded, and then grinned.
“This crossbow? Standard. Which, I mean, it’s for a Regular Hunter. Not a Veteran. Mine’s fancier. Hey. Hunter Sisth. Hit my target.”
She tossed the crossbow to one of the younger Humans. Male. He caught it and Delezza stood up. She grabbed something from her belt and hurled it through the air.
“Projectile—”
One of the Rhir [Soldiers] bellowed. Another shouted.
“Belay warning! Friendly—”
Cirille heard the shouts at the same time as the younger [Hunter] lifted the crossbow and aimed.
“Whoa!”
The Drakes all dodged out of the way. But Sisth shot the crossbow with a thunk that everyone heard. It was like a miniature thunderclap. The crossbow bolt shot after whatever Delezza had thrown.
Cirille saw a poof of red explode. Something—red powder—bloomed in the air and floated away. The shouting continued, as Rhir’s [Soldiers] called the alarm and then confirmed it had come from Delezza. The [Demon Huntress] nodded.
“On target. We’ll keep aiming practice up.”
“Huntress Delezza. Please refrain from fire on the walls!”
A very upset Rhir-commander bellowed at her. The [Huntress] raised a gloved hand and waved it, which could have meant anything. She had broken at least half a dozen rules in a single moment.
Cirille couldn’t help but like her. The Drake nodded at the crossbow that the Regular Hunter was carrying.
“It’s a massive weapon.”
“It is. Dwarfsteel, and enchanted by their [Runemasters]. Effective range of about 200 yards unaided.”
The Drakes whistled. That was far. And ‘effective range’ meant that was how far you could hope to hit the enemy with and kill them. Delezza just shrugged.
“That’s without Skills. Longbows are better. This one’s for closer range. Punches through hide and armor. Right now it’s just a slow, heavy weapon. Once Sisth gets to Level 30, he’ll actually be a halfway decent [Hunter].”
She jerked a thumb at the [Hunter]—his long coat and hat weren’t black, but grey. He ducked his head.
“Apologies, Huntress.”
“What does he get at Level 30?”
Cirille settled back, as the wall began to dry itself with unnatural speed after the rains. No slipping here.
“[Automatic Reload]. Most [Hunters] get it when they hit Level 30. If they use crossbows. We’re trained to take on enemies by ourselves; we can’t expect time to sit around in safety. Either that or your crossbow gets enchanted to do it for you. Like this.”
Delezza pointed her bow. She slapped an arrow into it, shot it. Another shout went up—Delezza’s second bolt, on the heels of the first, came three seconds later.
“Huntress Delezza!”
The [Demon Hunter] ignored it. She turned to Cirille and grinned. The Drake whistled.
“You could send a lot of bolts through the air with that!”
She looked at the other [Hunters]. Imagine an army of them? Her officers looked uncomfortable. Delezza smiled wider as if she read Cirille’s thoughts.
