Tom looked at him. His eyes flickered and then turned to fury.
“I don’t know. Why are you asking me? You’re the golden boy!”
“I’m not Tom the [Clown]. Hero of the Blighted Kingdom.”
Tom started giggling again. He’d leveled up in his [Hero] class. So had Richard. But he was Level 4. Tom was…
“That’s me. A hero. They love me. Me! For killing people. You know, they’d worship a—a—fellow who could really slaughter the Demons. Kill them all? Gas them? They’d put up a statue. Says something about them, doesn’t it? I’m not even the most ‘heroic’ I could be. And I did my best. I fought for them, when I thought the Demons were just monsters. Look what happened to me. Look what he made me into.”
He pressed his fingertip into his cheek, hard enough to cut his flesh. Richard itched to grab Tom and shake him. Instead, he took a deep breath. When he spoke, it was to a point over Tom’s head.
“…You know something, Tom? I do think you got a bad hand. Whatever Skill or class you have—it’s driving you crazy. But it’s not an excuse.”
“What? You think I want to be like this? Go fuck yourself, Richard! Or Emily! This isn’t me! This is the Skill! I was turned into this!”
That was the Tom that Richard remembered. He snapped back at Richard, furious all of a sudden. Breaking through the act, if he was putting on an act. Richard met Tom’s eyes.
“That might be true. But I think the real Tom and the crazy Tom you talk about are closer than you admit. I remember the real Tom. He wasn’t perfect. He could be rude. He was definitely depressed. The first week here you drove Emily insane. You…Tom, maybe the crazy-you is just what you want to do. Insanity might be the excuse.”
“Oh, really? I like stepping on glass and—and laughing until I puke?”
Tom hissed at Richard. The [Knight] sighed.
“That’s the [Clown]. But let’s not pretend you were completely…the Tom I know is cynical. Arrogant, at times.”
“Me?”
The young man looked offended. Richard thought he was getting to him and he nodded.
“Yes, you. You never tell anyone what you think, but you think you know what the smart answer is. Like becoming a [Clown] that can fight. You didn’t tell me. Any more than you told us that you thought the Fool was a traitor. You like being right. Also—you’re a bit racist.”
“What, me? I have tons of black friends! And other species too! I’m—I’m—how dare you! Hah!”
The [Clown] started giggling madly. Richard sighed.
“Tom, the first thing you said when I said I was going to be a [Knight] was, and I quote, ‘I don’t know if the world can handle a black-cowboy-[Knight], let alone a Muslim on a crusade!’ Remember saying that?”
“Maybe? I thought it was funny.”
“I’m sure you did. Tom, you weren’t ever perfect. I’m just asking whether being insane is sometimes convenient, even if it is more true than not.”
Tom refused to meet Richard’s eyes—and then turned and didn’t blink or lose eye-contact. He grinned wider and wider, exposing all of his teeth.
“Richard, Richard, Richard, Richard, Richard. You don’t really trust Hayvon and the Blighted King, do you? Do you? Look at me, Richard!”
Richard looked at him.
“The war against the Demons isn’t what we’re talking about, Tom.”
“It’s why we’re here, Richard. Do you think we’re on the right side? Really? Really? With Lord ‘let’s nuke the bastards’ Hayvon Operland?”
It always came back to this. Richard sighed. He nearly stood, but he was compelled to argue.
“They’re not perfect, Tom. But you’ve seen how vicious the Demons are. Or haven’t you seen all the things Hayvon’s been showing us? Those Vorepillars, the magic traps—the monsters?”
“Oh yes. The Demons do terrible things! Almost as bad as feeding the Fool to prisoners of war! Or executing the other ones in public! They do evil, so we can’t be evil. Is that your argument, Mister [Knight]? Richard?”
Tom giggled. And Richard had to reply carefully. Tom loved this argument. Everyone else had given up with him. Hayvon wouldn’t entertain it. The last time he’d invited Tom to dinner—two months ago—Tom had tried this. Hayvon had decked him and confined him to his rooms.
“They’ve tried to make peace with the Demons before.”
“So ‘they’ claim.”
“You can’t deny the Crelers, the monsters coming from the blight all come from Rhir and the Demons are protecting—”
“Get wise, Richard! This is just a war. No Demons! Just idiots on both sides!”
The [Clown] shrieked at him. Richard looked at him.
“So what are we supposed to do? Rebel? Run away? We’ve fought Crelers, Tom. Why are you fighting?”
“I have to kill someone, don’t I?”
The [Clown] avoided the question. He looked at Richard.
“You get your shiny Boots of Flight from Hayvon, and he makes you a hero and gives you all favors. But at the end of the day, we’re all just weapons. He says it about me. You’re the same. He’d kill his own son if that meant ending the war tomorrow. Is that your great leader, Richard? Do you want to follow him?”
“Lord Hayvon is…a soldier, Tom. He may be ruthless. But he isn’t needlessly violent or cruel. You are, at times.”
“So? So? You come here, lecturing me—”
The [Clown] shuddered and began rocking back and forth. He looked at Richard, his face twisted with fury.
“No one’s right, Richard. No one’s a good guy. Not in this war. The sooner you realize this, and that you’re a prisoner, the sooner you’ll see it my way.”
The [Knight] felt a prick of anger. But that was why he came back. To keep debating Tom, even if they just ran in circles. He stood up, wearier than he had been from the hunt from this argument. He walked back towards the door and turned. Tom stared at him, suppressing laughter. Richard spoke tiredly.
“That might be true. I’m doing what I think is right and what I think we can do to stick together and survive, Tom. But even if no one’s a good guy—it doesn’t mean you have to be—that.”
He gestured at Tom. The [Clown] blinked. And then he began laughing.
Richard closed the door. But the [Clown] laughed and laughed, even when the door muffled it. Richard was sure.
Was Tom right? Sometimes, Richard wondered. That night, he sat with Lord Hayvon, dining on venison prepared by a [Chef]. The other Americans joined them, some casually, others dining formally, like Emily.
Some were warriors. Others, like Keith, Chole, helped in their own ways. Some did nothing, like Cynthia.
They were still his people. From Earth. Richard sat there, as Lord Hayvon spoke.
“The 4th Wall is redeploying troops. I plan on inspecting the walls; I will not take to the front. However, I would appreciate it if you took Sir Tom to the 5th Wall, Sir Richard. Just for a day or two. To train.”
Training. That was what he called fighting the Demons or monsters. Richard looked up and he felt a momentary tension at the table. Emily glanced up and Keith froze. But fighting monsters wasn’t even unusual. Vincent just glanced up and nodded.
“Sounds fine.”
It wasn’t the life-or-death fights of before. They would have heavy escorts and be safe in leveling. It had slowed Richard’s development, but he was too important to lose. Even Tom would be monitored.
“Of course, Lord Hayvon. But about Emily’s proposal…”
Emily and the others sat up. Lord Hayvon glanced at Richard.
“Finding your friends? Certainly, his Majesty desires that very much, Sir Richard. We will make an effort to locate them.”
“And bring them here? To Rhir? Perhaps, Lord Hayvon, one of us could go out and—find them? Make contact? Or even go out and…? Rest? For a little bit?”
Emily spoke up eagerly. Lord Hayvon glanced at her. Richard bit his lip. Emily wanted to leave Rhir. Go to Terandria, or somewhere else, or even Wistram. But the odds of that were—
“That would be trickier, Miss Emily. However—his Majesty may allow it. But until we have found a sufficient place, we must move slowly.”
The others looked up. Richard frowned over his cut of meat.
“What place?”
Lord Hayvon smiled. And his eyes flickered towards the hallway where Tom had been.
“Why, a place separate from Rhir. The Demons have tendrils everywhere. His Majesty has decided that a nation on another continent or perhaps an island should be found. To bring those of Earth safely together. For instance—a Walled City, or a nation of Terandria if sufficient ties to Rhir can be made.”
He patted his mouth with a napkin and went on as Emily’s jaw dropped.
“And of course—those who do battle will have time to stay there. But those committed to the fight will return to Rhir. The others—Keith, Cynthia, and so on—will have sanctuary there to work for the kingdom in safety. Even travel abroad, but with a home in mind.”
The others stared. And Richard felt his heart swell. Leave Rhir? He longed to tell Tom. The table erupted in a babble of excited questions. The others were over the moon. Lord Hayvon, chuckling, answered questions.
Richard did tell Tom, later. He asked if that changed anything, this sign of hope.
The [Clown] just laughed at him.
 
—-
 
In Rhir, in a place less plush than Lord Hayvon’s mansion, someone was snoozing. Actually, that was wrong. Snoozing implied she was taking a nap. She was well and truly asleep. It was night.
The sound she emitted was ‘snoozing’. Of course, it was a rather undignified, un-authoritative sound. It embarrassed her, which was why she was grateful the privileges of command awarded her a private room, however small.
None of this mattered, however, when the Drake [Captain] slammed the door open to Cirille Bitterclaw’s room and bellowed.
“Commander Bitterclaw! Emergency message from High Command!”
Cirille practically shot out of bed. She had a sword in her claws so fast that Captain Shellc, one of the officers under her command, nearly ran onto it. Cirille looked around blearily.
“Are we under attack? What’s happening?”
“No clue, Commander! Here!”
The [Captain] had been on night-duty, a necessary hassle for officers in any good army. But when trouble came—Cirille fumbled for the speaking stone. And she was afraid, tense.
Because this was Rhir. And when you got a message from High Command, the generic Drake term for the military brass, it could be really bad.
“Commander Cirille, reporting! My division is ready to go, sir!”
She bellowed into the speaking stone. Captain Shellc would have already alerted the others. She heard shouts in the distance as the garrison began to turn out. Drakes grabbed for weapons, moving in a frenzy. They could be ready to fight in three minutes.
The voice that came from the speaking stone was precise.
“Commander Cirille, this is Bastion-General Quiteil. 4th Wall. My code is Baleros-Sivelle-Magnus Opal-45-B-2. Confirm.”
The 4th Wall of Rhir. The closest wall to the Demons if you didn’t count the 5th one under construction. Cirille’s blood ran cold. She was stationed in the capital. If they were requesting reinforcements—she knew the code from memory; it changed every day.
“Yes sir. My code is Siville-2-9-A’ctelios-[Storm Sailor]-C-E!”
She rattled off the nonsense string of words, meant to confirm that they were speaking to the right person. She had orders never to divulge it unless confirming her identity—and this code was now defunct for future use. She waited, as Captain Shellc held his short spear at the ready.
“Confirmed. Commander Cirille, report your status.”
Cirille whirled. Shellc raised his claws helplessly.
“—All was clear through the night, Bastion-General. Is there an attack?”
“Not to my knowledge. Captain Cirille, report the number of spare spearheads in your inventory.”
For a second the [Commander] just stared at the speaking stone. But military discipline made her reach for her report.
“I—I—the [Quartermaster] reports…two hundred spare spears…steel…”
“Spearheads, Commander Cirille. Not replacement weapons.”
“I don’t know, Bastion-General.”
“Find out.”
Cirille ran. She didn’t know why she was running, but four minutes later the [Quartermaster] had an answer.
“Rough count is eighty two, Bastion-General.”
“Good. Report the [Captains] under your command in alphabetical order.”
The Drake did so. The voice on the other end, Bastion-General Quiteil, the person in charge of the entire 4th Wall asked her four more questions, from her station to her reported level as [Commander] to the last officer who had made contact via the speaking stone.
“Bastion-General, what is the matter?”
Cirille finally asked after the fourth question. She was a Drake, and military discipline had been beaten into her at Manus, her home city. But this was odd. Her entire command, ten thousand Drakes, were ready for a fight. But all she’d gotten were these questions.
“Your responses were adequate, Commander Cirille. This was a test of readiness and identity. There is no emergency at this moment.”
“No…”
Cirille stared dumbly at the stone. Captain Shellc’s eyes bulged. Even among Drakes, this was insane. The Bastion-General had turned out an entire division of Drakes for…?
“Say again, Bastion-General?”
“Your troops are to report to 4th Wall in two days, Commander Cirille. You will be moved to the front. Coordinate with Citadel-General Delken for provisions and your route.”
Silence. Cirille stared at the stone. Slowly, she sat down.
“What do we…? Should I tell the division to stand down, Commander?”
“Yes. Do that, Captain Shellc. And get everyone some rest. We’re being redeployed.”
Cirille supposed that was why she’d been contacted. A readiness test. They’d been in the capital a long time and Rhir’s defenders never lost their slack. She could admire that.
Even so, she’d been—the Drake passed a claw over her face. Then she handed the stone to Captain Shellc, realized she was in her undergarments, sheathed her sword, and sat down.
She heard Captain Shellc restoring order. Cirille lay down, suddenly weary. It took her a long time to get to sleep as the adrenaline left her. Two more hours, in fact. She was dozing as the sun rose when—
“Commander! Message from High Command!”
“What!?”
The door blew open. Captain Shellc barged into the room. Cirille snatched the stone.
“Commander Cirille, reporting!”
“Commander, this is Bastion-General Quiteil. 4th Wall. My code is…”
A new code was recited. Cirille fumbled for her second code. She messed it up and had to correct herself. The Bastion-General paused.
“Commander Cirille, name your superior officer in Manus.”
“I…I report to Spearmaster Lulv for matters of military communication, sir. The [Strategist] on duty otherwise.”
“Acceptable. That is all, Commander Cirille.”
“That’s all?”
