They all were. But there was more to Hayvon than just that. Richard had seen it.
 
—-
 
A Treatise on the Foremost [Lords] in the World, Of Present Writing by Krsysl Wordsmith. The name of the book was almost as long as the entire thing. Richard had found it one day in Hayvon’s libraries and been obsessed. He’d tracked down another copy and annotated at it.
The Drake [Writer] had named the five most important [Lords] in the world in a ranked list. And after a very lengthy introduction where he decried his detractors and said he was an authority in…er…history, he’d rationalized his list.
Lord Hayvon Operland was 5th. Lord Belchaus Meron was 1st. There was a [Lord] in Izril, Tyrion Veltras, who was 2nd, then another [Slave Lord] or close from Chandrar…
Each one’s accomplishments, holdings, personalities, had been written of. The book also had a list of top [Ladies], [Kings], [Strategists], [Generals]—it was like an ancient ratings-list of leaders. And the Drake had included a lot of—opinions—into the writing.
‘Lord Hayvon, as needs must be remembered, is a [Lord] of Rhir as thus merits consideration for that fact alone. Of course, his levels are unknown, but he is known as a staunch commander of men. Humans, rather, as well as the mixed forces sent to Rhir. He is largely practical, with that lack of true verisimilitude, the qualities that make one stand out in the history books…’
Richard read the intro to Lord Hayvon for the hundredth time. It was fascinating, the Drake’s take on him. Also—complete bullshit, as far as Richard understood it. The Drake had rated Hayvon as ‘average’. Obviously world-class, but average in terms of wealth compared to Emir Yazdil, average compared to a fighter like Lord Tyrion or Lord Belchaus…
Average? Richard was riding back to one of Hayvon’s mansions after a morning hunt. They’d been chasing deer, which bred around the 3rd wall. Not in great numbers, but Rhir had grown forests in the safety of the Blighted Kingdom. Even [Lords] needed entertainment.
But Lord Hayvon’s being a noble of Rhir meant that he only took one of the deer to feed his mansion. The other six bagged were given to the public, as a gift. Also—his mansion was rich, but not opulent.
Phrased another way—it was not as rich as it could be. And it lacked servants in the numbers of other nobility on different continents, Richard had been told. Nobles in Rhir were expected to give all they could to the cause—fighting Demons. And Hayvon was a patriot.
Richard broke off from reading the book and glanced up. And the 5th most powerful [Lord] saw Richard getting off his horse.
“Lord Hayvon, I’ll return to the mansion by myself if that’s alright. I’d like to…”
The [Lord] glanced up and waved a hand, smiling.
“By all means, Sir Richard. Someone will take your horse.”
Average in wealth. Richard patted his horse; he’d grown up on a ranch so he was used to riding unlike all of the others. Then he took two steps and flew.
The townsfolk and riders saw Richard fly up through the air past the others. The young man had raised one hand in a fist. That was unnecessary for the Boots of Flight to work, but there was such a thing as style.
A cloak fluttered behind Richard. Magical; enchanted like his armor. It was, of course, red.
Slowly at first, then with increasing speed, Richard flew through the air. The Boots of Flight couldn’t propel him that fast; they were slower than a horse. But look up. Was that a bird?
No, it was a flying [Knight]. Richard laughed as he flew, as he always did. He’d done this probably ten thousand times. But he couldn’t help it.
“Careful, Sir Richard!”
Lord Hayvon chuckled as he heard the young man laughing from above. He lifted his hand and Richard saluted him. Richard swooped over the town, seeing people waving up at him. And for a few minutes—he was a superhero.
He didn’t shoot a beam of fire from his eyes. But that was because he needed a ring for that. And it was too dangerous; it set things alight. Even so—Richard felt invincible.
He flew towards the mansion, past the slower trotting horses. And he saw someone waving at him from the grounds.
“Hey, Superguy!”
Vincent, a [Swashbuckler] from Earth from the state of Maine was sitting in the grass. He wasn’t flying about, but neither was he unadorned with magic of his own. He waved up at Richard and then threw something.
A rope. Richard tried to avoid it, but the magical rope wrapped around one leg. He swore.
“Vincent—”
The other young man hauled on the rope and was hanging underneath Richard. The Boots of Flight dipped lower as they tried to support both weights.
“Get off!”
With a laugh, Vincent leapt to the ground. He took two steps, and bounded up into the air. He landed on a hedge that shouldn’t have supported his weight, but it did. The young man balanced on the grass.
“If you’re Super-Richard, I can at least be Indiana Vincent. Since someone got Batman.”
He grinned. Richard hovered next to him, aware that his Boots of Flight were going to run out of power soon.
“Don’t act like that in a real battle.”
“You’re one to talk.”
“I only fly for fun. I’m aware it’s a stupid idea in a fight.”
The [Knight] flushed, embarrassed. But Vincent just laughed.
“Who wouldn’t want to fly? Besides Emily.”
She got altitude-sick. And it was true, that everyone had begged to use the Boots of Flight. Richard had stuck with them because he was actually the best flier with them and Lord Hayvon favored him.
“Sir Richard!”
Lord Hayvon rode up laughing, and dismounted as a pair of Dog-Tribe Beastkin came for the horses. They were grinning at the sight, and the [Lord] himself strode up into the air. His Pegasus Boots carried him up faster and quicker than Richard; they were more powerful.
“It does my heart good to see you enjoying the Boots of Flight so much. I’d completely forgotten what flying was like as a lad.”
The [Lord] smiled. Richard ducked his head and took off his hat.
“It’s a childhood dream, Lord Hayvon.”
“Ah, more of your heroes.”
The [Lord] looked at Richard, almost surprised. But then—Richard was a [Hero] and Hayvon had yet to understand superheroes. Hayvon shrugged.
“If you tire of the boots, you may of course swap them for something else. We can’t give you more artifacts without the magic clashing, but Sir Tom’s Ring of Invisibility or…Boots of Haste? But I understand the charm and utility of flight. Please, carry on. I shall be in my study. We shall repast on the deer you felled tonight, Sir Richard.”
He walked back down towards the ground. Richard flew down so he wouldn’t drop out of the sky—although he had a Ring of Featherfalling.
“You killed a deer, Richard?”
“Lucky bowshot. Hayvon insisted we bring it back. I’m not that good with a bow.”
“Huh. Better than me. But hey—that’s what crossbows are for, right? Hayvon finally got the one he said auto-reloads. Check it out.”
Vincent patted his side. A compact crossbow was hanging there. Richard hesitated.
“An automatic-reloading crossbow? But that’s like—”
“Yup. You want one? You’re a better shot.”
Richard didn’t know about that. But he’d owned a rifle back on Earth. Bows and crossbows were different.
“I’ll think about it. Where’s Tom?”
Vincent’s good mood faded. He jerked his head to the mansion.
“Inside. Where else? He’s having one of his giggling fits.”
“Got it. What are you doing, Vincent?”
“Taking a break from the others nagging me? Especially Emily. She’s…”
Vincent made his hand flap endlessly. Richard sighed. And like that, it was back to work.
“Try not to fight with her, Vince.”
“Me? She’s the one who wants people to brainstorm how to get in touch with the other people from Earth and convince Hayvon. Gah.”
“I’ll talk to her.”
Richard walked on the grass, feeling…slow and stuck in mud as he always did after flying. He checked the worn, green boots that were nevertheless quite splendidly inlaid. Boots of Flight. And Lord Hayvon had, after overhearing Richard express admiration for his own Pegasus Boots, pulled a set from his armory and gifted them to Richard.
5th most powerful [Lord] his ass. Richard shook his head. He waved at one of the Dog-Tribe Beastkin.
Unlike Gnolls, whom Richard had met, the Dog-Tribe Beastkin were shorter. And more…doglike. Gnolls reminded Richards of hyenas.
“Hey, Richard! You have a good hunt? Smells like you got some deer!”
One of the Dog-Men bounded towards Richard. He was in a good mood. Man’s best friend—or in this case—just best friend. Affable—the two [Stablehands] were younger than Richard, but only just. This one was named Tel.
“That’s right, Tel. A deer.”
“What kind?”
The other Dog-Tribe Beastkin perked up his ears. Richard shrugged.
“Non-magical. That’s all I know. Not a Corusdeer, or a Selantler, at any rate.”
“Works for us! We might get scraps if we beg! Let’s get the horses settled, Rel! Thanks, Richard!”
The two dashed off. They were more informal with the young man since he’d told them not to use his title. And they were one of only two dozen servants for the entire mansion. Which was impressive given how large it was.
However…as Richard entered the mansion, he saw Lord Hayvon was already gone. And no one held open the doors for him; the other staff were probably elsewhere. So the young man took his hat off his head. He tossed it—and the hat went zooming off towards the hat rack.
Magic. The entire mansion was like that. Richard undid a clasp on his armor and the magic anticipated him, taking the armor off as well towards his room. Some kind of magical servant spell. Richard vaguely looked around.
“A glass of water? Please.”
One found him as he walked about the mansion. Richard accepted the floating glass and sipped from it. It tasted vaguely of something spicy. Which was how Rhir’s people liked to flavor water to make it the equivalent of a lemon and water. Weird, but far from the weirdest thing. Invisible magical servant-spells sort of beat that.
The one thing the spell didn’t do was show Richard where to find people. So he wandered for a good four minutes before he heard a familiar voice.
“Eddy, I swear to fucking god, if you tell me to make a sword out of this one more time, I’ll kill you.”
“Come on, Keith! I’ll pay you.”
“With what, the money Hayvon gives us? Let go. Hey, I said—”
A scuffle. Down one of the rich hallways, Richard saw a door blow open and two young men emerged. One was shouting, face red and sunburned; the other was faster. More nimble; certainly more fit. He dashed down the corridor.
“Richard! He’s got—”
The [Knight] saw Eddy, or Edward, the [Spellblade], try to blur around him. But the [Knight] was faster. He grabbed Eddy’s arm and yanked him back.
“Richard, let go, let g—”
The block of metal in Eddy’s hands tumbled out of his grip. Richard saw it and grabbed; his [Heightened Reflexes] allowed him to snag the block of metal.
It was light. Richard blinked, and Keith charged after Eddy.
“You bastard!”
Eddy whirled and put up his fists. Keith froze and Richard grabbed Eddy.
“Eddy, put your hands down.”
“Hey, he started it. You want to go, Keith?”
Edward made a jab and Keith recoiled. The [Inferno Smith] backed up, warily. Not without reason; Edward, or ‘Eddy’, was a [Warrior]-[Mage] who’d recently consolidated. And Keith, despite his [Blacksmith] class, had no strength-enhancing Skills. If the two got into a scrap, like Richard’s fellow Earthers sometimes did, there was no doubt who’d end up bruised and bleeding.
“Knock it off, Eddy. Keith can’t fight you and you know it.”
“Hey, he—”
“You stole this. This is just bullying, Eddy.”
The two [Warriors] glared at each other for a second. Eddy was flushed; he didn’t like being lectured by Richard, who was only two years older. But the younger man was on a bit of a power trip of late. Richard let go and Eddy backed up.
“I don’t need this. I’m off.”
He stomped away. Keith flipped him off from behind and turned to Richard.
“Thanks, Richard. Eddy wanted me to make him a titanium sword. As if that would do shit. He’s already got a magic one and this is my only crucible steel.”
He gestured to the billet. Richard regarded it.
“So you actually got it made?”
“Of course! It’s been disgusting, trying to get the heat up in a proper smelter for it to melt. But we finally got it. Took eight different [Mages] and a lot of money…but that’s titanium. Uh—I don’t know how we’re going to hammer the stuff. But I told you!”
Keith beamed. Not all of the Americans—the group summoned to Rhir—were warriors. Or Americans. Edward, like Richard, was a [Hero], someone with the class who’d decided to fight the Demons. Keith was someone who’d lost the class; he hadn’t wanted to kill.
But that didn’t mean he was useless. And now that they had resources and Lord Hayvon’s support, he was proving it. Richard grinned.
“So we can make titanium armor? And weapons?”
“Well, sure. But it’s better for building stuff. Say—do you mind holding onto it? Eddy’s convinced he can get a titanium sword. Can you show it to Lord Hayvon?”
“Can do. I bet he’ll want to thank you. Maybe with a title or something.”
Lord Hayvon’s interest in the Earthworlders came from their achievements. Not just levels. He’d flip the moon about this. Keith grinned.
“Can’t let you get all the attention, can I?”
“It never crossed my mind. Say—has Eddy been bothering you? Besides this, I mean.”
He’d gotten into a fight before. Keith shrugged, face blank.
“Eddy’s an annoying asshole who thinks he’s Gandalf. Red nearly punched him in the face, but it’s fine. He’s not as bad as Tom.”
The two grimaced. Richard patted Keith on the shoulder.
“If he gets obnoxious, let me know. I can talk to him. I’ll take this to Lord Hayvon. Do you know what Tom’s up to?”
“Don’t know, and I don’t want to know. Please tell me he’s going to fight Demons soon.”
“Sorry.”
 
—-
 
Keith was not the only person Richard met on his circuit of the mansion. There was Red, a girl from New Jersey, who marched up to Richard to complain about Edward. She was a [Painter]; just like from her world. Not as useful to Hayvon, but she’d been recreating some classics which had attracted attention from prospective buyers. Her Starry Night wasn’t exactly like the original, but it was close.
There was Katie and Stacy, who were conspiring over some new food from Earth and…well, not leveled much in any one class. Cynthia was out in the town, enjoying the sights and keeping as far away from Tom as possible; she hadn’t come back in two days and Richard was going to ask someone to find her just to check up.
