And that was that. Richard left the office. He wondered if after dinner and a drink Lord Hayvon would listen to his request. The [Knight] walked down the hallways.
“Richard! Richard, did you ask—”
Emily found him after one corridor. She’d been peeking around, waiting for him to come out. The [Knight] sighed.
“Not yet, Emily. Hayvon’s busy.”
“But—”
“He heard your request, Emily. You shouldn’t have bugged him.”
The [Knight] saw the young woman from Minnesota glower at him. Emily was pretty, intelligent—the best [Mage] of the group—and determined to get her way.
“We have to ask, Richard. There are others! Out there!”
She pointed. Richard nodded.
“I know. I’ll ask after dinner when he’s in a good mood. But I’ll run it by Tom. Is he in his rooms?”
Emily’s face froze over. She looked at Richard.
“Why do you have to ask him?”
“Tom’s smart.”
“He’s insane. And he’s growing crazier. He keeps saying ‘other Tom’ wants to kill Demons.”
Richard sighed.
“I bet he does. But he’s still one of us, Emily. From Earth. Do you want to vis—”
“No. No—you go ahead. I’ll see you at dinner. I have to practice my spells. I’m trying to make Water Elementals.”
The [Hydromancer] backed up. She conjured a blob of water which waggled a tendril at Richard. He sighed, but there was no talking around Emily. He wished she wasn’t so…strident. But his group of Earthers were just people from Earth, with nothing else besides their nation of origin in most cases to bind them.
Sometimes, Richard found himself identifying more with Lord Hayvon’s soldiers. Certainly—he liked some of them quite a lot, like one of the retainers, a Garuda [Skysword Master] from Chandrar. But what did Othius expect? He had wanted heroes.
He had gotten young people from Earth. And the closest thing to his hero was…
The [Clown].
 
—-
 
The people of Rhir knew of the [Clown]. They also knew of the summoned heroes from Earth—although not necessarily in those terms.
Brave young warriors from far abroad. That was how they were being described. Propaganda and storytelling.
But the [Clown]. He captured the imagination. This world had never seen his like. At least—not in the exact way he appeared. His insanity, the way he made killing a joke, the idea of him was alluring. It was…supervillainy. Not what actual blood and death looked like, or should be.
Of course—Richard had a different perspective than those of Rhir. He knew the original stories that Tom had taken from.
Much had been said of Tom’s madness. His…admirers or followers sometimes came to the mansion. Usually the female ones were let in. But everyone had heard how he’d defeated the Demon [Mage] in combat, killed a score of Fearless in the defense of the castle.
Not many people talked about the Fool, or the fact that Nereshal and the Blighted King’s warriors had held the hallways and pushed the Fearless back too. Tom caught the imagination.
However. He was still Tom to Richard. So when the [Knight] went to find his friend, he didn’t walk in awe or fear.
Or disgust, like the others. Emily refused to go with Richard. Her feelings about Tom hadn’t changed much since the beginning. Which was unfair of her.
When the others had fled the village, himself included, Tom had stayed. And he had killed an entire war party of Demons. That had been his most glorious day. His greatest achievement and tragedy. Not the part with the Fool, to Richard. Richard had never seen anyone braver. Or crazier.
Now…well…
“Richard! Richard, I need to speak with you!”
Someone intercepted Richard as he was nearly at Tom’s rooms. You could tell it was the [Clown]’s place of residence for the moment; all the breakable objects had been cleared from the hallway, or already broken. Someone had tried to carve a comic strip in the wall before getting bored one and a half panels in.
At least there was no laughter. The room was soundproofed. Richard glanced at it, and then turned.
“What is it, Chole?”
She was from California. And Chole was…concerned.
“Are you going to see Tom?”
“That’s right. Do you know what he’s been up to?”
“No. He’s shut himself in the room for the last two days. I’m worried about him, Richard.”
“That’s normal.”
“No, it’s not.”
Richard hesitated a second and then smiled mirthlessly. No, it was not. But Tom had been in their company so long it felt normal. Chole nodded.
“Richard, Tom needs help.”
“He won’t take potions—”
“It’s not just that. Richard, I’ve been trying to work with Tom.”
The [Knight] frowned, suddenly concerned.
“Don’t do that. He’s dangerous. He nearly took off Emily’s hand that one time.”
Chole grimaced.
“Emily hates his guts and it’s reciprocal, Richard. No one talks to Tom. But listen—he’s unwell. But I don’t know how much of it is…him.”
“I don’t follow.”
The two stood in the empty hallway. Richard kept glancing at the door, but no sounds emerged. Of course…it was magically silenced. But it just made you more inclined to look. Tom had a habit of sneaking up on you and that had been before his Ring of Invisibility and other artifacts. And he could gut anyone but Hayvon in a moment. He had tried to before…not with Richard, but still.
“Richard.”
Chole put her hands on her hips. He looked back at her.
“Richard, listen. I’m a [Nurse]. I didn’t complete my education, but I’m still the most medically-qualified person in this world to talk about mental illness.”
Chole twisted her hand in the white apron. She glanced over her shoulder and lowered her voice.
“…That’s not just mental illness. It’s not just schizophrenia, or…or being manic-depressive.”
“What do you mean by ‘just’, Chole?”
“It doesn’t look like that. People do not turn into serial-killers wearing face paint if they have a problem, Richard.”
“Obviously.”
He hadn’t thought of it like that, though. Chole nodded at the door.
“I think Tom’s choosing to be like that, Richard. Either that—or he has one of the ‘sacrificial classes’ that Lord Hayvon told us about. That might be a Skill. But it’s not plain mental illness.”
Chose to be like…? Both jumped as something went crash from behind the door. Chole hesitated.
“Maybe If I went with you—”
“I’ll talk to him alone, Chole. You know how he gets if there are more people around. He’ll just try to play us off against each other.”
“Fine. But we have to do something about Tom. He can’t keep doing this.”
“I know.”
The [Nurse] left. She had other things to do than just try to get through to Tom. Hayvon had wanted to know about blood transfusions, Earth’s non-magical medicines despite the Blighted Kingdom’s surplus of potions.
That left just Richard. So he walked over to the door and knocked.
“Tom? I’m coming in.”
 
—-
 
The room was dark when the [Knight] pushed open the door. Not pitch-black, but nearly. So in the time it took your eyes to adjust, you were in blackness. Richard glanced around.
“Tom…? Come on, don’t play games.”
A futile request. The door swung closed behind Richard. And as the [Knight] turned—not whirled—he heard a sound.
Doododooodledododootdododooo…
Music. An annoying, semi-energetic song. It played around Richard, a nebulous sound. Loud, in the dark room.
“Tom—”
Someone was in the room. Richard heard a giggle. And as he turned, his eyes seeing shadows, he saw—
A knife. Two eyes. A figure, sitting in a corner of the room. Richard heard laughter. It was fast, manic. Perhaps someone had practiced it. But it had become him.
“Who’s come to speak to me? Is that my best bud?”
The [Clown] giggled. The knife moved. Richard saw a flicker.
“T—”
He dodged the knife. It had gone for his side. It thunked into a wall. Richard reached for his sword. Tom had actually thrown it.
“Whoops. Sorry! Slip of the hand. You know how it is.”
The [Clown] vanished. Richard swore.
“Tom, this isn’t funny.”
Laughter.
“To you, Richard. I think it’s hilarious. It’s me, by the way. Tom.”
“Which one?”
“Does it matter?”
Flicker. Richard spun. Tom had another dagger. Maybe the same one. He had secret blades all around him. The young man scuttled across the room, giggling and Richard lost track of him again.
“Knock it off, Tom.”
He was thinner. He kept losing weight. Tom had been overweight before. Now—
“I can’t help it. It’s him. By which I mean, me. What’s up, Mister [Knight]? Are we off to murder people with pointy objects?”
“We’re not fighting Demons.”
“Oh. Sorry. The Great Enemy? Sorry, I forgot that’s what we called them. Say, if we managed to find their capital, who’s going to slaughter all the women and children? I’d volunteer, but I think I’d have to get in line after Hayvon and the others.”
“Tom. We talked about this—”
“Oh yes.”
A prick on the side. Richard was waiting for it. He slapped the arm down before the dagger could thrust. Tom danced away. Richard kicked at him.
“Tom—”
Giggling. The [Clown] actually did a backflip. Vanished again.
That damn enchanted belt.
“We talk all the time, Richard! Doesn’t stop us from fighting the good fight! Death to the Demons! Hey! Do you think once we get home, we’ll all get medals? Or imprisoned for war crimes?”
“Tom—”
Someone moved and threw something at him. Richard had had enough.
“Light!”
He shouted. And the room filled with light. Richard had almost forgotten the magic spell in the mansion. Tom froze, creeping towards Richard.
The [Clown] was thin. His face was painted with his makeup. And he wore that obnoxiously garish clown suit. Only this one was worn. Crudely repaired. And blood spattered parts of it.
Tom’s own face had changed too. He had to have lost at least sixty pounds. But more than that—the somewhat kind face had turned cold. His eyes glittered. But as the light caught him, he froze.
The two looked at each other.
“Tom.”
“Richard. Hey, that wasn’t me. That was—other Tom.”
“Right.”
Once upon a time, Richard would have accepted that. There was Tom, the young man from Earth. And then there was Tom, the clown. Two different personalities. But of late—they’d looked like the same person.
This is his choice. Chole’s words. Where did the [Clown] end and Tom begin? Richard couldn’t tell anymore. Tom had always been…weird. And that was before the face-paint had gone on.
“I came to talk, Tom. If you try stabbing me again, I’m leaving.”
The [Clown] blinked. He peered at Richard, and then shuffled left.
“Me? Stab anyone? I’d never—”
“Throw that and I’ll hit you.”
The [Clown] made the knife vanish with a flick of the hand.
“Nothing up my sleeves. What’s up, Richard? Has Mister [Cowboy Knight] come to give me my marching orders? Ask me to take my medicine? Or does dear Emily want something? Lord Hayvon the Just?”
“No, Tom. I just wanted to talk. Can I sit?”
Richard looked around. Tom’s room was a mess. The [Clown] had thrown a table; that was what Richard had heard. And while he had multiple rooms; this was supposed to be a reception room, everything was trashed. Cut up with a knife—there were wine bottles scattered around. Glass shards—Richard glanced at Tom.
“I cut my feet a few times. What’s pain between friends?”
His feet were bloody. Richard felt for a healing potion.
“Here—”
“Thanks!”
The [Clown] reached out and grabbed the potion off Richard’s belt. He could do that. It was one of his Skills that made him so dangerous. Tom stared at the expensive potion. He uncorked it and then—smashed it into the ground.
“Whoops. Got another?”
“Tom!”
Richard lost his patience. Tom giggled.
“What’s the matter? The Blighted Kingdom has more potions than sense! Just ask and they’ll give you another.”
“Tom. You’re—”
Getting worse? The [Clown] laughed as if he could hear Richard’s thoughts. So the [Knight]—not a [Cowboy Knight], incidentally—sat down on one of the few couch-chairs left.
“How are you, Tom?”
For some reason, that question sobered Tom. The [Clown] blinked. Then he sat down. He gave Richard a rictus of a grin.
“How do I look, Richard?”
He gestured to the clown costume, yellow and blood and blue hanging off his thinner frame. The rings under his eyes. Richard looked at him.
“Awful.”
“Exactly!”
The [Clown] snapped back. He hit himself in the face with the palm of his hand and then pointed.
“He’s in here, Richard. With me.”
“Other Tom? I just spoke to Chole. She says ‘other Tom’ isn’t to blame for everything.”
The [Knight] saw Tom glare at him. Then grin. It split into an expression of perfect, cynical despair.
“Maybe not. Maybe it’s me. Or the Skill. The point is this is how I’m doing. What did you expect? You’re doing well. I saw you flying about.”
“I enjoy it. Is there a problem?”
Tom fidgeted. He couldn’t sit still. Richard realized there were no mirrors in the room. Tom kept asking for more. And smashing them. Hayvon had instituted a seven-mirrors-a-week policy. Which was fairly generous.
“Oh, no. No. You’re the heroic [Knight] who flies around. With a red cape. Hah! And I’m—I’m the [Clown]. One of us has to be the hero, right? Could you wear a hat with pointy ears and change your armor black? That’d make me feel better.”
“Tom…this isn’t a game. You don’t have to be the [Clown].”
They’d spoken. Tom was a [Clown]. He was insane. His Skills had given him another Tom in his head. It wasn’t his fault. It was his fault. Ever since the Fool’s death—Tom had gotten worse. Or perhaps he’d stopped holding back the part of him that liked to scare people.
“What are we, Richard? You’re a [Knight]—a man in shining armor! And I’m the [Clown]. The funny man! See what this world did to us? We became what we pretended to be.”
“I see it, Tom.”
Richard stared back at his friend’s face. Tom laughed again. And then his expression turned calculating.
“So what is it? You came here for a reason.”
“I came to check on you.”
“Don’t lie.”
“Alright. I came here to speak to you and talk about Emily’s plan.”
Tom began laughing again. He laughed until he ran out of air.
“Emily’s plan? Oh, right! Let’s go find more people from Earth! And bring them here! I’m sure Hayvon and King Blight will love that!”
Richard hesitated. He trusted Tom’s intuition. Tom was intelligent. Richard didn’t trust Tom’s motives, though.
“You don’t think it’ll work? Hayvon said he was considering it.”
“I didn’t say that. I bet he’ll go for it. He’ll send out people to find the people from Earth and bring them here. So they can be wonderful soldiers in his war against the Demons!”
That sounded true. Richard bit his lip.
“Then what?”
