Laisa shuddered. Her hands twitched; a reminder of the…interrogation she’d undergone after her recapture. They no longer sat still. And that had been the lightest of the punishments even after she had confessed everything. The other [High Mages] shuddered.
“Why?”
Laisa hesitated, and then prostrated herself again.
“Your Majesty—please, understand that none of us were disloyal. What we did, we did for Rhir. And the world! We voiced our concerns, but—we believe the summoning ritual must never be employed again. It is not magic.”
“Explain.”
Othius sat, weary of standing. Laisa licked her lips and turned to the other [Mages]. One raised his hands, trembling.
“Your Majesty, I studied in Wistram. I—I understand the nature of scrolls. Enchantments. Magic contained in a scroll is still a blueprint and power to a spell. Even a Tier 7 scroll is understandable—even if we understand that the magic is incomprehensible at our level. But the summoning ritual?”
He spread his hands and shook his head.
“It is not magic. Or if it is, it uses a theory far beyond any understanding. Still—I and the others agree. It does not use just magic.”
Othius paused. The [King] tried to parse that line and turned to Nereshal, looking annoyed.
“Explain, Nereshal.”
“The—High Mages believe that the power used to fuel the summoning ritual does not come just from magic, your Majesty.”
“Then what? Skills?”
The [King] was ill-equipped to deal with abstracts. He understood magic and Skills. But this was close to pure theory, science. Nereshal had no good answers.
“Something else, your Majesty. Perhaps a Miracle of old.”
“We fail to see why it matters.”
The [King] snapped. The kneeling [Mages] shuddered. Laisa raised her head.
“Your Majesty—we fear what cannot be understood. This ritual tears a hole in the barrier between worlds. But we cannot even sense that barrier save when the spell was cast! I led the spell in a link; I felt it breaking the first time and it was an experience more terrible than any other I have ever felt, before or after.”
She raised a shaking hand and Othius glanced at her. He had to know what she’d gone through and that gave him his first pause. Laisa rushed to pursue the hesitation.
“Your Majesty. This ritual could tear our world apart. Or—join both worlds irrevocably! It is not a simple transfer. It tears something with brute force, rather than finesse. That is why I fled. Better to fight the Enemy—fight Demons with spells and lives than to risk nothing at all remaining!”
“We have fought for six thousand years. Do you dare to imply this state of affairs should continue?”
Othius’ eyes flashed. Laisa trembled.
“No, your Majesty. But better that, perhaps, than nothing at all. I could not bear to spend ten thousand lives of Rhir’s children again. I—I have sacrificed my life in battle against the great foe. But not that. Please, your Majesty. Not that again.”
The others murmured agreement and their own pleas until Nereshal cast them a [Silence] spell. The [Chronomancer] turned to the [King].
“So they say, your Majesty. They are at your disposal. If you will it, I will have their loyalties restored. Or they will serve without rebellion. As slaves or…”
The [High Mages] shuddered. There were worse fates. Othius drummed his fingers on the chair, as if it were his throne.
“…They will serve. As they were. We recall that they fled; they did not conspire. Rhir needs all souls to fight the Enemy, Nereshal. Even those less than faithful to the cause.”
The [Mages] sagged in relief. But Othius was not done. He stared past Nereshal, at the scroll.
It had not worn, though millennia must have passed since its creation. It was as perfect as when it had been made and even mithril aged over as long as Nereshal had speculated it had existed. The shining words were not ever one color, but neither were they prismatic. They shone with light beyond that which Othius had known. And he had seen legendary magics and walked the world longer than most.
“We are weary, Nereshal. Your magic keeps us alive, but the duties weigh on us. We recall the last time the Demons were assailed by the armies of the world. We broke them, and they broke us. Even [Archmages] failed to bring their end. And the war with Demons…our continual holding of Rhir…it will continue long past our children’s children, or so we fear.”
Nereshal started at the weary tone of the [King]. Greatly concerned, he lifted his staff and time—froze.
For a moment, High Mage Laisa saw Nereshal whispering, his lips moving like lightning and not at all. A bubble of time burst; the Blighted King’s features changed, just a bit.
Growing younger. The hint of stubble disappeared. His features changed imperceptibly. But the [King] was still tired.
That was true power. The kind Wistram had lost. Nereshal hurried to his [King]’s side.
“We make great progress, your Majesty. The 5th Wall is being built and the Deathless have not emerged since their defeat! There have been setbacks, but when it is complete…”
A hand slapped the arm of the chair. Othius snarled.
“When it is complete, more walls must be built! More and more, until we can finally assail the Demons and crush them in a corner of Rhir! How long, Nereshal? How long should we force our descendants to endure? When we could but summon an army—”
His eyes moved towards the scroll. It called to him. Laisa shuddered as Othius broke off, staring.
“I dream of it, Nereshal. A day when I may walk past the walls and see no Demons, no Blight. Only green grass and clear skies.”
“Your Majesty…”
For a moment, Laisa saw Othius’ features soften. And she felt the same urge, the same compulsion. Her eyes filled with tears. How could she have thought he didn’t care? The longing, the bitter pain on her ruler’s face struck her in her heart.
“Any weapon is to be used against the great enemy, Nereshal. My [Mages]. Surely you see our conviction. We may risk disaster. We may risk another world meeting ours. But then two worlds will battle the foe. If there is any…concern we share. It is our grief over the sacrifice of so many of Rhir’s children.”
The [King] turned to his [Mages], whose loyalty had been rekindled in an instant. He stood taller now, and the Blighted King’s very presence inspired them.
Even so. Laisa bowed her head.
“Your Majesty. We cannot alter the spell. We had tried, you recall. To use criminals, the lives of Demons, animals, slaves…to no avail. It must be the unborn. And it weighs…”
It weighed on her. Nereshal nodded tightly.
“Your Majesty. Perhaps a controlled spell? A test of a handful of…?”
Even as he said it, Laisa knew it wouldn’t happen. The [Queen] was pregnant again. But she and nobles, as well as the common folk had been struck with the ritual’s effects. It had affected all of the Blighted Kingdom. Even now, some still wore black in remembrance.
“No. The ritual is too expensive, even in mundane magics. We have spent fortunes against the Demons and to use the ritual, but we will not ‘test’ it. We desire it used. And this time…a hundred thousand lives. For even a thousand heroes, and others across the world, we wish for an army. And if the spell can be focused upon Rhir…”
“Your Majesty—”
“Your Majesty! I cannot!”
Laisa cried out, even though Othius’ presence compelled her to serve. The Blighted King looked down at her.
“High Mage Laisa. There are ways. The Blighted Kingdom’s citizens lie in such great numbers that if…measures…were taken, even a hundred thousand would not slow the children born this year overduly. But it need not come to that.”
He smiled. And Laisa looked up. The Blighted King looked at Nereshal.
“We have thought on this issue. Listen—Nereshal.”
He spoke. Laisa’s eyes grew wide, and Nereshal blinked. But the objections…came only from Laisa and one other. And Othius overruled them.
“It will serve. And it is fairer. The only question then, is how useful our heroes will be. The ones that remain, that were poorly spent—ah, Nereshal. How fare they?”
“They are with Lord Hayvon, your Majesty. Under his watchful guidance. Some, like Richard, have been approaching Level 40.”
“Astonishing.”
Laisa heard Othius whisper, and she was struck by jealousy and awe. She had met another, the young [Hydromancer], and her growth had been earth-shattering. Unfair.
“And…the [Clown]?”
Nereshal’s lips twisted.
“He is less manageable, your Majesty. But he has killed Demons and is much beloved. Have you need of them?”
The Blighted King looked back at the scroll. And he shook his head.
“No, Nereshal. Merely let Hayvon guard and raise them. They are few. Useful, but few. But let those with the talent cultivate it. For they shall be instructors to those that follow. Even if they spread across the world, what then? The world will destroy the hell that is Rhir. Together.”
He smiled, then. And looked towards that vision of another world. The Humans had come from Earth, to what reason they had no idea. They had struggled, persevered, failed, lived and died. They had suffered, and searched for meaning.
Soon—they would not be alone.
 
—-
 
While the Blighted King planned for the future, his kingdom fought the Demons. Year by year, century by century, they held the line against the horrors that came from the Blight, the corruption that was endemic only to the continent of Rhir, smallest and most cursed.
In the past, people had wisely avoided living on Rhir because it was inhospitable, filled with corruption that twisted the form, and new monsters emerged now and then to make your life more unpleasant. They had let Rhir be a place only the insane or adventurous go.
And then had come the Crelers. Six thousand years ago, the Creler Wars had ravaged the world and damn well nearly wiped out…everything. They’d been fought back, but the first Blighted King had decided Rhir had to be safeguarded. So he had established his kingdom as a safeguard against such things and fortified it with help from around the world.
All well and good. But then the Demons had arrived. Another kingdom had emerged, one filled with another people twisted by the corruption, who fought the Blighted Kingdom. They had been too powerful to destroy, and so the two nations had entered into a deadlock.
Fast forward to now. The Blighted Kingdom had constructed four—make that five—massive walls across Rhir, so powerful and mighty that they could hold back the Demons, creating safe zones. The fifth was incomplete, but step by step, they were taking back Rhir, hoping to one day wipe out the Demons.
In the meantime, resources from around the world came to Rhir. Ships bearing supplies, food, magical weapons, and soldiers for the cause of holding back the Demons. It was now just…a fact.
Hell was Rhir. And unless you were sent there, or traded with the continent, most people didn’t think of it. If the Blighted King fell, they’d get worried. But they pursued their petty wars and arguments and went about their lives because the Blighted Kingdom was holding the line. It sucked to be them, you supposed. But hey—did you hear about the hamburgers?
Then had come the [Clown]. No one knew where he’d come from, but he was a guest of the Blighted King. A strange class, an insane, laughing fighter who had no respect for life.
It spread throughout Rhir. Like…well, a cult. An obsession. Not for all; many heard the stories about the assault on the palace by the Demons or about Tom the [Clown] and thought he was mad.
But Rhir was filled with madness. Young people were born and raised to fight the Enemy. Some of them saw the [Clown]’s antics and embraced it.
“Uh. Lord Hayvon. Is that girl wearing clown makeup…alright?”
Richard twisted in his saddle and stared at a girl, holding her father’s hand as they went to market. She couldn’t have been more than eight, but she wore a ghastly thing from his world.
Clown makeup. The white face paint, the red on the nose and exaggerated features—she even had a tear, painted bright blue. The [Lord], riding ahead of him back to his mansion after a day of hunting, glanced to one side.
The father, in rougher clothing, didn’t have makeup on. Nor did the rest of the people in the village bowing to Lord Hayvon and clearing the road for his procession of followers, Richard included. The young man from Mississippi saw Lord Hayvon, one of the most influential figures in the Blighted Kingdom and 5th most powerful [Lord] in the world according to some book, shrug.
“I don’t see anything wrong with her, Sir Richard. Unless you mean the makeup? She or her mother must be one of Sir Tom’s followers.”
“Right. Sir Tom. Uh…you mean his groupies? The crazy ones who follow him and dress like him?”
Richard was a young man with dark skin, a wide-brimmed hat, and plate armor. He was, in fact, a [Knight]. Lord Hayvon glanced back at him.
“Groupies? Your words are so…unique. For everything, Sir Richard.”
“It’s Richard, Lord Hayvon. I mean, his followers.”
The [Lord] smiled.
“One must respect titles, Sir Richard. If you use my title, I should use yours. And yes, Sir Tom’s followers. He has many admirers.”
“Yes…but a girl? Tom’s—Tom’s a [Clown], Lord Hayvon. And yes, we have uh, [Clowns] from home. And killer clowns…but idolizing them isn’t usually a good thing.”
“Really?”
“No. People don’t like uh, admiring serial killers.”
Lord Hayvon was a tall man, but not distinguished. He was intensely…practical. He wore armor of course; they’d been hunting deer, but Demon attacks could occur even behind the 3rd Wall. And he was beyond competent in every area. So much so that he didn’t have odd quirks, like Lord Tyrion, Lord Bel, or any of the other [Lords] mentioned in the book Richard had read. He replied with a nod toward the mansion.
“In your world, perhaps, Sir Richard. But here—the people admire anyone who can kill Demons like Sir Tom. I gather many of them have classes like [Clown], if not that exact one. They’re rather like [Berserkers]—or at least, that’s how I believe they should be used. Irregulars.”
“…Is that why his Majesty lets Tom be?”
“You mean, entertains his swings of mood, and his oddities? Of course. He is a capable fighter. We have seen far worse. Allow him his ‘groupies’, Sir Richard. Allow him his fame. When the time comes, he kills Demons and that is what I care about.”
“Yes, Lord Hayvon.”
Richard bit back the objections he had and rode on. This was Rhir, after all. Richard had seen Demons. He’d fought them. He rode with Lord Hayvon back towards the mansion. Richard had not been a fighter before coming to this world. Now—he was a [Knight]. A soldier, at least in Lord Hayvon’s mind.
