No response. Cirille sat there in her bed. She put her head in her claws. Shellc stared at his [Commander].
“Commander? Uh…”
“I’m going to sleep. I hate Rhir.”
She rolled over in her bed. She got exactly seven and a quarter minutes of sleep before Captain Shellc opened the door.
“Commander—”
 
—-
 
That had been two days ago. Cirille was still mad about it as she stood in the small waiting area to speak with Bastion-General Quiteil. Incidentally—she wasn’t just mad about the third time he’d contacted her with a priority message and demanded she recite her code. It was the eighth time in a single day that had gotten her.
“Next.”
The door opened. Cirille saw a Human march out. One of Rhir’s [Commanders], to look at him. The waiting room was certainly full, but the door everyone was waiting to swing open and admit them into was more like a [Clerk]’s office than a [General]’s.
But that was Bastion-General Quiteil, of the 4th Wall. When Cirille finally entered his office, right on time, she did not find the [General] she expected, some imposing war-hero of a man, one of Rhir’s finest.
Instead, she found the man suited to the room. Quiteil wasn’t muscular. He had a secretary’s build, spectacles, ink stains on his fingers—he was writing something as she came in, countless organized cabinets built into the walls—he was the image of a [Scribe].
“…Bastion-General Quiteil?”
“Yes. Sit down, Commander Cirille. Your division has arrived on time. I’m pleased that the Izrilian command is able to follow orders. Drake discipline has been noted.”
“T-thank you sir.”
The man had no small talk. Again, Cirille was used to Manus, but even their leaders had time to ask a single question about how she was doing. Quiteil hadn’t even looked up.
She noticed something. The man had darker skin—which didn’t matter since Drakes had different scale colors. But a patch of his skin on his arm was white.
Not just ‘white’, but brilliant. Luminescent, in fact. It covered his wrist and moved upwards, like a splash of water. Was it magical? A war wound?
Bastion-General Quiteil made a note on the document.
“Your division is ready for combat, Commander Cirille?”
“Yes sir. We’ve been resting in the capital.”
Aside from the fighting with the Demons that one time. But that had been months ago. Cirille had been used to escorting dignitaries around, putting on military parades—being useless. Quiteil made no comment about any of that.
“Your division has seen fighting three times. Twice on patrol around the 3rd Wall—monsters. Once in the capital. This will be your first deployment past 3rd Wall.”
“Yes s—”
“You will stay here one night and move forwards to 5th Wall tomorrow, Commander Cirille. You will be placed under Bastion-General Zavarial, along with more irregular divisions. I am also assigning you a unit to be placed under your command.”
“Yes sir?”
The man was moving at light speed. Cirille was trying to keep up. And he still hadn’t even looked at her! It was as if he’d expected her to be there and would have begun speaking even if she hadn’t been.
“The unit is a group of Gnolls, Commander Cirille. From the tribes. The count is two thousand, one hundred and three. Chief Warrior Merish is their commanding officer. He will be waiting for you. Fold his command into yours while serving.”
“Wha—Gnolls? Plains Gnolls? Excuse me, sir! May I ask a question?”
At last, Cirille had to break her military discipline. And only then did Bastion-General Quiteil look up. He didn’t seem surprised to see her; nor did seeing his blue eyes change anything.
“Speak.”
“Sir. May I ask why I’m to be given command of Plains Gnolls? Also, sir, we received eight priority-messages in one night and day. Each one requiring authentication. May I ask why?”
The Drake tried not to let her annoyance show. The Bastion-General sighed. He adjusted his glasses.
“Commander Cirille, I am Bastion-General of 4th Wall. I do not have time to explain myself to every officer who questions my command. If you need clarification, seek it from someone with time to spare, but do not cause trouble on my wall. These are my orders. As to the Plains Gnolls—I understand there is a conflict between Drake forces and Gnoll tribes. However, you already command Gnolls—”
“In smaller numbers, sir, yes—”
Cirille was the [Commander] of the joint Drakes and some Gnolls from all of Izril. The Walled Cities sent forces to Rhir, as they were bound to by the pact. Cirille had been appointed command of them, a thankless task, but her officers and subordinates came from any number of cities, although mostly the Walled Cities.
“Then you have experience. Moreover, both forces are Izrilian. You will take command of them. Dismissed. Next!”
He left Cirille standing there in stunned silence. But as the door opened, Cirille stumbled her way out. She heard Quiteil speaking to the next officer without even looking up.
“Archery Master Springwaters, apologies for the delay. Your orders are to…”
That was her introduction to Bastion-Commander Quiteil and 4th Wall. Cirille already missed the capital.
 
—-
 
Rhir’s legendary walls. Each one was larger than the last, although not necessarily more powerful. The capital of Rhir and the first wall dated back to the founding of the Blighted Kingdom. It had been made to repel the hordes of monsters and Demons.
Cirille had done her research and she had stayed on Rhir for nearly three years now. She was due to be rotated out after four years; it was a thankless duty and the Walled Cities send their second or third-best since it was a matter of pride, but no one liked duty on Rhir.
Hell’s Patrol. Dancing with Demons. There were lots of names for the duty. It could be boring, like Cirille’s job of escorting people around, or deadly. It was usually both, filled with the monotony that came to any defensive post.
Of course, if war and the Demons came it got hot fast. But Cirille had never seen the other walls.
She had after marching her division hard these last two days. The walls weren’t as high as the legendary Walled Cities—but they were still massive.
1st Wall she knew. It was made of a glowing golden crystal, forty feet in height, and allegedly capable of wiping out an army with more spells than any other defensive fortification in the world. Maybe even a Walled City? That was in doubt, but it went to show how much care had been taken in defending Rhir.
2nd Wall had a death zone around it. Cold—the kind of cold that could kill you in less than a minute extended for nearly a mile in front and back of the wall. You had to march down the heated roads fast; any deviation meant you left the ‘safe spots’, and they could be closed at will.
Each wall was like that. It wasn’t a gimmick so much as each wall having different designs to avoid the enemy surmounting each wall in the same way.
For instance—4th wall was eighty feet high. A curtain-wall formation, made of light grey stone. Innocuous at first—until you realized how wide it was. Most battlements were wide enough to, say, allow rows of archers and troops to move in synchronization.
4th Wall was the size of a castle—and it went across all of the continent, guarding the Blighted Kingdom. It’s defenders could hold it forever with the stockpiles of supplies and the wall was manned at each spot by vigilant, even paranoid officers.
After meeting the Bastion-General in charge of the wall, Cirille understood why. And she understood the Demons demanded that kind of attitude. Even so, the man had grated on her.
“That’s just the Bastion-General. He’s efficient. Word is he does that to all of his subordinates, especially the irregulars, Commander. I don’t think it was personal.”
In the barracks assigned to the Izrilian forces, Commander Cirille paced furiously and her officers from Izril tried to calm her down. The Drake was angry.
“And the checks?’
“Security. You could be a doppelganger.”
“Why eight calls?”
“To…be really sure? I bet a Demon wouldn’t be able to keep up their disguise if you asked them eight times.”
Captain Shellc winced as Cirille turned her head and glared at him. The Drake wished she were Oldblood so she could spit the vexation in her chest out.
Proper Oldblood, that was. Cirille had two vestigial wings on her back. But all they did was hurt when she was in armor—or flutter around depending on her mood. She couldn’t fly with them. They did make certain Drakes more disposed to like her—but that was all.
“Apparently, Bastion-General Quiteil makes a Manus [Strategist] look laid back. He runs a tight ship. His subordinates have to know how many arrows they have on hand at any moment.”
The other Drakes whistled. That was pushing it. They were career [Soldiers] all, but the famous Drake discipline their militaries were known for seemed to be matched in places by Rhir’s armies.
But Rhir was in an active war. And as Cirille had observed—it was different from other nations who went to war and made peace. Even the Walled Cities hadn’t had a major offensive since the last Antinium War. Here though…
“We’re going to the 5th Wall, boys and girls. So get your companies ready for a fight.”
The other officers—all Drakes—straightened. Some looked eager, others wary. 5th Wall was where you went to die.
Demons attacked the Blighted Kingdom, but the four walls meant that monster attacks and Demon raids were much, much rarer behind 4th Wall. But anywhere past 4th Wall was where you ran into entire war bands of Demons. Cirille had never had her company deployed past the wall.
They were…ornamental. Symbolic. She knew the term Rhir’s soldiers had for her company.
Irregulars. A fancy way of saying ‘outsiders’; groups of foreigners who didn’t gel with Rhir’s standing forces. They could be quite effective…but Cirille hadn’t missed that her army had been used to do military parades for the last three years.
But she was ready. She had graduated from Manus’ academies with honors. Cirille had fought Gnoll tribes and even participated in a pitched battle with an incursion from Chandrar—a short battle—eight years back. If now was the time to fight—she’d do it with everything she had. She addressed her officers with that in mind.
“We’re finally going to get to show all these Humans what real [Soldiers] look like now, people. No more cushy guard-duty! So gear up and get ready for some rough camping! I want everyone to redouble their security and prepare yourselves for an attack at any moment. Inspect equipment, gear—oh, and better buy a pillow, Captain Shellc.”
“Me, Commander?”
The [Captain] straightened his back. Cirille smirked at him.
“That’s right. We’re going to have to share quarters. No special officer-only rooms. Be grateful we’re not bunking with the troops! No pillow forts for you.”
Shellc turned red as the others guffawed. He’d been found with eight pillows in his bed in the first month of being in Rhir; a hoarding tendency known among Drakes. Captain Shellc’s ‘special pillows’ had become a running joke for the last three years because of it.
“We’ve got the day to relax. It seems more ‘irregulars’ are being sent to 5th Wall. I wonder why?”
Cirille frowned. She turned—and a yellow light blinded her for a second.
“Perhaps, Commander—”
“Aaah! Ancestors! Dead gods, damn it, Ossky!”
The other officers swore and shielded their eyes. The Drake with bright yellow scales closed her mouth. She raised her claw and spoke behind it.
“Apologies, Commander. If we have time, perhaps we should walk along the walls and see who else is there?”
Cirille was still half-blind. She blinked, seeing flashes of light as Ossky, an Oldblood Drake with wings and a breath ability spoke. She nodded, and then pointed at the yellow Drake.
“Lieutenant Ossky. Keep your mouth shut at night or we’ll have to tie it closed. Ancestors, if you snore…”
The others groaned. They’d have to share a room and the Drake in question looked embarrassed. More light flashed as she spoke—this time bright blue.
“Sorry, Commander.”
Lieutenant Ossky. She was rare even among Oldbloods. Some spat fire, others lightning or acid or darkness—Ossky was like that, but reverse.
She breathed light.
In ages past, Dragons had come in all shapes and sizes and varieties. Ossky was a rare descendant; there were others. She was useful, though, especially if you wanted to blind the enemy. So long as she didn’t turn her head and cough.
“We’ll tour the walls. Tell the troops that those not on duty can wander—but I’ll tear their tails off if they cause trouble! Keep to discipline! But there’s one more thing.”
Cirille took a breath. She wasn’t looking forward to breaking this bit of news. The officers waited and the Drake came out with it.
“We’re, uh, assigned a new unit to mix with our forces. Plains Gnolls. Two thousand of ‘em.”
“The Tribes?”
The others shouted in horror and fury. Shellc pounded a fist on the top of a chair.
“Commander! They’re our enemies! Half of us have fought the damn Tribes! And now they want those fur—”
“Belay that, Captain Shellc!”
Commander Cirille bellowed at him. The Drake closed his jaws. He was from a city with very few Gnolls; none had come in his detachment. But Cirille was used to a mixed-species force and she knew talk like that would not make the Gnoll [Soldiers] under their command happy.
“I protested, but Bastion-General Quiteil didn’t give me a choice. I expect you all to follow orders and be civil. The first company who starts a fight in the division with the Gnolls gets their pay docked for the week! All of them! Let the troops know. I’ll meet with the…Chief Warrior right after this.”
The Drakes grumbled, but saluted. Cirille breathed in and out, wishing her tour of duty was over. She believed in Rhir’s cause; how not after seeing their fight? But Ancestors, it was hard. She sighed.
“Okay. Let’s go see who we’re fighting with.”
 
—-
 
Chief Warrior Merish was about as happy to meet Commander Cirille as she was to meet him.
He was a Gnoll. Light-reddish fur; a Plains Gnoll. Not disciplined, not at home with walls and cities, and not really under her command.
“The Tribes send their own pact-warriors to Rhir. We are to be under your command, no, Commander? So has said one of the [Generals]. So we obey.”
That was how he greeted her as she met him in the rooms assigned for the Gnolls from the Plains. They did not have the Drake’s military traditions. Instead of neatly setting up their bunks with gear placed in front for easy access and inspection and made beds, they milled about. The room was bigger than they needed, so some of the beds had weapons or other possessions on them.
