This was his group. And Richard was—well, not the boss, but a leader. He had the highest level, aside from possibly Tom, and they listened to him. He liked them all. In their own way. They’d been through hell—literal hell. And they were like family.
Some were poorer members than others. Cynthia didn’t really contribute and she liked to distract herself until ‘help arrived’ from Earth. Others were like Keith, or Vincent, or Emily. Good people who worked hard and leveled.
And then there was Tom. Richard asked Stacy about him and her face twisted.
“Tom’s holed up in his rooms again.”
“Is he drinking, sleeping around, or crying?”
“Uh—he’s laughing.”
“Wonderful.”
Tom—was Tom. And his fellow Earthers had a different view of him than the other people of Rhir. To them, he was like a war hero. His insanity was even admired.
To the Earthers, Tom was a psychopath and they were afraid of him, annoyed by him, or just creeped out in equal measure. He had been Richard’s friend. But…
To Lord Hayvon, Tom was just a weapon. The [Lord] was always polite to Tom, but he didn’t entertain Tom’s crazy. When the [Clown] had ‘pranked’ Hayvon by trying to stab him, Hayvon had obligingly stabbed him back. Even the completely murderous ‘other Tom’ had decided it wasn’t worth provoking the [Lord].
Richard found Hayvon in his study. No servant to announce him, so Richard knocked.
“Lord Hayvon? It’s Richard. I have news.”
“Enter!”
The 5th most important [Lord] was sitting at his desk, studying a scrying orb. It was set to a Drake, cheerily broadcasting the news.
“And in other news today, The King of Destruction won a pitched battle at—”
She was new. Richard hadn’t seen her yesterday. Lord Hayvon glanced up and touched the orb; it went dark.
“I see the King of Destruction continues to advance in Jecrass. Do you keep up with this news report, Richard?”
“Only a bit, Lord Hayvon. Emily watches every day.”
To catch a glimpse of the girl who’d shouted ‘oh my god’, the soccer player, Joseph, as well as hints of Rémi Canada, or the Singer of Terandria. Hayvon nodded.
“Understandable. As I said, his Majesty knows the others are out there. He will attempt to retrieve them as best he can. I’m sure Emily has spoken to you?”
His tone was…guarded. Even Lord Hayvon could be hounded, and Emily had hounded Richard when he’d gotten back. The [Knight] rubbed at one ear.
“Yeah.”
The [Hydromancer] wanted to find the others from the phone call. Of course, Richard hadn’t told Hayvon or anyone else from Rhir about that call—but they’d all recognized the others from Earth. It had been massively exciting—and then troublesome when Hayvon told Richard straight out that they couldn’t leave Rhir.
Too dangerous. The Demons might come after them. Or—and this was Richard’s point—whomever ‘Kent Scott’ had been.
“I’ll tell Emily.”
“Good. I can’t entertain her for long. I ordered her out of my presence a minute ago. I thought she was coming back—in which case I’d have had to confine her to her quarters.”
Lord Hayvon was generous, but he didn’t suffer wastes of time. Speaking with Richard didn’t count, though. The [Knight] glanced at the blank orb.
“The King of Destruction. I’ve seen him a lot in the scrying orb. I saw him after they killed those Gnolls and those kids.”
“Yes. One suspects Belchan had everything that was coming to it. A waste of a [Prime Minister]. And two pointless wars.”
Hayvon grimaced. To him, any war except that against Demons or Antinium was stupid and pointless. He glanced at the scrying orb.
“I’m surprised more nations haven’t declared war on him. But they must all be wary of his [Army of the King]—his Level 50 Skill. You know what that is?”
“I’ve heard of it. You’re sure it’s Level 50, Lord Hayvon?”
The [Lord] dismissed the question.
“Level 50 Skills are more powerful—another capstone. Rhir remembers more about levels and classes than any other nation living. It won’t recharge quickly, though. But it must even be keeping the Minotaurs away; I heard they’ve been hired to fight the King of Destruction. Either that, or they’re waiting until a nation lets them actually land. Either way, the King of Destruction will need to gain a lot more land and a far larger army to take on all of Chandrar. And if he does—well, that’s that.”
It was remarkable how unconcerned Hayvon seemed about the legendary [King] who’d begun his rampage. Everyone else Richard talked to—especially soldiers from Chandrar—treated him like a mythical figure. The [Knight] had to ask.
“Lord Hayvon, the King of Destruction seems to worry every nation but Rhir. May I ask why?”
The [Lord] turned to Richard and smiled, breaking his attention away from the table, which had some letters on it.
“Certainly, Richard. The answer is complex, but I hope it will inform you as to politics in Rhir. Firstly—the King of Destruction may conquer, but he has and still sends aid to Rhir yearly. You are aware of the Pact of Rhir?”
The [Knight] from Mississippi nodded. It took many forms, but every nation had a variation of it obliging them to send resources, soldiers, or some other form of aid to Rhir each year. And they did. Of course, the pact was enforced by magic and Skill, but the nations were incentivized to do so anyways. The Demons had to be contained.
“Almost every nation, Richard. Some refused to ratify the pact.”
Lord Hayvon corrected Richard. He leaned on the balcony, glowering. The young man was surprised.
“Who doesn’t send aid to Rhir? Don’t they understand the danger?”
“They do. But a handful of nations refuse. Newer ones refuse to uphold the old pacts and must need renegotiation, but that is different. The ones who refuse entirely are very specific. They…do not see Demons as their enemies.”
He counted them off on his fingers.
“The Drowned Folk nations. The Empire of Drath. And…Dullahans. There are individual nations, but those three races refuse. They have allied or made peace with Demons in the past.”
“Really? But why?”
Richard had never left Rhir. Of course, the continent, even smallest of the rest, was still massive. Keith had estimated it was as big as the United States—even more, perhaps. But the entire world was out there. All Richard had were books and the people from abroad. He wanted to leave someday.
But there was a war to fight, and Richard’s group were soldiers in an army. Leaving was impossible. For Richard, at least. Perhaps…
Lord Hayvon cut him off from his musings.
“Even nations as proud as Khelt or as strange as A’ctelios give aid. Even the Walled Cities and northern nobles of Izril will not attack vessels bound for Rhir. Every Terandrian nation gives aid. This is not a matter where complacency is allowed, Richard. But those three groups—no. Some Dullahan cities, and some Drowned Folk groups are wise, of course, but the Iron Vanguard will not send a tithe while the other three Great Companies do. Even the Gazers.”
Richard didn’t know who the Gazers were—although he imagined them—but he nodded. The [Lord] leaned on his desk, frowning darkly.
“Not as much in recent decades. But then—the Demons are weaker than they were a century back, hence the work on the 5th Wall. King Othius the 3rd and his Majesty were responsible for that.”
“How, Lord Hayvon?”
The [Lord] grinned humorlessly.
“Simple. We killed their commanders. Or should I say—wounded them? The Demons lack our resources, Richard. They have monsters, and they breed quickly. But they rely on their elites. Especially their Deathless.”
Richard hadn’t heard that term before. He was familiar with the Fearless, the shock troops of the Demons. But Deathless?
“I assume that means they can’t be killed?”
“It means it’s very difficult. Hence the name. They are all…immortals. So unless we kill them in battle, they return century after century. There are few left. They were all wounded in the last great war against the Demons, though. Let us not sully our lips with their names, though. Names—fear of them is a power I do not wish to grant the Enemy.”
Hayvon shook his head. He clearly didn’t like discussing them.
“Between them and the Antinium, we cannot overrun the Demons. But where was I? The King of Destruction?”
“Yes, Lord Hayvon.”
The [Lord] nodded.
“The other reason the King of Destruction is not a threat—yet—is that he was defeated once before. When he threatened to invade other nations and completely destabilized peace, his Majesty sent a force to do battle. They humbled his ‘Lord of the Skies’, Takhatres, one of the Seven in battle. Destroyed his tribe. The King of Destruction is not invincible. Minos crippled his ambitions in a single battle and the Titan of Baleros dealt the finishing blow.”
“I see.”
Lord Hayvon smiled and cracked his arms as he stretched them out. He gave a casual nod to the blank orb.
“And finally, Sir Richard—Flos Reimarch is no match for our king. He is just a [King of War], or some variant of the class. Specialized in one area, high-level—but I would wager, not yet a match for his Majesty.”
“Really?”
Richard raised his eyebrows. Flos had seemed like the reincarnation of war itself. But Lord Hayvon Operland smiled like a wolf.
“I would bet he is lower-level. King Othius has ruled for centuries.”
“I know that. But Lord Hayvon—why didn’t his Majesty fight the Demons back when they attacked—”
Hayvon’s face changed and Richard closed his mouth. Mention of the Fool’s betrayal still enraged Lord Hayvon. There could be no greater crime; Hayvon himself had ordered the Fool’s body cut up and fed to Demons.
Not dogs, which would have been bad enough. The prisoners of the Blighted Kingdom. It was just a reminder…the man standing in front of Richard was capable of many things. Generosity and—the [Lord] replied curtly.
“Any one of King Othius’ Skills can change the course of a war, Sir Richard. That he did not use them in the surprise attack at the palace was intentional. If he had, we might have lost valuable ground.”
“Really? Even with the Demons weakened and these Deathless…?”
Hayvon bared his teeth.
“You have never seen his Majesty’s higher-level Skills, Sir Richard. So I forgive you the unintended slight. I hope you never have cause to see them except in victory…you see, the Demon King and his minions have equally powerful Skills. His Deathless are powerful—not as powerful as the Blighted King, but earth-shatteringly so. Yet his Majesty could slay them if they were unguarded. But if he were to waste even a handful of Skills—”
“A stalemate.”
Richard understood that. Mutually assured destruction. He explained the idea to Hayvon and the man nodded.
“Except that we should love nothing more than to use his Majesty’s Skills if it didn’t risk weakening us for a counterattack. If his Majesty had been forced to defend himself with, say, six of his grandest Skills—and he would have likely needed to use only one—he would have been unable to use them for a day, a week, a month—and the Demons would have capitalized on it.”
He glared at a map of Rhir and pointed.
“At worst, we might have lost the 5th wall or seen it set back decades. It was an attack meant to bait the Skill, as well as aim for his throat. Incidentally—if we had but one of your mass-destruction weapons, I should love to use it. Salting the earth doesn’t stop the Demons from growing crops, but I should like to try with your world’s weapons.”
The statement chilled Richard.
“I don’t know that you’d say that if you knew what the weapons did, Lord Hayvon.”
The man looked up, surprised. He actually considered the statement and shrugged.
“Perhaps. But since they cannot be made, or so you say, I will abide with steel and sorcery. Speaking of which…you mentioned you had news? This talk of the King of Destruction waylaid us.”
“Oh. Right! This is what Keith came up with. He finally figured out how to smelt—”
Richard pulled the titanium out and put it on the desk. Hayvon’s eyes widened.
“So that’s what it is? Remarkable! Titanium! It was but powder when we gave it to him.”
“That’s what it looks like. But this is the stuff from our world. Keith’s confident he can make more.”
“I see. May I…?”
Hayvon hesitated, with a healthy respect for magical metals before Richard gave him the nod. Then the [Lord] picked up the metal, marveling at the lightness. He tapped it, and then to Richard’s dismay, produced a dagger and sliced a chunk off the metal.
“Ah. Not magical, then. Don’t worry; this blade could cut mithril. But this is good metal! And if there is more of it than mithril, we will use it. Odd…it reminds me of Dwarfsteel. The same look, although lighter. I wonder if they’ve discovered your metal and call it that?”
“If it is—”
Lord Hayvon’s thoughtful look turned good-natured. He clapped Richard on the shoulder, firmly.
“Don’t worry, Sir Richard! If it is the same metal, I should be all the more delighted since it leaves us less reliant on Deríthal-Vel forges! I will inform his Majesty and ask the royal [Blacksmiths] to investigate the metal. And I will prepare a suitable gift for Keith as well as whatever his Majesty sees fit to bestow.”
“Keith will be delighted. He’s worked for long hours on it.”
Richard smiled. Lord Hayvon squeezed his shoulder and looked at the younger man. They were very different, in skin tone, temperament, and certainly background. Even faith—Richard was Muslim and the gods were dead to Hayvon.
But the [Lord] had a fond look in his eyes as he patted Richard on the shoulder. And a sad one.
“Ah, Richard. We erred greatly in dismissing you from the courts and leaving you to fight Demons. His Majesty is insightful, but his wroth and his disappointment clouded our judgments. Look at you now. I would that my son followed your example.”
“Your son, Lord Hayvon? We’ve never met him.”
The [Lord]’s expression clouded.
“He serves duty on 3rd Wall. Not far; but he is learning and I have no desire to unfairly influence his career. He is your age, Richard. A good son, but…lacking. I am his Majesty’s foremost [Lord] in all things. My son must carry my mantle. I worry if he will rise to the heights I dream of for him.”
For a moment, Richard saw Hayvon’s unguarded face, the worry on the father’s expression. Then he was smiling again.
“You have my thanks, Sir Richard. Was there anything else?”
“No, Lord Hayvon.”
“I see. Then we shall dine tonight and speak later then. I ask your pardon, but I must correspond about the 5th wall.”
