In Izril, Erin Solstice woke up to Rose screaming. Which was followed by Imani screaming for help. She ran out of her room with a knife and jar of acid as half the guests came out looking for trouble. Hexel, some other guests like the [Actors]—all stayed in their rooms. Lyonette shouted for Mrsha to run into the Garden.
By now, the reflexes of the inn’s staff were a honed thing. Imani fled behind Palt and Bezale as the two [Mages] emerged, bleary-eyed, aiming their wands at…
Rose. Covered in large, fat centipedes. A certain white Gnoll had dug them up and put them in her pillow as vengeance for unwanted petting the day prior.
Palt laughed his tail off. So did Numbtongue. Bird collected them as snacks. Erin and Lyonette? They went on a Gnoll hunt and Mrsha was duly punished with dishwashing duty for the next hour. Also, no dessert.
There were others, of course. And by that, other people from Earth. Kevin also laughed until Rose threw a centipede and it landed in his mouth. Imani was terrified and Mrsha had to apologize specifically to her; the girl had rolled over in their shared room, seen the many legs, and run screaming.
But listen: there were others.
“Inkarr!”
In a place far from Liscor, where The Wandering Inn’s name had never been spoken or thought of, a girl shaded her brows. She waved at the Gnoll, perfectly at home. A bunch of blue sheep were carefully following her about. She wore clothing like that of the Gnoll tribe.
She was perfectly at home, even if this was a strange land. And if the Gnolls kept adding a rolling ‘r’ to her name, well, they got on just fine. She turned, wondering what her friend wanted this early.
 
—-
 
In Baleros, the United Nations company was tracking the progress of the penicillin. Geneva Scala was checking in with Pallass about the progress of the cure.
“Why pumpkins?”
“They’re growing it on pumpkins. Mold, y’know?”
Daly yawned as he joined Paige. She handed him a cup of tea and he glared at it.
“We need coffee. Just pour a stamina potion in some fruit juice for me.”
“The last time you did that you got a rash, Daly. No mixing potions. Listen—someone’s stolen Luan’s boat again.”
“Again? Damnit. We’ll go track it down. You think we can just beat him up ourselves and claim the bounty?”
“I’ll pass.”
Luan lowered the newspaper he was reading and gave Daly a level look. Paige saw Geneva rushing out of her room.
“The treatment is working! I need my notes! Where are my—”
That was their concern. But it would be disingenuous to imply that the United Nations company was all the Earthers in Baleros. For instance:
In a city much further south, controlled by a Centaur, a young man neatly copied down the Centaur’s [Message].
“Will that be all, sir?”
Xavier, a particular [Scribe] with a particular set of Skills, looked at the Centaur. He paced back and forth in the large office.
“No. Yes. Are you sure this—contract means I’ll get a share? Really?”
“It’s going to be notarized by the Merchant’s Guild directly, sir. And the investment is for a 13.5% share of the profits of the mining venture. As agreed. Both parties are aware and you will see the numbers.”
The Centaur eyed Xavier.
“This isn’t like the Golden Triangle thing, is it? I saw it on the scrying orb, you know.”
The young man sighed. As the first person to bring real investment into this world, he was understandably annoyed by the fiasco around the scam from Izril.
“No, sir. The money and contracts are very real. If you’ll sign here. And thumb-print…”
He did not know of the United Nations company. Any more than Inkar knew of Liscor or The Wandering Inn. Xavier yawned and slapped at an oversized mosquito come for his blood. And he thought he’d seen the weirdest bugs in his country, Peru. But home didn’t have teleporting mosquitos.
 
—-
 
Chandrar. Trey Atwood rode with two [Mages] from Parasol Stroll, far from Reim and Jecrass. He was learning from them. They were…on a mission. And thus incognito.
Mirin had put away her umbrella, as had Fellif. Neither Ulyse nor Grand Mage Esiela could be spared, but they had both written scrolls and Trey’s magical instruction was progressing fast.
But the majority of his advancement had happened in one moment, in a corner of a room and in a pool of blood. It disturbed Mirin, and Fellif, Trey could tell.
“The Quarass understands the power of Skills. In her way—she taught you more than we have thus far.”
Fellif murmured one day on their journey. Trey looked at him. The [Mage] glanced sideways at something on the pony Trey was riding.
A mini-Gazi stared back at him. The sand that made her was red. Lifeblood sand. And the details on the Golem were enhanced. The Golem even seemed…more aware than the primitive constructs Trey had made before.
“The Quarass is also cruel.”
Trey felt at his throat. Mirin nodded.
“But efficient. At least, you will not fall behind any others for the quality of your Skills, Trey. Now again—we practice. Try casting without sight or speech.”
She offered him the blindfold and Trey sighed.
At the same time as they rode south, towards a port-city in Nerrhavia Fallen, Rémi Canada was organizing another newspaper.
“The thing is—Wistram does not own a monopoly on the news. Give me the resources and I will make a newspaper for Chandrar. Izril is not the center of the world. Nor is Wistram. And multiple newspapers are an inevitability.”
The [Journalist] offered a sample to the group of [Merchants], the [Mayor], and the other interested parties.
“Another newspaper can focus on Chandrarian affairs and present the news in another light. Nothing is unbiased—but that is the point of diversifying sources of news. If there is only one newspaper, or two, they can be controlled. So. Do I have your confidence?”
 
—-
 
Terandria. The [Popstar] opened the door of her personal trailer and saw the two Wistram [Mages] standing there. They bowed.
“Miss Cara? We’re from—”
She slammed the door and locked it. The two [Mages] started. They were from the Libertarian faction. After an exchange of looks, the two waited for the door to reopen.
It did not. But the same day, the Griffin Prince of Kaliv listened to Lillian.
“We know where she is. It’s not impossible to travel to Izril. Especially with Griffins.”
“They can’t cross the sea unaided. At least—not mounted. And Ailendamus is close to declaring war. I can’t leave.”
The former [Bandit]-[Murderer] glanced up at the Griffin Prince.
“Well, I can.”
He sat there, and his gaze was far away.
“It was not Wiskeria’s fault.”
“Good. Then I won’t kill her. But she has to fix this. Don’t you want to be free of your curse?”
And to that, he had no reply, for the answer was obvious to them both.
 
—-
 
Izril. Baleros. Chandrar. Terandria. And not even there. There were people from Earth. Even at the edge of the world.
Solca Vis lay dreaming.
 
—-
 
So many people. All from Earth. Scattered across the world. And in small and large ways they were changing the world around them.
Those of them that lived. More, many more were dead. Their bones forgotten, some of their names lost before they had ever been uttered. Chance had killed them, poor luck the moment they’d appeared.
Some had died to monsters. Others, villainy or accident. Miscommunications, suspicion of Humans—
Exposure. Magical mishaps. Overconfidence and surprise. Some had fallen out of the sky.
It was not fair. It was not just. And no one, no one in any of the four continents knew why they were here. No one had a clue.
But in Rhir, it had begun. With a grand ritual, a spell beyond spells, unearthed from an ancient hiding place. As if fate had willed it, the Blighted Kingdom, the first and only defense against the Demons of Rhir, the Blighted Lands and the hell that had nearly destroyed the world many times over, had found it. A grand spell that would summon heroes in the hour of darkest need.
It had…gone awry. Instead of the heroes coming to one place, they had been scattered across the entire world. And they had not been heroes.
Not exactly.
King Othius IV, known to the world as the Blighted King, sovereign defender of Rhir—was old. If his actual age were disclosed, well, even half-Elves would have raised an eyebrow. That a Human could live that long meant only that he had used magic and other methods to prolong his life.
He had to. Rhir needed a [King] capable of holding back the Demons. And his [Queens], his offspring—none of them had proven a worthy successor. Many had been good, or valiant, or brave or intelligent or cunning. But they had ultimately failed because…they had died. In battle, to treachery or accident.
The Blighted King had produced more heirs, of course. Even now, he had a new [Queen] and two daughters. They were necessary insurances, even if they were too low-level.
That was practicality. But it would have been unkind and untrue to imply that the Blighted King had simply moved past the rest of his family, his children and partners who had died.
He wore their deaths on his face, his very body. For all he was hale of body—extraordinarily so given his age—they had aged him to grey. He was lined with the effort of his rule.
Yet the Blighted King lived. And he had in him a hatred that had allowed him to live so long and fight this endless war. The Demons were more than an enemy. They were an obsession, a curse.
They had to be destroyed. It revealed itself in the [King]’s gaze seldom. Often, like now, his eyes were obscured, his true thoughts hidden. Only at times did you see the mortal man, drowning in his fathomless disgust for his enemy peeking out.
So—Othius, the Blighted King. He stood in a secret room in the depths of his palace. He looked at a map. Tiny, little shimmering points of light glowed on it.
It was an incomplete map. Erin Solstice, Geneva Scala, Cara O’Sullivan, Daly, Ken, even Rémi or most of the other Earthers could have filled it out better. But the Blighted King did not know them.
He looked at a single mote of light, hovering over a city in between the High Passes. Then—more clustered in Terandria. Pinpointing the Singer of Terandria’s rough location. One gold pinpoint; several silver ones. Certainty was not easy.
A handful more, around the world. The Blighted King touched each one. Then he looked up.
“Ten thousand lives. We sacrificed ten thousand of Rhir’s children for a hundred ‘heroes’. No more than children in their own way, or so we believed. But it becomes clear now: our sight was not that of the whole. Nereshal. How can this be?”
Another man bowed. Nereshal, the [Chronomancer], was the Blighted King’s most trusted confidant. An exceedingly powerful [Mage] who owed nothing to Wistram. Some had wondered if he was a match—or beyond a match—for Wistram’s Archmages. But Nereshal cared nothing for Wistram. He, like Othius, was bound to Rhir and the eternal war. The only one that mattered.
Now, though, Nereshal wore a pained expression. He shifted his posture and bowed up towards his [King]. Nereshal was actually short and slightly pudgy, typical of a man who cast spells all day and managed the castle. But his eyes had the look of a [Soldier]. And he bore scars on his arms and left hand to match.
“Your Majesty. I can only beg your forgiveness and also plead ignorance. Perhaps the summoning ritual was incomplete. Perhaps something interfered.”
“One of the Deathless?”
Nereshal’s face twisted.
“If it had been them, we would have known, I think. And of them—no, I do not think even the Death of Magic could have altered such a spell from afar and without being obvious. No one should have known of this.”
“But the Fool—”
Othius spat the name like a curse. The Fool, the traitor who had so nearly brought ruin to his kingdom months back! Nereshal bowed again.
“He had little knowledge, your Majesty. He was not there. That he discovered the truth later—does not change what occurred. Either we erred, or the spell was never perfect. It is clear to me now that the ten thousand lives produced a thousand…children from Earth. But instead of coming to their designation location, they were thrown across the world.”
He gestured to the map. The Blighted King regarded it.
“Exactly a thousand? Are you sure, Nereshal?”
The [Chronomancer]’s lips twitched in a bitter smile.
“Your Majesty. I am not, but I would bet on it. We only know of a fraction, but consider; if the others were spread across the world, they would run into monsters, those hostile towards Humans. Perhaps some were teleported into the depths of the sea, or the sky? Yes, I believe a thousand came. We would notice if ten times that number had.”
“So a tenth were given to Rhir. And it was a tenth again of what was spent. A hundreth was a waste of life, or so we felt. But now—we see. They are young, but they have the potential of slumbering Dragons in them.”
“The class, certainly, your Majesty.”
The Blighted King looked at the map.
“We would prefer champions. We would prefer the greatest of this—Earth. Some of their fantastical war machines. Plans. But if all that is sent is children…that is enough. They level in a year what has taken decades for others.”
The [Mage] made no response to that. The Blighted King looked around. His crown was heavy on his head. His skin worn. His eyes were pale grey-silver, like his hair. He looked faded. But that hatred peeked out again, making the irises flash.
“So. If it is possible to call them again, we deem it worth the cost. Even if it were…the same exchange.”
Ten unborn children lost, for every one potential hero, who levels at a rate unmatched. Someone else shuddered in that secret room.
“Your Majesty.”
“Do not stand. You are unworthy of it!”
Nereshal struck the speaker on his shoulders. The [Mage] collapsed. And the six [High Mages] who had been brought to this place remained on their knees.
The Blighted King looked at them. Traitors, all. They had cast the summoning ritual and fled when he demanded a repeat of the process. His gaze moved across three men and three women. The last of them he stared at.
“High Magus Laisa. We were wounded to hear of the treachery of our finest [Mages]. But your betrayal hurt us deepest. We had believed you were loyal to the crown and cause. How did the Enemy take your heart?”
He looked down at Laisa, and the [High Mage] shuddered.
“Your Majesty—I still believe in the cause! I still hate the Enemy!”
Demons. The other [High Mages] nodded desperately. Nereshal scowled. Othius raised his hand, forestalling another blow.
“But you fled, refusing to cast the ritual.”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
