Delezza sighed as Cirille added the coins to her pile. The others nodded. They were using a standard deck, with enchanted and non-enchanted cards, but they were playing an Izrilian game; Cirille had suggested it.
“Trust Drakes to come up with a game involving stealing.”
Uxel flicked his tongue out.
“Commander Uxel, it is a fun game. And there is more to do than shout ‘Del’.”
Ser Vorn smiled, checking his cards. Instantly, half the table folded. The [Knight] looked around.
“What? But I didn’t even say—”
“You must have the ‘Reve’ card, Ser Vorn. You need to work on your card-face.”
Delezza laughed as the rest folded. The bright ‘Reve’ card would illuminate ‘Del’, and anyone caught sneaking would have to pay however much was left in the pot to the one who’d played it. Each.
The game was indeed about making other people suffer. It was also physical, and Merish enjoyed it more than the other variants of the game. The cards—magical and non-magical and delicately laminated on bits of wood were also expensive. Cirille had a deck, but you had to put down a lot of gold for a fully-enchanted deck like the one Delezza had.
“I’m tired of grabbing coins. Especially since Lacten smashes my fingers. Anyone up for Kraken’s Trench?”
One of the Humans from northern Izril complained. He named the most popular sea-based card game. The others shrugged.
“We can’t just leave. I’d be stripped of my command. But my [Soldiers] won’t like it. They might get into brawls. We’re going to have to crack the whip. How are you fine with the undead?”
“Beats Crelers.”
Someone spoke casually. The others nodded. Ser Vorn bit his lip; Delezza smiled. Cirille trusted Merish’s nose and ears; when he folded in the first pass, she did too.
“Is no one worried that the undead will run amok? A Bone Behemoth could kill hundreds if it goes wild!”
“Ailendamus is no stranger to using dangerous…beasts, Commander Cirille. We employ War Hydras. I share your concerns, but perhaps when you see a Demon Giant, you will reconsider.”
Ser Vorn carefully matched Delezza’s bet, and lost three gold coins at the end of it. The [Knight] took it in good humor, though. He was actually a very even-tempered fellow with a good sense of humor.
“Snake slaves. Bah. But I agree. You stayed in the capital. I have seen a Demon Giant once. Enough. I say let the undead die instead of my warriors.”
Uxel narrowed his serpentine eyes at Cirille. He seemed to hate Drakes more than Cirille objected to Lizardfolk. Either that, or he’d taken Shellc’s threats very personally. The Commander flushed.
“It was my posting.”
“No judgment. Well—except that the Walled Cities sent infantry. The [Generals] probably didn’t want half of them to get wiped out and have to explain that. Same with the Gnolls.”
A Centaur [Lancer] spoke up cheerfully. Merish and Cirille looked around at the sudden silence.
“Surely you have to be kidding. Our formations are trained to fight any number of foes.”
The Drake glanced about the table. Few people met her eyes. Delezza sighed.
“It’s not about training. I’m sure Drakes won’t waver. And I’ve seen their spear-charges. Very effective. But Demons don’t fight fair. Your neat formations will march and won’t rout as a Demon Giant shoots arrows the size of your soldiers at you. Rhir prefers the other nations giving them resources over soldiers since soldiers tend to die. We’re all heading up together to be safe. Well—we are valuable. Look at it that way. We’re not going to be sent deep into Demon territory.”
Cirille clenched one hand. She didn’t even think; just folded.
“It’s not right. I came here to fight.”
“So did we all. But this war is not won by fighting. The 5th Wall must be defended. When it is done, the Blighted Kingdom expands. It is a different kind of war than I prefer, but one I respect.”
Ser Vorn’s words were that of a seasoned commander. The others nodded respectfully. Lacten shrugged.
“Walls. I came to fight Demons and test what I learned.”
“And have you learned much, friend Lacten?”
Merish glanced up. The [Martial Artist] smiled.
“Some. I’ve learned my weaknesses, which is more valuable. Upon my return, I will teach what I’ve learned. I will challenge the Strongest of Pomle, then. Though I have little chance of victory. I have not seen Demon Giants.”
“I’ve heard of them. Are they common? How do you fight them?”
Cirille was trying to learn tactics as well as be friendly with the others. A half-Elf—Springwaters—raised one eyebrow. He was graying; a master of over a hundred and forty years.
“With arrows. From afar. Has anyone seen the Nomads of the Sky? On the scrying orb?”
The others nodded. Springwaters took a sip as he anted up.
“Well then. You aim for their eyes. But the Demons don’t waste their Giants. Even they have few. Most you’ll see are archers. Or scouts.”
“Scouts?”
“Yes. They watch, and then run away. Giants can be fast. And it’s hard to kill that kind of scout.”
“It seems…cowardly. I heard Demons were fierce warriors without quarter.”
Merish grumbled. Cirille nodded. She checked her next deck and brightened. Winning hand. She tried to conceal her expression.
“Fold.”
Uxel instantly put down his cards. Cirille narrowed her eyes before she could stop herself; she had the feeling he was reading body temperatures!
“Fold. I’ve got nothing. Bad night for luck.”
Delezza might have her own Skills. She twitched one eye at Cirille; the others didn’t. The Drake swept the table.
“Demons have limits on how many soldiers they have. If you’ve heard of them pouring into a breach without end—that’s their fodder. Their elites, like the Fearless, are still safeguarded for big pushes. They like using monsters. You’ll see. 5th Wall, the section we’re deployed to, is nearly opposite Monarch’s Pass.”
“Monarch’s Pass?”
Merish and Cirille looked up. That sounded like a fine name; not dangerous or esoteric at all. The others shuddered. Delezza shuffled, putting down the cards hard.
“That. Is the most dangerous stretch of land. In Rhir. Aside from outside the Demon’s Kingdom or the Antinium Hives, wherever they are. We’re miles and miles away. But that’s where the monsters come from.”
“Hm. I remember now. They get funneled down the pass. But why Monarch’s Pass? I just saw the geographic name. Er…”
Cirille blanked on it; she’d had a few drinks. Uxel hissed.
“That is because six of the Blighted Kings and Queens have died there. As they age—they die by assailing the heart of the Demons. The source of monsters. The Antinium. Someday, Othius will go there. If age does not take him, or poison.”
The table fell silent. A reminder that once the Blighted King died, his children or wife would take over. It would be dangerous for the kingdom; losing a high-leveled individual always was. That was why Drakes trusted to systems, not individuals. Gnolls too; Merish looked wary as he reached for a milk-alcohol drink.
“Well, Monarch’s Pass is where it gets nasty. Rumor is Crelers came from there first. And sometimes Rhir fights there—it’s a good chokepoint for both sides. When both sides sent true armies at each other—they’ll fight there. I left my family there.”
Delezza took a bite of a snack. The others looked at her. Ser Vorn put down his cards. Cirille blinked. It was such a casual statement.
“Huntress Delezza. Do you mean…”
The woman shifted in her chair. She spoke, her face still unreadable.
“You heard me. Husband. Two children. [Demon Hunters] all. I told you. It’s been eight years since I went home. This is where I’ll die. But I’m here forever. I suppose I’m more like Rhir’s citizens that way. Eight silvers.”
She pushed the coins in. No one spoke. Then Merish called her.
They were all here for different reasons. Some were here because it was their duty, like Ser Vorn. For others—it was personal.
“I came here because the Demons are a threat. The Companies squabble over land. But the Demons must be ended. I do not wish to be coddled.”
Uxel hissed as he threw down his cards after another loss. Cirille glanced at him.
“That’s what I said about the Walled Cities, Commander.”
The Gorgon turned to her. He blinked slowly.
“Truly?”
“We can devote more resources to Rhir. I don’t want to stand on a podium and lecture but the Walled Cities are too occupied with infighting when the real enemies—the Antinium, the Demons, the damned H—”
Cirille caught herself. But Merish had been nodding. The Izrilian [Major] ignored that last bit as he cleared his throat.
“The Antinium bother me too, Commander. They came from Rhir.”
“Yes. But you all got lucky. They were wiped out at sea, most of ‘em. The ones remaining are bad—but not like Rhir’s Antinium.”
Delezza spat a silver coin to match the ante she’d been chewing on. The Garuda looked disgusted. Cirille blinked.
“Excuse me? The Antinium nearly overran the Walled Cities.”
“Yeah. And the ones on Rhir broke past every damn wall before stealing every ship in sight. No one’s seen ‘em since they left. But there are stories. Patrols wiped out. Even Demons as well, found massacred. Of course, it could be any number of Rhir’s horrors. But I tell you what, Commander Cirille. You think your Antinium are bad? If they had gotten to Izril in one piece—you wouldn’t have lasted one month.”
The Drake slapped down coins and glared at the [Huntress]. So did Merish. She was starting to like Uxel and Merish more than the Delezza’s opinion of the Drake militaries.
“That’s a bold claim since no one’s fought the Antinium but Izrilians, Huntress Delezza.”
“Take it or leave it, Commander Cirille. But don’t get mad. It makes you careless. Kraken’s Reach.”
The [Huntress] laid down the winning hand. Cirille blinked and saw her pay for the week disappear. Delezza leaned back, smiling. Cirille glowered at her. The woman tipped her hat.
“Just be glad the Demons aren’t at war. Even when I buried friends and fellow [Hunters]—this isn’t war. They’re performing a battle of attrition with the Blighted Kingdom. Even when the Giants are loosing arrows on 5th Wall, or you see a war party—even the ambush that Commander Cirille fought at the capital. When the war begins—you’ll see Deathless.”
“The elites of the Demon King? No one has seen them for over a century. Like Rhir’s Antinium. They appear not to exist, Huntress Delezza.”
Merish muttered. The [Huntress] shrugged.
“Maybe. But the closest I ever saw Bastion-General Quiteil to panicking was when someone shouted ‘Deathless’ for fun. He had that poor Lizardperson arrested, imprisoned, and shipped back to Baleros on the first boat. That doesn’t sound like they’re dead. Who wants to choose the next game? How about Seldraw?”
The others groaned. Cirille lost four gold pieces that night, even after some wins. Ser Vorn lost five times that much. The next day—she marched to the 5th Wall with friends and…the [Necromancers].
 
—-
 
5th Wall was thirty feet tall and not nearly as wide. Which wasn’t impressive given 4th Wall’s height and girth, but the real 5th Wall would be nearly one thousand feet of hell if you included the drop.
It was a deception. The ‘wall’ which was solid, impressive, and stretched across most major areas of the continent already was actually just a temporary wall. Which was insane, given the smooth stone, the hard work that had shaped it.
“Apparently the Blighted Kingdom put this up in a month.”
Commander Uxel glared up at the wall as Cirille marched with him. The Drakes were marching side-by-side with the Lizardfolk with the Gnolls on their left. The [Soldiers] were exchanging insults with the good-natured Balerosians. But they were actually in decent company since Cirille had told them it was that or march closer to the [Necromancers].
They were on the far side of the heavily armed and watchful column leaving the safety of 4th Wall. Beyond 4th Wall the Demons could attack at any moment.
“You must be joking, Commander Uxel.”
“I thought it was an exaggeration. But the records say it is so. The Blighted Kingdom has power. But that is not the real wall.”
The real wall was set nearly two miles back and deeply under construction. [Miners] and [Diggers] were tunneling down, creating a moat of moats that would someday be in front of a truly disgusting wall. A thousand feet of drop before you even got to the top of the wall. Wistram had sent master [Enchanters] and work was progressing. But slowly.
For now, the ‘fake wall’ waited. It was not one entire structure. Apparently, it had been—until Demons had blown holes in parts of it, collapsed others with sappers.
The Blighted Kingdom had repaired the gaps, and continued to do so, but parts of the wall were less fortified than others. It had miffed Cirille to learn they were being positioned at the most secure section.
“We’re not children.”
“No, but we are valuable irregulars. Relax, Commander. We’ll see combat. The monsters are coming out of Monarch’s Pass.”
It was there, in the distance, barely a speck on the horizon. Cirille met with the Bastion-General. She deployed her troops.
“Chief Warrior Merish, when it comes to fighting, we clearly need to train together. For now, we’re separate forces with a similar goal, but we’ll be here for months together. Can you muster your warriors for exercises and join me for strategic planning?”
“Yes, Commander Cirille.”
The Gnoll growled. He still didn’t like the situation, but both armies were more comfortable after seeing their commanders able to work together. Still—there had been four incidents already between the Walled City’s forces and the Gnolls.
“Heads up. Looks like we don’t have time to practice our combined formations!”
Huntress Delezza strode down the wall. Since all the irregulars were grouped together, they’d be planning how to best deploy; for instance, Ser Vorn’s [Knights] were mounted and ready to reinforce any group that got in trouble, but the combined armies could benefit from, say Gnoll [Archers] to aid the relatively weaker Lizardfolk [Slingers]. Cirille blinked.
“What’s happening, Huntress Delezza?”
“The Blighted King’s Champions are coming.”
She shouted back. Cirille was confused. The who? She turned to Merish.
“Who are the champions? Named Adveturers?”
The Gnoll gave her an odd look.
“No. You should know, Commander Cirille. Is this Drake humor?”
“Not at all. I’ve never met the Champions.”
He snorted.
“You did. They fought at the same ambush with the Demons. Or did you never see them?”
The [Commander]’s eyes widened.
“Wait. You mean—officers! To attention!”
