“Don’t worry. The Hunter’s Guild can’t field many of us. Hence why there’s only five of us and thousands of [Soldiers].”
“Ah. So you’re here on assignment?”
“Yup. Specialist. [Undead Hunters] take on mobs. [Witch Hunters] fight spellcasters. [Monster Hunters] copy adventurers. [Demon Hunters]…we go to Rhir.”
Delezza sat there. Cirille smiled. She sat lightly.
“How long?”
“Eight years.”
“Eight?”
“Since I last left. I’m here for the long haul, Commander. Hunter’s Guild doesn’t have to replace me until I go. You’re new to 4th Wall, right? I’d have heard about your division before now.”
“That’s right. We’re going to the 5th wall tomorrow.”
Delezza raised her eyebrows.
“Best of luck. We’ll be heading that way ourselves.”
“You too? Why all the irregulars?”
The [Huntress] shrugged.
“Rhir likes to lump us together. Easier than having to work us into other formations. Say—do you play cards in Izril?”
The question made Cirille blink.
“Cards?”
“That’s right. The irregular commanders all meet up every night when we’re posted like this. After dinner. It’s a standing invite.”
“I might join you. Uh—where?”
“Officer’s lounges. We’ll—”
“Huntress Delezza! Bastion-General Quiteil wishes to speak with you in six minutes!”
The [Huntress] sighed.
“Damn. I’ve got to go. Can’t be late. Try not to annoy Quiteil.”
Odd words from her. She strode off without another word and her [Hunters] remained where they were, probably used to the dressing down. Cirille nodded at them.
“Cards?”
“Don’t get your hopes up, Captain Shellc. It’s just me by the sounds of it. I might do that. Looks like we’ll be working with the [Hunters].”
“Well, at least they can shoot. Think I can buy one of their crossbows?”
“You and what salary, Shellc? It’s enchanted.”
“Damn. Adventurer-types get all the funding…”
The Drakes headed down the wall, chatting. They saw a group of Rhir’s [Soldiers] on patrol. They looked sharp. But the Drakes walked in formation and almost total lock-step even when not marching. They were a contrast to Chief Warrior Merish’s Gnolls, or the relaxed [Hunters]. Cirille wondered if 5th wall would have—
Something floated across the walls as the Drakes walked forwards. A…voice. Raised. But not shouting. It had a cadence to it. Cirille turned her head and heard…
“Let the lance-arrows fall from Ailendamus walls and guard the Kingdom of Glass and Glory~!”
“What in the name of the Walls?”
A group of Humans in plate armor were standing together. They had dark armor, purple and black but they had removed their helmets. And they were singing.
“Until my dying breath, from sea to glorious sea—Ailendamus, the only Kingdom of Terandria for me~!”
“Who is wailing those horrible words?”
A growling voice. Cirille turned. Chief Warrior Merish had decided to walk the walls. The others pointed. It was a group of about eighteen, all armored in the same style and fashion. Human; Terandrian. They were singing their national anthem.
Some of the Drakes plugged their claws in their ear-holes. The Gnoll [Warrior] grumbled.
“[Knights].”
“It’s very…patriotic. They do that every morning, by the way.”
A wry voice came from Delezza, who was already back from being dressed down. Merish just sighed. Cirille didn’t know what to think.
“Commander, we can’t stand for that. They’re just singing about their nation?”
Captain Shellc pointed at the Humans. Half of the other Drakes nodded. Cirille saw them clustering together. One of them—a lower-ranking officer, was fiddling with his bag of holding.
“Humans. Do they have to sing? Ah, you are a [Hunter]. From Terandria?”
Merish was grumbling. Delezza nodded at him.
“Different purposes, same class. Say, you’re that Gnoll commander. Do you play cards…?”
She was just inviting him to the same place and Cirille was asking for clarification about whether there was betting. Delezza assured her that you could lose gold at the tables when Cirille heard another voice raised in song.
This one was closer. Cirille closed her eyes for a second as Merish’s head turned. She heard a loud, patriotic voice raised. Then she saw the flag.
A Drake stood on the battlements, holding a flag with the combined symbols of all six Walled Cities. He waved it back and forth, drowning out the [Knights].
“Izril! Izril and the Walled Cities! Zeres, the City of Storms! Huzzah!”
He began waving the flag and screaming at the top of his lungs. It wasn’t as…melodious…but it certainly got people’s attention. Merish looked at Cirille. Delezza started laughing.
Cirille strode and snatched the banner out of the Drake’s hands. She bellowed at him.
“[Bannerman], cut it out or I’ll throw you off these walls!”
“But [Commander], if they’re singing—we have to! We can’t be less patriotic than—”
The argument between the Drakes stopped as one of the [Knights] stood up and marched over.
“Commander, is there some kind of issue? By all means, let your [Bannerman] sing. His style is—unorthodox, but all nations should be celebrated.”
He clasped one armored fist over his breast. Cirille turned and saw a graying [Knight].
“I’m sorry, Sir Knight, but my subordinate does not need to sing. It’s not military tradition. I am Commander Cirille, in command of Izril’s Drakes and Gnolls…”
The man was graying, but he was still a warrior. He and the other eighteen [Knights] bowed stiffly.
“I am Ser Vorn of The Order of the Thirsting Veil, Commander Cirille. Deployed to Rhir to honor the ancient pacts. My fellow [Knights] were expressing our love of homeland. I’m sure it is a familiar sentiment to all not born of Rhir.”
“Er, yes, yes it is.”
Cirille shook the hand. Ser Vorn clearly knew Delezza; the man frowned at the [Huntress] before bowing to Cirille.
“Our singing has been cleared with Bastion-General Quiteil, if that is your concern. We do hold to discipline. I believe your forces will be deployed towards 5th Wall? My [Knights] will be held for heavy engagements, but I hope we will work together harmoniously.”
“I as well, Ser Vorn. May I introduce Chief Warrior Merish?”
“Hrr. Greetings, Sir Knight. It seems many outsiders will be working together, yes? Will your [Knights] be singing…daily?”
“If allowed, Chief Warrior.”
The [Knight] bowed. Merish eyed Sir Vorn.
“In that case, I ask that you not sing before morning, yes? It would help for sleep.”
She was glad that her training allowed her to keep her face completely blank. Sir Vorn’s reaction was priceless. Delezza laughed openly at the [Knight]’s consternation.
What a cast of characters. But then—they were all ‘irregulars’. Outsiders, sent from their nations to defend Rhir. There were other [Knights] of course, although not all came in numbers enough to be deployed as one group. The Order of the Thirsting Veil was large enough to send eighteen; others sent only one. Entire nations sent aid, or food—
“Don’t eat those rations. Warn your troops, Commander; no sneaking meats, if they tend to filch.”
Delezza pointed to some thick…rich slabs of meat being borne across the wall. The Drake frowned.
“Why? And my soldiers are disciplined, Huntress Delezza.”
“Gnolls do not steal everything lying about.”
Merish glowered, but Delezza shook her head.
“Even if it’s one—that meat’s no good. It’s been sent from A’ctelios. That’s their contribution to the fight. See?”
She pointed. And Cirille saw a group of robed figures waiting for the food. They were…oddities. Even other Rhir [Soldiers] stayed away from the four who took the meat which had no preservatives on it and began to eat it.
Raw. It may have been left out in the sun, but it looked fresh. The figures had long hands. Not Human; the skin was…more like leather…and were those long claws on…?
One of them looked up, as if noticing the scrutiny. Cirille saw a flash of glowing orange eyes. She shivered.
“Who are they? What species? A’ctelios? I’ve never heard of it.”
“Huh. It’s Chandrarian. Tombhome. Nothing comes out of there…safe. Especially the ‘meat’. It changes people. Those? Those are [Flesh Reapers]. They’re Human, mostly. Or they were.”
“That’s a Human?”
For a second, Ossky’s incredulous voice lit up the wall. The directed light hit the hooded figures, illuminating them. They shielded their faces. And Cirille saw—
The Drakes stared. The [Flesh Reapers] turned, moving around the chunk of meat to shield their faces. Cirille turned a pale face to look at Captain Shellc and Ossky.
“…That wasn’t a Human.”
“Not anymore. They change themselves by eating their foes. Demons. A’ctelios’ meat also…helps.”
Delezza checked her crossbow. The [Hunters], even the [Knights] were surreptitiously looking at their weapons.
“Why would anyone take a class like that?”
Warrior Merish demanded, clearly shaken. The [Demon Hunter] shrugged.
“Some of Rhir’s people believe in doing anything to kill the enemy. Even if it means becoming like them. They’re hard to kill. Believe me. I’ve seen them fight. Just leave them alone. And no eating meat that’s just left around.”
“I think I’ll eat leaves while I’m here.”
Shellc muttered. Cirille nodded. She wrenched her eyes away.
And they weren’t even irregulars. Rhir’s [Soldiers] seemed more at ease with the [Flesh Reapers] for all they were avoided more than the foreigners. Cirille was conscious that only the other non-Rhirians were standing together. The others were given a wider berth. And it wasn’t like Rhir was all Humans.
There were Garuda, Gnolls, even Selphids, half-Elves among Rhir’s forces. All species had come to Rhir and many had started families while doing battle. So the foreigners were truly foreign only because of their cultures. Because they had not lived here, fighting Demons. But they had still come, and that was respected.
Even a [Martial Artist] from Pomle was standing on 4th Wall. The Stitch-Man’s body was made of tough hemp and he was balancing on one foot, ignoring the stiff breeze and odor of the Blight.
“Is that Stitch-Man going to fight without armor? Barehanded?”
Shellc pointed incredulously at the [Martial Artist]. Delezza grinned.
“Yup. And they won’t hit him unless they’re really good. Crazy bastard came here to ‘test’ his abilities against the Demons.”
“And has he?”
Cirille thought the Stitch-Man must be mad. She knew the String Folk didn’t mind being cut up, but they still died if their heads were destroyed. But to her surprise, Delezza nodded. The Human glanced sideways at Cirille.
“Oh yes. There were eight of the [Martial Artists] who came with him. Two made it back. The others died in combat. He’s killed over thirty Demons with his damn bare hands and he doesn’t mind following orders. He’ll stand wherever you want him to all day. Bastion-General Quiteil loves him.”
“I just bet he does.”
Before she could wander over and ask if the [Martial Artist] was also going to the 5th Wall, someone shouted.
“Hey! Are you Drakes? We’ve been waiting to meet you!”
A shape bounded down the walls from their group. Cirille blinked. Someone was happy to see them? She turned, saw the colorful scales, the huge grin—and her expression turned sour. Shellc turned and cursed.
“Lizards! Aw, fuck this.”
The little Lizardman was a multicolor of scales, unlike the mostly monochrome Drakes. And he was armed with a single spear.
No—a staff. Cirille looked incredulously at the shorter Lizardman. There wasn’t even a blade on the length of wood strapped to his back.
“Hey! You’re the Drakes, right? I’m Viri! We heard you were coming! It’s great to meet fellow scale-folk!”
“Get lost! I’ve had it, Commander! First Gnolls, now damned lizards? Get back!”
Shellc swiped at the Lizardman. The shorter staff-wielded looked hurt.
“Hey, I know our species don’t get along—but the other Drakes I met were cool! It’s true! Izrilian Drakes hate Lizardfolk?”
He peered at the Drakes. They all glowered. Delezza raised her eyebrows; she clearly didn’t know about the longstanding grievance between races.
“Hrr. I am Chief Warrior Merish. Pleased to meet you, Viri, is it?”
“That’s right. I’m not the commander, by the way. He’s over there. But he’s napping.”
Viri waved a claw at the other Lizardfolk, who were shouting greetings. Cirille tried to smile.
“I am Commander Cirille. Pleased to meet you. Soldier.”
Merish peered at Viri’s staff, perplexed.
“You carry no other weapon. Are you a…[Staffmaster]?”
“Nope! I’m a [Longstick Jumper]! See?”
Viri drew his staff and swung it around. Cirille took a step back. Delezza looked amused.
“The Lizardpeople are a breath of fresh air. Always cheerful—well, mostly. I didn’t know Drakes hated them.”
“They’re just copycats.”
Ossky grumbled. Viri laughed.
“How can we copy you? We didn’t intend to. Anyways, we’re all on the same side here! By the way, you might be speaking with me, Commander Cirille. I’m one of the best [Scouts] and we’re all going to 5th Wall! I’ll be jumping about! Like this!”
“What does that even—”
Cirille saw the Lizardman raise his stick. He planted his staff like a vaulting pole and leapt. The Drakes, Gnolls, and everyone in the vicinity stared up. Viri flew. Cirille saw him soar about twenty feet forwards in a single jump before his pole struck the battlements again. And he flew.
Even Ossky’s jaw dropped. The light Lizardman flew over the heads of the Rhirian [Soldiers]—one of them began demanding he stop this unorthodox behavior. Someone else on Bastion-General Quiteil’s bad-list.
“He can travel through the jungles as fast as any Courier. He’s a wonderful [Scout]. Hope he doesn’t die.”
Delezza murmured. Cirille had to admit—that was mobility. He’d be far better going up steep slopes than any horseback rider, and perhaps more agile than a flier.
“Come on, Commander! You have to meet our commander! I bet you get to play cards tonight! We can be friends!”
Viri landed and beckoned to Cirille. The Drake Commander followed him out of curiosity. But the other Drakes were still annoyed. Something about Lizardfolk just rubbed Drakes the wrong way.
“Figures. Lizards. Only good for scouting and running away. We could chop them up in a real engagement. I—ulp—”
Captain Shellc was grousing as he pushed past the milling Lizardfolk after Cirille. Someone heard him. The Lizardfolk scattered as a figure rumbled. Cirille saw them part and—
An eight—nine—foot tall serpent-man reared up. He drew a pair of scimitars as the Drakes stared up. And Cirille saw more slithering figures rising from the hitherto-short group of Lizards. They’d been lying down or coiled up, enjoying the sun.
