Scales like armor. And a predatory gaze completely different from the friendly Lizardman. The huge serpent-warrior hissed.
“Who wants to chop us up, little thing?”
When he opened his mouth, Cirille noticed fangs dripping with venom. Captain Shellc looked up. A scimitar pointed at him.
“Commander! Commander Uxel! They’re friends!”
The commander of the Lizardfolk hissed. His tongue flicked out.
“Drakes. You walk among us and utter rude threats?”
“I apologize on behalf of my subordinate, Commander Uxel. I’m Commander Cirille.”
The Drake [Commander] saluted. The giant serpent-man swung his head down to her.
“You?”
“That’s right. I understand we’re all going to 5th Wall.”
“Yes.”
It was a hiss. The giant Lizardfolk looked at Shellc and Cirille. He glowered, but then sheathed his scimitars.
“Utter no more rudeness. I am resting, Viri. Wake me for food. I will see you, Commander Cirille. Cards.”
He coiled back up. The Lizardman waved at Cirille as she pulled Shellc back. The Drake kept his mouth shut. He was pale; Viri seemed to think the meeting had gone well.
“See you, Commander!”
The two Drakes backed up. The other officers were watching from afar. Ossky stared at the giant serpents, now hidden among the Lizardfolk again.
“What was—what kind of Lizardperson was that?”
“That. Was a Gorgon.”
Captain Shellc looked at Cirille’s grim expression. He pointed with a trembling claw.
“They’re bigger than even Oldbloods!”
“Yes. They are. So do me a favor, Captain Shellc? Shut up about the Lizards.”
 
—-
 
After that, Captain Shellc went back to lie down, which was wise. Cirille stood on the walls a while longer. There wasn’t much to do on 4th Wall for the irregulars besides train and follow deployment orders. Which made sense.
War was about waiting, and the war with Demons was very, extremely, mind-numbingly boring except when it wasn’t. To pass the time, Cirille walked down the wall. And you could walk for miles and miles. Hell, you could march down the entire wall unbroken all the way from shore to shore.
An odd thought. Cirille liked walls, but the idea that these walls were actually larger than her Walled City in total space? That was a…hard thought.
Even so, the other species were interesting. But Cirille still felt…lost. She was a Drake. She had lived among Drakes all her life. True, she had been used to the capital and being the odd species out, but it still felt weird. There were so many Drakes back home. And here—
The [Commander] was wandering past another group of [Soldiers] when something caught her eyes.
A flash of scales. The Drake paused, on her way back to ask if Ser Vorn would care to test his Skills in a friendly bout. She was compelled to investigate. And to her delight, she finally found more Drakes!
The group was lounging near one of the gates. Amid Humans, some Minotaurs—all marked with the emblems on their armor of Rhir. All natives, in short. But they were Drakes.
They were wearing robes, half of them. The other half had a pale white armor on. But all carried wands or staves along with swords or other close-combat weapons. [Mages]? They were laughing and talking with the others, clearly relaxed on the 4th Wall.
“Hail! Are you from Izril? Or from Rhir?”
The Drakes blinked as Cirille and the other Drake officers strode towards them. They glanced at the military-discipline of the Drakes, the casual Gnolls—and then smiled.
“We’re all born of Rhir! But fellow Drakes are always welcome! Hello!”
“Hello! I thought we’d see no more Drakes on our tour! You’re [Soldiers]?”
The two sides met. The other species stood back as the Drakes introduced themselves.
“Not infantry. We’re specialists.”
The lead Drake, female, wearing the white armor, introduced herself. Her name was Hetarria; a [Captain] in rank. Not a Drake name, and she had Rhir’s accent, not the more sibilant Drake tongue. But Cirille was delighted to meet her.
“I hope you’re heading to 5th Wall.”
The Drakes groaned.
“We all are. Bastion-General Quiteil loves reorganizing us, so we’ve seen this wall more than two dozen times. We’re always passing back and forth. You’ll have us in the wings. A shame you didn’t meet with another of our armies; there are a lot more of us! Tens of thousands, in the infantry!”
“How does Rhir have so many Drakes?”
Hetarria shrugged.
“We were born on Rhir. Generations ago, most of us—or Drakes who decided to stay. Are you all from Izril? Which city?”
“Different ones. We’re all from different cities. Most are from the Walled Cities…”
“Oh, of course. I’d forgotten that was how it worked.”
It was…disturbing to meet Drakes so devoid of understanding of Izril. But Cirille still shook claws and smiled around at them.
“I’d love to talk more. If we’re not distracting you from your duties? I don’t suppose you play this card game I’ve been invited to?”
Hetarria laughed and shook her head.
“We’re actually working, Commander. And no; that’s for irregulars, not lowly [Mage-Captains]. But we can talk while we do our work.”
“Are you sure? I wouldn’t want to get you in trouble.”
The Drakes didn’t seem to be doing much at the moment. Hetarria glanced past Cirille. And then she heard a sound.
“Gates opening! Make way!”
The shout came from below. Two massive gates, far, far too tall for even siege weapons to need that clearance opened. Cirille heard distant shouts. And then she saw something moving.
“What is that?”
Ossky recoiled from where she’d been peering over the battlements. Cirille looked at her. She saw pale white. And then—
A figure moved. It took a step and there was a tremor. Cirille didn’t feel it on the walls, but she heard the sound.
Something rose higher. Cirille drew her sword. She heard a shout from Ossky, and then a bellow.
“To arms! Undead!”
A skeletal head, larger than Cirille was tall, swiveled. Two glowing flames in the hollow eye sockets. Cirille’s eyes went round as the Drakes took up the call.
“Undead!”
“Commander, what—”
Hetarria looked astonished. Cirille had drawn her sword. And she saw it in all of its horror.
The Bone Behemoth walked through one of the gates, eyes glowing red. It was made close to a Human, but it had a tail. And its bones were different. Cirille realized—
It was shaped like a Drake. And someone had given it bone armor. The giant undead was no renegade construct. Someone had shaped it, polishing the bone until it was white. Giving it armor—even a huge mace of bones.
Someone was controlling it. Cirille looked around. Someone…who had molded the Bone Behemoth to look like them.
The Drakes with robes and staves. And Hetarria, the other half. With white armor.
But it wasn’t metal. It was…ivory. Bone.
The copper penny dropped. Cirille backed away. Hetarria was staring at her, uncomprehending. The Drake [Commander] pointed her sword at her.
“You? You? How could—”
“Commander? What’s wrong? That’s ours. It wouldn’t just…Commander?”
Ossky and the others looked at Cirille. The Drake pointed a shaking finger at Hetarria. Then she shouted, as she backed away in horror.
“You’re [Necromancers]!”
 
—-
 
“I respectfully request that my brigade not be assigned with the [Necromancers].”
“Denied.”
Bastion-General Quiteil didn’t look up, despite Cirille barging into his office. The Drake [Commander] glared.
“We will not work with [Necromancers], sir.”
The man did glance up at this. He stared at Cirille and then reluctantly put down his quill.
“Commander, you have been sent to fight for Rhir. I was given to understand that Drake military discipline was second to only Minotaurs and Rhir’s own forces, but your officers have insulted the Balerosian detachment, conducted unauthorized singing on the walls, and now are refusing to fight as ordered.”
The Drake turned red.
“Sir. We do not tolerate necromancy in Izril. This is not species-dislike. This goes against the laws of the Walled Cities! Those [Necromancers] are dangerous!”
Quiteil pinched at the bridge of his nose, ignoring the ink-stains his fingers left.
“Mage-Captain Hetarria has fought for years without issue. Her creations never run amok. I would gladly take ten thousand more [Necromancers] like her in a heartbeat.”
And cart you damned Drakes back to Izril. His expression clearly indicated that. Cirille knew she was on thin ice, but she had to make her case. The soldiers would riot. Shellc was already swearing he’d rather be sent back to Izril in disgrace rather than march alongside undead.
“Bastion-General. Az’kerash died not two decades ago and the Walled Cities still remember his attacks! Not to mention, necromancy has been outlawed in the Walled Cities for—”
“Commander Cirille.”
Quiteil looked up and glowered at her around his notes. She went silent as he made a note on a piece of paper and then glanced up again.
“That may be the case in Izril. However, necromancy has never been outlawed in Rhir. We consider it an acceptable form of magic if used with care. Moreover, we recall Archmage Chandler’s contribution to the offensive against the Demons a hundred and fifty years ago.”
“But that—”
“Archmage Zelkyr fought by his side along with Wistram and almost every other nation in the world. Archmage Chandler fought the Deathless; he is a hero whose legacy is the [Necromancer] corps we still fight with. Even if he is a villain to the rest of the world, he fought the Demons.”
And that was all. Cirille pointed out the window.
“So—that undead is safe? You’d allow it to walk around with the [Soldiers], sir? What about zombies? Other undead?”
“No. And before you speak, Commander, I believe Rhir understands the way undead function more than the Walled Cities do. We ensure undead are always monitored. This one is a war construct that Captain Hetarria’s force controls. It does not bleed. It does not die. It can be repaired. It is an exemplary weapon of war to counter Demon-Giants. Captain Hetarria is authorized to use skeletal warriors, but she will not reanimate the dead unless at need.”
“If my Drakes are used as undead, they will refuse to fight, sir. The same with Chief Warrior Merish’s Gnolls.”
The secretary-general sighed.
“So he has said. Which is why I did not replace you with Warrior Merish, Commander Cirille. I suggest you two speak further with Captain Hetarria and air your grievances and then resolve them. I will allow her the time to do so, although I consider it an imposition on her. I expect you to march to 5th Wall with the understanding that her forces will aide yours in battle.”
“But—”
The Brigade-General’s eyes flashed and Cirille realized she’d gone too far. Quiteil stood up slowly.
“If that is unacceptable, Commander Cirille, say so now. And I will send every Drake and Gnoll under your and Chief Warrior Merish’s command back to Izril and demand reinforcements that can do their duty. This conversation is over. Get out of my office.”
 
—-
 
“Six coppers. I don’t see what the problem is, Commander. I don’t like undead either. Terandria hates ‘em. And I’m from Noelictus; the undead rise more in our lands than anywhere else. Ser Vorn is sworn to slay them. But this is Rhir. Let it be. Or will your [Soldiers] really refuse to obey orders? I heard they had excellent discipline.”
Delezza put down the coins. The others sitting around the table nodded. Commander Cirille glared at her cards.
“Excellent discipline in battle, Huntress Delezza. They won’t break or rout. You know the expression, ‘Drakes do not run?’”
“Yes. No bet.”
“Yes. Six coppers matched.”
Ser Vorn politely added six copper coins to the table. Cirille heard a hiss.
“No.”
Commander Uxel of the Lizardfolk put down his cards. A muscular figure shrugged.
“No.”
That was the [Martial Artist]. Lacten. He wasn’t a [Commander], but as the sole representative of Pomle, he had been invited to the cards night. Cirille looked around.
They were all there. Huntress Delezza, Ser Vorn, Commander Uxel, Lacten of Pomle…Chief Warrior Merish glanced at Cirille. He was just as upset about the [Necromancers]. But he was also playing the game.
“Hrr. Six copper in. It is about principle. The Necromancer slew Kerash, who would have been the greatest of Chieftains. My fellow Gnolls also do not wish to fight.”
“Then don’t. Return home.”
“We can’t.”
Merish and Cirille chorused. They glanced at each other, and then looked away. Cirille put her coins in.
“We have a job.”
“Then it is simple. Duty is duty, however difficult.”
Ser Vorn spoke calmly. But his fingers were dancing on the cards. He had a terrible tell. Cirille kept her face annoyed as she glanced at the shining letters on her card. Everyone was waiting now. It was a game of bluffing.
Delezza was impossible to read. She smiled without giving anything away, and the Garuda [Flight Leader] was pretty good, although Cirille knew she had the card so it was pointless anyways. Merish didn’t hide his suspicion, but he was quick. Uxel, the Gorgon, was hard to read only because he was a serpent; Cirille felt like his fast-flicking tongue was giving him away.
“It’s more than a moral objection, Delezza. Even if I agree, my officers might—Del!”
She slapped the glowing card down as she shouted. The glowing letters exploded upwards. Blackness engulfed the table.
Shouts. Merish had been ready; Ser Vorn and Uxel had been looking suspiciously at Delezza. The [Huntress] and the Garuda commander disappeared.
Cirille waited. She heard scuffling and then five seconds later—the blackness vanished. Sucked back into the card. Everyone sat at the table, calm as could be.
The way the game was played was that you anted in. Then you grabbed money from the ‘pot’, the center of the table when someone used the Del card. Now—Cirille looked around.
Who had been fast enough to grab what? She was looking for the biggest offender. Cirille took only one second.
“…Delezza.”
The [Huntress] sighed. She tossed three copper coins onto the table. And then six more from her pot. Cirille cursed.
“Who got them all?”
Merish smirked as he revealed the bulk of the coins. Ser Vorn, Uxel, and the Garuda cursed. The others tossed their cards in.
“I don’t get it. The point is to use one of the magical cards to steal money? And the person who is pointed at has to give the money back.”
“Three times as much. It almost always means the one with the ‘Del’ card comes out ahead, even if they don’t get the winner. But you can bankrupt another player. No wonder you said copper coins, Commander Cirille.”
