They helped Alden fold the tarp when they reached the MPE building, and he stuffed it into the duffel bag under rolls of tape that Vandy had put on a loop of paracord. The doors to the gym opened while he was zipping the bag, and a man in blue jeans and cowboy boots stepped through. Instructor Waker was in his Little Snake form.

His closet must look like different men share it. Big Snake couldn’t wear a single thing Little Snake has on.

“Hey there, Haoyu! And Alden. Saw you all leavin’ earlier under the big umbrella. Did it work?”

“It did,” said Haoyu. “Me being wet was part of the plan.” There was a puddle growing on the floor underneath him.

“Good to see everybody havin’ fun after class.” Instructor Waker glanced at Lute.

“This is our roommate. Lute,” said Alden. “He’s the one who’s helping me learn wordchains.”

Instructor Waker most likely knew Lute on sight. There wasn’t anyone else on campus with an eye patch. Lute had a new green one on today.

“Nice to meet you! Watch out for Instructor Klein. If you teach Alden a few too many good ones, he might decide to stick you at the front of a classroom to tutor everybody. You guys busy?”

“Not really,” said Haoyu.

“We’re going over to North of North,” said Alden.

“If you’ve got a few minutes, Alden, you might want to swing by the faculty lounge upstairs. Fragment’s up there, and she had something to talk to you about. Easier to do it now than tryin’ to set up a call or meetin’ next week.”

Alden stood. “Okay.”

Upstairs, the classrooms were all dark and locked, but the door to the faculty lounge was open. Fragment was the only person there, and it looked like she might be getting ready to leave when Alden poked his head in. Her purse was on the table, and she was picking up a teabag wrapper from the floor by the trashcan.

“Hi, Instructor Fragment. Instructor Waker said you might want to see me?”

The wrapper fluttered into the can, and Fragment straightened. She had on a black jacket with the 2031 EarthBox Games logo on the front. The sleeve cuffs had lost their elasticity, and they fell past her wrists all the way to her fingertips. “I did. Come in and shut the door.”

Alden stepped into the room.

“I’ll get right to the point so that I don’t keep you from whatever you were up to. Would you like to have a visitor on the twenty-eighth of the month?”

“A visitor?”

“From home.” She shoved up her loose sleeves, a smile deepening the laugh lines in her light brown skin and scrunching her eyes. “A family member or friend who’s on your approved guest list. It can only be one person, and it has to be that day. I was trying to make a holiday arrangement for another student, and a day visitor was the best I could manage. But it turns out I made a wrong assumption about what they’d like. They don’t want to take advantage of it.”

“Are you serious? I’d love that!” He’d been too busy to dwell on not being able to get permission to go to Chicago for Christmas, but the idea of a guest during the holidays was so exciting it made him realize he’d still been a little unhappy about it. “Let me get in touch with my aunt and my friends right now and see if one of them can do it. I thought the government had cancelled almost everyone’s visitors for the next couple of months because of the disaster?”

“Most of them. A percentage of the people who were at the front of the queue kept their slots. I found an acquaintance who preferred not to have company over when the island’s looking like this, and then we found a sympathetic person at the travel office to let us donate the slot to a student in need.”

“Is it okay to give this to me?  I did get to see a couple of people from home while I was in intake.”

“One visitor for one day isn’t much. And didn’t you miss your entire three-month exit period from your home country? I don’t think you have to worry about it being unfair to anyone.”

He messaged Boe first, wanting him to say yes even though he suspected that day-tripping to Apex was something Boe wasn’t going to be eager to do.

Sure enough…

[Thanks. I’d like to see you, but what if there’s a security protocol to make sure no unauthorized Avowed are coming and going from the island? One that will detect me. We know catspace works. Not anything else. And they must have tightened things up even more after the attack.]

Alden tried Connie next.

“My Aunt Connie,” he said to Fragment as soon as he’d received her yes. “Connie Hatcher. She can be my guest that day.”

“I’ll take care of it. Watch for a confirmation from the travel office and let me know when you get it.”

“I will. Thank you so much.”

He rejoined Lute and Haoyu and told them about it. They were both happy for him, and they said they were excited to meet his aunt.

“You can hang out in the dorm with her while she’s here. I’ll be there, but I’ll pretend to have manners,” said Lute.

“That’s not necessary with Aunt Connie. She’ll be more comfortable if you swear a lot and eat ramen with your bare hands.”

“She’s going to think I’m perfect!”

They walked to North of North using the nonagon as their umbrella. On the way, they talked about Emilija, who had just sent Alden a message saying she’d spent twenty hours sorting emails so far and she was only half done. Then they discussed a rumor Haoyu had heard that Instructor Waker and Principal Saleh were dating, laughed about how awkward Alden must have looked holding a super realistic naked doll with an experimental heart, and tried to decide how all of them and Lexi should celebrate their birthdays next quarter.

“I expect presents,” said Lute.

For Christmas, Alden was planning to give Lute most of the scented pencils he’d bought from the Artonan paper shop after the Here-to-There. He didn’t know what he was going to do for a birthday the next month.

“Alden’s having a party,” Haoyu said. “A good birthday party with no chaos. That’s the plan, right?”

“It is. I haven’t decided who’s invited or what I’m going to do, but the absence of chaos? That’s a must.”

******

******

It is raining on Anesidora, and in the streamview cottage, Stu-art’h is kneeling on his learning cushion, contemplating as if all the things he thinks of are here with him in the present.

This morning, he leaves the new study journal on the table, wondering if Alden will look at it again but not wanting to bother him by asking.

One day last year, he pulls one of his study journals from a shelf in the top library at the Rapport school, knowing there will be no words of approval from his peers written on the final pages.

A short while ago, he walks into the cottage and sees that the new journal has moved to his learning cushion, as if someone wants him to read it. He takes off his boots in such a hurry that he almost falls over.

It is raining on Anesidora. Stu finds this out while he is waiting for his turn to use the summonarium at LeafSong to go home. Alden sends him a message to tell him so.

Stu is arriving at the siblinghold and passing through the doors of his family’s own summonarium. Jozz’s voice comes from one of the tree baskets up above, and Stu hurries away before he can be noticed.

The tablet that assigns all calls to Evul’s name is in Stu’s hand, and he is telling Alden not to be killed by lightning.

He is seeing that Alden is surrounded by so many people. They are his own age, his own species, speakers of his own language. They are Avowed. They have just practiced Avowed magic with him. They look happy except when they’re pretending to look sad that they’re wet.

Alden says Stu can watch if he wants to.

Stu wants to, and yet watching makes him feel far away and alien.

Stu is realizing that the new journal being moved to his cushion means there might be a reply.

His fingers are opening the cover very slowly and respectfully. In case.

And yes.

On this page.

Stu reads one line and then pauses, intent on missing nothing.

“When we tell someone we’re going to build something…”

“..our determination to get there...”

“This applies to brothers who say a friendship won’t work. And to lots of other things, I’m sure.”

Stu reads the words many times. He thinks about what the words mean, but more loud in his head than the words themselves is the thought that it is raining on Anesidora.

And the only reason he knows the weather in that place is because he has found a true friend there.
