“I'd like to say that we're used to it, but we aren't.” Frikara said. “Once we signed the contract, we were segregated.” She said. “Throgg brought other people in to be entertained, though.”

Ren's eyes widened and walked over to them. “Please tell me that-”

“What if they did?” Frikara asked. “Would you treat us differently?”

“Of course not.” Ren said. “You're still women, no matter what happened to you in the past.”

Frikara nodded slightly. “They only made us dance for their amusement.”

Ren took a deep breath and sighed. “I'm glad.” He looked at each maid in turn. “You have my word I won't ask you to entertain my 'friends'.”

“What about him?” Frikara asked.

“I told him not to approach you again.” Ren said and prepared another plate of food. “I'll keep an eye on him to make sure he doesn't bother you.”

Teepo took off from his shoulder and flew out of the room to stand watch in the hallway. Ren stored the plate of food, then took out 2 steel squares and enchanted them with the Sending Glyph.

“Keep this with you at all times.” Ren said. “I'll have the matching one with me at all times, too.”

“Thank you.” Frikara said. “So, we can call you at any time with this?”

“Just think about me and speak.” Ren said. “I'll hear your voice as if you were standing right beside me.”

“We'll try not to abuse it too much.” Frikara said.

“I'm only in the cargo hold or on the deck of the ship when I'm not here.” Ren said. “I won't have far to go to get back here.”

The personal maids nodded slightly, and Ren left the room to give Orimihr the meal and copies of his books, then came back into the room. He took off the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and folded it up on one of the tables, then took out a small plate and filled it with Health potion.

“There's something you should know.” Ren said and took out the tarantula from inside the cloak. “I've got a pet spider.”

Andrela came over to him and looked at it. “Is it special?”

“It can't die, so yes.” Ren said. “It was a gift from the Queen of the Dark Elves.”

“By the gods.” Navruth said. “You know the Queen of the Dark Elves!”

Ren chuckled and put the spider back inside the cloak. “It's a long story.”

“Can you tell us about it?” Lusinia asked.

“When I come back.” Ren said, and took out the icebox Tee-one had given him. “There's still enough food for a couple of days in here.”

“You're leaving for a couple of days?” Frikara asked, surprised.

“Possibly.” Ren said and locked the door, and pulled a dresser over in front of it. “It all depends on how long my Adventurer's business takes to finish.”

“So we won't get to cuddle with you for another couple of days.” Verwynn said.

“About that.” Ren said and walked over to the bed. “I won't have you all uncomfortable like you were when I sat on the couch, in case you do want to cuddle while I'm gone.” He said and laid down on it, then put his arms out to the sides, and moved his legs apart a little. “I normally wouldn't do this, especially since it's not a safe zone; but, I don't have any choice. I have to go.” He smiled at them. “Keep the door locked and barricaded. No one is to hurt you while I'm gone.”

“So you do care.” Frikara said, and Ren smiled as he nodded.

“Logout.”

*

“So, do we take turns using him like a blanket, or do we all pile on like we did the first night?”

“Pile.” Lusinia said. “I want a leg this time.”

“Pile.” Verwynn said. “I'll stay with an arm.”

The other maids agreed to a pile, and laid down at their chosen spots. They let out a collective sigh, and fell asleep.
