Though a hard-fought battle had only just taken place around Fort Sinuji, the familiar clamour of marching boots and bellowing Officers set Song’s mind at ease, for she was once again within her element. A bouquet of blood, bile, and burnt flesh filled the air with a foul, metallic tang which set Luo-Luo and her handmaidens to gagging, but Lin-Lin paid no mind to the unpleasant stench as she ran off with the Healers to aid the beleaguered medical Army staff. The Bekhai aid would be most welcome, because wherever Song turned, she saw dented helmets, notched breastplates, and bandaged faces a plenty, and those were the lucky individuals who made it through today’s battle relatively unscathed. At the very least, they were still healthy and fit enough to move about, unlike the injured souls they ferried over to the hospital tents by stretcher or the unfortunate corpses piled upon the burgeoning funeral pyres.

A heavy toll to pay, but such was life, a struggle from beginning to end. ‘Clear Temple’, the first poem in the Classics of Poetry, alluded to such a fate which awaited them all.

Solemn is the Clear Temple

Reverent are its illustrious adherents

Dignified are the gathered officers

Adhering to the virtues of Nobility

Praising our Mother in Heaven

They Hurry swiftly into the temple

Greatly illustrious, greatly dignified

She safeguards Her children forevermore

Reverence, dignity, and nobility mattered not, because in the end, all humans would share the same fate. The solemn Clear Temple was death, and only in death would humanity know true safety and dignity, resting in the arms of the Mother above, or at least that’s how Song interpreted the poem. Whether one was a dignified Officer or reverent adherent, the Mother loved them all the same, regardless of status or ability. A message obviously lost to most, but a touching one, considering it’d been written by a former Magistrate whilst laying on his deathbed.

But even death is only a brief respite from the endless trials and tribulations of life...

Or perhaps Song was completely wrong. Perhaps there was a Clear Temple somewhere in the Empire, and the poem was simply describing the Magistrate’s visit. Poetry was more difficult to interpret than music or painting, though she found dance the most incomprehensible of all...

Knowing the half-hare was well protected, Song left Luo-Luo with the pets and followed Niece Alsantset to help the exhausted soldiers with their labour, guiding Erdene around with a borrowed cart to carry away the fallen. Stuck at Rain’s side for the duration of the battle, she was fresh and well-rested despite the long days of travel, and she worked in silence alongside the other Khishigs on the walls, where their kind intentions were welcomed with mixed reactions from the battered soldiers of Sinuji. Some were genuinely grateful, but most seemed suspicious or even downright resentful of the Bekhai presence, despite the fact that the fort might well have fallen without Niece Alsantset’s four-thousand plus cavalry force to aid them.

The soldiers resentment was not without reason since Rain’s arrival in Sinuji heralded disasters to come. The last time he was here, a massive Defiled force gathered to lay siege to the fort, the largest Enemy force to take the field since the Western Province fell, and it was obvious they’d come for Rain. Now, not only were these soldiers worried about Emissary Gen returning at the head of an even larger army to finish the job, there were also rumours of a feud between Rain and an Imperial Scion, which meant the soldiers of Sinuji might soon become collateral damage in games of Imperial politics.

The lives of the many outweigh the needs of a few. Broken as he was, Falling Rain was being selfish by clinging to life now that matters had come so far...

No, the fault lay with Yang Jixing and the Legate. Rain was merely a victim and his death would solve nothing. Burying her errant thoughts, Song focused on the task at hand, piling corpses onto Erdene’s creaking cart until it was full before bringing them away to the blazing pyres. The dead lay thick on the walls and she was soon caked in gore from her diligent efforts, but atrocious as the horrors of war might be, she hardly batted an eye while digging through piles of the dead to separate Imperial heroes from Defiled savages. They looked so similar in death, she soon began to wonder why it even mattered.

Who cared if they burned on an Imperial pyre or a Defiled one? Why even burn them at all? They were dead, their souls destined for the Clear Temple, so what did they care about their mortal remains?

There was no honour or glory to be found here, but this came as no surprise. Battle was her aspiration, the Peak of the Martial Path her lofty ambition, and death part and parcel of it all, including the unsavoury and unsettling aspects the bards and playwrights never cared to delve into. Still, it was strange how the mind worked, always wanting what it could not have. When Rain took injury in Sinuji little over three months ago, Song worried it would be years before she returned to the battlefield once more, but while she was grateful to be here, there was little joy or excitement in her heart. This conflict was a righteous one, yet another chapter in the unending war between the Father’s foul minions and the Mother’s children, and though she counted herself honoured to wield her blade in the Mother’s Holy name, she found she no longer ached for the thrill of battle. Though she spent the last several months yearning to revisit the front lines, now that she was here and experiencing it all again firsthand, she found she missed the peaceful, serene view from her fifth-story window, looking out over the green and white sea of frost-dusted grass while the rising sun cast an orange glow over the skies above.

How nice it would have been to fall asleep on the ledge, and perhaps never wake again...

But then Mama, Papa, and Sister would be saddened by her passing. Song would be sad too, if she learned of her death after the fact, for she still had so much to live for...

Usually, Song ignored her desires and emotions because she only had to obey her orders, but ever since Rain speculated her difficulties with Aura might stem from her constant suppression of emotions, she paid more attention to her state of mind, hence her earlier uncharacteristic attempt at poetic interpretation. Rain’s advice had been simple, to smile when she was happy and frown when she was sad, but Song found it difficult to embrace her emotions after a lifetime spent guarding against them. Even as she stood covered in the blood of fallen Imperial and Defiled, she was neither mournful nor enraged, bitter nor impassioned. Death no longer held the same allure it once did, but in Song’s eyes, these peaceful souls now lay resting in the arms of the Mother, no longer troubled by the red dust of the mortal world, which wasn’t the worst fate imaginable.

Repressing a sigh, Song pursed her lips at the too familiar phrase, one heard often whenever the Abbot deigned to let others hear him preach. She was ambivalent to the aged ascetic’s presence and cared not for his lectures, but she found the steady droning of his deep, booming chants oddly reassuring, which might account for her emotional uncertainty, not to mention the many hours of the Abbot’s sermons she had lurking in the back of her mind. If life was suffering, and Song suffered because of her desires, then was this not contrary to Rain’s advice telling her to embrace her desires and emotions? What’s more, if life was suffering, then what meaning was there in the struggle for survival? The Abbot’s dismissive attitude towards the war efforts was plain to see, more concerned with matters of the eternal soul rather than insignificant and impermanent concerns of life and death, yet here he stood offering comfort and solace to the living while giving funeral rites to the dead. Absurd as the concept seemed, if one believed in reincarnation as Song and most of the Empire did, then the Abbot’s viewpoint made perfect sense. What was one life measured against a potential infinite lifetimes?

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Though startled by monk Happy’s sudden appearance, Song let none of her surprise show as she turned away from her work to stare at the chubby-cheeked ascetic. His grey robes untouched by dust or blood, monk Happy’s peaceful smile seemed out of place amidst the death and carnage as he bowed his head in prayer and said, “Khishig Song, this monk senses much conflict within you. Speak your mind and unburden your worries so that this one may listen and offer his humble advice.” Straightening up, his smile widened until his eyes disappeared into his rosy cheeks while he gestured around them, adding, “Speak freely with confidence, for this monk guarantees that unless Khishig Song desires it, then no third person shall ever know what is said here today, or if she would prefer, we could speak in a more private setting.”

Only then did Song realize the monk had already erected a Sound Barrier around them, blocking out the din of labouring soldiers and the Abbot’s droning chant. Further study revealed they’d also been Concealed, as humans and beasts all moved unerringly around Song and Happy without ever noticing their presence, a handy trick she desperately desired to master, if only to reduce the stress of public events and remain hidden until called upon. The only exceptions were Tenjin and Tursinai who looked straight at her, both wearing comforting smiles while non-verbally conveying their support and encouragement.

Why? Song didn’t think she looked particularly troubled, but perhaps they noticed something she didn’t.

Neither accepting nor rejecting monk Happy’s offer, Song deliberated whether or not she wanted to share her troubles with a complete stranger. Though she had yet to learn the measure of the Abbot and monk Happy, she was impressed by their fallen brother who exchanged blows with an Ancestral Beast, and wondered how these two would fare in comparison. Still, despite respecting their strength and knowing that their teachings were directly responsible for her current misgivings, she didn’t feel comfortable opening up to monk Happy, and especially not while standing ankle deep in blood and gore.

So instead, she asked, “May I meet Kukku?”

Even Rain had yet to meet the reticent rooster, as Kukku knew how to Conceal and monk Happy kept the bird’s morning crows from rousing everyone within ten kilometres. To hear Jorani tell it, the rooster looked no different from regular silky chickens, only larger in every way, so Song yearned to stroke his feathers and hug him close. It seemed like forever ago when she sat idle in SuiHua and dreamed of having a pet chicken to call her own, but this seemed as close as she would ever get, so she hoped monk Happy would agree to her request.

Alas, the rotund monk shook his head and bowed in apology. “Apologies, Khishig Song, but this monk is merely Kukku’s attendant, and not his master. He chooses whom he reveals himself to, but he is unused to travelling abroad and all this blood and death has sent him deep into hiding. This monk fears he will not emerge until we return to the monastery, but perhaps he will reveal himself to you in time.”

With that said, he bowed and told her he was available to talk at any time if she should ever feel the need before fading away from perception. The world came to life once again with wheels turning and boots marching to the steady cadence of the Abbot’s wooden-fish drum and his soothing chants, so she let the sounds drown out her thoughts as she returned to her grisly, but necessary work.

Worthless, wasteful work. Unnatural business, burning bodies. Better to leave them for the scavengers to serve purpose in death.

...Drown out most of her thoughts, save for the most nonsensical ones. Bodies needed to be burned so Defiled and Demons would not eat them, a simple fact even children understood.

It was almost dark when Niece Alsantset called Song away, and while her task was not yet finished, there were fresh soldiers coming in to relieve their weary comrades, so she knew no fallen heroes would be left behind to fill Defiled or Demon bellies. Even then, she hesitated to leave, though she didn’t know why until she arrived at their campgrounds, a prime location which sat inside the fort walls and just west of the commander’s tent, no doubt so Lieutenant Colonel Watanabe could keep a close eye on Rain. Seeing him silently arguing with Colonel General Nian Zu, Song realized she didn’t want to see him, though she could not say why, but she trusted her instincts and shuffled off without a word.

