Instead, she lined up at the partitioned washing area where the female Khishigs waited their turn while the male Khishigs stripped down and washed in plain sight. The women would have done the same if not for Mama’s specific orders to contrary, given long before they even left the Northern Province. Still unused to the Bekhai’s shameless attitude towards nudity, Song averted her eyes and waited for the better part of an hour before her turn arrived, after which she scrubbed herself clean with cold water alongside Tursinai, Maral, and young Tomor from Rain’s retinue. Despite removing every speck of congealed viscera from her person and even using a knife to scrape her fingernails clean, she still felt soiled by the day’s events, her heart heavy and mind jumbled without the Abbot’s chanting to bolster her spirits. Struggling to come to terms with her mysterious melancholy, she reluctantly made her way to Rain’s paltry soldier’s tent, where he sat eating dinner with Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo, and Niece Alsantset while the pets romped and ate around them. “Hey Song,” Rain said, greeting her with a tired smile and waving his uneaten hardtack about. “This is one thing I definitely don’t miss about the front lines. Don’t think I can even chew this without breaking my teeth. What I wouldn’t do for a warm bowl of tofu pudding...”

Finding his cavalier attitude more irksome than usual, she nodded and sat as far away from him as possible, while still being a part of the group. A part of her wanted to leave, but if she went back to her yurt now, none of the pets would want to come with and she would be stuck sleeping alone for the night. Though lacking an appetite, she knew she’d need all the strength she could muster in days to come, so she chewed mechanically and ate her dinner without tasting while listening to Rain recount his meeting with Lieutenant Colonel Watanabe followed by his argument with Colonel General Nian Zu. His first day back on the front lines and already he considered having his commanding officer assassinated, only Rain could be so foolish. Chances were, the Yang Clan or the Disciplinary Corps had hidden Experts watching Lieutenant Colonel Watanabe around the clock, just waiting for Rain to make such an obvious blunder, but at least the Colonel General had convinced him otherwise.

Unfortunately, with Rain’s Death Corps Honour Guard taken out of the equation, the future looked bleak indeed. Without good reason, Colonel General Nian Zu wouldn’t countermand Lieutenant Colonel Watanabe’s orders, not without falling victim to the very same trap Teacher Du almost stepped into. As Brother Baatar’s direct superior, Colonel General Nian Zu was only here to supervise Rain, so if he took over command of Sinuji indefinitely, then the Disciplinary Corps would certainly step in to protest, which was why the Great Hero returned command to the great buffoon once the danger had passed. What’s more, high ranking officers had been kept away from the front lines for good reason, because the current status quo benefited the Empire more than the Defiled. At the moment, only smaller tribes and scattered bands of loose savages dared to come east, as the more powerful and prominent Defiled Chieftains were busy carving up the West and indulging in their macabre delights, giving the Empire much-needed time to build up their defences. If too many powerful Peak Experts revealed themselves on the front lines, their presence might prompt those bickering Defiled to put aside their differences once again and march east in pursuit of a worthy challenge. Should the Enemy move before the Empire was ready, then the consequences would be dire indeed. Emissary Gen almost took Sinuji with merely three-hundred thousand Defiled, but there were millions of Defiled congregating in the Western province. Only the Citadels could stand against such an army, as the rammed earth walls of fort Sinuji would be overrun in a matter of hours, if not minutes.

While still complaining about his lack of luck, a Death Corps guard arrived bearing a letter for Rain. “Oh good, a reply,” he said, sounding anything but pleased as he explained, “I wrote to all fifteen officers scheduled to hold command of the outer wall over the next five days, asking if we could meet, and so far this is the only reply I’ve gotten.” Reading it over, he smiled and added, “I didn’t expect anyone to agree, but it seems Tam Taewoong is willing to talk.”

Though the letter made no mention of restrictions, Rain asked Lin-Lin and Luo-Luo to stay behind and limited his Death Corps escort to no more than twelve. With nothing better to do, Song ignored the urge to stay behind and followed him to his meeting, mostly out of suspicion since the former Hwarang was not exactly friendly with Rain and the Bekhai. Back in Nan Ping, Han BoShui had used Tam Taewoong as a stepping stone and defeated him in an impromptu tea-house duel, a duel which Rain had no small part in instigating thanks to his glib tongue and lack of common courtesy. In all likelihood, the Central-born Martial Warrior was only calling Rain over to gloat, but if so, Song had no qualms about exchanging blows with the Benevolent Asura.

...Her mood was all over the place today, and Song didn’t understand why. First she wanted to avoid Rain, but now she rode at his side to defend him and was even contemplating breaking military law over an insult which had yet to be delivered. Had she been gone from the battlefield for too long and lost her edge?

Though Tam Taewoong didn’t come out to receive them, his second invited Rain into the command tent for tea, which was a warmer welcome than Song had expected. Leaving his Death Corps outside, Rain brought Song into the tent with him and introduced her as his Martial Aunt before they all sat down for tea and snacks. Having only eaten a quarter of his hardtack, Rain helped himself to the more palatable refreshments with gusto while Song sat ready to strike at the first sign of treachery, but there was no trickery or poison involved. Taewoong looked different from the last time they’d crossed paths, wearing much less makeup while carrying the weight of the world upon his shoulders. Dark bags hung under his eyes and he sat favouring an injury on his abdomen which had yet to wholly Heal, but he made polite conversation as decorum demanded until Rain cleared the table of food and drained his teacup thrice. Flashing the barest hint of a smile, Taewoong said, “Judging by your appetite, it seems the rumours of your infirmity have been grossly exaggerated.”

“No, not at all. The Legate recently provided me with a miraculous elixir which did wonders for my health, and I am exceedingly grateful for his generosity.” Delivered with the enthusiasm of a wooden puppet, Rain certainly didn’t sound exceedingly grateful, but Song couldn’t fault him for it since the Legate’s actions were akin to fattening the goose for the slaughter. Had they taken this trips two weeks prior, Rain might have died on the way here, but now he was just healthy enough to travel yet still utterly weak and helpless. Switching topics with the grace of a donkey, Rain said, “Anyways, thank you for meeting with me. I wanted to greet my new superior officers and say... well, you know about my dilemma, correct?”

“Rumours and gossip mostly. The most popular stories say you offended an Imperial Scion over a woman and have now been sent here to die.”

“...Surprisingly accurate.” Leaving a pause to let his words sink in, Rain soon continued, “So yea. A word to the wise, if -”

“Hmm, let me guess.” Taewoong’s tone took on a hint of steel as his knuckles tightened around his armrest, and Song shifted closer to Rain’s side just in case. “If I betray you, then pain and unpleasantness await me and everyone I hold dear. Close enough?”

“Ha. No. Not even close.” Undaunted by Taewoong’s sudden hostility, Rain chuckled and asked, “Oh Mother in Heaven, is that why no one else would meet with me? Because they think I want to threaten them?”

“Then why are you here?”

“To tell you to do whatever you need to do.” Shrugging, Rain explained, “You’re here to fight the Defiled, not meddle in politics. Hell, you’ve been here longer than most, and even stayed during the new year’s festivities when you didn’t have to. You’re a soldier first, and I respect that, so if you’re bribed, take the money and I’ll pay you double to do nothing, but if you or your loved ones are threatened, then there’s nothing I can do to help, so go along with their wishes and I’ll handle whatever may come.” Clearing his throat, he added, “Or I won’t and I’ll die. Either way, you do what you think is necessary to keep your people safe, and I’ll understand. No hard feelings.”

His piece said, Rain reached over the table to shake hands, but for long seconds, Taewoong sat utterly still and stared in shocked silence. After a long sigh, he took Rain’s hand and clasped it tight. “You are a strange, strange man.”

“I get that a lot.”

Their meeting done, Rain bade their stunned host farewell and left with Song at his side. Waiting until they were out of the camp, she took Rain’s hand and Sent, “It would have been wiser to threaten him. Now he will think you and the Bekhai weak and fangless.”

Unable to Send, Rain answered out loud while interlacing their fingers as he did with everyone who held his hand, a habit she didn’t quite understand or hate. “Maybe, but I meant every word. Let them do what they will. I am Falling Rain, the Undying, and I won’t threaten innocents to keep myself safe. Even if he leaves me isolated on the wall, I’m confident Dastan and the others can hold out until help arrives, so what’s the worst that could happen?”

Despite his frail body shivering from the night’s chill, Rain spoke with the confidence of a warrior born, and if truth be told, his words filled Song with warmth and pride. His actions were still stupid beyond belief, but if he died here, he would die a good man. Still... “What if his family is captured and he’s forced to openly murder you and bear the punishment himself to secure their safety?”

“...Not gonna lie, that particular scenario did not occur to me. Would they really do something like that?”

An idiot, but a noble idiot, so she would stand by his side with saber in hand to help him handle whatever may come.

Wondering which of the bunnies she should bring back to snuggle, Song was jolted out of her thoughts as monk Happy appeared out of thin air and grabbed her by the shoulders the moment she dismounted from Erdene. His frowning face frightening to behold and not at all suitable given his appellation, she didn’t dare move a muscle while he leaned this way and that, studying her with intense severity right up until Rain stepped in and forcibly separated them, or rather monk Happy allowed himself to be separated. “What’s going on?” Rain demanded, standing protectively in front of Song. “Why you being so handsy?”

“A thousand apologies, Khishig Song. This monk was so surprised he forgot himself.” Wiping away his frown, monk Happy erected a Sound Barrier only moments after the Abbot appeared, then the two monks fell into a silent exchange, their gazes filled with wonder and disbelief as their eyes moved from Song to Rain and back again.

Smoothing his robes which did nothing to the wrinkled cloth, the Abbot cleared his throat and said, “Junior Brother, this monk does not begrudge you your secrets, but some questions are too important to be left unasked. Are you certain you can no longer Devour or Cleanse Spectres from Tainted individuals?”

“...Pretty sure I’d notice if my Core wasn’t shattered, but yea.”

“Then...” Pointing at Song, the Abbot asked, “How did you Cleanse her?”

Trading glances with Rain, she saw her confusion mirrored in his eyes as they simultaneously asked, “What?”

Chapter Meme
