The memories that appear in my mind don't flow in like they are new. Instead, I am hit with consecutive epiphanies, like I'm remembering something I always knew but somehow forgot.

The almost hypnotic spinning golden glyphs in Ember's eyes perfectly attune themselves to the growing golden glyphs in my sword. The resonance loosens shackles all throughout my consciousness to shift into place. Visuals of the past grow more and more clear, floating to the forefront of my mind.

Most recently, vast amounts of foreign knowledge have been poured into my mind from my blade.

Yet, every time I tried to look deeper into their inner secrets, illusions and mental locks held me back.

Now, I see the memories with perfect clarity. It's as though I'm living through them now, and able to perceive the energy flows within each memory as though it's right before me. There is no longer a black and red fog of mystery around the wielder of this soul weapon, and I get to see all of the past races bound to this artifact.

Considering the countless diverse races I've witnessed in these passing memories as the wielder of this weapon planet-hops and ventures through upper realms, it is quite unexpected to see that almost every wielder has a similarity to myself.

They are not all human, but none are far from it. Every single one of them is humanoid to a degree, and the most prominent common factor is that their lifespans are near the lowest tier in the galaxies they reside in. Some look slightly more elven in nature, with pure white skin and no organs at all. Others have dark black skin, with no hair, and deep blue eyes. There are races that look like they're made of pure emeralds, crystalline from head to toe.

The variations are immense, but there is always a similarity, whether it is the color of their hair, or the posture of their stances in battle, even the gleam in their eyes.

The longer I watch, the more information I begin to unravel. My perception of the laws has become extremely acute, and I can feel that the resonance between their wielders and reality around them is all the same.

It's as though I'm looking at myself, the very essence of my soul, navigating countless strange worlds without the memories that I have now.

When I perceive the soul weapon in my grasp in all of these memories, it is very different.

There is no change at all in its aura... it gives off the exact same energy waves as the current blade in my hand. While the wielders all appear to be iterations of the same soul, this weapon seems to truly be the same exact artifact.

The deeper I look, all of the golden shadows that were deleted from the background of my memories begin resurfacing.

I watch a tiny red and black dragon soul bond with the soul weapon wielder over and over again.

In some of the memories, this dragon has already grown up, and the weapon meets its wielder much later. In others, the artifact is already in the hand of the wielder.

Demons are slain all throughout foreign galaxies that look nothing like the one I come from, and along the way, this dragon grows and sheds its restrictions, finally blooming to become the same exact crimson-eyed golden dragon that dwarfs myself and Maria in this membrane.

In every memory, I witness the wisdom imparted from this dragon to its humanoid companion over and over again.

The words and explanations he gives are always vague, and never enough to alter the natural growth of the wielder.

It looks so simple from the outside looking in, as now I see in this dragon's eyes far more insight than I ever got from listening to him in the past.

Some of the final waves of laws that were still vibrating around the edges of my Immortal Emperor's body settle, as even now, I've managed to absorb insight from these words. Everything he has ever said, it's as though he knew I would view them right now.

These inner shifts loosen even more system glyphs, allowing for the remaining memories I absorbed from Noctus to fully show themselves.

Not only do I relive his journey from the Lower Realm to his demise in the Membrane, but this aligns with every single time this Amplifier has found itself in this position before.

I witness the radiant golden dragon clawing through membranes just like this one, and humanoid soul weapon wielders slicing through the blackened sky.

Some of them have familiar figures in the background, like bright blue angels, warm green trees, dark warriors, light elven silhouettes, and many more. Yet, I look past all of it, focusing solely on what is beyond this abyss.
