“A word of advice,” Liam’s voice greeted Edmund the moment he set foot on the hardwood floor, “don’t drink the ale.”

Edmund blinked as the words mingled in his ears with the chorus of laughter and singing and conversation that saturated the space around him.  “There’s ale?”

“Aye, there’s ale,” a woman answered, clearly thinking Edmund’s question directed at her.  “Chest here grants one token to each delver that passes through.”

Edmund glanced over the woman, taking note of her tight ponytail, pristine set of chainmail, and unstained tabard bearing the royal crest.  The kingsguards were here.  He supposed that was a good thing.  It meant they hadn’t caught Amelia yet.

Edmund knew that was a selfish thing to think, that Amelia was risking her life by remaining in the dungeon, and that innocent guards now risked their own in their attempts to save her, but he’d come to root for the princess.  A childish part of him hoped they’d clear the Eternal Depths together.

Shaking the fantasy from his mind, Edmund cast his gaze first over the chest the guard had mentioned—more of a small wooden box on a side table than a true loot chest—then across the floor as a whole.

It was a tavern.

The entrance stood upon the upper level, the wooden floor beneath him stretching out in a great ring encircling the cylindrical space.  This upper level stretched only some twenty feet from the wall, leaving a massive gap in the room’s center through which those above could look upon those below.  Delvers crowded the upper deck, especially around the wooden railing at its edge, blocking Edmund’s view of the lower level.  Judging by the crowd’s behavior, there was something down there worth seeing.

To Edmund’s left, a staircase connected the levels, along which delvers with ales in their hands moved freely.  To his right, a counter sat built into the wall.  He watched as men exchanged tokens and coin alike for fresh mugs.

The kingsguard stopped him as he moved to collect his own token from the wooden box.  “Before I let you move on, I’ve got to ask a few questions.”

“I haven’t seen her,” Edmund lied.  At her raised eyebrow, he explained, “I spoke with your fellows on the tenth floor.  I’m surprised this princess of yours has survived so long, brought down here against her will.”

Edmund knew damn well nobody had ever brought Amelia anywhere against her will, but he had to pretend his only info had come from the guards, so he parroted their story back at them.

The kingsguard ever so kindly took the bait Edmund had given her.  “She’s alive.  Command’ll send word the moment her title passes to her brother.  ’Til then, we’re stuck down here.”

Edmund glanced about the tavern around them.  “There could be worse places.”

“Aye, that there could,” the woman responded.  She patted the wooden box affectionately.  “Take your token and move along.  Have some fun.  You look like you need it.”

Edmund nodded his thanks and collected the wooden coin from the box.  Ethereal smoke wafted from the image of a tankard pressed into it.

Ale Token

Redeemable for one mug of ale at Last Respite.

Edmund blinked the smoke away as walked past the kingsguard onto the floor proper.  “Last Respite?”

“The hubs get less frequent from here on out,” Liam explained.  “The next one isn’t until the twenty-fifth floor, then not ‘til fifty after that.”

“But it’s not the last one.”

“It is for most of them,” Liam said, gesturing to the few hundred delvers that filled the tavern.  “About two thirds won’t bother delving past this point, and less than half of those that do will survive to the twenty-fifth floor.”

“That explains the ale,” Edmund said, his gaze wandering over the drinking adventurers.  “Which I shouldn’t drink because…?”

“Ale makes you humans stupid,” Liam said.  “Which is a reason why you should drink it, now that I think about it.”  He laughed.  Edmund didn’t.  “Listen, it was earnest advice.  That isn’t copper they’re spending at the bar there.”

Edmund turned the token over in his hand as Liam’s point sunk in.  “It’s that expensive?”

“Everyone this far down went through a great struggle to get here.  Most lost something along the way.  Every single one of them picked up a great deal of coin along the way.  You’d be surprised how much a man will pay for a moment’s relaxation when he considers himself rich.”

“But they’re not rich, are they?”

“By whose standards?” Liam asked.  “Certainly not by mine, but there are few kings that are rich by my standards.  They won’t be retiring wealthy, but they won’t lack for comfort as they work whatever job they choose.”

“Of course they won’t,” Edmund growled.  “If they could retire off their earnings here, they wouldn’t have a reason to come back.  I’m sure you extorting them for alcohol when they need it most doesn’t help with that.”

“They pay what they know it’s worth, for the celebration, for the forgetfulness, for the right to say they had an ale at Last Respite.  They may not be lords, but these delvers are in possession of more coin than they’ve ever seen.  If they want to spend it, that’s their decision.”

Edmund sighed.  “How much is it?”

“Four silver.”

Edmund blew air through his cheeks, holding back from commenting on the outrageous price as he directed his thoughts elsewhere.  “Which means I could sell this token for three if I find the right buyer.”

“Three and a half, even, if you know how to haggle,” Liam said.

“Or,” a gristly voice whispered into Edmund’s ear.  “You could give it to me.  We’ll call it a favor.”

Something cold and sharp slipped under his helm and pressed into Edmund’s throat, not quite drawing blood but clearly threatening to do so.  Edmund gulped and addressed the stranger behind him.  “And if I don’t, you’ll slit my throat?”

The blade pressed harder into his neck.  A drop of blood dripped down his chest.  “What does it feel like?”

Edmund exhaled, keeping his voice as even as possible.  “This is a bad idea.  I would strongly urge you to reconsider this course of action.”

“I don’t think I will,” the man growled.

Liam beamed.  “I told you ale makes humans stupid.”

“Don’t gloat,” Edmund told him.  “People don’t like it when you gloat.”

“But I like gloating,” Liam said.

“Shut up!” the man grabbed Edmund’s arm with his free hand.  “Who are you talking to?”

“My invisible friend,” Edmund replied.  “Say hi to Liam.”

The man growled and yanked Edmund back.  His breath reeked.  “Just give me the token and I’ll let you live.”

“He didn’t say hi,” Liam grumbled.  “How rude.”

Edmund inhaled, his heart racing as he wondered how best to handle the situation.  He had no doubt in his ability to outfight his attacker, but the knife was already at his throat.  He had abilities he could employ, but the man surely had abilities of his own.  He spared a glance to a brazier a few feet away, noting that smoke did waft up from the embers, but it was a thin smoke, a weak smoke.

The Recluse weakened his Madness when surrounded by people.

Edmund opted for another strategy.  “Hey, Liam, what do you do to delvers who break the peace in safe zones?”

“Oh, that’s the beauty of it,” Liam replied.  “It’s at my discretion.  He breaks the safety, he loses it.  The moment he slits your throat, I get to do whatever I want with him.  That includes letting him go, but let’s both agree that’s no fun.”

“Enough talking!” the man snapped, unable to hear Liam’s comment.  “I don’t think you made it this far to die for something so small.”

“Hey!” a bald man with dark skin and leather armor shouted from a dozen feet away.  “If you want to fight, do it like a man.  If you want to spill blood, do it in the ring.  At least one of you should get something from it.”

The would-be thief grumbled at being called out and pulled away from Edmund.  “Some folks just can’t leave well enough alone.”

“And some folks don’t know when they’ve had too much to drink,” a second bald man said.

“This isn’t over,” the thief snarled and stormed off.  By the time Edmund turned, the only glimpse he got of his attacker was of the dark green hooded cloak on his back.

“Thanks for the help,” Edmund said as he removed his helmet and rubbed at his neck.  “You saved that man’s life.”

“Sure looks like we saved yours,” the first man said.  “But we’ll take any thanks freely given.  Come, sit with us.”

Edmund paused for a moment to appraise his rescuers.  Both were men, both bald, and both wore the same loose-fitting garments under boiled-leather armor.  Their faces bore deeply similar features, and they even spoke with the same inflections.  But for the color of their skin, Edmund might’ve thought them twins.

“I’m Priam,” the dark-skinned man spoke.  He nodded his head towards the other man, whose own skin seemed almost unnaturally pale.  “This is my brother, Lucius.”

“Lucius Durne,” the pale man said, extending a hand.

“Edmund.”  They shook.  He glanced back and forth between the two men.  “You don’t look like brothers.”

“We do if you look hard enough,” Priam said.  “Lucius here was born with a condition that robs his skin of color.”

“I’m a natural born delver.”  Lucius grinned.  “No sunlight down here to scorch me.”

“Well, it’s nice to meet you,” Edmund said, “but I’m afraid I have to keep moving.  I’ve much to do.”

“And time in which to do it,” Priam argued.  “We’ve been on this floor longer than you, and have information you may find useful.  Besides, I think we’re men worth knowing, and unless I miss my guess, you are too.”

“I’m not looking for a party.”

“And we’re not asking you to,” Lucius said.  “But you’re a fighter, and you’re a survivor, and I’d wager we’ll run into each other somewhere down the line.  Better if we know each other first, eh?”

The logic made sense to Edmund, but it struck him as familiar.  He took a moment to realize how well it resembled the same arguments Liam had first made while they’d waited in line together to enter the Eternal Depths—the real Liam, that was, not the dungeon’s avatar that had taken his face.  Edmund remembered all too well what’d happened to that Liam.

He narrowed his gaze at the Durne brothers, appraising them not as men, but as fighters.  They stood stably, their feet solid upon the floor.  Their motions were smooth and deliberate, denoting a sense of control over their bodies Edmund rarely saw.  More interesting still, they carried no weapons, meaning they were either stupid enough to leave them at their table, or competent enough not to need them.  Edmund didn’t want to think of what kind of man fought through the Depths barehanded.

They might’ve spoken similar words to his dead friend, but the brothers Durne were not Liam.  They carried themselves like men who knew what they were doing, men Edmund wouldn’t want to insult.

“Alright,” Edmund finally said.  “Let’s sit for a bit, exchange information.”

“Excellent,” Priam said.  “Follow me.”

The brothers led Edmund through the crowd, weaving past the line for the bar to eventually arrive at a table right up against the railing.  Five delvers already sat there.

“Edmund, these are the Dragon’s Claws.  Dragon’s Claws, this is Edmund.”

Edmund blinked at the full party.  “You call yourselves the Dragon’s Claws?”

A muscular woman all the way on the table’s far side answered.  “You call yourself Edmund?”

The Durne brothers laughed.

“Don’t mind Elya,” a bespectacled man in blue robes spoke.  “She thinks she’s funny.”

“I know the type,” Edmund groaned.

Elya punched her companion in the arm.  “All parties need a name.  Ours is the Dragon’s Claws.  Yours is Edmund, apparently.”

“I fight alone,” Edmund said, stepping over the bench to sit at the table.  “Edmund is my name.”  He looked towards the muscular woman.  “Yours is Elya, I take it.  And the rest of you are…?”

“Christopher,” the robed man offered.  “I’m the party mage.”

“Leah,” spoke a blonde girl so short Edmund might’ve thought she had gnomish blood.  She patted the set of knives strapped to her chest.  “Melee damage-dealer.”

“I’m Ron,” a dark-haired stick of a man offered, resting a hand on the hilt of a mace that looked to weigh more than he did.  “I’m the healer.”

“Myra doesn’t talk,” Christopher said, gesturing to a tall woman with a crossbow on each hip, “but she can hit a pea from a mile away with those crossbows of hers.”

The woman grinned wide enough to reveal a jagged stub where her tongue should’ve been.

“And of course you’ve met Elya,” Christopher continued, “our tank.”

Edmund nodded at each of them.  “Nice to meet you all.”

“Is it?” Leah asked, her eyes narrow.  “You don’t look happy.”

Behind him, Liam burst into a fit of laughter that would’ve been loud enough to draw the attention of every single delver in the place had they been able to hear it.  Instead, Edmund suffered alone.  “I’m told I rarely do.”

“I think I can do something about that,” a voice offered from behind the table.  Edmund turned to find an unarmored woman holding a tray full of ales.  “Tokens or silver, please.”

Edmund flipped his token over in his hand as the others offered up theirs, considering what potential tool he’d be able to buy with the silver it was worth.  Could a mug of ale ever be worth such a sum?

His gaze flicked back and forth across the visages of his table-mates, these new acquaintances he’d found for himself.  None had hesitated to hand over their tokens.  When the waitress extended her open palm to him, Edmund found himself doing the same.

The ale alone might’ve never been worth the silver it’d cost, but perhaps in the presence of these seven capable individuals, it’d be worth the world.

“A toast!” Lucius called, raising his tankard with a straight arm.  “To our cohort!  Let us behave with kindness towards each other when our paths inevitably cross outside the boundaries of peace.”

Calls of cheers sounded throughout the table as the delvers raised their cups, a gesture Edmund mirrored with his own muttered toast.  He took a sip of his ale, finding it far more potent than he might’ve expected.  He wondered if his months underground had reduced his resistance to the stuff or if Liam served it strong on purpose.  His intuition leaned towards the latter.

