The conversation began in earnest from there as the gathered parties shared stories of their adventures so far.  Priam told of chasing down a wild horse to snatch the key to a hidden chest tied to its mane, Lucius of fighting off a fire breathing tortoise with his bare hands.

The brothers, it seemed, had learned to fight at a monastery out in The Burning Sands.  They’d fled west to seek their fortune and an escape to the harm the brutal desert sun dealt to Lucius’s pale skin.  The Depths had promised both.

The Dragon’s Claws were a more eclectic group, monster-hunters for hire that’d found each other at famed hub for misfits that was the commission board.  They’d come to the Depths to put everything they’d learned roaming the wilderness to the test.

Edmund at first tried to hide himself in his ale when it came time to share his own story, but Priam and Elya teamed up on him to coerce the tale out.  He kept it brief.

“I came in through the fodder line with a group they paired me with that same day.  I was the only one to survive the first floor, and I’ve been on my own ever since.”

“You must be a skilled warrior,” Lucius offered, “to make it so far on your own.”

Leah looked up at him.  “Where’d you learn to fight?”

“Here, if you’d believe it,” Edmund replied.  “That first floor was… brutal.  Horrific, even.  I barely survived it.  My party didn’t.”  He let out a breath.  “After that first fight, I knew I’d never survive the second floor, not as I was, so I didn’t go.”

Ron blinked.  “You left to train more?”

“I stayed.  I waited for the rats to respawn—fewer this time for the smaller party—and I killed them again.  Then again.  Over and over and over until I got it right.”  Edmund took a sip of ale.  “I guess part of me was taking out my anger on the monsters in front of me, but another part knew that I’d never survive this place unless I took everything the dungeon gave me, and that means more than Aspects and loot.”

The table went quiet.  Edmund took another sip of ale, beginning to blame it for his truthfulness.

“Thrax, man,” Elya broke the silence.  “You’ve got some drive.”

“Aye,” Lucius added.  “I would’ve run out of patience and either left the dungeon or died on the second floor.”

“There’s nothing for me up there,” Edmund muttered, his words barely surviving over the noise of the tavern around them.  The others leaned in to listen close.  “All that’s left is to keep pushing forward, keep moving down, deeper and deeper into the darkness until one of us finishes it.”  Edmund finished his ale.  “Sometimes I don’t think either of us are going to make it out of this alive.  Maybe that would be for the best.”

Silence hung in the air at Edmund’s speech, the cacophony of the tavern around them somehow fading into a distant blur beneath the weight of his words.  He knew he shouldn’t have said that the moment he set down his tankard, but despite himself he’d let the truth slip out.  A part of Edmund felt lighter for it.

Christopher leaned in, his voice barely a whisper as he asked the question on everyone’s minds.  “Either of who, Edmund?  Who are you down here with?”

Behind him, Liam cracked a smile.  “I did tell you not to drink the ale.  Ale and secrets make for poor bedfellows.”

“It’s…”  Edmund sighed, his ale-fogged mind failing to come up with a good explanation.  Could there even be one?  These delvers might’ve resented him if he revealed his true purpose.  They’d each profited handsomely from the Depths thus far, and it seemed none of them had truly felt its cost.  Not like he had.

The tavern itself came to his rescue, as a chorus of cheers exploded first from the lower level before spreading to the upper.  All around him Edmund watched delvers rise from their seats to crowd around the wooden railing overlooking the floor below.  “What’s going on?”

“This isn’t like other hubs,” Priam explained.  “To leave, you have to spill blood in the ring, either a monster’s, or that of another delver.”

Edmund stood and looked over Leah’s short form to gaze down at the lower level.  Sure enough, a ring of stones sat inlaid in the floor, a mirror to those that defined the safe zones on previous hub floors.  This time, it was the inside that was unsafe.

A man stood on either side of the ring, one with an axe and one with a sword, both with looks of rage on their face.  Edmund noted a sway to the both of them, the ale clearly making its mark upon their minds.

The swordsman charged.  The axeman sidestepped.  The swordsman pivoted and swept his blade up to defend, but his motions were clumsy with the drink.

The axeman buried his blade in the swordsman’s neck.

Cheers from the crowd mingled with the axeman’s cry of victory and the familiar chime of a cleared floor echoing in the air.  The axeman showboated a bit, walking a circle around the ring and egging the tavern into applauding louder before he turned his attention to the gold chest at the ring’s center.  He withdrew some kind of necklace and returned to his table, his way to the next floor now open.

Edmund shuddered.  “That’s why he gives out free ale,” he muttered.  “He wants to start bar fights with lethal consequences.”

“What’d you expect?” Elya asked.  “Get a bunch of drunk fighters in a room together, of fucking course they’re going to fight.”

“But why would anyone choose to fight another delver?” Edmund asked.  “If you could fight a monster instead, why not—”

“Because a monster’s unpredictable,” Christopher cut him off.  “With a monster you don’t know what you’re going to get.  You don’t have time to craft a battle plan or control the encounter.  For some, fighting a delver’s the smart move.”

Leah nodded.  “Not all delvers are created equal.  Some builds are better for one-on-one fighting than others.  A group like ours, we’d take a monster any day, because some of us—” she glanced at Christopher— “wouldn’t stand a chance in a one-on-one fight.  The Durnes here could probably each take down a delver if they chose wisely, and looking at you I’d bet you could beat every single person in this room.”

“You’ll be fighting a monster,” Elya said with confidence.  “I’d wager good silver you could ask every delver in this room and not find anyone willing to step into the ring with you.”

Edmund paled, his eyes widening in surprise.  “Really?”

Leah laughed.  “You’re a scary motherfucker.”

Edmund looked away.  It didn’t matter, really.  Truth be told, he didn’t want to fight another delver.  The idea of killing a human being just to progress further into the Depths felt fundamentally wrong to him.  A part of him argued that’s exactly what he’d done to that poor man on the fourteenth floor.  Edmund tried not to follow that line of thought.

With one last lingering glance at the fighting ring, Edmund pulled away from the railing and returned to his seat.  He wasn’t against fighting a monster in the ring, but the crowd of onlookers would weaken him.  The Recluse alone was enough of a reason to avoid it if possible.

“What about hidden exits?” he eventually asked.  “Are there other ways out?”

“There’s a cellar,” Lucius said.  “The staircase over there goes a floor lower than the ring.”

Edmund raised an eyebrow.  “Do people go down there?”

“Some,” Leah said with a shrug.  “None come back.”

“What about lodgings and shops?  There’ve gotta be vendors around here somewhere, right?”

“Upstairs,” Ron said.  “There are rooms with cots and a few folks selling supplies, but nothing like the other hubs.”

“There were rooms with cots,” Elya corrected.  “The kingsguards have snatched them all up.”

Edmund blinked.  “If there aren’t enough can’t the dungeon just add more?”

“Not while there are people on the floor,” Liam explained.  “Every once in a while I’ll kick everyone out and redecorate, but not because a few delvers are too self-important to sleep on the ground.”

“I don’t know,” Elya said, unable to hear Liam’s reply.  “It just doesn’t.”

“Speaking of the kingsguards,” Edmund spoke under his breath, leaning in to keep the conversation private.  “You wouldn’t happen to have met the other member of our cohort, have you?”

Priam grinned.  “Oh, you’ve found someone else you think is going to go far down here?”

Lucius’s scowl clashed with his brother’s expression.  “He has, and I get the impression we’re not going to like who it is.”

Priam’s eyes widened with realization.  He cursed.

Elya laughed.  Leah chuckled.  Myra grimaced.

“You have seen her then,” Christopher said.  “And you think this princess of theirs is a fighter.”

“Good of one as any of us,” Edmund replied, “and whatever the guards say, she’s certainly not here against her will.”

“Give it enough time and she’ll be gone against her will,” Elya said.  “This isn’t some massive desert where you can disappear into the dunes.  Moment she steps foot on this floor, they’ve got her.”

“You understand, then, why I have an interest in this cellar you’ve mentioned.”

Lucius abruptly stood, the bench scraping against the floor from the motion.  “I want no part in this.  I think you'll do well down here, Edmund.  You’re definitely the most driven person I’ve ever met, and I’ll be happy to share information with you or work together should we find each other on a later floor, but I don’t want any trouble with the kingsguards.”

Priam nodded and stood by his brother.  “I think perhaps it’s time we looked to face the ring.  Good luck to each of you in the trials to come.”

Edmund nodded his acceptance of their words and bid them well on their way, making clear his hope they’d see each other again.  As the brothers turned to leave, he also stood.

“I need to do some shopping and get some rest,” he told the Dragon’s Claws.  “Thank you for sharing your table with me.  It’s been… some time since I’ve shared a drink with friends.”

“Friends, then,” Christopher said, offering a hand.  Edmund shook it.

One by one he wished the party well, expressed his good intent should they meet again, and thanked them for their company.  He walked away from the table tallying up the value of the token he’d spent on ale, pondering its true worth.

Could whatever tool he might’ve purchased with those few silver coins match the companionship he’d earned?  If the Durne brothers were right in their perception of the delvers’ skill—which Edmund wanted to believe as they’d evaluated him as a force to be reckoned with—the odds were good he’d come across them again.  Carrying an extra torch or bandage or length of rope may or may not make as big a difference as having an immediate bond with the delvers he encountered.

Both of his last run-ins with other delvers had ended in death.  Amelia’s party had mistrusted him to the point all but he and the princess had died, and of the trio he’d met on the fourteenth floor, only one had made it out alive.  Come to think of it, he hadn’t seen the aforementioned survivor in the tavern yet.  He hoped she’d already left the dungeon.

Edmund weaved through the crowd towards the staircase, thoughts milling about in his head as he moved.  Liam put an end to that.

“In case you were wondering,” the dungeon said, “and I’m sure you weren’t, entry to the bathhouse upstairs costs five copper.”

“I don’t smell any worse than any other delver here,” Edmund muttered back as he mounted the staircase.  “If you have a problem with smelly delvers, maybe you should be handing out bath tokens along with those ale ones.”

“I tried.  People kept hoarding them.”

“Then why charge at all?”

Liam shrugged.  “Limited capacity.”

Edmund squinted at him.  “Then make more capacity.  You’re a dungeon.”  He paused in his ascent up the stairs.  “This is about the money.  The less they have when they leave, the more likely they are to come back.”

“Or I just don’t want to kick everyone out to build a bigger bathhouse.”  Liam turned and gestured widely to the tavern at large.  “Look how much fun everyone is having.  I couldn’t bring myself to put an end to that.”

A bloodcurdling scream echoed up from the lower floor, reaching Edmund’s ears just long enough to send a chill down his spine before it was silenced.  He glanced flatly at Liam.  “Fun.”

“Exactly.”  Liam beamed.

With a sigh Edmund turned and continued his way upstairs, finding himself in a round chamber with two hallways stretching away from it.  He imagined one led to the bathhouse and the other to the lodgings.  For the time being, he had interest in neither.

Some two dozen market stalls lined the space, each occupied by a merchant selling anything from essential supplies to pointless luxuries.  Edmund stopped at a counter for the former.

He bought a bedroll before anything else, allowing himself this little comfort at the cost of a few silver and space within his cloudkith satchel.  He could’ve explained it to himself in any number of ways, from espousing the value of sleep to avoiding stiffness in the morning that might’ve hindered his ability to fight, but to be entirely truthful, Edmund had grown tired of sleeping on the ground.  A bedroll was no portable camp, but he’d need to be far richer to ever afford such a luxury, and richer still to justify its purchase.

The rest of his silver went towards supplies with much more quantifiable value.

He bought six torches, knowing that he still had another hub between him and the fortieth floor beyond which the accords allowed for floors in full darkness.  Partial darkness, he’d found, could be just as worth dispelling.  He forwent the flint to light them, saving the silver when a simple Firebolt did the job just as well.

Next came a knife, a simple blade he strapped to his hip as more of a tool than a weapon, though Edmund knew well it would be wielded as one soon enough.  Having access to a blade that wasn’t coated in poison posed a number of uses, first and foremost the ability to butcher kills should he find himself without soil for his rootmother’s sigil.  For a similar reason he purchased a water skin, filling it up and packing it away for emergencies.

