Amelia darted right past the golden loot chest on the floor to reach the exit, pausing for a moment just before entering the darkness between levels.  “Thank you,” she said.  “I’ll see you down there.”

And with that, she was gone.

Edmund slid on his knees up to Fyria’s body, frantically tugging on it to get the elf’s hand out from under her.  He’d barely managed it by the time the guards reached him.

Keeping his fists clenched to mask his prize, Edmund allowed the soldiers to grab him and yank him upright.  The tavern stood silent as a man in lieutenant’s regalia stalked into the ring.

“I’d kill you right now,” he sneered, “but the king will want to see the man who stole his daughter from him and sent her into danger.”

He went on, addressing both Edmund and the crowd, but the former ignored him.  Uninterested in the man’s speech, Edmund shut his eyes and envisioned his constellation, taking this moment he had to select his newest Aspect.  Having learned, by then, to plan his decisions ahead of time, it didn’t take long to choose War and The Rift.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Edmund blinked in surprise.  He’d expected War and The Rift to average to silver resonance, not gold.  He must’ve had some affinity for Rebellion he hadn’t imagined.  Given the string of decisions he’d just made, he supposed that made some kind of sense.

The Aspect itself felt powerful.  Given how low-leveled he’d been when he first set foot in the Eternal Depths, pretty much anything and everything he encountered should’ve been above his level.  He’d have to ask Liam to confirm, but Edmund got the impression Rebellion’s buff would always be active.

Edmund’s eyes flicked open as the room again fell silent.  He could feel the crowd’s gaze boring into him from all angles, judging his every move.

“I said,” the lieutenant repeated, “what do you have to say for yourself?”

Edmund set his jaw and raised his head and spoke aloud so every guard, delver, and merchant in the place could hear his words.  “I want you to tell your king there’re only two ways his daughter leaves this place alive: because she’s finished what she came here to do, or because I did.”

Before they could react to his words, Edmund tightened his grip on the gauntlet piece in his hand, set his sights on the open exit, and Broke Through.

A hideous crunch echoed through the tavern as the force of Edmund’s newest ability shattered the hands of the guards that held him, but he didn’t remain to see the damage.  The skill imparted him with the momentum of a full sprint, a pace Edmund found himself forced to match lest he stumble and fall to his face.

He didn’t stop.  He didn’t slow.  He didn’t hesitate.  He didn’t spare a second glance for the loot chest on the floor or the brothers Durne in the crowd or the Dragon’s Claws on the upper level.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, paragon of Madness, The Crimson Hand, fugitive from the crown of Linaria, escaped the guards’ clutches, and charged headlong into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 16

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 4 - Provides a limited increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a limited decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 8 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 11 - See beyond reality.  Touch the unreal.  Shape your world.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Ponder the nature of reality.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Apprentice

The third step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants a single windstep.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
