He bought a supply of bandages and basic poultices for the off chance he suffered an injury that bled or rotted faster than Perseverance could heal, but the true—and most expensive—prize was a set of five potions of curing.  The Island gave him some resistance to ongoing effects, but in the case he ever found himself surrounded by too many people or afflicted with something powerful enough to overcome its protection, he’d want a back up.

Edmund considered, for a time, also purchasing a set of health or mana potions should he find himself injured and without the time for Perseverance to work, but the price for each turned him away.  Such supplies, it seemed, were in far higher demand than he would’ve liked.  Instead, he spent the last of his silver on a bundle of hardtack.  Liam had already threatened to send him to floors with no soil and inedible monsters.  Edmund would have to be prepared.

All said and done, he came away with a bulging satchel and exactly two copper to his name—not enough for a bath, but suspiciously exactly enough for something else.  Edmund tried to convince himself it was a coincidence, that Liam couldn’t possibly have planned out the exact amount of silver to drop to guide Edmund down this particular set of purchases to this particular amount of remaining coin.  Besides, Liam would’ve given him seven copper, so he could’ve afforded a bath as well, right?

Nonetheless, when Edmund turned away from the supply shop he found a one-eyed man selling kebabs that nobody bought.  With a sigh, he approached.

“Well, would you look who it is,” William greeted him with a toothy grin.  “Can I interest you in a kebab?  Two copper.”

Edmund shut his eyes and took a deep breath before he finally slid his last two coins across the counter.  “I’ll take one.”

“Good lad.”  William slapped him affectionately on the shoulder, coincidentally—or not so coincidentally—directly over his challenger’s mark.  He handed Edmund a kebab.  “How’ve you been?”

“He’s been miserable,” Liam answered for him.  “As always.”

“Well that’s cause he’s got you whispering in his ear,” William snapped back.

“No, no, that can’t be right.”  Liam rubbed his chin in mock thoughtfulness.  “I’m a delight.”

“Aye, that you are,” William said, handing a second kebab over to Liam, one the dungeon clearly hadn’t paid for.  “A miserable one at that.”

Edmund remained silent as he ate his kebab, happy to watch the exchange play out in front of him.  Every word the two spoke to each other made for another hint, another clue as to William’s true nature.  He waited until Liam finally stopped talking to eat his own kebab before speaking up himself.  “So William, how did you come to work in the Depths?”

“Same way anyone else does, I suppose.  Through the merchant’s door.”

Liam snorted.

Edmund glared.  “You know what I meant.”

William grinned.  “Just a little joke.  I was a delver first, like you.  Made it to the fiftieth before my partner died.  That’s when your friend here offered to swap my delver’s mark for a merchant’s mark, and here I am.”

Edmund raised an eyebrow.  “You made it to the fiftieth floor, and now you sell kebabs?  What happened to your loot?”

“Oh, I still have it,” the man said with a smile.  “That’s why I sell kebabs.  If I needed the money, I’d do what the rest of this lot do and sell supplies at a markup.  But I like making kebabs and I like talking with the kind of folk who stop by for a chat with the kebab man.”

Edmund glanced around the room, pointedly highlighting the absence of other customers.  “I’ve never seen anyone else stop at your stall.”

“Means you’ve never seen anyone else worth talking to.”  William winked, his glass eye wobbling disconcertingly back and forth with the motion.

“Is that why you just happen to be on every hub floor I visit?  Thrax, last floor you weren’t even in the market.”

William shrugged.  “Prime spots are hard to come by.  Sometimes a poor old kebab seller has to make do.”

Edmund spared a look towards Liam, who seemed to be content watching the conversation unfold with a wolfish grin on his face.  Edmund didn’t like the look of it.  “Is it a coincidence I had exactly two copper left over after buying supplies?”

“Ooh, the direct approach.”  Liam said.

“You’ll have to ask him that,” William answered.  “I’m just the kebab man.”

Ignoring the fact that William was very certainly not just the kebab man, Edmund raised an eyebrow at Liam.

“Coincidence, divine providence, a touch of meddling, who’s to say why things turn out the way they do?”

“You are,” Edmund said sharply.  “It’s your dungeon.”

“And a damn good one at that,” Liam said, “so full of intrigue and mystery.”

Edmund groaned.  Liam smiled.  William laughed.

“Thanks for the kebab,” Edmund eventually said.  “I suppose I’ll be seeing you again on the twenty-fifth floor?”

“Like your friend said,” William answered, “who’s to say?”

Edmund let out a quiet breath and turned away, looking towards the hall down which he’d find the bedrooms.  His mind replayed the conversation as he walked, trying and failing to read any deeper meaning into William’s words.

The story about being a high level delver made some amount of sense, and along with the lack of anything too suspicious occurring it gave Edmund some comfort that perhaps William was to some extent as he seemed.  The man was certainly hiding something, but the more Edmund thought about it, the more Edmund concluded the kebab seller to be a man with secrets rather than some construct of Liam’s.

He didn’t rule that latter out, of course, but he at least felt it less likely.  Then again, likelihoods seemed to mean little in Liam’s world.

He’d moved on to wondering how he might barter for a place to sleep when a commotion at the stairway pulled him from his thoughts.  A clamor of commands and shouts of protest echoed to Edmund’s ear, their words muffled in the din of the tavern, yet the emotions behind them clear.  Luckily, the distinct sound of a sword leaving its sheath remained absent.

Edmund made it three steps towards the crest of the stairs before the source of the hubbub reached his eyes.  He froze.  The indignant cries of protest ceased.  For a horrible moment, the world went silent as Edmund’s eyes met first Amelia’s, then those of the two kingsguards that dragged her up the stairs.

“I said unhand me!” the shouting continued.  “I am your princess!  I’ll have your heads for this!”

She squirmed against the grip of the two guards, but within their grasp her superior agility offered little in the face of their strength.  She glanced once more over the crowd at Edmund, the message in her eyes no longer one of shock, but one of clear direction.

Help me.

For all the smoke failed to fill the tavern, for all the company of others bestowed a sense of normalcy, for all The Recluse suppressed Edmund’s most powerful Aspect, then and there, Edmund Montgomery Ahab did something that even he would admit was truly, confirmably, certifiably, insane.

He obeyed.

The Smoke Lash began to form around his wrist before his mind even came to its decision.  By the time he shoved a passerby out of his way and made his first step, the whip was already flying towards its target.

The guard let out a startled yelp as the whip struck his forearm, but he didn’t release his grip on Amelia.

So Edmund pulled.

The kingsguard and Amelia alike lurched forward, the former stumbling into the handrail and the latter into him.  By the time the guard regained his composure, Edmund was upon him.

He slammed into the soldier with his left shoulder, finally forcing the man to release his grip on the princess as he tumbled down the stairs.  Before Edmund could even look at the second guard, Amelia had knocked her unconscious.

“Follow me,” Edmund barked, taking the lead down towards the lower floors.  He kept his weapons undrawn, not wanting to risk killing anyone.

“Where are we going?”

“The basement!  There’s gotta be a hidden exit down—shit,” Edmund cursed as four more guards rounded the bend in the stairs below them.  They drew their swords.

“This way!” Amelia called, vaulting over the handrail to fall the eight remaining feet to entrance level.

Edmund followed, stumbling into an intoxicated bystander as he landed, but keeping his feet.

“Stop them!” a guard called from behind as they clustered at the stairs.

Amelia darted across the deck up to the rail overlooking the level with the ring.  She stopped short up against it, gazing wide-eyed at the twenty-foot fall.

Edmund didn’t stop.  Carrying his momentum, he wrapped an arm around Amelia’s waist and carried her up and over the handrail.  Together, they plummeted.

Edmund waited for half a heartbeat before activating his windstep, solidifying the air beneath his foot to slow their fall.  He landed hard on his hands and knees in the center of the ring.  Amelia somehow landed on her feet.

“Liam!” Edmund shouted as he scrambled to his feet.  “Get us a monster!”  He reached into his satchel and slipped his helmet back on.

“Say the magic word,” Liam prompted, appearing suddenly just outside the stone ring.

“Just fucking do it!”

“Eh, good enough,” Liam said with a shrug.

The ground began to rumble beneath Edmund’s feet.

Kingsguards pushed through the dense crowd, their swords drawn and their visors lowered.  Edmund rounded on them as they neared the ring.  “No closer!” he shouted.

Still the guards approached.

“You’re still alive because I don’t want to risk the dungeon’s wrath by breaking the peace,” Edmund continued.  He singled out the nearest guard, holding up a halting hand before the man could take another step.  “Anyone who steps into this ring becomes our ticket out of here, you understand?”

The guards faltered.

The ground quaked again.

“Liam, where’s that monster?” Edmund asked as he strapped on his shield and drew his spear.

“It’s coming, it’s coming.  These things take time.  I can’t just pop a monster into existence without some kind of dramatic entrance.  These people are here for a show, Edmund.”

Keeping her back turned to him so she could watch their flank, Amelia spoke under her breath.  “Who’s Liam?”

“I’ll tell you later.  Right now we need to—”  Edmund cut off as the tavern shook a third time.  The torches on the wall and braziers on the floor flickered out as it did, casting the space in deep shadow interspersed with intermittent periods of light.  In the chaos of it all, a portal cut through the air between Edmund and the exit.

“Thrax,” Edmund cursed as he recognized the portal.  “Now?”

Liam beamed.  “Now.”

A slender humanoid in green and brown armor stepped through the portal, her helm bearing four slits through which her pointed ears could reach.  Most importantly to Edmund, however, was the blood red armor that protected the ring finger of her right hand.  Now of all times, Liam had delivered to him the second piece to the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.  Weakened as it was, Madness could still give him a name.

Commander Fyria

“Can you take her?” Edmund asked as he glanced over the twin longswords the elven commander wielded.

“With your help?  Definitely.  On my own?”  Amelia drew her daggers.  “If I have to.”

“I’ll help as much as I can,” Edmund said, “but someone has to babysit these guards to stop them from doing anything stupid.”  He raised his voice for those final words, making sure the kingsguards heard them.

Amelia didn’t question him, recognizing the need to keep herself away from the edges of the ring.  With any luck, the guards would be too afraid of getting her killed to dare interfering with the fight.  All Edmund had to do was dissuade them from attempting to help.

What Edmund didn’t want to admit was his fear the elf would outmatch him, weakened as he was by the crowd’s interaction with Solitude and its confluences.

He kept his distance as Amelia darted in, his eyes darting back and forth along the edge of the ring, ready to react to any attempt at interference.  He tracked the fight behind him in his mind, the rhythm of footsteps and clashing of blades reaching his enhanced ears and materializing into an image in his mind’s eye thanks to his sigil of the azure fox.  He spared an idle thought for the beast before refocusing to launch a Firebolt at the foot of a guard that slipped a bit too far forward.

A cry of rage echoed out as Amelia scored a blow and stepped away, moving to stand back to back with Edmund.  “I’ve got her poisoned,” she whispered.  “Just a matter of time now.”

“We’ll have to move quick once she drops,” Edmund said.  “The fear of getting you killed is the only thing keeping the guards back.”

“We should maneuver towards the exit.”

Edmund nodded.  “Once she’s down, you need to go.  Don’t wait.  Don’t delay.  I’ll be right behind—”

“Move!”

Edmund dove left, catching a bolt of something on his shield.  The impact knocked him out of his roll, forcing him to scramble to his feet.

“Thrax damnit!” Amelia shouted.  “She’s got magic!”

Edmund didn’t get a chance to reply as four guards raised their swords and stepped over the line into the ring.  He leveled his spear at them.  “Don’t do this.  I can’t help her if I’m busy fighting you.”

“The king’s ordered us not to return without his daughter,” one said.  “With you out of the way, there’s a whole squad of kingsguards to help her.”

Edmund growled, “I don’t want to hurt—”

“Move!” Amelia shouted again from across the battlefield.

Edmund leapt without hesitation, diving left into a roll to dodge the incoming spell.  He looked up just in time to watch the spell strike the leftmost guard.

A dozen javelins woven together into a single multi-headed projectile as red as blood pierced the man’s stomach.  He collapsed with the pained gurgle of a pierced lung.  The other guards faltered, staring wide-eyed at Edmund, Commander Fyria, and their fallen comrade in turn.

“Help him!” Edmund barked at them.  “Get him out of here!”

A coalition of guards and onlookers reached into the ring to drag the mortally wounded man from danger.  Edmund snarled at the remaining guards.  “Nobody needs to die.  Heal your man and let us go.”

Another guard leveled his sword at Edmund.  “I don’t think we—”

“She’s down!”

With a thud the elven commander hit the floor.  A chime rang out.  The door swung open.

Edmund spun.  “Go!”  He shouted, already sprinting for Fyria’s corpse.  “I’ll see you further down!”

