They were old words, spoken almost a year ago over a dinner between new friends. To those new and now old friends, they had been the words of a man who didn’t know how magic worked. To the man who had spoken them, those words were filled with ideas of electrons and charge differentials and the rubbing of moisture against moisture in systems so vast that no one person could ever hope to comprehend or control the whole; so he asked magic to fill the gaps.

The young woman had done the same, on this day, but she had the benefit of established magic helping her along.

As the original caster looked on with a dozen different viewpoints, preparing to intercede should something horrific happen, he watched as his apprentice recreated his first magic. He smiled, even before the magic took hold, for he saw the world respond to his apprentice, and it was good.

The sky shifted, but barely. Even if you were watching, you might have missed the wispy white brushstrokes of clouds that painted a part of the sky to something other than blue. The mentor noticed, but then he noticed something else: the shadow produced by that cloud.

That shallow darkness seemed a living thing. It was expected. It was there. It did not interfere.

Eyes turned fully to the sky.

The sky charged.

A brilliant bolt of green-white lightning flashed across the blue, to strike the distant spire.

The young woman collapsed, bleeding from her eyes, her ears, and her nose. She coughed up blood as she was tapped with a glowing rod. Her world was pain, but her mentor held her in his arms and told her everything was going to be okay. He listed her internal injuries to her; they were mostly burst blood vessels caused by something he didn’t quite understand, but the rod’s magic was already mending her body. He did not mention that her soul was slightly damaged, but that too, looked to be minor. She smiled, weakly. Then she held out a familiar blue box.

Erick smiled, overjoyed for his apprentice. “Good job, Kiri. I knew you could do it.”

Kiri groaned and laughed at the same time. Blood trickled from her mouth. A [Cleanse] cleaned up the blood, and her laugh turned pure for two moments. Then she groaned again. She tried to sit up, but only managed to collapse back into Erick’s arms.

Kiri closed her eyes, and said, “I feel like I got run over by a wyrm.”

“I was out of it for a while, too.” Erick said, “I only had access to [Treat Wounds] but you have [Greater Treat Wounds]. You should get better faster than it took me.”

Poi spoke up, “Congratulations, Specialist Kiri.”

Kiri opened her eyes, and said, “Thank you.” She leaned up, trying to stand. Erick helped her to her feet, then held her upright when she almost wobbled back to the ground. She breathed out, “Ohh... That’s an uncomfortable rush.”

Erick said, “You look like you’ll be fine. Maybe don’t attempt any of the other Particle Spells you’ve seen me make until you get better, and never without supervision and help. Maybe take a week? I’ll check up on you each day, but your soul damage is minor. As far as I’ve been able to tell, people walk around with similar damage and are fine for it—” He paused. “Or maybe… are they depressed? Or something? Oh. That’s an idea.” He shoved that thought away and said to Kiri, “You need to work on your mana sense. You need at least two, maybe three things to make it as a power in this world. You need a Domain. You need [True Sight] and all the other Sights, and those come from a mana sense, so you need a mana sense. And you need a place to call your own, along with allies.” He smiled, saying, “One out of three ain’t bad.”

“I will take your words to heart.” Kiri breathed deep, smelling the warm, moisture-rich air. She said, “I just want a moment, then we can go back to Treehome.”

Erick said, “Of course.”

The young woman stared out across the land, to spy the spire in the distance. A black mark adorned the tip, like a splash of ink scattered upon the orange stone. She sighed. She smiled. She was ready to go.

The older man who was not, the emerald woman, and the sapphire guard, all vanished in a flicker of light. The not-birds and the not-couatls vanished in the following seconds.

When everyone was gone, the shadow around the base of the stone spire became something darker, but only briefly. The Darkness left as fast as he had come, gifting a laugh to the wind that was almost too quiet to hear.
