But one day, she’d be on her own. She almost wished that day was today, but as soon as that thought crossed her mind, she banished it. Be careful what you wish for!

The door opened. An older woman came out while a young man went right in.

Kiri had learned so much while apprenticed to Erick. Sure, he didn’t know much standardized magic at all, but that never stopped him from controlling the weather or killing every monster in millions upon millions of kilometers. Holy shit. Kiri took a moment to realize that that would be her, soon enough.

[Withering]! [Control Weather]! [Cascade Imaging]!

[Call Lightning], the base of Erick’s power! And what a basic tier spell!

Holy gods, holy gods, it’s actually happening.

Kiri searched for those spells in the Script, and she didn’t find them, but that didn’t matter. She didn’t think she would find them, anyway. They were too good. Too powerful. She would have to make them herself.

She thought for a second and came to the conclusion that [Call Lightning] probably existed outside of the Open Script. It had to be like [Duplicate], or [Teleport Familiar]. Accessible, if you knew how.

And then another thought occurred.

Oh.

Gods.

Could she get that Class Ability that let Erick effortlessly GAIN ALL PARTICLE MAGIC HE WITNESSED?!

Could she do that? Could she get [Control Weather], just like that?

TODAY?!

A tiny, maybe-crazed giggle leapt out of Kiri. She pulled it back in, stuffing that emotion down, down, down. Silencing that small, too-overjoyed part of herself back into something more proper for one of her station. She had a station, yeah? Yeah, she did. Erick could get away with being crazed, but she certainly could not; at least NOT YET!

Bwahahaha!

The other soldiers were looking at her.

She controlled herself. Mostly. That laugh had been inside her head, hadn’t it? Yes. It had. Mostly.

At least one being had been looking at her without judgment, though. Sunny curled up around Kiri’s neck, flickering happy greens, her little wings fluttering with rainbows. She was happy that Kiri was happy.

Kiri whispered to no one in particular, “Sorry.”

But she wasn’t really sorry. She was jubilant. Exuberant. Magnificently elated!

Another person shuffled into Irogh’s office as the person from before stepped out, and then away.

Soon, another person shifted through the registrar’s office.

Kiri was next!

The main hallway of the Courthouse was beginning to come alive with the normal business of the day. People from off the streets were beginning to step across the white stone, or talk to their clients in the hallway, or to argue in small voices with other lawyers standing just outside of the various courtrooms of the Courthouse.

Kiri didn’t care about any of that. Because she was next in line, and the door to Irogh’s office opened—

A voice came from the side; not from the open door.

“Miss Flamecrash.”

“Nooooo…” Kiri whisper-whined, as she turned to the person who had been approaching her for the last twenty seconds. Of course, Kiri had noticed Silverite, the sundress-clothed silver wrought Mayor of Spur. Or, actually, Sunny had noticed, and then poked at Kiri to get her to notice the silver woman walking through the crowd of not-wrought. She breathed, turned to Silverite, asking, “Can I please go inside and then come out and talk with you, Mayor Silverite? It’s a very, very big day for me. I promise I won’t take long.”

Silverite gestured away from the line, saying, “I promise I won’t take long, Miss Flamecrash. Come along now.”

Kiri reluctantly gave up her place in line. She tried to be professional about following along like a good little soldier, but that [Teleporting Platform] had already left the Guildhouse. She was most decidedly unhappy. She tried not to let it show and was mostly successful, in her own opinion. Silverite probably saw right through her. Immortals were like that.

… Erick was sort of like that. It was that Perception of his, for sure. But then again, he had always been fast on the social clues. Kiri had needed to take up [Sense Emotion] from a helpful Mind Mage to be able to do the same thing Erick could do without magic.

Silverite took Kiri down a hallway, then into one of the empty meeting rooms that any lawyer or judge could use for their purposes. She closed the door behind them.

They were alone.

Silverite began, “I need you to come back to Spur, today. Erick needs to stay away longer.”

Kiri almost shouted ‘no!’, but then she controlled herself. Erick had just spoken of journeying into the Forest, into the Old Dragonkin lands! The only reason she hadn’t gotten radically more excited when he suggested that, was because she was already at peak-joy. Today, she had become a Particle Mage!

Silverite narrowed her eyes. She waited.

“Can I ask why I need to return right now?” Kiri said, “We were planning on going to the Forest to hunt for Gates in the Old Dragonkin lands and I would dearly like to be part of that.”

“I need another person I can call upon at a moment’s notice in order to defend the city from over-sized assailants.” Silverite said, “There has been a monster attack every other night, and Archmage Wave, Obsidian, and Opal, are complaining to me over their massively increased obligations. Now that the Culling is done up there, I need you and Sizzi both to come back. Ask for something and let me give it to you, but in exchange, I need you here, and on-call.”

Kiri felt a flush of emotion. Silverite was asking for her help? And offering an exchange?

… This… This was also everything Kiri ever wanted!

Kiri rapidly said, “Of course, Mayor. I was not aware that the city was actually in danger. I will—”

But… Kiri really, truly did want to visit the Old Dragonkin lands. But, she didn’t need to visit those gravesites, did she? No; she did not. What she needed was a secure place of her own in the world. Until this very moment, Spur was not exactly that spot. Sure, there were far-off plans that were vague enough to include such a possibility. Part of her harbored the hope to someday return to Tower Town as some sort of archmage, or conqueror, but those were the dreams of a vengeful child.

A much better dream was staring her in the face, right now.

A place of power in Spur. Leverage for the future. Ever since she became Erick’s apprentice, those needs had always been nebulous stars to reach for but never quite catch.

But now?

Kiri saw her paths, and picked one.

Kiri said, “A promotion. Tax exemption—”

She almost added that she wanted to talk to the other Archmages of Spur, too, to learn from them, but that would have been asking for way too much. She had gotten exceedingly lucky with Erick, and that was only because of his own unique circumstances, and the fact that she was able to approach him in the training ring of Spur’s Adventurer’s Guild. You did not approach Archmages without due cause, nor did you ask of them anything that they were not already willing to give, unless you liked being set on fire or your world turned upside down. Such stories were common when it came to publically-available archmages like the Headmaster.

Erick might not set many people on fire, but he certainly turned their world upside down whenever he could, and sometimes without even trying.

Kiri added, “— And a path to being a power in Spur, Mayor Silverite.”

Silverite said, “You are now a Specialist. It’s outside of the normal command structure. The only ones you will have to take orders from are me, Killzone, or Liquid. If, in the future, you choose to stay with Erick, then you will still have to listen to Poi; he is much more trusted than you, though you are getting there. I offer you 50,000 gold in tax credit. If you stick around in Spur, then you will be a Power, and soon. But that all depends on you.” She asked, “Is this sufficient?”

“Fifty tho—!” Kiri returned her wide-eyes to their normal measures of openness as she stood tall and readily agreed, “Yes.” She added, “I am going to stay with Erick. But I’ll be in Spur. I have to go back and tell them that I have to return. We truly did have plans for exploring the Forest, Mayor Silverite. Erick wants to plunder the Gate network if we can find any left.”

“You have the day. I need you and your Sunny here before night falls. Let Erick know that I don’t believe he will find any Gates; they’ve all been plundered centuries ago.” Silverite added, “When you come back, you’ll be on a night-time schedule, so be ready for that.”

“Heard and understood, Mayor.” Kiri said, “I must get back to Irogh, then back to Erick. I will be back before nightfall.”

“Good.” Silverite walked to the door and opened it, saying, “Glad to have you here.”

“Glad to be here, Mayor.”

- - - -

Kiri sat down across from Irogh, the Registrar of Spur.

The greying orcol smirked, saying, “You look like you’ve gotten some good news.”

“It’s like everything is coming together, Mister Registrar. A hundred moving pieces, all at once, converging into something wonderful. I’m less than thrilled some parts seem to be happening out of order, but that’s life.”

“I’m happy for you.” Irogh asked, “Now what can I do for you, today?”

“Class Abilities!” Kiri said, “Please and thank you.”

Irogh nodded.

Blue boxes appeared.

All Spell Cost Reduction. 10%

More Mana. 2x

All Particle Spell Cost Reduction. max 20%

More HP. 2x

All Ability Cost Reduction. 5%

More Mana Regeneration. 2x

More Spell Damage Done, General. 1.25x

More Spell Damage Done, Particle. 2x

Less Spell Damage Taken, General. .75x

Less Spell Damage Taken, Particle. .25x

General Spell Duration. 1.25x

Particle Spell Duration. 2x

Particle Reinforcement. All Particle Spells deal in the physical, and you’ve imbued this power into yourself. Double your Health. Casting Particle Spells restores your Health.

Particle Power. All Particle Spells deal physical damage, and you’ve imbued this ability into all of your magic. Effect varies.

Particle Spell Creation. Your ability to create Particle Spells is greatly increased.

Mana Shield. Damage taken is split between MP and HP

Hero of Veird. 3x damage done to any monster.

Mental Defenses. Increases your ability to withstand mental attacks and to understand if you have been targeted by a mental attack.

Sculpt Spell. All Spells are always affected by Major Mana Shaping, for free. Greatly reduced cost to alter ongoing Auras.

Lesser Summoner Savant. Your summons gain minor access to your Skills and Abilities. 5% efficiency.

Light Dedication. Take much less damage from Light Sources. Do much more damage with Light Sources.

Light Efficiency. Greatly reduce the costs of all Light attacks and spells.

Force Savant. Your Force Spells do more and cost less.

Fire Savant. Your Fire spells do more and cost less.

Draconic Heritage. A glimpse of High Magic. Your magic is much more effective, and you are more vulnerable to all magic. Unchangeable once selected.

Draconic Denial. A denial of High Magic. Your magic is much less effective, and you are resistant to all magic. Unchangeable once selected.

Kiri had… Several questions. Some of them were much larger than the others.

She started with the smallest question, which until this moment, she had considered the largest, asking, “I don’t get the ‘see a particle spell and get that particle spell’, Ability?”

“No.”

Simple answer. No elaboration? No elaboration.

Maybe… Maybe she didn’t understand Particle Magic as well as Erick? Or maybe that Class Ability was Erick’s alone, and it would never be anyone else’s? Well… Whatever! Kiri had years upon years to gain more spells and power and Abilities. So what if she didn’t get what she was hoping for right away?

Kiri rushed forward, asking, “Why do I have Mental Defenses? I should not qualify for that one. They very clearly told me that if anything like that should show like it would mean that something bad had happened to me, without my knowledge.”

A shadow seemed to pass across Irogh’s face, as he said, “I can’t tell you why someone outside of this office would have told you to do something with regard to what you might see inside this office. That’s outside of my jurisdiction.”

“Okay… Okay.” She resolved to speak to someone else about that when she got back to Erick. Poi would Scan her if she asked. That’s what she would do. She would ask Poi for a Scan. Kiri moved on. She eyed the Draconic pair of Abilities, then ignored them, and asked, “How does Fire Savant work with Light Dedication and Particle Power, when it comes to infrared light?”

Irogh paused, briefly seemed as though he had never been asked that question before, which, fair enough, he probably hadn’t, then he glanced to the air. He narrowed his eyes at some invisible blue box, no doubt, then said, “They all stack.” He blinked, then looked to Kiri. “I’m not sure what you asked me, so I can’t help you more than that.”

“Okay.” Kiri asked, “What about Particle Power when it comes to fighting someone under a [Ward]? I read that the interaction of Particle Magic and [Ward] has been altered, but… What’s going on there?”

“The Script has fully integrated Particle Magic into itself.” Irogh said, “All this really means is that your [Hermetic Bolts] will now be able to strike a target under a non-solid [Ward], doing damage to the [Ward] instead of the person. Attacking a solid [Ward] with [Hermetic Bolts] will do damage to that Solid Ward. Normal interactions.”

