Moving down the pathway, I pass cage after cage filled with all manner of birds, fluttering about in a frenzy of colour and sound. Pretty as they are, I’m not a huge fan of birds. For one, they taste delicious and I can’t love something if I think of it as food. Second, most birds have those weird, beady little eyes, always wide open and unable to express emotion. Then there’s the projectile pooping, and I don’t need to explain why that’s a negative.

While I’m still looking for the mammals section, Diyako comes to a halt before a cage, pointing out the source of my future crossbow strings. Boasting a chubby, stocky frame, sharp, curved talons and long, pointed beaks, these birds are undoubtedly predators, a guess made all the more certain as they sit in their perches, eyeing us in silence, unperturbed by our appearance. About the size of hawk, their wings are mostly brown with a splash of blue, with a little brown and white tuft atop their head, like a bad case of bed head. White-bellied and delightfully fluffy, they’re rather cute for birds, though bigger than expected.

I’m still not super excited about them, but it’s okay. They’re resources, not companions. Reaching into my pouch, I pull out a piece of dried fish, and tap it against the bars while I prepare my Aura. The birds all eye the food, likely starving since their caretakers have all been taken into custody. Picking the cutest, fattest bird of the bunch, I extend my Aura around it, imparting a sense of love and companionship to entice it over.

“Err, I wouldn’t do that.” Diyako voices his concern as I stick my hand into the cage, but I wave it aside, concentrating on the task at hand. Using Aura for other emotions takes much more concentration than normal, only able to cover two living beings at a time, instead of the seemingly limitless default Aura. If I get the biggest, fattest bird on my good side, than the others should theoretically follow suit. After a cocking its head left and right a few times, the fatty bird flies to a closer perch, still out of reach. hopping from one foot to the next, it looks back and forth between me and the food, unwilling to come within arm’s length. Hunkering down, it looks at least three times more adorable up close, its chest and crest all puffed out, looking like an adorably angry bird. Carefully extending my arm, the fish makes its way further into the cage, but still, the fatty doesn’t move.

Aww, don’t be scared birdy. It’s okay. I’m just gonna feed you some fishies. You like fishies right? Come here and take the fishes, then I’ll pet you and love you. C’mon, don’t be shy.

Once my arm is fully extended and halfway in the cage, the fat bird flaps over and takes the treat from my hand, settling on my palm to eat. Gobbling the fish in mere seconds, the bird hops in a small circle before looking me in the eye. Aww, how cute, I’m think I’ll name you Roc, like the mythical-

Letting loose with an unholy squawk, Roc pecks my wrist, tearing away a chunk of flesh.

In bird culture, this is considered a dick move.

Yelping in pain, I withdraw my hand and glare at the bird as he swallows my flesh and flaps away. Flipping his head back, Roc opens his beak and utters forth a mocking, human-like laugh, sending a shiver down my spine. What the fuck... Is this a human in bird form? Is that even possible?

“Mean little bastards, they are. Smart too. It’s a real nightmare gettin’ their feathers out.” Diyako’s smile doesn’t help my pride, but I’ve no one to blame but myself.

Well, at least I learned a valuable lesson. My Aura, while capable of conveying emotions, isn’t quite the powerful, beast taming method I’d imagined it to be. While I can use it to let the animal know I’m friendly, it doesn’t make them friendly too. Better to learn now with the tiny birds than later with the big wolves. Ordering Dastan’s soldiers to put the entire cage on the wagon, I turn to Diyako and ask, “So where are the other animals?”

“Other animals?”

“You know, the wolves, tigers, elephants and whatnot. Something with fur, though at this point, I’ll even accept scales.”

“Ain’t no fur or scales to be found here,” he replies. “This here is an aviary.”

The blood drains from my face as I play back my conversation with Dastan. Ah, he said ‘collects exotic birds’. I got too excited and heard what I wanted to hear. No cute doggy or fluffy bunny for me... Swallowing my disappointment, I choke back a sob as Roc and his companions continue laughing, as if mocking my ruined dreams of fluffy companionship. Leaning over to pat Aurie’s head, the sweet wildcat rumbling in pleasure, bringing warmth to my heart. It’s fine, I’ve got my kitties and bears, and I can always find other adorable pets.

On the way out, I ask the guards to find someone to feed the birds or set them free. Despite my budding hatred of the avian pests, at least I can keep something in Sanshu from suffering a slow, agonizing death.

It’s not much, but it’s the best I can do. For now.

Chapter Meme
