Platinum Guild Ring – level 100A ring signifying platinum-level membership with the Adventurers Guild. It serves as a key granting access to private areas in the guild hall.Owner: Malika YuIncreased Physical damage to Unarmed, Melee attacks. +35 to all attributes.+20% to block speed.Requirements: Wisdom 350.Quests[Deity Quest] Find the ancient wells and collect the essences for Azryet – 0/3[Platinum Quest] Eliminate undead attacking Southport – 0[Platinum Quest] Death Knight bounty – 0Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 1341 / 5280 lbs.Created by Giddy Clicksprocket.Ring

“Wow, this is nice,” Malika said. “Did you see this block speed enchantment?” She was already fast, but the faster she could block, the more monsters she could tank simultaneously without getting seriously hurt. And the additional damage to all her attacks sounded amazing.

Perhaps there’s something to what he said.

“So, how do I upgrade my other pieces?” she asked. Mato typically went to Thuli, and Ali liked Lydia’s work, but neither seemed to particularly call to her.

“Zor’kan has returned to his favorite spot in the jungle level, and Calen just unloaded a whole pile of demonic hides and dragon scales with him before he left. Perhaps something he can make would suit you best?” Ali suggested.

Demonic hide sounded a bit gross, but dragon-scale might be something she could see herself wearing.

“Sounds good.”

Mato clapped his hands together. “Girly shopping? Count me in!”

Malika found herself competing with Ali to hit him fastest. “Mato!”

***

“Just one minute,” Zor’kan said, the troll leatherworker laboriously stirring a huge cauldron over a fire with what looked like a troll femur. Knowing him, it was probably grown from his own body. Toxic purple clouds billowed into the air and filled the clearing – and his hut – with an acrid chemical stench that burned at Malika’s nostrils.

Malika couldn’t Identify him, but Ali had mentioned he had reached level one hundred and sixty-one. More than skilled enough to make gear she could use.

“Aah, much better,” he said, putting his nose over the cauldron and breathing in a deep lungful of the toxic fumes, and then coughing violently for a few seconds before he left it and walked over to them. “How can I help?”

Malika’s eyebrows raised even further at the sight.

“We were wondering if you could take a look at Malika’s gear and see if there’s anything you can improve?” Ali asked.

“Hmm, let me see,” Zor’kan said, the tall troll stooping down to peer at what Malika was wearing.

“Rings are nice,” he said, nodding. “Tattoo is exceptional…”

Malika grew a little embarrassed when he began prodding her other pieces, muttering under his breath. He scratched his left ear while frowning.

“The rest is crap,” he finally declared.

“Isn’t that a little harsh?” Malika asked. After all, her boots were a Swift Bone-Studded Jambeau that bore Zor’kan’s personal mana signature.

“If you were sixty, they would be great,” he said. “You’re a hundred and forty-six; you might as well be wearing rags. We need to fix this emergency immediately. It’s a good thing you came to me.” Suddenly, the troll leatherworker was sitting down on the damp mossy ground, producing cured leather and hides from his pouch and spreading them around as he glanced back at her repeatedly as if assessing and sizing her up. “Can you imagine if someone saw you wearing all that? What would they think of me?”

“Um, sorry,” Malika said, more than a little taken aback, but then the troll winked at her.

“Soul mana. Monk,” he said, tugging on a tusk thoughtfully. “Fast?”

“I can go at a decent speed,” she said.

“She’s the fastest person I’ve ever seen,” Mato corrected, clicking his tongue in annoyance.

“Show me,” Zor’kan said.

Not knowing why he was being so pedantic, she nonetheless did what he asked, pushing her speed to the limits while running through several of the most basic forms she used for warmups.

Zor’kan’s eyes widened as he watched.

“She gets even faster the longer she fights,” Mato added.

“See here, Ms. Malika,” Zor’kan said sagely. “I’ll give you a little free life advice. False modesty is dangerous when talking to your healer.” He paused, clearly amused by his joke. “Same goes for your armorer. Could get you killed.” He tutted a bit, sorting his materials, and then he picked two different hides. “Scales of a void dragon? Or Pit Lord hide?”

“I think I like the dragon scale better,” Malika said.

“Very good, now let’s see,” he said. “Proc enchantment for this, I think. Goes well with super-fast.” And his thick-fingered troll hands danced with uncanny dexterity as he began cutting, stitching, and weaving his craft.

Even though it took nearly fifteen minutes, Malika found herself mesmerized by his incredible skills.

“Here, try this,” he said, holding out a pair of black, gleaming dragon scale boots. “Similar structure to your jambeau, but a little better. Also, in the boot design you humans prefer.”

Malika carefully took the offered pair of boots. “Thank you,” she said, bowing as she had seen the trolls do, and then, after he grinned, she examined them.

Dragon Striders of Speed – level 140Comfortable boots, masterfully crafted from gleaming black dragon scale, inlaid and reinforced with bone to produce a rugged, but elegant pair of footwear. +80 Dexterity+64 Endurance+32 Wisdom4% of your damage is returned as Health over 30 seconds.+35% to Movement speed.Stamina: +150% to Movement speed for 3 seconds. Recharge: 45 seconds. Requirements: Dexterity 490Quality: Rare.Value: 284 gold.Created by Zor’kan.Feet – Dragonscale / Bone

She gasped as soon as she saw what he had crafted. “A little better?” she exclaimed. “This is what you call a ‘little’ upgrade?” The basic attributes were more than double what had been crafted onto her Jambeau, and the movement speed enhancement was unreal. Even the health leech enchantment was doubled. “Zor’kan, seriously, this is incredible!”

The troll eyed her quizzically, tipping his hand side-to-side. “Average,” he said. “It’s always easy to please people who don’t upgrade fast enough.” But the troll was grinning widely between his two prominent tusks, and she could tell he enjoyed her compliment.

She quickly put the boots on, reveling in the sudden increase in speed as she sprinted around the little camp. And the burst of speed when she used the speed boost, well, it was something else.

“Mind you don’t run into a tree!” Mato called over.

“Here, calm down for a moment,” Zor’kan said. “Try these.”

Malika glanced at him in surprise, only realizing then that she had been playing with her newfound speed for long enough that he had already finished a second piece.

Dragonscale Bracers of Soul Mastery – level 144+82 Dexterity.+66 Wisdom.+33 Endurance.23% chance to apply Soul Mark curse on hit.+4 to skill level of Mastery skills.Requirements: Unarmed, Wisdom 504.Quality: Rare.Value: 322 gold.Created by Zor’kan.Hands – Dragonscale / Spirit Beast / Bone

For the second time in half an hour, Malika’s jaw dropped. In amazement, she compared Zor’kan’s incredible creation with the Ancestral Spirit Beads she was currently wearing.

Ancestral Spirit Beads – level 64+57% to mana regeneration.+11 Vitality+29 Dexterity+42 WisdomRequirements: Wisdom 224Quality: UncommonValue: 12 gold, 87 silverHands – Charm

There’s simply no comparison, she thought. The attributes were far higher, and she would get an enormous plus four to her combat mastery, Martial Artist. Perhaps there’s something to Mato’s opinion. She glanced over at him to find him nodding knowingly at her.

“What is Soul Mark?” she asked, ignoring what promised to be an insufferable comment from the Bear.

“Try and see,” Zor’kan said, already busy with something else.

Without a word, Mato shifted into his Bear Form. So, she punched him. Several times.

On the third punch, something reacted with soul magic, settling on Mato’s frame, soaking in as the curse landed. And then Mato shared the curse.

Soul Mark+5% Soul damage taken.+7% to the accuracy of all attacks targeting you.Curse – Duration: 30 seconds. Count: 1

She unleashed a quick flurry of blows into him, triggering the curse twice more.

“It stacks,” Mato sent directly into her mind. “Calen is going to love you for that accuracy.”

“Triggered abilities work very well with speed builds,” Zor’kan said, inclining his head. “I think you’ll get a lot of use out of that. The faster you are, the higher it will stack.”

“Well, that’s impressive,” Ali said, clearly calculating something in her head. Probably the exact damage tradeoffs for how many archers she should bring to the next fight to take advantage of the curse.

“Here,” Zor’kan said. “One last thing. I hope you don’t mind the Pit Lord leather, but I needed materials with an affinity for blood.” In his hand, he held up what looked like several simple strands of tooled leather, almost like strings or ribbons, but of two different colors. There were several bone beads threaded into the strange item.

“What is it?” Malika asked.

“Tusk braid,” Zor’kan said, cackling with delight. “Don’t worry, I have made many items for your kind. I happened to notice you do not have good tusks, so I changed the design. You can either braid it into your hair or wear it as a choker around your neck. It will also work braided around your forearms or fists, but you already have the bracers.”

He held the item out, touching her with it and pulsing a little mana.

Soul Braid of Aman Rak – level 146Originally designed as a troll tusk-braid, this item has instead been redesigned to fit as a hair braid, choker, or bracer, simply by weaving or braiding it appropriately. This item can only be bound to an owner by a troll of Aman Rak.Owner: Malika Yu.+83 Wisdom+67 Perception+33 Vitality+42% Evasion +25% to all Soul damage, applied as Soul Burn over 30 seconds. +3 skill level to Bloodline skills. Requirements: Bloodline, Endurance 481, Wisdom 511Quality: Rare.Value: Soulbound.Head / Hands – Leather Braid Jewelry.

Malika glanced up from the braid and met the eyes of the troll, crinkled at the corners with amusement.

“Honorary troll,” Zor’kan said, grinning.

“This… are you sure?” Malika said, stunned.

For a moment, Zor’kan’s eyes firmed with a serious cast. “You are a Savior of Aman Rak. I will fight anyone who says you are not part of our tribe,” he vowed. And then he grinned wickedly, “Even if your tusks are puny.”

“Thank you,” Malika said, bowing deeply, and then in trollish, she added. “It is an honor to wear your work. I will use it to bring down the vengeance of Aman Rak upon the Death Knights of the Blind Lich.”

“You make a good troll,” Zor’kan said, bowing his head.

“Ali, can you help me?” she asked, still in awe of the piece Zor’kan had made for her. Between the two of them, it didn’t take long to figure out the best way to weave it through her hair in place of her mundane hair ties.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
