She had a feeling, though, that he wouldn’t actually know. Based on the necromancer’s words, there wasn’t a whole lot of trust between them, and the ritual circle was clearly the Empire’s work. It might be worth it to try and figure out how to break the ward themselves first, lest they fail to get the horn, then have to deal with the entire garrison after them for killing the lord. That would make it significantly harder to come back to the sanctum.

Daphne, meanwhile, was staring at the rattling door. Her gaze was dark with simmering anger, fist clenched tightly. Considering what she’d just learned from the Empire mage and who was on the other side of those doors, it wasn’t hard to tell what she was thinking.

“You know you’ll just get memory-wiped if you try to confront him,” Pyre said bluntly. Daphne spun around to face her, eyes blazing.

“So, what, I should trust you instead?”

At that, the demon gave her a long look, flat grey meeting stormy brown. Finally, she jerked her head at the summoning circle.

“We’ve both got unfinished business here,” she began, “and it’s in our best interest to not get caught. Stick around and you’re not gonna be able to do shit about anything.” She raised an eyebrow. “Trust’s got nothing to do with it.”

Daphne’s lips thinned, but she hesitated. “…They’ll know someone was here,” she finally said.

Pyre’s eyes swept over the sanctum. The two dead golems were impossible to miss, and the Empire mage’s headless corpse remained slumped on one side of the room. While the sanctum’s magic wards were beginning to repair some of the shattered pillars and cracked floor, it wouldn’t be done by the time the doors came down. She hummed.

Extending a bit of flesh, the demon dipped it into the dead necromancer’s blood, then promptly smeared it on the teeth of the closest golem. Daphne frowned.

“What’re you—”

“Melt the other golem’s crystal,” Pyre interrupted. She cocked her head. “Unfortunately for the Empire, the mage lost control of his golems right before his demo and got himself killed. Put up a hell of a fight, though,” she drawled.

Understanding flashed through Daphne’s eyes. She hurried over to the other fallen golem. Red light glowed in the corner of the demon’s vision, though she was currently more preoccupied with making their fake story look as believable as possible. It was far from ideal, but it was better than nothing.

The doors continued to rattle. If not for the silencing wards around the place, they’d probably hear shouts coming from the other side.

“Hurry!” Callan was hovering by the hidden entrance, eyeing the doors nervously. Satisfied, Pyre retracted her flesh, then condensed it back down into a human shape so it wouldn’t get stuck in the tunnels. She headed over to the secret door, Daphne following right behind.

Once they’d stepped into the tunnels, the noble slammed her hand against the stone, and those lights coursed up the etchings again. The door began to close on its own behind them.

When only a small gap to the sanctum was left, Daphne quickly muttered a chant under her breath. A small beam of light shot out of her finger, colliding with the bone holding the doors in place. The magic began burning through it, and Pyre saw it reach the end just before the hidden door closed all the way.

“Destroying the evidence,” Daphne muttered. She turned and began sprinting down the passage, Callan and Pyre following behind. The demon heard the doors to the sanctum burst open through the walls, accompanied by the sounds of yells and footsteps, but the noise quickly faded as they ran deeper into the tunnels.

About halfway through, Daphne stumbled.

The noble suddenly doubled over, one hand gripping onto the dirt walls while the other flew to her chest. Her breaths were sharp and ragged.

“Shit shit shit,” Callan repeated. “It’s the ichor-poisoning!” His eyes darted frantically behind them. No one had come after them yet, but there’d definitely be an investigation. Even if no one discovered this place, the outside entrance could get blocked off if enough guards were called over. They had to move quickly.

“I’m fine,” Daphne wheezed. She grit her teeth and attempted to stand, legs visibly shaking. “I can—”

Before she had a chance to finish, Pyre bent down and scooped her up. The noble yelped, aiming a punch at the demon that did absolutely nothing.

“Put me down, demon,” she hissed. Pyre ignored her and kept running.

“You can yell all you want later,” she drawled. “We’ve got bigger things to worry about right now.”

She moved rapidly through the tunnel, feet pounding against the earth as Callan floated in front. “There!” he called.

Up ahead, Pyre could see those etchings on the walls that had marked the passage’s entrance. They were almost out.

“This isn’t over,” Daphne muttered as they finally approached the exit. Pyre snorted and dropped her, the noble stumbling to her feet and quickly putting more distance between them. Those eyes still burned with anger and suspicion, but the demon met her gaze evenly.

“I know.”
