Veron showed him the papers. “I help with work. You teach. Interesting?”

Some of the apprehension seemed to fade from the boy's face. He made big eyes when he looked at the papers. “How?”

Veron smiled. “Magic. You teach? I learn. And I work.”

The boy nodded to himself slowly and then smiled ever so slightly.

Got him.

The first hour was pretty awkward and it was difficult to communicate but soon they got into a bit of a groove, Ian showing him the work and Veron copying as best he could. He suggested they start with work and talk later. And so they did, moving hay, then feeding the geese, who were called Vabook. Ian made sure to communicate to Veron that he shouldn't go into the fenced off section. He made a lot of gestures suggesting that the geese would attack him.

When they were done, they sat down on some stools in front of the barn. A warm breeze came through and a few white clouds dotted the sky.

They had mostly worked in silence but he could already tell that the boy was far less apprehensive about him. Maybe because he was an outsider, someone more interesting than the usual faces, or because he knew less about this place than Ian did.

“You know magic?” Veron asked.

The boy shook his head. “Not yet. But probably Devotion.”

Veron translated the words.

“Devotion? What does that mean?”

“You don't know the Paths?”

Veron shook his head. “You know about them?”

Ian smiled and nodded. He went and grabbed a stick before he returned and started sketching into the dirt. Six dots and each one he named. “Devotion, Fae, Runic, Blood, Elemental, Chaos.” He connected the dots in a circle and then added three lines connecting each dot to their opposite. To Veron, it looked a little like the picture of a basketball.

So there are six types of magic?

“Every being has one Path,” Ian explained.

Veron looked up at him. “The Vabook?” He asked in a whisper.

Ian nodded sagely. “Yes. Elemental Path, and ash.”

“Ash?”

“Yes. First comes the Path, then specific things like schools and harmonies. Someone with Devotion could be someone using a sword or a smith.”

“Or a farmer?” Veron asked with a bit of a cheeky look.

Ian grimaced but nodded. “Or that, yes.”

“You don't want to be?”

Ian glanced at him and then to the ground.

“Want to be sword, like Ivera?”

Ian smiled sheepishly. He scratched the back of his head. “Maybe, in the future. But I also really like to shoot the bow.”.

“You know how to use a bow? That is cool. Can you show me?”

“Teach?”

Veron laughed. “No. Just show.” He could see how the boy's eyes lit up. He gestured for him to follow and led him past the barn. It looked like Ian had hidden a bow and arrows somewhere in the field of grass. They went out and past the field, soon reaching a small copse of trees.

Veron watched as Ian shot a few arrows into the nearby trunks. He had definitely practiced for a while.

Every being has a Path.

Which means I should have one too.

Veron cheered when one of the arrows hit the very center of the tree. And he could see the pride in how Ian stood, straight and with his chest pushed out.

I don't know if this is what they intended, Veron thought and laughed. I might even encourage him to become an adventurer sooner.

Ian explained to him that if he trained with his bow for long enough, he may get the Path of Devotion, and with it hopefully the Way of the Bow, or something similar.

Is that how it works for me as well?

“How do I find my own Path?” Veron asked.

“You're an adult. You should have a Path already.”

I should? But I never trained with a sword or bow. Don't tell me I already locked into the Path of Middle Management or the Path of Spreadsheets.

The thought still amused him. Either way, he didn't feel too anxious about it. If he had already determined his Path, then he had no reason to worry about it now. More so, he was excited to see what he had gotten.

“How do I see?”

“Just think about it, focus on it.”

Veron nodded. It was that simple, was it? He wondered now if he even had a Path. He was an anomaly for sure, so even if Ian was sure that every being had a Path, at least adults it seemed, it could be that he was different.

One way to find out.

He sat in the grass and closed his eyes, breathing slow and focusing first on the sensation of the grass against his skin. Then he focused inward. He calmed, feeling his heart beat, feeling the wind against his skin. And then, he felt something else. Just like he had when he had first arrived here.

He opened his eyes and blinked.

He couldn't see it in his mind's eye, not exactly, but he knew what he needed to know.

Elemental Path [Feeble]

- Harmony of Earth [Faint I]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]

It wasn't much and at the same time, it felt like everything. Out of the six Paths, his was the elemental one. He knew that his Path was feeble. He didn't know exactly what that meant but he had a pretty good idea.

Three Harmonies, two of them hidden, and one of them Earth. He smiled, in no way surprised about what he saw.

It felt so simple and so clear. As if everything had led him here after all. All the work he had done, the disillusionment that he had felt, the choice to get out. Sure, he hadn't expected to arrive in a magical place where he could literally use Earth magic, if that's what all of this meant, but it still felt more like a culmination rather than a turn of fate.

Now, how do I start floating rocks?
