“I hope you find our condiments to your liking, Ser Solstice? I understand Izril uses a number of sauces Terandria lacks. Gnollish and Drakeish foods. I have sampled them from time to time, and we could provide them if you find it nostalgic.”
That was his best foot forwards. The Goblin looked up, after chewing, and nodded.
“Good…condiments. Like home. No mayonnaise, though?”
“Mayonnaise? I’m not familiar with that one, Ser Solstice. Izrilian, is it?”
The [Knight] of the tundras chuckled. The Thronebearer and Ser Calirn listened as Rabbiteater shook his head and tried to explain.
“No. It’s white. Egg and…lemon? And oil. Very tasty. You eat with fries.”
“Which are?”
“Sliced potatoes. Fry in oil. Very tasty. Know how to cook.”
“You know how to cook?”
Calirn burst out, until he realized how ludicrous it sounded. The Thronebearers gave him a sidelong look and the Grandmaster had to cough.
“That is—I cannot but boil water at a fire. My aura and such.”
It was rare to see the Winter Knight blush at all. But Rabbiteater smiled and remembered cooking lessons and a group of Cave Goblins—and one with a poofy hat.
You brought what you’d seen and done wherever you went. So, Knight Calirn watched, incredibly bemused, as Rabbiteater experimentally made mayonnaise with one of the [Cooks]. It was actually tasty—and—after inquiring, he found it was a gourmet food newly on the market, originating from Izril. Salazsar had the stuff! Invrisil was advertising it in its restaurants…
 
—-
 
The Spring’s Warden was similarly disarmed on another occasion when she and the trainees paused for ‘fun’.
“Tilting?”
Rabbiteater lacked this area of expertise, which relieved Ser Markus, as the Goblin had passed most of the Spring Knights in every other area from wrestling, climbing, and so on.
But he didn’t swim well, despite knowing how; large bodies of water hadn’t existed in the High Passes, and if they did, they were dangerous.
Similarly, the act of tilting, with a lance, wasn’t a Goblin ideal. He was still willing to learn, and amused to hear there were entire tournaments around the same thing.
“Fun isn’t restricted to [Knights], Ser Solstice. We have a number of similar activities. There are those who enjoy fencing and so on, but swimming is quite enjoyable, we often picnic at scenic locations—and we’ve even added those new sports in the news. Do you know of them?”
The Spring’s Warden had heard the Goblin laugh. She turned—and saw him pick up one of the baseball bats.
It was, after all, an athletic sport and the Order of Seasons liked things that mixed both exercise and enjoyment. What the Spring’s Warden wasn’t prepared for was to see Rabbiteater hit three homeruns in a row. The ‘best’ pitcher had no actual class, and Rabbiteater had seen curveballs, sliders, and magically-enhanced half-Elf fastballs that could break your bat in half.
The Spring’s Warden, bemused, took up the pitching mound. She…bullied him a bit. Or tried to. Her fastball dipped with the wind. Rabbiteater whiffed twice—then sent it flying high and up.
He grinned at her. The Spring’s Warden smiled despite herself.
 
—-
 
They had forgotten, for a moment, that he was a [Champion]. The Fall’s Sentinel knew the class. But he didn’t realize how Goblins saw the class.
Champion was champion. And Rabbiteater, amiable, willing to walk into the kitchen and peel potatoes as much as shoot arrows with a Worker on the roof, had absorbed a bunch of things.
“Checkmate.”
The old [Knight] stared down at the board and then up at the Goblin’s invisible grin behind his helmet. Rabbiteater had enjoyed that. Erin had made him play with her, but it was no fun playing the freaks in her inn. They were all experts—even the Fall’s Sentinel was an easier opponent than Erin’s chess club.
The Knights of the Autumn murmured in surprise as the Fall’s Sentinel looked at the board in dismay. Someone commented.
“He’s quite good.”
“I know. And he knows other games, Fall’s Sentinel.”
Meisa broke in before Ser Markus could. She seemed even more proud than he was—the Knight of Izril had depths. Because of the inn. The legacy and astonishment carried on.
 
—-
 
To today. A Hobgoblin’s smile. And—Dame Meisa slipping out of his rooms before dawn, as Talia went to wash from her cleaning duties.
“A spring’s romance.”
Dame Talia jumped. Someone else had observed the moment which had driven her to fury. She had nearly gone after Dame Meisa—but the huge figure stopped her.
The Summer’s Champion had gone for a morning, twenty-mile run and was covered in sweat. He glanced at her.
“I put Ser Solstice as the Season of Summer myself, Dame Talia. Of all our Seasons, I believe he is mine. Wouldn’t you agree?”
“He is not of our order, Summer’s Champion!”
The man frowned at her and she mastered her tongue.
“If he was, I would claim him, Dame Talia. And if he is—Spring and summer complement each other. Spring invigorates summer, and it is a good match. A passing thing, but why do you frown?”
“You know why.”
He raised his brows.
“If it were any other pair of [Knights], no one would remark on a thing.”
“That is because this is different, Summer’s Champion! It is not—simple—”
He nodded as she struggled for words. He had a towel around his neck and was bare-chested, sweating profusely. That did not bother her, but the sweat dried abruptly. He turned to face her.
“No, it is not, Dame Talia. But you seem to see all that is negative while I choose to do the opposite. I punished you. Do you seek to change your season?”
“No, Summer’s Champion. But I will not ask for forgiveness. I acted as I thought was best.”
She lifted her chin, and he nodded.
“Nor would I ask you to change your season. You and I disagree, but I would never deny that you were of my order. Summer’s heat. Summer fades, but we keep to our opinions, don’t we?”
She didn’t reply. His eyes studied her. And they were as merciless as the blazing summer’s day for a moment.
“Still, Dame Talia. Between you and me—that you told me and Calirn of Ser Solstice’s nature? Knowing he might suffer or die because of whom he was, after all he had done? That was a move as cold as snow.”
He turned and walked off, leaving her at a loss for words. She stomped off to take a bath and it became a hot tub. Literally.
The Order of Seasons had a new [Knight] in its midst. A Goblin. He lay on his back.
Wow. That was a lot of fun. Seriously. He tried to figure out how long it had been…but he’d left the Redfang camps on his mission and it was an all-male team that Garen had appointed, to prevent fights…and then he’d been at the inn….
Not that you couldn’t deal with it yourself, but you forgot there were better options. Anyways. He lay there for a while.
This was a nice place. He was having a good time. The Goblin smiled to himself.
He was having an adventure.
 
—-
 
It was an enduring trait among Humans that never ceased to amaze. What was different was hated, reviled—or exotic and sexual.
It had once been speculated that Humans had attempted to mate with every species in the world—and many non-species. Not every race did that. But the Human method to success seemed to be—‘if you couldn’t beat it, see if it could reproduce’.
And if that seemed like a generalist statement, a judgment inherently speciesist or racist—well, he agreed. And he’d seen a lot of Human proclivity in his lifetime.
Eldavin was propositioned for sex the third day he was at Wistram academy. It took him hindsight, and the third go-around, to realize that had been what the young woman had been intimating.
“Children!”
He was appalled. His true nature aside, the Dragon—half-Elf—was still old for a half-Elf! By rights, they should assume he was three hundred years old, at least! But that young half-Elf—of the Centrist faction—had been barely seventy.
Scandalous. But it was a truism of power as well. When someone like Eldavin showed up, established powers tried to do everything to find a weakness or hold on him.
Blackmail, sex, and so on.
Eldavin considered it meant he was having an impact. He reclined in one of the largest series of rooms in Wistram, a far cry from the shabby place where he’d first been quartered, sipping from a complimentary brandy gifted to him.
He’d forgotten what it was like to be inebriated. The half-Elf sighed.
“Ah, the foibles of the flesh.”
But not sex. He was still Teriarch inside, and his experience informed ‘Eldavin’. Indeed, he was today already plotting how to expand the new faction that had arisen around him.
Not just him. Fortune had put Archmage Valeterisa in his way. She was faction-less too, and it had been a stroke of luck that they could agree to form a new body of power.
Of all the Archmages, she reminded him most of the old sort. Academic. Uninterested in politics for their own sake. Pursued by quite laudable ambition to learn magic.
Ruthless, of course; he’d inquired about her. But quite humble compared to the other ‘Archmages’. She’d asked him to share knowledge and he had reciprocated, pretending not to be as learned as he really was—just extremely so for this day and age.
Thus, the two had formed the base of the new political faction. The, ah…Terras faction of Wistram, which had no relation to anyone’s name, was ostensibly one based around the old name of Earth. Terra. Also, the word in the old language.
Earth. Grounded. Sensible, pragmatic.
And it spoke to the new world now entering this one. Teriarch hummed softly to himself.
 
—-
 
On the second day, the Archmage of Izril, Eldavin, and a number of new [Mages] who could be trusted had been told of the great secret of Earth.
A [High Mage] on the Council itself had told them in secrecy, a Garuda. He had refrained from even telling Grand Magus Erkika; Wistram had taken precedence over the bonds of species.
The old Garuda had stirred as a globe of Earth was brought in. He stared, uncomprehendingly, at the planet. Then—pictures, taken from the iPhones, computers, electronics.
People laughing, or posing in front of buildings. Airplanes in the sky. Even—a picture of video games. Valeterisa had stared at one. Teriarch had wondered if it was harder than Cookie Clicker.
“Magi, this is Earth. Another world. Another planet, in a reality somehow divorced from ours, which evolved and formed in a place where other species—to our knowledge—never existed. Only Humanity, who, without magic, mastered their planet. This is Earth. And there are children from this planet appearing in our world.”
Eldavin sat there as Valeterisa, Erkika, and the other [Mages]’ eyes tried to exit their heads. They were disbelieving at first, shocked. Then they babbled questions, demanded proof.
Proof? Proof was a computer. Proof was the foods they had eaten at dinner! Proof was a truth spell and a young man from Earth—Aaron Vanwell. Also, him demonstrating a battery, an electric battery, that ran without magic, and a hand-cranked device which created electricity.
Proof was plastic. And though they did not believe at first, some of them, those who had understood the strangeness happening in the world, sat back as it all came together.
Valeterisa’s fingers were shaking as she adjusted her spectacles and asked questions, even over the Garuda’s attempts to speak.
“Is there any commonality with magic? Is there a portal? Is this related to the Demon’s activity? Query #221, pressing—what is the mechanism by which this ‘electricity’ forms that screen without magic? Can we communicate—”
It was at this moment, as some [Mages] in-the-know watched the reactions smugly, that Grand Magus Eldavin stood up.
All eyes were on him; he was one of the big players, having established himself by the huge magical fight on the first night. The Depth Mage was not present, but she was being considered due to her level and a possible tie to the Drowned Fleets. Fissival had been ruled out, but Wistram was treating this information as time-critical. It would lose its value soon, and so why not use it for favor and alliances now?
The old half-Elf’s eyes studied the presentation. The Garuda [High Mage], Magus Verki, smiled with a hint of superiority.
“Grand Magus, you had a question?”
Valeterisa and the other [Mages] looked at him. The Grand Mage nodded.
“Yes, young man. Pray, may we skip the introductory phase? I came here for information about Earth, not recap.”
The Garuda’s beak opened. The [Mages] blinked.
“You—know of Earth?”
Eldavin sniffed.
“This is basic news, Magus Verki. I do not need to be told of the obvious. Present me with a list of quantifiable information, please.”
He knew. Of course, ‘Eldavin’ had already met Ryoka, which was what Teriarch was running with. He left the room, knowing that everyone was wondering what he’d found out. It was about standing out.
When they came by with a list of items—by the Revivalist faction, which meant they were hoarding knowledge from each other—Eldavin skimmed down it.
“Television, food, armaments, food, theories of electricity, more food, plays? I know all of this. Hm. Wait. This is new.”
He tapped ‘Airsoft Gun’ after a moment. It was about telling the truth. He was quite happy to have the young man show him the device. Eldavin watched as it fired—then attended one of the presentations with mathematical formulas.
The Pythagorean Theorem was elementary. ‘E=mc2’ made him snort. But he grew thoughtful after that.
Valeterisa was cribbing notes like mad. But Eldavin had to admit…the sight of a firearm, even in the relatively harmless form it had been presented in, made him uncomfortable.
How they progressed, even without magic.
But again—he had had such conversations with Reinhart long since, and she had expressed the same worries. Eldavin remained dutifully unimpressed.
 
—-
 
He needed to be aloof. Wise, impartial, a magical mentor, someone who could speak and inform opinions. That was Eldavin’s conclusion, for how else would he change Wistram?
And change it he must! He had promised Ryoka he would return, but he was aware now that his sojourn here would be at least two months, possibly four.
He couldn’t foresee any way to effect meaningful reform here without that amount of time. He would hurry—maybe quick-teleport back to the High Passes? Undoing all those protections was going to be a pain in the wings, but he would do it.
Yet, Eldavin’s vast mind, a Dragon’s intellect, was now turned on one goal: to make Wistram change for what he believed was the better.
For his arrival at the academy had shown him how it had kept some of its strength, but lost too much over only two centuries. Zelkyr was to blame and he had thoughts about that.
