The first nation threatened by the kingdom of Ailendamus was Kaliv. The northern-most member of the Dawn Concordat occupied the rocky highlands, even ‘smaller’ mountains and passes leading north.
As one of the three members of the Dawn Concordat, the alliance of Calanfer, Kaliv, and Gaiil-Drome, Kaliv was naturally the first guard in northern aggression. Calanfer, most southern, would fight foes to the east and coming up from the coast. The kingdom of Gaiil-Drome, forested, home to a large half-Elf population and the half-Elven villages was considered safest in times of war; Pheislant was one of the few nations that would attack from the west.
[Strategists] had been analyzing Ailendamus’ first moves long before war was actually declared. They were largely on-mark; Ailendamus had imposed a naval blockade to stifle trade and any relief goods. It wasn’t a huge loss to the Dawn Concordat so long as they kept their other trade routes open, and of course, they had stockpiles of food.
However, Ailendamus was a powerhouse in the region, the largest kingdom in all of southern Terandria and arguably one of two or three of the most powerful without exception. The last hundred and sixty years and reign of four [Kings] had seen massive expansion and aggression.
“The fact that it’s Ailendamus against the Dawn Concordat is unfortunate. However, the fact remains that unless Ailendamus can secure an access treaty to assault the Dawn Concordat by way of Calanfer, they will have to fight through Kaliv’s frontier. And that is not easy.”
One of the [Strategists] in Pallass opined on the segment with Noass and Sir Relz on ongoing military conflicts. He correctly pointed out what would happen in the next two weeks.
Ailendamus had begun raiding and razing the fertile lowlands of Kaliv. In response, the people were evacuated. Then they sent in their first army, a huge invasion force sixty thousand strong.
‘Testing’ the Dawn Concordat, although armies of that size had destroyed entire legions in the field and multiple kingdoms. By the same token—forces far larger had also been stopped.
Most famous on people’s lips was a comparison that was unsociable to make in this day and age: the time when the Archmage of Death, Perril Chandler, had held off an army of four kingdoms, four hundred thousand strong, in the same passes of Kaliv.
But of course, that had been during a particularly ugly war where Kaliv had been all but beaten. If they made it to Krawlnmak’s Pass—Calanfer and Gaiil-Drome were in danger of falling because the Dawn Concordat had expended its power and failed to keep Kaliv from being overrun.
So the first army marched. Sixty thousand, to see what Calanfer did. They headed for the low-lying cities of Kaliv, rather than try and ascend.
If they went for Lufelt, the mountain-capital of Kaliv, the Griffin Queen would probably let them march all the way up through the treacherous mountain passes, raiding and ambushing them or collapsing the mountain, and then let them try to siege huge, vertical terrain while Griffins dropped stones on their heads and the famous goat-cavalry kicked them off the face of the mountain.
No, the first army wanted a fight. And so they marched on Memda—a border city fortified against general attack, but which the Dawn Concordat wasn’t willing to lose without a struggle, especially since it would prove to be a staging ground for the other armies already on the march from the kingdom of Ailendamus.
The global audience, watching, even placing bets, or speculating as to the outcome more as interested viewers than concerned people—at least, those not of Terandria—were not privy to the debate between the three members of the Dawn Concordat. If they had been, they would have understood an argument led to the battle at Memda.
Novakya, the Griffin Queen of Kaliv.
Reclis of House Marquin, King of the Eternal Throne of Calanfer.
Solen Wildheart, the Ruler of the Forests of Gaiil-Drome.
Each one had advisors of course, but the rulers were active participants in decision-making, although each one drew on various levels of expertise.
Novakya wanted the battle, refusing to let Memda be taken. Solen was of the opinion that it should only be garrisoned by a token force that would fall back and deny the city afterwards, collapsing walls, poisoning wells.
Reclis du Marquin was the most cautious and would have given up the city in favor of more advantageous battlefields. However—Novakya’s lands were in danger, and after some debate, all three monarchs agreed to make it a battle to test Ailendamus, as well as the reverse.
Thus, the Dawn Concordat met the Ailendamus force with seventy thousand of their own forces, drawing most heavily upon Kaliv’s standing armies, but supplementing them with conscripts from Calanfer. Gaiil-Drome supplied their [Woodland Rangers], half-Elven soldiery, as well as some of their [Forest Knights], but in fewer numbers; they contributed twelve thousand dedicated [Archers] as their main focus.
Calanfer sent many levied, newly-minted [Soldiers] or [Militia], to the tune of nearly twenty thousand, led by one of their lesser [Generals]. If that seemed paltry compared to the four hundred Griffins and armored foot in the thousands that Kaliv added to the low-level soldiery—Calanfer’s largest contribution was symbolic and meant to be one of the striking hammers against Ailendamus.
They sent a thousand Thronebearers, the royal [Knights] of Calanfer into battle. The largest Knight Order of the three nations would go up against the [Knights] of Ailendamus. The Order of the Thirsting Veil, the Order of the Hydra, and the Order of Drell—Drell Knights, as they were colloquially known.
To a student of knight-orders, Ailendamus possessing three spoke to the size of the kingdom. The Order of the Thirsting Veil was smallest, possessing deadly poisons often derided as ignoble by some knight orders. The Order of Drell was larger, but both were still smaller than the Order of the Hydra combined.
In brief—the Order of Drell had been founded due to Ailendamus’ wetlands. Similar but different to other marshland Kingdoms like Desonis. They specialized in aquatic warfare and could actually fight underwater.
The Order of the Hydra was plentiful, unmounted, favoring foot-knights who were drawn from common stock almost to the exclusion of nobility. They were shock troops, who used warhammers and broke the lines of enemy heavy infantry.
The engagement between both armies began with both height and the local city favoring the Dawn Concordat, as well as a slight numbers advantage. Gaiil-Drome’s famous [Archers] were ready to harry the opposition whilst Kaliv’s Griffins secured the skies and dropped projectiles as well as dove to assault the enemy. The Thronebearers would take to the field in the center, and be supplemented by flank charges by the other [Knights] and ram-cavalry.
However, Ailendamus had also prepared for their foes’ unique compositions. They had brought the famous lance-arrows of Ailendamus, which were part of the kingdom’s sigil.
Massive, enchanted bolts which half-Giants had once strung from bows and fired at opponents. They were said to have killed Dragons and pulverized walls. These days, few half-Giants were in service even to Ailendamus, so they were mounted on Greatbows that were held by teams of archer-specialists.
Not ballistae, per se. Both sides fielded siege equipment, but neither had dedicated [Engineers] in their kingdoms, so Ailendamus possessed enchanted catapults—not the infamous Drake trebuchet. The Greatbows were closer to twin bows mounted vertically rather than horizontally in an x-pattern; they required enchantments to fire the huge arrows.
As the battle began Ailendamus proved to have the superior range even to Gaiil-Drome’s [Archers]. The heavy lance-arrows threatened and unnerved the Dawn Concordat’s army as they landed, sowing chaos and reminding everyone of a similar battle between the King of Destruction and the House of Minos. They even killed two Griffins before they could harass Ailendamus’ forces, although that was accorded a lucky shot, even with Skills.
Like the King of Destruction’s dilemma, the presiding [General], Lord-Commander Metris of Calanfer, elected to charge the enemy rather than attempt to dismantle the Greatbows first. He had seen that Ailendamus had brought far fewer [Knights] than the Dawn Concordat, and their [Soldiers]—while part of their standing armies—were superior in equipment and level to the levies, and considered that the Thronebearers and the varied forces would break their lines.
He charged, committing the Thronebearers to the first charge after the infantry clashed.
 
—-
 
There were good [Knights] and bad [Knights]. It would surprise no one to learn that not all [Knights], or knight-orders were equal. Yes, there were exceptional individuals in each order, but you could still rank them as a whole.
The Thronebearers of Calanfer were a political knighthood order. Suited to speaking poetry and attending balls as much as pure combat. They were not a weak order per se.
They did well against Ailendamus’ [Soldiers]. You could even say that one Thronebearer was worth…what, two and a half ordinary Ailendamus [Soldiers]?
But there was the rub. [Knights] were always in short supply, at least, where wars were concerned. They could hack apart weaker foes with their often-enchanted armor and Skills, not to mention devastating lance-charges on horseback.
The Knights of the Petal under Lady Bethal Walchaís, for instance, numbered less than two hundred and were a deadly fighting force even in small groups because they were untouchable against ordinary foes without means of breaking their expensive, enchanted armor.
The Thronebearers were arguably less elite than the Knights of the Petal. They still were a powerful force. But the problem was, to Knight-Commander Calirn of the Order of Seasons, as he watched the news report, simple.
Ailendamus’ [Soldiers] knew war. They were an active fighting force rather than the Thronebearers, who did not routinely engage in huge battles. The [Knights] kept themselves sharp, but the first army had steel without exception. Enchanted weapons among their [Sergeants] and officers. The Thronebearers had the advantage on the charge. But they began to take casualties and failed to break the lines of Ailendamus’ army.
The Dawn Concordat prized [Knights] more than the common levied-[Soldiers]. Or at least, the Calanfer [General] did. He pulled the Thronebearers back and tried to win with infantry alone.
In the end, it wasn’t a rout. Nor was it, in fact, a defeat. Ailendamus’ army retreated after three hours of fighting. They lost half their Greatbows to Griffin-strikes, and their army took nearly twelve thousand casualties.
The problem was, to Calirn, that Calanfer had taken nearly twenty thousand—and if you were counting valuable assets lost, they’d lost forty plus Griffins, at least two hundred Thronebearers, and a number of their other high-level forces.
“Ailendamus never intended to take the city. They intended to test the Dawn Concordat’s resolve and see how their armies faced up.”
The dry voice came from the left. Knight-Commander Calirn, head of the Order of Seasons, Pheislant’s Knight Order and one of the strongest in Terandria, turned to one of the other three leaders gathered here.
“The result, Fall Sentinel?”
He led the Season of Fall. He was both [Mage] and [Knight]. The man had white in his hair, but he could still tilt—even if the Fall Knights ran towards academic.
“They could do this a dozen times and they will, if the Dawn Concordat is unwise enough to take such battles. Those are rank-and-file [Soldiers] they will trade for Thronebearers and Griffins.”
“True enough.”
Calirn bit off. He saw the Spring’s Warden—youngest of those here by far, and the only woman in the room—and the Summer’s Champion, both look uncomfortable. They clearly didn’t like the Dawn Concordat’s odds already.
The Winter’s Watcher was not present, often keeping his own council or watching their borders. But the Summer’s Champion clenched his fist.
“And we will not be taking part, Knight-Commander?”
“Not yet. Pheislant is undecided and we cannot drag in our kingdom by ourselves, Summer’s Champion.”
Calirn sighed. The man glowered; like many Summer Knights, the Summer’s Champion embodied passion. It was not always a good thing and he often clashed with the [Winter Knight]’s attitudes.
“Calirn. They cannot stand alone! We are the Order of Seasons! If we enter the fray, Pheislant is not beholden to answer for us! We are connected, but separate.”
That was true. But Calirn just folded his arms.
“Greysten, you know as well as I that Ailendamus will not accept that excuse. We watch.”
What he left unspoken was simply that he wasn’t sure if the Order of Seasons should fight. Because…Ailendamus might go after Pheislant next.
Because they might lose. He knew the others knew it too. Calirn shook his head.
 
—-
 
That was the first battle of the war. There were more.
Two more battles had taken place since then. Ailendamus sent a far larger force supplemented by their war beasts—Armored Graen—to take the city. This time, the Dawn Concordat tried to make it a siege battle. The city fell too quickly to the Lancearrows; once the gates were open, the huge, thick, plodding beasts with six legs and insanely tough hide augmented by armor rampaged through the gates. And Ailendamus’ artillery meant that Griffins could not harry them.
Moreover, Ailendamus had the advantage in [Mages] as well. They fielded numerous [Mages] who cast [Poison Cloud] despite the Dawn Concordat’s objections to the use of the spell in war, as well as conventional spells like [Fireball].
Thereafter, the [Mage Marshall] in charge of this wing of offensives led her forces towards the second, more populous city of Treql, while more armies began to advance across Kaliv.
There, they suffered the first defeat of this war, and a surprising outcome that Knight-Commander Calirn witnessed live via scrying orb with the rest of the world.
The [Mage Marshall] had been leading a second battle where the Dawn Concordat tried to hold the walls, knowing that her force of ninety thousand would sweep them if they couldn’t choke the enemy. The Kaliv-main force was tough and entrenched, but the [Mage Marshall] had been throwing poisonous gas clouds, spells at the Griffins who normally dropped stones and other projectiles and decimated armies trying to siege the enemy.
She would have broken them, Calirn was sure. But that was when the Griffin Prince of Kaliv and the disgraced wing that were half-outlaws, half-vigilantes entered the fray.
