One of the Golems was…twitching…Cognita stared at it and it stopped. She thought—then fell back to a response.
“I will not answer speculation as to what lies above.”
Eldavin tugged at his beard, vexed by her obstinate response.
“Something is wrong. Perhaps I can help. Or not. Either way—this is a harsh request for a sentient being. I have known Djinni set to similar tasks. I wished to speak with you in friendship, not this way, young woman. Zelkyr—”
“Archmagus Zelkyr set me to this task, Eldavin of Izril. He will decide when I am to be relieved. Only his words, no one else’s.”
“And is he alive?”
The word cracked around the room. Silence resulted. Eldavin looked at Cognita. He took a breath; controlled his temper! He exhaled, slowly.
“Even so. Acknowledge for a moment, Miss Cognita, that this order is in error.”
“My master does not make errors.”
The half-Elf’s left eye twitched. He couldn’t let this one go.
“What a ridiculous statement.”
Cognita drew herself up. That was the wrong thing to say. Her eyes flashed ruby-red. Literally.
“Do you insult the Archmage of Golems?”
“I do! Or at least, I argue that he was not without flaw. Even Dragons are not without flaw!”
The half-Elf’s bold retort in front of the mightiest Golems present astonished her. He strode forwards and shoved a finger up at her.
“A dutiful daughter can go too far, young woman! You are not the Truestone Constructs who rebelled of old, but you would do well to be more independent than a Sentient—no, Autonomous-class Golem!”
Cognita reflexively gasped. It was such an old insult that she—reacted—
She hadn’t heard that kind of insult since—but the half-Elf wasn’t done. His ire was piqued, and he had a barbed tongue when he was mad.
“This entire test is a stupid idea, even if Zelkyr had just popped upstairs for a week of study! It’s selfish, close-minded—what was it for, to stifle the other Archmages from getting a head start? There’s plenty of room up there and danger even for every Archmage over the last thousand years! What about Archmage Chandler? Would you have blocked him?”
“That question is moot. Archmage Chandler is dead.”
“Hah—”
He caught himself and both stared at each other. Eldavin rushed on.
“—the point is that this is a ridiculous, power-grabbing move. Petty.”
“I warn you to retract your insult.”
Her eyes narrowed. She loomed. He snapped.
“Retract? Petty is what I meant! Drakes can be the most childish, petty creatures in existence! And it seems Zelkyr never rose to become more than the average Drake, in the end!”
“Enough!”
Her body turned to flashing lightning. A gem—Eldavin threw up a shield as thunder boomed. He stumbled back.
Cognita nearly advanced on him, but held herself back. Her body was shining crystal now. She pointed a finger at the half-Elf.
“You will not slander my master! He was an [Archmage]! Greatest of his kind! Without flaw or failure!”
Her wrath would have cowed even the Archmages. A being of her magnitude—the half-Elf looked up at her.
Without fear. Just a bit of sadness. And that stopped Cognita. He shook his head.
“No, he was not. He was a mortal man, child. You speak as if I was not there. I remember him. We both knew he failed at times. Or do you forget what happened to the first of your sisters at Rhir?”
He remembered. He had lived those times, same as her. That made Cognita hesitate. She listened, furious, hungry, as he went on.
“Zelkyr, greatest of his kind? He was a genius, yes. You are shaped by that vast intellect and imagination. But also, his flaw. That he left more genius than not in his creations is his greatest legacy.”
“You—cannot say this.”
More emotion than she had felt in a century was flooding through the Truestone Golem. What was this stranger? He waved a finger at her.
“Can I not? When did words become anathema to Wistram? See the issue, young woman? Listen to me, Cognita Amerwing. I see two truths here, and know not which it is. But I present to you both as I see it: if Zelkyr is alive, then this is a terrible, merciless, stupid and thankless charge put upon you.”
He pointed at the waiting Golems.
“He is wounded, or in need! Or has abandoned the world as Archmage Valeterisa did. Either way, you are more than a sentinel. You are Truestone, and you must choose to be more than this.”
He tapped the ground with one foot. Then looked up at her.
“The other answer is that he is dead. In which case, you protect a dead Drake’s final orders. But you are then free. And you must be more. Which is it? Which?”
His words echoed in this place. And they, at least, were nostalgic. Easiest of all the things he had said so far.
Countless [Mages] had stood here and told her the exact same thing. Even the Necromancer had urged her to…
But even her master’s old friend had not shifted her. Cognita drew herself up. She knew the truth of it. And held it within her as she replied.
“My master’s will remains his will. That is all I will say, Magus. Nothing will sway me.”
She felt…hollowly triumphant at being able to reply thusly. And what would the Grand Magus do? Rage? Insult her master?
He looked at her, and exhaled. Cognita waited. And Eldavin scared the hell out of her.
“So that’s how it is. I see.”
He shook his head. The Truestone Golem hesitated.
“What do you mean?”
“That’s my answer. Well then, young woman. I think we had both better cool down. I hope we can speak at another time…”
He began to walk around her. She blocked him, reflexively.
“You do not know the answer. I did not give it to you.”
He eyed her, almost amused.
“Child, I hate to tell you this—but you just did.”
She stared at him. It was a bluff. It had to be.
“That is impossible.”
No feature of hers had changed. She was impossible to read; even the Archmage of Death had asked her to know her feelings. Eldavin just snorted.
“Oh, impossible. You say that in Wistram? For shame.”
He prodded her in the stomach since he couldn’t reach any higher. The Truestone Golem recoiled. Eldavin snorted as he walked past her.
“I know how your kind behaves, young woman. I told you, I’m old. Even stone has a tell. When you are ready to be reasonable, come find me.”
He walked off. Cognita stared at his back. She raised her fist.
She had never wanted to hit an old half-Elf as much as now. And Feor had been in power for nearly eighty years. She slowly let him leave the floor…then walked out of the room. She found a room and punched through one of the walls.
 
—-
 
Eldavin was upset after the confrontation with Cognita. He hadn’t expected to be so—emotional. Maybe he’d given too much away, said too much. But it was like meeting a Djinni.
He sat in his rooms, trying to control his breathing, analyzing the event as impartially as he could.
And that was when it hit him. All of it. It came together in a moment of perfect clarity and genius.
His issue with Wistram, trying to shape it through his faction, the time limit—and now this.
The Dragon sat back and laughed. He went over, grabbed some cookies, all the gifts he’d been plied with, and began stuffing his face. He felt a weight lift off his shoulders.
That was how to do it. He recalled what Ryoka had begged of him.
Be active, be present. But halfway. Interfere, but not fully, but do it.
He had agreed with her, which is why he had come here. Because he could not sit after being provoked. Now—he saw the way forwards.
Cognita of Truestone was the most extraordinary being in Wistram, bar only himself of course. And people treated her like a glorified servant, or a simple guardian.
She was Truestone! Those blathering Archmages? The Council? Dust, compared to her!
She was perhaps the last of her kind, and if not, one of the last. Her people had been created, risen, and been destroyed. She had been created and become the first once more.
He knew them all. All the old names, that people had forgotten ever existed.
The Djinni were enslaved. Their children, the Jinn, had been wiped away.
The Harpies had lost their lands and hope.
The Giants were all but gone.
And the Dragons’ time was done. The last Dragonlord of Flame sat there, chewing on macaroons until one got caught in his mortal throat. He hacked it up and stared at the thing trying to kill him.
“The last of us should not be so petty and end so.”
He informed the macaroon, the room, the world. The Dragon rose. He stood, and left his rooms. He had work to do.
 
—-
 
Archmage Viltach opened his door as Eldavin stood in front of it. The Grand Magus looked a bit embarrassed.
“Archmage, I have a confession to make. I’m working on a new project, and I realize I’ve left some of my reagents at home. Could I borrow some mithril dust for runework?”
Eldavin had tried to get some, but been informed the [Merchants] weren’t stocking it as commonly as in the old days. So he’d gone inquiring. This was the [Mage] equivalent of asking for a cup of sugar.
“Of course.”
Viltach was only too happy to do a favor for Eldavin. He proudly found a vial.
“How much do you need? I have anything else you might need—”
“Could I trouble you for, oh, four pounds of processed magicore?”
Viltach’s fingers slipped as he opened one of his cases containing the valuable materials. Normal magicore? Fine. But processed? Four p—
“…Of course. And it’s quite good. Elemental-less, of course. 99% purity!”
He heard a snort from the doorway. Eldavin folded his arms.
“Everything’s 99%, Archmagus. What’s the actual purity?”
“Excuse me?”
The man froze with his hands on a jar, heavily sealed. Eldavin repeated himself.
“The actual purity? I’m talking the numbers after the decimal point.”
The numbers after…? Viltach’s mouth opened and closed.
“Er…zero?”
“Zero?”
Eldavin looked outraged. He muttered.
“You don’t pre-purify before using it? Well, fine. I’ll take six pounds then. Er…”
He saw Viltach’s face and caught himself. Eldavin’s eyes flickered. Then he smiled.
“—not that I don’t use 70%, er, pure magicore myself from time to time! It’s just that this is—the most intricate project. Can’t leave it to chance. Thank you.”
He took the six pounds of pure magicore. Viltach gulped at the small fortune as Eldavin shut the door. Then he hurried to check if…?
 
—-
 
“99% purity. Hah! Might as well use sawdust.”
Eldavin grumpily sprinkled some mithril dust he’d run through a few purification spells afterwards. He eyed the rune work and decided he was going to need a semi-contained world to practice this on. Shame he couldn’t make Truestone Golems himself, but he’d do tests.
It was going to take a long time, even for a Dragon. Well…not if he really worked at it. He grumblingly began to work on the formulas, wishing he could consult with his spellbooks.
He wasn’t that good at this kind of magic, and this was going to push even him. He wished he had even one damn Skill, but no…
Even so. This was the plan. This was true magic. And it would be his gift, from one of the last to the other.
Cognita. This was how he changed Wistram, and the world for the better. Wait, Ryoka Griffin. He just had to cast one spell and then he would let Wistram be. One spell.
The Dragon smiled to himself.
He was going to set her free.
