The Griffin Prince. Stripped of his name, stripped of his right to succeed Novakya. Cursed, some said, by one of Terandria’s monsters. He had formed a wing of [Griffin Riders] out of former [Bandits], [Murderers], and other dregs of society, giving them one last chance to fight for honor.
They were not tolerated by Kaliv—but they were not hunted either. They were in a grey zone where Kaliv usually pretended they did not exist.
Calirn had heard stories about the immortal Griffin Prince and the tragedy around…her. The Spider. But he had not realized the true nature and power of the young man’s curse until today.
The Griffin Prince flew over the battlefield at a height above even the lancearrows. Spells and long-range shots tried to strike him, but his wing flew close-cover, deflecting or taking the shots meant for his Royal Griffin. They dropped stones, but those were blocked by barrier spells. What the [Mage Marshall] had never considered was that they would drop the Griffin Prince himself.
He fell among the stones, unnoticed at first. Surely the young man should have been splattered by the impact on the mage-barriers, or just disintegrated. But somehow—he survived.
He landed among the command of Ailendamus’ forces. Calirn saw the [Mage Marshall] blast him with a spray of poison—then a lance of magic through his chest. He staggered—brought up his axe—
And it bounced off her barrier-charm. He was diced into pieces in a second by her personal guard.
It didn’t kill him.
The second strike didn’t kill the [Mage Marshall] as, disbelieving, she saw him re-knit. But the third slew her, even as her guard tried to hack the young man apart.
The bewildered army saw the fighting in the command. It took thirty minutes—but the entire command began to flee as the Griffin Prince slaughtered the entire retinue defending the point. He destroyed three of the Greatbows before his wing dove to retrieve him; a replacement leader was attempting to capture, rather than kill him.
The Griffin Prince’s mad heroics inspired Kaliv’s forces. They sallied as, leaderless, Ailendamus’ forces lost morale. The Wing of Shame, the Griffin Prince’s retinue, took the battle to one flank, destroying Greatbows.
Ailendamus’ army didn’t even manage to retreat. Tens of thousands of [Soldiers] surrendered in the first upset of the war.
A brave boy. Calirn still couldn’t believe the dread magic that had let him survive countless deaths, however. He knew the power of the Stitch Witch, the Temptress, the Spider, Belavierr.
Even so. Ailendamus’ assault was foiled as the [Generals] no doubt took precautions against such a strike again. But the Griffin Prince used his deathlessness like a weapon without peer. He attacked raiding parties by himself, challenging groups as many as twenty strong and killing them—not by superior force of arms, but by an inability to die.
His only weakness was being captured, but the canny [Prince] had long-since learned how to pick his battles. His Wing of Shame would haunt Ailendamus in every major battle to come.
 
—-
 
…Anyways, that was the scene. If you didn’t care about the war, or didn’t care for historical battles, it was probably all boring nonsense.
Knight-Commander Calirn paid attention because the Dawn Concordat were right next to Pheislant and he had no love for Ailendamus. But life moved on.
The Singer of Terandria, whom he had once seen, was putting out songs about the war. Desonis had a minor scandal as one of their Earls returned and was stripped of some of his land for insulting their Queen to her face.
A party in Nomaudrel had gone really wrong, and sixteen servants were dead. The hostess, a young [Duchesss], might actually be stripped of her title or lands—the nobility objected to such stringent measures, but the crown, mindful of the reaction of the commonfolk…
So it went. This was Terandria! Politics and the Hundred Families and Human kingdoms were not all one thing. The news reported on Ailendamus because it was the big war of the moment, along with the one in Chandrar with the King of Destruction.
However, only a few other parties had gotten dragged into the mix. There had been one incident with a force of [Knights] belonging to the Order of Seasons being captured at sea.
Calirn had been furious about that. But Ailendamus had promised to ransom them, claiming they had refused to surrender at first during the blockade. And again—it wasn’t the kind of thing that justified taking the Order of Seasons to war.
What had made the Knight-Commander smile was that the [Knights] escaped, even apparently managing to down a famous [General] along the way! A bad look for Ailendamus, especially since the [Knights] swore under truth spell that they had refused to heed the codes of honor and war. Ailendamus’ crown promised to investigate…
Small potatoes? Satisfying potatoes. Calirn had especially wanted to greet the [Knights] after their long journey home, because they had ridden to battle with Ser Raim and…well, failed to see the Stitch Witch dead. But all things being equal, he would not have counted it as a momentous occasion.
Except that they brought a friend. A fellow [Knight], hailing from Izril.
The Goblin Slayer. Or—Ser Solstice.
And he was a Goblin.
 
—-
 
The return of the group of Spring and Summer Knights to the Order of Seasons was a cause for celebration. The gates were thrown open as they were spotted, and they were welcomed for food, respite, and the company of their brothers and sisters after so long!
Of course, they had been spotted long before they arrived at the vast, sprawling keep that was the headquarters of the Order of Seasons, made out of an old half-Elven fortress from the time of their empires.
Rabbiteater was impressed by the guard they kept on the Order of Seasons’ land. The group had told them they were coming, but even so, they hadn’t gone more than ten minutes past what Talia had claimed was the border point when he appeared.
“The Winter’s Watcher.”
Ser Markus bowed, gauntleted fist over his heart. The others did the same. Spring Knights and Summer Knights, bowing slightly to the figure standing on the hilltop.
It had begun snowing; their clue he was here. Even in the summer. The figure regarded them.
“Winter’s Watcher! We bring a fellow [Knight] of Izril who has fought and slept by our sides! We vouch for his honor and strength of arms!”
Ser Markus had bellowed it up at the figure, whose armor looked closer to frozen ice than anything else. The figure had inclined a huge mane of pale white hair and turned. His armor had been trimmed with thick fur, and he had carried a single enchanted axe with a blue glow to the edge, and a shield with ancient sigillary in the other.
“Who that?”
Rabbiteater had pointed. Ser Markus had explained.
“The Winter’s Watcher, Ser Solstice. One of the four leaders of the Order of Seasons, under the Knight-Commander himself. He is a solitary figure; much as the Order of Winter are. They do not seek company, but fight alone, or in small groups if they must.”
“Ah. And they are the best ones?”
Markus hesitated. Talia tossed her head and looked back. She was a Summer Knight, he, a Spring Knight. She was his senior, and replied in a stiff voice.
“Not as a rule, Ser Solstice. They are…more experienced by and large, that is true, but great [Knights] exist in every order! They are the fewest, however; [Knights] turn to their Season as they age. Sometimes. It is not a rule. Some stay in their season regardless of their age.”
Rabbiteater had read between her words. He distilled her speech and Ser Markus’ following explanation into a far simpler one.
Old, grumpy veterans. Like a bunch of veteran Redfang Hobs or even regular Goblins. Scarred, maybe not as quick or energetic as newly-minted Redfangs, but the ones who took you to pieces the instant you dropped your guard.
“He was alone, though.”
He pointed out to Ser Markus as they continued the rest of their short journey. Ser Markus nodded.
“He is sworn to protect our headquarters, Ser Solstice. He returns—you may see him in the keep, but he often watches the border, even if he knows we are coming.”
“Right. But he was alone.”
The Spring Knight tilted his head until he realized what Rabbiteater meant.
“Ah—do not worry, Ser Solstice. If a larger force were coming, he would raise the alarm. But he would slow any foe who arrived, at the very least!”
“By himself?”
The other [Knights] nodded, as if a single person charging into a fight wasn’t stupid.
“The Winter’s Watcher is a superior fighter, Ser Solstice. He could stop countless foes by himself. The heads of each season sometimes duel, and he wins more than any of the other three—except for perhaps the Spring’s Warden. But she is the best duelist by far.”
“Mm. And the other two? The…”
“Summer’s Champion. Just as good in combat as the Winter’s Watch and Spring’s Warden!”
Markus raised his voice for Talia and the other two Summer Knights. He confided in Rabbiteater.
“More of a commander, though. And the Fall’s Sentinel, who is, er, more academic. But superior with a blade even so! You may meet all of them. The Knight-Commander as well. I think…they will be interested in meeting you.”
He gave Rabbiteater a sidelong look. The Hobgoblin knew he was remembering his face.
The face he had seen after the escape from the Bear General’s camp. Yet—Ser Markus had not said a word of it to anyone as far as Rabbiteater could tell. He’d spent a week of sleepless nights, but no one had tried to kill him in his sleep.
There were changes. But he rode into the Order of Season’s keep and stood as the Knight-Commander himself and two of the season’s heads greeted their [Knights].
“Ser Solstice of Izril. I thank you for your aid to my order. And I welcome you into our keep. You are an honored friend, and you may avail yourself of our hospitality.”
Rabbiteater took the strong, cold grip. Even though the man had removed his gauntlet—Rabbiteater had not—his grip still felt frosty! He eyed the greying man’s face, and sensed his strength in a moment. Awkwardly, the Goblin-knight nodded his head.
“Thanks. How long?”
Talia twitched. Knight-Commander Calirn blinked. Rabbiteater wondered if it was another custom he’d broken.
But you were supposed to ask, right? In Goblin tribes, say, you couldn’t just laze about eating the best meat all day.
“…As long as you desire, Ser Solstice.”
“Years?”
Calirn blinked again and seemed to freeze up. A huge laugh erupted from the orange-haired man.
“I like this one! Yes, years, Ser Solstice! The Order of Seasons does not treat its friends lightly, and one more mouth is hardly an imposition! Although we’ll raise our eyebrows if you do naught at all. But I swear it by the summer skies! I am the Summer’s Champion, Greysten. An honor to meet you.”
He was a big Human, six foot three, and physically imposing. Not the Bear General’s girth, but he had a strong, hot grip. Rabbiteater flexed his hand afterwards. What was with these [Knights]?
Oh, right. The seasons thing. The Spring’s Warden was next. She was slimmer, and Rabbiteater thought she was very pretty.
Oh, she looked like she was in her thirties despite being twenty years older, which apparently was because she was the embodiment of the spring. She had topaz-and-emerald hair, shining bright.
But that wasn’t what made her pretty. It was the huge scar running down her cheek and across her neck, and the long, threaded scar down her arm.
That was the kind of scar you got in battle that even a healing potion didn’t heal right. Rabbiteater admired her at once; the other two leaders didn’t have as obvious battle marks. He got the sense she could stab him through the visor before he could strike her.
Dead sexy, as Redfangs reckoned such things.
“Dame Kallinad spoke highly of you in her [Messages], Ser Solstice. Don’t worry; we won’t ask you to remove your armor. And Ailendamus will pay for its breach in conduct.”
Rabbiteater glanced at Talia. She looked a tad bit uncomfortable as she bowed to the Summer’s Champion and then Calirn.
“Knight-Commander, we regret we were so delayed in returning. I trust Ser Raim’s remains arrived safely?”
“They did, and have been buried with his beloved as he wished. I regret the passing of our brethren. But you acted as a true [Knight], Dame Kallinad. We will not soon forget the Witch’s existence.”
She nodded. Rabbiteater had no idea what that was about, but soon he was being shown to his quarters.
“We have guest quarters, Ser Solstice. You will stay here—tomorrow, I shall show you around the keep, but we will arrange food brought to you.”
Ser Markus showed him to the lovely rooms. They might be more spartan than some, but to a Goblin, they were spacious, the bed padded, and plenty of luxury for a guest of [Knights]! Rabbiteater nodded, inspecting the place for bolt holes and traps.
He saw the man hover for a second. Awkwardly, Ser Markus cleared his throat.
“Ser Solstice. About…your identity.”
Rabbiteater looked up sharply. The Spring Knight hesitated. He put his hand on the door.
“I will tell no one, Ser Solstice. You have my word. I saw a [Knight] that day, and that has never changed. I would, however, be interested in speaking with you further, if I may.”
The Goblin’s heart pounded in his chest. But…he slowly nodded.
“Yes. We can…do that.”
Have an adventure. Her words still rang in his head, even if the power had faded even as they fled the camp. He tried to smile. And Ser Markus did.
“I will return after informing the kitchen staff of your circumstances, Solstice. And—find a way to let you bathe. Perhaps a bath, if we carry it from the wells…excuse me.”
He nodded and left. Rabbiteater sat there for a second.
Am I in danger?
Well, he had been the moment he left Izril. But he wanted…to believe in these crazy Humans and their weird codes of conduct. He liked Markus. He wondered what Talia thought; they hadn’t spoken as much. But now they’d arrived and…he sat back on the bed.
He felt good.
 
—-
 
The Spring’s Warden was in her rooms, meditating before dinner, as was her wont. She heard a knock, told the person to enter.
It was a female Spring Knight, one of the ones who had gone to Ser Raim’s aid.
“Warden—I am sorry if I am disturbing you, but…I have something I must say. I feel the need to, even if it conflicts with honor and duty.”
The Spring’s Warden turned. She was used to such intrusions; her Season was made up of more [Knights] and more junior ones than any other Season.
“Come in, Dame Meisa. Speak freely and I will give you what wisdom I have.”
“It’s about Ser Solstice, the—the [Knight] that came with us.”
