The young [Sand Mage] with the alias was one. There were some talents in the new student body, who could actually become something with a bit of polish. The surly young man from Hellios with a [Lord]’s class and good swordsmanship was being steered into pure magic. He would be a great [Magical Swordsman]!
“Lifesand Golems.”
The half-Elf muttered to himself. Now there was proof that strong magic still remained, even in the Waning World. Potential…
He had tea with Valeterisa.
“I lost myself for ten years in attempting to uncover a lost spell theorem. I regret that. It was lucky I was…awoken.”
The woman shook her head slightly. Eldavin raised his brows.
“Indeed so. [Mages] have died, even half-Elves, caught in mental mazes for as long as a century. And if you were uncovering a theorem, subdivision of thought is a poor way to do it.”
Her eyes locked on his.
“That is not my understanding, Grand Magus. Please qualify that statement.”
He harrumphed.
“Young w—Archmage. Do you really think more fractured thoughts is a good way to master a magical leap of genius? For improving—yes. For the purest quill of insight?”
She stared at him. He realized he’d gone too far and coughed repeatedly into his beard.
“So I’ve heard. I have never mastered the technique myself. Dangerous. Er…about good candidates for the faction.”
“I have a list of candidates who would be strong [Mages] with influence. Here.”
“Excellent. Ah—Mage Telim, even?”
“He added himself to the list.”
“Then I will accept him without reservation. He seems quite qualified, if a bit lazy. No olfactory component in his illusions, which I think ruins the entire experience. Smell completes, don’t you agree?”
She nodded slowly. Eyes fixed on him. But Eldavin was careful to include gaps in his knowledge. It was better to present as a qualified master of lower magical arts, broad in scope, but lacking, say, the ability to create artifacts. A superior generalist, yes.
 
—-
 
The other Archmages were interesting. Eldavin met them all. He found Valeterisa most likable, and made a few conclusions about the others which he would later find out if they were correct or not.
Naili—cunning, ambitious, young. Talkative—she and he had a long lunch in which she kept pressing about Ryoka Griffin and all the things she’d dug up.
“Leave the Wind Runner alone, Archmagus.”
“Yes, but you’re just letting her run about. Are you using her?”
“She is under my protection.”
The half-Elf coldly met the Lamia’s glare. But she was able to match him look for look. Yes—more dangerous than she seemed. Naili smiled.
“Would that be accompanied by an ‘or else’, Grand Magus?”
“Implicitly, my dear Archmage Nailihuaile.”
“Well, your ire is certainly formidable. But we need to be united, don’t we?”
He put down his cup and reached for another pastry.
“Yes we do. But my ire? Archmage Nailihuaile. You have seen my ire. Should Wistram decide to upset me, you will see what happens when I go to war. And you have not seen that.”
He met her gaze until the smile vanished.
 
—-
 
Ironically, Viltach was more restrained. Eldavin had punched the Archmage of Terandria, but they enjoyed a quite civil discourse on spell tomes, even exchanged a few spells of Viltach’s design.
And he brought up some salient points. He was clearly ambitious as much as Nailihuaile, but saw what Teriarch did.
“The issue, as I see it, Eldavin, is that this second world may well decide to go to war. I have been asking my Earthers about history, and they have a history of aggression that would match any empire in our world.”
“There is no discernible portal, Archmage.”
Eldavin aimed a pool cue at the ball; Wistram had odd priorities, like creating a billiards table before airplanes. But it was quite fun. He knocked a ball into a pocket and smiled smugly. Viltach repressed a scowl; Eldavin was beating him despite both sides cheating with magic to correct their aim.
“I would say only a fool does not anticipate the danger of the possibility of a portal opening, Grand Magus. And you are no fool.”
The half-Elf glanced up and slowly chalked up his pool cue, a delightful activity, before replying.
“No indeed, Archmage. And it would be my delight to talk about countermeasures. Perhaps some large-scale anti-combustion spells?”
“That doesn’t work on all of their weapons. Are you familiar with…? Perhaps you weren’t fully briefed by your sources. We may talk about more advanced weaponry later.”
“Of course. After dinner? Most excellent.”
 
—-
 
Feor was interesting. Teriarch played chess with him, and thought that he was the second-best player he had ever met.
Which meant, of course, he still took the majority of games. The half-Elf wanted to talk about home, species—and realized he was getting nowhere with Eldavin, who refused to be nostalgic for a species he didn’t have. In the end he laid his cards down.
“Grand Magus, I would like to trade knowledge.”
“I am sure an Archmage has much to offer a humble Grand Magus such as myself. But would I be able to reciprocate? Check, again.”
Feor grimaced.
“Much of what we have had is lost, Grand Magus. I…would see it restored before my passing.”
“Yet, no [Mage] has passed Zelkyr’s test? And you do not seem to believe in attempting it.”
The Archmage of Elves hesitated as he moved a piece out of harm’s way.
“I do not believe it is a test made in good faith, Grand Magus. Rather, I would put my certainty in…other methods. Are you aware of the [Thaumaturge] class?”
Eldavin’s eyebrows shot up.
“Indeed I am. A novel way to uncover new spells given how they cast theirs. But one would need a high-level [Thaumaturge]. And that does not include spell theory.”
“No, indeed, Eldavin. But I happen to know of one…and as remote as that option is—have you beheld the test? I would place my faith in anything but that. Ah, checkmate, I believe. My first win.”
He sat back and smiled. Eldavin realized he’d been getting distracted, glanced down at the board, and saw he had lost.
Intriguing. He may have excused himself after that game, purely because he had socialized enough of course, but Feor seemed closer to Valeterisa than he thought.
 
—-
 
Verdan Blackwood lifted his cup with fingers delicately spread. He inclined his head, sipped, and intoned with a calculated sigh.
“Fortify.”
The half-Elf slowly took a sip himself. He replied, after some measured thought.
“Sanctify to fortify.”
He enjoyed Verdan’s company more than any other Archmage’s. Purely because the Dullahan rituals and observances were far more refreshing to partake in than the faster politicking. After some thought, Verdan placed the cup down on the Dullahan’s stylized tray.
“Will you clarify, Grand Magus? I feel as though I have lost your meaning.”
A shame, because they’d gone back and forth with the simplistic, yet intricate layers of thought and reply for the last two hours. Eldavin nodded.
“Sanctity, Archmagus Blackwood. Or do you not agree that Wistram is in need of reform?”
A cautious nod in reply.
“My passions, Grand Magus, lie with my people, who have adopted me, as much as Wistram. I believe my fellow Archmages consider my position biased, if not compromised.”
The man sat in armor, despite his advanced age, mimicking Dullahans. The Archmage of Dullahans watched as Eldavin lifted his brows.
“Who is not biased, Archmagus Blackwood? Nor would I consider any one species inherently unfit for knowledge or cooperation. If that is the goal. What, pray, is the point of this conclave?”
“Security, to me. Fortify.”
The half-Elf countered.
“Sanctify, Archmagus Blackwood. Who is worthy of meeting another world as equals? Wistram, as it is? Sanctify.”
 
—-
 
Archmages. Students. Eldavin.
But there was one person he truly longed to meet in Wistram. And she seemed to be avoiding him.
They met as the half-Elf stood at the magical barrier, the Test of Wistram. Zelkyr’s legacy.
A barrier spell keyed to five sources. In theory, you could break it down; even one of the Archmages with enough help and time.
But you would never get that much time. Not with three Golems of such magnitude—and one basic War Golem, if a fine example of one.
Or…
The woman made seemingly of marble strode down the deserted corridor. She had moved the instant she realized where he was going. And her body was…primed.
She stood behind him. He did not turn his head at first. He spoke.
“Ah. Cognita of Truestone. Zelkyr’s child. I had wondered when we would meet. You have been avoiding me.”
He turned his head. The giant woman halted.
She was tall. Her height was actually adaptive, as the rest of her was. She was Truestone, a pinnacle of her kind. A Cognizant-class Golem.
One who thought. One who lived. She stopped, nine feet tall, and looked down at Eldavin.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. Do you come here to take my master’s test?”
Her voice was hostile. Eldavin blinked once at her. He inspected her, then pinched at his nose.
“No. But kindly tell that thing to move or I will force it to.”
He looked at the invisible Golem made of flesh. Cognita hesitated. It was looming next to him, jaws open, but the half-Elf didn’t seem to even be affected by the mental invisibility. She gestured; it moved back slowly.
Eldavin studied Zelkyr’s legacy. He saw what Feor meant.
A Golem of magma. Another, made of steel, vastly tall, perhaps thirty feet, incredibly thin, a mismatch of blades and death. The invisible flesh-Golem with its noxious aura—he coughed.
And a replacement for one, a War Golem, a giant metal monster that a half-Giant would fear to fight.
“I expected more dangerous at first. Until I realized they were concealing their true natures. Quite, quite clever. But you are the fifth, aren’t you? To pass, one must destroy all five.”
He commented to Cognita. The Truestone Golem stiffened.
[Mages] had died here in the challenge without realizing what this half-Elf had. Eldavin stared at the magma golem and snorted.
“No wonder the Archmages would rather argue and sit about than attempt this. Tell me, what was Zelkyr thinking? Did he intend to stifle magic with his last action? Or is he…waiting for something?”
He turned. And Cognita, whose face was almost always placid, who talked with Archmages as levelly as students and visitors from abroad—
Frowned.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. I remember you. You were indeed present when my master roamed Wistram’s halls. You have not changed. Not one hair. Are you the Eldavin of then?”
He paused for one second.
Golem memories. He should have at least changed his hair style or added more wrinkles. He had forgotten someone as old as he—and with a perfect memory—was here. Even Feor had barely remembered him.
“I am Eldavin. Can you not sense the truth of it, child?”
“Do not call me child. I am Cognita.”
He blinked again.
“But you are Zelkyr’s child. And I am your senior, as old as you may be. Girl.”
He reminded her. Cognita’s marble eyes fixed on him. Her porcelain form began to…
Change. Into something harder. Truestone—Eldavin blinked again.
Strange. He had thought she would seek him out and they would have a convivial talk about the old days after they had looked at each other. But this?
“If you do not come here to take the test, Grand Magus, I will request you leave. This place is not meant for [Mages] to linger in.”
“I respectfully decline.”
The Golems stirred. Eldavin never took his eyes off Cognita. And her face was thunderous now.
“You refuse?”
“I decline. Is that a rule of your test or is it your request?”
“It is my determination.”
The Dragon slowly spread his arms.
“Then, I request you alter your determination for me, Miss Cognita. I am not here to take your test. If you fear I am learning something—or preparing a great magic? I am not. You can see that. Nor would I need to. I know the nature of each Golem. I have seen their kind. I am not here to take your test. That is not why I returned to Wistram.”
“So you say.”
The woman shifted. Eldavin was still puzzled. Why was she so wary? She’d changed to anti-magic armor. And she was set like she was about to charge him. He looked at her—
Then his perception wavered. He saw himself, as she might see him.
A half-Elf from a time when magic had been stronger. Coming at this time, with other powerful [Mages] to Wistram when Earth—a new threat or opportunity—had arisen.
The half-Elf faltered. His heart stung him. Oh no. Cognita hesitated as he clutched at his chest for a second.
She thinks I am here to destroy her. This child thinks—
Fear. That was what he saw. The half-Elf’s head rose. And Cognita saw a strange emotion in his eyes. One she had seldom seen even before she had been given this long duty.
Pity?
“Miss Cognita. No—should I say, Cognita Amerwing—”
The Golems in the room shifted.
That was Zelkyr’s last name. Eldavin went on.
“I am not here to challenge Zelkyr’s might. I am not here to do battle with his children, least of all what might be the last of his three. Oldest, and last. I came, hoping to ask you—”
He hesitated. But the Golem was hostile and he had already mistepped, by accident. She had seen his magical acumen. So he said it.
“—is Zelkyr not still alive? If so, will you not ask him to return?”
The Truestone Golem made no move. But for a second—the Golems of Wistram stuttered about their duties. She looked at the half-Elf. And she was certain.
“You are not a Grand Magus. Who are you?”
“Will you not allow me entry?”
“If you attempt it, you will die.”
She warned him. The half-Elf looked—distraught.
“Child.”
“Do not call me that.”
Cognita had not spoken so for…Eldavin’s eyebrows drew together. He was trying to be understanding. But he was still a Dragon.
“Young woman. I advise you not to take that tone with me. I walked this very ground before your master was born. He was a strong [Archmage]. But you can see how this accident is curtailing magic. Does the emergence of another world not change your opinions?”
The Truestone Golem looked at this stranger. Conflicted. How long had it been since someone asked that? Yes, she had opinions. But even she had forgotten that she had once exercised hers.
Then. But he came from a time before even then.
“Grand Magus, my master’s order remains. What is there to speak of?”
“Spoken like a good child. And you were, weren’t you?”
She shook with the shock of that statement. Eldavin’s old eyes were pitying again. He shook his head.
“Time has changed, Cognita of Wistram. I do not believe—no, I know that Zelkyr would not have created this test to last nearly a hundred and what, a hundred and fifty years? He would have replaced that Golem. Something has gone wrong.”
