As well as Wistram’s blatant attempts to conceal Earth and amass power for themselves. Something needed to be done.
Another of his kin, or just another kind of person, might opine that the best solution was to raze Wistram to the ground and sink the entire citadel into the sea. Teriarch—even if that were possible for him alone—would not have done that.
The world needed Wistram Academy. There had been times in history that he had lived through when the lack of a magical heart had left the world in dire need, and times when they had staved off armageddon by sacrifice, integrity, and wisdom.
The world needed Wistram. What was up for debate was whether they needed this Wistram.
So his new faction would be the lever upon which to effect change. But carefully. But subtly. The issue was…Teriarch knew all kinds of devious stratagems and political plays.
But he’d failed with the riddles, at least, in part. Wistram did not follow the same rulebook as before, so Teriarch was wary of trying something that would have worked in the old days and might backfire now.
He couldn’t rely on old favorites like the Penta-Mage Antagonism, an old trick wherein you set up five [Mages] of roughly equal strengths in too-close proximity. You see, four [Mages] could coexist in relative harmony, but all but the rarest examples saw five competing powers inevitably turn to strife. Set them up, and watch them divide and fight until they’d destroyed whatever they were supposed to be protecting or working on.
He had to be innovative, rather than use something fun like that. And remember all the old failures!
It was almost easier to be ignorant and young, and not know the consequences of so many actions. Like…blood magic, for instance. Introduce that to a magical society and it could lead to [Mages] eating each other in basements.
Not all the time; in fact, a statistical minority of the times blood magic was adopted. But once you saw it happen once, you were disinclined to allow it to happen again.
The main thing was that he didn’t want to teach them too much. But he had to teach them something to establish himself.
That was how Eldavin found himself teaching a class of students on day three. They had begged him, and after some thought, he’d agreed to see what the level and competency was.
“[Mages], I come from an era before Zelkyr was Archmage. I remember old magic—and Wistram has changed. So, while I have agreed to demonstrate some spells, you will first show me your methods.”
The half-Elf stood in front of a vast class of nearly eighty. They were everyone from Trey Atwood, to actual [Mages] like Beatrice of the Revivalists, to Teura and Valeterisa herself, even if she wasn’t standing with the actual students at their desks. Teriarch went on.
“I believe the dichotomy between [Fireball] spells is most important to study. It seems most have forgotten that spells are not constructed the same way! You all are practicing woven-style fabrication which—you, get out.”
He pointed. A young man spluttered.
“What? Why?”
“Because I do not care for skepticism, your attitude, or your presence. Out.”
Eldavin pointed at Timor du Havrington, whom he had recognized from the banquet. A spectral, giant hand shoved the young man out of class as everyone watched. It flicked him into the hallway wall, and shut the door delicately as Eldavin turned back. Troy was grinning madly.
“I see students of every stripe here. No Gnolls?”
“Gnolls?”
The students stirred. Eldavin counted every species except Gazers and Gnolls in his class. He frowned.
“Hm. Have they started an academy of their own again? Well, so it goes. Now, demonstrate the [Fireball] spell for me, all of you. Hold it—and why aren’t you putting your barrier spells up?”
Half the class was frozen. At last, a young [Mage] raised her hand tremulously.
“Grand Magus, we don’t know the spell. We’re only first-years.”
Some of the other [Mages] were hesitating, wondering if they could hold a [Fireball] spell once they’d created it. You created a [Fireball] and it blew up!
Valeterisa was holding two [Fireballs]. Trey was sweating as he tried to figure it out. Eldavin stared.
“…You don’t know how to cast [Fireball]? That was the requirement for…well, [Fire Bolt], then. No? [Candle]. On three. One, two…stop!”
He bellowed. The class halted. Eldavin strode down the ranks of students.
“You. What are you doing, holding your wand like that? And you—your posture is completely off. You, you, you—dead gods, it’s easier to name who’s doing it right. Stop!”
The students, bemused, saw him grab Trey’s arm, adjust it, check the grip—he nodded at that, but lambasted a dozen students.
“Weak grips! Poor posture! Don’t slump your shoulders! Straighten your spine!”
“Does it matter, Grand Magus?”
A student protested. Eldavin stared at her.
“Get out.”
“But I—”
“Out! If you can’t stand properly when casting a spell, when one triggers a backlash, don’t come crawling to me when it shatters your spine! For that matter—posture matters when conducting magic! Out! You—take off those rings!”
“But magus, they’re Rings of Well and Concentration—”
The half-Elf loomed over the unfortunate Human.
“Do you think I’m blind? This is study, not a battle! Do you rely on a flying carpet when you’re learning to walk? No aides! No Skills! Now, posture set! Hands, wands, staves at the ready—stop!”
It took six more attempts before they even got to casting [Candle]. And even then, Eldavin criticized things some [Mages] hadn’t even known were a problem.
Troy Atlas got a pass because Gazi had told him how magic flowed through the body. You kept even distributions to ward off enemy spells—you concentrated it where you wanted magic to be produced, like if you were casting without a catalyst and your bare hands.
“Terandrian schools still have it.”
Eldavin commented to the girl who had come in Trey’s class. He nodded at some [Mages] from similar backgrounds; castigated those who didn’t have this grounding.
He wasn’t, er, a nurturing teacher. Even Gazi had more patience than Eldavin, and she was arguably kinder, which was amazing to Trey.
However, Eldavin was clearly a genius. In the end, he demonstrated five [Fireballs], producing them and letting them hover to the class, even [Mages] peeking in.
“This is what I meant. Observe the formation of each one. New students, you can’t see the flow of magic, but watch this one form in slow motion. This is your ‘standard’ [Fireball], which forms using the weave-formation.”
Strands of fire knitted themselves together in a swirling mass, like yarn. Teriarch nodded at it.
“Not the most potent, but more difficult to dispel due to the formation, which it was why it is adopted. You see—the compression style fireball can explode, which is why it was dropped; new [Mages] suffered accidents. But it is quicker, more powerful, or at least, more variable in strength, and easier to actually cast. No wonder [Fireball] is considered a higher mark in spellcasting if you are all learning weave-style [Fireballs]!”
He showed them a huge ball of fire compressing down smaller. A first-year student raised a hand.
“You mean, the other ones are easier, Grand Magus?”
He stared at her and she flinched, but the half-Elf nodded.
“Of course, young woman! You are a Level…12 [Mage]? I see. Well, you could cast a set-style [Fireball] within the week. Woven-style is far harder.”
“Me?”
She squeaked. The Grand Magus shrugged.
“Set-style—the largest one, here—is uncompressed, unwoven. It’s just…fire. But if I wanted to have a group of spellcasters throw [Fireball] in a week, I’d teach them that. Nevertheless, knowing how to vary a spell is one of the fundamentals in a battle. For instance, a [Spellcut Warrior] can hack apart any cheap spell, but a woven-style [Fireball] or the link-style ones would give him trouble…but do you need to use it in other circumstances? I posit no, but the standardization of magical spells…let’s all practice compression, shall we? With the [Candle] spell if you can’t cast [Fireball].”
Trey’s head was spinning after the two hour-long class, and he saw the same expression on other students. But he felt like he’d learned something.
You could link two spells together and combine, like, [Fireball] and [Water Orb] into ‘one’ spell if you knew the right containment procedures. Then have them detonate in tandem. Imagine the possibilities!
Valeterisa had been the only [Mage] who seemed to know everything Eldavin had been talking about. But the surprising part had been at the end.
“I was shocked to learn that the Archmage’s histories weren’t being taught along with magical theory. Necromancy is outlawed here. Yet, students, the Archmages existed. The Archmagi of Death have always been part of Wistram—with uneasy history at time, yes. But the same can be said for many schools of magic.”
Eldavin had begun talking about Az’kerash. Three Terandrians and two Izrilians had actually left at that time, but even more students had come to listen. Eldavin spoke—then conjured an illusion.
“Archmage Perril Chandler was once considered the greatest [Mage] of his time to come from Terandria. A bulwark against the famous Zelkyr and the strength of Golems that made the Walled Cities a feared world power as well. In lieu of this war in Terandria, I am reminded of another time the Dawn Concordat was pushed to the brink. There—the Archmage of Death stood in front of an army of four hundred thousand and dared them to a battle.”
His illusion spells made you feel as if you were there. The classroom changed, and desks and walls became sky and boulders. There was even smell, which no [Mage] had ever included in a spell to Trey before.
He heard the roar of battle, panting. The Archmage stood there.
Before he was the Necromancer, Perril Chandler looked more like a [Duelist]. It was almost like the King of Duels.
People were vanishing into spell circles. He turned, pushing a woman gently away. He set himself against a vast army in a narrow pass of stone, where blood had already been spilled with ranks of warriors wearing gold. They cheered him.
“Chandler! Archmage!”
Eldavin stopped the moment and walked among them. The audience, disbelieving, especially those of Terandria, stared at the man’s back.
“Here, he fought.”
It was like Eldavin had been there. Perhaps he had, or watched. But ranks of [Soldiers] charged as undead rose.
Undead. Fallen warriors, skeletons, and spells exploded across both lines as the Archmage took on an entire army, forcing them to fight in this pass.
They thought they could overwhelm him. But the golden [Knights] and the Archmage refused to give ground, and for every warrior that fell—an undead rose.
“The Thronebearers of Calanfer. This is the hour he was called the Undying Shield of Calanfer. This is the hour when he was truly called Archmage of Death.”
Trey watched as the man fought. He had never known it, but Perril Chandler had fought with wand and rapier in hand. He danced in the fighting, using [Flash Step] to move in and run opponents through even as he cast magic.
“The Necromancer never used a blade!”
One student protested. Trey had almost forgotten they were there. Eldavin watched as Perril Chandler blasted a foe with ice from his wand and then parried an arrow. His eyes were nostalgic.
“Oh yes, but he did. He never had the class, but he was considered a magical duelist on par with any other. See?”
He pointed.
There was a golden bell. The kind of thing that people had copied, when he was still beloved.
Undead rose and died and rose again. But it was the golden [Knights] who fought, grimly determined. Lower-level, but in one dramatic scene, an arrow shot by a high-level archer struck the Archmage and he fell against a rock. A Thronebearer held a shield over him as the Archmage clutched at the arrow.
“This was the scene that defined the battle. That those with scrying spells saw. The Thronebearers of Calanfer have always risen in dark hours the further they were pushed. When kingdom stood on the line…”
They charged after that. The Archmage too. He was running out of mana. [Knight] after knight died—
But they rose. And this time it was Draug. A giant made out of the dead, which was brought down at great cost. The mortal army wavered as the Archmage fought forwards. More of the people fell around him.
Yet. They had his back, even after they died. When it was done, the vast army was in flight, and the Archmage stood alone as reinforcements from the rear finally arrived to hold the gap.
When it was done, no one knew quite what to say. Valeterisa’s eyes were shining. But some of the students seemed unsettled by the heroic account of the Necromancer. Eldavin clapped his hands, briskly.
“In those hours, on that day, I believe Perril Chandler leveled up more than any Archmage has in the century plus since. Adversity breeds strength, students. That is your lesson. It may be your death. But to strive for greatness, the peak of magic, is to walk with it. Do not think a [Warrior] risks death more than a mage.”
He glanced around. Valeterisa nodded at him and he nodded back. Eldavin concluded.
“Also remember that Archmages were deeply political. Wistram seems to pretend to aloofness in this era. But Zelkyr fought for the Walled Cities. Archmage Chandler involved himself in Terandrian affairs time and time again. Both fought against the Demons of Rhir, for better or worse.”
“But Grand Magus—the factions of Terandria do the same. Some of them. The Council argues over too much interference.”
A [Mage] pointed that out. Eldavin glared at him.
“Young mage, I said Archmages were political. Not petty. They did not stand by and idly toss words or condemnations around. When words failed, they went to war and armies trembled in their boots. I recall one famous example—this is ancient history, even when Zelkyr was just a brat—where one Archmage took to the field and the enemy left a brown field in retreat. They called it the Embarrassment of Bermule…”
 
—-
 
Eldavin was earmarking individuals. As of yet, the Terras faction had yet to gain Council seats, but he was willing to ‘steal’ members of other factions. Some would be spies, but many would come for what he offered.
The best would be like Valeterisa. But the point was to have a voice in Wistram’s decisions. Make allies, ‘get’ Earthers.
Eldavin was ambivalent about that last part. But if he had people he wanted to join?
