He looked at her. The history of Goblins and Humans was reflected in it. Meisa blinked. Even nodded.
“But I am still ashamed, sir.”
The Goblin Slayer tilted his head. After a moment, his visor came up. She saw lips move up in a grin.
“Good. Trade sandwich and I forgive you.”
He wanted hers, which was stuffed with mackerel. She traded it for tomato and jerky. They sat together, as Meisa felt some of her guilt lift at last. After a while, she saw the visor open and snap shut; he was eating inside his helmet.
“Ser Solstice?”
“Mm?”
“Do you truly like rabbits that much?”
He leaned over.
“Nah. Just caught them because I was hungry. They got boring.”
“Ah.”
 
—-
 
“Ser Solstice! Do you have time tonight?”
A booming man caught Rabbiteater after they returned from the day-long expedition. The Summer’s Champion grabbed him by the shoulder.
“Yes. Something wrong?”
“Not at all. Let’s have a drink. I wanted to meet the man who acted so valorously for our Order. Come, come!”
And that was how the Summer’s Champion practically dragged Rabbiteater to one of the [Knight]’s drinking areas in the keep. They might be [Knights]—but they did keep alcohol for those who wanted it.
Rabbiteater drank through a straw. The Summer’s Champion kept staring at him.
He was…so unsubtle Rabbiteater figured out in a second who Meisa had told. Or thought he did. Thus, being wrong, but right for the wrong reasons. In the end, the Summer’s Champion came out with it after two drinks.
“I…know who you are, Ser Solstice. I was informed. And it falls to me to tell you that I was told of your nature. I did not ask, but there we are.”
Rabbiteater froze. The man was looking at him.
The Summer’s Champion, as the Hobgoblin had observed, was tall. Six foot three, maybe an inch taller? Tall, strong, orange of hair, and direct.
He was the kind of man who stood at the fore of battle and bellowed orders while laying about him. And he was direct, honest.
“You know I am…a Goblin?”
“Yes.”
They sat alone, in a quiet booth. The Summer’s Champion stared at Rabbiteater. Then he reached for his drink.
“I do not do well with subterfuge. Secrets eat at me until I spit them out. I know. And I have slain more Goblins than I can count. I am reckoning with it now, looking upon you.”
“Hm. And I have killed many Humans. Feels bad, sometimes. But they were trying to kill me.”
The Summer’s Champion blinked at him. Then he laughed.
“True! Like that—we could be enemy warriors who sit down for a drink. But there is more there. History and whatnot. The Fall’s Sentinel talked my ear off about it this morning…er…”
He realized that implied the Fall’s Sentinel knew too. Rabbiteater had suspected as much. Knight-Commander Calirn had spoken to him over dinner one time, just asked him about training and such.
He was not a genius, nor Erin-smart, but he wasn’t a fool either. He didn’t see why it bothered the [Knights] so much. If…Talia…had joined the Redfangs as a mysterious warrior in armor and he’d found out, he would have told Garen in two heartbeats.
Maybe. He thought about Garen’s temper and hesitated. If it was Erin…
“Ah, but there it is. We are [Knights]. Honor is at the heart of who we are, or we are no better than [Warriors]. Not to impugn them, but we must be more or we are not [Knights].”
To his surprise, the Summer’s Champion was quite philosophical as they talked about the issue. Only—he had convictions. He had an answer for any moral quandary you might have.
“I struggle with such things, Rabbiteater, until I have an answer that suits me. I cannot live without one. I fear only that I am wrong, which is why I listen to Calirn and other, more cool-headed voices. I could never be the Grandmaster of the entire Order. I am little suited to Summer, in truth. But…a better man than me could not take the post. His name was Ser Raim and he passed, a few months ago. Dame Talia and her company rode to his aid. But he was lost.”
“What happened?”
The Summer’s Champion shook his mane of hair.
“I will not speak the name of the one who would sour even this moment. Suffice it to say, Ser Raim embodied the better parts of our natures—he and I were both contenders for this position. But he could keep himself calm and fight with fire in his heart. I am less controlled. But he…lost his love. And rage and vengeance and the desire for justice consumed him.”
Rabbiteater nodded.
“I had a brother who was a [Berserker]. Got mad. But also sad. Good brother. I have his axe.”
Headscratcher. The Summer’s Champion smiled. They began to swap stories.
At some point, more Summer Knights joined in. Older, more senior ones, who wanted to get a sense of this new [Knight]—and why Talia and Vitin had disgraced themselves in the Summer Champion’s eyes.
They found little to reproach. It was like hanging out with Redfangs again. If the Spring Knights were younger Redfangs, these were the old ones, the veterans who joked around, like Spiderslicer, Redscar, who’d seen battle. Who got mad, too.
“Ailendamus is the aggressor! We fight injustice where it occurs, Ser Zulv!”
The Summer’s Champion roared across the table. Ser Zulv barked back.
“And bring the Order of Seasons into a war that will weaken both nations? We cannot end this war on one lance-charge, Summer’s Champion!”
“What then? We let Ailendamus grow until it eats every nation in the south? I say, we throw four hundred Summer Knights into the conflict and dare them to come after us here! Or do you think the Dawn Concordat’s day is done? The Thronebearers won’t see to it!”
The intense disdain for the Thronebearers’ skill-at-arms was something Rabbiteater could get behind. The Summer’s Champion slammed a hand on his back.
“Why, Ser Solstice is an example of even a [Knight-Errant] being superior to an entire order’s training! He forced the Spring’s Warden to use her Skill—how good are you with a blade, man?”
“Good.”
“Really? Let’s see.”
That was how Rabbiteater found himself, drunk, swinging away at the Summer’s Champion in the Season of Summer’s courtyard.
The Summer’s Champion needed no Skills either; he wasn’t as…graceful as the Spring’s Warden, but he was like Rabbiteater wanted to be. Someone who had mastered battle, or at least, reached a peak that Rabbiteater had not.
The Goblin Slayer threw up a bit after he got hit in the stomach. It even dented his armor. The Summer’s Champion helped him up.
“Good show! Are you well, Ser Rabbit?”
The other stirred at the accidental use of his name, but Rabbiteater liked it.
“Good! Can fight…”
“Really? Anyone else want to test his mettle? Let’s see axes!”
The Summer’s Knights—the drunk ones—joined in. The younger [Knights] watched, including two smelly ones, as Rabbiteater actually bested two more.
“He is good.”
One of the Summer Knights insisted on trying Rabbiteater with full Skills and gear. Everyone watched as the [Champion]’s armor shone; his enchanted axe and the extending blade kept the Summer Knight well clear, and the cloak of blood actually blocked a bolt of fire with a hiss. Rabbiteater charged in and overpowered his foe with [Enhanced Strength].
“Well done. Well done.”
The Summer’s Champion was treating him like one of his inner circle! Talia swallowed her feelings as Ser Solstice lurched a bit, still sobering up. He took a long sip of water; it was hot in the courtyard where so many Summer Knights were gathered.
“‘Tis unfair to make him duel one of the Grandmasters, Summer’s Champion! But he has not yet been bested in full combat!”
One of the Summer Knights called out. It was true. Only one person had actually challenged Rabbiteater with full gear—or practice weapons but Skills. Not Ser Medul; only the younger [Summer Knight] whom Rabbiteater had beaten.
“He’s half-drunk. Maybe you can have a go at him later if you want to make a point, Dame Pitram. But I do wonder—is Dame Voost here?”
Talia blinked. Dame Voost was present, and stepped forwards.
“She is our best [Knight] with a blade, Ser Rabbit—er, Ser Solstice.”
Talia’s ears twitched at the name. That couldn’t be a nickname. She wanted to know. And felt…she saw the Summer’s Champion indicate the woman.
“Do you think you could make a fair match of it? Even beat her?”
He grinned. The [Summer Knight] smiled.
Bravado in the air, laughter—it was something actually a bit foreign to Talia. She felt more stiff than Rabbiteater at this moment, as if they’d reversed sides. Somehow—he knew the company of veterans more than she.
The Hobgoblin took one look at Dame Voost, and tilted his head. Then he replied, audibly, for all.
“Maybe. Think I can win.”
The Season of Summer liked that. They laughed, or urged him to give it a shot. Dame Voost indicated the enchanted axe.
“Gear, or Skills, Ser Slayer? I will settle for practice weapons and you with the axe if you will it, to make up for your drinking.”
“No injuries! I’ll step in if I think someone will get hurt!”
The Summer’s Champion declared. Rabbiteater just shrugged.
“Practice sword works.”
Oho. Talia’s eyes narrowed at the same time as Dame Voost. Was he taking her lightly because of her gender? Some [Knights] did—
But she did not know Goblins. Rabbiteater made no such assumptions. But he was confident.
The Season of Summer watched as Voost began walking counter-clockwise around him. She used sword and kite shield.
The Summer Knights watched, now curious to see if the Knight of Solstice was all talk. They knew Dame Voost’s bladework and he wasn’t that good—especially drunk. But maybe a Skill?
The woman was waiting for him to make the first move. She had a step-in that could rival a [Fencer]’s, but her real strength was a burst-of-strength Skill that would beat even [Enhanced Strength] in a close contest.
Rabbiteater knew his plan. He waited, until Dame Voost’s eyes narrowed and she began to tense—then he raised his sword suddenly. She braced—
And he tossed the practice sword down on the ground. The Summer Knights stared as the Hobgoblin raised two gauntleted hands and made fists.
“What now, Ser Solstice? Are you giving up?”
She called to him. The Goblin grinned.
“No.”
“Pick up your sword, then.”
“No. Fight me.”
He challenged her. And then—the Summer’s Champion burst out laughing. Some of the other Summer Knights shook their heads. Talia was appalled.
She knew what the dilemma was. Either Dame Voost used a sword against an unarmed foe, or…the woman eyed Rabbiteater’s brawling stance.
“That’s not honorable.”
No—the Summer’s Champion watched as Dame Voost hesitated, then tossed down her blade to the cheers of others and raised her gauntlets—and put on a helmet.
That was a Goblin [Knight]’s sense of honor. Different in some ways, but—he smiled as the two went at it. Rabbiteater knocked Voost sprawling, then went for her when she was down.
It went even. She was still a senior [Summer Knight], but she lacked most of her Skills. In the end, both called for a tie after nearly twelve minutes of grappling and bruises. Rabbiteater shook her hand, afterwards.
“Strong with fists and sword. Thought it was only one.”
“And you, Ser Solstice, fight well. Summer fades!”
She clapped him on the shoulder. The other Summer Knights nodded. Rabbiteater grinned behind his helmet. He saw Talia watching and looked at her. She glanced away.
 
—-
 
One week later, Dame Talia was heading to her rooms to scrub the scent of crap off her. She was angry, humiliated—but not just because of her punishment.
It was the nature of things to change. The Order of Seasons knew it full well. They were a unique type of Order, even among the varied [Knights] of Terandria.
That they had welcomed a Goblin among them, or rather, their order’s heads had, at least, might have been because they were founded next to a coastal nation which did see more non-Humans. Perhaps it was just the Grandmasters of their time.
Talia had understood the reason why she was punished, even if she resented it and found it mortifying. Even if she felt…unable to explain how jarring, upsetting, Ser Solstice’s identity had been.
Perhaps because the full reason of it wasn’t something she was consciously willing to acknowledge. Perhaps because all that she had found admirable, even more, attractive, about Ser Solstice had gone sideways when it was revealed who, or what he was.
It would have been easier—and harder for the Order to accept him—if he did not act so…normal. Not Human, not necessarily; just like a person.
Because he had been around them. Because he had met the [Innkeeper].
Those days had not been in vain. And their legacy had carried him here. In unexpected ways.
 
—-
 
Knight-Commander Calirn was not the Summer’s Champion, who seemed to have practically taken ‘Ser Solstice’ under his wing.
The Grandmaster of the Order of Seasons was far more wary. And of the Grandmasters, he sensed the same from the Spring’s Warden and the Fall’s Sentinel.
She was polite, but clearly watchful. The Fall’s Sentinel was more sociable—but by the same token, clearly regarded the Goblin as an object of study as much as a [Knight].
There was the thing. He was a [Knight], so the Order of Seasons either believed in that fundamental similarity, or not.
But even so. Another Goblin who chanced upon the class wouldn’t be so—so—
Disarmingly friendly.
It came from the inn. Such as, when Knight-Commander Calirn was stiffly dining with Rabbiteater and two other [Knights] from foreign Orders. A Trudravel Knight—who was actually quite friendly because his Order fought and lived among the tundra of the north—and a Thronebearer of Calanfer, here to plead his Order’s case for the war with the Order of Seasons, despite the ribbing from all sides.
Small things, like, as they were dining on a particularly nice roast in honor of their guests, the Goblin turned.
“Pass the mustard, please.”
“Of course—”
Calirn blinked as he instinctively…passed the mustard. Ser Solstice spread it on the bit of meat, turned his head to the wall, popped his visor open a tiny crack, and put it in. The Thronebearer watched, still bemused—the Trudravel Knight thought it was hugely entertaining.
Apparently, someone had asked the Season of Fall to provide a vision-scrambling charm such that you only saw darkness if you glanced under the visor. Dame Meisa’s request had been answered by the Fall’s Sentinel, and now Ser Solstice ate in company.
The Goblin happily added the condiment to his food. And Calirn had to ask—but how did you ask?
Is mustard common among Goblins?
