The young [Knight] nervously sat down on the seat across from the Spring’s Warden. The woman raised her eyebrow.
“Ah. You must have seen a hint as to whom he was.”
“How did you…?”
It was obvious. The Spring’s Warden shook her head. Her youthful features made people forget her age. And besides—what else could it be? Perhaps something—but it was most likely his identity.
She hoped he was not some well-known murderer. A member of the nobility or adventurer? Easier to bear. He had seemed forthright and honest, if somewhat unused to formalities when she had met him.
“Dame Meisa, is this something I need hear? I would respect his vows under most circumstances. I trust your judgment.”
The young woman hesitated. She rested her hands on her knees, and then met the Spring Warden’s gaze.
“…At the risk of compromising my honor, Warden, I believe it so. Ser Solstice is not…he is…he’s a Goblin.”
The Spring’s Warden blinked.
 
—-
 
It took about twelve minutes for someone to leak Ser Solstice’s secret of honor between [Knights]. So much for the honor-bound vow of chivalry.
And it wasn’t even the Spring’s Warden who learned of Rabbiteater’s secret first. In fact, Dame Meisa had wavered for a good three hours before approaching her.
The person who’d requested an audience and received it minutes after arriving sat in front of Knight-Commander Calirn. It had taken three hours for the entire story and all his questions. At last, he sat back.
“And you do not know how a Hobgoblin came into the armor or class he seems to possess Knight…Talia?”
The young woman shook her head slowly.
“No, Knight-Commander Calirn, I do not.”
The Knight-Commander’s rooms were cold. Not because he leaned that far into his season, but because his aura leaked, even with his mastery of it. Especially when he slept.
That meant he kept the room dry, even though winter static was unpleasant. But it beat moisture creating frost on clothing or wood and then turning to wetness when he left and creating mildew.
Similarly, Calirn tended to embrace his season. For instance, he had the cold-blooming cacti he tended to on a windowsill, which thrived in snowy conditions.
He was also fond of books, and thus had a warded bookcase that prevented frost from damaging it. Some of the ornaments were not for him; he possessed thick, furred blankets made of Wilwolf fur from the north. They were for his guests.
Of course, Summer Knights and younger visitors liked to pretend the cold didn’t affect them. However, only one of the top members of the order could really sit in the cold without feeling it. Talia was already beginning to shiver. She tried to establish her aura, but this place was Knight-Commander Calirn’s and only sheer stubbornness kept her from using the furs.
He indicated them and she reluctantly took one. The Knight-Commander sat there, and then stood. He did not pace, but rather, held still.
Winter was like that. Spring was action and life and youth. Calirn had learned to stand as still as a snowman in a blizzard. His order was made of lone wolves, who had to sometimes ambush foes—although the ethics of that were always under debate.
While he thought, he held still, regarding the books on his shelves. Among them was a history of major cataclysms that had struck Terandria, a must-read for someone who protected his region and crusaded against threats like that.
Goblin Kings featured in the book, four times. And that was the quantifiable past the [Historian] had been able to find; time erased so much, as did the fall of vast empires. Even now, a treasure worth as much as any relic was a history book magically preserved tens of thousands of years after it had been written.
He was of two minds about this news. Ser Solstice, a Hobgoblin in disguise? The first was uncertainty. The dangers of having a…monster…or a monstrous race at the least among Terandrians was not lost on him. However. The second part of him argued with even that sentiment.
“To my understanding, my instincts, and what I have heard, Dame Talia Kallinad, that Hobgoblin is a [Knight]. Is that so?”
Talia hesitated.
“…I believe so, Knight-Commander. A basic [Appraisal] spell could tell the truth of it.”
Calirn did not need one. He was a high-level [Knight] and he recognized his class. He’d sensed some subtleties of difference with Ser Solstice, but put it down to the cultural differences between continents and how their [Knights] were trained and raised.
He nodded.
“But he is a [Knight].”
“And a Goblin.”
Dame Talia sat there, clearly unhappy. She’d put the fur blanket over herself, but she looked deeply troubled. Calirn nodded. He sat back down and looked at her.
“Then, Dame Talia. Why did you see fit to reveal his nature to me? A [Knight]’s vow of secrecy you swore to uphold is a matter of honor.”
He met her gaze with his cool, frosty eyes. She paled—then flushed suddenly. The air warmed around her.
“Knight-Commander! I would have kept his secret at any cost! But after the battle with the Bear-General—”
“Whom he singlehandedly beat in a duel, to allow you and the others to escape.”
Talia hesitated.
“—but I saw his face. Knight-Commander, I respect the honor of my class and fellow [Knights]! But he is a Goblin.”
And that was the heart of it. Talia sat there as Calirn leaned back.
She felt betrayed. Betrayed, by the truth of Ser Solstice, which had impelled her to come here. The Knight-Commander’s disapproval rankled at her.
If he had been a Gnoll, a disgraced Drake—any number of things, she would have kept that secret. But a Goblin? She had admired Ser Solstice. Now?
She didn’t know what to think. She had fought Goblins. Who was Ser Solstice? A strange Goblin, pretending to be a [Knight]? An agent in disguise?
She had realized she had never seen the ‘Goblin Slayer’ actually slay all the tribes he’d claimed to have eradicated, only a handful in battle. Had he helped them escape and lied? Or if not—was he a traitor to his own species?
She took a deep breath.
“I believe Ser Solstice was untruthful with us, Knight-Commander. And the danger he…might present leads me to believe my duty to the Order and my homeland supersedes or calls into question the knightly-vows of chivalry I have made.”
“A fair answer.”
He saw her reasoning. The Knight-Commander sat there, thinking it over. Then he nodded.
“You are dismissed, Dame Talia. I will investigate the matter and inform you of my conclusions, if need be.”
“Knight-Commander?”
She stood, a bit uneasily. But if she had expected a fast decision, she had forgotten that the Knight-Commander, who could be of any season, was Calirn. Unlike his predecessors, he was winter. And winter was a time to contemplate, not move in haste. Calirn sighed.
“You are dismissed, Dame Talia.”
He rose. It was a troubling issue. But not one he would instantly move on—such as throwing Ser Solstice into chains, or setting a guard. If he had travelled with the [Knights] so long, he was not an immediate threat. He might be a spy, but he would be a fool to try to attack anyone in the Order of Season’s keep.
Ser Calirn went to consult with the Fall’s Sentinel, even though that meant spreading more word of Ser Solstice’s identity.
Rabbiteater had dinner.
 
—-
 
Ser Markus conceived a great enmity for Dame Talia Kallinad over supper on the first night of their return from their questing abroad.
He had admired Dame Talia—if vaguely, as one of the members of the Season of Summer, the second order that Spring Knights usually aspired to—or the Season of Fall if their tastes ran more to academia or studying.
She, as a member of the prestigious Kallinad family of Pheislant, had never seemed overly arrogant, and she exemplified the desire to crusade and fight for valor and honor. So he had been pleased to fight beside her as they went to Ser Raim’s aid, even though it might mean their deaths, without enchanted weapons, fighting the great Spider of Terandria.
Even after their defeat, she had essentially led them back home, and he had trusted her implicitly. Nothing until now could have shaken his faith in a fellow member of the Order of Seasons.
Today, Ser Markus thought Dame Talia had managed to reverse his opinion of her. He did not know of her conversation with Knight-Commander Calirn, of course. But he saw a dinner and her actions there.
Before that, she had become more distant as Ser Solstice’s identity had been revealed. The five [Knights], including Ser Markus, had been shocked. But he had openly declared Ser Solstice a [Knight] and after a quick debate, they had decided his secret was safe.
Talia had not gainsaid that decision, but she had stopped riding next to Ser Solstice and talking as openly. One could hardly miss that gap in sociability.
But tonight?
Ser Solstice had supped alone since he did not remove his helmet. But he could still drink through a straw, and talk, and seemed to enjoy it. He had joined Ser Markus and the other [Knights] to eat in the main mess hall of the keep.
All seasons ate there, and guests as well. [Knights] talked, many at their leisure, mostly with friends or their seasons, but they intermingled without real rivalry in most cases. Each season was proud, but they were not at odds.
There were a handful of guests, too. Aspiring [Squires] who got to see what life here was like. Noble guests, or people, usually of Pheislant, come to do business or petition the order.
Fellow [Knights] too. The Order of Seasons tried to keep strong relationships with their fellow orders, who they might well fight beside.
So Ser Solstice was not the attraction of the hour. But he was certainly noticeable. Even [Knights] gossiped and the mysterious knight of Izril, who refused to take off his helmet and had bested a [General] in one-on-one combat was of note. Not to mention his Goblin-slaying prowess.
This was what Ser Markus saw. Ser Solstice entered the banquet hall and found Dame Talia standing and talking with some of the Summer Knights. The Goblin [Knight] approached. Talia saw him coming and excused herself. She moved away to get some food.
“Ser Solstice. We may collect whatever you would like over there.”
Markus had shown him the food prepared by [Cooks], much like a cafeteria, albeit without the need for payment. Ser Solstice had gotten a drink of goat’s milk. He looked for Talia. She was sitting with more [Knights] of the Spring. He walked over.
She stood up and moved away. She did not look at him—but it was no coincidence. Ser Markus narrowed his eyes as some of their company, most, bewildered, stopped and watched.
Dame Meisa, Ser Lloyd, and Ser Vitin all watched with varying expressions on their face. Talia moved away with her tray. Ser Solstice followed.
“Talia.”
“Excuse me…Ser Solstice.”
She walked away again, and again. Ser Markus saw the armored [Knight] stop and look after her. He had no expression behind the visor, but Ser Markus saw his head turn after Talia.
Confusion became hurt as understanding bloomed. The Goblin Slayer stood there, looking after the Summer Knight as she went over to some of the Fall Knights who looked around, surprised to see her.
The interplay was not missed on the [Knights] who had been observing Ser Solstice. Now, one of the Knights of Spring, Ser Medul, turned to Ser Markus from where he sat. He was in his late thirties, very ‘old’ by the Spring Knight standards. But he was youthful, energetic, one of those sorts of people who never ran out of energy until they slept. He belonged to the Spring, whilst Ser Markus might eventually change seasons.
“I do not know this Ser Solstice, Markus. I heard of him just as you returned from Izril. But that is a troubling sight. Has Dame Talia lost all decency, or has something come up? Perhaps he romantically petitioned her? If so, she should refuse him outright, rather than act that way.”
He nodded at Talia and the silent Goblin [Knight], Markus chewed on his lip as the other [Knights] looked at each other.
“I cannot say fully, Ser Medul. It goes to a vow of secrecy between Ser Solstice and those of us who inadvertently witnessed the truth of it.”
“Ah.”
The other [Knights] who had not seen Ser Solstice glanced at Markus, Meisa, Lloyd, and Vitin. Lloyd bit his lip and nodded. Vitin was troubled, as was Meisa, who looked uncomfortable.
Ser Medul and some of the other Spring Knights sitting there frowned. The senior [Knight] nodded to Markus after a moment.
“Then I will not inquire since it is a matter of honor. However—without knowing the why of it, I still find Dame Talia’s actions to be uncouth at the least.”
With that, he stood and called out across the hall.
“Excuse me, Ser Solstice of Izril! Come sit with us, tonight! The Season of Spring would welcome you among us!”
The Goblin Slayer’s head turned. He walked over, and sat. Ser Markus tried to smile, but the Goblin’s expression was unreadable.
“Hi.”
…But he sounded depressed. Ser Medul introduced himself, reaching out to shake his hand.
“I am Medul of House Medoit—of Pheislant. Shall I call you Ser Solstice or by any other name?”
“…Solstice is fine. Lots of [Knights] here.”
It was a comment that made Ser Medul smile. Small talk, without understanding the idea of it. It made sense to Ser Markus now he knew…
“Dame Talia might be—she is—I cannot make excuses for her, Ser Solstice.”
He spoke at last, uncomfortably, having yet to touch his dinner. The Goblin’s head slowly turned.
Was there a flash of crimson behind the visor? He looked at Markus, as the other [Knights] watched him while eating. Markus had no idea what he was thinking, but at last, the armored head nodded slowly.
“She thinks one way. This is how it is. That is what happened.”
He slowly took a sip from his drink with the wooden straw. Markus exhaled. It was so…fatalistic a statement. It made him endlessly curious as to—
Curiosity belonged to spring and fall, both seasons of great change. Ser Medul glanced at Ser Solstice and eventually nodded.
“Let us put aside dour thoughts tonight. Ser Solstice, I hear you are responsible for freeing my companions from the clutches of Ailendamus! I propose a toast to your valor—and tales of how you bested the Bear of Ailendamus!”
He rose. The Spring Knights, always fast to toast, with alcohol or not, all jumped to their feet. Rabbiteater blinked around as the mood suddenly turned energetic.
“Yes, are you a specialist in unarmed combat? I saw you beat the Bear with your bare hands! And I would have sworn he could have thrown down with the best of our Order barehanded, armor or not!”
One of the Spring Knights who had not seen his face leaned in. Rabbiteater shrugged.
“I had help. Got lucky.”
