“Lalalalala.”
He intoned as loudly as possible. Talia and Vitin stared at him. He kept repeating himself until he was sure Vitin was done.
“I am not listening, [Knights]. And I will forget this incident occurred, for the honor of—”
“Ser Solstice is a Goblin.”
Talia snapped, appalled at the childish behavior from the Grandmaster of their Season. The Summer’s Champion froze.
“What did you say?”
“He is a Goblin, Grandmaster. Now do you—”
 
—-
 
The Summer’s Champion kicked the door open to Calirn’s room and strode in.
“Knight-Commander! I have an issue to speak of!”
He stormed in as Calirn was shaving his cheek. The Knight-Commander nearly sliced off his left jowl.
“Summer’s Champion?”
No guesses what had set him off. One look at the apprehensive Summer Knights at the door—Talia and Vitin—and the Summer’s Champion’s face, and Calirn knew.
Cold met hot and steam rose from the man’s ire. Calirn rose. The Summer’s Champion had actually left flaming footsteps as he stomped through a garden.
“Summer’s Champion, control your temper.”
The man did so with effort. The heat coming off him abated. Calirn sighed.
He knew Ser Solstice was a Goblin. Vitin and Talia stared at the closed door, worried about what might happen and regretting their choices. Summer was passionate and sometimes made mistakes in the heat of the moment.
What they didn’t know was the contents of the angry discussion in the Knight-Commander’s private study. He’d moved it there to avoid his room being filled with steam.
“If you know, then that makes two of us!”
“Four. I informed the Fall’s Sentinel and he reported that the Spring’s Warden already had a [Knight] inform her of Ser Solstice’s origin.”
“Four? The Winter’s Watcher is the only one left out? Dead gods burning on Giant’s tits, Calirn! This is too much! Are we [Knights] or children tossing around secrets bound by chivalry? I nearly threw both of them off the keep’s walls! My first instinct is to revoke their knighthood—which I will not do. But you’d better do something before I simply hit them!”
The Summer’s Champion was pacing back and forth. Ser Solstice being a Goblin was almost forgotten. Calirn was surprised—but that was him.
“Dame Talia and Ser Vitin? I am—upset that they broke their vows, especially as I had been informed, Summer’s Champion.”
Especially of Dame Talia. But Calirn didn’t inflame the man’s temper further. The Summer’s Champion spun on his heel.
“Those two, and whoever told the Spring’s Warden! For that matter—why are you going around spreading information?”
“To the Fall’s Sentinel? Because I am Grandmaster of all four Seasons and a Goblin [Knight] might well be a danger. I had to be sure once I knew. That is my duty. And you are Grandmaster of the Order of Summer, Greysten. You know our duty sometimes wars with honor!”
The man turned even redder, but slowly collapsed into a chair.
“It’s one Goblin. I find this breach of chivalry more important, Calirn. What, do they want me to decide to chop off its head? It—he—saved them from being ransomed and apparently came to their aid during the Ogre attack! In return, our Order decides to stab him in the back.”
“I see that. Since you are so enraged, Summer’s Champion, I remind you that they thought his nature might interfere with their vows to respect another [Knight]’s code. The argument being that he is a Goblin, therefore, not a [Knight].”
“Hmm.”
The man was calming down already. He sat there, still leaking steam, but slowly thinking.
“I don’t agree. I don’t accept it. And I’m ashamed my order spoke more than Spring Knights—who can barely keep their mouths shut!”
“Summer crusades against monsters more hotly than all. Yours is a passionate season, Greysten.”
“Shame is shame. Honor is honor. Secret is secret.”
There was no prevaricating with him. Calirn nodded.
“If you would like me to adjudicate for you, Summer’s Champion, I will. But this is a matter of morality; at the heart of it I believe all sides acted in accordance with how they see honor. Talia Kallinad’s family is of Pheislant, and saw the Goblin King’s destruction. They would remember how he erased members of the Hundred Families down to the last person in their bloodlines.”
“It’s one Goblin. Now I want to meet him, especially since I heard he forced the Spring’s Warden to use a Skill in a bout! I’ll do that. But punishment…”
The Summer’s Champion went into deep thought. Calirn waited.
Summer was passionate. But not shallow or stupid. And at last, the taller man spoke.
“You said they objected on the basis of honor, but to do so, they impugn this Ser Solstice’s honor, Knight-Commander. I propose a test, upon which I will rest my complaints. If I am wrong, they will not be punished and I will support any scrutiny or judgment against this Goblin [Knight].”
“And if you are right?”
“…I leave the matter in your—calmer—hands. But I will not protest their revocation of their [Knight] class, regardless of their status.”
The hands clenched. The eyes flashed. Calirn sat there, and then slowly nodded.
“What is the nature of the test? You will stage an accident?”
The orange hair shook as the Summer’s Champion stood up.
“Must we grapple and talk about what makes a man a [Knight], Knight-Commander? My answer is simple. If he is a [Knight], he is a [Knight]!”
 
—-
 
Rabbiteater opened the door to his rooms. The Fall’s Sentinel was there.
“Good evening, Ser Solstice, is it?”
“Yes. You are…important?”
The Hobgoblin was wary. But the old man looked kind, more bookish than the others. Like the [Shaman] the Redfangs had once had, before he got eaten by Eater Goats in an ambush when Rabbiteater was small.
“Indeed, indeed. I hope, Ser Solstice, I am not intruding. I would simply like to invite you to join the Season of Fall on the morrow.”
“Why?”
“I am told you are a superlative trap expert, and skilled in any number of wilderness techniques. The Season of Fall loves new knowledge, or those who can embody it. Would you care to go on a hike with some knights in training and discuss your experience?”
Rabbiteater considered it.
“Sure.”
“Excellent. Then, I will send for you after breakfast. Good night to you.”
And that was that. The Fall’s Sentinel inclined his head. Rabbiteater copied him, a bit warily. The Fall’s Sentinel walked down the hallway.
“And?”
Knight-Commander Calirn and the Summer’s Champion were waiting. The Summer’s Champion’s arms were folded and he had begun heating up again. The Fall’s Sentinel raised his brows.
“[Champion], and [Knight-Errant].”
Both men exhaled.
“[Knight-Errant]. It suits him.”
“And it means I’m right. This is scurrilous behavior of our Order and I demand there be punishment!”
The Summer’s Champion pressed a fist into his hand. Calirn was inclined to agree. But he made sure.
“There is no way the [Appraisal] spell could be circumnavigated or tricked, Fall’s Sentinel?”
The man raised his brows a touch higher.
“Of course there is, Knight-Commander. But practically? From this one Goblin whom I detected not a whiff of magic about? Aside from his gear, of course? Very unlikely.”
“Then he is a [Knight]. Summer’s Champion, I will honor your request.”
Knight-Commander Calirn sighed. The Summer’s Champion waited, hands clenching and unclenching.
“Well?”
“Dame Talia and Ser Vitin acted in what they thought was the best interests of the Order. However—I accede to Summer’s will. It is up to the Spring’s Warden to enforce this punishment, as the contents of her conversation are unknown. However. Dame Talia and Ser Vitin are hereby sentenced to a month of labor in menial chores, to be decided by Summer’s Champion, and stripped of any honors of rank.”
That meant even the basic luxuries like being able to ride out and visit your family in Pheislant that any standard [Knight] got after their first year. The Knight-Commander turned to the Summer’s Champion.
“You may revoke that at will if needed, Summer’s Champion. But they are not to speak of Ser Solstice’s nature, nor the reason for their punishment. Will that suit?”
“It will indeed, Knight-Commander.”
The Summer’s Champion strode off. Calirn sighed.
All this over one [Knight]. But it was wrong to blame the Goblin. His presence had revealed a fault in the Order’s understanding of honor—at least, to the Summer’s Champion.
Well, the punishment was not the heaviest it could be. However, the Summer’s Champion could be…vindictive. He kicked into the large gathering place where the Summer’s Knights gathered in their section of the keep and delivered the punishment at full bellow, not even checking to see if Talia or Vitin were present.
 
—-
 
The next day, Talia and Ser Vitin engaged in stable cleaning…and toilet cleaning. An unenviable task, especially since the Chandrarian chutney had been slightly off yesterday.
Rabbiteater, oblivious to this, went with the Season of Fall on a hike through one of the forests under the Order of Season’s lands granted to them by Pheislant.
They had a lot of space. Nice space, that extended all the way to the cliffs on the shoreline. They were a defensive force, able to go on crusades and hold this space.
They even had [Farmers], several small settlements that made produce and enjoyed the protection of an entire [Knight] order. It was as close to paradise as you got without actual paradise.
For a Goblin? Magnificent.
The forest wasn’t without dangers, though. There were bears, boars, other wildlife that the [Knights] wouldn’t exterminate.
But the Autumn Knights weren’t exactly slouches either. Yes, you called them ‘Fall Knights’ because they were the worst season at pure combat. But they also practiced magic, and academia.
Books weren’t useless. You could take notes of enemy locations in them, use them for kindling on cold nights, relief after bad poos…even read them.
Joining the expedition, to Rabbiteater’s surprise, was Dame Meisa. It didn’t bother the Fall’s Sentinel; indeed, a number of other [Knights] and [Squires] had joined.
“They may wish to join or learn from our season, Ser Solstice. All are welcome to participate in such events. Dame Meisa is a Spring Knight, but she may well choose our season in time.”
She nodded. The younger [Knight] looked downcast and quiet today.
She had asked the Spring’s Warden to share in the disgrace of the two senior [Summer Knights] upon hearing of the incident. The Spring’s Warden had deliberated, and then informed Dame Meisa she could join her fellow [Knights], of course, but her punishment was to live with her actions, which had been so well-intentioned.
Watch. Listen.
Learn something.
That was the attitude of fall, when all kinds of weird things started happening. In between the barren chill of winter and the profusion of life that was summer, things were different.
They watched, as Ser Solstice demonstrated his understanding of woodcraft to them.
“You can eat that.”
“You can eat that too.”
“Can’t eat that.”
“You can eat that, but bad poos.”
“You can eat that, but you might die. About one third die.”
One of the [Squires] stopped taking notes and looked at the Fall’s Sentinel. The older man was delighted.
“Fascinating. And this is G—wood lore from where you come from?”
“Yes. You can eat that too.”
Rabbiteater indicated some bark. One of the [Knights] gave him a scandalized look.
“Ser Solstice, that is bark. One cannot live on that, even if it is edible.”
The [Knight] gave him a calm rebuttal.
“Cannot live, true. But can stop dying for as long as a month. If wounded, lying in the forest with leg break and no one finds you—good to know.”
He’d never experienced that himself, but he knew all the stories. The Fall Knights murmured. Meisa had to stop from imagining a Goblin…
More of his knowledge was practical. He showed them his trap-style, hanging the little strings with bells up. Also, how to fashion quick step-traps with spikes out of mere wood.
“Traps are hardly the act of valor.”
“But we do employ them, from time to time, Ser Drommel. We do use runic magic. If, say, one could envision fighting Crelers or the Demons of Rhir…have you fought Crelers, Ser Solstice?”
“Yep. Nasty. Hard to kill. Very bad to have, even in High Passes.”
“How so? I was told that was the most inhospitable climate, even for Crelers.”
The others listened, having asked questions about Gargoyle fighting and so on. Rabbiteater elaborated.
“Monsters kill them. But…if it’s Eater Goats, they eat Crelers. Then…eggs hatch in them. Creler swarm can get bigger if Eater Goats attack them, after a few weeks.”
The expedition shuddered. Rabbiteater shrugged. Then it was his turn to listen to a speech on herb craft.
“We are not [Healers]. But if you lack for one—this Balm Root combined with a mix of the following leaves and flowers is said to have beneficial qualities against infection. We have tried to preserve the paste, but it is ineffective. I’ve suggested taking all the samples along for larger expeditions, but the order has not yet implemented this.”
Rabbiteater stared at the root that was native to Terandria. He promptly took as much as he could carry.
The things the Season of Fall knew were so impressive to the Goblin! As valuable—perhaps more than Spring’s training. If he’d known about the balm root, his friends might not have died or had to cut off limbs due to sickness.
“Rabbit…Ser Solstice. May I ask a question?”
Meisa brought it up as they had lunch. She was staring at his cloak. The others turned. They had thought it was a kind of cloth at first, or realized it was obviously magical, but after staring at it for a long time, Meisa at last had to ask what the liquid was.
“Blood.”
The Cloak of Plenty had his brother’s blood. It was a shield—and you could use it to transfuse blood, as Rags had learned from Velan’s memory. Meisa paled.
“From…whom?”
“My brother. Liscor. He died there.”
“Oh. I—”
She gulped.
“I’m sorry, Ser Solstice. I told the Spring’s Warden about you. I am ashamed.”
He looked at her, sandwich halfway to his lips. She looked embarrassed and full of chagrin. He slowly flipped open his visor, took a fast bite. Chewed it. Took another bite.
Meisa waited. But the Hobgoblin eventually reached for another sandwich.
“Ser Solstice?”
“Okay.”
“But I—”
He shrugged.
“Spring’s Warden is like a Chieftain. Sometimes you have to tell them. I am…”
He tapped his chest, looking at the distant [Knights]. Dame Meisa hung her head.
“But I had no cause.”
“Yes you did.”
