“You hear that, squires? That is dedication to athleticism! In honor of Ser Solstice joining us—pick up the pace! None of you quits before he does!”
That turned into something of a problematic statement, since Rabbiteater did six laps; the [Squires] were let go after three. Ser Markus was panting when it was over.
“You…you used a Skill, didn’t you?”
“Nope.”
Rabbiteater was sweating, but he had water, even lovely apple slices! That was a treat.
The thing was, and which the Spring Knights learned as they went for weapons training next…Redfangs were insane.
They loved training. Garen Redfang had turned their tribe into exercise-freaks, which Erin Solstice had more than once remarked on. Goblins of that tribe craved the rush you got from working hard then eating and flopping over to sleep. They were the kind of breed that military instructors loved.
Another thing that impressed them was Rabbiteater’s knowledge of weaponry, which again, mirrored their own.
“You can use a flamberge?”
“Mm. Think so.”
“Halberd?”
“Used it. Don’t like as much.”
“But you can use it. How about bow and arrow?”
“Decent shot. My brother shoots better.”
“Guisarme? Oh, come now. You’ve never held one.”
“I’d like to learn.”
Rabbiteater grinned as he hefted the weird pole-weapon with the long catch. But he trained with an axe and shield and bested Ser Markus, Meisa, and three more Spring Knights in quick bouts.
“You’re good! Too quick!”
Ser Markus complained after the second time Rabbiteater battered down his guard. The Goblin had levels, strength, and experience on his side. Ser Medul raised a hand.
“Will you try me, sir? No Skills?”
It was an even match. The older Spring Knight used a classic sword-and-shield combo and he and Rabbiteater went at it. Unlike the other Spring Knights, he didn’t fall for Rabbiteater ramming him, trying to trip him up, shove him, head-butt—all things that Redfangs considered fine game and which [Knights] didn’t teach.
Even so.
“He’s matched with Ser Medul, tricks or not!”
One of the [Squires] stared. Ser Medul was just as surprised; without Skills, Rabbiteater couldn’t easily break down his guard, and the two were sweating and circling while hammering at each other’s heavy guards.
As good as Ser Medul? The [Knight] called a halt as the Spring Knights watched, impressed, after nearly eight minutes of fighting.
“Neither one of us will get to the end, Ser Solstice. Unless you want to go there?”
Rabbiteater shrugged. He felt like Medul was a senior Hob if he were in Goblin terms, and had no desire to try and beat him just for that. Senior warriors needed to keep face and he liked the old trainer.
“You fight very well. One of the best where I come from.”
Medul laughed and flicked sweat out of his hair.
“Without Skills, I don’t think I’d be able to take down your guard, Solstice! Mind you—with Skills I hope I’d have more of a chance. Do you practice aura-Skills at all? No? Then you’re not exactly like us!”
He laughed. Rabbiteater glanced at him.
“I saw the flame-sword. Does Spring have theirs?”
Medul blinked.
“Dame Talia’s fire? And Ser Vitin’s shield? Of course we have our own! Ah—but you were riding with the newer members of our order. We couldn’t send veterans. I would have gone, but fire was better than spring, eh?”
Markus reddened a bit as Rabbiteater glanced at him. The Hobgoblin turned to Ser Medul.
“What does spring do?”
He’d seen the [Aura Blade] skill that Talia used, and the shield that Vitin could turn to fire. Both seared their opponents, and woe to anyone locking blades up close with the [Summer Knights].
Winter made sense too; frost. But what was spring and fall?
For answer, Medul raised his sword.
“[Wind Sheathe]!”
His training sword became enveloped in a shimmering vortex. Rabbiteater’s eyes narrowed. He saw flickers—nothing concrete, but a twisting force of motes of dust or dirt in the air.
Wind. Ser Markus raised his shield as Medul turned for a target. He flicked his sword and something hit Markus’ shield.
Not super-hard, but with an impact.
“Spring takes all forms, Ser Solstice. I can be the gust, the breeze—to hasten my swings or strike enemies from afar. If need be, I can draw on other elements. Such as—if I were fighting a more difficult foe? [Barkguard]!”
His shield sprouted with thick bark. It looked less impressive, but he moved as if it weighed nothing at all and when Rabbiteater asked to smack it, his blow bounced right off.
“Ooh. Nice.”
Auras. Ser Medul nodded and Rabbiteater realized the last power of his aura was manifesting itself. Even the Hobgoblin was tiring a bit after the long bout and exercise all morning. He glanced at Medul.
“You’re not tired.”
The Spring Knight grinned.
“Spring is youth! Energy! We can train or fight or run all day—at least, if you embody our order!”
He barked across the groaning [Knights], who’d heard the speech before. Rabbiteater nodded.
“Must be great for sex.”
Ser Lloyd sprayed his drink out his mouth and nose. Ser Medul blinked, and to Rabbiteater’s surprise, coughed.
“Indecorously put, Ser Solstice. But er—”
He was spared from the Goblin’s sense of decorum by the arrival of the Spring’s Warden.
“Ser Solstice. I was told you were training with our order. I should like to see your ability myself, if I may?”
The Goblin turned. He saw one of the best duelists in the Order of Seasons smile politely. She held a longsword and nothing else. The Knights of the Spring stirred.
“With Skills or not?”
He sensed her confident ability as she lowered her sword, presenting an opening. Ser Medul backed up with Markus, looking very interested.
“Skills, Ser Solstice, if it is not an imposition.”
“Will you use them?”
She smiled.
“If I need to. No offense to you, Ser Solstice.”
He took none. The Hobgoblin had sized up his opponent, so she surely could do the same for him. He hesitated. Then drew his sword and slashed.
She parried so fast he was sure—he lifted his shield and barely missed being taken out in one go. She would have had the sword point at his neck if it weren’t for luck.
He gave it another try. His sword lanced out—and she performed another parry, slid in so fast—she had her sword alongside his neck. If she had continued, she would have sliced his head off in one move.
“Huh.”
He breathed as she stepped back. The Spring’s Warden bowed.
“Ser Solstice, shall we continue?”
He nodded. He was sure, now.
She was boosted by Skills, no doubt, even passively. But that had confirmed it for him. She was as good as Garen Redfang with the blade.
There was an art to her movements like Shorthilt had—and he copied the best blademaster in the Redfang tribe, Garen himself. Rabbiteater was good—but he was a [Champion], good at fighting. He didn’t try for art.
So he started using Skills.
[Steelcut Sunder]! He said nothing, but the Spring’s Warden saw the cut coming and moved her sword out of the block; he’d have slashed through her practice sword otherwise.
He began moving on the attack. [Shield Ram]—[Long Backstep]—basic Skills he’d had as a common [Warrior], a bit enhanced due to his level, made her back up. She was testing him, staying on the defensive.
She knew he had more. Rabbiteater didn’t wait to use them. He only waited for her to go on the offensive to bait them out—she tapped his shield with the edge of her sword in a flick, such a fast move that it was disconcerting. In response, he swung his sword.
“[Grand Slash]!”
The audience murmured. Markus blinked. That was a powerful Skill!
But the Spring’s Warden was already leaping backwards. Somehow, she’d known from Rabbiteater’s posture it was coming. Without Skills, she moved out of range, deflecting the edge of the powerful blow.
—However, that was her conceit. She had used no Skills, so the impact twisted the sword in her grip. That was what Rabbiteater had been waiting for. In that brief moment where she thought he’d used his big Skill, he used the one he’d gotten at Level 30.
[Aspect of the Champion]. Rabbiteater had gotten it and wondered what it meant. Now?
The Spring’s Warden had landed nearly ten feet back. Before she could reset her guard, he blurred.
[Aspect of the Champion – Greater Speed]. He could take [Enhanced Strength], [Greater Dexterity]—
He lunged at her in a lancing strike. It was so fast Ser Markus only saw a blur go past his face. And—
Even Rabbiteater hadn’t expected how fast he would go. He was still wearing his armor. And it occurred to him in the fragments of time as his sword extended towards the woman’s chest—
It might be a training weapon, but it was still a lead-filled wooden sword with at least two hundred pounds of force and incredible velocity behind it.
He saw the Warden’s eyes widen in slow-motion. She swung her sword up—as someone began to cry out.
“—going to hit her—”
Meisa finished speaking too late. She saw a cloud of dust. The Spring’s Warden reappeared, sword raised from the sweeping blow upwards.
Rabbiteater landed on his back a second after that. He went wump, so hard onto the practice court’s ground that he was without breath or thought for a good thirty seconds. Even then—he just lay there.
She’d sent him flying. So fast and so high that he thought he’d cracked his back at the very least.
“Ser Solstice, are you alright?”
Markus was first to break the circle of watchers. The Spring’s Warden had lowered her blade. She was there first, even so.
“Are you alright, Ser Solstice? You surprised me.”
She had flicked him into the air like a bug. In that moment—Rabbiteater had to admit it.
She was better than Garen Redfang. At least, in level. It was a hard admission for any Redfang, but Garen had stood as a strong Gold-rank. The Spring’s Warden could best him.
Although, if it came to a real battle, Garen might have her with his enchanted blade. But on the face of it, he’d never seen Garen use a Skill as wide-reaching as that.
Rabbiteater had fought Garen in that memorable battle outside of Liscor. If he’d had [Aspect of the Champion], he and the four others might have actually knocked him flat.
Greydath? Still no. The Spring’s Warden?
Well…the others clustered around him. They were proffering potions, wondering if he was unconscious, or they should pour it through his visor. Ser Markus was about to offer to check on Rabbiteater in private when the Hobgoblin sat up.
They expected him to be miffed, at the least. The Spring’s Warden was apologizing; she could have badly hurt him given how high she’d sent him. But the knight of Izril just made a sound through his visor.
It took them a second to realize he was chuckling. He looked at the Spring’s Warden.
“Got you to use a Skill. I win small, you win big.”
What could you say to that but to clap him on the back and laugh? That was the Season of Spring for you.
 
—-
 
The Summer’s Champion wished he had seen the bout between the Spring’s Warden and the newcomer [Knight]. There was a lot and a little to do in the Order of Season’s keep and he relished new, interesting things.
Not everyone took to the monastic lifestyle here. Summer Knights were about the crusade, and often left for extended periods. But their leader, the Summer’s Champion, had duties.
They…clashed. He got bored. He wanted to get into the war with Ailendamus, because their aggression rankled him. But he respected Knight-Commander Calirn’s authority.
Even so, he was impetuous, known to be hot-tempered at times. Like fire and ice, winter and summer clashed.
The Summer’s Champion, Greysten, got into things. He was all passion for a project or an idea, but he didn’t stick with it all the time, and delegated it, lost interest. That could be good…or bad.
There had been an incident already this year. Ice cream. He’d gotten into the frozen treat, which went so damn well with the heat. Brought some for the Season of Summer to share about, ate it…and ate it…
The quartermaster’s bill had made Calirn take the Summer’s Champion to task for the incident. But so it went. Summer was another kind of youth.
So it was that the Summer’s Champion was about to have a drink with the older [Knights] of the order and grouse about damned Ailendamus and the Thronebearer’s lack of success on the field—in private, to ease his frustration—when a tap came at his door.
He opened it.
“Ser Vitin?”
The Summer Knight had come to see him. It was after much thought, reluctance—and he might not have done it, but he felt the need to talk to his superior about Ser Solstice. Even so, he would have been reluctant, but he had talked Talia into joining him.
She had heard nothing from Knight-Commander Calirn and one did not demand to know his thoughts. So, she was here, when Vitin had approached her. If the head of their season did not know, they reasoned, he should.
Talia felt a flutter in her stomach, remembering Calirn’s disapproval, but Vitin had said he needed to tell someone so she’d agreed to accompany him. But he got to talk.
Was this right to do? She stemmed the question as Vitin laid out the problem.
“It is Ser Solstice, Summer’s Champion. He is—”
“His identity? Are you privy to that knowledge?”
The Summer’s Champion blinked at them. He was tall, imposing, and Talia had told Calirn because she knew the reputation of how spontaneous he was. Better to be present to stop him if Vitin decided to do it later. She could run and get Calirn or another senior member if he ran…impulsive.
That was her reasoning. Vitin nodded, gulping. He was not as familiar with the Summer’s Champion as, say, you would be with the Spring’s Warden. She tended to talk to all new [Knights]; the Summer’s Champion and the Season of Summer was more hierarchical at the moment. He went on great errant deeds when not here and didn’t get to spend time with the younger [Knights], for all he was reckoned as a great commander in the field and very affable, even too much so.
“Champion, he is—”
“I don’t want to hear it. This is not something a [Knight] should betray.”
The Summer’s Champion folded his arms. Vitin and Talia stared at him.
“We—know that, Grandmaster. But even so, because of what the truth is, we felt it was beyond our ability to decide.”
Talia broke in for the first time. The Summer’s Champion’s eyes swept towards her. They blazed with passion; his quarters were hot, even at night. He’d started fires with his temper and the ambient air shot up in temperature.
“Speaking another [Knight]’s secret, Dame Talia, Ser Vitin? I won’t hear of it.”
“But Summer’s Champion—Ser Solstice is a Goblin!”
Vitin protested. The secret once more revealed…
Or not. Because the Summer’s Champion had promptly put two fingers in his ears.
