“Tell us the entirety of it, then. From start to finish. Ser Markus? We heard you were at sea, but was it true you ran afoul of the blockade and refused to surrender?”
“Hardly, Dame Thris! There we were, sailing for Pheislant when Ailendamus’ fleet found us and demanded our surrender! We debated over fighting when they claimed we would be sunk if we refused, but we did little more than draw our swords. For that, they demanded we surrender and claimed it was an act of aggression…”
Stories. On the first night, Rabbiteater met the Season of Spring. They clustered around him. Eating, talking—and not once did they ask him to remove his helmet. They wanted to know, but they caught themselves when asking about his past.
They were curious, but they had vows. And they stood together, a group of warriors bound by purpose. It reminded him of his tribe. His family.
He wished they could have had a keep of stone and magic, and wonderful weapons and food you didn’t have to ration.
His heart hurt when he thought of Talia.
 
—-
 
“A Goblin Knight? That is a thing of stories, Knight-Commander Calirn.”
The Fall’s Sentinel was an older [Knight]. Slimmer, and, like his Season, less martial than the other Seasons. However—he used a dueling sword with great acclaim, and a buckler in his off-hand. And his spellcasting rivaled some senior [Mages].
More than that, though, he was a historian. The Fall’s Sentinel stood against more than just aggression in the present; he remembered past threats.
Calirn had come to him with Talia’s secret, despite reservations. And it was the Fall’s Sentinel who was more troubled than Calirn.
“Then you believe the Goblin is a threat? A spy?”
“Spy? Agent? Enemy of his kind? That is not the point, Knight-Commander. History is a blunt teacher. And it teaches us that Goblins who walk among other species often become great leaders of their kind. There have been Goblin Knights before.”
“Really?”
The Fall’s Sentinel was plumbing through his personal archive. He shook his head.
“I will have to find the texts. They are buried in our library, no doubt. I will have some of my Season begin the search tomorrow.”
“Subtly, Fall’s Sentinel.”
The man’s name was Venoriat, but the Order tended to use their titles. To remind them they were representatives before friends, who could be biased, at least on business like this. Venoriat nodded.
“Of course. But I caution you, Knight-Commander. The Goblin may be a [Knight], in which case I am bound to believe he is honorable enough to gain the class. But…he is a Goblin.”
“Meaning?”
The Fall’s Sentinel sighed.
“Meaning that Goblins who rise to great strength become Chieftains or Goblin Lords. I recall one text—[Recall Text]. Ah, yes. Perfect clarity. The historical account of the Order of Merendis states that a valiant Goblin who strove with them against ‘dark forces who preyed on the blooded’, showed them naught but honor and a willingness to compromise. However. She joined the Goblin King during his rampage, which ended their Order, despite decades of strong ties. Where Goblin Kings appear—or Goblin Lords, Knight-Commander—even valorous Goblins seem to turn to war. Recall that the last Goblin King was known as Velan the Kind.”
“I would not forget, Fall’s Sentinel. I rode against him at the end.”
The Order of Seasons had been there. Even now, he remembered the Goblin King slaughtering warriors. That one half-Elf had brought him down had seemed like a miracle.
“That is history’s lesson. Perhaps, Knight-Commander, you should simply treat him as another species. Or a [Knight] not of this order.”
After a moment, the Fall’s Sentinel clapped his hands. Calirn stirred.
“I think I understand, but your meaning?”
“Even chivalrous [Knights] who embody honor may find themselves at odds due to politics or war. Goblins have many reasons to clash with Humanity. So, then. We understand what may happen because he is a Goblin. We do not know why he takes up armor. Either way, we acknowledge that his species is oft-opposed to ours, as a Drake [Knight] would be. I find him fascinating in any case and request permission to investigate.”
“How so?”
“Speak to him. Unless your will is to imprison Ser Solstice? Or execute him?”
The Fall’s Sentinel peered at Knight-Commander Calirn, having donned his reading spectacles. The Knight-Commander stood.
“No. Aptly put, Fall’s Sentinel.”
And subtly too; the man had the greatest strength in diplomacy of the four seasons. The older [Knight] nodded. He had contextualized the issue for Calirn and the answer was clear.
“I will not have the Order of Seasons imprison a [Knight], no matter the species. If Ser Solstice presents himself as undeserving of the class—I would act on it. But Dame Talia’s admission troubled me from the start. She is conflicted. But without that revelation, I will treat Ser Solstice like a [Knight] from Izril. I cannot ignore what I have been told, and thus he will be kept under moderate surveillance. No more until I reach further conclusions.”
“Well said, Knight-Commander.”
Besides which, one Goblin [Knight] was not as important as the war in Ailendamus.
But he was interested in the Goblin [Knight]. Who could not be? He resolved to meet with him later.
 
—-
 
If Knight-Commander Calirn’s deliberations had ended one way, the Spring’s Warden had dismissed Dame Meisa before dinner far differently.
“Dame Meisa, do you believe Ser Solstice is a [Knight]?”
The young Spring Knight had squirmed in her seat.
“I…do not know, Spring’s Warden. Nothing he has done has convinced me otherwise; quite the opposite.”
“Then why do you tell me of his nature?”
The older woman had waited. Meisa had shaken her head.
“Everything I have been taught is to watch for the danger of Goblins, Spring’s Warden. I do not know what to think, so I came to tell you—if only that someone knows the possible danger.”
“I see. And I see your reasoning, Dame Meisa. But I rebuke you nonetheless.”
“Spring’s Warden?”
The Season of Spring’s leader had looked at the young [Knight].
“It is right to fear a threat. It is unbecoming to gossip due to uncertainty, Dame Meisa. Which prompted your arrival here? Your realization of Ser Solstice’s danger to life and limb? Or your uncertainty of his nature?”
The young woman had colored. The Spring’s Warden sent her on her way.
“If you have a question of Ser Solstice? Uncertainties about him, why he is a [Knight]? Ask him yourself.”
Then she sat and meditated on the issue throughout the dinner hour. When she rose to break her fast, she was resolved.
She said nothing, did nothing, and had a pudding. Tomorrow, she would see Ser Solstice herself. Spring was change. She let things happen.
 
—-
 
And the results of her conversation bore out in Rabbiteater’s rooms that night. Dame Meisa, looking a bit ashamed, Ser Markus, and Ser Lloyd, all of the Spring, sat and stared as Rabbiteater slowly removed his helmet.
Ser Vitin, also of the Summer, had not joined them. Nor Talia, obviously. But Meisa had suggested it, and so they had asked Rabbiteater.
He took off his helmet and felt odd after so long wearing it like a second skin. They blinked.
“Spring ends.”
Ser Lloyd murmured the epitaph of their order. Ser Markus nudged him.
“Ser Solstice.”
“Rabbiteater. My name is Rabbiteater.”
The Hobgoblin was almost trembling as he put his helmet down. Meisa blinked.
“Rabbiteater? That is your name? Then you are…?”
“Rabbiteater. Solstice was…a friend. Human.”
They looked at him. The Hobgoblin stared back. After a moment, Ser Markus almost laughed.
“A Human friend? Ah—that makes sense! Ser…Rabbiteater, would you tell us more about how you came here?”
“You want to know?”
The Goblin [Champion] and [Knight-Errant] was surprised they hadn’t reacted more violently. He had expected…no, hoped…
Talia had done what he would have if he found a Redfang was a Human adventurer in disguise, really. Less. But he had hoped.
Some of the hope was born again here. Ser Markus nodded.
“It is an extraordinary tale, surely.”
“But you do not slay Goblins. You—pretend to. Unless those ears were Goblins you slew?”
Ser Lloyd looked uncomfortable. Rabbiteater shook his head.
“I told them to run away. The dead Goblins—I took ears from them. I do not kill Goblins. Unless they fight me. I do not kill Humans either. I…used to. I was a Redfang.”
“A what?”
They frowned. It was a long story. Rabbiteater did his best, but he was no Numbtongue with the fancy eloquence of language. But he’d learned to speak better and made a decent telling of it.
They did not know of the Redfang Tribe, or the famous Garen Redfang. But they listened as he clumsily tried to tell them about growing up, being sent on a mission to kill an [Innkeeper]. Getting lost. So lost.
And then meeting a Human in a battle in a city called Esthelm. Fighting the Goblin Lord. Losing friends. Coming to an inn, where a Human, for the second time ever, didn’t see them as monsters.
Erin Solstice.
“I have heard of that inn. Liscor. And that is where you came from?”
“Yes. After the big battle.”
“The siege with Lord Veltras. But the inn stands?”
Rabbiteater’s heart hurt.
“Yes. She is there. But I…my brothers are gone. So I went. Can’t go back. Hurts too much.”
He would go back. He had promised her. But—have an adventure. She knew he was alive. She had told him to have one.
Fall in love. Why didn’t she tell him it was like getting kicked repeatedly in the stomach too?
“An [Innkeeper]. Raskghar. Cave Goblins. What a story. That is a proper quest, a proper adventure! You put half the Season of Spring to shame with it alone.”
Ser Markus sat back. It was interesting, the reactions of the three.
Ser Lloyd was most wary. He kept staring at Rabbiteater and then looking away. But he listened, despite his clear misgivings.
Meisa looked…intrigued, guilty, and interested. She had liked hearing of Erin’s kindness, and how it had changed the Redfang five.
Ser Markus was simplest. Sheerly admiring. He did not seem to hold the Goblin’s nature against him. The reason bore out as he rose.
“I was lucky enough to know half-Elves—not in a traditional village, but a proper settlement that traded with my hamlet. I grew up in Gaiil-Drome—the forest nation. I always thought they were much maligned when I heard stories of them later.”
“So, you are a [Champion] and became a [Knight] after meeting us?”
Lloyd looked at Rabbiteater. The Goblin shrugged.
“Yes. Armor is armor. I liked [Knights], though. They are silly—but brave.”
The Spring Knights exchanged a look. Lloyd looked half-offended, but then smiled despite himself.
“Spoken like the other seasons. But one thing I don’t understand. You still didn’t say how you managed to down the Bear-General. You kept saying you had help. I thought you meant a potion. But you said it was a Skill? Sent by the [Innkeeper]? Across the ocean?”
His tone was disbelieving. Rabbiteater smiled.
“Erin is Erin. Very crazy. Does strange things. She is…strange.”
Lloyd looked at Rabbiteater. Then he sat back.
“You smiled for the first time when you spoke of her, sir.”
Rabbiteater realized he was. And that made all the difference. Lloyd looked at the others, then rose.
“This is incredible. I—I’ve fought Goblins. Killed them. No offense, Rabbiteater, but I was prepared to tell the Spring’s Warden, or Knight-Commander Calirn upon returning here. I—didn’t, but I feel guilty at the thought. Goblins have been mine enemy the entire time.”
He looked at Rabbiteater. Meisa bit her lip and Ser Markus frowned.
“We swore an oath, Ser Lloyd!”
“I know! But can you fault me for questioning, Markus?”
The man ran a hand through his hair. Rabbiteater shrugged.
“Humans kill Goblins. Goblins kill Humans.”
“Yes, but you make your tribe sound so—so—then why are we fighting?”
Rabbiteater shrugged again.
“No clue.”
Lloyd collapsed with a sigh.
“I can see your tribe—the Redfangs?—they would be the worst [Bandits] in the eyes of any Humans. Goblins with a mastery of weaponry. And you say they were all trained to that level? By this Garen Redfang?”
“Yes. Gold-rank adventurer.”
“Are other tribes led by Goblins like that? Tell us, pray.”
Lloyd leaned in. Markus as well. Meisa listened as Rabbiteater tried to explain.
 
—-
 
They talked late into the night. It was surreal for both sides, and Rabbiteater slept late into the day. But the next morning, the strangeness didn’t stop.
“We return to our duties, but due to our sojourn we won’t immediately be sent out, Ser Solstice. I would ask if you wanted to join us.”
“What do you do all day?”
“Train.”
Ser Markus smiled. Lloyd sighed and Meisa rubbed at her shoulders. Rabbiteater tilted his head back and forth.
“Cool.”
He didn’t get why they found it arduous. The Order of Seasons had built their lives around being [Knights], so you did a few things as soon as you were a full [Knight]:
-You went on quests or crusades, in groups, alone if you were senior, or in full armies, sometimes to war.
-You patrolled or helped build or fortify areas in need. Cleared out monsters on a kind of residency for as long as four years.
-You rested and enjoyed the Order of Season’s amenities, took breaks because you couldn’t [Knight] all year without needing time off.
-You might research, study magic, if you were a Fall Knight, or go on courtly diplomatic missions to visit other orders, attend events representing your order.
-Or you trained your ass off day in and day out.
That was what [Knights] not occupied with the main activities did. They trained.
Swordsmanship, spear mastery, archery, riding, joint fighting, tilting, dueling, woodcraft, climbing, sprints, swimming, stealth, marathon marches…the Order of Seasons did specialize, but a [Knight] honed their body.
“I hear the Thronebearers exercise for two hours each day. I’ve never done less than six.”
Ser Markus groused as they ran around the vast keep for a morning run. The [Knights] wore armor—[Squires] did not, although they worked up to it with weights. Rabbiteater ran in full gear with a group of [Spring Knights]. Apparently, it was more than a few miles if you did the entire keep; it was sprawling.
“You run like this every day?”
“Yes! At least, the Season of Spring must, to build their endurance. You needn’t do this, Ser Solstice…”
Ser Markus blinked as Rabbiteater jogged ahead, towards the head of the pack. Ser Markus sped up.
“Used to do this too. Carrying rocks. Lots of fun. Relaxing.”
Ser Medul barked a laugh as he looked over his shoulder.
