Many, many years later.

***

Arwin’s eyes snapped open.

The world around him was white. Completely white. An endless expanse of pure empty void that stretched out in every direction, as far as the eye could see. There was nothing at all. Nothing but pure emptiness.

Arwin stood in place for several long seconds. Confusion prickled against his foggy thoughts. He and Lillia had just headed to bed. It had been a long day. A particularly long one. They’d been busy setting up seventh of her taverns deep within the Horde’s lands — though most people didn’t call it that now. The days where the Horde’s land differed from that of the humans had long since passed. They’d been living together for a little too long for anybody to care much at all about it at this point.

Today had been the grand opening ceremony. They’d shaken more hands than he could remember and wished so many well-wishes that all the good karma in the world had probably been wrung up and spent in their tavern alone. Arwin could still hear the laughter and merriment in his ears — and, more importantly, he could practically taste the remnants of Lillia’s cooking on his tongue.

He’d eaten a bit more than he probably should have.

Then again, everyone had. It was a bit hard to hold back. She’d only gotten more skilled as she’d aged. Lillia’s taverns were, without a doubt, the most famous amongst the lands for a very good reason — and they’d held that title for well over fifty years already. It didn’t matter how many times Arwin ate her cooking. Each bite felt like it was the first one he’d ever taken.

And today, he’d gotten to eat Lillia’s cooking. That meant today had been a good day.

But this wasn’t their bed. It wasn’t any bed, for that matter. He couldn’t recall how he’d gotten here. This empty white didn’t seem like much of a dream, either. It was too real. Too distantly familiar. Something about it stirred old memories, drudging them up like the anchor of one of Maria’s fancy new merchant ships drudging through silt.

Then Arwin blinked.

There was someone standing before him.

They weren’t familiar. For that matter, they weren’t recognizable at all. A man so plain as to have been invisible in the crowd, the perfect blend of every single feature and body shape until nothing identifiable remained but the vague presence of an existence.

Silence hung in the empty white void for several long seconds as Arwin stared at the newcomer.

He knew where he was.

“You said we wouldn’t meet again,” Arwin said.”

“I did,” the Mesh replied, inclining its head. “And we did not. Not while you lived, Arwin Tyrr.”

“So I’m dead, then,” Arwin said. He blinked. “Just like that?”

“Just like that,” the Mesh said. “Perhaps I am not the one to judge. But, by your standards, I would call it a worthy life. Some would say a great one. You did a great deal of good. There are few who can hope to pass so peacefully in their sleep after a life so fraught with battle.”

Arwin grunted. He looked down at his hands, finally realizing that the aches and pains that had slowly built into a constant song over the later years had suddenly vanished. There were no more wrinkles or patches on his skin. It was smooth, just like it had been back when he had been in his 20s.

“I suppose there were worse ways to go,” Arwin said. He blinked, eyes watering.

“You could have chosen never to go at all,” the Mesh said. Its head tilted to the side. “You made a choice many years ago, Arwin. You could have lived forever as a god. Lillia could have too. The rest of the Menagerie as well. You never would have aged. Never would have passed. Do you regret that decision?”

Arwin stood in silence for a long second. Then he let out a wry snort.

“No. I don’t. That’s no life at all. I can’t say I wanted to die… but I sure as hell didn’t want to live like that.”

But Arwin’s words didn’t keep his words from catching in his throat. His hands clenched at his sides.

“You do not seem pleased,” the Mesh said. “Was a life well-lived not enough?”

“It was,” Arwin said. He wiped his eyes with the back of his wrist. Then the corners of his lips twitched. “Perhaps its selfish. But I would have given a hell of a lot to say goodbye. To my son. To Lillia. To the rest of the Menagerie. Didn’t I earn that much?”

“There are no exceptions,” the Mesh said. “Death must come for all who live. That is how the cycle continues. It is not my place to interfere. I cannot interfere. That is against my nature.”

Arwin sent the Mesh a wry smile and shook his head, but it did nothing to shake away the aching longing building in his stomach. “I know that. There’s no room for exceptions. That’s how we got into the whole mess all those years ago in the first place.”

“So it was,” the Mesh agreed.

“Don’t worry,” Arwin said after a moment. “If you can worry, that is. There are good people down there. Lots of them. Nobody can ever guarantee that evil won’t come back. But someone will stop it.”

“Most likely,” the Mesh said. “Unless another hole is discovered in my knowledge. My nature only persists me to exist. It does not allow me to act. Not as directly as some may wish. My domain of power does not extend to the lives of mortals. ”

“Well… tough shit,” Arwin said. The corners of his lips twitched. “I’ve just died. I’m afraid I’m all out of sympathy.”

The Mesh chuckled. Its voice echoed through the empty expanse, somehow fading out before it started in the first place.

“So you have. Are you prepared for what comes next?”

“No,” Arwin admitted. He swallowed. It hurt. “I don’t want to go. I don’t want to die.”

“Few do,” the Mesh said.

Arwin grunted. He shook his head once more, but the emotions wouldn’t loose their claws of him so easily. “Just… let’s get this on with. I don’t mean to be rude, but I don’t give much of a shit about talking to you.”

“I had imagined,” the Mesh said. “But there is no need to be so hasty. It is the lives of mortals that I lack influence over.”

Then it nodded over Arwin’s shoulder.

A frown crossed his lips.

He turned.

And then he froze.

“No,” Arwin whispered.

Standing across from him, every bit as beautiful as she had been the last time he’d seen her, was Lillia.

But she had changed. Or, perhaps to put it more accurately, she had reverted. She looked just like she had when they’d put an end to the Guild.

The two of them stared at each other for an instant. Then they flung themselves into each other’s arms. Arwin wrapped Lillia in a tight embrace.

“You too?” Lillia asked through a weak, watery laugh. “Seriously?”

“Quite the bond,” the Mesh said from behind them. “You passed no more than a few seconds apart.”

“Shut up,” Lillia said. “We’re busy.”

Arwin’s hands tightened around Lillia’s robes, his fingers digging into the cloth as he pulled her against his chest and she pulled him against hers. Neither of them spoke. There wasn’t a single word between them that hadn’t already been said.

But as all things did, it eventually ended.

Lillia took a step back. Her hand found Arwin’s and clasped it tightly. And, as one, the two of them turned back toward the Mesh.

“Is this our payment for services rendered?” Lillia asked, cocking her head to the side. “Making us young again to let us have one last root around each other’s pants? That’s actually not a half bad deal. But if you were planning on watching — well, I don’t actually give much of a shit. I’m too old for that. Knock yourself out.”

“I would suggest holding off before you got to such activities,” the Mesh said. It didn’t sound even slightly embarrassed. It was probably a bit more difficult to make a relatively emotionless godlike being feel shame.

“Yeah?” Lillia asked, her eyes narrowing. “Why?”

“Because there is one more thing that remains to be discussed,” the Mesh replied. “And then you shall see for yourself what comes next.”

Arwin and Lillia exchanged a glance.

They squeezed each other’s hands even tighter still.

And, as one, they nodded.

***

Thane held his black blade in a loose grip as he headed down the torchlit hall. There was an awful ache in his back and his vision wasn’t nearly what it had been many years ago. He’d been at this for far longer than he should have been. If it hadn’t been for Vireth’s power pumping through his body, he probably would have struggled a bit more clearing out the fifty-odd men that had attempted to block his path.

The stench of their blood still lingered in the air behind him.

Mesh, I wish the others were here.

But they weren’t.

The Beast and Uriel were off on the other side of the kingdom. Blake and the New Menagerie — as some had taken to calling them — were dealing with a massive dungeon break deep in the wilderness, many leagues from here. The Infernal Armory, in the body that Arwin had made it, and Koyu had gone with them. Ever the worrywart, the old ghost was. The smithy really wasn’t much better. It had bonded with Leo, one of Blake’s front-liners, and had been teaching him blacksmithing. That was, at least, when it wasn’t accompanying Blake’s group on just about any major undertaking they went on.

And the rest of the Menagerie…

Well, it had been a long time.

They were gone.

It had been amiracle that none of them had met their end in a violent manner. Each one had passed peacefully of old age. Thane knew that very same end was coming for him as well. It wouldn’t be much longer, now. He could feel it in his bones. But the idea of being the one member of the guild that somehow managed to get himself killed in a fight…

I don’t think so. I won’t be facing them in the next life and explaining how I was the only one that went down in battle. One more time, Vrith. Stand by me. Then we can go back and rest.

I am with you, Thane. Always.

Power rushed into him. It almost felt like a warm embrace as it filled his old, aching muscles. His fingers tightened around the hilt of the blade. A faint grin pulled at the corners of his lips.

The kids were counting on him to protect their world until they were strong enough to pick up the mantle themselves. Fumbling at the home stretch wasn’t an option.

He drew up to an old stone door. It was dated, probably built back sometime during the Great War and meant to withstand the assault of a very powerful mage. Whoever had made it had been quite powerful.

Thane drove his foot into it.

There was a deafening crash. The stone hinges, enchanted to withstand even the strongest blows, shattered. It flew back and hit the ground with a screech, sliding several feet before grinding to a halt at the feet of a tall, slender man with gaunt skin. Coils of sickly green power swirled around his fingers.

A cruel smile stretched across the man’s lips as he looked to Thane.

“You’re far too late,” he said through a raspy laugh. “I have already achieved Lichhood. You are an old relic, stuck in the ways of the past. Your fear and weakness hold you back.”

Thane sighed. He raised his sword before him, ignoring his body’s pleas to rest. Vireth’s presence swirled at his side. He could feel her fingers intertwining with his, steadying the blade.

“You’ll never get it,” Thane said. “Do you know how many more idiots like you there have been? I’ve seen it all. You’re playing with power that you couldn’t possibly comprehend.”

The Lich sneered at him. “We’ll see about that.”

Tremors rolled through the ground. Thane stumbled, nearly dropping to one knee as the shaking grew more violent. Cracks split the stone beneath their feet. Skeletal hands burst up from the ground and drove down into the earth. His neck craned back as two massive skeletal abominations dragged themselves up from the depths of the earth, rising to loom over the Lich.

Power radiated out from within the monsters’ eyes, filling the entire room with a dull green aura. Thane grimaced. He had long since mastered his class’ ability to identify the abilities of the enemies he was up against. These monsters were far from weak. They were going to be a lot harder to break than a fancy door. A few years ago, he probably would have been able to handle this, even if just barely.

But age caught up fast. He wasn’t exactly the same person that he had been 10 years ago.

I might not be making it back after all.

Thane blew out a slow breath.

“Come, then,” Thane said. “Come try your hand against this old man.”

The Lich’s laughter echoed through the room. “Putting an end to the final living member of the original Menagerie will be an appropriate way to begin my reign.”

“Reign?” Thane asked. “You’ll be lucky to leave this cave. The age of your kind is long since over. The only question is if you will die to me — or die tomorrow, at the hands of someone younger.”

The Lich sneered at him. “We shall see.”

Thane lowered his stance.

The massive skeletons lurched into motion. All three of them lunged for Thane with wordless roars, their huge hands extending toward him.

Thane raised his blade.

And then a brilliant flash of blue light split the dimly lit cave. Thane — and the Lich — cried out as one. Both of them stumbled back.

Thane squinted through the light, his hand raised before his eyes defensively.

Then he froze.

Disbelief cut through his thoughts.

What?

Ghastly blue chains bound the skeletons, locking all three of them in place. Chains that he hadn’t seen in years, but ones he never could have forgotten.

“What?” the Lich stamered. “How—”

A rumble shook the cave for the second time. Golden mist spilled up from the cracks in the ground, strands of it swirling together to take the form of a tall woman with pointed ears, a swaying tail, and two great wings. She appeared directly before the nearest of the skeleton golems with her back to Thane.

Then she extended one hand.

A golden blade carved out from her palm to slice clean through the monster.

The mist twisted into a second form just beside the woman. A man in casual clothing wielding what could only be described as a broom. He brought the weapon around, driving it into the skull of the second monster. It shattered the skeleton’s upper half to dust.

Both of the monsters dropped in an instant, dead before they could even break free of the glowing bindings holding them.

“No!” the Lich exclaimed, taking a step back as disbelief warped his features. “That isn’t possible! How could my minions possibly be defeated so easily? You have no such powers! You aren’t capable of it!”

Thane was equally as surprised. He didn’t have any powers like this.

But the shimmering forms, even with their backs to him… they looked far too familiar.

The Lich took another step back. Then his horror twisted into fury. “I refuse! I am a Lich! You are nothing but an old remnant!”

He thrust his hand forward.

Green light exploded out toward Thane in an arc.

Before Thane could even react, a river golden mist flowed past him from behind. It rushed along his back to swirl over his shoulders before forming into the form of a large man in brilliant yellow armor — directly in the path of the Lich’s attack.

The magic struck his chestplate and burst apart like a rotten fruit. Sputters of pale green flame fell to the ground and faded away harmlessly at the man’s feet. The glowing man didn’t even react. Instead, he raised his right hand. A warhammer that glowed as brilliantly as the noon sun appeared in his grip.

There was an instant of stunned silence.

Then the Lich spun, flinging magic against the wall. A swirling green portal yawned open against the stone. He lunged toward it — only for a golden woman to step straight through the very portal he was lunging for. Her arm caught the Lich in the neck.

He was sent tumbling to the ground in a flail of limbs, rolling until he skidded to a stop right at the hammer-wielding man’s feet.

The Lich’s eyes went wide in horror. His mouth opened, perhaps to utter some manner of magic or attempt to plea for his life.

He never got the chance.

The man’s hammer fell.

There was a crunch.

Then the Lich was no more.

Its end had come more like an execution than anything that could be considered a fight. Thane stared for a long second. A part of him wondered if he was having hallucinations.

That must be it.

It had to be, because the face of the glowing woman that had stepped through the Lich’s portal couldn’t have belonged to her. The woman who owned it was long since dead — and even if she hadn’t been, she hadn’t looked that young in a long time.

“Reya?” Thane whispered in disbelief.

The other two figures turned.

If Vireth hadn’t been keeping herself stuck to Thane’s palm, his grip on her would have gone slack.

The people before him may have been made up of golden mist, but there was no mistaking them in a thousand years. They were none other than Arwin and Lillia.

“You’re looking a bit stiff there, Thane,” Reya said with a playful grin. “You almost got taken out by small fry.”

“I — what?” Thane stammered. He couldn’t believe his eyes. “How?”

Arwin glanced at Reya. Then he looked to Lillia before his gaze finally returned to Thane, a gentle smile on his lips.

“Turns out, the Mesh decided it was fed up letting evil idiots have their way,” Arwin said with a chuckle. “It’s trying out a new idea. See, the Mesh can’t interfere in the affairs of the world directly. But if it gives a few souls enough power to exist even in spite of their passing… well, that’s different. And those souls can exercise their will exactly how they want to.”

“We’re World Guardians!” Reya exclaimed, thrusting her thumb up into the air with a grin. “The very first!”

Thane stared at them.

Then he blinked. Slowly.

“The Mesh… gave you its power?” he asked slowly.

Lillia nodded. “Yes. It decided that the Guild had the very, very wrong idea — but their premise could be reworked into something a bit less evil. The Mesh gave up a portion of its power to let us keep a slightly more active eye over the world.”

“We won’t be able to interfere in the small things,” Arwin said, dismissing his hammer and stepping forward. He put a hand on Thane’s shoulder. “But when things get really dark… we’ll be around.”

“And we got a whole new place to check out in the meantime!” Reya added, rubbing her hands together. “The area the Mesh exists in only looks like a blank void to mortals. Once you’ve got its power in you, it’s a whole new world. You should try Lillia’s Soul-food. I mean, you can’t right now. You’re alive. But after you die — it’s great. Look forward to it.”

“To dying?” Thane stammered. “Wait. Is it just—”

“No,” Arwin said. His smile grew wider. “Every single member of the Menagerie but one. And there’s one spot left. Well, and an extra for your Devil friend. The Mesh said it would make a small exception.”

Thane stared at them.

Emotions welled in his chest, bubbling up so fast that no words had a chance to form.

“We’ve got to get going,” Lillia said. “Blake’s about to go up against a pretty big monster. I want to be there to watch.”

“I — I thought you could only come for important events?” Thane asked, his head still spinning.

Arwin and Lillia both sent him a very serious look.

“This is an important event,” Arwin said. Then he winked. “Enjoy the rest of your life to its fullest, Thane. And, when it’s over… we’ll all be waiting.”

And then the mist was gone.

Thane stood alone in the dark room, surrounded by the remains of two massive skeletons and one dead Lich.

He looked down to Vireth.

A faint smile spread across his lips.

“Huh,” Thane said. “Who would have thought?”

Thane turned, the aches in his aged body no longer bothering him nearly as much as they had been a moment ago.

He paused for a moment at the edge of the cave, right before the hall.

Then he stepped out and headed out toward the rest of his life.

There were still a good few years left in it. He’d have to squeeze the best out of them to make sure he could hold it over the others. There were few things more worthy of bragging about than a life well lived. But, when his time finally did come, he knew the next adventure would be waiting along with the rest of the Menagerie.

THE END.

But not the end for everything.

Please read on for just a bit longer, as there are a few small things I'd love to say while I've still got you. If you want to skip the sappy bits, jump right to the bottom. I'll TLDR it for you, you dopamine gremlin.

The story that I wanted to tell in Rise of the Living Forge has come to a close. It's... honestly surreal. I've been writing this series for around 2 years now, and even though I am writing this particular afterword about a month and a bit after I finished the series itself on patreon, now it feels final.

I learned a ton from writing Forge. I had a blast at times, and at other times I was rather annoyed. To some it up, as I suspect both those who liked and disliked the story along the way might say, this was one of the stories of all time.

I quite enjoyed it for the most part. I hope you all did too.

And from the bottom of my heart, thank you for reading my work.

This is the end for the webserial, but it is far from the end for Forge as a whole. A webcomic for the series is well underway, and we'll be seeing it out within the next few months. I'll be updating everyone here & in my discord server when that happens. If the comic performs well, we can expect some new/bonus content throughout it.

Forge is also getting a special edition print novel that I'm looking forward to a lot. This series was really a blast to write, and I want to see it come to life as much as possible in whatever ways I can.

But I'm sure a few of you, especially those who know me even slightly, will be aware that I am incapable of not writing.

One might wonder, "Now that Forge is done, what will you--"

Start a new novel.

I started a new novel.

I'm calling it Whom the Gods Would Destroy, and it's one I've been planning out for the better part of a year, and now over 100,000 words and 18 chapters of it have been written. I really want a ton of backlog for you all before I start posting it to RR, so it'll be a few more months before it hits there. However, the first chapter is already free to read on my Patreon. It's a meaty 8,000 words or so.

The novel doesn't actually have a synopsis yet, so I don't have a great blurb for you. However, a number of my readers have told me this is some of my best ever work. I hope you'll judge for yourself.

You can check it out HERE if you'd like to take a look entirely for free.

Otherwise, I'll be making an update post (on discord and here) when it launches. I plan to have around 250,000 words of backlog when it releases, about 2.5x more than any backlog size I've ever built before.

TLDR:1. Forge is getting a Webcomic and a Special Edition Leather Print Release! Stick around for a bit longer if you'd like to check those out!2. In the wake of Forge, I have written 100k+ words & 18 chapters of a new series, Whom the Gods Would Destroy. You can read its first chapter, for free, HERE! It'll be coming to Royal Road in the next few months. 3. Thank you all so much for reading. Seriously. There's no point to writing if there aren't readers there to read it. Y'all mean the world to me. Mostly because my job would be pretty damn pointless if you weren't there. So... cheers. I hope to see you again in the comment sections of Runebound, Nightmare Realm Summoner, or Whom the Gods Would Destroy.

All the best and until next time,

Actus