Zac immediately went to work, taking the opportunity to eject the timelines that had drifted too close to his home base. Esmeralda’s power kept climbing over the next two hours, eventually reaching the stage she was before the transformation. Then, she eclipsed it, joining Zac at Peak Hegemony.

There was no need for a warning; Zac had seen what happened each time Esmeralda transcended a stage. He returned to his timeline to set up a protective barrier. An unprecedented storm rocked the inner realm, yet only two hundred more timelines were banished. Those who’d survived this long were battle-hardened veterans with powerful magic circles, and they’d strengthened themselves on the collapse of their enemies. Zac’s own timeline was no different. It had grown significantly stronger over the past hours.

Zac assumed things would continue this way, but he was quickly proven wrong. The ethereal shimmer surrounding Esmeralda disappeared, and the purple spiral faded until it was barely visible. Esmeralda no longer looked like a god of time and space. She simply seemed like an extremely powerful Early Beast Emperor. Even her surroundings were back to the inner realm’s mottled composition.

“Hurry, come here!” Esmeralda urged.

“Huh?” Zac shouted back as he scurried over. “What’s wrong?”

“What’s with that defeatist attitude? Look at me, what could possibly be wrong?” a visibly excited Esmeralda said.

“Yes, you’re very impressive and very pretty,” Zac said perfunctorily, getting a light punch and a scoff in return. “But you didn’t pause the process just to brag, right?”

“So what if I have? I deserve it. Do you know how difficult it is to perfectly balance three supreme forces?” Esmeralda huffed. “Did you consider I might have stopped because I’ve prepared a little surprise for my bumbling protégé? But his attitude is lacking, so maybe I’m better off keeping it to myself.”

“Oh great Esmeralda, your deeds will echo through Eternity. Please forgive this lacking disciple for not immediately comprehending the magnitude of your feats,” Zac declared without missing a beat.

“Not bad, not bad,” Esmeralda grinned before her throat bulged.

The next second, she spat out a shimmering sphere made of extremely compressed energy. While the small black hole undeniably held a heavy helping of spatial energy, it also emitted the untainted purity of the Cosmic Sea. Zac looked at the sphere with incomprehension before it dawned on him.

Zac thought back to the book they found in the skill repository’s hidden cellar all those months ago. Zac had only looked it over a few times since then, but Esmeralda had often taken it out to study during her free time over the past months.

“Is that a Shattered Sky Nucleus?”

“That’s right. I’ve already mastered [Shattered Sky Scripture], so I made one just for fun,” Esmeralda said with a puffed-out chest.

“Congratulations, but what does that have to do with me?” Zac asked with confusion.

“Do you think I’d need something like this? My strength will naturally recover on its own as I continue to unseal the [Timescape Loop],” Esmeralda said with a pointed look. “Since I don’t need it, I made some alterations to the technique.”

“You’re saying…?” Zac said with wide eyes.

“Just infuse your blood and Daos and it’ll be yours.”
