Shiv noticed how her head was encased in a transparent bowl as well, flowing stormstuff partially obscuring her features. But her eyes were the color of dark clouds split by lightning, and her face and skin were the same kind of blue that characterized Adam's aesthetic.

As Shiv wrapped his Vitae around the downed Aeromancer, he curled his mana hydra over her body as well. Before the onslaught of two Magical Skills, one being Legendary, her resistance shattered with a burst of mana, and that worked in Shiv's favor. The repulsive force spreading out from her stunned Urri just as he reappeared.

His body vibrated in place, and he clutched his head, letting out a pained bellow.

Shiv didn't have time to capitalize on that, however. Instead, he began draining from the downed Aeromancer. Her incessant screams turned into a gurgling cry as the Deathless ripped the vitality free from her body. A flood of life force washed into him and crashed upon the flesh of reality. The air around them shimmered with crimson majesty, and in an instant, Shiv was reborn, hatching free from red-white vapors.

Urri struck him again, driving a curving hook into Shiv's midsection. He didn't lose any Vitae this time, but he did hiss as one of his ribs was fractured.

"Getting tired of that shit." Shiv swung the back of his hand and struck nothing. A second later, Urri manifested, knee-first against the side of Shiv's temple. A burst of whiteness spread out from behind Shiv's right eye. A section of his helmet and skull were shattered as he stumbled, and the moment he did, Urri swept his legs out from under him before bringing an elbow down on the same rib that was fractured earlier.

Shiv activated Non-Sequitur before the Vulteg could do anything else.

He snapped free from his body and watched as Urri shattered his vitality. He heard Urri snap the vitality decoy over his knee as a burst of vaporous Vitae filled the air. Shiv went from Non-Sequitur back to the outside context state, and Urri briefly stumbled, confused as to what just happened.

Shiv took that opportunity to be a bit of a bastard. If the prisoners wanted to be a pain in the ass, so would he. His mana hydra tore out across the room, and they assimilated his recent remains. A chain of microspells manifested along the length of his Biomancy field, and Shiv swung it against the Vulteg's head. A look of utter confusion lingered on Urri's face just as the crimson hydra struck him.

But Shiv wasn't attempting to break the Vulteg's Magical Resistance. The bastard was a juggernaut in more ways than one. Instead, he projected some of the biomass he'd assimilated, and he sculpted it around Urri's face. Shiv watched a dangling arm materialize in a flash of redness. It was connected to a section of Shiv's lower back, one ass cheek, the heel of his foot, and part of his face. That monstrosity was promptly molded into a loop and then fastened upon the Vulteg's face.

Urri gave a muffled cry as Shiv returned to context. But instead of trying to attack Shiv, Urri reached up, fighting desperately to rip the flesh cocoon away. Once more, his lacking Physicality worked against him. Urri was only Heroic in terms of strength, and Shiv's corpse inherited the qualities of orichalcum as well, though not the full potential of ever-escalating Toughness.

A groan came from the Aeromancer. She tried to rise, but let out a violent wheeze as Shiv pinched the major arteries in her throat. He used his mana hydra to do that for maximum control. She kicked and clawed against the ground briefly before her eyes blinked, and her gaze went distant.

"That's right," Shiv said, "go to sleep."

Nearby, he heard the automaton let out a mechanical cough. "Ow," Divider said. Shiv moved to disable the second-weakest threat of the group, but then something bit into the back of his neck. He tried to move forward, but his legs wouldn't listen. His body wouldn't obey, and—and then he was free again, detached from another corpse.

A snarl of frustration bubbled up inside; his head struck the ground first, his body following a second thereafter. But Shiv didn't have any time to vent his anger. A bleed of frost crashed into his Vitae, and he felt that infectious slowness gallop through his soul, course through the marrow of red-white mana that comprised his alloyed being.

Shiv pushed back against the magic, but he lacked the Overflow Tides to fully overpower his ambusher. A second later, he found himself pinned against the wall. Urri slammed into the anchor’s walls beside him, leaving a gash in the rusted metal. Bits of Shiv's corpse wrapper were coming free from the Vulteg's head, and he would be back in the fight before long. But he was the secondary priority.

Non-Sequitur 106 > 110

Vitaemancy 116 > 121

Inertial Overdrive 173 > 177

Pillar of Orichalcum 228 > 230

Farsight 78 > 81

Once more, across from Shiv stood a sight he didn't expect.

Shiv gasped with disbelief.

A series of cracks sounded through the room, and each of them was as loud as an explosion. Andra was standing again, and she wasn't alone. She was being propped up by a Cryomantic clone, one radiating with that stilling coldness. And to Shiv's utter incredulity, it also carried a spark of vitality. There was a thin tendril of redness lining the space between Andra and her ice clone. And Shiv was at an utter loss for words. What the hells?

The Jotun's many tattoos were glowing now, flaring with the power of Biomancy, and her flesh began to rapidly reconstruct itself.
