191 (II)

Burden

***

"I can pinpoint where your equipment is. I'm willing to send one of my Avatars along with you as a countermeasure against Udraal. But the other two requests..." Cripple hesitated. "I cannot accept the escape of any prisoner. Furthermore, I cannot condone a meeting between you and Veronica Chandler. Of all the Avatars, she stands alone as the most dangerous.”

"Yeah, I'm aware of that," Shiv said. "But me and her, we got history I need to figure out. Things to talk about."

"And that is the greatest risk of all," Cripple continued. "If you speak to Veronica Chandler, then by the end, you will be little more than a thrall. She will break you with her words. She will render you little more than a pet, not even a slave."

"I've been hit by her words before," Shiv said. "I know their weight. I can take them.”

"Hubris," Cripple said. "She was gentle with you. She was testing you, trying to get you to surrender willingly."

"Yeah, well, then I guess she doesn't know me well. Just kind of a fucked up thing, considering the fact that she might be my granny."

Cripple's Avatar froze then, and its optics narrowed, zooming in on him. "Your grandmother... Why didn't I see this before?"

"Probably because you were too busy dealing with six different streams of bullshit at once," Shiv said. "Udraal told me quite a few things. I want to know how many of those things are true. I want to know why he would make me like this, if that had anything to do with my family history. And I want to know," Shiv gritted his teeth, "I want to know why she never bothered, you know, if she knew about me at all. Why she just left me at Blackedge and, uh, well, everything. My life used to be a miserable nightmare, but now it just doesn’t add up.”

"She might have," Cripple said softly, "but Pathbearers of great power are threatened by weakness. And family is just so often that when your position is high enough. Weakness." The Ascendant sighed. "You would not be the first of her grandchildren. And your father wouldn't be the first of her many offspring either. You are simply the most important offspring, if what Udraal claimed is true."

The Deathless was speechless. "Are you felling serious?"

“I'm afraid so.”

"It's not uncommon," Adam interjected uncomfortably from within Can Hu’s chassis. "Especially among the nobility. High-Tier Pathbearers often attempt to make sure their offspring are as powerful as possible. Marriages are for the main family branches, but they're also partly for interest. But there are also coupling arrangements made to strengthen and expand family lines."

Shiv blinked. “Coupling arrangements?”

Adam continued. “My father is untangled from the mixing branches of the nobility, mainly because we are a new family. But my mother..." The Gate Lord let out an exasperated laugh. "She showed me her family tree once as a child. Or maybe I looked in the book myself. It's hard to remember things that early on in my childhood. Anyway, it was like staring at a messy patch of vines coiled around each other. If I had to describe the nobility, it would be a nest of cousins and half-siblings experiencing near misses with each other, in the best of cases."

"In the best of cases?" Shiv echoed.

"Biomancers can usually clear away the issues resulting from inbreeding," Cripple said.

The nobility is a godsdamned inbreeding pit. Shiv’s insides recoiled.

"Can't believe I'm about to say this, but I'm quite glad I turned out to be an orphan." Shiv snorted dryly. "Thanks, mom and dad. Really helped me dodge the family tree bullet there."

"Perhaps in more ways than one," Cripple said. "Kathereine likely had her eyes on you. You and Adam both. He's still at risk if he ends up in her clutches, but you've been removed as a prospect."

Shiv really didn't like the sound of that. "Because... why?"

"Kathereine is Veronica's grandmother. Direct incest ranks among the few things that, how does she put it, ‘makes someone so very unappealing.’" And suddenly a wave of near-unbearable disgust washed through Shiv. The Deathless groaned.

"Shiv? Shiv, are you alright?" Adam asked.

"Yeah," Shiv said, lying. "I'm just trying not to think about certain things."

"That makes two of us," Adam said.

"I think we could come to an arrangement regarding the prison break," Shiv muttered. "Right now, if you dispatch one of your Avatars to be part of our company, you can maintain a close watch over those who escape with us. We don't intend to bring a war to the people of the capital."

"Intentions are secondary to consequences," Cripple intoned. "I did not intend many things, yet they still resulted in failures."

"Yeah, and you might have failed anyway, even if you didn't do anything," Shiv shot back. "Cripple, I know there's a risk here, but I'm going to ask you a few simple questions. First, do you think that we're going to be able to shake the Ascendants and the Avatars if we don't collapse the entire prison? If the only ones that escape are us and the Ascendants come hunting, how long do you think I can stay unnoticed? How escapable is someone with Legendary Awareness?"

Cripple didn't immediately respond to that, and Shiv knew the machine god lacked a good answer. "Alright, so let's say I do manage to hide from them for a while. What then? How long do you think I can avoid Udraal? And do you think you can stop Udraal from destroying the prison anyway? Does Udraal Thann strike you as someone who only has one plan?"

"No," Cripple said, "but he is not infallible. He's been beaten before."

"Beaten? Or temporarily inconvenienced?" Adam asked.

Cripple didn’t answer.

Shiv began to circle the Ascendant. "I don't know much about Udraal. I barely know his skills and have no clue about his history. But I can tell you that he has plenty of bodies to spend. He's stupidly powerful, and some of that magic he's using," Shiv gestured at the scars lining the Avatar's body, "is like nothing I've seen before. Stop hesitating and decide on something. You don't want the prisoners to spill out into the capital and wreak havoc? Fine, we're on the same page. We're going to warn you when we drop the mana core, and you can be prepared to intercept and recapture as many of them as you can. Alternatively, you say no. We try to do this anyway because we have to do it. But there is no way we're staying inside this place. And we're probably going to be entirely reliant on Udraal's help in that situation. We don't want that. Not you, not me. But I will take my chances with Udraal if it means breaking out from this pit."

Shiv stopped. He glared at the back of Cripple's head. The Avatar hadn't turned to look at him at all, but Shiv could tell the Ascendant was thinking. "This isn't me forcing you to do anything. This is me cutting you in. It's the best offer you'll get today. Now, if you don't do this, I'm going to tell you what happens. Udraal will exert whatever influence he can over us. Adam and I are going to resist. But guess what? I don't think our odds are very good. He's a little too powerful for us to handle right now. He's got schemes within schemes. Hell, he says he has worlds under his control."

"He does not lie," the Ascendant replied, its voice barely a whisper. "We have scried some of Udraal's activities beyond Integrated Earth. He has conducted several conquests, claiming worlds with equivalent Ambient Mana Thresholds, most likely higher."

Shiv and Adam shared a look, and the Deathless clenched his fist. "That's why we need you, Cripple. You specifically. You want to meet the Starhawk and not have Udraal pull off whatever fuck-fuck game he's about to play? Well, then you need to be there. You need to be there with the only other Ascendant who is on the outside of this thing. The rest of them don't care. They are only playing for their own self-interest. We are past the point of trust now, and you know it. I'm putting up with you. Now, I'm going to need you to put up with me, or we all go down the worst path. And let me tell you, I don't see a very happy outcome that way."

Silver Tongue 38 > 39

Cripple didn't immediately reply, but Whisper stepped forward. The stealthy orc's midnight cloak billowed as if an invisible wind was passing along the fabric. "May I speak?"

Shiv narrowed his eyes at Whisper. He wondered what game the orc was playing now, but he gestured, allowing it.

"Cripple the Strongest. The Challenger respected you the most among all the Ascendants."

Cripple gave a bitter laugh. "He has given this speech to me directly, and he's told the Starhawk the same thing."

Whisper shook his head. "He was only lying with the Starhawk. He meant it truthfully when he spoke to you."

"I suspect he said that to the Starhawk as well," Cripple said flatly.

The orc paused deliberately and stared at Cripple. "I want you to know that what I say next is not a threat. I want you also to know that the Challenger is immensely disappointed in you."

Cripple's posture changed. The Avatar clenched its fist, and incandescence billowed out from its body in crushing waves. Shiv came alert as the whisper of violence graced his instincts. Kura and Gone were equally incensed. Adam shaped a new arrow, and the orcs bared their teeth.

"What do you mean?" Cripple said, and there was no warmth in the automaton's voice anymore.

"The Challenger knows about Kathereine. He knows about what she has over you and why you are so wary. But we can see you freed. We know where the contract is, and we know where Amira is as well."

A twitch passed through the Avatar's body. Adam looked well and truly lost. “Who is Amira?” he asked over their Psychomantic link.

The Deathless shrugged. "I have no idea."

The incandescent mana radiating out from the Avatar began to intensify. A series of waves crashed against Shiv's Shapeless Tides, and he braced himself for an unwanted brawl against the Ascendant. This wasn't the ideal outcome, but Adam had planned for this. The teleportation anchor connected to this place had been disassembled. Five was allowed to tap into the mithril supports directly, and with the few automaton wardens that Can Hu had subverted, the wolf-man could flood the insides of the cube with Dimensionality and draw everyone across to a new safe point. However, that required Shiv, Adam, Kura, Gone, and Candles to contain the Avatar for the duration.

"You lie," Cripple said, his voice heavy with anger and disbelief. “You goad me with her name.”

Whisper, meanwhile, never lost his smile. "She still writes to you every month. You get letters from Elysium Field, and you've tried to find her yourself several times. You weren't careful enough during your last attempt, and the letter was delayed for a month. Kathereine handed it to you personally within your domain."

And suddenly all the fight went out of Cripple. It sagged, more like a weary man than a war-wounded machine.

"The Challenger also wants you to know that it is a mistake you've made," Whisper continued. The smile died on the orc's face, and a hint of scorn leaked through. Shiv realized that Whisper hated Cripple, for whatever reason, he couldn't tell. But that expression, that glare in the orc's eyes, was unmistakable. "The Challenger says that you should have finished her off yourself if you wished to give her any mercy. That gods cannot have weak followers, and gods cannot have mortals as kin."

"I care little what your savage mongrel of a master says. In his eyes, only monsters make for proper gods."

"And is he wrong?" Whisper shot back. "Are you not a monster?"

"Everything I have done—"

Whisper interrupted the Ascendant. "Yes, you did it for the Republic. Justification or truth, it doesn't matter. Even if you did do it for the Republic, does that make it right? Does that make it proper? Does bombing a place and butchering all the people who live there so that your people could have more room to expand constitute nobility? Does capturing people, cutting them apart, and experimenting on them make you good just because the ones you victimized were vile themselves? Come, now, Ascendant."

Psycho-Cartography: His psychology is good. At least as good as ours. Perhaps more. He might have Psycho-Cartography as well, or even an evolved form.

The other orcs began to grunt and mutter words of pity under their breath. "It doesn't know who it is," Mortar muttered, shaking his head. He gestured at Cripple. "You see this? This is what happens if you end up going between. You're not willing to stop being mortal, to stop being tethered to whatever ethics or weakness you obey. And you're not willing to commit to godhood despite using its power to break so many. No way out. Just an eternal trap."

Shiv realized the orcs were trying to educate him. They thought this was a poignant moment. And despite everything, he agreed. He didn't think the orcs were right about ethics, not even close. But Cripple was being torn, torn in so many directions. It wanted to work with Shiv, but it still hoped to reconcile with the other Ascendants. It wanted to meet with the Starhawk, but Kathereine held it in her clutches somehow.

Cripple wanted to aid Shiv, but it wasn't willing to go far enough. And bit by bit, the sheer stress Cripple was under made itself known. The Ascendants were godlike in power, but they were not godly in terms of wisdom. And that alarmed Shiv. Even the Composer, humane and gentle though she was, was not so wise. There were points of failure with her. There were things beyond her notice, beyond her power.

And then there was the Challenger.

The Challenger was a true monster, but he committed to it. He embraced it. He didn't let it be a liability. The Challenger was horrifically wise. And that was another point of nuance to being a Pathbearer.

Psycho-Cartography: You walk a halfway path, and you will be rend asunder by your path. Know this.

Psycho-Cartography 80 > 81

