By now, Whisper had fallen silent, but his eyes were locked on Shiv rather than Cripple. The leader realized what his orc was trying to do, and he stepped in.

"Cripple," Shiv said, "I don't know what they're saying. I don't know what my orcs blindsided you with. But even if you don't trust them, I hope you can trust me. I came to you, didn't I? I'm here begging for your help. But I think I've come to another arrangement. Whatever Kathereine has on you, I think I can break it. I will try to break it and set you free. And I'm willing to put a skill of mine on the line if you are."

That made Cripple turn. It stared at Shiv, and the Deathless waited for the Ascendant to speak. When no words came, he saw the Avatar's hand shaking.

"First," Cripple started, its voice choked, "I wish to help Young Lord Arrow get his equipment back. I will see one of my Avatars assigned to you. And as for Veronica..." Cripple trailed off. "Are you certain you wish to meet her?"

"No," Shiv said. "In fact, the thought of meeting makes me wanna go another round with the Tarrasque alone. Feels like I'm falling all the time. But I'm not gonna let discomfort turn me away from what I have to do. This is a sooner-or-later thing, not a hope-and-run-away thing."

Cripple looked away from Shiv then. The suddenness of its aversion caught the Deathless's notice.

Psycho-Cartography You shamed it. It wishes it were you right now. Be proud, but pity the Ascended.

While Psycho-Cartography had one epiphany, Shiv had another. Power alone isn't enough to set you free. Your behavior, your choices, the people around you… The System has so many angles to hurt you with.

Philosophy 26 > 27

Shiv thought about Adam, Uva, and Valor, and now he thought about everyone around him. The longer you lived, the more ways you could be wounded.

"I want you to make an oath," Cripple finally said. "Not a ritual, just your word. I will take your word, Deathless. You will not lead your band to inflict harm on the residents of the capital. You will keep my Avatar close and informed regarding all your plans, and you will deliver me to the Starhawk with utmost haste. If you can do these things, then... then..." Cripple's words died again. It wanted to say something else. "Do you think you can do it?" it suddenly asked. A faint whisper of hope snaked its way into Cripple’s voice.

Shiv cocked his head. "Save Amira? Whoever she is? Yeah, maybe. I need details, though. I need to know what Kathereine has on her, and whatever the hell's going on between the two of you."

"It is a contract. A slave contract."

Shiv frowned. "Okay, so, what, she owns you, technically?"

"No, not anymore. I made sure I broke that shackle, but I failed to save another. She owns someone that I cannot afford to lose."

Tequila almost started gagging. Shiv shot the orc a glare, but all that made Tequila do was turn away.

"So be it," Cripple said. It wasn't a statement uttered by a determined Pathbearer, but one who was tired. "If we are to do this, however, I need to bring you back as a prisoner."

Shiv considered Cripple's statement. "So that you can preserve your cover among the other Ascendants? I… Cripple, I don't think this thing is going to last."

"It will last for as long as I can make it," Cripple said. "I do not wish to lose my standing among the other Ascendants entirely, and I will need their aid if I am to intervene on your behalf against Udraal. I can keep them in the dark regarding where you are and what you are doing, but should you stand against your maker, it will not be a single Avatar that stops him. Is that understood?"

Shiv nodded. "So, what? You lure Veronica out by bringing me in?"

"It is the easiest way to do this. However, I recommend that you remove all equipment you are not willing to lose. It is hard to tell how this might go, and without a strategy of escape..."

"Oh, I have a strategy of escape," Shiv interjected. "You leave that to me. But what about Adam's weapon and the mana core?"

"Those two matters can be handled at the same time, for his weapon is stored near the mana core, in one of the shifting cubes protecting it. There is another problem, however. His armor has been requisitioned."

"Requisitioned?" Adam spat aloud. "What do you mean? It's my armor! You're just going to let someone else take it?"

"Not someone. Enoch." Cripple paused. "He needed a new set of armor for his newest Avatar."

Shiv felt his heart go cold. Ice flowed through his veins. "Rebis," Shiv said. "You recaptured him."

Cripple sighed. "Harlock did. And he returned Rebis to Enoch, who, after all that has happened, hastily infused his being into the broken prisoner. The project was incomplete. The binding has caused the one you call Rebis a great amount of pain. But it is done. He is now enthralled to the Ascendant."

Five sniffled. "Perhaps not exactly. His mind, it is still split in two, is it not?"

Cripple regarded the wolf-man. "Speak your piece, Raven."

"If his mind is split in two, then so are his skills. That's the entire point of Rebis. He has two Paths, two different souls meshed together, not just a single one. That's why Enoch wanted him, because of his incomplete ritual of soul-severing, is it not?" Cripple stayed quiet, so Five continued. "His mantling is likely incomplete as well. I know Enoch is partially damaged, and Rebis is mutilated at the soul. His merging has not concluded. If that's the case, then only part of him has been anchored to the Ascendant."

"And if we remove that part, won't that kill Rebis?" Shiv said.

"Perhaps," Five replied with far too much levity, "but if it's done right, maybe I can preserve some of his brain function. Keep him alive to some extent. Besides, I don't think our dear friend would like to live life as an enduring thrall to the one that cut him open and fused him back together as if some kind of macabre art project."

Shiv didn't like it, but he also didn't much like the idea of letting Enoch have a slave for an Avatar. "Alright," Shiv said. "Finish him off if it comes to it. Would be a mercy for him—better than being used as a soul-puppet. If we can free him, though..."

"Of course," Five answered. "Of course I will."

"So, does he have my armor yet or not?" Adam asked.

"I am uncertain," Cripple replied, "but if we must do this, then we must act in tandem. This also lends aid to your infiltration of the mana core. If you can secure the armory cube at the very core of the Nadir, then you likely have a direct shot at the mana core as well. It is one of the essential cubes, fully anchored to the core."

Shiv and Adam shared a look. "And can you get us into the cube," Adam began, "without suffering extreme attrition or bloodshed? I don't know if you've noticed, but what we have here isn't exactly an army."

"I cannot," Cripple said.

Adam sighed. "Alright, then I guess we're going to do the soul detonation method then.”

"I'll start making golems," Shiv grunted.

"You did not let me finish," Cripple added. "I said I could not. I did not say that we have no means to infiltrate."

"What does that mean?" Adam snapped, tired of the Ascendant's prevarications.

"I mean that there are many Legendary prisoners, and there are few that pose a direct threat to all things material or otherwise. And one might see you pass through without inflicting immense damage.”

And both Shiv and Adam picked up what the Ascendant was putting down.

"There is a prisoner I would like you to locate," Cripple said.
