They hurried off the arena, and Melinda inspected each of them with a more detailed [Directed Heal]. She found nothing lingering, and waved off the healer who came to inspect her team. She was shocked when they ignored her and performed their own inspection.

The healer nodded to her and said, “Good work. Your healing is almost as good as a professional healer’s would be. Keep up the good work.”

Melinda had to count to ten to keep her tongue in check. She was pissed enough at their performance, and the healer's side comments threatened to push her over the edge. She was aware of how some certified healers looked down on team healers. They typically only had a single undirected healing spell, and didn’t know anything more about the science other than casting the spell and letting it do its job. But it irked her that without her identity as a healer, she was treated like a novice.

Him doing an inspection was fine, as his job was to see to the fighters, but his condescending attitude had struck a nerve.

She couldn’t turn off her Talent, so she knew her healing was perfect. The condescending ass caused her words to her team to come out harsher than she intended.

“That was awful.”

Vinnie shrugged. “We won. And easily at that.”

Tara wiped off the blood that covered her armor and flicked it at him. “No, we didn’t. You hid underground the whole time, so you didn’t see us getting taken out.”

Melinda counted to ten again, and realized some of her irritation was from ignoring the wounds that still lingered on her side. With a thought and push of mana, she healed herself.

With the clarity of being fully healed, she added, “We were. We’re unprepared for fighting against people. If we didn’t have me as even a normal healer, we would have lost in the first two exchanges. Kyle would have been taken out, and then we would have been slowly whittled down. Even Tara had her bowstring cut, and was unable to effectively deal with our opponents. We would have lost that one if the referee didn’t know we had a healer. He surely would have pulled us out otherwise.”

Mathew and Vinnie’s mood sobered, they hadn’t dealt with the brunt of the damage and missed how brutal the fighting was.

“We need more training and more practice. No more real fights for the next three days, since we’re dealing with the healing downtime.”

She made sure to emphasize the fact that they were pretending her Talent didn’t exist while they were out in public. Normally, they just pretended that they never got hurt in rifts to avoid downtime. But Baxter’s words were a strong reminder to be careful.

It wasn’t worth it for her Talent to get out over a game in which no one would die. Especially with Tier 15’s watching everything.

Melinda sighed. “Let’s get showered up, and then tomorrow we train. We train like we’re back at the PlayPen and still struggling. We have amazing abilities, but I think...” Melinda paused and faced reality. “We haven’t been pushing ourselves nearly as hard as we could have, or should have been.”

Everyone looked somber as they moved to their rooms. Melinda made a note that they needed armor repairs as well. She just hoped the crafters weren’t charging too much.

Either way, they would have to pay for it. But suddenly, this whole adventure took on a new light. She hadn't realized how different fighting people could be. She intended to use this to ensure that her team didn't have any glaring weaknesses. She would improve them all.

Only by becoming strong could she ensure her family’s safety.

***

Melinda and her team worked themselves to the bone for the next week and a half. They spent five hours a day in group training, and another two working out and exercising. When their nonexistent healing cooldown ended, they fought against other teams.

They lost three matches out of the seven they fought, which was honestly better than she had hoped for. All of their losses were against teams that were peak Tier 6, and clearly older with more experience.

Those losses didn’t hurt as much as their close win against a team that was barely Tier 6. They had six people as well, but it was humbling to struggle against people weaker than them. The team just had better coordination and instincts for fighting together. That, more than anything, drove her team to work harder.

They had been so busy, they hardly noticed as their ship stopped at two dozen planets and picked up nearly a million people. If the ship wasn’t spatially expanded as it was, they would have never fit everyone, but it wasn’t as crowded as she expected. While they weren’t restricted from wandering the ship, they learned there were five locations like theirs, with chow halls and fighting arenas for each set of living quarters. The layout helped keep the numbers in any one facility down to a reasonably uncrowded level.

But today was the day, and they were prepared to exit the ship and start fighting. Melinda felt slightly regretful that they had chosen a side already, but they were all excited to see Matt again. She directed her AI to send Matt a message the moment it got access to the PlanetNet.

As their shuttle descended into real space, she was shocked to see a massive city bustling with people and flying platforms. There were also hundreds of shuttles like hers that swarmed down and dropped people off into a massive open area in the center of the city.

She had already learned they were a week late for the official start of the fighting, as they were part of the second wave, but she was shocked at how many people were already there. Her AI calculated the number in the millions for just this city alone. The problem was, the Empire was just too large, and they hadn't been on this side of the territory, which increased travel times significantly. Even more waves after theirs would be coming for the next month, as the farthest reaches of the Empire arrived.

They landed and were hurried out of the shuttle by people in silver and light purple uniforms, or at least armbands. Her AI registered them as people in the queendom, and once they were off, they were led into a building with the same coloring.

As they entered, she got a message from Matt addressed to their whole team.

“You guys came? I hope you didn't chose the queendom. Haha!”

Melinda didn’t feel like laughing.

Couldn’t something go right for us?
