“We will be traveling for another two weeks, and making more stops to pick up others on our journey to the vassal kingdoms. Our ship’s AI has already allocated rooms for each team. But on to the important things. Food! Chow will be available at all times in the form of sandwiches, and there will be hot meals every six hours, every day. If you have any problems, please just ask one of my staff, they will be more than willing and able to help.”

Someone from the crowd called out, “What if we want to fight?”

The Captain smirked at that and grinned into the crowd. “ Ah, yes... Fighting. You’re all going to a little war and don’t want to show your asses to the locals. Yes, we have training rooms and arenas in the port aft of the ship. If you want some more advice on your little war, wait to choose a side. Show off some skill when you arrive at the neutral city, and get them into a bidding war for you.”

Melinda was miffed they hadn’t thought of that and already locked in their chosen side. None of them had even considered not clicking on the box to choose when they were given the option. She had thought it was a requirement, but it clearly wasn’t.

The Captain half turned before she spun back and winked, “Feel free to explore the ship while you’re on board. There are a few areas not marked that I’m sure some of you would enjoy finding. I’ll see you all at our destination. Please enjoy your time on my vessel.”

Melinda wanted to sigh. She didn’t need to turn to feel her husband vibrating in anticipation at the offer of free rein to explore the ship. She knew he would have done it either way, but at least she’d have seen him if he had to be circumspect. Now, she doubted she would see him until they left the ship.

Ignoring the ping to her AI with their team’s assigned room, she latched a hand on Mathew’s arm and pulled it in. “We’re all visiting our rooms and settling in, then having at least one meal together before you’re allowed to explore. I also want to do some training while we’re here. A few spars could be a good way to test out our combat experience.”

There was a slight groan from her team, and she squashed it with, “Three hours a day. I don’t care; we’re doing it.”

There was a chorus of sarcastic “yes, mom”s that she took as agreement.

They, along with most everyone else, filtered into the ship and followed their AIs to their assigned rooms.

Melinda was pleasantly surprised by their accommodations. There were actual beds, instead of the barrack bunk style beds she had seen in movies. They were small, but they had some privacy, as the room was attached to a small common area that linked all of their rooms into a suite.

She waited in the common room while they put their bags away and reassembled, and when they had gathered she said, “There’s lunch in an hour, or dinner in seven hours. Pick which one we eat together.”

“Dinner!”

That was the general consensus, and she nodded her agreement with her team. It was what she expected.

“I’ll see you there then. Do. Not. Be. Late.”

She glared at each of them as they filed past her. Mathew kissed her and vanished out the door and down the hall. She gave him fifty-fifty odds for getting engrossed in his exploration and forgetting dinner, so she queued a timed message to remind him.

With her team duties taken care of, she left the room and found the healer's bay. She wanted to get familiar with her local healing area, and see if they needed some shifts covered.

She found Baxter playing cards with a number of other people in healer's clothes once she reached the healers bay. She noticed that they were also Tier 15 or higher and hiding their cultivation. Feeling comfortable in her setting, she scoffed at all of them.

“Why are all of you hiding your cultivation? I get the wait-staff, but healers? Come on.”

She got raised eyebrows from everyone but Baxter, who rolled his eyes and answered the unspoken question. “She can see your immortal bodies.” He turned to her and continued, “Go away. You aren’t a general healer for this excursion. You’re on team-only duties. No backlines for you.”

He stared at her for a long moment, while she looked back in confusion.

Finally, he shoo’d her with his hands and returned to his card game, ignoring her.

“But why? I’m a good healer...?” The last came out more as a question than she intended, and with a sigh, Baxter turned from his card game again.

“I don’t think you’ll get anything out of sitting in the backlines. We have a ton of healers from the Empire coming to make sure you kids don’t end up dead. We don’t need your help. Your Talent won’t be considered in play for this little excursion, which means your team will have the joy of dealing with standard healing. You’ll be a normal team healer, like any other team will have. If your team dies, y'all are out. Then you’ll either have to forfeit your points to rejoin like everyone else, or leave the war. No special treatment.”

Melinda was shocked and didn’t know how to react. It was reassuring that getting ‘killed’ in the war didn’t mean the end of their time fighting, as it could mean a long trip for little benefit. But still, she didn’t like the implication that she couldn’t help with healing others during her downtime.

People would need her. Overhealth was perfect healing, and therefore had no cooldown on the time to wait between healing. The body automatically accepted it as if it were natural, and the patient needed no time to adjust or deal with healing strain.

Turning, she left the healers station and wandered the halls, lost in thought.

She would have two possible roles in a real war. Either she would be helping other healers in the backline, or fighting with her team. She couldn’t do both, and didn’t know what the right answer was. With her Talent, she would be better used in the rear guard. But she didn’t think she could leave her team to the ravages of a war, if she had the choice.

Melinda thought that was exactly what Baxter was trying to prove by keeping her out of the healers' stations in the rear. If she didn’t have her Talent, that meant she would have a single large heal per person, before they needed to retreat as the healing resistance grew. She and her team would be limited like never before.

She didn’t know what she had expected, but it wasn’t this. She expected to keep her Talent’s effects hidden, but not to be restricted from its effects with her own team.

How would they fight? She realized now, just how reliant they truly were on her zero downtime healing from Overhealth.

Suddenly this war seemed like a bad idea.

Melinda felt adrift as she wandered without purpose.

Finally, she passed a line of people, and it brought her out of her daze when she noticed that they were heading towards an Immortal Empire representative handing out essence stones. To her bewilderment, people started immediately betting with the essence stones on fights, or even more shocking to her, on other people’s fights. She could kind of understand betting on yourself, but to completely rely on someone else with something this valuable seemed foolhardy.

She joined the line to get her team’s reserve of essence stones before heading back to their room and writing up a message. She explicitly stated that betting with the stones was not allowed under any circumstance. She hated the idea of her team doing something so foolhardy. An essence stone only had the essence of a single rift’s worth of monsters, but it was free progression without downsides.

They were also ruinously expensive. Her AI indicated that they sold for two full Tiers higher than their own at Tier 6. By Tier 10, they sold for four Tiers higher. The stones also had restrictions on how many an individual could buy per year at that price. Apparently, the Empire subsidized the cost of the stones for the first five purchased per year. She didn’t want to know what the true value of the stones were when she realized that she couldn't find anyone selling them at their non-subsidized cost.

In their years of delving, her team had never gotten a single one. The fact that the Empire was handing them out like candy was slightly unnerving.

She understood a mana stone's value scaled insanely fast, but the amount being spent on this war seemed to dwarf anything they could get out of it. What was worth spending so much on a game for kids on The Path?

It seemed extremely wasteful.

***

Melinda stood behind her team and surveyed the squad across from them. It was a five vs. six fight, but they were high Tier 6, as opposed to their mid Tier 6. One was clearly a defensive melee fighter like Mathew, while another had what looked like a longsword. Its tip glowed with a shimmering red light.

Having not seen the weapon before, she quickly queried her AI. It identified the blade as an estoc, a variation of a longsword without edges. It was a thrusting weapon, purely designed to pierce armor in a single lunge. What it lacked in slashing abilities, it made up for in the ability of its glowing tip.

Their backline had a pair of mages, and a woman with dozens of throwing blades strapped to her person.

Their fighting platform was a rocky setting, with a few scraggly trees clinging to life on the sides of cliffs, and a small stream that cut the area in half. It was perfect for Vinnie, and Melinda felt good about their chances. There was even cover in the form of pillars of rocks that were interspersed throughout the landscape of the fighting arena.

The referee called the start of the fight, and everyone exploded into action. Mathew rushed forward and slammed his shield into the other tank’s, and they began grappling with one another. Melinda jumped left as a glowing blade whizzed by her chest.

Kyle ran forward, and swung the oversized slab of metal he called a sword at the ribs of the opposing tank. He was intercepted by the estoc wielder when they used a skill that reflected all of the blow’s force in the form of a glowing sword. The estoc wielder followed up with a lunge that skewered Melinda’s teammate.

She lunged forward while Tara finally released her arrow into one of the enemy mage's shoulder, and Sam covered Kyle’s downed and bleeding form with her poison covered daggers while Melinda moved to heal him. If she took too long, the referee might pull him out for safety reasons, so she needed to move fast.

Melinda reached her fallen teammate’s side and pushed a [Ranged Heal] into him, and he struggled to his feet. He was up in time to catch the estoc user off guard, and force her to abort a lunge. Together, they seemed to have her under control, but the ability to counter attacks made her a tricky opponent.

The AI pinged her that Tara was wounded, so Melinda ran while using the rocky terrain as cover.

Vinnie was gone, but she knew he was underground, going to drag one of the mages under to take them out of the fight. She caught an [Ice Bullet] in the side that preceded a cast of a [Fireball]. They had correctly identified her as a healer, and were trying to take her out quickly.

While smart, it hurt.

The ice had turned to steam, and scalded her flank, but Melinda pushed through the pain and grabbed Tara. She had two throwing daggers sticking out of her gut. If they didn't have a registered member of the team with healing skills, Tara would have been removed for her injuries.

Tara was still standing, and she ripped the throwing dagger out of her body, hurling it back at her opponent. Her bowstring was cut, and she had been returning thrown weapons with deadly precision. Melinda healed her teammate, who coughed up blood and grinned maniacally in response.

Melinda used the lull in combat to get back to her responsibilities as shot caller.

Using their AIs, she called out to her teammates over voice chat, “Vinnie, finish the mages and surface. The estoc user seems to be able to counter physical attacks.”

The woman was fighting off Kyle’s massive sword, along with Sam’s daggers, to a complete standstill. Her teammates were fighting together while perfectly weaving in and out of each other's range, but they were unable to get through the woman’s skill.

Melinda glanced to the side and watched Tara return another knife to its owner, catching the woman in the throat as she popped out of cover. Melinda winced as the referee pulled the woman out of the fight to get the wound tended to. It was a nasty one, but thankfully it was shallow enough in her professional opinion, that it wasn’t life threatening.

Tara had enough control of her aim that if she wanted to kill the woman, she would have aimed for an eye. The Tier 15 referee would have caught the weapon, but that was bad sportsmanship. Part of Melinda was pleased at the comeuppance when Vinnie’s hands burst out of the ground,grabbing one leg of each opposing mage, and pulling them both underground. He left their heads exposed, but they were out of the fight.

The tank was dispatched when Tara threw a dagger into his armpit, right as they defended a strike with their shield raised. The ref considered that enough to pull the enemy tank out of the fight. Melinda medically agreed, as they would have either bled out quickly from the dagger being removed, or it would have caused more damage while they tried to fight with the weapon still inside of them.

Finally, it was only the estoc user remaining. She was easily countered when Vinnie’s [Earth Manipulation] wrapped her feet up and pulled her down, but she called out in surrender when she realized the numbers were against her.

Melinda quickly scanned her teammates and threw a [Ranged Heal] onto Sam, who had a deep gash in her side.

