“Now, all cultivators ‘nurture truth’, but most approach it with the wrong view. They cultivate for strength, but strength is merely the byproduct, yet they see it as the end goal. The power of Creation itself, and the people of this world use it to hit each other harder, utter foolishness.” The old Healer’s voice dripped with scorn, but Jorani had to admit the old monk had a point. “Remember this, Brother Jorani, we of the Brotherhood cultivate so we might escape this cycle of endless death and rebirth which we are all trapped within, a world of suffering through trials and tribulations. We cultivate with the goal of leaving this mortal shell behind to ascend to a higher plane, but to succeed is no easy task. I say this not to dissuade or discourage you from trying, but to warn you of the arduous journey ahead, a path you’ve stepped foot on not entirely by choice.”

Smiling as if he knew all of Jorani’s innermost thoughts, the old Healer gestured towards the grey-washed monastery hidden behind the trees and said, “All this is to aid us along our difficult path, for in order to properly perceive the Truth, we must approach it without greed, obsession, acceptance, attachment, lust, or a thousand other ties which colour our perception, a feat not easily done. We live an ascetic life to guard against temptation, beat our flesh to punish ourselves for our errant thoughts, refrain from taking life and doing harm in order to cleanse our bodies, minds, and souls. This is our Dao, our Path, and what it means when the scriptures say to take the right view, but even this is merely the first of many steps. A lifetime of dedication is often not enough to succeed, for how can it be easy to become a Divinity? A true Divinity, mind you, not false ones like Ancestral Beasts or conceited Imperial ‘Dharma Protectors’ who shamelessly use the title for their own. Even powerful as they are, they are but mere ants when compared to the grandeur of true Divinities, the Mother and Father themselves.”

Eyes wide as saucers from the old Healer’s grand rhetoric, Jorani ruminated on the implications. “You’re saying the Brotherhood’s goal is to become Gods and rival the Mother and Father?”

“In power perhaps, but not in an antagonistic sense.” Despite his ambitious goals, the old Healer hardly looked the type to reshape creation to his whim, so if anyone were to rise to such power, he probably wouldn’t be the worst choice. “This is all merely conjecture, but who’s to say the Mother and Father were always what they are now? Perhaps they were once mere mortals like ourselves, each one championing a different school of thought, and after they both ascended beyond this world, all that remains of their legacy are fables cloaked by time and retelling with but a single kernel of truth.”

All this was too much for Jorani to handle, so the old Healer told him to go back to the Forms and meditate on what he said. Several days later, when it came time for their next private lesson out in the clearing, Jorani had still made no headway with this new knowledge, despite agonizing over it in the library and pestering the other monks with countless questions. Seeing Jorani’s eager thirst for knowledge, the old Healer gestured for him to begin the Forms and didn’t speak until he was halfway through. “Picking up from where we left off, the Brotherhood are not the only ones to understand the true meaning of cultivation. The world at large has mostly forgotten, but the Imperial Clan has not lost sight of the end goal. You spoke of the Legate, Shen ZhenWu, but did you know his name is merely a title? Shen (神), for Divine, Zhen (真) for Truth, and Wu (武) for Warrior, marking him as one who bears watching, especially if he is as young as you say. Such a title indicates he treads the Path of a Warrior and might well become a true Divinity given time, though I daresay he will at most become a failure like all the others. Do you know why?”

“...Because he lacks the right view?”

Beaming with pride, the old Healer proclaimed, “Exactly! The right view is both the simplest and most difficult step within the Eight-Fold Path, because at its very core, it is a requirement to study the Truth. This is because even though the Truth itself is immutable, our perception and understanding of the Truth is ever changing. When presented with proof, the Brotherhood will take up correct views and abandon incorrect ones, which involves long, lengthy debates on the matters in which all parties must be convinced.” Chuckling, the old Healer added, “In a way, considering the many meanings of Xiu (修), one could argue that the Truth is what we make of it.”

“The Truth is what we make of it...” That sounded pretty nice, but also a little strange.

“Indeed.” Nodding sagely, the old Healer said, “As with many things, faith and conviction are the key to success. I will not lie to you and say the Brotherhood holds all the answers, nor can I say our path is unequivocally the correct one, but I will say I truly believe that we are closest to the Truth.”

Pausing his demonstration, Jorani mopped his brow and asked, “But what if yer wrong?”

There was no frown or glower as he’d expected. Instead, the old Healer’s wrinkled smile widened even further until his eyes disappeared within the folds of skin. “Then so be it. At worst, I will have lived my life in accordance with my tastes and morals. The ascetic lifestyle appeals to me, a simplistic existence secluded in the mountains and away from the ugliness of humanity. Greed, deceit, anger, lust, and pride, though we’ve yet to wholly banish these poisons from our minds and hearts, I know I sit amongst people who strive to be better each and every day, something the Abbot seems to have forgotten in his haste to meddle in worldly affairs. Such meddling has already cost us the life of his Senior Brother, but this will not dissuade him from his foolishness, and nothing we say can sway him. Know this: the life we live here, more than anything, is what it means to be a Penitent Brother, Jorani. Even if our Path is proven flawed tomorrow, then there is nothing lost. I will continue living as I do now and ponder the mysteries of the new Path presented to us, and if it is not to my tastes, then I will strive to progress along my current Path for as far as I can.”

A stubborn stance, but almost admirable in his conviction and dedication to the cause. When the old Healer spoke of the ‘ugliness of humanity’, it made Jorani wonder what the old Healer had gone through to become so disappointed and distraught. Perhaps he lost his family, or maybe he was betrayed by someone he trusted, but whatever it was, it must have hurt deeply to drive him to such extremes.

Then again, was it really ‘extreme’? Having lived like this for almost two months now, Jorani found he rather enjoyed the simple, undemanding life. While the work was onerous and the lessons difficult, no one ever asked for more than he could give and he rarely went unsatisfied. While he still craved meat and a drink, the thrill of gambling paled in comparison to working up a good sweat while accomplishing something meaningful, even if it was as simple as gathering firewood to heat the baths or complex as replacing the roof shingles. It was peaceful here, and with no one to be afraid of and nothing to worry about, even someone as paranoid as Jorani could relax and enjoy himself.

It wasn’t half bad.

The lecture continued while Jorani practised the Forms, and the Insights flew into his head while he pondered the mysteries of the Eight-Fold Path, his strength increasing by leaps and bounds thanks to meditative introspection and insightful guidance from the Old Healer at his side. When their lesson came to an end, the wrinkled monk placed his hand on Jorani’s shoulder and said, “You’ve many questions which show you’ve put serious thought into these matters, but they also reveal your doubts.” Before Jorani could voice a denial, the old Healer sternly shook his head. “It matters not. Doubts are good, so long as you approach things with an open mind. I, and the other brothers, hold high expectations for you, because we see the signs and know you yourself have touched upon the truth, though Brother ‘Happy’ says you have no recollection of the event.”

“What do you mean I’ve touched on the Truth?” If he had, then it was barely a brush of the finger, because Jorani was as basic as one could get and still call themselves a Martial Warrior. No Aura, no Natal Palace, no nothing or anything, just a soldier and his weapon, a long, flaccid rope.

“It matters not.” Smiling, the old Healer gestured for Jorani to continue Demonstrating the Forms. “What has happened once will happen again, and then you will understand why I believe the Brotherhood is correct.”

Jorani wholeheartedly wanted this to be true, and he went over the old Healer’s every word while he went through the Forms. The goal, the Dao, the Truth, the lifestyle...

“Hang on.” Turning around, he asked, “Ye knew about the Dharmapala’s death? I thought ye said Wugang and Yelu Shi only asked to speak to the Abbot? If they told ye the Dharmapala died, then why would they need to go and find the Abbot themselves?”

“Oh?” Waving Jorani’s question aside, the old Healer continued Demonstrating the Forms, but stayed quiet for a half-second too long. “Wugang knows each monastery governs itself, and that it could be some time before I come in contact with the Abbot, so he left to contact him in person.”

“...Ye also said Wugang didn’t know there was more than one monastery.”

“Ah.” After another half-second pause, the old Healer sighed and uttered a single word.

“Shit.”

Chapter Meme
