“Ah... no.” Ren said, and remembered why she hadn't told him. She had been too distracted by the revelations about her longtime friend Lord Tathalyn. “Thank you for the offer; but, I don't need your help.”

“What about with the layout of the foundation for the outer wall?” A male High Elf asked, and Ren remembered his name was Carcan. “Surely we can help with that at least.”

Ren felt his enthusiasm about helping. “I really do appreciate the offer, Carcan.” He said. “When I say your help isn't necessary, I'm not saying your help or experience is lacking, I'm saying it's not needed.” He smiled. “Now, once it's built, I'm definitely going to need good people to take care of it and to maintain the place.”

Carcan smiled. “Then I would be happy to help.”

“You'll need a staff for a job this big.” Ren said. “I'll leave it in your hands to find like-minded people to have working with you.”

Carcan nodded. “I'll start looking right away.”

Ren turned to the High Elf. “M'lady, it seems to be a failing of mine; but, once again I can't invite a beautiful woman to dinner to discover your name in a proper setting.”

The female High Elf blushed slightly, and she nodded. “My name is Tanelia Miarora, My Lord.”

“Thank you, Lady Miarora.” Ren said. “I've seen that you've been the one in charge here in this town.”

“Well, someone had to be in charge.” Tanelia said and smiled. “Otherwise, we would have had houses and streets all over the place, not to mention disputes over land placing and where to live.”

“Then I want you to continue in that capacity.” Ren said. “If you want, you can choose a staff from people here, or wait until you enter the city and meet the other population and choose from them.”

“Wait, you're just giving me the job? No election? No consensus? No Central Council approval?”

“The city's going to be in no man's land, so they don't have jurisdiction.” Ren said, and smiled as the shock rippled through the High Elves. “Before you start questioning that, there will be 10 spires, with 5 in a counter circle to the normal 5 for the Central Council.”

A hush fell across the crowd.

“Start your preparations and get packing for the big move.” Ren said into the silence. “I better get the healer and her assistant back home, before the High Elves there declare the ward a Sanctuary or something.”

No one said anything as Ren turned around and led the healer and her assistant over to Princess, and helped them get back into the cart. He climbed onto Princess' back and sat on the saddle, waved to Lady Miarora, then they rode up into the air and then faded from sight in the distance.

They arrived at the healer's ward back in their town and came in for a landing. Ren helped the healer and her assistant out of the cart, detached and stored it in Princess' saddle bag, and followed the healers inside.

“Are you going to make the same offer to these people as well?” The healer's assistant asked.

“I will, but I doubt they'll accept.” Ren said. “Even knowing they aren't welcome back to their own lands, they wont accept being a vassal to an elfling.”

“Your opinion may change when you go upstairs.” The healer said.

“Why?”

“You'll see.” She said. “I'll get the patient's attention.”

“That won't be necessary.” Ren said, and she turned to see that all the High Elves were looking right at Ren. “I forgot I still have all my Auras active.”

“Then leave them active and make your sales pitch.” The healer said. “It can't hurt.”

Ren smiled at her and looked at all the High Elves, and he explained that if they tried to return to their homes to live, the High Elves would kill them. Most of them didn't believe him, and he held his hand up and pointed to the skull on the back of it.

“If you have this mark, they do not want you mixed with the normal population.” Ren said. “I will be building a city in the no man's land between the Human and High Elven Kingdoms for you to live in.”

“Why?” One of them asked.

“Because I don't have the room to take you back to my county in the Human Kingdom.” Ren said.

“Wait, what?”

“I provide a safe place for those infected, because I claimed the Ghoul Kissed mark as my own.”

“He really is crazy.” Another of the High Elves said.

“I can heal you instantly now; but...” Ren started, then explained about becoming a vassal in his domain. He had been right and every one of the High Elves chose not to accept his offer because the healers had them almost cured. He told them they still had to move to the new city when it was built, and they just shrugged.

“Now go upstairs and give them the same speech.” The healer said and shooed him away with her hands. “Go, go!”

“All right.” Ren chuckled and left the ward, then went up the stairs and into the door of the holding area. He stopped in the doorway when he saw what was inside. “Holy crap.”

“Hello, M'lord!” Kalyn and Gaelira said together and waved. They were the two elflings he had met the last time he was in the ward. He couldn't wave back because he was too surprised by what filled the ward.

Nearly a thousand elflings were being tended to, even though the healers had told him that elflings were the first to die when infected and almost no one converted.

“Ha.” Ren said and looked around at them all. “Ha hahaha!”

“What's so funny, M'lord?” Kalyn asked as she came over to him.

“I think this is the first time that interference from other Adventurers actually turned out better!” Ren said happily and kissed her cheek. She gasped as she was healed instantly, and she felt a slight burning sensation on her chest and she saw something she had never seen before. A popup.

Notice!

You have become a new vassal in Ren the First's domain.

Kalyn's face flushed red from both the kiss and the popup. “Wh-what...”

Ren dismissed the popup he had received for claiming a new vassal. “Oops.”
