It was the Altmar Empire. The faction of elven supremacists that even the Primordial factions couldn’t take lightly, as they more than had the power to stand among the other apex forces of the multiverse despite not being led by a Primordial. From what Jake had gathered, though, the Autarch wasn’t far off from being at the level of the Primordials. If he wasn’t already comparable to them, that is.

This realization put Jake in a bit of a predicament... because he wasn’t sure if they wanted to be fighting such a faction right now. However, that’s when he realized something important.

Do they even know who we are?

Jake hadn’t revealed himself, and who the hell knew who this random Boreal Frostpeak Dragon was? Chances were that if the Altmar faction blamed anyone, it would be the Dragonflights, and it wasn’t as if anyone could communicate with their gods while within the World of the Exalted Prima. Even if they could, would the Everfrost Dragon God throw Jake and the Milky Way Galaxy under the bus? Probably not.

Considering that, yeah, why would he need to step in? Actually, even if this did end up being a problem, was it really Jake’s fault? He was just a witness, and Tramon was the one making all the decisions here. If Miranda got mad, Jake was fully willing to throw the dragon all the way under that bus.

The Altmar Empire didn’t seem interested in surrendering or even negotiating, as more weapons were mobilized and more soldiers were sent out to face the True Dragon. Tramon also gladly faced them, happy to meet some actual resistance and to have a chance to show off his power after evolving.

Spreading his wings wide, Tramon unleashed a storm of snow and ice towards the city as clouds gathered and began circling. Feeling a little chilly and not wanting to be covered in snow, Jake summoned a stable arcane barrier around himself, still staying in his Unseen Hunter state, of course.

The Altmar Empire responded promptly to the dragon as he ramped up his aggression, with more than fifty B-grades charging out from the protection of the barrier, all in formation as their energies synergized. The Altmar Empire was united and prepared to face the True Dragon, as the many defensive buildings around the Territory Beacon also started charging something up.

As for what Jake was doing... well, Jake threw away any thoughts that this could totally lead to serious problems down the line and instead regretted not having any popcorn available as he sat back and enjoyed the show.
