

“Hmm?” Jamus raised an eyebrow. “Why?”

“Like you said, you’re an adventurer now. A strong one, too, at least by the standards of Fel Sadanis. Why not go back and—”

“And what?” Jamus interrupted. “Kill him? Would that get me my wife back? My kids? No. That would just rip open the wound. I have no taste for vengeance, it is naught but ash.”

“Well, Jamus, at least you’ve got us.” Carten slapped him on the back. “Hey, by the way, did you dress like this back when you were a clerk?” He gestured to Jamus’s brilliant orange robe. “Maybe that’s why she cheated on ya?”

Jamus snorted. “Ha. Thanks, Carten. I needed a laugh.” He got to his feet and dusted off his robes. “Come on Tallheart. I’ve got a project for you. Don’t worry, it won’t take long.”

Tallheart got up from where he had been sitting silently since he’d finished his potato porridge.

“Jamus,” Rain said. The man paused, raising an eyebrow at him. “Thanks for telling us about your history. I’m sorry, it sounds pretty shitty.”

Jamus smiled. “Like I said. It’s in the past. I like to think of myself as a new man. Right now, this new man needs a griddle. Let’s go, Tallheart, I need some hammering done.”

Rain looked down at his knees as the pair walked away. That really fucking sucks. I can’t believe something like that happened to Jamus.

“Wow,” Carten said. “He’s a better man than me. I’d ah killed the fuck.” Ameliah shook her head. Carten rounded on her. “Oh? And what would you of done?”

Ameliah sighed. “I don’t know. I…probably would have left too.”

“Bah,” Carten said, clambering to his feet.

“Just killing anyone who crosses you isn’t the solution, Carten,” Rain said.

“Sure would make me feel better,” Carten groused. He sighed. “Don’t worry, Rain, I’m not some bloodthirsty murderer. I only kill them that needs killin’.”

“Where I come from, killing is always wrong,” Rain said. “People will justify it in war, or as a capital punishment or something, but it’s still wrong. If Jamus killed a man for sleeping with his wife, he’d be locked up in a prison.”

“I agree with you, Rain,” Ameliah said. “It is better not to kill, if you can. But you won’t always have a choice.”

Rain shook his head. “There’s always a choice.”

Val scoffed. “Not out here. You’re being naive. Out here, bad shit happens, and if you’re strong enough to survive, you survive. That sometimes means bashing the other guy’s head in…or in my case, blasting a hole straight between his eyes. Say a group of renegades caught us unawares in the night and put a knife to your throat? Would you—“

“Ha, ain’t no way that’d happen,” said Carten. “We ain’t some pathetic—“

“Just, hypothetically, Carten,” said Val, glaring at him. “Would you—“

“Hypo-what?” The big man scratched at his beard.

“Gods!” Val glared at him. “It means ‘for the sake of argument!’” He looked back at Rain. “Would you let that bandit cut your throat—would you let him kill me—kill us—just to hold onto your values?”

Rain sighed. “Well no, but I wouldn’t—I mean, I’d negotiate with him, or knock him out so we could run…or something…” His voice trailed off. I sound like an idiot.

“Something?” Val said. “What something? What if someone was going to kill everyone in a village, but you could stop them? One death to save hundreds? Thousands? Wouldn’t killing them to prevent it be better than doing nothing?”

Rain looked at his feet. I…don’t know. In that situation…he’s got a point. It’s not like I can just call the police…hell, the police kill people all the time. Not that that’s a good thing…

“I guess I’ve never had to think about it like this before,” he said finally. “I’ve never been in a kill or be killed situation, not against another human, anyway.”

“And that’s the problem,” said Val. “You’re level eighteen, but you’ve gone through less than half of the bad shit most people go through just to make it to level ten. You’re idealistic and far, far too soft.”

Rain struggled to keep his face from reddening. I suppose it’ll happen at some point. I’ll have to turn someone into an icicle, or Velocity them right off of a cliff. “So, what would you do, Val? Just kill them without thinking?”

Before Val could respond, Ameliah cut him off. “You just do the best you can, Rain,” Ameliah said. “That’s all any of us can do.”

Rain sighed. “I know.”

“You’ll learn how the world really works eventually,” Val said. He stood with a sigh. “Well, if we’re done with philosophy and we’re not training, what are we doing?”

“Someone needs to finish cleaning the aoaka,” Ameliah said.

“I’ll help,” Rain said. “I don’t really know what I’m doing, though. Where I’m from, meat comes from a store wrapped up in plastic.”

“I’ll show you,” Ameliah said.

“I suppose I’ll help as well,” Val said. “That thing is enormous. I could find a use for the hide.” He gestured to his jacket. The hastily stitched-together seams were starting to rip open again.

“How are we going to preserve it?” Rain asked. “I could make another refrigerator pit…”

“We’ll dry and smoke it,” Ameliah said. “What’s a refrigerator?”

Rain shrugged. “Icebox? Do you have those? It’s like that, but without the ice.”

“How does it work? Not your pit, the real thing,” Val said.

“I…don’t actually know,” Rain said. “No magic. They run on…lightning. Now that you mention it, I suppose what I made back in Tallheart’s clearing was closer to an icebox than it was to a fridge. I think it has something to do with compressing air?”

Ameliah smiled. “Let’s stick with smoking.”
