“Absolutely,” the Wright was saying loudly in response to Bash-nor suggesting he tell everyone about what the parties had meant to him. It wasn’t exactly a ludicrous way for an Artonan to talk about his own social gatherings, but it made it sound more like he was hosting them for cultural exchange instead of raucous fun times and showing off his superior magic. “The ambassadorial residence was the heart of the neighborhood in Punta de la Luna. The heart of Apex really. I live in midtown.”

The Wright set the puzzle box the Adjuster had just bought back on the table in front of the wizards. He didn’t mention that it was already spoken for.

[The guy’s pretty scummy,] Alden texted Lute. [There was no reason for that. He’s got plenty of others to sell.]

Lute lifted a hand to text back, but before he could, Bash-nor introduced the woman in red and white as a Grand Senator. Lute dropped his hand and stared.

Alden was doing the same.

Why is there a Grand Senator here? Alden hastily pulled up a local news site. Of course there was a front page article about the woman. A member of the Grand Senate making a visit to Earth would always be news.

Grand Senator Servin-ith. She’d arrived last night. This was only her second trip to Earth. She was here to look at all the construction that was being done and reassure Anesidorans of the Triplanetary Government’s obligation toward them. After touring Anesidora for a couple of days, she would meet with world leaders at the UN.

There was speculation that she would also be meeting with representatives from Superhumans at Large. The senator had no comment on that. It was, of course, her honor and responsibility to maintain proper discretion.

The other wizards with her weren’t mentioned. Alden thought they were just people she’d picked up locally since he recognized a couple of them from Matadero. Maybe she was quietly showing approval for some service they’d done by inviting them on this excursion.

At least she didn’t bring Ro-den.

“What commendable craftsmanship,” she was saying to the Wright as she ran her fingers lightly over the tops of the boxes. She wore many delicate rings, almost all of them silver. “You should be proud of what you’ve made. Is it true that some of your efforts were destroyed by our recent error?”

The pause as the Wright read the translation, or pondered his answer, was only a slight one. “A few doors I made in Apex are gone. Only three. And it wasn’t your error. How could it be? Irresponsible Avowed are at fault.”

The look he sent Bash-nor’s way was eager.

Approval-seeking? Alden wondered.

Bash-nor only had eyes for the Grand Senator. And that was good, since if he’d been sparing a look around he might have recognized Alden. Or seen Lute’s mouth stretch into a pained grimace at the mention of irresponsible Avowed.

Alden was worried Lute might combust, collapse, or climb up on the table to speak out against his family even though Aulia and Orpheus hadn’t been named. Instead, he clutched the puzzle box so hard that one of the coin shapes popped off in his hand.

He looked down at it.

[That was meant to be removable, I bet,] Alden sent. [Don’t sweat it.]

“It’s our error,” the Grand Senator said, “because as your wizards it was our duty to ensure such a dangerous device was properly managed. Not all magic is meant for sharing, even with our Avowed. Let’s talk about something more pleasant. I can tell you’ve used mountain glass in this piece. An inferior type, but that, too, is our error since we supply you with many of your ingredients. The land where I was born is known for producing this. I will see to it that Earth receives some in trade so that you can practice with it and… ”

Alden’s auriad was on his left ankle today. It was hidden by his sock, his jeans, and the table. He could send it up his calf with a quick thought or, with a bit more attention, have it slide off the end of his foot and then slither up his leg freely to wherever he wanted it. He knew it was safely hidden, but it suddenly felt exposed.

“Not all magic is meant for sharing.” Don’t get panicky just because she said that. She’s literally talking about the Submerger. Sharing wizardry itself with another species has probably never crossed her mind. It’s not like she’s thinking of how to properly manage me right now.

After a couple of minutes, the senator bought the Wright’s largest piece. Two of her companions made purchases as well. And the box the Adjuster had already paid for was being passed to Zeridee by Bash-nor. The Wright had told him, loudly enough for Alden to hear this time, that it cost six thousand argold.

I’m so not buying anything from this guy.

Alden watched Zeridee and caught her watching him—one eye pointed his way.

She recognized me? He caught her eye again. She definitely recognizes me.

He didn’t know what to do except acknowledge her with a message.

[Hello, Zeridee. I’m here with one of my roommates for Christmas shopping. I’m glad you’re well enough to escape from Porti-loth.]

She kept that eye on him as she went to the wagon to put the puzzle boxes with the rest of the wizards’ things. To Alden’s relief, they were moving right along to the next stall to look at quilts. Bash-nor was recommending they go see some Brute he knew at the end of the row, but the quilts had caught the senator’s attention. And one of the wizards from Matadero was talking about going a few down to pick up hot dogs for everyone to try.

They’re here to make nice and be seen making nice. It’s such a normal thing for them to do, but it’s like everything at the market turned a little sideways just because they walked through.

Bash-nor plus a Grand Senator was a step beyond ordinary even for Anesidorans. And people who kept abreast of the news better than Alden did must have recognized her on sight.

I wonder how the crowd would be if it were Esh-erdi and Lind-otta instead.

He remembered the recovery sauna clearing out and then refilling with a completely different bunch when Esh-erdi had come to visit.

Equally weird.

Zeridee put away the last parcel, then headed toward him.

No, don’t do that, thought Alden. Why are you coming to see me? You’ll attract attention. I’m an incognito teenager minding his own business.

Zeridee stood right beside him at the table. She murmured, face pointed downward like she was speaking to the boxes, “I think…meeting the Grand Senator would be a good thing for you to do today.”

Another metal circle plinked as it fell from Lute’s hand and hit the top of the ring box he’d been looking at earlier.

Alden’s body tensed. [What?] he sent to Zeridee.

The Wright was being congratulated by another market seller now that the wizards had stepped away, but the man had realized Zeridee was still here and he was turning his attention toward them.

“Being yourself and…politely honest…in reply to any question she might ask, would be enough,” Zeridee whispered.

Are you trying to kill me, Zeridee-und’h?! I save you, and now you want me to be myself and honest? You wouldn’t be saying that if you knew myself is a wizard who fired off some spells with my auriad while I was hauling your body around Apex.

“I do not need help, sir,” Zeridee was saying with a bow to the Wright. “Thank you.”

“Yeah, we’re just looking, too,” Lute said. “Go help that other guy.”

[Zeridee, I don’t want to meet a senator.]

She stayed in her bow until the Wright was moving away. Then she straightened and looked at Alden with both eyes. “I’m sorry. I believe it would be a good thing to do. I will point you out and encourage the Grand Senator to greet you if you decide to approach our group.”

She moistened her lips, nodded at him, then left him staring after her with a racing heart.

Why would she tell me to approach the senator? She wants me to avoid Bash-nor, and he’s practically touching the senator right now.

There was something sharp about Zeridee-und’h’s steps today.

Anger? A plan? Strength?

Am I supposed to be a part of her strong, angry plan? She’s got a hat on her head that looks like something a person with recent major brain trauma is being forced to wear by her healer.

She fought those guys and got those injuries trying to protect me and my flyer.

Alden took a breath. “Lute, I’ll be right—”

“I’ll go with you,” said Lute.

Alden raised his eyebrows. “You don’t have to.”

“Let’s go.” Lute’s pig had sunk lower. It was almost sitting on top of his hair. He sounded so sure of himself that either he’d hit himself with a confidence chain or he was putting on a show.

“Is it because you heard my heart rate pick up?”

Lute didn’t answer that question. “Think of how my grandmother will feel when she sees me hanging out with a Grand Senator.”
