Silverite did not like necromancers, but Silverite and Quilatalap were both Priests of Koyabez, and she didn’t really have too much evil to say about Quilatalap. She still hated him, though. Probably for a bunch of different actual reasons, too.

But Quilatalap could be a valuable resource.

Where would Erick put him, though?

Erick decided to just ask him, “Got any preference for a placement?”

Quilatalap smiled. “I could help out with Enforcement patrols, or perhaps I can reprise my role as Caretaker the Shade and run a library, or something like that. I’m fine with interacting with people, but I’m serious when I say that people always try to worm knowledge out of me and they usually can.”

Erick did not need to be a Mind Mage to know that Burhendurur was absolutely livid with jealousy, and if Erick did not choose Enforcement, then—

Erick looked down at Burhendurur, and said, “Stop that, Burhendurur.”

Burhendurur froze.

Erick said to Quilatalap, “I want other people to learn how to [Reincarnation]. Therefore, I want you to make a library at House Benevolence, and when we get students who are vetted through… I don’t know. All six offices? And me? Then you can teach them whatever you want to teach them, and also [Reincarnation], which I will teach to you when I am able. No teaching outside of those specific parameters, though… Uh… And I’m sure I’ll have more to say about that later.”

Quilatalap’s eyes went wide. “Oh wow. Okay! Yes. I agree. Sounds great to me. I. Uh. I got some gifts. I thought it might be more difficult to work that out. Glad to see I was mistaken. You can still have the gifts. Mostly magical plants.”

“Details to be worked out later. Before that, though,” Erick asked, “Do you vet Zenipeq?”

Zenipeq’s eyes went wide. This was it. She prepared herself as much as she could.

She was probably preparing herself for the wrong thing, though.

Quilatalap said, “Sure. She’s a pretty stable force. Has been for around 700 years. Few incidents with Dragon Curse slipping, but other than that she’s been as fine as any other leader of nations out there. After [Reincarnation] she’ll have lost everything, though, so it’ll take her a good 50 years to get it all back. She’d be good as an advisor in that time, if you want her for that. Any role is acceptable, though.”

All that boded well for Zenipeq, and she knew it.

Erick asked her, “I have a few things I want to change about how you run Frostflower, Zenipeq, and then we can talk about the rest.”

To his side, Burhendurur slowly rose, now that the conversation was not about Quilatalap; he would prostrate himself before the Archlich of Necromancy itself, but he would not do so regarding a fellow dragon.

Zenipeq’s frost-blue eyes narrowed. Her floating dress and hair turned frosty, and stiffer. “I will not be able to return there for quite some time, and possibly never, Wizard Flatt. It is my understanding that [Reincarnation] will strip everything from me, including my [Dragon Body] and my lichdom. If it will not affect my lichdom then… I still cannot return, for I will be bereft of my magic.”

Erick nodded, then asked, “And if I can help you retake your land? I am not interested in disturbing the order of the world more than I already have, and so I am trying to mitigate the upsets of the Dragon Exodus.”

Zenipeq’s eyes went wide again. She cautiously asked, “What requests do you have of me?”

“Acceptance of International Common Law in Frostflower. Ceasing all construction of magical items that come about through the use of criminal souls. You will pay for and maintain a Gate which will be opened in a quarantine zone set outside of Candlepoint lands, connecting to somewhere to be decided in Frostflower lands. Trade will happen, of some sort, which is what I understand you do all the time with Ar’Cosmos anyway. And you will comply with—” Erick interrupted himself. He had been about to say, ‘comply with Best Necromancy Practices, as outlined in the Arcanaeum Consortium Charter.’ as Zolan had suggested, but he could already tell that he was driving swords into Zenipeq’s soul with every extra demand. So instead, he said, “And that’s it.”

Zenipeq’s flowing blue hair and dress turned absolutely frosty, solidifying around her like armor. “You would have me return to my own lands a conqueror, to usurp my people and my way of life. All for what? Lesser power and needing constant vigilance, and constantly tied to Candlepoint and to you, constantly requesting power when what I have is not enough? You would turn me into a lapcat, and when I finally grow tired of your demands I would either kill you, or you would kill me, and—”

Quilatalap rapidly said, “Zeni.”

“What!” Zenipeq demanded. “He knows what he is doing! Look at him!”

Quilatalap said, “Please excuse her, Erick. She’s been a bit depressive since this whole Exodus thing—”

“And your refusal to answer my letter for four days didn’t help!” Zenipeq yelled, “Erick.”

“She would never turn on you if you helped her get her power back.”

“Quilatalap!” Zeni said, “You can’t just tell him that!” And then she looked at Erick, and panic subsumed her, and then came depression. She twisted in on herself and collapsed into a pile of blue mist and frost. “Fuck, I’m gonna die. I fucked it all up.” Her voice trailed into itself, “Fuck fuck fuck.”

Erick said, “I could already tell that she was just testing me, but thank you anyway, Quilatalap. Dragons seem to naturally wear their emotions like it doesn’t matter that people know what they’re thinking.”

Quilatalap said, “I think it’s more that they want people to know that they’re thinking… Most of the time.”

“Ah. Well. That’s true, too.” Erick said, “Anyway! I won’t be helping you take back your nation, anyway, because you’re going to do that yourself. Another option has come available besides [Reincarnation]. Thanks to a bunch of gods deciding they wanted me to be a whole lot stronger than I was before, I’m a Benevolence Dragon, and I can do that for you through a single spell which I already have, and which already worked on another dragon about two hours ago.”

Zenipeq froze in her mist form. Quite literally, too. Instead of being a pile of mist, she was a twist of unmoving frost.

Quilatalap looked at Erick. “Oh. Ah. Ha! I didn’t think you’d go through with that. Not in that way, anyway.”

“I thought about a Big Wizard solution, but everyone wanted me to go through established magics.” Erick said to Zenipeq’s frozen form, “If you agreed to some International Common Law, ceasing the punitive uses of souls, and the Gate to Frostflower, then I can transform you into a Benevolence Dragon right now. It’s gonna fucking hurt, though. Hurt you, I mean. I’ll be fine. Can undead accept Healing Magic? Because I had to use a lot of [Greater Treat Wounds] the last time and that was a mess.” Erick said, “I ended up with about a full dragon’s dismembered body on a floor very similar to this one.”

As Erick spoke, Zenipeq’s frozen form gradually thawed. When he finished, in one smooth motion, Zenipeq reconstituted herself into her human-ish woman form. “I accept your Benevolence, and your requests, though my city is not a monarchy, and so it will take time to run your Common International Law request through the Lords Court.”

“… Not a monarchy?”

“A democratically-elected Lords Court makes the laws.”

Erick stood a bit straighter. “Ah… Huh. Are there living people on that court?”

Zenipeq stared as one would stare at a peculiar bug she found on the floor. “… You wouldn’t put children in charge of the law, would you— Ah. Wait. You’re young. You would. Uh…” She paused. “I can put forth ballots to try and get at least one or two mortals on the court… That will take time, too.”

“One or two seats out of how many?”

Zenipeq thought about lying. Then she thought better. “100.”

“… Uh huh.” Erick asked, “And the population of mortals to immortals?”

“Oh like you’re any better! You got democracy here at all? No you do not.”

“It’s in the works. Long term plans. But I’m still trying to build the damned place, though, and you’re at 700+ years old.”

“… A thousand mortals to one lich.”

“Yeah. That’s what I thought.”

“I built the place for liches! Not always-dying mortals! The mortals just sort of happened. I try to do right by them but it’s hard to care about ephemeral things that can die at any damned time for any reason at all. They fall out of bed and die!” Zenipeq said, “And don’t get me started on babies. Ugh!”

Despite her words, her attitude was great.

When she was a Benevolence dragon she’d probably see a lot of things differently, anyway.

So Erick confidently said, “I’m ready to transform you whenever you want.”

Zenipeq froze again. “What? You are? After what I just said? I didn’t give you any confirmation at all that I would actually change how we do things over there?”

Erick smiled softly, saying, “I’m pretty confident that this will turn out well.”

“… Are you now?”

“Yup.”

“… Fuck it. Let’s do this. Do I need to be a dragon, or do you need my soul, or what?”

“… I honestly do not know how this works on liches.”

Quilatalap suggested, “Let’s do this in a way in which it is least likely to go weird.” And then he brought out a shining blue crystal from a pocket. “This is Zenipeq.”

Zenipeq froze again upon seeing that little blue crystal. Her eyes darting from the object to Erick, and then back to Quilatalap. She was unsure.

Quilatalap held it out to Zenipeq, saying, “I think we’re safe enough, Zeni, and you should hand it off yourself. This is it.”

Zenipeq steeled herself, and then she strode over to Quilatalap. She did not physically pick up the blue gem; she held out her hand and the gem came to her without any visible magic. And then she clutched the gem to her chest, walked toward Erick, and held herself out in the air, about a meter from him.

“This is me. My real form. My body is a summoned construct, like all liches.” Zenipeq whispered, “I entrust myself to you.”

And the blue gem was not really a gem at all. It was a flowerbud about the size of a fist made of ice and sapphires and glowing blue-white magic. It hummed.

Erick looked to Poi.

Poi nodded; no trickery.

Erick asked, “Do you want to do an exchange of [Dragon Body]s?”

Zenipeq startled. “Oh! Uh. That old custom? Uh… How does it— Ah. Here. This is mine. Please give it back when you are done with it, or break it.”

Erick smiled a little bit as Burhendurur shook his head.

Dragon Body, Permanently Active, 0 mana

<absolute damage reduction 25>, <double range>, <double mana regeneration>, <constant control over all mist and mindless ghosts>

Assume a draconic form based on your nature, at will, gaining <massively increased range>, <massively increased control and power of all soul-based spellwork>

Assume a new Familiar Form of any type you have experience with, at will.

Immortal.

Erick said, “I'll give it back to you afterward, since you’re going to have a new one.”

Zenipeq stood straight. “Ah…” She looked a bit sad. “Thank you.”

Erick cast his [Blessing of Draconic Benevolence].

It was not nearly as messy as with Al, but as the air filled with breaking razors of ice and a whole lot of [Cleanse] and the roars of a room full of mist in pain, Erick blipped Poi out of there, as they planned on if something like this should happen.

When the thrashing and crashing was over, Zenipeq’s phylactery was a pile of broken ice and chipped sapphires, scattered by an errant tail swipe that clipped Erick, but which did nothing but break his shirt a little. A [Mend] fixed that.

And now, Zenipeq was a 50-meter-long sleeping dragon, sprawled across the room like a tangle of blue-white 3-meter-wide pipes.

Quilatalap announced, “Well that was something I have never actually seen before. I was hoping to see a [Reincarnation], but that was almost better.” He looked to Erick. “So? Can I still stay with you?”

“Yes. Glad to have you. Zenipeq is going back to Frostflower, though.”

Quilatalap grinned. “I think you made a friend-for-eternity there, Erick.”

“Good news all around, then.”

Burhendurur had both a sudden heart attack upon hearing that Quilatalap staying was ever in question, and then sudden relief when Erick confirmed that Quilatalap was staying. He never said a word, though. He was still occupied with looking at Zenipeq.

Erick said to Quilatalap, “I’ve got more meetings like this and I was not expecting her to need to sleep. Are you going to look after her until she wakes? Because I was going to leave an Ophiel here for that purpose. What do you want to do? Also, I made a house for you on Yggdrasil’s branches already. It’s a [Fairy Stronghold], though, so I need to actually show you the place.”

“I’ll stay here until she wakes.” Quilatalap asked, “I’ll take a [Gate] to the new house for a moment though, to see the door and whatnot. I can take it from there.”

Erick opened a [Gate] beside Quilatalap. “There you go.”

Quilatalap didn’t need to go through to see the space; mana sense was enough. “Ah. That looks nice. Thanks, Erick— Oh. I would like to see a [Reincarnation], if you don’t mind. Whenever you get around to the next one. Or the one after. Also, I’d like to teach you [True Resurrection] when you have some time. Maybe you can make real use of that spell, unlike Messalina.”

“… I have a lot of thoughts on that, but mostly, I kinda want to stay out of the [True Resurrection] debate.”

Quilatalap furrowed his brow a little bit. “It’s not really a debate. But… We can talk later?”

“Yes. Want me to leave the [Gate] to your house open for you?”

“Nope. Thanks though.”

“Then I’m off to meet another dragon.” Erick closed that [Gate] and opened another, into a different space almost exactly like this one, but in another location. “Come on, Burhendurur— Oh yeah. Burhendurur. My Overseer of Enforcement. Quilatalap… And you know him.”

Burhendurur bowed deeply to Quilatalap, saying, “It is an honor, sir Quilatalap, to stand in your presence and—”

“Come on, Burhendurur!” Erick called from the other side of the [Gate].

Quilatalap said to Burhendurur, “I’m sure we’ll talk more later, too.”

Burhendurur rapidly followed Erick, though it was clearly under duress.

Erick closed the [Gate], and then said to Burhendurur, “A fan, I take it?”

Burhendurur started gushing facts and stories and did not stop until Poi came back and the next meeting started.

- - - -

