“Convince them to come to Ar’Cosmos.” Fairy Moon said, “I could use the mana.”

“Oh. That reminds me. I want your Wizards. I want to keep them safe from the oddities of Fae Magic.”

Fairy Moon stood taller. She still wasn’t very tall. “I am securing them safe and there is nothing negative about fairy anointings!

Erick breathed out a little, then he said, “Fairy Moon. We are currently alone, I think. I would like some more honesty from you. Why are you demanding dragons exit this existence?” Erick shook his head a little bit, then said, “Why is [Renew] not enough?”

Fairy Moon paused, apprehensive.

Erick wore his concern openly as he asked, “If you need mana, why am I getting 100,000 refugees? What’s going on in Ar’Cosmos, Fairy Moon? For real, too. Illustrious gave me her story, but I want yours.” He wanted to ask after the truth of the Dragon Curse, to know if Fairy Moon had really plotted to either murder every single person in the world, or force Rozeta to expand the Bands of Intent on Elemental Fae to infinity. Had Melemizargo really stepped in and prevented that tragedy? What was the truth of what had happened between Kirginatharp and Idyrvamikor that caused the Curse in the first place? But he did not. None of that really mattered right now. “I want to know how to fix everything I can fix, and if there is some problem happening in Ar’Cosmos, then I want to help fix it.”

Fairy Moon looked at Erick, weighing a thousand things in her ancient mind. And then she said, “I have a list of five dragons who are wonderful, but who threaten stability. Take them into House Benevolence and get them out of my hair.”

“… I want to believe you. So I am going to. But. Fairy Moon. If this is a trick of any sort I will be cross. Me completing this request and it turning out well will go a long way to rebuilding the very fragile relationship between us, if it is an honest request and it will not lead to some potentially Veird-damaging end.” Erick looked at her. “With all that said: Is this still the request you have of me?”

Fairy Moon looked at Erick…

She continued to look at him, weighing thoughts in her mind.

She said, “I have six dragons that I remit to reformation through Benevolence, and four that need not be dragons a day longer. Ten total. The final four you may make of what you wish, but I suggest you sever them from their draconic truth. None of them have done me or mine any devilry but they plot and plunder the goodwill of my green land.” She said, “The destitute dragons you divested of their essence would have made exemplary soldiers for my side, and I wish you wouldn’t have done that. You should have sent them to Ar’Cosmos.”

“Okay.” Erick gestured to the side and conjured some [Fairy Item] chairs and a small table, saying, “Tell me about Ar’Cosmos, and about these troublesome dragons of yours.”

Fairy Moon did.

At the end of it, Erick did not believe that Fairy Moon was trying to pull one over on him. He just felt the weight of it all.

Six Free Dragons that were exemplars of the best the world had to offer. Scions of industry or rulers or professional killers of monsters, in Northern Nelboor and the Greensoil Republic and Archipelago Nergal and the Underworld. They had banded together through intermediaries upon hearing Fairy Moon’s ultimatum. Once they had entered Ar’Cosmos they had met up, and they had begun organizing. They were a threat to the rule of Houses. Ultimately, they would cause a civil war. Not right now. But it was already starting. Lines were being drawn.

Even now those six Free Dragons had managed to collect more support from other dragons, rapidly gaining 6 more votes in the Rotunda, and 4 maybes. The whole Free Dragon faction was falling under their sway, and they would rapidly outnumber the House Dragons within a year.

The Houses needed a way to get rid of these types of dragons without killing them, for that would turn all the Free dragons against them in a very, very quick civil war. Even as it was going, though, the Houses would have to implement drastic reforms that would curb the power of the Free Dragons.

That would just bury the civil war to let it fester and grow until it burst forth in ten or twenty years.

And so, Erick felt a weight. It was probably the weight of a crown.

He could let that draconic civil war happen and pick up the pieces afterward, and lose the support of House Carnage and Death and Fae, as they all decided to split from his own House Benevolence. Or, he could openly support the violent reformation of Ar’Cosmos and lose the other Houses and gain the unorganized Free Dragons. Or, he could try to manage a softer transformation of draconic society, a society he wasn’t actually a part of even though he was a dragon, into something nicer. Which, to be fair, was likely an impossibility. The dragons of Ar’Cosmos were already rather civil in their Rotunda, with their large meetings and the open discussion of problems. In that way, Erick suspected that the people of Ar’Cosmos (or the dragons, anyway) were probably as democratic as a place like Frostflower, where liches ruled above all in their citadel of frozen death.

Still, though, the ‘proper response’ here was to try for some sort of reconciliation between the Free Dragons and the House Dragons.

Except…

Like Erick had experienced with Phagar and the duck pond, Erick might have mostly-unlimited resources, he did not have unlimited space in his life for all these problems.

The sun was far below the horizon by the time Fairy Moon had finished explaining and Erick had finished thinking. She looked at him now, with her pink and green eyes, awaiting his decision.

Erick looked up from the ground, to Fairy Moon, and said, “Make them an offer, and I stress that it is an offer… One moment.” Erick opened a small [Gate] that led to his office. With a quick bit of sunform, he grabbed some paper and a pen, and then closed the [Gate]. “I will attempt to help you with your problem of the Houses losing power by making an offer of asylum to these dragons you deem problematic, but still good people.” He started writing, saying, “The actual offer to them will be in this writing: I, Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence and of newly transformed Draconic Benevolence, do offer asylum from the Fairy Pact and the Dragon Exodus to all qualifying dragons. To those deemed worthy and able to maintain good relations with the people and societies of Veird, I offer transformation to Benevolence Dragon, but I demand a resettlement of those dragons into my kingdoms in the Crystal Forest, where you will receive the opportunities of the Gate Network, and of Candlepoint in raising new lands on the Crystal Forest. Details to follow. Beware those who seek to test my generosity, and who come to me with subterfuge in their souls. Be aware, that just because you will remain a dragon does not mean you will get special treatment from me or mine, or exemptions from the laws of my land.

“To those seeking simply to end the torment of the Dragon Curse, and of Draconic existence entirely, I offer [Reincarnation]s and support to regain a small amount of levels. I can put you anywhere in the world after that, though there will be no further easy contact between you and I.

“[Reincarnation] is much easier to qualify for than a Benevolencing, and I do not care about money or bribes at all. Do not seek to sway me with anything other than your honest words and plans for a better, more cooperative future under the auspices of House Benevolence.” Erick paused his writing, asking, “Will House Fae be okay with doing the organization for this? With presenting me these dragons such that they do not meet or cause a fight? I won’t be going into Ar’Cosmos myself.”

Fairy Moon had looked utterly thrilled. She had been about to suggest that Erick could come to Ar’Cosmos to do all this, too. But then Erick’s final words came down. Fairy Moon lost some of her joy, but she brushed over it, saying, “I had hoped to have for you and with you a feast of coronal celebration for your own rise to king, but we can do that some other season. Yes; the Houses of Ar’Cosmos will organize this ordainment. I assume you will want to ascertain the applicants yourself, before you make of them what you will?”

“Yes— Ah. And these.” Erick opened up another small [Gate] into his office and pulled out a dozen copies of the Rules and Regulations of Cities of Candlepoint, and accompanying city applications. He laid all of that paperwork on Fairy Moon’s side of their small table, saying, “I want the dragons who will think about doing this to think long and hard about how they want to do this. I feel I would prefer them joining existing structures of Candlepoint and otherwise, but they could also try their hands at making some new cities out in the sands, or in the budding greenery I have growing around here. I already have two Benevolence Dragons out there doing just that; transforming the land into green. They’re just woodsmen, though, and they like that. Actual city mayors would be different, and by a lot. Any city of proper size, as outlined in those rules and regulations, will get a seat on the Governor’s Court, and they’ll eventually be helping to make the laws and regulations around here. I’m still king, and of any Benevolence Dragons, I am their overlord above all.”

Fairy Moon smiled gently. She picked up the paperwork, saying, “Most appreciated.”

“I look forward to peaceful transitions, too, Fairy Moon, if we can [Strike] it.”

Fairy Moon smiled brightly. “I look forward to finally seeing family again.” And then she bowed, and was gone.

… Right. That.

Erick simply sat there in that post-sunset space for a little while, thinking. He had made the right call. It certainly felt that way, anyway. It was also supremely disheartening to hear that Fairy Moon was so focused on getting her family back to the detriment of all the rest of the world, but…

Not that surprising, really.

- - - -

Quilatalap stood beside his table in one of his hidden laboratories that he didn’t mind the world finding if they should happen to go looking, and someone was always looking. But he had to do some tests. Erick’s [Reincarnation] was a marvel of necromancy, and yes, he had used an entirely new Element in order to do it, but all the rest of it was well done, too. The Blood Magic, in particular, was imaginative on a level that Quilatalap had rarely ever encountered.

“Not that surprising, in retrospect,” Quilatalap mumbled to himself, as he planted some beans into different pots and then raised them to 2-decimeter-tall flowering things. “He’s been able to search through Blood markers for a very long time, through [Cascade Imaging].”

Which was yet another part of Erick’s magic which Quilatalap wasn’t wholly sure about.

He didn’t know much about light and he didn’t really care; that part of Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] didn’t concern him.

But Quilatalap’s entire Truth was the Truth of Life Unending, with a major focus on fleshy-types of life. He should have understood everything that Erick was doing, flesh-wise, in every single one of his transformations. And so, Quilatalap was here.

Growing plants.

Contrary to the persona he showed to the world, Quilatalap was fully capable of doing plant magics, but that stuff was something he always let lag behind. Therefore, he was ‘not that good at that stuff’. It was a minor lie that he was okay with.

Quilatalap continued to [Grow] small bean plants, as one did for the study to prove that life connected to life in real markers. It was an old study that people usually only read about in very old textbooks, but Quilatalap was older than those textbooks, and there hadn’t been many updates to this methodology in the last thousand years.

Maybe he could figure out what Erick was doing, if he went far enough with this sort of thing.

And so, Quilatalap took tiny bits of pollen from one bean plant and spread that on the flowers of other plants, made them seed, and recorded the results of the progeny. ‘What colors of flowers’ ‘How many leaves till first flower’ ‘What do the combinations reveal about parental history’. These were the sorts of questions Quilatalap was replicating with his replication of this most famous of studies—

He paused.

He looked at his work.

He narrowed his eyes and said to himself, “These facts were first proven by a planar, weren’t they… I had forgotten that.” Quilatalap looked up in thought. “What year was it… 120? 95?”

Damn.

All that original work was long gone. Even if Quilatalap had had copies of those works, all those particular stashes were raided long, long before now.

Fuck.

… Oh well.

Back to the experiment.
