Erick had no idea who this guy was, only that he was some person from the Greensoil Republic who kept a low profile and could not stand other dragons. He wanted to go back home and never show up on anyone’s radar at all. He felt being a dragon was a curse, in more ways than the literal.

Burhendurur thought he was being dramatic, but he did not express that opinion too loudly.

After confirming that the man’s words were true through a Mind-Mage-backed truth telling, which Poi administered, Erick had to stop the meeting, and get Aisha and Teressa involved. The dragon was absolutely miserable as a dragon, but Erick saw that he could be happier if he was Paradox’ed. In a sudden pang of conscience, Erick did not want to deprive the world of a possible good thing, and he certainly didn’t want to give this guy the death he seemed to crave, but was unwilling to follow through with himself.

Burhendurur thought Erick was being dramatic, too.

With Teressa and Aisha standing in front of the guy, they confirmed what Erick had already suspected.

So Erick sent Teressa and Aisha back, and then asked the man simply known as ‘Scutt’, “Do you want to be a Benevolence Dragon and work for me, Scutt?”

For one brief shining moment, Scutt looked like hope had arrived. And then he said, “No. This is a curse. I want it gone. This thing with the fairy and your option of [Reincarnation] is just my final impetus to do what I should have done a long time ago; to truly leave this life behind.”

“… Are you sure?”

Both Teressa and Aisha had said that Scutt would make a fine Benevolence dragon, but here he was saying ‘no’? Erick wasn’t going to force his own opinions onto the man, but he felt Scutt was making the wrong decision. And by a lot. Privately, Burhendurur agreed with Erick.

“Yes. [Reincarnation], please.”

… Maybe he could regain his draconic self later, and Erick could Benevolence it then.

Yes.

That could work.

“Okay. So you wrote out the [Reincarnation] paperwork but it was… Thin.” Thin to the point of failure to complete the assignment, actually. “Is there anything you haven’t listed that you want specifically?”

“I want a normal human male body. Nothing special, at all. And I want a future where I can actually love someone again. A woman, I think. That’s always easier to find. Age is whatever. 20? Sure. 20 is usually a good age.”

“… Want a place at Candlepoint? We’re taking refugees.”

Scutt stood up straight. “Yes. I do. Uh. Oh. Can I be good with money, this time? I’ve never been good with money before… Can you… Can you do that? I’ll find a job on my own, though… I don’t like being known by powers like you. Sorry. I probably should have cared about that paperwork more but… I just don’t.”

“… I can do all of that and more Scutt. Are you ready?”

“I am. Please end this life and give me something better.”

“… I will do exactly that.”

Erick put him under with a [Merciful Ether].

And then he turned to Poi, “Oh holy fuck, Poi. My gods. What do I do here?”

Burhendurur said, “He’s not a dragon I would want in my House. That is more than enough answer.” He muttered, “Though you didn’t ask me.”

Poi dropped the mask he had kept up in the face of Scutt. “Wow that guy is fucking depressed. But. Uh. You can’t overwrite his wants. Even if he knows he’s making a bad decision and you know it’s bad and everything here is bad… You have to do the [Reincarnation]. Uh… Make him antifragile and good with numbers and paperwork. Able to find joy in normal life, too. Don’t overdo it, though; that’s almost just as bad— Ah. And Zenipeq is awake and gone. Quilatalap is asking to see your next [Reincarnation].”

While Burhendurur stood straight and attentive again, Poi’s words made Erick feel better about ‘killing 400ish people’ by [Reincarnation]ing Scutt.

“Quilatalap is still in that room?”

“Yes.”

Erick had Quilatalap come through a [Gate], into the new room, and then he began explaining what he was going to do. He did not talk about the moral quandary with Quilatalap, because if Quilatalap said a single word to change his mind, Erick would probably change his mind, even if it was going against Scutt’s wishes. Quilatalap rapidly turned interested as he looked to Scutt, laying on the floor, softly breathing in ether and breathing out thick air.

Burhendurur could not take his eyes off of Quilatalap, though.

… Perhaps it was time to send him back to the House. His opinion was valuable, and he wanted the man to interview these dragons with him, but he was clearly distracted to the point of problems. Erick would tell the man this before the next [Reincarnation].

With a few quick movements of his sunform, Erick had undressed Scutt and laid him back down. He was currently an unassuming male of about 35. Erick had the impression that Scutt had transformed through this same variation of a form for a long, long time.

Erick began.

Scutt’s body began to reshape as Erick worked, and though he stayed within Scutt’s requested parameters, he did make the man healthier than average, and higher Statted then average, and just a little bit better in every possible way. The guy could hate Erick for that if he wished, but Erick wasn’t about to create a guy who couldn’t find some joy in himself, for the man who had been Scutt had clearly not cared about himself at all.

While Erick was doing that, the world also fractured with a thousand prismatic images of possible futures, and Erick saw Scutt in gutter after gutter, or knifing another hobo, or stealing bread from a bakery. Strangely enough, Erick saw no dragons in his future; the magic had already cleaned the Dragon Essence from the man.

Erick still had to pan far through all the bad futures to find a good one, though. And he did.

It was exactly what Scutt had asked for.

Scutt was dressed well. He had a wife and kids and a nice home on the lakeside, and money in the bank. Food on the table, and a little smile on his face. A kid knocked over a vase, breaking it, and Scutt only laughed and [Mend]ed it back to wholeness.

Erick picked that one.

And Scutt solidified.

The reborn Scutt then went through a [Gate], sleeping the whole way, to land on a nice fluffy bed in a nice room in a new [Fairy Stronghold] apartment on Yggdrasil’s boughs. He’d wake up naturally later, at which point Erick would inform him of his new options. He could probably hook up with Enforcement and gain some levels, and then move on with his life. Directly back to Candlepoint? Maybe he could look for a job on Market Street? Probably. He’d be good at those sorts of jobs and that sort of life, Erick thought.

Either way, Erick would be doing the next interview a bit differently. He looked to Burhendurur, and Poi, and Poi knew what Erick was asking. Within a moment, Burhendurur went stiff and then worried—

Quilatalap asked, “So that was all monumentally fascinating. Can I see more?”

“Of course.” Erick added, “You can see the whole thing from start to end. Want to dress up like your previous illusion?”

Quilatalap said, “I can do better than that.”

And then he transformed into a copy of Teressa.

Everything was perfect. From Teressa’s body, to the color of her grey-white soul, to the small white sparkle she had in her eyes these days.

His voice was all wrong, though, as he asked, “What do you think, Boss?”

“… No. Never. No. No impersonation ever, please.” Erick narrowed his eyes. “But how did you get everything right except for the voice?”

“Personal choice,” Quilatalap said in Teressa’s voice. And then he switched back to himself, all the way, speaking in his own voice, “I like my own voice.”

Erick went, “Ahh.”

Burhendurur, who was still stiff, had finally decided to engage his mouth, “Uh. Sir. Do you want me to stay for the rest? I have… Duties to attend to.”

“Quite all right, Burhendurur.” Erick opened a [Gate] for the man back to the House. “I’m sure there will be lots of talking later.”

Burhendurur turned to Quilatalap and bowed deeply, then he walked through the [Gate], and Erick closed it.

“Oh thank the gods.” Quilatalap said, “The Death Dragons all love me a lot but… They can be a lot. Thank you, Erick.”

Erick smiled a little at that. He opened a [Gate] to the next meeting spot. “Onto the next one.” He walked through and Poi followed at his side, while Quilatalap trailed a little. He said to Poi, “I feel I should request an emergency therapist to help sort out the next one, if that same thing should happen again.”

“I will ask for one?”

“Please do so.”

Quilatalap asked, “Was there something wrong with that Scutt guy? Perhaps I can help.”

Erick did really want to bounce what had happened off of someone who had probably seen similar stories, and who wasn’t a dragon with odd sensibilities, and so he told Quilatalap. Quilatalap did not want to answer yet, but he was thankful that Erick had chosen to include him in his thoughts, and yes, it had been a murky decision; he couldn’t have done any better.

“I have found that there is no helping people at the bottom of a barrel that will not end up being self-serving in some way, but there are ways to honor that sort of bottoming out that lead to less destructive actions in the future… Though I am, historically, terrible at making these sorts of decisions.” Quilatalap said, “I feel that you made the right decision to go along with the man’s decision, even if it felt wrong. Going the other way leads to tyranny, and I have been down that route before, too. Never ends up well.”

Erick felt a bit better at that.

He still felt bad about the loss of a dragon. He had essentially just killed around 400 people, according to how the mana needs of Veird saw it—

“I’ve got a therapist lined up, Erick,” Poi said.

Soon, an orangescale woman walked through a [Gate], into the space.

“Hello Mind Mage Gabby. A pleasure to meet you. If you do not mind, today is very busy and I cannot spare the time to fully greet you. I will trust Poi’s judgment that you are qualified.”

Gabby bowed professionally, saying, “I am ready to work, Wizard Flatt. Mister Fulisade has made me aware of what is happening, and I will keep your confidence. In the efforts of full disclosure, though, I will likely be praying to Rozeta for a few of these, though my professional opinion will take precedent over the desires of goddesses.”

“… Ah.” Erick decided, “That’s fine.”

He probably could have asked Rozeta, too, but she had already said her piece and so had all the other gods; by implication, they wanted Benevolence Dragons, but they were leaving it up to Erick to determine the final number.

Gabby bowed again.

Quilatalap looked at Erick, in something like approval.

Poi was Poi; holding back all judgment unless it was needed and wanted.

Erick said, “Onto the next one.”

- - - -

Three dragons turned out to be normal people living in their parts of the world, but while one was a dragonkin-looking citizen from the Wasteland Kingdoms with a family of the same, the other two were basically woodsmen, living off the land and as far away from other people as they could possibly get.

Erick conferred with his people on those three cases, and each time they came back with the same answer: form a contract of some sort, verbal or otherwise, demanding some obeisance to House Benevolence or to himself, and then ask if they wanted to be Benevolence Dragons.

All three jumped at the chance, and readily pledged fealty.

Erick asked the dragonkin-looking dragon from the Wasteland to move to Candlepoint and bring whatever business with him that he could. He happily chose to come to Candlepoint and bring his family with him. Erick was glad for that. The dragonkin man’s case was an odd case, though, because according to everything Erick knew dragons never adopted the form of dragonkin (for a complicated set of reasons, for sure), and yet here was a dragon that broke that usual mold.

Soon, that 60 meter long, dark red dragon became a similarly long rose-quartz-like dragon. Erick gained a pile of red dragon parts for his collection, and a very, very happy dragonkin for Candlepoint. A whole family, too. Erick informed Zolan to help the new guy to fit in somewhere, and then Erick sent the new guy off.

The two woodsmen were an orcol and a harpy.

From them, Erick gained some dragons who wanted to help turn the Crystal Forest back into a real forest, and two more piles of body parts; a pile of green, and a pile of bright magenta.

Nine other dragons just wanted to end it all, just like Scutt.

After confirming their desires and checking for opinions with Gabby and Quilatalap and Poi, Erick gave them all the best futures he could, plucked from webs full of small and large horrors like he was salvaging wreckage from a hurricane-hit house. He sent those new people off to a hidden home in the heights of Yggdrasil, to sleep off their transformation in the same apartment housing as Scutt.

And that was all his meetings for the day.

He had effectively killed anywhere from 2500 to 4000 people, if you counted mana production as ‘people’, which Rozeta and the Script did. Monsters apparently counted for mana production too, though, and who the fuck knew how many monsters Erick had ever killed. Millions, at least.

Fuck, was he deep in the mana hole.

And the Chelation War! Holy shit 4 million dead. 40 million mana per year. Not to mention all the knock on deaths due to disruption of civilization.

Gah!

Hopefully mana wouldn’t become a real problem because of him, but.

Shit…

Erick put those thoughts out of his mind for now. He had another meeting.

As the sun set, and Erick emplaced himself alone in one of his hidden spaces, he called out, “I know you’re there, Fairy Moon. You’ve been poking around this entire day and it’s gotten worse here at the end.”

Fairy Moon stepped out of the air, atop the sunset stone, seeming like a bit of pink and green Springtime had come to Veird. She looked a little cross, but there was no one else in this space for her to play to a crowd; Erick had ensured that. As much as he could, anyway.

Erick said, “You have some problem with me growing my House?”

Fairy Moon’s lips squished together as she eyed him. “Not… Necessarily.”

“What’s the problem, then? Because I’m going to do this a lot more. I have been informed that I’ve got something like 250 dragons or more headed my way as fast as they can get here safely. I’ll be lucky to find maybe 10% of them who still want to be dragons, though. The Curse is worse than I had imagined.”

Fairy Moon still looked perturbed.

“… Just say it, Fairy Moon. Whatever you want to say just say—”

