Merzun spoke. Montressa jerked. Even pressed against the floor, she could see Mrsha, sideways to her, aiming the crossbow with shaking paws at Merzun. The Dullahan woman didn’t look concerned.
Her armor was a flashy gemstone-inlaid-into-ceramic armor that could probably stop a weak crossbow bolt. However, the real protections were the layers of shields.
“Put that down. Children should not be wielding crossbows. Where is her guardian? I should take her with the others. Mage Montressa?”
Merzun almost sounded concerned. Montressa whispered.
“Leave her alone.”
“Then stop obstructing me. Why do the Gnolls have Miss Rose? Little girl—I am warning you. You do not want to make me angry, do you?”
Mrsha was sighting down the crossbow.
“Don’t. Run and get help. The garden! Get outside and—”
Bezale barked, and then cut off. Merzun saw the open door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Her fingers twitched and her wand-arm raised.
“Child, I am going to bind you. Put the crossbow down and come over here. You won’t be hurt. Understand? Come over here. Now? Don’t—”
The little Gnoll hesitated. She glanced down, then her features firmed. She aimed and pulled the trigger.
The crossbow fired. The bolt loosed. Merzun’s brows crossed, but she didn’t bother to dodge.
Niers Astoragon used his greatest Skill. He pointed, and activated it. The Skill he had ‘earned’ from killing the [Gambler of Fates]. His last capstone.
A Skill to break any foe to pieces. Even the King of Destruction.
[Battlefield: Even Ground – No Magic, No Luck, No Skills, Only Strategy].
Across the ground, High Mage Merzun’s magic abruptly turned off. She began to drop. Her eyes went wide.
The crossbow bolt punched into her foot, through ceramic. She hit the ground, her head smacking into the floorboards. Niers smiled as the magic suppressing half the people in the inn winked out.
“[Flame Bolt]!”
Montressa shouted. She pointed, but nothing happened. No Magic.
“[Piercing Shot].”
Bird raised his arrow, but hesitated as he sensed no Skill activating. No Skills.
No luck, either. For five minutes, you were just what you were. Only strategy. Even Tulm feared that Skill. Bird still drew back on the bow; he needed no Skills to hit his mark.
“Stop! Stop!”
Palt shouted. He was getting to his feet. He knocked Bird’s aim loose. Mage Merzun? She was screaming in pain.
“My foot! How—how—”
Mrsha had fled into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She peeked out, wide-eyed as the bleeding Dullahan woman flailed. Bezale grabbed her and checked her body into the ground.
It was over. Niers peeked out behind Mrsha’s ear. He’d just hit the people in the inn, not the inn itself. He’d had a hunch they might kill the [High Mage] if freed. Sure enough, he’d been wise to extend the radius.
On second thought, it was bad for a [High Mage] of Wistram to drop dead in this inn. He carefully whispered to Mrsha.
“Now, listen…”
 
—-
 
“A Tier 6 Spell? [Magic Null]?”
Mrsha the Glorious Magus nodded a few times. Montressa and Bezale’s mouths opened and closed a few times.
“There is no way she can cast that.”
“There was a book…”
Ishkr shut his mouth fast as everyone looked at him. Niers wiped sweat from his brow. He nudged the bee, crowding the beam where he was hiding.
“Get lost!”
The giant Ashfire Bee stared at him, hurt, and trotted a ways away. That wasn’t the point, anyways. Niers listened.
High Mage Merzun was captive. She had anti-magic cuffs on her, the same restraints brought to capture Pisces, ironically. Montressa, Bezale, Palt, and the others were debating what to do with her.
“If we hand her over to Zevara, Wistram will bail her out.”
“Not Zevara. She won’t budge.”
“Then it is war. Let me go. I don’t know how that child learned such magic, but she is coming with me. Those Earthers too. Wistram knows where I am. It is well you did not slay me. Do not make your situation worse.”
Mage Merzun was amazing. She had the gall to act as if she still held all the cards, even now. Worse…she was sort of right.
Sort of. Wistram was a big force. On the other hand? Ulvama whirled her staff and smacked Merzun on the head.
The [High Mage] made a pained sound. Ulvama smiled.
“Let’s beat her up. Then decide.”
She looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was murderous.
“No, she’s right. She’s a [High Mage]. She might be able to blast her way out of prison unless Hexel’s upgraded it. Only a [Grand Magus] and the Archmages stand above her.”
Palt was the voice of reason. He looked around, not exactly calm, but seeing more clearly. He looked at Merzun, shook his head, and turned to the others.
“We have to let her go.”
“Let her go? She’ll just come back again! Let’s give her to Chaldion in Pallass!”
Joseph snapped back. Palt shook his head.
“No, and no. I suggest we tell Chaldion—and Magus Grimalkin what happened. And Xrn.”
“Xrn will eat you.”
Bird whispered to Mage Merzun. Her restrained body and head both tried to roll away from the baleful [Hunter]. Palt shook his head.
“If Mage Merzun wants to stick around for all three to object to her—and Watch Captain Zevara—she can. This is a matter for Liscor’s Council. We do not want to be caught up in it.”
“But they know we’re here.”
Kevin looked at Merzun. She was eying him like…Troy and Leon and Imani too. Palt nodded slowly.
“Yes. We’ll have to prepare for that. Merzun dying here is not wise, though. She’s part of the Revivalists. Archmage Nailihuaile won’t react…well. She can be vindictive. Montressa, Bezale, back me up. Mons?”
The [Aegiscaster] wasn’t responding. She just sat.
“I’m exiled? I—”
“One of you is speaking sense. Let me go. As for Mage Montressa, it wasn’t my fault. Stop that! You disgusting creature!”
Ulvama had blown her nose and was wiping the tissue on Merzun’s armor. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] somehow knew exactly how to offend Dullahans the worst.
The others argued. Niers knew the Centaur was correct—at least for now. Wistram would not give up. Those Earthers? Earthers? His mind was racing. Wistram was ahead of him. They had been for months.
Those Earthers were now on a shortlist, unless other factions in Wistram would protect them. Merzun was only the start.
Mind you—if this was his company and Merzun had tried it on his territory, she might not have been in this situation. Yet The Wandering Inn was not prepared to fight Wistram like a Great Company.
It did have Niers Astoragon. Mrsha glanced up at him and he waved for her to pretend he wasn’t there.
“I’ll talk to Ullsinoi. We need…the Revivalists would have gotten all of them. That’s an inter-academy conflict you’ve begun, High Mage.”
Palt was glancing at Merzun. She stared at him stonily.
“The [Innkeeper] is dead, Magus Palt. Similarly, there is no time for dissident factions.”
“I would say the dissident faction is the one clearly grabbing power here, High Mage.”
He replied, putting a cigar in his mouth.
“Enough. If she’s not being beaten up, I want her gone.”
The harsh voice came from Numbtongue. Niers blinked. The Hobgoblin pointed his sword at Merzun. She eyed him, wisely keeping her mouth shut.
“Mage. You come back—you die. Next time, you die. Anyone who tries, [Mage], Archmage, anyone. Understand?”
“I…understand. I will pass your message on to my faction.”
He glared. The others looked at each other.
“Well, let’s roll her into Invrisil I guess. Tell Grimalkin to come over first?”
“Sounds like a plan.”
As Bezale bent to grab Merzun’s body, she spoke up.
“Wait. I meant what I said.”
The others looked at her. The [High Mage] glowered around, then her eyes focused on the Earthers.
“You don’t have to stay here. Come to Wistram. We can protect you. Or have you not seen how dangerous the world is? We have many, many of you there. You can live in safety and luxury. I cannot force you, but surely you must agree.”
The Earthers looked at her. Kevin’s eyebrows were in his hair. Joseph just turned away.
“I need a drink. This is a good excuse, right?”
Imani glared from behind Palt. Even Troy held up two emphatic fingers. No one looked twice at Merzun, even the Brothers were clearly thinking that this was not an honest woman and trying to figure out how to stop someone before they entered the hallway. The truth spells…the inn had to be reopened.
“Alright, rolling time. Miss Ulvama, please stop that.”
Ulvama was now drawing graffiti on Merzun’s back with some extremely hard-to-remove paint. Ishkr had already run to get Grimalkin, Bird to find Xrn.
“I’ll go.”
A quiet voice spoke up as Merzun was hoisted up. Heads turned.
Leon stood there. He didn’t look at the others.
“Leon, are you nuts?”
“No, I’m not. I hate it here. Everyone else has something, I don’t. So I’ll go. This inn—you know what? Fuck this inn, you too, Kevin. I’m out.”
Leon looked around, shaking with nerves and anger. The others looked at him. Even Troy, who had his purpose. Numbtongue stared at Leon, and jerked his foot up.
“Okay. Two go. Get lost.”
He walked past Leon as the young man lay on the ground, clutching at his groin.
So, and so. Niers couldn’t speak to the wisdom of the decision. Nor was the [Strategist] able to make a decision based on his knowledge.
After all the commotion had ended, he rode the Ashfire Bee into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She buzzed around, and a little Gnoll met them by the hilltop. Niers dismounted, and Mrsha carried him up.
“Ah.”
He stopped in front of the frozen bier. Niers stared down at Erin Solstice. He stood there, for a long moment. Mrsha’s head bowed, yet she darted glances at the Titan.
Realer than life. Smaller than his legend. The Fraerling [Strategist] stood there, head bowed. At last, at last—he looked at Mrsha.
No tears in his eyes. Just…tired. He looked at the young Gnoll, and then breathed out.
“If I can, I promise you, I’ll do something. Everything’s fallen apart. Can I ask you to help me put it back together?”
Mrsha looked down. The Fraerling man held out a hand. Slowly, ever so slowly, she reached out. Niers touched the first living being, the first person he hadn’t tried to kill or who had tried to kill him in a month, and gently shook her paw.
Far from home. Bereft of gear, but with all his Skills and experience. Ally? One white Gnoll. One Ashfire Bee. Advantages? No one knew where he was. Disadvantages? Everyone knew where he was.
The Titan smiled. He did like a challenge.
