Niers began to hop upwards as rainwater and lightning and water covered the lower valley. He wished he could have dragged the bag of holding with him, but even that would slow him too much.
He watched the results of his escape attempt coldly. If he had any sympathy, it was for the Garuda and her team. Even the Goblins he’d used to win his freedom.
Yet that was strategy. Sometimes, they were just pieces on the board.
 
—-
 
Bevussa and her team could not fly in the rain. Perhaps they might have risked it with waterproofing spells, but the lightning would kill them dead. They fought on the ground, battling Goblins, monsters, trying to make for safety.
They took down a Gargoyle, eight Eater Goats, and were preparing for a charge on the Goblins. But this was not their element. They were fliers, meant for hit-and-run attacks! Heron’s Mark? Bevussa didn’t know.
“Where are we going?”
“Past the Goblins! Back to cover! Anywhere we can hide! Break their lines! Kin, stay behind Issa and m—”
Shapes marched down the hill. Huge ones. Bevussa whirled. Her shortsword came up. She tensed…then swore.
“Ogres!”
The two Drakes stared at her in dismay. The first Ogre looked like a damned [Knight]. Crude iron riveted together made the monster appear even more imposing. Worse—they came down in a squad, and two with shields were covering three holding those damned oversized crossbows. Bevussa looked around.
“Fall back—”
She heard a howl. Carn Wolves bounded down the slopes, flanking them on the other side. Bevussa realized they were dead. She and the two Oldblood Drakes stood back-to-back as crimson eyes flashed in the pouring rain, green skin illuminated by the lightning strikes.
The Goblins didn’t open fire, though. Slowly, one of them, holding a pair of enchanted swords, pointed down at the Gold-rank adventurers. He shouted something.
A boom of thunder hid his words. Bevussa shouted.
“What?”
Another shout. Bevussa hesitated. The lightning—
The Goblin seemed to realize he wasn’t being heard. He tried again, bellowing, but the thunder drowned him out.
The other Goblins stared at Redscar as he folded his arms, glowering. He refused to try a fourth time and look like a bigger idiot.
It was the smaller Goblin riding with him that swung down. The Goblins lifted their bows and Bevussa tensed. Yet the little Goblin, ignoring rain and thunder, pointed down at them. She drew her own sword—held it out, horizontally—and dropped it.
Bevussa saw the blade fall. She hesitated. She stared at the Goblins. A flicker of thought ran through her head.
Numbtongue and the inn.
“Wings of Pallass?”
“Captain?”
“Drop your blades.”
Bevussa tossed her shortsword down. Kin and Issa hesitated, and then copied her. They put up their arms as Rags nodded. She swung her head left and right.
“Grab the adventurers. Get back to Goblinhome. No more deaths!”
She snapped at the wounded Sharpstick. The Goblin lowered his head. Rags searched the dark High Passes, but she had no idea what had caused this—this mess. Goblins dead, monsters still fighting…she cursed as she saw more magic light in the distance.
“More Gold-ranks. They see us. Fight or go?”
Redscar grumbled. Rags sighed.
“Go. Go!”
She turned and the Goblins pulled back. With three prisoners.
 
—-
 
Niers kept climbing. He knew the other Gold-ranks were out there. Somehow, Heron’s Mark had survived. It looked like three Gold-rank teams down there, and even the Goblins were loath to bring it to a straight battle.
The bad weather was already clearing. The battle was ‘done’. Eater Goats had eaten or fled his Skill, and the Gargoyles had beaten a retreat as [Mages] began blasting them away.
Heron’s Mark crowded around Nomen’s body. He heard their raised voices. Niers was hopping up the mountain. He had somewhere to be. He listened.
“…Titan…forget this…!”
Was that an actual oath of vengeance upon him? Niers narrowed his eyes at the screaming [Ranger] shaking her tiny fist at the sky. She looked as small as he seemed to them at this height.
He was not in a good mood. The Titan pointed back down at the [Ranger].
“You hold a grudge? You hold a grudge? [Highlight Target].”
The half-Elf began to glow. All the other adventurers recoiled. The Goblins, monsters—everything turned and saw the Skill-marked [Ranger]. A second battle began as a colony of giant centipedes—actually giant, three feet wide and a lot longer—poured out of a cave.
The Titan kept climbing.
 
—-
 
Three days later, the Titan finally sat down. It felt like the first time he’d sat down in three days. His guest looked uncomprehendingly at him as the Titan motioned her into the chamber.
A home, really. Not the kind he was used to, but a home nonetheless.
“I know you don’t really understand me. I know you were just—living your life. A hardworking mother. You find food, you eat it. That’s how it happens. Well, you chose the wrong meal. It took me a while to find you. However, I’m the Titan. You really can’t tell how dangerous I am, can you?”
An uncertain squawk of sound was his answer. Silence.
Blood in the air. Niers sat down, cleaning his blade. He spoke, conversationally.
“I am not a nice man. I do whatever it takes to win if I have to. Not often. However, this isn’t about victory. You took my leg. See?”
He gestured to the stump below his right knee. He’d whittled a crutch out, but he’d had to leapfrog with his good Boot of the Grasshopper. If he hadn’t known exactly where he was going, it would have taken him months. But the avian nest, no matter how high…he’d had a lot of energy for this.
Broken eggs. Dead little birds. The Razorbeak was making a sound. Did it feel grief? The nest of ferocious little monsters had fought him.
The Titan hadn’t cared. He gestured at the Razorbeak, who still bore her wounds—a missing foot, cuts along her belly and mouth. She had yet to use a potion. He gently nudged the six carved pieces of wood he’d had to drag up the mountain to this spot.
“You don’t understand. I have so many enemies—had—and you’re the one who takes an actual limb. Well, that’s appropriate. Hubris from me. And what do you feel, now?”
The Razorbeak screamed. Niers hadn’t expected a dialogue. The bird hobbled into her destroyed nest, shrieking, mouth opened wide. She would kill him, even if he sliced her open.
…Of course, that was what he was waiting for. The Titan pointed. No bravado, no hand-to-hand.
“[Battlefield: Deploy Traps].”
It was a Skill for an entire battlefield. He had never thought to use it like this. Yet it worked.
The six primitive spike traps were nothing fancy. Just bent wood, a tip of sharpened stone, ready to snap and hit a target. The Razorbeak charged into them.
Crack. Niers got up. He stayed out of range of the flapping wings, the thrashing claw and mouth. He cut—carefully working his way around the strike zone. The Razorbeak lunged at the end—he finally beheaded her.
“There.”
Niers Astoragon exhaled. He sat back down. Stared at his missing leg.
He didn’t feel better. You didn’t, after exacting vengeance. But he’d wanted this.
For more reasons than simple bloodshed. Niers walked over to the thing’s stomach. If he was very, very lucky…he’d poked around in the piles of crap. He disemboweled the Razorbeak, wrinkling his nose as he went through the digestive tract. But there—
“Damn it. Aha.”
He sighed and fished out his enchanted boot. There was no way he could use it with a stump of a leg of course, but it was worth a lot of money.
Not enough to justify the entire journey up here. However, he had a second reason. Niers removed one of the wooden traps, coughed.
“This place is going to be swarming with insects in an hour. Better work fast.”
He did. About three wooden traps were dismantled, and he harvested what he needed from the adult Razorbeak. He carried the bloody mess away, tying it to a carry-bag around his waist. It slowed him down, but he was very, very strong even without his Ring of Minotaur’s Strength.
He didn’t need to go far, for that matter. Niers sat in his base camp, chasing away tiny bugs attracted to the blood as he worked. He took his time on this one; he hurried, but he refused to be rushed.
 
—-
 
Two more days later, Niers Astoragon was ready. Two test-runs had resulted in success. Moreover, he knew it would work. He was just uncertain if he’d managed to copy the designs properly.
“Well, it’s not like I’ll die.”
Grunting, Niers executed phase-two of his plan. First? Vengeance and his boot. Second?
The miniature glider was just pieces of sinew, the Razorbeak’s wings, and bits of wood. He was afraid it would snap in the air, or he wouldn’t control it properly. He was ready to try controlling the weather, although he could only make it nasty.
The wind was strong high up in the High Passes. It blew him eight hundred feet into a cliff the first time. Thereafter, Niers kept low, flying just a few feet over the terrain.
Down, across the High Passes. It took him six more days of flying, carrying the glider, and resting to reach the Floodplains.
This time, however, Niers used his Skills. He encountered trouble only once.
 
—-
 
Niers was sitting around a fire in the tiny cave at night on the fifth day. He was nearly at the Floodplains and thinking about what to do next.
Liscor was his destination. He knew he was unkempt, a mess. He was tired. The fire had gone out. Not the one in front of him, but the one in his heart, the childish enjoyment of this…game, this little adventure he could boast about.
What sat in the cave now was the [Strategist] of Baleros, who had chased away monsters and cleared his path with his Skills. He glanced up as he heard the crunch outside his cave.
Something big. He readied the bow he’d remade for hunting. Dinner had been a cave mouse; the animals were getting less dangerous and actual commonplace creatures were more common the further down he went.
[Archers: Triplicate Volley], had brought down the mouse. Another irony. A Skill for an entire battalion let him shoot three arrows. He cautiously drew back on the bow, ready to activate his terror-Skill if need be. His [Foe Sensor] began flickering through possible targets…
“Hello? It’s me. Bevussa.”
Niers started. He saw the bird-like leg, the feathers, as someone appeared outside his cave. He thought all the adventurers were dead. He remembered her, of course, but her ghost had not troubled him. He didn’t remember the people he killed. Not anymore.
“Adventurer Bevussa?”
He recalled her name. The Garuda stooped. It was her, alright. She had lost her armor, and she looked…forlorn.
“I am very sorry. I would like to m-make amends. Hello?”
She stood outside his cave. Niers eyed her from his position too far for anyone to grab him, half-blocked by a stone. He grunted, lowered his bow, and drew his sword.
“Hello?”
“Get lost. Learn better elocution if you want to trick someone.”
Niers snapped at whatever was standing outside. The Garuda stepped back. She regarded him, blinking.
Naked. The voice was right. The appearance? Probably spot on. Niers met the thing’s gaze.
“I’m not in the mood for this.”
‘Bevussa’ rocked on her feet. She opened her mouth—far too wide—the beak stretching unnaturally. Then seemed to reconsider.
She backed away from Niers, tottered down the slope the way she’d come. He heard her voice in the distance, speaking nonsense.
“Goodbye. I am Bevussa. Hello. Hello…”
Niers didn’t untense for a long time. Damn. Higher-level monsters. That was bad, too. It was almost complete if it could do voices.
However, even if Foliana was here, he’d have not gone after it. Niers edged to the opening of his cave. He hesitated.
“If you’re after it, be my guest. Otherwise—piss off. I told you, I’m not in the mood for this.”
He snapped. His eyes locked on something in the distance, along the cliffs. Too far for him to see with his eyes. But his Skill…
Silence. The babble of the monster below was fading away. Nothing else moved in the dark world beyond of the High Passes.
Niers waited, sword drawn. Something…regarded him. Somethings. They seemed to reach a conclusion. Well, why not?
He saw the flicker and dove. The first ‘arrow’—or maybe it was thrown?—hit the mouth of his cave. Three more followed.
Spitting out dust, Niers raised his head. Smart. They thought he couldn’t do much more than call a monster down on them or change the weather. He barked.
“[Superior Counter Fire].”
Five projectiles arced back the way they’d come. Niers heard the distant thuds of impact. He poked his head out of the cave.
A body crashed down the cliff. Niers sensed the other four shapes milling about—moved back. He grunted, pulled back into the cave. He kept one eye open as he rested, but nothing else disturbed him that night.
When he went to find the body the next day, it was gone. Niers looked up towards the higher reaches of the mountaintops, but he let it go.
He reached the Floodplains on the seventh day. Three weeks since he had entered the High Passes, Niers reached the inn on the hill outside the city of Liscor.
 
—-
 
He’d had to walk the Floodplains. Niers had gotten rid of the grisly glider after reaching the grasslands, hills and valleys which were relatively safe.
It wasn’t as if he could have flown to Liscor with the terrain-following strategy. Go too high and he was at risk of being blown far, far away. Besides, he took the time to think.
He’d debated going for his bag of holding, but the Cherinion Swords had it if they had half a brain. Now he was finally close to civilization, Niers had to be careful.
The Shield Spider nests were his big danger in the grassy terrain. Niers kept his [Foe Sensor] online, though, and only had to kill three on his entire hike, avoiding nests with ease.
The issue was that now, he was in more danger than the High Passes in a sense. The High Passes…he should have used his Skills.
He stared at the stump of a leg. He’d tried making a peg-leg, but he wasn’t able to properly get it to grip his stump. For now, he used the crutch and his jumping boots to move about.
If he had both legs, he’d have been able to steal a [Message] scroll far more easily. One mistake was all it would take. Someone stepped on him, slammed a door, and he’d be paste or break every bone in his body.
Or if they see me, the Iron Vanguard and everyone who wants me, even third parties, will flood the area with adventurers. And then I’m captured and I could have just let those Gold-ranks take me back a week and a half ago.
Niers had to find a trustworthy ally, or get a [Message] scroll to his company. He felt like the two goals were intertwined with the first, the only reason he had come here.
His opponent. No—
“Erin Solstice.”
