“I’m joking. Go on, [Strategist]. We both know it wouldn’t stop me. Or you. I curse you with the [Gambler]’s curse. Nothing special. You don’t play a gambler’s games, Niers Astoragon. So win without luck. My [King] will follow after, you know.”
“If he does, I will stop him.”
The Titan looked at her. He lifted his sword. Queravia—
The shadow was his only warning. Niers broke out of his trance, pivoted.
“Damn—”
He sliced through one talon, but the Razorbeak grabbed him again. It shrieked triumphantly and the adventurers looked up. Niers cursed. Was it the same damn bird? His memory played on, the [Strategist] self.
I never knew if she was telling the truth. If she was—
The Fraerling twisted. Leverage! A Skill? No—he’d get out of this again! He swore it was the same damn bird, but he’d cut one talon. He wiggled as it called out in pain. He just needed to get his sword and he’d slice out, this time. An arrow? He fumbled.
Gambler’s curse. Just a simple thing. I throw the dice and win or lose without chance. Same with coins. A ‘curse’. 
No luck on the battlefield? I gamble all the time. Just not like she did it. I never met a [Strategist] like her. When I return, I need to change. My students…
He found an arrow, snapped the shaft, jabbed the sharpened rock into a scale, digging. Where was his sword? There! He grabbed the hilt, began to slash around the claw. The Razorbeak screamed.
Taking risks. I never took a greater one as when I faced her. But I was too cowardly to face the King of Destruction on Chandrar. I should have taken the entire Forgotten Wing Company and fought him. I stopped taking chances. 
The claws opened. Niers clung to one, blood pattering his armor. He tried to slash at the other leg, the bird’s undercarriage. Not the leg holding him.
“Got you, you pestilential bird! Payback! That’s right, bring your head down for me!”
Reinvent myself. Luck. I faced luck and gained a Skill, my title. I should have forced the Iron Vanguard back, formed a navy. Involved myself—I’m trapped on Baleros. When I—
The beak opened. Snapped. The sword slashed through part of the Razorbeak’s jaw, lodged in a tooth.
—I—
The [Strategist]’s thoughts ended. The tearing pain, agony, followed the sensation of loss. He stared down. He’d twisted as the beak came for him. But he couldn’t dodge fully.
“My leg. My—leg!”
The jaws closed. His armor held off the rending teeth for a second, perhaps two. The gigantic bird worried at his leg, grinding the magic away. He felt the agony and then a void. Niers looked down.
His right leg was severed at the knee. The Titan—blinked.
He saw red gore, so familiar. A jutting end of broken bone, torn away, trailing blood and viscera. So familiar.
Yet this was his body. Thoughts fragmented. Tiny droplets of blood fell from the air as the huge jaws swallowed the tiny bite above him. He heard the sound, the gurgling rasp of digestion. The stump of his leg.
—get back?
“My leg! YOU BASTARD BIRD!”
He slashed. But now the Razorbeak bit again and he was in the jaws. Niers thrashed as the teeth hammered his armor.
“I’LL KILL YOU. MY LEG!”
His voice echoed in the air. He screamed, slashing. But the jaws were clamping down and he couldn’t—
The arrow hit the wing and the Razorbeak screamed, dropped him. Niers fell out of the air, disoriented, limp. He heard shouts.
“It can’t be—that’s him! Get him! Get—”
The adventurers. As the Razorbeak fled, screaming, wounded, they stampeded towards his location. One of them stared down in horror.
“He’s missing a leg! Get a potion of healing—”
“Wh—how—”
The [Strategist] was staring down. His leg! His entire life, he had never taken a wound as—they reattached his arm when it was half-severed by the trap. His—
Liquid splashed him, clearing blood. He saw the bloody stump cover itself with flesh. He looked up.
A team of adventurers stared down at him. The [Strategist]’s mouth moved.
“I knew I heard a voice! It’s him. The Titan.”
“Wh—”
We have grown complacent.
A hand grabbed his sword-arm. He fought, but he was just—he had forgotten. No Skills? No handicaps? How soon everyone forgot.
He was just a Fraerling.
 
—-
 
Niers Astoragon lay in a bird-cage. No, he sat with his back to the bars. Cheap bronze. He might have bent them, but they watched him like a hawk.
And they had his sword. Not his armor; they’d left him with some dignity, but the Gold-rank team, Heron’s Mark, was one of a number of Gold-rank teams in the High Passes.
“Looking for you, uh—Titan. Lord Astoragon. It’s paid work. We didn’t expect to find you. We’ve been searching the last week and a half.”
“All by yourself?”
Niers hadn’t spoken for the first two hours. He was in shock. His leg was gone. Taken by a damned bird. It hadn’t even died. Then, captured by a Gold-rank team.
“Not just us. Multiple teams with movement or reconnaissance specialties are looking for you, Lord Astoragon. There are bounties on you. Our employers, well—I can’t speak for the others, but we intend to deliver you alive.”
“To which Great Company?”
“I shouldn’t say—”
The Titan slowly looked at the young, eager Human man. The adventurer hesitated as the Fraerling looked at him.
“Which. Company?”
“The Iron Vanguard.”
That came from the [Ranger] who’d shot the Razorbeak. Niers nodded. In the silence that followed, their [Wizard] spoke.
“We should tell the other teams we found him, Nomen.”
“I—don’t think so, Chana. Not until we get clear of the High Passes. The other teams—might want to split the reward. Or take it from us.”
The team of four Gold-ranks, the [Warrior], a [Wizard], a [Ranger], and their [Thief], a silent Gnoll, looked at each other. A classic group.
“I know, Nomen. I mean, they might…wonder why we’re leaving. We’re engaged for the entire month. Maybe we should tell some of them in case some teams insist.”
The [Wizard] looked at Niers, and then around. Heron’s Mark looked nervous.
And well you should be. The other Gold-rank teams will kill for a bounty on my head. 
Niers’ thoughts were dark. He had begun thinking of escape plans twice. Each time, he stared at his leg.
No mobility. He could rely on a peg-leg, crutches, magical prosthesis, even fix it. But right now? Impaired.
My leg.
“Who can we trust? The other teams might be watching for one of us leaving the High Passes. In which case, we might have to fight them off us. Which team?”
They debated. At last, a name circulated.
“Wings of Pallass. They’ve got an impeccable credibility rating. Not like the others. I met Miss Bevussa in Liscor. Can you send a [Message], Chana? Tell them we need to talk now. If the others are listening in, say—say we found Crelers?”
“On it.”
As the [Wizard] began to communicate, Niers saw the adventurers staring at him. Like a curio, a legend literally fallen to earth. Smaller than they thought. Oh, he’d heard all the jokes.
He knew he wasn’t impressive now, not with his armor torn by the bird’s teeth, stump of a leg—he shifted his head to look at their leader.
“So you’re taking me to the Iron Vanguard?”
“That’s right. In Invrisil. Rest assured, Lord Astoragon, this isn’t personal.”
“Hah.”
The Gold-rank looked nervous.
Just a brat. Has he ever lost a team member? These look like rookies, not a proper battle-tested Gold-rank team.
Niers spoke, shortly.
“Let me make you a counter-offer. Deliver me to my destination, which will be the same amount of work as the Iron Vanguard, and I’ll double your fee. You know I can.”
The adventurers went silent. Even the [Wizard] looked up. Nomen opened and closed his mouth.
“I—”
“Nomen, it could be a ruse. Remember, he killed over half the Cherinion Swords! Don’t be greedy!”
The [Thief] whispered. Niers snorted.
“They attacked me. You think I need to lie? Let me put it to you this way: the Iron Vanguard wants me. My company wants me. And ‘this isn’t personal’? Boy, I’ve heard that from countless adventurers. I know it’s Creler crap, same as you. It’s personal to me. Now, I’ll be generous if I’m helped.”
“We—we have a contract, Lord Astoragon. No offense, but…”
The adventurer licked his lips. Niers stared at him.
He probably thinks the Iron Vanguard will more than double my offer to get me. He might be right. Greedy, stupid…
He looked up as he heard a distant call. The [Wizard] lowered her fingers and spoke.
“They’re coming. All three of them.”
“Three? I thought it was a team of four, like us.”
The [Ranger] raised her eyebrows. Half-Elf. Cliché on cliché. Her hair was dark brown, her skin tanned. Niers stared at her.
I could prevail on my debts with half-Elves, maybe. Depends on her origins. If she’s as stupid as the rest of her team…maybe not. Can I convince the [Thief] to betray the others? Again—
He just sat there as the second team appeared. This one looked—interesting. Two Oldblood Drakes, and a Garuda. They had been flying along the High Passes, but they weren’t idiots.
Rather than let Wyverns drop on them and any number of monsters attack, they’d been using [Camouflage] spells while scouting for him. Niers might have even missed them, unlike Heron’s Mark.
“Nomen, isn’t it? Where’s the Creler nest? If it’s small, we can take it on together. Or do we need to contact all the teams?”
“Bevussa—Bevussa, listen. It’s not that. We—we actually found—”
He gestured to Niers in the cage. The Titan looked up and saw the beak open in shock. Bevussa recoiled. He saw her companions look around, then stare at Heron’s Mark.
“Is…why are you telling me, Nomen?”
Bevussa slowly looked at the Gold-rank Captain, coming to the same conclusion as he spoke.
“We want to get the bounty on Lord Astoragon and get out of the High Passes without the other teams interfering. We’re considering splitting part of the bounty if you help us out.”
The Garuda’s eyes widened. She looked at Niers. He stared back. And abruptly, he felt sick. From Titan, meeting his grand opponent, commander of one of the finest mercenary companies in the world, to a…a Fraerling in a cage.
“Good evening, Miss Adventurer. Good to meet young Gold-ranks these days.”
The old Fraerling smiled at the children. Like a grandfather, a professor lecturing young, new, promising students. The generation to replace his waning star. Bevussa carefully bowed.
“Titan of Baleros, Lord Astoragon, it’s an honor to meet you. Are we…delivering him to his people, Nomen?”
The adventurer hesitated. Niers sat back, smiling genially around.
Inside…he thought he heard the quiet snapping, like bones, of his patience, his temper, bursting its carefully constructed cage.
Suddenly, no, it was a culmination, a realization born of many days and nights like this, testing his patience, wearing at his carefully controlled temper, his true temper, not the flights of annoyance or irritability he had, came upon the Titan of Baleros, Niers Astoragon. And it was this: his journey, his ‘adventure’ in the High Passes was no longer fun.
No longer fun. It had not been. Nearly dying, the ambush, had not been, nor fighting for his life against insects, eating bugs, surviving mudslides, hiking for days and nights like a younger man. However, it had been by another token. He had felt younger, and in arrogance, tried to do it without using his Skills. Without taking the threat seriously.
His leg was gone. Niers stared at it. His pleasant smile widened.
Bevussa felt a prickle on her feathers. She was trying to talk to Nomen, but she could not look away.
Not from him. The living legend. The Titan.
He looked far, far too calm for someone who had just lost a limb.
She felt like her [Dangersense] was going off. Yet it was intuition.
“Excuse me.”
The Titan interrupted the muffled conversation. The adventurers turned to him. The Fraerling smiled about.
“I’d just like to make a request.”
“Er—of course, sir? Lord Astoragon? You are our—guest. Do you need food?”
Nomen stuttered, at odds with Niers being a functional prisoner and his awe. Bevussa just waited. Niers nodded.
“Yes, yes indeed. I appreciate you wanting to stay alive and keep the money. However, I, personally, have come to a decision. I will not be ferried back and handed over to the Iron Vanguard and have to negotiate or trick my way to freedom. I’m tired. I want a Potion of Regrowth, or a magic leg, and I will not sit in this cage.”
The adventurer captain licked his lips.
“I’m afraid, Lord—”
Niers’ smile widened. Nomen fell silent. The [Strategist] kept speaking.
“I can appreciate ambition. So, here is my offer. Let me out and I will pay you double the current bounty to take me to my destination. I will commend you and make you famous for rescuing the Titan. However, there will be no double-dealings. Both your teams can be rich, and I will help you fend off any problems that may occur.”
The two Gold-rank teams looked at each other. Bevussa stirred at last.
“Nomen? Sounds like a good offer.”
She raised her brows, trying to hint to him…the younger man hesitated. He had gold in his eyes.
“Let’s discuss it. Lord Astoragon, just a s—”
“No.”
Again, the Titan interrupted. He looked past Nomen, at Bevussa.
“I am not giving you an offer, young man. I am giving you a choice. Listen to me. I am asking you…nicely…to indulge me. I have had a bad day. Let me out. Now. Or you will regret it.”
Wrong move. Bevussa saw the female [Wizard]’s eyes flick to the [Thief]. He shook his head behind Niers’ back. Nomen saw, and his features firmed.
The implied threat made the wavering Gold-ranks uncertain. As well as Niers clearly looking at Bevussa as the more reasonable team. Now they were eying the Wings of Pallass like potential enemies, for all they’d summoned them.
Gold in the eyes, gold on the brain. Enough gold to drown in. To retire on forever. Bevussa felt it too.
“Nomen…why don’t we take the offer?”
“Hold on, now. The Titan is our prisoner, Bevussa. I think it’s a matter of—trust. He already took care of one Gold-rank team. It’s not safe to just…let him out.”
“Are you an idiot? How did you get past Bronze-rank?”
Nomen’s ears turned red. Bevussa bit her tongue as Issa’s eyes widened and she covered her mouth. The two Oldblood Drakes coughed.
At the same time, Bevussa was astonished. Because this was not a smart, strategic move. Niers nearly had Heron’s Mark agreeing, but his tongue was stabbing him in the…only foot he had.
“I think I’ve made up my decision. Chana—can you cast [Detect Magic]? We’re taking Lord Astoragon’s gear off him. Rings. He can keep the armor, but we don’t want to take chances.”
Niers just snorted.
