“Really. How are you going to get them off? Break my fingers with a pair of tweezers? You are as stupid as I thought.”
“Nomen! Think about this.”
The [Warrior]’s eyes flashed angrily at Bevussa. He looked at the Titan.
“If you take them off, we won’t have to insist, Niers. You’re in the cage. We’ll take you to the Iron Vanguard or whomever bids highest.”
“No, you won’t.”
Bevussa’s [Dangersense] began going off now. She’d known they were in danger before. Now? She saw the Titan of Baleros slowly push himself up. He balanced, one hand holding the bars of his cage. One-legged, he looked around. His snort? Contemptuous.
“Look at you. I gave you a chance. You—fly away.”
He pointed at Bevussa. Her head swiveled as the warning bell began to ring louder.
“Nomen…”
“Stop talking like that. You can’t do a thing. If you want to keep negotiating, some respect…”
Nomen’s voice wobbled. The Titan looked at him.
“Can’t do a thing? I’m the Titan of Baleros. You little piece of Creler-bait, I’m sick of this. I don’t negotiate with Gold-rank adventurers.”
His voice was growing louder. Bevussa took a few steps back.
“Issa—Kin—get ready.”
“Don’t move.”
The half-Elf [Ranger] swung up her bow. Heron’s Mark tensed. Bevussa lifted her wing-hands.
“We’re not fighting you! Lord Astoragon—”
He wasn’t listening. The Titan clung to the bars of the cage. His eyes were flashing, his voice growing furious.
“Do you think I need to negotiate to get out of this cage? Me? I was a Named Adventurer when you were dreaming about holding swords! I’ve killed better adventurers than you with my bare hands. You think you can hold me?”
“He’s lost his mind.”
Kin muttered. Bevussa looked around, but the arrow tracking her chest was demanding her attention. If she had to dodge—
“I’ve met Dragons and bested Djinni! I’ve broken the Labyrinth of Souls and seen the words of the architects! I have beheld Elves and broken armies by the greatest [Kings] and [Warlords] of my era!”
He was bellowing. Was he trying to bring monsters down on them?
Nomen had the same thought.
“Shut him up!”
He hissed at Chana. Niers saw the [Wizard] raise her staff. The [Silence] spell didn’t even touch him. One of his rings glowed.
“You idiots.”
“Gah! I’ll do it!”
The Gnoll interrupted. He reached for the cage door. Nomen was looking around.
“This is a bluff. You can’t do anything! Stop shouting and cooperate or—”
He never got further. His torso exploded.
Niers Astoragon flung up a hand as a ribbon of red splashed the cage. Bevussa flinched—then dove. The arrow flashed past her.
“Nomen!”
A scream. The [Thief] jerked his paw back. Staring at Niers. The Titan started laughing.
“Up!”
Bevussa howled. She shot into the air with her team. The [Ranger] took aim, but Chana grabbed her arm.
“It wasn’t them! We’re under attack!”
“From—”
The Gnoll threw himself at his teammates. They hit the ground hard, but it saved their life. The second oversized bolt struck the dirt. Niers gripped the bars of his cage and began to bend the cheap metal.
“What—what—”
Nomen was alive. Somehow, the bolt hadn’t blasted his entire body apart. Durability Skills. His teammates were quick. They dropped a potion on him and he began crying out, coughing.
“Above!”
The half-Elf spotted the attackers at the same time as the Wings of Pallass. Bevussa’s eyes went round. She saw the Goblins at the same time as one launched a huge crossbow bolt from the Thunderbow he was carrying.
 
—-
 
“Hit [Mage]!”
Sharpstick bellowed as the Goblin war band opened fire. Goblins carrying crossbows and bows began to loose from their positions. They were firing at range on both teams.
 
—-
 
“Evasive! [Unit: Speed Wing]!”
The Garuda and two Oldbloods whirled away. The adventurers on the ground weren’t so lucky. Chana threw up a barrier only for three Thunderbow bolts to overload the spell. A bolt caught her in the leg and she screamed, falling down.
“Get to cover!”
“Get the Titan! What are you doing?”
Nomen shouted at his team and Niers. The little Fraerling was still laughing. Nomen wanted to grab at him, but the Goblins had them pinned and more were flanking.
“More are coming! It’s a damned tribe!”
The [Ranger] loosed an arrow as Chana screamed, dragging the bolt out of her leg and taking a huge chunk of flesh. The Gnoll slapped a potion on the wound.
How? Bevussa whirled through the air, seeing even more clearly than the [Ranger]. Goblins were marching down the High Passes, at least sixty so far—and more in the distance! Coming out of camouflaged bases.
But why were they attacking? She looked down.
The Titan of Baleros twisted open the bars of his cage. He had to hop across the ground.
Crutch, he needed a crutch. He ignored the projectiles showering down around him. His armor could take one hit. Niers still laughed, with maniacal humor as fury filled him.
He was the same small Fraerling. Only, with one difference.
He was using his Skills.
 
—-
 
“Sharpstick attacking adventurers?”
Rags heard the scrambled report and lurched out of her gloom. She shot to her feet. Half of Goblinhome was already making ready for war.
But she had not ordered it! She ran through the fortress in time to find Redscar. The Goblin snarled at her as his Redfangs mounted up. Across from him, the [Wyvern Riders] led by Snapjaw were doing the same.
“Chieftain! Coming with?”
“No! Stop! Why is Sharpstick attacking?”
The Goblins froze as the [Chieftain] barked. They looked at her.
“Chieftain’s orders!”
“Not my orders.”
Rags saw Redscar’s eyes widen. But how—?
She felt a pit open in her stomach.
 
—-
 
[False Orders]. Niers Astoragon found a snapped crossbow bolt and shrugged. Crutch obtained.
“We have to get out of here, Nomen!”
The Gold-ranks were seeing more Goblins flanking them from the cliffs. They were opening up—but two Gold-rank teams were fighting back. A [Fireball] blasted the cliff and Goblins took shelter.
“[Volley of Arrows]!”
The half-Elf tossed up eighteen arrows and shot them up, arcing them down on Goblin positions. The [Thief] hurled a bag to the ground and smoke enveloped their position.
“The Titan! Grab him!”
Nomen was crawling towards Niers, heedless of the fighting. The Titan narrowed his eyes. He could sense everything through the smoke. [Foe Sensor]. He casually hobbled left as the [Warrior]’s gauntleted hands swept the ground.
“You bastard! Where are you? What have you done?”
Nomen coughed in the smoke. He heard a cold voice from his left.
“Me? One Skill. Here’s another, you stupid little brat.”
The [Warrior] lunged. He missed. Niers had hopped away with his remaining Boot of the Grasshopper. Yet Nomen had his sword and Niers wanted his sword. The Wings of Pallass, high above, were shouting down.
“Nomen! Get your team out of here!”
Chana howled up at them.
“We can’t! Get rid of those giant crossbows!”
“No, get out of here! You have monsters incoming!”
The first wave of screaming Eater Goats crashed down on the team a second later.
 
—-
 
“Dead gods.”
Bevussa saw a second enemy appear as a horde of Eater Goats ran, screaming, at the Gold-rank team. Not just them; the Goblins had seen the Eater Goats surging down the rocky mountainside and adjusted their fire. It was now a three-way battle.
“The Titan just called the Eater Goats down on all of us!”
She screamed at Kin. The Oldblood Drake’s mouth opened.
“How?”
Bevussa didn’t know, but there was no other explanation. About three hundred Eater Goats were attacking—even the Goblins, who were wearing their red war paint! They were bewildered, but the goats were frothing at the mouth. Furious—
Rage Skill. He just aggravated the entire herd somehow. A [Strategist]’s Skills! 
Bevussa cursed. The Gold-rank Garuda banked sharply, avoiding the arrows now coming up more sporadically towards her, eyes trying to pierce the smoke cloud a dozen Eater Goats had charged into. She saw a flare of electricity; Heron’s Mark was putting up a fight.
More Gold-rank teams would see the fighting. Whether they arrived? It depended on whether they realized this wasn’t just a monster attack.
“Send word that Heron’s Mark is under attack!”
“Are we going in?”
“No! We’re grabbing the Titan and fleeing!”
Bevussa snapped to Kin. She was staring down. Grab the Titan. He was everything in this scenario and everyone knew it.
In that way, even Bevussa was still blinded by his bounty. The Titan had told her to run. She thought she was safe, flying high above the fighting. She had still underestimated her opponent.
She was on his [Foe Sensor] too. The Titan of Baleros had lost his temper.
Bevussa felt the air change. She looked up. The clouds were black. She saw the first bolt of lightning lance down as the clouds opened up.
“Ancestors—”
 
—-
 
The High Passes were hit by a storm as Niers hid in a crevasse, watching the Gold-rank team fighting for their lives against the Eater Goats.
[Unit: Incendiary Provocation]. That was a [Strategist] Skill that could incite an ally or enemy into losing all sense of reason. The Eater Goats were on a rampage. Yet now, rain, driving down in greater sleets than even his first day of being in the High Passes, was mixed with bolts of lightning, showering down around all forces.
He wasn’t controlling them. The Wings of Pallass dove, frantically, to avoid being cooked alive by the lightning even so, wings heavy with water. The Goblins shouted, losing sight of each other in the melee.
All of it was his Skills. You thought I couldn’t do anything? Niers changed the weather with one of his great Skills.
[Battlefield: Skies of Chaos, Winds of War]. Far more dangerous than [Horrendous Weather]. Some [Strategists] could provoke rain. The Earl of Rains could call thunderstorms.
Niers could call fire from the skies depending on the climate. He waited, eyes narrowed. In this chaos…he leaned on his crutch, the only calm mind present.
 
—-
 
“We have to run! Nomen! He’s tearing down the High Passes around us!”
It felt like it. Yet they had to drag Nomen out of the fighting. The [Warrior]’s chest plate was dented in; he felt like the healing potion, potions, hadn’t fully worked.
“We have to find him! It’s enough money for—”
“It’s no use if we’re all dead!”
Eater Goats were still attacking them. Heron’s Mark was climbing, desperately. Rain water was threatening to turn the lower areas into rivers. Lightning kept crashing down, sending rocks flying! And there were Goblins, Eater Goats, and now more monsters, sensing the bloodbath.
A Gargoyle landed, snatching up Eater Goats and flying back up to tear them to bits. Nomen threw up his shield, shouting, as a spray of the deadly rock-projectiles flashed from another’s mouth.
“Damn it! Find us a cave or the Wings! Let’s go!”
His team sprinted from the cover as their [Ranger] took point. She loosed an arrow, hit a Goblin [Archer]. The monster fell with a scream as Goblins switched to melee weapons against the goats and Gargoyles.
More were coming. Were those Carn Wolves flooding down the valley in the distance? Nomen cursed, but his teammate was shouting.
“Here! Here! There’s a cave!”
She screamed, pointing towards a place they could hole up. She had leapt, pulling herself up a ledge. It was too steep for Eater Goats to simply climb; they had to jump.
So did the adventurers. The [Thief] boosted Chana, then leapt, nimbly swinging himself up the ledge. Nomen was last. He bashed an Eater Goat down with his shield, then tossed the shield up to his friends. He leapt, grabbed the ledge, began to drag himself up, arms burning. His heavy armor was working against him, and his team was already sprinting to the cave, fortifying it.
“Nomen! Hurry up!”
“Almost—”
The [Warrior]’s shoulders had cleared the ledge and he was heaving himself up when he saw the Fraerling. The Titan, leaning on the snapped crossbow bolt like a crutch, regarded him.
“All of this? I won’t say it was all your fault. Just remember this if you survive: you are an idiot.”
“You—”
The Titan tensed. He leapt—and stabbed Nomen in the eye with tip of the crossbow bolt. He and the adventurer went over the ledge. Nomen screamed. He hit the ground. Not even hard enough to knock the wind from him, but his eye! He was bellowing, flailing, searching for the Titan, not to capture, but to kill when the Eater Goat trotted over to his head.
Niers hobbled towards the adventurer’s side as the Eater Goat ate. He grunted.
“Bag of holding. Damn—”
He had to undo the knot and upend it; if he reached inside, he might implode or alternatively explode in the bag of holding’s unique containment field. He kicked aside rations, cursing at the oversized potions, far too large for him to take.
“Where—where—there!”
His sword. He grabbed it. Then looked up.
The Eater Goat had noticed the morsel. It opened a bloody mouth, showing him rows of gory teeth. Not content with an entire dead adventurer, it wanted one more bite. The other Eater Goats were also trotting over, some going for the cave the rest of the Gold-ranks were in.
Niers looked at the Eater Goat. As dumb as the adventurer. He didn’t have time for this.
Another Skill activated. He should have used them all from the start. Playing games, pretending like this was ‘reinventing himself’. He snarled and the Eater Goat…backed up.
The lunatic animal, known for its tenacity and willingness to eat and fight even Crelers, slowly trotted back, abandoning its kill. The others’ heads turned towards Niers, spotting him despite his size. Yet far from swarming him, they baahed uncertainly. With a touch of fear. Then—terror.
They turned and ran. Niers walked past them. A Gargoyle feasting on dead goats looked around. It spotted Niers, made a booming shriek sound, closer to a bird, and grabbed its prey and fled. The giant stone monster wasn’t the only one.
Skills. To enrage, to change the weather—and he had countless more he could not use because they only worked on people he commanded. To make them tough, to enhance a charge or defense…
The few he could use were the Skills of a [Grandmaster Strategist]. Level 65. Higher than the King of Destruction.
[Fear Me, Your Mortality]. Even Eater Goats realized their fragile existence and fled, rather than confront the terror-effect of the tiny Fraerling. Armies could break before the Skill and the right advance.
Goblins? Tougher stuff. Those caught in the radius of the aura just kept fighting. The adventurers too. Monsters didn’t master their emotions. People could, and whether that was stupidity or courage was up for debate.
