 
The silence after Sacra finishes makes me wonder whether I should clean out my ears theatrically or just sit in silence for a while and wait for someone to laugh. But I do neither. I can sense Gamel and Prost giving each other nervous looks, but Sacra waits, as patient and as still as a statue. Her eyes are on me. At last, I raise my head.
“And she wants my response?”
Sacra smiles politely.
“By the time I depart with the other nobility. By all means, take your time to consider Lady Reinhart’s proposal, Emperor Laken. But be sure of your answer by the time I leave.”
Her eyes never waver as she curtsies. I keep my face blank and remain as still as possible. This time I’m sure that was a threat.
 
Day 99
 
What the hell does Magnolia Reinhart want? Apparently that question is one for the ages because my impromptu council of diplomacy all agrees that few people ever know what the Deadly Flower of the North truly wants. Magnolia Reinhart can be as straightforward as a poisoned arrow to the chest, or as twisted as a garlic braid. That’s Durene’s analogy, by the way. I had no idea you twisted garlic braids. How do you twist garlic, anyways? Isn’t it a bulb? Or is garlic different in this world?
Prost, Rie, and Durene don’t ever answer me on that. What they do do is argue for over an hour over why Magnolia would want me not to sell my trebuchets—their speculation ranging from her desire to corner the market herself to a suspicion that she doesn’t want nobles killing each other and besieging cities until she’s ready for it to happen—without any real consensus. They agree her outlined terms are good, generous even. They’re only wary of signing any deal with Magnolia Reinhart. Especially Lady Rie.
“The problem isn’t whether signing it would be better or worse for your empire, Your Majesty. The problem is whether or not not signing it would be worse and which option Magnolia Reinhart wants you to pick!”
The [Lady] paces back and forth as I massage my head and try to understand what she just said.
“It sounds like she was fairly clear about what she wanted, Lady Rie.”
“Anything that woman says cannot be trusted!”
Lady Rie grumbles as I sigh and walk around the table in Mister Prost’s home. His house has become something of a planning room for us, and I feel bad for invading so often. Maybe I should make this the official meeting room and give him another house. A bigger one. But there are memories here too. Death, the snow, life…
And here we are, talking about [Ladies] and deals involving magic treaties and empires. I smile and run my hands over something on the table. A map. I can’t tell what’s on it, but I can sense the markers that Lady Rie has carefully put on there for my convenience.
“Interesting map. What do the flags represent on some of the cities?”
“Ah. Those would be the cities allied to you, Emperor Laken.”
“Allied to me? I don’t know if that’s accurate.”
“They offer you goods for protection, respond to your requests for reinforcements, and send emissaries to you, Your Majesty. What else would we call them? Allies? Or perhaps vassals is more accurate?”
I grimace.
“Good point. Alright then, where’s Riverfarm? Where are we?”
“You’re touching our flag, Your Majesty.”
I pause and feel the tallest flag.
“Oh.”
The map slowly appears before me. In my mind I can sense my empire, but the map is different. It skips all the geography and lays the cities, towns, and villages out for me in the plainest of terms. Riverfarm is here, bordered by a forest and river and close to a small mountain.
It’s shielded in one sense, isolated in another. But now it’s growing, connecting to nearby settlements, most of which are ‘mine’. They’re under my protection, within my sphere of influence. But as my fingers move east and north, they run into small, round objects.
“And the stones? What do these represent?”
“Those are the cities and towns that are firmly against you, Emperor Laken. They refuse to acknowledge your claim to Riverfarm or trade with us.”
“Huh.”
I remember getting some hostile letters, but I hadn’t realized there were a number of cities that actively boycotted me. I run my hands over the cities—most far from Riverfarm on the map—and recall what Sacra said.
“Maybe they just don’t trust an [Emperor] who appeared out of nowhere.”
“Perhaps. But they might well be influenced by the other nobles to oppose you. Not just Reinhart—it would be just like her to work through fools like Lord Tourant rather than having to intercede herself.”
“Wait, Tourant has a hand in this?”
I frown, confused. Lady Rie sighs.
“Among others. His touch is particularly tactless; he is an old friend of the [Mayor] of Elkhan—here, Your Majesty.”
She takes my hand and places it gently on a village. I hear Durene mutter something, and Rie lets go. I feel the hard stone underneath my fingers.
“Okay, but what does that give him?”
“Any number of things. Refusing to allow trade caravans through if they’re carrying your goods, refusing to buy or sell…It’s meant to pressure your economy, Your Majesty. Perhaps offer friendly lords a better deal. That goes for military assistance as well. If you didn’t have your Skill and General Wiskeria’s army, it might be cause for alarm.”
Wiskeria. I nod carefully, searching for her with my mind. Ah, yes, there.
“Well, if they want to avoid us they can suffer the consequences. For now, I’m more interested in our ability to mobilize our allies. Say trouble arises, Lady Rie. Can we contact all of these settlements via [Message] spell swiftly?”
Lady Rie pauses for a moment.
“All of the larger cities, yes, Your Majesty. The smaller towns…perhaps not. It depends on whether they have a [Mage] capable of receiving the spell. Most do, but others must be reached via Runner or messenger.”
“Good. In that case we’ll regard all these allies as my assets. And if we sign a treaty with Magnolia Reinhart and trade comes down the main roads…”
I trace my hands east and north, thinking. It would be valuable. And if her name makes some of these uncooperative cities open their gates…I keep thinking as Lady Rie talks with Prost about the pros and cons of interacting with a huge city like Invrisil.
“You may be able to secure enough trade and deals with nobles as it is, Your Majesty. Lady Reinhart does not control every noble of Izril.”
Lady Rie sounds hopeful. I nod thoughtfully.
“True. Something to bear in mind. And of course, that’s what I have to do next, isn’t it?”
I straighten and turn. Lady Rie sounds relieved.
“Yes, Your Majesty. We could debate Lady Reinhart’s…offer later. But for now, I believe every adult [Lord] and [Lady] wishes to speak with you—privately. As do a few of the younger ones. Shall we entertain them in the meeting hall?”
I sigh. This is what I’ve been dreading.
“I suppose we shall.”
 
——
 
I meet them one-by-one or sometimes in pairs in my ‘throne’ room. They sit in chairs while I sit on my throne. It’s awkward, looking down on them, and they seem to feel it too. But keeping them off-guard matters, and Lady Rie is there to ensure that she and I get the best deal for Riverfarm.
Not that I know what that is. I do know how to act, just not what I want. So when Lord Tourant comes in hinting about profitable trade deals, or Lady Fel hints that she might be interested in a trebuchet or two ‘for a friend’ and ‘as a matter of discretion’, I play my game.
An [Emperor]’s game. It’s quite simple. They hope to get something from me and dangle bait, offering me things both precious and petty. I respond by offering bigger bait for them.
“Why yes, Lord Tourant, I could see an exclusive trade agreement doing very well between our estates. If it’s an issue of gold, I might be persuaded to buy your entire harvest of—what was it you said you sold? Cotton? Yes, there’s certainly a need, and I’d offer you, say, market price—but that is a large commitment to get into right away, wouldn’t you say? Oh, would you like another cup of wine?”
“Lady Fel, a gift of a trebuchet or two would hardly be fitting. Why not eight? For a friend—well of course this is all hypothetical, but I trust my people to produce them quickly, and I feel that a gift would be appropriate for—what? Of course all eight! A gift of one or two would be miserly, wouldn’t it?”
It’s fun listening to people choke on their own saliva and greed. And promising gold for raw iron is entertaining as well. I don’t have gold. At least, not enough to pay for a tenth of what I’m proposing. But what I have now isn’t the point. It’s what I’m offering. It’s the image I’m creating. And as each [Lord] and [Lady] staggers out of my throne room, envisioning riches and having nothing more than the most tenuous of promises, my perceived wealth and power grows.
And that’s the point. I didn’t need for Lady Rie to explain that. I think she’s a bit intimidated at how easy it is for me, actually. But this is easy, in some respects. Flattery and using people against each other isn’t hard. Not like laying out a village is.
One of the final [Lords] I have to talk to is Lord Melbore. I clap my arm around his shoulders and sense him tense up, but I’m jovial, welcoming. And I forestall whatever he wants with a simple question.
“Tell me, Lord Melbore, where do you see your estates in a year’s time? In five years?”
“Me, Your Majesty? Well, I—I would be quite interested in a deal with your empire. I’m told you’re generous to your friends, and between you and me, the market can be a cruel mistress. If I could persuade you to buy from me exclusively, I could see my estate booming in five years. I could double production as well if I had—”
I cut the man off as I shake my head.
“No, no. Grander.”
“Excuse me, Your Majesty?”
I sigh.
“Think grander, Lord Melbore. I’m told your lands produce high-quality goods! Food, lumber, a modest business in fletching—but is that all you want to see out of your lands?”
“Well, I suppose I could see myself expanding—”
I cut him off again.
“Lord Melbore, I am an [Emperor]. When I came to Riverfarm, it was a small village. It still is, for all that it’s tripled in size. I look at your lands and see—well, I don’t see—unused potential. Don’t dream of doubling your profits in ten years. Dream of cornering the market, of becoming a byword, a staple in cities like Invrisil. How much money can you make? What do you have to offer? What could you do with an investment? Tell me, what could you do with an ally? A…patron?”
Perhaps I lay it on too thick. Perhaps some of them are intelligent enough to see that I’m offering them a cloud with nothing to back it up. But I can hear the gears whirring away in Melbore’s head, and by the time he hurries out of my throne room promising me that he would be far better than Lord Tourant at getting me what I need, I know that my job is done. But I keep my guard up, because vague promises are easy to combat. It’s people who know exactly what they have and what they want that become trouble.
“Four thousand gold pieces for a trebuchet.”
“I can’t offer you one just yet, Lady Bethal.”
“Eight thousand.”
“It’s not a matter of gold.”
“Mm. Sixteen—”
“Lady Magnolia has an interest in them.”
“Oh! Magnolia wants them? Why didn’t you say so to begin with? I’m hardly going to bother starting a bidding war with her—why don’t I order the ones after hers? I’d like ten—”
“Lady Bethal, I don’t know when they’ll be ready or what the cost may be—”
“I could offer you horses too, if you want. How does a hundred head of horse sound? Six hundred? I have so many! It’s quite interesting you know—if you have the right Skills, it’s quite hard to fail at a business venture. Harder if you have a husband like Thomast. He’s very good with numbers.”
“Lady Bethal, please. I’d be happy to work out a deal, but not at this time.”
The lady peers at me.
“Are you sure? I’d hate to think I was missing out on the opportunity ahead of time. Couldn’t I reserve just a teensy trebuchet?”
“I assure you, when I am at liberty to sell them, yours will be the first name I think of Lady Bethal. I promise you, I am simply not able to accept your money—”
I glance over at Lady Rie, who’s giving me complex signals to take the money now!, and sigh louder.
“—at this time. I’m sure I will send you a [Message] spell shortly. Very shortly, if Lady Rie has anything to do with it.”
“Well…I suppose I have no choice. In that case, I would simply like to extend you my warmest gratitude for your hospitality, Emperor Laken. You see, Thomast and I will be departing within the hour, and while we would love to stay another night in your lovely, restful beds…we simply must go.”
The sudden change of topic nearly gives me whiplash.
“You’re going? So soon? I was under the impression you were travelling with the other nobles, Lady Bethal.”
She laughs lightly.
“I was! But Thomast convinced me it might not be in my best interests, so we will take our leave before they do. Honestly, he fusses so much about the company we keep…but yes, we will be going.”
“I see. May I send you an escort to my borders, at least?”
Another laugh. I just cannot read Lady Bethal’s voice or her posture—but for an instant I sense the thorny aura around her grow stronger. Caution?
“I fear I must decline. We’ll be moving swiftly, Emperor Laken. And I have two of my Knights of the Petal with me, and Thomast. No [Brigand] has ever troubled me.”
I consider this. It could be bad if she goes now. I have to ask.
“Then may I at least know the direction you intend to travel? As a precaution, you understand. I would hate for you to come to any injury on my lands and my patrols could at least ride ahead of you.”
Bethal considers my request and shrugs slightly.
“Mm. Very well. We’re headed west, I believe. We’ll be travelling by way of Yaist, perhaps staying the night there. After that…? Who can say?”
I think about that. West? Well then…I nod and smile politely.
“In that case, I can only give you my sincerest regrets for the dangers posed to your person while you stayed in my domain, Lady Bethal. And to you, Sir Thomast. I hope that you will remember me with fondness and that we may speak more in the future.”
Bethal laughs lightly.
“Oh, you are so polite for an [Emperor]! I am truly honored, Your Majesty. Neither Thomast nor I take any offense. Although…would you consider selling us the tiny trebuchet? As a souvenir?”
“No.”
 
——
 
Last but not least is Lady Bevia, and here I have to deviate from my meaningless platitudes because she has something I need.
