I back away from the nobles gathering around the trebuchets, pretending that I need to pee. No, no need to alarm anyone that doesn’t need alarming. Wiskeria is on the outskirts of the village, and Gamel has already found Beniar. I’ll walk and meet them. I nod to myself, my mind racing as I count. It’s not bad news. Okay, it is horrible, terrifying news, but it’s not the end of the world. And we’ve planned for this, Wiskeria and I.
Calm. Be calm. I breathe in and out slowly, lowering my heart rate. I have people with skillsets devoted best to one activity. Lady Rie is a negotiator, a diplomat. She can do her job. She doesn’t need to know everything. I nod to Wiskeria and Beniar as both stroll over and try to think of the best spot where I can retire with them. What excuse should I use?
“Emperor Laken?”
They’re hurrying towards me, Beniar on horseback. I wave at them and make them slow. Act natural. Be calm. A leader is calm and leads from appearance as much as anything else. No one else needs to know what I tell them, so I hurry them into Wiskeria’s cottage. And begin to make plans.
 
——
 
Plans. It was already evening by the time Wiskeria strode through the village. She’d been in her home for the last few hours, speaking with Beniar, Prost, and Laken when he wasn’t busy attending to the nobles who wanted his attention. Thankfully, the crowd was still occupied with the trebuchets. Laken had expressed incredulity at how long the nobles were fixated on them, but it made sense to everyone else.
A trebuchet was a wonder of mechanical engineering, something as unique as any spell. He treated it like something normal, but Wiskeria knew she could have lived for decades and died before ever seeing such a device. They’d fascinated her when she’d seen the first big one firing. Now they reassured her. Even if they weren’t part of the plan.
She was headed towards her people, her army. They trained and patrolled when they weren’t actually fighting, and they stayed out of the village to avoid getting in the way of the builders. Wiskeria needed to do a thousand things, so the only thing that kept her from running was Laken’s order to pretend nothing was wrong. Still, Wiskeria wanted to run.
She was hurrying, her heart pounding with anxiety and determination. Not fear or, at least, not much; she had a plan, and she trusted her [Emperor].
Her [Emperor]. What a thought! But he had proven himself ten times over, and this latest crisis just showed Wiskeria how right she was to place her trust in him. What would have happened if he hadn’t been there to warn them all days in advance? What would have happened if…? She shook her head.
Wiskeria was hurrying, but she slowed as she saw the woman in the black-and-white frilled dress walking towards her. Sacra’s face was calm, austere, the perfect image of a [Maid]. But there was still a trace of Odveig in her, brash and confident. Seeing her was a shock that put her duties out of Wiskeria’s mind for a moment. The [Witch] slowed and adjusted her pointed hat. Sacra paused as well, and the [Witch] and [Maid] regarded each other in the dirt street.
“Wiskeria. I’m glad to see you’re doing well.”
“Odveig.”
“Sacra, please. That is my true name; although, I understand that you might be confused after knowing me for so long.”
The [Maid] smiled. Wiskeria did not.
“There’s not much to understand. A traitor and a spy is a traitor and a spy, no matter how well you think you knew her.”
Sacra’s smile didn’t vanish, but it did fade a fraction.
“A traitor? I admit that I deceived you, Wiskeria. But I never intended to cause you or my team harm. I saved you from Emperor Laken’s suspicion as you recall.”
“He was only suspicious of me because you were spying on him.”
“True.”
Sacra shrugged her shoulders nonchalantly. Wiskeria stared. Odveig would have blustered or cracked a joke. She didn’t have half the calm aplomb that this strange [Maid] did. And yet she shifted her stance the same way. Her face was the same. Wiskeria gritted her teeth.
“Tell me, was it all fake? All of our close encounters, the way we stood by each other? Was all that just an act?”
“Would you like me to say it was?”
The [Maid] raised an eyebrow. Wiskeria waited, folding her arms. Sacra sighed.
“Wis, I—”
“My name is Wiskeria.”
“Very well. General Wiskeria, I was your friend. And I was your team leader. And I was a spy. I can be all these things at once. I regret fleeing, but I had a mission that transcended friendship. And I have duties that carry me back here.”
Wiskeria thought about tossing flame at Sacra’s face and seeing if her uniform caught on fire. But she held back. Sacra was probably far deadlier than Odveig had ever been.
“Rather tactless to send the same spy that was uncovered, isn’t it? Is Magnolia Reinhart that crude?”
“Not at all. She’s being honest. If she wanted to alarm Emperor Laken, she’d send someone whom he had no idea of. He knows I am a spy, so he won’t waste time with subtleties. There are at least three people watching my every move.”
Three? Wiskeria had heard Laken ordering two people to shadow Sacra. The [Witch] turned [General] filed that information away. Sacra regarded her a moment and then bowed.
“I’d love to talk more, but I’m afraid I have pressing business, Wiskeria. As do you, it seems.”
“What are you doing?”
Wiskeria’s hostile tone had no effect on Sacra.
“I must meet with Emperor Laken. Lady Reinhart has considered his reception of the nobility and his little demonstration of this morning and sent a response.”
She held up a letter. Wiskeria opened her mouth to ask what was in it, hesitated, and turned. She’d wasted too much time, and Laken’s name had reminded her of what she had to do.
“I wish you the best of it. Not that I think His Majesty will receive you warmly.”
“I did request an audience. And his feelings towards me are largely irrelevant. I’m sure I will speak to you later, Wiskeria. Until then.”
Sacra walked calmly past Wiskeria. The [Witch] stared after her, angry, wanting to say so much more, and then tugged her hat’s brim lower on her head.
“Later? Not if we’re all dead.”
Then she strode off, her robes swirling around her. And the Emperor of the Unseen Empire received Sacra on his throne.
 
——
 
Of all the people I don’t feel like meeting at the moment, Sacra is probably highest on that list. But I could hardly ignore her request once I got it, so I give her an audience in the meeting hall on my wooden throne. I shift uncomfortably, feeling the smooth, carved eyeball on my armrest with one hand as I scan Sacra in my mind’s eye. She’s a [Maid] from head to toe, without any accessories save for a ring on her finger. No hidden daggers, no concealed weapons I can sense…I still don’t relax. Once the formalities are over, I cut straight to the point.
“I hope Wiskeria didn’t treat you with any hostility?”
“Not at all. She was quite polite.”
Sacra smiles, not at all unsettled by my knowledge of their meeting. I’ve been following her around in my head when I haven’t been distracted, and she’s done nothing out of the ordinary. Still, I have every reason to suspect her and so I’ve put two watchers on her at all times.
I’m also wary of her being alone with me, which is why Durene is standing next to my throne and Gamel and Prost are standing at the meeting hall’s doors. If it came to a fight, I worry that Sacra might beat Durene like last time, weapons or not. But I don’t think it’ll come to that. And if they need to raise an alarm, I’m sure Lady Rie will raise it.
She’s standing just outside the meeting hall. I refused to let her join in. Not because I think she’ll try to steer me the wrong way. I think she might do it by accident. Lady Magnolia manipulated both her and me with ease with a simple letter. I’d hate to know what Sacra could do.
“I’m glad Wiskeria didn’t offer you any offense. Although I can’t say I would reproach her for holding a grudge either. It is slightly unpleasant to look at someone you thought you trusted.”
Sacra’s face doesn’t change one whit. She just gives me a small, meaningless smile, the kind any [Maid] would give a disliked employer.
“I do apologize. But Lady Reinhart thought it would be best that someone you knew deliver her words personally, and I was the best choice. You are, of course, free to eject me from your empire, but Lady Reinhart values courtesy in her friends. Her enemies are free to be as crude as they wish, for as long as they live.”
Was that a threat? Durene makes an ominous sound, but I pat her hand.
“I don’t appreciate the warning, Sacra. Why is it that you wanted to see me?”
Sacra replies without missing a beat.
“Lady Reinhart has observed your reception of the small group of nobles through me, Emperor Laken. She is quite impressed with your guests…as well as today’s demonstration of your trebuchets.”
How does she know about the fae and the trebuchets? Sacra was not invited to either gathering. Still, I’m not surprised.
“I’m glad she’s so invested, particularly considering that she forced all of this on me.”
“She does apologize for the inconvenience, Your Majesty. But trust is a commodity in short supply, particularly of late. Lady Reinhart bids me to inform you that she is impressed with your empire and would like to offer you peace.”
I raise one eyebrow.
“Peace? Don’t I have peace already?”
This time it’s Sacra who interjects a bit of strife into her tone.
“Emperor Laken, please be serious. You know that there is no peace—not between you and Lady Reinhart at least. She has surveyed your lands, tested you, and sent me to observe your qualities as a leader. She has been rightfully wary of you.”
“Why? Why am I so dangerous?”
It feels like everyone’s warned me of Magnolia Reinhart. She’s a cunning monster, a threat, a ruthless tyrant…Ryoka, Lady Rie, everyone’s afraid of her. But what did I ever do to bother her? Start a small empire? From what I understand, Magnolia Reinhart has a hundred times as much land as I do. But it’s Sacra’s response that puts it into clarity.
“Because you are an [Emperor].”
“Ah.”
Sacra stares at me. I sit back in my throne. My throne, where three months ago I was living in Durene’s cottage. Now I sit in my growing village, with trebuchets being built and nobles following me around, trying to curry favor. I can sort of see her point.
“Well, I suppose that would be alarming to a [Lady], particularly one of Magnolia Reinhart’s power.”
“Indeed. But she is prepared to put aside her wariness and offer you peace, Emperor Laken.”
“Peace. You keep saying that word, but what would that entail?”
Sacra spreads her hands.
“An immediate cessation of hostilities. No aggressive or hostile actions towards you or anyone in your domain without formal notification. Recognition of your sovereign rights. Support for your growing empire in the form of connections, trade, political support…”
That sounds good. Good, if a little vague. But I could see Magnolia Reinhart’s acknowledgement helping me deal with other cities, cementing my influence. I lean back in my throne as Durene shifts from foot to foot.
“And what would all of this cost me?”
Sacra smiles, confirming my suspicions. She holds up a finger.
“One request. For the next four months, you will refuse to sell your trebuchets or any other weapons of war to any other party in Izril. You will not gift them or let the secrets of their manufacture be spread.”
I blink.
“She wants that?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. It is a simple request. Afterwards, you would be free to pursue whatever business interests you please.”
I frown. Why would four months matter? I eye Sacra, wondering if she’ll answer and don’t bother with that question. Instead I ask the more pressing one.
“Assuming I did agree, what guarantee would I have that Lady Reinhart would keep her word? A contract? Paper and ink are poor reassurance, I feel.”
The [Maid] standing in front of me gives me a slight frown, as if I’ve asked a truly stupid question.
“Lady Reinhart would hardly trust this to a verbal agreement, Emperor Laken. She proposes signing a binding contract, enforced by magic. It is quite common among the nobility when trust or a grave matter is at stake. It would of course be authenticated by a third party—Wistram, for example.”
“I see.”
Crap, I should have known that was how things would work. I keep my face straight as I think of all this. No selling trebuchets for four months? It has to be too good to be true. I could still build them, refine them, market them to others…why wait four months? What does she get? I mull over the possibilities until I realize Sacra is taking something out of her pocket.
“Hey!”
Durene sees the motion and lurches forwards. Sacra withdraws a small letter and raises her hands.
“I mean no harm. I have a letter from my mistress, transcribed, of course. It is not dangerous in any way.”
“I’ll give it to him.”
Durene snatches the letter from Sacra and sniffs it suspiciously. She clearly doesn’t have any idea of whether or not it’s poisoned and looks helplessly towards me before licking the paper gingerly. I cover my face and try not to laugh as Sacra gives Durene the first genuine look of surprise I think she’s made so far. After a second in which Durene blushes fiercely, she hands me the letter. I lift it and sigh.
“Your mistress does know I can’t read, doesn’t she?”
“She does. But some things are best conveyed formally. I have memorized the contents by heart. If you would allow me?”
Sacra waits until I nod and then begins to speak. I feel Durene peering over my shoulder and hear her trying to read the letter. She’s still on the first sentence by the time Sacra finishes. The letter is short, and Sacra delivers the stunning missive without changing her tone of voice.
 
To His Majesty, Emperor Laken,
Thank you so very much for entertaining my dear friend Bethal and the other nobles which I so rudely foisted on you the other day. Sacra tells me you handled their reception wonderfully, if slightly unconventionally, and it has put my mind at ease. You have shown tact, deliberation, and restraint, and for that, I deem you to be a rare exception to your class, a delight.
After some consideration, I have decided that I am quite content to suffer your presence on my continent, Your Majesty. And I foresee the potential benefits of a relationship with your empire. But my goodwill towards your empire only goes hand-in-hand with my demands. Sacra has given you my request, and I trust you will agree to it, as this agreement would be wholly beneficial towards you and your empire. Keep your damn trebuchets out of sight.
–Magnolia Reinhart
