Tourant nods, and I hear a few other disappointed murmurs of agreement. The [Lords] here might be lesser nobility of the realm, but they’ve all probably seen actual battle. They have to defend their lands, and that instills a level of practicality in each of them. I nod, letting them know I’ve considered the problem.
“Adaptability is key, gentlemen. If a trebuchet were only useful for this one purpose, it would be a poor defense indeed. However…Mister Helm! Miss Tessia! Would you prepare one of the special rounds for our guests to watch?”
I raise my voice and turn. Mister Helm, the [Blacksmith] of Windrest, and Tessia, the young woman that Gamel is besotted with, immediately bow and rush towards the larger trebuchet. Entranced, the [Lords] follow them like curious sheep. I watch, knowing exactly what will happen.
The open fields in front of the trebuchets are clear, and no one is allowed to head out into them or near the trebuchets while they’re firing. But now, everyone is told to step back, and as Tessia loads the special ammunition, I see Mister Helm rechecking the sling and frame of the trebuchet.
Good. I’ve gone over the need for safety with the engineering team assigned to testing and building the trebuchets again and again. The last thing I want is someone dying while making one of these things. I’m afraid it’s only a matter of time, but it won’t be today or tomorrow if I can help it.
“Trebuchet clear?”
“Trebuchet’s clear!”
“Alright then! Three, two, one!”
Tessia’s the one to pull the rope. She’s a lot younger than Mister Helm, but she’s one of two [Engineers], and she was not only the first to acquire the class, but she’s the highest-leveled of the two. It was quite amazing to see how she took to the trebuchets—Tessia, a young woman who had lived on a farm all her life and found her vocation making weapons of war.
Because that’s what this trebuchet is. I watch the arm go up in my head. I can’t see it, of course, but I can sense the sling lifting its payload into the air. I can sense the small objects before they’re flung across the field and spray into the ground and a few of the trees, cracking and making loud thuds. Few of the stones made it much further than one or two hundred feet away, but the spread of the volley makes the nobles jump.
“What in the name of Dragons…?”
The nobles are staring ahead, trying to figure out what was thrown. I stroll over and interrupt them before they can badger Tessia or Helm. They’re still nobles after all, and they look down upon anyone but Lady Rie and I. So I look down on them, just to make things fair.
“Stones, Lord Tourant. Hand-sized stones, packed up and thrown at speed. With enough trebuchets firing at once, you could take down a charging army—assuming you were able to move and load them quickly enough, of course.”
It’s a simple concept. The trebuchet can be loaded with a heavy stone to knock down a wall or smaller stones to shred an enemy army. I’m sure armor would protect some people, but a stone hurled that fast and far? It would be devastating. And it makes the trebuchets I’m showing off that much more valuable. As a defense for my empire, and as an attraction for the nobles visiting me. I clear my throat as the [Lords] begin arguing how well that would work against an army.
“Let us resume our demonstrations. Unless anyone wishes to retire? No? Well, I believe there are refreshments available in the shade. I would be happy to discuss a few aspects of the construction and usage of the trebuchets there. If anyone will join me? Ah, Lady Bevia. And Lady Bethal. How kind of you.”
I step to one side as the men jostle each other, wanting a chance to fire the larger catapult. Two women sweep towards me. Lady Bevia, the older of the two Venifords, and Lady Bethal Walchaís, followed as always by her silent husband, Lord Thomast.
“Emperor Laken, thank you so much for the entertaining diversion!”
Lady Bethal’s voice is high and light, and she gently places her hands in mine as she laughs. I smile back, although I can still feel a bit of a prickling aura around her, just barely there but visible. Behind her, Thomast bows, as silent as a rock. But I can tell he’s watching me.
“Indeed. I had wondered how you might top the banquet of last night, but I find myself underestimating you yet again, Your Majesty. Truly a magnificent demonstration. I only fear I will have to drag away my nephew.”
Lady Bevia’s voice is welcoming and warm as well. I smile at both women and keep my guard up. Of all the nobles present, these two strike me as the sharpest—and most dangerous.
“You are too kind Lady Bethal, Lady Bevia. I’m delighted you chose to stay another day. I had hoped this showcase would please you, but do let me know if you’d wish to rest or seek other entertainment. There is a limit to how long one can be interested in throwing stones, I fear.”
“Nonsense!”
Lady Bethal laughs as she half-turns to look at the trebuchets.
“A diversion? To abandon this? You do yourself and your people too little credit, Emperor Laken. I have seen magic shows and curiosities from other lands, but this is truly fascinating. It’s a thing of wood and yet it throws stones as if they’re light as feathers! How amazing. I don’t suppose you’ve settled on a price? Or may I make a bid for the first six of them you care to sell?”
I try not to blink in surprise.
“I must confess I hadn’t given it much thought yet, Lady Bethal. These trebuchets are still being tested, and my team is working to perfect them.”
They’re capable of being fired, but accuracy, maximum range, and putting them on wheels are all challenges I’ve given the team of villagers I’ve assigned to the issue. Not that they mind working around the clock; the engineering team loves to fire the trebuchets as much as the crowd, and they’d work long into the night if I let them.
It’s all trial and error with them, but the fact that they could roll out two fully functioning trebuchets by the time the nobles arrived makes me feel I should reward them. It feels like only a few days ago that they were still trying to figure out what wood to use. To deflect Bethal’s interest, I turn to her husband.
“Lord Thomast, would you care to try one?”
“You are too kind, Your Majesty. But I will be content to watch.”
Drat. The man bows his head slightly but seems determined not to let his wife be alone for a second. And why not? I nearly died of poison at my own banquet yesterday. Not exactly a ringing endorsement of safety. Lady Bethal seems completely at ease, but I have a feeling that her cheerfulness is sometimes feigned. Perhaps not now, though. She claps her hands together.
“Thomast is a bore, Your Majesty. He never tries new things. On the other hand, I would love to try firing a trebuchet again. I nearly hit the tree I was aiming at, didn’t I, Thomast?”
“You did.”
I cover a smile. A good actor, perhaps, but I can’t imagine she and Thomast are pretending to be husband and wife. They’re too clearly fond of each other. I have a thought and beckon—Gamel is by my side in an instant.
“Yes, Your Majesty?”
He’s been watching me all day, which is uncomfortable, but suits his duties. I think he’s worried about me being assassinated too—Lady Rie, Mister Prost, Durene, and Wiskeria were all adamant that I have at least one person by my side in the midst of the nobility. Never mind that I could spot a knife coming. Although I didn’t spot the poison…they have a point.
Now at least I can get rid of him for a second. I turn my head and whisper a request into his ear and he’s gone in a flash. I make polite conversation with Bethal and Bevia before Gamel hurries back to me with two objects being carried between two men.
“What’s this?”
Lady Bethal turns and claps her hands as she sees two smaller trebuchets being placed on the ground in front of her. I’d nearly forgotten about them, but the prototypes are just as functional as the real thing. I sense Bethal circling around the miniature trebuchets and poking at the sling, exclaiming with genuine interest.
“Oh! They’re like children’s toys! How delightful!”
I cough as Lady Bethal hovers around the smaller prototype.
“Children’s toys that can knock a hole in the wall of a house, Lady Bethal. Please don’t fire it into the crowd. But if you would like to perfect your aim, I’m sure Tessia could show you how to calibrate the trebuchet yourself.”
“Would you? Oh, how kind!”
Bethal is drawn away as Tessia comes over. In a moment, she’s hurling smaller stones at a tree with commendable accuracy. Bethal laughs, waving at her husband.
“How marvelous! This is so much fun, Thomast! Go on, give it a try!”
He walks over, leaving me alone with Lady Bevia. She smiles at me, and I’m reminded of a grandmother speaking to a grandson.
“You have no end to your surprises, do you, Emperor Laken?”
“I try to please, Lady Bevia.”
“May I ask where all these designs come from? Or perhaps your strange court? I hate to press you directly, but you have been adroitly evading answering anything about your past.”
I pause. My strange court. Bevia glances at me, and I sense her gaze like a physical thing.
“It is quite strange. No one speaks of last night, and I barely recall what happened in its entirety. Those strange, wild folk, the things I recall…would you care to explain any of it, Your Majesty?”
What can I say? I shrug my shoulders lightly, remembering.
Green. Laughter, the brilliant folk dancing and singing, and then laughing and buzzing. The bright frost in her eyes.
A memory. That’s what last night was. Forever ago, despite it not having been more than twenty-four hours since the fae danced among us. But the next day people woke, some with scars, many with memories both bright and troubling and no one spoke about it. It was as if what had happened were long ago, and even Oswalt, one of the injured lordlings, treated his injuries as if they had just…been.
Acceptance. There was no regret, no fury at recalling. It had happened. It had been done. It was in the past, and they had lived through it. None of the [Lords] and [Ladies] spoke of what they had witnessed, although many looked at me differently. But blame, guilt…none of that was in the way they spoke.
Faerie magic. I shiver as I think of it. There’s something terrifying about that, more than there would be if we just forgot. It speaks to me of bargains with the fae, of promises that can’t be broken.
What is, is. What has been agreed cannot be turned back. More than ever I wonder just how much I risked. But the reward is the respect of the nobility. As for Lady Bevia…
“I could not tell you even if I tried, Lady Bevia.”
She regards me for a long while.
“I suppose you could not, at that. Some things even [Emperors] may not explain. But you are strange, Your Majesty. You have so many secrets, and you have given us precious few answers.”
The memory of last night fades between us even before Bevia is finished speaking. On firmer ground, I keep my voice light, and put a tiny smile on my face.
“Have I? I do apologize. I mean only to entertain, not drag down the conversation with boring details about my past.”
I turn my head innocently, and Bevia laughs quietly.
“Oh, what a charming young man! One capable of subtlety and deceit—Your Majesty, you are an enigma! Where do you hail from? Why did you decide to settle in Riverfarm? Would you do me the great courtesy of hinting at one of these questions? For an old lady’s sake.”
Clever old women are to be feared. I waver and nearly give in. There’s something so charming about Lady Bevia that makes me want to answer her, at least in part. But before I can reply, a voice speaks.
“Oh Bevia, you mustn’t press His Majesty to answer anything about his past! He is an [Emperor] after all—monarchs are entitled to their secrets!”
I hear a bright voice and a sigh from Bevia. A woman approaches the two of us, her voice smooth, her dress shifting as she strides quickly across the grass to our position. I feel the urge to confess fading and smile at the woman in gratitude.
“Thank you, Lady Rie.”
She glides past me, and I nod to her politely. Bevia mutters what sounds like an insult before she greets Lady Rie warmly. I could almost swear I heard ‘don’t get in the way’, but my ears must be playing tricks on me because Lady Rie greets her warmly and Bevia is just as delighted to meet her.
Knives under the table. I back away as Rie takes my place in the line of fire, laughing and speaking sweet nothings. There’s a lot I have yet to say to Lady Rie, but I’m grateful for her presence today. She takes Bevia off my hands, and I back up. Normally I’d stay and learn from her, but something’s just crossed my mind. I frown and turn my head. What is…?
“Laken?”
Durene is walking towards me, sweating but happy. I wave to her distractedly. There’s something in my mind. I cast my thoughts across my empire and barely sense Durene being intercepted by a group of villagers begging for her help in the village. What is it?
There’s something at the corner of my mind. A thought. A…presence. Many presences. I frown, and then my eyes widen.
“Scheiße!”
My exclamation makes several heads turn, but no one speaks German so I pretend I stepped on a rock. Hardly [Emperor]-like, but it makes my reaction. I don’t turn around or give any other reaction—now Bevia and Bethal are both watching me, along with some other nobles. The beauty of being blind and having the ability to ‘see’ in every direction is that I can control my reactions. So I calmly turn my head towards the young man hovering a few feet away from me.
“Gamel?”
“Yes, sire?”
“Get me Wiskeria, Beniar, and…no, only those two.”
“Yes sir!”
He straightens at once, sounding alarmed. I hold up a hand, speaking with a slight smile on my face for those watching.
“Don’t run. But do it quick. And don’t make it obvious what you’re doing. If anyone asks, especially Lady Rie, make an excuse.”
“Yes, sire.”
Gamel turns and hurries off. It’s believable enough that I don’t worry as I turn my mind back to the shadows lurking far in the distance. And to Lady Rie. Should I tell her? She’s with Lady Bevia. Should I tell them?
No—no need to cause drama. And how would I explain knowing, anyways? Some things should be kept secret. How much do I trust the nobles here? Not a lot, despite them being impressed with me. How much do I trust Lady Rie? Well…a bit. But only as far as Durene can throw her. Not as far as a trebuchet could.
