Summer trudged on, slipping into early autumn. Every hummer ended up in individual apartments, except for Zelyich and Andrei, who found they very much enjoyed each other's company.

To Niala, it felt a bit more than something platonic, but both individuals barely understood what a friend was, let alone matters of the heart. She would settle with being happy they had found someone they liked, and would let time tell if her guess had any substance.

Rupert reported that he had found a Daylighter, as they were calling the reign descendants now, who showed promise for taking over his position as overseer of Daylight.

The man, who turned out to be Maldrin, the one that Niala had saved from his fall, would still need oversight for at least a year, but even now the bunnykin was letting him manage small tasks with great success.

The next step was to find supporting staff from among the natives, where he'd had some difficulties with the people being too eager to apply for the positions. The aptitude tests and interviews needed to filter the candidates out were eating a huge chunk of his days.

He also reported that construction on the holy statue was well underway.

When Niala asked what that was, Ruppert apologized, saying it must have slipped his mind to inform Niala that the Daylighters had been working on a depiction of her image, wings bared.

He noted they were going at it with more enthusiasm than skills, and they clearly were misremembering her exact proportions, but he hadn't the heart to correct them.

David said he'd like to go visit when it was completed. Niala warned him not to bring a recording orb. He was a little bit less enthusiastic after that.

The railcar line to Daylight was also completed around that time. The town held a small celebration to denote the full opening of the crystal mines up north. The mana crystal shipments quickly grew as supplies and workers could now be moved within a day, and much more safely.

The Allwarden's personal fortune ballooned as their dues increased tenfold. Niala again invested half of it back into the Daylight and Riverwall infrastructure and social programs. By now, her name invoked the same reverence that a minor saint would among the Riverwall population.

The catkin who healed your body, patrolled the skies, protected the poor, and educated the children was on everyone's mind in one way or another.

David caught on rumours that her fame had even begun spreading through Bellharbour. In time, he expected it would cross the kingdom, maybe even reach across the sea.

The Old Woman brewery tripled in size, keeping up with the increasing deliveries of herbs from the Fairlands. As agreed with the Crown, a free drink was made available to everyone in every town that held a Boudoir, and the staff kept meticulous registries of which citizens had received it.

At a minimum, Boudoir revenues doubled. Luke and Martha finally decided to move into a bigger house, going from a 4-bedroom flat to a 6-bedroom, two-story townhouse. They even splurged and got a maid to help Martha with house chores.

Never mind that their own bank account would make any other merchant in town faint; the couple still felt they had spent frivolously. Like Niala, they began redirecting some of their fortune back into the community.

Linzy, with Niala's help, created her first alcoholic potion: a beer that never got you drunker than a good buzz and which left you feeling energized and hale in the morning.

Within a week she had a distribution contract with the Boot Inn, and her first test run ended in a near-riot as the patrons vehemently requested the “magical beer” the following day.

On a bittersweet note, the goblin did inform Niala that she would eventually quit her job as the Panacea Potion's clerk and accountant. Not yet, as she wanted to get her own brewery set up, finish her alchemy studies and come up with more alcohol recipes, but her mind was set.

Niala offered her full support immediately, saying she'd bankroll the construction of her brewery if she wanted. The little goblin thanked her, saying she was a good person who could always come ask her ex-employee for help or counsel.

When asked where she planned to install her brewery, Linzy immediately said Riverwall; she'd be a fool to move away from Niala's cooking.

David agreed. Only the truly foolish would put distance between themselves and his wife's meals.

Marshalla reported that most of the scholars she'd contacted about the prospect of setting up a university in Riverwall had replied in the positive. Some had even quit their tenure and were already on their way.

Apparently, the Abassaran woman had been feeding them all teasers of all the new discoveries and research projects that had fallen into her hands over the past year.

The university grounds were thus purchased, the plans approved, and construction would start before the season was over.

Their other big project, the transformation of the central supply yard into a gigantic archive, was now going forward at a steady pace, though the beginning had been somewhat troublesome.

David and Niala had to reject the proposed plans eleven times before the team of architects and engineers finally understood that no, their employers were not exaggerating, and yes, it would need at least eight stories and four basements.

Once, they jokingly called it “the bunker”, saying that it would be massive enough to house the region's entire population. Niala heard, and said it was a marvellous idea, tasking the team with redesigning the building from the ground up.

The architect who made that comment was shunned by the rest of the team for the rest of the week.

In the end, the building would act as an archive while secretly being a self-powered, self-contained, short-term shelter against catastrophe and cataclysms.

And then, in the third week of early autumn, the collaboration between Marshalla, Leandro and the Timeless enchanters bore fruit, turning David's idea tangible.

They tested the prototype on Papo, with his consent, given that he was an immortal rat. Without any signs of adverse effect on a living thing, David and Niala gave the go-ahead for the first, and probably last, production units of the project.

Their would-be recipients were then convoked.

Sybil, walking ahead as usual, hummed as she sauntered toward the Allwardens' house, going to meet their friends and employers. Where they friends? She wanted to call them friends, at least Niala, for certain.

Sammie called out from behind her. “I can't believe you've been sharing my youth with Anna. What happened to camaraderie?”

She quirked a brow and glanced at him over her shoulder. “I'm totally being a comrade. I'm endearing you to your girlfriend by sharing heart-warming stories!”

“You're only telling her the most embarrassing ones! Anna's been using them to tease me whenever she can!” He lamented.

She turned her head forward and threw her nose up. “Heart-warming moments that you can now both remember fondly, together!”

“I want you to stop. I'll tell her about my life myself.”

“I'll stop if she stops asking!” She countered. “Oh, look, we're here! Time to be professional and not talk about our personal lives!” She said as they reached the old two-story house's front door.

Sammie grumbled under his breath as she knocked on the door. Papo greeted them and told them to head upstairs; everyone else was already waiting.

Up in the living room, they met the Allwardens as well as Leandro and Marshalla. Everyone greeted them, though the tension in the air was hard to ignore.

Sybil and Sammie let their amiable smiles go flat and sat down as instructed.

Niala, ears folded, was the first to talk. “Sybil, Sammie, first, thank you for coming. Second, remember that you do not have to accept anything we're going to ask or offer you. Your jobs aren't on the line, nor anything else, alright?”

The two guards glanced at each other, then nodded at Niala, who gave them a friendly smile and left the floor to David.

He dipped his head and began. “The easy part first; I think you're both aware of the personalities that the hummers that live in town have begun displaying. The theory is that they were once normal people who had their minds forcibly extracted and put into their current bodies.”

He gave them a second, noting that they didn't seem overly surprised; maybe Niala had talked with them about it? He continued. “Because of that, we think that, somehow, the minds of the seven people who went missing during our fight with the hummers last year might be somewhere in their territory.”

Sammie tilted his head. “Not at the temple that was mostly destroyed?”

David shrugged. “We don't know. We want to go find out. That, and Hodge and Anaakendi told us there was a powerful presence deeper in their territory, inside a large pyramid. According to the hummers in town, something called the orchestrator lives there, and they're the one who implants minds into hummer bodies.”

Sybil's ears were ramrod straight, and her wide-opened eyes shone. “We're going on an expedition for Justice!” She exclaimed, fist pumping with both hands.

Sammie sighed. “At least let him ask?”

She turned her head toward him. “Why? He's going to ask, and we're going to say yes! We're going to go slay a great evil!”

He narrowed his eyes. “Who said to act professional about five minutes ago?”

She stuck her tongue at him and looked back to David, who was staring, face blank.

“We accept, sir!” The bunnykin said with a smile.

David slowly turned his head toward Sammie, who slumped at the unspoken question. “Yeah, what she said, sir.”

Niala cut in. “Sammie, remember what I said; you're free to say no.”

“I know, but Sybil is going no matter what, if that is even what you were going to ask us. If she's going, I kind of have to go.”

“Are you sure?”

The man nodded. “If I don't go and something happens to her, she'd come back to haunt me.”

Sybil nodded. “Yeah, that's r-what?” She asked, snapping her neck toward him.

Sammie only shrugged and ignored the bunnykin's fiery gaze as he turned his attention to Niala and David. “So, yes, we're going. What's the other topic?”

Curiosity doused Sybil's ire as she turned to look at David in turn, who reached to the side of the couch and picked up a briefcase. He got up and set it down on the low table, opening it and turning it their way.

Inside were two finely constructed plate gauntlets in the Allwarden colours of blue and violet with silver highlights, with a large rim around the wrist. Beyond the colours and polish, however, they were clearly built for punching things and coming out undented.

Sybil had locked onto the dangerous shinnies. “What are these?”

David stood back a few paces. “A secret that must never be shared. Before I explain, I need you both to swear you will do everything in your power to keep it.”

His tone was serious enough that it managed to wrench Sybil's gaze away from the gauntlets and up to him, while he already had Sammie's full attention.

“I swear on my honour and life,” they said one after the other.

David nodded. “Right. Pick yours and put it on. Your names are on them, and they should be sized to your hands.”

They did as asked, testing the motion of their fingers once they were on. Sammie's eyes widened a bit; the action was greasy-smooth. These were not standard-issue armour pieces.

David continued. “The base gauntlet is a high-quality, alchemically treated and reinforced, and enchanted piece of armour. Anything that can damage them will probably already have killed you.”

He pointed at the base of his hand, where the large rim was on the gauntlets. “The real secret is in that large lip. It's sealed away, so you can't see it, but there's something special in there; a mana source that the gauntlet will connect you with.”

Sammie froze, looking away from his armoured hand and at David. “Sir, sorry to say, but isn't that... both impossible and lethal? As in, mana poisoning lethal?”

Sybil looked up from her new toy as well.

David shook his head. “Leandro and Marshalla can confirm it's not. We tested it on Papo before, as well. It should be safe.”

“Should?”

The man shrugged. “Nothing is entirely safe in life.”

Sammie furrowed his brows, while Sybil gave the gauntlet a second look. “So you're saying that... this is going to let us power our imbuements for longer?”

“Exactly.”

She quirked a brow. “For how long? How much mana is in there?”

David smirked. “More than you can use.”

Sammie narrowed his eyes. “The soul-mana barrier limit, right, but how long before the source is depleted?”

“That's the neat part; it replenishes on its own.”

The guardman's mouth fell, while Sybil's eyes widened and glinted.

He began to speak. “I understand why you wanted this kept qu-”

Sybil cut him off. “I can kick bad guys forever!”

Sammie clamped his mouth shut, turned his head to look at his teammate, who was grinning from ear to ear and staring at him.

Her smile turned toothy.

“No,” he said, but she was already up and grabbing his arm.

“Come on! We need to try this out!” She argued as she pulled him up to his feet.

“I'm not a bad guy for you to kick!”

She dragged him down the stairs. “You're bad-guy adjacent! Stop whining!”

The pair stepped out of sight, with Sammie's reply lost as they left the house.

Leandro sighed and got up. “I should go watch over them. As I have come to learn, Sybil can be very enthusiastic during spars.”

They didn't doubt that at all.