He had been planning this for seven years.

Not planning the way he had planned other things — supply routes, herd movements, the timing of seasonal contracts. This had not been a plan with steps and contingencies. It had been a presence: the unfinished thing, sitting at the back of every other thing he did, neither demanding attention nor going away. He had learned to work around it. He had not learned to stop noticing it.

Seven years ago, he had entered the dungeon for the first time.

He had been twenty-nine, newly established in his trade, carrying more confidence than he had earned. He had heard about the dungeon from the circuit riders who brought news along the northern routes. He had gone to see it the way he went to see anything he'd heard about: directly, with the intention of forming his own assessment and not being overly impressed by it.

The Gullet had impressed him. He had not expected to be impressed.

He had navigated to Depth 2 with the ease of a man who moved through difficult terrain professionally. The Warrens had received him and he had navigated the first junction and the second and then the passages had shifted in a way he had not been told about and could not account for and he had stood in a tunnel that had not been a dead end ten minutes before and listened to something moving in the wall.

He had turned back.

He had told himself he would return when he was better prepared. He had not returned. He had thought about returning. He had built the preparation in his head over seven years, year by year: the rope, the chalk, the record of other entrants' navigation notes, the weeks spent in winter camp reading everything written about the place. He had prepared for a dungeon. The dungeon had been changing without him.

He knew it was changing. He had read the accounts. The camp had grown, the census-keeper was diligent, the crystallography had produced new data. He had followed all of it.

What he had not accounted for was the damage sequence.

---

The camp was larger than he expected. Not a campfire and a census table — a settlement. A second effects box on the table, a third beside it. A rope merchant with a secondary line. A man in a Guild jacket moving between tents with a sheaf of forms. A scoreboard on a post that someone had updated recently enough that the chalk was still bright.

Osren — the census-keeper, the same man who had taken his entry seven years ago, heavier now, with the particular stillness of someone who had watched several hundred people leave and not come back — looked up from his book.

"Cael Vorn," Osren said. "Second entry."

"You remembered."

"I keep records." He opened to a page. "You turned back at the first major shift. Approximately seven years ago. You've been following the reports."

"I have."

"Then you know about the damage sequence."

"I know the creature at Depth 3 is wounded. Fluid loss rate elevated. Structural integrity compromised." Cael had written this in his notes. He had the notes with him. "I know five entrants contributed. I know the last one increased the fluid loss by forty percent."

Osren looked at him with the expression Cael recognized from good livestock assessors: the expression of a man who had the information and was deciding how much of it to share. "What do you know about its current behavior?"

"It hesitates before striking. Death #20 first reported the delay. Every subsequent account confirms it. The creature is injured and cautious." He paused. "I'm aware the last entrant — the Finish — still died."

"She died because she couldn't move fast enough. Not because the creature was fully operational." Osren turned a page. "The delay is real. It extends further than the early accounts suggested. The creature has now passed through — " he counted — "four solo encounters without killing. The last death before the wave chapter was Death #23. That's six entries ago."

Six. Cael noted this. Six entries without a kill at the primary threat level.

"The bypass route," he said.

Osren looked up.

"Death #13 established it. Western wall, thirty meters from the creature, passes outside engagement range. Used by Tova Fenn and Senne Vareth without incident."

"Yes," Osren said. "Correct."

There was a pause.

"Are you planning to use it?" Osren asked.

Cael had thought about this. He had thought about it for seven years — not the bypass specifically, since the bypass hadn't existed seven years ago — but the question of whether to go through the Still Garden actively or through it indirectly. He had read about the creature. He had read about its kill count, its behavioral changes, the five-entrant damage sequence. He had read about the bypass and he had thought: this is what someone who doesn't know the creature uses. He had thought: I know this creature. I have been learning it for seven years.

"I'll assess it when I get there," he said.

Osren wrote something in his book. He did not share what he wrote.

"The inscription wall," Cael said. "Has it changed since my last entry?"

Osren set down his pen. "Twenty-eight names. It had four when you left."

---

The wall had twenty-eight names.

He stood in front of it longer than he had planned. He had known the number — he knew the death count, he had tracked every entry for seven years — but knowing the number and standing in front of the wall were different things. The inscriptions he remembered from his first visit were still there: the early ones, shorter, some with designations he had read the accounts of so many times he could recite them. Edric Voss. Maren Voss. Lira. The four military deaths in their institutional regularity.

He read down to the recent ones.

The last five were clustered together at the bottom of the wall. Five names, recently added, still carrying the slight variation in depth that told him the cuts had been made within days of each other. He had read the wave chapter account. He knew the caravan, the dare, the record-keeper who stopped to write down a mark, the child with the white crystal. He had read Osren's notes about them.

Reading about them was not the same as seeing their names on the wall in sequence, five in a row, the most recent barely settled.

He had been thinking about this wall for seven years. He had imagined it as something he would approach with preparation, with the specific satisfaction of a person who had done the work and was ready. He had not imagined standing here with twenty-eight names when he had left with four, the arithmetic of twenty-four lives reduced to cuts in stone, the five most recent arrived and died within a week while he was still somewhere on the northern route preparing to come back.

He was a careful man. He read the wall the way he read anything that required careful reading: fully, without rushing.

He entered.

---

The Gullet remembered him.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE MARROW WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Cael Vorn: Current Resolve: 16
```

```stat-screen
DESIGNATION: THE VETERAN
GIFT: PRIOR RUN

In spaces you have been before, your abilities activate at double strength.
The dungeon knows you have been here. You know it too.
Familiarity is a resource.

In spaces you have not been before, your abilities are suppressed
until you have spent time there. The dungeon is reading you.
You have not yet earned the ground.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 17
Resolve ............... 16
Attunement ............ 11
Fortune ............... 13

Note: Entry type — Compelled.
Standard amplification. The entrant wanted to return.
The Maw extended the season.
The entrant believes the timing was his.
He is not wrong.
The Maw notes: this is the first return-entry in the record.
The entrant knows the dungeon. The dungeon has changed.
```

He felt the Gift activate in the Gullet — not a new ability but a clarification of existing ones, the specific sharpening of spatial awareness that he applied in any terrain he knew. He had been in this passage. His body remembered the gradient of the floor, the way the ribbing changed near the junction, the angle of the first left turn. He moved faster than he had on his first entry. The gift and his own preparation were indistinguishable, which was, he thought, probably the point.

He found Sylas's bridge.

He stopped.

The bridge was a permanent construction — bone-arch, calcified, integrated into the Gullet's structure. He did not remember a bridge. He remembered a gap: a three-meter drop at a junction he had navigated by rope, lowering himself carefully to the lower passage. The gap was gone. The bridge was here. The arch had growth rings indicating it had been here for — he counted — fifteen years or more. He had not been here in seven years. The bridge was older than his absence.

He had been prepared for changes. He had not been prepared for this specific kind: the dungeon had changed before he arrived. The bridge did not mark his return. The bridge marked that the dungeon had continued without him.

He crossed it. He noted it in his field book. He kept moving.

---

The Warrens received him the way the Warrens received everyone who knew them: with the specific courtesy of a place that is familiar until it isn't.

The first junction he remembered. Prior Run activated — double precision, double spatial confidence, his memory of the junction overlaying the junction as it currently existed, confirming it. Left fork, six-B notation on the wall in a surveyor's hand, chalk faded but legible. He had not left this mark. Someone else had left it and it was the same notation system he would have used.

He moved through the known sections at speed. The Gift held. The upper Warrens were stable — he had been briefed on the stability gradient, upper sections don't shift as much as the lower ones — and his memory of them was accurate enough that the Gift stayed active. Four junctions in forty minutes. He was making good time.

Then the passages shifted.

He had been briefed on the shift dynamics. He had read Osren's accumulated records on shift frequency, angular range, distance distortion. He had prepared for the shifts the way he prepared for weather: understood the general pattern, accepted that the specific instances could not be predicted, planned his route with buffer time.

What he had not fully internalized was the suppression.

Prior Run's Cost activated when the passage shifted into geometry he hadn't navigated before — which, after a shift, was most of it. The double-strength precision reversed: not simply absent, but actively dampened. He found himself unable to use the navigational instincts he had been relying on for the past forty minutes. The spatial sense that had felt so clear, so confirmed, in the upper sections went quiet. He was reading the passage the way he would read a passage he had never seen, except he had been here, except it wasn't here anymore.

He navigated by the charcoal marks. There were fewer than the accounts had suggested — the wave traffic had worn them, the most recent week of high-frequency use erasing the finer notations. He found two junction identifiers and one directional mark that was still legible. He used them. He was slower than he had expected. He was precise about being slower than he had expected: this was not a failure of preparation, it was a feature of the Gift he had not fully modeled.

He reached Depth 3.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Cael Vorn: Current Resolve: 17
```

He had not been here before.

He knew the Still Garden from accounts — he had read more accounts of the Still Garden than of any other part of the dungeon, because the Patient was here and the Patient was the variable he had been most carefully studying. He had read Death #1 (Edric Voss, took a direct route, killed immediately). He had read Death #3 (Lira, reached the eastern wall before the Patient struck). He had read the accounts through to Death #23 (Orla Vess, reached the wound, drove the knife in, could not cover twelve meters in time). He had read all of them.

He stepped into the Garden.

Prior Run's suppression held — he had not been here before. He was reading the space without the Gift's amplification, which meant he was reading it as himself, which was how he read everything: carefully, fully, without rushing.

The Patient was at the center.

He had thought he was prepared for its size. He was not prepared for its size. The accounts had given him dimensions and he had tried to visualize them and he had not succeeded. The creature was large in the way that certain geological formations were large: not larger than expected in the way that made you revise your estimate, but larger in a way that changed the category. The numbers had been accurate. The numbers had not conveyed what the numbers were measuring.

He could see the wound from the entrance, sixty meters away. The crack along the left flank, the penetration point above it, the luminescent fluid still seeping even now. The damage was real and visible and the creature was carrying it the way it was carrying everything: without stopping, without knowing how to stop.

He looked for the knife.

It was on the floor near the creature's position — seven inches of blade, narrow point, still carrying a faint residue of dried luminescent fluid. Dorric Kael's knife. Orla Vess's last tool. He noted its position. He noted the plumb line near the center, the chisel beside it, the spear against the eastern wall. He noted the bypass route along the western wall, thirty meters from the creature, the passage clear.

The creature saw him.

It turned. The weight redistribution was visible even at this distance — the specific asymmetry of a creature managing a compromised load-bearing structure, loading the undamaged side, keeping the cracked flank slightly back. He had read about this. He had read about the hesitation: the learned caution, the extended delay, the four entries since Death #20 without a kill. He had read that Orla Vess had walked to within seven meters of the creature and activated a Gift against it before it struck.

He had read that the creature had hesitation now.

He did not take the bypass route.

He did not take it because he had been seven years learning this creature and he had read every account and he knew that the bypass route was for people who were not engaging with the creature, and he was engaging with the creature, because he had not come here after seven years of preparation to take the western wall and avoid the thing he had been studying. He had come here to see what the creature was now. He had come here to see whether his seven years of preparation had prepared him for the thing in front of him.

He walked toward it.

The hesitation held at sixty meters. He walked. Fifty meters. The creature tracked him, the slow rotation of something much larger than him maintaining him in its detection range. He was outside its established engagement range — twenty-five meters, confirmed by multiple accounts — and the Gift's suppression was still active (new space, new threat, unearned ground) and he was reading the creature the way he read everything he'd planned for: looking for the variance between the account and the reality, looking for what the seven years of reading had not conveyed.

He found it at forty meters.

The hesitation was not caution. He had read it as caution — learned caution, the creature had been hurt, it had developed a new behavioral modality of assessment before engagement. He had read it as an animal that had learned to be afraid and was therefore easier to navigate.

The hesitation was something else. He could see it clearly from forty meters: the creature was not afraid. The creature was waiting. It had learned that waiting had no cost. It had learned from Tova Fenn that something approaching without intent to harm could be allowed to pass. It had learned from Senne Vareth that something approaching to read could be tolerated. It had learned from Orla Vess that the correct response to a direct threat was retreat — retreat, reassessment, re-engagement when the threat was immobilized.

The creature was not hesitating because it was afraid.

The creature was assessing whether he was a threat.

He stopped at thirty meters. He was outside the confirmed engagement range. The creature tracked him.

He thought: I have prepared for seven years. I have read every account. I understand this creature as well as any living person who has not stood in front of it.

He thought: the creature has had twenty-three people stand in front of it. Nine of them it has killed. It has been hurt five times by five different tools in five different sequences. It has learned from every one of them something that I cannot read from an account.

He thought: my information is good.

He thought: the creature has been learning things I cannot prepare for.

He was at thirty meters.

He took two steps toward the creature.

The creature did not hesitate.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Cael Vorn: Current Resolve: 17
```

The Patient struck from twenty-eight meters.

Not the aborted lunge. Not the hesitation behavior that had characterized every account since Death #20. The full commitment, at full speed, the specific movement of a creature that had recalibrated its threat assessment and decided that assessment was complete. It covered twenty-eight meters in the time it took him to read that it was moving.

He did not run. He turned his body to reduce the impact profile — professional reflex, the same thing he did in confined spaces when large animals moved unexpectedly — and the strike caught him at the left shoulder and threw him twelve meters into the eastern wall and he hit the wall at the height of the spear's head, which was loosened, which he had noted, which did not help him.

He was on the floor. The impact had been — he was assessing the impact. Left shoulder, probably dislocated. Two ribs at minimum. He was breathing. He could see clearly. He had not lost consciousness.

The creature was watching him from fifteen meters.

He understood, from the floor, with his shoulder sitting wrong and his ribs informing him of their situation, what the accounts had not conveyed and what he had not prepared for: the difference between knowing the creature's behavioral history and knowing the creature. He had known its history. He had not known it. The creature in front of him was not the creature in the accounts. It was the creature the accounts had been building toward — the creature after twenty-three entrants, five wounds, six solo encounters without a kill, twelve meters of retreat from Orla, the accumulated curriculum of three centuries and twenty-three deaths and the specific education of being hurt.

The creature moved toward him.

He could not stand up fast enough.

Prior Run activated — he had been here now, this space, his body had experienced it, the Gift had earned the ground — and the spatial clarity came back, and the spatial clarity showed him: the eastern wall, the spear above him with its loosened head, the plumb line six meters to his left, the bypass route on the western wall thirty meters away. He could see the full geometry of the Still Garden, clearly, with seven years of preparation and the Gift's earned amplification, and the geometry showed him exactly where he was and exactly where the creature was and exactly what twelve meters at its current speed meant in the time he had remaining.

He had seven years of good information.

The information had been good. The information had been insufficient. The creature had learned things between the accounts and his arrival that the accounts could not have told him, because the accounts were from people who died learning them.

The creature reached him.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: CAEL VORN
DESIGNATION: THE VETERAN
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (THE STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 17 -> 0
Resolve ............... 15 -> 17 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 11 -> 14 (+3 Prior Run: continuous Gift, full engagement at death)
Fortune ............... 13

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 14
Prior Run: continuous Gift. +3 ATT.
Full activation in known spaces (Gullet, upper Warrens).
Suppressed in new spaces (lower Warrens shifts, Still Garden entry).
Earned ground at death: Prior Run activated in the Still Garden during the final seconds.
The Gift showed him the full geometry.
The geometry was accurate. It was not actionable.

COST STATUS AT DEATH: Prior Run — suppression lifted at death.
The dungeon had read him. He had earned the ground.
He understood the Still Garden as clearly as he had ever understood any space.
He understood it too late.

CAUSE OF DEATH: Patient (Still Garden predator).
Kill number: 10.
Note: The Patient struck before the conventional hesitation window opened.
Previous behavioral pattern: delay, assessment, abort or retreat.
This engagement: no delay. Full commitment from 28 meters.
The Patient's hesitation was not a permanent behavioral change.
The Patient had learned to distinguish between threats.
This entrant was assessed as a threat before he reached the engagement range threshold.
The hesitation does not apply to entrants who approach with intent to engage.

GIFT ABSORPTION NOTE:
Finishing Blow (Death #23, Orla Vess): The Patient struck an entrant who had successfully activated a Gift against it. Absorption status pending — first chapter where this question is relevant.
Prior Run: absorption status unclear. Gift was suppressed at time of engagement. Patient may have encountered the Gift's active form only in the final seconds.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Silver.
Stat bonus: +2 FOR.
Quality: Certainty. The specific state of being absolutely confident in a direction.
Seven years of preparation, one direction of travel, total conviction that the timing was correct.
The timing was correct. The preparation was correct. The creature had changed.
The dungeon notes: certainty is not the same as accuracy. Both can be present without the other.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: VETERAN COMPLETE
Entry type: Compelled. The Maw extended the returning season.
The entrant believed the timing was his. He was not wrong.
He was also not right in the way he thought he was right.
First return-entry in the Ledger.

LEDGER NOTE:
The Ledger has records going back to Death #1.
The Veteran is the first entrant whose first entry is also in the record.
He is the first person the Ledger has known twice.
He entered at Death #1's period: four names on the wall. He returned at twenty-eight.
The Ledger does not know how to account for the seven years between entries.
The Ledger records: he left, he returned, he died.
The Ledger does not record: what the seven years were.
```

The Ledger recorded the death.

The fifth consecutive deviation from standard format — or the fourth, depending on how you counted. The Ledger no longer counted. The Ledger put first what was most significant, and what was most significant about Death #29 was the qualification: *first return-entry in the record.*

The Maw examined Cael Vorn through Reflection.

The Reflection showed: a careful man. A man who had prepared for seven years and whose preparation had been accurate. He had the right information. The information had been complete as of the last account he had read. The creature had continued to change after the last account. The gap between the last account and his arrival was one week. In one week, the creature had learned something about intent that it had not known before.

The Maw looked at this through Reflection.

The entrant had read twenty-three accounts. He had understood the creature as well as it could be understood from outside the dungeon. He had been correct about the damage, the behavioral history, the physical state. He had been wrong about one thing: that the creature's current state was the creature's final state. The creature was not a fixed object that his preparation could describe completely. It was a living thing that continued to change after each description was written.

*The accounts are accurate when they are written,* the Maw noted in the Ledger margin. *They are not accurate when they are read.*

The Maw had created the Reflection to understand entrants. The Reflection had now shown it something about itself: the Maw had been building a record for three centuries, and the record described the dungeon as it had been, not as it was. The Ledger was always seven years behind something.

The Patient was in the Still Garden. Kill count: ten. It had not killed anyone between Deaths #20 and #23 — the damage sequence's collateral respite. It had killed Death #23 after being damaged by her. It had now killed Death #29 without being damaged.

The hesitation was not gone. The hesitation had become more precise.

The Maw noted in the Ledger: *The creature has learned to read intent. The hesitation applies to entrants who pass through. It does not apply to entrants who come for the creature. The creature can now distinguish.*

This was, the Maw noted, significant. The creature had not been able to do this before. The cumulative education of twenty-nine entrants had taught the Patient something the Patient had not known how to learn in three centuries alone.

*The dead are educating my creature,* the Maw wrote in the margin. *I did not design this. I cannot evaluate whether it was helpful.*

At the entrance camp, Osren opened his book.

The crystal glow had been silver — clear, directional, cold. Eight seconds. He had not recorded a silver glow before. He looked at his notes on silver crystals: *certainty, direction. +2 FOR.* He looked at the entry for Cael Vorn, first visit: *turned back at first shift. Stated reason: unprepared. Returned reason, stated: "now prepared."*

He sat with this for a moment.

He wrote: *Silver. Eight seconds. First silver glow recorded. Entrant: Cael Vorn, itinerant trader. Second entry. First visit: seven years ago, turned back at Warrens. This visit: Still Garden, Patient kill #10. Preparation: seven years. Outcome: insufficient.*

He looked at the inscription wall. Twenty-nine names. The most recent still settling.

CAEL VORN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO RETURN

He closed the book. Outside, the midday light was flat and direct, the kind of light that showed everything without softening it.

*971 remain.*

---

*CAEL VORN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO RETURN*
