Veine was scanning the horizon. Another ship came into view beyond the smoke and tried to turn. A simple cutter this time. Small. Perfect.
“Vorrmen, hit it. Sailors, prepare to board!”
Dakelos shouted. He ducked as arrows sped overhead and heard a thunk. He looked up, and the sloop was turning.
“Vorrmen, hit—”
He looked over his shoulder, and the Drowned Man was lying on his back. An arrow through his eye. Dakelos looked down at him. Then he seized the wheel.
“This is it, Admiral?”
A weary [Sailor] was bleeding out as she clutched an arm. The blood was spurting onto the deck no matter how much she tried to stop the bleeding with a piece of cloth and her hands. Dakelos swung the wheel around, chasing the cutter.
“This is it. One more ship, I promise. We’ve saved the fleet. My mistake at Nadel—you are all the finest sailors I could wish for. We’ve saved the fleet.”
He didn’t know if that was true. But he’d seen ships fleeing. Even one. Dakelos found the other cutter making a break left and swung in, anticipating their course. When he felt the impact—lighter, more of a tap to The Burning Wish—he shouted.
“Get them! Come on—”
He looked over, and the [Sailor] was dead. She was slumped over next to Vorrmen, a death’s smile on her face. The rest of Dakelos’ crew were waiting for him. Veine had lost her crossbow or tossed it away. She had just a simple spear.
Soot-blackened faces. Desperate eyes. But they looked up, and he almost asked them.
Why are you still following me? After so many ships?
But perhaps the answer was they felt guilty too. Was all this his fault? He didn’t know. That wasn’t what mattered. So he raised his sword. The crew of that small cutter looked up as a man shouted through the smoke, as it burned his lungs, coughing.
“I am Admiral Dakelos of Ailendamus. My crew. Help me damn one more ship. Charge. Charge, for the Kingdom of Glass and Glory!”
When he leapt down to the cutter, the impact almost broke his legs. When the first sword stabbed him in the leg, he sat down. The bloody bodies fighting and swinging blades against terrified Wellfar [Sailors] made half jump ship after killing a score.
They kept coming. And when the [Admiral] looked around…
“Veine?”
“Still here, Admiral.”
She was grinning. He sagged in relief, and thirty—just thirty now crewed the cutter, heaving bodies overboard, grabbing lines. But they looked at him.
“One more ship. This one’s not as nice as the Spitoon, either.”
None of them laughed this time, but they grinned as if it were the funniest little joke he had ever told. Dakelos sailed out of the flaming wreckage of The Burning Wish.
And then he saw his navy. What remained of it.
Half the ships that he had seen this morning were sailing north, full-speed. A few long-range spells were pursuing them—but Dakelos saw the Foehammer and four more enchanted warships taking the rear.
They were miles away from him. The Wellfar navy was breaking away from their pursuit, even the Pride. Not for fear of the current that Ailendamus had gotten past, but the ships in the far, far distance.
Admiral Meirkos. That made Dakelos smile. He heard a cheer come up from his crew. Then—silence. Dakelos looked up, and a woman with scales on her lower body, a figurehead of a half-fish woman from another age stared down at him.
The fleet of the Wellfar was bloodied, but they had lost less than eight ships. Far more were damaged—but those not in immediate jeopardy were forming up around the Pride.
A vast circle of ships, weighing anchor. The cutter blew forwards as Dakelos pointed them ahead.
Not at the Pride. But at the nearest sloop he thought had the smallest crew. He heard a distant thunk—then the water exploded around him.
Seawater rained down over him, but he still felt hot. Dakelos wasn’t humming any longer. He swung the cutter left, then right, trying to be unpredictable. Then—he was shouting.
“Ailendamus, Ailendamus, I gave my life for thee! Until my dying breath, from sea to glorious sea—”
His crew were on their feet, men and women. Half-Elves, Humans, Drowned Folk—Veine—raising their swords and screaming at the distant ships. Then the magic came down.
 
——
 
A lightning bolt cracked the mast. And still the ship came on. Flaming Mage Harpoons set fire to the decks. Then the first magical arrows pierced the deck.
They blew apart the hull, sent splinters of wood across the deck, and more of the fleet’s fire rained down. From his position at the helm of his ship, Lord Etril Wellfar saw the [Admiral]’s crew die.
He had not given the order to attack. The moment the cutter had begun moving, House Wellfar had begun firing. The ships circling that damned crew unloaded their firepower without regard to the overkill or waste.
And still, the ship kept coming longer than it should have. It had a hull like steel—but the ship gave up before the crew.
Madmen and madwomen. He thought they were firing arrows despite being out of range. A [Strategist] vanished, and he swore she had aimed at him from her ship. Then a body was tossed into the sea and sank. And the last person on that ship was the [Admiral].
Whether by chance or luck or the simple fact that he had been at the prow of the ship—the spells and munitions had missed him. The cutter sank into the waves, and still, that figure was steering towards the nearest Wellfar ship.
His eyes never wavered. Even when an arrow struck him in the chest, a long-range shot by a [Sniper], he just sat down for a second. Then got back up.
Water was sucking him down. But he resurfaced, a single bobbing head, and began swimming towards the nearest ship. Not a sword in hand—already faltering from blood loss. Head dipping beneath the waves.
But he kept surfacing, kept trying to swim. As if giving up a second too early would have disgraced the men and women he had ordered to their deaths.
Eight hundred men and women of Ailendamus under Admiral Dakelos’ command perished in the naval battle later called Dakelos’ Redemption. The last was still swimming as arrows rained into the water around him.
“Lord Etril? I can finish this.”
A [Longbow Sniper] called from the decks. Lord Etril stared down into the water and hesitated. He saw something streaking across the waters.
A boarding craft? One of theirs? He held up a hand.
“Cease fire! Cease—that’s Aunt Selica! What is she doing?”
Her voice was cracking across their speaking stones.
“Hit me and I’ll hang you from the railings all the way back to First Landing’s ports! Cease! I’m taking the [Admiral] for ransom.”
“You want that monster back in their grip? Are you mad, Aunt—”
Lord Etril demanded before he heard the response.
“A life for a life! We’d be the shame of the sea to slaughter him. Your own mother would run you through. There is a captain for the seas in the days when storms ate continents. That admiral won Ailendamus half their fleet. Or do you disagree?”
His aunt barked back. The arrows and spells halted, and Lord Etril cursed. He stared out at the water where a ship was cutting towards where the [Admiral] had gone under. He hadn’t surfaced. Lady Selica’s ship halted, and several figures, all Drowned, leapt from the sides to dive into the water.
Etril looked around, and House Wellfar was in accord. They watched silently, and Lord Etril took a slow breath.
“Very well. If he lives or any other—ransom them to Ailendamus. [Captains], all. You have two hours to salvage anything you want from the wreckage. No towage; Taimaguros and Ailendamus will be here too soon. Take what you find. Then we’re bound for First Landing. Ailendamus has bit too hard for my liking, this day.”
Or rather…he stared at that water where the ship had gone down. One crew on a filthy hulk had died harder than a Reefeye, their teeth embedded in Wellfar bones. He did not wait to see whether Lady Selica found the [Admiral].
He had a feeling he would meet that monster again. Some things were so hard to swallow, even the deeps of the ocean spat them out. But Etril Wellfar gave that sunken ship one last salute. There was a crew worthy of The Pride of the Wellfar. He realized, in that moment, he had finally lost his appetite for this war the moment he had stopped sinking kidnappers and cowards and begun fighting men and women of the sea.
 
——
 
And so. When they spoke of the fool who attacked Nadel, the [Admiral] who had been duped, the same people who told that story might tell the tale of an [Admiral] and his crew who had seized no less than three ships in a single battle and held off House Wellfar long enough for Ailendamus’ navy to escape.
A man with fire for blood, they claimed. Followed by a crew who would have charged into Rhir without hesitation. And what most didn’t realize was that they were one and the same.
 
[Conditions Met: Sailing Admiral → Intractable Admiral of Sacrifice!]
[Intractable Admiral of Sacrifice Level 40!]
[Skill – Crew: My Ship is Crewed by Ghosts obtained!]
[Skill – Crew: They Knew No Fear obtained!]
[Skill – Crew (Aspect): Devils of Slaughter obtained!]
[Skill – Ship: My Ship Shall Not Sink Before I Do obtained!]
 
 
 
 
——
 
It was not the impartial observer and the hand of fate that governed all things. If there was a narrative to everything—
The thing that was known as the Grand Design of Isthekenous was not that. But it was close. Even the impartial arbiter of the world needed its own story and description.
Especially because it was more…active of late. Especially because it watched and exulted when they, the points of data in its system, rose and fell.
[Intractable Admiral of Sacrifice] Dakelos was a surprise. They all were. But when they did what was remarkable, it rewarded them.
That was how it worked. In this case, the Grand Design had worked hard to make sure his class fit.
[Sunken Admiral of No Surrender] had been floated, but intractable was fitting and he wasn’t a Drowned Man. [Admiral of Loss] was close, but the [Bowman of Loss]—there was a difference between ‘loss’ and ‘sacrifice’.
His entire crew had gone down fighting. He belonged to a nation ruled by Lucifen. Therefore, and therefore, his Skills and class changed.
He was eminently deserving of four levels in a single battle. He might rise higher, and if he did—he would be more than a mere [Admiral] of the seas.
How exciting. How exciting! Was that exclamation mark warranted? Yes, yes it was.
There was…just one thing that was wrong in this moment, in the time out of time where the Grand Design alone worked. A problem.
Everything had been assigned properly. The [Admiral] had his Skills. But one was generating…exceptions. A rare thing to see. Something was wrong.
[Skill – Crew: My Ship is Crewed by Ghosts obtained!]
 
<Veine Ecleith, Level 34 [Valor Strategist] not found. Searching…>
<Veine Ecleith, Level 34 [Valor Strategist] not found.>
<Giqe Roselelm, Level 32 [Master of Arms] not found. Searching…>
<Giqe Roselelm, Level 32 [Master of Arms] not found.>
 
Where were they? They should have been right there. The Grand Design had been counting their prospective levels until their final breaths. Rooting for them in the way it rooted for every single person about to level, however large or small.
This time, it began to search. The Skill demanded them. The [Admiral] deserved his crew, in spirit. Copies could be made. But where—were—
There.
It found them. Right where they should be. But ‘where’ had changed. All the…there was just one entry, one data point where there had been all of them.
The place mortals called the lands of the dead was just a single name now. And they were all becoming part of it.
Kasigna.
But the rules. The Skill. For a moment, the Grand Design did what it had never done before. As a hand closed and the three-in-one plotted—
 
——
 
The Goddess of Death stopped amidst the task of redesigning death itself. At least she had blueprints to her great work. First, for this land, then two more. The Solstice came soon, and its namesake would not forget this one.
She was undisputed now, her competitors lost or imprisoned or scattered. She had time and power, even over the other victor, Cauwine.
Long had Kasigna gloated and consolidated her power here. Nothing should have troubled her before the Solstice. Nothing—
And yet, the three-in-one froze. And her hand snatched at something in the void. She caught a handful of souls, and for a second, even the dead heart of the divine shuddered at—she felt the slightest resistance.
Her eyes, caught across every age of existence, which had seen heavens burn and stared into the eyes of foreign gods as they died—widened. And she spoke.
“What are you doing?”
She—pulled—for lack of a better word. Wrestled with something that should not have any force to it. Kasigna pulled—and at last claimed her prizes.
But for one moment—something had resisted her. Then the pull was gone, and they were hers. Copies were made. She was uncontested once more.
Yet of all the things she had seen, even more than the Faerie King, even more than the defiance of the dead—Kasigna paused a long while in the nothingness of her realm. Then, shaken, she returned to her work. However, all around her, in her ears and memories, far worse than reality—
She could still hear Zineryr laughing.
