 
The war was not over. Even though the cold front was rolling down from Cenidau as it often did, frozen mists that could kill someone faster than you could blink, blanketing the northern kingdoms of Terandria in snow—it sometimes seemed like the cold just led to more wars popping up in the continent of old humanity.
The freezing cold meant that the nobility stayed indoors or rode about armed with heating runes, bickering without hunting to be done, sleeping with each other’s spouses, quarreling, and setting the grounds for a conflict come spring or a brisk winter skirmish.
Wars now…some wars ended when winter began. Taimaguros sparred with its neighbors in the north, and the dominion was wise enough not to advance when those mists came down. Kaaz, most active of the Restful Three, didn’t do much besides cheer on its adventurers in their comparatively warm dungeoneering. No dueling challenges, few of the nobility popping up in warfronts as mercenaries for hire. Fighting was all very well and good for Kaazians, but you couldn’t beat winter with a sharp piece of metal.
But in the south of Terandria, Ailendamus was still at war. The Dawn Concordat had not made peace, despite all that had been said and done. And the reason was simple, depressingly so if you were a [Soldier] longing for peace.
They had the advantage.
Or rather, Ailendamus suddenly had too many enemies and too little desire to engage them all. When they were waxing in strength, no nation wanted to step up and be the first to be slapped down. Pheislant had been extremely worried about being next on the chopping block, and their spirited engagements led by the Order of Seasons had been tense.
But like a bear being surrounded by wolves, once it was wounded, everyone wanted to take a bite. Noelictus from the north. Desonis from the east. Pheislant from the west. The Dawn Concordat was now on the offensive, and even smaller nations were putting their shots in.
Ailendamus was a vast nation. So if a raid went off, they had to move their forces around. Which, of course, left plenty of places where they weren’t fully protected. They usually got around this with their armies being the ones advancing and their coordinated assault bearing down on their enemies from all angles.
However, they had lost multiple, multiple armies and their Great General Dionamella along with numerous lesser [Generals] against the Dawn Concordat, and their forces were tied up retreating and redrawing their battle lines against the Dawn Concordat.
They had Hydra Knights. They had the Thirsting Veil, Drell, and more troops than any one foe combined.
The problem was that Ailendamus did not want a five-pronged war with all the nations. It was—in the eyes of the royal court, a certain Wyrm, and a number of other strategic minds—better to take your lumps, build back up, and then start afresh.
It was a kind of dance that ignored the smallfolk that you trampled on. Lose a battalion here, eat the cost of rebuilding torched farms or stolen goods, and let the Dawn Concordat and their newfound allies claim all the victories. It would have been far harder to engage them, anyways.
 
——
 
Aside from Pheislant and the Dawn Concordat, who were fielding armies, the other nations were not coming in with standard forces.
In the north, a different kind of mist fell over Ailendamus’ northern border by night, and the [Soldiers] groaned and lit every torch and lantern they could find.
They still cowered in fear of the night. Because what stalked past their outposts, the figures who quietly broke into towns and even cities and engaged their enemies while they looted—they weren’t the kind of warriors who fought fair.
The thunk of a crossbow bolt was the only thing you’d hear when the Hunters of Noelictus came for you. A blade in the dark that killed a single sentry on watch and spared the rest?
That was the stuff that Noelictus’ enemies feared. And if one of those figures was caught, they fought in the streets, a whirlwind of blades and sometimes even sorcery, before they were brought down.
But they were almost always ‘brought down’ with a dozen dead [Soldiers]. The Hunters appeared, stole precious goods, torched buildings or slew soldiers, then melted into the shadows.
They were thieves, ironically. Despite it not being their class for all they were good at stealth and subterfuge, the Hunters were after gold and artifacts, which Ailendamus had in plenty.
You may ask how easy it was to plunder artifacts not under lock and key. But message stones in the guilds could be re-tuned. Purification in wells, enchanted scarecrows, even lantern crystals—Ailendamus was awash in magic that its citizens possessed in abundance and Noelictus did not. Not to mention the fact that even their spellbooks were considered more useful.
Noelictus was not always rich, so their king was treating this war as a kind of income. He set his Hunters against [Merchants] and richer targets while they harassed the forts on the border.
In reply, the Order of the Thirsting Veil was forced to deploy in towns and cities. Their duels by night with their lightly-armored counterparts were fierce affairs filled with poison and subterfuge. But again, neither nation wanted to escalate to open conflict…yet. They had already clashed once, and neither wanted to test the other, especially not with all the revelations in the world.
 
——
 
The eastern front was even more miserable for [Knights], if you could believe it. Fighting shadows by night was one thing.
Rain and sleet? Far worse.
Storms kept blowing in from Desonis, and they were snow, rain, or sleet. Or hail accompanying one of the three. The Earl of Rains had sent his tempests, and Desonis’ own forces always attacked when the storms were at their worst.
 
‘No firm footing. No line of sight. Water freezing in your armor joints—this is no way to fight a war!’
—Knight Yoriven, rotated across to the eastern border. Shortly before a tidal wave hit him.
 
Marsh Knights were considered to be one of the least-honorable [Knight] orders, barely above the commoner-filled Hydra Knights. They would rise out of rivers, hurl mud into the visors of their opponents, or simply toss nets over foes and stride past them.
Desonis was after something entirely different than Noelictus, though. What they craved and what they stole by the thousands over the winter was very simple.
They stole trees.
Desonis, wet Desonis of ships and sea, craved the best lumber they could acquire. Their marshes and swamps were not bountiful in either sturdy building materials or burnable firewood, both of which they craved.
So the raids of the Earl hit the forests hard. While their soldiers fought or kept the enemy occupied, sweating, steely-eyed [Lumberjacks] would fell trees as fast as they could or work alongside [Mages] and [Knights] with enchanted weapons doing the same.
That was gritty work, alright. Imagine, as the rain poured down, freezing you to the bone, hacking at a tree’s bark in the middle of winter as you heard warriors fighting each other not fifty paces from where you stood. Only your boots, made of Hydra leather, kept your feet dry and your footing secure.
But if that was miserable—you had been born when it rained, and it was like sunshine to you, even when it was below zero. For Ailendamus, defending trees was neither honorable nor pleasant.
Especially when the felled trees could be put into chests of holding if you chopped them up. But even chests of holding couldn’t contain a felled oak that easily. Unfortunately—Desonis was very good at using water. Most of their raids took place alongside the major rivers that flowed into their nation. Thus…a felled tree was often just heaved into the river, and it carried the logs downstream towards the ocean.
The Order of Drell and Hydra Knights had to secure the eastern and southern borders. It was expedient; rather than lose [Soldiers] left and right in these lightning-fast raids, it was better to have a battered [Knight], if half-drowned, who could live again to fight another day.
There were accords of war, so the unhappy [Knights] fought and saved more lives by walking into mudtraps and fighting through pouring weather. And these were only two of the nations testing Ailendamus. There were incursions from as far as Erribathe, their wildfolk and opportunistic plains people grabbing artifacts before retreating to the Kingdom of Myths.
Avel took literal potshots with their damned longbows—it seemed like the only nations that weren’t coming at Ailendamus were Deríthal-Vel, the Kingdom of Dwarves, and Samal.
None of this made Ailendamus happy, of course. Each raid was often cheered in the other kingdoms. It was a blow to the pride of Ailendamus’ folk, and reprisals were often hotly talked about in the Court of Masks with less action or resolution.
…The problem was that there was just no will for war. Not after seeing Dionamella fall. The armies were here, but even Duke Rhisveri, a traditional war hawk supremely confident in Ailendamus’ ability to win a war even if they took twice as many casualties as their opponents—
Even he was shaken. It seemed, among the top brass of the military, as though there were suddenly another calculus at play.
Were they preparing for round two with the Dawn Concordat or something else? The New Lands—the warning of ghosts and the King of Khelt—made them miserly when it came to expending military might. As if they were waiting for something to sneak up on them.
 
——
 
The borders of Ailendamus were not the place to be right now. But their northern walls and forts were largely untested, having been there for over a hundred and fifty years since the Kingdom of Glass and Glory was first founded. The rest of Ailendamus, the inner heartlands, were shaken, but stable.
There was a reason the raids targeted Ailendamus’ bounties, and that was because they had what the other nations desired. The forests that Desonis were chopping down? Half-Elves, outraged, were either enlisting or demanding more [Knights], because those same forests had been grown for them by the late Conservator Fithea.
Ailendamus had more forest-land than any nation in the entire southern half of Terandria, including Gaiil-Drome, the literal kingdom of half-Elves. It had enough fields of wheat, Yellats, pumpkins, melons, every variety of crop that could be grown in Terandrian soil, to make Noelictus’ economy struggle.
Rich in magic, knowledge, and martial might. Suspiciously so, one might say, but Ailendamus was one of the giants of Terandria, the rising kingdom. What it didn’t have, like so many up-and-coming nations, like the King of Destruction, like the Forgotten Wing company, was the one thing that had stymied multiple ambitions:
A good fleet.
It was the issue of landfolk who made their fame and success on, well, land-based battles. When their eyes inevitably turned to the sea, they realized that making a ship was not like training a platoon of [Soldiers]. Ships took far longer to make, were extraordinarily expensive, required experienced crews—and the best ones were relics passed down and salvaged, repaired, and maintained sometimes over thousands of years.
Ailendamus, land-locked, had still been able to build and buy a navy strong enough to knock the Dawn Concordat’s forces flat and even make Pheislant hesitate. But poor decisions made by a certain Wyrm had, again, come back to bite Ailendamus in no small way.
It was one thing for Pheislant and Desonis and even Nadel to be against Ailendamus. So what if they were? Taimaguros was the ally of Ailendamus, and they had a fleet to crush most foes.
Unfortunately, few people had counted on one of the most powerful navies in the world joining in against Ailendamus.
House Wellfar had set sail when Tyrion Veltras had called them to war. And unlike House Veltras, who had withdrawn when the job was done, Wellfar’s [Lords] and [Ladies] still hunted in packs, their ships taking down Ailendamus’ forces and ransoming entire crews for ludicrous sums of gold.
They seemed determined to destroy every seaworthy craft Ailendamus had left. They had left one fleet burning and were in pursuit of another. Ailendamus’ reserves and their allies from Taimaguros were running skirmishes at sea, but Wellfar had speed and experience on their side. They refused to let Ailendamus’ navy get to Taimaguros Dominion harbors, and so it would be a full-scale engagement at sea, soon.
There were multiple reasons for this as Viscount Visophecin noted to Queen Oiena at a state dinner when she asked why Wellfar was so determined to engage in a full-scale offensive. The slightly grey-skinned Viscount, eyes a bloodstained red, handkerchief tucked into a doublet as black as whatever sins his slight smile hid, explained the matter simply.
“We believe Wellfar has been paid handsomely to ‘clear the way’ for the colonists heading to the New Lands, Your Majesty. It would not do for vulnerable ships to be accosted by Ailendamus’ fleet. Losing all our warships would cripple Ailendamus for years, possibly decades at sea.”
“One supposes Wellfar will come out ahead. But they must be truly impressive to be able to best both Taima and Guros fleets? May it be pride from my homeland, Viscount, but I would have put my navy ahead of any…Izrilian fleets.”
Queen Oiena could not hide the spark of national annoyance at the implication Wellfar would continue routing both hers and Ailendamus’ fleets. As to that—Visophecin grimaced.
“Ordinarily, Wellfar would not press so far ahead, Queen Oiena. But they have a new [Lord]—Lord Etril Wellfar—leading this hunting fleet. And he commands The Pride of the Wellfar. The Taimaguros Dominion is—hesitant—to commit its own Citadel-class warship to any sea engagement.”
Then the [Queen] went silent, because that would mean all-out war between Wellfar and Taimaguros. And without that, it would be better for any ship to run far clear of Wellfar.
“Even so, a lesser warship can still put up a fight. The Pride’s a lion on the plains. But even Kaazians would tell you a dozen leopards or hyenas can kill a lone lion.”
“If it were just the Pride, I would agree, Your Majesty. However, it is running with a heavy escort. Wellfar is attempting to destroy our navy. Taimaguros is attempting to let it withdraw in good order. We must trust to our [Admirals].”
The [Queen] sighed.
“The competent ones, at least.”
Everyone in earshot chuckled or winced at that reference.
 
——
 
