“Feifen doesn’t know that spell, sir. I’m afraid it’s from the barrels.”
She watched as Dakelos’ disheveled face turned slightly pale. His cheeks bulged—and with effort, he swallowed it.
“I can taste…”
He had flaxen hair that was almost dark enough to be called black, but looked semi-translucent given the mix of two colors. Dakelos stood unevenly, taller on his left side than his right due to mismatched legs, and when he was in a jolly mood, he’d swing along the deck, inspecting everything and humming under his breath.
He knew every song sung in the inns and taverns of Ailendamus by the national [Bards]. Every song. You might hear that and think it was an exaggeration, but Dakelos had once, on a dare from his crew when they were relaxing, word-for-word repeated nineteen songs, pitch and lyric perfect.
But he never sang outright and would only do a verse as an example at most. He’d get embarrassed, so you could only catch him humming. It used to be said that it was good luck to catch Dakelos humming.
They didn’t say that anymore. No one had to bring up the reason why they were here. Everyone knew.
Admiral Dakelos was the idiot who had attacked Nadel, gotten himself captured, multiple ships sunk or captured, and the rest of his fleet ransomed off at the start of this war with the Dawn Concordat.
In his defense, he had thought he was under orders to execute a supremely sneaky maneuver at the behest of the crown itself. He had fallen for a trick performed by an Elusive Lot.
It wasn’t—entirely—his fault. The tricksters had been very good and bypassed truth spells as well as used Ailendamus’ secret codes against the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. Nevertheless, Dakelos could have spotted the trick.
Should have. The Court of Masks had argued for a long time on his fate and, due to the nature of his blunder, had elected not to strip him of his rank. A court martial might occur—once the fleet was out of jeopardy.
Because of that, Dakelos was in an odd position. He had been instantly replaced, of course, and eventually consigned to the worst ship in the fleet with his command crew.
The Spitoon was, then, crewed by all of his officers. The [Sailors] and [Soldiers] had been lucky not to be included, but all of the senior crew of the Foehammer had been sent here.
It meant they had filled the hulk, which was still smaller than their old ship by far, to the brim. Two months of being here was a torment that had taken its toll on them all.
“We’re maneuvering to face the foe, sir.”
Veine broke the silence of Dakelos nibbling on eels and trying not to gag by stating the obvious. The [Admiral] looked up once.
“Yes. Louseg’s got us in the rear. I’d have put us in front and ordered us to broadside the Pride. Or ram it.”
Veine tried to smile. The Spitoon had no artillery like a modern Ailendamus warship, which had catapults, ballistae, sourced at great price from Drakes or Minotaurs. Strangely, they had a lot of them, despite neither nation exactly being open about selling the war weapons.
The Spitoon had, in place of that, Magic Harpoons which could lance across the water and poke a hole in a ship or kill an unlucky [Sailor], a two-charge [Lightning Bolt] spell that was underpowered, and two of the earliest Greatbows.
It could probably take out a weak Cutter-class ship. It was also, annoyingly, big enough to eat a few nasty shots, but it’d probably sink as the patchwork hull imploded soon after.
Oh, and because Dakelos was crewing it, the hull was as tough as steel. Unfortunately, that only meant the rats were pissed off because they couldn’t eat through the wood like normal.
A Level 36 [Admiral]-level Skill on a glorified tugboat didn’t make it that much better. Similarly, their [Navigator]’s Skills meant that the Spitoon was just fast enough to keep up with the slowest ships in the navy.
“We’ll be ready for the fight, sir. May I see the battle plans?”
Dakelos gestured, and Veine stepped over. She saw a very standard plan of attack. Louseg was going to take them straight down the middle, flank the Pride on two sides, and hammer it before the fleet split and both sections shot off towards their reinforcements.
One daring pass down the middle to cripple the enemy, and then we run while they’re repairing their sails and rudders. 
It could work. Veine bit her lip. Dakelos glanced at her, and his amber-blue eyes glinted.
“Say it, Veine.”
“Captain—that is, Acting Admiral Louseg is a good leader. He knows how to fight an engagement.”
She tried to be diplomatic. Dakelos pointed at the bowl of eels.
“We’re not in his company, and no one’s here to ferry stories around the fleet, Veine. Say it. I’m thinking it. No one’s listening. N—”
He and Veine stopped. The bowl of eels was wriggling. Slowly, a little roach crawled out of the eels and shook itself off. It noticed the two staring at it and scuttled off the desk.
Veine stomped it. Dakelos lost his appetite.
“I’d have that barrel scuppered, sir.”
“It’s probably still edible. We’re not making it past this engagement, Veine. Seal up the lot and get me a [Message] to…Omens of Rain. Captain Bessia.”
“Yes, sir—”
Veine stepped out to flag a [Tactician]. Then she stepped in. When she did, she took a breath.
“Alright. Frankly, Admiral—”
“Captain.”
“—Admiral. You’re still an [Admiral], sir. The plan of attack looks good until you remember the Pride can move faster than we can. I consulted my notes, and I don’t think it can physically move our ships around.”
“If it can, we’re dead.”
“We’re already dead, but we’ll be deader if we assume that’s the only trick it has. This charge works on other fleets, but Wellfar ships are crewed by [Sailors] with more experience on the sea than your average [Storm Sailor]. It’s like fighting Drowned Folk.”
“Mhm. Remember Ediven?”
Dakelos was trying to eat the hardtack, but he couldn’t get his teeth through the crust. Veine was glad he remembered. They had learned how fast a Drowned Ship could turn back then.
“If they see us coming, they’ll just swing around us. They can turn faster than our ships. I think we once estimated it at 40% faster turning speeds on their largest ships.”
“Their artillery’s not as good.”
“No, but their close-range weapons are twice as nasty. They don’t have the means to repair and maintain ballistae and catapults, so they do enchanted spells and Mage Harpoons, sir. We’ve never had to engage them, but I know for a fact that some of their ships run hot. Sixty-four Flaming Harpoons plus [Oil Orb] spells.”
Shipburners. Dakelos shuddered.
“Louseg has to know that. How would you run this battle, knowing the Pride can deflect everything it sees?”
Veine had a solution in mind.
“Simple, sir. Crash the Foehammer straight into the Pride.”
Dakelos stopped chewing on the hardtack. He swallowed, or tried to, and it got stuck.
After three minutes of getting him to cough out the hardtack, still mostly in one piece, Dakelos gasped out.
“You want to watch the Foehammer explode?”
“It won’t go down that fast, sir. Any ship with enchanted hulls can survive one hit. Hit the Wellfar, board them, and physically tie the Pride up. Lord Etril may be a daring young [Captain], but I haven’t read he’s an expert on boarding maneuvers. And he’s a young man. Hotheaded.”
“So physically block him, and he has to reverse. I bet the Pride can do it fast…but maybe it lets the fleet flee. How many ships?”
“Two-dozen regular ships of the line and one enchanted warship. Better make it two. They sacrifice themselves. Wellfar’s good at dodging, but it’s easier to hit them than it is to outmaneuver them.”
It was an ugly play and one Veine wasn’t proud of. But it sounded better than the full-scale engagement. Ailendamus’ fleets, especially the ones at sea, had been designed around the idea of long-range superiority.
Their Greatbows were excellent weapons that did well at range and close up—but Wellfar geared around a mid to short-range skirmish where they danced around you.
But they wouldn’t expect boarders, and they weren’t famous like Nadel or Desonis were for close-range fights. Mostly because Ailendamus wasn’t that good at it either.
“Most of our ships haven’t seen boarding action, let alone offensive ones. We’ve fought off Drowned Crews and even Bloodtear Pirates.”
Both shuddered at the memory. Dakelos hadn’t risen to [Admiral] just because he’d had a safe trip. Veine nodded.
“Then—sir—they’ll tie up Wellfar long enough for the rest of the fleet to get away.”
Dakelos’ face turned bleaker still. He looked at Veine and then down at the map.
“…Get me a [Message] to Admiral Louseg. At his convenience to discuss strategy.”
Veine smiled as the man straightened and looked more determined. She nodded.
“Right away, sir.”
 
——
 
That night, the fleet was watchful, afraid of the Pride coming up upon them and starting the fight. Strategist Veine was less worried and, in fact, was playing cards.
There was little else to do on this damned ship. And Admiral Dakelos had joined the officers’ club himself. He was of the same opinion as she and her crew. A junior [Captain] might fear an attack by night.
Not them. Master of Arms Giqe, Fleet Navigator Vorrmen, and even Chef Moirmen were all invited to a game. So were two rats, apparently. The green buggers were sitting on a hanging chandelier, copper turned green with age, candles a mess of wax dripping down to the tables below, watching the game with interest.
“I heard Louseg wants us to keep an eye out for the Pride. As if they’ll risk grounding her so close to the coast. Even if she can reverse out of it, Wellfar won’t risk their ship.”
“He’s new.”
Dakelos muttered around his cards. Veine hesitated and shut her mouth. It was hard to say what you wanted around Dakelos, because he had to maintain the authority of rank. Then again, she was supposed to do the same, but she had made her position clear.
“Meirkos would’ve kept you in position, Dakelos. Second-guessed your every move and shouted hellfire at you, but the Court of Masks wanted you removed. Louseg has [Captain]-level Skills. Even two months won’t have been time for him to gain enough [Admiral] Skills.”
“Mm. It’s fine. He’s solid.”
“He’s no Toithe. Not yet.”
Giqe put in as he tossed a card in and shadows enveloped all their cards, obscuring the faces. Moirmen cursed him as he threw down four cards at random.
“Damn it, Giqe! Let’s change the subject, eh, Admiral? No ranks in the backrooms, no talk of the fleet tonight.”
“Agreed. Pass the water.”
The bad water went around, and everyone grimaced as they sipped. But they were playing for coins; they had pay, if nothing to spend it on. Giqe complained as Veine upped the ante with two gold coins, despite the obscuring card. She knew exactly which cards she held.
“I’m gambling with my family’s coin here, Veine. You wouldn’t take my gold, would you? I have a daughter.”
“Then stop making risky bets. What’s so expensive that you can’t buy it for her on a [Master of Arms] salary?”
Giqe scowled hugely.
“Sock puppets.”
Dakelos checked his slightly tainted glass with bits of something in it before peering at Giqe.
“She’s buying socks, Giqe?”
“No, it’s the Windy Girl. Haven’t you seen the broadcasts, Admiral?”
He must truly have not been watching the ship’s scrying orb. The man looked blank as everyone chuckled. Magus Feifen returned from the privy only to scowl.
“That nonsense? They’re calling it entertainment for children, but it’s too ribald for just children. Whoever’s making it sneaks in jokes to the adults. It’s more popular than you’d guess, back home. Giqe’s daughter wants one of the Windy Girl.”
“I was just telling them that, Feifen.”
Dakelos was trying to make sense of all this, but Moirmen held up a crooked finger. One of the [Chef]’s hands was broken and battered from a fight with a monster. He was still very good with a knife and any cooking he had to do, and he had the respect of anyone who heard the story.
“But why the Windy Girl? Isn’t she the farting Courier who stinks up the place and causes all the mischief?”
“She does what now? And this is for children?”
Dakelos’ growing concern about the youth of Ailendamus made the game that much more fun as they tried to explain it. Giqe took two hands off Veine, much to her great annoyance, with some delight.
“And she shall have the Windy Girl puppet! It’s apparently the thing. You have to have the Windy Girl causing trouble even if your favorite puppet is someone else. Apparently, she wants General Dioname, but she needs at least the Windy Girl.”
That comment made the table fall silent. Without a word, the group lifted their cups, drank—and grimaced as one. Dakelos murmured.
“Oh. General Dioname. I hadn’t known…I hadn’t known she was even still a [General], much less willing to return to war. Some people knew stories of her, but when she came out of retirement like that, it felt like the stuff of stories.”
“From your lips, that’s naught but truth, Admiral. You didn’t know of her, truly?”
Vorrmen broke in, looking sidelong at Dakelos, and everyone pretended not to be intensely curious. He hesitated—and looked around, but even the two rats were giving him an encouraging stare. So Dakelos spoke out of the corner of his mouth as he tried another piece of hardtack.
“Truthfully? I knew her name, but it’s still land to sea.”
Everyone nodded. That was true. Dakelos chewed. And chewed. And chewed before swallowing and continuing.
“…But you heard of her among the most senior commanders, now and then. The old ones who remember her talked about General Dionamella like a weapon of last resort. I always thought that meant they’d have to beg her to come back to the front. But then, we have some sleeping Giants. You saw in the capital. House Shoel.”
“The judges? You’re yanking on my chain.”
Vorrmen laughed, but Giqe instantly disagreed.
“House Shoel’s not just judges. Lord Uziel…have you ever met him? I trained with him for six months, and if he wasn’t wheelchair bound, he’d be Ailendamus’ Great Knight. The public-facing side of the family’s not lax with magic or blades either. Viscount Visophecin himself was at the battle with the Dawn Concordat and nearly scorched Archmage Eldavin.”
“Hard to believe he was at that level and just hiding it.”
Moirmen frowned, but Veine dismissed that.
