She did have enough to feed any number of guests, and sometimes a [Captain] would invite themselves over to eat better. Bessia hesitated as her crew looked at her. Then she paled.
“Oh, hells. The Foehammer’s signaling.”
Their little race had definitely caught Louseg’s attention. It was turning and signaling for them to join it. Well, the Spitoon to do so. The Omen was to get right back into place. Dakelos nodded.
“We’ll talk to Louseg. We’re bound for bad currents up ahead. After you get us the provisions.”
“What? It’s not a Drowned Fleet?”
That’s what Bessia had heard, and she’d had her lookouts scanning the waters for any shadows. Dakelos gave her a look like she was a [Junior Deckhand].
“How would a Drowned Fleet be ahead of us and our [Mages] not scry or notice them? Let alone someone not notice them flanking us? Moreover, if a Drowned Fleet was ahead of us, they wouldn’t wait for an ambush. They’d drag us into a fight as soon as they could, before Meirkos could have a hope of catching up. Our [Navigator] thinks it’s Avel’s Fingers. The river inlet might have increased its push, and in that case, we’ll flounder as we cross.”
“Oh. But—I suppose Admiral Louseg will want to hear that, sir. You should get going.”
“Provisions first.”
Dakelos insisted. Bessia hesitated.
“We have orders—”
She glanced at her helmsman, and the woman slowly dragged the helm left. But Dakelos noticed and snapped.
“[Lock Helm].”
The steering wheel and rudder froze, and Bessia cursed. Now, the two ships were locked side by side.
“Dakelos!”
“I. Want. Food. If you don’t give me what I want—”
“You’ll, what, board us and take it?”
Bessia almost laughed…until she saw [Master of Arms] Giqe on deck and wondered how many of her Hydra Knights he could take down alone. And Dakelos’ personal crew…
He assuaged her fears.
“We’re not going to mutiny over rations, Bessia. You don’t want to give us food? Fine.”
She relaxed. Right up until he shouted.
“Chef Moirmen! Load up the roach-infested eels and throw in all the living rats you can find! We’ll throw it onto the Omen’s decks!”
The [Sailors] on the Omen had been listening to the two [Captains] shouting at one another because there was no privacy at sea. But at the thought of the Spitoon’s pestilence infecting their ship? Half of them were ready to fight as a red-painted barrel came up aboard the Spitoon’s decks. Dakelos’s crew weren’t strong enough to hurl it dozens of feet—
But his [Mage] could lift it.
“Alright, alright! Get me the good stuff, now! And a barrel of wine!”
Bessia shouted as the red barrel hung over the deck of her ship. She could hear squeaking inside, and if a single pair of rats landed…Dakelos shouted back.
“Two barrels of wine!”
She looked at him, about to curse his name. Then Bessia gave the [Admiral] a slow salute.
“Aye, Admiral Dakelos.”
He gave her such a sad look then that she told her crew to send all the fancy rations they had. Then she watched his cheering crew setting about the provisions and hoped Louseg wouldn’t execute him on the spot.
 
——
 
“Captain Dakelos. Why are you accosting other ships of the fleet?”
Acting Admiral Louseg was furious, but Admiral Dakelos just shouted back.
“Permission to come aboard, Admiral? I would like to discuss the impending engagement with you!”
That stumped the other man. He was younger, barely thirty, and one of those thirty-before-thirty types that every nation loved. Dakelos hadn’t managed it, but he respected the former [Captain of Security] for his ability to protect Ailendamus’ interests at sea.
But he wasn’t long as an [Acting Admiral], and Dakelos’ stunt had shown it. Plus, Dakelos knew how to be underhanded.
Not in the trickster sense, but in the military sense. Louseg could not discuss military plans in the open.
“—I have already compiled our plan of attack and had it approved by Admiral Meirkos, Captain Dakelos. Return to your post!”
“With respect, Admiral, my crew has come to a separate conclusion than the one Fleet Command has offered. Admiral Meirkos may not have been apprised of all the facts.”
Louseg turned red with fury.
“Are you accusing me of withholding information?”
Dakelos was scanning the Foehammer’s decks. It looked like Louseg had taken his command over to this vessel. Which meant, of course, their levels were lower than Dakelos’ crew and they weren’t used to scouting for a fleet.
“I believe your information may be different from ours. May I come aboard? I would appreciate the chance to speak—[Admiral] to [Admiral].”
That made the Foehammer go quiet. They hadn’t exactly been jeering out loud—a lot of the old crew was there, and they were avoiding looking at the disgraced Spitoon. But the new crew certainly hadn’t been shy about thumbing their noses or spitting into the water between the two ships.
“You are not fleet commander of this navy, Admiral Dakelos.”
Louseg’s voice was warningly quiet. Dakelos shot back instantly.
“I am certainly not, Admiral Louseg. But I am still an [Admiral] in class. I would appreciate the chance to speak. Strategist Veine, with me. Master of Arms Giqe, you have the ship until we return.”
A gangplank was lowered as the two ships met—in this case, a [Light Bridge] spell, not a piece of wood—and Dakelos strode over with his small command crew: two [Strategists], including Veine, his [Sensor Lookout], Fleet Navigator Vorrmen, and their [Mage], Feifen, the half-Elf.
In private, Louseg was no less pleasant than in the open. His look of disdain for Dakelos’ attire and the [Admiral] himself quickly changed from outrage to distrust and annoyance.
“You can’t prove it’s the currents up ahead.”
“No, but slowing our fleet is the worst move.”
“You are not in charge, Admiral! Ca—Admiral Louseg is.”
The [Strategist] on Louseg’s side was snappish. But Veine’s glare meant that the other, lower-level [Strategist] quailed.
“Name me one reason why slowing the fleet is more advantageous than speeding up and getting closer to Meirkos’ reinforcements.”
“They could have thrown mine spells in the water—”
“Then I would rather sail through them and lose five ships than lose fifty when the Pride sinks us.”
“Strategist Veine! Mind your manners in the war room!”
Louseg shouted, and Veine, Dakelos, and the command staff accompanying him all gave Louseg a look of great surprise, such that the [Acting Admiral] hesitated. How did he run his ship? Or perhaps he’d never seen Meirkos or any Fleet Command debate strategy.
A raised voice was the least of what you’d get before a big battle. Someone heaving a chair at your head? A drink in your face was the least when lives were on the line. If Meirkos certified Louseg’s class, he might have to replace his [Strategists]. Because the pale-faced officer wouldn’t last five seconds debating strategy with her people.
“I maintain that the most prudent course of action is not to commit to one path. Moving at reduced speed—”
He was getting back into the flow of things, beginning to debate Veine, when Dakelos finished sneaking up behind him. Then the [Admiral] screamed in his ear.
“Choosing the middle road gets you killed fastest when there’s death on both sides! There’s a devil in the waters behind us and imaginary Krakens to the bow. I know which one I’d pick, Louseg.”
Dakelos bellowed as the [Strategist] turned into one huge flinch. The younger [Admiral] was entirely surprised by Dakelos’ personality. He raised his hands, then took a breath and put his hands on the table.
“Admiral, have you taken leave of your senses? I understand how you must feel after the disaster at Nadel. But there is no call for you to throw your weight around like this to make up for your disgrace. Fleet Kerandos is our last remaining fleet. If Admiral Toithe were still alive, I am sure he would do exactly what I am doing. I served under him, and I assure you, I’m committed to making sure we all survive this. Even the Spitoon.”
Dakelos gave Louseg a huge frown.
“Throwing my weight around? I came here because you refused to answer my [Messages], Louseg. And if old Toithe were here, I’d shout at his [Strategists] too.”
Louseg’s staff frowned hard at Dakelos.
“You mean you used to howl at each other in Fleet Hydrus all the time?”
“You mean, you didn’t with old Admiral Toithe? Maybe he was cordial around the [Captains], but there is no time for niceties or debate now. We are losing water to Wellfar, Louseg. Have the fleet speed up, and I’ll take it on my reputation if you want. But Meirkos would make this call if she had my crew. Yours is too worried about Drowned Folk from protecting shipping lanes. They might jump a small group of ships, but their navies don’t come out of nowhere. Bloodtear Pirates—maybe, but we’d see them.”
Acting Admiral Louseg was hesitating. He stared at Dakelos and muttered.
“I had no idea you were like that. I’d have to ask Meirkos for approval—”
Veine snatched a speaking stone from a holster and snapped.
“Dead gods and Krakens. Call her up, then! But speed the fleet now! Meirkos, it’s Veine. Are you worried about Drowned Fleets ambushing us up ahead?”
“Veine? You sea-bitch! Where’s my damned fleet? Is Dakelos there? I’ll feed his testicles to Otter Dogs. I was supposed to be petting them right now instead of eating Creler shit with the Pride about to plunder all our backsides! What Drowned Fleet? I thought it was submerged rocks from the tides changing!”
Veine began shouting at Meirkos as Dakelos looked around. He found the warmaps as Louseg stared at his [Strategists], Dakelos, and then the speaking stone. When he met Dakelos’ eyes, though, he paused.
It was true that Dakelos had a bit more to him than just ‘the idiot [Admiral]’. But it was also true that he’d put caution to the winds. He didn’t feel drunk, not exactly.
He just felt…calm. Calm, but unable to sit still. Dakelos glanced out one of the port windows and saw, in the distance, that ship.
“It’s coming for us, Louseg. Let’s talk about your battle plans.”
He watched the younger man’s face change as Dakelos laid out Veine’s proposal.
“You can’t be serious. You want to sacrifice that many ships on a suicide charge? We have a fleet able to fight back, Dakelos.”
“The Pride is better.”
“Then we’ll damage it, hit Wellfar hard enough to make them pause, and withdraw afterwards! But they’ll hound us to Taimaguros’ gates if we don’t make them stop! Have you ever fought a bully, Dakelos? You stand up to them.”
Admiral Dakelos smiled.
“Right. Then they come back with five friends if they don’t beat you senseless. The Pride is the biggest bully there is, Louseg. I’d rather risk a portion of the ships.”
“You have no guarantee it’ll work. Should I send those [Captains] to their deaths?”
Louseg was shaking his head, unwilling to bend on this point. He and Dakelos argued as the Foehammer sped up, and Dakelos just pointed at the proposed map.
“Sometimes, Admiral Louseg, we have to send good soldiers to their deaths. I am not blind to that. And to tell you I am sincere—I am prepared to re-crew Foehammer and commit to the charge on the Pride.”
He looked Louseg in the eyes as the Acting Admiral stopped pacing and turned to him. For a second, Louseg hesitated. Then he shook his head. Ruefully. Sadly, and gave Dakelos a look of respect for the first time.
“Ah. Now I see it. Dakelos—it’s a noble gesture. But vainglorious death isn’t how the Kingdom of Glass and Glory operates. I will not throw you to your deaths. We all deserve a future in Ailendamus, and I will see it for your crew and the fleet. Wellfar might blink under your plan. But I’ll lay them flat. Stick to the Spitoon.”
He nodded at Dakelos, and the other [Admiral] stared at him. Slowly, Dakelos rose.
“If that’s your decision, I have to let you commit to your plan, Admiral Louseg.”
“Thank you, Admiral Dakelos. I take your understanding of the terrain. Perhaps it will make a difference.”
Louseg inclined his head, but Dakelos put his hand on the door frame.
“—Just remember, Louseg. I’ll be known as that fool who attacked Nadel the rest of my life. But there’s always a bigger buffoon waiting to be made. I hope you’re sure.”
The younger man hesitated, licked his lips, and then barked back.
“I am.”
Dakelos leaned forwards.
“Well, good. But so was I when I was tricked.”
He waited for a response. And then, when none was forthcoming, he strode back to his ship.
 
——
 
They never had dinner. As they sailed down the coast and the rocky shores of Avel came into sight, the forward sloops reported what Dakelos had suspected.
“The current’s twice as strong. It wants to sweep you out to sea. One of the sloops was three miles out before it managed to break free. Our warships have to cross and shield the others.”
“No time. The Pride’s accelerated, and Wellfar is coming in from starboard! They’re springing their attack now!”
Shutter-lanterns flashed and speaking stones lit up with the fleet’s chatter. Above it all, Admiral Louseg shouted.
“You have your positions! All about and prepare the assault! Once each wing breaks off, either ride through that current or swing wide. Only the Pride can follow without listing. Enchanted warships, your target is her rudder, helm, and sails.”
He had a grasp on what must be done. But Dakelos still stood at the prow of his ship and worried. Veine tried to look on the bright side.
“We’re going in for a full swing? It might be better, now we see how that current will leave us as sitting ducks.”
Dakelos just stared out into the distance.
There she was. What a beautiful thing. 
The Pride of the Wellfar looked like the ship every [Captain] dreamed of owning. Massive, larger than even Ailendamus’ largest capital ship, but somehow sleek as well. Hull made of magic, decorated like a work of art, sails billowing with the echoes of Dragons. Her figurehead, a half-fish woman who was, for some reason, tailed with a fish’s lower body and a Human upper half instead of split side-to-side like a Drowned Person, her loading bays you could literally ride horses into.
Trading ship. War ship. He’d heard there were even floating gardens inside such that this ship was all things at once.
It was destruction that sailed at them now, and as he looked, he saw it. Red sails.
They were unfurled to catch the wind, and the crest of House Wellfar stood out on them. A ship stylized to look like a hook, trailing blue roses. It was blue and gold—and the crest shone on the crimson sails.
Red, for blood. They had come in a full fleet. His mouth dried as he counted forty ships.
“They’ve sent a full armada.”
“We outnumber them.”
