There was one final warfront where the fighting was escalating beyond mere raids. And that was the west, where the Order of Seasons, like House Wellfar, refused to relent. They were pushing the western border. Already, they had taken a swath of territory past Stone Giant’s Pass where they had first engaged Ailendamus’ forces. They were looking to swallow the Forest of Avemith and the Filthy Gillean Farmlands beyond.
Pheislant [Soldiers] were backing up a force of [Knights] harrying all the soldiers trying to regroup and form a battle line, happy to claim more land. It was not something the Court of Masks was happy about, or King Itorin II, but they had drawn as many regiments as they could, and the [Knights] would halt from exhaustion at some point.
Take your lumps.
At least Ser Greysten and the famous Ser Solstice weren’t joining that fray or they might push for dozens of miles before they could be stopped. Every eye was turning towards Izril, so these were just minor affairs. Not covered by the worldwide news shows except as small updates. Overshadowed by The Dyed Lands, the King of Destruction, and other, more interesting events.
It was just a war, and all the great battles had been fought.
 
——
 
Some of the [Soldiers] who were now defending Ailendamus had been stationed on the border or had been hunting down monsters. There was always a need for [Soldiers] to stand guard or combat threats that weren’t other nations.
When their kingdom was threatened, they came running, fresh and not tested by the Dawn Concordat’s war. It was fair for them to take a look at the disastrous battles that had occurred and lay the blame on those that had failed.
Great General Dionamella was dead. It could be said, reasonably, that her death did not lie on her own back. She had held off the Lightherald, the Archmage of Memories, the Lord of House Veltras, and more all by herself. This was upon all those who had let her down, whether in the final battle or before it.
It was said that Great Knight Merila, Dame of the Hills, might be stripped of her rank. She was undergoing a rite of penance and had sworn to slay a thousand monsters plaguing Ailendamus by the time winter ended. Similarly, the [Knights] who had been at that battle had all been censured, often taking on oaths or undergoing their own trials of shame.
The [Soldiers] were largely unchallenged, but the officers wore the stain of defeat like a badge upon their chests. It would take far greater deeds or time to undo their disgrace. And in the meantime, proper replacements had been sent to shore up the gaps in leadership.
One such was Fleet Admiral Meirkos, who was tasked with salvaging the navy’s ships as Wellfar hunted them down. She had set sail from the actual Itorin’s Pride, and her reinforcements were bearing down on Wellfar’s navy. If the reinforcements reached their forces, they could bring them back to Taimaguros’ capital harbors for repair and safeguard for the winter.
…That was not going to be easy. Meirkos had appointed one of her [Captains] to the class of [Admiral] and ordered them to fight a running retreat. But she was not going to make it to the fleet before Wellfar attacked.
Imagine, if you would, Meirkos’ face. Imagine a woman who had survived over forty years building up Ailendamus’ navies, survived being tossed overboard six times without receiving the gift of the seas—mostly because she could swim—and having to tread water for days before being rescued. A sea dog, who could command [Storm Sailors]’ respect, watching as the ships she had worked so hard to accrue for her nation were about to all be sunk.
Now, imagine she had faintly red hair owing to possibly some royal blood, salt-stained and greying, and that she wore Ailendamus’ uniform, a lance-bow crest on one breast, jade green and what some might call sinister purple highlighting a golden yellow uniform.
Then imagine one more thing. Which was that she had been two weeks into her first vacation in a decade when she got word that some idiot had gone and attacked Nadel. She had been travelling from the Archmage’s Isle of Heiste when The Pride of the Wellfar began lighting up the coastline.
So imagine a woman looking forwards to the year-long vacation she had been promised, now issuing orders like an [Admiral] always could, and remember she had been a [Storm Sailor]. She had been considered pithy even by her peers. And ships were loud, creaking affairs with shouting [Sailors], and she had a voice like thunder. She had visited countless harbors and knew more oaths and epithets than a drunk [Bard] who’d just snapped a guitar string across their face.
All because some idiot who should have been capable had attacked Nadel when a few [Illusionists] had tricked him. Her replacement [Admiral] was untested, but he was largely of the same opinion.
 
——
 
Fleet Kerandos, the amalgamation of Fleet Hydrus’ and Fleet Kerandos’ regular ships, had been sailing out to sea, and only the changing sea currents had saved them from already meeting House Wellfar, who were storming up the coast.
They had lucked into finding a new current that was carrying them north, towards Taimaguros. It was not the current most would want and would disrupt trade routes; normally, most trade went through the south, like Nadel. It wasn’t profitable to head up north of Terandria, just like the west of Baleros or east of Izril were unprofitable because they lacked access to the central shipping routes.
But in this case, it might save them. Then again, The Pride of the Wellfar was coming.
“She’s a day away at most!”
One of the [Lookouts] could see that famous ship with its Dragonsails coming on behind them. [Acting Admiral] Louseg cursed.
“Half a day! Tell Admiral Meirkos we have to make a stand. We’ll have to engage and withdraw—or they’ll cut us to ribbons before she gets here.”
The sight of that famous warship gave him a dread feeling in his chest. His dreadlocks swung as he eyed Wellfar’s fleet. Equal to his without the Pride.
Normally, good caution told him to keep running and engage the Pride at range and never get close and hope they made it to Meirkos. But he knew that the Pride could alter…well, distance.
Anything you shot at the Pride came right back at you. It was their signature, and while it had limits, like taking fire from two directions, it meant that a running battle where the Pride could just reflect everything back at you would be short and painful.
The response from the [Ship’s Mage] was quick.
“Acknowledged, Admiral. Meirkos has full confidence in your abilities. She suggests engaging as closely as you can.”
Louseg had a painful smile on his face. There really wasn’t anything else to say, was there?
“We’ll divide our [Knights] up and see if one of our ships can get close to the Pride. Tangle it up and let the rest fall away. If we can put a hole in enough of their escorts’ sails—tell our [Artillerists] I want them to hit the rudders. I’ll have a battle plan within the hour. Ships to fall away first and make a break.”
If he could only save a handful of ships…so be it. Louseg took a deep breath and surveyed his fleet.
Sixteen enchanted warships, each one deadly enough to make the Pride wary, if not stand a chance in a single battle. Eight troop carriers, still armed enough to do a lot of damage, vital for ferrying troops around.
And nigh on sixty-one regular ship-of-the-line types. Galleons to caravels, accompanied by dozens of tiny cutters and even a few cogs.
Oh, and one hulk. The ugliest ship in his fleet had a name to match. A hulk was an old, old ship that got its designation from the times when shipbuilding technology was lost. It was a derogatory designation not so much for the style but quality of ship.
This one was large enough, twice the size of a caravel, so imposing—until you noticed the patchwork hull and barnacles from age. It leaked. It stank if you were downwind of it, and it was a miracle it had even kept up with the rest of the fleet.
Back when Ailendamus had first been founded, the late Duke Rhimemorom had purchased any ship he could get ahold of. The hulk had served Ailendamus over ninety years ago.
“Sir, can we throw the hulk in the line of fire of the Pride? It might last half a salvo. It’d be a damn shame to lose any more ships—but if we had to lose that one, it might boost the morale of the navy even if every other ship goes down with it.”
One of the [Captains] who’d come aboard to consult with Admiral Louseg tried not to sound hopeful. The Admiral had to grin.
The hulk, named Wrmeriye’s Spitoon, was a notoriously miserable ship to crew. Captains were assigned it either to test how they did with that ship under their command or as a punishment. You had to constantly patch leaks, it had rats that never seemed to go away—oh, and it got the worst rations the fleet had.
In this case, weeks at sea, they were so foul the Spitoon had requested auxiliary rations three times. Any [Captain] who had served on it—or served with it—would cheer to see it destroyed.
Especially with the current crew and captain. But Louseg held back his desires.
“—The Spitoon’s no vanguard. Put it at the rear and tell them to support our offensive. Enchanted warships in the front. I will put Foehammer in the vanguard myself.”
“Very good, Admiral.”
A sigh. Several [Sailors] spat in the water as the Spitoon finally caught up with the rest of the fleet maneuvering for the oncoming fight. A few mostly silent [Sailors] were keeping the Spitoon moving, and it looked sharper than usual…but that was to be expected, one supposed.
Still. What a disgrace. The Spitoon was the only ship not calling out to one another, sailors cheering each other on before the final engagement. It was, after all—a ship of failures.
 
——
 
The Spitoon was quiet. Well, as quiet as ships got.
In this case, the squeaks of half a dozen clans of intelligent ship-rats were always present. They were bold, could dodge any [Sailor]’s boots, and impossible to eradicate. One [Pestilential Beast Tamer] had vouchsafed that the only way to rid the Spitoon of the damn rats was to burn it to the ground. They had apparently come from the isle of Archmage Valeterisa back in the day, and their warrens were everywhere.
At least they weren’t responsible for the leaks. Oh, the leaks. You could wake up with water spilling onto your face. The wood seemed like it grew porous the instant a repair was made. A bunch of planks and nails were at every station belowdecks to close a leak, but the constant influx of water meant it was always splashy belowdecks. Two dozen sailors had to be on permanent bailing duty just to keep it from getting to knee-level.
If you thought that was bad? All that water, the rats, and the stink of too many years in service without magic meant it felt like the food in the hold rotted twice as fast. Then again, it was probably the barrels—also ancient and mildewed—that imparted their own ‘flavor’ to the rations.
And since it was the Spitoon, they were never good rations. It was time for lunch, and for once, no [Sailor] was queued up, shoving to get their portion from the galley. Some avoided the food. Some used their time off to fish with said rations, but nothing wanted what they had.
One of the senior officers personally took the current captain’s meal to him. [Valor Strategist] Veine had an eyepatch over one eye, very appropriate for the sea, and carried a strange object at her side. It looked like a crossbow, a hand-crossbow, only there was no bow, and there was a simple glass sight with a black dot on it. Instead of firing a quarrel, it had a single wand in place, and it spat [Magipierce Bolts], a rare Tier 3 spell from House Shoel’s own manufactories.
The enchanted weapon was at odds with the ship. And the food. But as she navigated around the ship, the ship was moving too. The Spitoon normally had an average speed of 2 knots. It was ungainly and had been made at a time when people had forgotten the principles of hydrodynamics. However, it kept up with the fleet mostly due to [Fleet Navigator] Vorrmen.
Drowned Man. Half-crab, a basic and common type. One of his beady stalk-eyes was focused ahead, his claw holding the spokes of the ship wheel. He normally didn’t actually navigate ships, but their helmsman had been taken. He almost seemed to be enjoying the job—but steering the Spitoon sort of equalized his mood.
His other hand held the same bowl of food, uneaten. He nodded at Veine as she passed. Every now and then, she would check the bowl. She was almost sure it wasn’t moving.
“Admir—Captain. Lunch for you.”
She knocked twice on the door before opening it. The man inside was reviewing a chart of the upcoming battle and barely looked up.
“Is it eel again?”
“…Yes, sir.”
“You can toss it out the window.”
He gestured to the porthole window in the cabin. Veine set the bowl down and put her hands behind her back.
“I got you some hardtack as well, sir. Try that. And the water’s potable.”
The man in front of her looked haggard. His uniform was disheveled, a disgrace in command, but he hadn’t been drinking. Captivity then a lack of resources did that to you. But the faded sunburst yellow, purple and green stripes, and the badge of office still belonged to him.
Admiral Dakelos of Ailendamus had seen better days. So had his crew. Once, they had been on Foehammer and in charge of the entire Fleet Hydrus.
No longer. Dakelos and his entire command crew were instead on the Spitoon. Not the regular [Sailors], mind you.
The swearing group hauling water out of the brig now converted to extra sleeping quarters? [Strategists] and [Line Officers]. The [Mage] glumly acting as a [Message]-provider? [Fleet Mage].
Earlier this year, Veine had been her fleet’s top [Strategist] and hoping she’d be on a road back to the capital, perhaps to take a seat with His Majesty himself. Right now? She was hoping the eels were dead.
Dakelos poked the bowl with a toothpick. It was green. Eels were not normally green, and the [Mage] had cast a spell to test whether they were poisonous or rotten. Apparently, the mold in the barrels had altered the eels so they were a black green like mold. But unfortunately, they were also apparently edible, so the Spitoon was not eligible for additional rations.
The hardtack had a few tiny bite marks in it. Veine winced—but the rats got everywhere. Yet it seemed even they didn’t want the hardtack.
“You said the water’s ‘potable’. But we didn’t have any rain, unlike the poor saps facing Desonis for the last week.”
“No, sir. It’s potable.”
“…Is it seawater purified by Feifen?”
Admiral Dakelos looked hopeful for a second. Veine hated to burst his bubble, but she did as he took a long gulp.
