“You may have my ship, Ailendamus dogs, but you’ll have to kill me before I render the attack spells over to you. And you’ll have to slaughter every daughter and son of Wellfar before the Lower Passes yields to you!”
Admiral Dakelos turned, and she flinched. He gave her his signature blank look—then strode down across the decks as Vorrmen swung the ship’s wheel. Then he called out.
“Did anyone bring one of the Greatbows over?”
“Aye, sir.”
One of his crew had helped wrestle the huge, mounted weapons over. It wasn’t fixed, and the blowback might destroy the entire weapon. That was fine.
“Arm it. Aim it down that stairwell.”
“Watch out! They have a greatbow!”
Lady Selica screamed at her people, and they once again fled the stairwell. But Dakelos didn’t bother having her gagged. He just stared ahead.
The Burning Wish had seen the fighting on board their sister vessel. They were approaching warily, no doubt pondering whether to board or parlay and whether it would endanger Lady Selica.
“They’re hailing us, Admiral. They want to know if you’ll accept the crew’s surrender. If so, they’ll leave us alone.”
Veine was reading the lantern-signals. Admiral Dakelos didn’t have time to find this ship’s lanterns. He raised his hands over his head in an ‘x’.
Instantly, someone shot an arrow at him. Dakelos ducked, and Giqe, bloody with combat, shouted.
“Brace!”
“Vorrmen! Ready?”
“Aye, sir!”
The Drowned Man was grinning. The crew of Dakelos’ ship, bloodied and panting, those not holding off the crew from belowdecks, looked up. Lady Selica was calm. She drew herself up and bared her neck.
“If you want to make a mockery of honor at sea—swing true or fire your bow, Admiral.”
She spat at him. But Dakelos’ look at her made her hesitate.
He was smiling. Teeth bloodied. Panting. But he drew his sword. And then he shouted.
“Sailors of Ailendamus—brace! Fire the Greatbow.”
Selica’s head turned. Then she saw the Greatbow fire and heard the screams. It roared as it exploded from the backlash. And the bolt travelled down—missing her crew—
And breached the hull of her ship. Her eyes went round with horror. Then she felt her ship fill with water. Lady Selica Wellfar stared at Admiral Dakelos. What did she see?
 
——
 
The insane [Admiral] was smiling. And…humming? His crew was cheering him even as a quarter kept her crew from leaving the hold. They had no idea what was going on except that they were taking on water and now they were fighting like Sword Crabs to get free.
But Ailendamus didn’t want this ship. The [Admiral] looked around as his people cheered.
“Speech, Admiral! A speech!”
“I thought I gave you one already?”
He turned, staggering, and she saw he was wounded. But then he laughed, and his face, which looked wild, sooty and hair standing on end, turned melancholic. He gave the oddest speech imaginable to the oncoming Wish. They couldn’t hear him, but his crew listened.
“Attention. Ships of Wellfar. By order of His Majesty, King Itorin II, I demand you surrender and disarm immediately! Ailendamus will not be stopped by any nation in the world! If you do not halt—we will immediately attack.”
It was the damndest speech. Unheard by any but those around him. Idiotic in the middle of an engagement. But he was not speaking to Lady Selica.
Dakelos’ crew was bloody. They were tired and gasping for air. They saw a second warship in their sights, and their [Admiral] was steering them straight at death. Hundreds of Wellfar [Sailors] held those decks, and they were screaming for battle.
But when Dakelos’ crew heard that speech—they laughed. As if it were the finest joke in the world. They stood taller, and Lady Selica felt a terrible chill when she saw their eyes.
 
——
 
Admiral Dakelos had been waiting for a mutiny, not a speech. But when he looked around, he saw none. They were looking across the harbor, and they saw what he did.
Ailendamus’ ships were taking fire from the Pride. They were trying to flee, and Wellfar was boxing them in, like [Shepherds] herding sheep back to a slaughter.
“Admiral Louseg can’t take this fleet out of hell. But we can. Every ship we stop is another one that can’t burn our ships from behind. Prepare to board! The Kingdom of Glass and Glory seldom shouts. But today—I hear her calling our names. I let her down once. Fight so hard the Lord of the Dance himself would retreat!”
His crew were abandoning the stairwells, flocking to the railing closest to the Wish. It was turning, now, trying to avoid them, but Vorrmen was anticipating their course. Dakelos was counting down the distance between them. He turned his head.
“Veine. Start a fire. I want half this deck burning before you leave. Brace!”
“Aye, Admiral! [Ramming Charge]!”
The [Valor Strategist] looked like a Bloodtear Pirate herself. Her forehead was covered with blood except for the smear around her eyes. She yanked her wand out of the crossbow, checked it, cast it aside, and put in the replacement.
Their ship leapt forwards. The Lower Passes swung to The Burning Wish. The Wish tried to turn, but once again, Dakelos’ ship shot forwards. And this time—before the thunder had even left his ears, he was running. Pounding across those decks, and he thought he was humming like a boy in school again, dreaming of the sea.
 
——
 
Strategist Veine saw it all with her [Bird’s-Eye View] of the battlefield. As they hit—the impact threw her across the decking, and she missed her shot. Her wand was running out of power.
The impact sent a [Tactician] smashing head-first into the deck. The rest of her crew lurched despite their bracing, but Wellfar’s did not. [Sturdy Footing] on the enemy [Lord], perhaps.
They were ready, this time. They’d formed up, creating a literal wall of bodies as archers took aim at the light bridge and boarding ramps. A killing field daring the enemy to cross.
An [Admiral] charged out of the smoke, leaping onto the enemy’s deck, screaming a song. For a second, Veine thought she saw the enemy [Captain] blink. Then an arrow punched Admiral Dakelos off his feet.
His uniform was enchanted. He went down—and the Wellfar sailors looked up and saw Ailendamus charge.
Bows snapped, and dozens of figures fell into the frothing waters between the ships or slumped across the decks. But behind them came more of the crew. [Tacticians] and [Servers] meant to wait the command staff. [Junior Cooks].
Officers. Veine pulled herself up and shot one of the archers through the head. She had blood in one eye, and she only heard a roar.
They poured over the decks of the second ship, fighting like devils in the breach. Wellfar’s troops looked shaken even as they rained arrows down. They had fought Ailendamus before and never seen this.
A [Swashbuckler], one of the specialties of their classes, swung across the decks with a rope from the yardarm, a flask of…green acid in hand? Veine saw it. She thought, rather than spoke as she pointed.
[Sight: Significant Threats]. [Covering Fire]!
A group of [Tacticians] holding wands heeded her Skill and adjusted their aim automatically. They knocked the [Swashbuckler] out of the air with a trio of spells. They advanced, firing spells from wands a caliber above what Wellfar could dream of.
Master of Arms, Giqe, had the stairs. He surged forward, protected by three of his subordinates. [Blademasters] trained by Lord Uziel himself. One ran into a spear on the stairs. Another fell with three arrows studding her chest.
And the [Admiral] was on his feet. And his roar filled Veine’s ears.
“Charge! Charge until they’re all dead!”
Flames burned behind Ailendamus’ crew as Veine strode for the light bridge, still firing from the hip. The deck was aflame behind her. The Lower Passes was damned, and its surviving crew was pouring out of the lower decks and leaping into the sea along with the rats rather than die.
She was about to leap across to the second ship when the [Strategist] saw someone wriggling on the deck.
Lady Selica. The Wellfar [Lady] was bound, unable to escape. She’d burn to death if she wasn’t freed and her crew hadn’t seen her. Despite the fire in her blood, Veine had a moment of insight.
A [Strategist]’s deed. So—
So Veine heaved her up and then heaved both across the light bridge. Lady Selica tried to bite her—until Veine drew a knife. But the [Strategist] cut Selica’s hands free.
“What are you—?”
“A life for a life! Remember that, Wellfar! Honor for honor or the sea run dry.”
Veine screamed it—then she left the startled [Lady] behind. She thundered over the deck, firing until her wand ran dry.
 
——
 
Dakelos brought a shortsword down and stabbed a [Sailor] knocked flat by the impact of the two ships colliding. He felt bad about it even as he twisted the blade in the gasping woman’s chest.
Then an arrow hit him in the chest, and only his enchanted uniform kept him from death. But it felt like he’d broken at least one rib.
“They have archers there! Kill them!”
[Master of Arms] Giqe led the charge up the stairs. But this time, The Burning Wish had prepared for them, and they had fought one battle already. Stamina potions ran like blood through the veins of Dakelos’ crew as they tried to fight up onto the upper deck.
Giqe looked around and screamed.
“[Light Stair]! Feifen!”
The [Mage] had been throwing bolts of lightning. He looked up, pointed, and a stairway of light let the [Master of Arms] charge up. The half-Elf raised a hand, pointing, and Dakelos heard a thunk.
The [Lord] of this ship lowered a crossbow as Feifen fell over. Veine took her shot and missed. Dakelos shoulder-charged across the deck and slammed into the man.
“You—think you can take—”
The two fought, wrestling for the crossbow as Dakelos tried to lower his sword-hand and the other man caught it. Then Dakelos saw the [Lord]’s eyes burn.
“[Get Off My Ship].”
A force picked the [Admiral] up and made to hurl him off the ship. It got his sword, flinging it into the ocean as it tore the blade loose from his grip. But the [Admiral] fought the Skill. He floated a foot off the ground—then halted. He pushed back against the Skill with all the force of his class. Then Dakelos gritted his teeth and spoke.
“My ship, now. [Crew: Second Wind]!”
The [Lord]’s eyes bulged as the [Admiral] stumbled back—then a second burst of energy ran through his crew. They pushed forwards with a roar. The [Lord] raised his crossbow—and Dakelos seized him by the legs.
He heaved the [Lord] of Wellfar up over the railing and off his ship. The man fell with a howl of fury. Dakelos looked around for a blade and snatched one up. He went to take cover from the arrows falling from above—and saw no more enemy [Archers].
A man lay on the upper deck, by the helm supporting his weight. [Master of Arms] Giqe was dead. There were more arrows in his front than his back. But so were all the Wellfar sailors around him.
“Admiral!”
The decks were in chaos. Dakelos’ crew had abandoned the Lower Passes, and now they were fighting across The Burning Wish. But they had lost so many in the first push. Now?
Dakelos just sprinted over to the helm.
“Vorrmen! Take us at the nearest ship! Guard the helm! Get me a lantern and oil! Activate the mage-spells if you have to. Overload the ship’s enchantments!”
The Drowned Man was laughing as he hewed past two [Sailors]. He grabbed the wheel as Wellfar’s navy began to realize something was wrong.
 
——
 
“The Burning Wish has been seized by the enemy. And they’ve sunken the Lower Passes!”
“How? I didn’t see any fighting.”
Lord Etril Wellfar had lost focus. Like Admiral Louseg, he was newer to his role and had been absorbed in the engagement with five of the enchanted warships. The Pride had sunk three, damaged the other two, and was locking down the entire port side of the battle.
—But something was wrong to starboard, to sea. Ailendamus’ ships were breaking away in good order now, fleeing their counterparts.
“It’s an [Admiral]!”
“Admiral Louseg? His ship’s in splinters.”
Etril trained his spyglass on the Foehammer escorting ships to safety, trailing smoke. But his [Strategist] shook her head.
“No, a second [Admiral]. In the hulk! He rammed the Lower Passes and fought his way onto The Burning Wish! Now he’s set the Wish ablaze as well, and he’s ramming every ship he can find!”
The Wish was one of their most mobile ships of that class. Even as Etril turned, he saw it smash into a galley and actually tip the other ship over. Half the ship was in smoke, and if his eyes didn’t betray him, it was Wellfar sailors abandoning their own ship in rowboats or leaping away to clear the blaze.
One ship was scything around in the waters, making use of the high-level [Admiral]’s Skills to hit the other ships. Even as he watched, it sailed between another Wellfar ship, forcing the [Captain] to spin the wheel or collide.
Less than two hundred soldiers were fighting on the decks, keeping Wellfar’s soldiers from reaching the helm as fire lashed the Wish. And they were still—
“Take the Pride about and tell them to evacuate the ship. Tell the fleet to get clear of that Admiral!”
“But the rest of Ailendamus’ fleet—”
Etril shook his head.
“Damn the rest of their fleet. He’ll sink any ship he can get close to. Get out of the way of that ship!”
 
——
 
He was humming. The [Admiral] strode down the deck of his new ship, afire, appropriately. The Burning Wish was smoking, and his eye ran with tears. Or was it blood?
Dakelos stumbled as he walked. His sunburst uniform was cut in two places, the enchanted fabric losing its magic. He had someone else’s sword, and the air was filled with screaming.
“Abandon ship! Abandon the Wish or burn! Leave them to die! The Pride will have them, and damn them to the depths!”
Lady Selica was marshaling the retreat. Dakelos tried to count how many figures he could see on the command deck with him.
Two hundred, now? Less? He felt terrible. His beloved crew were just numbers. Moirmen was dead. Giqe was dead.
“Vorrmen. Take us ahead.”
The Drowned Man had smashed them into ship after ship. At last, they found another target. Dakelos braced, and this time, the flaming ship had no benefit of a Skill. Veine tried, but it was no good.
“[R-Ramming Charge]. Sorry, Admiral.”
“No problem. Vorrmen, hit it.”
“You make life so hard, Admiral. Aye, aye. Is that your new ship? This one’s getting hot.”
The Drowned Man grinned as Dakelos’ crew raised their blades. They all had Dakelos’ face. A wild look, whether it was smiles or grimness. The [Admiral] raised his voice.
“I need a new one again. Is the fleet making its escape?”
“They’re pulling away, Admiral.”
