“Not in enchanted vessels. Our enchanted ships might be able to humble their best, but all their ships are crewed by [Lords] and [Ladies]. Their Skills can match the best [Captain]. Even [Admirals]. I see spells lining their broadsides.”
Indeed, the enchanted Wellfar ships had magic literally written onto their hulls. If they turned—they would blast their opponents with magic. It might not be as reliable as old-fashioned artillery, and it often had shorter range, but it was deadly.
Yet into that hunting navy, Ailendamus turned. [Soldiers] and [Sailors] lined the decks of their ships, shouting at each other.
Even the Spitoon. Captain Bessia saluted Dakelos with a scimitar, and he slowly drew a shortsword and returned the salute. He looked across the decks and felt a moment of grief.
We aren’t ready to master the sea. Ailendamus had a fine navy. But they were sailing against [Storm Sailors]. The Five Families excelled in their domain.
“—The Spitoon is to hang back. Arm those harpoons. Magus Feifen. Tell me those two underpowered lightning bolts will make Wellfar sneeze.”
The half-Elf glanced up and eyed the ships.
“Their hulls won’t crack from two bolts. If we hit a sail, we’ll leave a hole so small they can patch it with [Repair]. With permission, I’d like to try for those rudder-shots, Captain. We might be able to take one out.”
“Granted. Master of Arms?”
“Ready to repel boarders, Admiral.”
The man was checking the weapon he carried—a bladed staff. He could whirl it and slash from both ends, and it was as much a hazard to his allies as his foes. He had a wide berth from the crew.
They were set and grim. Some of the other ships were patently nervous. Dakelos saw the Pride continuing onwards. They saw Ailendamus making a stand against the current.
“Tell—tell Louseg to use the current and slingshot out to sea. At that speed, we might be able to fight a running engagement.”
Dakelos barked at Veine as he finally saw how powerful the current was. Maybe it would leave them sitting ducks on a predictable trajectory. But—his mouth moved, trying to keep up with his brain.
“The speed. The speed of the current plus how fast we could move—maybe the Pride wouldn’t be able to reflect our fire with pinpoint accuracy. At the very least—!”
He cursed not thinking of it before. Veine grabbed a speaking stone, and he heard her trying to raise the Foehammer, but he knew it was too late.
Louseg was no adaptive admiral who wanted to mess with a battle plan even hours before the fray. Sure enough, he heard nothing back from the command deck other than a countdown. So, grimly, Dakelos gave the order.
“Break out the grog. All hands, prepare for battle.”
It was customary for some [Captains] to give their crew a tot of whatever they had. In this case, wine from Bessia’s ship. Dakelos had heard Fleet Kerandos didn’t stand by the practice. The royal courts wanted disciplined [Sailors], not drunken layabouts.
But it was hard at sea. It was cold, your eels moved, your hull had holes in it, and it was a dark, alien world below you. At times, even in a magic ship, it felt like you were tiny and helpless in this great body of water, and monsters were under you.
Didn’t you deserve a drink before you might die? Not enough to knock you over, but just enough to steady your nerves. A small cup of wine. Dakelos didn’t take it as a cup was passed around.
“Not even one sip, Admiral? I’d love for that to be an illusion.”
Moirmen’s question was followed by laughter. Dakelos looked around.
“I’ve had enough drinking for a lifetime. I’m sorry, ladies and gentlemen. We should have been on Foehammer for this. I fear I’ve steered us wrong.”
The crew of the Spitoon paused with a drink upon their lips. They looked at him, then Veine called out.
“Ah, but Admiral. We wouldn’t be here if we didn’t want to be. You were steered wrong, but so were we all. It’s been our honor to crew your ship. We could have stayed on the Foehammer. But what crew leaves their [Captain] behind?”
Dakelos blinked. He looked at her—and she ducked her head. They could have stayed on the…?
“She’s coming! The Pride is coming! All ahead! Raise anchors!”
The voice screamed through the speaking stone, and Dakelos realized there was no time left. He seized a cup of wine and poured it straight down a knothole on the deck. The sounds of confused and delighted rats squeaking made everyone laugh. Dakelos raised the cup, empty, and shouted.
“You’re all fools. The most foolish Admiral of Ailendamus could ask for no less. Will you follow me to my next stupidity?”
They cheered him and drank. Dakelos threw the cup onto the deck and looked around. He had never been prouder of his crew.
Or perhaps, they of him.
He had madness in his eyes, a sword in his hand. His ridiculous, leaking ship floated in the waves. Dakelos swore that the Wellfar folk were laughing at the hulk; they were certainly ignoring it. But he?
He was an [Admiral], and he had a fleet of one ship. He saw the Foehammer stream past him, an honor-guard of their finest ships behind it. Dakelos pointed.
“Take us to port and follow at full speed. And why are we silent? Let’s have a song.”
 
——
 
As the Wrmeriye’s Spitoon surged across the waters, The Pride of the Wellfar opened fire. The cheering crews of Ailendamus looked up as a beam of light pierced the heavens. It shot from the decks of that ship, like a revelation from the heavens in reverse.
Pure magic, pouring upwards and then coming down. It came down like a finger of wrath, piercing the skies, and struck Foehammer straight on. The deadly ray of light that had vaporized the Assassin’s Guild in First Landing should have destroyed the enchanted warship, snapping the deck in two and blowing the rest to bits.
But it stopped, striking a glowing barrier. The air screamed as two kinds of magic met—then the warship’s magical shields failed and the deck burned.
The artillery spell ended a moment later, and a burning crater was gouged out of the warship’s center, the barrier magics broken.
It was harder to say which side was more unpleasantly surprised, Ailendamus’ fleet—or Lord Etril Wellfar. He lowered the spyglass.
“Ram the Wind Runner’s sword up my ass—that kind of magical shielding should only be available to the best Drowned Ships! How does Ailendamus have Drowned Folk magic?”
“Their barriers are down, Lord Wellfar. Orders?”
“They’re coming by on both sides. Broadside them. Take down one ship over scattering fire. [Mark Target]. Kill the Foehammer.”
Etril shouted, and the Pride kept going as both fleets began to open up with regular spells. An enchanted ballista roared, and he saw a bolt hit a ship.
“Firespray Bolt! Helm down!”
A galleon—he thought it was the Omens of Rains—was struck full on by the bolt. It hit the helm of the ship, and a firestorm engulfed the entire area. The [Captain] threw themselves away from the blaze, burning, and the Omen was dead in the water as the crew tried to put out the blaze.
They could still fire—but they got in the way of their allies. And that was one of the Pride’s weapons.
“[Grand Lightning]. Aim—fire.”
A [Mage] pointed, and another ship was struck by eight bolts of lightning that cracked the decks and spilled the ship into the waters. It sank fast, a gruesome end.
This wasn’t even the Pride’s full firepower. Etril hadn’t used the Vortex Bolts fit for the ballistae, what few there were left. Behind him, he saw Wellfar engaging, circling in as Ailendamus’ broadside of his ship started and they began to turn into desperate dogfighting.
Ailendamus’ goal was to cripple the Pride and as many warships in one move and then split. But it wasn’t going according to plan.
Lance-arrows struck the hull of the Pride, glancing off the enchanted hull. [Fireballs] exploded across the decks, injuring some—but the jade-green shields of the Pride mitigated most of the damage entirely. The disbelieving [Admiral] watched as the Pride absorbed the first broadside, then made a desperate, correct call.
They began to fire at the other Wellfar ships, abandoning the Pride. Etril exhaled as he watched a shimmering vial of liquid slowly, slowly refill. A kind of hourglass or…measuring device.
They could have brought down the Pride’s shields, but the ship was tough. It wasn’t worth the effort while House Wellfar took them to pieces.
“22% of our mana reserves. Your bluff has worked, Lord Wellfar. Orders?”
The [Acting Captain] who reported to him was returning fire. Etril grinned.
“Let them pass through. Full broadsides!”
The Pride opened fire as Ailendamus’ navy began to try to break away from it. But even as they shifted focus, they ran into the rest of the Wellfar’s navy, and the smooth breakaway turned into ship-versus-ship combat.
“[Inferno Floatmines] deployed, Commander Etril! We have them sailing straight into them!”
A voice crackled through a speaking stone. Etril glanced over and saw the first ship passing by his vessel explode in flames as it ran into one of the spells.
“Good. Happy hunting, Aunt Selica. Turn the Pride. The Foehammer’s still out there. Bring it down, then we focus on the other enchanted warships.”
A chorus of cheers and boasts came from the other members of his house crewing their ships. They broke up and began to take down other ships, trying to force their surrender or cripple them to stop them fleeing.
This was all gold in their pockets. Each ship was a bounty—either a free new vessel or a huge ransom, not to mention the sailors, captain, and cargo. Or you could just sink them, but for an enchanted warship…even his family might consider upgrading to a non-Wellfar ship.
However—it was not all going one way. The enchanted warships that were Ailendamus’ claim to fame on the waters could punch as hard as any ship short of the Pride. Even as Etril watched, one of his family’s ships began to sink.
“I have fifteen holes filling with water, and those damn lance-arrows are still burning! I need someone to [Repair] my ship—”
“—catapult through my sails. Watch out for their crossbows! We took one volley—”
What a glorious mess. If only his mother and father were here to see it. Lord Etril Wellfar wanted to laugh or cry. Or both. He watched the battle unfolding, and it was going his way. As he turned to take down the Foehammer, Etril looked sideways and frowned.
Over the port bow, he saw something sailing past his vessel in the distance, entering one wing of the engagement. Etril paused a second.
“That’s the ugliest ship I’ve ever seen. Is it even seaworthy? That’s…a hulk. Ailendamus must be desperate if they threw it in.”
The Spitoon was moving forward, and he swore he saw a hole in the side—and no one had fired a shot at it yet. The Pride could have sunk it with a single second of combat, but the enchanted warships were firing again, and this time, the Pride’s barrier spell went down.
Etril swore and gave the order for a secondary wing of defenses to rise; literal shields made of mithril that covered the deck and hung down to shield the side of the ship. He cast only one more glance at the Spitoon. It was not the ugly ship that made him look over.
It was something the wind had brought him. The crew of that vessel were singing.
“Let the lance-arrows fall from Ailendamus walls and guard the Kingdom of Glass and Glory/Until my dying breath, from sea to glorious sea—Ailendamus, the only Kingdom of Terandria for me~”
A silly, patriotic song like Wellfar’s sea shanties. But they were all doing it, from that [Captain] down to the crew. Etril grinned.
“At least one ship knows how to fight. Now, rescue Cousin Tenil. [Long-Range Repair] on his rudder—”
 
——
 
The first engagement Dakelos saw was a broadside. And it ran them up against the ship he would have feared the most outside the Pride.
“[Fireball]! [Take Cover, Idiots]!”
Master of Arms Giqe roared. It was, in fact, four [Fireballs] that slammed into the hull, and one shot across the railing and exploded. The heat blasted Dakelos, and the ship listed from the force of the strikes.
A [Sailor] would have been killed by the explosion—but the [Master of Arms]’ Skill had forced the man to leap from his station into a proper position where the [Fireball]’s blast wouldn’t hit him.
He scrambled up—and a flaming arrow pinned his leg to the deck. The screaming man clawed at the shaft as Veine raised her crossbow-wand.
“[Mark Targets]! [Division of Fire]—loose!”
Bows and wands spat back, each one going two or three to a target rather than grouping up. The organized fire made the other ship’s crew duck.
Carrack-class ship. Royal Carrack—longer across than usual. The Burning Wish. A real spitfire!
Dakelos raised one hand, swearing as he realized he’d been burned. The Spitoon fired its ship-weapons back.
A quartet of magical harpoons hit the other ship, but The Burning Wish barely seemed to register the bolts. The metal stuck in the wood without breaking through.
“Damn. Take us across her—”
“Watch out! She’s firing again! Take cover!”
A second wave of [Fireballs] swept the deck, and this time, a trio of women vanished in an explosion of light. Dakelos snarled.
“Loose the lightning bolts! Fire the Greatbows at the sails!”
The four old greatbows swung up and shredded the enchanted sails as the two ships passed. Veine stood up.
“[Ship: Instantaneous Reload]. Loose!”
Whatever the Wellfar [Lady] captaining the Wish had expected, the Spitoon was a nasty surprise. She had clearly expected to break their hull with the first volley of [Fireballs] and had been saving her spells for a second pass at the Omen, which was floundering behind the Spitoon.
But the entire deck of the Spitoon suddenly shot back, and the small-arms fire did what the ship-weapons could not. Dozens of [Storm Sailors] on the other ship folded up, screaming, and Veine personally shot the enemy’s [Lookout] through the chest.
“Hit the rudder! Hit the—”
“[Enhanced Spell: Lightning Bolt]!”
Their [Mage] stood up and, ignoring two arrows which lodged in his own personal barrier, fired the ship’s spells. Dakelos saw the Wish rock—and heard a cheer from his people. Then they were past, the wounded were calling out for aid, and Dakelos was screaming in his helmsman’s ear.
“Take us ahead! That ship! We have to pull them off the Foehammer’s back!”
The Foehammer was aflame. It was running, trying to pull away as the Pride savaged it; it had lost both its catapults, and the barrier crystal was cracked beyond repair. Dakelos spun back to see the Wish was as dead as the Omen in the water. Both ships were trying to hit one another.
“Magical ship spells are recharging for another shot, Admiral.”
“Time?”
