“It’s no secret our spellcasters are a grade above the rest. The Viscount comes from a noble family. Small wonder we keep our best [Mages] secret. I’ve heard Duke Rhisveri is nearly as good, and that’s our nobility. My wand comes straight from House Shoel’s magics. Now, if only one of them would come to sea…”
Maybe they’d be able to replace Louseg for someone more senior. All the power seemed to be land-based. But Dakelos just shrugged.
“Ailendamus has been swapping its forces around for as long as it’s been here. House Shoel used to fight on the front, you know. It’s a sign of how the nation prospers that they don’t have to demand the nobility fight. We used to have, er…I think they called it Merven Leaders.”
“That’s not a military rank.”
“No, they were specialists from the capital. Navigators and guides—but they were all withdrawn oh, decades ago. Old Toithe told me about being a [Deckhand] and one of them reading a sea current through a storm and taking the ship to safety.”
“Why the hell would we get rid of that? Even among Drowned Folk, that’s impressive.”
Vorrmen demanded incredulously. To that, Dakelos murmured.
“Maybe we lost their class, or maybe they were deemed too valuable to lose. Perhaps they’re on some secret mission. But I would rather not have Viscount Visophecin fighting on the front. If he has to—we’ve failed. General Dioname should have rested another century.”
He tossed his cards down. And his face was suddenly guilty, as it had been for months now. The rest of the command staff looked up as Dakelos stood.
“I’m sorry, I think that’s my last hand for the night. Tomorrow…”
He looked around the cabin and exhaled.
This was not his fault. Veine wanted to tell him that even if they hadn’t run into Nadel, the Pride would have destroyed Fleet Hydrus just the same. Even if he’d been in charge.
The [Admiral] just nodded after a moment, as if he knew all this and the guilt remained, without Veine having to say anything.
“Get some rest. Tomorrow will be a long day. All of you, at least seven hours.”
“For what? The Spitoon’s armed as well as a dolphin wearing britches.”
Vorrmen grumbled, and Dakelos’ voice snapped and made him sit up straight for a second.
“You’re still in a command crew, sailor.”
Dakelos’ eyes flashed as his officers looked up, and Veine’s heart stirred. He spoke slowly.
“You’re still the finest crew an [Admiral] could want. Tomorrow, we’d best be ready to pick up any slack. Not that I expect any.”
After that—everyone put down their cards and went to get some sleep. And Veine slept better, nevermind the two rats who decided to sleep under her pillow. Because that was why she’d stayed with Dakelos. That was why they’d all stayed.
 
——
 
Admiral Dakelos cursed General Yerzhen’s name each day he woke up to find a rat in his things. Or his bag of holding.
The rat was very, very dead. Living beings did not do well in bags of holding. For one thing, there was no air. He threw it out his window with a shout.
A day had passed without two things happening. The first was that Wellfar hadn’t attacked yet. The second? No one had responded to his [Message] requests.
The fleet was ignoring him. As was fair for a fool, but Dakelos couldn’t help but be annoyed. They were heading north, still, and he’d heard Acting Admiral Louseg was wondering why Wellfar hadn’t engaged.
The ship’s crew on the Spitoon were debating it too. Unlike regular [Sailors], they were all veterans. Promoted officers now doing grunt-work again. He heard his [Chef de Poisson] talking it over as he served eels.
“Must be something up ahead. Riptide, there’d be the thing.”
“Riptide or they’ve got a Drowned Ship flanking us.”
“I bet it’s a riptide. No one like Wellfar to sense that kind of thing. That’s why they don’t want to pounce. It’s got to be. Hey, is this the eel barrel with the bugs in it? I thought you were a fancy [Chef].”
A [Sensor Lookout] was poking at the eels. Moirmen gave her a dire look.
“I can’t do much with salt in the cupboards. Believe me, I’ve salvaged the eels as best I can. You can eat them, can’t you?”
She took one bite, shuddered, and nearly vomited. Which made Dakelos feel better. He had wondered if he was getting the worst stuff—which he’d deserve—but Veine had apparently brought him standard fare.
“It’s like eating chewy snot!”
Moirmen puffed out his chest.
“That’s right. You should have tasted what I had to work with. Oh, Admiral. Have a try of my salvaged eels. Eel du saltine.”
“Salted eels, Moirmen?”
Dakelos was starving, but he didn’t want the eels or hardtack. But he took one slimy bit of eel, chewed it while hoping it wasn’t roach-y—and swore.
“Gah! How much salt is in there?”
“All of it.”
The [Chef] gave Dakelos an innocent look.
“I salted the stuff. I baked it in salt. Then I rubbed more salt onto it and did it for the lot. How’s it taste?”
“Rubbery. And too salty. Anyone got water?”
Some brackish water was handed over, and Dakelos gulped it. Moirmen tapped the side of his nose. He had a slightly bulbous nose that came from having won a punching match against a Sword Crab once. An amazing feat that got him a round at any bar where a [Sailor] drank. A real [Sailor], anyways.
“Ah, but it tastes like salt, doesn’t it?”
Dakelos stopped sipping water and blinked. It was true. The eels were just really salty, not like dragging his tongue over mildew and snail’s eggs.
“Fill me a bowl, [Chef].”
“And me!”
Several of the crew went for the ‘special’ dish with considerable gusto. The [Chef] drew Dakelos aside as the man actually managed half a bowl before he felt nauseous.
“The, um, contaminated barrels we’ve marked with red paint, Admiral. I would have talked to Veine or someone, but the chain of command is…”
“Tell me. I’m just a Captain, not an Admiral.”
Moirmen gave Dakelos a sympathetic look.
“Well, Captain. It’s edible. I hate to say it, but the fleet’s not going to give us more supplies for a roach or two in the barrels. We can eat that and live until we get to Taimaguros. But what a life, eh?”
What a life. Dakelos looked around and saw his [Master of Arms] trying to saw a piece of hardtack in half with an enchanted dagger. Why was it difficult for him? He slipped, slashed his hand, but he had a Skill that prevented him from cutting his skin. Laughing, the man showed everyone the two pieces.
He should have been on the Foehammer, showing new recruits his sword style that had no fear of self-harm. Dakelos belonged on this ship, but no one else did.
“I’ll…try to do something about it.”
“It’s not a thing to worry about with the Wellfars on our back. Just a word in your ear, Captain. About provisions in the future.”
The [Chef] seemed worried he’d taken Dakelos’ time. But Dakelos was grateful.
“Thank you, Moirmen. Your salted eels are the stuff to eat.”
“Well, just you wait for dinner, sir. I have fifteen rats, and I figure they’re meat.”
Was it wrong that even as he shuddered, Dakelos’ stomach felt hungry? He stomped to his cabin and checked for [Messages]. Veine, his acting first-mate, walked in as he found nothing.
“Veine, has either ship responded?”
“No, sir. Admiral Louseg is scouting ahead. He’s wary of an attack.”
“Drowned Folk and Wellfar aren’t that friendly. It’s doubtless some trick of the new currents. He’s slowed us by two knots, and Wellfar is catching up.”
“He’s being wary, sir.”
“Well, tell him to speed up. We won’t be saved by a better battleground, we’ll be saved once we reach reinforcements. Tell him—”
Dakelos caught himself giving orders. He stopped and lowered his hand.
“…Nevermind. Is that a consensus among the fleet?”
From his crew, it sounded like they had guessed the reason for the delay. But Veine shrugged.
“I caught some signal lanterns from the other ships. I think the rumor is a Drowned Fleet hired by Wellfar.”
“That’s ridiculous. We have [Sensor Lookouts] who can read the deep—”
“We have the best, sir, but the navy’s jumpy.”
“So Louseg is listening to scuttlebutt from [Captains] greener than my eels?”
Dakelos got annoyed just hearing what was going on. But then—Louseg was literally weeks in his position as [Admiral]. If Dakelos could have pulled him aside…
He walked out of his cabin and stared out across the fleet. No one was answering his [Messages], and the Spitoon was at the rear of the fleet.
He had orders to essentially stay out of the way and do nothing. But…Dakelos stared moodily at the ships around him. He could see Omens of Rain, a galleon with bright sails and several Hydra Knights, sailing just ahead of him.
“Has Captain Bessia not responded?”
“No, sir. I don’t think we’re being acknowledged. Or we’re bottom of their priorities.”
Probably there was an order not to acknowledge him. Dakelos glanced over his shoulder and saw it.
A tiny dot on the horizon. Bright sails. A Dragonsail. A titan in miniature, slowly gaining behind them.
It’d be today, perhaps. If they reached whatever Wellfar wanted. It might be a battle by midday—or evening. Wellfar did like to fight at low tide with a sunset. They were thematic.
Rats for dinner. Dakelos stared blankly ahead. Well, maybe he deserved rats, but his crew? He looked around, then felt the fury at General Yerzhen bubbling up.
It was his fault, but it wasn’t his fault. And if they hadn’t stripped him of his rank—
He hesitated one second, but he was a damned man and an [Admiral] for moments longer. If he was a complete idiot in the eyes of Ailendamus and his peers, he might as well be one all the way.
“Helm, take us full speed! Catch me the Omen!”
Dakelos’ shout made the entire deck stop a second, and heads turned. It was the first order he’d given at a shout since…Nadel.
“Admiral?”
Veine hesitated. She looked up as the [Navigator] eyed the faster galleon in the waters.
“Sir, we’ve got our heading and position from Admiral Louseg himself.”
“That’s right. Admiral Louseg. And I’m Admiral Dakelos until they strip me of my class. Fleet Navigator. Can you get me alongside the Omen to shout?”
Vorrmen grinned and snapped his claw.
“You want me to go fast or sneak up on them?”
Dakelos smiled. He wondered how fast Meirkos would demote him and decided to hell with it. There was no formation to keep anyways, not until they fought, and ships could maneuver around so long as they didn’t get in each other’s way.
“Go fast, Vorrmen. Hells with it. Do we have oars?”
The Spitoon was such a tug that they had backup oars for as stupid as it was to try to row such a massive vessel. Veine raised her brows.
“Yes, sir. Want me to put our fighting crew on it?”
“Get them rowing. [Ship: Double Speed, By Wind and Oar]!”
 
——
 
The Omen of Rains was a fast galleon. So not exactly a sloop, which could run rings around it, but they had access to a Jar of Winds that filled their sails at any given moment.
Ailendamus was replete with magic, so even if the Omen wasn’t an enchanted warship, they had tricks to defeat lesser vessels.
It was why running from Wellfar was so humiliating, but the [Lords] and [Ladies] of the sea had all these tricks and more from their ages of naval command.
But what was more humiliating—and disconcerting—was seeing the Spitoon coming up on their rear.
“Captain! The Spitoon’s coming up and signaling they want to lower a gangplank!”
Captain Bessia turned.
“They what? They’ve got orders to stick in the rear. Are they sending [Messages]?”
“No, just signal lanterns!”
The woman wavered. She had a crew of decent [Sailors], but her real claim to fame was that her parents had both been Hydra Knights. She had taken to sea, but her ties meant the Order always gave her a crew of a few Hydra Knights as a kind of honor guard. Sixteen were on this vessel, and they’d helped her fight off monsters and enemy crews in the past.
She had also served under Dakelos and had regretted the disaster at Nadel, but orders were orders.
“Well—speed up! Take us to starboard if you have to. We’ll sail out of the Foehammer’s wake and move up.”
She didn’t want to cause a scene, but neither was she going to get censured for talking to Dakelos. So she’d just outrun him.
“Open the Jar of Winds!”
The sails billowed as the enchanted jar poured wind into the sails. Correspondingly—the Omen sped up. It began to outpace the other ships, for the fleet was moving slower, cautiously scouting ahead, and the unenchanted ships couldn’t run this fast.
The Omen sailed right, and Bessia expected to see the Spitoon slow. But instead, it seemed to grow larger and larger. Then she saw oars sprouting from the side.
“What the…is it rowing with the wind at its back? Is Dakelos m—”
The Spitoon went faster. They were already both at sixteen knots by now, far faster than either ship could go unenchanted. Eight times faster than the Spitoon was normally rated at.
It was inconceivable that the Omen would be caught! Yet, every time the oars dipped and moved—the Spitoon jumped ahead.
“He’s using a Skill! That—what’s so urgent? No [Message] spell?”
“None!”
“Well then—[No Wind Escapes My Sails]! Don’t let him catch us!”
It was outrage more than anything that kept Bessia from slowing, now. The idea of the Spitoon catching her? She’d be the laughingstock of the navy for the rest of her life! The sails picked up more wind, and the Omen reached nineteen knots.
And the Spitoon? It fell behind—then she heard a voice, so loud she could hear it from the other ship, now only hundreds of feet away.
“[Fleet: Ram’s Charge]!”
That was Strategist Veine! Bessia nearly dropped her spyglass as the Spitoon doubled its speed.
For ten seconds, it surged so fast and hard that the water sprayed behind it. Only the reinforced hull kept the wood from groaning as it moved. Then—Bessia was standing next to a cheering crew on the ugly ship and glaring down at a man who looked pleased and embarrassed. Dakelos cleared his throat, then spoke.
“Captain Bessia, do you have any spare rations? We need about two meals’ worth. I know you always keep extra provisions with your Hydra Knights. Split us two and a barrel of wine, would you? Even the worst swill will do.”
“Admiral—Captain Dakelos! I’m under orders not to communicate with the Spitoon! You want provisions? The Fleet Command should assign it!”
Dakelos exhaled. He looked bad, Bessia had to own, but for some reason, the gaunt man also looked slightly—annoyed.
“They’re willing to let my crew eat roach-covered eels, Bessia. You’ve seen the Spitoon, come on. Captains are allowed to share provisions.”
“I—”
