“…Eight minutes. Six if I charge with my mana.”
Magus Feifen reported, and Dakelos swore.
“Kiss me with a stingray. Then we take their backs. Greatbows—aim for the same place as the harpoons. Veine, pick a spot and try to make a hole!”
They surged forwards, faster than Wellfar probably thought a hulk could move. Thanks to Dakelos’ Skills, they actually took the other ship launching globs of acid at the Foehammer by surprise.
He saw tattooed Wellfar [Sailors] look up and cry out before they hit the stern of the ship. All the harpoons, great arrows, and several spells hit a spot just above the anchor where water met ship. The Spitoon swung past as both crews aimed at each other and ducked—and Dakelos looked back.
“It didn’t break through! Damn—[Lock Helm]!”
He pointed and wrestled with the enemy’s [Helmswoman] for a moment. But he won, and the Foehammer peeled away as the Wellfar ship turned their wrath on him.
“Acid coming down!”
Acid spells. A stinging mist descended, and Dakelos realized this ship was even worse because healing potions weren’t available. The mist burned, and he shouted.
“I need a barrier in the air! Blow the acid away!”
His [Mages] were trying. But while everyone shielded their eyes from blindness, the enemy sailors were hurling explosive orbs onto the deck. Dakelos felt like spitting acid himself.
If this were the Foehammer, they’d have barrier spells, more offensive capabilities—or just be clear of this attack by now! He stared across with burning eyes at the enemy ship.
It was a galleon, and the hulking Spitoon was actually a similar size to it. Dakelos looked at Veine, who was shooting with one eye open. She nailed a [Mage] through the barrier magic and chest, and the Wellfar crew cried out in disbelief.
Piercing magic. A [Strategist]’s sniper weapon. Dakelos remembered what Veine had said. He snarled an order at the helm.
“Vorrmen. Ram them.”
“We’ll blow our hull, your Skills or not, Dakelos!”
The Drowned Man roared back. Dakelos screamed at him and felt acid in his lungs.
“Do I look like I care whether this rot bucket survives or not? Ram them.”
The Drowned Man blinked—then he swung the wheel, and the other ship drew closer and closer. Dakelos saw the alarmed faces of the [Storm Sailors]—then they struck.
The impact threw him out of his cover and onto the deck. He heard the groan of wood, the roar of two boats scraping together and damaging each other, shouting—then his ship listed.
The Spitoon sailed clear of the enemy ship, and it slowed, then tried to come about and melt them from the side again. But the enemy [Captain] was clearly shaken by the aggressive maneuver.
Veine pulled herself up, blood on her head from where it had struck the railing of the ship. She turned her head and called out a question.
“Hull damage?”
Blood matted her hair, and Dakelos spoke the answer.
“Hull’s bowed inwards. Fifty-two leaks—it’ll keep.”
He had [Sense Integrity] for his ship. He didn’t like what he saw, but he saw the Foehammer coming about. Admiral Louseg was heading back in and trying to pull his fleet out of the battle.
But it was disastrous. Wellfar was cutting off escape routes with their floating mine spells, and the Pride was locking down the way they’d come, shooting fish in a barrel. The battle was going as badly as Dakelos had feared.
Say what you would, though, but Louseg wasn’t running. The enchanted warships were the primary targets, and they were burning, but if enough ships could get clear, they could still make it to Admiral Meirkos.
They just had to win past Wellfar’s hunters, and they were being taken apart. One ship stopped in the water as Wellfar blasted past them.
[Transfer Momentum: Ship]. They were doing everything in their power to stop his fleet from leaving. Dakelos looked across the fighting.
“Four minutes to recharging lightning bolts. Do we have a target, Admiral?”
Dakelos looked back. Two ships and they had barely done any damage to either aside from halting one until they fixed the helm. Then he looked across the battle.
The Lord of the Dance had swung into his fleet this hard—and he had been one man. It spoke to the terror of Nadel that the Pride was somehow ‘just’ as scary as that one man sliding from deck to deck, beheading [Captains].
If only Dakelos were Level 40 or Level 50 and capable of distorting a battlefield like that. He was not—but his crew didn’t belong on the Spitoon.
In fact…Wellfar had been surprised both times by their offensive. But it didn’t matter if the ship was terrible.
“I need a better ship.”
Admiral Dakelos spoke out loud, and Vorrmen laughed in his ear.
“Well, Louseg might give you the Foehammer back, sir! It’s half burnt.”
Veine looked back at Dakelos, and a thought seemed to strike her at the same time as it did him. They locked eyes, and the Admiral looked across the embattled waters.
“I don’t want that ship. Veine. What am I looking for…?”
She scanned the horizon and spoke as Vorrmen frowned.
“[Thoughtful Conclusion]—there! Ship-of-the-line, Lower Passes of Izril!”
It was ahead of them, passing two smaller cutters it had just blown to pieces. Dakelos felt it in his bones. He raised his voice.
“Vorrmen. Aim us at the Lower Passes.”
“That’s suicide. They’ve got two Golem-ballistae. They’re twice as large as regular! They’ve punched through everything else!”
“If we were going to take them ship to ship, I’d agree. Crew—prepare for boarding action.”
The crew of the Spitoon looked up. Boarding action? Ailendamus had fought off boarders before, but they weren’t famous for it. Master of Arms Giqe’s eyes lit up, though.
“With pleasure, Admiral. How many to die?”
The ship-of-the-line could hold eight hundred [Sailors] comfortably. The Spitoon was uncomfortably holding almost that many, but they had left their dedicated boarding crew and expert [Soldiers] behind on the Foehammer. Nor did they have any [Knights].
Even so, Giqe didn’t hesitate, and his subordinates laughed like men and women about to die. Dakelos felt his ship come around and whispered.
“[Double Speed, By Wind and Oar].”
Then he raised his voice.
“Everyone, Giqe. I’m going first. Once we get on board—take the helm. Swing us into the next ship. Vorrmen, scuttle the Spitoon with five volunteers, then take the new vessel to sea if you think you can hold it. Otherwise—Veine has command, then Giqe.”
The [Master of Arms] stared at Admiral Dakelos. Then the crew of the Admiral of Ailendamus looked up. He pointed ahead as the Lower Passes lazily came about, spotting its ridiculous foe. And the Admiral was humming.
“To protect crown and people, every [Knight] stands true. A [Soldier] I shall be, or if a [Farmer] be my calling, to my part I shall do~”
The two ships were closing, and the Lower Passes was angling. One of its Golem ballistae punched a hole in the Spitoon, and it took on water instantly. But the shot didn’t go through both sides of the ship—the enemy [Captain] frowned as he noticed how tough the Spitoon was.
Then he realized how fast it was coming on and their intention and made to maneuver. Wellfar cut left fast—but they had no idea who was on this ship.
“[Ramming Charge]!”
Veine screamed as she fired her first shot from her wand. An arrow struck her in the side, and she went down—but the ship accelerated as she lay there, gasping. She yanked the head of the arrow out of her enchanted leather armor as Dakelos roared.
“Brace! Brace—!”
Then there was thunder.
 
——
 
The Lower Passes of Izril reeled. Chaos on decks as Wellfar [Sailors] were thrown about. That damned hulk had hit them! A suicide charge from that worthless vessel!
“The keel! Check the keel and make sure we’re not taking on water! If we’re tangled with the hulk, we go down with it!”
Captain Inme was screaming at the same time as Lady Selica screamed curses at the other ship. It was definitely dead. One hole in its hull meant it was sinking, and the impact had probably destroyed the other ship for good.
So why was it in one piece? [Sailors] at the railings were shooting arrows across at the other, tilting ship.
“They’re boarding! Lady Selica, take cover!”
“Of course they are. They’re rats fleeing a sinking stone! Cut them down if they don’t surrender!”
The [Lady] of House Wellfar had a scimitar in hand herself, though she was supposed to keep back. She stared at the other ship in disgust. There were literal green rats trying to swim onto her ship and climb the rigging. But then she frowned.
“Wait a second. Is that a [Light Bridge]? They wasted a [Mage] on this pile of flotsam?”
A glowing platform connected both decks. Then she saw more lengths of wood being thrown across.
“Damn Ailendamus landfolk! [Deckbreaker’s Hammer]!”
A huge Wellfar [Boarding Sailor] smashed a plank the instant it fell, and more hands were rushing to repel boarders. But what made Lady Selica and Captain Inme frown was…the boarders weren’t coming.
A hail of crossbow bolts and spells were knocking down her crew. The other ship’s deck was engulfed in smoke…she assumed a fire. But she hadn’t ordered flaming spells.
And the incoming fire was extraordinarily accurate.
“Fall back! They’re cutting us down—”
“Hold your ground, you cowards!”
Captain Inme strode down the deck, drawing a pair of blades. But before he got to the fighting, more Wellfar soldiers were slamming into place, rushing out of the holds. Two hundred on deck—and more coming from below. They were laughing. Right up until the smoke began to clear.
Then, Lady Selica’s smile was knocked clear off her face. She gazed down onto the other ship and suddenly wondered if this was some…cunning trick. For the hulk, smaller than her ship-of-the-line—was filled with enemy soldiers.
Far too many unless they were literally squeezed on there cheek-by-jowl. And they looked—sharp. An enchanted bolt of magic went straight through Captain Inme’s leg, and he stumbled, looking up.
“Sailors of Ailendamus.”
A voice rose through the smoke, and a man in front wearing an admiral’s vest pointed his sword. Lady Selica’s mouth opened.
It had to be a trick. There was no way an [Admiral] would be on a ship like this. Much less at the head of—
“Charge!”
Then the crew poured across the lightbridge, over the gangplanks, leaping from the railings. Some fell over the edge of their ship, but began climbing lines tossed down to them. A man swung overhead, and a bladed quarterstaff flashed as he landed, scattering [Sailors] around him.
“Follow Admiral Dakelos!”
They weren’t [Sailors] or even regular [Soldiers]. Was that a [Cook] fighting alongside [Tacticians] armed with crossbows?
The surprised Wellfar crew locked blades with Ailendamus’ crew—and the brawny [Boarding Sailor] swung his warhammer down to crush the first man’s head. The [Chef] sprinted up to him and raised a fist covered with scars.
“[Swordbreaker’s Fist].”
A hand met a metal warhammer and broke. But the warhammer twisted in the other man’s hands. Then Chef Moirmen raised the kitchen knife and hacked it into the exposed neck. It lodged, and the [Boarder Sailor] screamed. He dropped the warhammer and seized the [Chef]. Struggling, the two stumbled back across the lightbridge—then over the railing. They plunged down as Moirmen laughed. In his place, a woman strode over the decks. She lifted a crossbow and aimed a wand as Captain Inme slashed down two members of her crew.
Veine shot the [Captain] through the head, ignoring his protective rings. She swiveled—shot a running [Sailor] through the chest—then shouted over her shoulder.
“Bring the barrels! Go, go!”
Lady Selica realized her deck was being overrun. She backed up as the enemy kept coming. The [Admiral] was charging forwards, trying to take the lower decks and bottle Wellfar’s soldiers from coming up. He only broke away when he heard a shout.
“Barrels coming down! Move it!”
“Watch out! Alchemical weapons!”
The Wellfar sailors fighting to get up the stairs dove and ran aside as red-marked barrels were hurled down the stairs, flattening [Sailors] and knocking more over. The ones not hit cried out as the barrels ruptured.
They waited for fire or acid or death—then they blinked. One tried to move—and slipped in corroded, rotten eels. Roaches and rats exploded out of the barrels as more were hurled down, slicking the stairs up. Then came more crossbow bolts.
 
——
 
They had one of the stairwells, and Giqe was fighting to take another when Dakelos looked around and realized they had the deck.
“Vorrmen! Vorrmen! Where are you?”
The Drowned Man skidded across the decks, bleeding from the stomach, but grinning. Dakelos looked around. Veine was aiming her crossbow-wand at a kneeling [Lady] spitting curses.
“A [Lady], Admiral.”
“Good! They’ll hesitate to hit us. Vorrmen, take us ahead.”
“The enemy’s got the lower decks! They could sabotage the rudder or fight up—”
“I know. Is everyone aboard from the Spitoon?”
“Everyone living.”
Vorrmen snapped back. The other ship was two-thirds submerged by now. Dakelos looked around.
“…Where’s Moirmen?”
“He went over. Moirmen? Moir—”
Someone called out and looked over the edge of the ship. Then up slowly. Dakelos strode over to the edge of his ship. Then he saw what he should have remembered.
The bodies of the dead weren’t visible. They were gone—and a number of people had gone down. But the sinking hulk was pulling everything down with it. Suction. The ship was full of air belowdecks, and as it filled, the water was dragging everything with it.
Moirmen was nowhere to be seen. Dakelos looked down.
“It’s faster than you’d think if he wasn’t conscious. Maybe the sea has a gift for him.”
Vorrmen’s voice broke him out of his stupor. Dakelos looked up.
“Yes. Take the helm, Vorrmen.”
“Away?”
“No. That ship.”
Dakelos spun. He looked around. And he saw more of his crew lying silent behind him. They were still fighting. Only he had known Moirmen by name.
They were dying. He saw an [Ensign] fall, gasping, as a flying dagger struck him in the throat. The decks were filled with flashes—Veine shot one of the crew off their feet, and the bolt pieced another magic shield. Dakelos took his eyes off his people and stared out, across the coastline engulfed by battle. He had to.
He was an [Admiral], not a [Captain].
While they’d been fighting, more ships had sunk or maneuvered away. But the boarding action had taken less than ten minutes, though it had felt like an age of fighting. He pointed at the nearest ship he saw.
The Burning Wish. It had begun moving again. Vorrmen glanced at it. And the Wellfar [Lady] raised her chin.
