Then there was, of course, his new Umbral Cloak, gifted by Umbra. Granted, Jake knew that the god definitely had some ulterior motives behind gifting him the cloak, and she had downright admitted that at least one of the reasons was to make it easier to track him. Seeing as the cloak was connected to the Shadow Realm, he knew Umbra could detect the location of the cloak at all times, but he surmised it perhaps gave her even more insight than just what she had admitted to. Assuming she could get through Shroud of the Primordial, but Jake wouldn’t be surprised if this cloak was kind of a workaround to counter that skill in more ways than just location tracking.

Not that Jake particularly minded, as he remained confident she wouldn’t be able to glean his true secrets.

Anyhow, while Jake hadn’t gained a lot of items, those he had gotten were of the highest quality and likely ones he would keep using for a very long time, if not all the way to godhood.

Of course, Jake had gained one more thing from his visit to the Pantheon of Life that he certainly hadn’t expected... his first girlfriend since his unfortunate university days. Just thinking about it felt weird, especially as he looked at the Godqueen sitting in the center of the flying vessel.

Everything had gone a little fast, sure, but it had all felt right so far to Jake. Artemis also didn’t complain as the two of them just did what felt natural to them, and he had no regrets about how he had approached things. Despite not having any complaints, Jake still felt a little weird about things, as it was all so new to him and a big change.

He also had to realize that the concept of relationships in the multiverse differed a lot from before. The two of them had made a commitment, but that didn’t mean they would be glued to one another, and he was sure that Artemis would have plenty of actual work to do both at the Order and back in the Pantheon of Life. It wouldn’t be weird if the two were apart for extremely long periods, as long as the mutual promise they had made to one another persisted.

Of course, Jake also realized that this development meant he had a few things to consider upon returning to the Order and a few people he needed serious conversations with. Irin especially, and he was sure that she would be one of the first people he would meet upon returning to the Order of the Malefic Viper.

He also couldn’t forget a certain high elf who still lived in his home back at the Order. Meira had certainly returned from Nevermore by now, and if Jake was being honest, he hoped the years she had been away had allowed her to truly grow into her own person and properly understand what she wanted. Hopefully, what she wanted didn’t include something Jake couldn’t and wouldn’t give her. Either way, a conversation would have to happen.

Jake was awakened from his thoughts as Artemis spoke again.

“And we’re approaching the teleportation hub,” the Godqueen explained to the group. “While it would be entirely possible to teleport without it, using a hub like this is far easier, and there’s already been established a connection with the Order of the Malefic Viper. Finally, seeing as this is the official return of the Chosen of the Malefic Viper and the arrival of the Ambassador from the Pantheon of Life, we should at least keep our transportation to official channels.”

Using a Pulse of Perception, Jake saw they landed on a massive teleportation circle on the hub planet, and the second they touched down, the circle activated. Magic built up in the air and seeped into the vessel as Artemis gave them a final warning.

“We’ll be going through the void now. The vessel will protect you, but be warned that it likely remains an uncomfortable experience.”

There were nods of acknowledgement all along as everyone braced themselves, and a moment later, they performed the final teleport toward Primordial-4 and the Order of the Malefic Viper.

All they had to do was briefly pass through the gap between worlds as a nice little shortcut... but as almost felt customary by now, Jake’s trips through the void rarely went as expected.
