DAY OF THE TRIAL

“Remember, just stick to the script I gave you, and do as I say.” Totori reminded Sweetie Muffin, the top-scoring intern from the Legal Royale, as they waited for the Fairqueen to arrive.

She looked to the other table, where Feretina and the city's delegate were talking, and beyond them to the jury bench. She nodded in approval as she noted that every jury had their crystalphones and were taking pictures and videos.

The more videos, the better for the media campaign after the trial.

The room was packed with news crews, witnesses, and a few of Totori's interns, just to have some home team cheering for her. She'd promised them a bonus if she won the case.

A single word on her part and they'd jump at the prosecutor's desk. She was confident she wouldn't need to invoke the “Angry mob” clause, but it never hurt to be prepared.

The door behind the podium clicked, and the bailiff stood straight. “All rise for her amazingness, Fairqueen Lilima Goodberry!”

Scraping chairs and clacking shoes greeted the Fairqueen, her intricate headpiece in full display; a magnificent recreation of a parfait's whipped topping, sprinkled with wild-berries.

The Fairqueen walked up to the podium and nodded at everyone. “Please sit,” she said as she took her place on the highchair.

Totori sat back down, clasped her hands on the desk, and stilled her nerves. Even if she was confident, this was a trial; anything could happen.

Within the law, of course.

Lilima smacked her gavel, the loud squeak silencing everyone. She looked to the two sides, then to the jury bench, and dipped her head, returning her gaze over the room at large. “I will now preside over the case, the city of Fairlilly versus Totori Flamrise. Prosecutor, make your statement.”

Feretina got to her feet, walked around the table, and faced the assembled jury. “Today, we will prove that the defendant has acted in-”

“Objection!” Totori called out.

Feretina spun around, face crisping. “Counter-objection!”

“Objection plus one!” Totori called back.

“Counter-objection plus two!”

“Objection plus three!”

The prosecuting fairy grimaced and looked at the objection scoreboard, where a clerk was flipping the numbered cards down from their allotted pool of 20 objections. They were a valuable resource, and the only way to get more was for the Fairqueen to grant you some.

It was important she stop the statement, however. Better to keep the jury guessing.

Fairqueen Lilima gave Feretina a pointed look as the lawyer fairy stood in place. Eventually, she gave up and let Totori win this bout, returning to her seat.

The intern team cheered respectfully as the scoring clerk marked a point for the defendant's side. The Fairqueen looked at Totori. “The defence can make their statement.”

The young fairy got up and went to face the jury and sucked in a breath. “IminnocentIdidn'tdoi-”

“Objection!” Feretina cried out.

Totori smirked at the senior lawyer before nodding at the Fairqueen and returning to her chair. Her statement had been delivered.

It was the prosecution's turn. Feretina stood and, as expected, called forth the first of many witnesses. Mimimi Mamami got to the witness bench, swore to be fair and honest, and the interrogation commenced.

This witness was the Weldtech fairy who had received Totori, David and Niala upon their second to the Fairlands, arriving for the catkin's trial. She gave an account of how Totori had seemed happy and unperturbed. Feretina painted that as the mood of someone who knew something.

At the time, Totori was still an intern, and this was her first case. According to the older lawyer, she should have been stressed and anxious.

She rolled her eyes, but let the questioning complete, and then it was her turn. Getting up, she glanced at her enemy; Feretina didn't look especially concerned. Both fairies knew this first phase was just a skirmish, anyway.

Still, a battlefield was a battlefield, and small advantages could have a big payoff. She faced the witness and clasped her hands over her lap. “Miss Mimimi, would you say you were happy at the time you received me and my charges through the weldgate?”

The fairy frowned. “I scored the above-minimum recommended grade on the monthly happiness scorecard. Just like every other month.”

Totori hummed. “What about the Skilled Labour Union depression scorecard for that month?”

Mimimi sighed. “I got a 'severely depressed' rating. Just like every other month.”

Nodding, she turned toward the jury. “As you might know, it has long been proven that a depressed fairy is more likely to perceive others as happy, irrespective of the other fairy's actual mood or posture.”

Her message given, she turned and stepped back to her chair, head high and half a smirk on her lips.

The first fight of many had just been concluded.

FERETINA

“Honeycrust, in your professional opinion as a cariole driver, would you say Miss Totori looked confident?”

TOTORI

“So, in summary, you grew up surrounded by despair and poverty. What was your standardized career predisposition test? You must have scored horribly on your interpersonal abilities.”

FERETINA

“When Miss Totori arrived at the courthouse, did she look suspicious?”

TOTORI

“I understand you said I appeared malicious when you spotted me across the road, but I remember you from our college days. You're the fairy I used to prank with scratching powder in your gym shorts. I was actually running a psychological experiment, and you were part of the group of fairies I conditioned to suspect me. I think your opinion is invalid.”

FERETINA

“What was your dream about Totori like, that night, after you briefly met her earlier in the day?”

TOTORI

“Would you say my handshake was moist or dry, at the time?”

FERETINA

“As the Mayor's assistant who was completely ignorant of this situation when it occurred, had you known about it, would you have had suspicion about Totori's motives?”

TOTORI

“This isn't even a fairy. It's a mannequin with a voice recorder that's just repeating that I am evil.”

...

“My apologies, amazing Fairqueen. I understand it is a replacement for the actual witness who has died since their first deposition. In this case, I would like to call the voice recorder as witness.”

FERETINA

“Please, continue summarizing your self-insert fan-fiction about the day David, the mundaneworlder on whom the Stormborn is based, unleashed the apocalypse upon our fair town.”

TOTORI

“Who's a good ferret! Yes you are! Yes you are!”

“As you can see, members of the jury, this pet ferret does, in fact, like me. With ferrets being a fairy's best friend, and all ferrets being good bois, I hereby claim that I must be a good person.”

FERETINA

“I-”

“OBJECTION!”

Totori slumped into her chair, pulling at her collar. Sweetie, the intern, reached with a towel and dabbed the sweat off her forehead.

It had been a brutal witness examination battle. She looked at the objection scoreboard; she was down to nine, and Feretina still had ten. A bit lower than she'd wanted, but still manageable.

She let her head hang back. The trick with the voice recorder had been particularly nasty, but it felt like she'd regained some points with Milkshake the ferret there, at the end.

Still, that should have been all the witnesses the prosecution had scrounged up, so now they could-

Feretina stood up. “Your amazingness, I call to the stand mundaneworlder Brenson!”

The gallery gasped. Totori's head snapped toward the doors opening in the back, with a short, balding man being walked in and down the aisle.

She gritted her teeth. A surprise witness!

The man was led to the witness chair and made to repeat the vows. Feretina stepped back and forth twice in front of him before speaking. “Mister Brenson, you know Miss Niala and Mister David well, correct?”

He nodded. “I know them well enough to know that they're bad news.”

“Good. So, in your expertise as a fellow mundaneworlder, how would you describe David?”

The balding man grimaced. “A man of exceptional ferocity and violence. He will intimidate anyone who gets in his way, and I would expect him to resort to his fists if that didn't work.”

“Right, and what of Niala?” Feretina continued.

“The girl is a viper. She will weave lies to get what she wants, and charm the witless to take her side in any confrontation.”

The lawyer fairy smiled. “So, how would you describe the pair, then?”

Brenson slapped the wooden bar before him. “A menace to society! Especially to the honest workers who are just trying to make a living!”

“Then, if these two individuals were to meet a young, inexperienced, good-natured professional, how do you think they would have approached that person?”

Brenson harrumphed. “If they had something to gain from it, they would have evidently tried to entangle that poor person within their ploys.”

Feretina thanked the man and returned to her seat, smirking.

Totori took her time getting up for the cross-interrogation. She needed her brain to come up with something, and quick...

“Mr. Brenson, do you know who I am?”

“Hrmm, I can't say that I do, Miss.”

“I am Totori Flamrise. I was the lawyer assigned to Miss Niala for her trial. You said that these two individuals were malevolent, correct?”

He rubbed the back of his head. “Ah, I wouldn't go that far, but they certainly wouldn't hesitate to trample over people to get what they wanted.”

Trample over people?

“Thank you, Mr. Brenson,” she said before turning toward the Fairqueen. “Your amazingness, I would like to recall the trial of Frizzy Pink Flowers Ltd. versus mundaneworlder Niala.”

Lilima nodded. “Go ahead.”

“Thank you.” Totori turned to face the jury. “Miss Niala and I, after executing our well-planned and thoughtfully researched defence strategy, were able to prove, in all fairness, that Miss Niala was both innocent and guiltless. However, she insisted on paying back the debt to FPF Limited. That was not the behaviour of someone of vile intent.”

Feretina stood up. “Interjection!”

The fairqueen dipped her head. “Go ahead.”

“Thank you, your amazingness,” the prosecutor said, turning her head toward Totori with a predatory smile. “Miss Flamrine, are you insinuating that paying back the claimed amount had not been your-”

“Objection!” Totori yelled.

“Counter-objection!” Feretina countered.

“Objection plus one!”

Counter-objection plus one!”

The battle went all the way to eight objections, the gasps from the gallery increasing each time. An intern passed out.

Totori had one objection left. If needed, she would use it. She absolutely could not let Feretina finish that sentence; it would paint her as a profoundly unfair individual.

She had fallen right into the trap. As well as the trial had gone on so far, there was no denying that her ex-boss was an experienced lawyer.

Feretina looked at the meagre objections she had left, then at Totori, who could see the calculations in her eyes.

Just as the young lawyer was about to turn purple from holding her breath, Feretina dipped her head and returned to her chair.

Totori let out the air from her lungs. She'd dodged this one, but Feretina could have forced it. That only meant one thing; she had another surprise in her bag.

But so do I, Feretina. The war hasn't been won yet.

The two lawyer fairies locked gazes. Neither believed they were going to lose.

But all is fair in law and court, and someone has to lose.

After a short lunch break, the trial resumed and moved on to exhibition row. There, as Totori had expected, recordings, videos and images were brought up, each one commented by the prosecution's retained behaviourist, each comment a paintbrush on the tableau of Totori's hidden depravity.

She put up token resistance, bringing in her own behaviourist where possible, but she'd long expected to lose this phase. Totori was a profoundly happy and hopeful fairy, after all.

So, yes, on that day, she had been happy instead of being stressed out of her slippers. Where most other fairies would have thought of it as an opportunity to fail spectacularly, she felt it was her great chance to attain success.

Totori was, in other words, a little strange compared to the average fairy. She had managed to hide it very well, even having taken extensive acting courses, but an experienced behaviourist was able to see right through that, as was the case right now.

There was little she could do, and that was ok. She had a plan.

By the end of this phase, everyone present could tell in which direction the wind was blowing. Even her cheerleader team of interns looked dejected.

Feretina was riding high, with a smile printed on her face as she got up and called for the final blow; Totori's financial portrait at the time of the trial.

“Your amazingness, I would like to call Miss Totori to the witness stand.”

Lilima nodded. The young fairy leaned toward Sweetie, whispered in her ear, then got up and came to sit on the witness chair. She recited the vows and locked her eyes onto Feretina.

Her ex-boss gleefully smirked as she retrieved a small document from her briefcase and brought it to Totori, handing it over. “Miss. Totori, could you tell the court what this is?”

“It's my financial portrait from two years ago.”

“That's correct. What does it read? The summary?”

Totori sighed. “The subject displays all of the classical signs of a financially stressed individual. Historically, such individuals are prone to participating in schemes and subversive activities to alleviate such stress. It is this professional's recommendation that the subject be closely monitored for any sort of antisocial behaviour.”

The members of the jury narrowed their eyes at Totori, a few texting furiously on their crystalphones. Totori's intern team had all but collapsed.

This truly was some damning evidence.

Feretina fluttered her eyebrows. “Miss. Totori, do you feel this financial portrait is unfair?”

Totori could also touch the lawyer's dare to use her last objection, because she had more, and she'd win that battle that would seal the war. Instead, she shook her head. “No, I think it was fairly done.”

Her ex-boss smiled and looked at the Fairqueen. “No more questions, your amazingness,” she said, prancing back to her chair.

Then, Totori glanced at Sweetie Muffin, her legal aide, and nodded once. The young fairy jumped to her feet. “Ah, hum! Your amazingness! As the defendant's legal aide, I would like to perform the cross-interrogation!”

“Go ahead, Miss. Muffin.”

“Yes!” Sweetie squeaked, rigidly marching up to Totori and reading from a small crisped piece of paper. “Hum! Miss Totori! Are there any corroborating evidence you would like to present to the court, in relation to your financial portrait?!”

Totori's defeated frown turned upward. “Yes. Exhibition 17.”

Feretina, frowning, scrambled to look through the exhibition booklet. Seeing #17, her eyes went wide, and she stood up. “Objection!”

Totori nodded. The fairqueen upheld the objection.

The older lawyer turned up her nose. “You're done now, Totori. Exhibition 17 would have been disastrous, I agree, but you outplayed yourself.”

Lilima glared at her. “Miss. Argentile. No gloating in my court until the verdict has been rendered. This is your only warning.” She held her stare on Feretina, who apologized by bowing her head, and then turned her head to speak to Sweetie. “Is there anything else you wish to bring up?”

The intern went straight as a pole. “Ah! Yes, your Amaning-Amazingness! Exhibition 16!”

Lilima narrowed her eyes. “16? Isn't that the financial portrait we went over?”

“Ny-Yes! Your amazingness! However, specifically, the internal memo inside the folder containing the portrait!”

Feretina's eyes snapped open. Totori looked back, mouth curling into a victorious rictus. The gallery held their breath. The intern team picked themselves up from the floor.

The Fairqueen held her hand out for the folder in question. Sweetie retrieved it from the exhibition desk, almost dropping it on the way before handing it over.

Lilima opened it and retrieved the original memo taped to the inside, looking it over. The bated, silent room broke when she let out an amused huff, giving back the folder and note to Sweetie.

“Go ahead, dear, read it.”

The intern almost saluted before catching herself and holding up the memo. “From: Feretina Argentile. To: HR. Written: Finish her internship on minor, pointless tasks and then fire right away. Found out she is on the Bliss spectrum, high-functioning. Too happy and hopeful to be a successful lawyer. Also reprimand whoever hired her without double-checking her medical history.”

The jurors recoiled: two of them screamed, all their crystalphones came up; some took pictures, others, selfies, and a few began pod-casting to their OnlyFairies.

The intern team started a choreographed dance. A few of the nearby witnesses joined in. The news crews began reporting live.

Feretina let her head hit her desk.

Totori got up and strutted back to the defence side, sitting down and leaning back.

The jury would deliberate, but she knew she'd won.

Bliss-spectrum fairies were rare, but every one of them was considered an abnormality. Throughout fairy history, every rebellion or revolution leader was either known Blissfuls, or highly suspected to be.

They were individuals who hoped where others despaired. They moved the masses, and rarely conformed to known psychological profiles. So rarely that, as far as the common fairy was concerned, they could be expected to act opposite to their own expectations when faced with hopelessness.

Totori had scored a few measly points on the Bliss test she'd taken in secret at the behest of her parents, who felt she was just too happy in general. She barely qualified, but Feretina had evidently thought it was enough to damn her.

And now, with the only objection left on the defence side, she couldn't bring up that test and show how it was almost irrelevant, because Totori would shoot it down.

As far as the jury knew, Totori was a Blissful individual, and thus nearly incapable of scheming for financial gain, because she was hopeful enough that things would work out.

In all fairness, it was true. Things had worked out.