Barbara came into Ren's bedroom and shut the door, then saw Elise and Lisa as they held each other on the bed. She was going to say something, then realized they weren't close enough to Ren to put him in danger of being rolled on or banged if they moved. Denise came into the room right behind her and stopped. She wore a small pair of shorts and a t-shirt two sizes bigger than she normally wore.

“Hey, Barbara.” Denise whispered. “It looks like they dozed off.”

“I just got here, so probably.” Barbara whispered back. “I think Stella's taking a shower.”

The bathroom door opened and Stella came out wearing the t-shirt Elise gave her.

“Hi.” Stella said and finished drying her hair as she checked the television, and it was still on a blue screen. “He's either got someone naked or he's back in the Sanctuary.”

“He's in the Sanctuary.” Elise said as she lifted her head and looked at them. “He's been giving the pixies visits.”

“I thought you were asleep.” Barbara said.

“No, I'm watching Ren.” Elise said. “Lisa's out like a light, though.”

“Poor thing.” Barbara said. “Imagine having to grow up with that... man... as a father.”

“I think she's turning out remarkably well, despite that.” Stella said. “Did she sign the paper?”

“Without hesitation.” Elise said and gently stroked Lisa's hair.

“Good.” Stella said and tossed her towel on top of the one Elise used. “At least there's lots of room so I can hug her, too.”

Elise smiled as Stella laid down beside Lisa and snuggled in.

“I'll just lay down over here.” Denise said and pat the far side of the bed.

“I just said there's lots of room.” Stella pat the bed beside her. “Climb aboard.”

Denise climbed onto the bed and laid down beside Stella, then they all relaxed. Barbara turned the lights down and sat on the chair beside Ren's side of the bed, then turned down the volume on the television so that if anything did pop on, the sound wouldn't wake anyone.

Barbara watched the television flicker every 7 minutes and watched Ren continue to take pixies into the Sanctuary. He moved onto the succubi and gave them each a turn, then took Princess in, and then another pixie. After a while, she was a bit surprised that he hadn't come back out, then shrugged and waited until he did come back out at the end of the day.

Barbara watched as Ren climbed onto the bed and the blue screen didn't appear for several minutes, then the 4 succubi reached for their tops and the view cut off. She shook her head and held in her chuckle.

Yes, this is definitely an easy night for me. Barbara thought as she heard the even breathing of the women in the bed with Ren.
