“Uncle Bao, I can’t,” Simone felt the $150 in her hand grow sweaty.

"Mei-mei, you told mother restaurant. This restaurant? You dumb, but your mother not so dumb. Okay?" He gestured at the bag with a small movement of his chin. “No charge. Leftover yumcha.”

Simone looked at the bag, gripped the money in her hand, and watched the grim-faced uncles count money and pack sieu-ye. She recalled the imprint of the man’s rough hand against her thigh.

Life can be so confusing.

"Xie-xie," Simone said. She didn’t know any other Cantonese words other than the two dozen swear words that might get her killed.

Chow arrived, his face eager and his eyes gleaming, until Uncle Bao gave him a good “Pok gai! Drive safely! Okay? Diu—!”

Chow graduated last year. He had told her in the car, while eyeing her legs, that his SAT was 1430. He was accepted into Cal Poly. He had then offered her a roast goose leg in a box as some kind of pre-game. There was a jar of plum sauce. He then offered to tutor her. It was the most bizarre courtship Simone had ever experienced. Either that, or her SAT was too low to understand.

Simone bowed her head and received the sieu-ye with fixed feelings.

The two uncles were her jailers, debtors. Yet, from the first week she arrived, they had adopted her. They were rough men with a predisposition for violent acts, and yet, between their obscenity-filled speech, they felt more fatherly than anyone Simone had known in her often trying life. With “uncles” like these, Simone wondered now and then, when her skirt grew breezy during a shift, why was William Chen so…

She dared not finish that thought.

“Wednesday, your shift, 4 to 12,” Uncle Bao reminded her. “Chow pick you up from the station, okay?”

“Thank you,” Simone bowed again. Why is William so god damned twisted when the people around him are like this? She held the oxymoronic thought in her head carefully, as one might hold a lit match, aware that the warmth and the burn came from the same flaming head.

Then she went and got changed. On the counter, the fresh buns still steamed. Her sisters would eat well the next morning.
