"Basically, it's like a portal, but I don't have to manually keep opening and closing it. The possibilities really are endless. I could use this to connect Red Vine Peak to Ashfallen City, create a way for the Redclaws to venture deep into the wilderness in seconds, or use it for our pill empire... which is still in the process of selling a single pill but let's ignore that small detail."

Ashlock had felt some spatial Qi being spent to send that fruit down, so his roots were definitely using his spatial Qi to shorten the distance.

"Oh shit. If I spend my Qi, will the system take away my ability to reach Nascent Soul Realm?" Ashlock dug through his system screens and pulled up the notification.

[Requirements to turn Chaos Nebula into an Inner World:

2565 / 10000 Sacrificial Credits

0 / 1 Absorbed Fire Star Cores

0 / 1 Absorbed Water Star Cores

0 / 1 Absorbed Earth Star Cores

0 / 1 Absorbed Wind Star Cores

0 / 1 Absorbed Metal Star Cores]

He couldn't see anywhere that mentioned or suggested that he couldn't spend as much Qi as he wanted, which was a relief. As usual, the system only really cared for the precious sacrificial credits and left him and his cultivation alone.

"Master, please excuse my interruption."

Ashlock was pulled out of his consciousness by a gruff voice he recognized immediately. Since his {Demonic Eye} was still open, he gazed down at Larry standing before him. In the red hue that showed Ashlock the flow of Qi, Larry looked like a blazing sun of power on par with Nox, who had died moments earlier and been turned into a tree and planted in Ashfallen City.

"Larry, my loyal summon. How can I help?" Ashlock asked, but he suspected the answer.

"I was hoping the honorable master would bless my evolution."

[Larry has accumulated enough Qi to evolve to S grade]

[New evolution option(s) have been added due to consumption of divine flesh]

[Ashen King {Larry} wishes to evolve]

[Yes/No]

Was that even a question?

"Yes, of course, I approve of your evolution," Ashlock replied to Larry, and the system also seemed to hear his words as the words faded and new ones took their place.

The divine evolution options for the Ashen King filled his mind.
