“You send message. Tell them to go. Then we go. We stand here one hour. Then I go.”
She wants us to stand here for an hour? It might work. It could work. I want to laugh. I want to tell her to lower the crossbow, to sit, to let me apologize and ask her—but I shake my head.
“It’s a good plan. It might have worked. But I’m sorry, Chieftain Rags. There will be no peace.”
Behind me, Lady Rie inhales sharply. I see Rags waver. For the first time, she looks surprised. Uncertain.
“Why not?”
I wait before responding. When I do, my voice is steady. I can say the words now. Pain—pain has already done its work.
“You came too late, Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe. Our armies have already fought. Someone ordered my army to assault your tribe. The battle is lost. Your tribe won.”
A moan rises from the crowd. I feel the horror rise around me, see faces turn to me with terror mounting. Rags stares at me. The crossbow wavers.
“My tribe won?”
I nod. In my head, I sense Humans fleeing, drawing back, fighting around the totem. Where is Durene?
“Is winning, rather. They’re retreating. Your tribe is chasing them.”
The Goblin with the red scar leans over to talk urgently to his Chieftain. Rags listens, half shaking her head. Is he suggesting to kill us now that they’ve won? Rags looks back at me, and now her voice is very uncertain.
“Tribe won. Is good. Humans wrong to attack. Stupid. Can still…make peace.”
“No.”
I smile at her. She stares at me, just like a child.
“Why not?”
“You slaughtered my people. You killed them. And Durene—I think you’ve taken too much from me, Rags. Your race started this war. I escalated it. For that, I am sorry. But too many have died.”
I spread my arms. I can sense them. I can remember. Each person her Goblins slew. Each child burnt in a building or mother killed while fleeing. Each father or son or daughter who died. It hurts. And I cannot sense Durene.
Rags lifts her crossbow.
“You fight and you die. Your people die.”
“There are thousands of my people here and sixty of you. I have soldiers too.”
“Emperor Laken, Your Majesty, let us not be hasty here. Surely there is something we can do to avoid conflict.”
To my greatest surprise, someone interrupts Rags’ reply. An old voice. Lady Bevia. She speaks up as the [Mage] next to her urgently whispers. She brushes him aside and treats me and Rags to a charming smile. I can feel myself growing calmer.
“Chieftain Rags, was it? Your Majesty, this young Goblin speaks sense. I would hate to see needless bloodshed—”
The [Mage]. He’s whispering to her. What does she know? Why is she trying to defuse the situation? I turn towards Lady Bevia and sense Rags spotting the same things I have. She shifts her crossbow’s aim for a second.
“No talk! Stop using Skill!”
“I am only trying to—”
“Be silent, Lady Bevia. There is no more room for negotiation. I have made up my mind.”
Around me, I sense a vibration in the air. The atmosphere is taut. My people have gone deathly still. They are waiting. Rags hesitates. She lifts her weapon uneasily.
“I have crossbow. You surrender. Now!”
I laugh. There’s a bit of madness there. He was right. An [Emperor] can do many things. But some things—no.
“Surrender? Never.”
We stare at each other, the small Goblin and I. Without eyes. For a second, I waver. So young. If we had met another way, we might even have understood each other. But my empire bleeds. My people are dead. And when I look at her in my mind’s eye, truly look at her, I don’t think she wants peace either. There’s a monster in both of us. Waiting. So I let it out.
“Take the Goblins. Do not let them escape. Do not rest until they are all dead.”
I hear a howl. I sense Rags jerk, see the red scarred Goblin point at me, Sir Kerrig leaping into motion. I can sense her finger pulling the trigger, sense the crossbow aiming at me. I feel Gamel lunge at me, knock me down. The bolt grazes my left cheek, goes into someone behind me. I hit the ground as people rush around me. And I hear the screams.
 
——
 
Rags saw the first bolt miss the [Emperor]. The second wasn’t aimed at him. It took the [Mage] she’d seen straight through the neck. He dropped, nearly falling on the old [Lady] who’d spoken. Rags saw the woman stumble backwards, face grey as her warriors surged forwards. Rags pointed and threw fire into the crowd as she struggled to reload.
Where was he? There! He was moving backwards, fleeing into the village! Rags heard a terrifying roar and turned her head to see a giant green bear charging out of the village towards her warriors. Three Redfang Warriors turned to ride at it. The rest were fighting the crowd. Five were dueling Sir Kerrig!
“Redscar!”
She howled the name as she struggled to reload her crossbow. The Humans were shielding the [Emperor]. She’d never get a clear shot! Redscar looked at her, his sword bathed in blood. Rags pointed.
“Him!”
The [Emperor] turned his head as Redscar charged. The current leader of the Redfangs rode a Carn Wolf larger than all but Garen Redfang’s. He had raised the wolf cub from birth. Now, he charged into the Humans with cleavers, pitchforks, and other weapons, ignoring their attempts to unseat him. His Carn Wolf snarled and leapt over the crowd, crushing more where it landed. Its fur resisted the blows around it, and Redscar slashed left and right, cutting Humans down. But with each passing second, the [Emperor] was drawing further away.
“Stop! Stop this madness!”
Sir Kerrig was trying to fight his way to Rags. She ignored him. Her eyes were on Redscar and the Emperor. Laken. He had run a dozen feet down the street. He was headed for one of the houses. If he could get inside, he’d barricade himself in with all the other Humans. Redscar was racing at him.
A Human stood in the way. A young man with a sword and padded jerkin. He was inexperienced, but he swung well. Redscar leaned back and slashed him across the chest as he passed. The young man fell, bleeding but not dead.
Next, the woman in the dress. She fled to one side. Next an old man, the [Farmer]. He had a sword too and swung clumsily at Redscar. The Carn Wolf rammed into him, knocking him flat.
The [Emperor] was last. He had run down the street, but Redscar charged him. Ironically, Laken’s order had sent his subjects racing towards Rags’ warriors in a blind rage. There was no one to save him. Rags waited as Redscar raised his frosted blade. The [Emperor] was turning. He knew he wouldn’t escape. He turned and stared at Redscar. Rags heard him speak.
“Stop.”
For a moment, Redscar did. He froze, and his Carn Wolf skidded to a stop. Then Redscar cursed. He leapt off his Carn Wolf and ran at the [Emperor]. Laken ran once more. Rags cursed, but Redscar was a trained warrior. He was still closing on the Human. Closer, closer—
“Chieftain!”
Rags heard the voice. Her head turned. She saw something flash past her Redfang Warriors, heard the galloping hooves. She turned, raised her crossbow, and shot. Too slow. Her bolt missed the target.
Redscar was sprinting towards Laken. His sword was ready to slash across his back. He raised it as he reached Laken’s back and turned his head as Rags screamed a warning. He saw the blur approaching on horseback and struck anyways. Too slow.
The galloping figure rode down the village street faster than an arrow could fly. Faster than Rags’ fiery magic. Faster than Redfang’s sword. He rode as if the rest of the world were underwater. A lance was in his hand, and he aimed it at Redscar. The Goblin saw it coming and tried to dodge. Again he failed.
The lance pierced Redscar’s shoulder. The momentum of the strike spun the Goblin, and Rags saw the rider flick his lance casually. Redscar slowed, and she saw a hole in his right shoulder. He stared at it and fell, his sword still held in his left hand. The [Emperor], Laken, looked up. The Redfangs stopped fighting, and the villagers of Riverfarm stopped too. They turned their heads and saw him standing there. Larger than life. Exactly on time.
Lord Tyrion Veltras. He removed his helmet and offered Laken a slight, stiff bow. Behind Rags, she heard a clarion horn sound and heard more drumming hooves. She turned and saw a hundred riders in full armor charging straight at her. She screamed an order, and her Goblins broke away. Tyrion Veltras pointed, and the armored [Knights] and [Lords] charged the Goblins. He turned back to Laken Godart.
“Emperor Laken Godart? I believe we have yet to meet. I am Lord Tyrion Veltras. I have heard of you. I believe we could be of mutual benefit to each other.”
“You?”
Laken stared up at the man. Lord Tyrion was tall, and his hair was black. He had a trimmed goatee and clean-shaven upper lip. His armor glowed slightly in the light, and he held himself strictly, almost painfully upright on his horse. There was no smile on his face, and his dark blue eyes were cold. Nevertheless, there was an urgency to the way he moved, a purpose. Tyrion turned his head, looking east.
“I understand your forces are in full retreat following a clash with this tribe. My escort passed by the conflict less than an hour ago. I instructed the rest of my force to ride into battle as soon as they caught up.”
“The rest of your…?”
Tyrion Veltras nodded. His gaze flicked upwards towards the sun and then travelled across the breadth of Riverfarm. It took in the fleeing Goblins, the hundred or so armored Humans in pursuit, and the lone Goblin racing towards them. Tyrion watched as Rags flung herself from the saddle towards Redscar. He made no move towards them as his lance tip dripped blood onto the ground. Rags dragged Redscar up as the Goblin’s own Carn Wolf approached, whining. She shouted a command, and both Carn Wolves began to run, one carrying the fallen Goblin.
“Lord Matthews?”
Lord Tyrion turned his head and called at one of the men dressed in silver armor. A tall [Lord] with red gold hair rode up.
“Lord Veltras! What can I do for you?”
The scion of the Veltras family calmly nodded towards Rags and Redscar, who were both fleeing towards the other Redfang Warriors.
“Mark both targets. The one with the enchanted sword and the small female with the crossbow. Remember your orders.”
“By your leave, Lord Veltras. Formation on me!”
Lord Matthews called out, and a wedge of [Knights] and [Lords] raced after him. Laken stared at the fleeing Goblins and the Humans.
“You came all this way for…how did you know about me? About the Goblins? My army—Durene—”
The [Lord] turned his head slightly. He nodded towards Lady Bevia as she stood at a distance. The older lady curtsied slightly.
“I have my informants. Moreover, I received an extraordinary messenger. Your army will be saved, Emperor. I did not come with a hundred soldiers alone.”
 
——
 
The cavalry that drew rein in front of the battleground spotted the fleeing Humans and advancing Goblins from a distance. Their mounts were sweaty, exhausted, and the riders looked just as tired. But the commander seemed confident, casual, even. He shaded his eyes as he peered at the Goblins chasing the Humans down.
“That’s the tribe you informed Lord Veltras of, Lady Caveis? Do you see your comrade among them?”
Welca Caveis gasped for air and wiped sweat out of her eyes. She stared down at the Goblin army and then shifted her gaze to the city.
“I don’t see Sir Kerrig anywhere, Lord Pellmia.”
The [Lord] nodded.
“A pity. But we may still have hope that he is alive within the city at least. Men! Ladies. On my order we will charge the Goblins! Form a wedge on me. [Second Wind]!”
As he spoke, Welca felt energy flood back into her limbs. It was a nervous, temporary rush, but it made even the horses canter as the cavalry moved into place. She lowered the visor of her helm as Lord Pellmia pointed.
“Remember your orders! Scatter the Goblins first and find me the commander of the Human army! On my mark! Charge!”
 
——
 
Pyrite was marching after the Humans, ordering the tribe to harry them, when he heard the horns. He turned his head and saw a wall of silver and steel descending a distant hilltop. His blood ran cold. He screamed an order, and the Goblins saw the danger. They turned and ran for the city. They ran and ran as the Humans descended on them. Pyrite stared at the Humans as he ran. Where had they come from? Why were they here?
Where was Rags?
 
——
 
“Report.”
Lord Tyrion was speaking to a bevy of soldiers, his people. He had dismounted and was at the center of attention. Laken was sitting. His knees had gone out. He saw Tyrion listen to a report coming straight from the fighting around the city. The Goblins were running! They’d retreated back into the city.
Just like that. Just…in an instant. Now, Tyrion was speaking to one of the [Mages] who’d rode with him.
“Convey my gratitude to Lord Pellmia. Tell him I will return to appraise the situation shortly. Now, I require a second [Message] to be sent to my aide Telmia. Send the message with the identifying passphrase: Benivald Veltras. Await her counter signal identifying him as the 52nd second-son of the House Veltras. Inform her to begin the operation on my mark.”
The flurry of activity around Tyrion ceased. He glanced up at the position of the sun and waited a beat. All was still. Laken felt the world pausing. Tyrion nodded.
“Mark.”
 
——
 
In the mountain, the Goblin Lord and Tremborag met for the second time. The Great Chieftain of the Mountain taunted Reiss from above as his Goblins loosed arrows and threw stones down from above. The crisscrossing network of rope and wood bridges were filled with Goblins as the undead and Reiss’ forces fought below, trying to push upwards.
“You will never take my home, False Lord! Not you, nor your armies! You are too late! The Humans come for you! They will never break my home! I outlived the Goblin King, and I will live in my fortress until all is dust!”
He roared down at the Goblin Lord. Reiss stared up, his eyes narrowed, and shot black bolts of magic upwards. But Tremborag just laughed and backed away from the edge. Reiss knew he was right.
“Lord, lots of Humans are coming! Lots and lots of Humans!”
Snapjaw was tugging at Reiss, trying to get him to pull back. Reiss snarled, feeling blood running down from the side of his face. Garen had nearly gotten him in the last ambush. He saw his Goblin fighting with Tremborag’s forces in a narrow gap. They couldn’t push in! They had to retreat! But the Humans—
“Redfang!”
A roar from the left interrupted him. Garen Redfang rode out of a large tunnel with his Redfang Warriors, cutting again for Reiss. This time, Eater of Spears charged at him, and the two Hobs fought in a shower of blood. Reiss snarled.
“Pull Eater of Spears back! Garen is aiming for him!”
