He roared, and his Goblins roared with him. They streamed into the mountain as the waves of black Goblins began pouring in from every tunnel. And among them strode a Goblin with black eyes, surrounded by the undead and Hobs. He pointed and shot death from his fingertips. Tremborag roared as he tore into the Goblin Lord’s soldiers, and Garen and his warriors entered the battle. Now, they were on a time limit. At the same time, the Human adventurers who’d occupied the northern tunnels stopped advancing and fortified their position. They were waiting.
 
——
 
Day 105
 
I have never seen lightning. But I have heard thunder. To me, it is terrifying. A sound that comes during rain. Only, there is no flash of light to alert me. No hint. Just the boom of sound, sometimes terrifyingly close. I’ve often wondered what lightning must look like. A…fork of electricity hitting the ground? From the sky? I used to wonder.
Now I think I understand. Lightning is a flash of light. Something searing. A bolt of electricity from the heavens, extremely hot, striking out of nowhere. I feel one shoot through my body now, a bolt of pure energy. And the thunder is my racing heartbeat.
It’s too late to stop anything. Too late for anything but regrets. All the pieces are in motion. My army is clashing with the Goblins somewhere out of my range of—vision. I can still sense the two trebuchets, sense Tessia and her team rushing to reload the slings, wind back the arms. But what they are firing at, how the battle is going, I have no idea. All I can focus on is the small band rushing ever closer to my position.
“He warned me of this. I suppose I grew overconfident. Until I came here, I didn’t know what seeing was like. So I forgot to watch my back. But I was warned. I wonder how he knew so much.”
“Your Majesty?”
I hear a nervous voice. I am sitting in my throne room, and my advisors are gathered around me. Two out of four, rather. Beniar and Wiskeria are fighting. Prost and Rie stand with me, as does Gamel. It is deathly silent here. They’re all watching me. But I have nothing to tell them about the battle. I’m thinking about treachery.
I was warned. I should have been more vigilant. Odveig, or rather, Sacra was one thing. But I was told by a…friend that spies would be the least of my trials. And they were right.
Someone knocked out Nesor. Someone sent a [Message] from Riverfarm ordering Wiskeria to attack. Or perhaps they didn’t need to be in Riverfarm? Only now do I realize how easy it is to fake a [Message] spell.
I should have established a password. I should have watched the nobles, put a guard on Nesor. But again, it is far too late for regrets. All my focus is turned towards Sir Kerrig, riding towards me.
Too late for peace? Perhaps. But I want to know what he has to say. As I focus on him, another part of the landscape vanishes into oblivion. My vision of my lands is breaking, piece by piece. And only now do I see the pattern.
“Clever.”
“What is? Emperor Laken?”
I don’t reply to Lady Rie. She sounds anxious. Prost and Gamel just watch me. Slowly, I stand. Thunder becomes my heartbeat.
“Sir Kerrig will reach the village in minutes. Prost, Gamel, Rie, with me. We have time, so we might as well put on a show.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
The two men fall in behind me as I stride from the throne. Lady Rie hesitates only a moment before following.
“Ah, Your Majesty. How fortunate we could meet.”
A voice greets me the instant I leave the meeting hall. I turn my head, but I already know who stands there. Lady Bevia. I do not smile towards her as I’ve done before. She’s gathered the other nobles with her. And their retainers. She can sense it too. Or perhaps she knows something I don’t?
“Lady Bevia. Join me if you wish.”
I stride past her. Towards the eastern side of the village. I walk past rows of houses, many unfinished. But if I compare it to what Riverfarm looked like a month ago—we’ve done so much. I can tell my people are watching me, some following. They fear. I haven’t been a good leader of late. Making strategic decisions, managing my lands, all that is part of it. But the other part is being an [Emperor]. So I walk with my back held high.
Somewhere overhead, Frostwing is circling. Bismarck snuffles in the forest, hunting for snacks. I call them as I walk towards the gates. And now I hear hoof beats.
Close. I stop and wait, sensing a group of six riding towards me. The horses are lathered with sweat—they’ve changed them twice. One of the horses has lost a shoe. The riders look tired from the frantic ride. But here they are. I sense a man dressed in worn clothing in front.
Sir Kerrig. Perhaps he’s a handsome man. Perhaps he’s everything a [Knight] should be. Wiskeria seemed to think he was genuine. But in my mind, he is just a man. Well-built, clearly muscled, but lacking anything else about him. He has no armor. He has a sword, borrowed from one of the soldiers. And as he draws his horse up and dismounts, I can sense him looking at me.
Behind me, the villagers watch as Sir Kerrig hesitantly approaches. He glances past me at the waiting nobility, at Lady Rie and Mister Prost, at Gamel hovering warily at my side. What he thinks I can’t fathom. Slowly, Sir Kerrig bows deeply to me.
“Your Majesty. I beg forgiveness for my rude appearance and the unseemly nature of my request. I am Sir Kerrig Louis, a [Knight] sworn to the service of Lady Bethal Walchaís. I humbly beg a private audience—”
“You are too late.”
My voice is loud in my ears. Sir Kerrig breaks off, confused.
“Your Majesty?”
“You are too late, Sir Kerrig. A battle has begun between my army and the Goblins.”
A murmur sweeps through the people behind me. Anxious. Many did not know. I sense Sir Kerrig pale.
“But I was assured by your General—Emperor Laken, I beg you to reconsider! If there is a chance yet—”
“Be silent.”
The man shuts up. I stare towards the east more for the look for the thing than anything else. Now, how would you say this? Old English?
“I am wroth with you, Sir Kerrig. Not just you. I have spies and saboteurs in my empire, it seems. Those who plot against me. Though I do not know what I have done to wrong them. They will be found and hunted. As for you—I am furious towards you, Sir Kerrig.”
I hear him gulp. He’s wise enough not to open his mouth, though. I wait a beat. Yes. I’m sure.
“Goblins. Peace. None of that bothers me. I wanted to listen to you. I held back because I wished to know what you had to say. But I should not have listened.”
“Sire?”
Now. I turn my head towards Sir Kerrig and open my eyes. I don’t know what he sees. I’m told my eyes are different than…normal. A blind man’s eyes stare at him until I cannot help but blink. So I close my eyes.
“Tell me you did not conspire with the Goblins, Sir Kerrig. Swear to me here, on your honor as a [Knight].”
“Your Majesty! I would never do such a thing! I came here to broker peace, but treachery would go against everything I believe in!”
Sir Kerrig’s voice is genuine. I nod.
“I believe you. But that does not change the fact—”
I break off and turn my head east again. At first, I thought it was just more sabotage. It was hard to spot a pattern. But the closer he got, the closer Sir Kerrig came, the more obvious it was. A marker falling here. A group of Goblins racing to hack another down. Another blank spot in my mind.
It’s like a spider web of oblivion around the Goblins. But the pattern changes towards Riverfarm. I sense a…path. Heading towards me. And another marker falls ten miles north. I know.
“Your Majesty?”
I turn my head back to Sir Kerrig. I smile at him, wearily. Thunder.
“You were followed, Sir Kerrig. The Goblins followed you here.”
I hear a sharp gasp from behind me. A scream. Someone faints. A noble. In the silence, before shock can become anything else, I turn.
“Mister Prost? Lady Rie? Raise the alarm. I want palisades built in every spot we can find. Arm every villager with weapons. The Goblins are coming.”
I turn and walk back into the village. Sir Kerrig stares at my back as people begin running. I ignore it all. In the distance, I can sense the battle raging. And I pray, though there are no gods in this world.
“Don’t die, Durene. Be safe.”
 
——
 
Tyrion saw the [Message] flash into the scroll at his side. The [Lord] didn’t bother to stop riding—he transferred the reins to one hand and rode as his horse surged beneath him. The landscape blurred as he and his escort rode across the ground impossibly fast. Tyrion’s brow creased as he read the message once and then twice. Then he tossed it over his shoulder.
A hand caught it. The man riding behind Tyrion inspected the scroll, and Tyrion Veltras turned his head.
“We are moving too slowly. Advance to a gallop! Anyone unable to keep up will be left behind. Now. [Wildwind Ride]!”
The man behind him raised his fist.
“[Quick Gallop]!”
The lines of riders behind the two sped up as if pushed from behind. The riders sped down the road, hurrying onwards. They had to be on time. Tyrion pushed ahead, demanding more speed from his warhorse. They could not afford to make a mistake. Not now.
 
——
 
Pyrite stood on the walls as the Humans marched towards him. The flurry of movement, the rush to prepare slowed before his eyes into a steady march. He nodded. That was basic. Running all the way towards the city would tire soldiers needlessly. Even a hundred foot dash mattered when a life-or-death fight stood at the end of it.
The way the army moved, the unsubtle way in which the infantry advanced with archers behind and the cavalry forming two wings on either side, all of it told Pyrite that the army and leader was new. Raw. Inexperienced. For all that, they were deadly. He remembered them attacking again and again. Dangerous. He didn’t underestimate Humans.
Around him, Pyrite could hear war horns bellowing. Goblins rushed to the walls with crossbows while more formed into their units of pikes or infantry. All without him needing to bellow orders. That was a testament to Rags’ skill. Pyrite slowly lifted his battleaxe and walked down the broken steps, taking care not to trip on rubble and break something. That would be…silly.
His nerves were humming, but Pyrite’s chest was surprisingly cold. The Humans roared as they advanced, beating drums, shouting a name.
“La-ken! La-ken!”
Pyrite could hear them screaming other words.
“The Unseen Emperor!”
“Riverfarm!”
“Death to the Goblin scum!”
That last one was funny. It was hard to get a group to shout that. Pyrite shook his head. A good chant should be simple. Easy to grasp and repeat. Cadence mattered.
Cadence. What a nice word. It sounded to Pyrite like the measured gait of a horse. He stared blankly up at the blue sky for a moment as he paused before the gates. He could tell that hundreds, thousands of Goblins were looking at him. They were expecting his leadership. The problem was…Pyrite wasn’t angry.
Not at the moment. He just felt tired. Tired, upset—but not angry. And he needed to be. Pyrite understood what the Humans would do if they entered the city. So he dragged his gaze away from the sky and focused.
“Pikes.”
The Goblins at the gates straightened. They were ready to fend off waves of Humans. Pyrite looked around. Poisonbite and Quietstab were running towards him. They would do.
“Quietstab. Walls. You shoot Humans. Aim for archers. Poisonbite, sides. Keep Humans from entering city.”
Quietstab nodded. Poisonbite took one look around in disbelief.
“City has big holes in walls! By myself?”
Pyrite nodded absently. Poisonbite opened her mouth to shout, and he looked at her. Something must have been on his face, because she waited for him to speak.
“You guard holes. Take some pikes. Your raiders. Guard. We go out.”
“Out?”
The Goblin stared at Pyrite. He nodded. He raised his voice.
“Pikes! Outside city! Hobs! Follow! Redfangs! Here!”
The Goblins didn’t hesitate. They were trained, and more importantly, they respected him. They rushed out of the city, shouting, as Hobs followed them. Pyrite saw a group of Goblins with red stripes on their cheeks and arms approach.
“Pyrite?”
One of them, a female Redfang, glanced up at him warily. Pyrite nodded.
“Special job. You follow. Rest go fight.”
They listened and then ran past Pyrite as he strode past the gates. The Goblins were all clustered in front of the city. The Human army had slowed its advance, clearly surprised. Pyrite was not. He pointed and shouted.
“Big walls are back-shield! Move there!”
The Goblins understood. Instantly, they backed up, until their backs were to the walls of the shattered city. Pyrite nodded. Yes, this made sense. Defending a city with big holes in its walls was hard. Especially since a lot of the weapons the Goblins used would be cumbersome on the battlements. The Humans had reach and the numbers to flood the gaps. But fighting with their backs to the walls would prevent the Goblins from being surrounded. And the Goblins with crossbows now had a massive height advantage over the Humans with bows.
The Humans were coming. Pyrite stared at the rows of pikes. The Humans had nothing like them. Long, twenty-foot staves of wood, sharpened to a point and capped with metal tips. Oh, the Humans had spears and shorter pikes of their own, but Rags had drilled her Goblins to use these extreme versions in combat.
They hadn’t done much good against the Humans before. The nighttime raids, the way the Humans had picked apart his defenses—all of that had driven Pyrite to despair. But as Rags had pointed out, that wasn’t how the pikes were meant to be used. And back then, his tribe had been suffering from the poison gas. Most hadn’t been able to breathe.
They could breathe now. Pyrite strode towards the front of the army. He passed by rows of Goblins. They looked at him. Some waved. Pyrite nodded to them, grunting. He wished he had something to chew. But he’d choke on that.
“Hobs.”
There was a line of a hundred Hobs waiting just behind the front row of pike Goblins. They turned as Pyrite walked past them. They were all veterans of battle. They all came from different tribes. They grinned as Pyrite passed. A Hobgoblin with feathers behind both ears sharpened her iron axe. Another, gaunt and thin, squatted with two spears in hand. He stood as Pyrite passed and spoke a word.
“Goldstone.”
He was from Pyrite’s tribe. Another Goblin with a crude piercing in her ear grinned at him. She had brighter red eyes than most. Yet another Hob reached out, and Pyrite touched fists gently. The Hob grinned, exposing a missing gap in his teeth.
