They appeared as dawn broke on the second day of the fighting. At first, no one noticed. Goblins in black armor raced up the slopes, pouring into tunnels abandoned by Tremborag’s forces. They clashed further into the mountain as larger Hobs and Goblins wearing magical gear began entering at key points. The Goblin Lord was sending his officers into battle, and the bloodshed was reaching an intensity far surpassing that of yesterday.
However, that fever pitch only applied to one side of the mountain. The Goblin Lord had elected to guard his camps rather than spread his forces across all sides of the mountain where he would surely be attacked. Thus, while the southern side was under direct siege and the eastern and western flanks were the site of ambushes and flanking actions, the rear was silent. That was not to say it was unguarded.
The Goblins on duty weren’t Tremborag’s finest warriors, but nor were they his most incompetent. They stayed still, rotating out regularly in their hiding places, keeping guard in case the Goblin Lord’s forces tried sneaking around back. They’d already killed two such parties at different spots, and the Goblins on duty weren’t worried. It would take a dedicated push to overwhelm their trapped tunnels, and it seemed like the Goblin Lord didn’t care to take more tunnels than he had. So the Goblins weren’t quite as vigilant as they should have been. Then again, it wouldn’t have mattered if they had been.
One of the tunnels located higher up the mountain was trapped with a collapsing tunnel. Unlike the other choke points or ambush sites, this trap was simple. If one of the six Goblin sentries hidden in an alcove at the back saw anything approaching, they would pull a rope and collapse several tons of rock and dirt on the intruders. The fact that six Goblins were still posted here was a sign of Garen’s watchfulness.
Currently, the sentries were taking turns guarding and napping. Four Goblins had to stay up while the other two got to sleep. It was a good system, and it allowed the Goblins to remain still without getting annoyed at the wait. Aside from the occasional snore and sound of someone being kicked, they were silent.
The sentry closest to the tunnel could see the light beginning to grow outside. Dawn was coming, and he was looking forwards to being relieved soon so he could eat. Of course, he might be called on to fight, but between eating and possibly dying or not eating, he was willing to take the risk. He’d been stationed here for eight hours and he was yawning when he saw something move.
Instantly, the Goblin grabbed his spear. The other Goblins looked up, alert. They peeked out of their alcove, staring for movement. They saw nothing. Only darkness, which to their eyes wasn’t that dark at all. The hungry sentry quickly relaxed as his mind identified the movement. It hadn’t been large enough to have been any kind of person. Rather, a rodent of some kind had entered the tunnel.
Sure enough, he saw something scurry across the ground. A little white mouse! It looked completely oblivious to the danger. The Goblin sentry licked his lips and lowered his spear. It wouldn’t be hard to grab the little thing, and it would be a good snack, if he could eat it before his friends noticed. He edged forwards. The mouse scurried a few feet closer. The Goblin waited, tense, focused. One more foot…
The shadows behind the Goblin moved. A hand shot out, and a black blade, invisible in the darkness, sliced across the Goblin’s neck. The Goblin choked. Surprised, his friends looked up. They saw a figure appear out of the shadows. They tried to scream, but the black dagger was faster.
The little white mouse scurried forwards until it came to the hiding place of the Goblins. It paused there, whiskers twitching, as it sniffed the air. Six figures lay in the small alcove. Two had died in their sleep. The other four had died almost instantly. The killer who had blended so perfectly with the shadows turned as she wiped her knife blade. She bent and made the first sound, offering her hand to the little mouse.
“Come on, Keri. Shh.”
The little mouse scurried up her sleeve. The Human woman smiled as she tucked Keri into her belt pouch. Then she took two steps and vanished into the shadows. She made no sound as she moved ahead. The [Rogue] listened carefully as she approached a point where her tunnel opened up into a larger one. She froze a few feet from a torch lit ahead of her and reached for Keri’s belt pouch again.
“It’s us, Minerva.”
Someone spoke ahead of her. Minerva froze and then stepped into the light. She spotted nine other figures, most dressed in black, some in dark green or grey. She nodded at the man who’d spoken. He was holding a shortbow and crouching over a pair of dead Hobs. Each had an arrow through the eye.
“You’re late.”
His voice was low and reproving. Minerva shrugged.
“I cleared my tunnel.”
“With your pet mouse again? Too slow.”
“It gets the job done. Anyone run into difficulties?”
“None. They had a patrol and I think the two Hobs were about to check on things, but we heard them coming.”
The man nodded to the downed Hobs. Minerva nodded. She glanced around. One of the other figures was kneeling and fumbling with what looked like glowing chalk and a glowing blue mana stone. His grumbling was quiet, no more than a gnat’s buzzing. Still, all of the shadowy infiltrators heard him perfectly.
“Fecking rune inscriptions. Why can’t those idiotic [Mages] figure out a better way to draw this? Using a piece of parchment? Do they know how hard it is to draw on broken ground with chalk that breaks with every second—ah. Got it.”
He straightened and nodded at the others. Minerva saw him place the mana stone in the center of the diagram. To her eyes, it looked like a circle with far too many wavy lines moving slowly towards the center in a dizzying pattern. But as the mana stone was placed, she saw her leader, Jackal, lower his shortbow and pull a scroll out. He had a quill ready and wrote on the parchment. A short message, barely more than a word. Then he rolled the scroll up and tapped it twice on his palm. It glowed brightly and then vanished.
“Sloppy. Mages have no idea how much that light travels.”
The grumbler had an opinion on the magic scroll too. Minerva agreed, but she kept her mouth shut as she stood in place. She didn’t have to wait long. The circle on the ground began to glow brightly, and the mana stone shone with pure blue light. The nine others stood back and shielded their eyes, preserving their night vision. Minerva heard a low pop and then voices.
“Ah. Here we are. Someone send a [Message] spell back to the others and let them know we’ve arrived safely, would you?”
A half-Elf with bright silver eyes and a few grey hairs looked around. He didn’t appear as old as some of his companions—one was a woman with a classic witch’s hat who looked positively ancient—but he gave Minerva the same impression as her grandfather had. He was carrying a wand whose tip was set with a fiery gem carved to match the wood. His robes shimmered with an odd, pulsating pattern. He, like his companions, practically shone in the darkness.
Mages. They looked to Jackal. The [Ranger] grimaced.
“Can you cancel all those light spells? This is a stealth mission for the moment!”
“We’ll stay well behind you. But some of us need light to see.”
“Fine. Then we’ll take the attack group north. We’ve scouted ahead a small ways. We’ll launch the attack in seven minutes as planned. We’re on time.”
Jackal had a map. As the others crowded around, he went over it. Minerva had already memorized it, but she looked anyways. The map was old, positively decrepit, but it was a good guide of what Dwarfhalls Rest had looked like in ages past.
“Remember your orders. Keep an eye out for Goblins in black armor, and do not engage if possible. Defend yourselves if need be, but our goal is to cause havoc and retreat at the first sign of danger.”
The old [Witch] made a laughing, snorting sound.
“You don’t have to tell us that, boy. We’re not getting paid enough to die here.”
“Then keep an eye out for this Great Chieftain or his lieutenants. As soon we finish securing the area, we’ll move in our warriors. So ward spells first. We’ll detrap if you hold here.”
“Easy.”
One of the [Mages] was already looking towards the tunnel and muttering a spell. Jackal looked towards Minerva.
“While we do that, we’re sending another group on a scouting mission.”
The old half-Elf raised his eyebrows.
“No one spoke to me about that.”
“This isn’t part of our job. Five of us are going to look for prisoners. There’s a team that vanished here on reconnaissance a week ago. Keening Hunt.”
One of the [Mages] nodded.
“I’ve heard of them. You think they’re alive?”
Jackal didn’t immediately reply.
“If they are, we’ll find them.”
“If they are alive, they might not want to be.”
The old [Witch] tilted her pointed hat. Jackal looked at her.
“I have a pass that grants me a personal audience with the Healer of Tenbault. If they’re alive, they’ll be made whole.”
“Ah. Well, best of luck. We’ll hold things here.”
The [Witch] grinned, showing a few missing teeth. Jackal stood. Minerva and four others followed Jackal into the shadows as the [Mages] began casting ward spells, arguing quietly. The other four infiltrators slipped backwards, removing the traps they’d found on their way in. The [Mages] waited patiently in their now secure entryway until they heard fast footsteps and the jingle of metal on metal. The [Witch] grinned and raised a gnarled staff.
“Alright. Enough waiting. We’re on a time limit, aren’t we? Let’s cause some trouble, children.”
She strode down the tunnel as the first of the Gold-rank [Warriors] and less stealthy classes raced into the tunnel. The [Witch] walked down the corridor until she saw a patrol of Goblins heading her way to check on the defenders here. They stared as she grinned and raised her staff.
“[Grand Fireball]!”
The explosion filled the tunnel with a roar of heat and flame. The Goblins vanished. The [Witch] cackled, and the half-Elf with silver eyes sighed. Then he strode past her, wand raised. The adventurers behind him advanced as the alarm spread throughout the mountain.
 
——
 
“Humans? Why are they here?”
Reiss stared at Snapjaw as he stood over the rough map of Tremborag’s fortress. The Hobgoblin female shook her head.
“Dunno, Lord. But Humans are here! Throwing big spells!”
The Goblin Lord growled. Of all the times! He glanced at Osthia. The Drake was listening intently.
“How many?”
“Small number. Less than…thirty. All here. This here.”
Snapjaw struggled with the common tongue as she pointed to a spot far north of the fighting between Reiss and Tremborag’s forces. Reiss stared grimly at the spot.
“Gold-rank?”
The answering silence was all he needed to hear. Reiss stared at the occupied spot.
“How many dead Goblins?”
“Us? Few. Tremborag? Lots!”
Surprised, Reiss looked up. Snapjaw grinned.
“Adventurers aiming at his Goblins! Not many ours go there. Now big trouble for others!”
That was true. As Reiss studied the map, he saw exactly how advantageous the spot was for his forces. They didn’t have to go near the Humans, and Tremborag had another front to fight on. Still, the presence of so many Gold-rank adventurers made him uneasy. And the next report that came in from a breathless [Scout] made him warier still.
“Humans marching! Thousands! Thousands of thousands!”
 
——
 
Tremborag roared, throwing his scout across the banquet hall. Garen saw the little Goblin crash into a table and go still. The Great Chieftain of the Mountain didn’t care. He turned, roaring.
“An army? Now of all times?”
The news that came to both the Goblin Lord and Tremborag’s forces was like a physical blow. An army of Humans had been spotted marching towards the mountain. Fast.
“Many Humans coming this way. On horses! Many on foot behind. Moving fast!”
One of Garen’s remaining Redfang Warriors explained the situation, watching Tremborag warily. Garen peered at the map, growling as his warrior traced a huge wave of Humans coming south. Tremborag growled as well.
“Humans! Mounted on horses? And on foot?”
“Rushing. They must be using Skills to move their army here, Great Chieftain. They’ve left their slower forces behind. They’ll be here by nightfall.”
Ulvama’s voice was soft. Sultry. She stood by Tremborag, stroking his arm, trying to soothe him. But Tremborag was enraged. He turned towards Ulvama, and she stepped back quickly.
“An army. Coming for the Goblin Lord at last? Or I? They already crawl into my mountain!”
“Gold-rank teams. Good ones.”
Garen had already heard the reports. [Mages], blasting any Goblins who approached down the tunnels, [Warriors] and [Rogues] pushing down other ones. He gritted his teeth, trying to figure out how to take down so many. If his tribe had been here—!
“We are surrounded, Great Chieftain.”
Ulvama tried not to look worried, but she and the other Goblins were clearly uneasy. Tremborag glared at her. Then, surprisingly, he laughed.
“Is my Chief [Shaman] afraid? Do you fear Humans more than the Goblin Lord, Ulvama?”
She didn’t immediately reply. Tremborag bent, staring at her with a giant grin.
“We are surrounded. But it is not just we. The Goblin Lord sees the Humans coming. And they come for him as well as I. But he is in the open. And I have my mountain!”
He turned to Garen. And now Tremborag’s eyes narrowed with calculation.
“We hold the mountain. If the Humans come, the Goblin Lord must fight or run. Is that not so, Redfang?”
Garen nodded. He was trying to imagine what Rags would say in this situation. Lacking her insight, he had to go with his gut, and he knew what Tremborag was thinking.
“Goblin Lord fights now and takes mountain. Or gives up and runs.”
“And the Humans have to choose between trying to besiege this mountain or chasing him. And then we will be fighting Humans in my domain. Easier than Goblins, perhaps.”
Tremborag grinned. Garen nodded too, but he was less certain. He stared at the map. Humans. Coming now. It made sense in one way—they had both Goblin sides occupied. But he felt uneasy, and not just because of the sudden attack. He felt like something else was coming, like a dagger in the night. He turned. Tremborag looked at him.
“Where are you going?”
Garen turned his head back as he drew his sword.
“Getting ready. You should too. Goblin Lord not running yet.”
“No. He will come here first.”
Tremborag smiled once more. He bared all his teeth and raised his voice.
“He will come into the mountain rather than flee. So come, tribe! We go hunting for the Goblin Lord’s head.”
