Beniar howled as he charged Pyrite. The Hob shifted his stance and swung. Beniar swore as he turned his horse too late. Pyrite cut down the horse and would have killed Beniar if it weren’t for the last-minute change. Beniar fell to the ground but was up in a moment. He faced off against Pyrite with sword and shield in hand as Humans rushed to pull Durene back, screaming for healing potions. Pyrite saw the Human shift. He was wearing good armor. Pyrite saw his hand lower, and then Beniar stabbed towards Pyrite’s chest.
The Hob caught the sword in his hand. Beniar jerked and stared as the blade pierced Pyrite’s hand but failed to enter his chest. The Hob lifted his battleaxe with his other hand and swung. Beniar raised his shield. The metal crumpled. His armor crumpled. His ribs broke. He collapsed, and Pyrite yanked the sword from out of his hand. Pain made his head swim, but he raised his axe again.
“[Fox Fire]!”
Bright flames burnt Pyrite’s face. He roared, trying to smother the magical flames that enveloped his face. But the conflagration didn’t go out. Pyrite’s hands shot towards his belt, and he grabbed the little glass bottle there. He smashed it against his head, and the soothing healing potion extinguished the magical fire. Howling in pain, Pyrite looked around as he felt his burnt skin healing. He saw a row of Humans in front of him, felt an arrow strike his shoulder and another land in his gut. He saw them pulling Beniar and Durene back and then saw the [Witch].
She was standing, aiming a wand at him not twenty paces away. Rows of Human [Soldiers] separated the two. She opened her mouth for another spell, and Pyrite ducked. The bright flames missed his head. Pyrite saw a Human charge him and felt another lancing pain in his side. He growled, and a Hob tore the Human’s sword away and slashed across his face with an axe.
“Pyrite!”
Twofeather covered Pyrite as more Hobs rushed forwards. They fought with the Humans as the [Witch] cast more magic. Hobs retreated, burning and howling while the rest fought. Twofeather urged Pyrite back. He didn’t want to go.
“Pyrite! Danger, danger! You go back!”
She pointed back a few paces, where Goblins were rushing past him. Pyrite growled, but then stepped back. Only when the bloodlust cleared from his head did he realize how close he’d come to death. It felt like the last few moments had taken hours, but in truth, bare minutes had passed. He looked around.
The Humans were losing. Across the battlefield, the Goblins were pushing them back. It wasn’t a victory everywhere, but the numerical superiority of the Humans had failed before the Goblins’ superior tactics and experience. The Humans couldn’t face the Hobs or the experienced Redfang Warriors. And with both their cavalry leader and Durene out of the picture, they were losing hope.
Pyrite saw it all clearly from where he stood. The [Witch] or [General] or whoever she was still held the line, but she had attracted Noears’ attention. From the walls of the city, Pyrite saw a flash and then a lightning bolt blasted apart a group of Humans near the [Witch]. She was forced to flee further back as Noears shot more lightning.
It wasn’t victory. Not yet. But Pyrite knew it could be taken. He just had to push further in, cut the Humans in two. Overwhelm them from all sides. He could do it. But for a moment, a brief moment, Pyrite leaned on his battleaxe. He was tired. Hurt. He could smell his blood, burnt skin, and tell he had cracked bones the healing potion had yet to mend. Pyrite stared at the battlefield, at the Humans and Goblins bleeding and dying, and looked up. Absently he thought of a poem.
 
Ah, how red, how red
The living and the dead
Dying here with blue sky
Far overhead.
Painful.
Yet for my people living and dead,
Until my last drop is shed,
I’ll dye my hands this crimson red.
 
Then he came back to himself. Pyrite lifted his battleaxe and roared a word.
“Advance!”
The Goblins heard him and, cheering, rushed forwards. The Humans retreated. Pyrite strode forwards, and his gaze turned west. It was a battle here. One he would win. It wasn’t one Rags had expected, but she had prepared him, prepared her tribe for it nonetheless. He hoped she would win her own battle.
“Luck, Chieftain.”
Pyrite murmured. Then he lifted his battleaxe and swung. The Humans fell back, screaming, running before him. It was probably something on his face.
 
——
 
As the Flooded Waters tribe fought with the Unseen Empire’s army, a separate group of Goblins raced out of the forest. They had been camped around a broken totem, a wooden marker chopped down and then burnt to charcoal. They had been hiding, moving from marker to marker while sending small groups forward to destroy the ones ahead. But they were close enough to their destination now. They abandoned their cover and raced out of the forest.
Sixty Goblins riding Carn Wolves rode down the dirt road, shouting, urging their mounts to race faster. They abandoned silence, and their wolves howled. Fear raced ahead of them. The Goblins were coming. But not to slaughter. Not yet.
Rags had made that clear. She had told Redscar that if he wouldn’t follow her orders, he could stay behind. That he was riding with her now at the head of his Redfang warriors meant he was obeying…or pretending to. She glanced at him as she rode up and down in her wolf’s saddle. His face was set, his teeth bared as he raced next to her with his enchanted sword unsheathed.
No. He had been Garen’s second-in-command. He obeyed, and because he was a true Goblin, he obeyed even the orders he didn’t like. It would take truly terrible orders for him to rebel as he had once done to Garen. Something that went against both pride and common sense. And this was not a mistake. This was Rags’ plan.
The village was smaller than Rags expected. Not that she’d expected a village. She’d assumed the [Emperor] would live in a huge palace. Or a castle. At the very least, a city. She hadn’t believed Pyrite when he’d pointed out the village named Riverfarm as the likeliest spot where the Unseen Emperor lived. But Sir Kerrig had gone straight into the village, so Rags was certain.
She had also anticipated defenses, but the most the Humans had come up with was a thin line of stakes at the entry points around the village. They must have truly been caught off-guard. Rags saw a group of Humans installing the crude palisades at another entrance to the rows of houses race into the village, calling an alarm. The rest were already gathered at the eastern gate as she slowed. A sea of Human faces stared up at Rags, most white with terror. A few looked calmer, but all were tense. Her eyes flicked from face to face. Now, which one would be the [Emperor]?
“You!”
A voice shouted at Rags in fury. She looked and saw Sir Kerrig. He was breathing hard. He’d raced here on his horse. If Rags hadn’t had her [Fleet Foot] Skill that allowed her to rest her warriors while running to keep up with the Carn Wolves, they might have been just as tired.
The [Knight] was mounted and holding a plain iron sword and shield. He looked angry. Sir Kerrig pointed the tip of his sword towards Rags’ heart as Redscar surveyed the crowd and silently pointed, spacing his warriors out.
“You lied to me.”
Rags stared calmly at Sir Kerrig. She considered his words and then shrugged nonchalantly. It was a Goblin shrug. Sir Kerrig stared at her, face pale with fury.
“Did lie.”
“I trusted you to keep your word. I trusted your honor!”
The small Goblin grinned at Sir Kerrig. She bared her teeth.
“And this is how much I trust Humans.”
With that she turned and ignored Sir Kerrig completely. Which one? She looked for those without as much fear to begin with. She spotted a woman in a [Maid]’s dress staring at her in the crowd. No. She saw an old [Lady] standing at the head of a group of rich nobles. Rags eyed them, but all the male nobles looked ready to pee. No.
Then Rags spotted an odd group. A woman in a rich dress, an older man who looked like a [Farmer]. A young man with a hand protectively over his sword and…Rags felt a jolt. It was him.
It was easy in hindsight. Out of the entire crowd, only the [Emperor] wasn’t looking at her. His head was turned east, and his eyes were closed. The Unseen Emperor slowly turned his head, and Rags felt a prickling chill run down her skin. He wasn’t looking directly at her. His eyes were closed. But she knew he was looking nonetheless. This was the feeling she’d felt the entire time she was in his lands. The feeling of being watched.
The Humans stared at Rags as Redscar tilted his head and nodded. His Carn Wolves were surrounding the entrance to the village. There were wooden spikes set into the ground, and a lot of the villagers were armed, but few had armor. These weren’t soldiers. If Rags ordered the attack, it would be a slaughter. The Goblin Chieftain assessed the crowd, eyed Sir Kerrig, and nodded to him. Redscar positioned five of his warriors to face off against the [Knight].
Good. All was set. Rags reached for the crossbow at her back. When she drew it, all the Humans tensed. She saw the Human with the sword move in front of the [Emperor]. Rags casually pointed her black crossbow with two hands towards the Unseen Emperor, her elusive foe. She grinned in the silence.
“Time for peace talk?”
 
——
 
The first time I hear her voice is a shock. At first, I can’t believe that this is the Goblin Chieftain. I recognize her, of course. Dimly. I have sensed all the Goblins who came onto my land. But while I noticed the fat Goblin with the battleaxe, the one with the enchanted longsword and scar, and so on, I never expected this one to be the Chieftain who has done so much harm.
She’s so small. And when she speaks, I know she’s also young. It’s not just her words. All the Goblins apparently sound like non-native speakers. But her voice is so…
A child. A child leading monsters. A child monster. Only—a child and a monster don’t go together. For a moment, I’m frozen with shock. But I can’t process the emotions running through me. A crossbow is aimed at my chest, and while I’m sure Gamel would throw himself in front of the bolt, it would probably go through him and me. So I stand and brush him aside.
“You are the Chieftain of this Goblin Tribe? The…Flooded Waters tribe?”
The small Goblin looks slightly surprised. She must be wondering how I can see her without eyes. But she nods as if blind men aren’t the strangest thing she’s seen today.
“Am. Am Rags. Chieftain.”
I hear a murmur behind me. I ignore it.
“I am Laken Godart. [Emperor] of these lands.”
“Murderer.”
How casually she says the word. The response it provokes among my people is instantaneous. Half shout in outrage. They might have done more than raise the weapons they hold, but the snarling Carn Wolves made them hold back. I raise a hand for silence.
“Some people would argue that one cannot murder Goblins. Some would say they are not people.”
It’s a calculated risk. I sense the Goblin with the scar on his face recoil, sense the way his hand tightens on the hilt of his sword and the other Goblins tense. But the small Goblin tilts her head thoughtfully.
“Can say that. I say same thing about Humans. There.”
It’s almost funny. For a sick moment, I’m tempted to laugh. Then I remember myself and so I laugh anyways. The others stare at me. But they don’t matter. Not right now. In this moment, it’s only this small Goblin and I. Rags? We stand alone, talking to each other.
“I thought all Goblins were monsters. You see, a raiding party attacked my empire. They killed my people. They would have killed us all.”
She shrugs.
“Probably.”
“You have nothing to defend their actions?”
A touch of heat enters her voice.
“Why do I need defend? Humans do same to Goblins.”
I nod slowly. Gods. All the pieces are falling together. Listen to her talk! She sounds so—what have I been doing? What have I done? An angry voice shouts out behind me.
“This is absurd! Goblins are not the same as Humans!”
“Lord Tourant, be silent.”
I hear the [Lord]’s voice muffle itself and ignore the scuffle behind me. Rags is tilting her head, inspecting me carefully. Without fear. She’s curious.
“Why close eyes? Bad eyes?”
“No. Blind.”
Head tilt. She squints at me. All the while, the crossbow never wavers.
“How can see?”
“Skill. Special [Emperor] Skill.”
“Ah.”
She pauses. I wait a beat, but she doesn’t ask anything more. I want—if there was a way—but not now. I fear what will come, but I try anyways.
“What you said? About peace treaty? You want talk?”
She scowls. I sense that quite clearly. She points at me with one hand while she keeps the other hand steady, balancing the crossbow on her wolf’s head. It whines softly.
“No talk bad! I can talk like you. You do not talk like I do!”
“Very well. What do you want? Peace? This is hardly peaceful.”
She laughs.
“Is it not? This way is best way! Peace! I point this at you, and if you don’t make peace, I shoot you.”
Outrage around me. I smile. There’s something so refreshing about that.
“If you shoot me, my people will kill you. You will not escape these lands alive.”
Rags gives me a long, blank look.
“Right. That why peace works.”
A stalemate. I slowly nod.
“So then. What is your peace, Chieftain Rags?”
She pauses. It hurts to sense how delighted she is to be called Chieftain. My chest burns with pain.
“Peace is simple. You take army away from city. I take my army away from lands. Your army not follow. I go. You let leave.”
Again, Rags’ words provoke an uproar, but not from my people. Rather, it’s the nobles and Lady Rie who react. She whispers urgently into my ears.
“Your Majesty, she can’t be serious! If we let a Goblin tribe roam free, your reputation—”
“Prost.”
He pulls Lady Rie back, ignoring her outrage. I tap my chin with a finger.
“And your proof that you won’t turn back and continue raiding my lands?”
Another shrug. It seems very Goblin.
“No proof. You send army if I come back. We fight again.”
“That’s not good enough.”
She shifts on her wolf’s back testily.
“Not good enough? Goblins are stinking cowards. We run away! I make peace. Don’t have to. Could kill you now.”
She lifts the crossbow as proof of her bona fides. I sense Gamel tense again. If it comes to it…Bismarck is waiting behind one of the houses. I have close to a thousand of my subjects here. The rest are hiding with those unable to fight. The nobles have their entourage as well. Not enough. Sixty-elite Goblins plus their wolves…that’s like a hundred and twenty warriors. It will be a slaughter.
“How would the peace work? I tell my soldiers to go? What will you do?”
Rags bares her teeth. They’re sharp. Small.
