Breakfast was served from the cooking yurt, as usual, but it was breakfast-on-the-go for a lot of people, including Erick. Jane and Nirzir had to rush across the grasses to get some bowls of congee, but they brought back enough for everyone.

While Erick enjoyed the breakfast made by the cooks of Pale Cow, while sitting in his captain’s chair, he got to work with the Elders of Ooloraptoor, to suss out face stealers among their clans. By noon, he had found four hundred and thirty five impostors, while another five hundred to seven hundred people had simply vanished during the search. No one was quite sure of those final numbers, because those numbers were gathered from hundreds of clans, all over the grasslands. And so, began a more methodical type of search.

The vanished people left behind a lot of family and friends. The Sin Seekers questioned those left-behinds about the whereabouts of the suspiciously vanished, but all those people had to say about the vanished was about how their brothers or their sisters or their parents or children were ‘just out for the day’, and ‘they didn’t know we were counter-Hunting! Or else they would have been here!’ According to what Erick was seeing, and what the Sin Seekers corroborated, the left-behinds were innocent of wrongdoing. The missing people, however, were suspect.

Erick did manage to find some of the vanished people, though.

Some people were out and about, doing everything from stealing from others, to having secret trysts, to hunting monsters in the Tribulations for fun, profit, and/or levels. Those people were not a problem. It was the other people who were the problem. Some were face stealers, for sure, hiding out amid their trophies of past kills, or in the very act of eating the heart and brain of another, hoping to escape Erick’s search. Twice, he even found his targets amid the cows, looking like cows themselves. He would never forget the sight of a cow realizing that they had been found out, and that there was no escape.

But other than that…

Nothing too exciting happened in the morning, or all through lunch, except more Blessing of people in the mountains. Erick hadn’t stopped doing that at all, except for the brief hours of sleep he caught before dawn. Now that it was past noon, though, and the counter-Hunting was done for the day because the Sin Seekers of Ooloraptoor needed a break and to reorganize...

Erick set a sign onto the blessing dais telling people that he would be back in a few hours, and then he took a nap.

Nothing happened while he slept.

When he woke up, he found that the yurt had trundled along without interruption.

Everyone was working on something of their own, which was better than them being under siege, for sure. Jane was working on some magic creation; but it was only gridwork at the moment. Teressa was experimenting with [Future Sight], and her greyed-over eyes showed that she was not home right now. Poi was talking to people through [Telepathy], but other than that, he was on active alert. Erick cast his gaze back to the mountain—

He had left a hole in the [Undertow Star]’s area of effect, specifically so that the people who showed up for a Blessing could have a place to stay where they could still use their magic. When Erick had last seen that place, that area had held four utilitarian buildings. Now, those buildings were gone. Now, there was just a wardlight statue to Koyabez, reaching down from the clouds, lifting up a mass of eyes and scales and Darkness back into the light. It was a lightsculpture done by a true artisan.

Erick ignored the sculpture for now, though it was very hard to ignore, and he focused, instead, on the Teleport Square-like area in front of the statue. People blipped onto the mountain, to stand under the wardlight sculpture, to then walk a path across the mountainside, to end up at the blessing dais.

There was a collection of people waiting for Erick to return. Some were seated on the ground. Some stood, their arms crossed. Some wore armor while others wore clean robes. They were ready to be changed. They were ready to move on.

The wardlight sculpture was not the only change to take place on that mountain.

Beyond that dais, a kilometer away from the [Undertow Star]’s effect, was the start of a city.

There were three, hundred-room apartment buildings of utilitarian make that were little more than organized stone boxes with beds. There were no doors. The first ‘hotel’ was full-up of people. Almost all of those people were in various stages of catatonia or wailing or normal-ish weeping. Only one of the buildings was full. The other two were empty, still. Erick had Blessed more than 500 people so far, so some of them had moved on already. Some were not capable of moving on, just yet.

And there was Daizing and Roia, helping two different groups of people to settle in to their new life, both of them giving small, animated talks about redemption and new possibilities. It was not only Daizing and Roia, but other Knives of the Night were also organizing the people Erick had Blessed. They were becoming a force of their own. Some of the recently Blessed were even [Grow]ing fields of food down in the valley where a thin river ran through the rocky land.

… Whatever!

Ophiel stepped out of the light, onto the dais, as Erick took the ‘be back later’ sign and blipped it away. Thirty four people watched as he did this, each of them gazing at Ophiel with varying levels of hope and rage and desperation in their eyes.

Before now, Erick had not spoken as he Blessed people. But now, he felt an urge to speak. He told these people, “This Blessing is not salvation. I won’t save you from your crimes. But with this Blessing you might find out how to live again, without hurting others. I believe that redemption is possible, but I am not the judge of your lives. Now. With that said—” Ophiel floated away from the dais, opening the space to those who wanted to step up. “Any takers?”

A man with a scarred face and mismatched eyes, who seemed more serious than most people in life, instantly stepped forward; he had been the next person in line, after all.

Erick Blessed him.

A moment passed as the weight of the world fell upon the man and he buckled under its weight. He breathed out hard, ragged, as he fell to his knees. Tears flowed like blood from a rock.

Erick blipped him closer to the buildings that Daizing and Roia had set up.

And then the next person came forth.

Erick devoted half of his attention to Blessing people, but the other half was spent on his own surroundings, for while nothing was happening around him, something was happening to Nirzir.

Nirzir had decided to climb onto the top of the yurt and sit crosslegged with her eyes closed. The wind flowed across her, ruffling her robes and playing with her long, loose white hair. Spots of violet light sprung up around her as she hummed a gentle tune of power.

He wondered what she was working on.

And then he wondered what he should work on. Maybe making some sort of magic would take his mind off his current problems. But what to make—

No. Let’s work on aura control.

Yes.

Erick sat down on his chair, and willed his aura to fruition. It didn’t work, of course, but he kept trying.

It was a quiet afternoon.

About three hours till sunset, Erick got a message from Sin Seeker Vania asking for more Imaging services. They had uncovered some more problems, but with the speed Erick had displayed earlier in the day, they didn’t expect the job to take more than half an hour. Erick readily agreed.

- - - -

Half an hour later, Clan Pale Cow reached the edge of Ooloraptoor’s parade grounds.

All day long Pale Cow had been adjusting their course to match their designated spot, so when they reached the city, they also reached their spot. It was like all the other multi-kilometer areas set up all over the place, most of which held the spread-out yurts and cows of various clans. In this place, shallow pools of water were connected by pipes which reached far under the ground, to connect to the lake itself, providing safe access to water across many thousands of square kilometers of prairie land. The actual lake and Elder House were still ten kilometers forward, out of direct sight. From the captain’s chair of his yurt, Erick mostly saw cows, and pools, and other yurts here and there among the herds. It was all rather sparse, actually; plenty of space for the cows to graze wherever they wanted. Some of the cows were actually in the waters, wading and mooing their joy into the evening air.

Erick pulled his yurt up to one of the pools near Clan Pale Cow, since Niyazo’s ‘kilometer distance’ rule was not applicable in this space. He still picked the pool furthest from the clan out of courtesy; about a hundred meters away from everyone else. Erick smiled as he looked down at the placid waters of his own private pond; this was a nice place.

He said as much to Jane, “This place is pretty nice.”

“… It’s a calm way of life, for sure.” Jane glanced down at the pond. “It’s a bit mucky.”

“Bah!” Erick threw a [Cleanse] at the pool. Muck turned to mana. Thick air boiled out of the waters. In seconds, a shallow, sloping basin of solid white stone stood exposed under crystal clear water. “Just needed a bit of cleaning! Reminds me of the sewerhouse, actually.”

“Probably a fair bit of ‘sewer’ in the water around here, too.”

“Aye.” Erick said, “Luckily, our cows are not real cows.” He glanced to his illusory cows; they were still stuck to the front of his yurt. With a mental command, the four cows unraveled into glittering white mana, giving one quiet chorus of moos before they vanished completely. “No cow poop here!”

Teressa spoke up, “We’re heading to the cooking yurt for dinn—” She whipped around to face Nirzir.

Erick followed her gaze to the top of the yurt.

Nirzir had been meditating atop the yurt since noon, burbling with purple lights and tiny sounds, as her unfocused eyes stared into the far distance. She hadn’t shifted much from that position. But now she did. Her eyes glittered with violet light as she focused on a point ahead of herself, and then up. Words spilled out of her, like a precious song spoken to a loved one.

“I establish here a star of light

“Shining from a Void so bright.

“Pulling. Draining. Never maiming.

“Tendrils touching, always aiming

“For those who are a living blight

“Let them know power, sustaining!”

Nirzir had spoken to the world, and the world responded.

A diffuse brightness took hold in the sky above, becoming a nebula of purples and violets and pinks. That nebula collapsed here and there into pinpricks of light; stars birthing at the start of a nascent universe. A thousand thousand lights tumbled out of the sunset air, only to swirl around a central density, like dancers at a ball. And then that central density flashed into a cascading Star, similar, and yet so very different from Erick’s own [Undertow Star].

Shadows and Void crawled forth and Erick deployed his [Domain of Light] across the land, protecting almost everyone from the power coming down from above. He left Nirzir out of his effect, though, for he did not want to disturb her spell creation unless he absolutely had to. The girl was too enamored with her own spellwork to see what Erick was doing, anyway, so defending everyone from her errant magic likely wouldn’t break her concentration.

The tendrils of her Void Star touched down upon Erick’s light. Pressure built. Erick felt nicks and cuts here and there in his power, and then great big swaths drilled out of his Domain. He startled. There was a lot of power in Nirzir’s spell, as well as her Domain.

Nothing to be too worried about, though.

With a pulse of intent and directed focus, Erick strengthened his Domain, and Nirzir’s Void bounced off of his power.

Nirzir, for her part, was still insensate, sitting crosslegged atop his yurt, with her eyes staring upward. The tendrils from her own spell reached down and touched her, but those tendrils moved right along, as though Nirzir wasn’t even there.

Erick kept his Domain pressed against Nirzir’s, containing the young girl’s magic, and stopping everyone else from interfering. Through his light, Erick saw a lot of nearby people wondering what the fuck was going on. Erick spoke through his Domain, saying that his light was just a magical protection to hold off a magical experiment in the sky, and that nothing was happening. Nothing to worry about.

His explanation helped some people, but not all.

Surprisingly, though, expanding his Domain across all of Pale Cow revealed some secrets. Koori had a Domain, and she was able to push back against Erick’s Light; all around the angry woman, Erick’s Light turned to thick air. She wasn’t able to push far, and she stopped pushing the second she felt Erick’s attention on her, but she had a [Cleansing Domain], for sure.

Erick, Teressa, Poi, and Jane, looked up at Nirzir.

Jane spoke first, “Is she gonna come out of that trance? That’s Void up there, right?”

Teressa asked, “Should we... Do something?”

Poi said, “She’s almost back. She’s not in any danger, either. Nirzir is well defended against her own magics.”

Jane looked to her father. “Maybe ask her for some pointers about how not to kill oneself when casting. You could use some of that, and since she’s obviously copied your magic for herself, you should have no trouble asking her for this much information.”

“It’s not [Undertow Star].” Erick said, “That spell up there is all sorts of unstable. Look: it’s already breaking apart.”

The dancing stars in the sky began to falter in their twirls and whirls. One by one, lights fell from their track, into the center star, like falling into a black hole. Within a minute, every single light was gone, and the tendrils followed, getting sucked up into the Void above. The spell lasted a single minute.

Nirzir frowned as she looked upward. “Ah. Hmm.”

Her spell broke into fractured violet mana.

Erick relaxed his Domain, telling people that the experiment was over as his light retreated to the much smaller size he kept localized to the center of his back. He called up to Nirzir, “Did it work?”

Nirzir jolted, as though waking from a daydream. Perhaps that was exactly what had happened. Erick had surely been knocked out by his own magic, so he certainly understood what the young woman was feeling.

Nirzir looked down toward Erick, her face turning red as she suddenly exclaimed, “Oh! Sorry! I didn’t mean to do that here! Is everyone okay?”

“Everyone is fine.” Erick said, “I know you didn’t mean to do that. Sometimes the mana simply wants to be magic.”

