“Ah ha!” Teer smiled. “Yes. The engine is the most important part. [Control Machine] can’t compare, either; not without an excessive amount of mana. All you need is fuel! And not much of it, either. Even gear systems can’t compete with this idea.” She said to Uriol, “We have the same wheel and axle designs he has here; just on smaller vehicles. I know what I’m talking about. The engine is the important part.”

“Then you must be aware of some history that I am not, because I have never seen these ideas before.” Uriol said, “For if we could get ‘cars’, then perhaps our problems with trading among the cities of Songli would vanish, for we could keep our yurts outside the city, and then drive a car into the city to get goods. No need for cows to come along, either!”

Puuroi said, “If we Integrated into a real city then resource scarcity would also vanish, for we could set up Teleport Squares and have permanent trade routes.”

Uriol ignored the smaller elder, and said, “I don’t like only going to the places they allow us to go, Puuroi. I want to explore with a ‘car’.”

Teer scoffed, saying, “I could get you a prototype ‘car’ myself, Uriol. Just ask Metal Rider or my own clan of Silver Yurt. There’s nothing here we don’t already have except for the engine.”

With an accusatory edge to her voice, Puuroi asked, “And why, pray tell me, don’t we have these systems already, Teer?”

“You might as well ask why we don’t all have artifacts in all of our yurts!” Teer said, “They’re too expensive and they require too much specialized knowledge to repair and replace. But I’ve never seen an engine before, and so that is the interesting part.”

The elders moved on to a discussion among themselves that did not involve Erick, at all. They kept those smaller discussions to a minimum, though, and rapidly came back around to wanting a prototype of Erick’s design.

They spoke of cars well into dessert.

Erick would have a prototype ready whenever he got around to making one, for he had never worked on a car before. He also didn’t have any materials for such a construction. The elders rapidly offered to provide all of the raw materials.

This started another round of small debates among the elders as all of them wanted the completed prototype for themselves and their clans, so they each wanted to be the ones to provide the raw materials, all by themselves. Soon enough they came to an agreement; Erick would have his raw materials waiting for him when Pale Cow got to Ooloraptoor tomorrow evening.

Erick was more than happy to have an easy task ahead of him, for a few different reasons. Giving away some axles and some gears seemed non-destructive, especially if the grass travelers already had them; they just didn’t use them for various technical and economical reasons. In addition to that, since the Wasteland Kingdoms of Glaquin were already dissecting Jane’s car, they had all of that stuff, too. Therefore there was no problem at all with spreading around some basic technologies to prevent a monopoly. The elders' true goal here was to establish working ties with Erick, anyway; no one cared about the tech.

Except for the engine. Teer wanted that engine. Too bad Erick probably couldn’t make one!

But besides all that, Erick plain wanted something to take his mind off of all the recent shit happening around him, and the Blessings that he had been doing in the mountains all this while.

He was up to 500 people Blessed, so far. There had been two attempts to steal the Crystal Star, but both were rather inadequate attempts. The would-be thieves didn’t have Domains, and they had vastly underestimated the amount of [Luminosity] that the [Undertow Star] could put out against forming magics. The [Undertow Star]’s Extreme Light had even brushed against the Crystal Star, too, but to no effect. Perhaps the thieves had been trying to get Erick to break his own artifact? Well, that just seemed impossible. The Crystal Star had a spark of divine fire in it, after all, for Koyabez had helped to make it a greater artifact.

Those attempted thieves were both Blessed now, though, which was probably not what they wanted.

Meh.

Erick didn’t feel sorry for those people. He tried but… it just wasn’t happening.

The night ended with a farewell to the elders, and to Niyazo, Koori, and Yorila.

Soon enough, everyone was inside the yurt, in their beds, or in the chairs scattered around the circular room. It was nearly bedtime, but no one was ready to sleep. It had been like this many times already since this ‘camping trip’ started, for danger seemed an easy possibility, and no one was truly safe out here in the open world. They were still, technically, on high alert, after all.

As [Prismatic Ward]s and Erick’s [Domain of Light] wrapped around the outside of the yurt, leaving the interior comfortably dim, no one was ready for bed, and yet, someone would need to take first shift, and the others would need to stay awake. Erick usually left that up to Poi, and yet Poi hadn’t set out the order.

… Unless they were actually safe, right now? Were they? Was Erick just being paranoid, and was everyone going to go to sleep at the same time? Leaving Ophiel as the only one awake?

Jane broke Erick’s cycle of thoughts as she asked her father, “So you’re going to make a car?”

“Not much of one. But some parts? Sure.” Erick glanced to his yurt, saying, “The turn radius on these things sucks pretty hard; it could use an improvement.”

Nirzir chimed in, “They have to have that axle compensator that you showed in your car diagram; the one that allows easy turning. We have those in the cow carts all over Eralis. I think we have solid axle stabilization designs, too.”

“I’m pretty sure they only asked for this because they wanted some easy contact, and this was what came up.” Erick shrugged. “Or maybe they do have actual problems with size? Maybe cart-sized solutions don’t work for yurts.”

Jane said, “Maybe it’s a problem of orthodoxy. All of the carts in Songli used [Force Platform] to make themselves lighter and less bouncy, and that solution doesn’t work for grass travelers.”

Nirzir got an unsure look as she asked, “Could Teer be asking you for this ‘car’ because of the Wasteland Kingdoms?”

“Probably.” Erick said, “All world powers have connections with each other, though, but also: Koori and Niyazo looked particularly interested in the designs of a car. If anything, then the elders might have asked for this because they knew the value of such a thing to Clan Pale Cow and others of their kind. Tonight wasn’t just them trying to use me, but they were also trying to use everyone else at that table. They tried to use you, too, Nirzir.”

“… Yeah. People have been trying to do that a lot.” Nirzir said, “It was one of the reasons I had to get out of Songli for a little while.”

Erick said, “Perhaps ‘use’ was the wrong term. To me, ‘using’ and ‘working with’ seem rather interchangeable when it comes to working with governmental bodies. Those elders were certainly trying to work with everyone they could.”

Nirzir’s lips scrunched as she hummed a bit, then nodded.

Erick asked, “What do you think, Teressa? Poi? About the cars?”

“Carts and yurts don’t work well in the Forest, so we made do with lots of assistance from [Force Platform] and [Gravity Ward]s to get our carts through the deeper parts. We never had cows, though; we did it all by hand or spell. Cows are just tasty morsels when they’re inside the Forest.” Teressa said, “Personally, I think cars are trinkets and nothing more than novelties. So it doesn’t matter if you make them for these grass travelers. The more complicated they are, though, the easier they break down; like Elder Teer said.”

Poi said, “In the Underworld, you don’t need much more than a giant barge to get large loads moving, because once the load gets large enough, everything floats down there.”

Jane startled, then she smiled. “Let’s hope we don’t see any spider clowns when we get down there.”

Poi startled too, as he looked at Jane. He went a bit paler blue. Jane startled all over again.

Erick asked, “What’s this about? What’s going on there.”

Jane frowned while staring at Poi. “I think there are clown spiders in the Underworld?”

“There are.” Poi said, “They’re not called that. But the spider Jane is thinking of does exist— Not in that exact way. But you’ve already seen them. They’re ballooning spiders.”

“Oh!” Jane laughed, “Ha! Those aren’t that bad. Oh hey! Maybe I’ll get to eat one of them this time— Why are you shivering, Poi? They’re not that bad?”

Poi said, “Ballooning spiders are everywhere down there, [Cleanse] doesn’t always work on their venom, and though their hive mind hordes aren’t in the millions, they are still hive mind hordes. The hives are just smaller. Thirty to a hundred, usually.”

“At least they’re not dimensional spiders,” Jane said.

“Now that sounds like a story I want to hear.” Teressa asked, “But since it’s already almost midnight: Do we want to stay up tonight, or sleep in smaller shifts? Are we on high alert?”

Erick said, “There is some merit to staying awake for at least another hour to make sure nothing is coming this way. Then we can do sleeping shifts. You all can sleep while I drive the cart tomorrow, too.”

“Excellent.” Teressa said, “Then let's hear your dimensional spider story, Jane. A full story, too! You heard me tell some, and now it’s your turn.”

Jane turned concerned. “Ah. I’ve never told this one, actually. I did write it down for the Headmaster, I think… Yeah. I can tell it. Okay. Let’s do this.”

“Sounds fine to me!” Teressa said, “Ah. Wait. I need to refill my mug. Anyone else want another beer?” She went to the cooler.

No one had drunk much of anything tonight, but there had been some drinking.

Erick decided to continue drinking. He gestured to his mug, saying, “Fill me up, too.”

“I’ll take a little,” Poi said.

“Half for me, too,” Jane said.

“I’m good with tea,” Nirzir said.

As Teressa filled up cups all around the yurt, she told Jane, “Make some pictures, too, otherwise it won’t be scary enough.” She crashed into her chair, eager for the show, saying, “You got [Illusionshape], yeah?”

“I can do that.” Jane smiled wide, getting into it more and more with every passing second. “I’ll make it good and scary.”

“Now that’s what I wanna hear!” Teressa said, smiling.

Poi frowned, though.

Nirzir breathed out heavily as she crawled into her bed and under the covers, whispering, “I don’t know if I like this idea.”

“I’m sure it won’t be that bad—” And then Erick saw his daughter’s face, and knew that it would be that bad. “Oh… Uh. Jane. There’s no need to go overboard, right?”

Jane’s wicked smile seemed to expand past her face as she lifted her hands and began Shaping images in the center of the yurt. [Greater Lightwalk] and [Greater Shadowalk] joined together to form an illusion, transporting the five of them to the center of a main street that would not look out of place in any small city in the northern United States.

And Erick’s memory was tickling.

He didn’t know this one… But he thought he did? Did he?

Jane’s voice was a gentle knife in the dark, “Our story begins in a small town named Derry, located in the middle of rural America. Everyone knows everyone else, and yet the city holds a dark secret in the sewers, known only to the kids…”

Erick frowned as the rains started and the edges of the street turned into minor rivers. A little boy placed a small folded-paper boat onto the rushing water, to watch the boat float down the way, to a storm drain where a gloved hand snatched the boat and dragged it deep into the dark.

Eyes appeared in the dark of the sewer and Erick suddenly knew this story.

He spoke up, saying, “Don’t you dare shift to a spider form to make this more realistic, Jane! I’ll blip you away! I’m not kidding!”

Jane cackled, and the serrated mouth in the sewers cackled with her.

“Oh bright gods,” Nirzir mumbled.

- - - -

Teressa had some comments here and there, which helped to ease the mild terrors inside Erick’s head.

“What the FUCK is wrong with that guy’s face!”

“Jane. You cannot kill a kid. You just can’t. This story cannot be about killing kids.”

“Wait a second. This thing eats fears? And you kill it by not having fears for it to eat? That’s so stupid. A mental mage would tear it to pieces.”

At that last one, Jane dropped the illusions, and said, “Okay. Look. This monster is the equivalent of a mental monster in a world without any defenses against it, at all. Also, I might have given up too much information in that last part; you’re not supposed to actually know that weakness yet. I’m working off years-old memories here.”

“Okay okay. Fair.” Teressa said, “I’ll stop.”

Poi said, “Just so you all know: The Shades have tried to make this kind of pure mental monster before. It didn’t work out well. I think they were called Hope Eaters and absolutely everything preyed upon them.”

“Guys. Stop criticizing the monster.” Jane softly added, “And my story telling.”

Nirzir offered, “If it makes you happier: I’m perfectly terrified.”

“Thank you!” Jane said, “The rest of you all are just desensitized.”

“Yup.” “I’m getting there.” “I agree with that statement.”

- - - -

“It ends with them bullying the monster to death!? No twist?” Teressa said, “What the fuck!” She rapidly added, “Otherwise: Enjoyable. Good job.”

Jane glared a little.

“Like I said,” Poi said, “Everything kills these types of monsters.”

Erick said, “I didn’t need to sleep anyway. I’ll take first shift.”

“I’m not sleeping yet, either.” Nirzir said.

“Then I’m tucking in! See you on second. Good night,” Teressa said, as she laid down in bed and shut her eyes. She was out cold within minutes.

Everyone else took a while to calm down, though Poi was a second place finisher in the ‘sleep as fast as you can’ game. Poi probably cheated by casting [Sleep] on himself.

- - - -

The day dawned.

Nothing had happened that night. Which was great! Soon enough, the yurts and cows of Clan Pale Cow were moving right along, toward the north, toward Ooloraptoor. Today was the final day of travel; they should arrive at their designated spot by early evening.

