The envoy from Sand Rider had no idea what to do with themselves when Erick denied payment, and even less of an idea of how to act once Erick had told them it was done. Rapidly, though, they pivoted and invited Erick out to drinks and dinner and for hospitality whenever he came around that part of the world. They brewed a mean spirit wine that would get someone with a hundred Vitality drunk in one cup! Guaranteed!

Erick happily said that he would accept a small keg of the drink, and then sent the ecstatic clansmen on their way.

The next people in line had a monster kill request, too.

Erick managed to grab dinner between appointments, but only because Jane went to Pale Cow’s cooking yurt and grabbed him some food.

Eventually, Sin Seeker Vania showed up, taking the forward place in line only to walk up to Erick and give a reluctant, “Please don’t do large scale magics around here unless it is necessary, Erick.”

Erick smiled wide at that, and said, “I was wondering who they’d send out to me. So I guess you pulled that shit duty, eh?”

“Apparently.” Vania frowned at no one in particular. “Everyone is scared of you, and finding out that you’re after dragons doesn’t make you any less scary.”

“If it makes you feel any better, I found the dragon I was searching for. Now, all that dragon needs to do is stay out of my way, and I’ll stay out of their way, and nothing else needs to happen.”

Vania perked up, but then she instantly frowned. “That only worries me more.”

“I’ll keep it nonviolent while they keep it nonviolent.”

Vania’s frown deepened. “… Thank you for your consideration.”

The meetings went well into the night, but Erick stopped accepting visitors an hour after sunset, for though he was getting through the line rather quickly, more and more people were showing up to take a spot, and to fill out an application. He dismissed the twenty three remaining groups in line, telling them that he would be available for meetings tomorrow afternoon.

The morning would be for him.

Erick wrapped his yurt and the surrounding ten meters of land, as well as the pond, with Ophiel’s [Prismatic Ward]s. No one would be getting through that layered defense without a lot of work. Or with a simple [Chaining Ward Destruction]. But that was a very rare spell!

- - - -

Before he finished being outside for the day, Erick tracked down the source of extra applications. The trail led to a Knowledge Mage in Alaralti, who was making the applications by hand and selling them for a gold apiece.

Erick let that problem go.

- - - -

Erick entered his yurt.

Poi was talking to people through [Telepathy].

Jane was messing around with gridwork that contained the parts for [Lightshape] and [Shadowshape] which combined to form [Illusionshape], but she was trying to do more than that. She was going for [Mysticalshape].

Teressa was writing what appeared to be notes for a story.

Nirzir was meditating with her eyes closed. Little sparks of violet light danced around the area in front of her chest.

At Erick’s entrance, all of them looked to him.

He said to his people, “Do any of you have any needs? I want to be sure you’re all doing okay, too. And Nirzir, we can talk about some of what you might be missing with the Undertow effect tomorrow morning, for sure. I just got sidetracked with all the other people.”

Nirzir smiled softly, then nodded. “Thank you.” Then she rapidly added, “Uh! And I can trade you information for how to make a nice [Personal Ward]? If that is something you would be interested in? Though I am not sure I have something that you actually desire…” Her voice trailed off as she frowned.

Erick said, “Then we can have an exchange, and that would be fine.”

Nirzir brightened.

“I don’t need anything, dad, unless you get someone asking you to kill a giant spider, or some other exotic monster.” Jane said, “Some unique Familiar Form might be good, but otherwise, I’ll stay here.”

“Sure.” Erick nodded. “I’ll keep that in mind.”

Poi said, “I have no needs, though there are other Mind Mage communities out there that are thinking about sending in a request for Imaging services for monsters.”

“Right.” Erick asked, “Where would we need to go next for that?”

“Wherever you decide to go, we will find monsters there.” Poi said, “But if you want an actual itinerary, we have a plan for the systematic elimination of every mental monster on Nelboor. Afterward, Nergal would be an easy continent to clean, for we would mainly focus on Eidolon and Archipelago Nergal. We would skip the Toxic Forest altogether. Glaquin would be a mire of Quiet War problems if we approach the problem openly, but we’ll only do that after you’re done with the Worldly Path, anyway. As for Quintlan: we have no desire to tackle those ooze-infested lands, or the undead metropolises of the Fractured Citadels. We don’t need to go to Quintlan at all.”

Erick paused as he considered the depth of that sort of commitment. “That could take… two weeks? I imagine?”

Poi smiled. “Maybe only one!”

Erick said, “Let’s start on Nelboor tomorrow, after I work on the car for these people… Okay. That’s a fucked up priority. We’ll start on the mental monsters of Nelboor first thing tomorrow.”

“All we need you for is the Imaging, Erick.” Poi said, “You can still work on the car. I doubt we need to move on to Nergal yet, anyway. We were already planning on going there to visit the Orrery of Rozeta, and that need not happen right now, either.”

Erick felt a tension unwind in his chest, for Poi was going easy on him and that was nice of him, but then that tension tightened right back up. Erick said, “People are dying every second that I do not help. We could start tonight, actually. I don’t need to sleep—”

“Dad.” Jane stared at him. “You need to take breaks, too. Like right now, you need a break.” She gestured to Teressa. “Teressa’s been working on a redo of the story I told last night, and I want to hear it, and I want you to relax and hear it, too.”

Teressa waved Jane off, saying, “It’s not necessary—”

“Yes it is. Breaks are necessary.” Jane said, “You do too much, dad. People don’t need you to hold their hand 24 hours a day, ten days a week, forever and always. You need to let others live their own lives, free of your influence.”

“Obviously, that is true, Jane,” Erick said, “But it’s hard to stop, since it’s literally the work of ten minutes to save the lives of countless people who won’t survive the night unless I act.”

Jane frowned. “Everyone is always in danger, all the time, and it is your responsibility to be there to help against the big things; not to prevent every single death-by-monster in the whole world.”

“She’s right, Erick,” Poi said.

Teressa just nodded.

For a long moment, no one said anything.

Jane added, “So how about we all just take a break, and listen to Teressa’s take on It. It’s not like we’re under attack right now. Let’s cherish these moments while we can.”

Erick just breathed, and had a deep think.

Erick decided, “Okay. Yes. You’re right, Jane.” He went to his bed, and sat down, saying, “So. Yeah. I want to hear your take on ‘It’, too, Teressa.”

Teressa had looked unsure, but now she smiled. “Let’s do this!”

The tense atmosphere of the room became something less oppressive and then vanished altogether for four of the five people in the yurt.

Nirzir let out a pained sigh, trying to convince herself, “It won’t be as bad since I heard it once already.”

Teressa’s smile widened, exposing her lower fangs. “I think I’ve cobbled together something that will properly terrify you. I even managed to make [Illusionshape]!” She added, “I had to Remake all the Shaping spells to begin with, since I never bought them, but that was easy enough with some aura control and your recommendations.”

Erick laughed, feeling happy for Teressa, and then he seriously warned her, “If I see a giant spider then you’re getting blipped into the sky.”

Teressa lost her smile. She checked over her notes, then stoically asked, “How about some spindly legs in the dark? That’s all Jane did.”

“And I almost got blipped for it,” Jane said to Teressa, “Just so you know! I’m going to complain every time you make it not-scary, Teressa.”

“I would not have it any other way.” Teressa then asked Erick, “All the other fake monster forms are fair game, right?”

Erick decided, “… Yes. All the other monster forms are fair game. Just don’t make them loud.” He added, “And constrain them to the center of the yurt! No creepy crawlies shuffling across the corners of the room!

“I can work with that,” Teressa said.

Ragged words tumbled out of Nirzir, “It’s okay, Nirzir. It’s just illusions.”

- - - -

Twenty minutes into Teressa’s rendition of It, the clown burst into a million spiders that got absolutely everywhere.

Nirzir screamed. Teressa got blipped into the sky.

Erick apologized afterward, but Teressa just laughed.

And Jane, good-natured, complained how no one screamed when she told the story.
