Nirzir briefly experienced pure joy, as she said, “Exactly! I was—” And then she looked around. Her face fell. “Oh. We’re in Ooloraptoor. Ohhh. I didn't mean to—” She eyed a squad of people walking their way. Erick had already seen them but he wasn’t worried, for they didn’t look angry, but when Nirzir saw them, she paled. “Oh. Uh. That’s probably not good.”

Erick said, “Don’t worry about them. Did you manage to make the Undertow effect?”

“… No.” Nirzir frowned. “Not the most important part. The spell collapses after a minute.”

“We can talk about that later, but I’ll talk to these people for now.” Erick turned back toward the approaching envoys and called out to them, “Hello! Just some experimenting gone large. Nothing to worry about; we had it under control.”

The three approaching people did not stop approaching. Two of them looked like professional guards of some high order, for they wore silver armor and flanked the third person, a woman, who led their way toward Erick. The woman was of regal bearing and dark ruby-red skin, and while she had horns, those horns had been clipped down to flat spaces on the sides of her forehead. Her silver robes swished as she walked, unflinching, toward Erick, while a silver star glinted on her chest.

Oh. Erick knew what this was.

The silver star upon the woman’s chest was instantly recognizable, for Erick had had one just like it. He still did, in a way, but his silver star was now the Crystal Star. These people were from the Church of Koyabez. Maybe from a different part of the world, or maybe from some smaller church in Songli, since all of Koyabez’s major churches in the Highlands had been destroyed by Terror Peaks. Erick had been wondering if some of those people were going to show up, considering that he had been Blessing people upon the holy symbol of Koyabez. Erick had kinda expected Koyabez himself to say something, or to issue a Quest, but mortal agents were fine, too.

The priestess of Koyabez called back to him with a calm, strong voice, “We’re not here about that. We’re here about the Knives of the Night.”

“Of course!” Erick said, “I was wondering when someone was going to show.”

Erick’s people arrayed themselves behind him, while Nirzir remained on the top of the yurt, watching.

The woman and her people stopped five meters away. “Greetings, Archmage Flatt. My name is Lorizal Ex, the newly appointed Head Priestess of Koyabez for the Highlands region. I have been charged with rebuilding the temples of Koyabez in this part of the world, and as such, I have been made aware of various actions taking place in my God’s name. I would like to discuss one action in particular with you.” She pulled out a piece of paper from a fold in her dress; it was one of Erick’s own meeting forms, and yet it was not. The ink of the form boxes was a slightly different color, and the calligraphy of the text was nicer. Someone else was copying his forms and distributing them, eh? Lorizal said, “I have your paperwork here. This meeting need not take long, but it needs to happen now.”

“Of course.” Erick gestured forward, extending a tendril of sunform to take the offered paperwork. It floated up to his hand, and he quickly read it, then he put it aside, and said, “We can meet inside. Or I can set up some chairs down there if that is more comfortable. Privacy is available if you wish it.”

Lorizal said, “Some chairs down here on the grass is acceptable; thank you. I have no need for privacy for this.”

With a flick of light, Erick took some chairs from inside and set them down onto the short grasses beside his yurt. With a light step, he stood upon those grasses, next to a chair, saying, “When I saw you coming this way, I expected you to be from the Elders of Ooloraptoor to talk about the problems of open use of magics.” He sat down in his chair.

Lorizal took her own seat, then said, “There was actually a line to speak to you from all of those people. But the display of magic scared off many of them. I found myself rushed through the queue, as it were. Well. My acolyte did; I have been rather busy recently and could not hold my place in line myself. I only just arrived in Ooloraptoor in the last five minutes, but it is my understanding that people have been waiting for you to arrive for days, now.”

Erick glanced toward the next land over. He had wondered why there were people over there, standing how they were, but now that Lorizal had told him what they were doing, it was easy to understand them. There were about fifteen groups amid the scattered yurts and cows and otherwise, each of them looking like they had wanted to come this way, but they had refrained. One of those small groups even had a small cart with them that was loaded with dark metal ingots. That one must be the elder’s promised metal to use in the construction of a car.

Now that Erick had retracted the light, and Nirzir’s spell overhead had vanished, some of those scattered groups were coming back out of hiding.

Ah.

Erick was not going to get any rest right now, was he? Oh well! He chose this.

He turned to the priestess. “What does the Church of Koyabez require of me?”

With stoic mien, Lorizal spoke, “We wish for your oversight and protection as we go out to the mountain you have blessed in Koyabez’s name, so that we might meet with these people and help to decide what the Highlands is going to do with all of them.” She said, “If things go well, the Church of Koyabez formally requests the dispensation to use the space you have altered to create a Church of the Silver Star; to have a location in this war-torn land that is unassailable—” She breathed. Her eyes watered, but she held back those emotions. This was tough for her. She likely lost a lot of people when Terror Peaks destroyed Koyabez’s churches in Songli. “—To have a space that is unassailable by outside forces. You should know that none of these are requests from Koyabez. These are requests from the mortal advocates of the Silver Star, with the goal to ensure peace and prosperity in these lands.”

Erick felt in his heart and saw with his eyes that Lorizal was a good woman, or at least all of her words were true. It was, perhaps, too early to make a judgment of her character, but the Silver Star on her chest looked genuine and priests were generally a good sort of people.

So Erick simply asked, “What is the church’s goal with these people I Blessed?”

Lorizal nodded, then said, “The Church of Koyabez is always in pursuit of peace. Sometimes, we take in exiled people and give them new homes as members of our church, either rehabilitating them or placing them where their characters and excesses are virtues, rather than vices.

“Our goal with these people you have Blessed is something similar to that, but different.

“Another function of the Church of Koyabez is that of a neutral party, through which two or more warring factions are able to talk to each other without emotions and destruction getting in the way of productive conversation. Your own [Zone of Peace] that you gifted to Koyabez has been a great stride forward in these sorts of talks.

“In the case of these Blessed, the Church of Koyabez will find out if these peoples’ intentions for requesting your Blessing are true, and then, if they are, we will negotiate on their behalf with communities that are willing to take them in. They all have dangerous pasts, but they’re also all high leveled, and therefore they have powers that are beyond the range of normal citizens of this world. In the end, we expect to take many of them in, ourselves. Our only concern is for the long term effects of your Blessing, and what effects might come out of such a magic, but we hope for the best.” She finished, and waited for Erick’s declaration.

Erick was quite happy to say, “I did not know if Koyabez would want to take them in since the vast majority of them are Cultists of Melemizargo, but I am glad to see that I am proven wrong.”

“Everyone is capable of redemption, Archmage Flatt. Even cultists. We have taken in these types of people before, and we will do so again.” Lorizal said, “Your Blessing does ensure that these people have a desire for actual change, though, so in this case, we’re a lot more hopeful for these cultists than for others who have tried to come in from the Dark only to bring the Dark with them.”

“… What do you do when the desire for change isn’t real?”

“Execution. This is especially true in the case for those who attempt to call themselves Silver Priests, and who will use our good names to commit evils. We will not allow anyone to use Koyabez’s name in dishonest ways.”

She had said it so calmly, and the words themselves were so very honest, that Erick could not help but know them as truth.

“I probably should have expected that.” Erick said, “Koyabez is the god of peace, but peace doesn’t necessarily mean pacifism, and it very much does not mean weakness.”

Lorizal nodded. “Peace is only possible when all participants in a society are faithful actors toward a common good. Usually, almost all people are capable of being faithful actors, so this is not a problem. But we do deal with the Dark edges of society, so we do see the problems more than most.” Lorizal said, “It is our hope that your Blessing ensures that it is impossible for a person to become truly unfaithful, and in that case…” She smiled a gentle, loving smile. “In that case, everyone gets redemption, for everyone deserves a new chance, just like any other faithful actor.”

“Of course.” Erick glanced toward the north, through the Ophiels he had floating around the cultists of Melemizargo. He Blessed another person who had been waiting. He said to Lorizal, “Let me know who you’re sending out to the cultists’ mountain and I can approve them for operation under the [Undertow Star]. You know how the Star works, right? You shouldn’t need much more of my direct help outside of that.”

“I respect the need for certain secrets, but I would know if there is something important I should be aware of. Does it do much more than simply Drain everyone, and stop most magics from working, except if you are approved?”

“Nope. That’s about it.”

“Then I am satisfied.” Lorizal stood. “If you do not mind, and since this meeting went how I hoped it to go, the people I have tagged for assisting with the cultists are able to appear here. Now, if you would allow it.”

Erick stood with her, gesturing to the side as he said, “They can come in right over there.”

Lorizal nodded, then she turned to her pair of guards. One of them was already telepathically linked to someone. That guard then nodded at Lorizal, then turned toward the spot of land to the side.

Ten meters away, the air blipped bright yellow, revealing a trio of priests in silver robes. Two women, and a man, all demi, ranging in ages from 35 to 55. Lorizal introduced them by name, and Erick spent a few minutes talking to them, to get a feel for them as people, but other people were already lining up a hundred meters away, waiting to talk. Some of those other people even had paperwork. Only a few of those papers were the ones Erick had actually made, himself.

The priests of Koyabez seemed like solid people, more than capable of dealing with cultists, so Erick enabled them as allies of the [Undertow Star] he had cast into the mountains to the north, and had an Ophiel lightstep them to that area.

Then he turned to Lorizal, and said, “I hope this goes well.”

“I do, too.” Lorizal stepped back, and bowed, saying, “Archmage. Thank you.”

“I didn’t expect to be Blessing so many people so quickly, but the option to end a sect appeared, and I took it. I think Daizing wants to form some sort of joint, Dark/Silver church, or something. I have no idea how to handle that, and my appointment book is very full right now.” Erick said, “So thank you for taking this over.”

Lorizal bowed again, and her people bowed with her. Then they stepped away.

The next people to come forward were the ones with the metal ingots. Erick quickly discovered that they were a joint venture from Silver Yurt, Elder Teer’s people, and Metal Rider, who got in on the action after they heard what Erick was doing. They dropped off a good three tons of solid steel, while asking a few questions of their own about the plans Erick was going to use, of which Erick mostly decided not to answer; they would get their answers in the shape of the prototype, whenever Erick finished making it.

Then the envoy from Metal Rider noticed the suspensions on Erick’s yurt, and asked where he got them.

Erick smiled, and said, “You have a good eye. I got those from Metal Rider, actually. Paid a grand core, too.”

The envoy seemed incredibly embarrassed, vowing to refund Erick the grand core and saying how he never should have been charged anything. Metal Rider was honored that he was using their suspensions, though. Erick waved the envoy off; he was fine with paying for things.

And then the envoy from Silver Yurt asked if Erick wished for a comparative set of suspensions, to see how much better Silver Yurt’s metal work was than Metal Rider’s.

Erick laughed that off, and ended the conversation diplomatically, before Silver Yurt and Metal Rider had some sort of clan-feud, which seemed very much possible, considering the barely hidden animosity he sensed between the two envoys this entire time.

The next people in line were from a poorer clan known as Sand Rider. Their homeland was about 1500 kilometers southeast of Alaralti; they were among the most southern of all the grass traveler clans, near where the verdant prairie began to turn into the dry prairie, and then further still into the drylands. Clan Sand Rider made a living traveling the grassy dunes, but lately, a rockmulch glider infestation had driven them out of their homes, eaten all of their livestock, and then settled into the water holes that were already in rare supply. There wasn’t much rain down that way, so water was always at a premium. Gliders, as they were usually called, were monsters that were usually easy to deal with, but in the recent war with Terror Peaks, the warriors of Sand Rider had tried to help their allies in Alaralti, and they had been killed for their efforts.

Would Erick please kill the gliders for them? Sand Rider couldn’t offer him much, but they had brought a grand core for payment.

Erick agreed to kill the gliders. He did not accept payment; he did it for free.

The monsters were dead within three minutes.

