“You think so? If I left that on for eighteen days, you’d change your tune.”
“Nasty.”
Leireit shook his head. Ryoka shuddered at the thought. Alevica was as evil as they said. Sighing, Ryoka took off the headbands. She stared at them, then put them on her feet.
“Okay, maybe it’s the wrong place. Try again. And this time don’t—”
She gulped as Alevica performed the spell again. Hethon and Jericha winced. Everyone else saw Ryoka stop mid-sentence. And then she turned pale. She scrabbled at her throat and tried to stop—
Too late. Ryoka opened her mouth and belched out a frog, which landed wetly on the ground before it began to dissipate. She gagged and Alevica took another long drink.
“Ooh, another failure. Want to try again? I’ve got lots of hexes. Genital warts? I can do those too, permanent as well.”
 
—-
 
Ryoka did not end up with permanent warts. However, six unpleasant hexes later, she learned that her footwraps…did not protect her from hexes.
Good to know. She sat with them on the ground. Nama’s great gift might actually have been…footwraps…
Ryoka rubbed at her forehead. She knew it was stupid to expect every little thing to have an ulterior feature like perfect magical protection, but it would have been nice. She stared at the footwraps for a long time.
“I know they’re powerful. Even Jericha saw it. Right, Jericha?”
There was a slight sound. Ryoka’s head rose. She turned.
“I know you’re there, Jericha. And you, Hethon.”
She’d spotted them following her around. Even so, Ryoka had to do a double-take as Hethon, Sammial, Jericha, and Tyrion all appeared. Pellmia and Keireen had joined Alevica and Leireit in having a drink of their wine.
“Ah. Miss Ryoka. I was passing by.”
Tyrion Veltras turned into even more of a statue as everyone turned to look at him. Ryoka looked at him, eyes wide, then recalled the [Lord] was still actively trying to court her. She glanced at the window, but decided against bailing out of it.
“…I just wanted to know what you were doing. Are those magical footwraps?”
Hethon answered after a look at his father. Ryoka shrugged, tiredly.
“They should be. I just…I don’t know.”
“They’re strange.”
Hethon muttered. He stared at the footwraps. Jericha agreed, absently.
“They are powerful magically, Miss Griffin. The most powerful magical item on you. Not conventionally, but significant.”
“What does that mean, Jericha?”
Tyrion was intrigued. So was Ryoka. The [Mage] fiddled with her spectacles.
“Potency, not mana. I would describe it as…the keenness of a blade’s edge, not how large it is. Some objects and people are noticeable for the quantity of mana in them. It is a standard way of measuring power. This? It is powerful, but some [Mages] might not recognize it as such.”
“Interesting. That makes sense…they’re uh, a gift. From my travels. Someone powerful gave it to me. A friend named Nama.”
Part of the reason Ryoka might be so leery of giving away information was how people like Jericha treated it. The woman instantly went to note that down, and stopped as Tyrion glanced at her reprovingly.
“Do they possess any unique powers?”
“I don’t think you can break them. But they clearly don’t stop me from being hexed. At least, generally. Maybe I could block a spell with them?”
“I could cast a minor one if you would risk it.”
Jericha offered. Ryoka shrugged.
“Go ahead.”
The woman promptly cast a teensy jet of flame at the wrappings. They failed to scorch the fabric. When Ryoka held it out for her, Jericha shot a bolt of lightning which dissipated onto the bindings. Tyrion offered his enchanted belt knife.
“I would dislike damaging the wrappings. Perhaps, though…?”
He carefully sawed at an edge, then, when it failed to leave a mark, cut with more force. Nothing. Ryoka smiled. That was reassuring, at least.
“I’ve tested them against far worse. Believe me, if they’re on my feet, I can barely feel a lot of fire. But…well. That’s a problem.”
She gestured. If she wrapped her feet in them, her feet were immune to a lot of things. She’d run through the Wild Hunt’s winter, and a field of flames without feeling a thing.
Yet Jericha, with a low-level [Flame Jet] spell, could blow flames around the thin linen wrap and burn anything not covered by them.
“Congratulations, Miss Griffin. You may have the most narrow shield in the entire world. You could protect…one forearm with it.”
Jericha drily concluded. It had resisted Tyrion’s dagger, which was a fairly good one, and even a Tier 3 spell, but it was just two linen wraps, after all.
“Invincible feet. That’s silly.”
Sammial agreed. Ryoka glowered at him.
“You try stepping on a nail, Sammy. I’ll take invincible footwraps, thanks. I wonder how good they are. Maybe I should try my weapon on it…but I don’t want to damage them.”
“The Windsword? I’ll hold the magic footwraps!”
Sammial was eager. Ryoka glanced at him.
“What? The Faeb—no, it doesn’t have a real name. Who calls it that?”
Sammial stared at Ryoka, incredulously.
“Everyone. Everyone knows the Wind Runner owns the Windsword.”
“How do they know that?”
“Lord Deilan El called it that. It’s a Kaalblade. That’s what the news said.”
“No, it—what? He said that, but everyone thinks…? Well, it’s fine, but—okay.”
Ryoka fished it out, but Hethon kept peering at the other strip that was lying on the floor.
Sure enough, Ryoka’s Faeblade/Windsword failed to cut the linen, much to her relief, but neither did it shatter like it did when striking magical armor. It just failed to cut, rather like it was dull and the linen were…linen.
“That is strange. I wonder. It would be problematic if it did cut, but…”
Tyrion Veltras slowly unsheathed his sword. Jericha turned, her eyes going huge in her head.
The blade of House Veltras? The sword looked like plain steel as it left the equally simple scabbard. Until it cut the light. Hethon had seen it many times, though never been allowed to touch it.
The Sword of Veltras could cut the rays of light in half where blade met air. There was a line like the way dawn broke on the horizon across the perfect edge, and the air behind the edge looked a tiny bit darker than the rest of the world.
And that was only when it was not being swung. When it struck a foe and used its magic, then, and only then could you see the tracing on the blade. The words proclaiming the heirloom’s history, the sigils…Tyrion had once told Hethon it was because a good blade did not have to scream it was fanciful or powerful.
“Lord Veltras…are you certain?”
“Only if Miss Griffin would risk her bindings.”
Ryoka licked her lips. One of the most powerful weapons in all of Izril, a relic of a weapon, caught the air, a slight bit of metal unsheathed from the scabbard. After a second, she gingerly, gingerly, let the fabric dangle.
Lord Tyrion Veltras accepted the fabric. He performed a simple test. As a boy, he had once seen his father slice a block of wood by laying the blade down and dropping the block of firewood on top of the edge. So he gingerly laid the very end of the fabric on the end of the blade; it could slice wood like paper, and paper like…
The linen lay on the end of the Sword of Veltras like…cloth. Jericha choked on her own spit.
“Impossible!”
Tyrion started. Then he slowly, without asking, tossed the linen up. He unsheathed his sword in one movement, and slashed at it. Ryoka yelped, but the cut was high and away from everyone else.
The linen floated—then caught on the sword, it was flung to the ground in a little tangle of fabric. Everyone else stared at the slightly dirty, white cloth.
It was not cut. Tyrion and Jericha turned to Ryoka. The Wind Runner blinked, then turned to Sammial.
“So? Think they’re not cool now?”
Sammy’s mouth was so wide open he could have swallowed both footwraps. The Wind Runner laughed at him.
She laughed. Her teeth flashed and her face lit up. Ryoka Griffin’s darker skin and black hair stood out among the other Humans. Even Charlay. When she laughed, though, she was like everyone else.
Her green eyes lit up. She stood, barefoot, as tall as the long-legged Veltras family, and laughed. Sammial began grinning himself, with awe at the footwraps. Jericha and Tyrion were surprised, but they smiled too.
This felt…good. Hethon looked up for a second.
It had been too long, so long that moments like this felt almost unfamiliar. But Tyrion himself chuckled, looking at the footwraps ruefully and at his own sword. Too long, but oh, how the two boys longed for this.
A better moment than silent dinners, without Tyrion many nights. Laughter, from both adults and children. Ryoka Griffin caught her breath after a moment.
“Invincible footwraps!”
That set off another round of laughter. Jericha began giggling, and it was so extraordinary that she blushed, but everyone laughed harder.
“A sword that cuts everything but magic and footwraps stronger than armor. If you could use that sword—”
“Or if I were a [Martial Artist], or [Kickboxer]…what a waste!”
Ryoka’s greatest weapons were weird as she was. She calmed down after a moment, and nodded ruefully.
“At least I know they’re tough.”
Then Hethon spoke up.
“They’re so strange.”
He was kneeling, staring down at the footwraps on all fours. Peering at it. Well, that was obvious. Yet something about the way the young man said it…Ryoka stopped chuckling.
“They are odd. But good.”
Hethon nodded distractedly.
“No. I mean…”
His face drew closer to the wraps, which did smell a bit of feet and dirt. They weren’t clean; they were smudged and used. Jericha bent down.
“Lord Hethon, they aren’t clean. I could have them washed…”
He didn’t reply. He bent lower, frowning.
“So weird. Father. Father, do you see it? Look.”
Tyrion Veltras raised his brows. He squatted down and Sammial crowded around.
“I don’t get it. They smell of feet.”
The boy complained after a moment, but his father wasn’t so quick to dismiss them. He frowned.
“I…are you seeing something, Hethon?”
“Yes. Right there.”
Hethon pointed. Lord Tyrion leaned forwards until his nose was practically touching the footwraps and began squinting. Ryoka stopped. Jericha?
Jericha was concerned.
“My lord…Lord Hethon…”
They were so close their breath was moving the cloth. Far too close to a piece of footwear for her comfort.
She wanted to say, ‘please stop staring at a bunch of dirty linen recently covering Ryoka’s feet.’ Or, if she was more honest, ‘please let this not be an undiscovered fetish’. Then again…it would explain far too much.
That wasn’t what Hethon and Tyrion were staring at. Rather, it was Hethon.
His…eyes. Tyrion glanced at his son, and then strained his own gaze to see.
Some of House Veltras had eyes like hawks. Buscrei had peerless vision that could magnify itself. Hethon? Hethon had, on his first tilting attempt, hit a moving target at extreme speed.
He had also seen…something…when even the other [Mages] hadn’t during the magical war in the air. Jericha gazed at the son of House Veltras and her lips moved at the same time as Tyrion.
“His eyes.”
It struck the two at the same time. But then Tyrion saw what his son had noticed, that no one, not even Ryoka, had.
The curious qualities of her footwraps. No, not the dirt. Not the fact they’d been on Ryoka’s feet. Rather…here was something interesting.
The footwraps were dirty. But the dirt wasn’t in the cloth. It rode on top of the fabric. The dirt rode on it, but at no point had it ever dug into the thread itself, melding itself with the fabric. That wasn’t uncommon for enchanted clothing, of course, but the stitching was odd too.
Normal fabric had a rather typical weave. Of course, the individual stitching grew quite fine, but there was a logic to how you put together everything from pants to handkerchiefs. The fine skill of sewing had been developed into an art, in fact, a mathematical equation that even non-experts heard now and then.
There were unique derivations, of course. Clever ways to adjust fabric. But this?
Hethon had never seen this kind of stitchwork. At first, it seemed just…interestingly odd. The individual lines of thread, what seemed like just plain, exceptionally high-quality cotton threads without loose fibres were coming together…diagonally. They had a vertical loop through the center, but then the thread disappeared through the other side.
It perplexed Hethon.
Who would bother with this kind of style? Was there a point? It seemed needlessly complex.
Here was where it got odd, though. The linen was tangled up, so you could follow the thread about as it was looped into the seamless cloth. All right and proper, right?
Well…Hethon was having trouble. Sometimes, for fun, he’d watch how a thread continued through cloth. He couldn’t do it, here.
He kept trying to follow the thread as it looped through the fabric and kept…losing it. It went through the diagonal criss-cross, through the fabric…out the back…but where was it?
Hethon could see where another part of thread began. Yet the sewn footwrap weave had no beginning or end. Even at the edges.
“I can’t figure out where it begins. See? It vanishes here and should come through here, but…”
Hethon was pointing to his father. Ryoka and Jericha traded glances.
“I can’t see! Jericha, do something!”
Sammial protested. The woman raised a hand.
“[Magnify Image].”
“Ow!”
Tyrion and Hethon both clapped their hands to their eyes as the view enhanced. Jericha raised her own hands.
“My [Lords], I am so sorry—what is that?”
She saw what they had been staring at before. Ryoka bent down, and saw the magnified stitching. All of them gazed at the fabric, at first confused, then nonplussed, then fascinated. Sammial was the only one who didn’t get it.
“What’s so special about that?”
What was special was…Ryoka’s skin tingled. She knew what this was.
There was no way to complete the loop. It was…an optical illusion, but made into reality. Like the image of a staircase that completed itself such that you could ‘walk’ up it forever. Something that only worked as a trick because there was no way to actually create it in the real world.
“Penrose stairs. An impossible object.”
Ryoka muttered. Tyrion was tracing one line over and over…
“This is impossible. It must be dimensional magic.”
“It is not, Lord Veltras. I am sure I would sense that. And even if I couldn’t…that would mean each time it loops, tens of thousands of times in this fabric, there is a little pocket dimension that—this—this is truly impossible.”
Jericha was unnerved. She looked up—and saw Ryoka’s eyes dancing. Hethon glanced up at the Wind Runner’s smile.
Ryoka was smiling with delight.
“Perspective.”
