Figures swept towards Sammial and the bodyguards clashed with them in the corridors, calling Jericha and Tyrion back in. Sammial ran on, ignored by the combatants, as Gilam thrust Betta behind him and raised his blade, snarling. Yet everyone’s quarry wasn’t here, as Sammial was shouting.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin was outside the mansion. Sammial had seen her jump out the window before the [Bodyguards] dragged him away with Hethon.
Now, he ran out of the stables, as fighters swerved around him. People were shouting his name, but he followed the…sense he had. Where?
There.
Ryoka Griffin was standing at the edge of the cherry trees, where she had picked cherries this morning with him and Hethon and his father. Sammial slowed, clutching at his burning chest.
The Wind Runner had her magnificent blade in one hand. Her footwraps were over her off-hand, her right hand, like a martial artist would wrap their hand. A kind of basic buckler.
Four figures had come out of the trees. One was behind her, and the Wind Runner was adjusting her posture. None of them focused on Sammial.
“—call it off. Are you here to kill me?”
She was speaking. Sammial saw her tense, and the wind was ominously still. But not dead. Charged. One of the figures shook a helmeted head.
“We have orders not to kill any of the nobility or guards if possible. There shall be no slaughter.”
“Then are you going to kill me?”
Silence. At last, one of the figures shook their head. She spoke, as she planted her sword.
“Upon my honor, we have no such orders.”
Ryoka Griffin stared at the armored [Knight]. Then her eyes swung sideways. The attackers were in retreat.
“Fine. Then…”
Sammial saw the Faeblade turn off. Ryoka swung it down, attaching it to her belt, and raised her arms. He didn’t know what was happening. What was she doing?
 
—-
 
Ryoka put her arms up as the four ‘mysterious assailants’ advanced. They kept changing in her perception, but she saw them for who they were.
Perhaps it was the land of the fae that helped her. Ryoka stared, and her eyes found reality among lies.
Two [Knights], two figures in masked clothing, dark black. [Assassins] or [Infiltrators]. One seized her arm.
“Lord Captain Dutraic, we have the Courier. We are taking too many casualties. Please signal the retreat.”
They barked into a speaking stone. Ryoka saw one of the others draw something from a belt and clasp it around her. Cuffs. She felt herself grow weak, but they didn’t even bother with grabbing her sword. All the magical items she wore had gone dead.
Except for the wind. It blew around her, unconcerned, tensed. Good. Ryoka heard a response from the speaking stone.
“They are already falling back. Prepare to ride ahead. Eight teleport scrolls are authorized per individual. Assign four to—”
Ryoka’s mind was whirling. She supposed she shouldn’t be able to hear this either; if she didn’t concentrate, she heard a bunch of gibberish. But then she did hear something, clear as day.
“No. You will not waste time. Take the thief here at once.”
A second voice broke in, without concealment or alteration. A familiar voice. Ryoka gritted her teeth. At least it hadn’t told them to kill her.
The Lord Captain’s voice broke off. Then returned.
“Your Grace, I beg you to reconsider. I have thirty two [Lesser Teleport] scrolls ready for action. My ship is prepared to set sail. We can return to port in no less than four days if we burn wind spells nonstop—”
“Unacceptable. Do not argue back! Activate the scroll—now! I wish to lay eyes on this mewling thief without more time wasted!”
The Lord Captain began to argue. The [Knights] and [Infiltrators] looked at each other. Ryoka Griffin just waited.
“We have the scroll, Lord Captain. Shall we employ it?”
The [Knight]’s voice shook slightly as she went for a sealed case at her side. There was silence from the other end.
“As Ailendamus wills it. Let it be done. Activate the scroll.”
The Lord Captain sounded like he was in pain. Ryoka Griffin saw the female [Knight] motion to the others.
“The charge can barely sustain four. I shall take her alone, for safety.”
“Are you sure, Dame Eclizza?”
“She is cuffed and surrendered. It may be the scroll will not burn itself out. Stand clear. Hold them back; they will sense it for the first five seconds.”
The [Knight] turned. She took Ryoka Griffins’ arm. Still, the Wind Runner did not move.
They had her. This mysterious attacking force, and the impatient voice wanted her to go to him now. Oh dear, how could this happen? Who could it be?
Ryoka knew. It was Ailendamus. That was obvious even if she couldn’t see their crest. They might be able to deny it; it didn’t sound like whoever was ordering this cared.
Your Grace. Someone important? Wasn’t that a royal term?
Ryoka didn’t know. She was braced, but she had left her room, gone out to tell them to pull back, to avoid more people dying. Of course she’d suspected this. Someone who didn’t back down when Eldavin and all of Wistram and one of the Five Families was backing her wasn’t going to stop at anything.
“Mrsha…”
The Wind Runner saw the scroll case open. Yet she was still calm. So long as she was being pursued, she couldn’t help. And this?
Oh, let Fetohep of Khelt find an easy way to save Erin. Let her be alive. Let her come to life and me waste all of my time.
But if not? Ryoka Griffin remembered what Ivolethe had said. This scroll. That was the surest way.
Ryoka was a continent apart. She stared as a familiar, glowing spider web of magic appeared on the ground. The [Knights] falling back through the trees and [Infiltrators] groaned when they saw it.
“A Scroll of Greater Teleport.”
The [Knight] looked at Ryoka. Her voice was flat.
“Rejoice, Courier. This has already cost A—my land more than you know.”
Her grip was steel, but Ryoka never moved. The Wind Runner met the visored glare.
“I’m not your enemy. This is a mistake. I’m going to sort this out.”
And get closer to what Erin needs. Her heart was pounding so loud in her chest, she barely heard the whine of the air moving. The golden sigils were moving about, opening a portal across the world.
True magic. Grand magic. She saw the air split. In the distance, there was shouting, the ring of steel. Tyrion?
He was too slow. Even with proper time to activate the scroll, unlike the Horn’s desperate flight from the Village of the Dead, it was barely fifteen seconds as the predetermined coordinates activated the magic.
The world split in half, and Ryoka felt herself and the [Knight] being carried into a world apart. A world where distance lost its meaning. They began to flicker out of reality for a heartbeat—
“No! You can’t have her! I command it! Ryoka!”
She heard a familiar voice. Her eyes widened.
“Sammial, no—”
A little boy charged out of the thicket. The [Infiltrators] and [Knights], focused on the [Lord] rampaging towards them, hadn’t even spotted the non-threat. He charged past a pair of gauntleted hands that tried to grab him. Ryoka thrust a hand out, but the [Knight] was dragging her back.
“No—”
He grabbed her leg. Ryoka Griffin’s cry cut off. Tyrion Veltras burst into the clearing as the warriors fell back just to see his son and Ryoka Griffin—
Vanish.
The remaining three warriors looked at the spot where Ryoka and Sammial had been. One of them spoke a single curse.
That was not…good. Disastrous. 
It was just well that no one knew who they were.
 
—-
 
Ryoka froze, mid-transit. So did Sammial, and the [Knight]. They were spun into the aether, like two-dimensional figures in a three-dimensional world. Only, with more dimensions.
Ryoka felt it. It was…familiar. Familiar, but she still wanted to scream. To throw up as she was twisted in ways she should not have been.
It was a moment of transit. Probably only a second. It stretched into infinity because Ryoka was, unfortunately, able to process the experience, even in a limited way.
It just added to her suffering.
She screamed, or tried to, as the moment stretched and she felt the world around her breaking.
Something…was wrong.
This was taking longer than it should. Ryoka felt it first, but even Sammial and the [Knight] began to sense it.
They cried out, but sound was strange here. What was happening? Something was wrong. Something was—
Ryoka saw something in this space, this world, moving with them. It was the only real thing. It was…
A pair of people. They materialized out of the whirling confusion, almost as confused. Then—Ryoka saw them.
A vast being of ideas and magic barely constrained by mortal form. A glowing woman, a rainbow of colors bearing a sword and shield that remained constant.
A half-Elf, shining with magic, her body half-destroyed, yet shining like a beacon of mana.
They were travelling the same way! And—astonished as the three mortals.
“Someone else is using [Greater Teleport]? Significant—”
Ryoka Griffin locked eyes with the Death of Magic. Silvenia. The Death of Chains herself was shouting as the dimension twisted her being. Yet the half-Elf [Archmage] moved, keeping herself…real…somehow. She grinned at Ryoka.
Then pointed. The Wind Runner saw a flash—then the [Knight] holding her shrieked.
“Ailend—”
She vanished. The ray touched her and she disappeared. It vanished into the whirling confusion. Silvenia shifted aim. At Ryoka and Sammial.
“No—”
Ryoka shouted, but she couldn’t dodge. There was no air here! No—
“SILVENIA.”
The Death of Chains grabbed the half-Elf’s hand. She was staring at Ryoka, and the cuffs on Ryoka’s wrists. Chains. At Sammial. The boy clung to Ryoka’s leg, eyes wide. Silvenia snarled. She took aim again and the Death of Chains roared—
They parted. The world didn’t tear them apart; rather, it pulled them back into reality. Ryoka saw light, the rule of gravity and—
She stumbled. The Wind Runner fell to her knees, onto an intricate pattern of marble tiles. She heard Sammial screaming, the roar of magic exploding around her as the scroll blasted itself apart. Then…shouts of horror.
“Dead gods, Dame Eclizza! What has she—”
Blood and pieces of armor and flesh rained down around Ryoka and Sammial. The [Knight]. Ryoka heard voices, the ring of steel, and then a voice, booming above it all.
“Silence! The thief did nothing. That was…that spell is headed to Rhir. The Death of Magic.”
Exclamations. Ringing footfalls. But that voice—that familiar voice was shouting.
“Leave me. Do not argue!”
Something flung one of the people arguing across the room. Ryoka didn’t hear. She knelt there, then felt something splatter over her shoulder.
Sammial. The boy was throwing up. Ryoka nearly did herself. She reached out, unsure of how to move her arms, if hearts should beat.
“Sammial? Sammy, you idiot. I meant to do this. Oh no. Oh…”
She held the boy. He was crying. Ryoka clutched him tightly. Why did everything she do—
“What is this little pest? Can they not even capture one wretched thief properly?”
Footfalls. Ryoka looked up into the face of her nemesis. A man with a pointed goatee, harsh features, regal clothing, stared down at her and Sammial in disgust. He shone with magical power, and his eyes were flinty. Cold.
Jade green, like hers. For a second, she was uncertain. They should be mismatched.
The Duke Rhisveri laid eyes upon Ryoka Griffin in the flesh. He glanced at Sammial.
“Worthless.”
His finger rose. A similar spell to the one Silvenia had cast flickered in the tip. The Wind Runner shouted.
“No—”
In the empty grand auditorium, within one of the many grand chambers in the capital of Ailendamus, the Duke stood alone. He had dismissed his helpers, the lesser [Mages] and [Strategists] and [General] devoted to this plan.
After all, what threat could the Courier pose? He aimed a finger at the boy who had tagged along, uncaring.
The air moved. A gale of wind blasted the Duke off his feet. He went flying, struck the ground.
“Wh—wh—?”
He scrambled upright, clumsily, confused. How had…? He saw a bright flare. But no magic.
Ryoka Griffin leapt forward. She was still cuffed, but she held a shining blade in her hands, against all possibility. It was not magic. The Duke aimed a finger.
The Wind Runner cut off his hand. The blade swept around in a clumsy arc, but just like Tyrion had shown her.
Rhisveri’s hand hit the floor with a wet thump. The Duke stared at his stump of a wrist. Then—the tip of the shining blade.
Ryoka Griffin stared sickly at the blood jetting from the stump. Yet the tip of the Faeblade aimed at the man’s face. She was wrong? Was she…? What had she just done?
Rhisveri looked at his stump of a hand. Sammial was on his knees, still throwing up. The Duke’s face was pale. His lips moved as blood ran onto his robes.
“…Ow.”
Ryoka Griffin heard the small, annoyed sound echo in the room. Her eyes widened. Her heart restarted. She saw him move—raise himself up—then growl.
“What an annoyance.”
He raised a hand, glared at Ryoka, and then his eyes rolled up and Rhisveri collapsed backwards onto the ground. He stopped breathing. The blood stopped pooling.
He was dead.
Ryoka Griffin was not fooled. She raised her sword overhead. The Faeblade caught the air, shedding pink light around the new room, built in ancient style, raised within two simple generations.
A palace so vast the ceiling was four hundred feet high. A monumental room. Suspicious.
The wind howled around her. The Wind Runner felt it blast through the room, sending the blood flurrying into droplets in the air. Running around a shape—
There. She whirled. Something moved. Ryoka swung her blade as she shouted.
“Dragon!”
The unseen presence stopped. It was stunned. Confused.
How did she—? There was no way! No one could know! No one could—
The Wind Runner charged, blade raised. It shone, without magic. The wind blew, though she had cast no spells. A young woman charged by the King of Faeries. Who had gone to lands before. Three worlds. She swung the sword. The Faeblade struck something in the air, a weapon of the future.
…And shattered. The pieces cascaded around Ryoka Griffin. She froze.
“No—”
Something struck her. A huge claw pinned her to the ground. A voice roared, monumental, far vaster than the previous voice, but the same tone, just deepend, magnified.
“Enough!”
The wind turned off. The room was suddenly silent. Unseen, high overhead, Ryoka felt a gust blast down. Rancid, foul.
Breath. Not hot, but acrid. She gasped, but her chest was compressed, her ribs screaming. She had thought…had…but she was right. She muttered it again.
“Dragon. Dragon.”
There were few coincidences. And this—this was the thing of stories. The fae. Ryoka grinned. She laughed. Then the voice echoed again.
