“That’s a shade of brown, I think. See here, if it looks off, you’re in trouble? Imagine being afraid of colors.”
Swey chowed down on the roasted oysters. Everyone else realized they were done and began eating. They pestered Tyrion with questions, and he reluctantly, then with some enthusiasm, began to speak.
“I never saw a shipment coming in; I was simply travelling that way. However, I did see a building appear, once. Inhabited. The people inside were thought to be monsters at first; they clashed with the Watch, firing arrows from inside. They were a sight; they claimed they had been somewhere else for nearly twenty years. Their garments were strange. I expected them to be ragged, but…”
It was a fascinating tale, marred only by the teller. Yet he warmed to his task, and his two sons were as agog as the others. Even more so, perhaps. Tyrion had never told them this story?
He did so now, and was part of the conversation rather than in the middle of it. He still didn’t talk like his cousins, but he did talk. Ryoka listened, asking questions, in the thick of it.
She never saw how some of the others glanced at her and saw what she’d done, like Keireen, Setth.
Or Jericha. Keireen leaned against Pellmia and whispered.
“They are good for each other.”
The [Matchmaker] smiled. And here he hadn’t even used a Skill.
 
—-
 
In some ways, Ryoka fit in with House Veltras. Oh, the sociability was new, but there were times when House Veltras was social—and times when they were not. Like Buscrei. She was all laughter and talk with the others. Then she’d just walk off, and go hunting for days on end, or relax by herself, socialization done.
There was something there that spoke to everything Ryoka was. In the same way, she talked with them, then they turned to figuring out their new problem of attacks. Pellmia frowned as he thought.
“Since you’re safe inside, I suppose we now have to figure out where those damned spells are coming from. I’ll contact some friends who know magic. Maybe it’s a trick. It seems like spells, but if it’s actually an arrow or some Skill…”
Ryoka sat in her rooms, feeling alive. She stretched, actually did a workout indoors, grateful for the ability to walk and move without bleeding sweat. Yes, she decided, it was time.
“I’ve had it up to here with whoever that is. I need…to figure this out.”
So she sat on the ground, and thought. Mystery assailant. She had to identify who her foe was, defend herself, and resolve the situation or she’d never help Erin and Mrsha.
The thing was…Ryoka thought she had the first one down pat. Well, it wasn’t hard deducing who was calling her ‘thief’. The exact who was a problem, but where?
“Fuck. I’m in trouble.”
Ryoka said it loudly just as Sammial, Hethon, Jericha, and Tyrion stopped by her door. Sammial instantly turned to Jericha.
“She says it! Why can’t I?”
Ryoka turned in her seat. She blushed as Jericha groaned and Lord Tyrion paused.
“Uh…”
“Miss Griffin. Lord Veltras asked to speak with you. Lords Hethon, Sammial—”
“Stop making me go away! I want to talk to Ryoka!”
Sammial instantly began to pitch a fit. Tyrion turned to him, frowning, and Ryoka interrupted.
“I don’t mind. Unless…I haven’t thanked you, Lord Tyrion.”
There were a lot of reasons why they wanted to talk, and Ryoka felt the weight of her debt growing heavier. Yet Tyrion Veltras just stood there, awkwardly, until she offered him a seat by her bed.
“I wished to inquire about your situation, Miss Griffin. With respect to your privacy, I had not asked. Given the situation…”
The Veltras’ watched Ryoka squirm with some resignation by this point. The Wind Runner’s secrecy about almost all aspects of her life was as frustrating as it was intriguing.
However, Ryoka Griffin herself knew that it couldn’t last. She nodded slowly, avoiding Tyrion and Jericha’s eyes. She looked down at Sammial—he was giving her a hawk-glare, refusing to blink.
Ryoka sighed.
“I should have told you. I’m sorry—it’s just that I didn’t want to involve you and here we are. I’m…in a bit of trouble. Someone’s after me. I don’t actually know who, but I know why. I uh…”
This was hard. Ryoka forced past it. She still squirmed, a bit.
“—It started with the party at Riverfarm.”
“It seems many things began there.”
Jericha murmured. Lord Tyrion glanced at her, surprised by the interjection, and she blushed. Ryoka thought that was funny; Jericha was as close to a mother as the two boys got. But not quite. She glanced at Jericha and nodded, deliberately.
“Right. A lot happened there I can’t talk about. Really…I promised. But one of the things was…well, a lot happened. I went places.”
“You are so vague. Stop being vague.”
Sammial stared at Ryoka. She turned even redder as Tyrion snapped.
“Sammial Veltras. Control your tongue.”
“I stole something. Well, I tried to steal something.”
Ryoka blurted it out at last. The other four turned to her. Alevica and Charlay, listening outside the window, gasped.
Everyone inside stopped. They peered at the window, and saw a head rise, duck down, and Alevica’s whisper.
“You idiotic—”
They ran for it, Charlay galloping off. Ryoka rubbed at her face. Tyrion regarded her.
“You stole something?”
“I tried to. My friend…it’s very complicated. I was trying to steal something that would—you know my friend, Erin Solstice? There was something we were trying to get.”
“Because she’s a block of ice?”
Jericha and Tyrion went to round on Sammial, but Hethon had let that one slip. He slapped a hand over his mouth. Ryoka would have ached at that a day ago. Today?
Well, it still hurt, but there was hope, so she almost smiled.
“Yes. Something that could definitely bring her back. I was sure of it. I made…a big mistake. I didn’t steal it.”
“You did not?”
Tyrion was surprised. He half-glanced at her side. Ryoka shook her head. She lifted the hilt of the Faeblade.
“This is a gift. What I stole—was trying to steal—I never got. But I must have been sighted and…sorry. I’m a criminal. So I suppose this isn’t an unprovoked attack so much as…catching a thief.”
She waited for something. Condemnation, anger, what, she didn’t know. Tyrion was still a long moment. Jericha was frowning, trying to guess who Ryoka had stolen from. Sammial was trying to put something together. Ryoka? Naked? No…what had he seen? Something that told him where…
Ryoka wondered if she should tell them. Before she could, Tyrion spoke.
“As Lord of House Veltras, Ryoka Griffin…my stance on thievery has always been clear. It is a crime, and cannot be countenanced under any circumstance. I have told Hethon and Sammial that; if a [Lord] or ruler of a land looks aside, the rule of law topples.”
Ryoka swallowed. Hethon and Sammial looked at their father in shock. Jericha closed her eyes. Oh no. The one man who would probably prosecute a dog for stealing a bone…Tyrion Veltras rose to his feet and looked out the window. Charlay and Alevica, staring from behind a tree, ran away again.
“I cannot countenance it.”
Ryoka nodded miserably. It was still a crime. She began to wallow in the filth of self-flagellation—right up until Tyrion spoke his next words.
“That is my belief. However. When Hethon and Sammial were sick, I thought, if I could steal the cure to their poison…I would have. No matter what the cost or consequence. I would have stolen it. It would have been a crime. Yet I would have done it.”
He glanced over his shoulder. Jericha’s open jaw snapped shut. She had never expected Tyrion to say something like that. Ryoka just blinked.
“I can understand the desire. If you are being pursued, perhaps the offended party can be reimbursed. That you did not steal anything lessens your guilt. As for these attacks? It comes on the land of noble families of Izril. Whoever this is has gone too far. We shall reach an amicable solution if possible, but House Veltras will still support the Wind Runner.”
Sammial and Hethon looked at each other. They pinched each other to make sure they weren’t dreaming. Ryoka stared at Tyrion.
“Uh. Thank you.”
That was…unexpected. Yet what had she thought? Even Tyrion raised an eyebrow.
“Miss Ryoka, I am grateful you chose to confide in us. However, I must ask. Did you believe we would think worse of you for your actions? For being a thief? You are the Courier who saved my sons’ lives.”
She flushed slightly and ducked her head. Ryoka Griffin mumbled.
“No. I mean…not just that. It’s just—”
She searched for words and they tumbled out, another surprise admission in a weird day.
“—it’s just that whoever tries to help me ends up dying or getting hurt. Everyone. And there’s so much that’s happening, I don’t want to pull anyone into it. These huge, important—and if I do something wrong—”
The Courier hesitated. They were all giving her a strange look. Lord Tyrion looked bemused.
“What?”
Jericha was the one who finally came out with it, with an exasperated sigh.
“Miss Griffin. Begging your pardon Lord Veltras…but I have noticed this about you. You speak about almost everything as if it were the greatest calamity in the world. And only you can solve the issue. As if the world revolves around you. All of House Veltras stands here, but might not be enough to aid Ryoka Griffin in her quest. Whatever that actually is.”
Ryoka Griffin sat there, staring at Jericha. So did Hethon and Sammial. The words flowed from Jericha with a great deal of satisfaction, pent up as they had been. Even Tyrion gave her the side-eye…until they looked at Ryoka.
Beets were red. Blood was crimson. Plums were purple. Ryoka’s face encapsulated even more colors than that. She sat there, so embarrassed she couldn’t speak. She sat there.
“I don’t think th—”
“I mean, I only know Oberon and I just—”
“It’s—”
She tried to get it out. But the truth was that Jericha was right.
Almost right. Ryoka raised her head, slowly. Embarrassed.
“I…I do act like that, don’t I? I’m sorry. But there is something big coming. I can’t say exactly—”
She saw Jericha’s hand twitch for her side and hastily clarified.
“War. A big war. A conflict…that’s what my friends said. The guests. A terrible war. And I guess I feel like I’m going to play a role. They’re…[Oracles], you see. Sort of.”
Tyrion’s brows rose. He looked at Ryoka sharply.
“Where from?”
“I don’t know. But I do know this! I act like I’m important because I think I am. A bit. That’s arrogance. However, I do know this.”
Ryoka rose to her feet. She clenched and unclenched her hands.
“…I’m not the person who can bring people together. Who can create a miracle, and maybe stop or…or unite people. I know who that is. And she’s—waiting—for me to help her. If I can, I will. And as for who I pissed off? Well. I didn’t realize it, but…I tried to steal from Ailendamus. From their vaults. That’s who I made mad. There. I said it.”
The Wind Runner exhaled long and loud, and felt instant regret. Then relief. She looked around. She’d actually said it. She looked at Tyrion, Jericha, Sammial, and Hethon, smiling with a bit of relief.
…Right until she saw Tyrion’s expression. And Jericha suck in her breath. The two adults exchanged glances. Of all the things Ryoka could have said…
“Well, that’s not good. Hear that? She pissed off the fattest nation in Terandria. Told you she doesn’t do things halfway.”
Everyone stopped. They stared up. Tyrion snapped his shield up, but Buscrei just leaned over the roof’s lip. Swey, Setth, both jumped down. Pellmia got up from listening at the door with his daughter and wife. Lady Desinee replaced the amulet she’d taken out.
It was good that Ryoka had admitted what was on her mind, at last. Everyone could now agree.
She was in a bit of trouble.
 
—-
 
Ailendamus.
House Veltras was powerful. Five Families of Izril? Martial house with the largest standing force? Famous [Lord] on that Top 5 list? There were only a few things that would even make them blink when they stood united.
Ailendamus…might need some eye drops. Of all the places for Ryoka to make an enemy of…yeah. Ailendamus.
“Couldn’t she have chosen, I don’t know, Calanfer, or something? I hear they’re getting spanked in the war. Or the Reinharts? We could use a good old scrap.”
Buscrei muttered to Swey and Setth. Lord Setth looked at her.
“What is it with the Oswens and spanking?”
“All I’m saying is that Ailendamus is…well, it’s like she threw rocks at one of the Four Great Companies or something. There are easier enemies to make.”
Ryoka Griffin’s mysterious nemesis made more sense, in that light. Of course, this was breaking information. Rumors had only begun to spread that the Wind Runner had been struck by mysterious lightning. Tyrion Veltras had outridden rumor itself—and Pellmia had kept the news under wraps fairly well—so her unexpected cure thanks to the power of [Sorcerers] had caught even her adversaries and friends off-guard.
Lyonette, for instance, would not learn about Ryoka’s plight until tomorrow, by which point she would already be far delayed from what was actually happening.
So perhaps that was why it was so ironic that when Jericha came striding over to Ryoka with a speaking stone, the first thing Eldavin said to her was about that.
“Ryoka, I have just been informed you are under attack by some kind of spell? Why did you not inform me at once, child?”
“T—Eldavin?”
Ryoka’s eyes widened. She had known who it was the instant Jericha mentioned an encrypted spell, but she’d completely forgotten he was in Wistram!
“Are you returning? Where are you? I’m—”
“Yes, yes, still at Wistram. When did we last speak? Nevermind that. Someone’s been attacking you with magic? Outrageous. It’s not anyone in the academy; I would know. Listen, I’m tied up, but one of my faction is headed your way as we speak. Archmage Valeterisa. She says she knows you. We’ll have you cured and on your feet. Then we’ll discuss further plans for keeping you safe.”
“Um. Eldavin. I’m actually—”
“It’s not easy wrangling these eels at Wistram, but I am managing it. Fascinating how Wistram has gone to seed. There’s more of your kind here. I fully intend to whip the Academy back into shape, and I have been thinking it may be wise for you to visit if you’re being targeted by assailants. Is it that pest with the dark eyes? I’ll ask Valeterisa to analyze the spell—”
“Eldavin. Eldavin.”
The nattering voice cut off. Ryoka stared at the stone. She had never known the Dragon to be this talkative, but it seemed this vacation had really done him good.
“Yes, my dear?”
