That damn bird was getting in the way! Eldavin snarled. The spells were fighting all over the air, and he was maintaining nearly sixty eight different lines of attack and defense. Two were going through the bird, which it only detected as a feeling of bad constipation.
His opponent—was winning. They had actually chained a spell through the bird, and they were casting faster than Eldavin.
More complexly, too. Eldavin’s own magical knowledge was being exceeded. How did you cast through a living being like—
A gap in his head? He faltered. He felt he sh—
The slash through his detection spells was like a physical thing. He staggered, and the loss of so much mana cost him the battle.
His opponent had more mana, too. An inexhaustible supply, if Eldavin and all the [Mages] couldn’t simply win a pure mana clash! Not that it would work; it would be like trying to arm-wrestle someone who could spin around you and throw an elbow to the back of your head.
This was true magic. And it—
“Begone, you little pest!”
The magical link in the scrying spell imploded. A spell raced back through Eldavin’s connection. He threw up his hands.
“[Meridae’s Save—]”
That saved his life. Even so, Telim and the other [Mages] saw something hit the Grand Magus in the chest, sending him flipping over the dais and crashing into the wall. Eldavin lay on the ground for a good minute.
When he staggered to his feet, the magical presence had fled. Leaving Ryoka Griffin alone. A victory…of sorts. Eldavin was in no mood to celebrate. Like a guppy which had finally seen a big fish, he was rattled. And angry. He didn’t even know why.
I am the best in this world. The certainty was in him, a kind of arrogance to match even an [Archmage] of old’s. So then. How…
How did I lose?
 
—-
 
“…It seems your foe has retreated. Wisely; more casting gives more opportunities for tracing them.”
“You didn’t figure out who?”
“No!”
The snap through the speaking stone made Ryoka recoil. She had never heard T—Eldavin speak like that. Then he moderated his tone.
“…No. I was unprepared, Ryoka. Whomever that is—is exceptionally dangerous. Do you know who it could be? Even in general?”
She glanced at Tyrion, who was ‘not eavesdropping’ as he kept watching the sky, shield raised.
“No, I don’t.”
“I see. Well, this is far more concerning than I believed. I will make arrangements; this will not happen again. You are clearly in over your head, Ryoka. You should come to Wistram; there is much that cannot be said. Even here. Our speaking spells may be intercepted after…with such a foe about.”
He was rattled. Ryoka Griffin would have agreed in an instant if Teriarch had said that. If…she said one last thing as he told her that Valeterisa of all people would come and cast ward spells, to make sure she was safe.
“Thank you. Thank you, Eldavin. I’m…I’m so grateful.”
“I shall attend to your friend, Erin Solstice, in due course. There is much to do, and even I must make…preparations. Upgrade my repertoire. Artifacts. If I hadn’t left my research laboratory in the High Passes…”
Research laboratory. It could have been code. Or…Ryoka Griffin swallowed. Her lips trembled.
“Y—of course. I know you must be tired, Eldavin. I cannot thank you enough. Before I go, have you heard from Teriarch?”
Her heart thundered in her chest. The pause seemed to go on forever. And then the half-Elf spoke, his voice…tinged with uncertainty.
“Who? No.”
“I see. Sorry, I thought you’d met. I—”
Ryoka didn’t know what she said next. She just dropped the speaking stone and sank to the ground when she stumbled into her room. Her head in her hands.
What was happening?
It was all…
Falling apart. She knelt like that, until she realized she couldn’t. No longer. Her head rose.
She had to put it together. Somehow.
 
—-
 
It was a given that Ryoka’s friends, the people who knew her in any meaningful way, learned that the Wind Runner was not generally a calm person.
She had what could be described as panic attacks—although sometimes there were things to genuinely panic about—and she seemed to run around with a giant boulder named ‘stress’ strapped to her back at times.
She was not like her friend, Erin Solstice, who could happily spend a day rolling across a clean floor in her inn next to a little giggling Gnoll. Ryoka would discover termites.
If you liked her despite that, her secrecy, her tendency to run off and come back with more problems…there was a lot to still like.
Qualities House Veltras prized, since so many were included in the number of people who liked Ryoka.
Loyalty. Courage. A sense of adventure.
What was notable now, to people who had an inkling of Ryoka Griffin, was how calm she had suddenly become. After she returned to the mansion, she thanked everyone for their help. Took a deep breath and…relaxed.
All was not well in the world. However, if the floor turned to lava enough times, you learned to surf on the waves. That was how Ryoka felt now. There was a time for action, and a time for rest.
“This has been a fascinating little adventure, I don’t mind saying. Grand Magi, mysterious spells, and Couriers! And a [Witch]!”
Alevica scowled at Sir Leireit as he toasted a little party in Pellmia’s mansion with a glass of what Ryoka thought was champagne.
Although normal champagne was less glowy. And didn’t attract the Fruit Cats. They meowed, leaving their branches, demanding sips. Ryoka peered at them.
“They smell like fruit!”
“Totwhisker Cats. They don’t just smell like fruit, they use it. The little geniuses make alcohol, you know.”
“No.”
Ryoka didn’t believe Pellmia. The [Lord] laughed in delight and his family, even the reclusive Gilam, all looked proud of the factoid.
“You see, they know how to ferment fruits. So they find a hollow, drag in fruits, and essentially create an alcoholic slurry. Something in their whiskers is like a natural yeast—it’s magical, of course, but that’s why they’re named that. Totwhisker. As in, ‘a tot of gin’? Good luck getting any of their stuff away.”
“…Is…is there some kind of natural biological reason for this? Is creating alcohol a defense mechanism?”
Pellmia thought hard, sipping lightly from his drink as a cat tried to climb up and steal some.
“I think they just like it. Can’t say I blame them, but they try to steal every drink. A houseful of natural drunkards. Ah, we love you, don’t we?”
He bent down and scratched at a cat’s ears. Ryoka laughed as the cat meowed in vain, opening its mouth. That was the kind of thing to treasure.
Hethon and Sammial were allowed a very watered wine, and offered it in vain to the cats, who sniffed at the drinks and turned away in disgust. However, it was a sight to see Lord Tyrion continually moving his drink away from cats that kept leaping for it.
Somehow, House Veltras’ formality, at least of the main family, had no power here. Charlay was talking animatedly to Desinee.
“You’ve never had an ale? Really?”
“I have had vintages and specific decanters of kegs…”
“We’re going down to the tavern tonight! Who’s with me?”
“That sounds great!”
Swey and Buscrei instantly volunteered. Alevica was watching Charlay with extreme amusement. She sidled over to Ryoka.
“That idiot doesn’t know she’s talking to a [Lady], does she?”
Ryoka glanced at Charlay, who was talking to Desinee. She must have taken the woman for…a guest? Desinee was in a summer dress, but the Centauress had completely missed her expensive jewelry.
And signet ring. It was probably Buscrei, Swey, and Setth that had thrown her off. Ryoka shrugged.
“Want to tell her?”
Alevica smiled wickedly.
“No.”
“We shall provide transport back to First Landing, Sir Leireit, and our payment in full—I regret to say Lord Veltras cannot personally speed your journey.”
Jericha was taking care of business during the gathering. The [Sorcerer] nearly dropped his drink.
“Er, no need. I am honored, of course, but never again. I shall happily take an escort. I must say, though, that if I might find lodging, I wouldn’t mind touring the area and delaying my return?”
“Of course. Sir Leireit, you would be an honored guest. House Quellae is open to you.”
Keireen instantly turned and the [Sorcerer] beamed.
“Wonderful! And I should like to do some business of my own. Quellae’s fruits are a lovely gift when I return. First Landing has its amenities, but the countryside is…fresh. Such a beautiful landscape. Mind you, if you should ever come to First Landing or the northern cities, there is a time to be had.”
“Really? What kind?”
The other nobles were chatting. Ryoka saw Sammial and Hethon following the cats around, then glancing at her.
“Ryoka, now you’re better, can we go flying later?”
Sammial eagerly asked. Betta and Gilam looked around; the two younger adults were hovering on the edge of the ‘proper conversation’, although Charlay had her own informal chatter going on.
They were in that uncertain time when they weren’t quite old or authoritative enough to do more than add comments or steer the conversation. Gilam seemed to resent it more than Betta, and he kept glancing at her and Alevica. She supposed a Courier was more interesting and wondered if she should be social and engage them.
“Later, Sammial, I promise.”
Betta drifted over.
“What’s this about flying, Courier Griffin? I do apologize; I am Lady Betta Quellae, and this is my brother, Gilam of House Quellae. We did not have a chance to properly meet before the incident.”
“Oh—please excuse me. And uh, please call me Ryoka?”
That was an inversion of protocol, but Couriers did get to dance on the same field as nobility. Anyways, it made Betta smile. Ryoka was just explaining the flying trick to the two, who were fascinated despite it being ‘childish’, when she heard something catch her ears.
“You haven’t heard? There is the most splendiferous event taking place city-to-city. The Players of Celum. Have you seen them or heard of…?”
“You know, I have. Weren’t they down in Invrisil?”
Sir Leireit was talking to Pellmia and Keireen.
“They were! I didn’t see the plays there—they’ve migrated north. There’s a huge theatre in construction, but the plays are—”
He actually kissed his fingers and flicked them out.
“Beautiful. They’ve taken the north by storm, rather like that Singer of Terandria. Her songs are all over First Landing. Some of the styles aren’t for everyone’s taste—they’ve introduced a noise ordnance law for the young people. However, I can tell you the Players are acclaimed. In fact…here. I have a Flair of Esteem. It might help you gain a ticket…”
“A what, now?”
The [Lord] and [Lady] were quite interested by the fancy little letter, signed by…Ryoka glanced over. Emme?
“It’s one of the ways you can get a special ticket. You see, they’re intensely hard to get! Not the common seats, although there is a queue…but to see the best performance from the best seats or the opportunity to meet them? Nevermind an autograph or [Mage]-picture! I only have a Flair of Esteem—that’s something of a voucher that helps. Of course, one of the Five Families has a better shot at the best tickets. Even so, it might take a month or two.”
“Incredible. Are they that good?”
“There’s sound, blood, and you feel like you’re there, truly.”
“I shouldn’t like to see someone actually be wounded. I’ve seen enough of Pellmia’s blood in his sword practice, thank you.”
Keireen murmured. Leireit hastened to assure her there were comedies as well as the action stuff. Ryoka was astounded.
“The Players are already in First Landing? And they’re doing that well?”
She broke into the conversation. Leireit glanced over, surprised.
“Well? They have a theatre in Invrisil and I’m told one just opened in Pallass! First Landing loves them, and that means they’re the darlings of the city. Have you heard of the autographs? I suppose a Courier would. There’s even talk of them touring Terandria and other major cities! Although between you and me, the sea voyages are disgusting unless you get the best ships that can do it in under a week…”
The man beamed at Ryoka as she stared at him, all glittering delight in being the person to know about the hottest thing with the other nobles who hadn’t visited the big city in a while. Even Buscrei and the others were interested. Ryoka didn’t know how to break it to the man, so she coughed.
“I ah, do know about the Players of Celum. I’ve seen a number of their plays, actually. Back when they were in Invrisil and Liscor. Actually…I know the person who helped them start.”
“Truly?”
Leireit was astounded. Pellmia, who had been smoothing his chin and trying to hide a smile, burst out with it as well.
“We actually had the honor of seeing Jasi, Wesle, and the rest at Riverfarm. A personal play. Isn’t that right, Desinee?”
“The Players of Celum? I believe I have a collection of autographs. Indeed. Quite charming. I should like to see them…again. To see how they’ve settled in.”
The [Sorcerer]’s puffed-up chest deflated, rather like the Plumed Inflemril losing wind.
That was a bird from Bird’s Column in the Liscorian Gazette. Ryoka knew that because she’d bought a copy of the newspaper when she’d last visited. Bird’s silly little column was a daily write-up.
She fetched it out now, to prove to the incredulous Leireit that the Players of Celum had once been a regular in Liscor. The little ad convinced him.
“And here I thought I was bringing news and you all saw an exclusive? I’m…simply embarrassed. You’ll be the envy of First Landing if you have personal autographs, Lady Desinee.”
“Really?”
The woman’s eyes glittered. The other nobility looked interested too—one-upping their peers was always fun.
Somehow, Charlay missed the [Lady] part, having trotted off to a restroom. She clattered back into the conversation.
“Autographs? I have some!”
She waved a few in Leireit’s face from the party in Riverfarm. The [Sorcerer] gaped up at the slightly worn cardboard card.
“Is that a kiss from Jasi on it? I will pay you—no, I’ll trade you a wand for—what are you doing waving that around? You should have a stasis spell on it! Do you know how hard those are to get?”
Leireit instantly latched onto the autograph. Charlay triumphantly waved it over his head.
The fortunes of the Players continued to rise. Ryoka smiled, genuinely happy about that. She saw Alevica looking very distressed.
“What’s wrong, Alevica?”
“…I didn’t get one of those damn things. I didn’t know it was worth money.”
 
—-
 
