Lord Pellmia grumbled, his sword drawn as half his household guard stood at the gates and windows, ready for a battle.
“You don’t have a favorite tree, my love. Don’t be dramatic.”
Keireen admonished him.
Ryoka Griffin saw Pellmia glancing up at the innocuously clear skies, furrows in his brow. He exhaled hard, his fingers shifting on the worn leather wrap on his hilt.
“That someone would attack a [Lord] of Izril—no, one of the Five Families in such a manner—”
“It seems to be a growing trend of late.”
Lady Desinee El remarked from behind her bodyguards. Ryoka Griffin hung her head.
“I’m sorry. It’s my fault.”
The Houses of El and Veltras looked at her, quite astonished. Lord Tyrion saw Ryoka’s entire posture sag. He hesitated, like a rock limpet trying to figure out how to give someone comfort, and with about as much success.
It was Lady Buscrei who grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder. She grinned, as the young woman started. Her teeth flashed a bit yellow, but with a wide, laughing smile.
“You’re one of us, Ryoka. A guest—no. Family. When someone attacks your family, you don’t let them gang up, you shoot them in the ankles and beat them to death!”
Everyone had to absorb that statement of solidarity for a second. Then Ryoka looked at Buscrei.
Family?
The [Lady] laughed. Then winked at Keireen, Betta, Swey, Desinee…they stared at her. Now? At this moment?
Well. There was never a wrong moment for plotting romance. Ryoka Griffin found herself guest of Pellmia Quellae once more. And this time?
At least she was conscious.
 
—-
 
It was strange, going from fleeing romance and courtship on bended knee, to being zapped with a curse from a mysterious foe, to being trapped in a quite pleasant mansion with a bunch of busybodies who were both protecting you and trying to get you hitched.
“Want an oyster?”
Buscrei cackled so hard at Ryoka’s expression that she nearly fell out of her chair at lunch. It turned out everyone was eating oysters, though. The [Lady] had brought a huge catch north, and the folk of House Quellae quite liked seafood.
“It’s fruit all day, and our herds, of course. It’s what you don’t have, I suppose. I could look once at the most gigantic orange that other people just die for—it sells for gold abroad—but give me a clam chowder and I’d hand you the orange in a second.”
Keireen confided in Ryoka. The Courier stared at the treat.
“Um. I see.”
The complete lapse of any social cue didn’t faze the [Lady]. She smiled, gracefully as Ryoka blushed in embarrassment.
“I’m sorry, that must be a foreign idea to a Courier who goes everywhere.”
“Oh. No. I’m sorry—I haven’t actually visited many coasts until recently. I was around Liscor, and they have lots of fish. No saltwater creatures, though, and it’s only in the spring when it’s fresh.”
“I heard of that. Damndest thing. It rains and makes a basin, doesn’t it? Always wanted to see it…when we weren’t at war. Passed it once when we had the yearly fight, but we had to steer clear of the walls.”
“You mean, the continuation of our war at the Bloodfields, Lord Swey?”
The [Lord] glanced up. Lord Swey, one of the Veltras Family that Ryoka had met, lived on a high plateau of all things. If Buscrei was a [Hunting Lady], in general, not the actual specifics of her class, Lord Swey was a [Mountain Lord]. His people foraged and used the cliffs daily.
It showed. His hands were callused in different ways than regular [Warriors] and he was prying apart oyster shells with his bare fingers instead of a knife.
Tyrion Veltras’ icy glare bounced completely off his squatter cousin. Swey chucked the oyster meat into a bowl, to Desinee’s plain horror. Buscrei had brought out the oysters, and Keireen had been about to let a [Chef] have at it, but instead, Buscrei, Swey, and Setth, the [Lord] who lived in the forest with all the [Druids], had all gathered around and insisted on grilling and preparing the oysters themselves.
It wasn’t bad for House Quellae, and Betta was helping season the oysters as Pellmia saw to a deployment of his house guards. It was astonishing how fast they’d relaxed when it was clear only Ryoka was being targeted.
They had tested it out by having Sir Leireit run around outside, shouting. ‘Hit me, you coward!’ Well, he’d volunteered for it and nothing had happened.
Now they were eating. Cooking for oneself was something Keireen was clearly appalled by. On the other hand, while Tyrion didn’t participate in the grilling and arguing over sauce and whatnot, he was slicing open oysters in a fairly practiced manner with his belt knife.
Sammial and Hethon were watching with great interest. They enjoyed their cousins’ presence, it was clear, and the two boys were mixing a blend of spices, having been deemed too young to handle a sharp blade.
By Jericha, that was. Buscrei had handed them a dagger and told them to try not to cut off a finger. At any rate, Swey calmly answered Tyrion, picking up on the slight tension in the other man’s voice.
“No offense to the main family and the Five Families and whatnot, Tyrion. I went once. Never saw the point. Lots of angry Drakes and those Gnoll people. I’d be as happy to let them stay over there. If they come north, we can rally up.”
“You don’t have an opinion on the sabotage from the [Infiltrators] that came this summer?”
Swey frowned, plucking a hot oyster from the grill.
“Well, that’s bad.”
Tyrion waited. Swey chewed, swallowed, and nudged Buscrei.
“More salt.”
She added a handful. After a few seconds of Tyrion staring, Swey recalled the question.
“What? Oh, yes. Heard about the poor dogs and Gralton and the rest. Let’s retaliate. We voted on that, didn’t we? They throw a punch, we throw one back. But as for the battles…no. Seems like we have that King of Destruction and the Deathless on Rhir to worry about. And that undead fellow…”
He was ticking off problems on his fingers. Ryoka actually forgot her uncomfortableness as she watched. It was tense, which of course made her back prickly, but it was a fascinating insight into a divergence of opinions in one of the Five Families.
The silence after Swey’s comments lingered, though Swey seemed content. If anything, Jericha, Tyrion, and two of his bodyguards seemed most put-off by the lack of support. An over-loud voice echoed around the room.
“I! I uh, I always wanted to go to southern Izril! I never went before because of the Bloodfields. Maybe I’ll go now there’s a road? And a portal door?”
Charlay looked about. Sammial started; he was still staring at the horse-lady, one of the few he’d met.
“Portal doors. Now there’s a handy thing. I wish we had one. Hey, Tyrion. Think House Veltras can bid on it? Imagine if we had one at your place. I could be eating fine over here one day, then head off to Swey’s, or hit the coast—all in the same day.”
“My, that would be something.”
Setth looked up briefly. He was less chatty than his two cousins, although he’d been more talkative in a more social setting when Ryoka had first met him. However, he did pull out a sauce to sprinkle over the second bowl being passed around. Buscrei instantly slapped it out of his hand.
“Don’t you dare touch my oysters with that crap, Setth.”
“Buscrei, it’s just sauce.”
“It’s mashed roots and crap. Not a bit of meat! Too sweet, too…I won’t have it! Not on good oysters.”
The vegetarian sauce was placed on the table, and Ryoka tried some. It was actually quite nice! It definitely lacked for the body of meat like many dishes and sauces she’d had, but it would have gone down a storm in any vegetarian restaurant on Earth. There was a tang to it, a taste beyond mere salt, sweet, bitter, or even umami that Ryoka had come to associate with magic.
“I like it!”
Sammial announced, slapping some onto his plate. Buscrei grumbled.
“Damn [Druids]. Don’t let them turn you into one of those non-meat idiots.”
“You should meet this [Druid] in Invrisil—”
Alevica, Charlay, and Ryoka all chorused in unison. They glanced at each other, and the [Witch] snorted and tugged at her hat, embarrassed, as Ryoka grinned and Charlay laughed.
“Nalthaliarstrelous. I’ve heard of him. Something of a radical in the [Druid] community.”
Lord Setth actually pronounced his name correctly. Ryoka’s eyebrows shot up. Buscrei rolled her eyes.
“Don’t let’s start on Invrisil or we’ll get into politics. Like the south—”
“Lady Reinhart and the Drakes? Such a concern.”
Desinee pursed her lips, feeling she had the first real lock on this conversation. Keireen nodded, frowning.
“I hope she’s well. I heard of assassination attempts?”
“You tell me when there’s not one, with the Reinharts.”
There were chuckles, some murmurs, but the topic was dropped fast. Tyrion turned to Swey after whispering with Jericha.
“We did, in fact, make an offer on the door in Liscor, Swey. Twice. It is not for sale, although we would bid heavily. I fear House Veltras would be up against worldwide competition, however.”
“What? Oh. Right. Just a thought. I don’t see anyone actually selling it.”
Swey replied absently. Tyrion stopped again, having clearly taken the off-hand comment as actual questions about House Veltras’ material concerns.
He was so much like a stone compared to his free-flowing, relaxed cousins…that Ryoka instinctively flashed back to some of her family gatherings where she’d been the odd one out. She cleared her throat. She nearly said she knew the owner of the portal door, but since that opened up a bag of depressing rocks…
Well, not anymore. What was she doing, eating oysters and chatting when so many things needed to be done? For a second, Ryoka wavered. But she was recovering, and they had saved her life. So she turned to Sir Leireit. The [Sorcerer] was sipping from a mana potion and wineglass alternately, watching the conversation with urbane amusement.
“Is this typical of First Landing, Sir Leireit? I met some of the other Five Families, but I thought Lord Tyrion’s House was more—relaxed—than others.”
The [Sorcerer] chuckled as all eyes swung to him.
“Hardly, Miss Ryoka—Courier Griffin? I apologize, I feel familiar already.”
“Ryoka. Don’t worry, anyone who stabs me in the stomach with a stave is already quite intimate.”
He nodded in appreciation. Betta instantly sprayed her drink out of her nose and mouth at the same time as her father. Leireit stared at them in confusion, caught the joke, and began laughing.
Tyrion didn’t get it, but his family did. Jericha looked appalled—and stomped hard on her own toe to stop laughing.
“That’s wonderful! You’d get tossed out of a gathering in First Landing. I’ve never been closer than a dinner table in formality, there. Well, there’s something for the way they do it; fine dining is a treat.”
Burscrei agreed.
“Oh, I’ve been to First Landing enough. Can’t zip around like the others, but they have lots of sights. Invrisil too.”
Ryoka nodded, grinning as Sammial demanded to know what was so funny from Lord Pellmia. Hethon had worked it out and had turned bright red. However, she looked at Tyrion then.
“Even Couriers can’t travel across Izril that fast. Most of the City Runners I knew had never been to First Landing. It was sort of a milestone—if you could make it there all the way from Celum—that’s a city just north of Liscor—you’d probably hit Level 30 soon. Same for the coasts; it’s too far even by horseback. Have you been to Port Isle?”
She carefully named one of the most remote ports on the eastern coast, so named because it was an isle; no shipping lanes except those heading to the east hit it. There wasn’t any continent to the east, so it really was isolated. Tyrion glanced up and seemed to unstatueify.
“I have. All the major cities.”
“There’s movement Skills for you. He can ride out, visit First Landing, and be back within a week. The rest of us take a month.”
Buscrei slapped Tyrion on the shoulder with some pride. He turned to ice once more—but Charlay and Alevica were reminded they were in the same room with the fastest [Lord] in all of Izril. And Ryoka wasn’t done.
“I’ve never visited myself. I wasn’t nearly as fast as a City Runner…and it’s not a profitable run, mostly. Unless they get a shipment from the islands, in which case it’s Couriers inbound.”
“Islands? Shipments? I’m sorry, I’m not familiar with this…Port Isle. I know the name.”
Desinee looked like she was a fish out of water, even more than Tyrion. Charlay nudged her, still as chummy as could be.
“Port Isle. It’s not a trade-city—except that there are islands out to the east. Lots of interesting stuff. Like Fabledust. Ever heard of it?”
“Isn’t that a rare alchemical ingredient? So that’s where it comes from?”
“Yep. Also, a few dungeons out there somehow. So every now and then, a huge shipment comes in and everyone wants it. I’m surprised Tyrion—er—er—Lord Veltras, I mean, has been there. It’s not common. And it’s weird. Or so I’ve heard.”
“Weird? How?”
Every head swung around. Ryoka shrugged.
“I’ve only heard what Runners have. Fabledust is a strange compound and it gets in the air. Apparently it’s mined or something from a few islands. There’s so much of it from the ships it coats the city. It…does things to the people and area?”
Sir Leireit was nodding.
“Translocational magic. Dimensional stuff. I’m no [Mage]…nor have I been. The only person who could tell us is…”
Every head turned to Tyrion. He started, uncrossed his arms, and looked around.
“…It is a rather vivid city. One can get lost, there. Places…vanish now and then and need to be refound.”
He lapsed into silence. Buscrei slapped the table after a second.
“Well, don’t just end it there, Tyrion! Tell us more! What does it look like? What does it smell like? Details!”
He hesitated.
“It is a rather vivid shade of purple at times, until the light strikes it—or moonlight—or it rains.”
“And then?”
It was like trying to pry answers out of one of the oysters. Tyrion scratched at his head, then he opened up, to his surprise and everyone else’s.
“Let me see. It was years ago when I visited last. They had a rhyme I believe the children sang. ‘Purple by day, and pink by night. Green come moonlight, brown when rain strikes.’ But they had other verses. There was a nuance to the colors. If it is merely purple, you see, it didn’t matter. But a…shade of purple was worrisome.”
“How?”
The others blinked, interested. Tyrion frowned.
“I don’t know what it was. It was raining one day, and they told me it was wenge outside and to stay indoors.”
“What in the name of otters is wenge?”
