“I uh—I’m better now. A [Sorcerer] from First Landing cured me.”
“…What?”
“A [Sorcerer]. Cured. Me. He blasted the spell right out of my veins. I’m still under some kind of attack, but…”
“You let yourself be treated by a [Sorcerer]? Why don’t you just snort mana dust or bathe in mana potions while you’re at it? One of those rag-tag…well, I suppose their solutions work, but dead gods, my dear! Tree rot and beetle eggs! You didn’t think to go to me, but one of them? I could have—”
Again, the Courier blinked at the stone. Wow, Eldavin really was getting into character. His outraged spluttering was familiar, though.
“Sorry, Eldavin. I know how you…don’t like to involve yourself with mundane affairs.”
He harumphed loudly in her ear. Then his voice became more circumspect.
“Ah. About that, Ryoka. I…I suppose I owe you an apology. You were right. So was that girl.”
“Girl?”
“Reinhart, I mean. She’s pestered me for decades and I…well, you were right. It is hard for someone like me to admit, at my age, but this vacation cleared my mind. I’m thinking clearly for once, and you’re right. That pest, this entire situation in the world and Wistram…it’s time to shake things up. Fix everything I’ve let slide. No more. I’ve started a faction at Wistram. Terras, and I’ve let it be known you’re under my protection. Speak my name anywhere Wistram has power and I’ll make sure they give you aid.”
“Wh—really? That’s…”
Ryoka actually had to slap the side of her head. That was not what she had expected Teriarch to say. Not in a million years.
“How bad is it at Wistram?”
That was the only thing she could think of. Teriarch harumphed.
“As you would not believe. [Mages] who forget true magic, who infight rather than using Wistram’s power like it should be. Did you hear about the Death of Chains emerging? Not that I’d blame her for taking a shot at Roshal, but that’s another threat. And Khelt destabilizing Chandrar.”
“Yes, but—I mean, about Khelt—”
Ryoka stammered. This…this wasn’t like Teriarch at all. Using Wistram’s power? What was his entire lecture about neutrality and…?
“What about Khelt, my dear? I’m working on all issues, don’t you worry. Establish power here—then we’ll sort out the issues one at a time. Earthers—that’s what they call your people—first. We’ll gather them up. You should join them; we can do better good with all the resources at hand, and protect them. I’d rather train your people than let Wistram use them like bartering chips. A shame what happened to your friend, but as I said, I’ll look at her. Khelt?”
“…No. I just saw it in the news, too. I um. This thing about my attacker came after the Summer Solstice. You remember, Eldavin?”
“Your guests or some such? Oh, what mischief did you get up to now?”
Ryoka slowly stared at the stone. Her spine began to prickle. Something was…very wrong.
“Oh, you know. The regular, with Ivolethe.”
“Who? One of your friends?”
“Y—yeah.”
Ryoka felt something icy grab her. Who was she talking to? What had happened to—
What had Wistram done? Replaced him? Had they found out? Had—
“Nevermind that, my dear. Let’s sort it out, one at a time, I’d better tell Valeterisa what’s up. Did you say you were still under attack?”
Somehow, Ryoka managed to communicate the facts. Just the facts, to Eldavin. He…spoke like Teriarch. He acted like Teriarch, but in a few different ways.
Firstly, as if he didn’t remember Ivolethe. Second? He was far too energetic. Third, he was far too…involved in the affairs he kept talking about. A faction? His plans? He sounded—ambitious.
That didn’t fit Teriarch at all. Yet everything else was there! Including his immediate insistance she go outside so he could sort this out.
“Just walk outside. Someone’s taking shots at you via long-distance spells? Hah. Aha. We’ll see about that.”
By now, Ryoka Griffin had a small crowd watching her stand in the hallway. Tyrion marched over with his shield, frowning.
“Ryoka, what is…?”
“My—Grand Magus Eldavin, from Wistram, says he thinks he can stop the attacks.”
He blinked at her. Jericha saw Sir Leireit’s head snap around.
“Did she just say…? I heard there was a half-Elf crashing around in Wistram!”
“That’s her patron. I don’t know how the hell she got him.”
Alevica folded her arms. Ryoka Griffin covered the stone. Her heart was pounding.
“I’m going to step out.”
“Then I shall accompany you. Just in case the attempt fails.”
Tyrion announced at once. Buscrei and the others went to watch from a safe window. Eldavin’s voice snapped from the speaking stone, muffled.
“We have a scrying spell on the area. Who’s that idiot who suggested that this would fail?”
Ryoka muted the stone with a finger. Then she looked at Jericha.
“I just…I just need to do something before I go out.”
“It’s perfectly safe, my dear.”
Eldavin unmuted the stone of his own accord. Ryoka jumped, swore, and fished around in her pocket. Without a word, she wrote something down and handed it to Jericha. And then she went to walk out the door.
The [Mage] looked at the note. She stared at it.
 
Please tell Magnolia Reinhart to contact Grand Magus Eldavin at once. I think she will be very interested. Please write it verbatim and indicate it as such.
 
She glanced after Ryoka, puzzled. Then the Courier walked outside. Right now, Ryoka felt like she had been struck by a bolt of lightning.
Even so, she hesitated and stared up at the sky before she left the house. Eldavin was reassuring her all was well. So Ryoka walked outside. Tyrion followed.
Ryoka stopped on the paved path leading out, and glanced around with trepidation. Nothing happened.
“Oh, wow. You actually d—”
Hethon, Sammial, and the others saw and heard Ryoka glancing down at the speaking stone a second before a hand whipped out of the air. It flicked a finger at Tyrion, and he blocked it—but the second hand grabbed Ryoka and tossed her two hundred feet into the air, screaming, in less than a second.
“She has terrible luck.”
Charlay watched, eating from a bag of spiced oats. Alevica and the others silently agreed.
 
—-
 
Grand Magus Eldavin had prepared for magical interception. He stood in one of Wistram’s dedicated spaces for long-range casting. Magical circles he’d re-drawn and upgraded boosted his capabilities.
He was even linked to a number of new [Mages] in the Terras faction—and observed by spies of other factions, he knew.
Some were genuine, like High Mage Telim, Sa’la, and Valeterisa herself. She was on standby.
“We are going to trace whatever insolent rogue is casting spells from afar. Archmage, are you prepared?”
She had stopped in her travels to Ryoka’s location, a bit put out that she couldn’t learn more about de-cursing someone. However, the Archmage of Izril was eager enough.
“My area has been set up as per your instructions, Eldavin.”
She had another kind of waypoint, a magical sensor net, if you will, something the Earthers were actually more easily able to grasp than fellow [Mages]. The idea was that Valeterisa localized their spellcasting and also provided a second frame of reference. In that way, the scrying spells Wistram were using and their generalized detection spells would help them hone in on whoever was attacking Ryoka in a local and overall way.
“What will occur to the attacker once found, Grand Magus?”
Telim was interested. There was no ‘if’, but when. Eldavin stroked at his beard.
“We may fry them a bit, High Magus. One does not simply attack Couriers, let alone those under Wistram’s protection. Identifying them is the true stroke. Knowledge begets power.”
“Surely, you mean ‘knowledge is power’, Grand Magus? That is a very Earth-expression I learned. Quite catchy.”
“I do not see [Librarians] and [Historians] sitting upon thrones, do you, High Magus?”
There was some laughter, and the [Mages] tensed as, in the scrying view, Ryoka turned back from Jericha.
“Interception spells at the ready. We should be sensing it, depending on if she’s seen. Ah, if it takes time…”
Eldavin snapped his fingers with annoyance as he realized the assailant might have neglected to watch Ryoka every second, and could, in fact, strike later.
“Perhaps Valeterisa will have to set up permanent wards. Let us wait for five m—”
He was turning his head to address the disappointed [Mages] when the first hand appeared. Eldavin whirled.
“No magical contact! How did—”
Sa’la exclaimed, amazed. Wistram’s [Mages] weren’t slouches, even if they didn’t have Eldavin’s expertise. They had cast their own detection webs and the hand could have been…well, a figment of their imaginations. It had virtually no magical leak.
Ryoka went flying as a second hand appeared. Eldavin stared as Tyrion glanced up, the hands vanished, and the [Lord] went charging after her.
“Trace that spell! [Featherfall]!”
He cast through the spell as he roared. Ryoka’s downward momentum slowed to a crawl; the wind had already been arresting it. The other [Mages] scrambled to re-cast spells, hone in on…
What?
“I…I don’t sense any mana whatsoever. A trace of it…it’s like grasping at fog.”
Telim spoke uncertainly. A [Warlock] was muttering.
“Not even…there it is again! Dead gods!”
The sky opened up.
“You little wretch! Do you think you can escape?”
Eldavin heard the voice. He saw another bolt of lightning stabbing down. His multiple detection spells barely pinged. The other [Mages] were slack-jawed.
“It’s like invisible magic.”
“Don’t just stand there. Cast—”
A barrier opened up in the sky and the red lightning cracked against it. Eldavin recognized Valeterisa’s magic. Her excited voice was in his ears as his lips moved soundlessly, casting with increasing speed.
“Almost no magical residue. I cannot tell how they are hiding the origin—can you, Grand Magus?”
“It’s…not a scrying spell.”
The half-Elf whispered. The other [Mages] turned.
“What?”
“They’re not casting through a [Scrying] spell. That’s why we can’t trace the magic.”
They should have been able to see exactly where the spells were coming from, like someone following a string back to the source. But there was no direct [Scrying] spell pumping the other spells through, like Wistram was doing. That was why everyone from the [Mages] here to Jericha were as oblivious to the magic as Sir Leireit, the [Sorcerer].
And also because this spellcasting is adept. It’s…as good as mine. Eldavin himself could barely sense the spells as they materialized. A second bolt of red lighting shot down. Valterisa conjured a barrier from her location. The lightning curved around it, but Tyrion was there and blocked it again. A curse rang through the air.
I barely saw the adjustment to that spell.
“Then how are they aiming?”
Telim and the other [Mages] were miles behind Eldavin’s conclusions. He snapped, absently.
“Coordinates. They’re calculating each spell rather than reveal through the [Scrying] spell. Shut up—I have to—[Sylph Spark]. Bound to a counter…”
He called deeply on his mana reserves, and the links. A flashing light appeared. It flickered up—
“Who dares?”
A shock ran through Eldavin’s mind. At the same time, he heard the voice, sensed a shock like his own. In the air, two wills and spells collided as the [Sylph Spark] honed in on the magic up there and brought Eldavin’s web of detection and counter-magics into proximity with his opponent.
The [Mages] of Wistram saw Eldavin begin to chant, his hands blurring, the air lighting up around him with magical runes. They gaped as he drew on their mana like batteries, but the war was entirely of his making.
“What’s happening? What’s happening? I must see!”
Valeterisa was shouting like mad. No one replied.
Like a thousand invisible tendrils of kelp in the sky, Eldavin was throwing magical tendrils from his radial point of the [Sylph Spark], questing around, trying to touch the invisible magical web he knew was out there.
“Insolent little [Mage]. Begone, Wistram!”
The voice boomed in his ears. Eldavin saw something pluck at the [Sylph Spark], tearing it apart.
“[Mana Bubble]! I return you once anew, again reborn into a cycle eternal…”
Against all conventional magical logic of the modern world, the [Sylph Spark] refused to dissipate, though its entire makeup was pulled apart by the mysterious other spellcaster. It reformed, returning to its original space.
The shock in the air was a palpable thing. Eldavin had caught his opponent off-guard.
“Not bad.”
“Reveal yourself! [Aura Tracers]; [The Winding Lair of Solce’s Jellyfish]!”
Eldavin went for a large spell, and the air exploded with more tracers, these ones charged by his and the [Mage]’s mana. They’d react—strike back in a clash of power if they hit something.
They burned through two dozen spells, but a sneering retort blasted them out of the sky. Eldavin’s spark dodged another invisible slice of magic. The two unseen [Mages] grappled, Eldavin’s spark the one visible point; yet he was sure the other [Mage] was grounding his powers somehow in the air.
Both of them, wrestling, throwing elegant weaves in with crude tricks to identify, trace the other, block their magic at the source and thus cut off the power, had the same thought at once. Eldavin whispered.
“Who are you?”
His spellcasting, second to none in Wistram, became faster and faster. Yet, as the [Mages] of the Terras faction watched with amazement…
Eldavin began to fall behind.
 
—-
 
“…What the heck is going on up there?”
Ryoka stared up at a zippy ball of faint green-yellow light. It kept dancing about. Tyrion Veltras stared up, frowning. He thought he could see…no.
“I have no idea.”
 
—-
 
It was an exceptionally high-level battle, of such skill, not Skill but genuine mastery that no one could see it, and it looked exceptionally stupid if taken out of context. A dancing ball of light in the air. Even Jericha couldn’t tell what was happening; only Valeterisa had any insight.
And…Hethon Veltras. His eyes were round.
“What is that? What is that?”
“What’s what?”
He pointed a finger wildly at the air, but Buscrei, Sammial, Pellmia, and the others just stared at the empty air. Hethon turned.
“Don’t you see it? It’s amazing! I’ve never—they’re all over and hundreds and—”
“See what?”
They had no clue what he meant. Hethon pointed. Waved his hands. Are you not getting this? Charlay squinted.
“…You mean that bird over there?”
 
—-
 
