“Yes! She’s here! The Wind Runner! And Lord Veltras! She’s been cursed. What do you want me to do beyond watch her? We are not calling a you-know-what here! Everyone would be wiped out before you could scratch your ass!”
Gilam Quellae was communicating the event and import to some very interested friends. However, Ryoka Griffin had no way to know about it, and it was not as important to her as the immediate concern of getting well.
“Yep. She’s cursed. Worst I’ve ever seen.”
Alevica made her diagnosis at last. Ryoka, Charlay, and Sammial all glared at her.
“…And? Are you going to make her better?”
The Centauress demanded. Alevica raised her brows at Charlay.
“Who, me? I don’t lift curses. I cast them. I wish I could cast something like this. I’ll report back to the others and see what they want me to do. Mavika herself might have to come out here, though.”
Ryoka groaned. Charlay buried her face in her hands.
“But I carried you for four days and nights straight!”
“Hey, I’m doing this as a favor to Laken.”
“I knew it. Sammial. I can’t move my arm. Slap my face for me.”
Hethon looked up as Alevica stepped back. That sounded like another idea only a sick Ryoka could come up with.
“No, w—”
The slap of Sammial’s open palm hitting Ryoka across the eyes, nose, and center of her face made Alevica snigger. She adjusted her hat.
“Well, I’ve had my fun. I’ll send a [Message] off. Can I get some food?”
“This way, Miss Alevica.”
Jericha coldly pointed to the door. Buscrei sighed.
“Told you we should have tossed her in the Unicorn springs.”
“I believe the [Witches] may produce a remedy. It was they who cured my sons, Buscrei.”
Tyrion Veltras interrupted. He had patiently watched Alevica. Now he looked around.
“Is Magus Leireit able to attend Miss Griffin yet?”
“He may still be throwing up from the ride, Tyrion. I’ll find him.”
Pellmia excused himself. The [Lord of the Orchards] came back a few minutes later with a man who still looked green. Ryoka groaned.
Now here was someone who dressed like a [Mage] out of stories. He did not engender confidence, especially because he smelled of vomit and sweat.
“Lord Veltras. I believe I shall walk back to First Landing. Is this the fascinating case?”
The man, Leireit, queasily looked around. Sammial pinched his nose and Charlay tried to back up, and ended up blocking the entire guest room with her hindquarters.
“Let me just—excuse me—sorry—who’s this?”
She trotted into the corridor as all the non-Centaurs squeezed back. After all, no one wanted to be squashed by a half-horse person, or have their foot stepped on by someone of Charlay’s weight. The Centauress leaned on a table, and looked around.
Lady Desinee El looked astonished to be addressed so casually. Charlay had no idea who she was, and after a moment, the [Lady] whispered back.
“I believe that is Sir Leireit, an accomplished spellcaster from First Landing.”
Charlay wrinkled her face up. She tossed her head.
“Can he help? Laken made it sound like all the [Healers] and [Mages] are at a loss. [Alchemists] too.”
“They are, but perhaps Sir Leireit may offer a different perspective. Erm…who are you, might I ask?”
“Oh, Charlay. Nice to meet you!”
Lady Desinee stared at the proffered hand, again, not something that happened to [Ladies] of her station. She took it gingerly. Buscrei chortled.
“I like you. I’m Buscrei. That’s Swey.”
None of them mentioned their classes, so it was only when Charlay had dragged them all out to drink in a tavern later that night that she realized her mistake. By then, of course, it was too late. For the better. House Veltras liked informality, and Lady Desinee found it charming. From a Centaur City Runner, at least.
Again, it was a superfluous moment to the present. Sir Leireit interested Ryoka. And she clearly interested him.
He had a big, floppy hat that was sort of like a wizard’s hat, but had a weaker brim than you’d expect. It certainly sparkled with magic, but it was rather like a [Fisherman]’s cap. Appropriately so, since Leireit was a huge [Fisher] by hobby.
He had on robes, which had bunched horribly during the ride here, and he smelled of puke, but also pine needles. He had no spellbooks, Ryoka realized, nor a staff or other implements.
“Huh. Her mana flow is constricted, her life force is being attacked, and something’s in her. I can see how it would stump many of my peers.”
“Your diagnosis as to the spell, Sir Leireit?”
Tyrion was impatient. Five days of riding had better not have been for nothing. Leireit frowned.
“No clue. But I’ll bet it’s Tier 5 or Tier 6.”
“I’m starting to get tired of diagnoses by people who say they have no idea what’s wrong with me, but it looks bad.”
Ryoka snapped, and felt bad, but Leireit didn’t take offense. He adjusted his hat with a smile for her.
“Rest assured, Courier Griffin, I didn’t earn my honorary title and reputation by understanding magic. I’m not a [Mage] who’ll research this in a book of spells with ten thousand derivations of each spell.”
“What…are you then?”
He grinned and his eyes sparked, turning from their usual lime green to a glowing orange with violet inner light.
“I’m a [Sorcerer].”
Ryoka looked at him.
“Oh, fuck me.”
 
—-
 
“It’s very simple. I’m just going to try and dispel the magic, but with my style and Skills. Ready?”
“No, no, what are you going to—”
“Alright, here goes!”
Ryoka Griffin lay in a bed outside of the mansion. She’d been carried out there at Leireit’s request. She tried to roll out when the [Sorcerer] announced his not-a-plan, but it was too late.
“Don’t worry, I’m a professional! I’ve taken down curses before. See? I even have backup!”
Leireit assured her. Jericha, Alevica, and two [Mages], one of Pellmia’s own employ, the other the strongest from the local Mage’s Guild, were all linked with him. Well, Jericha set up the link, something else Leireit didn’t know how to do without holding hands.
He was a [Sorcerer]. Untrained, a natural spellcaster who made up spells and didn’t study them like [Mages]. His methods? Well, they looked like this.
“[Dispel Magic]!”
Leireit raised the stave he’d brought out, a glowing ruby atop mithril. The jewel flashed and he aimed it at Ryoka.
She glared at him as the magic settled on her, dispelled an anti-pain spell and a cooling spell put on her by one of the [Healers] and promptly did nothing else. Leireit looked at Ryoka.
“Nothing? Ah, thought not. Don’t worry, that was just to see what would happen and if I got any interference! Okay, trying again!”
“Father, um…do you think Lord Veltras found the best spellcaster for the job?”
Betta whispered to Lord Pellmia and her mother, well, step-mother, the woman who’d raised her since her birth, Keireen. Pellmia opened his mouth uncertainly, but Lord Veltras had heard. The [Lady] turned beet red as he bowed stiffly to her.
“Sir Leireit comes highly recommended, Lady Betta. His methods are unorthodox, but I have seen him work. Let us see his true attempt.”
She nodded and they all turned just in time for Leireit to shout again. This time he charged Ryoka and lifted his staff.
“Dispeeeeell Maaaaagiiiic—”
“What are you d—oof!”
The oof was from him planting the stave in Ryoka’s belly. Everyone winced. All eyes swung back to Lord Veltras, and he looked uncertain. He hadn’t expected that.
Ryoka would have kicked Leireit if she had any breath left in her—or strength—but the [Sorcerer] hadn’t struck her that hard. And indeed, his eyes had begun to glow. She began to try, anyways, when she saw the light.
It came from his open mouth, from within, from his glowing veins. A smell like pine filled the air. His voice became two octaves deeper and echoed like it came from a cave. Ryoka felt a magical rumbling transmit itself through the staff, the bed and her.
“[Dispel Magic: Mana Clash]!”
Her eyes widened. She stopped trying to kick him and saw, with her limited magical abilities, the mana race through him and the four [Mages] running support.
“Dead gods!”
Keireen threw up her hands to shield her eyes. Tyrion frowned as if seeing something, and Sammial’s eyes went round.
“That felt powerful!”
“It’s so…colorful!”
Hethon muttered. Jericha, lost in focus, wanted to blink at him. Colorful?
The others just watched, seeing nothing but the light Leireit emitted and feeling it in the air.
Leireit was fighting something. He began shouting as Ryoka saw his mana start burning itself against something, like water trying to throw a boulder. It wasn’t efficient. It wasn’t smart, or calculated.
But, hells, it was working. Unlike every other attempt, which hadn’t even managed to target the spell in her, this was rather like putting out a fire by jumping on it and rolling around on top. Inefficient? Painful? Maybe, but it was a lot more direct than wasting time finding ‘water’, or something.
The only question was if Leireit and the other [Mages] had the mana or power, but he was adding to the fire.
“[Replenish Mana]! [Enhanced Casting: Tier 4]! [Enchanced Focus]! I said, enhanced focus! Hold on—”
“My mana is burning out, you maniac!”
Alevica bellowed at Leireit, but the [Sorcerer] was laughing, pouring their combined strength into the fight. Jericha bit her lip until it bled and the other two [Mages] groaned.
The unseen battle in the air was making Leireit sweat. Ryoka was shuddering, feeling something fighting in her. An incredible pressure was squeezing her from within. Just when she thought it would pop or she’d scream, it happened.
“Aha! I d—”
Leireit bellowed. Then there was an explosion. He went flying through the air, arcing and landing with a whumph nearly twenty feet distant. Ryoka herself was blown straight out of her bed. She crashed behind it as it turned over, and stumbled to her feet.
“Holy g—holy Oberon!”
Everyone stared as Ryoka caught herself. Her strength was back in a moment! Her head felt clear, she could move and stand—even her skin had regained some of its regular color! Ryoka stared at Leireit.
“You did it?”
Even Tyrion hadn’t expected success so fast. Leireit rose to his feet, swearing as he felt at his back. Then he raised his arms in victory.
“That’s a Level 40 [Sorcerer] for you! Hah! I’m levelling tonight! Fetch the wine! Fetch the pretty ladies! Er, those that think I’m quite impressive, not the ladies of bought company.”
Ryoka just looked at her hands, blown away. Level 40…?
“That actually worked? String me up and paddle my ass!”
Buscrei had snorted water all out of her nose onto the grass. Charlay nodded, jaw open.
“Yeah, y—wait, what did you say?”
“What did she say?”
Hethon and Sammial both turned around too, though they hadn’t said that. Everyone took a moment. Buscrei glanced around.
“Oswen tradition. It’s a bunch of fun. See, you draw lots and—”
“Such idiotic activities.”
“Who said that? I don’t make fun of idiots jumping off cliffs!”
Lord Swey, the [Lord] who lived on a plateau, raised his hands, frowning.
“Not me. I thought it was Pellmia.”
“Not me. Who said—”
Then they all froze. It was there again. The same voice.
“Damned [Sorcerers]. Do you really think you can get away? Stay right there.”
“Oh, you have got to be kidding—”
Buscrei whirled, but there was no one in sight. Ryoka was leaping and laughing about, going over to help Leireit up.
“Ryoka! Watch out! It’s—”
Too late. A hole opened up in the sky. And guess what flashed down towards Ryoka?
Crimson lightning. Ryoka Griffin looked up just in time to see it stabbing down at her. Her immediate thought mirrored everyone else’s.
Again? That was just so unf—
She couldn’t dodge it. It shot down at, well, the speed of lightning. Or close. [Lightning Bolt] and such spells were a bit slower than actual lightning, which was so fast as to be instantaneous, which was why anyone had a chance of dodging them.
Even so. Ryoka was flat-footed and it was faster than she was, even with the wind. She stumbled, hands going for her side.
“No—”
The lightning touched the glowing shield, and a word written upon that famous crest glowed. The sigil of forests and beasts. One of the Five Families of old:
Veltras.
It bounced, ricocheting off, and hit a tree which promptly dropped all its apples, and then exploded. Lord Tyrion whirled his heirloom up, his sword in the other hand.
Only one man in the gathering could move that fast. There was a curse from above in a tongue Ryoka had never heard.
“You little pests! You will not get away, [Thief]—”
A second bolt of red lightning flew down, but this time it was blocked by a barrier in the skies. Ryoka and Tyrion whirled; Keireen, Pellmia’s wife, had lifted a hand.
“[Safety of the Home]. Inside!”
They ran, well, the target did. Jericha lurched to her feet after Tyrion, who shielded Ryoka as they charged inside. There was a split in the sky. A wrathful eye—
Lady Buscrei aimed her recurve bow straight up at it.
“[Counter Fire]. [Arc Arrows]. [Splinter Arrowheads]!”
She launched a volley of arrows into the air, looked up, and cursed.
“Damn. [Counter Fire] didn’t take. Worth a shot.”
The hole in the sky closed as fast as it had opened, cutting short a shout of frustration. Calmly, Buscrei aimed about, as Lord Swey, Pellmia, and the other warriors drew their blades. Hethon and Sammial didn’t see what happened next; Jericha had grabbed them and hurried them inside.
However, it was certainly exciting. And Ryoka was cured. So there was that.
Too bad that the next three times she tried to step outside, spells nearly killed her.
 
—-
 
“What do you mean, you don’t know where the spells are coming from?”
It was an incredible statement. Not so anywhere else, but from House Veltras, Lord Pellmia, a powerful [Lord], and Sir Leireit?
Actually, Leireit didn’t count, but the fact that so many powerful individuals could be under attack by long-range spells that only went after Ryoka and not know even the vaguest direction they were bound from was…incredible.
“My lord, we are under attack by a very powerful [Mage]. The spells have almost no magical emissions. I cannot see their make, and there is no mana trail to follow.”
Jericha was pale as Ryoka peeked out the window. The Courier was staring at the innocuous sky. She winced as a [Healer] dug out a bit of wood from one arm.
The lightning had stopped after the second time she’d left. However, her mysterious assailant had decided to diversify the spells. Ryoka had walked right next to the second tree that exploded, peppering her with shrapnel.
“That was my favorite tree.”
