That was all she said. It made sense. Oh, how clever.
 No wonder she’d believed they were special. No wonder Nama had told her they wouldn’t wear out. How could you break something with no beginning or end?
Fae tricks. Yet, it was such a simple trick. An impossible one for anyone on Earth to ever actually create, but in the logic of the fae? This was probably as simple as they came. Yet in their simplicity, they created a fabric that not even advanced alien tech or actual magic could tear.
It was amazing, unreal, and simple and clever! Ryoka wondered if this was how the fae fought.
It was beautiful and simple.
“Thank you, Nama.”
Ryoka gathered up the precious little footwraps her friendly protector had given her. She glanced at the Faeblade, hanging at her side. Weapons of a strange kind, for a strange Runner.
The wind blew, and for a second the orchard whispered. Hethon saw the tops of countless trees dance in delight, in response to Ryoka’s smile. He looked up and fell a bit in love with that.
Tyrion looked at Ryoka too. She stood there, at peace.
“Those are the gifts you received from the visitors? Truly unsurpassed gifts.”
He remarked, softly. Ryoka Griffin patted her side.
“I have one more. Not a weapon. Just a gift. Something valuable.”
She stood there for a second. The others nodded—but then Ryoka realized her mistake. She dug, exceedingly carefully, in her belt pouch, and came up with a folded scrap of paper.
“I’m sorry. Here. If you want to see it, take a look. It might be more valuable than the Windsword and the footwraps, though.”
The Veltras’ crowded around. They had to see this. Hethon stared as Tyrion slowly unfolded the paper. He saw a scribble of ink and was disappointed. Then he looked up, as Jericha reached for him.
“Lord Hethon? What—”
Hethon blinked. Then he realized he was on the ground. He stared at his knee, and the other one placed just so. He was…kneeling? He glanced at Sammial, who caught himself. Then Tyrion, who had not knelt, but stopped himself. What…
Hethon looked at the words again. There were just two, and they made no sense. Well, proper names didn’t. He wondered why they mattered, for surely they did.
Arthur Pendragon.
A slightly clumsy scrawl, unpracticed, even a bit badly done, as if someone had yet to fully master his letters. Hethon could have done better himself. The ink was plain, the paper…paper. Yet when Ryoka Griffin took it back, she looked at it, and her eyes sharpened. She took a deep breath, as Tyrion Veltras looked at the Wind Runner.
“What is that, Ryoka?”
She nodded at the signature and stared at it again. Ryoka Griffin closed her eyes and murmured as she thought of the boy waiting, beholding his destiny, yet still…drawing the sword.
“Courage.”
 
—-
 
That night, Charlay raced back into House Quellae’s mansion and hid in the stables.
“I didn’t take offense. Please come out, Runner Charlay.”
Desinee convinced her to stop trying to pretend to be a horse. Charlay peeked over the lip of the stable.
“I am so sorry, your ladyship!”
They came into the mansion, slightly unsteady, a bit drunk on cheap ale and good times. Buscrei and Swey were both falling over tables, and Setth was keeping them upright.
It was a convivial, good night. In other times, Keireen and Pellmia would have had to help the group to bed.
As it happened, there was no need. The drinking party came to a stop as they heard and saw something interesting.
Ryoka Griffin was sitting in the living room. She sat by the fire, so her shadow was long across the cobblestone chimney, made of magical stones with flecks of crystal or other glowing light across them.
It glowed faintly, and the wood and carpet flooring contained two little boys sitting there, right up by her feet. The grand chairs were also filled by none other than Lord Pellmia, Keireen, Betta, and Tyrion Veltras himself.
The others halted. Not for that alone, but because they realized…there were more than just the nobility.
Alevica watched from the shadows. Sir Leireit was seated, but there were servants, even the off-duty guards and children all gathered about. Listening quietly, standing from the hallways, but they were allowed to be here.
Ryoka had asked for it. Jericha hovered with them rather than go forwards, noting Gilam also standing with reserve, albeit alone. Yet they were all listening.
“What’s all this in aid of?”
Swey whispered as the others slowed. He got a response as Ryoka spoke.
“The Wind Runner is telling a story.”
Their heads turned back to Ryoka. Of all the things…storytelling from Ryoka Griffin? It didn’t fit her.
But then, they had never seen her with the fae, and the Stone Spears tribe. She had done this once before. And this?
Ryoka held something in her hands. Three signatures. Of course, she had more than three; you asked for copies. But these were the three, and one was the very same one she’d gotten first.
From the brave boy. He who would be King of Avalon.
King of Chivalry. King of Knights. King of Camelot.
Arthur Pendragon.
“The great [Wizard], Merlin, had foreseen his own demise. You see, some people say that he moved through time…backwards.”
“Backwards? How?”
Sammial’s voice piped up. He was shushed, but Ryoka tried to explain.
“You see, he could see through time. So it didn’t matter when he was; he knew Arthur to be the [King] because it was all the same. In the same way, Merlin knew his fate at the hands of Morgan le Fay, the [Enchantress].”
“But if he knew what was going to happen, why didn’t he do something?”
“Sammial…”
Tyrion’s voice was quiet. Ryoka smiled.
“Well, sometimes you let things happen. I don’t know why. Maybe he couldn’t change it. Maybe he thought it was for the best. Maybe…”
She looked past them all. The audience shivered as Ryoka’s eyes changed.
She was not the best [Storyteller] to grace Lord Pellmia’s mansion. They had known [Bards], great amateurs and experts alike. Naturally talented men and women. Those with Skills.
Barelle the Bard himself had come here, once. Yet Ryoka Griffin had something that even he lacked. Or rather, something only Barelle could even match.
She was not perfect. She made mistakes and people interrupted. She didn’t remember the story perfectly, and hadn’t practiced it.
Nevertheless…she looked past them all at three solemn faces. A sword in the stone. When Ryoka told the story, you believed it.
The greatest storytellers had lived the very moments they recreated. So Ryoka told them about the bravest boy she had ever known. The man who had made many mistakes, yet the origin of so many tales. The timeless, tragic, glorious legend.
King Arthur of Camelot.
It was the tale that echoed in Terandria now, whether they knew it or not. The heart of every [King] and brave [Knight]. Ryoka Griffin had met him.
Some day he would return. It was one of Earth’s greatest stories, in its many forms. Perhaps because you could keep telling it.
Hethon and Sammial scooted forwards to the warm fire, their stomachs filled by snacks brought out, hot milk. They sat on the carpet as they listened to Ryoka’s low voice, echoing around the room.
She could be proud of that. Ryoka spoke until her voice was hoarse. She sipped from potions, accepted wine, and told the story.
Whatever else might be done after this—she had told them of Arthur. Not just of his heroism, but the way she saw it. The boy who accepted the crown for the good of his people. She was satisfied; there were not many tears, but it moved them. Tyrion Veltras himself listened, his face going distant as she spoke of Arthur’s sacrifice, his loss.
So ended the first day Ryoka Griffin truly spent in House Quellae’s manor, as a true guest, not an invalid, flighty runner or target of [Matchmakers]. She lay down in the soft bedding and fell asleep, content. Even smiling.
It was, as Pellmia would later say over breakfast the next day, one of the best guest experiences he’d ever had. And he was the host.
Ryoka was just a bit proud of that. She saw her friends, and the busybodies interested in amusing matchmaking looking at her differently the next day. As if Ryoka had made it harder to shove her into a closet with Tyrion.
Well, as if she were a person, not an interesting diversion. Ryoka Griffin stood taller. She smiled. She exchanged farewells with Alevica, who went off with a lot of looted food, and Charlay, who had a job from Lady Desinee, much to her delight.
“I don’t know where she comes from, but she is a fascinating girl.”
Keireen remarked to Pellmia in private as Ryoka took sword-lessons from Tyrion, let Sammial ‘jump’ from the mansion with a worried Jericha watching, and walked about the orchard. They came back with a basket full of cherries, and Pellmia smiled.
“Yes. Quite. Every time I think I won’t be surprised…well now. There is the Courier, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt.”
Keireen peered at Ryoka, and laughed and nodded. Ryoka was beginning to fit her title.
They got a second, almost full day out of it. A day where the world was not right in many places, but Ryoka Griffin just relaxed, content to take the moment for once. By nightfall, she was joking over dinner with the others, and writing replies to Lyonette, who had confirmed Fetohep’s words.
Ryoka was waiting for Magnolia’s response, and anticipating Valeterisa’s arrival tomorrow with some dread. She turned in, composing ways to tell Magnolia without telling her if she wanted clarification or…figure out what to do. Night fell over House Quellae.
Then Ailendamus attacked.
As Ryoka had known they would.
 
—-
 
“To arms! To arms! Lizardfolk!”
The roar was one sound over the din of explosions, horses screaming, people screaming, and the ringing of metal on metal. Lord Setth pointed at the figures.
“Lizardfolk? Are you mad, man? They’re Centaurs!”
Buscrei screamed back. She loosed an arrow and saw a Centaur fall. Setth grimly placed himself at one of the doors. He realized what it was at the same time as his cousin and they chorused.
“Illusion spells!”
It didn’t matter who, in truth. They came out of the orchards, nearly four hundred of them. Quellae had raised the alarm scant minutes before the forces arrived.
They were definitely mounted. Even under whatever Skill or spell it was, Buscrei didn’t think the now-Dullahans could move that fast. She saw them as huge, striding shapes, but when she loosed an arrow, she saw the shapes change to a prone Garuda and a running cow.
Mounted warriors. They still fell. But…she ducked as an arrow thunked into the wood by the windowsill.
They were good. They stormed around the mansion, seeking to break in. They might have, for all House Quellae was not undefended. Keireen’s protective Skill couldn’t keep them back for more than a minute and there were some who were clearly high-level.
They might have, but for House Veltras.
The first armored figure burst through one of the windows. He or she whirled, saw a screaming [Housemaid]—and lowered the blade.
“Where is the Courier?”
The figure demanded. The [Housemaid] fled, shrieking, and they cursed. They whirled, sword going up—
Lord Swey grabbed the arm, as the two plowed into a wall. The armored figure cursed and sought to bring the sword down.
“Do not force me to kill you, si—swine!”
The insult didn’t move Swey one way or another. The warrior yanked their arm back—or tried to. They could not.
The [Mountain Lord]’s grip was like a band of steel. And…the warrior stared at their gauntleted arm. They felt the enchanted metal begin to crunch as Swey’s hand closed. The same hands that climbed the cliffs around his home—
More figures were galloping around the sides of the mansion, seeking to break through at another angle. They saw a squad of fourteen figures braced.
“Spears. Watch out—”
Their leader was cautioning the others as they turned. Then they heard a shout.
“[Porcupine’s Onslaught]! [Extended Reach—”
“Dead gods!”
One of the warriors shouted just before a wall of spears struck the warriors off their armored horses. They hit the ground, stunned. Just in time to see House Veltras’ bodyguards charging at them. They’d hit them from nigh on forty feet away! The warriors rose to their feet, drew their blades.
House Veltras’ bodyguards were storming into areas; an entire squad joined Buscrei and began downing warrior after warrior. The attackers were dismayed.
After all, they were [Knights]. Yet they were running into some of Izril’s finest.
Then the [Lord] appeared on horseback with Jericha by his side. He looked around—and pointed.
“There. Take out the commander.”
He rode down on the leader in the field. The [Knight] had to stop himself from saluting, with regret. Their mission was secret.
They had come from far away, over sea, at fastest speed. Failure was not an option—yet they might fail to take the mansion by force. In fact, with each passing second, it seemed more and more grim. Still, the warriors fought on, cloaked by spell, dragging their fallen back.
They just had to buy time.
“Is this Ailendamus? They must be mad! Even if they hide it—”
Pellmia was in the mansion, not sortieing with Tyrion. He longed to, but his wife and family were here. Keireen whirled.
“They’re hiding it. They must not know we know, and even if we do—they’re not trying to kill us. Not yet. Where’s Ryoka?”
The [Lord of Orchards] realized who their target was and cursed his idiocy.
“The guest rooms! To me!”
His bodyguard and Pellmia charged there, but only found an empty room. Armored figures burst through the wall, and Pellmia raised his sword. Where was Ryoka?
The real attackers did not make noise. They slipped into the mansion while House Veltras and Quellae were distracted by the noisy [Knights].
Invisibility spells. Localized teleports. Shadow-jumps.
Half didn’t make it. Veltras’ [Bodyguards] around Hethon and Sammial’s rooms killed a squad appearing there, but Ryoka was not there.
Lady Betta Quellae screamed as one of the figures appeared in front of her. The wand rose. Hesitated. She was a [Lady], and not—
“Betta! [Gorecut Step]!”
A blade slashed through the figure. Blood sprayed everywhere. Betta flinched as hot liquid struck her face and dress. She lowered shaking hands. How—who had—?
“Gilam?”
Her brother lowered his sword. He panted, eyes alight—then froze as he realized she had heard his Skill. Then both turned, before they could unpack that moment.
“Lord Sammial! Come back!”
Bodyguards were bellowing. Sammial was shouting as he ran past them.
“They’re after Ryoka! Hurry! She’s—”
