When they had first met, Hethon Veltras’ savior had not looked the part. Nor was he, sick, feverish, able to appreciate it.
What he remembered, in between [Healers] telling him to drink the vial in sips and feeling a rush of life, his fever breaking in less than ten minutes, was the bloody young woman they brought in. His father himself carried her in, but did not stay long; he went to hunt the other [Assassins].
Ryoka Griffin had not seemed like the person who saved his life, unconscious, head lolling. However, when Hethon thought of the moment now, something struck him.
Not then. Nor during the battle at the Village of the Dead…nor during the party with the strange guests in Riverfarm had he ever seen Ryoka Griffin shed tears.
She had taken terrible wounds. At other times, she had not wept; she hadn’t been hurt, but some moments had seemed just as dire. Her friends had never come out of the Village of the Dead, and Hethon had heard [Soldiers] weeping for fallen friends. Old and young, men and women. His father had told him, when he first saw it, never to belittle them.
You wept when you were hurt, or lost something precious. Although a [Lord] shed tears in private. Perhaps that was why Hethon had never seen his father weep; he took his own advice.
Even when the crimson lightning struck her out of the skies, Ryoka Griffin didn’t cry. She was unconscious, but in the days thereafter, she didn’t weep, even when her sweat ran with her own blood. It had to hurt, and she could barely crawl.
No tears. Of course, he didn’t think of it. Jericha and his father didn’t weep. Ullim didn’t really weep, except on the anniversary of his mother’s death and other times. He had seen Jericha once save him from cutting his hand when his belt knife slipped.
The blade had cut her right down to her tendons and she’d just made sure he was alright before tending to her wounds. Ryoka Griffin was cut of the same cloth, in Hethon’s mind.
He saw Ryoka weeping now, four days after she had been bedridden. She sat, shoulders shaking.
The two brothers of House Veltras found her in bed. The bleeding from every pore had stopped, but she was white as a sheet. The [Healer] took no credit; the man just told Hethon’s father, in private, that the spell was there to make Ryoka suffer, not kill her.
Lord Tyrion was out again, consulting another [Healer] or [Mage]. He’d ridden to First Landing itself this time. Hethon and Sammial were always checking on Ryoka. They’d found her like this.
“Miss—Ry—”
Hethon couldn’t get the words out. He didn’t know what to say. Sammial had run off to find Jericha or Ullim, and Hethon was rooted there, unable to do anything, but unwilling to run while Ryoka wept. That was the difference between the two.
He saw her shoulders shaking. She could barely sit up; the pillows piled behind her steadied the huge, gulping sobs. She kept trying to suppress them, and that just made them more painful.
“…doing…what…”
Hethon heard her voice. She was holding something. He edged closer, ashamed, curious, and heard what she was saying.
“What am I doing? Why am I here? She needs me. They…why…”
She made a bubbling sound. Wiped at her messy nose. It was not pretty crying, after all. Hethon didn’t know why.
Her little friend, a Gnoll, was gone. Her ward? Her child? It was unclear, but Ryoka had dragged herself out of bed before being confined. Why now? Had…had something happened to Mrsha?
No. Not that, after all. Ryoka Griffin held a crumpled sheet of paper in her hands. Specially transcribed, sent to her. Forwarded, really. It was a simple message, and it had bounced from three different locations with different addendums.
 
To Lionette, Oteslia, from Joseph, Invrisil:
LIONETTE. READ IMMEDIATELY. KEVIN IS NOT HERE, BUT THEY SENT IT TO ME. WHAT DO I SAY?
 
Then—
Lionette, Oteslia, to Joseph, Invrisil:
Please confirm this at once, Joseph. I am forwarding it to everyone we know.
 
Lionette, Oteslia, to Ryoka Griffin, Courier (Reizmelt):
Ryoka, please read this at once. I am getting Joseph to confirm this, but the Mage’s Guild believes it is accurate. The location matches. I do not know how, but it might be true.
 
All of that was preface. An attachment. Context. Ryoka had begun reading. Then she’d read it again. Turned to call for Ullim and ask—looked again. Wiped at her face.
Disbelieved, thought about it, wondered.
Then…believed. Dared to hope it was real.
That was when the tears had come.
 
His Majesty Fetohep of Khelt, the Great Servant, Fetohep the Faithful, Protector of the Realm of Jecrass and 19th Ruler of Khelt, Khelt, to Kevin of Solar Cycles, Liscor:
I shall keep this missive brief, as prying parasites so often infest such channels. You do not answer your speaking stone. In regards to your request for aid, I have decided to grant Khelt’s great resources in reviving your friend. By the will of Khelt’s rulers, it will be done, without cost or failure. I shall explain more in a private setting.
Know this, and communicate it to your friends: I have it upon the greatest authority and certainty that she lives. My means are opaque. Yet I am bound by no less than the individual in question to relay a message.
‘I’m only mostly dead. Sorry, just joking. Wait for me. I’m coming back. Please don’t bury me.’
Delivered verbatim. I shall call upon you as soon as my reply is received.
—His Eternal Majesty, the Sovereign of True Paradise, Heir of Khelta…
 
The list of titles and appellations went on for a while. Ryoka hadn’t read them. She had stopped when she realized what it meant.
So careful. So opaque. No wonder Joseph hadn’t been sure. Lyonette?
But what else could explain this? The out-of-context line that looked like silly nonsense—it was. Who else could write it? Why would someone like that lie?
“How? How did she…?”
It was too strange to be anything but truth. Let that be the case. Ryoka wanted to believe. She had.
Then she had begun weeping. Not because she had taken an injury that hurt too much, or the news was too bad, as Hethon thought.
Rather, the opposite. Because something had gone right for once. Ryoka had not cried when the Horns died. Even when Erin died, she had been numb, lost. She had shed tears, but…
This broke her. Because she lay in this bed, with Mrsha missing, and the first real proof there was hope, more than hope, that her great friend would live again.
And here Ryoka lay. The Courier’s eyes were blurred so that the gentle, comfortable guest room in Lord Pellmia’s mansion they’d put her in became one creamy brown color, sheets and floor melding together.
She heard birds singing outside. Felt the warm spring air wafting through an open window, and the distant smells of the orchard, earth and ripening fruit in the air.
Here she lay. Wasting time. Doing nothing.
“I should be helping. I should be—I have to be—they need me. Why am I so useless, even now?”
She had gone to the world beyond for strength and obtained a charge. The weight of the world rested on her shoulders, hers and all the others’, and here she was. Still helpless.
Ryoka Griffin cried, until a tentative figure made her look up. A hand touched her leg and jerked away. She looked up.
“Miss Ryoka?”
Hethon offered her a clean handkerchief. The Courier looked at the bit of cloth, and realized her entire face was a mess.
“Thbk yb.”
He assumed she was thanking him and stood back. Hethon watched Ryoka as she wiped, and slowly calmed down. Only then did he dare ask.
“Is it…is it bad news, Ryoka?”
He looked sidelong at the paper. Ryoka Griffin sat there and shook her head.
“No. It’s good news. I’m just so…fed up with being useless, Hethon. I have to do something. I can’t let them down again.”
He didn’t know who ‘they’ were. Or how Ryoka could see herself as useless. So the boy only nodded and stood there, awkwardly, until Jericha and Sammial came to see what was wrong. He saw Ryoka close her eyes and lie back, her features even more exhausted from the curse running rampant in her veins.
“I have to do something. Even if I die. This time…I have to do something.”
Hethon looked at her. He didn’t like that at all. Yet what could he say?
“If I—if House Veltras can help, Ryoka—I’m sure Father would agree. He still says he owes you a debt of honor.”
He saw Ryoka start; she had forgotten about him, and looked at Hethon. After a second, she shook her head.
“I…no. There are some things you can’t ask, Hethon.”
“But he’d—”
She held out a weak hand that shook like she had palsy and he fell silent.
“Especially if he’d do it. I just need…”
Her head lay back on the pillow and her lips moved.
“Not this time. I didn’t go there and back again to fail once more.”
 
—-
 
The next day, Ryoka Griffin was better. Well, not sobbing her eyes out. She lay, weak, unable to lift her body out of bed.
At least she wasn’t crying tears of blood. The curse had drained her fluids, her energy, and her strength, and now it seemed content to immobilize her like this.
Definitely a curse. It was Ryoka’s first experience with being hexed, and apparently it wasn’t a common type of magic. Well, five days since she’d fallen out of the skies, fleeing Lord Tyrion’s romantic advances.
Hah. That felt like ages ago, to Ryoka. Five days of being confined to bed, delirious, with bad news—then amazingly good news hitting her.
Ryoka hadn’t been too lucid until the last day or so. Now, she grimly lay there.
“A curse?”
“A powerful one. [Dispel Magic] does nothing, and I cannot even see it in you, Miss Griffin. Then again, hexes and the like are not traditional magic. You have a mortal enemy, it seems.”
“I already knew that. I guess I have more. Or one of them’s after me.”
Jericha just gave Ryoka one of her looks that said she wanted to know more, but was avoiding shaking it out of Ryoka. Barely.
“Do you have…any inclination to inform us which enemy this might be? We cannot help you without knowledge, Miss Griffin.”
“I know. And…no. I could take a swing at figuring out which mortal enemy it is, but some things I can’t tell you. It’s a matter of honor. Sort of.”
Jericha sighed, but nodded, accepting that to Ryoka’s surprise.
“Could you, perhaps, at least narrow down who it might be?”
“Let me think. Who might try to kill me? Well, there’s…”
Ryoka opened her hand. Raised a finger. Then three. Added another one after a moment. Another three for good measure. Then two more and realized she needed more fingers…Jericha stared at Ryoka, especially since it was clear Ryoka was serious.
Let’s see. It could be Persua, damn her. It would be just like her to hire a curse-specialist. Or it could be Az’kerash. Eye in the sky? Maybe. Or whoever I stole from. That’s my biggest bet since they said ‘thief’, but it could also be any of the six…enemies. Or Belavierr. Or, frankly, an angry fae like that Wyrm. Or…
She had a bad feeling she knew who it was.
“I uh…think it might be a new mortal enemy. Someone I don’t know. I’m…in a bit of trouble.”
“So I gather. Does this relate to the voice I heard claiming you stole something, Miss Griffin? It referred to you as ‘thief’.”
Jericha had reached the same conclusion Ryoka had. The Courier bit her lip. She squirmed, once again not wanting to give away anything.
To her great surprise, Jericha just sighed.
“I shall let the matter rest. For now—his lordship has returned, with a magic-user who might be able to help you. I also understand another specialist has come, a friend of yours.”
“A friend of mine?”
Ryoka Griffin was confused. She had friends? She craned her neck as two people came to see her.
“…Lupp?”
 
—-
 
Five days was a long time. Or a short time if you considered geography, and the distances involved. Tyrion Veltras, at top speed, could make it to First Landing and back in that time, and even then, only because his quarry had ridden out to meet him.
By the same token, five days was still not enough for Riverfarm to send their experts. So they’d called on an expert in the area.
“Hey, Ryoka! I came as fast as I could! Look who I bro—oh, no, are you dead?”
Charlay trotted into the room and did a double-take as soon as she saw Ryoka. The Courier gave her a frog-like expression. It switched to the [Witch] rubbing at her rear and waddling in.
“Next time I’ll damn well fly. But no, Mavika just had to mess with my broom.”
“I carried you all the way here, Alevica!”
The [Witch] scowled mightily.
“I want a saddle.”
“Don’t be horrible. Ryoka, look! Alevica’s here to help!”
The Witch Runner and Dustrider Charlay both appeared like some fever vision in front of Ryoka. Alevica? Ryoka stared at the [Witch] as she clinically inspected Ryoka.
“Hm. Wow. That’s ugly. Yeah, she’s definitely cursed.”
“You can tell, Runner Alevica?”
Ryoka saw a man, a bit less stiff than the wooden door he was standing next to, look down at Ryoka. Actually…there was an entire crowd out there.
Some people, like Lady Buscrei, were also a mystery. Lord Pellmia? Well, this was his land. Lord Swey? Lady Desinee El?
The Solstice-effect was someone like Fetohep calling Kevin out of the blue to send a message from beyond the grave that Erin was only ‘mostly dead’.
The Ryoka-effect seemed to be a bunch of people Ryoka knew watching her get hurt. Popcorn optional.
“Oof. She looks like a marsh bird I shot and lost in the swamps. Washed up six days later, looking a bit like that.”
Lady Buscrei was chomping down on a lovely peach. Betta, Pellmia’s daughter, gave Lady Buscrei a horrified look.
“Lady Oswen!”
“What? It’s true.”
Buscrei leaned back in the rich, wood corridors of Pellmia’s mansion, the estates of House Quellae. It lay a stone’s throw away from the vast, bountiful trees laden with the summer harvest.
Fruits hanging plump on stems. Fat peaches, in the middle of being harvested, the bruised or rotten ones fed to animals and seeds re-planted. The air was rich with the smell of nectar and the sounds of House Quellae’s workers mixed with the buzzing of flies, or activities of the animals wandering about.
Like the Totwhisker Cat, or ‘Fruit Cats’, which lay on branches and occasionally deigned to swat a fruit down into a basket or onto someone’s face. Of course, inside the manor, the servants stood in awe of the gathering. [Witches], [Lords], [Ladies], oh my! Even a Centauress! Lord Tyrion Veltras and a sick [Courier]?
As Alevica ‘inspected’ Ryoka, which mainly involved poking her with her wand and saying ‘yuck’, and the second specialist stopped throwing up in the stables, a young man paced back and forth in his rooms.
