Ryoka Griffin knew the Players of Celum. In fact, her signature was probably worth ten thousand Flairs of Esteem. It was just another fascinating thing about her.
The power of someone who travelled. It wasn’t unique to her; most Couriers could boast of the same thing. When you worked for powerful people, you could often say, ‘oh yes, I know them’. Call upon favors…
Charlay and Alevica were both City Runners because they had not broken through to the next level, yet. However, that night, one of them came a bit closer to that point, albeit through connections, not speed.
The Centauress dragged Desinee and some of the [Lords] out to the tavern. Ryoka thought it was fairly funny; Alevica did not, being content to eat and drink on Pellmia’s hospitality. If she had, Ryoka thought she might have a shot at being a Preferred Runner for some valuable clients.
“Fals was right. It’s about being friendly as much as it is running hard and seeing opportunities.”
She murmured to herself. Ryoka didn’t go into the nearby city; she had work to do.
One of those things was blowing Sammial and Hethon and a bunch of children around. They laughed, creating the sailboats and parachutes that children who had heard of the Wind Runner somehow telepathically learned to create in the exact same way.
Betta joined in, before being reminded she was a [Lady] by the scandalized [Housekeeper]. Gilam just watched, and Ryoka felt bad since she would have wanted to try if she was them.
She wasn’t, though, and because she was Ryoka, she retreated to her room after her hospitality bill had been partially paid. Not just to hide away.
To think.
“Eldavin. What happened?”
Ryoka could guess. But she could only guess, and speculate about a lot of things. Like Erin. Mrsha…her hands trembled as she tried to figure it all out.
“Fetohep of Khelt is a powerful person. I…I’m sure Khelt is powerful. But it’s distant. I’m in trouble myself. But Mrsha?”
Her stomach twisted. Her heart hurt, yet Ryoka was aware how far she was, even for her.
“Numbtongue is going after her. And Bird. Bird? I should be there. But…”
She had seen Drassi’s appeal on the scrying orb while sick. Ryoka had to believe that a continent-wide amber alert would help Mrsha. She had to believe that, or she’d go crazy and race after Mrsha.
And she couldn’t.
“I am under attack. I can’t drag Mrsha into this. Whoever that was beat Eldavin. Eldavin! I…”
Ryoka sat there. Then she sighed.
“Yeah. Ailendamus, huh? What kind of a spellcaster can beat Eldavin even if he’s….Eldavin, not Teriarch?”
She mused out loud. She hadn’t really stopped to consider just who was so mad at her. She had assumed everyone, and put it down to a [Royal Magician] or something, someone over Level 40.
However, Sir Leireit was Level 40, and what she’d just seen seemed five cuts above that. Ryoka was thinking clearly now she wasn’t oozing blood out of every pore. And what her mind told her, clearly, was this:
“That’s not normal. I really pissed off someone for them to go to this length. Let’s see. Unknown spellcasting that Jericha is stumped by. Superior magical quality. Really petty—I mean, I stole nothing and they are pissed. Superior magical artifact in a vault that can definitely help Erin. Powerful kingdom.”
Her brain was telling her something based on logical deductions and past experiences. It was a very, very obvious conclusion. Ryoka stared at her fingers, and waggled her two stumps.
“…No. It can’t be. That would be an unbelievable coincidence. Especially for me to just run into…”
On the other hand, it made a kind of stupid sense. How many immortals had she run into? Was it fate? Or…the fae?
“It would be just like me to be cursed to meet people like that. Ivolethe would laugh her frozen butt off.”
Ryoka sat there.
“No. It’s too stupid. I’m not the heroine of every story. This is just arrogance. This is just supposition.”
She stood up and paced around, but she kept coming back to the conclusion. Ryoka slapped her forehead and groaned.
“No. Then…”
She sighed and began to pull something out of her pack. The quiet guest room, decorated by fruit motifs on the wallpaper, was filled by the scents of the orchards again. It was so peaceful, yet out of any moment could come another bolt of lightning.
The Wind Runner had to do something about it. So. She sat down and pulled a strange, beautiful, metallic object off a belt loop and stared at it.
The Faeblade burst into life, a glowing pink blade trending towards ultraviolet. An edge so fine that you couldn’t see it. Ryoka handled it carelessly, knowing it wouldn’t cut her. She inspected the nigh-invisible grooves on the handle.
“Hm. Let me see.”
With one hand, she fished out the ultra-thin paper. She spread the instruction manual out, stared at the foreign language, and rubbed at her head.
“Okay. Press this, squeeze…no. Press this, squeeze—what is that?”
She stared at a little illustration of curved lines around a picture of her hand. This was written for children in pictographs and somehow she didn’t get it.
“If only someone could translate this. Someone could…just cast a spell. But that doesn’t exist.”
Ryoka cursed as the blade winked out again. She scratched her head, then froze, mid-scratch.
“Wait a second. Didn’t Ceria once say…? But everyone speaks…no way. No—I’m going to kill myself if it’s—”
She got up and paced out of the room.
 
—-
 
“[Translation]? That’s a spell.”
Alevica and Leireit were sitting in the parlor, stuffing themselves. The [Witch] glanced down at a plate of lovely salami, then up. She met Ryoka’s bug-eyed gaze.
“What? You find something in Goblin or Drathian? Stop…staring at me like that.”
“It’s a spell?”
“Sure it is. Barely anyone needs it. Some people use it to translate the spellbooks written by those idiots who make other languages.”
“C-can you cast it for me?”
Ryoka was screaming inside, but she hid that behind a big smile.
Alevica wasn’t fooled; she could see emotions. She eyed Ryoka, and edged behind the oblivious Leireit who was happily chewing on seedless grapes.
“…No.”
“I’ll pay you. Look, I’ll give you a recommendation for the Players or gold…”
Ryoka dug into her money pouch. Alevica leaned back.
“Look, I can’t cast [Translate], Ryoka. I’m a [Witch]. Also? It’s not a spell I know. So uh, calm down and…”
Leireit glanced up.
“I don’t know it either. Fairly esoteric as spells go. Who did you know who could cast it?”
“My friend—a Wistram [Mage]. She was an adventurer.”
“Ah, they would know it. You sometimes run into specific dialects in dungeons. Old Drake writing, and so on. Any scholarly-[Mage] should be able to cast it. Maybe Miss Jericha?”
 
—-
 
“I can’t cast [Translate]. What would you like translated?”
Jericha gave Ryoka a big smile. She peered at the object Ryoka had in her hand. Ryoka glanced at the mono-paper and tucked it away.
“…Nothing important. Say, um, does [Translate] tell you what the object says, or does it just translate for anyone?”
“It would have to go through me. I don’t know the spell, but I would be delighted to learn it. I can request the necessary spell information and most likely learn to cast it within the week. Would you like that?”
Ryoka stared at Jericha’s big, happy smile. She wondered who else she could ask. Not Ceria; Ceria was in Chandrar, another thing Ryoka could be helping with.
Valeterisa was in the area and would pay her a visit tomorrow or the day after. Ryoka thought about giving the Archmage of Izril the paper and the Faeblade. Knowing Valeterisa, she’d take it, and just run off with it.
So Jericha was somehow the better option. Unless, of course, the instructions said something like, ‘hey Ryoka, we’re so glad you helped us with our Dragon problem in the land of the Fae. We know you’re dumb as rocks so here’s instructions on how to turn the sword we gave you into a blaster. Also, we attached cold fusion instructions for you stupid primates.’
…It would not beggar belief. Ryoka covered her face.
“Why is nothing ever easy?”
“Life without trust often is, in my experience.”
“Huh?”
Jericha gave Ryoka another praticed smile.
“Nothing, Miss Griffin. May I help you in any other way today?”
 
—-
 
Ryoka was banging her head on the wall when Hethon peeked in on her in her rooms next. He was beginning to get worried about her.
“How can I forget [Translate] exists? Okay, Ceria only mentioned it once, and I supposed no one needed the spell but…okay. This is fine. I’m fine. This is good!”
She still gave her head a good thwaking for a few more hits. Then she sat down, buried her face in her hands.
“Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay…saving myself from being roasted or blasted by red lightning. Let’s do that instead.”
Hethon wondered what was going to happen now. Jericha had gone off to research a spell at Ryoka’s request, looking quite happy. Something was happening.
The Wind Runner was opening up. Or at least…asking for help, which was the same thing. Perhaps that was why Ryoka hadn’t closed the door to her room as she pulled something out.
“I should have thought of this too. I am so…let’s see. If this would have actually stopped me from getting cursed…who’s the best person? Alevica. Alevica—”
She charged out of her room and nearly ran over Hethon. The young [Lord] flushed.
“I was just—”
“Hethon?”
Ryoka took one look at him and knew he’d been spying. She tensed—then sighed, resigned.
“It’s fine. Uh—do you know if Alevica is still in the parlor?”
“I think she went into one of the other rooms to drink.”
“Huh. Thanks. I just need to find her.”
Hethon stared up at Ryoka’s head. His brows wrinkled.
“…What is that?”
He pointed up at the strange headband Ryoka was wearing. It looked like two strips of linen wrapped around her head. Which they were. He could have sworn they were the very same fabric that had been on her feet a few times.
Which they were, in fact. Ryoka gave him a very self-conscious look.
“I’m just testing something out. It’s…probably stupid. But don’t let that stop me.”
She jogged off. Hethon followed her, naturally. Who was not going to follow Ryoka when they heard that?
 
—-
 
Alevica was getting tired of being interrupted by Ryoka asking odd questions, but this time she stopped decanting a rather fine wine with Leireit and looked at Ryoka, grinning with amusement.
“Wait, say that again. You want me to curse you?”
Ryoka nervously adjusted the footwraps given to her by Nama. They were tied around her head and she felt as stupid as could be, wearing them. Yet she was exploring all options at this point and she knew they were powerful.
“Yup. I’d…like you to hex me.”
Alevica exchanged glances with Leireit. The [Sorcerer] looked highly amused, and the wine only helped that.
“This is proving to be the most entertaining job I’ve had in a while.”
“I know. Alright, fine. Let me just—”
Alevica pulled out a wand. Ryoka realized she was going to curse her right now, and held up her hands as Hethon, Sammial, and Jericha all skidded around the corner. Not to stop her, just to watch.
“Wait! Wait! Not a powerful curse! I just want uh, a minor hex.”
“Oh. Say that sooner. I was about to give you a nasty one.”
Alevica glowered. She rolled her eyes up as Sammial strode over.
“What are you doing now?”
“Just testing some gear. I’m trying to protect myself and since all my anti-spell wards exploded last time I got hit—”
“Oh, interesting. Is that an artifact of protection? I’ve never seen something like that.”
Leireit glanced at Ryoka’s slightly-dirty footwraps. The Courier’s face turned apprehensive.
“Uh…maybe they aren’t. But they might help.”
“Lord Hethon. Are those the…footwraps Miss Griffin was wearing?”
Hethon nodded as Ryoka waited for Alevica to get ready, taking a few deep breaths. Hethon nodded, squinting at the footwraps.
“They’re weird. What is she doing?”
Jericha frowned.
“I have no idea, Lord Hethon. That woman is an enigma. A maddening one. Sometimes I just want to shake the answers out of her.”
Hethon and Sammial could agree with that. However, they were surprised to hear Jericha say it.
“I have never heard you express yourself that way, Jericha.”
The woman glanced at Hethon, then turned. She actually leapt a foot in the air.
Lord Tyrion Veltras stood behind the rest of his family, watching Ryoka with folded arms. She was pacing back and forth in the carpeted drinking room, telling Alevica she didn’t want a permanent hex in front of the comfy, intimate furnishings, and the lovely velvet couches that Leireit and Alevica were getting crumbs all over.
“Lord Veltras! I…”
Jericha turned red as a beet. Hethon and Sammial were impressed for more reasons than just that, though.
“Father! Are you following Ryoka around too?”
Sammial whispered loudly. Hethon nearly laughed, but then he saw his father…twitch. Lord Tyrion smoothed at his mustache, glanced at Sammial, at Ryoka, and then coughed.
“…I was merely curious.”
All three jaws dropped. Then they saw more figures peeking out from the hallway. Pellmia and Keireen, Betta and Gilam having gone to join Charlay in the fun, were also following Tyrion.
“I must say, I feel like a young man again, sneaking around the home. This is quite fun.”
Pellmia whispered, a twinkle in his eyes. They had learned by now that if you followed Ryoka about when she was like this, she would do something highly interesting.
Of course, Hethon and Sammial were the originals who’d learned that long ago. So they all got a first-class seat to The Travails of Ryoka, a new play starring Ryoka Griffin as Ryoka Griffin where she let Alevica hex her.
The [Witch] aimed a wand as she gulped wine.
“Hex.”
She waved it, and Hethon thought he saw a twisting flicker stretch out of her wand. It reached out, and passed into Ryoka through her throat, disappearing into her. Jericha frowned; everyone else waited.
“Ooh. Not bad.”
Leireit murmured. Ryoka blinked.
“Did it work?”
Hethon was again confused; hadn’t they seen that? Then he heard a sound.
Hic.
Ryoka hiccuped, loudly. She put a hand over her mouth. Alevica snorted and spilled wine onto the couch. Keireen frowned at that, but Ryoka began to hiccup again.
Hic. Hic.
“Oh, hic—it. I just—hic—hexed—hic—I?”
“Yep. You asked for a weak one. Good thing too. That bandana did nothing.”
Alevica chortled as Ryoka hiccuped. The Wind Runner sighed.
“At—hic—least it’s not that bad. I—hic—thought you’d do far worse, Alevica.”
The [Witch] smirked at Ryoka. She waved a wand and the hiccups stopped.
