Clint laughed. “Nah, ah did it all in a big pen. She's jus' mad about bein' in tha cage fer so long.” He walked Ren over to the back of the cart and Ren looked inside through one of the airholes.

“You have got to be kidding me!” Ren said and looked again. “Are you serious, Clint?”

“Ah shore am.” He said to Ren. “Boys!”

2 men hopped off from the front of the cart and came around to the back. With Clint and Ren's help, they got the crate off the cart and onto the ground.

“Ya better step back a bit. She's a might territorial.”

Ren stepped back about 6 feet from the end of the crate and Clint nodded. The 2 men pried off the side of the crate that was facing Ren. It fell open, landed a foot from Ren, and the creature stepped halfway out.

“What is that?!?” Teepo asked, surprised.

It was the largest Bighorn Ram that Ren had ever seen. It was nearly 5 feet tall, was quite muscular in the legs. The huge horns protruded from the sides of the head, came forward at least 6 inches, then wrapped around in nearly a full circle. The ram looked around at it's surroundings and noticed Ren staring at it. The ram pawed the ground and huffed.

It's a bighorn ram, Teepo.

“Back away!” One of the men said.

“No.” Ren said and stood his ground. “I've run from lots of things before; but lately I've been learning that I can choose what to do... and right now, I choose to stand my ground.”

“Don't challenge her!” The other man said, but it was too late.

The ram dropped her head and charged. As she was only 3 feet away, she didn't have much room to get a good run and Ren caught her by the horns and stopped her. She tried to push, but Ren's dwarf ability Rock Steady kept him planted and Ren leaned into her and pushed her back. There was silence on the street as everyone saw Ren move the bighorn ram back a few inches. The ram was just as surprised as the spectators were and stopped trying to push. Ren let her go and she stepped back and lifted her head. She eyed Ren and huffed.

“Git outta there! She's gonna ram!” Clint said.

Ren smiled and shook his head. The ram reared up and tilted it's head forward. It took a moment to get all that weight moving towards Ren, but then she pivoted and dove for Ren's head, trying to smash with her horns. Ren's hammerpick appeared in front of his face and her head hit that instead. A gong sounded and a small shockwave emanated from the hammerpick. The ram stepped back, dazed and a little confused. Clint started laughing and the 2 men with him wondered what was happening.

“Ren...” Clint said between guffaws. “Ah was a little worried ya weren' gonna be able ta handle 'er.”

Ren smiled. “So was I at first, but then I remembered what I could do.”

The ram looked at Ren and huffed again.

“Stop.” Ren said in a commanding voice. The ram hesitated for a moment, shook it's head and reared up again. Ren sighed. “I don't want to hurt you!” Ren said as the ram tried to slam into his head again with her horns. Ren held up the hammerpick and another gong sounded as she bounced off of it and then nearly collapsed.

“Stop!” Ren commanded again. The ram stumbled a bit, then knelt at his feet. Ren reached out a hand and ruffled the fur between her horns.

Notice!

Word of your encounter today will be spread quickly, and will be added to the tale of your accomplishments.

Fame: +50

“Ah knew ya'd love 'er!” Clint said and came over to pat Ren on the back. “She's jus' righ' fer ya.”

“Where did you find her?”

“Now tha's a good story. Ah heard o' this odd female ram tha' had horns like a male, was bigger'n 'em, and she took over a herd.”

Ren widened his eyes. “Females can do that?”

Clint laughed. “They ain' supposed ta, but ah guess this one 'ere is special.”

Ren looked her over and saw she already had a saddle on, and had the bit in her mouth that the reins were attached to. “What's her name?” Ren asked.

“Ya can name 'er yerself.”

Ren thought about it for a minute as the Ram regained it's senses. It tensed up as it noticed Ren was stroking its head between it's horns. Ren felt the change and stopped petting her.

“I'm supposed to name you, but all I can come up with are girl's names.” Ren said, then told the ram the names he came up with, and it shook it's head after each one. Ren smiled. “Well, we'll just have to go for the only one I haven't tried yet, and you've definitely shown the right characteristics for it.”

The ram looked at him right in the eye, and he thought she would shake her head no again.

“Princess.”

The ram kept looking at him and Ren smiled. “Princess it is.”

Clint said he had just as much trouble naming his mount, and Ren laughed. “I'm not going to ask how long it took you to come up with 'Izabeal'.”

The warhorse neighed behind them and Clint laughed. “Ah long while.”

Ren turned to the ram. “Hi, Princess. I'm Ren.” The ram tilted her head a bit but didn't react. Ren smiled again and turned back to Clint. “Now, what do I do? I don't have a stall or anything ready for her.”

Clint slapped the side of the crate. “Tha's wha' this is fer.”

Ren widened his eyes.

“Jus' take tha top off, put a couple hinges on tha'...” Clint said and pointed to the side of the crate on the ground. “...and take off a few of th' boards from th' sides.”

Ren looked at it, and then nodded. “Thanks, Clint. That should work really well.”

Clint nodded and told the 2 men they could head out with the horse and cart, then went over to Izabeal and climbed up on her back. “Have fun!”

Ren laughed and waved goodbye to them as they sauntered down the street. “Well, Princess.” Ren said and looked at the bighorn ram. “Why don't we go inside and I can get you settled in.”

The ram looked like it widened it's eyes at Ren's statement, and Ren stored the side of the crate into inventory and then the crate itself.

“Come on. I'm not leaving you outside.” Ren said and tugged on the reins. The ram looked around and then followed Ren into the building. Everyone on the street continued to stare at Ren as he led the large creature into his building. Ren shut the door and led the ram across the floor and to the back corner, beside Ruck's cabinet.

“Please wait a moment.” Ren told the ram and he took out the crate. Using his hammer, he took off the top of the crate and every second board on the sides. Ren pushed the crate into the corner and looked at the floor of the crate. There was some straw and a few leaves, but after the trip there was hardly anything left that was suitable for the ram to sleep on.

“That's all you have to rest on?” Ren said and shook his head. “I'll be right back.” He wrapped the end of the reins around one of the boards in the side of the crate and walked over to the anvil. Ren stored it and then left his building and went to Sally's shop. After buying nearly half of her stock of cotton batting, Sally was so surprised that she didn't even ask what he wanted it for. Ren left her shop and went to Donan's. He gave back the anvil and thanked Donan profusely for it's use. Donan asked if he got the new one and Ren shook his head, then told Donan what had happened.

“A dwarf?!?” Donan said. “Did they change delivery men, I wonder?”

“What?”

“It's supposed to be a human delivery man. I know the guy. I've bought his anvils for years, and he is not a dwarf. He also wouldn't send one, as he hates them with a passion.” Donan said.

“Oh... then I don't know what's going on.” Ren said. “I hope the real delivery man shows up soon.”

Donan offered to send the guy a personal message, and Ren said that it could wait. He'd be leaving for the dwarven city soon. Ren said goodbye to Donan and walked back to his building. Out of habit, he walked through the alleyway that he and Lucy used to use to log out.

“Ren! There's someone on the roof!” Teepo said. Ren jumped forward and turned around. The dwarf was there and saw that Ren had detected him somehow.

Notice!

You have entered PvNPC mode!

The dwarf took the battleaxe in his hands and then jumped. Ren pulled out the metal shield he'd taken from the old temple and as the battleaxe struck it, the Grip of Earth enchantment generated a rock hand. It reached out, grabbed the battle axe, and tried to crush it. The dwarf's full weight landed on the shield and Ren shoved him off. The dwarf lost his grip on the axe, as the rock hand still held onto it and had the axe handle slightly bent.

The dwarf stood about 3 feet away, unarmed. He had a shocked look on his face, and Ren stood up.

“What. Do. You. Want.” Ren said in a deep voice. The dwarf shook himself out of the shock he felt and took out his own shield. Ren smiled, lifted the arm with the shield on it, thought Deactivate and then caught the handle of the falling battle axe, letting it slip down until his hand hit the end of the handle right under double blades. He shifted his grip to hold the center piece that connected the 2 blades to each other and to the handle.

“This looks ruined.” Ren said.

“It can be fix-” The dwarf tried to say, then Ren used Iron Grip on it and crushed the center piece he was holding. The battleaxe broke apart into pieces as the 2 blades and the handle fell seperately to the ground.

“What. Do. You. Want.” Ren said and took out his hammerpick. The dwarf pulled out a dagger and hunkered down behind his shield and Ren sighed. “I hope there's no bad consequences when I finish this.” Ren stepped forward, guarding his flank with the shield, and swung the hammerpick down onto the dwarf's shield. The hammerpick still had the Dark (or Gravity) glyph, and it knocked the shield to the ground and left a hammerpick-sized dent in it. The impact generated a small shockwave, but the dwarf's body only moved back and forth slightly. He wasn't knocked back or moved his feet at all. His face however, still had a shocked look as he stared at the practically ruined shield on the ground.

“I won't ask again.” Ren said, and the dwarf dropped his dagger and knelt.

“I was sent to test you.” The dwarf said.

“Why?”

“To see if you were worthy to learn our ways.”

Ren tilted his head slightly. “And what ways are those? Useless taunting? Starting fights for no reason? Ambushing?”

The dwarf nodded. “The ways of war.”

Ren looked at him with a frown. “So... you did all this for nothing.”

“W-what?”

“Obviously, I didn't pass your tests. You didn't succeed at all.”

The dwarf smiled. “You passed, with flying colors. You'll make a fine dwarf.”

Ren shook his head. “Not if I have to do stuff like this.”

“What do you mean?”

“Fight stupid fights.” Ren said. “I have to finish this, and it seems like such a waste.” He sighed. “How will you tell them I passed if you're dead?”

“D-dead?”

Ren nodded. “This fight doesn't end until one of us is dead.”

The dwarf held up his hands in surrender. “I surrender! I surrender!”

Ren didn't get a popup, shrugged, and lifted the hammerpick.

“You have to accept it!” The dwarf exclaimed.

Ren lowered the hammerpick. “And if I do?”

“You win.”

“I want a promise first.” Ren said.

“A-a what?”

“A promise. If I accept your surrender, I never want to do another useless fight like this with you.”

The dwarf nodded.

“Then, I accept your surrender.”

Notice!

PvNPC mode has ended.

Notice!

Congratulations! You have defeated your opponent in One-on-One combat.

Rewards: 1000 XP

Fame Bonus: 16%

Notice!

You have defeated an opponent 30 levels higher than you.

Fame: +50

“Huh... would you look at that. It worked.” Ren said, surprised. “I thought I had to kill you to end the fight.”

The dwarf stood. “I'm glad you didn't have to.” He said and sighed. “That was a close one. They said you were only a low level!”

Ren looked at him and squinted his eyes. “So you thought you'd have an easy time beating me and making me surrender?” Ren asked.

The dwarf's eyes widened and stepped back. “Hey, I surrendered, didn't I?”

“Only because you had to.”

The dwarf nodded.

“Now what?” Ren asked.

“Now we can go to the dwarf city.”

“What? Right now?”

The dwarf nodded and bent down to pick up the pieces of his battleaxe. He carried them down the alleyway and dropped them next to the building he'd jumped from. Ren followed him with the shield and hammerpick still equipped. The dwarf climbed up the building and a moment later, tossed down his duffelbag. It landed with a heavy thud and the dwarf jumped down. He put the battleaxe pieces inside the bag and looked at Ren.

“You're going to want to pack or something, right?” The dwarf asked.

Ren nodded and told the dwarf to walk in front of him back to Ren's building. They walked there and Ren went inside. He stored the shield and hammerpick and knocked on Ruck's cabinet.

“It's time to go.”

Ruck came out and shut the door. Ren pat him on the head and then looked at his mount. Ren ran to the door and looked outside. “Hey! Can I bring a mount?”

The dwarf was a bit surprised by the request, but he was told to let Ren bring what he wanted, and nodded.

“Sweet.” Ren went back inside and went to Princess. “Hey, I'm leaving for a while, and I'll need your help.” Ren said and untied her reins from the crate. “I'm allowed to take a mount, and I want you to come with me.”

The ram looked at him with wide eyes and Ren chuckled. “Yes, I'm asking. I'm not going to order you. That wouldn't be fair to either of us.” Ren turned around and stored the crate, the unattached gate, and the top he'd removed. He didn't know what kind of situations he'd be getting into while traveling, so he figured he better take as much with him as he could. “Like I said, I need your help. I'll have to get you something to eat for the journey, too.” Ren shook his head. “Damn, I thought I'd have more time to deal with everything!”

Ren looked around to see if there was anything he was forgetting, and didn't notice anything that he needed to take, except for the wood. He stored that, and saw he had enough stones in inventory to make a forge, he still had 2 dozen springy trees (and tons of branches) so he could work on making bows, he had money, and Ruck had all of his potion ingredients. Ren dropped off the 5 crates of oil and left them beside the 5 empty crates that the lanterns had come in.

