Amber energy consumed its body once more, and it generated enormous amounts of radiation. The moon beneath it melted, the stone evaporating into the thickest fog imaginable. The stone mist condensed further from the entity, raining as shining crystals. Those gemstones spiraled around the being before swarming toward me.

They crashed against my body, a shining storm erupting from the surface of my skin. I stepped through the glistening tempest.

"Physical forces? Didn't you mention you're in a different league?"

The carbon crystals around me ignited before the entity shot back towards the interdimensional rip. I bolted towards it, cracks erupting over the moon and to the horizon. As it squirmed into the warp, I followed its descent. Icy energy smothered my body, a paralyzing sensation creeping over me.

Something was wrong here. No eyes opened around me, but I could feel them bore down from all directions. From the ether, Kryyah whispered.

"You can survive even when immersed? Hm, but for how long?"

It shot back out of the rupture, its form turning back to its purple, intangible state. In seconds, the dimension wielder closed the gaping chasm in our reality, and it tried locking me in purgatory. Once the chasm was the size of a manhole, Kryyah shouted into the endless darkness.

"It's been fun, but I've had enough of this. Goodbye."

It slammed the dimension shut. Well, it tried to. I left a thick cord of my dimensional fabric coiled around the entrance, and I reinforced it with my wake. Unable to cleave it apart, Kryyah roared.

"You...Gah, it's like killing a horde of vermin or something. You're a plague, for Baldowah's sake."

I bolted back to the entrance, building mana in my body.

"Remember, even vermin have teeth."

"Rats do enjoy feasting on corpses. You're the same."

Unable to break me in its purple form, it turned amber once more. It fired a beam of condensed radiation at the safety cord I left behind. It snapped, my fabric melting. Kryyah tried closing the warp again, but my wake withheld its pressure. Kryaah scoffed.

"You're like an eldritch virus or, or some twisted idealogy that takes people's minds. Cancer maybe? A dimension cancer."

I reached the warp, putting my hands against the tear in reality. I pulled it apart before snapping a jab forward at Kryaah.

"Yeah, I'm hard to kill. It's a trademark at this point."

I smashed my fist against the being, but I met a physical wall. It manipulated its density, becoming as heavy and dense as a star's core without the same impact on gravity. My fist crumbled as force rebounded into my hand. Kryyah shouted.

"You're a small, pathetic-"

My palm crashed through its unbelievably dense body, shattering the reality warper. As cracks of amber fell, its broken form bolted away from me. It let out a cry.

"You...How?"

I held Baldowah's dimensional opening in my palm.

"If you break the rules, so can I."

Before it could escape, I scooped up the amber shards from beneath me with my pocket dimension. I bolted myself towards the entity, slamming another heavy strike at the creature. It ducked sideways, but I pulled its body towards me with immense gravitation. On contact, I spiked the well's density, and a tiny singularity spawned.

It pulled the amber creature and my fist together. As it snapped outward with kinetic force, Baldowah's dimension slammed into the amber creature. It cracked, splintering outwards as only a small blot of amber energy. A dozen singularities flickered between us, and I disintegrated to nothing before rematerializing in less than a second.

I wiped my brow, having put my furnaces into my pocket dimension a moment before the battle began. As Kryaah made evasive maneuvers, I took as much of its body within my pocket dimension as I could. The leftover shards I missed snapped back together before the entity warped back to the rupture in spacetime. It slipped into the endless darkness and howled out.

"I'm alone now, but you will know that I exist within a myriad. Remember me, virus. Remember this choice."

It slipped away, and I followed, forcing myself through the small spatial rupture. As I gazed into an endless, undifferentiable darkness, I sighed. Holding onto the dimensional opening, I dragged it around, searching in the endless dark for a while. Finding nothing to signal Kryyah ever existed, I hit myself in the head.

Agh. I wanted to end it before it could escape, but the damn thing was resourceful. That, and it could leave whenever it wanted to. Pulling myself out of the void, I held the dark rupture. Taking a while, I jerked the edges of reality shut. However, the amount of energy it siphoned out never changed, and the corrupting energy plumed out in a violent eruption like an oil seep.

I plugged the vomiting dimension with my hand. It seeped its poison into my armor, the icy sensation like breathing in menthol. At the same time, the space around me still carried a deep corruption. Taking a minute, I attempted to heal this tortured realm with my dimensional wake.

To my surprise, I healed it by passing through it, but it required multiple pass-throughs. Starting with Event Horizon, I siphoned the latent, lingering energy that maintained this volatile area. Once I cleared it out, the Rise of Eden built the space back up from zero. The last step required a wave through with my primordial wake. It completed everything, making it just right.

As I passed the vast region like a spatial lawnmower, I found a massive mess on the surface of the moon. I refilled the scars I left on the moon's surface with white stone. After several hours, I took the enormous, gaping chasm the dimensional rupture left behind and filled it with a normal reality. Wiping my brow of imaginary sweat, I leaned against the edge of a crater.

Kryyah left me swirling with questions and no real, tangible answers. Despite the lack of concrete info, I found a few tantalizing bits here and there. Kryyah called this place a hemorrhage, and it thought of the dark energy as blood. If I had to guess why, it revolved around how the energy was made.

I mean, we knew another dimension was collapsing into our own. That's how the eldritch and dungeons kept coming. As it shattered, what happened to the space that couldn't maintain itself? Well, reading into Kryyah's words gave me the answer. The dimensions bled into a form of dense, chaotic energy. If that was the case, then it guaranteed the eldritchs' origins.

Their disconnected spaces were being exposed to the interdimensional energy, corrupting everything within the unprotected spaces. This also explained why Schema made dungeon cores in the first place. They were condensed orbs of interdimensional energy. There was plenty of energy to go around, and it let Schema avoid having to power everything himself. If I stretched my logic a bit, I could assume Schema organized his dungeons and stabilized their space around the cores thereafter. This saved him time and effort, and I marveled at the efficiency. At the same time, I still wondered how cores spawned on L-7. A not-so-educated guess was that the eldritch managed to absorb enough energy that they began to stabilize their dimensional energy into something more physical.

I wasn't so certain about that explanation, but I lacked any obvious answers. I took a second to organize my thoughts into a message format alongside the footage. After sending my findings to relevant guild members, I sent another note to Helios.

As the grizzled albony arrived, he reminded me more of Obolis. He replaced most of his royal garbs with Graphene plating and portions of my own armor. Several weapons rested over his back, with his gauntlets glowing from latent mana. He cast an orb of gravity over himself to counteract the decompressive force on the moon, and a see-through sphere covered his face.

I peered at his title, and I raised my brow.

Helios Novas, the Harbinger's Courier(Lvl 20,000 | Class: Fringe Walker)

"You gained a new title? And you extended your level cap, too? Oh man, Schema must be lowering his standards."

Helios smiled.

"Hm, or perhaps the AI's aligning its rewards with greatness for once."

"Or it could be a glitch."

Helios raised a brow.

"Hm, perhaps so, given the excessive evidence of its gross negligence."

I pointed at the tear in spacetime in my hand. The opening vomited out enormous amounts of interdimensional energy.

"Can you close this? Or, you know, make it smaller."

Helios cracked his neck while stepping forward.

"If another Old One deigns it to be so, then perhaps not. However, this feels different, so most likely, yes. I can close it."

The tear in time belched out enough energy every second to leave Helios as a twisted abomination. He gawked at it.

"What in Schema's name is this? Are you trying to kill me?"

"Not quite. Give me a second."

See, Helios had to work on the rupture from the open direction. To even get near the rupture, the amount of energy had to be reduced to zero. I liquified myself before heading into the void. Inside the dark ether, I absorbed as much energy as I could using Event Horizon. Helios still required a thickened plate of my fabric to stop him from being corrupted, and he worked parallel to the thinnest part of the tear. At least the energy plumed away from him from that position.

The dangerous, difficult work tested our resident warper. A few times, a bit of energy touched his fur, and he tore it off in an instant. The hairs ate one another, having gained tiny teeth and miniature mouths. Helios murmured.

"Ah, yes. I should've anticipated that this mission would somehow be far worse than the last."

I grimaced.

"Oh man, don't tell me this is uncloseable too? If so, then come on, man. What am I even paying you for?"

"You don't, and this warp is closeable, but in another vein, it isn't. Even from a cursory feeling, there's a kind of splintering of reality here. If I heal this wound, the surrounding space will be weakened in the process. It will tear in a few hours once more. It could result in multiple tears, actually."

I sighed.

"So I have to plug it up, essentially?"

Helios peered at a gauntlet.

"That happens to be the case, though you likely intended to keep this, right? You have an irrepressible urge to stick your hands in jars of snakes after all."

I gazed at the endless dark within the rupture.

"It's how I'm immune to these snake's venom. But this time, no. I didn't intend on keeping this warp. I'm fine with my armor taking in ascendence or the eldritch. This stuff, though? And a continuous, long-term exposure at that?"

I pulled one of my hands through my hair.

"That...It seems aggressive."

Helios crossed his arms.

"You? Calling a course of action aggressive? That's a first."

I breathed in the dark air and breathed it out like fumes from a burning tire.

"Hey, even I have my limits."

Helios sighed.

"Oftentimes, those limits are set for the express purpose of breaking them. I'd say you treat rules and apprehension more akin to suggestions than actual boundaries."

I peered up, the only light coming from the stars of the portal.

"This happens to be a line I didn't want to cross."

Helios stepped away from the nickel-sized hole.

"Unfortunately, this isn't a time where you have a choice."

I liquified and drained myself out of the rupture. I put a piece of my armor into the void along with my wake. With a shaking grunt, I hauled it around. Unlike the other warps, this wasn't a dimension per se. Instead, I carried some enormous, unseen wound that rested under the surface of our dimension.

In a sense, this spot was the weakened space around the hole and the tear itself. Fortunately, Helios condensed it into a small section, and I kept it that way with some jury-rigging of my armor. It required my all to lug the heavy thing around since it had a lot of...Hm, friction is what I'll call it.

It dragged against the dimension around me, though it didn't injure our reality. Otherwise, I'd have to drag it somewhere out in the middle of space. That carried a host of its own problems, considering the dimensional energy could spread unchecked in the ether. That assumed some Old One wouldn't come down and stop me from closing this gap. That left absorbing the gunk as my only option, so I did.

Helios watched me master the moving of the space, and whenever I regained something akin to normal movement, he gave me a derisive smile.

"It seems as though I'm not needed, considering you're able to hobble around once more."

I did my best not to hobble to him, but I think I only made it worse.

"Look, man, I'm doing my best."

Helios laughed.

"It's as if you wear crutches."

I frowned.

"I don't see you moving three dimensions with you all the time."

Helios shrugged.

"It's not something I've chosen to bear. I could close one of those dimensions, and we could throw the other two into your pocket dimension if you so chose."

A rumble echoed from Baldowah's dimension. I winced.

"The last thing I want to do is give Baldowah express access to that space. I also have no clue what someone like Kryyah may do if they got a consistent access point to my pocket dimension."

Helios shrugged.

"Perhaps. Or perhaps you simply enjoy the struggle. We don't know what will occur from you soaking in the spewing forces of either of these tears."

I kept practicing moving around.

"It's not something I want to find out, honestly."

"Hm. I can't blame you for that. That space of yours is one of the most private places in the universe. Even the Old Ones seem to struggle to see its inner workings. It would be a shame to lose that home, wouldn't it?"

"Yeah, that, and I don't want that thing implanting something on me."

Helios gestured at the opening.

"You mentioned an entity called Kryyah. It should be able to return at any point. Given its abilities, it may attack us through the void."

I shook my head.

