This was the same kind of split, but it wasn't a clean, sterile kind of cut; this jagged mark would leave a nasty scar. It sat in the center of the darkness like a jagged splintering of reality, stretching out in every direction. As I got near it, my armor trembled over my skin. It drank deep from these waters, ingesting the most delicious of flavors.

It disgusted me, but I allowed it to do this. This energy hadn't hurt me in the slightest, though the effects were as difficult to place as they had been the first time I'd felt them in BloodHollow so many years ago. Taking a moment, I grabbed the edges of the alternate reality, getting ready to heave it away from the moon's surface.

As I did, a voice radiated from the other side.

"One that withstands the blood?"

My armor smiled, and I frowned. The strange voice oozed its words.

"No...A being that indulges in it."

Chapter Begin

My armor's runes glowed with anticipation. I telepathized to it.

"I'm suppressing the urge to jump the gun here, but who are you, exactly?"

A being without a solid form crawled out of the space. It held a cerulean orb at the center of shifting silver blocks. It spoke with an elated voice made of many whispers in my mind.

"Who? I'm more and less than I was, but who I am doesn't matter anymore. In the end, I am no one. It's a subtle detail many forget. We all fight to stay alive, yet we die all the same. Some of us simply die before we rest in a grave."

I raised a brow.

"That doesn't answer anything I've asked."

"You don't care who I am. You're more interested in why I'm here and what I'm trying to do. Aren't you?"

I frowned, drifting away from the rupture.

"True, but I'm trying to be polite here."

Its voice bounced in my mind, a congregation of whispers.

"Politeness will only serve you well amongst politicians. I am here as a surveyor, so there is no need for you to act as anything more than an obstacle in my path."

I scoffed.

"Obstacle, huh? I don't have to be. Communicate, and we won't have to fight. Now tell me, what are your goals?"

"It doesn't matter. Step aside."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Oh, I think it does. I'll move if you give me a reasonable explanation of what's going on. Otherwise, we'll come to blows."

The entity floated down to the moon's surface.

"This is quite the corruption, isn't it? It seems as though this rip is wide and over a hemorrhage. It will do nicely. Perhaps...Perfectly."

I tilted my head as the entity regained its physical form. The cerulean sphere turned to me, and a vertical slit formed on its center. An amber eye gazed at me, and it held a depth and coldness. It created visions of a dark ocean covered in ice.

A series of sub-spaces opened around it, condensing into tendrils that moved the main body. The tentacles were liquified amber that squirmed around its central body. It held flayed faces in the amber, each patch of skin smiling. It laughed.

"You seem befuddled. Is it so strange that other things can sustain themselves between realities?"

I walked around it in a slow trot.

"You're the first thing I've seen that's not bending into some unrecognizable monster from that energy. Color me surprised."

"I couldn't accomplish my goals if the blood corrupted me. That being said, you're different. I avoid touching this energy. You're swimming in it. Oh ho, you're drinking it. What a grotesque creature.

"You have the torn faces of victims in those tendrils. I'd argue that's a bit worse."

"These are physical decorations of those that defied me. They're nothing more than mementos. To wallow in this ilk and survive...That's far more abhorrent than any physical creation."

I kept circling it.

"I need answers, Mr. Smiles."

It laughed, the expression carrying madness.

"How are you still so sane, given you drink from the origin of insanity? It is a paradox."

I shook my head.

"I'll exchange an answer for a question. All this is unstable energy. All I do is make it stable before absorbing it."

"Ah, really? Thank you for saying so. It's hard to discern much about this darkness since I've never touched it."

"How about you return the favor? Who are you?"

"I'm Kryyah. I'm an...Accountant, surveyor, and pathfinder, you could say."

"What and who are you accounting for?"

Kryyah snapped one of its tendrils against the rip in spacetime.

"These. You wouldn't mind if I left this here for later, would you? I'll need to have this investigated."

My eyes sharpened.

"I can't let this thing stay here. It has to be contained."

"Oh, now that won't do. You're not clearing this space anytime soon, given you haven't been able to close this already. If you'd like, I can keep this stable and not let it grow further. I'll be back with help after a while."

I shook my head.

"This won't be here when you get back. I have the means to close this, so I will."

The eye peered into mine, brimming with hostility.

"Is there a set of words I can say that'll convince you to let this rupture grow?"

I shrugged.

"Mey, maybe, but I'll need a pretty compelling reason to leave this eyesore here."

It paced over to me, indenting itself onto reality.

"You seem like a being of force. Know that I'm a messenger at most. Think of me as a weak, pathetic minion for someone larger than myself. You'll be tasked with answering to my superior if you interfere with my mission here, assuming you can even stop me."

I opened a recording stream in my status. I condensed my wake over my skin as mana flooded into my body. I cracked my knuckles, everything awash in eerie silence.

"Is that it? Any other reasons?"

It whirled a tendril above itself, reality shivering above its head.

"As a being of force, I'll speak in a language that even you can understand. You can't stop me even if you tried. I'm trying to give you the option of saving your pride or your odd life. You normal species are all about that, right?"

I squeezed my hands to fists.

"It sounds like I have my answer then."

It snapped the spacetime whip at me, and existence caved around the tendril. I pulled myself back, and it snapped into the ground where I was. Instead of tearing rock, it wounded reality. The rock wept and howled in silence, the space a deformed, horrid abomination. I reached out a hand, and gravitation exploded over the entity.

It remained unaffected before laughing.

"So that's it? Are you using physical forces on something that treads the interdimensional spaces between realities? Wow. You mustn't engage with entities of my scale often. Allow me to enlighten you to what we are."

It snapped towards me, traversing hundreds of feet as if it were an inch. Its voice whispered from all directions in many voices.

"You're facing something of a different league."

It snapped its reality whip on my head, but it bent around my dimensional wake. I grabbed the tendril, reinforcing my grasp with Event Horizon. As I squeezed my hand, it howled out in agony. I frowned.

"Is it the Little League? Because you're throwing some softballs for someone talking so much."

I tore the amber limb off, and purple tears gushed from the amber eye. Kryaah's voice grew jagged.

"So you're more than a brute. Good. I wouldn't want this to be easy."

I whipped my dimensional wake like a hammer, smashing it into the moon's crust. It crunched into the stone before snapping out of the ground. It dashed in different directions, passing distances as if skipping spaces entirely.

These leaps ignored the fundamental laws of reality as if they molded reality to move around. It hurled two more tendrils at me, and they met my wake like a wall.

It howled in my mind.

"What are you? How is the space around you so dense?"

I snapped Event Horizon over it like a pair of jaws.

"You're the expert. You tell me."

Its tendrils stopped my wake's teeth before it slid out of our reality. It murmured across the viel.

"Are you some kind of dimension eater? A parasite, perhaps. Disgusting."

I kept quiet, trying to find its presence. It reminded me of Althea, this thing having tread onto a different reality where I wasn't. Despite that distance, it could still interact with this space. After a moment, it snapped out its tendrils like a drill.

It burrowed through my back and out my chest, my armor nothing more than paper matches to its attacks. However, it dug deeper than a physical attack. It damaged the actual space I occupied, breaking the laws that allowed a physical form to exist. As it jerked its tendrils away, I couldn't regenerate my body. It laughed.

"Robust, but you're unable to fix that, I gather? How many holes does it take to kill you?"

With my wake, I smothered the desolate space. I reconstructed the reality with my own, and my body returned. It popped out of existence once more, and more tendrils drilled from above, leaving no time for me to react. In a rapid set of stabs, it pierced me into a fractured, loose set of metal shards.

It hissed.

"Come on then. Mend the unmendable."

I liquified, pulling myself back together in a different spot. Its voice dimmed to a murmur.

"You're more than meets the eye, aren't you?"

"Like a transformer, some might say."

"What is-"

I charged at it. It shot out with another tendril from the void. One of my minds found it, locking against its psionically. At the same time, I ducked under its attack and jutted my hand where the tentacle originated. I grasped the cerulean orb and pulled it out of the other plane it occupied. It squirmed in my grasp.

With a quick swipe, I tucked its body into my pocket dimension for safekeeping.

Or I thought I had. It abandoned the cerulean sphere, losing its physical form. It now hovered as an amber all of energy. It sighed.

"I'm guessing you're not going to give me my shell back?"

I hurled my mind at it, finding a consciousness far larger than even Shalahora's colossal mind. It laughed.

"That's not a game we play."

Around its colossal consciousness, a dozen different minds existed. Instead of creating a mind without gaps like Shalahora, this construct used swollen, immortal minds as a defense. Even a slight graze exposed how these things had lived for millennia. Those millennia were spent learning about all the details of mundane histories, arbitrary sciences, and useless logs of data.

This didn't refine the psyches in any way, but it left them bulging at the seams like enormous, swollen monstrosities. I lobbed a mind at it, and it carried no effect. It was an odd defense, yet its effect was palpable.

Kryyah scoffed.

"What was that? Did you just kill your mind to try and disorient mine? You're suicidal."

I sent a wave of fifty minds. They crashed into an unbroken wall. It shivered.

"Ugh, grotesque. You're a hivemind. Great. Just great."

It kept itself within its psionic shielding, and I continued whittling at the defenses. It circled around me, unperturbed by my progress.

"You're trying to stop something that required thousands of years to build."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Every wall is broken one brick at a time."

"You think I'll let you spend a hundred years on this?"

"I won't need that much time."

I changed my attacks. Unlike Shalahora, Kryaah didn't defend itself at all, so I wasn't outclassed. In a group, I sent consciousnesses into the vast memory piles, having them hack away. This augmented my progress tenfold.

It laughed.

"Oooh, only a decade of tireless assaulting now. I'm certain you'll keep that up."

My gaze remained hardened, my resolve already set. Its laugh dimmed.

"You're an annoying thing, you know that?"

Kryyah snapped at me, spinning in a circle. Its tendrils fused into a halo of dimensional erosion. It crashed against me, and my wake met the charge head-on. We cracked and crushed against each other, and its tendrils regenerated using the space around us.

I pulled from the well of my wake, and the waters never ran dry. It continued boring down, the eye at its center thinning to a slit. It hacked out.

"You know...This is like when an immovable object meets an unstoppable force."

I furrowed my brow.

"You talk a lot."

"It passes the time."

The reality around us thinned until cracks from the rupture behind us expanded. They rippled outward, finding the weakened remains of the reality around us. Kryyah hummed with glee.

"Hah! This is incredible. I've never seen a reality splinter so easily. So quickly. Now, this will be useful."

It pressed its attack further. Not wanting to destroy the moon, I turned myself into a liquid. I flowed around it, keeping my wake around me. I wrapped myself around the ethereal entity, and it shot out to escape. It bounced against my dimensional fabric, unable to find a weak point. It murmured.

"You're more than annoying. You're dangerous."

I pressed down, the space within compressing to a small point. I squeezed the creature, and Kryyah let out a cry of anguish. In my mind, I sighed.

"Tell me why you're here, and I'll stop."

Kryyah gasped out.

"To take this tear away from here."

"For what?"

"For someone you'll never know the name of. It's that simple. If you let me go now, I won't tell my superiors about this world and what rests here."

"I don't believe you. Not for a second."

It laughed.

"It was worth a shot, wasn't it?"

Kryyah's amber eye spread until it connected to the disparate dimensional ripples around it. The coloration of the being shifted to purple, and it spiraled as a drill. It released a blinding flash before ripping out of my containment. The light left my liquified form glowing, and even the half-second of exposure left a dense, lingering warmth after I chilled myself. I rematerialized and grimaced.

"Radiation. Ughck."

Kryyah returned to its amber form.

"I didn't want to make this planet uninhabitable without reason, but you're not giving me any options."

