Leon looked off into the distance, and for the first time, Matt imagined what it would be like to live for millions of years. He wasn't sure that he even had a frame of reference to begin to understand the man's experiences.

“I know it's frustrating. I felt the same way, but with age and experience, I can honestly say that a lot of information is restricted because it's good for normal people to only learn it when it truly affects them.”

Matt looked at Leon and asked, “So the goofball personality is just how you deal with being super old?”

Leon grinned. “It's also fun, but as you spend time with immortals, you will learn that we all have our quirks. Do you know the number of people to make it to just Tier 15?”

Matt didn’t, and shook his head in the negative.

“It's something like six percent of the population that’s expected to reach immortality.”

Leon’s statement shocked Matt. He had expected it to be far larger.

Seeing his skepticism, Leon continued. “Really. A large portion of the population don't want to advance Matt. They don't have the drive or the mindset. They want to live their lives, and that's it. Immorality is one massive draw that makes quite a few people push until Tier 15. But even to do that, you need the ability to fight and kill monsters. That’s a full-time commitment. Not a lot of people can do it. Now, what portion of those that reach Tier 15 do you think hit even just Tier 20?”

Matt tried to analyze what Leon had told him, and finally guessed, “Half?”

Leon smiled as he clapped. “Close!. It's around forty percent. Now, of that forty percent, do you know how many hit Tier 45?”

That was beyond Matt, and he just shrugged.

Leon didn't make him wait, and filled him in. “It's close to eighty-five percent, when you ignore the people who die along the way.”

“Why the large difference?” As Matt asked the question, he realized the answer and hurriedly added, “Because those that reach that far have the drive. Right? They've already stood out from the general population, and those people have something pushing them forward to delve day after day for thousands of years.”

Leon looked absolutely proud of Matt as he said, “Exactly right. And most of us have oddities that put a red hot poker under our butts, forcing us forward. That usually means we have odd personalities. As you grow old, Matt, you'll become more of yourself. You should do things that will help you become what you believe you want to be. Mara and I want to be easy-going and casual. We enjoy playing around and goofing off. We're the type to work for days to avoid half an hour of work. As we get stronger and our abilities grow, we've embraced our unique individuality. Everyone else might be different, but it's a trend you'll notice more and more as you advance. People get a little weird if they have what it takes to reach our level. It's inevitable, and more a question of finding how it manifests than if it manifests.”

Mara came in with a plate of steaming cookies and two large glasses of milk. Using the opportunity to lighten the mood, Matt asked, “Is that why you stole the planet that Liz and I had sex on?”

Leon and Mara both had exaggerated looks of shock on their faces, and the phoenix put her hand to her throat as she said, “Oh no! Not at all!”

Leon shook his head as his wife added, “We didn’t steal the planet because you guys had sex. No, no, no, not at all…”

She slapped Leon's hand that had, at some point, stuffed his face full of cookies until he looked like a chipmunk.

“We took the planet because you two committed yourselves to each other. Sex is just sex. Who cares about that. No, we wanted to make a shrine because of your commitment. That's beautiful, and something to be preserved.”

Matt had no idea how to respond to that, so he just took a page out of Leon's book and shoved an entire cookie into his mouth, smiling around his bulging cheeks.

It was almost worse to have such a sentimental reason to have taken the planet, but he didn’t feel comfortable telling them off like Liz would have.

Aster followed her nose into the library and hopped up into his lap, saving him from having to answer. When he could speak, he moved the topic back to safer waters, and asked Leon about what his favorite book in the library was.

He had had enough of heavy conversations for one day.
