Let the man think whatever he wants. She was here to make money—

Personal profiteering will result in Karmic Rebound

What?

“Assuming we accept your proposal, what will you sign under?” Mr Lawyer Man raised a hand. “You are fifteen, Miss Fontaine, are you not? Have you been financially emancipated?”

Lana wanted to respond, but she was completely overwhelmed by the blaring message covering half of her vision.

Karmic Rebound in progress

“Er… I am sorry,” she tried to swipe away the display, but there was nothing to click. “I actually have no idea.”

“The court records we have acquired say that you are not,” the suited fellow followed up. “But that is itself no object. Are you aware of Coogan Law? Subject to confirmation by the Los Angeles court, Sony BMG will sign. We shall establish a personal Trust. 15% of your earnings will be placed in this Trust. All of the above are also subject to regular tax authorities. Usually, your caseworker will be consulted, but we understand that there are extenuating circumstances, and our legal team will help you establish legal and financial independence as a one-time favour from Director Curon.”

Given her prior occupation, Lana was no stranger to contracts with minors. She was not completely privy to the details, however, because that was the legal eggheads’ job. Whatever the man said, however, she wasn’t listening, because the system was mad as a kicked cat at the prospect of her earning enough change to live.

[Karmic Rebound]

Tread not the path you once walked. Atonement is penance.

Due to the Prophet of Profits, the penalty for Karmic Rebound is maximised.

Jesus jumping Christ! Her heart leapt to her throat as her blood pressure shot to triple digits.

Her [Potential]!

Every statistic she possessed other than [Wisdom] and [Intelligence] dropped by 1! Everything she had invested in was… was literally decaying. Her potential, all that [Causality] she had garnered, all for nothing!

“Miss Fontaine?” the worried voice of the Data Director hovered over the howling of blood pounding in her ears. “Are you alright? Eric! Go and get the Nurse. Go get Dr Mills!”

“I… I am alright…” Lana forced herself up. “Don’t go.”

She had no confirmation, but she had an inkling of what she must do. Having sat through half a lifetime of contractual conferences, she should have known better than to ignore the fine print.

Karmic Rebound is balanced against the simultaneous creation of Karmic Causality.

That was what the [System] had said the first time. If so, combined with the [System]s’ blatant penny pinching, what had to be done was kind of obvious.

“I was just a bit overexcited. I wasn’t expecting you to actually accept.” Lana forced the bile back down her throat. She wasn’t actually sick, but she was, for a little moment, actively dying. “Could I redo the amendment?”

Mr Lawyer and Mr Finance certainly weren't pleased, but Curon didn’t seem to mind. “What else would you like to add to it? More advance payment? Shorter copyright term? Do you… Want to perform the song yourself?”

Personal profiteering will result in Karmic Rebound

Alright! SHUT UP—! Lana fought down the urge to physically assault Euphemia’s brain.

“No, nothing like that,” she groaned internally even as the words left her mouth. “I… I am just so grateful to St Marten’s for looking after me like this. Dr Harper and the others, I know they’re struggling as well.”

“That’s their job…” The finance guy was oozing suspicion. “Are you asking us to co-pay your co-payment?”

“Miss…” the lawyer protested as well.

“Eric, let the girl speak.” Curon raised a hand. “I have jurisdiction here.”

“I was thinking.” Lana’s mind spun up what legalism she still could filter through Euphemia’s wetware. If they’re using Coogan’s Law, and Sony was happy to set up a Trust overseen by LA County, then surely they would prefer the latter. “Forget the advance payment. Can Eric there set up my royalty so that 50% of everything goes to St Marten’s, while the other 50% goes into an education fund for my independent living? I’ll give Sony the right to the song in perpetuity. Just help me with legal Emancipation.”

The trio from Sony looked at one another.

“Your Coogan Trust cannot be accessed in full until you are 18,” Eric, the lawyer, softened his tone. “But yes, we can petition the state to release your essential and educational expenses in a separate Trust. That said, there has to be money in the account first.”

“If we will own the song in its entirety, for perpetuity, then I’ll advance $30,000, and we’ll count Euphemia’s royalty proceeds against the balance as a line of credit,” the Director glanced at Mr Finance. “Is that doable?”

“We can. St Marten’s has a Charity Trust.” Finance nodded in approval. “Payroll can directly pay into it, including Miss Fontaine’s Trust when it's certified. As a tax credit, we can then write off the whole thing.”

“Alright, that settles it.” Curon studied her intently; the man’s gaze grew sympathetic enough that Lana felt suddenly self-conscious. “But I am curious. You’re well spoken. Too well-spoken, in fact. You are also exceptionally confident. You can read the gobbledygook in Eric’s contract as well. These are signs of a very intelligent, very capable young woman with a bright future. Can I ask something, as your future business partner and the guarantor of your emancipation?”

Lana knew what the man was going to ask, but it wasn’t like she could charge him consultancy fees.

She shook her head.

“Then I won’t ask.” The Director tipped his chin at Eric. “I hope this isn’t the last contract we sign.”

Eric, the lawyer, slipped over a provisional contract. “Miss Fontaine, this is a …” “Provisional. Effective only for a week while you draft the real thing. I know.” She smiled back. It must have been a pretty damn good smile, because Eric’s suspicions softened some more. “I won’t renege, I promise.” Lana wondered if she should tell him that there was nothing to renege, because there was a literal system of supernatural Karmic balance preventing her from being the chief beneficiary. With a flourish, she signed on the dotted line.

+ Karmic Causality

+ Karmic Causality

+ Karmic Causality

The men carefully observed her perfect cursive. They admired a signature that had graced the cover page of annual reports read by some of the wealthiest people in America.

“Pardon me,” Eric turned the page a few degrees so that he could read better. “Who or what is Lana Zaza-za-za-N?”
