“I remain fused to your Awareness Skill. The first bit of good news is that I can help calibrate your skill from anywhere. I can reach you from anywhere, but I must remain alive to do so. If I die during the loop, then it is perhaps best you find some place safe to hide and wait for something to reset or end the loop. However, this all works. Without me, I fear that you may find yourself overwhelmed.”

Adam chuckled humorlessly. “More like driven insane. You said I was close to breaking. Before you, it's like the entire world was being poured into me. Every detail was rebounding off another.” He shuddered, but there was something else hidden beneath his dread. It was a want, a need. There was something glorious about being connected to all things, being able to sense everything. He didn't say it aloud, but he yearned for it, to be worthy of such a skill, to possess such a power. No secrets beyond him, no sights past the reach of his gaze, no sounds unheard, no taste unknown, no object untouched.

“Yes, that is because you are unprepared to possess such a skill,” the Culturist explained. “And you don't know how to turn your senses off.”

“And how exactly do you intend for me to achieve this? Are we going to try and rush my Psychomantic development?”

The Culturist scoffed. “It doesn't take a measure of Psychomancy for one to learn how to control their own mind. I am sure you are aware of what that is.”

Adam rolled his eyes. “I could have taken an advanced class on meditation, but I decided to forego that—”

“Stop talking, sit down, cross your legs, and close your eyes,” the Culturist commanded. “Whatever you were going to learn in that class would have been wasted. We are going to practice something right now.”

“How long is this going to take?” Adam asked, not doing what the orc had told him to.

“However long it takes for you to achieve the basic requirements. Your mind is not strong enough to sustain this skill, so you need to do two other things first. You must be able to block out some of your own senses. This can be done, but it will take a concentrated effort, something that will likely require far more time than a few hours. Yet there is a simpler function you can perform. Sleep.”

Adam did a double-take. “Sleep?”

“Yes. Should you lose me, it will be best for you to put yourself into a state of paralysis and deep slumber. If you can induce a coma-like state upon yourself, then the world, at least in theory, should be blunted from your awareness. Parts of your senses are still active while you sleep, but you will not be overwhelmed so directly.”

“Won't this leave me extremely vulnerable to attack?”

The Culturist shrugged. “It makes no difference, as without me, you will be drowned beneath the crushing waves of your sensory input and thus defenseless regardless. At least if you are merely unconscious instead of a corpse whose brain has been boiled from within, you may be captured. That gives you a chance to be rescued either by the Deathless or by Mettabon, assuming she manages to free herself.” The Culturist sounded a bit too uncertain for Adam’s comfort. “If nothing else, it is an added option. The Usurper-Narrator hasn't been able to affect your soul. She has not been able to find and capture you. Considering how quickly she attacked us in the prior loop, I believe we can rule out the possibility of her playing games. That was not the action of a cat toying with a mouse. That was surprise. Your Path Evolution caught her off guard, and my presence in the Fairwoods was unknown to her as well.”

The thought of inducing a total slumber upon himself while surrounded by ravenous monsters made Adam anxious, but what the Culturist said made sense, so against his instincts and, frankly, his prejudice toward the orc, Adam sat down and closed his eyes.

After a moment of silence, he cracked an eye open again and squinted at the Culturist. “So, what now?”
