Wanting to verify a hunch, Rain suggested they locate the Entente stronghold. Ameliah agreed, and as they walked, he felt carefully for changes in the local essence. He was satisfied to discover that the essence density had indeed dropped ever so slightly by the time they located the fortress. When he focused with Mana Sight, he saw the faintest hint of a current in the local mana as it flowed toward, then down through the building. The Light aspect seemed more affected than the rest, drawn to an area of low pressure below the ground, out of his sight.

The lair is down there, and it’s thirsty.

He stared, scratching his chin through his faceplate as the guards watched him, but he didn’t care what they thought, lost as he was in his own contemplation.

I don’t remember feeling this in Threecore. Todo: see if Mora can find out what percentage the lair’s at. If I’m right, it’s low. Do they have people with Elemental Refinement stationed here to feed it mana? If it was full, would the essence flow the other way? Is the lair Light aspect because the zone is, or is the zone Light aspect because the lair is? So many questions!

“What are you thinking about?” Ameliah asked.

“Nothing relevant to our present situation,” Rain replied, looking at her with a blink.

“Our present situation being hungry?”

“Our present situation being hungry,” Rain agreed, grinning. He pointed dramatically down the street. “Onward! To vittles!”

Ameliah laughed, following, and a short walk later, they passed through a well-built fence of tall deepwood planks into the hot spring complex. Inside, the natural obsidian-like stone of the cave lay bare, forming dark walkways between the pools, which had been bottomed with pure white marble. Lit from below the crystal clear surface, they shone like reflections of the moon in a starless sky. A faint mineral smell hung in the air, not unpleasant compared to the chlorine odor Rain’s nose had been expecting for some reason. The atmosphere was also heavy with steam, and some of the smaller pools to the sides were literally boiling, even those with people in them. The only building was a circular one, at the exact center of the largest pool, built from something that looked like…

Bamboo?

Rain thought he’d been prepared for anything, but his expectations hadn’t included a tiki bar. A circular counter ran around the entirety of the structure, with the seating visible just below the water occupied by dozens of thirsty, hungry, and...predominantly nude bathers.

“Should we take our armor off too?” Ameliah asked.

Rain glared at her. She knew very well that removing any more than their helmets would be a horrible decision. She was only pretending otherwise to tease him. As useless as Obfuscation felt most of the time, unable to stop people from Divining the area around them, it was all that stood between them and being directly targeted by abilities like Seek, the tier-four capstone. The existence of that spell was terrifying, even knowing the numerous factors that complicated its use.

“Distracting yourself, are you?” Ameliah asked, still grinning wickedly. “Trying not to notice all the toned skin and rippling muscles? You can look if you want, you know. I don’t mind. I know you belong to me. Oh, and I hope you don’t mind that I’m looking. That guy in the pool over there is—”

“Oh, stop,” Rain said with a dramatic sigh, rolling his eyes as he stepped into the water. Warm liquid flooded into his armor to the sound of Ameliah’s laughter. He couldn’t help glancing in the direction she’d indicated, though, and when he did, he just about choked. “Holy Chris Hemsworth, Batman!”

“I thought he was Thor,” Ameliah said, chuckling as she waded in after him.

“That’s got to be a skill,” Rain said, shaking his head in disbelief. He unbuckled his belt and settled it over his shoulders to keep the contents of his various pouches dry. “Some sort of illusion. He’s an Illuminator or something.”

“With that little mana?” Ameliah scoffed, the water rising above her waist. “Come on. Even if someone else did it for him, you’d see the enchantment.”

Rain shook his head, using his arms to help himself along now that the pool was deep enough. “No. No way. No way anyone has that much lumberjack energy naturally. I refuse to believe it.”

“Lumberjack energy?” Ameliah asked, laughing. “What?”

Rain heaved a defeated sigh. “You know, I’m feeling really inadequate right now. The least you could do would be to say you agree with me and give me a little validation.”

Ameliah laughed brightly, snagging his arm mid-paddle and looping it around her waist. “Oh, stop it. You’re at least as scrumptious as he is, and you know how I feel about you. You can feel how I feel about— Hey!”

“You said I could,” Rain said, grinning as she splashed him. Of course, he immediately splashed back.

“If you pigeon-heads get my steak wet, I will end you,” said an annoyed voice, and Rain wiped his visor clear to see they’d reached the bar and that one of the patrons had turned to glare at them, a silver Guild plate dangling against the man’s bare chest. A moment later, the woman beside him—similarly unattired but for her matching Guild plate—turned to glare as well.

“Sorry,” Rain said sheepishly, quickly hauling his eyes away, but the Guilders had already returned to their meals.

“Did he just say steak?” Ameliah whispered. She dismissed her helmet, tossing her bags onto the bar beside the pair. That got a head-turn out of the man, who then did a double take and almost dropped his fork.

For some reason, Rain found he got quite a bit of satisfaction from that.

That’s right, bozo. Flapjacks across the way isn’t the only eleven-out-of-ten in this place, and this one’s with me.

He dismissed his own helmet, and this time, the Guilder actually did lose his grip on his cutlery. The noise of the deepstone fork clattering against the bar made the female Guilder turn and likewise recoil in shock.

Is there something on my face? Do I have helmet beard? Oh, my eyes? I’m not using much mana, though...

He turned to Ameliah for help, but she just laughed and gave him a look that conveyed both deep love and the opinion that he was being impossibly dense. Told you, she seemed to say.

The male Guilder buried his face in his hands and groaned, mumbling something under his breath that Rain nevertheless managed to catch. “Gods, not another one. It’s not fair.”

Wait...really? It’s not just Ameliah’s opinion; I’m...

“Are you with the ambassador?” the female Guilder asked, sounding uncertain.

“The who now?” Rain asked, still struggling with his personal revelation.

“Him,” the woman replied, nodding toward the impossibly handsome man in the neighboring pool. “Though that answers my question.”

“Ambassador from where?” Ameliah asked.

“Rellagia,” said a new voice, that of the bartender—a heavyset man with a high bronze soul and crow’s feet at the corners of his eyes. “Pardon for interrupting your conversation, but are you fresh from the surface?” His voice took on an eager note. “Any developments since yesterday’s proclamation?”

“Which country in Rellagia?” asked Ameliah, ignoring the questions.

“I’ve forgotten,” said the bartender, waving a hand. “That was last week. Ekrustia’s where the action is now. I take it you haven’t heard, then? Darn.”

“Heard what?” Rain asked.

“The war’s over,” the bartender said, leaning forward, eager to share. “The Potentate declared victory and claimed the whole continent for the Empire.”

“Fecht’s alive!?” Rain roared, lurching to his feet atop the submerged platform.

“No, the new one,” said the bartender, obviously pleased with that reaction. “Vannon.”

“I’ve never heard that name,” Ameliah said. “Should I have?”

The bartender shrugged. “I hadn’t heard it either until yesterday, and I like to think I hear everything. I did know him by another name, though, as I suspect you do too if you’re at all interested in foreign affairs. Lightbreaker.”

“Filth!” Rain swore explosively, almost slipping into the pool.

“Hey!” the silver Guilder said, shielding his steak from the spray.

Rain ignored him, sitting down and fixing the gossipy bartender with his full attention. “Start at the beginning.”
