On television, the wizard usually wore somber gray or brown, but tonight he was wearing a coat in a cheerful egg yolk color with gold embroidery, and matching jewelry pinned up his hair. So Alden’s first impression was of an alien he didn’t know, in high spirits and dressed up for the party.

“Excuse me,” he said. “Can you tell me where Worli Ro-den’s room is?”

It was only when they were a couple of paces apart and the sound of his own name was coming out of the man’s mouth that he realized who he’d just asked for directions.

“Alden,” said the wizard, looking him up and down.

“Ambassador Bash-nor.” Alden’s heart had stopped beating, but he was smiling. Because smiling was the default social nicety, and his face was stuck.

What is he doing here? Is he supposed to be here? Am I supposed to say something about what happened or say nothing or call Drusi-otta to come punch him with her rings or—

“How wonderful to meet you unexpectedly. I’ve wanted to apologize to you for the trouble you endured at my residence,” the ambassador said. “That must have been very frightening for you.”

“I’m fine,” Alden replied automatically. “An apology isn’t necessary.”

Yes it is. He’s the bastard who was so petty he didn’t talk to me about my evacuation status just because he didn’t want to have to say congratulations to a Rabbit. He thinks Alis-art’h commended me because she was focused on people like him.

His shock at the encounter was fading. He tried to read the situation…and found he couldn’t.

Bash-nor’s tone of voice was a mystery. It felt like it fell somewhere in between warmth and bored recitation, in a valley that Alden was unfamiliar with. Was it intentional? Careless? An Artonan vocal quirk he hadn’t encountered before that he was interpreting completely wrong?

“No,” said Bash-nor. Two narrow strands of gray-brown-pink hair—a color that reminded Alden of earthworms—hung in front of his ears. “I must say I’m sorry. I blame myself for overestimating the ambassadorial assistant’s <<ability to prioritize>>.”

The tone was still uncomfortably obscure, but at least the words themselves were clear enough.

“Zeridee-und’h did well,” Alden replied. “It was the Avowed who were to blame. She fought bravely to protect me. She did her best.”

Bash-nor’s smile was understandable, too. It was so patronizing that Alden’s hands tightened on the tray.

“Such an <<innocent>> Ryeh-b’t, surrounded by monsters.” Bash-nor tilted his head. “If I <<scurried>> around on foot doing chores by hand that would take me moments with a spell…no. A better example. If I slapped an enemy who was trying to kill a child instead of using my full strength…”

He lifted a hand, flared his fingers in and out rapidly, and a sharp metallic-looking thing appeared hovering over his palm. It looked like a crown made of icepicks. Alden was pretty sure it was a spell effect generated partially by his rings, but he couldn’t swear it wasn’t a solid object.

“Would you still say I had fought bravely and done my best?”

Alden’s eyes were fixed on the icepick crown. It disappeared suddenly and he blinked, refocusing on the ambassador’s face.

“It doesn’t matter,” Bash-nor said dismissively, that hand flicking through the air as if he were shaking the spell off. “I’m only relieved you have survived our failings and our foolishness.”

He looked at the food Alden was carrying and raised an eyebrow “For Ro-den?”

“Yes.”

Bash-nor kept one eye on the tray and pointed the other toward Alden’s face. “Loyalty and care are qualities that any wizard would appreciate in a servant. But don’t burn yourself out, as humans say, by giving those qualities to a <<type of fungus that’s only edible for a day>> like Ro-den. It doesn’t surprise me that he’s too lazy to get his own food. I had to come all the way here because he was too self-important to answer a message.”

Does he expect me to reply to that? None of the replies in Alden’s mind right now felt safe considering Zeridee’s warning about Bash-nor’s nature.

Intolerant of slights from people weaker than him. Be a normal Rabbit.

“One of my friends asked me to make sure he tasted what she’d cooked.” Surely that was neutral enough.

Bash-nor groaned. “He’s made such a <<spectacle>> since he arrived, hasn’t he? Unsurprising. He’s in the room I just left.”

He gestured behind him.

“Your little Thanksgiving idea is so <<charming>>. I suppose I shouldn’t complain about Ro-den sharing in it.” He smiled again. “Alden, you must come to one of my parties when all of this is over. You’ll love it!”

“A party…um..”

“All the rumors are true,” Bash-nor said in English, his tone finally shifting to one Alden fully recognized—a conspiratorial whisper.

Alden shifted his weight, trying to think of something to make the interaction even slightly less awkward. Does he think every Avowed hears rumors about him the second we set foot on Anesidora?

“Unfortunately, I’m a busy person right now,” the ambassador said. “Have a good night.”

“You too.”

Leeeeave. You’re scary, confusing, and cringey at the same time. Why do so many people like hanging out at your house?

Bash-nor started to step past him then stopped. Alden’s muscles, already tense, stiffened even more. High on his bicep, his auriad tightened so much it felt like a tourniquet.

“There’s no way to unmake the terrible experience you had, but here. Buy yourself something to warm your mood.”

He walked on.

Alden stood still, facing the end of the hall. When he heard the elevator doors opening, he slowly turned to see Bash-nor—hair-jewels winking in the light—stepping into the car. He didn’t glance back to see Alden. His smile was gone, his expression distant and irritated.

As if Alden had vanished from importance just that fast.

When Bash-nor was finally gone, he made himself take a slow breath. Then he took in the System notification for another second before banishing it.

[Argold Received: 300,000]

******

“Back already, Bash? I can’t wait to hear what magnificent thing you’ve found in the past few breaths that might tempt a more potent wizard to follow your <<whims>> like a—”

“I brought you food,” Alden interrupted in a neutral voice the second the door opened a crack. “My friends wanted me to thank you for helping with the Bunker Street problem.”

“No,” said Worli Ro-den.

Alden stuck his sneaker in the crack just in time to prevent the door from shutting.  Then he blew on the piece of turkey he’d dropped on top of the savory food plate before knocking.

The smell was enough to make his own mouth water even if he should have been used to it by now.

Ro-den’s tattoos creased as a surprised look crossed his face.

“Are you sure you don’t want it?” Alden asked. “Because there are many people downstairs who will be grateful if I arrive with another piece. They’re trying to grind the bones now.”

He waited, staring at Ro-den’s tattooed forehead. If he said no again, that was fine by Alden. He’d made the offer and even provided a free sniff.

“Set it down on the table.” The door swung, and Ro-den stepped aside to let him through.

Just drop it off. No chatting.

Alden was determined to avoid eye contact, not that it was hard when the room was full of so much else to see.

Despite the professor whining about the size of the place, it was twice as big as Alden’s room in the hospital. There was even an area that had probably held a sofa and other seating originally. But it felt cramped because Ro-den had absolutely filled the whole space with supplies and work.

Even the closet—it was missing its door, and it had been stuffed with cabinetry that the professor must have traveled with. There was a section that looked like an old school, library card catalog with tiny windows set in the faces of the drawers. Alden saw motion behind more than one of them.

Ro-den seemed to be sleeping under a mountain of his clothes. Two of the smart boards from his LeafSong office were behind the largest work surface, which Alden assumed was the table he was supposed to leave the food on. A giant ball made of bright blue tubing was there with a pair of glowing wands sticking out of it, like an abstract commentary on yarn and knitting needles.

He set the tray beside the tubing ball, careful not to touch anything.

“The turkey is traditional for Thanksgiving,” he said, still carefully neutral. “A Ryeh-b’t named Natalie Choir made it. She has a skill called ‘Cook of the Moment’. She and Emilija Navickaitė and Hadiza…”

He trailed off as a large bug buzzed past his ear and down, landing on the corner of the tray. Sand colored, dark markings on its wings, whitish patches where the bulbous eyes would have been on a…

Grasshopper.

A tattooed hand closed over it.

“You have those here with you,” Alden said.

Ro-den had his hand cupped to his chest. Alden could hear the sound of the bug’s wings beating. “I always have a few around.”

“That’s nice.”

“They bother you?”

“No. Why would they bother me?” Alden cleared his throat and tore his eyes away from the hand with the Thegundese grasshopper in it. Where was I?

“They—my friends—had trouble on Bunker Street, and they saw you on the news, catching the people who threatened them. So. They say thank you. That’s all. Enjoy your meal.”

He strode for the door, remembering something halfway there. “I almost forgot. Your ring is in my room. I’ll go get it.”

Then our sharp break will really be done. He hadn’t been wearing it since their last conversation anyway.

“Keep it,” said Ro-den from behind him.

“I don’t want it.”

“Then sell it. Or give it away.”

Two big tippers in one night.

He could fuck around with the enchantment on the ring for practice if nothing else. And it was easier not to stand here arguing over its ownership.

“I hope you like the food. Bye, Ro-den.”

******

That night, he dreamed the lost-Kibby dream again, only with a side of normal grasshoppers mixed in among their demonified brethren. One of the live bugs kept eating the demons, growing larger every time. Eventually, the absurdity of a horse-sized grasshopper bouncing after him ruined the horror element of the nightmare and woke him up.

Sweaty sheets are such a fucking travesty, he thought, throwing them off. They completely ruin your chances of conking out again.

“Thanksgiving ended up so weird,” he told the empty room. It was now officially the day after.

I could go online and see what people are saying about Matadero Thanksgiving. He discarded that terrible idea as soon as he had it.

I could look up that little shit Winston and see if he’s apologized like I told him—

He stomped that one out of existence, too. Yesterday had been so high drama.

All I wanted when I woke up was simple stuff.

Today he had gym. He could possibly go to convo class with Kelly the grad student as well, but maybe he’d give his fame time to cool off instead. That would be a smart thing to do.

Who am I kidding? I just want to play with my earring for as long as I can. And…

He rolled out of bed and put on his sweat pants, his complimentary hospital socks with the grippy bottoms, and a plain blue t-shirt. Then he sent a text to Boe and Jeremy informing them that Matadero was compatible with loungewear.

They wouldn’t be awake yet, especially on a Friday off from school, but he looked forward to doubling down on the claim when they called him later.

He went to the cafeteria.

“They did clean,” he said, thrilled at the sight of a spotless room. “And…they re-floored it.”

Some people might find sod flooring in the middle of a building impractical. Those people had no sense of adventure. Alden was betting that the tree candles and drugs and the camaraderie of celebrants had somehow made this all seem like The Thing to Do at the end of the night.

He strolled across the blackish green grass, and when he reached the kitchen he found it just as clean and grassy.

Cool.

It took him a while to find everything, but it was all still there.

Fresh lima beans, ears of corn, a specific variety of sweet onion.

“System,” he said, as he looked at it all spread out on one of the counters. “Is it okay if I film a cooking video in here?”

[Yes.]

“Thanks.”

He set up his tablet. The place where he positioned it was only marginally important, since the Artonan device could do multi-angle filming.

“Hi, Kibby!” he said, holding up a tomato. “This is an Earth plant. I’ve got a recipe from my grandmother, and I’m going to cook it for first meal. It's called succotash.”

******

******
