What the Tower Does Next

The Tower's morning register arrived differently on Floor 27.

Solenne had been tracking it since Floor 21 — the shift in the pre-System stone frequency that marked the transition from nightmode to operational mode, the thing she cataloged as circadian because it was the closest word. On Floor 27 the shift came early, or arrived at a different intensity, or both. She noted it without stopping.

They had been climbing for eight days since the Floor 22 rest node. Not eight days of continuous ascent — the Tower's rest nodes were where the party slept, and the sleeping looked like sleeping, and there were encounters on seven of the eight floors that required full formation and cost resource. But the rhythm of it had compressed into something she could hold as a unit: eight days, eight floors, and the countdown that had been running since Dayo named it at the Floor 22 close.

The Greybacks had appeared on Floor 24 and Floor 26, both times at corridor widenings, both times in the observation configuration they had held on Floor 22. Neither encounter escalated. On Floor 26 Nadia had stood still for the full duration without her hand on the dulcimer case, which was new. The Greyback at the center of the arc had made the structured sound again. Not the same cadence — different. Nadia had said, quietly: "Not the same thing." Nobody asked what it meant. She had filed it and they had continued.

The Greybacks were on Floor 27 too. She felt their ambient in the Conductor before the formation rounded the corridor bend — not Harmony signal, not System entity, the particular presence she had been learning to read since Floor 22. They had been ahead of the party on every floor. They were moving toward the Section 30 boundary the same way the party was. Not in parallel. The same direction, at their own pace, for their own reasons.

She held this without a name and continued.

---

Floor 29.

Vesper stopped at the first corridor junction.

Not at an encounter, not at a formation call. She stopped with her hands at her sides and the Workframe running at the material-analysis extension — the reach she used when reading structural properties at depth rather than surface contact. She had been running it at intervals since Floor 27. She was running it now at the full reach, both hands slightly away from her body, the way she stood when the Workframe was doing something she needed to not interrupt.

The party waited.

She said: "The construction signature changes here."

She looked at the corridor ceiling — the junction point where two load-bearing sections met, the joint geometry Tomás had been documenting since Floor 21. "The material composition. The stress distribution." She moved her attention to the wall at the junction's right angle, the same contact-read she had done on the Floor 21 wall sections, on the Hollow Wardens, on the cached fragments the Greybacks had left. "The floors below are consistent. This joint is different. The load distribution is different — not deficient, just different. Like a threshold marker. The Builder encoded it in the structure."

Tomás stepped forward. He looked at the joint. He looked at the wall where Vesper was standing.

He said: "There."

Below the junction, at the height where the stone's color shifted from the floor's characteristic grey to something slightly darker — the same darker stone he had been noting in his schematic since the first descent into the deep corridors — there was a marking. Not Tower architectural notation. Not the System's standard designation format. Something carved directly into the stone, small and precise, in columns.

The unknown script.

He took out his notation surface. He looked at the marking, then at the index he had been building since Floor 22 — the cross-reference of characters from Vasic's paper and the Floor 15 notice board marginalia. He found the match on the second pass.

"Four characters," he said. He was writing without looking up. "I have three of them in the index. This is the third source." He paused. He wrote. "The third character from the left is new."

He added it to the index. The notation was careful and precise, the way he documented things he could not yet read — getting the shape exactly right before the precision of the memory degraded.

"We're at a threshold," Miriam said. She was standing behind Tomás, looking at the marking. Her notebook was in her hand but not open. "The Builder marked the section boundary in the structure. Before the System existed to mark it."

The corridor was quiet.

Dayo looked at the marking for a moment. She looked ahead, where the corridor continued toward the Floor 30 transition. "It's been there the whole time," she said. "Every floor we've passed through."

"Yes," Vesper said. "I think so."

"We just didn't have the comparison point." Dayo's voice was even. She filed it with the operational precision she filed everything. "Now we do." She looked at Tomás. "How close?"

"To reading it?" He looked at the index. "Three sources, partial key. I have enough to start attempting reconstruction on the shorter sequences." He looked at the marking. "This one is nine characters. I can attempt seven of them."

"After Floor 30," Dayo said.

"After Floor 30," he confirmed. He closed the notation surface.

---

They reached the Floor 30 transition in the Tower's late-afternoon register.

The transition zone was not marked by a door or a gate — it was a section of corridor that broadened gradually, the ceiling rising to the height of the first Floor 21 widening, and then a terminal set into the left wall that was active rather than dormant, the amber light at the intensity that marked a System-designated clearing point rather than a rest node. Party status displayed, floor completion at ninety-eight percent.

Vesper looked at the ceiling where the corridor had broadened. She looked at the junction points. "The construction signature shifts again here," she said. "Different from Floor 29. Different from anything below." She touched the wall with her palm flat, seven seconds, moved to the junction. "Section 31 is built differently from Section 11-30. Harder materials. Different load distribution — higher stress tolerance. The Builder expected heavier use."

The enemies would be harder. They all knew it without the Workframe confirming it.

Dayo was looking at the terminal. "Section Clear?"

Tomás ran the System query. The terminal activated.

```stat-screen
[SECTION CLEAR — FLOORS 11-30]
Section XP: 8,400
Distributed: Party of Six
Party Status: All Active

[SIX OF SIX — COMPOSITE ACTIVATION]
Section Cooldown: RESET
Available Expressions: Full Chord / Composite Activation / Stand Up
Note: The mechanism recognizes the completion of the second section.
```

The terminal held the display for a longer beat than standard Section Clear notifications held.

Then a second notification appeared below it. Same format. Different in kind. The text read:

*Section Complete — Floors 11-30. Assessment vectors: Six. Development confirmed: All six vectors advanced. Mechanism status: Functioning as designed. The Tower has been waiting for you to reach this point.*

Nobody said anything.

Dayo read it twice. "That's new," she said.

"That's not System language," Tomás said. He had the notation surface out. "Standard System notifications don't use 'waiting.' They don't use 'as designed.' The System doesn't comment on its own function." He looked at the notification. "This is from the Tower. Not the System."

"The Architect document said escalating revelatory pressure," Nadia said. "At each section boundary." She was looking at the notification. The Brightspirit signal was at the reverberation quality — not the post-Greyback resonance, something else. The quality of something that had been received and was still arriving. "This is what it does."

"It talks to us," Vesper said.

"It confirms," Solenne said. She was running the Conductor on the notification — on the space around it, on the six of them reading it, on what the terminal's ambient read like from the Conductor's perspective. The pre-System stone frequency was present as always. But at this depth, at this junction, it was doing what it had done when Cartographer's Truth went deeper than the floor map. The six Aspect frequencies in the load-bearing structure. Present. "The assessment vectors are the six things the Proving Gate trials tested. The development confirmed is what we've been doing." She looked at the party. "It's been tracking us. Not the System. The Tower."

The notification held on the terminal for another long beat. Then it cleared to the standard display.

The Six of Six cooldown reset notification was already in her skill queue — a brief pulse, the standard Harmony Skill availability indicator. Composite Activation, available. Section 31-50, beginning.

Miriam had her notebook out. She had written something during the notification — not analysis, something faster, the pen moving without the stops-and-starts of clinical notation. She finished and closed the notebook and held it.

She looked at Dayo.

She tore out the page.

---

The page was folded twice. She held it for a moment without explanation. She crossed the distance to where Dayo was standing by the terminal and held it out.

Dayo looked at it. She looked at Miriam. The Steadfast signal was at a quality Solenne had not previously had a catalog entry for — the register she went to when something arrived that her operational processing didn't have a framework for, and she was deciding whether to let it in.

She took the page.

She opened it. She read it.

The Warmhearted signal: Miriam was reading Dayo's face the way she read things when the clinical frame was not running. Not assessing. Witnessing.

Dayo read the page twice. She refolded it once and held it.

"How long have you been writing this?" she said. Her voice was at the quality it went to when she was going to finish the sentence she started.

"Since the Ash Plain," Miriam said. "A version of it. It changed when the Tower started telling us things."

Dayo looked at the folded page in her hand. The Steadfast signal was doing something Solenne had never read in twenty-nine floors of the Conductor's catalog. Not the recalibrating register, not the weight-and-one-foot-forward mode. The specific quality of a person who has been told that something they were carrying was visible to someone else the whole time.

"You didn't tell me," Dayo said.

"You didn't need to know until now," Miriam said.

Dayo put the page in her jacket pocket. She looked at the terminal — Section 31 ahead, party status all green — and she looked at the corridor that led forward.

"The Floor 21 lock," she said. "We need to decide."

The return decision. Nine floors back. The Section 11-30 cooldown had reset the moment they cleared Floor 30 — Composite Activation available again, the Floor 21 door, the Floor 17 Repository Node below it. Cassia's standing offer.

"The index isn't complete," Tomás said. He was not arguing a direction. He was giving information. "The Floor 21 lock may contain materials related to the Architect script. Going back gives us another data point."

"Or it contains items we need for what's ahead," Dayo said. "Same problem from the other direction."

Nadia said: "The Greybacks went through."

The party looked at her.

"At the Floor 29 junction," she said. "When we stopped for the marking. They were ahead. They kept going." She looked at the corridor that led forward into Section 31. "They're not backtracking."

The calculation wasn't that the Greybacks knew better. But they had been in the Tower longer, had crossed the Section 30 boundary before, and had positioned themselves consistently ahead of the party. They were not going back.

Dayo looked at the terminal. She looked at the forward corridor. She looked at Tomás.

"The index," she said. "If you had the Floor 21 data — what's your probability of getting a readable sequence?"

"Substantially higher," he said. "Repository Nodes have more notation than surface markings. More characters, more context."

"Substantially higher," she said.

"Yes."

She looked at the forward corridor one more time. She turned.

"We go back," she said. "Floor 21 lock. Then Floor 17 if we need it. Then we come back up." She looked at Tomás. "You have two days."

He was already noting it.

---

The Greybacks were on the other side of the Section 30 threshold.

Solenne read their ambient in the Conductor when the party turned back toward Floor 29 — the particular presence she had been learning for eight floors, now on the other side of a boundary the party had just crossed. She could feel them the way she felt things at extended Conductor reach: present, aware, not following.

Seven of them. The same configuration or close enough that she could not distinguish the difference. Not the observation arc from Floor 22 — something else, something she did not yet have the notation for.

She ran the Conductor on the ambient for a long moment.

The Greybacks were not going back. They were facing forward, into whatever Section 31 held, and the party was going backward to finish something from the section they had just completed.

She filed the Greyback configuration under: deliberate.

Then she turned and walked after the party, back toward Floor 29 and the lock they had not been able to open until now.

The Tower's morning register had long since shifted to the evening frequency — the pre-System stone cycling through the circadian pattern she had been tracking since Floor 21, the six Aspect frequencies woven into the load-bearing geometry, the threshold marker carved in the unknown script at the Floor 29 junction. The mechanism continuing to function as designed. The Tower waiting for them to reach the next point.

She ran the Conductor on all six.

Filed it under: the work.
