“I was irrevocably changed. The tree was immensely powerful, beyond the ability of any human to control or rule over, but it had no will of its own. So, the power was mine. The only possible result was that I was reshaped.” The sadness came back in full force. “The tree had…knowledge isn’t the right word, but it’s close enough. The tree knew of beings that could bear up under its power.”

“Leshkin.” And the turn of phrase makes sense…

He shrugged. “Mezzannis, but close enough.”

“So… you aren’t even human?”

Master Jevin’s eyes hardened, a deep rage seeming to rise within him. “What makes a man?”

Tala frowned, taking a delaying sip of her drink. Wisdom dictates I do not answer that.

When she didn’t respond, he continued. “Is it his body? How much do you need to cut away before he is no longer ‘he’?”

She had no response.

“Is it his mind? How many memories or neurochemicals, how much dura-matter needs to be altered before the person is fundamentally changed? Before a person’s base nature is gone?”

Tala swallowed, setting her tea aside, but unable to formulate an answer.

“No, Mistress. What makes a man, what makes a human is the soul, and no accident of magic will take that from me.” The room thrummed with power.

She felt a light dizziness that passed as she asserted her own will, locking herself away from his unconscious flexing of Magic. Even so, her eyes flicked to his chest, her magesight immediately confirming what she knew would be there: his gate. Human, at least at the level of his soul.

“From that day, I have worked towards Reforging myself.” He tsked. “Refining actually made the problem worse. Refining makes your body more purely what it is.” His barely subdued rage at that was palpable.

I don’t really understand that, but now doesn’t seem the time to ask. “That must have been…difficult.”

He snorted derisively. “Difficult? Extremely. Our inscriptions are based on being placed in human flesh.” With a gesture, he indicated the most wooden-seeming portions of his face. “Even mild deviations can ruin everything.”

Tala’s eyes widened. “How, then?”

“I am bound to the tree. I did not age. I had time in abundance.”

“But your inscriptions now…”

“Are human? Yes. That was the first aspect I reforged. Magically speaking, as a medium, my flesh is considered human.” There was obvious pride in that.

“So, then, you’re close?”

“Closer than I’ve ever been.” After a short pause, he amended. “At least since my youth.”

There was a deep weariness behind those words, that Tala couldn’t begin to fathom. She found herself frowning as she leaned back, letting the silence of his remembrance build and fill the space between them.
