"I could ask the same of you. What in the world made you so heavy? I was certain my current set of skills would give me a domineering advantage in mass, yet you met me head-on. How?"

I unwrapped the dimensional opening in my hand. It showed another realm in my palm.

"I literally use the weight of pocket worlds. Cool, huh?"

Chrona let out a long laugh.

"How absurd. You're holding entire dimensions. No wonder my fusing technique didn't overwhelm you."

I swiped my hand across myself.

"That's patently false. If anything, you've improved faster than I have. Remember, I got quite a few extra months during the lottery. Despite that, you're over there, closing the gap instead of letting it get larger. That's incredible."

Chrona beamed.

"Thank you, guildmaster."

Chrona peered around us, the entire city leveled to the last brick.

"While I appreciate the compliment, I doubt we can spar here again."

Opal shook her head.

"I'm supposed to keep up with you monsters?"

Other Hod put a hand on her shoulder.

"Do not let this defeat you. Remember that you are only beaten if you give in or die. If you continue, there is always a chance."

Opal let out a scoff.

"Ok, evil shadow person. Did I ever tell you that the luminari find shadows repulsive?"

Other Hod breathed in before breathing shadows out over Opal. She scurried away.

"Blegh, ew, ew, gross."

Other Hod murmured.

"Ah, do excuse my impoliteness."

We laughed before I turned to Chrona.

"How in the world did you gain so much mass anyway?"

She looked up at the sky.

"I gained a legendary skill and several useful trees. The skill is called Planet Wielder. It gives me the ability to draw from the principles of a planet and use them in combat. It is far stronger here than on Earth since this planet is so much larger and more energized. I was hoping you'd need to use some of your mind magic or maybe your gravitation."

I waved her comment off.

"Pshhh, what? I used gravitation while we fought. I didn't use telekinesis since the surface area technique I developed is more of a killing move than anything else."

Opal pulled herself together and wiped herself off.

"Telekinesis surface area technique? That's a mouthful."

I lunged down and held my hand over the ground.

"It goes like this. I could put my entire hand onto something, and the force would disperse across my entire hand evenly."

Opal's cross zigzagged.

"Wouldn't the force be all over the place with a palm?"

I frowned.

"Close enough. Instead of letting the force go all over the place, I take a telekinetic panel, and I put all the force into a tiny point."

I let my hand flop against the ground. The ground rumbled underneath us before the city's force field rippled. I moved my palm, and a pin-sized hole reached all the way to the underground shielding below us.

"I based this technique on a technology we called guns. They came from a pre-system era, and strong guns could give a ton of recoil. I'm essentially converting that recoil into the piercing strength of bullets."

Opal scratched her cheek.

"I've heard of guns before, but I've never seen someone use telekinesis like that. It seems insanely effective."

Chrona sighed.

"I've attempted to use it. It simply won't operate with my magic style because I use thought-oriented sorcery. Whenever I try to use my own spatial magics in such a way, I end up overwhelmed by the details and minutia, so it isn't applicable in the middle of combat."

I stood up and jabbed forward. My fist bounced back, and a telekinetic bullet ripped across the town before shattering against the city's dome.

"Yeah, I wish I could help more, but you're absolutely right about how it's done. I'd like to make it sound complicated and full of finesse, but really, I just slam my fist and convert the force based on feel."

Opal narrowed her cross.

"Hm. Have you ever thought about using it on a larger scale?"

I threw a few more telekinetic punches before lowering my hands.

"Yeah. I've used it with this skill called Orbital Bombardment. It made the piercing power exponentially larger, but I think it actually weakened how much force went into my intended target."

Chrona rubbed her chin with her tail.

"That's an interesting idea. Hm. I'm going to my room to train."

The architects had already begun recreating the city, every detail matching its previous splendor. I let out a breath.

"Thank you, architects. You're a lifesaver for miscellaneous, tedious tasks that I really, really don't want to do."

Opal stretched her hands to her sides.

"Speaking of, I've got a lot to brainstorm and implement. You guys have given me plenty of ideas to chew on."

She hopped away to an architect golem that had just finished her room.

"See you guys later, and may the stars light your nights."

Other Hod gave us a look.

"I shall leave as well. There's much to learn from this, and I intend to come back with far more surprises next time."

Chrona smiled at me. She smiled,

"We'll see how long you can keep up that physical dominance."

She flapped her wings, flying away. I put my hands on my hips.

"Oh, we will."

Peering around, the city came back together quickly. It would be good as new within a few hours at most, and that gave me plenty of time to try and work out where to go next. After all, we were here to uncover the secrets of Amara's past. To do that, we had to scope out the planet and figure out some of its secrets, so I flew up and out of the city's barrier.

It was time to tread paths unseen and explore an unknown world.
