“You know, those were a present for my sixteenth birthday. I’ll have to get rid of them now; once compromised there’s no trusting them. Couldn’t you have found some other target instead?”
“You seem to think you’ll still survive.”
Nemor sneers up at Magnolia. He raises a hand, and something bright flashes into being. I see a…blue fireball appear in the mage’s hands. It’s blue around the edges, and in the center I see a white-hot flame swirling.
“Your precious shield spell is nearly exhausted. Will it withstand my magic, and the Golems for more than a few seconds?”
“It doesn’t have to. Once you’re dead the Golems will stop attacking as well. It’s very simple, Nemor.”
Magnolia lightly retorts. I see her raise her hands. She’s putting something on her index finger. I can’t see clearly what it is from this far away. Another ring?
Nemor doesn’t give Magnolia a chance to use it. He hurls the blue fireball, and the explosion engulfs the two women. I feel the blast from here—the air blows my hair and makes me cover my eyes. When I dare look again, I see Magnolia and Ressa, standing in the same spot.
What happened? Their shield must have absorbed the spell again. But it’s gone now, and Nemor has two more fireballs in each hand. He’s laughing.
“Well? Will you grovel now?”
“I still don’t see why I should.”
Magnolia’s tone cuts Nemor off. He snarls—and she continues, speaking over him.
“A powerful, if idiotic mage strong enough to bypass my wards, a group of [Assassins] to take down my mage, subverted control spells for my Golems—they even made sure to choose someone I trusted enough to let into my estate. This Circle really did manage to subvert all my outer defenses. For a first attempt, it was quite well done.”
“There won’t be a second time!”
Nemor roars in fury. He hurls another fireball at Magnolia, but this time Ressa moves. She draws something out of her skirt—a mirror?—and holds it up. The fireball is sucked into it. Nemor shouts.
“That cheap trick won’t work more than once!”
He points and the Golems lumber forward. But Ressa runs at them, hurling something onto the ground. Vines sprout up—a tripvine bag? Something like that, but these vines are huge, easily engulfing even the massive Golems and walling off the rest.
“You can’t protect yourself forever!”
The mage’s hands glow and he burns half the vines away in an instant with blue flame. He actually melts one of the Golems with his spell, but he doesn’t seem to care. He tries to catch Ressa, but she dodges backwards to Magnolia’s side.
“Your [Maid] can’t save you, Reinhart! She can’t breach my magics!”
“She doesn’t have to. Nemor, you are a fool.”
Magnolia’s finger glints with crimson light as she points at the mage. A thin line of light shoots from the ring she wears and spears the mage through the chest. My breath catches—but the light doesn’t seem to do anything. And yet—it goes straight through Nemor’s shield and out the back of his body. What is it?
Lady Magnolia’s voice is light and calm. I hear her in the sudden silence.
“If you had begged—no, even if you had, it is far too late. This is the price you pay for overconfidence, Nemor. And betrayal.”
The Great Mage Nemor pauses. For a second I think he didn’t even see the line of red light, so thin is it. But then he spots it and goes still.
“Oh.”
He stares down at the thin red line pulsing in his chest. When he looks up at Lady Magnolia all his confidence is gone.
“Please. Have m—”
“No.”
That’s the only word I hear. What I see is the burning line suddenly expanding. The thin line becomes a beam of burning air—a pillar—Nemor’s form is engulfed in a column of fire and then it flashes—
This time the impact knocks me backwards. I hear more masonry falling around me and instinctively curl up into a ball. Miraculously, Magnolia’s mansion doesn’t fall to bits around me.
My head is spinning. I’m still blind. I slowly uncurl, and gasp, remembering to breathe.
What? What was—
Was that a railgun? No—it was similar, but whatever that burning line was expanded. Some kind of explosion.
I raise my head up, although I really want to keep it down. What I see when I dare look back in the courtyard is simple: I see burning ground, the dark night, fallen bodies.
And Lady Magnolia, standing in the center of the courtyard, still pointing, her finger aimed straight at her enemy’s chest.
And where Nemor once stood? Nothing. A crater of black, smoking ash is all that remains. He is dead, and the Golems stand lifeless, some still tangled in the vines.
It’s over.
For a while, I just lie there, staring down at the courtyard. Lady Magnolia and Ressa look like they’re talking. My eyes are drawn to them—and then the devastation.
Gods. How many people just died down there? A bunch of [Assassins]—even if they weren’t ‘masters’, they had to be high-level. And that Nemor—what level was he?
I don’t know. I can’t even guess. I just witnessed a conflict that I’m far too inexperienced to even guess the magnitude of. It leaves me shaking.
Eventually, though, I stand up. I have to do—something. I wander back towards where the door used to be. I stare down the empty hallway, and then, finally, hear the other sounds.
Sound. It’s such an odd thing. As I lay watching the battle, I could only hear the clash of metal, Nemor’s voice, and the roar and boom of the magical spells. But now I hear other sounds.
Distant shouting. Crying. The voices of people. Who?
[Maids]. [Manservants]. The staff of the house, that’s who. As I slowly walk back into the non-destroyed parts of Magnolia’s estate, I suddenly remember them. And I see them, rushing about, tending to the wounded.
The wounded? Yes—the [Assassins] and Nemor didn’t just attack Magnolia. They struck the servants in her home first. I pass by multiple still bodies, stabbed or burnt practically to ash. But the few casualties of those unfortunate enough to get in the way are nothing compared to the wounded.
Several [Maids] are desperately trying to keep a man lying on the ground alive. He’s stabbed in the stomach—multiple times by the looks of it. But there are three shapes on the ground, all dressed in black clothing.
Assassins? They’re all dead. The servants must have fought them off. The maids look up at me and I—
Stab wound. They took the blade out, which is bad. The bleeding is severe. I grab the nearest cloth I can find—a dead [Maid]’s dress—and press it against the man’s stomach as hard as I can. I ignore his cries and get the other [Maids] to help.
I keep the dressing there, trying to stop blood from flowing, keep the man alive. Somehow, he holds on long enough for one of the [Maids] to dash back with a potion. She pours it on the wound and it heals instantly. The man sits up, gasping.
He lives.
I stand up and go. My hands are covered with blood, but I pay no attention. I feel like a dreamer, walking through Magnolia’s grand home, now filled with death and destruction.
I give aid one more time, helping bind a tourniquet until a potion can arrive, and then I find the last [Assassin]. The one who ran.
He lies on the ground, a hole in his chest, black clothing still smoking from where something burned away part of his leg. Two people are standing over him, a [Butler] and a [Maid].
I blink at Reynold. He and the maid both hold weapons in their hands. A shortsword and buckler in his hands, and a glowing wand in the [Maid]’s. They stare at me, first wary, then relaxing.
“Miss Ryoka. Are you unharmed?”
“Mm?”
I stare down at the [Assassin]. Filled by some unshakeable curiosity, I pull back his hood. I see not a man’s face as I’d assumed from his build, but a Gnoll’s. Dead.
“Miss Ryoka?”
I look back up at Reynold. He looks concerned for me. He moves his hand and I flinch, but he touches my head gently. He shows me…blood. On his fingertips.
“You’re hurt. I have a healing potion—please, hold still.”
I let him pour a bit on my temple. The pounding in my head stops. Huh. I didn’t even realize my head was throbbing until this moment. And I feel—a bit more steady.
I stare back down at the [Assassin]. Then I look back at Reynold. He looks grim, but he’s dealing with the situation better than I am at the moment. I hesitate, and then point at the dead Gnoll, grinning stupidly.
“Does this happen often as well?”
He just stares at me.
“Not in my lifetime. But I have heard stories of attempts made on one of the Five Families’ before.”
“Oh? And what comes next, then? What will Magnolia do?”
He looks at me as if it were obvious.
“She will go to war.”
 
—-
 
The problem with winning, Lady Magnolia reflected, was that the winner inevitably had to clean up. Oh, of course some fools might choose to let the dead lie where they were, but that was only an option on the battlefield, and in her experience, most battles took place outside of battlefields.
She stood in what remained of her lovely courtyard, sighing and staring at the dead bodies as Ressa barked orders by her side. Magnolia knew better than to interrupt—Ressa’s control over her staff didn’t have any room for her, so while Ressa coordinated her people, Magnolia chattered. She often did that in times of stress; and every other time as well. She didn’t like silence.
“Not a shred of warning. Not a hint. What good are all my informants and spies if they can’t warn me of an impending attack?”
“I believe that is why it is known as a ‘sneak’ attack.”
Her [Head Maid] paused in the act of ordering a group of servants to race through the mansion to distribute healing potions. Naturally, Magnolia’s estate had many potions and artifacts for emergencies, but it was one thing to be prepared and another to be ready for an actual attack. Magnolia’s heart ached as reports came in of the servants who had gotten in the way of the assassins and Nemor during the attack.
Something would have to be done. They would have to train the staff, not just those experienced in combat—especially if this was a forecast of things to come.
“Even so, the fact that not one person reported anything unusual happening is telling, isn’t it, Ressa? Our spies are compromised.”
Ressa nodded briefly. That much was as obvious to both women as the moon.
“Some will have been caught off-guard. Others were bribed or threatened. More were traitors to begin with. It will take a great deal of work discovering which is which.”
“However, if this is the Circle of Thorns and not some pretenders…this is very serious, Ressa.”
“I know.”
More people rushed up to the two women. Magnolia listened with one ear while she thought quietly. She stopped one maid, though.
“What was that about an [Assassin]? Was the last one found?”
Ressa nodded.
“Reynold and Sacra caught the last one as he was trying to flee. He is dead.”
“Dead?”
Magnolia’s tone was irate. She glared at Ressa, ignoring the [Maid] who fled from her presence.
“Couldn’t you have captured that one alive? I want at least one witness to interrogate. What good are dead bodies to me? I don’t know any [Necromancers]—at least, none that I trust!”
She knew she was being petty, but she was in a bad mood. Ressa clicked her tongue disapprovingly as she responded to her mistress.
“That would have been an unnecessary risk. These killers had unknown Skills and magical items. Killing the escaping one quickly was the correct decision for Reynold and Sacra to make and I stand by their decision.”
“You would.”
Magnolia grumbled, but she let the matter drop. She knew it would have probably been pointless anyways—[Assassins] were notorious for dying to protect their client’s secrets. She paused as she heard a voice in her head.
“Magnolia!”
“Oh, Ressa. I hear Teriarch. I’ll have to talk with him.”
Ressa nodded, and stepped away as Magnolia began to speak into the air.
“I’m here, Teriarch.”
The old Dragon’s voice was urgent in her mind.
“Magnolia! I received your signal. Are you—?”
“Fine. There was an attack. Assassins and a mage came to kill me.”
“Assassins? Are you sure you’re safe?”
“I’m fine, old fool.”
Magnolia’s tone was acerbic, but she relented a bit when she heard the genuine concern in Teriarch’s ‘voice’. She could almost picture the Dragon anxiously fanning his wings.
“If you think they might be around, I could be there in minutes. A spell or—I could fly!”
“You? Fly all the way here?”
The woman snorted, amused by the idea.
“If you want to come I’d welcome you. But Ressa tells me the place is secure, and she would know. I have my own [Mages] and artifacts who will be able to safeguard me, you know that.”
There was a pause as Teriarch considered Magnolia’s reply.
“If Ressa says so…tell me what happened!”
Briefly, Magnolia related the events to Teriarch.
“Will you come or not? I could use you here.”
She held her breath, but not much. Teriarch’s reply was everything she expected.
“Well…if you’re safe, then I hardly need to go out. Other mages can take care of the rest—but you should get rid of the Golems.”
“I know. But it’s such a waste. I got those for my birthday, you know.”
“Nevertheless. If one mage can seize control of them, they cannot be trusted. You need a better Golem anyways—how often have I told you not to rely on these shoddy animated suits of armor?”
“Oh? And what would you propose?”
Magnolia snapped at the empty air. Teriarch’s voice was arch as he replied.
“Any superior construct would do. A Gemstone Golem would have far more utility as you well know. Ivory Golems are too susceptible to interference via death magic of course, but if you would just buy a Magestone Golem—or even a Truestone Golem—”
“Not even you have a Truestone Construct lying around. And besides, I’m fairly certain those were outlawed in several nations.”
“Hmf. Wistram has one.”
“And she is not for sale. Believe me, I’ve asked and she is definite on that subject. Teriarch, I have work to do. If you aren’t coming—”
“Very well. I will contact you later. But if you need help—”
Magnolia’s voice was soft.
“I know. I will ask. But there’s only so much you can do in that cave.”
She heard no reply. Instead, she sensed the magical connection break. Magnolia turned back to Ressa, and found the woman was waiting for her.
“All done?”
“Things are stable for now.”
“Good. Then find me Ryoka Griffin. I only saw the girl sensibly had her head down after Nemor blasted through the wall. Do you know where she is? Is she hurt?”
Ressa shook her head.
“She is alive and mostly unharmed. At the moment she is helping tend to the wounded.”
“Really?”
“Really.”
Magnolia paused.
