Priestess’s core glowed bright for a second, pulsing out a brief wave of minuscule power. All talking in the strange pavilion ceased. Priestess slowly turned away from Erick, to regard the crowd, as they regarded her. Someone gave the sock back to the one dude and he stuffed his junk back into it, as he winked at Erick, who was fine with looking if the dude was fine with showing. Behind Erick, Violet and a few other butlers grabbed the dark door and walked out, closing shut the ceremonial space with a whispered ‘click’. Though Erick and the Shades and everywhere here were technically outside, and there were no true walls, the closing of those doors still felt ominous.

Priestess began floating through the gathered congregation. The Shades parted for her walk, as she began speaking, “The time is nigh. The sun has set.”

Every single Shade responded, “The time to break and make is met.”

Erick almost counter-cursed, but he dared not open his mouth.

So instead, he felt the world seeming to shift under his feet. Nothing moved, but everything changed. The brightness of the Brightwater, on the other side of the Palace, dimmed. The crystal mountain in the distance became something darker, and from one moment to the next, the waterfalls began running black as ink. Darkness moved in. And then a bit of light came back, as the flowers all around began to glow; bioluminescent.

Priestess hovered further into the air as she floated past the congregation. She took her spot in the southernmost part of the area. All eyes were on her, and on the air around her. Images appeared in the sky, as she began to narrate a story Erick had never heard before.

Erick was transported, maybe not in body, but in mind, to another world, another time, another place.

“In the beginning, there was Darkness.

“Endless! Boundless! Chaos without measure. Chaos without substance.

“No Light. No Stone. Nor Air, nor Water, nor Fire. No Souls. No Order at all.

“But then! There came another. A brilliance upon the Darkness. A change upon the unchanging. A solidification of Chaos into something else. Something Ordered. Hear his name, and give prayer to the fallen: Xoat! The First Wizard.

“Xoat! Xoat! Xoat!

“The Primal Spark!

“The Fire of the Age!

“The First Wizard God. And yet, he was none of that at all, for he was never given a chance.

“Neither true wizard, nor true god, Xoat lived and died in Darkness.

“And the Darkness bore witness, for when Xoat came into being, everything changed.

“Darkness had never seen anything like Xoat before. Darkness wanted Xoat to happen again.

“And so, Darkness took Xoat’s corpse and made the First Cosmology. Bones became Stone. Breath became Air. Stilled movement was driven to move again, becoming Fire, while blood became Water. A soul was sundered into a million mirrors, creating the first bit of mana in the universe, in an attempt to create another Xoat. And yet, despite the powers of Pure Darkness, it was not enough. Xoat was dead. And there would never be another like him.

“Stone did not move on its own. Air did not move through dead lungs. Fire gave warmth to nothing, while Water sloshed, and stilled once again. He tried combining the Four Elements, but Ooze only wobbled. Plasma and Rain were pretty, but were not much more than that. Sand and Steam were less than useful, while Magma seemed nothing more than a source of deep Fire.

“And so, Darkness tried something else.

“The souls had wandered around, doing nothing, but now, He forced those souls into the pieces of the First Cosmology He had created, and thus, there was sentient movement, for the first time. Mana, given form! Mana, turned to life!

“Darkness had created the first Ancients, and the first elementals. But these were not like Xoat. Though Darkness had spent little time with the First Wizard, He knew what He had created was not like what He had discovered.

“And so, Darkness worked a bit more, not sure what was happening, or where He was going wrong.

“Out of these second ministrations came Gloom, and Swamp, and Abyss, and Ash. Out of this trial, came the Second Cosmology. Primordial Elementals remade existence into their own images, but they cared not for Darkness. They were automatons, and they were boring.

“These things He had made were not clever. They acted on instinct. They were sentient, and they were varied, but they were not sapient. Their souls were dull, and they created nothing but what was already there. And when He tried to create more complicated lives, they perished, for unknown reasons.

“Darkness was missing something essential.

“After thinking for a long time, Darkness realized he was missing something that was not Darkness, for Xoat had stilled when he had appeared out of the Chaos. All complicated life perished in Pure Darkness.

“Darkness had the question, and the answer, and now, He simply searched for the solution.

“He found the answer to His problems at the most obvious of places: Xoat’s corpse.

“But these pieces were already used by the Second Cosmology, and so, He struck down automatons and useless attempts at life. And when He was done, there was not much left of His Second Creation, but He had managed to cobble together Xoat’s eyes, and ears, and brain, and most of his body.

“He took these pieces into himself.

“Thus, Darkness imbued the First Dragon, and the First Dragon was something other than Darkness. And yet, the First Dragon was also complicated life, and also able to survive in the Pure Darkness.

“Success!

“And also, terror.

“Darkness saw himself, from both angles. The Dragon was frightened. The Darkness was intrigued. The Darkness was frightened. The Dragon was intrigued.

“For in looking upon Himself, He saw what Xoat saw, which was nothing. All was destruction. All was Darkness.

“But then, He also saw the Fire upon the remnants of the Second Cosmology. How it lit up the Endless. How it enabled life in the pitiful wreckage of His Second Attempt. This Fire was the solution. But it was not perfect. It was weak. Something was missing.

“Darkness pulled Himself away from the Fire, to better let it grow and move, and in doing so, He birthed the final necessity to life.

“Light!

“Brilliant! Radiant! Incandescent!

“With the final piece of the Puzzle of Life assembled, and the First Dragon to forge the way, to guide the elemental life that would come, and to create more complicated life, life began to spread and flourish and populate the universe. But that story is getting ahead of ourselves.

“It was in this earliest time of the new Third Cosmology that the First Dragon met the Second Dragon, in the depths of Darkness. But that is a story for another day.

“For now, it is enough to know that the Dragons gave birth to the First People with true souls, the first life outside of the elementals, and though they were not dragons themselves, these First People multiplied more than any other. With the Dragons to oversee them, Those Who Aspire began to populate the First Plane. The first world of the Third Cosmology.

“Darkness looked on the First Plane from the depths of the Void, and declared it good.

“These new ‘people’ were not Xoat, but in time, more Wizards would come from those who He begat, from the dragons and the people, to forge more lands, to create more air, to fill more oceans, and to light the skies. They would open the paths through the mana ocean, carving the ways out past that First World, to the Second, and the Third, to spread among the glittering Darkness, to bring forth Order from Chaos, and to cause Chaos all their own. But we are getting ahead of ourselves, again.

“For there was a problem.

“The First World was good, but Darkness wanted to be with us, and He could not. For as how Xoat had died inside the Darkness, Darkness overpowered all that He touched.

“And lo! He already had a solution.

“He was both the Darkness, and the Dragons. It was a simple matter to shift himself toward the flesh and power of His progeny, to become something lesser, in order to gain something more.

“And thus, Shadow was born. A mixing of Pure Light and Pure Darkness. A middle path. A way forward! The Dragon God was born. In His wisdom, He descended to us. He guided. He helped. He showed the way through the mana, and how to control the mana itself. He raised the first Wizards. He showed us the first river running through the Mana Ocean. He gave us the first boats, and showed us how to create new lands out of the mana.

“And thus, was born the Third Cosmology.

“And for a few precious moments, Existence was Balanced, for the first and only time in all of eternity.

“And then it broke into pieces, because the people and Wizards therein desired this, but that was expected. Balance was stagnation, and Darkness had to break the balance of Himself in order to get anywhere with His Creations. It was only right and good that His children would do the same.

“And Darkness was happy, for He could already see new Wizards being born in this Third Cosmology. New voices, to raise to the Darkness, so that He might speak to them, to join in Holy Thought, and Holy Action. To Create! To Destroy! To bring about new worlds, and new civilizations! To twist the Chaos and Elements into Order. To break Elements and Order into Chaos. To create new life! new possibility!

“For He desired it.

“And He would be there to see it all unfold, from behind the eyes of His children, to greet the new Wizards, to teach them magic, and help them forge everything that had yet to exist. And when Wizards did not come, He would still be there to help the nascent mage learn the possibilities of magic, to help them practice their craft, to expand upon what had already been laid down by himself, and by the Wizards of the past. He would even help the apprentice, and the priest. The governor and the governed. Any who touched mana, who reached for Darkness, were welcome to try their hand at the monumental Path of the Creator, the Path of the Destroyer, or the Path of the Paradox.

“And when He could not be there directly, He would still be present behind the eyes of His Shades, to guide, and to take part, in the glory that is life.”

The sermon ended.

The black pavilion was now full of conjured illusions holding in the air above every obelisk; images of the past, to better illustrate the story told by the Priestess. In the beginning of her speech, a few Shades had helped conjure those images. Everything was going exactly as it should.

And then the Priestess spoke of Xoat like he was a planar, just popping into existence where nothing had existed before. Erick stood stunned. A few other Shades showed their disbelief, too.

And then the Priestess spoke the words that struck Erick to his core, like a spear through his heart, he was no longer stunned, but poleaxed. The Priestess had called Xoat the Fire of the Age.

And every single Shade had flinched at that. The Shades who were helping to conjure images even flinched. They had not been let in on her revelations. She was obviously going off script. Some of the Shades turned to Erick at that moment, their eyes wider than normal. Fallopolis, who somehow moved to stand beside Erick, to flank him with Quilatalap, was openly weeping tears of light as the Priestess barreled on.

The Priestess was now conjuring all the images in the sky on her own; her helpers stood back, not knowing what to do, except to glance from her, to Erick, and then back again.

For a long minute, the Priestess conjured the story on her own. And then her helpers regained themselves. They helped create images again. The Shades whispered amongst their small groups. The Priestess continued to talk.

Erick realized something deep in his soul. He found himself whispering, “This is the normal story. The one told every year, except…” He couldn’t say the words.

Quilatalap smiled, wide and happy, his lower fangs showing as he whispered, “Except now everyone knows what a ‘Fire of the Age’ truly is.” He chuckled, low and fulfilled, then added, “This makes you the first True Fire I’ve ever seen.”

The Priestess continued her sermon. Eventually, she finished. The sky brightened as light returned to the dark congregation. The rivers on the mountain flowed water, instead of shadows. The flowers lost their glows. Most people spoke amongst themselves, or stared at Erick. Or maybe they were sizing up Fallopolis on his right, and Quilatalap at his left; it was hard to tell with their eyes so white.

The Priestess spoke, “Some of you might have noticed a change in the sermon.”

Someone commented, “That’s a fucking understatement.”

A lot seemed to agree with that, as murmurs carried on the air.

Priestess continued unabated, “I’m sure you have questions. I will answer none of them at this time. But I will give you some information: I was briefed on this change of the Telling as of ten hours ago by Tania, and then a few hours ago, by Melemizargo Himself, when He came to me after Erick called to Him in the Spire. We thought we knew what Erick’s designation as a Wizard and as the Fire of the Age meant. We were wrong.” With her starbright eye sockets radiating light, she said, “The Fire of the Age is so much more, and I will be doing my part to ensure that whatever may happen, happens as our God demands.”

In the brief lull of the Priestess’s words, Tania Webwalker stepped into the air, demanding attention with her presence alone. She spoke, “Erick. Take a break. We all need to talk. The Feast is delayed.”

Quilatalap said, “Of course.”

“I’m coming, too,” Fallopolis said.

Tania spoke out, “Fine. Both of you, go.”

“I expected this to be over, not to have a meeting.” Queen’s voice rose above the crowd, “I need to check on the party.”

An incani man dressed in black said, “How can you fucking care about the fucking party now? Fuck.”

The Librarian spoke on the other side of the room, “Some of us knew enough to know this was a possibility.” She looked to Tania, saying, “I didn’t think it was quite like that, but it makes sense.”

A goldscale woman shouted, “Some of us have lives outside of the Library, psycho!”

As Shades began arguing and Tania stood in the air over it all, growing obviously angrier by the second, Erick found himself escorted out of the congregation.
