“Aah. For carrying corpses you can raise?” she asked, realizing the reason he would need it. Certainly, since he had learned specters, the ability to carry some large monsters would unquestionably enhance his power. In fact, the more carrying capacity he had, the stronger he would be. His class would gain an enormous advantage if he could keep specific corpses available for all situations. And I just learned space-affinity magicite. I should have a chat with Giddy soon. Here was a real opportunity to help her protégé out while simultaneously providing a fresh project for the Jewelcrafter to stretch her skills.

“Yup,” he answered, and then gestured at the rock beetles behind him. “You have no idea how hard I had to argue to get these. The queen in particular – there was only one raid boss, so we had to wait for it to respawn twice to get these three.” He gestured at the three largest boulders, all encrusted with jewels. “All the miners and earth mages wanted to fight me to the death for the corpses.”

“Why is that?” Ali studied the corpses – little more than a huge pile of rock to her eyes.

“The queens collect ore, minerals, and crystals and incorporate it into their armor. Each of those queens is probably worth several thousand gold just in raw materials,” Seth said, running his hand over the crystals protruding from the granite carapace nearest him. “They only let me take the corpses when I told them that you could make one in your dungeon and that it would respawn every few hours for them to farm.”

“I see. I don’t mind doing that,” Ali said, seeing the rocks with fresh eyes. The Emberforge Mines, in particular, would be a fantastic spot for an earth-affinity Rock Beetle that liked ore and stone. “I assume you want a reliable source of specter corpses?”

“Yup, exactly,” he said, flashing a conspiratorial grin. “It’s handy having you as a specter bank.”

“A… specter bank? Is that all I am to you?”

“Do you need more?” he asked, his eyes sparkling with mirth.

He’s really getting comfortable with his class and his role here, she thought, realizing just what a transformation he had gone through. Hearing him teasing and joking made her inordinately happy.

Ali reached out her hand, a gesture more of habit now than necessity, and deconstructed all the beetles, releasing a beautifully scintillant cloud of mana motes to rise high up above the jungle canopy and into the darkness above. Her domain and monsters would absorb it eventually.

Her Grimoire appeared in a sparkle of light.

Variant: Stone Juggernaut added to Imprint: Beetle.

Variant: Subterranean Brood Queen added to Imprint: Beetle.

“Um, can I watch you make them?” Seth asked.

“Sure,” Ali answered. She hadn’t considered when she might use these, but now was as good a time as any. “At least Malika won’t yell at me for going somewhere without someone to protect me.”

Seth chuckled.

It took all of a few minutes for her to gather a small group of troll bodyguards to accompany them, and then she led him toward the Emberforge Mines.

“Oh, before I forget,” Seth said. “Vivian said to tell you, Zor’kan put up a request for demonic or dragon hide. Nobody seems to be able to source high-quality leather, and he can’t do much for the guild without a steady supply. She was wondering if you could make something? Maybe a few of those wargs or whatever you call them?”

“I think I can manage that,” Ali said. It was a perfect opportunity to implement one of the design ideas she and Calen had been discussing recently. She had learned one thing from the Heroes of the Crimson Blade: there was always someone stronger looking to take your stuff. Now that the word was out, she had work to do to make her dungeon stronger. Much stronger.

The best time is probably now. It wasn’t like the next attacker would politely wait till she was prepared.

“Here we are,” she said, setting them down on the cracked and scorched ground outside the tunnel bored through the fallen rock directly into the Emberforge Mines.

She pulled out her Grimoire and began to summon her newest monster.

Subterranean Brood Queen – Rock Beetle – level 81 (Earth)Your reserved mana has increased by +293.

“Ready?” Ali asked.

“Let’s do it!” Seth said. His eyes reflected the excitement in his voice.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
