Moths covered the third floor. Erin froze in the hallway. Moths. They were pouring in from the staircase leading up to Bird’s watch tower, filling the corridor. The only thing stopping them was a line of five green warriors. The Redfang Warriors were snarling, cutting moths down as they swarmed through the opening. Behind them, an Antinium lay on the ground, bleeding green from dozens of wounds.
“Miss Erin. I regret to inform you that I have failed my duties.”
Bird looked up weakly. His body looked like it had been sliced by thousands of razors. His bow was broken, and Erin could see his internal organs pulsating from a place on his side where his exoskeleton was just gone. She reached for the potion at her belt and fumbled with it.
“Bird—hold on!”
One of the Hobs turned. Badarrow blinked as he saw Erin, and he shouted something guttural at her, pointing at the stairs leading down. He was standing behind a pile of moths. The Hobs had already killed so many that they were forming a barricade in the hallway. Erin saw Headscratcher cutting at two moths, roaring, as they tried to fly in the tight space.
Badarrow loosed an arrow and saw Erin struggling with the potion bottle. He ran over, grabbed the bottle, and unceremoniously smashed it against Bird’s chest. The bottle broke as the healing liquid splattered over the Antinium’s wounds.
“Ow.”
Bird’s wounds began to close as Erin dragged him back from the fighting. She saw Shorthilt and Rabbiteater both cutting down moths coming from the doors. The Redfang Warriors fell back a step as more Face-Eater Moths crawled over their companions. And more were coming down the stairs each second.
“Many! Many!”
Numbtongue was shouting in frustration as he kicked a cat-sized moth and speared another with his sword. He howled in agony as the small moth he’d kicked latched onto his arm. As he tore it off and stomped on it, Erin saw a circular chunk of flesh had been torn off his arm.
“The door! The door to the watch tower! Can you close it?”
She shouted as she pointed to the stairs the moths were streaming down. Bird shook his head as he rose unsteadily. He pulled a dagger from his belt and stabbed a moth crawling among the dead bodies towards Badarrow.
“They broke the door. And my tower! And my bow!”
He rose, and Badarrow grunted. Bird looked around and walked into his room, past Shorthilt. The Goblin shouted something at him and charged in after the Antinium. Erin shouted for Bird, and the Antinium reappeared a moment later with his old crude bow in his arms.
“I have a spare. Miss Erin, you are in grave danger! Please go below!”
“What about you? Come on, get downstairs!”
“No.”
Badarrow growled at her. He shot another moth at point-blank range as Bird took a position beside him. Bird nodded.
“We will hold this spot until we must fall back.”
The other Hobs growled agreement. Numbtongue stumbled back, cursing, as more moths forced him to pull back from the doorway he was holding. Instantly, Headscratcher, Shorthilt, and Rabbiteater took a few steps back and formed another line a few feet further back down the hallway. Numbtongue turned to Erin.
“Need potions! Got more?”
“Yeah, lots! Hold on!”
Erin ran down the stairs. Pisces and Ksmvr were fighting in the hallways now, battling back-to-back. Erin froze as she saw deformed skeletons, huge shambling horrors smashing moths.
“Wha—Pisces, are these all yours?”
“I am a [Necromancer]!”
He looked irate as he stabbed a moth behind one of his Bone Horrors. Erin saw Ksmvr pushing a moth into a room and nearly slipped on the blood.
“Hold on, I’m getting potions for you all! I—gah!”
A moth that had been stabbed through the chest fluttered up. Erin reacted instinctively.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
She caught it on the abdomen and felt her fist go through the moth. Erin screamed in horror as the moth squirmed on her arm. Ksmvr tore it off and threw it to the ground. Erin stared at the gore on her arm and didn’t throw up. That was a challenge. She ran downstairs, her stomach roiling, and saw the situation on the ground floor had gotten worse.
“There’s too many!”
Yvlon and Ceria were fighting a hard battle. Despite Ceria’s ice magic, the moths were flooding through the windows, and unlike the second and third floors, there were no hallways or doors to block them coming in. Yvlon whirled and cut a moth down as Erin ran for her crate of potions. Ceria was screaming obscenities as she shot moths with her [Ice Spike] spell.
“Hold on, just hold on!”
Erin ran back up the stairs, dumping some potions on the ground and then hurled the crate at the Redfang Goblins. Headscratcher grabbed one bottle instantly. Somehow the Goblin recognized the potion and hurled it across the corridor. Erin, knowing what the potion did too, threw herself to the ground.
She heard a roar and felt the wave of heat blast her. When Erin got up, the third floor was a mass of flame as the moths burned. The corpses that the Goblins had stacked up became flaming barricades, and the assault slowed. And yet, still the moths came, screaming as they burned, smothering the flames with their bodies. The Goblins took the brief interlude to snatch more potions out of the crate, eying them and snapping at each other as they braced themselves for the next wave of scorched insects.
“Hey! One of you come with me!”
Erin screamed at them. The Goblins turned. Headscratcher shouted what sounded like an order in their crackling tongue—Shorthilt raced after Erin as she ran back downstairs. She slipped on the blood coating the stairwell and crashed onto the ground. Erin scrambled up, feeling a searing pain in her elbow and side.
“Are you good?”
“What?”
Pisces screamed back. Erin shouted.
“Can you hold?”
“Wha—yes! For a while!”
His Bone Horrors had pushed into each of the rooms. Erin could see them smashing and cutting the moths apart. She nodded and ran downstairs.
“Ceria! Yvlon!”
The half-Elf and woman looked up as Shorthilt raced downstairs. The Hob charged towards a moth that had come through a window and cut. He slashed the moth in two and then raced across the inn to cut another moth to ribbons.
“Thanks! How are the others doing?”
Ceria shouted at Erin.
“Good! Bad! I don’t know, there are way too many!”
“My brother’s outside in all of this!”
Yvlon screamed at the other two. Erin nodded. She had no idea if the Silver Swords or the Halfseekers were even alive, but she had to trust they were. She looked around. Her inn was filled with shouts, thumping, screeching insects. She had to do something! But what?
Fight? Erin realized she was holding her frying pan and hurled it at a moth that had burst through a window behind Ceria. It clonked the moth, and it was stunned long enough for the half-Elf to turn and blast it with shards of ice. Erin backed up towards her kitchen as Ceria yelled at her to keep back. No, fighting was out. She was no [Warrior]. Then what?
It was a flash of inspiration. The door! Yes, why hadn’t she—Erin ran for the door and yanked it open.
“Erin!”
Octavia nearly cut her with the kitchen knife she was holding. She was standing in front of the door with Drassi right behind her. Erin saw the [Alchemist]’s eyes widen as she took in the chaos behind her.
“Erin, get through quickly!”
“No! Octavia, I need potions! And the Watch! Where’s Celum’s Watch?”
“Watch? Lyonette ran to get them! Erin, how many are—”
“Thousands! Liscor’s under siege, and we’re barely holding! I need all the potions you’ve got, understand? Healing potions, mana, explosive—put them in crates and wait for me to open the door, understand?”
“What? But—”
Octavia hesitated for only a second. Then she nodded.
“I can do that! Give me five, no, two—”
She looked around desperately.
“I’ll open the door soon! Get the Watch to come! Tell them we need as many [Guardsmen] as they can spare!”
Erin shouted at the [Alchemist]. Drassi looked confused.
“Erin, what are—”
“Pallass!”
Erin slammed the door. She ran into the kitchen, hearing Ceria cursing and Shorthilt shouting a warning behind her. Mana stone, mana stone! Where was—
There! The bright yellow mana stone gleamed at her in the bowl next to the door. Erin grabbed it and rushed back out. She slapped it on the door and opened it.
Pallass! An entire Walled City lay in front of her, the sky blue, the streets filled with people going about their business. For a second Erin just stared. Then she waved her arms and screamed.
“Hey! Help! Help!”
Heads turned in surprise. Erin shouted as Drakes stared at her. They just stared at her as she shouted and waved at them.
“Come here! It’s an emergency! Come here!”
They just stared at her! At last, a few Drakes walked over, looking confused. One of them, a Drake with dark purple scales, looked amused.
“Human, what’s this about? What—”
He caught sight of the fighting behind Erin and recoiled.
“Ancestors, what’s going on?”
“Liscor is under attack! There’s monsters everywhere! Get the City Watch! Tell them we need reinforcements, now!”
“Liscor, under attack?”
More Drakes came over. They stared over Erin’s shoulder, alarmed, but not afraid. The Drake eyed Erin’s inn through the door.
“Are those…moths? What’s happening, Human?”
“There’s an attack on Liscor! Get help!”
Erin screamed at him. She would have run through to yell at them, but she knew her door only had enough power to let her enter and exit. And she needed an army! The Drakes around the door looked unconvinced.
“This doesn’t look like an attack on Liscor. How do we know you’re telling the truth?”
“Do you see the giant face-eating moths behind me?”
“Yeah, but that could be just your inn.”
For a second Erin just stared at the purple-scaled Drake. She raised one fist and punched him through the doorway. Then she seized the entire door itself and began dragging it across the common room.
“Erin? What are you doing?”
Yvlon caught sight of Erin as she sliced another moth in half. Her face was covered in sweat, and her armor was already streaked with the yellowish blood of Face-Eater Moths. Erin didn’t answer. The door was heavy, but she was fueled by desperation. She reached her own door to the inn and yanked it open.
“Erin! Are you crazy? Come back!”
Ceria screamed at her back. Erin saw a sky filled with motion, thousands of crawling shapes. She heard a roar and saw Moore swinging his staff. The half-Giant was covered in his armor of thorns, and the moths were literally cutting themselves to pieces as they swarmed him. The Silver Swords and Halfseekers were fighting outside the inn as the moths flew overhead, landing on Erin’s inn.
Falene was blasting insects out of the sky, and she had created a space around her, a bubble that slowed the moths as they flew towards her. Ylawes and Dawil were keeping her safe, battling a moth twice as tall as Moore. Erin didn’t hesitate. Though her every instinct screamed to get back indoors, she heaved the doorway out and pushed it against a wall. Moths came flying towards her. Erin scrambled back as a shape blurred past her. Seborn stabbed the moths with his daggers, twisting the blades as the moths screamed. The Drowned Man turned to Erin, his eyes flashing behind his armor of thorns.
“Get back inside!”
“Wait!”
Erin shouted at him. Seborn couldn’t reply as he turned, cursing, to fight the moths converging on her. Erin set the door against the wall and then yanked it open. Again, Pallass appeared in front of her. This time the purple Drake was standing in front of a crowd of Drakes, talking with an officer of the Watch.
“—Just here, [Guardsman]. I was telling you, she was screaming about moths and Liscor being under attack. Then she punched me! Typical Human—”
He broke off and turned. The [Guardsman] turned. The crowd went still. They stared as Erin finally looked around and took in the scene outside for the first time.
It looked like a vision of hell. The sky was filled with thousands of dark shapes. They were swarming over the walls, held back by frantic warriors on the walls. Lightning and fire crackled from Liscor’s battlements, blasting moths apart and arrows felled more, but there were a hundred for every one that fell.
And in the distance five giant moths loomed over it all, giant behemoths that blocked the light. Two were on Liscor’s walls, biting at the [Guardsmen] there. Another was flying across the Floodplains, hunting a scuttling Rock Crab. Two more were coming this way, flapping their wings.
Erin saw the Silver Swords struggling to contain their small bubble of space, the Halfseekers cutting down the moths coming towards her inn. She heard Liscor’s horns blowing, heard the chittering laughter of the bugs. It was a roar that filled the air. They flew towards her, so many that it seemed like they would drown her inn with the sheer weight of bodies.
For five seconds she stared and the people of Pallass stared with her. Then Erin heard a Drake woman scream.
“What are they?”
“Monster attack! Monster attack!”
“Summon the Watch! Call the army!”
“Liscor is under attack! Raise the alarm! Dead gods, raise the alarm!”
They fled as the lone [Guardsman] backed up, holding his spear and shaking. Erin stumbled back as Seborn, Jelaqua, and Moore closed on her position. The moths had seen the light of another city and were flooding towards it.
“Erin!”
Jelaqua shouted, her armor covered in gore. Erin pointed at the door.
“Keep the moths away! Reinforcements are coming!”
The Selphid stared at her and then the door. Understanding flashed in her eyes as Erin pointed to Pallass. Erin slammed the door and ripped the mana stone off. This time she opened the door to Celum. Octavia was piling potions into crates. Erin began yanking them through as Drassi pushed them towards her. She shouted at Ceria, Yvlon, and Shorthilt as she dragged the potions into the inn. She shouted at Pisces and Ksmvr as they came down the stairs with the Redfang Goblins, retreating into the common room.
“Hold on! Just hold on! Help is coming!”
She prayed that that was true. The Face-Eater Moths were everywhere. How was Liscor still standing? Could they hold on? They had to have help!
Before it was too late.
 
—-
 
The [Message] spell that was sent out from Liscor was short and simple. It was marked with the highest-priority reserved only for emergency messages as per Drake protocols. It read as follows:
 
Emergency. Liscor is in immediate danger of falling to monster attack. Repeat, Liscor is in danger of falling to overwhelming monster attack from dungeon. Face-Eater Moths have attacked the city in tens of thousands. Five colossal moths sighted.
 
