“Well, if you must know, the Halfseekers are a group of three Gold-rank adventurers. They used to be a group of eight and quite well-respected, on the verge of Named Adventurer status as a group. However, they’re solidly Gold-rank now. Their team isn’t specialized for this kind of fighting. Oh—see the half-Giant? That would be Moore, a specialist in earth magic. He’s using…my word, is that a mass-variant of the [Armor of Thorns] spell?”
“It must be. It takes quite a lot of mana to use that spell—I wonder if he’s exhausted himself already? But the defensive benefits are considerable.”
“Naturally, naturally. Oh look, Noass! Do you see that?”
“I do indeed, Sir Relz. That flash of movement, there? That would be Seborn, their Drowned Man and [Rogue]. He’s a Crab-type Drowned Man and very adept at close-quarters combat. Not ideal for the number of flying moths, but he’s keeping mobile with his team, shielding this inn.”
“Shame that none of the Halfseekers can take the fight to the giant moths. Look, one’s assailing the walls. I can’t think that it will be repelled with just the forces th—”
“Ancestors!”
A cry broke through the commentary. Across the world people leaned forwards, trying to get a better look as the Drake [Mage] was buffeted by the crowd. They saw him pushing forwards, staring through the portal at a flash of light. One of the five giant moths was on the wall, climbing over, but a flash of light tore a part of its face away and then another.
“Look! On the walls! Someone’s shooting at it!”
“Who?”
The two Drake commentators, Sir Relz and Noass, pushed forwards as the crowd and the world held its breath.
 
—-
 
The gargantuan Face-Eater Moth had nearly climbed over the walls and was threatening to enter the city where it would cause havoc unchecked. The City Watch was trying to hold it back, but the massive moth simply ate the defending Drakes and Gnolls or speared them with its massive legs. It was just crawling over the battlements when an arrow sprouted between its head and exploded into a shower of spikes that tore part of its face away. The Face-Eater Moth reeled back, keening, and heads swiveled for the unknown shooter.
He was coming up the stairs. Halrac raised his bow and loosed another arrow. It streaked towards the giant Face-Eater Moth and exploded into a cloud of green dust. Poison. The moth shook its wings as Halrac shot a second arrow which froze a portion of its left wing. It dropped, and Halrac shifted his aim and shot a moth the size of a wagon instead. The fireball that engulfed the winged creature consumed it almost entirely.
“Griffon Hunt!”
A cry went up as Halrac shot again and again, his enchanted arrows finding their mark each time. The [Guardsman] rallied behind Halrac and pushed the moths back to the wall. Halrac advanced, and behind him came Typhenous and Revi. The Stitch Woman shouted in fury.
“Come forth, spirits! Drive back these monsters!”
She pointed, and the City Watch saw a wave of ghostly warriors and archers charge up the stairs behind her. Spectral warriors flooded the battlements, fighting the Face-Eater Moths. Revi pointed, and a flaming Corusdeer galloped past her while two bright eagles made of light harassed moths flying overhead.
“Typhenous, we could use a shield!”
Revi shouted at the old man behind her. Typhenous raised his staff.
“[Wall of the Winds]!”
A howling gale sprung up along their section of the wall, hurling the moths climbing or flying there away. Typhenous raised his voice as the [Guardsmen] cheered.
“Keep shooting! The wall works one way!”
Halrac grunted as he loosed an arrow. It passed straight through the wall of swirling winds and exploded in the face of the Face-Eater Moth as it tried to fly back up. Outraged, injured, the moth flew backwards.
“Keep me covered. I’m bringing that thing down.”
He spoke curtly to Revi. She paused in exhorting her summoned minions.
“You think you can?”
Halrac glared at the giant moth as it circled, flying overhead to bypass the windy barrier Typhenous had conjured. He pulled five glowing, cherry-red arrows from his quiver.
“Let’s find out.”
He drew and loosed, and the explosion consumed the moth. It fell amid the cheering.
 
—-
 
Pallass confirms one of five giant Face-Eater Moths is down!
Zeres. We have eyes. We saw.
Oteslia. What’s this about Pallass not sending reinforcements to Liscor? Explain yourself!
Pallass. Standby.
 
Zevara’s claws tore the parchment slightly as she stared up from the hastily scribbled [Messages] and at the smoking corpse of the giant Face-Eater Moth that had fallen onto part of the battlements. The ink was still wet, and the Street Runner was already dashing off the wall to safety.
“The Walled Cities know about this? And they’re watching? How in the name of—the inn!”
“Are they sending reinforcements?”
Olesm called hopefully as he surveyed the wall. He pointed.
“Fall back! [Rapid Retreat]!”
A group of [Guardsmen] fled at speed as a group of moths swarmed over their location. Zevara shook her head, looking at the rest of the messages.
“No! Damn Pallass! They’re still holding back!”
She stared around the city. The walls were holding, but the moths had just flown over the walls in many spots. Now the fighting was in the streets of the city as moths attacked homes, buildings, and [Guardsmen] indiscriminately.
“Report! How bad is it in the city?”
She snapped at a second Street Runner as he dashed up the stairs. The young Gnoll panted and wheezed as he spoke.
“Gnolls are on the rooftops, shooting down moths entering the city! Miss Krshia has anyone with a bow in the center, but she says they can’t do more than protect their area.”
“The Gnolls? That’s excellent!”
Zevara stared at the small shapes on the rooftops below. The Gnolls were shooting down moths as they came. She spotted more flashes of movement in the streets.
“Are those adventurers?”
 
—-
 
“Go, go, go! Get out there and fight!”
Selys was distributing potions, shouting at adventurers, and herding civilians into the back rooms. The Adventurer’s Guild had turned into chaos as the Drake [Receptionist] tried to force the lower-ranked adventurers to leave the building. They didn’t want to go.
“I said get out there! The city is under attack! You’re adventurers, this is your job!”
“But there are so many! We don’t get paid for—”
“You don’t get to live if they slaughter us all! Move!”
Selys shouted at a young man with a sword. She had a bow by the doorway. She snatched it up as she heard heavy wing beats. A group of moths landed in the street, and the adventurers flinched. Some rushed out, but before they could fight the small swarm, a shape flashed by them and kicked the first moth so hard its head collapsed. Hawk the Courier spun and kicked rapidly, smashing the fragile moths’ bodies. He spun, ready for more, and spotted the staring adventurers and Selys.
“Hawk!”
Selys shoved the Bronze-rank adventurers into the street. She pointed.
“Guard that street! Just take down any moth you see! Go!”
She turned to the Rabbit Beastkin. Hawk was panting, but unharmed. He wiped moth fluids and body parts from his foot as she approached him.
“Stamina potion?”
“Thanks. I’ve got better ones. Ancestors, this is the second time I’ve had to defend Liscor in months! First the undead, now this!”
Hawk looked around. He straightened as more moths flew down through the air. Two fell to arrows, but the rest landed on roofs, eliciting screams from the people within. Hawk leapt up, and Selys saw him kick off a wall and onto the roof where he began smashing the moths. She looked around frantically. Liscor was still fighting, still surviving, but there were more moths coming every minute and no end to them in sight. She shouted the question that was on everyone’s tongue.
“Where are the Antinium?”
 
—-
 
“Flood the tunnels! Workers with bows, fire into the kill zone! Collapse tunnel G-43E! Activate the traps in cluster JF-42!”
Belgrade was at the center of chaos as Workers and Soldiers streamed around him. Anand could barely see for all the bodies, but the sight of the Face-Eater Moths flooding the tunnels was enough to chill the Antinium to the core. If not for the kill-zone he and Belgrade had created, they would have overrun a good deal of the Hive. As it was, over sixty percent of the Hive was currently fighting and the rest was on reserve.
“Take down that giant moth! [Combined Arms]!”
He pointed, and a group of Soldiers charged forwards, their fists swinging as one. The giant moth reeled back as Soldiers and Workers swarmed onto it. The giant room that was the end of the kill zone was filled with moths, and Anand saw Antinium fighting and dying, desperately trying to keep the moths from entering the rest of the Hive. The Face-Eater Moths were numerous and strong. They tore Soldiers apart, trampling them. One giant moth rushed forwards and stopped as it impaled itself on two silvery swords.
“Advance.”
Klbkch’s voice was met with a wave of Soldiers who pressed the moths back. The Revalantor fought, his blades flashing in the gloom as the Antinium held the line. In a lull, he ran back to Belgrade and Anand as the two struggled to keep ahead of the moths trying to dig through the earth and enter the Hive via other sections.
“Belgrade, abandon your command of the lower-eastern section. The Queen has assumed command of the Workers and Soldiers there.”
“She has? That is a relief!”
Belgrade sagged. He turned his attention to another area as Anand paused to stare at Klbkch. The Revalantor had fought for six hours straight already without pause.
“Revalantor Klbkch—”
“Speak quickly.”
Anand nodded.
“We have received another urgent request for aid from Liscor. It seems the Face-Eater Moths have declined in ferocity after the slaying of their eighth mother-type leader. Should I take some Soldiers and reinforce…?”
“No. We have allocated all we can. The Hive must stand. Tell Liscor that reinforcements are on the way.”
Anand nodded. Reinforcements were on the way. And as the battle dragged into its seventh hour in the Hive, the Antinium appeared above-ground.
 
—-
 
“The Antinium! The Antinium are coming!”
“At last! What took them so long?”
Zevara’s head turned in relief. She expected to see a wave of black bodies flooding out of the tunnels. What she saw instead surprised her. She saw color.
“What? Are those—?”
The Painted Soldiers charged onto the streets. Zevara saw a Worker with a censer point and then two Antinium, one a giant with yellow splatters, the second painted with a ghoulish purple smile, lead two groups into the city. They began smashing into the moths on the ground. As she watched, the Soldiers charged a wagon-sized moth, bearing it to the ground and stomping it to death. More flooded up the walls and began hurling themselves at the moths there.
“Watch Captain! The team of Griffon Hunt says their [Scout] is out of enchanted arrows!”
“What? Damn! Give him every one we’ve got, and get more [Guardsmen] to reinforce his position! Another one of those giant moths is coming! Let the Antinium hold the wall!”
Zevara saw [Guardsmen] race to where another giant moth had landed. The Antinium were now on the walls, ruthlessly crushing moths, fighting with reckless disregard for their safety. She saw one Soldier with bright blue circles on his body jump off the wall and onto a wagon-sized moth climbing up. Both Antinium and moth fell and landed with a crunch below. The Drake winced as she saw the yellow-striped Antinium leader pull another Soldier back from doing the same.
“Push them back! The Antinium are here—push the moths back!”
She shouted at her [Guardsmen], feeling a surge of hope for the first time. Zevara turned as Olesm downed the second giant moth with a flash of lighting. She heard a cheer as the moth fell and the Soldiers in the streets covered it, tearing it apart piece by piece. Three left! They could do this! Three left!
 
—-
 
“Another excellent lightning strike by that [Tactician] on the walls! Good shot, I say!”
“Are those Antinium reinforcing Liscor? Of course, this is the only Drake city with a Hive. Why weren’t they deployed earlier?”
“That’s unknown, but they seem to be pushing the moths back quite quickly where they are! Hold on—do you see what I’m seeing, Noass? Those Antinium have paint on their carapaces! Is this some kind of new Antinium variant?”
The two Drakes who were commentating in the crowd probably had no idea their words were being broadcast to countless other people across the world. However, their words were highly significant to the many people watching. In Baleros, Niers Astoragon leaned over.
“My eyes aren’t what they used to be. Umina, do you see what those Drakes are talking about?”
The Lizardgirl stared hard at the image in the orb.
“I think so. The Antinium have…well, they have something on their bodies.”
“Color? Paint? But they appear to be the standard Soldier types. Is this a trick or does it have more meaning?”
Niers leaned back in his seat, thinking hard. Foliana munched on her muffin.
“Mm. Looks good. Think Liscor can win it?”
Every head turned to Niers. The tiny Fraerling smiled, knowing his reputation could rest on a correct answer.
“I wouldn’t place all my coin on them just yet, Foliana. They’re putting up a good fight, but the adventurers around this…inn are tiring. They’re—wait, it’s that Human girl.”
He sat up as the young woman appeared in the doorway again. She waved at the crowd.
“You lot coming through yet!?”
The Pallassian soldiers shifted uncomfortably. The young woman glared at them, and Niers laughed as he saw her raise one expressive finger.
“Fine! Stay that way! You guys are all assholes, you know that? You and your stupid Walled City!”
Then she slammed the door shut. Niers blinked as the Drakes cried out and the portal vanished.
 
Salazsar. What is going on, Pallass?
Pallass. Standby. Human interference.
Zeres. Stop saying ‘standby!’ Recover the image!
Pallass. Standby.
 
It took five gut-wrenching minutes for the image to reappear. Magnolia saw Erin arguing with another Human in armor as the portal reopened. She leaned forwards.
“What has that young woman done now?”
“Look, guard the inn! Inside! Just hold on—they’re coming through the third floor, and my guys are tired! Take over and don’t let them come down the stairs!”
The Human in armor nodded, and Magnolia saw a group of [Guardsmen] rush into the inn. Their arrival had surprised the Drakes in Pallass.
“Is that the insignia of Celum’s City Watch?”
“You’d know more than I, Noass. What are they doing in Liscor?”
“Using a magic door.”
