Magnolia muttered to herself, ignoring the intrigued looks the others in the room were giving her. Ressa frowned as she stared at the adventurers fighting the moths. Magnolia glanced up at her.
“Ressa, it looks like Liscor will survive. Unless you disagree? The Antinium are there, there are Gold-rank adventurers on the wall, and two of those horrid moths are down. All good, or do you disagree?”
The maid shook her head.
“The moths are still numerous. And there is a problem.”
“Which is?”
“The adventurers who have been attracting a lot of the attention.”
Ressa pointed at the Halfseekers and the Silver Swords. Magnolia peered at them.
“What’s wrong?”
The maid’s face was grim.
“They’re getting tired.”
 
—-
 
It happened in an instant. One second Jelaqua was there, twirling her flail, the next, the giant moth descended. The Selphid tried to move but her leg slipped in the muck and blood. Erin saw legs snatch her up and heard Jelaqua’s shout.
“Let go of me, let go!”
“Jelaqua!”
Moore roared as he ran to grab her. He was too slow. The moth flew up, and Jelaqua’s voice grew fainter. There was a shout and then Erin saw something falling. She saw Jelaqua’s pale face, her arms flailing—
And then the Selphid hit the ground. Her body thumped on the ground and bounced. She didn’t move.
“Jelaqua?”
Moths covered her. Erin shouted in horror and tried to run forwards. Seborn was already there, cutting, dicing. Moore thrust aside moths and scooped Jelaqua up. Part of her face was missing—the moths had torn her body to shreds in those brief moments. Her mouth was moving, but the rest of her body was limp, twisted.
Broken. Moore ran for the inn, and Erin shouted for Celum’s [Guardsmen] to cover them. They obligingly filled the air with arrows, but it wasn’t enough. The giant moth circled and this time struck Moore. He screamed as a leg went through his stomach and the broken armor of thorns on his body. Seborn cursed. This time the moth landed, mouth open wide to eat the half-Giant whole.
“Silver Swords, on me! [Knight’s Challenge]!”
A voice shouted. The gigantic moth turned as Ylawes struck his shield and it rang like a gong. It and the other moths converged on the silver [Knight], buying time for Erin to run out with the Horns of Hammerad and the Redfang Goblins and drag Moore and Jelaqua inside. The moth charged Ylawes and struck his raised shield. Though Ylawes was guarding, the impact sent him staggering backwards. He raised his shield again and blocked a leg as sharp as a needle before it could strike his chest.
“Dawil! Take out its legs!”
“On it!”
The Dwarf ran around the giant moth. He swung his hammer.
“[Thunder Blow]!”
The impact snapped the giant moth’s leg in half. The insect jerked as Ylawes sliced at its head, and it tried to bite again. The Dwarf ran around as Falene raised her staff.
“[Grand Fireball].”
An explosion cooked the insect’s abdomen, and it shrieked. It turned, and the half-Elf ran swiftly backwards. Ylawes struck his shield again, and the moth turned. Before Dawil could cripple its other leg, it grabbed the [Knight] and took off.
“No!”
Erin heard Yvlon shout. The young woman raced forwards as the giant Face-Eater Moth flew higher. Ylawes was a speck overhead. She could see him cutting at the moth, into its belly as it tried to bite him. Falene raised her staff.
“[Blue Lightning].”
The bolt hit the moth in the wing and tore a hole open. It flinched, but kept flying. Dawil knocked a moth aside, panting, his beard covered in gore.
“Think our boy can do it, Falene?”
“Never say ‘our boy’ and my name in the same sentence again, Dawil. And I think he’s done it.”
Erin stared up at Ylawes high overhead. She couldn’t hear what he said, but she saw his sword tear a hole in the giant moth’s abdomen. It screamed and fell, and he fell with it.
“He’s gonna splat! Someone do something!”
Erin shouted in horror as Ylawes fell. Falene sighed.
“I am. Don’t block my aim. Wait…wait…[Featherfall].”
She pointed, and Ylawes’s body slowed twenty feet from the ground. He landed with a grimace, his armor covered in gore. Dawil ran forwards and buried his hammer in the insect’s head, splitting its brains open and putting an end to its convulsions. Ylawes raised his sword, and Erin heard the cheering.
It came from Pallass. She turned back to the door, annoyed and angry.
“Those jerks! They haven’t done a thing, just watched!”
“Don’t need to! There’s only two of them moths left, and we’re thinning out the rest of the buggers at last!”
Dawil marched over to the others, panting, his face red with exhaustion. He grabbed for a stamina potion at his belt and downed it.
“Damn things aren’t working anymore. Hey, one of you mind killing the next giant moth?”
He looked around and realized he wasn’t the only one swaying on his feet. Falene leaned over her staff, her elegant face marred by her sheer exhaustion, and Ylawes stumbled, barely able to stand.
“We’ve got to rest. Stamina potions aren’t enough.”
“Okay! Rest! The inn’s secure—I’ve got guys from Celum holding it!”
Erin pointed to her inn. It was scarred from the outside, every window broken, and Bird’s beloved watch tower had been smashed, but it still stood. The Silver Swords stumbled inside and paused.
“Huh.”
Dawil stared around Erin’s common room. It had been enlarged again, and over thirty members of Celum’s Watch stood behind the windows with crates of potions at their feet. The bodies of Face-Eater Moths littered the floor, and Erin had used the extra ‘stage’ part of her inn to clear the bodies and broken furniture away. It looked awful, but the Silver Swords just collapsed on the ground, ignoring the blood that was on the floor and their armor.
“How’s Jelaqua? Is she—?”
“Injured.”
Seborn replied as he crouched next to his teammates. Jelaqua wasn’t moving, but her eyes and mouth twitched. The Drowned Man grimaced as he poured a healing potion into her mouth.
“Her body’s broken from the fall and her real form took damage from it too. I’m trying to get a healing potion into her, but there’s no saving her body. She can’t move it or do more than speak.”
“What about Moore?”
“Healing. He took a bad injury, but he’ll be fine with rest.”
The half-Giant’s eyes were closed, and his head was covered in sweat, but the [Guardsmen] from Celum had covered him with Erin’s blankets from the kitchen, and his wound had closed thanks to the healing potions. Erin looked around.
“Ceria, Pisces, Yvlon, Ksmvr, you all okay?”
“We’re good.”
The Horns of Hammerad looked up. They were exhausted too, but the arrival of Celum’s Watch had kept the pressure off them. Likewise, the Redfang Goblins were sitting together, sharpening their blades, keeping a wary eye on the open doorway. They were being given a wide berth by Celum’s [Guardsmen], but after seeing the hundreds of moths the Redfang Warriors had slaughtered to keep Erin’s inn from being overrun, it was hard to call the Goblins anything but an ally.
Especially now. Erin peered out of her inn at Liscor’s walls, still filled with fighting.
“You think we’ll be okay if we rest? All but two of the huge moths are dead and there aren’t as many of the other ones. I think we’ve won. Right?”
A grunt answered her from inside. Dawil, on his feet and still pale with exhaustion, looked troubled.
“Battle’s not over until we take out the last two. And there’s enough moths to cause trouble. Hey—watch it!”
He pulled Erin back as the [Guardsmen] in her inn loosed another flight of arrows. The moths approaching her inn fell, pincushioned, and the ones who got to the walls died to a mixture of spears, swords, and axes. Celum’s Watch might not be as well-trained or as numerous as Liscor’s, but with Erin’s inn they could easily hold the moths off. Erin nodded as she spotted some of them downing Octavia’s potions.
“Okay, two big ones, but once we get rested we can take them down, right?”
“Right. Liscor’s walls might recharge enough to blast the suckers. Or maybe they can shoot them down. Was that Halrac the Grim I saw on the walls? He took out one of those things himself!”
Dawil nodded approvingly. Erin did too.
“Yeah, that’s right! I think we can do it!”
She broke off as she heard voices. Erin peeked around the door and saw the Drakes from Pallass standing in front of the door. They were still doing their commentary, by the looks of it.
“—seems like Liscor’s managed to repel the worst of the assault, Noass.”
“That’s right, Sir Relz. The swarm seems to have been broken, and the last two Face-Eater Moth mothers are circling around in disarray.”
“That’s indeed so, Noass. Did I hear you right? You called them ‘mothers’?”
“Apparently those exceptionally large ones are brood mothers that lay thousands—tens of thousands—of eggs, Sir Relz. It’s a disgusting process.”
“Quite, quite. But they definitely have morale, and it is failing. See how they’re circling around just out of bow shot of Liscor? Not a smart move, but then, when have monsters ever thought tactically?”
“Indeed, indeed—oh look, it’s the Human who owns this inn.”
Erin peered through her magic doorway at the crowd standing in Pallass’ street. She eyed Watch Captain Venim, who wouldn’t meet her eyes, and then the two rich-looking Drakes standing in front.
“Excuse me, some of us are fighting for our lives here.”
“And some of us are watching the show, Miss Human. You seem to have things well in claw anyways. Do you think some of the adventurers who just fought out there would mind coming to the door so we could congratulate them? The Silver Swords did an excellent job, as did the Halfseekers. Taking down a Face-Eater Moth in the sky like that, my word, what a show!”
Sir Relz, the snobby-looking Drake, applauded lightly, and the crowd murmured agreement. Erin glared at him.
“They’re all tired from nearly dying. And stop telling us it’s nearly over! We get to say that! You get to watch! Besides, those moths aren’t just flying around in a panic!”
“Oh really? Flying in a circle seems to be rather unintelligent to me, wouldn’t you agree, Sir Relz?”
The Drake called Noass smirked. Erin stared at him.
“You’re stupid. And that’s not a random spot. That’s the spot where the Face-Eater Moths crawled up from to begin with!”
Sir Relz, who’d been smiling condescendingly and sipping from a goblet of wine, paused. He stared at Erin.
“It is?”
“Yup.”
Erin glared around. She eyed a Drake in fancy robes who was staring hard at her and the battle outside.
“And what are you looking at?”
She waved at him, but he didn’t respond. He looked like he was concentrating hard. Sir Relz, on the other hand, looked more and more concerned.
“Miss Human.”
“Yeah?”
“When you say the moths crawled ‘up’ out of the ground, do you mean to say you didn’t see the entire swarm fly in? They appeared out of the dungeon, correct?”
“Yup. Five of the nasty ones. Came right out with a shower of water. Like a geyser. Why?”
“Well…how do you know their entire population consisted of only five moths?”
Erin stared at the Drake. Sir Relz stared back. Erin closed her eyes and then someone screamed. She looked over her shoulder as a Drake pointed and groaned.
“You have got to be kidding me.”
Another Face-Eater Moth mother crawled out of the hole in the ground. She spread her wings and her brood flew into the air, fresh thousands flying upwards. Erin stared. Then she saw another Face-Eater Moth mother crawl out of the hole. And then another. And another.
Six giant moths flew through the air, chittering, their voices making the wax in Erin’s ears vibrate. She stared at them as the crowd in Pallass went silent, and the defenders of Liscor’s walls froze. Her voice was very audible in the silence.
“Oh, we are so dead.”
 
—-
 
Zeres here. The situation looks unwinnable. Our [Strategists] predict destruction of the city unless the Antinium are capable of fielding an army large enough to repel the moths.
Pallass. Our [Generals] concur. We are prepared to send a company of [Soldiers] into Liscor to evacuate and hold the walls until the citizens can flee into Celum.
Oteslia. Only now are you sending your forces in? Too little, too late!
Salazsar. Liscor must not be abandoned at any cost. Surely Pallass can send in multiple companies.
Pallass. There is no known limit to the population of moths. We recommend evacuation.
Fissival. Are there any reinforcements that may be called in via Celum? Can Wistram assist?
Wistram. We are unable to send reinforcements. If Liscor could hold out for a day, we would be able to teleport a single Archmage to the battlefield.
Manus. Untenable. We may only watch and see what transpires. Let us hope for a miracle.
 
Silence. The world waited as the Face-Eater Moths flew in a gathering swarm, chittering, angrier and angrier. They seemed as equally focused on Erin’s inn as the city—waves of them were already hammering the inn, driven back only by arrows and the exhausted [Mages]. Erin sat in her inn, staring at the six giant shapes.
“We can’t beat them. I mean. I thought we could. We got three! Three! But now there are six. It’s not fair. How big is the dungeon, anyways? Why are they all out here? Why…?”
“Fair’s never a word you should use in adventuring, lass.”
Dawil stood with his hammer in his hands, staring at the swarm. He sighed.
“It was a good fight. Other side cheated, but then, don’t we all? We’ll have to hold this spot. Don’t know what’ll happen if the big ‘uns come for your inn. Your walls might not hold, but we have to stop them long enough to get all those people in Liscor through the door.”
“It doesn’t have enough power for that.”
“It must. Or—could we hide them somewhere else? The dungeon? The Antinium Hive?”
Erin didn’t know. She stared up, helpless. Pallass’ [Soldiers] were going to come through any minute, but she’d heard them talking. They were going to evacuate people, not fight. The moths blotted out the sky, flying higher, laughing at her. She looked up and knew despair. The Gold-rank adventurers couldn’t beat them. Who could?
“Erin.”
A voice spoke softly in her ear. Erin and Dawil turned and saw Pisces. His robes were white and pristine, enchanted against bloodstains and dirt, but his face was sweaty, grimy, and he had a gash down one arm. He looked up at the swarm of insects and shook his head.
“A calamity if ever I saw one. A truly terrible threat to any city. And yet—I think I have been too arrogant.”
“Pisces. What are you talking about?”
