They were coming. They were already here. The Face-Eater Moths flew and crawled across the Floodplains of Liscor, chittering. There were so many that Erin couldn’t see the sky. Already, they were crawling over her windows, their legs scraping the glass. She saw one moth press its body against her window and backed away.
“Erin!”
A hand yanked her into the middle of the common room. Erin whirled. Ceria’s face was pale, and she was holding her wand in her other hand. She shouted over the terrible rustling of thousands of bodies.
“Get into the door! To Celum! We’ll fight them here!”
“What? No!”
Erin shook her head. The half-Elf stared at her incredulously.
“Erin, there are thousands—”
“Tens of thousands. Moore, block that window!”
Jelaqua snapped as Moore heaved a table up and rammed it against the window. Erin stared around the room. The adventurers were all boarding up windows or preparing for combat. They looked grim as they checked their gear. She saw the Halfseekers downing potions, the Silver Swords pointing out a crack in the window and arguing—the other Horns of Hammerad were upstairs with the Redfang Goblins, trying to seal off the windows there.
Glass windows. For once Erin regretted the beautiful, expensive, fragile glasswork. She saw a Face-Eater Moth clawing at the window and then saw Ylawes striding towards her.
“Miss Solstice.”
His voice was clipped, and he was holding his shield and sword as he stared around the inn. The common room had returned back to its normal size, and it felt cramped, as though they were in a tiny box. Erin could hear movement all around them, things battering at the wall.
“I advise you to leave through the door to Celum. We’ll cover you and try to slaughter the moths, but we’ll have to fall back as soon as this inn starts going down.”
“It’s not going down. And I’m not leaving.”
Erin snapped at the [Knight] as he tried to escort her to the door. He and Ceria both looked at her.
“Excuse me? Did you see the size of those five moths, Erin? One of them could flatten your inn just by landing on it!”
“Not my inn. I have a Skill.”
The young woman folded her arms. She could feel her inn groaning under the weight of so many bodies, but, amazingly, they had yet to break a window despite the pounding impacts that now came from every side. Moths were hurling themselves at the windows. Ylawes stared at her.
“You’re sure your inn will survive? That changes things.”
“It’ll hold! Moore couldn’t break my walls. My windows though—”
There was a crack as something massive struck a window near the kitchen. Erin saw every head turn. Ylawes stared at her and then looked around.
“In that case we have an opportunity. We can hold this ground; use it to shield our backs.”
A woman’s voice called out.
“Shield our—what are you talking about?”
More voices. Erin saw Yvlon. She’d come down the stairs. Pisces and Ksmvr were behind her.
“We boarded up as many windows as we could and closed the doors. Hopefully that buys us time. But how long are we planning to hold out here?”
Yvlon pointed back upstairs. Pisces looked around. The [Necromancer]’s gaze was sharp as he eyed the Silver Swords. Falene and Dawil were standing by the doors, the half-Elf holding a staff and the Dwarf a hammer in both hands. He nodded to them.
“The most expedient solution would be to retreat into Celum. But that isn’t your brother’s intention, Yvlon. He intends to take the fight to the Face-Eater Moths.”
“Exactly.”
Ylawes had produced a helmet from somewhere. It was a classic knight’s helm with a visor. He put it over his head, his voice muffled as he spoke.
“We’re going out there. The moths are already breaking the windows and trying to get in—we’ll distract them. Yv, you and your team hold this inn. If Miss Solstice is right, we can rely on it to shield our backs and rest if needed. But we won’t win this battle sitting and holding out.”
“Win? Ylawes, there are thousands of—”
“I know.”
His voice made Yvlon go quiet. Ylawes looked around, and Erin saw him open his visor to look at his younger sister.
“Yv, this is our duty. My team’s duty. We’re Gold-rank adventurers, and Liscor is under siege. We need to take down those giant moths. Liscor only has a limited window before the city is overrun, and we are bound to fight.”
“Sounds about right.”
Jelaqua strode over. The Selphid wasn’t smiling, and her hands gripped the two-handed flail tightly. She nodded to Ylawes as the Gold-rank adventurer turned.
“You’re thinking the same thing, Ylawes? Head out and smash those bugs?”
“We’re going to aim for one of the five giant moths. You?”
Erin and the Horns of Hammerad stared open-mouthed as Jelaqua grinned with bloodless lips.
“Nothing so grand. Moore’s magic can’t hit aerial targets, and Seborn and I aren’t cut out for it either. We’ll just mow down as many moths as we can. You want to coordinate?”
“No. We’ll just foul each other. Let’s stick within range of the inn, though. We’ll take the front.”
“Fine. We’ll try to hold that ground too.”
Jelaqua nodded. She struck Ylawes’ shoulder with a gauntleted fist as he nodded to her. Yvlon was still staring.
“Are you insane? You’ll be torn apart if you go out there! Ylawes—”
“Don’t argue with your brother!”
To everyone’s surprise, Jelaqua snapped at Yvlon. She looked around. The Selphid’s eyes flashed as she nodded to the door.
“This is a Gold-rank adventurer’s responsibility. It’s not the same as being Silver-rank. When you reach our level, you swear an oath to fight. We don’t run, not when a city’s at stake.”
“Exactly. Liscor won’t survive that onslaught for long. Their magic barrier is already weakening.”
Ylawes’ words were punctuated by a thump in the distance. Erin’s eyes widened.
“What was that?”
“Attack magic. Came from Liscor.”
Seborn announced from his position by the doors. Erin heard a thunderous roar, and the chittering of the moths stopped for a second as a tremendous thwoom of noise made the windows of her inn shake. She looked around wildly as the press of bodies let up on the outside for a second. She ran to look out a window, ignoring Ceria’s warning.
Moths were flying about in confusion. Erin could see the magical barrier around Liscor flickering, and then a flash of orange and red blinded her. The giant moth flew back, keening, as hundreds of its smaller kin fell burning from the air.
“Good use of fire magic. But it won’t last. They only have a limited number of enchantments on their wall.”
Falene announced as she stared out the windows. Indeed, the moths were already attacking the barrier again. They hurled themselves at the blue shield surrounding Liscor, and Erin could see it flickering with each impact. Two of the colossal Face-Eater Moths landed on the barrier, and she saw it go out for an entire second.
“Dead gods. Are you really going to fight that?”
Ceria’s voice was soft. Ylawes nodded. He looked at her and the other Horns of Hammerad.
“Hold the inn. Don’t let the moths in. If you can’t, pull back into Celum and don’t open that door for any reason. We’ll survive.”
“Ylawes—”
The [Knight] turned and looked at his sister. Erin couldn’t see his face through his visor, but she thought he was smiling.
“I’ll see you soon, Yv.”
There was a crash from upstairs and the sound of splintering glass. Pisces cursed, and he and Ksmvr rushed up the stairs. Erin looked around. Where were the Redfang Goblins? Ylawes looked up and nodded to his team.
“Ready?”
“A moment. The mana here is strong. I’m trying to harness it.”
Falene closed her eyes. Erin gasped in surprise.
“Oh! My inn’s got lots of magic! Can you use it?”
“Of course.”
The half-Elf opened her eyes and regarded Erin severely. She shifted her gaze to Ceria.
“Ceria Springwalker, you are a mage of Wistram. I trust you to hold this ground until we return.”
“I’ll—do my best.”
Ceria looked pale. Erin stared at her and then at Falene. The half-Elf was beginning to glow. Dawil grumbled and moved backwards as Falene’s body sparked, jolts of electricity arcing from her body to the ground and tables.
“Hot! Watch it, Elf!”
She made no reply. Across from her, Erin saw Moore raising his staff. Jelaqua’s voice was calm.
“We’re going in, boys. Slaughter tactics. No need for speed or maneuverability out there. Moore, can you cast your armor spell on all of us?”
“Yes.”
The half-Giant’s voice boomed. His eyes flashed green as he brought the staff down. There was a rumble, and Erin saw vines covered in huge thorns worm out from beneath her floorboards. They covered his arms, his legs—she saw the same was happening to Jelaqua and Seborn!
“Dead gods.”
Ceria breathed the words. She was staring at Falene. Now the half-Elf was surrounded by a crackling aura of lightning. It was contained—Erin saw the bolts of electricity trying to earth themselves on Dawil and her tables and Falene drawing them back around her. The half-Elf’s voice echoed as her eyes flashed.
“Magic is limited only by the quality of the mage, Ceria. This inn is a place of power. As am I.”
She turned. Her body shone with lightning. Dawil grumbled.
“And I’m a place of metal. Keep your [Lightning Shroud] spell under control until we’re clear of the inn, Elf!”
“Ready?”
Ylawes strode towards the door. His armor shone as Falene and Dawil took up places behind him. Erin heard more crashes above and shouts. She looked up. Were the moths getting in above already?
“We’re ready.”
Jelaqua’s voice came from a shape cloaked in vines. Erin stared. The Selphid was covered in green armor, her body engulfed in razor-sharp thorns and twisted vine. Only her eyes were visible and then, only just. Seborn looked equally fearsome, but Moore—
Two giant eyes stared at her out of a mass of barbed plant matter. The half-Giant turned, and Erin, Ceria, and Yvlon backed up a step. A towering creature rose, a hand covered in razor-sharp blades gripped a staff. Ylawes glanced at the Halfseekers.
“On my count, then.”
He put his hand on the door as Dawil knocked aside a barrel that had been pushed in the way. The barrel fell and broke, spilling alcohol across the ground.
“Oops.”
The Dwarf’s voice was loud. Erin heard the chittering, the rustling, saw something smash through the window across the room. It began thumping against the table blocking the way. Ylawes didn’t look around. He waited three seconds and then lifted his shield. He shouted as Ceria and Yvlon ran to attack the moth coming through the window.
“Silver Swords! Let’s go!”
He threw open the doors. Erin gasped as she saw moths swarming around the entrance. A giant Face-Eater Moth taller than the door itself reared up, its razor-sharp mouth opening. Ylawes raised his shield, and it flashed white. He roared as he charged.
“[Shield of Valor]!”
A bulwark of silver light formed around his shield. Ylawes rushed forwards, and the moths found themselves swept up, pressed helplessly against the shield as he rammed them together. Hot on his heels was Dawil. The Dwarf roared as he smashed a moth flat and swung his hammer into another with a crunch.
“Come on you flying sacks of crap! I haven’t got all day!”
Behind him strode Falene. Erin heard her speaking as she raised her staff. Spells erupted from the tip of her weapon too fast for thought.
“[Blue Lightning], [Flash Fireball], [Water Arrows], [Sand Spray], [Aerial Burst]—”
The lightning around her flashed, and Erin heard hundreds of moths shriek as the electricity blasted in every direction. As they tumbled from the sky, Jelaqua led Moore and Seborn out, screaming a warcry. The Selphid plunged into the ranks of moths, her flail knocking them aside, creating a space as she whirled through the first rank of moths around the inn. Seborn was already stabbing with his enchanted daggers as Moore smashed moths with his hands and staff.
“The door!”
Ylawes roared, and Erin ran for the door. A moth the size of a large dog flapped towards Erin. She saw its ‘mouth’ opening and shutting as it flew towards her face. Instinctively Erin raised the frying pan.
“Get lost!”
She smacked it, and the moth fell down. Erin slammed the door on it and struggled to drag the half-drained barrel in front of the door. She heard more cries as the adventurers began fighting outside the inn and more sounds. The moths were attacking in full force now.
“The windows! Yvlon, take that side!”
Ceria shouted as more moths began bursting through the windows. The one on the far wall had been decapitated by Yvlon’s sword—Erin saw its torso hanging obscenely out of the wall, dripping onto the floorboards. Ceria pointed as more dark shapes squirmed in the window behind it.
“[Ice Spikes]!”
She fired with her wand and skeletal hand. Erin heard shrieks as the forms fell back. Yvlon ran to the other side and lopped off a moth’s leg that had penetrated a glass window.
“Erin! Get to Celum, damn it!”
“No!”
Erin shouted back. She ran into the kitchen and dragged out the crate of rattling potions. She heaved it onto a table, taking care not to break the bottles within. These weren’t the potions Octavia had broken by accident the other day. She’d bought these over a month ago. Healing potions, alchemist’s fire, mana potions—she shouted at Ceria.
“Potions are here! Get them!”
“Potions? Good!”
Ceria turned and cursed as another moth tried to crawl through the broken window. A shimmering wall of ice pinned the insect against the window and then sheared it in two as it blocked the window off again. Ceria pointed and another wall of ice blocked off another broken window. The moths began hammering on the ice again. There were so many!
“I’m going to see what’s happening above!”
Erin ran for the stairs. She could hear more fighting above. She took the stairs two at a time and saw chaos on the second floor.
“Comrade Pisces, the moths are coming through your room!”
“I see them!”
Pisces and Ksmvr were holding the second floor, trying to cover the eight rooms, each of which had moths crawling through the broken windows. They were not alone, though. Erin gaped as three giant bear skeletons tore into the moths above, biting and tearing at the insects. She froze as Pisces impaled a moth on his rapier. The [Necromancer] turned to her, his face alight with battle fury.
“Erin! Get below! We’ll hold the moths off as long as we can! The Goblins are doing the same one floor up!”
“They are?”
“Yes! Bird is wounded!”
Ksmvr shouted as he cut at a moth with three arms. Erin paled.
“Bird!”
She ran for the third floor, ignoring Pisces’ shouts for her to come back. She’d forgotten about Bird! Was he—
