That was it. There was no request for reinforcements, no plea for tactical advice or support. If it came, it would be too late. If help came within the day, it would be too late, let alone in weeks. There was no force that could reach Liscor from any of the Walled Cities to which the [Message] spell was sent in time. It was just a warning.
The reaction of the other Drakes cities was immediate. A group [Message] call was set up within minutes, using established emergency protocol. The messages from one Walled City to another were transmitted to all parties and read off as each city’s leaders debated on the content. Initially only the six Walled Cities took part in the call, but such was the extraordinary nature of the event taking place that soon other parties across the world were sending [Message] spells, demanding answers.
Indeed, Magnolia Reinhart’s assembly of [Lords] and [Ladies] and a military camp in Lord Tyrion’s command tent were also aware of the situation. They clustered around the uncomfortable mages relaying the [Message] spells, listening intently. This was raw news as it was happening for anyone with the informants and a [Mage] capable of ‘listening in’ on the situation in Liscor, and the discussion of the Walled Cities.
 
Fissival is present. What is Liscor’s situation? They have not responded to any [Message] spells.
Oteslia. The city is under siege from monsters. Does any city have more details?
Manus. No.
Zeres, likewise.
Salazsar can confirm. Our Lord of the Wall reports exceptionally dangerous monsters. Swarm of Face-Eater Moths with individuals exceeding forty feet in height.
Oteslia. Surely an exaggeration? How were such moths not spotted?
Salazsar. Our Wall Lord reports it crawled out of Liscor’s dungeon.
Manus. Can your Wall Lord confirm danger of threat?
Salazsar. Unknown. Our Wall Lord is currently engaged in combat.
 
Silence then, as every Walled City waited for details. Magnolia Reinhart sat in her chair lightly, listening to the [Mage] as the older man sweated and waited for more [Message] spells to be sent to him. Across from her, a [Lord] muttered under his breath.
“Goblin Lords and monster swarms from a dungeon? This is the last thing we need.”
Minutes passed, and then—
 
Pallass. Can confirm monster attack. Visual confirmation.
Oteslia. How?
Zeres. Is it possible to share visual input via spell?
Pallass. Standby.
Salazsar. We have visual input as well. Scrying orb. However, our [Mages] are unable to transmit imagery.
Manus. What does Salazsar see?
Salazsar. Overwhelming numbers. Our [Strategists] predict one-in-three odds of Liscor being overwhelmed in the next thirty minutes.
Fissival. To Pallass, request nature of visual confirmation.
Pallass. Visual confirmation is…visible. We have a [Mage] capable of [Scrying] at the location of a portal to Liscor.
Oteslia. Please confirm, Pallass. ‘Portal?’
Manus. Keep up with current events, Oteslia. Pallass, can you send visuals via [Scrying]?
Pallass. Standby.
This is Wistram. If Pallass has a [Mage] capable of casting [Scrying], we will amplify the spell to all interested parties. Our mages are ready to link at a moment’s notice.
 
There was a ripple of shock throughout Lord Tyrion’s command tent. He raised a hand and spoke drily.
“Of course Wistram would be spying.”
There was a nervous chuckle around the tent as the [Lords] and [Ladies] and lesser officers stared intently at the young woman, the [Mage] in charge of relaying what was happening. She gulped, but began to speak again, repeating the conversation after the moment of hesitation by all six Walled Cities.
 
Zeres. Wistram is not invited to this conversation. Remove yourself at once.
Fissival. Wistram was invited by our request for magical consultancy.
Zeres. The mages are not authorized.
Oteslia. If Wistram can send a [Scrying] spell, do so at once.
Fissival. To a vote. All in favor? Fissival votes yes to Wistram magical aid.
Oteslia agrees with Wistram’s request.
Zeres reluctantly acknowledges.
Salazsar permits. Act quickly.
Pallass will comply. Standby.
Wistram awaits. Our circle is linked and led by two of our Archmages. We will send a magical projection to all individuals with appropriate receptive capacity.
 
Niers Astoragon instantly sat up. He turned to Peclir Im who was listening quietly behind Foliana and several of the Forgotten Wing company’s officers and [Strategists].
“Get a scrying orb at once.”
“Or a mirror. Hand mirror. I have one in my room.”
“Too small. And yours is weak, only capable of lesser scrying. I want an orb.”
Peclir dashed out of the room, and several of Niers’ students looked at the [Grandmaster Strategist]. Niers frowned as he peered at the magical slate upon which the [Message] spells were appearing. Foliana munched on a carrot muffin as she sat next to him.
“Looks like a lot of people are listening.”
“Of course. I wouldn’t be surprised if this conversation was appearing across the world. Liscor falling at this moment to a monster attack from a dungeon? If Wistram really does send the projection, I wouldn’t be surprised if the King of Destruction himself watches. Assuming he has a scrying device.”
There was a ripple around the room. Niers flicked his eyes across the slate. A single message had appeared. And then another. Foliana offered Niers a crumb.
“Muffin?”
He ignored it. Every eye was on the slate.
 
Oteslia. Pallass, your status?
Pallass. Standby.
 
—-
 
“Hold the line!”
Watch Captain Zevara was fighting on the walls. She screamed at her [Guardsmen] as they fought the moths crawling over the walls and flying overhead. Arrows were being loosed overhead, and the few [Mages] in the Watch were blasting the larger targets, but there were just too many moths. As Zevara turned her attention back to the space in front of her, she saw a cloud of moths come up and the [Guardsmen] with shields and spears crying out in dismay.
“Duck!”
She shouted, and the Drakes and Gnolls flattened themselves as Zevara inhaled deeply. She exhaled a huge gout of flame. The moths fell as the fiery cloud engulfed them. Zevara gasped for air, feeling her lungs strain to absorb enough oxygen. She’d always had trouble breathing—it was worst when she inhaled too much smoke. Now she coughed and tried to inhale.
More moths fluttered up to their position. Zevara spat fire again, feeling the world go dark around her. She gasped and felt a hand steady her.
“Careful!”
Olesm had a scroll in one hand. He unrolled it as Zevara straightened and aimed with his claws. A shower of spectral arrows materialized overhead and cut down a swath of Face-Eater Moths attacking the wall fifty feet down. Zevara nodded.
“Good job! Ration those enchantments though! We only have so many left!”
“I’m hitting every big target I can see!”
Olesm reached for another command scroll for Liscor’s defenses. Zevara, her head clearing, saw a group of [Guardsmen] cry out down the wall and scatter as a huge moth landed at their position. It wasn’t one of the five giant moths, but it was still large as a house and simply ignored the jabbing spears and arrows the Watch sent into it.
“Olesm! That moth!”
“I see it!”
The Drake [Tactician] fumbled with the scroll, trying to open it. He had it open and ready to cast when he froze. Zevara was about to shout at him to cast the spell already when she saw what he’d spotted. A Drake in full magic armor was racing up the steps, shouting, cutting down moths and heading straight for the huge moth on the walls. Zevara could hear Ilvriss’ voice clear as day.
“Drakes of Liscor, rally to me!”
He used a Skill. He must have, because Zevara stood straighter and sensed the Drakes and Gnolls around her standing tall, catching a second wind.
“Don’t let these vermin scale the walls! Push them back!”
Ilvriss charged down the wall, shouting as he and his escort flooded into the breach. His enchanted sword flashed twice, and the giant moth staggered back, keening in pain. Zevara saw his blade stab into the moth again and again, carving through it easily as he and his small group of followers retook the spot.
“Good! Now all we need is ten more of him!”
Zevara shouted at Olesm. The Drake grinned and aimed his scroll at a giant moth climbing up the walls. A jet of flame shot downwards, and Zevara saw the moth fly off the wall and flap wildly in agony.
“I’ll try to bring that one down!”
“There are five! Two are here—where are the other three?”
“One’s flying north! The other two are at Erin’s inn!”
“What?”
“The inn! It’s still standing! The moths are being held off there!”
Zevara turned, incredulous. She hadn’t thought of Erin’s inn, except to wonder if the young woman had fled or been killed. Her tail twitched as she saw the flash of swords and the color of magic. The inn was ablaze with motion, covered by moths, but still it stood! And shining out of a door set against the front wall was another city. Zevara’s heart skipped a beat as she realized what Erin was doing.
“Ancestors, of course. Pallass!”
 
—-
 
Zeres. Pallass, what is taking so long?
Pallass. Standby.
 
A pause, as around the world the wealthy and powerful leaned forwards, some actually leaning on the unlucky [Mages] who had to relay what was happening. In Terandria, a group of nobility sat around, eating snacks and laughing lightly.
“What fun!”
“This is far more entertaining than anything I could have hoped for today.”
“I say, let’s have a bet on whether Liscor falls. Any takers, say, a hundred gold pieces?”
“Make it two hundred and I’ll take that offer.”
“Four hundred on the city standing but being gutted.”
“Ah, wonderful! Let’s see if these Drakes manage to get something for us to look at, shall we?”
 
Pallass. We have visual. Stand by for Wistram to relay!
Oteslia. At last!
 
The image swam into place slowly, a blurry scene coming slowly into view. Flos, the King of Destruction, leaned over the tiny marble-sized scrying orb and looked at Gazi.
“Are you sure this is the only orb we have, Gazi?”
She looked apologetic.
“My lord, that is my personal orb. I thought we had larger versions in our possession.”
Mars rubbed at her face, shaking her head.
“We did, Orthenon told me—until he was forced to sell them for food two winters back.”
Flos leaned forwards, as did the rest of the people in the room. 
“No matter. Is this from the perspective of the [Mage] in Pallass? A wonder that Wistram can transmit it to so many locations. Now, what have we here?”
Trey stared in wonder at the magical portal set into the wall, at the crowd of Drake civilians clustered around the door. There was even sound! The [Mage] was standing next to a Drake [Guardswoman] as she argued with an important-looking officer in yellow armor. It was probably not a conversation that Pallass meant for the world to hear.
“Hurry up! We need reinforcements now!”
Erin stood in her doorway, shouting at Pallass and, unknowingly, the world as the battle raged behind her. Moths were falling from the sky, blasted by Falene’s lightning and a shower of thorns Moore sent upwards like a flight of arrows. The Drakes in front of the door stared at her, but Erin’s words were meant for Watch Captain Venim as he stood with a company of Drakes in armor. They hadn’t entered the door although they’d been standing there for the last ten minutes.
“Watch Captain? Our [Mages] have the doorway open and ready to go! Give the order and I’ll take my men through.”
The Drake was a [Captain], nearly hopping with impatience as she eyed the battle in Liscor. But Watch Captain Venim just shook his head.
“I do not have permission to send your troops in, [Captain].”
The Drake turned her incredulous gaze on him. She kept her voice low so the anxious crowd of Pallass’ civilians couldn’t hear, but she was standing right next to the Drake [Mage] who was mightily concentrating, his face beaded with sweat as he stared at the portal.
“And why not? Liscor is under attack! Those flying moths will overwhelm the walls within the hour if we don’t clear them away! Ancestors, my company might not be enough! We need to push as many soldiers through as that doorway allows and do it now!”
Venim closed his eyes.
“The Assembly of Crafts is debating. We do not have authorization to support. Prepare to close the door if the inn is overrun.”
The Drake inhaled sharply.
“Watch Captain? You can’t be serious—”
“You have your orders, [Captain]! So do I! We wait until the Assembly responds, is that clear?”
Venim snapped at her. He broke off as the Drakes looked at him. One of the civilians stared at the soldiers and then at the battle.
“Why aren’t we sending our army in?”
There was a murmur from the crowd. Many Drakes had left the streets rather than look at the hordes of monsters, but the stronger-willed civilians were present. Indeed, several richly-dressed Drakes were inspecting the carnage with a great deal of interest.
“It’s Liscor. It’s not our city.”
One of the Drakes spoke up hesitantly. A Drake with a monocle in front turned, looking offended.
“Excuse me? Liscor is a strategic asset. If they fall, the Humans might easily sweep through or claim Liscor as their own. Not to mention that this dungeon threatens us all. If monsters occupy the area around Liscor or if that dungeon has more swarms of this magnitude—”
“Hey! Where’s the army?”
Erin shouted through the doorway. The Drakes turned back to her. Erin ducked as a moth came for her, and the crowd screamed. Quick as lightning, a Drake [Archer] standing in Pallass shot an arrow straight through the doorway. The moth fell, and Erin got back to her feet. She was shouting through to the other side now.
“I don’t know! I said I don’t know, Jelaqua! They’re just standing there! Can you hold—aah! Run away!”
She fled as another house-sized moth landed with a thud that made the crowd draw back. The Drake [Soldiers] in Pallass rushed forwards, but before the moth could approach the doorway, a Selphid charged into it. Jelaqua cursed as she hit the moth’s face, body, legs, and wings, her flail smashing the insect back.
“Good job, that Selphid!”
The Drake with the monocle applauded as the rest of the Drakes in the crowd looked at him. He nodded to the other Drake on his left.
“I say, did the Human call her Jelaqua? That must be Jelaqua Ivirith, a Gold-rank adventurer! She leads the Halfseekers.”
“Splendid flail work!”
The other Drake agreed. They inspected the battle, unaware or simply uncaring of the looks they were getting. The other anxious Drakes stared at them, and then one with purple scales and a black eye spoke up.
“Well go on, what about the Halfseekers?”
The Drake with the monocle and his buddy looked surprised.
