“Ha-ha, of course I brought your mother. He explained the wood doesn’t work well with magic.” How can that be? The tree easily has triple the amount of magic it should.

I follow dad closer to the tree and place my hand up against the trunk of the tree.

“Aaaa!” I pull my numb hand back from the tree.

“Are you ok, sweety?” Dad’s smiling face doesn’t look worried.

“Yeah, the tree shocked me! Did you know that was going to happen?” His smile says it all.

That explains why it’s considered useless. There’s plenty of other trees that have the same property’s that don’t shock people when you touch it. A very thin soot is left on my fingertips. I wonder how it reacts to mana?

I move my hand over the tree again without touching it and expel a little bit of mana.

As soon as my mana touches the tree my body becomes paralyzed and I get knocked off my feet. I couldn’t even scream!

“Aaliyah!” Dad is quickly by my side.

Thankfully the paralysis quickly fades. As soon as my jaw unclenches, I’m able to say, “Ouch!”

I just got knocked on my ass by a tree.

“Are you ok, Aaliyah!” Dad’s good-natured smile is gone as he looks worriedly over me.

“I’m fine, now.” I try to stand up with dad’s help. “Mana doesn’t mix well with the tree. Does the wood do that after it’s cut?”

Father lets out a sigh of relief when I start asking questions. “No, after the wood is cut from the tree it loses most of the shock.”

Shaking out my limbs, I smile at father. “I like it.”

“Of course, you do. Give me a minute to cut a piece off for you.”

“Won’t it shock you?” Is it safe to use a steel axe on this tree?

“Only a small zap. I don’t know why you got fired so bad?”

“I think it did something to my mana when I tried using some of it on the tree. If the effect lessens after you cut a piece off it shouldn’t be that bad again.”

“Alright, I want you to sit down while I cut a piece off though.”

“I’m fine dad, you don’t have to worry.”

“Try saying that again after your hair stops standing straight up.” He moves over to a lower branch while I sit down and run my fingers through my hair. It’s not straight up at least.

Dad takes a stance and activates his skills. In a flash his axe cuts the air and the tree limb I need. Dad picks up the three-and-a-half-foot log and starts securing it to his back harness.

“I can carry it,” I offer. Maybe I can examine it while dad cuts some firewood.

“Not going to happen.” He quickly strikes my offer down. He knows me too well.

“Is the firewood close?” I ask as we put the ‘Arc’ tree behind us.

“It isn’t too far from here. I remember a decent sized tree on the other end of charred part of the forest.”

“How far is that?” I want to have an accurate distance in my mind in case we come back this way again.

“Maybe 20 minutes if we…” Dad goes silent and I hear the something approaching in the distance.

Dad readies his axe and I grip my sword in my right hand while also wielding my axe in my left. The two of us have seen a lot during the expedition. No matter what comes our way I’m sure we can handle it.

Then they come into our view.

A handful of goblins.

I relax when I notice they’re only the smaller types of goblins. After facing a horde along with a horned hob these little goblins are almost cute.

“Can you leave them to me?” I take a step ahead of father.

“You sure?” He questions behind me.

“I want to try out my new sword.”

“Do you even have a sword skill?”

“I plan on getting one right now.” I’m brimming with confidence.

The goblins notice us and charge in their unruly way. I may be confident but I’m still cautious. I activate Mana Skin and start pouring mana into my sword. Unlike enchanted weapons, Expel Mana doesn’t charge the sword. I need to use Inject Mana to summon the red flames along the blade. I set my axe on the ground and firmly grip my sword with two hands.

I don’t know if it’s the flaming sword or my look of confidence but the goblins falter when reach 10 feet away from me.

If you won’t come to me, I’ll come to you.

Flash Step puts me right next to far-left goblin. When I swing my sword, I can feel the difference between a sword and an axe. The feeling may be awkward for me but the blade still splits the goblin in half horizontally.

The goblin died so quick it didn’t even make a sound as its body hits the ground. I take a step forward and overhead slash the closest goblin. It turns to face me just in time for my blade to cleave it in two.

Double Step puts me close enough to stab the face of the third goblin. The sword easily pierces the small skull. How would the fight with the horned hob have turned out if I had this sword?

The last two goblins see the other three dead and turn to run. I take a step forward but hesitate. Before the horde I would’ve never attack a fleeing goblin. Will letting these two goblins go endanger the village later? Am I too eager to kill them?

As I contemplate my change in morality they get farther away. I have to decide now!

…

The two goblins disappear amongst the trees.

“You decided to let them go.” Dad thankfully doesn’t sound accusing.

The three goblin corpses at my feet are barely bleeding. The sword cauterized most of the flesh it cut. The familiar scent of burning goblins enters my nose again.

“Yeah. Let’s go.” I mumble and grab my axe from the forest floor. I then start walking in the direction we were taking earlier, deactivating my Mana Skin.

I only pumped 30 mana into my sword but it’s still covered in flames. Not a speck of blood is on the blade.

Do I need to use most of my mana to extinguish it again?

I can see my mana combining with the mana in the sword, fueling the flames. What if I tried to take my mana back somehow?

I can’t reach in and pull it out, so I inject another small amount of mana into the sword but use Mana Manipulation to hold control over the mana as it enters the sword.

I move the controlled mana over to the lump of mana being converted into flames. Once my two sources of mana touch each other I can better feel my mana being burned in sword.

In one quick motion I rip the mana out of the sword into my hand and directly back into my body. I did it so quick a part of my mana was still burning as it entered my body. It feels like my mana veins are on fire for a second before my mana pool snuffs the heat out.

The katana in my hand is no longer on fire but my body feels a little hotter than usual. I think it’s worth it. I’ll have to try doing that with Mana Skin when I get home.

Dad moves up towards my side and looks concerned. “I don’t want to talk about it.” I say before he asks me a question.

Did I do the right thing, letting those goblins go?

Whether right or wrong I get the sense I need to be stronger to deal with the consequences of my actions.
