Endurance: 80.05

Strength: 120.01

Dexterity: 113.00

Senses: 60.15

Mind: 62.22

Magic: 100.21

Clarity: 75.15

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV69), Axe Skills (LV55), Blacksmithing (LV54), Cleaning (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV48), Chanting (LV44), Mining (LV42), Drawing (LV37), Cooking (LV36), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV21), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV77), Double Step (LV51), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV38), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV29), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Marching (LV5), Lower Price (LV4), Gourmet (LV2)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV54), Mana Manipulation (LV44), Precise Strike (LV25), Double Strike (LV23), Weighted Strike (LV8), Flash Step (LV4),

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV40), Mana Skin (LV37), Mental Resistance (LV34), Magic Blacksmithing (LV2)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV25)

Increased Skill Levels

Running (LV69) 3,450exp

Blacksmithing (LV51-54) 10,500exp

Hammer Skills (LV46-48) 7,050exp

Cooking (LV32-36) 8,500exp

Wood Carving (LV20-21) 2,050exp

Sense Mana (LV77) 7,700exp

Measurement (LV38) 3,800exp

Hammer Arts (LV35-36) 7,100exp

Expel Mana (LV54) 8,100exp

Mana Manipulation (LV43-44) 13,050

Precise Strike (LV25) 3,750exp

Double Strike (LV22-23) 6,750exp

Flash Step (LV4) 600exp

Weighted Strike (LV3-8) 4,950

Mana Skin (LV37) 9,250exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV1-2) 750exp

A lot of my lower tier skills saw a significant jump and I even gained another tier 4 skill. Magic Blacksmithing, I wonder if I gained the skill because I focused on the mana aspect for the whole build?

I got 97,350 experience from leveling my skills, that means I got 11,327 experience from making my sword. Would I get the same amount of experience if I made another one, or was the amount I gained because I tried new methods while forging it?

Despite all my improvements and after sitting for a bit, the excitement from completing my sword has vanished and left me feeling how exhausted my body is. My stamina is recharging slowly and my mana is below my usual safety limit.

I wonder if it’s a good or bad sign that I no longer pass out when my mana drops this low. I can feel how tired my body is but I can still function for the rest of the day.

Looking up at the sky, I can tell we still have three more hours of good sunlight left before I would normally leave for home. I wonder if I would have had enough strength to forge that guard and finish this project. No use wondering about what might have been. I still earned a little over 11 thousand experience for making the sword.

I glance down at the katana in my lap. Dad has all the tools to make a scabbard at home, though I’ll have to go into the woods with him to find some good ‘Bone Larch’ wood to make it.

I slowly get up, leaving my sword on the bench. I make my way over to the forge and start straightening everything up.

“What are you doing?” Master cracks an eye at me from his bench.

“I’m going to clean up and go home,” I say as I organize the tools master and I used.

“You ok?” He sounds a little concerned for me.

“Yeah, making the sword took a lot out of me. I could sit here for the next couple of hours but I think I’d rather spend some time with my mom. I’ve made her worry a lot over the last week and I’m actually looking forward to spending some time with her and father.”

“I hope you enjoy it.” Master closes his eyes again.

“I think I will.” I continue to clean everything up.

It only takes me 15 minutes to have everything back in its place and any metal scraps placed in a pile off to the side.

“I’m heading back now. Try not to lay around the whole time I’m gone, master.” I say to the sleeping stone kin while I grab my katana from the bench.

He raises one hand for a quick wave as I turn to leave. I’m almost to the trees when remember the chameleon spiders. My mana sense doesn’t detect anything but I can’t help but look back at master.

“Master!” I shout back towards the center of the clearing.

I see him turn his head in my direction. “If you’re going to sleep, do it inside. Don’t forget about the possibility of spiders.”

I can see him jump a little and slowly get to his feet. “Thanks for ruining my favorite spot!” He shouts back at me.

As long as he’s safe that’s all that matters. I walk into the trees and follow the path back to the village. I hope we don’t find any signs that the beasts are moving closer to the village.

Magic katana resting on my shoulder, I walk home wary of every tree.

Standing in front of our house, I feel like a badass right now. Cool sword on my shoulder and a bunch of villagers staring at me as I made my way home.

I kick my shoes off as soon as I make it through the door. I look up and see mother and father in a tight embrace, swaying to a tune only they can hear.

Father notices me first and freezes making mother lift her face out of his chest to see what caused him stop.

“I can leave if you want?” I lightly tease the loving couple.

“Yes… I mean no! We weren’t expecting you back so early.” Dad quickly spits his response out.

“Don’t mind me. I’ll be in my room cleaning myself up.” I grab a bucket of water by the door with my left hand and walk to my room.

As I pass dad, I nudge him with my right elbow. “Didn’t know you were so smooth.” I don’t need to see his face to know he’s blushing down at mom right now.

I close my door behind me and place my dagger on my night stand and carefully lay my new sword on top of my bed. Removing my clothes, I can’t remember the last time I had to clean myself like this.

Even I’m not crazy enough to use the small amount of mana I have left to try and clean myself.

Even after I’m clean, I still feel dirty. Have I gotten too used to deep cleaning myself with magic?

With some clean clothes on I make my way out of my room. Mother and father are no longer embracing one another but rather sitting at the table.

“I said you didn’t need to stop on my account.” I try teasing them again. Father gets a little red and mother looks confused.

“Why are you home so early, sweety? And why didn’t you use your cleaning magic?” It’s funny how mother looks just as worried as Del did when I said I was going home early.

“I used up too much of my magic crafting my sword, so I decided to come home early and spend some time with you. I wasn’t expecting father to be home already. I’m sorry for interrupting your moment.” I seriously apologize to them. They must have had a rough time while I was gone.

“I was planning to go into the woods today but only four groups of hunters were willing to travel into the woods and none of them wanted to take me along.” Father explains looking dejected.

“I already told Del that I would spend the next five days with you guys, so I can go with you tomorrow if you want?” The smile that breaks across his face makes me happy.

“I would love for you to go with me.”

“Sounds fun.” I look from father over to mother. “Want to make dinner together?” I offer her with a smile.

She doesn’t answer and instead walks over to me. For a second, I’m afraid she’s about to question me again like last night.

Instead of a question she wraps he arms around me in a gentile hug and whispers in my ear, “I’d love that.”

“Did you sleep well?” Father greets me in the morning.

“I passed out as soon as my head hit my pillow.” After dinner last night we sat and chatted like we used to. No talk of giant spiders or broken promises, just a family enjoying their time together. I was so tired that when we all went to bed; I didn’t need any help falling asleep.

“You bringing that with you?” Dad motions to the katana I’m carrying in my right hand.

“I was hoping you could help me find a good ‘Bone Larch’ tree to make a proper scabbard for it tomorrow.” I probably look like I’m ready for a war. Katana resting on my right shoulder, axe in my left hand, and a knife attached to my belt I’m ready for anything… mostly anything.

“I think I know a good tree. We can stop by it after we collect enough firewood.” In all the chaos I forgot winter is around the corner. The village needs more firewood and dad spent over a week on the expedition with us.

“Hey dad, you need to remind the headman that the village needs more firewood. The hunters should be volunteering to escort you, not denying you after you asked to join them.”

“She’s right, honey. I’ll swing by the headman’s house and talk to him while the two of you are out in the forest. Promise you’ll be safe though!” Mothers accusing eyes drill into the two of us.

“Of course!” We both echo each other.

“Don’t worry mom, dad is with the one person in the village that can see the spiders properly.” I reassure her while puffing out my chest.

“Ok, but if you see one you better run home right away.” She eyes me carefully.

“I promise.” She only looks more sternly after I say that. “I promise to keep my promise.” I try again.

“See that you do.” She moves in and gives me a hug, being careful of my new sword.

The three of us leave the house together. Mother walks by our side and only breaks off after giving father a hug and a kiss when we reach the headman’s house.

We quickly reach the woods and stand side by side. Dad leads us to his trees and I keep a special eye on them.

“Why do you want to use ‘Bone Larch’ for a scabbard? Do you want it to match the handle?” Dad questions me.

“I don’t care if the wood matches but my sword is magic and the blade becomes covered in flames when I put mana into it. I’m worried how well I’ll be able to adjust the flames on the sword, so I need something that will withstand the heat.”

“Does the wood need to have any special qualities or just be flame resistant?” Dad looks like he has an idea.

“No, I just need the scabbard to be able to handle the heat. Do you have a better idea, dad?”

“I do. It’s out of the way but should only take us 30 minutes to get there from here.”

“Aren’t we supposed to get the firewood first?” I don’t want father to change his whole schedule for this.

“Don’t worry, I know some good firewood close to the tree I’m thinking of. It’s been a while since I went this way, I wonder if any of the trees have grown bigger?” We take a hard left.

After 10 minutes we’re out of the normal area dad usually takes me in. The forest looks the same but I start to see fallen logs that look a little charred. I’m still checking for chameleon spiders but I can’t help but notice the mana around here is redder than the other parts of the forest.

I bend down and pick up an old twig that has a burnt end. “Was there a fire here?” The more I look the more I spot signs of a previous forest fire.

“Good job spotting it. Nine years ago, a storm blew through here and started a forest fire. Luckily it was raining at the time so it never reached the village. The trees are already reclaiming the land but the forest takes longer to recover after a fire.”

“It’s the mana.” I absently say while looking across our surroundings.

“Is it now?” Father looks curiously at me and I realize I said that out loud.

“Sorry dad, I was talking to myself. I was looking at the surrounding mana and answered without thinking.”

“That’s ok, tell me what you think is keeping the forest from growing back as fast as usual.”

“I can still see wisps of fire mana around here. It’s clashing with the nature magic and I was thinking that’s why the forest is recovering slower here.”

Father doesn’t respond to my hypothesis, he’s too busy smiling at me. “Why are you looking at me like that?”

“Can't a father be proud of his daughter? My father always told me that fire scars the land for 10 years before the forest comes back twice as strong. You telling me about the mana reminded me I still don’t know everything about the forest.” I smile alongside dad.

I thought forests recovered faster than that from fire back on earth. The lingering fire mana must be the cause. Even with the wisps of fire mana floating around a few trees and shrubs are stubbornly growing. They all have trace amounts of fire mana in them that their bodies are trying to purify. Once the fire mana is gone these plants will probably shoot-up in size.

“Almost there.” I follow alongside father, excited about what he’s going to show me.

I can see the roots of the tree through the ground before we reach our destination. A root filled with dark brown mana, almost black, snakes itself close to the surface. The other tree roots avoid the brown mana root at all costs, because of that the already sparce trees give way to a small clearing with a single tree in the middle.

This tree looks like it was split right down the middle and has burn scars all across the wood. Anyone would say the tree is dead but my Sense Mana skill is showing me a very much active mana flow.

“Is this where the lightning struck?” I ask dad.

“Yep. Usually a tree hit by lightning immediately dies or dies soon after from infection. In rare cases the tree absorbs the lightning and survives the fire that engulfs the surroundings. It’s called an ‘Arc’ tree after it absorbs the lightning. The wood is soft and most importantly… fire proof.”

“Isn’t this a rare tree? Why haven’t you harvested and sold the wood?” I can’t understand why he would leave it here.

“The wood isn’t that prized by people. I tried selling a piece a few years ago and it’s only used as a rare wood for furniture.”

“But the mana inside the tree is incredible. Are you sure Kervin wasn’t trying to lowball you?”

