Lucian wailed. He struggled even harder—to no avail. He was plucked off his feet and made to stare at his captor. A massive, three-meter-tall figure held him like he was little more than a kitten. The monster wore scintillating robes of midnight, and Lucian’s eyes widened as he caught a glimpse of the creature's gray face under the hood.

Orc! Lucian screamed on the inside.

“Sarah! Moore?” Calum kept calling, looking everywhere but behind. Not even when Lucian’s muffled screams rose an octave.

“There is no point to this,” the orc said, his voice a somber, soothing tone. “Within this domain, nothing that is said or done will be seen or heard by those beyond it. That’s why you didn’t notice all your friends screaming.” The orc held up the chain of cores and wiggled them. Then, he frowned. “Oh. Not your friends, then. What a muted response. But I should have guessed from how poorly they treated you.”

Finally, Calum turned, but though he looked directly at Lucian, he didn’t seem to see anything.

“Poor fool.” The orc sighed. “No Awareness. But also no clue. And if I had to guess, no hope of survival. Tell me—Do you want him to live? Blink once for yes. Blink twice for no.”

Lucian stared at the orc for a long second, but closed his eyes twice immediately thereafter. There wasn’t even any thought put into the action. He saw the opportunity to see Calum suffer, and he took it.

“Ah. I thought so.”

“Farmer?” Calum called out. “Farmer? Where the hells did you—”

The orc flicked his hand at Calum. Lucian couldn’t follow what happened next. There was a blur, and then Calum was pinned to a tree—with a massive blade protruding from his chest. The tall vampire’s jaw dropped as he started to scream—only for the orc’s Dimensional boundary to pass over him as well. Finally, Calum laid eyes on the orc—and Lucian swaying in the beast’s grip. His breath hitched. He extended his left hand and tried to cast a Biomancy spell.

But the orc flung something at Calum first, and the high vampire’s left arm vanished into bloody mist.

Calum’s screams were guttural and wonderful. Despite the all-consuming terror, Lucian tasted satisfaction at watching his abuser suffer. Then, over the orc’s shoulder came an arcing flame, and it crashed down somewhere beyond another stretch of trees. Somewhere beyond Lucian’s sight. A massive blast lit up part of the Umbral Wilderness thereafter, but the orc didn’t seem to care. No. He was advancing upon Calum, and he had a dagger in his hand now.

A blade he pressed into Lucian’s hand after releasing the poor ex-farmer. Lucian bounced on his feet as he stared up at the orc. Nearby, Calum writhed and whimpered.

“Carve out his Lineage Core,” the orc said. The statement was spoken too casually for such a brutal command. “Take it out for me. I would be most appreciative.”

“Nuh–No!” Calum roared. He arched his back as he tried to pull himself off the tree. “Farmer—kill the bastard! Pull the blade out—” The orc reached out and pinched Calum’s lower jaw. He kept squeezing until Calum’s chin folded in half along the base and burst apart in a scattering of bone and teeth.

“No,” the orc breathed as Calum screamed. “Peace and quiet. Somewhat. Enough for you to make your own choice. Cut his heart out, friend. Please.”

And despite shivering in terror, Lucian felt a warmth as the orc spoke to him. He felt an urge to please the orc—to make him happy. That, and the repressed hate Lucian held toward Calum, was enough to force his hand. His eyes met Calum’s as the other vampire briefly stopped struggling and stared.

He tried calling out to Lucian, but his jaw was little more than a lump of hanging meat. Lucian clenched his teeth. “Call me farmer again. Do it?”

Calum shook his head violently.

“I said, do it!” Lucian cried. He stepped forward and held the blade in both hands. Tears began to roll down Calum’s face as he writhed and struggled. “I hate you. I fucking despise you. All you’ve ever done is hurt me and insult my sister. I—I have dreamed of this. I prayed for this when you drowned me in shit.”

Lucian drew in a harsh breath as his body teetered on the brink. He was trembling as he felt himself tearing on the inside. He knew there would be no going back for him in some ways if he did this. But in a few other ways, he wanted this. He wanted this more than he wanted anything in his life. Lucian hated being a vampire; he hated what the System forced on him, but he hated Calum the most.

Even if the orc was going to kill him, Lucian could… I can live with it.

“Hey, Calum,” Lucian hissed. The other vampire stopped struggling again just long enough to give him a final, desperate look as he whimpered for mercy. “What was it you said to me when you forced me into the cave biter’s waste? Oh, yeah: eat shit.”

And he drove his blade into Calum’s body. The blade bounced off bone, but Lucian just gritted his teeth and thrust harder. Calum howled, but the orc covered his face with a large hand. “Keep going,” the orc said encouragingly. “Cut around. Slice and glide. Don’t saw.”

Against his natural instincts, Lucian listened. He respected the orc. He wanted the orc to respect him too. Slowly, he hewed through dense tissue and dug around bone to peel away the outer layer of Calum’s chest. And then, finally, he pulled it down as he gagged at all the overflowing blood. Before him, the Lineage Core trembled with crimson mana and ceaseless, flowing blood. Even now, patches of flesh grew out of it, its regeneration strong, unceasing.

Lucian dropped the orc’s blade as he swallowed back sour spit. He grasped the Lineage Core in shaking hands and turned to the orc. The towering brute nodded, and Lucian pulled with all of his might. With a resounding snap, the arteries and biomass connecting Calum’s core to his body broke. Lucian looked down at the heart of his hated rival, and his shell-shocked expression turned into that of a sneer as he spat on it before offering the core to the orc.

The orc just smiled. “Nicely done. Was that your first?”

“I—Yes. Yes.” Lucian felt like he was drifting inside. Part of him wanted to flee, but another part commanded him to remain in place. Speaking to the orc filled him with warmth and a need to impress. It was more respect than any vampire had ever given him. “Did I… Did I do good?”

“Very nice,” the orc hummed.

Lucian swallowed and nodded. “So… Are you going to…”

The orc eyed him for a moment, and a cruel intellect gleamed in those yellow eyes. The orc turned away from him and looked up. “Psychomancer. I have a request. And a potential rat we can plant among the vampires. Come take a look at this one. Maybe he’s more acceptable.”

Another presence slipped into Lucian’s mind. A subtle but insidious sensation filled him, but the orc shushed him before he could panic. “Breathe in. Breathe out. Don’t let fear grip you. Pain and death are passing things. Just be present now. Root yourself in place. Your thoughts will betray you otherwise.”

Lucian stopped shaking. There was something hypnotic about the orc's words, and Lucian wanted to hear more—He wanted to do anything to get the orc’s approval. “I’m sorry.”

The orc laughed. “Why?”

“Because… because…” Someone was rooting around in Lucian’s mind, but all he could think about was why he felt bad.

The orc smiled. “Hm. I know why. Better than you. Perhaps it is easier for me to admit. You say sorry so the world will stop hurting you. So the other vampires will stop hurting you. It is the only thing that has protected you. More than your skills. You are so used to being pathetic even as a high vampire that it is the only comfort you know.”

The rawness of the truth made Lucian dry-heave. He—

“Empty your mind,” the orc interrupted. “Do not poison yourself with thoughts. For your thoughts are poison. They cannot be anything but after a lifetime of poison. This will take time to cure. Time you might yet still have.”
