ced newcomers not to kill everything.Slowly and with great effort."I dunno... that Echo looks like a munchkin. I hate metagamers," Gamma complained and Alpha felt the words echo in him as someone else, a long time ago, threw the phrase at him over... a board game? A table?Somewhere safe."The key to beating a metagamer," Alpha said slowly, the words coming from his heart, "is to metagame them harder," he said and Gamma seemed to jolt in surprise at the words."Ohoho? That sounds a lot like a nerd I used to like," it teased."This can't get any weirder," Amenstar said, hands pressed together.Suddenly, before them in the air, a tear of deep black and red emerged with the sounds of roars echoing into quacks. Stepping forth in a cloud of ash, smoke, and heat, a girl in torn clothes emerged."Damn ducks lied! That hurt!" she cursed and stomped her feet down, putting out black fire and smoothing down her arms to ensure they were still there.Alpha and Gamma stared as Beta looked up to meet their gaze."Urgh, urge to call… out... nerds... rising," she said, gripping her throat as she squinted as if the sight of them hurt her head terribly.Alpha actually had a strong urge to put his collectables and fragile things somewhere safe, the sensation of knuckles dragging across his scalp emerging like a hidden trauma."Oh my God, It's Anti-Social-Gal!" Gamma said with sheer delight as if he had been waiting for this day for a long time."The biter and the one who talks like they're some movie character." Beta grunted, the words flowing out of her, but Alpha could see that it meant as little to her as it did to him. Beta stared then growled and turned, intending to walk off.Her words finally did register which was annoying because Alpha didn't recall biting anyone.They all stopped as a shudder seemed to ring through the air, through the ground, in the water, through the souls of every living being, focusing on the three of them in the same space."They're here..." Gamma warned in a strange high-pitch tone.The attention of dozens of beings like the creature nearby focused on them as if hating what they saw, some dreading, some wanting to confront it, and some refusing to believe it. Alpha wanted to say they were eyes, but they were more like projections of great and terrible evils, gazing from afar with magic or sheer awareness."What the hell is that?" Beta turned to the sky, as if trying to see what was staring down at them."Echoes. All the Echoes. All of them focusing on the here and now. Afraid of little old us," Gamma reported as if he was long used to such eldritch nonsense."That's nice, but I meant that!" Beta demanded as she radiated an aura of ash and demonic energy that made Amenstar stare at her in something like confusion, alarm, and interest. Alpha followed her gaze and pointed finger to the horizon where something large and ominous was moving through the air from the east, casting a large shadow over the fields like a slow-motion meteor.Coming into focus was something like a small office building combined with a glass decorative museum, moving along a perfect rectangular block of stone. It floated through the air on what seemed like dangerous but controlled levels of mana that Alpha had never sensed before. "Buying Twitter wasn't enough for him, now he comes for our children and crops," Gamma mused, confusing Alpha but he didn't dwell on it as the symbol on the building became clearer.A hand clasping an orb."Fairplay?" Alpha questioned."Fairwho?" Beta blinked and everyone looked at her, as if she was ten pages behind in the script."I uh... lost track of time," she said, sounding angry about it."Uh! Same sis!" Gamma cheered, "trauma buddies!" he offered and Beta glared hard enough her eyes began to glow with actual lasers."We're safe! HQ has come!" a Fairplay officer cried and others voiced confusion as such an event had occurred before but they seemed nervous."You," Alpha grabbed one of the people and pointed to the building as the Echoes watched events unfolding as the one nearby moved closer and closer, sniffing the air."What is happening?" he said and the man spluttered, too dazed to hold information back."Fairplay HQ is here but it should only come if... if the Dungeon is turning into an Abomination," the man said with a tremble."Cool, why bring the office building if the Dungeon is going weird? Why not send people or stay away?" Beta questioned, sounding bored of it all already and her stomach growled. Underfoot, the grass smoldered as if wherever she had come from now tainted her.The building hovered over Durence then like a net being thrown off a boat, surrounded the entire air in a semi-sphere that encapsulated the town with a mix of white, silver, and gray mana that was a lot like the equivalent of magic tofu. Alpha would say it was all bland to the point of being tasteless, but it was worse in a way. It had a taste which was best described as 'awful'."It's the Mana-filtering system. It'll protect us from the Abomination taint," someone explained as they all glowed blue with some greens. Beta was dyed a deep black, Gamma was gold to his annoyance and Alpha was partly orange and partly white."You mean... that mana?" Beta pointed bluntly to faint wisps of orange motes that punched a corrupted follower of an Echo in the seed and another cloud that was spray painting mushrooms only visible in mage sight until now. More motes appeared as it punched through the filtering to do more things like sustain the children, nourish the adults, water plants, sweep door mats clean, got into war with some ants, conquered dust bunnies, and made a peace treaty with spiders.There was a long pause but Alpha has seen enough."I'm going to stop the Echo and check on Delta!" he called as he ran off towards the Echo in the distance which was tossing Miss Ruli and Mr Quiss around like toys. Mr Quiss seemed to be waiting for the monster to get clear to do something but the Echo wasn't playing along, using Durence itself as a shield."Delta? You know Delta? Which one of us lucky kids got to be the murder-hobo basement? I remember you, Beta, and the Shattered One, but there were a few others that came and went in our 'special' class. Oh let me guess... is it Bob? Was it Aerith? Maybe it was Justin? Oh maybe it was Orrin? No wait, they had a stupid naming system. So it has to be someone starting with 'D'..." Gamma mused excitedly as he danced in Alpha's hands. Alpha wished he would focus since it was hard to run in narrow streets with a sword that has an attention disorder with the need for attention."Miss D," Alpha commented simply. He blinked as Gamma turned into a pocket knife, as if to shrink in on himself, their voice turning more feminine in panic."Wait. Miss... D?" Gamma trailed off."Yep," Alpha responded with a small smile."Miss D? The one who taught us? That Miss D? Someone left her in charge of the arts and crafts?" Gamma asked in sheer horror."She's a Dungeon," Alpha reminded."Wait Delta... Dungeon... Miss D.... oh I hate them so much, but Alphie! Listen! Dungeons craft!" Gamma stressed. Alpha didn't see the issue. Delta made... interesting things as far as he knew. "Miss D once got given the newest software for a computer, a sort of magic box don't ask, and she caused it to blue screen the school system because she tried to open paint on it!" Gamma said and Alpha had to admit, it sounded Delta."And that time the school had a raffle fair and she got into it really hard and wasted a thousand tickets on a box that contained socks? Then she spent her last ticket in some game the next day and won a hog bike? All she did was call it Bacon and that was it. She didn't ride it!" Gamma went on as Alpha turned down the street and chased the monster.Delta hadn't really changed due to her hardships and Alpha felt even warmer at the thought of his teacher refusing to change."And we can't forget about her time she was in charge of the Christmas - funky holiday, don't ask - show and she forgot the script so had us reenact scenes from her 'books' where Santa came down to 'cheer' the poor mother up by giving her 'gifts'. It was a great show but I couldn't stop cringing," Gamma admitted and Alpha recalled the spider-dances, Waddles, the bar, the frogs, the circus, the feast hall, and more.Nope, she hadn't changed at all."Hopefully, she was second to wake and had time to mature and become the dangerous Dungeon we all need right now to hide in. Filled with dangerous traps, tricky floors, and maybe a hundred levels deep!" Gamma added with deep hope and Alpha nearly stumbled head-first into a wall at that.He had no idea how to break it to the sword.At all.---"Aren't you going with them?" Amenstar asked nervously as the demonic feeling girl crossed her arms at the sight of Gamma and Alpha vanishing from sight."I was gonna defend the town but they charged off first and I don't wanna be seen as a copy-cat. I would totally do it, but I just don't feel like it now," the girl commented and she looked strange. Intentionally inhuman as if she was made wrong on purpose, flawed so heavily it turned around to be charming again. Deciding to choose imperfections like a square jaw and crooked nose over picturesque beauty.Amenstar admired that."I'm Amenstar, my dad is a saint," he said, hoping to get that little detail out of the way before it became awkward. The girl eyed him."The name's Beta. The closest thing I had to a father figure is someone I intend to devour and use his carcass to build a throne out of," she said bluntly and Amenstar imagined her sitting on a brutal throne of bone and sinew."Awesome," he whispered and Beta blinked at him, looking a little more unsure. One of the insane Calcs rushed at Amenstar and Beta turned, her hand morphing like flowing liquid into a giant black claw that swiped through him, causing him to fall to the ground with no obvious wound."He's not dead. I just slapped his soul and took something from him," Beta said calmly as her arm bulged with veins as something dark was absorbed by her."Are you a blue mage?" Amenstar asked, wondering if Poppy knew her?"Blue Mage? Do I look blue?" Beta asked in annoyance as she turned into a scaly-looking snake woman that rose to eight feet with crimson scales."You look cool," Amenstar said with a slight feeling that Beta 'looked' like a snake, but had no bones... no blood. Something else that made his skin tingle."Hm this is a new feeling. Slight respect for someone else... shame it's buried under my annoyance of people who won't shut up!" Beta turned and roared at the fighting, her voice shaking many of them and a dozen Calcs fell to the ground, black lights being drawn to Beta as she inhaled sharply.Beta could just suck the souls out of people!Amenstar hadn't seen anything this cool since he found a five-head snake skeleton once... or it was a five-tailed worm, he never did find out."Hey kid, wanna see something cool?" Beta asked as she unfolded one bat wing and a dark duck wing."Try and stop me," Amenstar grinned as he glowed with a deathly aura."This is why I prefer death over life... so much freedom!" Beta said as she flapped into the air like a multi-shaped creature that looked like some broken Dungeon had spit it out one day.Amenstar's smile faded as a dozen Fairplay officers began to freak out immensely."It's a blue mage!" Amenstar called and a few of the officers hesitated."I AM FROM HELL ITSELF! I WILL SUCK YOUR SOULS OUT AND FEED THEM TO MY NEW FRIEND! MR DEATH!" Beta screeched like a bird, voice shaking the town."She's just dramatic," Amenstar tried to say quickly."BURN ALL LIFE! ALL LIFE UNTIL WE ARE FREE!" Beta continued to cry and Amenstar gave up, clubbing a Fairplay officer on the back of the head, making his own skull shake his brain until the man lost consciousness. "Alpha's friends are strange," he decided.He continued to skull shake the officers as panicking people made stupid choices and it was easier to make their unconscious bodies walk themselves to the safety of his church home.One couldn't call this necromancer 'lazy bones'!
