Erick and Kirginatharp nodded to each other and simultaneously vanished from the field in flashes of light. The guards of both sides of the Gate took over from there, and soon, trade flowed. It was a rather subdued opening compared to the ones that had happened for Portal and Weald and Gambler’s Rest, but it was a lot more than the ceremony which had happened for Candlepoint. For Candlepoint, Erick had just placed the Gate, and word eventually got around that there was no need to blip to the Gate District; you could take the Gate.

- - - -

Back in his office, Erick looked down at his Gate District, and wondered if he needed to put more interconnecting Gates at Candlepoint, and Weald. Those places were getting rather darned big! They could use multiple Gates, connecting from multiple sides of those cities.

… OR...

Erick smiled a little.

Maybe he needed a monorail. A tram system! Ohh. Yeah. That could be fun!

Eh. No.

War first.

Erick went into seclusion for a dozen minutes, meaning a dozen hours, in order to sort out all the thoughts that Kirginatharp had given him and then to come up with his own comprehensive plans. And then he slept on it. When he came out of seclusion he knew what he was going to do.

Mostly.

The first thing he did was call up Fairy Moon.

That conversation lasted a good ten minutes, in real time, and that was more than enough. Afterward, Erick wasn’t sure if it had been the right call to involve the fae, but Fairy Moon wasn’t able to commit to the sort of war that Erick wanted to wage with the Sovereign Cities, anyway, since Ar’Cosmos was taking up all of her time. But she did offer some help.

Erick had declined her offer. “If I want to summarily execute every noble, I will let you know.”

Fairy Moon had shrugged. “A proper purging of undesirable un-nobles makes manifest room and reason for a change of civilization. But I’ve never had luck with slaying those particular Sovereigns to produce a desired destiny. Good luck!”

And then she had vanished.

Erick went around doing a few more preparations on his end, using [Cascade Imaging] and checking the lands on the other sides of every Gate for signs of trouble, but he saw no immediate concerns and there wasn’t much more to do to prepare.

Kirginatharp, Zolan, and others, had convinced Erick that he should at least attempt peace talks. And he needed to let others attempt the same. That meant giving Oceanside, Stratagold, and Portal (surprisingly, but not really that surprisingly since they were an ally) the opportunity to try for peace, on Erick’s behalf. Those talks were apparently happening right now, and Erick was not involved in those.

Erick would eventually try for peace, too. Tomorrow.

It was going to be a pretty fucking weak attempt, though, and done at a far distance.

- - - -

Before Erick knew it, night had fallen. The Greater Candlepoint Area was on high alert. An hour to the west, though, the land was awash in the reds and golds of sunset, and the distant deepening purples of twilight.

And Erick wanted to know a little bit about what his allies were talking about with the royals.

Ophiels flew high in the skies of the Sovereign Cities, lighting up the evening with stars that cascaded invisible light all across the land. [Cascade Imaging] showed the general locations of Erick’s targets well enough. The Kings and Queen of the Cities were publicly known figures. And yet, Erick only got a ping on the Queen of Pearl, who was named that same name, but who was technically Queen Pearl the Fifth. No one actually called her that, though.

And so, because he knew where Queen Pearl was, Erick went to Pearl, first.

Queen Pearl was in the middle of a heated discussion in a tower to the side of her main castle, sitting across a large meeting table from a representative from Oceanside. Guards stood strong on both sides of the room.

Erick watched with his mana sense from an invisible Ophiel, a hundred meters above the meeting. Mana sense didn’t allow for things like color or even sound, really, but lip reading and throat reading —for everyone down there seemed to be using [Telepathy] at the moment— was good enough.

Queen Pearl was a middle-aged human woman surrounded by floating daggers, marking herself as an agent of the angels. Her colors were white and gold. She was shouting about how terrible Candlepoint was, and how war was absolutely necessary, and how Oceanside had no right to interfere in the workings of the Sovereign City of Pearl. If they kept this up, then Oceanside would get a letter of war, too. Of course Pearl wasn’t saying all of that at that very second. Erick had mana sensed through time a bit to uncover all of that had happened over the last 30 minutes. As for this particular moment, Pearl was reciting something that she had said a few times already.

Queen Pearl scowled. “So Oceanside has fallen to the Wizard.”

The man from Oceanside, who Erick knew as an Elite he had seen somewhere before, but he had honestly never gotten the man’s name, spoke with a calming tone that he had needed to use several times already, “Oceanside has not fallen to Erick Flatt, Queen Pearl. As I have said already, Wizard Flatt has allied with us, alongside with Stratagold, and almost every single god of the Pantheon, among others. Since Wizard Flatt’s ascension to power Melemizargo has not appointed another Ancient, nor has he sent wave upon wave of monsters at every city in the Underworld, as he usually does. Nor has—”

“Shut up,” Pearl said, “I’m tired of hearing your ignorant words. The Wizard has duped you, and everyone else. Expect a letter of war in the morning. Our trade with you has ended. No more pearls, no more Healing items, no more trade. Get out of my kingdom.”

The man rose from his seat, bowed, and then left.

And Queen Pearl looked up at the roof of her room, saying, “I know you’re there, Wizard. Have you come to surrender?”

Erick decided to leave.

And since it appeared that Pearl was cutting ties with Oceanside, and Oceanside seemed to be fine with that happening…

Erick had Ophiel take a detour into the city of Pearl. He didn’t want to do that too much, for he knew that if he did then...

Erick gazed down at the Sovereign City, and knew disgust.

A quarter of the land was filled with light and stone buildings and decorative crenelations atop cathedrals, and mansions layered and layered with defensive magics. The streets were clean and well lit. The guards were stationed in their little guard houses, and carriages of nobles trundled off to play houses, and bordellos, and otherwise, and bars were filled with people and bands, and the harbor was active with trade and sailors and everything moving all at once, under bright lights and the watchful eyes of harsh guard captains. Everything looked perfectly normal, mostly. On the surface, Pearl was almost like Spur, or Candlepoint, or any other normal city.

But then there was the other 75% of Pearl.

Dark roads. Public lights only present at every intersection. Wooden houses, with candles made of dirty tallow which left great trails of black smoke that marred ceilings with permanent shadows; for [Cleanse] had not been used in these places in a very long time. The greatest sources of light were the private lights atop the stone towers that stood up from the slums every so often. Those towers were only upon the major roads that led out into the distance, to other points of light out in the twilight out there, to other small cities lit with light, surrounded with their own sorts of permanent slums, hidden in perpetual darkness.

People were out and about in those dark places, too, but they did not wear nice clothes. They wore roughspun things. Some of the smallest kids were simply naked, playing in the mud, or getting whipped for misbehaving by drunk fathers, or mothers. Most people did not have shoes.

Erick witnessed no less than seven muggings, staggered minutes from one another, and kilometers apart. This was the time for muggings, apparently—

And there was a murder.

Erick couldn’t ignore that one.

He couldn’t ignore any of what he had seen, not now that he had seen it.

He swept in with Ophiel and rescued the murder/mugging victim, taking him far outside of the city in a single [Teleport Other]. He was an old man in rags who had been trying to buy bread with gold coins. The man did not look like he should have gold anywhere in his life at all, and so that was why he was mugged and stabbed four times in the gut, and once in the back. Erick did a rapid series of healing spells on the old man, who was completely out of it. Even when he was healed, he was still suffering from some sort of dementia, or something. Erick tried some more powerful healing, [Regeneration]. And that did it. The man’s eyes unclouded; cognizance returned.

And there, on the dark plains outside of Pearl, Erick interviewed the old man while he continued righting wrongs in Pearl.

A house was on fire, and the woman who owned it was pleading with the fire brigade, asking them to stop the fire and [Mend] the house, but the woman hadn’t paid her fire tax, and so the fire brigade was telling everyone else in the area that ‘See! This is what happens when you don’t pay!’. Erick was having none of that, though. Ophiel swept in, invisibly, ripped the fire out of the house with [Fireshape], and repaired the whole place to full with a few seconds of [Mending Aura].

The woman praised the angels for their help.

Erick blipped away the fireman who tried to restart the fire.

Erick did thirty-five small rescues like that, from putting out fires, to setting piles and piles of whiteroot inside the mostly-empty store rooms, to grabbing a nice, plain soup from the food court of House Benevolence and copying that a thousand times over, to set out bowls of warm soup inside houses that needed the food. Erick managed to find out a lot about how the Cities operated in that time, and he managed to answer his question about ‘how do they maintain population with this much death happening everywhere’. The answer was simple; every single mother seemed to have anywhere from 4 to 7 kids. There were a lot of children, everywhere. In that same way, there were a lot of kids and parents that needed a lot of help, which they got in the form of whiteroot deposited into their store rooms. A lot of whiteroot.

Erick would have given out potatoes, but those were rather new since Erick himself had invented them, and potatoes needed to be cooked to be eaten. Whiteroot had been a part of Veird for the last thousand years, and could be eaten raw if absolutely necessary.

He did a hundred larger actions, too, which mainly included the stopping of crimes, from murder, to torture, to other violent actions by the powerful against the powerless, or by the weak against the weak. Sometimes, he rescued the victims, when the crimes looked to be crimes of passion, like between two commoners, like with the mugging/murder of the old man from earlier. Sometimes, he captured the perpetrators, which happened in three separate situations of noble-on-commoner crime, with one of those situations being a woman torturing a man with knives as the man was tied up in a chair. The tortured man would have died if not for the woman’s Healing Magics, but Erick took over that Healing, rescuing the man as he captured the woman.

What happened to most of those people was the same thing that happened to the first old man whom Erick had rescued from that mugging.

The old man couldn’t remember most of his life, only that he was hungry and he had been trying to buy bread. And then he looked at himself. His new clothes. His healed body. And then he got mad, starting to tell Erick off. The man, very adamantly, ‘was not going to pay for these clothes! And I’m not paying for this unwanted healing, either!’. He ‘didn’t need some invisible voice to help him’ and ‘all the gods could get fucked’, too, ‘especially the angels!’.

Erick let the man rant for a moment, but when the man tried to get away and brush Erick off, Erick stopped him. He had an important question for the man. This same sort of question had eventually gone out to every other person Erick had helped in this way, over the course of the two hours Erick had spent in Pearl’s main city.

“I healed you, for free. You’re free to do whatever you want. You’re 50, so you likely have a good 30 years left in you if you continue down the same path you were on. Or maybe far, far less time than that if you get murdered over a few gold coins. What are you going to do with your life now?”

“I’m gonna find that fucker who tried to knife me and make sure he doesn’t see the light of another day.” The old man turned around as he spoke, trying to find the source of Erick’s voice. “It’s the best thing for all of us if that boy is dead tomorrow! I know who did it, too! It was Arli’s boy! Troublemaker needs to die.”

Erick frowned, because that was the old man’s real, true answer.

And so, Erick [Reincarnation]ed the old man, picking the best possible future for the newly-young man, and for everyone else. Erick left the guy sleeping in a [Fairy Stronghold] on the side of the road, in the darkening twilight. A small pile of silver coins and a small dagger in a belt sat upon a table that was set in front of the door, blocking the way out. The newly-young and hopefully good man would not possibly miss those small boons on his way out of the space. As a final touch, Erick [Blessing of Empathy]ed the guy while he slept, and put a full-length mirror into the room.

When the man woke, he would be level 0, Matriculated into the Script, and with 20s in every Stat. He would be smart enough to evade authorities about that fact, for it would get him killed if people found out he was Matriculated. He would also want to help others in small ways. Everything else about the guy was rather normal. He was not the most handsome guy around, but Erick had taken the old man’s base self and remade him slightly nicer. He was still nothing special in any physical way, though, because that would get him noticed and killed.

The whole thing was, perhaps…

An ethically dubious thing to do.

But since the old guy was going to die anyway if Erick had not been there, then…

This was fine?

This was fine.

Erick almost continued on into the noble part of Pearl, but decided against it. The rich and powerful would be the people to actually try and go to war against him. Commoners who weren’t even Matriculated into the Script could do nothing against him, and they all needed his help, anyway; even if they didn’t want his assistance. ‘Want’ didn’t even register as a concern. These people ‘wanted’ to live in independent squalor. They ‘wanted’ to murder those who wronged them. They didn’t ‘want’ help.

