Because that was what Erick was doing. Helping. Unilaterally. There was no way that any sane person would fault him for stepping in on any of these situations… Probably.

… Fuck it.

Let’s remake some of the world into a better place.

[Blessing of Empathy] was already proven to work, for it worked on Cultists and Terror Peaks people and even the Shades… Or at least it worked well on Cultists and Terror Peaks.

It would work well here.

Still, though, Erick did not stick around in Pearl too much. He needed to move on. But there was one more thing to do here.

- - - -

The Executioner’s Hall of Pearl was one of the most well-protected public places of the city.

It was still a public place.

The Royal Road of Pearl, as they called these things here, stretched from the harbor to the palace in a straight, wide thoroughfare, about 30 meters across. Trade houses and businesses of all sorts lined that road, eventually giving way to the really nice parts of town, where mansions lay beyond tree-lined barriers, and everyone was stupid rich. Executioner’s Hall was an area taking up the last hundred meters of that road, located on the left side, in the open air. Anyone getting off a ship with an appointment at the palace would see this spectacle of inhumanity right before they arrived.

Gleaming swords, five meters tall, lined that side of the road, gently floating half a meter above the ground. There were about 40 swords. Those swords functioned like shish kabobs, each of them holding between five to ten heads apiece. All in all, there were 309 heads. Hovering lightwards displayed the names of the heads, and their crimes.

Erick ended up reading some of the stories of those ‘criminals’. And then he ignored them, since even if they were true, he didn’t care. This was horror. This should not happen in a developed society.

The whole hall of swords was located under [Weather Ward]s, other [Ward]s of all types, and under the watchful eyes of the royalty of Pearl.

And one more.

An angel floated behind the swords.

She was a woman of pale skin and gold hair, with gold eyes. A halo of gold surrounded her head, with a larger halo around her entire body. She wore what looked to be a dress of feathers, but they were not feathers at all. They were daggers. Thousand of daggers, forming several layers of ‘garment’.

Erick had Ophiel appear in the center of the road, about 15 meters away from the Executioner’s Hall.

The angel noticed long before everyone else.

Erick spoke first. “Cease this display of horror right now, or I will End it for you.”

The angel’s voice was terribly angelic. “I am not contracted to you, Erick Flatt. I cannot end this display without the direct order of Queen Pearl the Fifth.”

With his Ophiel high in the sky, Erick followed through with his threat. He ended the display of heads with a coordinated sweep of [Luminous Beam], carving through [Ward]s like he was breaking glass. Magic scattered and fled. Five seconds later, the dance of carving light ended.

A few swords were slag. Most were completely gone. The heads were vaporized. A scattered of black soot was the only real remainder of what had once been the Executioner’s Hall of Pearl.

Everything and everyone else was unharmed.

Erick asked the angel, “What happens now?”

The angel serenely explained, “I am contracted to kill you and the ten people closest to you, but there is time allowed for banter and we both know I cannot fulfill this particular end of my contract. And so, since we Angels don’t wish to anger you any further, and since we desire your help with ending the Demonic Threat, I will simply cancel my contract, and in doing so, die. If you will allow it, I will speak further.”

Erick paused. “… Tell me why the angels have contracted with the Cities, or at least your own circumstances. I know your people have seen the horrors that I have seen.” Ophiel gestured to where the slagged swords lay on the ground, to where the heads had been held for all to see. “You even participate in these horrors. Explain yourselves.”

The angel nodded. “We are not blind to the faults of mortals, and yet mortal flesh is nothing compared to the eternity that comes afterward for those of the True Faith. And so, we must help those who try to reach for that True Faith, no matter how they fail in other ways. This assistance is more true here, in Pearl, than in all the other Sovereign Cities, for right across those mountains to the east lay the Wasteland Kingdoms. The incani over there would kill the humans of this land if they had the chance, or if these lands were richer.

“After you have finished remaking this land into the image you desire, if you remain in power you will see that I speak the Truth. Perhaps you might even see that the cruelty of mortals is a measure of protection against the true cruelty of demons and their kind. If Ar’Kendrithyst were still around, I would add that the cruelty of mortals is also protection against the Dark.” The angel bowed again. “Good day, Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence. May you have better thoughts on angels from now on, for we are not your enemies, and we never were. And as a final word: You are turning people Empathetic through Soul Magic in an attempt to make the world better. We did the same to turn people away from the demons, and toward the light of Celes. Our goals would align, if you would see that they could.”

And then the angel died as magic usually died; a shattering that started here and there and spread rapidly, like the breaking of glass. In a sudden flash the angel turned to light and glinting fire. Her thousand-dagger dress fell to the ground like heaps of snow, and then turned to a billowing of golden magic all at once.

The guards stared at where the angel had hovered.

No one said another word.

Ophiel left.

Erick had spent two hours in Pearl and that might have been too much. He had four other cities to visit.

- - - -

Ten minutes after leaving Pearl, Poi reported that the Queen had a message for him.

Erick reluctantly said, “… Summarize it, if you would.”

Poi said, “Ahem. ‘Is that all you’re going to do? Kill my angel? That’s pretty fucking weak, dark-sucker, demon-consort, traitor of humanity.’ There was more to it than that, but it is unnecessary to repeat the whole thing.”

Erick was briefly stunned. “Did Pearl… Did she not see everything else I did?”

“I and the other Mind Mages that Ascendant Prime have dedicated to this cause are rather sure that she heard about you solving fires out in the slums and other such actions, but she doesn’t care.” Poi softly added, “And we didn’t actually tell you that, sir, if you understand.”

“… Yeah, yeah. Tell Ascendant Prime I’m thankful for his and everyone else’s help, too. It’s going to make defending the Greater Candlepoint Area a lot easier.”

Poi struggled with something for a moment, and then he blurted out, “If you don’t actually attack the royalty or the nobles directly— I am not telling you this, but in our opinion which you have not heard... The royalty over there is not going to do anything to you, or to us, unless you attack them directly— I mean. Besides whatever other plans they got planned. Which we still don’t know about.” Poi strongly added, “And I do mean that. We really don’t know what they’re thinking.”

Erick waved a hand. “It’s fine, Poi. I understand the Mind Mage reluctance to get involved. If you get involved, it means possibly subjecting yourself to total annihilation due to well-founded fears. I understand that very well.”

“… I know you do, sir. I’m sorry we can’t help you more.”

“Don’t worry about it.”
