He was in such a good mood he decided to take the rest of the day off, having the servants send some celebratory drinks up to his room. Xinlai, An Ran, Lao, and the twins were on hand to join him in this glorious moment. One bottle disappeared, and then two, and then the room was pleasantly floaty. He turned to his good friends, wanting to see the looks on their faces, expecting them to be as happy as he—but none of them looked happy.

Xinlai was scowling at him.

“Are we so repulsive to you that you’re that pleased to be rid of us?” Xinlai asked, her voice full of scorn.

The words slammed into him like a Wreckerball, as did the realization.

He had gotten so used to them being around that… he had forgotten that once he left, he might not see them again.

The good mood was shattered, and for some reason his heart started to ache.

“No. No, Lady Xinlai, you are not. None of you are. How could any of you ever be repulsive?” he asked, and Xinlai looked away.

“Then… why have you spurned us so? None of us have been subtle about what we desired,” An Ran said next, her cheeks flushed from alcohol. Lao and the twins all seemed to agree with the words, their faces ones of discomfort.

He blinked at the bluntness of it all, the direct attack that caught him off guard. All of them looked genuinely upset.

He floundered for a moment, at first searching for an excuse. A set of sweet words, to defuse this situation—but he realised that lies had gotten him into this mess in the first place.

No. No more lies.

“Because I’m not the man you see,” he finally answered. “The Special Inspector, the Acting Lord Magistrate? Those are lies. The competent man, solving every problem without a sweat? Who the hells is that? I’m so scared I’m about to piss myself half the time, and in the other half, as soon as you’re all out of the room, I throw up.”

He left the words to hang, the burn of alcohol in his guts lending him courage. Everyone was looking at him with varying degrees of shock. He stood, swaying slightly.

“You’re all so amazing… and I’m just a man. A mere mortal from the far north, thrust somewhere at the wrong place at the wrong time, constantly second guessing himself, constantly terrified that I’m going to do the wrong thing and get people killed—or worse, die myself! How could I ever be worthy of such affection when you know not the real me? The real, pathetic man who wants nothing more than to run back north screaming all the way?”

His words faltered then, and shame filled him. “You’re not supposed to lie to someone you love, and the only thing I’ve been doing to any of you is lying.”

There was silence, and he lacked the courage to look any of them in the eyes. To see what the people he held in such regard really thought of him.

“But you didn’t run, didja?” Lao asked, her accent slipping through. ”When they shot arrows at me, you stepped in front of them, and you cut them out of the air, then carried me to safety.”

“Hm, you have a surprisingly foolish side. It's rather cute,” Xinlai said, an amused lilt to her voice. “We’re cultivators. Do you think we did not see you sweating, nor hear your heart racing?” He looked up in shock, his mouth dropping open. “So what? Like the fool girl said, you stood anyway.”

“What were your nefarious plans with the orphans you fed?” An Ran asked sarcastically. “Or where was this great coward when you infiltrated a bandit’s hideout to bring them to justice?”

“When you scolded those nobles for calling us barbarians, were you lying?” Sarantuya asked, her voice quiet.

“Tehneg! You’re right, I am upset; upset this person before me is disparaging a good man,” Narantuya said, her eyes narrow.

He opened and closed his mouth, looking in shock at them all.

There was no disgust. They were… defending him?

“Oh,” was all he managed to say in a very tiny voice. Then he let out a breath. “Forgive me for my indecision, and my… issues. I shall make it up to you all.”

“Oh, and how will you do that?” Xinlai challenged.

“I shall spend time with each of you. And then… I will choose. Before my tenure is up.”

There was silence at his declaration for a moment.

“Oho? How bold! After all this, those are the words you dare say?” Xinlai asked.

“Yes,” he said with all the resolve he could muster.

“Oh my,” An Ran said, her face flushed.

“Yoy, Yoy! He’s got a bold spirit!” Narantuya said. “Like a stallion!”

“Eh? Me too?” Lao said, looking fearful for a moment, before she stood up too. “Well, I’m not going to lose!”

Sparks flew between them all.

A strand of fear entered his chest, before he quelled it. This was the path forward.

“Now we drink! To the destruction of one’s enemies, a wonderful future, and fair competition!” Xinlai shouted.

Her words were met with great enthusiasm. Another bottle was shoved into his hands… and for the first time, he felt truly amused at the way they were all jockeying against each other, trying to decide some sort of order of whom he would spend a day with first.

They drank, laughed, and did foolish things. His chest filled with warmth, and for a while, just a while, there was no Acting Lord Magistrate, nor Special Inspector.

Just people whom he liked, and who liked him in turn.

He would fear no more. He would march forwards, unflinching!

At one point, everything went hazy, and then warm, and then started to feel very, very pleasant—

===

“Acting Lord Magistrate?”

He woke up with a pounding headache, and feeling worse than when he had spent all day running with the guards.

But at the same time, he was very comfortable. He was embraced by something—

“My Lord, are you awake?”

He groaned as the voice came again.

“Come back later,” he said for the first time ever to the servant. “I’m too tired for whatever it is.”

“Ah, forgive me, Lord Magistrate, but…the guests say they are your mother and your father, and match the descriptions of them we were given…”

There was a moment of silence.

Then the Acting Lord Magistrate of Grass Sea City bolted upright, his heart pounding like a drum.

“Nooo, more hugs,” Xinlai muttered.

“It's too early,” An Ran sighed.

“Tianlan örshöö! Sister, are we sure he's a mortal?” Narantyua groaned, rubbing her back.

“Manly~” Sarantuya said, her voice half delirious.

Lao was dead to the world, drooling on his thigh.

He looked at the state of himself, the bite marks, the bruises, and the… fluids, and then back at the door.

"Ten—ten minutes!" he squeaked.

He needed twice his usual time to prepare for his impending death, after all.
