“That’s fine. I’m not planning on controlling you or yours, and you’re going to need a lot of strength going forward.” Erick said, “I’m going to try and be fair with you. I hope you can be fair with me and my people.”

“I understand. My personal hope is for a good working relationship, and for the prosperity and safety of Candlepoint.”

“You’ve heard about what has happened?”

“Yes.” Justine said, “I heard from some of my watchers, so my knowledge of the event is severely limited. I can’t safely use [Telepathy] with the people in Candlepoint until I have more levels, Health, and the ability to withstand an unwanted connection. Almost everyone there is in the 50s.”

So she was more disconnected from Candlepoint than Erick was. That wasn’t great news. Erick asked, “Are you going to be able to take control in my name?”

“Not today, and not for a while, for the reasons stated.” Justine said, “If Mephistopheles survived, then he should take control for now. Other options include Zaraanka, the Headmaster’s contact, or maybe Slip, the Captain of the Guard, though he’s rather reclusive like you. Slip would have survived, but he would be the absolute last choice. If none of those three survived then… It’s going to be tough.”

Erick nodded. He stepped to the side, unblocking the door, as he gave Justine [Prismatic Ward] permissions. He said, “Come on in. This is your home now.” He looked through Ophiel’s eyes to Candlepoint, briefly, then came back, saying, “Mephistopheles survived. I don’t know the other two.”

Justine bowed, then stepped forward, past the edge of dense air that protected the house from the outside world. “Thank you for accepting me into your home. It is a lovely space.”

Erick laughed. It came upon him suddenly, and absurdly. He said, “Sorry. It’s… This is a nice home. I like it a lot. But I’ve destroyed it and remade it and all the walls are still orange stone.” He turned to the guard that accompanied Justine, saying, “Thank you for the escort.”

The two guards nodded, said ‘Sir’, and blipped away; one in a flash of green, the other in a flash of pink. Erick shut the door, then turned back to Justine, and Poi, who stood separated from each other in the center of the room.

Erick asked, “Did you become a member of Spur’s Army, too, Justine?”

“No.” Justine said, “I am unaffiliated. Not a citizen of anywhere. I have been told, in no uncertain terms, that if you decide I am a malicious actor, that I am to be terminated at once.”

Erick found himself frowning. He almost wanted to ask her if she was okay, but he knew that she was not, and she had not been okay for a long time.

She noticed him. She said, “I have died more times than you have lived, Erick.” Justine said, “That I have this opportunity at all is a boon I never expected to own. I thank you for your concern.”

“… Okay.” Erick pointed forward, and to the left. “That way is the sunroom and the library and the rad room. It’s a room full of rads that I put there to use in enchanting, but I’ve been busy. Take whatever rads you need in order to purchase whatever you want to purchase in town. We can open you a bank account at the Mage Guild Bank tomorrow.” He pointed to the right. “Kitchen, cold rooms.” He pointed forward. “Main dining room that is hardly ever used.” He pointed to the curving, grand staircase at the other end of the foyer. “Bedrooms and such are upstairs. Pick whichever room on the third floor you want. I’m on the second floor, along with Poi and Teressa, each in their own rooms. Kiri is on the third floor. My mage tower is the southern one, facing the Dead City. Jane’s is the northern one. Her room is on the second floor, too.” He added, “This house is full of rooms.”

Justine smiled; a soft, small expression. She nodded. “Than—” She paused. She centered herself. “Thank you.”

Erick disregarded her emotions she obviously didn’t want regarded. He said, “Bulgan gave up instantly, right after I gave him his million chips. You were right about that, Justine. I hope you can guide me and the people of Candlepoint down more correct paths, as time goes on.”

Justine nodded, silent. She quickly ran her hands across her eyes.

Poi said, “I will show you to your room.”

That was a good idea, so Erick let that happen; Poi likely wanted to talk to Justine in private. Erick said, “When you’re settled, we can talk about how to repair Candlepoint, and how to give the people there everything they need to start and operate the city on their own.”

Poi said, “This way,” as he led the way up the grand staircase, speaking softly.

Erick let Poi take over, as he went down the left hallway. Teressa met him at the archway to the library. She took a seat across from Erick’s, while he sat down in his reclining chair, and sent his senses back to Candlepoint.

A check on Ophiel revealed that seventeen rods of [Treat Wounds] that Erick had started with, were all used up. He came back to himself, and said, “I need more rods. Can Liquid spare more?”

“No…” Teressa offered, “I can go to Market Street?”

“Ulrick Ulrick usually has a good ten in the back of his shop.” Erick said, “That works.”

Teressa said, “Sir,” then blipped away.

Erick waited for her to return before he fully went back to Ophiel, though he did poke around here and there, helping pull rocks off of the injured, blipping people away from where they shouldn’t be, ending fights with more casual blipping. Teressa soon returned with a box of ten rods. Erick smiled. The he dismissed an Ophiel at Candlepoint, and summoned another, right in front of him. Erick sent the new one blipping down to the shadeling city with ten more rods in tow, each with 50 casts of [Treat Wounds]. With the [Familiar]'s greatly expanded senses, thanks to [Greater Lightwalk], and the fight with Bulgan truly over, more and more people began ghosting out of the rubble; injured shadows in need of medical care.

It wasn’t till ten minutes later, as he sifted through the dead to find the merely dying, that he noticed he was not running [Hunter’s Instincts], and yet, he was not crying. Not a hint of emotion threatened to burst from his eyes, or wet his face. Maybe his eyes had broken when they turned platinum grey?

Killzone didn’t mention the change, though. But that could be explained away by maybe that Poi asked him.

‘Yes. I told him. He doesn’t know, either,’ Poi sent, after Erick actually sent him the question, instead of just thinking it. ‘Justine asked me about it when we separated from you, so she doesn’t know either; to answer the question you were thinking of.’

- - - -

A man yelled at the sky, in the open square of the Crystal, demanding to be heard.

In seconds, Erick had an Ophiel over there to investigate the disturbance. He had done so with two dozen similar disturbances already, defusing everything from fights, to thefts, to merciless beatings; [Teleport Other] had gotten much use. It was a super effective strategy, too. Shadelings might have access to a minor [Shadowalk]-like ability, but once separated, they rarely returned to their violence.

The yelling man at the Crystal was someone Erick had already seen: Mephistopheles. His broken horn was already regrowing, too. Ophiel must have tapped him with a [Treat Wounds] somewhere in all of the other tappings. The spell had an instant component, but most of its healing actually took place over a full day of rest. The incani shadeling would have lopsided horns for a week, but it was better than being dead.

In a cleared space of the dark courtyard of the Crystal, were the rubble mostly absent, Mephistopheles stood, calling to the sky. He was still wearing his plain tunic and pants, and those, just like the city all around him, had seen better days.

Ophiel appeared in front of the shadeling like a lensflare, with his back to the Crystal, flashing from diffuse lightform body, to his many-winged, many-eyed physical form. He held a silver rod of [Treat Wounds] in one of his ever-shifting wings.

Erick said, “Hello, Mephistopheles.”

Mephistopheles said, “I need you to declare a temporary king.”

“… We’re not doing ‘kings’.”

“Vizier! Lord! General or Mayor! Whatever you want to call it!” Mephistopheles said, “And it better not be Justine! I won’t follow that witch, and neither will my people.”

“What is going on here, Mephistopheles?” Erick asked, “Why are you bringing this up at this time? Aren’t there enough problems with the disaster all around us?”

“All around us, he says!” Mephistopheles said, “You’re not here.”

“I see practically everything that is happening in Candlepoint, at this moment.”

“Whatever. I don’t want to debate that right now. You can be the Absent Lord for all I care.” He said, “But we have some demands of our new overlord! We want a leader on site! Rules to abide! Promised safety that is enforced by you, or your appointed representatives! These are but a few of the demands of our new master!” His voice turned stage dramatic, dripping with hidden condemnation, as he said, “Or are you a new Bulgan? Here to lord over us and do nothing but step on our necks?”

The man was hurt, and lashing out, and desperate for something solid to hold onto as the world stormed all around him. That much was obvious. Mephistopheles wasn’t the only one who was hurt.

Erick gazed out at the dark courtyard of the Crystal, to the buildings beyond. Alchemist shops had been torn asunder in the fights of four hours ago. Spider corpses hung in and out of the broken display windows of clothiers. General stores had been looted fast; they were only half intact. Enchanter stores were mostly intact, but only because metal bars protected the windows. Leatherworkers and metalsmiths had been broken. The only intact place in the Crystal Courtyard, untouched by the spider fall and Bulgan’s summons, was a dark black building, unassuming in a quiet sort of way, with doors carved in the shape of black wings.

Looters had come and gone, but when Erick started blipping people away from more looting, they had not returned. Everyone seemed to take Erick’s action as a simple warning, where one more step taken in the wrong direction would end in a final judgment. He wouldn’t have followed through on the implied threat; he would have just kept blipping them away. Since then, no one had come to the Crystal’s Courtyard, until Mephistopheles. But since Mephistopheles started yelling, and Erick started answering, people had gradually returned to the space.

Glowing grey eyes peeked out from around broken doors, or in the deeper shadows under stone debris. Some people stepped out into the open, into the half-light of partial cloud cover, to watch. Some, to witness. A few fell to their knees in supplication toward Ophiel. More than a few crossed their arms, and narrowed their eyes. Most stuck to the deeper shadows, fully outside of the sun’s reach.

Erick spoke for the audience, since that’s what Mephistopheles was doing, “I am not, nor will I ever be, your master. If anything, I will be your support. I will help your farmers grow food. I will help you in restoring your shops, and your livelihoods. I will work to bring good choices and freedom to your lives, and I will guard you from the threats I can protect against.” He felt, for a moment, like he was in a different time and place. Like he was talking to a guy down on his luck, who needed a roof over his head and the promise of safety to get back on his feet; like he was back on Earth. Though this was not Earth, and there was the problem of shadelings being malicious actors in the past, everyone needed a chance. “Safety comes first. To that end, how would you suggest we do this?”

“A decree enforced from on high would be great!”

“We’re not doing that, either. I have no will to enforce upon you.” Erick offered, “How about a council? I will be there to observe when needed, but otherwise you can bring me problems I can solve, and do the rest on your own.”

Mephistopheles said, “Acceptable! I put myself forward for the position of Right Hand of the King!”

“This blatant attempt to win power is doing you no favors, Mephistopheles,” Erick said, while simultaneously checking on every Ophiel, to make sure that people still got pulled from rubble and healed, and [Mirage Slime]s continued to roll about the city, [Cleansing] venom from victims, and helping clean wounds of debris.

Erick occasionally noticed spiders that he had missed. Tiny ones, no larger than eyes. How had the [Cascade Imaging], still active on the top of the Crystal, missed those? Ah! Whatever. Erick crushed those spiders with lightform fists, while leaving the holes in the ground that the larger ones had created in their escape from the city. Maybe some people down there could rescue themselves; some of Erick’s [Mirage Slime]s had slipped down there already.

Erick came back to the Ophiel in front of Mephistopheles, after being gone for no more than a few seconds. He said, “But I appoint you to the rescue and repair efforts, for now.” He spoke toward the crowd. “I need five more volunteers willing to help with repair and rescue, or who wish to have the chance to prove themselves as a capable leader, or as a council member.”

The crowd immediately slunk back, like a tide of grey eyes on a dark sea, flowing into the deeper shadows, except for two.

A human woman in a ripped pink dress, who had been kneeling on the ground, praying, stood up and walked forward. Erick had seen her helping to uncover people from fallen debris. Her eyes were cloudy grey, but as she stepped closer, into the light, they turned brighter; clearer.

