Years ago, in one of his many acts of compassion, Erick journeyed to Florida in the aftermath of a hurricane. He actually did this twice. In those hot summers, with biting bugs all around, Erick toiled with others all there for the same reason; to help. He was but one of the cogs in the machine. Demolition, clean up, preparing lunch sometimes, running the bulldozer, for he was one of the few with heavy machinery experience. Working in construction when Jane was a baby had prepared him well for this volunteer work, but it was those hot, mosquito-filled summers, and the fact that he was getting too old for that shit, that cemented his switch to social work. He much preferred helping people with paperwork and prodding the various systems of government into providing what they were supposed to provide, than he enjoyed cleaning up disaster areas.

As the wind-filled sky turned from purple to blue, and the sun rose over the orange dunes outside of Candlepoint, Erick, riding Ophiel, thought back to those stormy days, in bug-filled tents, just outside of a town that had been leveled by a hurricane. There was no wooden construction here, though. Candlepoint was a stone city, through and through.

Fat lot of good all that stone did, when automatons plowed through the walls with what must have been a two hundred effective Strength, and spiders crawled through even the tiniest openings, or created their own. The summons were bad enough, but the monsters were worse than hurricane winds versus trailer parks. Those monsters were all dead, now; Erick had triple-checked the map he created in the center of the city, on top of the dark Crystal. Every blue dot in the city was dead and mutilated; he had gone after those monsters, first.

The people-shaped monsters were dead and mutilated, too. Some lived. But most…

Erick saw it all, as every Ophiel he had flew through the rubble and the buildings like pools of thick light, splashing in and out of crevices and into hiding holes. Missing legs. Bloody wounds. People crying in the middle of the street, holding onto the dead. Two men holding onto each other in the dark of a room, both of them still warm with fading life. A man holding half of a woman, trying to keep her insides inside her ribcage. People in cocoons that he rapidly freed, with some able to hobble away while others foamed at the mouth, barely alive—

Like a jolt from a god, Erick remembered a spell he had. With a subtle shift and cast, every Ophiel in Candlepoint simultaneously released [Mirage Slime]s; [Cleanse] given form and function. Thick, van-sized air danced through the rubble, across people, lingering on those suffering from spider bites. Venom became more thick air that curled away from slimes that were already moving on to the next victim. Cocoons disintegrated as they were deemed ‘filth’, releasing the trapped people inside. Blood vanished from streets. Bodies, broken and bloody, became simply broken.

Erick briefly came back to himself, sitting in the safety of his home in Spur, far away from the catastrophe that was Candlepoint. He looked to Poi, asking, “Do we have healers that anyone can spare?”

Quietly, Poi said, “We do not. No one wants to go there, sir. You should not ask, and you should never go there yourself.”

Erick looked away. He nodded. “Right.”

“But you can try the Garrison.” Poi said, “There might be healers there, already.”

Erick sat straighter. “Right!” He added, “And we have rods of [Treat Wounds]!”

Teressa said, “I’ll gather up the ones in the house.”

Erick summoned an Ophiel, automatically dismissing one in Candlepoint, as he said, “I got that, Teressa. Take some money and go buy some more— Or! Wait. Requisition reserves from the Army?” He looked to Poi. Without rancor, and full of hope, he asked, “Does Liquid have any she can spare?”

Poi looked to the air. “Yes. Liquid has some she is willing to give.” He looked to Teressa. “Go.”

Teressa vanished in a grey flash.

Erick summoned an Ophiel, automatically dismissing one of the ones at Candlepoint. He turned his fresh summon into liquid light, then gathered up seven rods of [Treat Wounds] he had lying around the house in three seconds. With bounty in wing, Ophiel blipped away, to Candlepoint. Minutes later, Teressa delivered another box of rods; another ten.

It was gruesome work.

Half an hour later, Erick was still pulling bodies out of rubble, tapping people with healing whenever he could. By then, others had started to appear, walking around, dazed and confused. The sun was up, and Erick had dismissed his hurricane winds already, but now he recast quick clouds into the sky, to bring shadows to the city.

As sunlight turned to half lights, and the wardlights of the city cast rainbows into the gloom, some of the confused shadelings came back to their senses. Erick did not talk to any of them, as he went around healing whoever looked like they needed healing, but he did watch as shadelings organized themselves.

Mephistopheles was there, by the Garrison, but Erick only knew him because of his horns. One was large and lacquered red, while the other was a broken red nub. He wore a completely normal off-white tunic and brown pants, completely at odds with his normal fanfare. He was also shoeless, looking not like himself at all, as he directed people left and right. Some shadelings obeyed him, but none of the adventurers did. As soon as Bulgan’s Lock vanished, the town emptied of almost all non-shadelings. From what Erick was seeing through ten different [Familiar]s, there were two, maybe three non-shadelings, walking around in the city. Maybe more; Erick wasn’t really counting right now. He was trying to mitigate damage.

Erick did notice the stronger people in the city. There was a shadeling in black armor with black skin and brilliant white eyes, who Erick watched pull a cocooned person out of a hole in the ground. Erick almost mistook him for a Shade, but if he was, then he was not a problem; not yet, anyway. In another part of the city, a woman in a pink dress turned rubble into shadows, dissipating fallen structures into little more than glooms in the air, as she helped set people into the light. In a far part of the city, near the broken northern wall, near the Farms, a trio of adventurers burst through a wall, entering into a room filled with rads. They began taking those rads—

While nine Ophiels automatically went on saving lives, tapping people with [Treat Wounds] and knowing what Erick wanted, Erick focused one Ophiel on the robbers. Because that was definitely what they were. Two orcol men, and one dragonkin woman. They conjured brown bags from thin air, then dipped into the stash of rads, rapidly stealing whatever they could, before blipping away.

Then they had the audacity to come back for seconds! Maybe they were already on thirds, or fourths.

Erick let them do whatever they wanted, wishing to never see them again, as he grabbed all the rads he could see into Ophiel’s [Greater Lightwalk]. The next time the thieves blipped in, the room was empty, and Erick had gone back into the town with the cache of rads in tow.

With a touch of directed organization, Erick distributed that haul out into the city, scattering them along every major street, like diamonds in the daylight, set out for someone to come by and take them. The hope was that shadelings, hurt in the attack, would grab the rads and use them for healing.

Shadelings instantly noticed the bounty on the road. They rushed the piles. Some appeared greedy at first glance, but with a lingering look, Erick saw those greedy people had just picked up what they could and rushed back to others who had been hurt, and hiding in nearby buildings. When Erick saw that, he directed Ophiels to the injured, and tapped them with a rod of [Treat Wounds]. Taking in rads seemed to do good for a shadeling’s health, but actual healing did more. Some of the people who took the rads were just greedy, though, and stashing them into hiding holes here and there; that much was expected.

And so, a bloody morning turned into a mournful day.

Somewhere in the middle of all that, Erick noticed what the Crystal looked like, at the base. The place where everyone exchanged their darkchips for prizes was like a gazebo at the bottom. The crystal had been carved out into a good five meter by five meter airy space, with counters for people to exchange goods upon, and boards hanging in the center of the gazebo that listed every prize. But there were no prizes listed now. No one manned the counters. Instead, a sign had been replicated and hung over every prize board, that read, ‘No more prizes in Candlepoint! Come to Kendrithyst if you want something!’.

- - - -

Erick sat up from his reclining chair.

Teressa had moved to stand out of the way, toward the side of the room, while Poi looked on, still telepathically talking to dozens of people. The room was unnaturally quiet. Teressa looked pensive; she was almost ready to say something, but she had doubts whether she wanted to speak, or not. But then she noticed Erick was here in the room instead of watching over Candlepoint, and all of her outward and obvious emotions went silent; unknowable.

Erick asked, “What now?”

“This is uncharted territory.” Poi looked down to Erick, saying, “There will be hardliners that want Candlepoint destroyed. There will be others that want it exploited. Still more, might want something else.”

Teressa hummed some noncommittal noise.

“About what I expected, then.” Erick swung his feet off the chair, then stood up, saying, “I need to see Justine. I want to put her in charge of the town.” He stood up. “I also want to speak to someone about what it takes to actually kill a Shade. It seems I am not up to the task.”

Teressa looked down at Erick, but then averted her eyes, to stare at an unimportant part of the floor.

Poi said, “You should put down [Hunter’s Instincts], sir. And take off the crown. Your eyes are glowing white.”

“… Not yet. But I can take this off.” Erick took off the crown, and set it down on the small table near his chair, next to the box of potions. He picked up his rings and slipped them on his fingers saying, “So? About seeing Justine? Or an actual Shade killer. Oh! Can Killzone talk? Also, was I misled by Anhelia, with regard to how best to kill a Shade?” He spoke with a voice disconnected from everything, saying, “Because that is disappointing, if true.”

Poi looked at Erick for a long moment, as if picking his words. He asked, “Why didn’t you try [Luminous Beam]?”

Erick blanked. He went, “Huh.” Then he laughed. Erick joked, “Like a bumbling virgin! I simply didn’t know how to approach the situation, and so, fucked up in a bad way. I have no excuses. I also could have Shaped some [Vivid Gloom]s into that dark Crystal in the center of town. I highly doubt that Bulgan could absorb pure poison light.” He shrugged, adding, “But who the fuck knows!” He repeated, half desperately, “Who knows, Poi? I need pointers.”

Poi said, “Your eyes are still glowing, sir.”

Erick almost flew off the handle, as rage tore through his entire being. And then he calmed himself. His eyes didn’t matter. So what if he was having some stressful magic lightshow in the irises of his eyes? That happened to practically everyone when they were amped up and angry, or fully in tune with their purpose in life. Erick’s purpose was to kill Shades, so of course he had a little light show going on. But Teressa wouldn’t meet his eyes, and Poi seemed overly concerned. So Erick flicked a portion of intent through the light of the house, up to the bathroom upstairs. A tiny blip brought a mirror to his hand.

Yes. His eyes were glowing.

… A bit too much, actually. He almost looked like a Shade. Full white glows eclipsed both of his eyes.

Reluctantly, and knowing he would be a mess afterward, he cut [Hunter’s Instincts].

White light faded from his eyes, but his irises did not return to their normal color. Instead, they were a bright grey; almost platinum. For the briefest of moments, he forgot the horrors of the last few hours.

Then he whispered to himself, “What the damn?” He checked his Status. “Still says Human.”

Teressa breathed out a windy chuckle, muttering, “Thank the gods.”

“You’ve been marked.” Poi offered, “I’ll ask around to find out what it means, if anything?”

“Let’s just… Let’s forget that, for now.” Erick tried to hold himself together, as he said, “I need to see… Who do I need to see— Justine. And Silverite and Killzone. Apogee. I need to speak to Apogee about an anti-blipping curse.”

Poi looked away for a moment, then said, “Killzone is able to receive you, now.”

Erick breathed deep, feeling slightly better. And then he had a concern. “Where, though? I’ve never met him outside of… walking around.”

- - - -

Erick stepped outside of the door to his house, turned left, and headed toward the stone gazebo that existed for the Community Garden Council; where they spoke to each other of produce, people, and business. Erick had not really spoken to Calizi, or Rollo, or anyone on the Council in several days. The last one he spoke to was Kip, the bluemetal wrought dragonkin, about shelling rice and beans for Candlepoint, over a week ago. That was a simpler time than now.

Now, Killzone waited for him in the stone gazebo.

