Hollowsaur shook his spear at Killzone. “This is my hunt! They poached my fields! I demand blood!”

Killzone could have said something about how Hollowsaur left his menagerie open for poaching, specifically so he could hunt the people who came for the high level monsters, but that would be falling into a trap. Logic never mattered to a Shade. The only thing that mattered was the show, and the fight.

Killzone said, “And y’all’ve fought these poor souls to the edge of their stamina. Maybe they could come back stronger and give you a better hunt in another month, if you let them go. You’ve obviously overpowered them, and too easily, at that.” He casually pointed toward a bloody stain on the road, and a hand sitting just beyond Hollowsaur. “Neither of these weak kids are missing a hand, so I reckon you already got a few of them already. At least one.”

Hollowsaur scowled as he eyed the hand sitting on the ground to his left. “Bah!” He knocked it off the skyroad, into the unseen depths below. “Two out of four is not recompense enough! Stand aside!”

The boy at Killzone’s feet whispered, desperately clutching the woman, saying, “There were six of us.”

Killzone said to the boy, “Now you ain’t calling Hollowsaur a liar, are you?”

As the boy paled, Hollowsaur laughed.

“They don’t matter to you either, Killzone!” The Shade threatened, “Give them to me.”

“You’re right.” Killzone said, nonchalant. “These kids? They don’t matter.” Killzone looked up from the boy, to stare across the distance toward Hollowsaur. “But y’all entered my territory.” He pointed behind him, and upward, at a large crack that had split across the kendrithyst crystal that supported Forward Base. It wasn’t a major split; there was no danger of Forward Base falling. But there was a black spear in the center of that crack. A spear exactly like the one Hollowsaur gripped, right now. Killzone dropped his drawl, saying, “But you did that.” He casually moved that pointing finger to the bottom left, behind him, and without turning during the whole show, said, “And you think your carrion swarm can sneak up on me. It’s just disrespectful, Hollowsaur.”

Hollowsaur narrowed his glowing white eyes. “I go where the hunt leads.”

The carrion swarm backed away, retreating completely out of sight, behind the curve of a kendrithyst tower, as some unsaid communication passed between master and beast.

The skeleton swarm slipped around a curve in the upper crystals and launched right at Killzone, though. He was ready for it. Hollowsaur was ready for it, too.

Before Killzone could crash through the skeleton monster, Hollowsaur reeled back his hand, like yanking on a dog’s leash. The skeleton swarm flew backwards; the Shade yanking his pet back as one would an unruly dog, to prevent it from killing itself.

Killzone halted his forward movement at the edge of the skyroad, as the skeleton swarm crashed backward near Hollowsaur, breaking hundreds of bones, but surviving the fight. Killzone just looked at the skeleton swarm, then Hollowsaur. Finally, he turned his eyes toward the carrion swarm, that slipped up behind the Shade like the obedient pet that it was.

Killzone nodded toward the skeleton swarm, and said, “Beautiful pets. I hope your eyebeast is ready for Shadow’s Feast. You made such a good showing last year.”

He had said that because Hollowsaur’s eyebeast was always the Shade’s prized monster, but some unfortunate idiots had killed it only a month ago. Killzone ended up slipping into the menagerie to give those people merciful deaths two days after the Shade rounded up every last person in that adventuring party. He would have done it sooner, but Hollowsaur was too attentive during the harvesting process. It was only after Hollowsaur had gathered enough eyes from that adventuring team, to start his new beast, that he grew careless enough in his watch to allow Killzone the opportunity.

Hollowsaur laughed. “Gold eyes and already level 86! Eyebeast number 71 will be more than ready for Shadow’s Feast.” He smiled, a wicked thing, saying, “I’ll hunt you someday, Killzone.”

“You hunt your own death.”

Hollowsaur chuckled, grinned, then turned around. Ten steps later, the Shade stepped through a shaft of light, then into shadows, vanishing from sight. His beasts began galloping down the skyroad, following their master through the physical world, toward the menagerie. The wolf howled a thousand echoing calls to darkness as it vanished out of view. Its fleshy cousin did nothing but burble and slap down the road, but from one second to the next, it turned absolutely silent. Killzone watched it glide around a corner.

The boy, holding the woman, said, “She’s dead.”

Killzone said nothing. He just stood there. Waiting. Hollowsaur’s [Teleport Lock] was still active. He had not actually retreated—

A small, quick beast of fangs and teeth rounded the edge of the skyroad, aimed directly at the boy.

With a step through shadows and the back of his hand, Killzone struck the monster across one of its front legs, slapping it aside, turning sharp teeth into shrapnel that impacted the kendrithyst tower beyond, chipping crystal. The baby beast fell apart. Killzone had aimed correctly, breaking the animating rad located in the third largest tooth of the whole monster. If someone was watching, they might have wondered why he aimed at the monster’s leg. But Killzone had seen more than his share of swarm monsters. Hollowsaur never put the rad in the most obvious part. Killzone had been two meters from killing the shadowolf skeleton swarm with a similar [Strike].

A laugh echoed through the shadows of the middle reaches.

The [Teleport Lock] vanished.

The boy began to weep.

Killzone turned to the kid, saying, “Get up. Get up. Get going. Now.”

- - - -

In the shadows of the gazebo, Killzone said, “Wisely or unwisely, you have chosen to wrest control of Candlepoint away from Bulgan, and step directly into the politics of Ar’Kendrithyst. The Shades might give you a day or two before they come for you, but I doubt it. The good news is that they won’t come to kill, but to torture and sound you out.” Killzone said, “When I spoke of your choice, it is this: The only options you have at the moment, is deciding where you draw the line in the tunnel. If you draw that line too far or too wide, then they will walk all over you. If you draw it too close, then you have no room to maneuver.” He said, “One of my lines is Forward Base. Any actions taken against the base itself demands a similar action in return. I made a choice about how to enforce my lines, and it was all I could do at that moment to save the boy. If I had stepped further into that conflict, or tried to save the woman, then one of my soldiers would have been hunted in retaliation.”

Hearing Killzone’s small story was like a splash of cold water directly in Erick’s face. The Shades all needed to die, this much was obvious. But then Killzone’s question was not about if Erick wanted to take control of Candlepoint, it was the degree to which Erick would be willing to protect his unexpected city. Erick had no idea where he wanted to draw the line, but right now...

Erick frowned, as said, “Part of me expected anger from you, or someone, over this action.”

“I’m furious.”

At mentioning his anger, Erick could see that he was telling the truth. From the tension in his shoulders to the wry smile on his lips, he hid his emotions well, and the darkness of his black iron body helped to conceal a great deal of emotional cues on his face. But his anger was there, for sure. And then it was gone. Killzone had let his mask slip for a bare moment to show his displeasure, and then put the mask right back on.

It occurred to Erick, that he had always had difficult, yet friendly relations with Killzone. From the openness of the General’s displeasure at Erick not knowing combat, and needing to take Mog’s remedial adventuring classes, to Killzone’s pure enchanted joy at getting a blacklight rock, and his entire body glowing with purple fluorescence… He had never really spoken to the man, before now. Killzone was a dangerous man, but he was also doing the best he could with what he had, and that led to anger, as it would with anyone. That some of that anger was because of Erick, was not something that Erick ever meant to happen.

Erick said, “I never meant for this to happen.”

Killzone said, “I know. I’m not… I’m not actually mad at you. Not truly. It is normal for Shades to have some of this cunning, some of this long term planning and this ability to put their insanity aside long enough to really hurt someone. But… Creating a city and then having them plot well enough for you to take control of it like that? We’re in uncharted territory, Erick. They’ve never been this far-thinking about the big painting stuff for this long.” He said, “But Silverite did speak in jest of you taking over Candlepoint as a possibility, but then we returned to discussing the real threats. Shadeling assassins. Regime changes in the rest of the world. The annihilation of half of the cities on Glaquin. Crystal Mimics purposefully spread to the rest of the world. It wasn’t till weeks later, when Candlepoint had yet to accomplish anything too evil, that we began discussing smaller, longer timescale threats.” He added, “We knew what our response would be to this scenario long before you got here. And so, we are all still your allies in this. But you need to make a decision about where you will draw your lines, and if you can’t keep those lines solid, then… I doubt you will be dead. But something bad will happen.” He said, “I cannot let anything happen to Spur or Forward Base. I will help you in some things, but I cannot be too much your ally, for my people might become unintended victims. We are always but a step or two away from death.”

“… Thanks, Killzone.”

“That said: Call me up anytime you need direction.” Killzone leaned back in his seat, asking, “Got any ideas on how you want to operate Candlepoint? A mayor, or a teacher? A gardener or an enforcer? Or something else?”

“I have no idea—” Erick suddenly waved a hand at nothing in particular, as he added, “And it’s still ridiculous that I’ve ‘won’ anything! Bulgan didn’t even give me a fight!” He said, “I made so many mistakes, too, Killzone.”

“Sudden movements are bad, Erick.” Killzone said, “Don’t do that when the Shades come knocking.”

Erick looked at his hand. He settled down, saying, “Shit.”

“You will learn.” Killzone stood up from the stone bench.

Erick stood, too, wondering briefly how much of Killzone’s mannerisms were cultured to convey certain emotions in his audience, and how much of it was real, or not.

Erick was not some greenhorn kid, completely oblivious to how people operated and emoted, or how politics worked in local governments, but all of his experiences with politics and life were either Earthly experiences, or heavily shielded from him on Veird, either by Poi and his guards, or the very nature of Polite Society, and how his magic allowed actions at a vast distance. How did Silverite operate on a day to day basis? What did Merit do to keep Spur safe? How much influence did the Mage and Adventurer guilds actually have? What sort of problems would he have, being ‘in charge’ of Candlepoint?

But that was getting ahead of himself. The whole situation was crazy, and moving way too fast.

Erick glanced through his Ophiel, as they scoured the city for injured to tap with their rods of [Treat Wounds]. At that moment of seeing the disaster laid before him, thinking about governing and normalcy seemed… wrong, somehow.

Killzone said, “Whatever face you choose to create, make sure it is one you can live with.”

Erick nodded. “Thanks, Killzone.”

- - - -

The next step to take in Erick’s whirlwind of a day was rather obvious. So he got Poi on the job, and ten minutes later, there was a knock at his front door. He opened the door.

With white skin, white horns, and red eyes, Justine Erholme stood on the other side looking slightly haggard. Her dress was simple, but ill fitting. It was then, that Erick realized just how deep in the shit he was, and his mind went in a dozen different tangents. The people of Candlepoint had little in the way of clothes. The infrastructure of the city was heavily damaged. How about food? He could solve the food problem and the people there could easily solve the structural damage problem, and with a quick check on Ophiel, some of the people of the town were already solving that problem, with spells that almost looked like [Stoneshape], but he also saw looters, and people getting into fights— Oh. He could stop those fights.

… And people were looting the darkchip vault of the Garrison, too.

A touch of light and pair of [Teleport Other]s instantly separated two brawling shadelings to other sides of the city, while another blip sent two silverscale dragonkin out of the broken darkchip vault, to the southern gate of Candlepoint. The two silverscales went wide eyed, as they realized what had happened, and what could have happened. They blipped away, and Erick knew not where. They didn’t reappear in the vaults, though.

He returned to himself, to see Justine still standing in his doorway. A pair of guards flanked her, but they stood a few meters away.

Erick said, “Sorry about that. Are you still level 0?”

Justine popped out her Status. It had slightly changed. “Level 6. [Cleanse]. [Mend]. [Telekinesis]. [Telepathy]. And a few bonuses.”

