The other person was a fully black man with black horns and eyes bright enough to be a Shade’s. He did not step forward, but as the crowd vanished around him, pulling back, he was left out in the open, and the second closest person to Mephistopheles. He glanced around himself, frowned, then stepped forward of his own volition.

“I think I already know you,” Erick said, turning Ophiel’s eyes toward the ‘Shade’. “Slip, Captain of the Guard?”

Slip winced, then said, “Yup. I’ll organize the Guard. I already was, but I guess I gotta do that again.”

“Thank you,” Erick said, turning to the woman. He was pretty sure he knew this one, too. “And you are?”

“Zaraanka Checharin.” She said, “I wish to devote myself to making Candlepoint all it can be.”

“Oddly enough, Justine recommended all three of you to higher positions.” Erick said, half-sarcastically, “Someone must be watching out for you.”

Mephistopheles had no reaction. Slip winced, again.

But Zaraanka bubbled a hearty laugh, then tapered off, to say, “We have survived worse.”

Erick looked around Ophiel again, and recognized Zaraanka’s truth. “You have all survived a great deal of hardships.” He decided, “Let us all work to make Candlepoint an unobtrusive, quiet little town of prosperity and safety for all therein. That is my goal. I hope we can make this wish a reality.”

“A tiny life! I object!” Zaraanka blurted, suddenly looking worried. “I want textiles and comfort! Libraries full of novels and liquor that isn’t brewed in a stone basin!”

“We need infrastructure, you ignorant—!” Mephistopheles cut himself short, then said, “We need people willing to put in the effort to get those things! Not just those who seek luxuries in order to have them and use them.” He turned to Ophiel, saying, “I protest Zaraanka’s appointment.”

Erick was put off by the apparent disregard for the dead, and the disaster all around them, but he would not judge these shadelings for their actions; not yet, and maybe not for years. They had been through a lot more than he had ever been through. Erick tried to get them back on track, saying, “We will not be falling to pieces now. If you cannot work together, or work to make Candlepoint a successful city, then I will appoint new people next week.” Erick decided, “You have a week to prove yourself worthy of your position.” He said, “Work to make your desires a reality. Draw up a list of plants you require for textiles and food purposes, and I will work to get them to you. The people here can grow their own lives, themselves. But know now, that violence must be kept to a minimum, and not only because it harms the growth of this city, but because the rest of the world is watching.” He looked to Slip. “Another topic: I saw you going down into the spider holes to retrieve people. But now you are here?”

“They’re dead if they’re still down there.” Slip said, “My people are already closing up holes.”

Erick sent his sight wide, and saw that Slip’s words were true. He returned to the Ophiel in the courtyard, and said, “Very good then. How many people do you think survived? In the whole city?”

“Ten thousand, maybe,” Slip said.

Mephistopheles said, “I suggest we tear down half of the city that is no longer necessary, and turn the land inside the walls into farmland, forests, and nice places. I want a lake. Spur has one; we can use one, too.”

Erick suddenly remembered something Killzone had said. He turned some of Ophiel’s eyes backward, to the Crystal. A book of monsters laid behind the counter, along with a note, saying, ‘From Undine’. Erick left it there, for now.

He turned his attention back to Mephistopheles, and said, “I agree. Do it. Prepare the land.” He turned his attention to the blue sky. Clouds still hung here and there; remnants of his earlier attempt at adding clouds to the sky. They weren’t thick enough. The sun was starting to beat down hard, through those thin clouds, to turn the shadows of the city into hard lines, despite the rainbow lights still edging every black building. Except for the three people in front of Ophiel, standing in the light, every other shadeling stuck to the shadows beside the buildings. The brightness was too bright.

With a look to the blue roof of the world, Erick cast more control into the sky. This time, he took more than a flashing second to make sure the spell went up properly.

Clouds roiled out of the clear blue; fluffy white things at first, that multiplied into stretches of grey, and became a layer of shadows blanketing Candlepoint. Shadelings stepped out of the deeper shadows, to walk around in the half-light courtyard of the Crystal, some smiling, some wary, some with looks of awe upon their faces. Even Mephistopheles seemed to relax for a second, before returning to his solid stance, facing Ophiel. Slip smiled, openly, showing white teeth behind his dark lips. Zaraanka relaxed, and did not bother with holding herself strong any longer. She sighed out, then rubbed the side of her neck with one hand, muttering about how she needed a smoke.

Erick spoke to the crowd, “Tear down what needs tearing. Build up what needs building. Make lists of items that are needed and wanted in the city, though I know you will need to make most of it yourselves in the coming weeks. But for now, prepare the dead, how you wish to prepare. We will respect those who have passed on.” He asked, “Are there any immediate needs that I can provide?”

“The dead are dead, the living are saved, and the spiders are gone. What will come will come.” Mephistopheles said, “But we need food and water.”

“Then you will have it.” Erick turned Ophiel toward Zaraanka. “Your desires?”

“I need [Mend]s and [Cleanse]s. The summoned slimes do not get everything.” She said, “We have no healing, either. No healing, Spatial magic, or many utility spells. Most of us don’t have [Ward], either.”

“Healing will be difficult. I will work on that.” Erick said, “But [Mend] and [Cleanse] can be provided.” He had Ophiel cast a dense air behind him, toward the Crystal. A 7,000 point [Prismatic Ward] took hold across the Crystal, and in the open air exchange station at the base of the structure. Ophiel almost disintegrated; that cast took most of his form. This Ophiel was made after Erick had taken off the crown. But that was okay. Ophiel turned to light then slipped down into the protected space, under the Crystal, and began regenerating his mana, while simultaneously stretching out his lightform body to touch Zaraanka’s torn pink dress. “[Mend].”

The woman’s dress flexed out, returning to what it once was. But she, herself, was still dirty, in a subtle sort of way, with patches of mud in her hair and scuffs on her knees. She tried her best to be clean, but it was not enough in the face of this disaster.

“[Cleanse].”

Dirt flowed away on thick air.

Zaraanka smiled. “Thank you.”

Tendrils of light stretched out from Ophiel, into the shadows, touching broken things and turning them whole in gentle glitters of white light, as Erick said, “[Mend] and [Cleanse] will be provided here, whenever, for now. Just come up to the counter and get some spells cast. Later, I will enchant some wands of those spells and give them out.” He turned Ophiel’s eyes toward Slip. “Your needs?”

Slip looked away, then forced himself to look back. He said, “Uh. We’re good. We’ll keep the peace and all that. Tear down the broken and rebuild the fixable, for sure. Move the bodies… My guys’ll do that.”

“Thank you.” Erick spoke to the crowd. “I’ll release a [Mending Aura] in a minute, but before that: Who’s a farmer? Step forward. Let’s grow some lunch, or at least repair what is out there. But that’s it, for now. If you wish for nothing else, please return to your homes, and work on clean up. More information and planning will be forthcoming, and likely flow from Mephistopheles, Zaraanka, or Slip, or maybe even me. But like I said: I am a support. I am not here to rule. My hope is that you can live lives free of Ar’Kendrithyst, and all other factions out there, for now. The future is yours if you work for it.”

Several people stepped forward from the crowd, volunteers for the farming, while half the crowd began to vanish, turning away, their eyes the last thing visible as they became shadows and left the courtyard. Others, not too eager to leave yet, avoided the volunteers as they stepped around to the sides of the Crystal, holding hands on their ripped shirts, or ripped pants, or other smaller, broken items. Erick dealt with the repairs, first.

With a flex of magic, Erick extended Ophiel’s lightform across the whole Courtyard, and filled the air with a gentle, almost invisible glow. Pants knitted, returning to like-new. Tattered shirts became whole again. Broken walls became whole. Rags became actual clothes. Shoes repaired, but some shadelings only had half of their pairs. [Mending Aura] did not replace completely lost items. But still, this was good.

For a moment, Erick came back to himself, in Spur. Everything seemed surreal, for what he had just witnessed was the single greatest community building effort he had literally ever participated in. He remembered helping out after those hurricanes, or working with Spur’s Community Garden Council, or all those office politics back on Earth…

Nothing as large as what he had just done, with this many hurt people, had ever gone as well as it just went.

Part of him was worried at it all being an act. That he was being set up by some greater power. And maybe he was—

Scratch that. He was most certainly being set up by at least one god. Bulgan had straight-up said so.

But people still needed help. And what he had just witnessed was fantastic. Erick had just laid out a plan, and people followed it! Amazing! Sure, there were some questions and concerns, but that was normal. And it was a little odd that every person Justine had mentioned had survived the spiders and all the rest, but they wouldn’t have gotten to their current status as leaders of this volatile community without being able to survive as well as they had.

All in all, seeing Mephistopheles take charge, even if it was a power grab, was nice. Seeing that he already had some sort of tiff going on with Zaraanka was good, too. Erick could use that, if it was real.

Slip was odd. Erick had no idea what to make of the hiding-Shade. But. Eh! Whatever.

When you got to be a certain age, seeing things come together well, without too much trouble, was better than sex. It was practically a divine gift.

Erick smiled to himself, back in Spur, as he faced Ophiel toward the volunteers, while simultaneously tapping off smaller scale cleaning and repairing spells over the crowd. He had noticed who these farming volunteers were well before this moment, and before his bout of introspection, but it wasn’t until now that he actually took a look at them. There were seven farming volunteers. One of them was known. Redscale, of a normal height and stature. Slightly muscular from working in the fields all the time. Valok looked about as good as Erick remembered, save for his eyes, which were a swirl of cloudy grey light.

Erick tried to think of what to say. Another spoke before he could.

Mephistopheles walked closer to the Crystal, closer to Ophiel, inside of his [Primatic Ward] behind the counter. He said, “Before you get into all this farming shtick. We need some things. [Mend] and [Cleanse] wands. Rods of [Treat Wounds]. Clean water and sewers. Bulgan did not care for making anything lasting. He left messes everywhere. We need a sewermaster. A real one. Classically trained in dungeoneering. Bulgan killed ten of them, and we never got any replacements. But those are just the basic necessities.” He said, “We need something to remind us of some good times. Good food is necessary now more than ever. We need a feast, Erick.”

Zaraanka had walked up with Mephistopheles. She added, “Wine! Cheeses! Meat and bread. Dark gods I miss bread.” She suddenly added, “And I want the good oils for my men and women. We will not reopen our pink doors with low grade castoffs.”

Erick blanked for a good five seconds. “… What?” He had heard the term ‘Pink Doors’ before. It was a euphemism for a bordello. He almost shouted, “No! Gods no! What the fu— No. No prostitution. Find another line of work.”

“Bah!” Zaraanka said, “Don’t be such a prude. We have nothing the rest of civilization would want. No industry! No products! And nothing to occupy our time except for sex, drugs, and sexual drugs! We need certain things to make life in this dark hole tolerable. Oils and perfumes and—”

“Please.” Erick said, “Stop. We can revisit this discussion another time. It may be that my visceral reaction to prostitution is wrong. But I will need to talk to others to see if I am in the right, or not.”

Zaraanka said, “But Lord Flatt—”

“No.” Erick said, “Do not push me on this. You will have your say on another day.”

Mephistopheles laughed, then said, “You heard the man! No prostitution! You’re out on your ass, Zaraanka! And not in a good way.”

Erick turned his attention to Mephistopheles, saying, “And you. I need you to keep your anger contained. We are all in a new world right now. We will build small, and work our way up. It may be necessary that I allow prostitution in Candlepoint, but there will be no disharmony at this time.”

With a smile and a laugh, Mephistopheles turned to Zaraanka, and turned solemn, saying, “Apologies. The trials of the day have been many and varied.”

