The general of Spur’s Army, Killzone was a massive blacksteel wrought, in the shape of an orcol. Black hair, black clothes, black eyes and teeth, Killzone stood at the top of the short stairs into the structure, leaning against a stone pillar with his arms crossed in front of his chest. He saw Erick walking toward him and dropped his arms to his side to give a friendly wave. He smiled, and the emotion reached his eyes, looking rather sincere to Erick.

“Howdy, Erick.” Killzone stepped further into the gazebo, speaking with a pleasant tone as he said, “Come on in.”

While Poi waited on the stairs of the stone structure, Erick followed Killzone into the shadows of the gazebo.

“Hello.” Erick said, “He ate my light, Killzone. He dispelled my 90,000 point [Prismatic Ward] with a grip and a crush! How did he do that?”

Killzone turned and smirked, as he sat down at the nearest seat. “It’s not good news for you, but it’s good for us; for Spur as a whole. Bulgan has set himself up as your anathema.”

Erick sat down. “… What?”

“How much do you know about Shade magics?”

“I thought they were just archmages?”

“On a basic level, this is true.” Killzone said, “There’s a very involved process to how a person falls to the Darkness; about how they crystallize their beliefs into a source of power for themselves, and how they use this Truth to form the rad in the center of their being. That’s about all you have to know to proceed with understanding the Shades, and how we think they gain their power. What Bulgan has done, is crystallize a powerful Truth. And since you can’t become an archmage without a powerful Truth, Bulgan is therefore, by definition and practice, an archmage.

“You can’t become a Shade without a powerful Truth. Or, more accurately, you can’t become an artificial archmage without being able to survive the rad implantation processes, while holding onto whatever temperamental Truth aligned to your Self and Soul. This crystallization of Self both burns out everything that is not conducive to your Truth, as well as empowering that Truth to new heights.

“Theoretically. We’re not entirely sure. But we’re ninety percent sure.

“When it comes to Shades, some of them descend with specific goals close to their heart. Those goals become the center of their new Self. Goals that are aligned against specific, magically powerful targets, are some of the strongest goals a Shade can be born into.” Killzone finished with, “According to what we already know, Bulgan wants to kill you and Jane more than most. So, as a Shade, of course he can counter everything you do.”

As pieces fell into place and Erick realized the depth of the problem he faced, he asked, “I could never win against him, could I?”

“Ehh…” Killzone said, “You could kill him. Theoretically. But he’s an anti-archmage Shade, directly empowered by Melemizargo himself to be a latent weapon to use specifically against you.” He added, “And Jane, too, no doubt. But because you and Jane are nothing alike in your tactics, that there is a flaw in his power. Therefore, I think you could, theoretically kill him. But it would be tough.

“But there are ways around this problem. The most obvious way is to let someone else take care of it. But that likely won’t happen, because Bulgan is currently deeply in Melemizargo’s favor. That was why he was able to eat your light so well. It’s not an intrinsic part of his ability.” Killzone said, “So that’s a bit of good news.

“It was surprising for me to see him eat your light, too, but considering the outcome of the fight, and how it appears that Bulgan was in Melemizargo’s graces all along, this is not actually surprising. So the normal methods of killing Shades don't work, there. He was partially damaged when you hit him with that lightning bolt, though. But, again, he’s in Melemizargo’s favor, and lightning has long been considered a form of very strong light, so, again, can’t use lightning against him—”

“That’s bullshit!” Erick said, “Lightning is not light!”

Killzone continued undaunted, “In fact, any magic you use against Bulgan will likely get eaten by the Shade, because, again, he is empowered to fight against you. This might be how he was able to dispel your spells so easily. He did not actually dispel them at all. He ate them all.

“But that’s just an educated guess.”

“Shit.” Erick said, “It’s like that Blood Barrier, or whatever it was called. The one that the Halls of the Dead used that soaked up all magic in order to strengthen itself.”

“Yes.” Killzone said, smiling.

Erick frowned. “Why are you so happy? This is terrible!”

Killzone smiled wider. “I am happy, because you’re capable of winning against a Shade.” He added, “Maybe not against Bulgan, for he was created to counter you, but I can name seven Shades right now, that if you were to fight, you would trounce. Practically any Shade that doesn’t focus on shadow’s ability to turn light into power, would be an even fight.” He added, “As long as you knew where they were, and they couldn’t find you, that is.”

“… Who, then?”

Killzone said, “First, I must say this, and you must take it to heart: Any Shade of the Spire, you must avoid completely. But right now, as you are, you could likely kill Salvolanche, Shade of Stone. He oversees the wall of Ar’Kendrithyst. His duty is to ensure no one gets inside the city by going over the wall, but he’s a pushover in almost every respect. They made him that way. They haven’t ever put someone too strong on the wall. Then there’s Gora, Shade of the Arena. He puts people into death games in his arena, but always goes all out. He had already fallen out of favor because Porter is dead, and thus the constant flow of [Teleport]ed adventurers into his death games, has stopped, causing his sponsors in the Spire to find his current shows not as exciting as usual. If he fell out of favor completely, he could easily be killed, since he is inside his arena all the time.” He said, “Spinner would be tough, but she’s also doable. She’s the Shade of the Sky. She oversees air defense for the city, but Stardust, both the Shade of the Edge and a Shade of the Spire, has been moving against Spinner recently, trying to get the other Shades of the Spire to dismiss Spinner’s office as redundant, and to double Stardust’s authority over the skies of Ar’Kendrithyst.

“Are you seeing the pattern, here?” Killzone asked, “This pattern applies to Bulgan, too.”

Erick saw the pattern. He said, “I need to work them against each other until they drop from favor, and then I can kill them. Dropping Bulgan from Melemizargo’s favor would be more difficult.”

“I have several ideas, but the Shadow Games are always shifting underfoot and I cannot act except in very specific circumstances of which I will never name, for then I would be exposing myself.” Killzone said, “But you’ve been declared Untouchable. I heard it yesterday, but I did not believe it until today, when I heard those same words from Fallopolis and Undine.” Killzone looked down at Erick, by virtue of his stature alone, and not with his words, as he said, “Undine sent a care package to Forward Base, to give to my care to give to you. It was a clutch of leviathan eggs, meant to be hatched in a lake that she expects you to build around Candlepoint. Since you didn’t have the lake yet, I was able to talk her down to a book on raising monsters. I left that book at Candlepoint, in the Crystal. I advise you to look at the cover, and then leave it there, and not care if someone steals it. Or, perhaps, you can put it up as a prize in the city. And then give it away. Propriety matters more than outcome.

“And then Fallopolis came to Forward Base. She wishes you well in dismantling Ar’Kendrithyst from the inside.”

Erick said, “That cannot be a real sentiment.”

“I’ve been at this job for centuries, but Fallopolis has been here longer; not as long as Silverite, but near enough. It’s impossible to know Fallopolis’ true goals, since she often speaks in contradictions.” Killzone said, “But we know some of the actions she takes, and then follows through upon. Fallopolis always leads the charge against Shades who fail to be as strong as they can be. This is something she does against all other Shades. Sometimes, she will even tell people who walk into the Dead City who is weak and who is ready for pillaging. Most of the time the other Shades brush her off as a nuisance, but some of the time, the adventurers she sends out to certain locations succeed really well, and get away. Sometimes, she openly wars with a Shade who comes knocking at the Crack, wanting to fight. Neither side ever wins, but Cludolphis often has to show up— That’s the Shade of Mending. She often shows up in the aftermath of those fights, in order to repair the pillars and skyroads of the city back into place.

“But the deep and the wide of Fallopolis, is that she’s a wildcard who always plays the crazy grandma, and sometimes takes her role too far.” Killzone added, “You can usually trust her words to be true, but maybe not the full truth.”

Erick sat back, and thought for a long moment. For a brief moment, he sent his senses back to Candlepoint, back into the Ophiel flying through the streets of the rainbow, dark city, healing who they could, as they could. Nothing looked too wrong, at the moment. People were still helping others, as they could, or walking around in dazes, staring at the destruction.

Erick came back to himself, and asked, “What do you think I should do with Candlepoint?”

“Your choice.” Killzone said, “It’s yours now, according to everything I’ve heard.”

“… What does that mean, though?”

“When Bulgan called you his brother in Darkness, that was something that Shades sometimes say to each other when they cede territory away to another. Bulgan has moved on.” Killzone said, “We called him the Shade of Candlepoint, but none of the other Shades ever used that term. Now, they’re openly referring to him as the Shade of Umber Street. That’s where all the prizes were manufactured, and it’s now officially Bulgan’s territory. It’s right next to the Spire.”

A deep swell of hatred rocked through Erick’s chest. He blinked long, then said, “Okay.”

“As far as what you should do with Candlepoint? You have a choice. It’s a very large choice, and you will need to commit to it, one way or the other.” Killzone said, “But first, let me tell you about what I do in a day to day setting.”

“… Okay?”

“It’ll make sense when I’m done, and it’s necessary to know before we get into your choice, so that you can make an informed decision.”

Erick frowned a little, but then nodded, and waited.

Killzone began, “Let’s take Firstday, last week; the beginning of the month. It’s the last month of the year, so a lot of Shades are turning their attentions and preparations toward Shadow’s Feast, the last day of the year, before the Triumph of Light, and Festival...”

- - - -

Killzone woke with the sound of a disaster, as usual. This time there had been a minor explosion on the lower reaches of Forward Base, that rocked the whole tower. A proper response was needed, and Killzone was the man to give it. He had gotten a good two hours of downtime in, so he felt rather ready to tackle whatever was happening down below.

Killzone turned to shadows, then dipped down, traveling fast through the kendrithyst crystal that ran along the outside of Forward Base.

Three moments later, in the upper middle reaches of the Dead City, where the red-purple-smokey crystal was still lit from within and without by faint light from above, Killzone stood in the center of a scene of progressing carnage that abruptly stopped at his appearance. That was good. He would start with a nice, even tone of voice, maybe even slip some drawl in there to let these combatants know that they weren’t in too much immediate trouble.

Everyone here was in deep slag, but Killzone could have a measured response.

“Please! Killzone, you gotta help!” cried out one of the still living victims, clinging to a woman who was clearly dying from a gut wound.

The air was filled with a [Teleport Lock], of course, because Hollowsaur, the Shade of the Hunt, stood not thirty meters away, wearing nothing but a loincloth. His orcol flesh was on full display, like usual, for it was heavily decorated with knotty, clawed scars, ritually carved into his skin by his own clawed hands. His two beasts stood with him, but they did not actually stand on the skyroads with the Shade; they clung to the sides of the kendrithyst towers. Killzone had to look up to take in their full forms.

One, was a monster that was almost a spider, but its head was made of many shadowolf skulls, while its body and ten grasping arms were made of all the other bones. The other monster, on the other side of the road, clung to the purple kendrithyst tower like a pile of red meat in the shape of an ooze, but with more tentacles.

Hollowsaur stood tall, a spear in his hand, while his beasts began to circle the area. They had been diving straight for the man and the woman at Killzone’s feet, but at the General’s appearance, the beasts returned to pack hunter tactics. Hollowsaur was there to bait out a response, while the others waited for an opportunity to strike.

Killzone made a show of eyeing the beasts, as they vanished around the opposite sides of kendrithyst towers, but in truth, he could see with every part of his body; he was a wrought, after all. Some of the Shades did not fall for his obvious posturing, but Hollowsaur was not one of them.

