Zaraanka went stiff. She said, “I must apologize, too.” She added, “But enough of that, for now. There is one last topic that must be broached, before the day is done. What currency are we using?”

“Rads,” Erick said, having already thought about Candlepoint’s currency long before today. His dump of a million darkchips on that building over there, of which many were stolen while Erick wasn’t watching, cemented his decision. “Darkchips are a nonsensical currency. I don’t know how money will work out in Candlepoint, especially when people need to eat those rads to survive, but if some people want to start hunting mimics, they can. I suggest most people remain inside the city, though. I can gather more rads without you all risking your lives outside the city walls. The rest of the world is still watching you.”

Zaraanka smiled, gently. “Thank you, Lord Flatt. Thank you for allowing us to hunt, again. We won’t take risks, but being able to feed ourselves is a great boon.” She added, “If you must outlaw the First Profession, then we can do well becoming farmers of rads. I haven’t killed a monster of my own volition in decades!” She laughed. “Oh! This is good. I like this.”

“… Okay. Good luck. Don’t get hurt. And if I must have a title, then it won’t be ‘Lord’,” Erick said. “And that’s enough minutia for today. I need this city repaired by tonight. People need homes to sleep in, and to barricade if necessary. I don’t know what else is coming, but I doubt it will be good.”

Zaraanka bowed deeply, then departed into the shadows like a vanishing spectre. Slip slipped away next.

Mephistopheles said, “Back to work! Thanks for taking the time, King… Master— No.” He teased, “Savior?”

“No,” Erick said.

Mephistopheles smirked, saying, “Thank you.”

Ophiel nodded behind the counter, under the Crystal. Mephistopheles vanished into shadows, headed back to wherever he was needed. Hopefully, Candlepoint would be okay with those three in charge.

Erick turned back to his volunteer farmers. “We’re making a feast tonight, while everyone works on cleaning up. So help me help you. What do you need?”

Valok looked to his fellow farmers, as they shared looks among each other. Then he stepped forward, when no one else would. Some of his people looked at him strangely, but Valok only had eyes to see Ophiel. He said, “The Farm’s a mess, but we can repair it. We can [Grow] the rice, the beans, the potatoes, the corn. Lettuce, tomatoes. All of that. But we’re gonna need meat brought in by you. We don’t have any chickens, or cows, or pigs. When Bulgan forbid us from fighting, that included butchering meat.”

“I can get the meat, the cheese, the wine, and the beer.” Erick said, “You fix up your Farms. You did well before. I know you can do well again.”

Valok’s posture hitched for a moment. The moment passed. He said, “Aye, sir.”

“You can call me Erick, Valok.” Erick said, “I’m sorry it took me so long to understand that you’re not a trap.”

Tears ran down Valok’s stoic face. He stood tall, and spoke with an even voice, “I don’t want my daughter to see me like this. I’m going to change back, as soon as I’m more stable.” He looked to his people. “A lot of us are. Gonna change back, I mean.”

An orcol man said, “Doubt they’ll let us back into Spur, though.” He added, “Good to see you again, sort of, Archmage Flatt. Ophiel. I’d like to take up the meat raising again, if you’ll get me cows and such.”

Recognition dawned, like a new day. Erick said, “Oh my gods— Mister Ooragh! I didn’t recognize you. You’re… younger?”

Daetroi Ooragh, the father of Apogough Ooragh, and the cattle rancher of Spur, before the Farms were destroyed by the Red Dot, stood in front of Ophiel, looking twenty years younger, and with cloudy grey eyes. The original man had a huge gut, but looking like this, he could have been Apogough’s older brother.

Daetroi laughed. “The Shades like their toys younger than they are. It’s about the only good thing that’s happened to me. Everything else has been rather shit, to tell the truth.”

Erick started, “Apogough—”

“Don’t tell me about him, please.” Daetroi said, “It’s difficult. I’m not near as stable as Valok, yet. He’s about the only one of us able to get close to that part of himself.”

A small murmur of assents passed through the gathered farmers. Erick looked to them, closer.

They were all people from the Farms of Spur.

‘Oh holy shit,’ Erick thought.

Valok noticed Erick’s attention. He spoke up before Erick could, saying, “Let’s not dig too deep in the pain. Let’s work on getting food in bellies.”

Erick smiled to himself, back in Spur. If he were speaking in person, his voice would have cracked, but he spoke through Ophiel, saying, “Fair enough.” He gestured with a feathered wing, toward the north, saying, “Meet you there?”

Valok nodded. Then he vanished into shadows, followed quickly by the rest of his farmers.

Erick set the Ophiel at the Crystal to mind the Crystal and the people in the surrounding courtyard, [Mend]ing and [Cleanse]ing whoever came forward with broken objects or their dirty selves. Some of them ended up with taps from the rod of [Treat Wounds], too.

When that was set, Erick transferred to an Ophiel already floating near the Farms of Candlepoint.

He looked up at the giant sign that hung in front of the dark, loamy dirt, calling this place what the Farms of Spur had once been called. He thought it somewhat funny that Bulgan had put this sign up to taunt him, but looking at it now, and watching as Valok, Daetroi, and others shadowed in next to Ophiel…

It was quite nice to see the Farms resurrected, too.

… Erick almost asked about Krakina, but—

Valok said, “Erick. There’s something else.”

In Spur, Erick breathed deep, holding in his emotions. Then he plunged back into Ophiel. “Yes?”

Valok held out a hand. In it were three seeds. They were slightly oblong, and pointed at one end. He said, “I didn’t know why I rescued them... I’m pretty sure you made a magic citrus tree.”

Erick laughed. “You saved the seeds?!” He said, “Awesome! Let’s plant ‘em!”
