Nailren’s team. The Pride of Kelia had joined with her team for the dungeon explorations. The two Silver-rank teams couldn’t advance as fast as, say, the Wings of Pallass, or the Flamewardens. The other Gold-ranks teams were securing much more of the dungeon day by day.
And fortunes were being made down here. Bounties for monster parts—even some treasure was being found. At last.
At last, the risk was paying off. And Earlia saw—from the glow of the mining lantern at her side—something that made her heart pound wildly.
An adventurer’s dream. The dead Raskghar team that had run into the two adventuring parties had been hard to put down. One of Earlia’s companions spat.
“Dead gods. They stink! This one—eurgh! It’s all ragged. Fur’s falling out! Are they sick? Keep back from the bodies! Shield your faces! I heard someone in the Lifwail Blades got ill after a fight with them.”
The other adventurers nodded. The Raskghar, one of the threats of the dungeon hadn’t been completely wiped out after the battle with them. But they’d been forced back. At first, the adventurers had suffered counterattacks on full moons.
However, the Raskghar patrols had become far weaker. And these ones—
One of the Raskghar had a festering wound it hadn’t taken during the fighting. Earlia felt her nose and stomach protesting as she got closer.
“Hey, Captain! I said—”
“I heard you, Timgal. Shut it. I think…I think I just found some treasure.”
The rest of Gemhammer looked up sharply as Earlia bent. On the Raskghar’s finger, amid the fur was a glint of metal.
A band of gold, and something shining blue. Earlia recognized it.
“Damn me. That’s high-quality sapphire right there.”
Someone had expertly inlaid it with the gold. Earlia’s heart pounded as she reached down.
“Knife.”
Instantly, Blaik produced one. He put it into her hand and she sawed at the finger. Grisly. But the finger came off.
So did the ring. Earlia was almost sure it wasn’t cursed. Her team stared.
“Is it enchanted, Captain?”
“I think so. Remember how this one came at us? It had something on its fur. Like armor made of water. This might—be an armor enchantment. We’ll have to get it tested, but—search the other bodies!”
A magic ring. The others instantly investigated the corpses. Carefully—holding cloths over their noses and avoiding touching the sores or other marks of infection. Earlia was going to wash herself three times when she got out of the dungeon and make her team do the same. She pulled at the ring.
There was another exclamation.
“This Raskghar has a bunch of gemstones in the bag! Captain!”
“What!?”
A woman turned. Fea waved the bag at the others.
“All of em cut! It looks like they pulled them off the walls. See? It’s got a bit of masonry here. And—dead gods! They’re high-quality!”
“Nailren! We’ve found treasure!”
Earlia shouted eagerly. The Gnoll team covering their backs while the dead were searched turned. Nailren called out.
“Really? What?”
“Magical ring! Bag of gemstones—”
“And a knife! Looks enchanted!”
Shrapnel found a knife in one of the Raskghar’s hands. Earlia whistled. If they hadn’t been so uncharacteristically weak, they might have done a lot of damage.
“That settles it. We’re getting out of here! We’re making for the entrance! Nailren, we’ve hit the jackpot!”
A quiet cheer went up from both teams. Earlia was grinning—until she heard one of her teammates cough. She whirled—and saw Blaik grinning.
“Just a prank, Captain.”
“Stow that shit! Or we’ll leave you behind! We’re going to scrub ourselves clean with soap and get checked at the [Healer]!”
The rest of Gemhammer punched the former [Miner], enraged by the prank. Blaik threw up his hands.
“It’s just a joke!”
“Quiet! We’re not behind the barricades yet.”
Nailren had to order Earlia’s team to be quiet. But his Gnolls were excited too. Earlia shushed her team as he took point, leading them back the way they’d come. This was amazing. Her heart was pounding. It was actually the gemstones that were worth the most at the moment. The ring might be valuable, and so might the knife, but they were two objects and Earlia’s entire team—and Nailren’s—had a claim to the treasure.
But those gems were fat and high-quality! They’d more than justify a week of adventuring. And—
The two teams were nearly back at the barricades. And perhaps they’d let their guards down. That was when most adventurers died. It wasn’t the first ambush that got you.
It was always the one you weren’t prepared for. They were turning a corner and walking down a tunnel that had been cleared; the two traps were clearly marked. That was when Nailren held up a paw.
“Oh no.”
He whispered. The other Silver-rank adventurers froze. They stared ahead. Earlia, grabbing at her warhammer, saw nothing at first. Until—she saw the little head peeking around the corner.
A Goblin’s head. It was staring, wide-eyed—far away. Unblinking. Earlia felt her mouth dry up at once.
If you didn’t know, you’d think it was just a Goblin. Until you realized the head was unnaturally placed. Low to the ground, peeking out, shaking a bit.
The Goblin’s eyes never blinked. Because the head was dead. It was on a stick. And what was holding it was—
“Oh no. No, no. Not now. Dead gods.”
One of the Gnolls in Kelia’s Pride began to moan. Nailren aimed his bow.
“Facestealer.”
The adventurers whispered. A name that had circulated through their ranks. And Earlia felt something walking on her grave.
A guardian of this dungeon. It had only ever appeared twice. Both times—the team had been found headless. Once, a Silver-rank team. The second, a Gold-rank duo.
“No, no, no, no—”
“Quiet! Spread out! Retreat along the corridor we just came down! Send an emergency [Message] spell at once! To all Gold-rank teams!”
Nailren ordered. Both Silver-rank teams ran back down the corridor. Nailren loosed an arrow and then turned and ran.
The corridor they’d come down was long, and wide. A perfect place not to be trapped in. The teams spread out as far as they could.
“It paralyzes everything in range. That’s what the notes say. We just have to buy time. Help is on the way.”
Earlia gritted her teeth. Her team looked at her. No one believed her.
“Eyes forwards and back! Loose an arrow—slow it down!”
Nailren was shouting, ignoring the rule for silence. Other monsters might be a blessing at a time like this. The other adventurers peered around.
“I see it! I see it!”
Earlia whirled as someone shouted. She saw a head disappear around a corner as a Gnoll [Archer] loosed.
Then—two heads popped back. One was a Raskghar’s face. The other—Earlia recoiled.
Human. The face stared at her.
“Is that—Tessa?”
Shrapnel whispered. The other adventurers stared at the Gold-rank adventurer’s face. Someone began to moan.
“Fea! Shut up!”
Earlia ordered her friend, but Fea’s fear was contagious. The heads bobbed. Then a third face joined it. The Goblin’s.
They wiggled, moving up and down. And then—something leaned around the corner.
Facestealer had no face himself. No head or neck. The huge, lumpen figure had two indentations in its chest. Nothing above it. It held the heads on crude sticks as it peeked at them.
“Tribes save us.”
Nailren whispered. He aimed his bow, loosed an arrow. Facestealer disappeared before the arrow could strike it.
“It’s fast.”
“Don’t retreat! Spread out. Buy time. Send another [Message]!”
Was anyone coming? Had they—left them for dead? Earlia’s hands shook as she lifted her warhammer. She remembered the ring and fumbled for it. Maybe it would help? Better to be cursed than die.
“It’s coming.”
The heads were wobbling as they appeared around the corner. Moving faster and faster. Jiggling obscenely. Earlia could sense Facestealer building momentum. Faster and faster they moved. Then they vanished.
“I don’t want…”
Earlia found the ring in her cold fingers. She stared ahead as a shape blurred around the corner. It was too fast. Too big—
 
—-
 
The woman opened her eyes. She was lying on the ground. She didn’t understand at first. But then she realized.
She was lying on her side. Her team lay around her. Scattered though they were around the corridor, it hadn’t mattered. Earlia saw Nailren, staring, eyes wide, next to her.
Both teams had been paralyzed. And behind Nailren—Facestealer. It had stopped after catching them with its magical effect.
It was standing over them. Huge, powerful arms. Clawed…fingers? No head. Just a rounded hump on top of its body. The two gaping pits in its chest.
And a bag. Stained with blood and grime. It was looking at them. At their heads.
No. No! Not when they were so close! Not now.
Someone was sobbing. Crying like a child. Earlia realized it was her. And more voices joined hers. Fea was crying too. Someone was pleading for their lives. Facestealer walked among the adventurers. Bending, looking.
Choosing which one to pick. It was bending for Nailren as the Gnoll snarled. Then Facestealer paused. It turned. And Earlia felt something running through the floor.
Thwoom.
The explosion ran through the dungeon. An impact so loud it drowned out her racing heart. Facestealer hesitated. And the guardian of Liscor’s dungeon felt it.
Deep within the dungeon, a figure made of metal held eternal court. Suits of enchanted armor, ancient guardians, moved in the darkness. Leading patrols, repairing their broken comrades.
The Armored General led them. And it too felt the tremor. Slowly, it turned its head. Cobwebs and dust moved as it changed its posture. The enchanted armor turned. Slowly, they began to march in the direction of the attack.
So did Facestealer. It abandoned the adventurers. Something was blaring a silent alarm only it and the other protectors of this place could hear.
Invasion. Not one adventurer, or even a few. And on a scale that had only occurred once, nearly eight years ago. The dungeon woke up. Monsters streamed towards the enemy, ordered to battle.
They died. The shadows themselves hacked them apart. Rows of armored foes crushed them. And flying, winged figures leapt through the tunnels. And the Antinium flooded over Flesh Worms, tore apart the enchanted patrols of armor.
Thousands of them. It was a full-scale attack! The dungeon threw wave after wave at the Antinium. It had crushed them before! And even the thousand-strong attack waves only killed monsters. The Antinium would die. They would—
…They weren’t stopping. Nor were the traps or monsters holding them back. Something was wrong. Silent Antinium were moving ahead, finding the concealed traps both magical and mundane! And the Armored Antinium were fighting equally, no, better than the enchanted suits of armor. The flying Antinium were too fast, flanking and overwhelming their opponents.
And Painted Antinium were marching with the regular Soldiers and Workers. As a group of exploding caterpillars swarmed down a tunnel, a [Priest] raised his censer. And a wall of light blocked the monsters as they detonated.
“Advance! Injured Soldiers, fall back!”
Yellow Splatters ripped off the head off a Face-Eater moth. Anand was rotating Antinium out, predicting attacks and saving lives as Antinium retreated in the face of ambushes and attacks. Ahead of them, Tersk was leading a squad of Armored Antinium with shields.
They calmly advanced through a party of undead skeleton archers raining arrows on them. The Antinium were covered in steel from head to toe; when they reached the skeletons and ghouls they demolished their opponents without so much as a scratch. The Flesh Worm snatched at them, but it couldn’t tear their chitin off with the armor in the way. And the Armored Antinium had blades.
“Spit acid! Wear them down!”
Pivr chittered as his group swarmed forwards. Some of the Flying Antinium were spitting venom or acidic liquids. The globules burst among a group of Face-Eater Moths filling a tunnel. And the Silent Antinium had beheaded a group of Raskghar without the powerful not-Gnolls even so much as striking a blow.
Tactics. Utility. Yellow Splatters saw how each Antinium group filled the weaknesses of the others. And the Painted Antinium—Pawn was healing one of the wounded Soldiers who had a chunk missing from his armor. And Yellow Splatters himself ran at a suit of enchanted armor and knocked it flying.
However, even this wouldn’t have been enough. The dungeon was coming alive. And a wave of Shield Spiders barreled down one tunnel. So many that they would have smashed even the Antinium. But today, the Antinium weren’t alone.
“[Motionless Vortex]. Klbkchhezeim. Will you take care of them?”
“It would be my pleasure.”
The Shield Spiders hit something in the air. Something that stopped their momentum, even the giant Shield Spider pushing the rest. And the Shield Spiders saw a figure, standing in the tunnel.
Alone. Slimmer than the rest. And he had two silvery swords. Klbkch spoke.
“[Recaptured Sublimity].”
He disappeared. The first ranks of Shield Spiders did too. Klbkch’s swords flashed in an arc. Silver afterimages. He began cutting the Shield Spiders apart. The floor began to run with yellow ichor. And the Shield Spiders realized the flaw in their wave-tactics.
They couldn’t run.
“How beautiful. He has something of his past power.”
Xrn watched as Klbkch advanced and the Shield Spiders began to scream. She turned her head as a [Tactician] spoke timidly.
“Centenium Xrn—we have secured eight tunnels so far. Your orders?”
“Begin your fortifications, Belgrade. Set up your traps at the choke points, as we discussed. I will continue leading the advance.”
The Small Queen raised her staff. Lights bloomed along the tunnels, dazzling her enemies. But her allies just saw the gentle light, illuminating the darkness.
She had ordered the attack into the dungeon. The Small Queen walked forwards as another Antinium found her.
“Centenium—”
“You may call me ‘Aunt’, Anand.”
The azure Antinium corrected the [Tactician] mildly. Anand hesitated.
“There is a push from the west. Facestealer and hundreds of the enchanted armor. They are filling two tunnels. Should we fall back?”
“Why? Belgrade must set up his traps. After all—I intend to set up our fortifications in the dungeon. Far better to fight on enemy grounds. And the tunnels are impossible to breach. All we must do is push them back.”
The [Tactician] knew this made sense. But Anand opened and closed his mandibles.
“Yet the dungeon’s opposition is powerful—”
“And? Stay here with Klbkchhezeim. I will deal with this Facestealer. And the armor.”
“Alone?”
The Small Queen walked past ranks of Antinium. She smiled. And her eyes lit up. Rosy red and blooming silver.
