A harbinger of change. And more. Because Erin Solstice slowly dug in her pocket and pulled something out. Something she’d been meaning to ask about. And here was an expert. The expert.
“Say—this is the real reason I dropped by. Can you tell me what…this is? Someone gave it to me and I don’t know what it is.”
She handed Pelt a coin. Made of…a gleaming white-silver metal. Mithril, she’d been told, by another Dwarf. Erin relayed that to Pelt, but not the strange dream of a night when she had been given it. The Dwarf snorted as he put down the finished horn for the euphonium—it only needed some polishing to remove the scaling, but it was nearly perfectly shaped!
“Do you just ask every Dwarf you meet about metal, girl? Well—I suppose we know more than most. What…is this?”
Slowly, he turned over the coin in his hands. It was far larger than the coins of today. The size of her palm. And so delicately inscribed…but faded. Erin had always puzzled over it, wondering what the faded lettering and sigils on the coin were.
It was just something in the back of her head. An idle curiosity, and she had many. Like bikes. But Pelt held it now.
“I don’t know. I was hoping you knew. Dawil thought it was some old coin. Maybe a medallion or something fancy from another age?”
Pelt snorted.
“That idiot [Axe Champion]? He’s no [Smith]. But—this is monetary. I’d bet my hammer on it. You can tell the intent. Big—might have been worth a lot.”
“Might have been? You don’t know either?”
Erin was vaguely disappointed. Pelt flipped the coin over and eyed it.
“What am I, a [Historian]? You should have asked one of them. No. I have no idea what it is. Only—that it’s very old. So old that I doubt Humans lived on Izril in any numbers when it was made. No—older still.”
Erin held her breath.
“How old? Can you guess?”
The [Smith] cast her an annoyed glance.
“It’s a guess! Mithril doesn’t age like other metals. And as I said…the oldest of us might have identified it, but not me. Sorry, if you think it’s worth a fortune. Still…”
His brow furrowed. And the Dwarf slowly turned the coin over and over in his hands. And his face grew troubled. His voice dropped, and he spoke half to himself.
“Odd. Mithril shouldn’t wear like that.”
Erin frowned. And she felt a slight tingle on her arms. Because the more he looked at it, the more confused Pelt seemed to get. And—slightly unnerved, he put the coin down.
“I don’t know. I don’t know who made it. Who…gave you this?”
He looked at Erin. And she stared at him and realized. He had seen it before. Something had flashed across his face.
Distant recollection. A passing memory. But no more. Still—
She kept her voice neutral.
“A traveller. He wasn’t sure what it was worth. Why?”
“No reason. Hm.”
The Dwarf stared at the coin. He glanced up at Erin and casually turned as Emessa presented something that would become a valve for the euphonium.
“Leave it with me. I’ll work on it.”
“Work on it?”
Erin started. She stared at the Dwarf’s back as he got to work. He nodded, barely glancing at the mithril.
“It’s pure mithril, girl. Could be worth a lot. And I may not know what it was—but I can restore it. Whatever design and lettering it was—I’ll reveal it. Might lose a tiny bit of metal, but I doubt it. Come back in a few days and I’ll give it to you.”
“Really? Thanks!”
The young woman smiled. The Dwarf nodded absently.
“Are you done? Then get lost.”
“Yeah, yeah.”
The Human grinned at him as she took her basket. The Dwarf glanced up at her.
“So—this Liscor. If your inn’s nearby, that’s free alcohol, right? And what else do they have that’s worth it?”
“Cheap. And uh—well, Esthelm mines stuff. It’s connected to my inn. But it’s mostly just private, y’know?”
“Hmm. Interesting.”
The Dwarf turned away. Erin Solstice lingered a moment longer. And then she left. After all, this was just a small visit. An ordinary day. Not much happened on ordinary days.
 
—-
 
After a while, Numbtongue finished eating. He felt…bloated. Too much rich food. And Erin’s Supreme Meat…Meat Supreme Sub…hadn’t helped.
He was gaining weight. Which, for a Goblin, was a sign of status. Safety.
And still, the [Goblin Soulbard] was discontent. Not in general, or out of some longing to find more of his kind. He had decided to stay.
No, if anything, it was a bit of—jealousy. The Hobgoblin wandered out of the common room and into a hallway. There, he walked past Erin’s weights room, her rec room (now being filled with some kind of odd table she insisted would become a ‘pool’), and down the corridor.
There was a door at the end. It had not existed, oh, a day ago. But Antinium did good work. Numbtongue appreciated the door. The door had done nothing wrong to him. Doors were excellent, in fact. Cover, improvised weapons, magical portals—
A sign hung over the door.
Octavia’s Stitchworks. Numbtongue slowly opened the door. He looked inside. And sighed.
The [Alchemist] was out. But her shop was nearly complete. At least—it was a room and he, Numbtongue, had helped the Stitch-Girl move her equipment inside. Again, just the other day. Octavia still needed a few more shelves and places for her weird equipment.
But it looked like a store. Her new shop, just as promised. And Numbtongue expected the place would be full of smells and strange sights. Mrsha was banned from entering, incidentally.
And yet—Octavia was not. And the [Alchemist] usually lived in her shop. But she was gone. She was now an apprentice to Saliss of Lights. Saliss the Naked. Saliss—
Who wasn’t bad for a Named Adventurer. But still. Numbtongue idly sat on a counter. Octavia was a friend. More so than Drassi, who would talk with Numbtongue and not stare or be nervous.
Octavia was in the ranks of Erin, Lyonette, Yellow Splatters, Bird, and Mrsha. A group the Goblin could trust. And that she was gone was just annoying. Because Numbtongue found it was easiest to hang around her.
Lyonette was always bossy. Erin? Lovely, talkative, friendly—but she would ask to play chess. Numbtongue was sick of chess. And Yellow Splatters had his Hive. And Bird started going insane without a bird every few hours.
“Hm. Stupid Pallass.”
Numbtongue sat on the counter. He idly wondered what he’d do today. Pyrite, in his head, opined for mining rocks. The [Magestone Chieftain] could and had mined in the mountains for days at a time.
But the [Bard] was a more social creature than Pyrite. He sighed. If he had to do it, he had to do it. Pyrite had found a vein of rubies or something. He kept finding them. The High Passes were lousy with the stuff.
And just as Numbtongue was rising, he saw something. A little basket, on the counter. The Goblin paused. He saw a note. And it was addressed to him, on Octavia’s neat scrawl. The only neat thing about her, really.
Hi Numbtongue, sorry I’ve been so busy. But I’m actually leveling and learning so much from Master Saliss! Ten times more than I did in a year in Celum. So, these are for you. They’re all made by yours truly, with ingredients your stones paid for. Let me know how they work! I can make more!
–Octavia
And included in the basket were six vials. Numbtongue picked them out and sniffed at them. They were all stoppered with corks, and neatly labeled. He read from one label. Then another. And he began to grin.
Barkskin potion. Quickened Body potion. Vanish potion (14 seconds). Bat’s Ear potion (No loud sounds!). Potion of Jumping. Blast Vial (Do NOT drop).
Potions. Each one a lesser effect. Of the lot, Barkskin and the Vanish potion were the most powerful. Not very powerful. And that was because Octavia had made them. They even had times of how long each effect lasted.
And yet—it was a treasure trove to a Goblin, especially a Redfang Warrior. Numbtongue was grinning like a child as he put them on his belt for easy use. Because his dreams had come true.
Not even Silver-ranks could afford this kind of equipment. Some, the best-geared, could. And it was always nice when you looted their corpses and found potions like these. But this right here was an adventurer’s spread.
Octavia had fulfilled her promise. The Hobgoblin patted the blast vial, which had reinforced glass. You could do so much with these potions. A Vanish potion alone was worth everything to a Goblin. A single use of that and a Level 5 [Skulker] could, at the right moment, drop a [Mage] in the middle of casting. And Blast Vials?
Relatively weak if thrown—except if you made a Level 30 [Warrior] swallow one. In a sense, Numbtongue and his tribe were the most efficient potion-users in the world. You had to be, when your species couldn’t manufacture these things.
The Goblin happily reminisced for a moment. But then he was bored again. Now-equipped, he supposed it was time to go into the mountains. He would have liked to take Octavia. But maybe Bird…?
The Hobgoblin walked back into the common room. And there—his adventure in the mountains died, like Erin’s dreams of brewing alcohol. Because, lying on the ground, arms and legs splayed out, on her back, was a white Gnoll.
She stared up at the ceiling as Numbtongue paused. Lyonette tsked as she tried to nudge Mrsha.
“Mrsha! Stop lying there! You’re going to be stepped on! I know you’re bored, sweetie. Why don’t you play in the garden?”
The Gnoll turned her head. Garden? But what about people to play with? She stared up at the ceiling.
No Relc today. No Ekirra or Visma; they were too busy helping their parents. No Selys. Mrsha stared up at the ceiling, willing something exciting to happen.
A green face appeared in her line of vision. Numbtongue leaned over Mrsha thoughtfully. The Gnoll stared up at him.
Her tail began to wag. The Hobgoblin looked thoughtfully at the bored Gnoll. Then he reached down.
“Hmm?”
She stood up and grabbed his hand. And thus, Mrsha the Great and Powerful, found the Great Goblin Bard, Numbtongue had come to rescue her from her prison of boredom!
“Oh—Numbtongue. Will you take care of Mrsha? That would help out so much!”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin grinned at Mrsha. She grinned back and happily pointed. They ran into the garden, playing tag. Mrsha raced around, and saw Numbtongue sprinting after her. She raced off, delightfully terrified. And the Goblin dove after her. He didn’t play games when he played games.
The two crashed through the jungle section. Mrsha dodged and Numbtongue slammed into a tree, full-force as she swerved just in time. The Goblin cursed and something fluttered down from the tree.
Apista, stinger ready to attack, saw the big green thing just in time and aborted her vengeful dive. Numbtongue ducked as she zoomed past his head. And Mrsha, coming back to check on him, saw the bee flying.
Upside-down. She zoomed around lazily; she’d been taking a nap in the tree. And Mrsha saw/smelled the odor in the air.
One of Palt’s cigars. She folded her arms disapprovingly as Numbtongue sniffed the air as well. Apista was weird. Again!
The bee had a problem. She’d sip from the faerie flower’s nectar, or steal a Palt-cigar. Or just steal alcohol from a mug after chasing away the owner. Lyonette told Mrsha it was probably Apista being…Apista.
But Mrsha wasn’t so certain. She was a [Druid], but she’d also been a [Beast Tamer]. For a level or two! And she followed Apista as the bee flew around lazily. Numbtongue climbed up into the tree and retrieved the cigar. He began to puff on it—to make sure Apista wouldn’t get high again. He was very helpful like that.
Apista let Mrsha scoop her up. Her antennae were moving around lazily. And her thoughts were—muddled. Mrsha peered down at her.
Something was wrong. Mrsha had felt it before. Beneath Apista’s hazy thoughts, the young [Druid] sensed—something. Apista could not speak. But then, neither could Mrsha. And her class was giving her another sense. And because Mrsha could not speak, she listened more.
Apista was unhappy. That was why she was always going away in her mind. The realization made Mrsha’s eyes widen. Something was wrong. She lifted the bee up, put her on top of her head to better commune with nature.
Numbtongue, puffing away on the remains of the cigar, watched Mrsha communing. She stood on one leg and raised her paws to the sky. It looked entertaining, so he copied her. Apista tried to do the same.
Mrsha scowled at the mockery. But then—she felt the flash again. Something…she concentrated, going serious for once.
This wasn’t like the magic book which Mrsha hated so much. This was her class. This was Apista, her friend. And—slowly, she began to feel something.
Sadness. Pain. Worry. A bee’s thoughts, so distant. Alien in her way.
Mrsha asked. Why? A picture appeared in her head.
A cave. Sealed with stone. Darkness. Lack of good air. Hunger. Hunger in the darkness and the knaves from below. Danger. 
Danger.
Mrsha’s eyes opened wide. She knew what Apista was trying to tell her.
The cave. And Apista could do nothing. That was why she was upset!
The bee fluttered up. Mrsha watched Apista attacking Numbtongue for his cigar. She needed her fix. He fended her off, cursing as she threatened to attack him with her enhanced stinger. But Mrsha waved her paws for the Goblin’s attention.
“Bad thing! Bad thing! Must help!”
She signed with her paws. Instantly, the Goblin stopped avoiding the bee. He handed the cigar off and squatted down.
Erin and Lyonette weren’t good at Mrsha-language. But Numbtongue and Bird were.
“What bad thing? Monsters?”
“No. Apista sad. Bad cave. Go. Fix!”
Mrsha pointed urgently at the bee. Numbtongue frowned.
“Bad cave? Oh. Bees. Sealed inside. Dying?”
She nodded urgently. And something else. Numbtongue hesitated. He glanced at Apista.
“Bees are dangerous.”
And yet—both looked at Apista. She had lit the cigar, turning her body to flame for a moment. And the bee sadly smoked as she carried the cigar butt through the air. Look at her. And Mrsha looked up pleadingly at Numbtongue.
The Hobgoblin thought. Then he looked around. He made a quick calculation, and then nodded surreptitiously.
“Make the Garden door go to my room?”
Mrsha raced over to the door. She was best at using it besides Erin. The doorway’s entrance appeared in Numbtongue’s room. He walked into it. Came out with a pickaxe, and shovel. Mrsha watched, anxiously.
Numbtongue nodded to himself. He began to walk towards the door and stairs—and then he looked back. He saw Mrsha anxiously holding the smoking bee in her paws.
And this was where the Hobgoblin differed from Erin and Lyonette. He walked back over to his window instead. Opened it. He climbed out onto the roof. And then he waved at Mrsha.
“Coming?”
