“I am never alone. And there is one thing you do not understand, Anand. Klbkchhezeim has lost his levels and his form. We Centenium were never of the highest level to begin with, though.”
“Why?”
Anand saw Xrn turn. And her staff began to glow. The Centenium replied as she walked down the hallway.
“Because our bodies were made too well. Our foes were too easy. I was made for magic. Do you think the Centenium were just a word? Watch.”
She came to a corridor that split into two. And there, coming down the hallways was a line of metal. Hundreds of suits of armor, animated to defend this place. Overrunning the Antinium falling back.
And Facestealer. Plucking the heads off a squad of Painted Antinium and regular Soldiers who lay helpless.
Xrn’s eyes flashed. Facestealer looked up.
“So. You are this Facestealer who has killed so many of my people. And you are the defenders of this place. Come. You pathetic things.”
The guardian of the dungeon straightened. It walked at Xrn. The suits of armor began to charge. The Centenium held her ground. She pointed at the hallway filled by the army of magical constructs and spoke a spell. Then she turned and looked at Facestealer.
“[The Bindings of Belavierr].”
Glowing lines of light burst from the ground and walls, the ceiling. Black thread. They engulfed Facestealer, wrapping around his arms, legs, torso—
The monster halted. Xrn studied it, disappointed.
“Is that all you can do? Show me.”
Pawn, sprinting forwards to reinforce Xrn, with the Painted Antinium, including Chesacre, Thaina, and Purple Smile, suddenly fell flat on his face. He realized something was immobilizing him.
“No—Facestealer! [Heal Minor Wounds]!”
The [Priest] desperately tried to rise. None of the other Antinium were moving. He sensed something moving in the darkness.
Undead, coming down another corridor. The [Priest] whispered. A prayer. It came from the other Antinium, silent though they might be.
“Please.”
The binding on him—faded. It was a magical thing. But Pawn felt a different power enveloping him, forcing the effect back.
He rose.
The Ghouls descending on the helpless Antinium saw the [Priest] holding his censer up. And there was light.
“[Holy Radiance].”
The undead saw the light blooming. And as it struck them—they screamed. Retreated, fled, as their flesh began to vaporize. Burst into flame. They ran. Pawn shakily looked around.
The Antinium were still frozen. But—the paralysis was waning? He saw Chesacre moving her two good arms. Pawn looked around.
“Stay there! I’ll find Facestealer! Stop it from advancing!”
He ran. Purple Smiles, lying on his front, observed in his head that Pawn’s instructions to them really weren’t necessary. Pawn ran to the next corridor. He saw a familiar person standing there.
Xrn. She was regarding a figure, struggling amid black bindings. Facestealer tore one arm free, ripping loose half a dozen of the black lengths of thread ensnaring his arm. But more wrapped around him.
“Is that really all? [Paralysis]? How weak. How insignificant.”
The Small Queen raised her staff. Pawn saw a flash. The radiance and explosion was followed by a kick of force that blasted behind Xrn with a rush of air. The [Priest] went skidding down the corridor.
“[The Light of Shali’vere]. My spells have no form. I create magic.”
The Small Queen was aiming her staff at Facestealer. It was writhing—the explosion of light had blasted off its first layer of…hide. Pawn saw yellowed bone beneath. Blood. He stared.
Facestealer tore more bindings away, desperate, enraged. Xrn saw it making its way at her, snapping the bindings. She tsked.
“Mindless. Klbkchhezeim’s body would make fighting you a challenge. But Wrymvr would enjoy the brawl. I would not. [Lesser Teleport]. [Acid Wave].”
The monster blinked out of existence. Pawn saw Facestealer appear fifty paces back down the corridor. The bindings raced at it again. And green acid surged down the hallway.
It steamed where it came into contact with the guardian. Xrn waved her staff and the magical acid, rather than obeying the laws of gravity, surged around the monster. Enveloping it.
“You are difficult to kill, aren’t you? [Ailendamus’ Lancearrows].”
Long, magical arrows appeared in the air and blasted down the corridors. Copies of power. They struck Facestealer. The guardian rocked. Its bones refused to crack, but it stumbled.
And it tore at the acid surrounding it. Tore at the bindings. Flailing. Xrn blasted it with another spell. And she was smiling. Pawn saw the lights in her eyes shining.
But what about the armor? An entire army of—the [Priest] whirled. And he saw, as his squad rejoined him, what had happened to the corridor full of enchanted suits of armor.
The hallway rippled with heat. The very air was distorted. But there was no flame. Just pure heat. Perfectly contained. Pawn saw a melting suit of steel staggering at him. The thick metal was…dripping.
Running down the construct’s body, as it melted. And it was so hot the steel was vaporizing. Pawn stared.
The hallway was filled with melted metal. Hands, reaching out of the pools of metal—helmets, glowing, deforming. He slowly reached towards the rippling air.
“Do not. Your hand will burst into flame. Or simply melt.”
Xrn stopped Pawn. He whirled. The Small Queen stood behind him. Smiling.
“Facestealer. Was it—”
“Gone. It was difficult to kill. And it tore free of my binding spell. A pity. It is not a threat so long as I see it, but it is stubborn.”
The Small Queen nodded down the corridor. Pawn saw dissolving black bindings. Xrn regarded the corridor filled with metal.
“Perhaps the Armored Antinium can do something with this. Oh well. Was that the best the dungeon has to offer? Perhaps it grows more dangerous further in.”
She waved her staff and the heat spell vanished. Pawn saw the glowing pools of metal slowly cooling. And he felt the incredible heat.
Xrn stood in the corridor. The squad of Antinium who’d come to…help, stood a bit uselessly. The Painted Antinium, Purple Smile, all of them looked at her.
“I think we have claimed enough of the dungeon. We will advance. Slowly. I am not incautious. And this dungeon is vast. My seeking spells tell me there is far, far too much ground to cover. The adventurers have claimed a good portion as well, but there is so much more to occupy. And my magic is not infinite. I am tired.”
Xrn kindly told the others. Pawn nodded slowly.
“Centenium Xrn—”
“You may call me Aunt, Pawn. If you wish.”
The Small Queen smiled. Pawn did not wish. He looked at Xrn’s shining eyes.
“…Centenium, why do you need us? We have nothing like your power.”
She was worth ten thousand Antinium. More. What were the Painted Antinium compared to her? What was anyone? The Small Queen laughed, a fluttering chirp.
“Oh, little Pawn. That is true. But I was created to be the world’s finest. And—I am only one. There are so few of us left. I can still die. Klbkch has died and lost his power. Think of it. I can destroy one army of Drakes. But they have more than one. I need you, little Antinium. You must be stronger. Because only together can we triumph.”
She looked around fondly. And then the blackness surfaced in her eyes again.
“Small as you are, weak as you are. Together, we might triumph. We need millions of the Painted Antinium. A flood, to traverse the seas. To fight our true foe on Rhir. So do not think I can triumph alone. I have died once.”
She touched her chest. Pawn saw her eyes flicker darker still. And her head turned to him. She stared at the [Priest].
“On that day, over half of the Centenium marched with our First Queen, who created us. The closest being to perfection in this world. The highest level any Antinium ever achieved. Over half of us, and I was strong then as I am now. And we were wiped out to the last.”
Her eyes were swimming black. A single spark of silver shone in the depths, like some moving pupil. Xrn looked up. And her staff rose and the dungeon’s ceiling shook as she cast a spell upwards.
“So level. And let us take back our home. That is why I am here. Level—and—”
She looked at Pawn. And her eyes began to return to normal. Something like playfulness emerged in her voice.
“Perhaps we will find the key to the death of our foe here after all. Let us go back, Pawn. And you will conjure more of this delightful bread for me.”
The Small Queen turned away. And the dungeon shook. Facestealer fled. The armored guardians had been humbled. But they were just guardians.
Lesser ones.
Yet, the Small Queen walked in radiance and remembered glory. Bringing change to the Antinium. Preparing for the war that had never stopped for her.
 
—-
 
That was the end of the most ordinary, uneventful sort of day. With nothing but the quiet boredom, the passing of days.
It was not as interesting as the events the world took note of. And it passed into evening. The end, with nothing to remark on.
The Dwarf turned over the mithril coin in his fingers and thought of how hard it would be to move, the benefits of such things.
The Ashfire Bees fought in the darkness, given life by the little Druid.
Apista got high just because she wanted to, and not because she was depressed.
Montressa and Bezale discovered just how much gold was going to the Golden Triangle and got a bit more worried as they filed their reports.
The Antinium followed the Small Queen as she sat in Erin’s inn and introduced some of the Armored Antinium to the young woman. Erin in turn introduced the Meat Supreme Sub to the world and Relc.
Bird daydreamed of the time he’d flown.
And Garry had two new assistants he was teaching how to mix dough to, who followed their savior, their champion, and looked at him like he looked at Erin.
Small things. And the last of these unrelated events began with a horse, carrying a young woman. Her hair was black and red, like embers amid darkness.
She had reached a city. And the sprawling metropolis made her smile, as she dismounted. People stared, for the young [Lady] caught the eye.
She burned, like the last spark in the darkness. Brightest, before it went out. Lady Maviola El fell into line with the people entering Invrisil, the City of Adventurers. She had little gold, only a few possessions, and three vials of worth beyond compare.
On a last adventure. As she waited, along one of the many gates leading towards the city, she wondered what the future held. She saw a [Farmer], bringing in food for the city’s many shops and places of business. And a group fell in behind her, arguing noisily.
“They’re going to shoot all of us. Ksmvr, don’t you dare say anything. Leave the talking to us.”
“Yes, Captain Ceria.”
“Leave the talking to me. You mean, oh glorious Captain.”
“No way. Remember what happened last time?”
“Last time you said ‘let’s all have a second helping of eggs! It can’t hurt!’ Which is why we’re so late!”
“Pisces. Don’t talk to me about the eggs. Otherwise it’s gonna come out again. I still feel sick. And I don’t know which end it’s coming out—Ksmvr, hand me your Amulet of Food Poisoning.”
“Yes, Captain Ceria.”
“All three of you, stay away from me. You’re all a disgrace to adventurers.”
Maviola’s lips twitched. She turned her head and then stared.
A half-Elf was grabbing for an amulet being held out by an Antinium. One of her hands was skeletal—just bone. A [Necromancer] was sniffing haughtily. And a woman with metallic arms was rolling her eyes.
Maviola blinked at the half-Elf and Yvlon Byres, and then smoldered at the Antinium. The adventurers took no notice of her.
They were sitting on a wagon. And on that wagon was…a door. The arguing team, the Horns of Hammerad, had the door propped up. Maviola eyed them.
“At least we’re here. Say, do you think we’ll be able to get to The Wandering Inn today?”
“Probably not. You know how that door is. Only two of us will probably be able to go through, at most. Dibs.”
“Dibs.”
“Damn it, you two.”
Yvlon scowled. Ksmvr raised one hand.
“I am ‘dibbing’ disqualifying myself to allow my teammates to go and visit the inn before me.”
The other adventurers blinked at him. And they slowly drew closer to the city. The [Lady] eyed them as Ceria wrinkled her nose.
“What’s that smell?”
Every head turned. And—somehow you missed this, but everyone else who had passed this way had seen it. The adventurers and Maviola saw a huge, rotting…pile. Of flesh. It was being burned.
“…Is that a Flesh Giant?”
Pisces blinked. And then the line moved, and Maviola El, and the Horns of Hammerad saw the gates of Invrisil waiting for them. The City of Adventurers awaited.
At long last. On an ordinary day—Ceria Springwalker raised her head. She saw the [Guards] at the gate calling out.
“Nightfall! Locking down the gates! Invrisil is under curfew! Come back tomorrow!”
The portcullis slammed down. The travellers stared up at the gates. Ceria’s mouth opened. She inhaled the smell of burning, rotting flesh. Looked around. Yvlon looked just as startled. Pisces blinked a few times as people at the gates shouted indignantly. Ksmvr nodded to himself.
“I believe the [Guardsman] forgot to say ‘welcome to Invrisil’.”
