The white Gnoll grinned. She leapt out the window and onto the roof. The Worker Antinium saw the Hobgoblin sliding down the roof. He leapt off, and then caught the Gnoll. They ran for it, out of view of the windows.
And thus, the Bee Rescue Team was formed. They had one mission: rescuing bees. They charged down the hill, Apista flying overhead, leading the way. And Mrsha felt the bee’s joy. Because she sensed Mrsha’s intent. Numbtongue jogged after them, carrying his guitar on his back, the pickaxe, a sword at his side, a shovel as well—he’d forgotten his armor. But it was heavy.
The bee cave was a ways away from the inn. At least an hour’s walk. Lyonette used to have to tromp through the snow for ages with the sled. Mrsha soon grew tired of galloping up and down hills.
Also—Numbtongue made her walk with him.
“Watch for spider nests. See? There. There. And Rock Crabs over there.”
The Hobgoblin was a good teacher in things that needed to be taught. Like Relc, he didn’t believe in safety. Safety was an illusion. So he showed Mrsha as they walked how to best spot the pitfall traps the Shield Spiders made. And he showed Mrsha how to look.
She thought she knew how to look. She was a Plains Gnoll, after all! But she was a young one. And Numbtongue was like a seasoned [Hunter]. He kept his head on a swivel, and Mrsha copied him. He even spotted the skunk den before she smelled them and led her well away from them.
The bee cave was like the image in Apista’s head. Only—different. The bee had flown around it many times from the outside. Mrsha, with her different eyes, saw it as the cave opening—blocked by a wall of sheer stone.
Moore’s work. He had sealed the cave to save his friends. And in doing so—he had condemned the Ashfire Bee Hive within to death. He had not thought of it that way.
But Mrsha was a [Druid], not a [Green Mage]. She sensed them within.
Bees. But—reduced in number. Angry. The Gnoll solemnly placed her paw on the stone and looked at Numbtongue, pleadingly. The Hobgoblin eyed the stone. His posture changed.
“Magic wall. Not bad.”
Pyrite authoritatively knocked on the stone. He looked at Mrsha.
“Angry bees. Need to prepare this. Here.”
He scaled up the cave’s entrance. In his precious time, the [Chieftain] analyzed the stone cave. He dismissed going through the front at once; the stone was too thick. He found a weak point on the roof of the cave, instead.
“Here. Dig. And here—”
Dirt and stones flew as the Goldstone Chieftain dug like a maniac. He was fast! And he had allotted all of his minute and five seconds to the most efficient work.
When he vanished, Numbtongue found himself patting Mrsha’s head. The Gnoll was covered in dirt. And she was grinning. He hefted his shovel and kept digging.
Pyrite was smart. He had a plan. And it involved two things.
First—he’d marked the hole in the cave’s roof for Numbtongue to tunnel through. He’d even estimated the time it would take to breach a hole. And when that moment came—the bees would be angry.
So he’d also begun digging a hole for Mrsha and Numbtongue to dive into. They’d be shielded from bees and even be able to breathe. Now that was smart work. Numbtongue put his back into the digging. When it had met Pyrite’s internal standards, he waved to Mrsha.
“Get in hole.”
She refused. She clambered up onto the cave’s roof. She was the [Druid]. Obviously, she had to be there. She could make the bees—less angry. Numbtongue scowled, but he could toss the Blast vial into the ceiling or use the potions Octavia had given them if he couldn’t dive with her to safety.
“Fine. You stand there.”
He raised the pick and brought it down into the loose stone and dirt. It was hard work, but in between the [Bard]’s swings, Mrsha would scramble forwards with Apista and clear the rubble. She even tried to dig with him. She made a magical thorn on her paw and hit the ground energetically, if not exactly helpfully.
“New spell?”
Mrsha shrugged. She watched as Numbtongue dug lower, creating a breach in the cave’s roof.
She could hear the bees. In her head. They had sensed the tunneling. And they were very angry. Mrsha began looking at the emergency hole. Numbtongue wiped sweat from his brow.
“Two more strikes. One—two—”
The ceiling caved in a bit. Apista fluttered forwards. And Mrsha saw darkness. Light streamed down into the bee’s cave. They looked up.
And then Mrsha heard the thrumming. Numbtongue paused, pick poised to widen the hole. He backed up.
The cave was filled with beating wings. Like distant thunder. And rage—Mrsha saw the Hobgoblin whirl. His hand went to his belt as, inside, hundreds of dark shapes moved, streaming for the hole.
Yet—no! Mrsha leapt. She tackled Numbtongue’s belt as the Goblin poised to throw. He cursed, grabbing at her, preparing to dive off the roof. And then he saw them.
The bees! They swarmed upwards, pressing against the small hole in their prison. Freedom. Freedom.
But—Mrsha and Numbtongue, about to leap, saw something. The bees were pressing against the roof of the cave. Pulling dirt and stones upwards.
Blocking the hole. Numbtongue stared. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Didn’t they want to be free? Apista flew around the hole, urgently. And Mrsha—sensed something.
 
Fury. Thousands of minds, working in concert. The queen of the Ashfire Bees was raging. They all were. But not against Mrsha, or Numbtongue, or Apista, or their prison.
The intruders. They came from below. The knaves. They were wrong. Squirming. Wretched things, preying on the hive in the darkness.
Thinking to conquer. Thinking them weak.
They could not escape. Slaughter them. Tear them to bits.
Suffer not the invaders. By the will of fire, kill them. What should not exist. Like the Crelers. Rip them to shreds. They could not be allowed to escape.
Better to die than to give way. Seal the light. Kill and kill again. 
No escape. Slaughter the knaves.
Kill them all.
 
The thoughts beat against Mrsha. She could feel/hear/see them in the darkness. The foes! Kill them! Do not let them out!
The bees were sealing the breach in their cave. Blocking it—generating wax along with the dirt. Numbtongue stared. He didn’t know what was happening. Or why Apista was suddenly jabbing at the air, furious. He heard a rumble and looked down.
Mrsha was snarling in his arms. The Gnoll growled making a rumbling noise in her chest. Slowly, the [Bard] backed up.
“What? What?”
For a moment, Mrsha was lost in the bee’s thoughts. They lessened as she drew away from the cave. She looked around, blinked a few times, as Apista flew after her.
The bee’s thoughts were different. Mrsha no longer sensed Apista’s sadness. Like her—the other bee had picked up on the trapped Hive’s thoughts. Now—Apista was angry. Worried, but angry.
“Bad things. Bad things in there.”
Numbtongue looked at the cave. He reached for his sword.
“Crelers?”
Mrsha and Apista shook their heads—well, Apista shook her entire body. Something else. Numbtongue felt a tingle running down his spine.
“Not opening cave, then.”
No. Mrsha shook her head. And yet—she looked at the cave.
The bees were hungry. She had felt that too, beneath their all-consuming loathing of their foes. They were reproducing in the darkness, to replenish their losses. They could do that—fight in the dark, maintain their Hive. They had been hundreds strong, and they were big bees. They could slaughter a Silver-rank team in seconds if not prepared. They were killing all the…things coming up.
But what they lacked was food. The Hive had possessed deep honey reservoirs. But it had used up all of its reserves. They would have to start letting the weaker bees die, soon. They could not hold forever.
Apista felt her comrade’s pain. So did Mrsha. Her eyes watered as she looked at the Hive, felt the cold resolve. Nor did she question their will. It was a certainty. Their foes were unnatural, like the Crelers. Not meant to exist or move under the sun.
Yet—they had to be helped. Mrsha felt that too, strongly. She tried to communicate this all with Numbtongue. He, ignorant of all of it, tried to understand.
“Something bad in the cave. Not Crelers. Very bad. Seal the cave. But—hungry bees?”
She and Apista nodded. Numbtongue sat on his haunches and thought. After a moment, he grabbed Mrsha.
“We leave.”
The first thing Pyrite had shouted into his mind was that anything that animals were afraid of was not something you wanted to be nearby. There were a few candidates on his list. And they were all bad. The Hobgoblin picked up the protesting Mrsha and towed her away.
Then he and Mrsha had a think. The bees were in danger. But even they thought they should be in the darkness. What did you do? Tell someone?
Mrsha was pretty sure the bees would kill anything in their cave. Even Numbtongue, or an adventuring team. And she didn’t know what was in there. Numbtongue, with a Goblin’s practicality, refused to open the cave.
So? Where did that leave them? Mrsha didn’t know. She watched Apista sadly float down to a flower and suck up the nectar. Without the Ashfire Bees, smaller breeds of bees and butterflies were occupying the Floodplains. If only Mrsha could put the flowers in the cave. Then the bees would have food!
Wait. That was it! Mrsha raised her head! Put the magic door to the Garden into the cave!
Numbtongue looked at Mrsha.
“No.”
How would that even work? Mrsha had to admit, putting the magic door into the cave would allow whatever was inside into the garden. And Erin’s Garden of Sanctuary wasn’t the portal door.
They thought again. Both Goblin and Gnoll stared at Apista. She floated to another flower. She wasn’t really hungry—she was storing the liquid, Mrsha felt. She got enough food each morning. From…
The Gnoll urgently pulled on Numbtongue’s arms. She pointed at Apista. And then she signed.
“What if—”
The [Bard] looked at Mrsha. He snapped his fingers, and then grinned. Mrsha anxiously pointed towards the inn. The Hobgoblin thought.
“No problem. Tricky thing is Lyonette. We’ll make a plan. Not too hard. Let’s go.”
They hurried off. And about an hour later, in the inn, Lyonette du Marquin was distracted.
“Bee attack! Oh dead gods!”
Apista zoomed through the air, attacking guests like an avenger of the skies. Lyonette saw her dive-bombing the regulars, landing in a mug—the [Princess] raced after Apista.
“Apista! Stop! What’s gotten into you!?”
The bee refused to calm down. The [Princess] was so busy shouting and chasing after the bee as the patrons scattered that she never noticed Numbtongue and Mrsha stealing into the kitchen and basement respectively.
“Got it?”
Numbtongue panted as he raced outside with the wheelbarrow. Mrsha nodded; she’d used the Garden of Sanctuary to spirit her goods outside. Now, she helped Numbtongue load the wheelbarrow with the sacks of sugar.
They’d brought one of Erin’s spare portal doors to the cave entrance. Numbtongue adjusted the magic door as he looked around quickly. He rolled the wheelbarrow through, and then two kegs of water that were now kept topped up from the well the Antinium had dug.
Mrsha followed as Apista was finally captured. The bee waved her antennas furiously, wishing the best of luck to the Bee Rescue Team. It was in their feelers now.
Numbtongue got the barrels of water onto the cave’s roof via the magical portal door. Mrsha kept watch, turning the magic door back to Liscor.
“Oh, are you helping, Mrsha? Good job!”
The Gnoll waved at Drassi as she let through some Liscorians, and then a group from Esthelm who requested transfer to Wailant’s farm—they were buying produce. Then she switched it back to the secret bee-cave entrance.
Numbtongue had a barrel of water open. He was pouring sugar into the water, sacks of it. The costly sugar was being mixed with the water to create—Apista food. Bee food. Mrsha nodded to him as he carefully rotated a barrel over to the opening in the cave’s rooftop.
She leapt through; they had ten minutes before Drassi checked the door again, and that was if no one wanted to go through! But Apista had bought them time with her chaos.
Numbtongue grabbed the pickaxe and began smashing the hole he’d made, widening it. Mrsha sensed the bees growing furious again. Urgently, she waved a paw. Tried to think her message.
“Not bad! Friends! Friends!”
The Gnoll shouted with her head. The bees—hesitated.
[Peace of the Wild]. They felt Mrsha’s intent. And shot out of the hole. Numbtongue backed up fast as they descended on the barrel. The bees began to feast on the sugary water. But there was too much of it for them to carry.
“Pour it into the cave? No good.”
The [Bard] cursed as he saw the bees trying to lift the incredibly heavy barrel. They did not want the hole in the cave to remain long! Already—the enemy was coming, sensing the opening.
Mrsha stared into the cave. She saw something moving—a flash of light as an Ashfire Bee ignited and burned it away. Cracks in the cave. She shuddered, then pointed.
“Barrel? I can’t lower it. With a rope?”
The Hobgoblin frowned. Mrsha looked at the bees, covering the barrel. She slapped her forehead with one paw.
Another barrel! They’d pour it into barrels from the ceiling! The Hobgoblin cursed as he realized she was right. He ran back into the inn as Mrsha anxiously stood guard.
“Numbtongue, where are you going with that barrel…?”
Lyonette spotted Numbtongue as he rolled one out of the basement. The Hobgoblin froze.
“…Need it for mining?”
“Oh? Well…have you seen Mrsha? I’m wondering if she’s up to mischief—”
The [Princess] saw a white shape flash into the common room. Mrsha, panting, smiling innocently, grabbed her magic ball. Lyonette saw her raise it.
“Mrsha…don’t you dare throw—”
The Gnoll hurled the ball as hard as she could. She brained one of the Players of Celum. Lyonette chased after Mrsha.
“You’re in big trouble, missy!”
Apista took to the air again. Now, two of the Bee Rescue Team were down. And the third pillar of the team, Numbtongue, lowered two barrels into the cave. The bees actually moved them upright. And Numbtongue poured the sugar-water into the opening.
It was done. Messy, disorganized, and with two timeouts—but it was done. Numbtongue lay, panting in the hallway as he switched the magic door back to Liscor. Mrsha, pretending to apologize and be sorry, raised one ear as the Hobgoblin poked his head into the common room.
He raised a single thumb and nodded at them. Apista, tethered by a piece of string to the windowsill in her timeout, saluted with one antenna. Mrsha beamed, and then went back to being scolded.
