“…Yerra?”
The question lingered. And that moment, the culmination of an adventure at sea, and the powers that claimed they ruled the waves clashing—all of it ended. Or took an interlude.
Until the next time the world deemed the events worthy of notice. And many who heard the question, whether directly from the scrying orb broadcasting The Emerald Signet from the decks of a Drake ship, or thereafter—reacted.
Wil’s sister, Talia, and his family. Yerranola’s family and fellow Selphids. The students of Niers Astoragon’s class and the Titan himself.
So many more. But on another day in the summer, someone who didn’t listen and had no idea that there were [Strategists] at sea sat in her inn. And she had a different kind of thought that had nothing to do with poison or Selphids or the ocean—well, one thing was related, at least.
“I think today I’ll try brewing some alcohol. I mean. I can. And that’s how alcohol works. Brewing, right?”
Erin looked at Lyonette for confirmation. The [Worldly Princess] raised her head; she was reading something.
“How much of a profit should I expect? Also—do it in the basement.”
The young woman scowled at Lyonette as the papers rose. Not your traditional book, but a cheaper, rather less sturdy substitute. But it could hold ink and someone had carefully scrawled on it.
The Pallassian Times. It was very familiar. Palt had brought a copy into the inn. And it was, to Erin’s knowledge, a written and curated account of worldwide events. The [Innkeeper] hadn’t read it; Lyonette had hogged it. Along with Drassi.
“Wow. There was a battle at sea.”
Erin read from the back of the newspaper. Lyonette glanced over it and scowled. Somehow, she had managed to emulate the classic newspaper look without having ever seen it before. That of a father, scowling at a child bothering him over the morning’s breakfast.
“If you need to use any of the gold or supplies, please make a list, Erin. I’ll calculate the efficiency later. Also, try not to make a mess? Do you even know how alcohol is made?”
“I have a Skill! Why, do you?”
“I know it ferments. So good luck with your [Field of Preservation] Skill.”
The newspaper rose. Erin opened and closed her mouth. Then she looked around.
“Well, someone’s getting their [Sasser] class.”
“What was that?”
“Nothing!”
Erin innocently got up. Mrsha hopped off the table as Erin rose. Sunlight poured through the window where she’d been napping on a table. It was a beautiful morning. And Lyonette’s increased backchat aside, Erin felt good. She stretched.
“Hey Mrsha, want to help me make alcohol? You can’t drink any, but it’ll be fun! Probably! We’ll do it outside or something. Maybe that [Fermenter] dude in Liscor could help? Um—Ushel! Hey, Mrsha, let’s go for a trip!”
The Gnoll cub sat on her butt on the floor and quickly raised her paws. She signed to Erin.
“Don’t…like…is that your word for alcohol? Stinky? Don’t like stinky alcohol? Gotcha! Well, I’ll pay you in stinky cheese howzabouthat?”
The young woman laughed and Mrsha laughed too. Erin looked around. Lyonette sighed.
“I suppose I’ll handle breakfast, then.”
She turned a page, frowning at an illustration of a battle at sea. Drassi was cleaning up and serving food to Temile; few of the regulars had come in.
It was early. And the [Actor] was blinking at his food as if he didn’t know what he was supposed to do with it. Numbtongue hadn’t even woken up yet. Erin smiled.
As she thrust open the door and Apista fluttered out of the Garden of Sanctuary, high once again, Erin Solstice inhaled the fresh morning air. She opened her mouth to shout a greeting towards Liscor.
And then she saw it. A flash of azure. A gleaming body, walking up the hill towards the inn. Mrsha sniffed the air and Erin froze.
“Oh no. It’s her again!”
Lyonette glanced up as Erin slammed the door shut and ran. The [Princess] glanced up as Mrsha opened the door and peeked out. She waved one paw and the figure waved back.
The inn was silent for a few more seconds as Lyonette debated getting up. But she was invested in the dramatic retelling of the battles at sea—the fate of the [Strategists] and The Emerald Signet still unknown. They had been lost in the storm for days! She kept reading.
And a Hobgoblin walked down the steps. Numbtongue scratched at his side and yawned. He walked into the kitchen and waved at Lyonette. She smiled at him, far more cordial than with Erin.
“Morning, Numbtongue. We have a newspaper today.”
“A what?”
He paused on his way to the kitchen. Mrsha raced over and gave him a flying kick to the leg. The [Bard] barely noticed, although he winced slightly. Lyonette glared, but the Hobgoblin never objected; you got hit far worse in spars and Mrsha enjoyed it.
“A newspaper. It’s this new Pallassian thing. Well, new for…Pallass. Palt brought it in last night. You can read it over breakfast; I’m nearly done with it.”
“Morning, Numbtongue! Want today’s menu? It’s, uh, eggs benedictal.”
Lyonette corrected Drassi.
“Benedict. On Erin’s weird muffins.”
“English muffins!”
Someone called from the kitchen. There was a crash, and a few scuffling sounds. Numbtongue glanced towards the kitchen, but accepted whatever was happening wordlessly. He shook his head.
“I’ll find food.”
“Alright, then.”
The Hobgoblin went into the kitchen and poked around in the cupboards as Mrsha peeked out the door again and waved once more. She got another wave.
Numbtongue hunted around in the cupboards for what he wanted. No eggs, thanks. He was in a fishy mood today. He liked fish. He pulled out a rather magnificent flatfish, drizzled with Gnollish fish sauce. Salty, fresh.
Delicious. All it needed was heat. The Hobgoblin hummed as he turned to one of the ovens. Stone ovens of course, although Lyonette and Erin wanted to upgrade it. He had to light it; when he did he heard a yelp.
From within. The Hobgoblin stared. He opened the oven’s door slowly. And saw a young woman squeezed into the massive oven.
“I’m not here.”
Erin Solstice informed Numbtongue. He met her eyes. Slowly, he closed the oven door.
“And please put the fire out!”
The Hobgoblin went for the lower oven. He warmed up his fish…took the hot plate, cursing as he burned his fingers. Then he edged out of the kitchen.
By the time Numbtongue had made his food, the guest had entered the inn. She’d walked; the staff didn’t begin checking the magic door until a bit later. So, Xrn, the Small Queen, Centenium and [Thaumaturge], was relatively alone in the inn. The Wistram [Mages] hadn’t come down yet.
She stood in the middle of the room as Numbtongue stared. But—he had met her already. So he just edged over to a table and began to eat his fish. Lyonette glanced up as Drassi hurried over.
“Miss Xrn! How can we help you today?”
The Centenium’s mandibles opened and rose. And Xrn’s eyes shone bright yellow and green. Mrsha sat and stared up at her. For the azure Antinium was pure magic. And the staff she used to walk with shone with it. Even Lyonette could see that.
But they’d already been introduced. Xrn nodded to Drassi.
“I would like to speak to Innkeeper Erin Solstice, again. Drassi of the Drakes. Is she here?”
Drassi looked around.
“She just was. I think she’ll be about.”
“Hmm.”
Xrn swept her gaze across the inn. She stared into the Garden of Sanctuary and Lyonette saw her eyes flash white for a moment. The gemstone of her staff glittered. It was some fine-cut, purple-and-green gemstone that shifted from color to color. It hovered in the center of floating fragments of wood, forming a loose circle around it.
The Antinium turned her head, inspecting the Garden of Sanctuary although she made no move for the door. Searching. 
The [Princess] folded the newspaper, and handed it to Numbtongue as she made her way into the kitchen. She looked around, heard the breathing from the oven and opened it.
Erin stared at Lyonette. She had folded herself into the oven. She slowly raised one finger and put it to her lips. Lyonette put her hands on her hips, exasperated.
“Are you hiding in the oven?”
“Yes. Is she gone?”
“No. She wants you. Erin.”
The young woman waved her hands urgently.
“Don’t say my name! Don’t—”
“Hello, Erin Solstice. Is this some new game? Or custom? You must show it to me.”
Xrn the Small Queen appeared in the kitchen’s opening. Lyonette turned. Erin slowly pulled the door of the oven up.
But it was no use. In moments, Erin, a bit sooty and cramped, sat nervously at a table as Drassi put down a plate of benedict eggs in front of Xrn, on an English muffin. The Antinium’s eyes lit up with pleasure, which was pink in this case. She ate, happily chewing the eggs.
“Oh, they are different than normal eggs. How wonderful.”
“That’s the sauce. Glad you like them…Xrn?”
Erin watched the female Antinium eating the muffins, gluten, without issue. Xrn spoke as she savored each bite.
“I have come once again. Have you given any thought to my offers?”
The [Innkeeper] squirmed in her seat. The Small Queen regarded her.
“Well…I mean, I’d like to, Xrn. And you helping with the, um, Hive is great. Klbkch was really mad. And I get you’re in charge, now, but…”
“Is there some issue with my requests?”
Erin twiddled her fingers.
“…No? But it’s just sort of…big. I mean, I’ll totally agree to the stuff with the food. But everything else?”
She looked at Xrn. The Small Queen had come three days ago. And she had changed the Free Antinium. Klbkch, who had been driven to a rage Erin had never seen before was—dealt with.
No one had died. The Antinium had been welcomed back into their Hive. Klbkch had even taken a vacation from the Watch; he was no longer in charge of the Free Antinium, and Erin understood that this was only the beginning of the changes to the Hive. Big ones had begun.
And Xrn had sought Erin out. Not in an aggressive way, but she had come to the inn over the last three days. And but for the moment with Saliss, she had been welcoming—even playful with Mrsha. She was respectful, loved Erin’s food and seemed to appreciate all of the Antinium.
And yet—the Small Queen regarded Erin over her food as she raised another bite to her face.
“What will you refuse, Erin Solstice? By all means, tell me any objections and I will do my utmost to rectify them. Is cost an issue? I will double your price.”
Lyonette’s head snapped up. Erin winced.
“No, it’s not that. It’s so—sudden? I mean, some of it—why me?”
The Centenium folded her two arms. And she had only two. She smiled again and her eyes lit up with a multitude of colors. She was fascinating to Erin. And yet.
“Because you are Erin Solstice. And we have need of you. Will you not take more Antinium into your inn? Allow them to live here? At least Pawn, and a few others. They may even share a room. Or do you object to teaching the Antinium? Apprenticing Garry? Allowing them to eat here regularly? Is instructing the others and allowing them to play games in your inn an issue? We are quite willing to pay for more buildings. I would prefer to quarter as many as three hundred Antinium in proximity of the inn.”
The young woman opened and closed her mouth
“Um—the lots of Antinium nearby is the big thing. And…teaching them? I mean, sure! Let’s have them have patrols in here like normal. And eating! And I can have some of the rooms with Antinium in them! Definitely Pawn! Lyonette was saying we had rooms for him and a few others—”
She saw Lyonette nodding. Mrsha glowered as she poked her head over the table. Erin glanced at her. Xrn however just smiled. She offered Mrsha some of her muffin and the Gnoll took it.
“That is all well. And it is enough. But you seem to have reservations?”
She looked at Erin. The young woman hesitated.
“Well—it’s just so generous. I mean—why do you want me to do all this? The Antinium are paying a lot. And…I just don’t know what the Antinium get out of this.”
Xrn smiled.
“It is not something I can name in words, Erin Solstice. Or if I could—it is only your kindness. I have not been here long. But I hear it in all the Antinium’s words about you. Pawn, Belgrade, Anand, Garry—and the others. Give them all that you have. Even if it is but laughter and love. Give them Individuality. Give them your magic. If you will not allow hundreds of Antinium to wait upon you—or enter the Hive to train my people, I will be content with the rest.”
Erin found herself nodding. She agreed completely with that. Give the Antinium love? Xrn was great. Amazing, really. If it was just that…
“So…Klbkch isn’t in charge?”
“He is learning to feel. He is a fool. I have hit him with my staff multiple times, but he only understands war. Klbkch the Slayer is an apt term for him. Also: flawed beyond belief because it is incomplete. He is more than a weapon. But he is a poor leader. He does not appreciate what you can do.”
The Small Queen looked at Erin. The young woman found herself nodding.
“Yeah. You’re so—caring, Xrn. Pawn was saying that when he came in. Why are you so—not Klbkch?”
The Antinium loved Xrn. The female Antinium’s eyes lit up with pleasure.
“Indeed, I am not Klbkchhezeim. I fully appreciate many things he was never meant to. I was designed to lead. To inspire. To foresee the future of what we might be. To cast magic, as well. Klbkch was ever meant to slaughter our foes. To pile the bodies of the dead into walls around our Hives. He has learned leadership. But part of him is still the lone warrior who would walk into an army of foes without fear of death. I am glad he has recovered some of his power, but he is a fool.”
Erin half-smiled. But then Xrn went on.
“And yet—he learned some of his empathy from you. I hope you will allow him back into your inn. He must learn. And so must the Antinium. He is our fool. Please, teach him more. And give him—give the Antinium some of your magic. Perhaps Klbkch should stay in this inn. Although Pawn did object.”
“Are you finished, Miss Xrn? Can I get you more?”
Drassi went by to take the plate. The Centenium shook her head. She stood.
“I am finished. Miss Erin Solstice, would you do me the courtesy of allowing me into your garden?”
“…Of course.”
Xrn even asked. She walked into the garden. And her eyes shone as green and vibrantly as the grass, mixed with the clear blue of the skies. Like magic.
“How beautiful. Look at the power of it. And you have shown me your magical fire. It is, like my magic, a power not known to [Mages] or Antinium. A different sort of power. Please, Erin Solstice. I will send the Antinium to you. Give them your strength. We have need of it.”
