Mission accomplished. The bees had their food. The queen was already making room for more larvae. And the brave Bee Rescue Team’s heroics might go unnoticed by all but the bees, but that was their job.
“Honestly. I don’t know what gets into you all sometimes.”
Lyonette sighed. Erin Solstice walked back into her inn and yawned.
“Hey, I’m back! What’s with all the fuss?”
“Erin! You just missed Mrsha and Apista making a fuss. I think we need to send them to the Strongheart’s farm to run about. Can you take them?”
“Sure! I delivered my sandwich.”
“You mean, that abomination? Wait—do you think it’ll sell tonight?”
“Sure! I’ll make another. Relc’ll buy it. Hey, Numbtongue. Why are you all sweaty?”
“Barrels.”
The Hobgoblin sat at a table. He wanted lunch. Erin looked at him.
“Barrels? Uh—okay then. Barrels to you too. What did you do, Mrsha? Let me just make some cookies to replenish our stocks and then I’ll take you to Wailant and Viceria’s! You can run about all day there!”
She walked into the kitchen. The Bee Rescue Team heard Erin rummaging about. Then she went into the basement.
“Lyonette? Why are we out of sugar?”
The bee, the Goblin, and Mrsha looked at each other. They casually got up and strolled, or flew into the Garden of Sanctuary. If they had sunglasses, they’d have put them on.
Their work here was done.
And in the darkness, the bees fought against the things coming up. The things that did not belong. They came, squirming through the cracks.
From the dungeon.
 
[Druid Level 7!]
[Skill – Ambient Mana Gatherer obtained!]
 
—-
 
The Free Antinium’s Hive was in the midst of change. And that was not a superficial word.
“For me?”
Belgrade stared at the necklace. It shone. And when he touched it—his body blurred. A few fake Belgrades appeared.
“A Locket of Mirror Images. Yes. This is yours. And you will take other artifacts as needed. You, Anand. This wand is for you. And for you…”
Pawn stood in the Painted Antinium’s barracks. He was handing out magical items. The other Antinium were staring in awe at the illusory Belgrades. But Pawn had more magical items.
“They are for us? And this ring…”
Yellow Splatters tried it on. The ring should not have fit his hands; it had been too small. But it fit on, perfectly.  Pawn nodded.
“Two artifacts for each Individual. That is what Xrn has promised me. You are all allowed one defensive artifact and an offensive one. Good ones, not disposable wands like before.”
“For us? But the cost of each item must be…”
“What cost? You are all Antinium capable of leveling. This is the least that should be afforded to you.”
A voice. The Antinium turned. And Xrn stood in front of them. Her eyes shone with pleasure. Pawn looked past her, at a figure who stood at ease.
Klbkch. He didn’t object to Xrn passing out the Hive’s treasures. A few of the other Antinium following Xrn did, though.
“These are not Prognugators. This is a waste of resources. I object, Prognugator Xrn—”
The azure Antinium raised her staff threateningly. Pivr flinched. He and the other foreign Antinium watched as Pawn handed Purple Smiles his necklace. The Small Queen smiled as the other Antinium looked at her.
“Be silent, Pivr. The power to level was rare even among the Antinium of old. It is worth safeguarding. And each one is precious. Not that someone seemed to understand this.”
She looked at Klbkch and raised her staff. The other Centenium didn’t flinch.
“It was my determination, Xrn. Erin Solstice was capable of making more, and the discipline issues—”
“Fool.”
Xrn brought down her staff on Klbkch’s head. She shook her head.
“We cannot expect the same Antinium. Discipline? Perhaps that is what makes Individuals. They are closer to Centenium than regular true Antinium. The Centenium disobeyed because they were made to think autonomously.”
Klbkch stirred at the comparison.
“They are not—”
His mandibles snapped shut as Xrn threatened to hit him with her staff again. The Small Queen turned her head.
“Erin Solstice will accommodate some patrols. And all Antinium will visit her inn. We may have to bring the Silent Antinium and other varieties to her inn…carefully. Perhaps with illusion spells. The Armored Antinium will serve for now, without their armor. Dekass, Tersk, you are in charge of that.”
She nodded. The two Prognugators bowed. Pawn stared at Xrn. She was radiant. And she was giving the Hive everything he had wanted.
“Prognugator Xrn. What will we do, the Painted Antinium?”
She smiled, raising her mandibles.
“Some will go to other Hives. They will be needed. Perhaps you, Pawn. As emissaries in turn. But the Hives are joined. There are—issues affecting some. Battles to be fought. You will be deployed, but you must live. To level. To become stronger.”
The Antinium stirred, hearing her words. Seeing Xrn look at them. For the Small Queen was inspirational. She cared.
And still—Klbkch watched. He felt as though a weight he had not known was there was taken off his shoulders. Xrn could lead the Antinium. She was generous; he would never have given artifacts to ordinary Antinium except in times of war.
But Xrn would. And if she had a single flaw, it was that she didn’t know other species as he did. He had heard of her trying to convince Erin. Everything Klbkch understood of Erin told him Xrn’s offering thousands of gold pieces to Erin wouldn’t work.
Yet here they were. And more Antinium stood in the Hive.
Silent Antinium. Their forms were the most alien, along with that of the Flying Antinium. They had scythes for arms—their cutting power unmatched. And their bodies were blending with the dirt walls, camouflaging automatically.
The Free Antinium stared at these…strangers. As foreign to them as Antinium were to regular people. They had no idea that Antinium could be like this. That they were the same people was…odd.
“Yes. It will take some getting used to. The Antinium must fight together. The Hives are always separate. But this will be a beginning. I have a plan to strengthen the Free Hive.”
Xrn struck the ground lightly. And Tersk shifted. Pivr moved his wings, uncertain, and the Prognugator of the Silent Antinium adjusted her posture. Xrn was supporting the Free Hive. It was unsettling the other Hives.
But the Free Antinium had much to offer. Xrn waved her staff.
“Come. We do not have time to waste.”
 
—-
 
A few minutes later, the Free Queen inspected the pair of Flying Antinium standing before her. And the collection of bodies on the floor.
“Armored Antinium. Two corpses of Silent Antinium. And—a variety of forms from the Flying Queen.”
Corpses. They had been brought via bags of holding. And they were neatly arranged.
Pivr, Tersk, Dekass, and the Silent Antinium’s Prognugator, Xeu, stood in front of her. They were presenting their offerings. They had come once before—not Xeu, but just a few of the regular Silent Antinium to inspect the Hive.
That time they had been rude, condescending. This time—they offered gifts. Oh, how the fortunes changed. And partly, mostly, because of Bird.
“Gifts, Free Queen of the Antinium. These forms the Silent Queen presents. For your study. Dissection.”
Xeu spoke. She was well-crafted. The Silent Queen, the best shaper among the Queens, had put a lot of effort into her form. The Free Queen saw any number of improvements. She nodded slowly.
“The gift is well-received. And the corpses from the other queens?”
For her to study and learn from. Tersk and Dekass bowed their heads.
“Likewise, Free Queen. We also present armor for your Painted Antinium.”
“Yes. For the Soldiers. It will be used. The Armored Queen is generous. But what of these living Antinium? Pivr. Speak.”
The Prognugator of the Flying Antinium spoke.
“These are her Majesty’s exceedingly generous gifts—”
He broke off as a cart trundled past him. The Flying Antinium, his body elongated, closer to quadruped than bipedal, with long wings—recoiled as a Worker slowly moved forwards.
Garry. He was pushing a cart.
“I have snacks for the guests. Acid fly tarts, a sour soup—”
“They may partake of it later, Garry.”
The Free Queen saw all the other Prognugator’s heads turning as Garry nodded and began setting up a table. Xeu’s mandibles opened and closed. Tersk and Dekass looked excited. Pivr just stared. After a moment, he went on.
“The Flying Queen has sent not only her numerous forms to study, Free Queen, but two of our brood. Here.”
He pointed at the two Flying Antinium standing with the dead. The Free Queen hesitated.
“For what purpose?”
“Live vivisection, of course. Corpses only have so much merit in understanding their function. It is a sign of the Flying Queen’s will.”
The other Prognugators stirred. There was a crash as Garry slipped in setting up his dishes. All heads turned again. And the Free Queen looked at the two Flying Antinium.
Vivisection. Of course, that was how she would learn more from living examples. It was generous—although tainted by the Flying Queen’s self-importance. She had so many different forms for her Antinium because they were all flawed. Even Pivr, one of her best works, couldn’t fly so much as jump and glide for long stretches.
Still—there was achievement in her numerous experiments. The Armored Queen didn’t do any modifications by comparison. Her Soldiers were almost identical to the Free Queen’s. But she had so much armor and weaponry; she had invested in that instead.
The Silent Queen had few Antinium, but each one was a masterpiece. The Free Queen knew she would learn the most from her peer. Yet—something bothered her.
“Vivisection?”
Garry stared at the two Flying Antinium. The [Chef] was already nervous in the presence of the foreign Prognugators. But he couldn’t help but let the word slip out. They would be—killed? Torn apart to see how they worked?
He had been in amazingly high spirits. The Free Queen had been kind to him of late. She had learned his name, given him vacations—even if he’d eaten the sour cheese and wasted some gold—and with Xrn’s return, he had truly felt things were better.
He would even be allowed to study with Erin and help with her cooking one day each week so long as he stocked the kitchen with food for the Free Queen to consume while he was gone. What more could you ask for?
But this disturbed the [Chef]. The other Antinium would die. He looked at the Flying Antinium that Pivr had so casually offered to death. Wondering what they thought.
They barely moved as they stood at attention. Like Pivr, they were more like…flies, than ants. Both were made for war. One was a Worker-type, the other a Soldier-type. And yet—while they lived and they were both functionally capable of thought and action, even without direction—Garry saw nothing.
Not brain-death. Just—emptiness. Nothingness. A resignation. They would die. It was the look he had seen in other Workers sent to fight when the Hive was invaded.
It hurt Garry. Because he knew that feeling. Before he had met Erin, he had lived it. A life without hope. You could walk into a storm of arrows because there was nothing to fear. Nothing to live for, but the Hive.
And they were going to be killed. For knowledge. To benefit the Hive. All of that made sense. But it was wrong.
The [Chef] looked at his Queen. And he saw she was troubled. A month ago, she would have happily picked apart the two Antinium right there and then.
But a change had come over the Hive. And perhaps—perhaps, yes, none more pronounced than the Free Queen herself.
For she looked at the two Antinium she would vivisect. And for a moment—they both looked like Bird. And she wondered if, given the chance, they could sing.
It was a terrible thing for a Queen to have. Compassion for her Workers and Soldiers. But it was there. Still—the Free Queen was a soldier of the Antinium.
“I thank you, Pivr. I will begin my studies.”
She felt the two Flying Antinium under her control. Pivr rubbed two feeler-legs together, smiling. And Garry could not bear it. He stumbled forwards.
“Um! My Queen! Might I ask that they be given to me? Not killed? Vivisected?”
All heads turned. Pivr’s mandibles opened and dropped at the effrontery. Xeu stirred.
“Aberration…?”
One of her scythe-blades moved and Garry froze in fear. The Free Queen raised a feeler.
“No. He is permitted to give his opinion. His rank is…unique. Speak, Garry. You would take both Flying Antinium? Why?”
So that they would not die? Garry’s mind raced. He looked around desperately.
“I could—use them? My Queen, they would be invaluable in…cooking.”
“As food?”
Pivr stared. Garry shook his head rapidly.
“No, as assistants. I am sure their live…dissection…would provide much benefit to the Hive. But perhaps they might aid cooking more. I’m uh, uh—I am working on a vertical storage system and—height-based cuisine! Like layer cakes. So high I cannot reach them myself. These…samples would be exceptional aides to me.”
“I see.”
The Free Queen sat back. She looked at Garry thoughtfully. And then she waved a feeler.
“That is indeed a very important task, Garry. And as Free Queen, I accept. The Flying Queen’s gift will be put to invaluable use. You have my thanks twice, Pivr.”
“But—”
The Flying Prognugator looked uncertain. So did Garry. The two Flying Antinium looked at him. Their…boss. And he had no idea how he would use them.
But he saw something in their gazes. And it too was familiar.
In the darkness, there was a light. Hope, such as what Erin had once given him with a chessboard. Garry bowed to his Queen.
Only Pivr was uncertain.
“But is this food—layer cakes? Is this truly better than their use as my Queen intended? I may disagree—”
Dekass looked at Pivr. Sternly, the Armored Prognugator raised one finger and shook his head.
“Be quiet. Food is very important. You do not fully understand. Yet. We must show you.”
He pointed at Garry’s spread of food. The other Prognugators looked. Pivr scuttled over to the table, grabbed a tart and nibbled. He froze and then began to gobble. Xeu appeared at the table and stared at the sour soup. She picked up a bowl cautiously.
And Garry found his first apprentices had wings.
 
—-
 
In the darkness of the dungeon, Earlia of Gemhammer lifted her lantern and gasped. Her heart was pounding. She held the warhammer in both of her hands.
She was sweating. She’d been cut twice—deeply, by claws. But her armor was thick and the cuts weren’t deep. The combat had been fierce. But brief.
The rest of her team was panting as well. They’d charged their foes—and the team of former [Miners] all had strength Skills and heavy weapons. They hadn’t been unprepared however; their opponents had arrows buried in their fur.
