The young [Innkeeper] saw Xrn glance over her shoulder. Even in this—Erin felt so strongly for Xrn. She whispered.
“I’ll try. But I don’t know what I do. I just—care.”
“Yes. You, among others, care when the other species do not. And that makes Antinium Individual. Do so. I will send the Silent Antinium, the Flying, and Armored Antinium to you. Excuse their faults. Even Pivr’s. And in return—give them Individuality. Allow them to level. Give them your power as Pawn and Belgrade and the others have. They must have it.”
The Small Queen stood in the garden. And she raised her staff towards the sunlight streaming through the ceiling. Her voice was so fond, so—almost motherly, or perhaps like a big sister’s, so affectionate, Erin nearly forgot. But then—the Small Queen went on.
“And I have heard of your power. The—coincidences. Can you find me a ship? Allies to crew it, perhaps?”
“A ship?”
The Small Queen looked at Erin. She nodded.
“If it is within your power. The people you know. Find us allies? I will reward every endeavor, every action of good faith, Erin Solstice. As I told you, here—you may name your boon. Will you not take the Free Antinium’s gold? We have enough to build your inn a hundred times over. I would give you ten thousand gold pieces if you would accept them.”
Her eyes glinted. And a bit of red, purple, and black—the color, swimming amid her eyes.
“A hundred thousand pieces if you can create in one of the Antinium a change like that of Pawn’s. He will be a glorious leader. He can heal. Even block Klbkch. Yes, we need him. We need your power. The Antinium must be powerful. Our foes are mighty. I would have an army of eight hundred thousand Painted Antinium at the least. And they would be unmatched save for  the True Antinium’s power.”
And there it was. Darkness floating amid her eyes. She turned her head.
“War is coming, Erin Solstice. Turn the Antinium into a blade. You have reservations—but I will give you what you wish. Do you wish me to enchant your inn? I have the magic for it.”
Erin Solstice looked at her. And she saw it in Xrn again, the same as when she’d met. And every time Xrn had visited.
Klbkch was one thing. Flawed, kindly—somehow a dangerous killer and her old friend at the same time. But Xrn?
She scared Erin out of her wits. Because she didn’t hide what she was. Erin licked her dry lips.
“Enchant my inn…?”
“Of course. I am Xrn. My magic is not the same as that of the three [Mages] under your roof. But I have my own enchantments. I will render each you require. Ask. If you wish me to enchant your walls—I will do so. Would you like them stronger? With the power to attack back?”
“You can do that? Just do that?”
The Small Queen turned her head.
“Naturally. I am unique as all the Centenium are. I was made for magic. And unlike Klbkch, my form remains. I am specialized, Erin Solstice. Ask and if it is within my power or that of the Antinium, it will be done.”
Erin did not. She looked at Xrn. She took a breath.
“I’m happy to have the Antinium here, Xrn. But—can’t you—I don’t want the Antinium to become a blade. Can’t you talk to Saliss? Or Chaldion? Well, he’s in the hospital. But the others…you scare the Drakes.”
The Centenium paused. She looked at Erin, kindly. And Erin sensed how old she was. Xrn smiled. But the creeping blackness in her eyes shone. Laced with silver.
“There is little to say to the Drakes, Erin Solstice. They continue to war against us, even in ‘peace’. They would not believe anything we say. And they are right to fear us. But our foe is greater than you can imagine. And I bear you no ill will. Just all the gratitude I have. But I cannot give you either reassurance.”
“Even about the Antinium turning into weapons? Pawn isn’t a weapon.”
The azure Antinium looked at Erin. She smiled. Amused.
“Ah. Erin Solstice. You see what Klbkch does not. And perhaps that is why you are so…important. But we were all made to be weapons. For victory, we will charge into slaughter itself and die. Give us what you can and perhaps some might be saved. I implore you.”
She bowed. Erin had nothing to say to that. The Antinium spoke, and Erin listened. Some things she agreed to. But the rest?
At her heart, Xrn was a warrior. She was a kindly, caring, empathetic big sister. And she had killed her enemies by the millions and walked through their blood. She would again, in a heartbeat.
That was what Erin saw. And Xrn didn’t press. She offered everything. Gold, power. And Erin took only what mattered to her. In some ways—she and Xrn had little to offer each other.
When Xrn was gone, Lyonette turned to face Erin. She hadn’t heard all of it. But she saw Erin’s face. And it was…unsettled. Few people had ever done that to Erin Solstice, so the [Princess] revised her opinion of Xrn.
“Did she ask if she could build an apartment for the Antinium again? Three hundred of them?”
Erin nodded.
“And she offered to give me thirty regular Soldiers and Workers like Bird for the inn’s staff. To do with as I pleased, for a year. My own army, because she’s sure they’ll level. She’s intense. I thought Klbkch was intense! But he’s like…soft cheese!”
Lyonette looked at Erin. And she bit her lip on how useful thirty free staff members would be, even if Erin insisted on paying them. Erin Solstice stared after where Xrn had stood.
“Why me?”
“I think she understands what you can do.”
The [Innkeeper] turned her head. And she looked tired.
“Yeah. I probably could…but I don’t want to turn them into weapons. And Xrn?”
She saw Xrn, through the doorway, standing in the inn, squatting to speak to Mrsha and stroke her head. The kindly one. Erin didn’t know who Xrn’s foe was. The Centenium had offered to tell Erin everything if Erin would swear to her cause. But it would take Erin swearing an oath. To be committed to the Antinium forever.
The cause of the Antinium. To war. Erin shook her head.
The Wandering Inn was not a place of war. It was an inn. But—if you looked at Klbkch, you saw Senior Guardsman Klbkch, Revalantor Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer. And only one of those was the monster of war.
But Xrn was all death. She saw the Antinium for who they were, with their personalities and feelings. And she cared. But she had told Erin they were meant to die, and that the cause they would die for was just, right. Unavoidable. Worth burning all the Walled Cities down for. Worth waging war against the entire world for. Something Xrn feared and hated more than her love for her people.
Erin wondered what that was.
 
—-
 
Still—Xrn got her way. The Antinium would come to Erin’s inn. Each night, in fact. They had a budget. And it was large enough to make Lyonette smile all day—and that was aside from the news that Pawn and at least a dozen Antinium would have rooms in Erin’s inn as the second and third floors were constructed.
Xrn had paid in advance. And they might double or even go three to a room, but they’d be here. Heck—she was doing great things.
And terrible. And it wasn’t like her presence didn’t affect Erin. It did—it made Erin worried. And thoughtful. Just not predisposed to support Xrn wholly.
So Erin amended her plans.
“I’m not gonna make alcohol. Too much work. I’ll just roll into phase two of my plan. It’s all related. I’m gonna borrow the kitchen, okay, Lyonette? I’m making stuff for Palt.”
The [Princess] could never follow Erin. She eyed the young woman.
“How is alcohol and the kitchen related for…oh.”
Her eyes widened. Erin blinked.
“Oh, sorry. Not Palt. Pelt! Those names are so similar, it cracks me up each time.”
She grinned. Then she pointed.
“Door! Kitchen!”
Erin walked into the kitchen. Lyonette followed her, sighing. She walked into the inn and began serving clients.
The Wistram [Mages] came downstairs. Palt, as always, had trouble navigating the stairwell.
“Move it, Palt! I’m hungry!”
Montressa complained. Beza reached out and Palt nearly bit at her.
“Push me and I’ll kick you, Bezale! I’m hurrying!”
“What’s for breakfast?”
“Eggs benedict! Get them while it’s hot! Can I borrow the newspaper when you’re done, Numbtongue? I want to share it with my friends. Isn’t it amazing?”
“Mhm.”
The Wistram [Mages] exchanged a knowing glance about the newspaper. But Palt was heading over to a table.
“I think we’ll be investigating this um, Golden Triangle thing. We’ve got orders from the top, Palt. You?”
“I’m off my leash. The Golden Triangle?”
“Yup. In Pallass. Apparently Naili wants us on it now. Something to do with, you know? The guests? Sounds like trouble, but what do I know?”
Montressa rolled her eyes as she took her plate. Beza was nodding.
“We will look into it. Quickly. Apparently, some [Lords] have joined the movement. And nations. Thousands of gold are being turned into profits.”
“I did hear about it. It sounds lucrative. Only…”
Palt’s eyes narrowed. He glanced at the kitchen and Montressa sighed.
“You do your thing. We’ll do ours.”
“Maybe I’ll just see if Erin wants to chat. Or—if she needs help. Is she cooking, Lyonette?”
“Something, Palt. If you want to help, be my guest. And if you could make some more of your saffron rice tonight? It always sells!”
Lyonette smiled gratefully at the Centaur. He trotted into the kitchen.
A few seconds later he trotted out. Beza and Montressa looked up as he went back to his plate.
“What’s wrong, Palt? Not gonna help Erin out?”
Montressa gave the Centaur a suspicious look. The [Illusionist] pulled out a smokeless cigar—he was running out—and shuddered.
“Not this time. I would, but…I can’t help with construction or tasting. Not my field.”
“What?”
Beza looked incredulous. But Palt just nodded to the kitchen. A young woman edged out. She was holding something. She lifted it and the Minotauress’ jaw dropped.
“Can I get anyone to help me taste test this?”
Numbtongue, Mrsha, and Beza all stared at what Erin was holding. Mrsha fainted onto the ground. Numbtongue slowly raised a hand. Beza looked at Montressa and grinned.
“I knew I liked this inn. I’ll help! Is it free?”
“Erin, what is that?”
The young woman grinned. Her creation, made of sin and gluttony, dripped onto the floor. Mrsha raced over like a shot out of a cannon, begging and drooling.
“A gift! I’m going to Pallass. Once I perfect the recipe.”
 
—-
 
Pallass. The City of Inventions. A glorious land that was a type of heaven for the [Engineer], the aspiring [Alchemist] or [Inventor]. A place where you could be funded to follow your passions.
Because that was what happened. Small or large, new inventions and recipes came from Pallass. And you could be granted a stipend depending on what you did.
Of course, a Walled city had so many other industries and things it supported that was only one aspect of it. But Pallass was the City of Inventions. It specialized in forging weapons, in alchemy.
Just like how Oteslia was an agricultural giant, or how Salazsar ruled the gem trade. Each Walled City specialized in a trade.
Just look at Saliss of Lights, simultaneously one of Pallass’ treasures and their disgrace. The Named Adventurer wasn’t causing trouble today. He’d sequestered himself away to teach his new apprentice some tricks. And because a strange female Drake had smashed another raid on an illicit bar the other night.
But that wasn’t the topic on everyone’s tongues. That was the [Strategists], who were right now in Zeres. And amid the hustle and bustle of the city came…poison.
Or perhaps, a kind of madness incarnate. A manifestation of chaos, like Saliss was. But if he was a known force, born of Pallass, she was an unknown quantity.
An omen you listened to by the shouting or screaming. A harbinger of doom. Had she brought the Wyverns or had the impending event drawn her? And who watched for her?
Only the wise, who had seen what might be and could be. Was that all just exaggeration?
Maybe. Or maybe not. Sergeant Kel eyed Erin as he checked her, Montressa, and Beza through the gate that led from the magical door to the rest of Pallass.
“No trouble, Miss Solstice?”
“Whaaaaat? Me? And you didn’t have to search my stuff! It’s just food! Hey, want a snack?”
Erin pouted as she hefted her rather big basket past the guards. A Gnoll was sniffing and licking his lips. Kel eyed Beza. The [Spellscribe] was walking while holding her stomach.
“I can’t believe you ate all of it. I felt sick watching.”
Montressa covered her mouth. Erin reached into her basket.
“I’ve got extras! Not the thing, but want some cookies?”
The Watch brightened. Kel, on the other hand, had heard the devil’s whispers. He looked chaos in the eye and denied it.
“No. We are on duty, Miss Solstice. Stop feeding the Watch.”
“Aw. You’re no fun.”
Erin stuck out her tongue. Some of the [Guards] grumbled under their breath, but stopped as Kel glared at them. He made a little note and sighed.
“Someone run this to the Watch House. Tell the Watch Captain on duty Miss Erin Solstice is in Pallass.”
One of the junior [Guards] looked incredulous. He, a Garuda, saluted Kel.
“Sergeant, surely we don’t have to tell the Watch Captain one Human…”
He fell silent as Kel glowered.
“Take the note. Or do you not remember the Antinium and Wyverns? She was there.”
The Watch fell silent. And they were learning. But was this force friendly or dangerous? She had toppled cities, brought low the ambitions of [Lords]. What might she get up to? But the law let her into the city. So, thus, Sergeant Kel reflected gloomily, the law was not infallible. And you wouldn’t know what happened until…
“I’m gonna go do my thing. Have fun!”
Erin Solstice waved to Montressa and Beza. The two [Mages] nodded and walked off, already headed for the Merchant’s Guild.
The [Innkeeper] on the other hand? She went about her mission. And yes—she was pulling a Xrn in her own way, but Erin didn’t like thinking of it like that. She just had her…network.
“Hey, Lorent! How’s my favorite [Sharpener]? Want a cookie? I keep meaning to thank you for finding my knife…”
Erin paused by a familiar stall and chatted with a Dullahan. He was only too happy to run her kitchen knife across his sharpening stone and chat for a moment. Just for a moment, but she headed onwards.
The young woman was beginning to know more of the city. She had plans to explore even further—but for now she headed to the nearest elevator.
“Ninth floor, please!”
She cheerfully called out with the other people waiting. The elevator attendant  glanced at Erin. His eyes widened.
“Are you the Human? The one with Bird the—”
“Nope! You must have me confused! Us Humans all look alike!”
