He stood, looking somehow even less happy than he’d appeared so far. “We could not escape this, for we have neither skills for rapid movement nor those to mask our passage. We could not kill our pursuer, for they would not pursue alone. Knives would accompany them. I have changed my thinking. We should not leave. We should return and bury the wreckage immediately. Rapid action is our only course. If our fall was seen, we are dead and there is no changing it. If it was not, there is still hope, but it burns as we stand here.”

“I find my mind changed as well,” Jamus said, rising beside Shu and touching his earlobe. “I doubt I’ll be able to Levitate any of the larger pieces, not with them being mostly metal, but I can bolster my Strength and dig.” He took his hand away to hold up a palm. “Before anyone asks, no, Levitation does not work on sand. Not unless you mean a single grain.”

“How long do we have?” Staavo asked.

“There is no way to know,” Shu said. “If patrols could be predicted, they would be of little use. Perhaps a month. Perhaps a day. Perhaps less.”

“What if we take out the Hound?” Tarny asked. “Silence them before they can report back. They won’t be in Message range out here, probably.”

Shu shook his head. “Even if the Hound somehow did not see us before we saw them, and even if we managed to kill them before they escaped, a missing scout would be noted within the day. It would only delay our discovery.” He looked toward the crash site and hesitated for only a moment before starting to walk. “We should be digging as we discuss this.”

“My favorite,” Staavo said, clambering up to follow. “Manual labor.”

“What about catching the scout, not killing them?” Tarny asked, falling into step. “Let’s say the scout lands to get a closer look, and we jump them. Then we...bribe them or something.”

Staavo barked a laugh, patting his pockets. “Shit. Left my coin in my other pants.”

“I admit it’s not a great plan,” Tarny said. “I’m just throwing out ideas here.”

“I have one, in that case,” Jamus said, his boots leaving the ground as he once more used Levitation. “I’ll look for water while you three assess the work, as we still haven’t settled that issue. Without Geomancy, I fear this will be the labor of days. It would be most fortunate if Fall turned out to satisfy our needs, but that’s not how today has gone. If there’s no water within sight, I’ll return to assist— Oh.”

“What?” Staavo asked, his voice suddenly thick with alarm.

“It is a thing,” Jamus said, lowering his voice and paddling at the air to turn himself for a better view over the dunes as he canceled his ascent. “Some type of monster. Nothing I recognize. It hasn’t seen me.”

He narrowed his eyes, taking in details in the failing light. The creature was bestial, with four legs and a three-segmented body armored by white plates of what could have either been bone or carapace. Beneath that, its skin was either black or a very dark purple, bulging with muscle at the joints. Its head was equally armored, he saw as it glanced to the side, crowned by an arrow-like plate ending in two sharp points. By overall body plan, it reminded him most of a jungle cat, but that was a poor comparison. It was really unlike anything he could put a name to.

It was a hunter, though; that was clear enough. Its motion was eerily smooth as it stalked through the wreckage, almost seeming to glide across the sand.

“What are you, an amateur?” Staavo hissed up at him in a whisper, accompanied by the soft sound of a drawn sword. “What’s its name and level?”

“I would have told you if I could see either,” Jamus hissed back as he lowered himself to barely peek above the dune. He measured up the distance again, and his frown only deepened. The thing, meanwhile, had gone still. He didn’t think it had heard them. They’d been talking much more loudly before. And yet, it was now plainly on alert.

It cannot be human unless it is a Shifter. Does the Empire employ shifters? Could it be an animal?

“This should not be a ranked zone,” Shu said. “What does it look like?”

“I— You’re about to find out!” Jamus started in a whisper, becoming a cry as the whatever-it-was quivered, then snapped its head to look in his direction. Its eyes were hidden, but he could feel them lock onto him from within arrowslit-like gaps in its bony fortress of a skull. A chill ran through him at that gaze, a nameless, primal fear running through him and shaking him in a way he could not name.

Two razor-like mandibles fell open beneath that horrible face, hinting at a yawning maw before snapping shut with a splintering clack.
