He hummed to himself but didn’t pursue the subject further. Instead, he began to pour a second cup of tea before the empty seat on his side. “In any case, getting back on subject, the grouping known as the hill tribes consisted of three major groups. There were the nomadic tribes, the settled tribes, and the mountain tribes. However…”

“However,” Ling Qi repeated, raising an eyebrow.

“This is not considered polite conversational material, but…” Meng Dan began, a twinkle of humor in his eye.

“Regional human physiology did not diverge until the introduction of beast blood,” Yinhui said, blowing softly on a cup of tea. Around the just materialized spirit, a fading silver light suffused the air.

Ling Qi pursed her lips. “You are saying the Weilu were hill tribes themselves.”

“I am saying that academic distinctions aside, there were few hard lines between the cultures of the Emerald Seas in the pre-Tsu era,” Meng Dan clarified. “There are numerous records of Weilu mingling with tribesmen, allying and warring in turns even after the Diviner’s rise. What scattered records remain show a great migration of the southlands in the face of advancing ice and the end of the dragons. It was only after arrival that differences began to show.”

Ling Qi frowned, wondering just how far that went. “Advancing ice. That sounds like it may be relevant.”

“Indeed,” Meng Dan replied, seeming delighted. He rested a hand on Yinhui’s head. In human form, she was tiny, shorter even than Li Suyin. “The mountain folk are our likely link. We have few enough records of them. It seems that they were well into decline by the time of Tsu with most of their people following the glacial ice back into the Wall. They are the most mysterious of the three groups.”

“But you have something obviously,” Sixiang drawled aloud, materializing in the chair beside Ling Qi. They leaned forward, elbows on the table. “Man, you’re theatrical. You sure you’re not one of ours?”

“He is not,” Yinhui said, not looking up from her cup.

Meng Dan chuckled, rubbing the spirit’s head affectionately. Ling Qi eyed the two of them, wondering if he was like Elder Jiao, but that didn’t seem right. She was hardly experienced in that kind of thing, but his affection seemed more like a sibling’s.

It hadn’t made her uncomfortable after all.

“I do, in fact, have something. In my own research and expeditions into the Deep Archive, I turned up a partial journal and some fragments of a treaty signed by the Successor of Tsu, marrying one of his daughters to the son of a Queen of the Frozen Sky. The journal is that of a court diviner and contains a number of observations on the young man in question and his people. I have since been able to collate further information.”

“How useful.” Ling Qi shared a look with Sixiang. She was almost certain that he was referring obliquely to a moon quest of his own. “What happened to them?”

“Unknown,” Meng Dan replied, some mild frustration bleeding away his humor. “They were a significant polity, but the next records a few centuries later refer to them as a remnant. My professors concluded that they had simply gone the way of the others, assimilated or destroyed by the cloud tribes in their southern migrations.”

“Then, your report occurred,” Yinhui said.

“Just so,” Meng Dan said. “Rather convenient, no?”

“Convenient,” Ling Qi agreed slowly. She was beginning to feel even more nervous. It seemed very much like whatever was happening, even Great Spirits had an interest.
