Something clipped Shiv's leg and sent him tumbling head over ass. He tried to activate his Pillar of Orichalcum, but a heavy object impacted the back of his head before he could get his bearings. The world briefly went white, but Shiv recovered, only to find his surroundings seemed familiar.

The Tarrasque had snatched him up in its mouth. Everything was quivering, things turning into twos and threes in his vision as things continued slamming into him over and over.

Snarled curses escaped the Deathless. He stopped time, and the Tarrasque responded by detonating its Magical Resistance. Shiv wasn't sure if it was trying to ward off someone else's spell, or just torture him in particular, but as his temporal shell shattered and pain from his mana fields being flensed anew flooded his being, Shiv cursed the great beast all the same. "Give me a godsdamn fucking second to—"

And then something caught Shiv. He found himself clutched tight—but not crushed—between massive, clawed digits. Shiv blinked as he lay against cracked lengths of obsidian, and as he turned his head, he realized the shrapnel wasn't impacting him anymore. Through the chaotic haze, despite the mana storm building in the backdrop, Shiv let out a cough of disbelief.

"M—marikos?" he stammered.

"Shiv! My little friend!" The Dragon-Knight guffawed. He sounded absolutely jubilant despite being inside the Tarrasque’s body. Lightning flashed, and brief glimpses of the sky could be seen as the tree of black lightning continued carving its way upward out of the monster’s skull. The tree flowed down to a central point, and Shiv could see Stormhalt hammering his mace against the insides of the Tarrasque's mouth with thunderous impacts. Pieces of massive teeth broke free, and the Tarrasque tore at itself with Biomancy once more, ripping its body asunder to eject the inedible things hiding within it.

Just then, an entire section of cathedral ship came swinging through the air, coming right for Shiv and Marikos.

"Marikos!" Shiv cried out, pointing at the incoming danger.

The dragon barely offered the five-hundred-meter-long piece of wreckage a second look. He swung his shield high, and he knocked the debris aside as if it weighed nothing. The ringing of bells could be heard as the ruined cathedral impacted the top of the Tarrasque's mouth, and a shockwave followed, one that Marikos promptly parried as well.

Shiv's eyes widened as he realized no force could pass through Marikos's shield, and more importantly, the shield also seemed to displace energy back toward the direction it was facing. As such, Marikos was rebounding burst after burst of kinetic energy inside the Tarrasque, and the wounds lining the creature’s insides got worse with each passing second.

"I'm glad to encounter you here, my friend!" Marikos shouted. For a creature almost half a kilometer long from head to tail-tip, he moved impossibly quickly. He was only slow compared to Hawgrave and the Tarrasque, but to Shiv, he might as well have been lightning itself. Nothing came close to touching them, not with Marikos's skill in wielding a shield. "I grew weary of being ambushed from behind by this oversized curr," Marikos explained. "And so, when Legend Hawgrave left a gap between the beast's teeth, I dove in along with a Lance of my bravest knights."

A screaming automaton came at them at that moment. Marikos parried it as well, and the poor mechanical Pathbearer burst into sparking pieces. "I will remember my fallen brethren. They were most heroic, and their dying screams as they were melted in the Tarrasque's stomach acid were most noble."

Shiv was momentarily speechless, and then an uncomfortable thought wriggled upward inside of him. Is this what it feels like for other people when they talk to me sometimes? Did Marikos just Adam me?

"Alas, the insides of the beast's stomach are as hard as its outside, and I broke my axe-head off against its skin. A pity, a shame. I will have to dig it out of the Tarrasque's corpse after our victory to see it reforged. It was such a good axe. The story of how I acquired it is a grand one, friend Shiv. You see, when my—”

And as Shiv instinctively tried to come up with something to prevent Marikos from going on a tirade, he got an idea. And with that idea, he reaffirmed that he could never be an Adam in his own mind. "Oh, Marikos, you lost the axe?" Shiv called out as loud as he could. The red-black-scaled dragon trailed off, and Shiv didn't waste his moment. "Well, how good are you at using an unbreaking stick?"

"An unbreaking stick?" Marikos repeated, sounding confused. "But where would I find such a thing?"

And just then, Shiv grinned. "You already did." And in the Dragon-Knight's hand, a Pillar of Orichalcum manifested, resembling a stick between the massive dragon's claws.

Marikos let out a gasp of joy and surprise. "Oh!"

For the second time, a Pillar of Orichalcum rose, pushing through the Tarraque’s skull and dropping through the underside of its jaw. A loud cry of glee came from the dragon. "It is fate we found each other, friend Shiv. Fate!"

And then Marikos wrapped both hands around Shiv's pillar of Oracalcum as a wide grin lined his lizard-like features. "And it is fate that we deliver this creature unto its death."

He swung, and even with Shiv’s Toughness climbing fast, in Marikos’s hands, he was lighter than a feather.
