Alden had poked his head into the cafeteria to grab a sandwich and say hello to Kabir before holing himself away for the evening, but there had been no sandwiches left to grab. Hotel Matadero was being used as housing for the wizards who’d traveled to Anesidora to serve as the disaster response crew. They’d all stayed out and about for a conspicuously long time, and even now, there seemed to be some attempt at a polite fiction that they were all coming back to Matadero to check on it.

As opposed to crashing out in the cafeteria surrounded by empty plates, like one elderly woman Alden had spotted.

It was like it would be gauche for them to say, “My magic’s worn out, I need a nap, and my species actually functions very poorly if we go more than a couple of days without eating.

“Lind and I should move! So many pleasing empty rooms in this section. Is that the snake?” Esh-erdi walked over to the table where Tiny Snake’s plastic tub sat, looking curious.

He had hissed and emphasized the “s” in snake, so it came out sss-nake. Given that Artonan adults had much better vocal control than humans, Alden suspected he knew that snakes hissed from researching them. So he was either trying to interact with the animal itself, or he was giving the word additional color to be social and amusing.

“You would not look out of place on our planets,” he said to the snake. “I might think you were a slimeless oontsy. Did you eat the mouse? Did it eat the mouse and like it?”

Alden mentally put the likelihood that he had been talking to the snake directly a little higher.

He was probably looking forward to seeing some Earth animals, he realized. I wanted to see ryeh-b’ts when I went to the Triplanets. The facility here has to be one of the least fun places ever to start your vacation on another world.

“It seemed to enjoy the mouse very much,” Alden said, assuming that it was all right to talk over Porti-loth’s chanting since Esh-erdi was doing it. “Thank you for that. And for the calling permissions. And for the…ground from my birthplace and the tree.”

“Honeylocust.”

“What?”

“Your birth tree. I am having it sent to my house because even though there is a garden associated with your current <<dwelling,>> it’s very small and unprotected.”

Okay. The first tree that ever shaded my infant face is still alive even though they stole some of its wood for this spoon Porti-loth is massaging my ribcage with. It’s going to live on the Triplanets. Almost certainly in a knight Rapport.

This is starting to feel…Esh-erdi doesn’t know, does he?

Is this his way of nudging me toward realizing that he knows?

Next, Alden would find out that his fairy godfather here had gone to fetch his clothes and his learning cushion, and they’d been moved to a cozy little extraterrestrial location for safekeeping, too.

And then a few hours from now, he’ll say, “Alden, wouldn’t your body be more comfortable with your tree and your possessions? A growing wizard shouldn’t live too far from his birthdirt. Let’s pack you up and ship you to meet it!”

He swallowed even though his mouth was devoid of saliva.

Esh-erdi was leaning closer to sniff Tiny Snake’s container.

“Thank you for keeping those safe for me,” Alden said. “Um…why…”

“You’re thanking me for doing things that are simple and necessary for your health and well-being.  I’m the one who’s asked you to stay here at the cube for a time. How are you feeling?”

Muddy and concerned. “I’m good.”

“I also had someone obtain this for you.” Esh-erdi tapped one of his rings to a thick, brown triangle-shape that hung from his belt like a decoration. A perfectly folded Celena North uniform appeared in his hand.

Alden stared at it.

Esh-erdi tapped the belt again, and a pair of black dress shoes were suddenly in the other hand.

“There is no regular class for students at your school tomorrow. But you have a student assembly at ten o’clock.”

Alden was aware of that, since CNH had sent out an email. All students who were currently in Apex were supposed to be there, and all students who were in F were to attend by calling in.

Did he check the school website?

Alden hoped he’d checked the school website. If he’d called directly, then whoever answered him was probably freaking and trying to figure out why an Artonan general wanted to know the class schedule. Or Esh-erdi had just told them the truth, and right now, Alden wasn’t sharp enough to think through what that might do to his life.

“I’m sorry your instructors will not be teaching. You wrote an <<earnest>> essay, and routine can be <<succor>>.”

“It’s all right.” He had wanted school to start back pretty badly so that he could have the normalcy of it. “I can attend by video. And what about Ambassador Bash—”

“Bash-nor has a busy day tomorrow, which I have <<contrived>> to make busier for him.”

Porti-loth chuckled mid-chant.

“You may <<engage with>> your human peers,” said Esh-erdi. “Someone trustworthy will keep an eye and a mind on you in case Bash-nor finds a way to bother you.”

Both of his eyes flicked past Alden toward the television wall. “Or in case anyone else does.”

When Alden followed the direction of the knight’s interest, he found himself reading subtitles that said, <<And here he is again! It is impressive how quickly The Bald General broke up a fight that was giving quite a few of our local S-ranks some trouble. What a spell!>>

A couple dozen Avowed from the Bunker Street riot were all up in the air and wearing frantic expressions as their legs climbed what looked like invisible staircases toward outer space. Sandwiched between them and the subtitles, offering a red haloed woman a potion vial with one hand and casting with the other, was a tall, bald wizard so covered in tattoos that his skin looked like a circuit board.

“Did they just call him hn’tyon in their language?” Esh-erdi said in a disgusted voice. “I hope he gave them that misapprehension himself so that I can comment on the matter.”

“Joe!?” said Alden, gaping at the screen. “What’s he doing here?”

******
