Makes sense. Everyone’s busy.

The wall in front of him was giving him a view of four different channels at once. He could enlarge one and turn the volume on by pointing at it. But there was so much to take in that he couldn’t absorb any of it as well as he should have been able to.

Every newscast held a different scene of heroism, tragedy, or commentary.

As for how the disaster had happened, a story that was basically the same as what he’d heard from Zeridee and Esh-erdi was the official one. There was the addition of “a suspected link to the often-violent movement known as Superhumans at Large” and mention of the person who was likely responsible being in the company of others.

Investigations were ongoing, and names weren’t being released to the public yet.

The number of dead was confirmed at just under three hundred. Far more were injured.

When Alden first heard, he thought, Oh, that’s so good. And then he realized that his wavelength was different from everyone else’s as the faces of the victims’ families and friends kept appearing and everybody kept talking about the scale of the tragedy.

He tried so hard to feel the right things. He couldn’t quite get there.

The large number still looked small to him because of that fear he’d had in his gut that it was so much worse. Thousands. Tens of thousands. The world.

He knew it was strange, but he couldn’t stop being relieved that it wasn’t the world.

Some people were pointing out that there was nowhere else on Earth where an event that destroyed so much, so quickly could take the lives of so few. The two tips of Apex, once among the most desirable real estate on the island, looked like junkyards. There were swaths on the west and northwest coast of F-city that weren’t much better. Paragon Academy, where his roommates had attended school until recently, was gone.

But Avowed were harder to kill, and they were available for mobilization in an instant if the Triplanets wanted. And the Triplanets had wanted. A huge number of emergency orders had gone out.

Even the Anesidoran newscasters who bothered to try offering a judgment on the matter seemed to be struggling to land on opinions about the Artonans’ actions. It was a strange thing to see; the local Avowed news people didn’t often stutter and stumble. They all had voices that made you glad to listen, from buttery and soothing to bright and bubbly. No such thing as a bad hair day. Never a lack of confidence or composure.

But on Channel 6, during a show that featured a member of each of the six largest Avowed classes, the Meister had started out criticizing the Artonans for not giving the Anesidoran government a chance to organize a response on their own while the Adjuster had praised them for bypassing niceties in order to reduce the number of lives lost.

By the end of the hour, they’d exhausted most of their energy for the topic and accidentally talked each other into the opposite positions before mutually agreeing that the important thing now was to grieve and rebuild.

Earlier in the day, the President of the High Council had given a speech that focused so heavily on the contributions of Avowed who had used their powers to protect their homeland without being ordered to do so, that it had started to feel a little like she was deliberately downplaying the work of everyone who’d been red haloed. Alden went from finding the speech uplifting to being annoyed that she was trying to make a point without actually making it. But then again, he’d assumed it was a veiled complaint about the summonings, only for one of the commentators afterward to say it was an ill-timed dig at high ranks—who’d been the vast majority of the red halos—and an attempt to pander to the C and below demographic.

So what the hell do I know? Alden had thought, before changing the channel.

A few of the news shows from other countries were tastelessly trying to calculate the amount of argold the Triplanets had shelled out to issue all the orders. By law, Avowed had to be paid when they were summoned, even if they were summoned to save their own city.

Meanwhile, one of the Anesidoran stations had a counter on the screen ticking up every time they received a report of someone using their Fragile Atmosphere signing bonus. There had been an interview with a man who thought he should be given another one under the circumstances because what if something like this happened again?

Almost everyone who’d died had died by refusing evacuation, or they had died very suddenly around the time the disaster began.

The System hadn’t been able to locate individual Sinker Sender particles or perfectly predict their effects. One of the wizards who was speaking as an expert on the device was doing a good job of explaining that it was unreasonable to expect a “sound but youthful Contract” to correctly analyze vastly complex, never-before-seen magical events on the spot.

Some boats had been yanked so deep so quickly that the victims were killed in an instant. Others had been pulled down just as quickly, only to be protected by the Sinker Sender’s own magic for a while, allowing the System time to teleport the people onboard to safety or teleport help to them.

There was also dramatic footage of a melee at a shelter on Bunker Street.

Word had gone around that it was better than all of the other evacuation destinations in the area. In order to travel there, people had bypassed the safe places that had been recommended by the System, and upon arriving to find the shelter full, they had prevented the doors from closing and swarmed the entrance. Red halos had been sent in to push them back.

To add to the confusion, a small number of those people, who were being called doomsday preppers on most channels, had tried to mount an organized assault on the shelter’s defenders.

The use of violent powers from a few had tipped the many over the edge, creating an us-versus-them situation that made everyone feel like the end was nigh and they had permission to engage in a war in the streets for the sake of their own survival.

Some of the talking heads were trying to explain crowd psychology. Others were discussing how, with so many Avowed wielding weapons and having powers designed for battle, it was a wonder that serious fights hadn’t broken out elsewhere.

<<Speaking of Bunker Street, we have reports that the combat was halted by a wizard who’s becoming a familiar figure as more footage of the disaster reaches us…>>

Alden spotted a segment on the Punta de la Luna area starting up on another channel, and he switched to it.

Several times, on every show, people mentioned that this was still early days. The narrative would change. Understanding would change. Everyone was just beginning to pick up the pieces.

Around 9:00 PM, which felt much later thanks to his screwed-up brain clock, Alden fell asleep to the sound of a voice saying, “We don’t yet know how, or how much, this terrible tragedy will change things for our beloved Anesidora, but we know they will change. Tonight, I will be holding my children close…”

******

Porti-loth had Alden’s pharmacy drone wake him up six hours later. He had just enough time to rub the sleep from his eyes and get out of the bed before the wizard healer appeared, wheeling in a medical cart. Alden felt himself smile at the sight of it.

I doubt the manufacturers expected someone to build a fire on top of that thing.

The fire was smokeless, and it was heating a deep cast iron pan full of what looked like muddy reddish paint.

“You aren’t watching Kwoo-pak,” Porti-loth said disapprovingly, staring at the silent news still playing on the wall.

Was that a prescription I was supposed to follow right away? “I will soon.”

“I am going to paint your wounds with a potion brewed from the ground of your birthplace,” Porti-loth announced.

“You got ground from America?”

“Peaceful Union Birthing House.”

Alden stared at the pan. He’d gone just a tad more specific than America then.

“I regret to tell you that they didn’t record the precise location of your separation from your mother,” Porti-loth said in a truly regretful voice. “Only a building. <<Unthinkable.>>”

A lot more specific.

“Don’t worry your minds.” Porti-loth jabbed a paddle-shaped wooden implement into the potion and stirred. “This is made of wood from the first tree you would have passed under on your way out of the building.”

Should I not have been born in a building? Alden wondered. I’m sure Artonans have babies in buildings all the time.

“Hn’tyon Esh-erdi will care for the rest of it,” Porti-loth said.

“The rest of what?”

The healer looked up. “He will arrange for the <<proper storage>> of the tree and the ground.”

Several questions later, Alden finally understood that a tree and a “vehicle” full of dirt had been purchased from a birthing center he hadn’t even known the name of in Tennessee.

He means a dump truck, doesn’t he? He was now standing shirtless at the foot of the bed, holding his hand out while Porti-loth packed the deep gouge with mud.

It didn’t hurt. A perfectly normal-looking injector had taken care of that.

Somewhere, a whole tree and a dump truck full of my birthplace dirt is being stored.

Valuable personal spell ingredients. Just in case he ever needed them again.

Why?

As if to punctuate the question, one of the channels he was watching while the healer worked showed an aerial view of the neighborhood Alden had been rescued from. He was reading the subtitles with the volume off because he didn’t want to interrupt the healing chants, and the newscasters were talking about Lind-otta and Esh-erdi.

They were explaining to viewers that two of the highest ranked wizards, generals from the Mother Planet’s anti-chaos force, had been on hand for dealing with Matadero and had lent their help after the cube was secured. The scale of that help was being shown with overlays that indicated how far inland the water could have progressed without their interference.

Alden hadn’t been that far from safety when he’d nearly drowned. A line was drawn across the crescent, indicating the area where wizards and Avowed had chosen to defend against the incursion of the water. Just a few streets more, and Alden would have made it to them.

A few impossible streets.

If Esh-erdi and his partner hadn’t dealt with the massive build-up of water that had almost killed him and Zeridee, the collapse of it would have sent a megawave past the defenders’ line into parts of Apex that hadn’t been completely evacuated.

It would have forced everyone else to scramble, destroying more homes and lives.

Why is someone like Esh-erdi involving himself in all these little unimportant details for me? Alden thought. At a time like this? It’s not like it should matter to anyone else if I get dirt or my phone calls or snake food. Those things are all inconveniences for me to put up with, not crises for a knight to handle.

And Esh-erdi was handling important matters. Alden had wondered if the Artonan’s skill wasn’t at all helpful for the current problem, but according to the subtitles, he had been using magic to degrade the contaminant throughout the enormous quantities of water that his partner put on pause.

Alden watched the segment on the two knights until it ended.

It wasn’t long, probably because there was no video of the two knights actually doing magic, and saying how strong Generals Esh-erdi and Lind-otta were wasn’t as exciting as showing how badass other people looked using their powers.

It’s fine that Earth calls them ‘generals’  in English. I don’t like it as much as knight, but at least it’s establishing chain of command for chaos events through vocabulary.

The main Artonan spokesperson on Anesidoran news was Bash-nor. If a demon crawled out of the ground in downtown F right now, Alden didn't want anyone getting confused and assuming the ambassador was supposed to be the knights’ boss.

Bash-nor was largely inoffensive on camera. Alden had indulged his own bias earlier by looking for flaws, but the ambassador’s prepared statements were tidy mixes of polite condolences and facts that matched up with what most of the other Artonans were saying.  There was a lot of, “Such-and-such matter is still under consideration.”

He also looked nothing at all like Alden had pictured. Bash-nor was a small man dressed in gray who delivered the messages clearly and slowly with a hint of condescension so minuscule that it might have been imagined—he didn’t seem like someone who threw grand parties all the time and rode mechanical bulls.

<<Now let’s take a look at what happened at the intake dorms,>> the subtitles said. <<They’re all still standing and everyone there was safe, but we have another reported sighting of that very recognizable wizard who has not slept since arriving on Earth in the middle of the disaster…>>

The sound of the door opening drew Alden’s attention. When he looked over his own mud-potioned shoulder he saw Esh-erdi letting himself into the room. While Alden had been benefitting from the knight's help all afternoon and evening, he hadn’t seen him in person since just after lunchtime.

“This House of Healing is peaceful!” Esh-erdi exclaimed. “The halls around the rooms I share with Lind are full of <<pests>> now that people have decided to take their rests.”

He meant “my fellow Artonans” when he said “pests.”

