At the same time, pointing his axe at deranged Supremacies like Mox couldn’t exactly be called wisdom. Maybe the System considered his defiant Dao weaponized ignorance, so putting all points into Strength was the only thing that made sense. If so, that was fine with Zac. He’d put all his free points into Dexterity lately, and he retained a decent balance between explosive power and speed.

The attribute boosts of evolving Earthly Daos weren’t the main draw anyhow. The actual strength he could exert in battle was significantly higher. The defiant aspects of his Conflict-attuned Dao meshed extremely well with his style and other advantages, too. Zac could tell it would make his skills more durable.

Together with [Adamance of Eoz] and [Conviction of Eoz], his attacks would have a decent chance to come out on top when clashing against a superior force—within a reasonable limit, of course. His defensive skills should also be able to stubbornly endure a little longer before collapsing.

Most important to Zac’s current circumstances, successfully advancing his third Earthly Dao meant he was done. All necessary materials had been collected, and his level had reached the required threshold. The leveling pills he bought from Tavza and the Mercurial Court were both top-of-the-line. What little Pill Toxins they left behind would easily be cleared out with the Tribulation Lightning he’d just collected.

By the time [Void Heart] had finished its refinement, Zac would already have made the final adjustments to his blueprint. Shortly after, more good news came in the form of a note inside [Purity of the Void]. The tribulation had struck as normal while undergoing it inside a memory wind, and it didn’t appear to clash with any restrictions imposed on the trial.

The locals could see it, and items inside the memory could interact with the tribulation. Seeing as the memory wind remained stable, the experiment could be considered a complete success. He was ready to advance to Peak Hegemony.

If there was one regret, it was that Zac hadn’t accomplished much in the way of his soul. Advancement had become faster since inventing [Void Emperor Apotheosis], but he was still some ways from perfecting [Nine Reincarnation Manual]’s fourth layer. There was simply not enough time.

All his efforts had gone into collecting materials and preparing his blueprints over the past months. Before that, he was busy crossing the Left Imperial Expanse. Rather than steady practice and refinement, his soul cultivation had turned into a means of consolidating unnatural progress propped up by Natural Treasures he’d picked up during the trial.

Somewhat shaky foundations weren’t a detriment to his upcoming breakthrough. The stronger one’s soul, the better. Zac would need all the Mental Energy he could get to control the berserk energies he’d unleash during his final Core Ignition. But after his heart-strengthening experiences in the Mercurial Court, his soul had become his weakest link.

Thankfully, there was still time left in the trial, and he’d accumulated enough Potentiality to achieve his goals in the Mercurial Court. He just needed to figure out how much Imperial Merit the Primo’s treasure would cost him. Whatever was left could be used for his cultivation, setting the stage for Monarchy and beyond.
