The Draconian Ant’s carapace was hard to bite through. But she exerted all the force she could, and her mouth was both hard and sharp. She strained her jaw and shattered the Draconian Ant’s shell, crushing it in her mouth.

More ants crawled out of the sand, but she reached them before they could group up and dealt them the same death as before. She bit and bit and bit, taking them down one after another. Her jaw wouldn’t open when she bit down into the next carapace, stuck on the thrashing ant. Finally, she ripped herself free but found four of the creatures now closing in on her together. Despite her best efforts, they overwhelmed her with sheer numbers. She tried slapping them with her flippers, but all that did was slow their assault.

Thera squeaked in pain as they crawled up her flippers and bit into her shell. She ripped another Draconian Ant off, fearing it was all over—

You have leveled up!

[Fledgling Testudine (Mystic Turtle) - Level 0] -> [Fledgling Testudine (Mystic Turtle) - Level 1]!

Species Skill gained: [Indomitable Soul]!

Skill gained: [Power Bite]!

A voice echoed in her head. No— it resounded throughout her very being. She surged with strength. With tenacity. With agility.

It was the Voice of the World, and it gave her power.

When she slapped down at the Draconian Ants, she squashed them beneath her flippers. She grabbed another with her mouth, moving by instinct.

[Power Bite]. She felt her jaws clench with a loud snap, carapace and flesh crunched between her beak-like mouth, the ant dead in an instant with dark blood seeping from the large wound. After all the effort it’d taken before— it now came easy. She chomped the Draconian Ants down and flicked them off her body. More crawled from the sand, but she sped past them. She was faster now too, and they couldn’t keep up with her.

Thera panted as she neared the sea. Her gaze naturally drifted to her surroundings, looking over at her brothers and sisters. Their numbers had dwindled even further— only a quarter of them were left. But now they fought back.

The other baby Mystic Turtles must have had the same thought as she. They all understood they’d have to fight to earn their escape. And fight they did. They trailed after Thera, following her lead, drawing closer and closer to their salvation.

The sand beneath Thera’s flippers was moist now. The Draconic Ants were far behind her, and the Grim Lizard was even further back. A Sandtrap Crab ambushed her, but she easily snapped off its claw with a [Power Bite].

Thera made it. The tide gently poured in for her as she readied herself to embrace its safety. She was going to escape—

And Thera found herself in the air a moment later. She heard a shrill screech right next to her. She looked down as she flew over the sea, her brothers and sisters far behind. A Clawed Pelican had scooped her up, carrying her with its clawed feet.

She looked up in terror as she realized what had happened. Thera desperately struggled, but the Clawed Pelican wouldn’t loosen its grip. It eyed her ravenously, and a desperate thought moved her.

Die…?

The thought wasn’t able to properly form in her mind. She bit down at the Clawed Pelican’s legs. The monster cried out in pain as her [Power Bite] closed upon the tendons in its leg. Its claws jerked open, releasing her while still a hundred feet in the sky. The world whirled around Thera as she dropped like a rock.

Don’t die—

It was no longer just instinct; Thera felt something burgeoning within her. A desire. She saw the beach in the distance, her brothers and sisters mere specks on the sand. The blue water rapidly approached her, and she closed her eyes.

I don’t want to die.

Her body shone. A golden aura covered her. It highlighted her fringes, acting almost like a second shell.

[Indomitable Soul].

It protected her, shielding her body. And she crashed into the water. Hard.

Author's Notes:

FYI, this story has me dabbling into third person omniscient.

CHECK IT OUT AND GIVE IT A RATING!

Thera (A Monster Evolution LitRPG) | Royal Road
