“Hey, Gus!” Alden was relieved to see the man safe and well. He was sitting in a huge massage chair, and over the top of it, Alden could see the living room of what looked like a very swanky apartment. “I’m glad you’re okay. Actually, I wanted some advice about clothes for trips to the Triplanets. If you don’t mind and you have time to talk.”

He ended up getting not only a talk but also an appointment to go shopping with Gus on Saturday.

“Aren’t you in F-City?” Alden asked. “How will we meet up?”

He didn’t expect to have The Nine-edged Son forever.

“Money,” said Gus.

I guess that works, too.

******

He went to sleep that night watching the news and thinking about how just a short while on another world had taken the edge off all the stories.

There were a few intelligent species out there that couldn’t, or wouldn’t think beyond their own local scale. Humans were supposed to be good at it. When they chose to be.

On the universal scale, all of this is nothing, he thought, watching a recreation of the events that were confirmed to have taken place on the boat that sped underwater toward Matadero on Friday night.

On the global scale it’s a worrying accident.

There had been a lone survivor—a high school girl, a Sway, who had stowed away on the ship. Alden had met her once. No doubt some of his classmates had gone to school with her for years. She had given no interviews and was said to be cooperating with both Artonan and Anesidoran authorities. The statement released by her family begged for privacy and understanding: “Our daughter Mina has no affiliation with Superhumans at Large. She has been struggling with class regret. You all know how confusing the months after selection can be.”

The girl’s uncle had given an interview, laying into Mina’s parents for pressuring her to choose Sway. They were both Sways, and according to him, they insisted on all of their children being part of the community.

On the national scale, it’s a disaster.

Mina was being regarded with suspicion despite officially being held responsible for nothing more than an escape attempt. In contrast, Maricel Alcantara was being hailed as a model citizen—a globie who had overcome an understandable period of homesickness to begin building a bright, Anesidoran future for herself.

Instructor Fragment and Principal Saleh had both praised her for her immediate action. The video of Maricel’s eyes widening and her running away from the obstacle course to go report the runaways had been leaked. Supposedly.

Alden was sure that if it hadn’t leaked, it would have been shared by the school anyway. The spin they were putting on Maricel wasn’t just positive, it was heroic.

The former Ghosten admired how well she’d adjusted to school and spoke of the difficulty of betraying a friend’s trust for the sake of doing the right thing. Fragment asked everyone to respect Maricel’s privacy and understand that she was devastated her warning hadn’t done any good.

“She’ll be helping me with clean-up for a few weeks,” said Fragment, giving off that easy strength and calm candidness that Alden liked about her. “I hope some hard work will help her take her mind off the terrible way it all played out. It’s us adults who failed, not her. If you see us around your neighborhood be sure to give us a smile and a wave. It’s a tough lesson to learn that you can’t save everyone, and she’s getting it too soon in her career.”

Alden thought it was great that they had Maricel’s back and were making sure she didn’t get fed to the wolves for something that wasn’t her fault. Probably, the hard spin was a necessary part of that. But watching it play out when he was a little too in-the-know was strange.

All the inconvenient truths about Maricel were being carefully reframed, and all the convenient ones had been polished and gilded.

The Maricel everyone was talking about was not the conflicted one who had confessed to Alden outside Rosa Grove Mall that she was worried she might have ruined her friend’s chances of an escape needlessly. And there was definitely no mention that she had been trying to come up with safer ways for him to escape for at least a couple of weeks before the accident.

One Brute, interviewed in the street while she hauled a roll of wet carpet to a disposal truck, said she hoped SkySea Guard would formally apologize to that sweet Ground Shaper girl.

“She did everything right, treated Anesidora like her home even though she’s only been here three months, and they dropped the ball.”

SkySea was catching hell for having advance warning and failing to find the boat in time.

Public opinion about the doomed vessel’s passengers was more of a mixed bag. But the fact that there was a boat with a dangerous magical device on it in the first place had to be someone’s fault. So far, Orpheus Velra and SAL were taking the lion’s share of the blame.

The man who had reportedly turned the boat toward the cube was in his late fifties, though he didn’t look it in pictures. Acquaintances described him as a little peculiar since he’d come back from a long assignment on the Triplanets years ago, but overall, they thought of him as a harmless person.

A few people said that he was scared of the cube. One of his neighbors said he was a kind, shy man and blamed the captain of the boat for manipulating him. “He saw a powerful Avowed who was easy to use, and he thought he’d take him to those SAL lunatics like he was a living weapon. Will was as strong as any A-rank Object Shaper I’ve ever met, and he’d do just about anything for you if you asked him to lend a hand. Those people murdered him. He’s a victim more than anyone else on that ship.”

That wasn’t a popular take, but, maybe because Alden had a lot of empathy for people who came back from the Triplanets feeling jumpy about demons, hearing it drained what was left of his anger.

As for the others, it was too unclear what they’d thought in the hours leading up to their deaths. Mina’s wizard-confirmed testimony gave them a lot of details about what had happened on the boat, but that was the last domino in the line. And nobody could seem to figure out where and why the first had fallen. Orpheus Velra didn’t remember, and Jacob Moore couldn’t talk.

Here, on the national scale, it’s a disaster, Alden thought. And it’s political tinder in other countries.

All the American channels wanted to talk about was the fact that Jacob was formerly American, and his father was a Presixter. Basically, they were the flavor of alien-hater who thought deleting the System, severing Earth from the rest of the known universe, and rolling back the timeline to 1959 was the only way to make life “truly human.” Pretty fringe stuff.

Alden saw that clip of the Jacob’s mother again. They kept playing it—the one where she failed to hold back tears while pleading with people to believe that her son wasn’t a killer.

He turned the television off.

On the personal scale, he thought, it’s a tragedy.

The distance and angle from which you observed a moment changed the story. Like when he’d been shown the different views of himself on that rooftop, about to be crushed by the wave.

He wondered what the Primary thought of it all, if anyone had even decided to bother him with the news yet.

He wondered what was going through Maricel’s mind. He’d sent her a simple, “Hope you’re all right,” and she’d answered with an equally simple. “I’m okay. Thank you.”

He wondered about Joe and Principal Saleh and Esh-erdi.

He even wondered about the wizard who had decided, for some reason, to make a more powerful, longer lasting Fragile Atmosphere than their people’s Contract with Earth required. That was what the Artonans said had allowed Mina to survive—magical craftsmanship beyond the standard. One of the SAL members on the boat who’d used her own signing bonus hadn’t made it.

What scale was that wizard thinking on? What angle were they looking from?

It could have been anything.

‘I am saving someone’s life. I am showcasing my pride as a craftsman and an Artonan. I am following the path of higher onus.’

Or, maybe, ‘I am thinking about the universe and how fragile all of us are. One day, the Avowed who wears this might be needed.’

******

“Succotash?” Alden stepped out of the elevator onto the floor of the hospital where Porti-loth’s makeshift healing grove could be found. He was going to return the potion thermos to the healer with his thanks and never speak to anyone of the giant fart that had scared him awake from a peaceful slumber at four AM.

I needed to get up early anyway.

He’d decided that having a special diet tilted him farther into the “bring a side dish” category than not. And he kind of wanted to make it feel like a real holiday.

“It looks like it’s vegan if you leave out the bacon grease,” Connie said. She was on the sofa with a bottled coffee in one hand and her mother’s recipe book in the other. Alden had woken her up and asked her to look through it for him. “Lima beans, corn…”

“Yummy?” Alden asked.

“Looks like it to me.”

“Thanks, Aunt Connie. Send me a picture of it. Happy Thanksgiving, and…good luck with that mac and cheese you’re making.”

The picture came less than a minute later, and he stopped walking down the hall to study it. A handwritten recipe from my grandmother.

With a couple of stains on the paper and a note about how simmerblue would be good if you didn’t like sage or thyme, it looked like an artifact from someone else’s life.

And what the heck is simmerblue?

Alien import probably. They went in and out of fashion.

I won’t be using that, thanks. Earth food only for the next couple of—

A small gasp made him look around.

An Artonan had just opened the door of the last room he’d passed. She was wearing a scratchy-looking, knitted, knee-length sack, with things that were either nuts or rocks stitched onto it. A Porti-loth creation, if Alden guessed correctly. Her long purple hair had been shaved off, but it had already grown out a couple of inches.

“Zeridee!” he said. “I’m so happy to see you. Finally. Are you all right?”

For a second, he worried this reunion was going to be a repeat of the situation with Ro-den. Zeridee looked alarmed at the sight of him.

But then she threw open the door and bowed low. “Alden Ryeh-bt, I am so sor—“

“Don’t do that!” an angry healer’s voice sounded from the “grove” down the hall. “Stop it! Stop shaking your brain!”

Zeridee righted herself. Slowly. Then she glanced down the hall with a frown.

Assuming there was some kind of monitoring spell allowing Porti-loth to watch the hall, or maybe just mundane tech, Alden held up the thermos. “I brought this back. Thank you for the potion.”

“Keep it!” shouted Porti-loth. “Humans made it in Tennessee. Like you were made. Drink from it often.”

At this rate, I’m going to start wondering if everything that wasn’t made in one specific U.S. state is slightly unhealthy for me.

“You were going somewhere,” Zeridee said to Alden. Her English was as good as he remembered, though he’d spoken so much Artonan to Artonans over the past couple of days that it sounded odd. “I’m sorry to interrupt you on your way.”

Alden waved his new thermos. “I was just returning this and thanking Porti-loth and apologizing to Porti-loth for my bad food choices again—”

“You should apologize!” Porti-loth announced.

“—and hoping I might catch a glimpse of you, actually. They told me you would be all right, but I wanted to see for myself. And…say hello.”

Ask you if you’re mad at me for being so stubborn. Apologize for what you went through. Thank you for saving me in the greenhouse.

She was blinking at him. Her brown eye rings were gone. He wondered if Porti-loth was against artificial implants while he was doing the whole traditional nature healing thing.

“I’m well,” said Zeridee.

“Ha!” Porti-loth shouted.

Zeridee sighed. “Would you like to come in? My room is not the most comfortable place for a meeting, but—”

Alden was already stepping toward the door.

She stood aside and let him enter. The hospital room was similar in layout to his own, but many of the furnishings were made of organic materials. The bed was wood. The table was, too, with a circle of cloudy crystal set into the top that reminded Alden of the class trading table in the consulate.

He stood beside it while Zeridee stood with her back to the door. They didn’t speak for a few moments.

Alden caved to the awkwardness first. “I didn’t have much to say,” he admitted, turning the thermos nervously in his hands. “Just…I’m sorry if me being stubborn about staying with you made everything worse in the end. And thank you. For protecting me from those guys who tried to steal the flyer.”

Looking at her now, he couldn’t quite believe she’d done it.

“I’m the one who should apologize,” said Zeridee. “If I had prioritized your safety over your emotions—”

“No. I think we were right to let me choose those priorities for myself,” Alden said quickly.

Knee-jerk reaction. She had seemed to be on the verge of drugging him and stuffing him into the flyer at one point. “But I’m very sorry if I got it wrong. I was trying hard to do the right thing, but it went so bad.”

There was another long silence.

“Those men….” Zeridee said.

Are sleeping, thought Alden. How many times had he heard her voice repeat the phrase?

“Those men should not have been there,” she said.

Alden looked into her eyes. They were focused. Serious.

