“Oh MY GOD, Min-Jun!” “URGGGH—” “Holy cows, he just went there.” The group grew so clamorous that a few of the university students started giving them dirties.

“Sorry, Min, I am a bit preoccupied for the foreseeable future,” Eppie shot the boy down like C-RAM downing a drone during the mid-2020s Gulf War. “I appreciate the effort, though. I really do.”

“Hahaha…” Min-jun fell from the chair as if struck by a bullet in the chest. She pulled him back up.

“Did anything weird happen when I went away?” she asked. “Or did the disappearance of Eppie Fontaine faze no one?”

“Actually,” Chelsea leaned in once more. Clearly, she was the gossiper of the group. “Did you hear about the Junior year scandal over winter?”

“Come on…” Eppie pointed at herself.

“Oh yeah, sorry,” Chelsea self-course-corrected. “So, have you heard of the name Luciana Mio? Luci for short? She would be a Senior now if she had stayed.”

“Nope,” Eppie shrugged. “But I am all ears.”

“Alright, so, late January this year, they announced the casting call for the Senior Final Project. It’s a postmodern Taming of the Shrew, with a gender-bent twist. Mr Cooper’s producing it. He got a friend from the Roundabout Theatre Company to fly down to direct it. It was all very happening. The role selections were announced, and Petruchio was given to Luciana Mio in the audition, probably because the new Director doesn’t give a shit about our local politics, Mio thrashed our local celebrity, Valorie Sanders.”

Valorie Sanders. Eppie noted. The plot thickens yet again.

“Is that a scandal?” Eppie asked. “Rich girl beaten by… a poor? Talent trumps privilege? How un-American?”

“HA!” Chelsea gave her a look of smug superiority. “Why would that be interesting? You see, Sanders was dead set on that role for some reason. Her Dad had contributed god knows how much money to the production, and now his daughter’s going to play second fiddle? That’s crazy, right?”

“There was this whole hoo-ha about Cooper picking Luciana,” Min-jun explained, having recovered from being shot in the heart. “You know, Mr Cooper’s big on the whole social inclusion thing. Luciana’s family are refugees from Peru, they’re Nikkei, you know? Peruvian Japanese? They came over during the unrest in Lima, certified refugees. They rented a hole-in-the-wall joint in K-Town, selling Peruvian chicken… I know them because that’s some damn good chilli chicken—”

The boy paused, suddenly noting her massive tray of fast food. "Aren't you meant to be poor or something, Eppie?”

“No, not really,” Eppie waved the boy away like swatting a fly. “Chelsea, continue.”

“Okay, okay. So, the Sanders family made a hoo-ha, Mr Cooper told them to buzz off. Principal Burton said he’ll CAN the whole production if Pay2Play folks interfere again. That got VP Thomas into a real tizzy. Sparks flew in the Admin building. The Chairs take sides. All of LAPA trembles.”

“Yo,” Min-jun interrupted the flow again. “Eppie, aren’t you living with the Pay2Play folks right now?”

“SHUT UP!” Lucy snapped at the young man. “I want to hear this, too. I’ve never heard of this part.”

“Then… Luciana disappeared."

“What?” Eppie almost swallowed her straw. “Someone tossed her off a boat?” Into the Santa Monica Bay?

“What? No! Don’t be ridiculous,” Chelsea’s eyes narrowed. “They say that Luciana had er… affairs outside of school. She either got sick from a you know what, or was… You know what. And she kind of just stopped coming to school. They ended up giving the role to Valorie.”

“Egh—” Eppie tried her best to imagine what might have befallen this “Mio”.

“And that kicked off the scandal,” Chelsea’s brows wiggled. “Rumours were going craaaaazy. People were writing fan fiction about Valorie’s revenge. Some say her boyfriend threatened Luciana. Some people were saying that Luciana actually died. Her parents’ shop closed around the same time, so people think her boyfriend might have threatened Luciana’s mum and pops. Or had them deported. It was kind of a big deal. Took months to finally die down. In the middle of all this, I guess no one noticed you were gone, haha…”

“The play was a great success, though,” Chelsea continued. “Valorie got scouted by a theatre company. She was on several TV shows before Spring Break. I heard there are movie roles after she graduates. She’s also doing music with a studio somewhere. It’s all very amazing. I love her.”

“Is Valorie popular?” Eppie asked carefully. “Is she an institution?”

“Oh, Val’s a household name,” Min-jun’s eyes glazed over. “She has the best stuff. Did you know she drives a Lexus convertible?”

“Once, she brought a Birkin bag to school, and the staff freaked out,” Lucy added with sagacity. “She’s been confined to LVs only. They even changed policy to be not liable for loss of luxury goods.”

The girls sighed wistfully. The boys for entirely different reasons.

Eppie’s eyes twitched. Somewhere south of 2029, their AI-based conglomerate fund could have purchased Hermès twice over and had change left for Dior. Unfortunately, for someone who could not accrue personal wealth, material clout was out of the question.

“Where does she usually hang out?”

“Oh…” Chelsea shook her head. “I wouldn’t do that. They have their own practice rooms in the Old Music Building. Val’s Dad is hugely influential. I think he’s a politician.”

“He’s a state legislator,” Min-jun rolled his eyes. “Come on, do your homework.”

The wannabe K-pop idol met her eyes again. It would seem that Min-jun was a very flirty, very persistent child. “Did you know he’s responsible for LAPA’s expansion a few years back? Those apartments you call home, he pushed for those to be built. Our new theatre? He voted for the budget to be released. That’s why no one messes with her, William or no William.”

Eppie was beginning to see where the story was going. Life was strange, but business was clichè. “Let me guess, Chen’s family is in construction. The new buildings are tied to the company. There are rumours Mr Sanders is moving into the private industry as a consultant once he retires.”

The theatre kids looked at her strangely. “What? No. Chen’s her overprotective boyfriend,” Chelsea said dreamily. “He looks like a Japanese Popstar.”

Oh yeah. Eppie slapped herself. She was still dealing with kids. Theatre kids. The kids are least likely to know the dirty secrets of the congressional bodies and their soiled laundry of ill-gotten cash flows used for campaign finance. Once her AP exams were done, it was time for some FOI requests.

It was also time to bid her friends goodbye. Thus far, she could see these were good kids, full of vim and hope. It would be nice if she could give them a hand in achieving their dreams.

Like an old midwestern matron, she slapped her knees. “Whelp—I better get going. I got some tests happening at Salazar Hall.”

Lucy burst into laughter. “Why do you sound just like my dad?”

“Show some respect, young lady!” she growled, then burst into laughter herself.

It was good to be young.And it was good to be among the young. The guileless joy was, for an old soul like herself, balm for the weary soul.
