Spiritual Steel collided with Plated Domain, and this Sovereign could do naught but brace as the impact sent him hurtling through the air once more.

Righting himself over a hundred metres away from where he began, this Sovereign Healed his cracked teeth and lamented the waste, for these injuries were not from the force of the blow itself, but of his own doing as he clenched his jaws in an effort to stymie his rage and indignation. The Razor’s Edge must be maintained at all times, lest a single mis-step send him plummeting into a pit of calamity and catastrophe, but holding fast to True Balance was easier said than done. The Heavens conspired against him, sought to ruin him in his hour of triumph with trials and tribulations aplenty, for they feared what he now represented. The first nascent immortal in all history, one with wisdom enough to appropriate the Energy of Creation and Destruction for himself and all the time in the world to slowly comprehend it. A threat the Heavens could not ignore, for this Sovereign possessed potential enough to soon overthrow them.

Hence the Heavens’ efforts to ruin this Sovereign time and time again. How else to explain all these setbacks and failures? This Sovereign spent centuries setting up his pieces so that he could overturn the board in one, swift motion, yet a single confluence of chance and calamity rendered all his efforts for naught. Though his efforts to subvert the leaders of the South failed due to their primitive veneration of Spiritual Beasts, North, West, and Central should have fallen to his schemes, and would have if not for the timely emergence of an Elemental Spirit of Water. Falling Rain would have succumbed to his innermost desires and become a puppet for this Sovereign to claim, with Sanshu and the North alongside him. Without the North to support them, South would have refused to come to Central’s aid and both provinces would have soon fallen to this Sovereign’s armies, and then his true war against the Emperor could finally begin.

The loss of a single pawn, seemingly inconsequential at the time, yet one which proved most pivotal in the end, for this single, inconceivable and unforeseeable event set into motion the beginnings of this Sovereign’s defeat.

No, not a defeat, merely a new obstacle in his Path, one he would eventually overcome in time. Even this latest turn of events was merely a setback, a stumbling block upon his Path to True Divinity. An error of judgement made in the heat of the moment, bestowing Insight upon his Chosen and Defiled in so open and obvious a manner, for in doing so, this Sovereign gave Falling Rain the knowledge needed to replicate that same feat. The boy himself had been a threat, but not an immediate one until he sacrificed half his formidable soul to bestow Insight upon his allies, a deed he only knew was possible because this Sovereign demonstrated it beforehand using Spectres in place of his own soul. Was this perhaps fate then, a cosmic balancing of the scales in response to this Sovereign’s manipulation and exploitation of natural law, or merely Falling Rain demonstrating his uncanny and unconventional genius once more? Difficult to say, but this was not the time or place for such philosophical musings, for Akanai of the Bekhai was a most formidable foe to be reckoned with now that she’d Ascended to Divinity.

The next attack arrived without warning yet again, and again, this Sovereign could only grit his teeth and bear it. Although her Ascension could only be considered flawed and mediocre at best, her attainments made in the throes of Insight were nigh unmatched, for now she possessed a Weapon Intent that even this Sovereign had no name for. A powerful tool in the hands of a preeminent Warrior, and it frustrated him to no end to see her grasp its essence so easily. This was a higher-order Energy that surpassed the power of Creation and Destruction both, a convergence of forces in perfect harmony colluding to create something far greater than the sum of its parts. Simple in theory, but infinitely complex in practice, for there were limitless combinations of forces that could be put together in an incalculable number of ways, but only a fraction of a fraction of those complex constructs would ever prove to be of any use, and Akanai of the Bekhai now wielded a nameless Intent many times more powerful than the boy’s Sword Intent.

For she was no beardless boy of two decades, but a Warrior standing at the Peak of the Martial Path with centuries of experience behind her, which made her more of an immediate threat than even ten Falling Rains.

To make matters worse, not only was her Weapon Intent comparable and even arguably superior to the Death Energy this Sovereign stumbled across in his studies, he had yet to even master this power himself. Against his foe, he felt like a man wielding a sharp stone or hefty stick, something he picked up and used against his foes without any real understanding of combat, but his opponent here today hath forged a weapon capable of killing him with ease. For his current purpose however, it was enough to use his Death Energy to negate Akanai’s Weapon Intent, but where her power stemmed from a lifetime of war and conflict with weapon in hand, this Sovereign’s Death Energy was secured through alternative means. Rather than derive it himself using the Energy of the Heavens as a base, this Sovereign merely scavenged Death Energy from the bodies of the dead, wherein those corpses were broken down and processed by the few Transcendents he still had left with him. Thus, his Death Energy was finite while Akanai’s Weapon Intent was born of her body, mind, and soul itself, meaning her comprehension and therefore her strength was increasing with each and every strike.

So if this stalemate should continue with this Sovereign only able to defend, then his defeat was only a matter of time.

Another blow landed, and again, this Sovereign defended himself as best he could, but he knew that the moment he recovered his footing, Akanai would attack once again and leave him no chance to react. As if bearing Weapon Intent was not enough, the damnable woman was also too fast to be tracked by eyesight, but he sensed her movements all the same. Balance on Windy Leaf merged with Pierce the Horizon to move faster than the speed of sound itself, a simple concept brought to new extremes by the sheer power of Will. The burden of weight and pressure the woman must endure in order to deliver such a strike was mind-boggling to even fathom, yet she endured them all the same without blinking an eye. Not entirely through resilience of body but largely ingenuity of mind. Domain Deflection and Resonation to shunt and dampen the weight of resistance placed upon her, as well as a copious application of Honing to cut through the invisible barriers of the air itself, and those were merely the mechanisms which this Sovereign could perceive. There were many more forces at work here, the mysteries of the Heavens unravelling within Akanai’s mind to help her make sense of her lifetime of accumulation, all thanks to the ‘noble’ sacrifice of Falling Rain.

Most aggravating, the boy’s ability to render his soul palatable for all to partake and open up a channel to the Heavens Above, a skill this Sovereign yearned to claim for his own. Though capable of utilizing Spectres in a similar manner, the difference was as staggering as night and day. It was a matter of Intent, or rather the lack thereof. The Spectres demanded surrender in order to do their work, but those discarnate entities of discarded emotions were incapable of working together as one, while even the weakest-willed mortal would struggle once they realized their eternal souls stood upon the precipice of oblivion. Thus, there could be no united Intent with the Spectres in control, and no true surrender from any suitable host, but Falling Rain side-stepped these challenges with compassion and self-sacrifice, as well as a helping hand from his Imperial Servant’s sublime mastery of the Dao of Music.

So many elements coming together to deny this Sovereign his victory, it was almost enough to drive a lesser man into a mindless rage…

The boy knew not what he was giving up, that was the only reasonable answer available, else how could he so willingly risk his eternal soul so haphazardly? Though capable of growth and restoration, a soul was not without limit, and Falling Rain had extinguished the better part of half his divided soul, and even this Sovereign was uncertain if there would be long term repercussions from this act. That being said, the results spoke for themselves, for a single infinitesimal fraction of Falling Rain’s soul was all it took to raise Akanai to a false Divinity, a barbaric Half-Beast burdened by bestial instincts who only knew how to view the Dao from the perspective of a ruffian and hooligan. In contrast, this Sovereign had yet to even hear of a single instance in which Spectres drove their host to Ascension, for even Monk Vyakhya had surrendered by choice, which was no true submission. Admittedly, Akanai was an exemplary Martial Warrior, and her success largely hinged upon her own developments, for not every beneficiary of Falling Rain’s Natal Souls Ascended in turn. Even the formidable Gongsun Qi was unable to Ascend when presented with the same benefits, though his achievement of generating an Elemental Blessing had been considered a rousing success in this Sovereign’s earliest experiments.

Yes, yes, the fault lay not with this Sovereign himself, but his limited pool of lacklustre test subjects, meaning Falling Rain’s successes were not all his own. Most beneficiaries of his efforts here in Shi Bei squandered the opportunity presented to them in order to merely Develop a Domain, truly casting pearls before swine, and it infuriated this Sovereign to imagine the heights he could reach in their place. To think, he’d come so close to securing so vast a quantity of the boy’s soul only to be thwarted by his inexplicable armoury of powerful Dharmic Icons, more proof of the Heavens working against this Sovereign’s interests.

A wisp of warning flashed through this Sovereign’s mind even as his body moved aside, the flashing sword glancing off his Plated Domain which saved him from certain death. Yet another newly Ascended False Divinity to deal with, most irksome indeed, but though Jeong Hyo-Lynn was recognized as the Sword Saint of Central and a formidable warrior indeed, her understanding of the Dao paled in comparison to Akanai’s. How laughable, for the so-called Sword Saint to be lacking Sword Intent, and this Sovereign could hardly conceal his disdain as he backhanded her across the face instead of dodging her next attack. Wracked with Death Energy and without any defense against it, the newly Ascended Sword Saint’s sword glanced off this Sovereign’s defenses even as she plummeted from the skies and crashed into the sands below, where she was set upon by the Ancestral Badger Shih Yang.

Putting the fallen ‘Saint’ out of mind, this Sovereign readied to meet Akanai’s blow once more, but the formidable woman had used this moment of distraction to Conceal herself from his senses. Frantic to find her before she struck again, he extended his Domain out in all directions, only to choke back a snarl of fury and disbelief as Akanai drove her weapon through Shih Yang’s chest as she readied to deal the killing blow to a defenseless Sword Saint. How regrettable a loss, and just like that, this Sovereign lost yet another Divinity, a powerful ally who’d been with him almost as long as his first Disciple Mataram YuKon, who was currently embroiled in a bitter exchange against the Ancestral Monkey. The Bristleboar Divinity still stood strong, fighting off the Ancestral Bear and Tiger both, but while he was in no danger of death, his married foes were similarly safe from harm as neither side possessed strength enough to deal a killing blow. The recently Ascended Nian Zu raised spirits aplenty as he crashed into a Defiled Divinity, one so beholden to the Spectres that the madman hardly even noticed when this Sovereign took control. The Bulwark of the North was a Warrior of considerable experience however, a man who was infinitely close to unravelling yet another Intent as he hammered at his foe, and the former Defiled Chieftain was fast losing courage and determination both, ready to flee at the first chance in spite of this Sovereign’s commands.

And then the Stag Divinity died, rent apart by the Old Wolf in a display of ferocity unmatched as he revealed his mastery of Claw and Fang Intent for all Shi Bei to see. Setting his sights upon the Mammoth Divinity, the Old Wolf set to bloody work once more, and this Sovereign could only grudgingly admit that his ally was not long for this world, and this battle all but lost. Before today, there was not a single individual in all the outer provinces capable of wielding an Intent, but now there were three here in Shi Bei. If this was not proof enough of the Heavens conspiring against him, then there was no convincing argument to be made.

