The tides of war shifted far too quickly for this Sovereign’s tastes, with his chances of victory fast approaching nil. A battle between Divinities could last for days, weeks, or even months if the participants were enthused enough, but such a stalemate required both sides be evenly matched. With two Divinities in possession of formidable Intents on the battlefield, it was akin to giving Martial Warriors Spiritual Weapons to wield, and this Sovereign’s allies lacked the means to defend themselves. It was always easier to kill than defend, and the balance of power had long since tipped over towards the defenders of Shi Bei. Though his army might still overwhelm the mortal defenders and slaughter them to the last, there was no benefit to be gained from occupying Shi Bei, and this Sovereign had no plans to do so even if it were otherwise. No, it was long past time to withdraw, for his allied Divinities would not hold for long once they realized they could not stand against the Old Wolf and Akanai both, so it was best if this Sovereign departed ahead of the panicked crowd.

Every failure and setback could be laid at the feet of Falling Rain, and this Sovereign’s rage knew no bounds as he eyed the damnable youth one last time. What he saw stopped his feet in place, for the boy’s Life Energy was all but spent during his mass sacrifice of Natal Souls, and now what remained was no longer able to contain the Death Energy this Sovereign inflicted upon him. A mistake then, fleeing from their battle in the Void so quickly, for the boy would have succumbed in time, but how was this Sovereign to know it? A lack of comprehension is what caused this misstep, for if he had a better grasp of Death Energy, he would have sensed the boy’s ailing plight much sooner. A most frustrating missed opportunity, but this Sovereign had only recently uncovered the existence of Death Energy in the last half-century, an unexpected discovery made during his collaboration with the Bristleboar Divinity, and he had yet to unravel the secrets behind its application. Prior to this, he’d been working on comprehending the mysteries of Elemental Blessings with little to no success, which was why he kept all his Blessed Transcendents while sacrificing the rest. Gen’s Blessing of Earth’s Fire, the Abomination’s Blessing of Water, The Confessor’s Blessing of Blood, these were but a handful of the vital Transcendents he kept for future study, and if given the chance, he would bring Mao Jianghong away with him today in order to study the former Guard Captain’s Blessing of Ice.

Yet this Sovereign would happily sacrifice all his remaining Transcendents, Ascended or otherwise, if it meant he could capture Falling Rain, for the boy represented a wealth of knowledge that far superseded what the others might offer. Now was the perfect chance to act, to take this prize and flee. The Death Energy afflicting him was easily removed, and then this Sovereign would have snatched victory from the jaws of defeat. Once again, his body moved before he even finished weighing his options, and by then, this Sovereign was fully committed to the act, but as he appeared Concealed before his prize on the battlements of Shi Bei, Falling Rain erupted with an outburst of Life Energy originating from the unseen Ancestral Hare supporting him from behind.

Not the Cloud Divinity wreaking havoc upon this Sovereign’s allies with his Blessing of Air’s Water, but his so-called daughter, a diminutive child who had no right comprehending a power so ineffable while still in her formative years.

Or perhaps her youth was the reason why she could grasp Life Energy so readily. Less than two decades ago, this girl would have been an ancient and powerful Spiritual Beast, one in close harmony with the Heavens above and unrestricted by its Wrath. Why? Because beasts were slaves to their instincts and unable to act against them, which made them formidable in theory, but laughably weak in practice. A group of coordinated Martial Warriors need not even be Peak Experts to bring down the most powerful of Spiritual Beasts through tricks and deceptions, so whatever secrets lay hidden behind their existence were hardly worth this Sovereign’s attention. Even the so-called Divine Turtle beside the boy was merely a sham, for there was nothing Divine about it except its rebirth into a smaller, more compact, and more vulnerable form.

The turtle was too stupid to even take a human form, so what secrets were there to be gleaned from its path? None whatsoever. As for this young Ancestral Hare however, she was a prize worth studying, for she might well have tapped into her past life’s memories, or perhaps bore some unconscious recollection of her rebirth and was using this knowledge to counter the Death Energy threatening to kill her husband. Hmph, emotion over logic, this Path ran counter to this Sovereign’s own, and powerful though it could sometimes be, it was also entirely too unreliable. It worked well enough for the Ancestral Hare however, and this Sovereign was amazed by the sheer quantity of Life Energy flowing out of her, most of which was wasted as it crashed headlong into the Death Energy embedded within the boy’s body, mind, and soul. Quantity soon triumphed over quality however, and this Sovereign found the whole experience most enlightening indeed, one which ended all too soon as the girl abruptly and inexplicably ran off into the thick of battle, leaving a befuddled Falling Rain behind with a rabbit in his arms and turtle at his side.

A shame that, for this Sovereign would have loved to study her more, for he only just now had comprehended something most interesting indeed. He discovered that Life Energy was not the antithesis of Death Energy as he previously believed, but rather an energy with far more similarities than he’d expected. How, he could not say, but they were more akin to analogues rather than opposites in a way that reminded him of his own Path. Balance found in Extreme Imbalance, Life found in Death, and the opposite was possible as well. No wonder all his efforts to discover Life Energy had ended in failure, because he’d been looking for the wrong signs all this time, but now that he’d seen it in action from an outside perspective, he was confident he would learn how to harness it soon enough.

And with Life and Death Energy at his disposal, the possibilities were endless.

Putting aside his thoughts of the future, this Sovereign found himself faced with a dilemma in the present. Capturing a weak and dying Falling Rain was one matter, but it would not be so easy to subdue a hale and healthy one. Though still shaky and unsteady on his feet, the boy still possessed an inexplicable control over his Spiritual Weapons and Sword Intent which made him difficult to handle, and this Sovereign was loathe to risk having to fend off the boy’s attacks while also fleeing from the combined forces of the Old Wolf, Cloud Divinity, and Akanai to name but a few. Thus, the only options were to either incapacitate the boy and risk retaliation from his allies before escaping with his prisoner, or kill the boy and flee to deny the Emperor his abilities.

A quick death? Far too merciful an end for Falling Rain, and again, this Sovereign acted before he had time to think it all through. A worrisome pattern of poor impulse control, one which only arose after his Ascension to nascent immortal, and one he would take steps to break himself of once he was safely away. Not until after he’d secured his prize however, thereby all but guaranteeing that his return would be most glorious and triumphant indeed. His chosen method to subdue the boy was the same tried and true tactic of old, for Falling Rain had nearly just died and was still stricken with anguish and despair. Before he had a chance to embrace the sweet relief of his narrow reprieve, this Sovereign struck out with the full force of his Will and Aura both to feed the boy’s misery and give voice to his inner fury.

Why the boy bore so much hatred for himself, not even this Sovereign knew, but it was a common enough weakness in mortals inside and out of the Empire’s borders, and one he’d exploited countless times before. There were no words to this disdain and derision, no voice to string him along, for the boy was far too familiar with his own innermost voice and had a penchant for picking up on discrepancies only he would notice. Thus, this Sovereign merely provided the requisite emotions and let the boy give voice to his own thoughts and visions, and like the fool he was, he fell into a pit of his own making as he succumbed to his own feeble failings. So stricken with self-reproach, he failed to notice this Sovereign’s subtle infusion of Death Energy into his body, mind, and soul once more, a devious blow meant to cripple and incapacitate rather than kill outright.

The boy’s inherent Life Energy was more resilient than expected, brimming and almost overflowing where before it was weak and fading. This discovery only made the prospect of capturing the young Ancestral Hare more tempting, for even as a nascent immortal, this Sovereign sensed that his lifespan was not entirely without limit. While he had time aplenty to progress along his Dao, he had no wish to go through this ordeal a second time around, and capturing the girl for future study might well lead to life eternal. That being said, better to focus on securing one prize before reaching for a second, but though the boy’s abundant vitality continued to grow in spite of the copious flow of Death Energy flooding through him, Falling Rain succumbed to his emotions far easier than expected. With success so close at hand, this Sovereign could barely contain his elation as he carefully maintained the Aura of woe and despair and watched as the boy sank into the endless depths of his own mind and soul until he was docile enough to take in hand.

Still hidden under the guise of Concealment, this Sovereign reached out to secure his prize, only to freeze in place as a fleeting impression of caution and threat washed over him. Only for the briefest of moments, and it was gone so quickly this Sovereign wasn’t sure if he’d imagined it. The Spectres perhaps, working in concert to influence his thoughts and actions in hopes of escaping his control, or perhaps this was the intuitive premonition of a nascent immortal so in tune with the Heavens Above. Whatever it was, the time for hesitation was long past, for without Falling Rain, this Sovereign’s efforts these last eight-hundred years will have all been for naught.

Because even with all his newfangled power, this Sovereign was still far from able to match the Emperor himself. In time, this disparity would only shrink, but how much faster would his progress be now that he had Falling Rain to study?

Putting aside all other thoughts and concerns, this Sovereign took hold of the boy’s arm and Cloud-Stepped away with prize in hand, leaving the burdens and mistakes of the past behind. Though the Heavens sought to destroy him, once he uncovered the boy’s secrets, there would no longer be any obstacles between this Sovereign and the Dao, and he would finally have power enough to raze the outer provinces and unseat the Dog Emperor from his Jade Throne, before turning his wrath towards the Heavens themselves.

Then and only then would this Sovereign choose to Ascend to the next plane of existence, after plundering what he could and razing what was left of this one for daring to ever obstruct him.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I love my life.

My job, not so much, and there’s plenty of room for improvement regarding my current circumstances, but otherwise, things are pretty great. I have my wives, my family, my floofs, and my friends, and there’s not much more I could ask for. There’s also so much I want to do, to see, to experience, so much I wouldn’t even know where to begin. My dreams have never been big, not when I’m being sensible at least, but hey, I got them bear arms, didn’t I? To think, there was a time when all I wanted in the world was to go a few days without almost dying, though that dream died a long time ago. As for my other dreams, they’re not all that extraordinary. Right now, I’d be happy just to sit down and have a meal with my friends and loved ones, sharing good food with great people while reminiscing of good times.

Not a dream that’s likely to happen, because most of those friends and loved ones are currently embroiled in bitter battle here in Shi Bei. They’re here risking their lives because I wanted to free the West, and now they might well pay the ultimate price for it. That’s the cost of my dreams, a price I’m unwilling to pay, but the Heavens are cruel and demand their pound of flesh, for there is nothing certain in life, except death.

There are other dreams I’d love to see fulfilled. I’ve always dreamt of being the hero of my own story and bringing peace and prosperity to the world in my lifetime. That’s probably never going to happen, as I’ve long since come to terms with the fact that the balance of power will never change without bloody revolution, and introducing Spiritual Rifles and Runic Cannons has only upped the stakes and levels of lethality. For this reason, I also want to become a better Healer, not just to make Taddy proud, but so I can better understand how Heavenly Energy affects natural healing and medicines and maybe leave something behind that will make the world a better place. Those are the big dreams, alongside quitting my job as Legate to retire back home at the border of the Empire, where no one will ever come and bother me again, but that’s another dream I fear is never fated to pass.

