So I’ve learned to dream smaller. I’d like to go to a tavern and have a drink with my friends, without worrying if someone will make an attempt on my life. I’d love to take my wives to more dramas and operas, as I know they love watching them even though live shows bore me to tears. I want to dabble in something artsy, like sketching or carving, something simple I can do while travelling about the countryside with my wives and floofs. I’d love to tour the Empire someday and see all the sights, uncover new people, new places, new animals, new experiences and maybe even introduce modern concepts like worker’s rights and rule of law rather than rule of strength or wealth. As for floofs, I dunno if I should collect more, but I sure as hell want to, because I’d love nothing more than to make a new fuzzy friend and spoil them to bits. The groundhogs under Taddy’s bamboo grove might’ve moved on by now, seeing how he relocated his Spiritual Plants to a safer location before joining me on this ill-fated crusade to the West, but I wouldn’t mind adopting the whole pack if they’re willing to be friends. I also need a dog, because being around Buddy made me remember just how much I love dogs, though I hope he doesn’t get jealous because he’ll always have a place in my heart. As for other animals, well… we’ll see how it goes, though I doubt I could ever say no to a cute and lovable floof.

Hell, I can barely say no to the not so cute ones, like Noodle and Princess. I have a floof addiction, but hey, it could be worse.

Then there’s my most precious dreams, the ones I will never give up on. They’re nothing too out of the ordinary, just normal, everyday stuff. I want to be the best husband I can be and ensure my wives are happy and loved each and every day. I want to be a better son and spend more time with mom and dad when I can to show them how much they mean to me. I want to see more of my niece and nephew, while spending more time with my sister and brother-in-law, two people who I feel I’ve grown apart from despite both holding a special place in my heart. I want to make sure my floofs are loved and well cared for, and more than that, I want them to know they are loved and adored. I want to get to know my brother and grandfather better, and maybe even Grandpa Wolf if he’s willing to spend more time with Dad, because while family is more than merely blood, you can’t write off blood without at least giving them a chance.

And most of all? I want to sit down and have dinner with the people I love each and every night. Maybe not all of them, because that seems like too much planning and effort, but at least eat with them once a week or something. I could have tea with Grandpa Du and discuss the Dao, appraise artwork with the Abbot and Jorani, sit down with Huu and talk about girls and training like we did when we were young. It’d be great to see Zian progress as he learns to be a father and husband, or hoist a cup at Fung’s wedding with the love of his life, help Wu Gam find that special someone and see what I can do about Kyung and Da’in. It’s the little dreams that matter most I find, because they’re the ones you can accomplish, whereas the big dreams are typically hit or miss, and sometimes are sacrificed in lieu of life’s complications.

I have all these dreams and aspirations in my almost idyllic life, so why am I so ready to throw it all away?

That’s what I was about to do, give up and go on my merry way to find out if I can re-roll a second time after sacrificing the majority of my eternal soul. Sure I had my reasons, but I could’ve at least tried something less extreme than jumping ahead to the grand sacrifice. I have always been a little in love with death, and I’d be lying if I claimed I’d never given suicide a thought or three, but that’s as far as it’s ever gotten. Thoughts and nothing more, because if I was going to kill myself, I’d have done it in the mines instead of suffering through it for so long. Yet I cannot deny that death holds a certain allure all the same, an appeal I try my best not to think about too hard, because when it comes right down to it, even though I’d never actively kill myself, I’ve always been more than ready to die.

Why? I have so much going for me, so much love and good cheer in my life, yet still I persist in seeking death. I said earlier how I once dreamed of going a few days without dying, but to be honest, I never put much effort into staying alive. I could’ve just stopped going for walks through the forest and found a secluded corner in the village to hide in instead, but nope. Could’ve refused to join the Sentinels, refused to take part in the Contests, refused the rank of Warrant Officer, refused the office of Legate, done a lot of things to make my life much safer than it currently is, but I didn’t. No, every time I saw a chance for death, I ran headlong towards it, not necessarily because I yearned to die, but because if anyone had to die, it might as well be me.

I’ve done this all before. I have lived, laughed, and loved for an entire lifetime, albeit one I cannot entirely remember, so better I die than someone else who has yet to see their own life through to conclusion. I suppose you could argue that we’re all on our umpteenth reincarnation, but how many other people remember so much of their last life? None by my count, which means in terms of lives experienced, I’m number one under Heaven with a score of like… one point two-five. What’s more, I never did figure out if I awoke to my past life’s memories or if my soul was shunted into some poor kid’s body and took over without knowing it. The fact that I don’t remember shit about my parents has me leaning towards the latter, but the fact that it hurts so much every time I think about my birth mother is a good argument for the former.

That’s one part of the equation, my unfounded survivor’s guilt regarding my unique circumstances, but there’s more to my death-seeking tendencies than just that. My life is great. Right now. Which means I have the rest of my life to screw it all up. Knowing me, failure is inevitable, even if I wasn’t hiding the fact that I have memories of a past life. Maybe my wives and family would forgive me for keeping my secrets, but how long until the honeymoon period fades? How long do I have before Lin-Lin discovers that I am not, in fact, the best? How long before she grows frustrated and upset about the fact that she has to share me with four other wives? This goes for Yan, Mila, and Luo-Luo too, as well as Song if I ever convince her to marry me, which if I truly loved her, I wouldn’t do. I dream of being the best husband I can be, but I’ve already failed by marrying four women. Don’t get me wrong, I love them all dearly, even Luo-Luo who I’m still getting to know, but how can I be a good husband when I am unfaithful to my wife? Sure, they all knew what they were getting into when they married me, but they were twenty when we said our vows. What the fuck does a twenty-year-old kid know?

About as much as Jon Snow. Nothing, because the truth is I don’t deserve a single one of them, and there will come a day when they realize it too, which I fear will be the day they leave me.

Then there’s my other dreams, which will invariably one day end in failure too. Grandpa Du only has a few years left before he passes away, and mom and Naaran will follow soon after. Dad is fifty-fifty, because he’ll either throw himself into battle to forget the pain of mom’s death, or fall into a pit of despair which no one can lift him out of. Then there’s Charok and Gerel, who will probably go before I do, unless of course the aforementioned humans all Ascend to Divinity. A tall order that, even with me supporting from behind, because it’s not just a matter of Insight and dedication. You need more, like experience and other stuff, else you’re destined to fail no matter how much soul and Heavenly Energy we pump into the equation. How I know this, I’m not entirely sure, but there’s no quick and easy Path to Divinity, even with a Natal Soul to help guide you.

At least the floofs will most certainly out-live me, a blessing from Heaven I cannot thank enough. I don’t think I have it in me to bury a floof, but I’m sure they’ll be fine without me.

All of which paints a grim picture of my life, one which will likely end with me dying alone and unloved. I have a great life, but that also means I have so much to lose, and I know I will screw it up eventually. So knowing this, wouldn’t it be better to go out on top of the world? The Legate who saved the Empire, not the worst legacy to leave behind. My wives will all be free of me, free to find someone who will love them and treat them right, and my friends and family can remember me at my best, rather than see me suffer through my worst.

Dying doesn’t scare me. Losing the people I love? Losing their respect, their friendship, their affection? That terrifies me to no end, which is why I love floofs so much. An animal’s love, once given freely, is unconditional to the end, meaning I never have to worry about them leaving me because I’m a worthless loser unworthy of love, one who has allowed fear to control me for as long as I can remember.

That’s the logic at least, and it made sense in my mind a few seconds ago when I decided to sacrifice my life to either turn the tides of battle or buy time enough for my loved ones to retreat, but now… not so much. I figured my death would hurt my loved ones, but they’d get over it in time, right? What I didn’t count on was Lin-Lin coming to my rescue, and more to the point, succeeding. She knew what I intended to do, put the pieces together with little more than a glance, and she was furious in a way I’ve never seen her, because even though she’s always said I’m the best, I never knew just how much she meant it until now.

Because she loves me more than anything, more than climbing tall trees and soaring through the skies like a Cloud-Stepping Peak Expert, more than quin riding and rabbit training combined. She loves me more than eating sweets or dumplings, and even more than sleeping in, which for Lin-Lin is saying something. She loves me so much, I’m beginning to think that she’s right and that she does love me most of all, because she wouldn’t change a single thing about me, perverted idiocy and all.

And most of all? She saw how hurt and tired I am, how scared and exhausted my scars have left me, how jaded I’ve grown and how ugly my outlook on life has become, and she didn’t recoil or look away. Even though she was furious with what I’d tried to do and didn’t understand why I would do it, she was nothing but loving and supportive till the end, telling me that even if I didn’t want to live, I had no choice but to, because I’m her hubby and she refuses to be left behind.

So there it is. My purpose in life now. If she loves me that much, then maybe it’s worth it to keep on keeping on after all. I still think it’ll all end in misery and anguish, because that’s the most likely outcome, but I owe it to everyone and to myself to at least give it a try, right? Going out in a blaze of glory sounds fine and dandy in theory, but I bet if you asked the loved ones of any hero who gave their life for a cause, they’d tell you that they’d do anything to have their hero back with them again.

A mountain of doubt and misery press down upon me, warning me of my mistake. No good will come of this. Better to quit while I’m ahead. I’ll fuck it up. There’s no doubt of that. It’ll happen, and it will hurt like nothing ever before. Even if I don’t, I’ll still lose so many people I love, assuming they survive past tonight, because things weren’t looking great just before I passed out, and how much of an effect could I really have made? Wouldn’t nihility and oblivion be so much better? No existence, no thoughts, no doubts, no anxieties, just nothing for the nobody that I would soon become. All valid arguments, and honestly that last bit doesn’t sound half bad. I was never one to believe in Heaven or reincarnation anyways, not until I ended up in this world, and for a good portion of time, I kinda wished it never happened. I have so much to lose, I really would rather die than watch it all inevitably go to shit.

But Lin-Lin wants her hubby back, and I’ve never been one to deny her anything, plus I can’t in good conscience cause my loved ones so much pain just to avoid a little suffering of my own.

So there’s nothing left to it. Doesn’t matter how down and depressed I am. There’s a war to be won, so man up and get out there. Doing what I do best, I take a deep breath and shove all those dark and unhappy thoughts inside me, because an emotion ignored is no longer my problem, but future me’s problem, and I still hate that guy. Dread and anxiety twist my stomach into knots, but I wrench my eyes open to get it over quickly. Rather than the bloody battlefield of Shi Bei however, I find myself staring at sand in all directions while the world zips by underneath me. There’s an arm wrapped around my waist, and though the familiar and unsettling robes give the owner’s identity away, I’m still taken aback when I raise my head and meet Zhen Shi’s eyes.

Oh wow. How can I pass up this perfect opportunity?

“I don’t know you!” I screech, and his surprise is most wonderful to behold as I give him my best Bobby Hill and slam my fist into his groin, and my smile stretches to match the agony etched across Zhen Shi’s boring, bald face.

Honestly? The memes almost make all this suffering worth it, so my wives, family, friends, and floofs should be enough to tip the scales in favour of more life and more suffering, right?

