Well… I hate responding to my own questions with another question, but what is Will? To me, it’s a combination of Visualization, Intent, and Emotion coming together to manipulate Chi, but I only recently discovered not everyone controls their Chi in the same way. After sending my Natal Souls out in Meng Sha, they reported back en masse to bitch about one thing or another, but they also made sure to Send me everything they experienced along the way. It’s taken some time for it all to sink in, but as the various memories of my Natal Souls seep into the back of my mind, I’ve come to realize there is so much more to Will than I initially believed. Take Yan for example. She doesn’t Visualize anything at all, to the point where her Natal Palace doesn’t even have a discernable landscape. Instead, she controls Chi through concepts and sensations, wherein she breaks down what she needs her Chi to do and how it feels in order to emulate it on command. I always thought she just waved her Battle-Fan around because she liked how it feels, similar to how someone would stick their hand out the window of a moving car and ‘ride’ the wind, but I was wrong. Yan does that to better capture the sensation of the flowing wind and recreate it using her Chi. The Wind travels down the edge of her fan like a sword against a whetstone, ground and sharpened to a Honed blade of moving air that sweeps around armour and scythes into flesh. This is how she Wills her Wind Blades into existence, and she is not unique in this regard, for there are many Warriors who fight through concept and sensation just like her. Wang Bao for one, a man wholly lacking in style and substance as he swings his battle-axe wildly about, but woe betide the Defiled who dares stand against him. Ral for another, a simple-minded man who can’t answer even the most basic questions regarding combat theory, but in the midst of battle, he empties his mind, goes with what feels right, and his battle-staff comes alive in his hands.

Then there’s Li-Li, who primarily directs her Chi through sheer focus and conviction. I’m not talking about just regular concentration, but intense fixation on the matter at hand, to the point where anything outside the scope of her focus is handily ignored to the point where it might as well not exist. This is a result of having been a slave for so long, this ability to set her mind to a single task at the exclusion of all else. Her quick-draw attack is the perfect example of this concept, because it is a high-risk high-reward gambit that she pulls off time and time again, in spite of so many people having seen her use it. We’re talking about a full-body strike that pushes her body to its utmost limits and places every iota of strength and speed into an offensive slash, one that requires perfect coordination of her toes to her fingertips and everything else in between in order to pull off. It really shouldn’t be all that difficult to counter, block, or throw her off her game, but Li-Li has taken this one singular Movement of the Forms and elevated it into something magical.

All in all, I count two-hundred and twelve instances of Amplification taking place before her sabre even leaves its sheath, two-hundred and twelve perfectly timed exertions of Will to turn her quick draw attack into something more than a mere slash. Without every last instance of Amplification, Li-Li’s strike might well have landed late or failed to kill Yuanyin in a single blow and she would have died to his counter-attack, but she didn’t fail. A single instant of distraction, a momentary lapse of focus, a minor flash of hesitation, that’s all it would’ve taken to change the outcome for the worse, but Li-Li did not fail and never will because she cannot envision an outcome in which failure is an option. She sets herself up for success by literally Willing it into existence, because in her mind, she will succeed because she must succeed, and everything else follows from there.

On the outside, it looks so simple and effective, Li-Li drawing her sabre and cutting her foe down in a single strike. When judging by the outcome, you always think her sabre was just faster or she caught her foe off-guard, or maybe she made her opponent hesitate because not everyone is willing to trade a life for a life. All valid points that might well explain her victory, but I see now that it’s so much more. It’s not just about the movement of her body, but the flow of her Chi, which she timed perfectly to her delivery of the poem ‘Clear Temple’. This adds an element of explosive speed and power that goes beyond mere Amplification, one I lack the tools and frame of reference to understand. I don’t think there’s anyone in Meng Sha who fights like Li-Li, though I suspect Fung is similar in several aspects. At the very least, his penchant for spouting poetry makes a little more sense now, and I wonder if this is also how Akanai directs the flow of her Chi, through controlled breathing by way of diction.

These are but two examples of unfamiliar Will, but there are many more variations which I’ve never really considered before. The experiences of my various Natal Souls show me just how high the Heavens truly are, for there are a myriad of different ways to control Chi. Arrogance is a form of Will, ability derived from sheer bluster and braggadocio, as I saw from one fop of a Captain. So too is passion, most commonly seen in love of one’s friends, comrades, family, or whatnot driving someone to greater heights. Habit is another form of Will, an action ingrained into the body, mind, and soul through sheer repetition, like the fisherman turned soldier or Lang Yi and Lang Er. Mila draws on all of these forms of Will and more, which is part of the reason why she’s so outstanding, a woman whose Will remains firm regardless of what trial or tribulation she’s facing. She’s even got the breathing down without the need to even think about it much less recite any poems, her Chi flowing so smoothly, naturally, and orderly she can direct it with minimal focus and effort. My beloved Mila is the perfect blend of instinct and training, cunning and intelligence, strength and speed, fortitude and flexibility, and so much more, a Warrior destined for greatness thanks to talent, hard work, and phenomenal guidance.

There’s one more variation of Will I have yet to touch upon, because it’s a topic I tend to avoid at all costs. Mostly because I get irrationally angry whenever it’s brought up, but in my defense, I have my reasons. Specifically, I’m talking about the Martial Warriors who control Chi through faith, which I’ve always dismissed out of hand. I don’t like faith, and don’t trust it, because when my faith was strongest in my time of most dire need, faith failed me in the worst way possible. There are nights when I close my eyes and find myself back in the mines, hurting and crying as I pray for deliverance which I know will never come, because it never did. No higher power came down to spare me from my misery, no angelic beings rescued me from my deepest despair. After months of torture and torment, I had to almost die and crawl my way out of a pit of bodies to finally be free, and even then, I walked for hours without any hope of salvation in sight.

Yes, I was most fortunate to run into my sister in the end, and I count myself blessed for having done so, but it was not the Heavens which got me there, but my own dogged determination. I should have died in that pit, or countless times before, but I endured and persevered to get there. If all that suffering was the cost of extracting me from a hell they dropped me into in the first place, then I want nothing to do with any God who would demand that of me.

In my eyes, faith is a sham, a scam, a crutch for weak-willed people who refuse to take their fate in their own hands, but my bitter take on faith is not entirely correct. Faith in a higher power can do wonders when combined with the Energy of the Heavens, because faith is belief without confirmation. Faith is by far the most predominant form of Will in Meng Sha, and I would hazard a guess that it’s the same with the rest of the Empire. How many soldiers were my Natal Souls able to contact because they had faith in the Heavens above? Far more than the ones who had faith in me as their Legate, that’s for sure, despite everything I’ve done for them. On the topic of faith, I have no personal experience to draw from, but I do remember Gerel explaining his take on the subject. “The Dao is everything,” he began, struggling to come up with the right words to make me see things from his perspective. “And the Martial Dao is merely the means through which we explore it. This is a calling, one bestowed upon us by the Mother Above, for we are Her Chosen, Her conscripts, Her appointed defenders of humanity. With Her blessing, we wield the Energy of the Heavens, the power of Divinity itself, against the Father and His minions most foul. These are our trials and tribulations, given to us so that some day, one amongst us might rise above mortality and soar into the Heavens to join hands with the Mother Above, where together, they might topple the Father once and for all.”

I was predictably dismissive of Gerel’s take on faith, but who can say he’s not right? I certainly can’t prove him wrong, though in the absence of any and all proof, I can’t really claim he’s onto something either, but why should it even matter if it’s true? In the context of the Martial Dao, the only thing that matters is that Gerel believes it’s true, and that makes it real to him, the same way Baledagh was real to me, despite not being real at all. This is what it means to have faith shape your Will, and that’s what he was trying to tell me when he said my problems stemmed from a lack of faith. It wasn’t a verbal jab to try and convert me into a Mother-loving Chosen son like him, it was a statement of fact, one I dismissed out of hand because I’m averse to religion. The truth is, I do lack faith, not just in the Mother Above or any other higher power, but in anything and everything besides what I can see and understand. No, I don’t even need to understand something to believe it, I just need to believe. Either I believe something, or I don’t, and if I don’t believe it, I won’t until I see and acknowledge the proof with my own two eyes. For all my love and praise of science, nine times out of ten, I will go just with my gut because that’s easier than trying to puzzle out the truth. I love science and it fascinates me to no end, because I love the concept of breaking down the rules of the universe into small, easily digestible parts, but I am no scientist.

I’m a dumbass who believes in what he wants, when he wants, and will wilfully ignore anything that goes against my core beliefs.

That’s me in a nutshell, and what Gerel was trying to tell me, that I myself am a contradiction of belief. I demand proof, except when I already know something to be true. Not so terrible when I’m actually right, but I’m wrong more often than not, yet refuse to accept it, and instead continue believing something I know deep down is a lie. This is why I am so wildly inconsistent when it comes to using Chi.

This right here, this glaring contradiction of belief, that’s what keeps fucking me over, and it will keep doing so until I rectify this flaw. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link, and my lack of faith is mine.

Having acknowledged my greatest flaw, I sort of understand what everyone was going on about when they tried explaining the concept of cultivation to me. I always thought it was silly to call Martial Warriors ‘cultivators’, because what does that even mean? You can cultivate a plant, cultivate a friendship, you can even cultivate mass, but how do you cultivate the Dao? This statement right here is where everything went wrong, and only now do I realize how much trouble the language barrier has caused me, even after having everything spelled out plain and simple. Cultivation is written Xiu Shen (修真), which means ‘nurture truth’. It can also mean to seek or pursue the truth, with the truth being the Dao.

I long since realized that there is no immutable truth, because what is true for me might not be true for another, but the core concept of cultivation still escaped me. I mistakenly believed that Cultivators cultivate the Dao, and thus equated cultivation to progressing along the Martial Path. Only now realize how foolish I’ve been, because cultivation is not about achieving milestones, nor is it about amassing strength, skill, or any of the other concepts I associate with the Martial Path. Cultivation is not about refining one’s body, mind, or soul, nor is it about finding enlightenment about the Dao. All this is tangential to cultivation, benefits we accrue during our pursuit of the truth, but these benefits should not be our end goal or motivating force in cultivation. At the end of the day, what we are cultivating is not the Dao, but ourselves, as we go through a journey of self-discovery to observe and identify who we are and what we believe in.

Which in the end is a far more noble pursuit than mere Martial strength.

