And why was the name even important?

I don’t know. It made sense, I remember that much, so much sense that I felt silly for not realizing it sooner. If only I could remember what the name was, and maybe it’ll all come back to me…

No sense griping about it now. Maybe if I go over my memories, something will jump out and make sense. Let’s start with Panacea. What is it? Well, it’s my method of Healing, but what makes it special? It’s easy to use. Why? Because it requires no technical knowledge on my part to Heal. Regular Healing is difficult because the Healer needs a deep understanding of human anatomy and biology in order to guide the Healing process. The reason for this is because each person has what I been calling a ‘natural’ state, a baseline of who they are in a physical sense. For me, it’s a short, youthful twenty-something year old with boyish good looks and a complete lack of facial hair, while for Husolt, it’s him minus an eye. If you were to try and Heal something in a manner that deviated from someone’s natural state, the best thing that can happen is nothing, as their own body resists the changes, while the worst would be a massive explosion of fleshy tumours that will grow without limit, cannibalizing your body until there is nothing left to fuel the growth.

This is the result that comes from defying Heaven’s Will and using the Energy of the Heavens to go against nature. At least, that’s how I’ve come to see it, a means of maintaining Balance and preventing stuff like Demons springing into existence. Zhen Shi obviously found a way to work around those limits, seeing how he’s gathered a veritable army of Demons and Half-Demons, but that’s another issue altogether.

Anyway, the beauty of Panacea is that it does away with the requirement of understanding, because it heals in a more ‘natural’ way, with an added emphasis on the lower-case h. When a Healer uses the Panacea method to treat a patient, they’re not injecting some magical cure-all solution that will do away with all their wounds, they’re merely stimulating the patient’s body to create something it already knows how to create, the substance I’ve taken to calling Panacea. This seemingly magical tooth-growing substance is actually naturally produced by the body, just as it produces sweat, urine, blood, or tears. The only difference is that the body only produces Panacea naturally when regrowing teeth. Why? No idea, but what I do know is that teeth aren’t supposed to grow back. You get two sets, baby teeth, and adult teeth, and that’s it. Knowing this to be true, we can then extrapolate that Heavenly Energy is the reason why people in this world can regrow an infinite number of teeth.

This is the conclusion I arrived at after pulling an ungodly amount of my own teeth and watching Tokta Heal them, but regrowing teeth is not the only thing Panacea is good for. I followed a hunch and discovered that Panacea can actually help Heal all bodily injuries without oversight, something I’ve always felt was totally normal and expected, but I never really figured out why. What is it that makes Panacea so great at healing all manner of injuries? Well, let’s look at teeth again. A tooth is not just a piece of solid bone, but a complex structure complete with roots, nerves, blood vessels, pulp, enamel, and so much more. The details aren’t what we’re after here, but rather the fact that a tooth is not simple. Skin is simple, in that it’s just a soft, flexible layer of protective tissue. Skin on your foot is the same as the skin on your hand, but your back molar isn’t the same as your front incisor, and in fact fairly different all things considered.

So what does this tell me? Panacea is a singular substance that can transform into all the different building blocks required to grow a tooth. This doesn’t sound all that impressive until you really think about it, because doesn’t your body already do that? Not really. Just look at the process the body goes through just to heal from a regular old cut. First, a clot forms at the site of the injury, a rapid response meant to stop bleeding. Assuming this is successful, the clot will quickly dry and eventually form a scab. A scab isn’t skin, but it serves a similar purpose, in that it’s a protective layer meant to protect the wounded tissue underneath, mostly from germs and whatnot. That’s what’s happening underneath the scab, your body fighting off possible infection. It’s why cuts become swollen and tender, or sometimes ooze with pus, because your body is getting rid of any and all foreign material introduced by the cut. Then, over the next few days or weeks, your body mends the broken blood vessels and regrows the missing tissue, but again, not in one go, as anyone who’s ever peeled a scab could tell you. A layer of whitish scaffolding grows first, followed by a sort of quasi-tissue that’s rough and granulated, then new skin forms over top only to tighten with time and pull the edges of the cut inward to shrink the wound. A scar might form for a particularly bad cut, a region of denser, tougher skin in response to the injury you took, and eventually, the scab falls off and all you have left is a marked discoloration to show where you took your injury, if even that.

And all this just to heal a simple cut. How many different stages and materials was that? A bunch, but with Panacea, you get to skip all the incremental steps and go straight to mending the injury, because Panacea can do it all. Anything your body needs, Panacea can provide, or more specifically, can become. That’s why it’s so effective, because you no longer have to wait for all the pieces to come together one by one. Panacea just floods in to form the clot, fight infection, mend blood vessels, lay down scaffolding, grow tissue, and more, all as needed in the moment. This is also why Panacea can fix injuries that have been ingrained into a patient’s natural state, because it doesn’t care about what the Heavens thinks is a person’s natural state. All Panacea knows is to become that which is needed, and that’s exactly how Taddy Healed Grandpa Du’s bad knee. The Heavens decided Grandpa Du’s missing ligaments had always been missing, but Panacea knew differently, knew what was missing and filled that void, and I think it’s because Panacea is how we became what we are in the first place.

That sounds weird. What I mean to say is, I think Panacea is how we go from sperm and egg to a full-blown human baby, a wholly normal, yet entirely magical part of life.

I don’t know why it makes sense, but it does, and I just know it must be right. I haven’t done much research on the subject, but I doubt mothers are putting babies together piece by piece in the womb, starting with the skeleton and working your way outwards from there. No, that would be horrific, which tells me I’m on the right track, though I should probably look into the miracle of birth some more. That’s for later though, because now I’m pretty sure Panacea is the answer to all my woes.

See, my issue is that I don’t know what to do next. I know what needs to be done in a general sort of sense, namely a refinement of the body, mind, and soul, but the problem is the same as it’s always been. How? The obvious answer would be to study the body, mind, and soul until I possess a superlative grasp of all their inner workings, the same way a Healer understands the body. From there, I could then use the Energy of the Heavens to improve my ‘natural’ state in a variety of different ways, but all this sounds boring, tedious, and totally not my speed. Look at how many steps I had to go through just to explain healing a cut. How many variables would I have to account for in order to refine my physique? Too many, that’s for damn sure, and there’s no way to know if I’ve covered all the angles without testing my theory out on myself. Which would be exceedingly dangerous seeing how your body jumps into overdrive to produce an endless mass of tumours whenever you Heal something incorrectly, so I’d hate to find out firsthand what happens when you make a mis-step while making modifications to your mind or soul.

Luckily for me, all paths lead to the Dao, which means there shouldn’t be any issues with taking a shortcut. I once proudly declared my ignorance of many things, saying I didn’t know why the sun was hot and ice cold, or what made the wind blow and water flow downhill, but my ignorance can’t stop me from using sails to propel a ship or a waterwheel to power a sawmill. I don’t know how to Heal a tooth, not manually at least, yet I can regrow teeth all day if necessary, because I know how to stimulate the creation of Panacea. So why am I agonizing about all the details when I know Heavenly Energy works the same way? Much like Panacea, the Energy of the Heavens already knows what needs to be done in order to carry out any specific task, which is similar to the limited omniscience I experienced in JiangHu. If that’s the case, I don’t really need to know how to refine my body, mind, and soul, so long as I get the Energy of the Heavens to do it for me, right?

…

Maybe? I dunno, this seems like the right track, just not entirely right, because leaving things up to the Heavens feels… wrong. Wouldn’t that just restore me back to my ‘natural’ state? Yea, I’m trying to improve my body, mind, and soul, not just fix whatever it is I break, but seriously, how? The answer is sitting on the tip of my tongue, yet I cannot for the life of me figure out what it is I’m supposed to do while also considering all the pitfalls I might come across along the way.

Like… if I were to intentionally refine my body, mind, and soul, the Heavens would interfere via tumours and who knows what else. That being said, given what I’ve seen of Demonic births and the visible results of Ping Ping’s ascension, it should be possible to exert my seized authority and defy Heavens’ Will to refine my body, mind, and soul, so long as I hold fast to my Will and purpose. In theory at least, though I might not even run into any resistance so long as I go about things in the right manner, seeing how Taddy’s Body Refining baths didn’t invoke any heavenly wrath and I don’t recall experience any such resistance during Ping Ping’s ascension. What that right manner might be is another thing altogether, and there’s still the minor issue of how I’m not entirely sure how to consciously and deliberately manipulate the Energy of the Heavens to carry out my Will. I did so in JiangHu, but I’m none too keen about recreating those same conditions, since I wasn’t in the best state of mind at the time. At least I have a somewhat viable option to explore now, and Blobby should have enough Heavenly Energy to spare after his big buffet in the Void, but I would need to hammer out a few details first, as there are many doubts and uncertainties I need to address before I get started.

First on the agenda is to figure out how to control Heavenly Energy. Hypothetically, the answer should be simple enough, because as the Abbot would say, Chi and Heavenly Energy are one and the same, a difference without a distinction. All I need to do is exert my Will and make it so, but this is easier said than done. It’s not just thinking really hard about how I want this one thing to happen, because sometimes, you think too hard about it and it doesn’t work. Take Guiding for example. I throw a sword, it hits things. That’s my thought process, which is what drives me to Guide it using Chi, except when I try to consciously Guide things, I don’t understand how it works, and everything falls apart. Then, I get into a fight against sixty odd Wraiths and set Peace flitting about like a bird as I kill from afar without even having to lift a hand. Inconsistencies like this leave me apprehensive about refining my body, mind, and soul because I’d rather not have to deal with the consequences of failure. So how do I reinforce my Will to ensure the greatest chances of success?

