This isn’t some mind-blowing revelation I couldn’t have seen coming. I should have figured this out long ago, especially after repeatedly progressing after various sessions of self affirmation. In fact, I have a sneaking suspicion that everyone else already knew about this self-discovery business except me, and they didn’t tell me because they just assumed I knew it as well. Or maybe they didn’t know how to say it in so many words, or in a way I would accept and understand. Even I think it still sounds a little off, but I know it to be true, because only those who truly know who they are can understand how their perspective changes the Dao, and in doing so, perhaps even work backwards to see the Dao in its pure, unaltered form.

So…

Who am I?

I’m the juggernaut, bitch!

Kidding.

According to all the data I’ve recently gathered from the fresh perspectives of my Natal Souls, I am an idiot, an asshole, and a grating jerk to boot. I’m also a man out of my own depth and a fish out of water, a cocky, presumptuous, egotistical coward with an overly active sex drive and a massive hero complex. I am hesitant and indecisive when left to my own devices, yet under stress and pressure I turn impulsive and violent. I have abandonment issues and severe mental trauma, but I hide my pain and fear with stupid jokes while collecting a whole host of adorable animals who I ensure can never leave me. I do this thing where I like to pretend I’m smart, but if the answer doesn’t come to me immediately, I just sort of laugh it off and move on, because admitting I don’t know and giving up is easier than trying and failing. I work hard so long as the end goal is easily attainable, and I usually have good intentions, but I’m also really good at being stubborn and willfully ignorant about issues I don’t want to think about. I am a reluctant leader, a Warrior by necessity, a grateful son, terrible husband and brother, an okay uncle, a doting floof father, and that’s about it.

Oh.

I’m also mildly enamoured with the thought of death, while remaining wholly terrified of actually dying.

And I hate myself. That too.

Well then… this was a depressing journey of self-discovery. So glad we did this.

One more thing to add to the list. I use sarcasm to cope with my crippling depression. It’s worked wonders for me so far.

Chapter Meme
