I know what I must do.

I must take the next step.

I am mentally prepared to take the next step. I am ready. I am willing. I am no longer afraid.

That being said…

I still have no idea what I’m doing.

This is not an excuse this time, not something I’m saying just so I can put progress aside and procrastinate some more. I really don’t know where I go from here. Shatter the Void, I guess? Merge the physical with the metaphysical to refine my body, mind, and soul? That seems about right, but I still have no idea how to even begin such a grand undertaking. Body refinement would be something like what happened in Taddy’s Spiritual Baths, just dialed up to eleven, which at least seems somewhat manageable, but how would I go about refining my mind and soul?

Dunno. So I do what I always do when I’m stumped for answers. I turn to outside sources for help, but here in my Natal Palace, I’m not exactly swimming in options. There’s Buddy, but while he has many amazing qualities about him, I would never in a million years call him smart. I can’t even honestly say he’s smart for a dog, because I’m pretty sure Mama Bun knows more tricks than he does, and she’s dumber than a bag of rocks. Doesn’t mean I don’t love them both to bits, but I can’t lie about their intelligence either, mostly because I think being dumb makes them that much cuter.

Granted, there are diminishing returns on the dumb/cute scale, as evidenced by sweet, simple George, but that’s fine. Still cute, and cute is justice.

The other option for assistance is Blobby now that we’ve been reunited once again, but even allowing for the fact that he’s an amorphic, quasi-sentient, non-carbon-based metaphysical entity, Blobby is… kinda really weird. Maybe it’s not fair to judge an Elemental Spirit by human standards, but in my defense, I don’t have any other standards to judge by. There’s also the fact that I’m someone who anthropomorphizes most things in life, whether it be my pets, my weapons, or even a font of Heavenly Energy condensed into a drop of water, because that’s just who I am. In that sense, I suppose I’m the weird one, but seeing Blobby make a beeline for the Healing fountain while emitting a general impression of serenity as he sets the Keystone to flowing is strange, yet also somewhat understandable. I mean, he’s an Elemental Spirit of Water, so it shouldn’t come as a big surprise to discover he derives something akin to satisfaction from behaving like water, and I get the sense he’s intrigued by the sensation of flowing in what seems like an unnatural manner, yet is wholly natural in the sense that it adheres to the laws of physics.

It's the upward motion that does it, the feeling of being sprayed up into the air only to come cascading back down, a novel experience to a Spirit of Water that’s never evaporated or seen a motorized pump. I suppose it’s the same sort of feeling you’d get from running on a moving sidewalk, a sense of moving faster than you should be without actually being responsible for the increased speed. It’s amusing to see Blobby so drawn to something I find utterly banal and mundane, but also enlightening to watch as he bursts out of the spigot and flows down into the basins, only to be pumped back up to do it all again in a continuous stream.

Technically, one purpose of this Keystone was specifically to hold Heavenly Water, so it’s good that he feels right at home in the Healing Fountain. When you look at things like that, then Blobby doesn’t seem all that weird anymore, though I’m still not sure if he actually has these thoughts and emotions or if my perceptions are colouring how I translate his… impulses? I dunno what other word would fit here, because what do you call the thoughts and feelings of something that doesn’t think or feel? Blobby isn’t sentient. When water flows downhill, it’s not doing so because it wants to, but because the laws of physics have made it so. Blobby is the same way, except he’s driven by laws beyond my understanding, which might be why I feel a sense of purpose hidden deep behind each and every one of his actions, a driving force compelling him to act in the manner that he does. He’s not just water, but Heavenly Water, except what does that really mean?

The memory springs forth without any bidding, and I see Taddy’s contented smile as he gestures wildly at the dirt, stones, trees, sky, and everything else in between. “Heavenly Energy is all around us. It is invisible, intangible, inexhaustible. It comes in many natural forms, bursting up from Heavenly veins in the earth, or spewed forth from Heavenly fires, spread by Heavenly winds, or congealed into Heavenly waters. It enters our world and fills it, a constant source of power from the Heavens!”

I remember being so amazed at the prospect of using Heavenly Energy to rain down fire and lightning upon my foes, which Taddy said was possible but exceedingly difficult, even more difficult than Healing. I understand now that he was referring not just to the difficulty of learning such a skill, but also the extreme luck required to Awaken to the Blessing of Lightning, an Auxiliary Blessing which would have given me access to Fire and Wind. Alas, all I got was a Primal Blessing of boring old water, which isn’t even one of the cool Blessings either. Seriously, Earth, Wind, and especially Fire would have been so much more impressive, but it is what it is.

Anyway, the important takeaway from all this is that Blobby is a drop of Heavenly Water, or more specifically, he is Heavenly Energy that has been congealed into a droplet of water. A difference without a distinction as far as I know, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t one, and it’s always important to get the details right to avoid later misconceptions. Being a droplet of Heavenly Water, this means Blobby is a font of Heavenly Energy, a source unto himself. That being said, the law of conservation of energy states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed, it can only be converted from one form to another. I’ve seen this in action firsthand, as Blobby ‘eats’ Spectres and ‘poops’ out Heavenly Energy. Pong Pong does something similar, except he eats shrimp and whatever else his turtle heart desires, and his poop is actual poop containing Heavenly Energy, as opposed to pure Heavenly Energy like what I get from Blobby.

So what does this tell me? Many things, but what’s relevant here is Blobby’s penchant for Cleansing Spectres. Why Spectres? Well, my recently departed Natal Soul General called Blobby an agent of Balance, and he was right. Not an agent in the professional sense, like Blobby’s acting on behalf of the Mother or some Deity or another. He’s no angel or Chosen One here to bring Balance to the Force. No, Blobby is an agent in the chemical sense, a substance that brings about a reaction or effect, namely taking Spectres and turning them into Heavenly Energy. When looked at it another way, Blobby is merely one part of a larger system, the system of Balance. Humans generate emotion to draw upon Heavenly Energy to form Spectres, or what could be described as ‘negatively’ charged Heavenly Energy. Then we have ‘positively’ charged Heavenly Energy in the form of Elemental Spirits, which are drawn to the ‘negatively’ charged Spectres and consume them to produce ‘neutral’ Heavenly Energy. Boom. Balanced. It’s no different from water evaporating into vapour to form clouds which eventually precipitate and drop water on the world below, a series of reactions that form a natural, endless cycle, one that is essential to life as we know it.

There’s probably a lot more steps that I’m missing out on regarding the Cycle of Heavenly Energy, but as far as I can tell, I seem to be on the right track. The real question here is how does any of this help me? Well… it doesn’t, not directly, but it does tell me I need to work within the rules of this system, and it also raises some interesting questions and implications. If Spectres are ‘negative’, Elemental Spirits ‘positive’, and ‘true’ Heavenly Energy is neutral, then where does Pong Pong sit along this scale? More specifically, is his poop positive or negative? I doubt it’d be ‘true neutral’, because experience tells me that almost nothing in nature is so… pure, I guess. You don’t find pure water, or pure air, or pure anything in the real world, because everything is a mix of something or the other. Water isn’t even just one thing, nor is air just air, because air is just what we call the whole mixture of invisible gases hanging out in our atmosphere. Earth is more or less the same way, because you can’t really say dirt is one thing either. If we’re talking about earth in the sense of soil, well, soil can be made up of so many different things I wouldn’t even know where to start listing them. As for fire? That’s even dumber, because fire isn’t even really a thing in the sense of a physical object. It’s the result of a reaction, namely combustion, with fire being the visible part, while heat and light make up the other common by-products.

…

Hang on just a fucking minute.

This is some important fucking information.

I know it is, but I don’t really know why, yet I feel like I’m on the cusp of an incredible revelation. Okay, okay. You explained air, earth, and fire, so what is water? You said water isn’t even one thing. What things? Water is… Water is wet. Then again… is it really? What does it mean to be wet? To be covered or saturated with water or another liquid. So… can you really say water is wet? You get caught in the rain, you’d say, “Ah, my hair got wet, I gotta go get it re-did,” or, “Ah, my shoes got wet, now I gotta let ‘em sit outside and dry,”. You don’t say that the ocean. Gets. Wet. It’s just water.

Why am I enunciating like this? What is wrong with me?

Calm down. Don’t get caught up in the memes. Just relax. Head upstairs to your room, and sit down to meditate. No, scratch that, you have a bed. Lie down. Chill out. Take a moment to cuddle Buddy while you rest and reorganize your thoughts. Yes, that’s it. Pet the doggo. Give him a light scritching. Stroke his whiskers and boop the snoot, because you know you want to. Run your fingers through his soft fur while matching your breathing with his, and smile as he closes his big brown eyes in bliss. Forget water for a bit, and just focus on breathing.

Breathe in. Breathe out. Good air in. Bad air out. What is the good air? What is the bad air? Air is a mixture of different gases, but what gases specifically? Oxygen! That’s a thing. I know oxygen. That’s the good air! We breathe oxygen into our lungs where it’s picked up by our blood and delivered throughout our bodies. Once this precious cargo is delivered, our blood carries away waste carbon dioxide (the bad air!) to be expelled when we exhale, with measures in place to shut things down and keep us alive for as long as possible if we should ever run low on air.

Okay. Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide are two parts of air, with many more that are just sitting on the tip of my tongue, so close yet so far from mind. I remember contemplating this exact process in a bout of post-nut clarity after my wedding night with Yan, but how do I know this? It’s not something I learned in this life, but my past life, and herein lies the key to my success. I know things, and even though I don’t know how I know them, the knowing has helped me stand out from my peers. I also don’t know how knowing about Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide can help me, but I was able to create Panacea because I knew something about how the human body works, and I used that knowledge to my advantage. I knew teeth weren’t supposed to grow back, knew it in my heart of hearts, so I followed that hunch to study how we regrow teeth and found Panacea at the root of it all.

Panacea. Right. Panacea is important. I know this because I remember it being involved with Ping Ping’s ascension in some way, but I never did figure out how. I do remember I called Panacea by another name, a name I thought was incredibly important but promptly forgot. I thought the Heavens provided me with this important name, but now that I’m going over everything in my head, I’m not so sure about this anymore. As the Abbot pointed out, names are a human contrivance, in that the Heavens don’t care what you call something. Pour water over tea leaves and you have tea, and whether you leave it for a second or an hour, you get weak tea or strong tea, but to the Heavens, the tea just… well, it just is. To paraphrase the Abbot, names make the simple complex, when instead, we should be taking the complex and making it simple, except I never agreed with his take on this. Names are important, because it allows us to differentiate between things. Strong tea or weak tea or sweet tea or bitter tea, all are still tea, but the details matter.

What I’m really getting at is that even though names matter, the Heavens don’t care about names. I know this because I experienced it firsthand in JiangHu. I knew what to do, but I couldn’t explain it even then, because in open defiance of math teachers everywhere, the Heavens simply refuses to show its work and jumps straight to the answers. That’s how it was working with limited omniscience. Every time I considered a new problem, I was provided with an answer, and useful as that might be for getting things done, it leaves me more or less useless without the Heavens to guide me. I provided direction and intent, while the Heavens did all the rest, and I have no earthly idea how I did what I did.

So… if that’s the case, and the Heavens doesn’t care about names, where did I pull an alternate name for Panacea from?

Probably my past life’s memories.

