While being stared at and almost approached by many different people, Erick grabbed pancakes and cactus syrup and a whole bunch of other breakfast foods. It wasn’t long till he was on his way back out of the food court, but he failed to escape fast enough.

One intrepid young man, despite his obvious fear response and his desire to be anywhere other than headed toward Erick, still went toward Erick, to stand in front of Erick and open his mouth to speak. Nothing came out. Erick saw raw need in the boy’s face, though. That’s probably what stopped Erick from simply walking around the boy as fast as he could, to get back to Yggdrasil.

The boy found his words, asking, “Are you going to set up archmage services like you did in NeELLa—” His voice cracked, loud and unkempt. “Ah-hum. Sorry.” The boy continued, “Uh. Like in Nelboor?”

Erick paused, and considered the boy a bit more.

“I wasn’t planning on it.” Erick asked, “Do you have some absolute need?”

With utter conviction, the boy placed his hand on his chest, over a small pink-metal locket on a pink-metal chain around his neck, and said, “I want to find the people who killed my mother and your Imaging— I need your Ima… I want help finding my mother’s killer.”

Erick gave the boy a hard look over. 16, or 17. Incani. Well-to-do, with nice clothes and obviously good upbringing. He had a pair of minders hanging out five meters away, watching his interaction with Erick with interest. Erick decided to go for it.

“Where was your mother last seen?”

The boy’s eyes went wide as his words came easier, “She was killed here in the embassy so an Imaging done from anywhere outside the building should provide a solid clue. I already have so many clues but I just need utter proof to get further.”

The boy had almost everything he needed, then?

Erick said, “Come on then. Let’s do an Imaging.” And then he started walking around the kid, toward the front entrance.

The boy hopped to like a proper soldier and rapidly followed Erick, while his minders followed further behind. A few other nearby people decided to follow, too; they absolutely couldn’t miss whatever was about to happen.

In the main hallway, Erick said to the kid, “I’m not getting involved beyond this. Don’t expect much, either, for this place is likely [Ward]ed out the ass making Imaging tough.”

The boy rapidly nodded, agreeing with everything Erick said, mumbling, “The embassy is well guarded from casual Sight but I hope— I hope…” His voice trailed away.

Soon, they were outside the embassy, standing on the stone square outside. Without preamble, and with guards looking on from all sides, and looking both annoyed and resigned, Erick cast a [Cascade Imaging] into the air.

A fog appeared, five meters across, which would eventually become the 30-kilometer region that was the embassy. A star of light cascaded above, throwing out radio waves far and wide as it also carved into the mist. Soon, the many towers and keeps and courtyards of this land began to take shape out of the map.

Erick asked the boy a question he already knew the answer to, “Got some blood or tissue from your mother?”

The boy snapped out of his stupor and rapidly grabbed the necklace from beneath his embroidered tunic and jacket. He held out the pink-metal locket with its vial of blood inside to Erick, saying, “It’s a blood vial inside a hellite jacket. I’ve used it before to call her demon back to ask questions but she’s… She’s not doing well in Hell. She was murdered and it— It hurt her. A lot.”

Erick took the offered object. “How long ago was she murdered?”

“Seven days ago.”

Erick recast the Imaging with his new target in mind, then he handed back the vial, saying, “It takes a minute to populate, but— Ah. See there. Here we are in the center of the map. That blue dot is the vial in your hands. The rest should populate quickly enough. Don’t get your hopes up. This is the start of a proper investigation. Whatever you see here proves nothing.”

The boy gripped the vial in his hands, only half hearing Erick’s words. That was fine. Erick was mostly speaking toward the audience all around them, anyway.

People had gathered around, but now, as the spell fully got going, there was also a steady stream of onlookers coming out from the embassy, or walking in from outside just a bit faster, to see what was happening with the light hanging in the air of embassy square.

Some guards were already nearby, but none of them made to stop Erick. Soon enough, more wrought guards came by, with a few of them looking more ‘in charge’ than the rest. They didn’t look happy.

In an effort to stop whatever problems they had before they started, Erick gestured to the high ranking guards while they were already walking his way, saying, “Good! You’re here. This boy has apparently been trying to find his mother’s murderers. If this map shows anything at all, then you can help him sort out this mess through the proper channels. This is as far as I go.”

The boy’s minders instinctively stepped in front of the oncoming wrought, trying to block them from interfering, but only briefly, for the wrought were on the warpath and everyone soon recognized that. The boy briefly looked on in horror as the new guards approached, worried that he might not get his wish, that he might not find out what happened to his mother, but there was more than that to his stare at the guards. The head wrought in charge glared at the boy, and neither side seemed to appreciate the other. The boy had obviously tried some underhanded methods to uncover whatever clues he had uncovered; these two had clashed once already.

And then the wrought turned toward Erick, saying, “Thank you for helping him, but officially, please do not put up magics like—”

The crowd gasped.

Tiny blue dots began to appear all over the place as the map of the embassy began to truly appear. Almost all of the blue dots were clustered together, like showing a heat map of where a person usually was, with some places growing bluer by the second, and others staying only a bit blue.

And the boy went wild. Hands raised, he pointed and shouted, “It’s there! Contact in Duke Watahue’s offices!”

Erick saw where the boy pointed; a series of blue dots far away from the boy’s mother’s usual stomping grounds. A ripple of murmurs went through the gathered crowds and people started talking of murder rumors while the guards went on alert and the boy started demanding impossible things, like marching directly on the offender—

Erick spoke above them all, and especially above the boy, saying, “It’s only a map of where people have been, and people get around. This is only a start to any sort of investigation, but the spell will last a hundred minutes and it’s only 50% manifested, so not only will it get better, but it will last for a while. I also have no idea who the boy is, so verification that the blood in the vial is indeed his mother’s is but one thing that needs to be verified, too.” He said to the boy, “Do this correctly. Less vigilantism means you’ll make the guards more likely to work with you.” To the guards, he said, “Sorry to disrupt your days like this.”

The boy looked completely chastised as he nodded and started talking softer, and more coherent. The guards just frowned at everything, as guards usually did, and then they discounted Erick and started talking to the boy. It wasn’t five seconds later that the guards moved to guard the Imaging from onlookers and take the boy back inside, talking about how this was not how things were done. The boy took his chastisement with dignity, for he had already gotten almost all of what he wanted. Now, he just needed to close the trap on his mother’s murderer.

Erick was about 99.9% sure that the kid was on the level, and so, Erick wished him well as he walked away, back toward Yggdrasil, while Ophiels floated behind, carrying breakfast and letters of all kinds.

One good deed, done!

… And because of that one good deed, Erick expected to have at least a hundred more people asking him for something similar by this time tomorrow. That, or else a strongly-worded letter delivered by armored guards, asking him to keep his nose out of the governance of their land. The second was more likely to happen than the first, but that was fine.

- - - -

Erick sat upon conjured furniture on Yggdrasil’s branches, surrounded by a few conjured dividers to keep away the wind. His breakfast, and a few duplicates of the various foods, sat before him. He ate with utensils while he used his lightform to hover the various sealed envelopes in front of him, reading them without opening them, and sorting them into different piles. It was actually quite relaxing.

He had never gotten mail before, but he probably had a lot waiting for him back in Spur. Or maybe not? Spur had mail systems, of course, but the city wasn’t organized by streets with addresses. One was expected to come to the Wayfinder’s Guild and pick up their mail, which was tied to an account you had to open first. If you failed to get your mail it was incinerated after a while, but almost no one actually went and got their mail; Erick never had. If anyone needed to talk to him they showed up in Spur directly, and jumped through the Army and Silverite’s hoops to get to him.

But people down here at the embassy apparently had offices and staff and mail was delivered directly to those offices, or to other appropriate places which had to be set up beforehand. It was a lot more organized than Songli, for sure. In Songli, only the nobility had mailing systems. Down here, every single house had an address.

Erick didn’t have to wonder what his address was, though. It was printed on the front of every letter in a few different ways, for his address wasn’t exactly solid, yet. ‘Archmage Erick Flatt, Yggdrasil’, if the person knew their stuff. ‘Archmage Flatt, World Tree’, if the sender was less sure. ‘Archmage at Tree Lake’, if they were rather unsure and hoped that their mail would reach where it needed to reach. There were a few outliers beyond those, with ‘Savior of Light’ being written in nice calligraphy on a handful of letters, and ‘Gatemaster Flatt’, which he wasn’t sure he liked, but it sounded like a rap singer’s name, so Erick kinda liked it for that reason alone.

All of them had return addresses, too, with practically all of those addresses located within the embassy itself…

But in the envelope of special letters, the return addresses were all inside Stratagold.

Erick rapidly read through each one without opening any of them; a good mana sense and lightform was more than enough to see what they all had to say, and rather quickly, too. Almost entirely, they were requests to meet to talk of business opportunities of various sorts in the Underworld, with most people wishing to take such a meeting upon Yggdrasil’s branches. Only a few were politely-worded demands for lands or property in or around Candlepoint. Some were requests for the same, with enough politeness and brevity that Erick actually considered them, but Candlepoint wasn’t his to divvy up as he saw fit, and so those letters went in the round bin, too.

More than a few letters stood out from the rest. Of the random letters, Erick set a few aside for they were requests to kill some monsters. Almost entirely, they all went into the round bin.

Of the five special letters in the separate packet, all of them were from inside Stratagold, and all five were important. First was a letter from Archmage’s Rest, a consortium of archmages from the world over which traded magics for magics, who wished to induct Erick into their membership; Erick considered it. Then there was the letter from the Bright Palace which instructed Erick to speak with a certain office inside the embassy for transportation to Stratagold, whereupon he would take Bright Tea with the Royal Family and a few important nobles at his earliest convenience; Erick couldn’t ignore that one, so he would likely be getting that out of the way as soon as possible. A letter from Tasar instructed him how to further contact her at her offices in the embassy. A letter from the Holy Church of Rozeta requested his presence at an inquiry of his ordeal in the Core; yet another one he couldn’t ignore.

Then there was a letter from the Gemslicers.

The last one gave Erick pause for the Gemslicers were an old threat, warned about by Silverite. The Gemslicers made the blacklights —the ultraviolet light— that made the wrought fluoresce in purples and other bright neon colors. These lights were supposedly cast inside special places, reserved by royalty, to denote a royal status. Knowing what Erick now knew, Erick guessed that the fluorescence of wrought was probably a religious thing, or maybe a ‘return to how it should be’. Or at least it was that much for adamantium, the ‘royal caste’, for that darkest of metals used to be white.

The Gemslicers did a lot more than just make party lights, though. Erick had picked up that they were primarily healers of some sort, but he wasn’t too sure about that since the Gemslicers were also rather insular and hidden. And now, the Gemslicers wanted to speak to Erick of his light dungeon on the surface. Such a meeting did not bode well.

Erick frowned and set that letter aside. He didn’t want to deal with that today, or ever, really—

… He looked out across Yggdrasil, at the rainbow crown of [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] that ringed the big guy’s green canopy. That light supported the growth of Light Essence monsters. Eventually, because of that light, this large cavern might become a dungeon of a sort with light slimes in the waters, or something like that. This went against Erick’s contract not to make another light dungeon for another ten years…

Well! Whatever! Erick was already propping up Yggdrasils all over the world, and each spot was probably going to turn into a light essence factory eventually.

Erick finished up his breakfast, changed locations, changed into his Other Self to have a ‘second breakfast’ of [Renew] and mana cycling, switched back, and then had a brief swim and a [Cleanse] before getting ready to take some meetings.

He decided that Tasar would be first, then Bright Tea, then the Holy Church of Rozeta stuff. The archmage thing would likely happen with Tasar, while the Gemslicers would happen after all the rest if Erick felt like it.

