Riivo said, “And with that, I suppose I should be headed back. It was very nice to meet you, Erick.” He smiled a bit, appearing fully genuine as he said, “Archmage Flatt. You know, if you want your name in the List of Archmages there’s some paperwork to fill out. All of the hard parts of actually making magics of the correct power are already taken care of, so [Teleport] by sometime and we can sort that paperwork. We have books on understanding Wizards, too.” He softly said, “Those books can’t leave the premises, though. You understand.”

Erick nodded. “I understand. Thanks for the invitation.”

With a wave of his hand, Riivo dismissed all of the chalkboards and book podiums while catching the books in his telekinetic grip. A twist sent the books to their crate and closed it up, while the air shifted and the [Scry Blocker], or whatever it was, came down. Riivo gestured to the crate, as he walked toward the t-station, saying, “Your books, Tasar. I hope to be able to loan books out to you too, and soon, Erick.”

Erick said, “Soon.”

Riivo stepped on the t-station, nodded toward Erick and Tasar, and then vanished in a blip.

Erick breathed out, then in—

Tasar said, “I’m free for the rest of the day. Want to work on cleaning your aura? I have the [Gate] materials, too, but your aura might be more important.”

“… Sure. Aura work.”

Erick wasn’t sure how much longer he could hold it together. The disregard of immortals for the plans of mortals was grating on him. He had had plans for runework. Plans for gridwork. Ideas about making the world better. Ideas about improvement and education and—

Ah.

Was Nirzir in danger? He had handed all of this stuff off to her, too.

Lying through omission about being a Wizard and already having [Renew] had been a lot easier than he expected it to be, though.

Erick put those thoughts behind him and he worked on his aura on the beach with Tasar. His plan for dealing with the wrought remained the same: Do as much as he needed to do to leave allies behind him, and then get the fuck out of here.

- - - -

In an opulent room of tall white pillars and bright light, Riivo stepped out of possibility to stand before an august assembly of interested parties, already underway in their own discussions. Healer Awir was already taking tea with King Alfonin, while Second Prince Sitnakov spoke to High Inquisitor Kromolok alongside First Prince Abarnikon. The Queen was out somewhere, then? Well whatever. They had been talking to each other, but now everyone was looking his way, and it was time to give the bad news even if the audience was less than full.

“Inconclusive,” Riivo said, to the gathered audience.

King Alfonin, Awir, and Kromolok were unmoved. Abarnikon nodded. Sitnakov smiled, and that was worrying. That boy was honestly having too much fun with Erick. Sitnakov had a long record of failures of doing his duty against people he liked, and if it came to it, he would hesitate against Erick. That might prove fatal.

But before anyone could speak out, Riivo continued, “Even if the man is a Wizard he has already proven his character a hundred times over. This Shade Hunt does not need to happen.”

King Alfonin narrowed his eyes at Riivo, asking, “Did you actually speak of Wizards?”

Riivo chose his words carefully, as he always did, saying, “Erick is on the Path, and so he invariably walks toward the best possible questions, and since he is hunting Wizards, we spoke of Wizards.” Riivo continued, “We spoke of [Renew]. We spoke of outcomes when hunting Wizards. We spoke of the Wizard Champion of Rozeta who made [Rebound]. All signs point to him being on the hunt to find and understand Wizardry, which makes him a great candidate for pulling his Path away from the Dark God. He asked the right questions to mark him as exactly who he appears to be.”

Alfonin pulled back his ire. He turned toward Sitnakov, asking, “Your opinion?”

“I see no signs but I consider him a Wizard anyway, and we should let him continue, unmolested,” Sitnakov said.

“I agree.” Riivo said, “Even if he is a Wizard, we should let him do what he wants. He’s headed in a direction we desire, and we should ensure that he makes it there.”

Alfonin frowned, his anger guttering. He turned to Kromolok. “Your opinion?”

“Rozeta has thrown in with him as much as she can, and so we should as well.” Kromolok said, “He willingly came with us to this land. He did not kill when he could have. He has put himself under our mercy while also attempting to garner long lasting relationships with us through planting Yggdrasil on our foyer. We should prove ourselves worthy of being handed this opportunity.”

Riivo nodded at that.

Alfonin asked First Son Abarnikon, “What of the other Geodes?”

“Titanite is angry at us for taking Yggdrasil; they were not prepared to accept Erick as a side effect of Yggdrasil, though.” Abarnikon said, “All the rest of the Geodes wish us well with the [Firebomb] we’ve taken under our care.”

“And our interests in Ar’Kendrithyst?” Alfonin asked.

Abarnikon said, “Reclamation is going well, but slow. The black ooze coming out of the dead Geode has shown no abatement, and the amalgams it creates are being purposefully changed to better fight those who fight the ooze. The [Dispel]ing amalgams are proving to be troublesome for they are starting to show the ability to erode Domainwork.”

Alfonin frowned a little, then turned back toward Riivo. “How observant is the mortal?”

“Extremely.” Riivo said, “I can’t speak for the Mind Mages, but this man basically has a low-tier [Empathy] active at all times. Self-inflicted, too; a mutation of the Blessing he wrapped around the remaining Shades. He probably thinks it’s natural.”

Alfonin looked toward Kromolok. Everyone followed the King’s gaze.

“His empathy is natural.” Kromolok said, “He has no Mind Mage spellwork, and he has made no attempt to learn any. I would have informed you if he did. What you are seeing, Riivo, is Erick’s natural ability paired with high Perception and Intelligence. He created his Blessing out of his natural ability; not the other way around.”

Riivo raised a hand in defeat, saying, “His empathy might be magically enhanced now, yes, but I’m talking about his base ability to read people. When we spied upon him back when he first let out Particle Magic into the world he displayed almost the same ability as he has these days, though it was lesser back then. His empathy is heightened these days, but his base ability was never natural. I tested him a few times right now, but when he displayed the ability to practically read my thoughts, I decided that there would be no more testing. I warn you not to test him yourself.”

“A fair set of warnings.” King Alfonin said, “Awir. You said you would speak when you had time to think. Has enough time passed to hear your words?”

Everyone turned toward Awir.

Awir thought for a moment, then said, “Above all else, I don’t like how the Dark enabled Sitnakov, Tasar, and Kromolok to reach the Core days ahead of schedule. I believe that Erick has 20 missing days before he met with Rozeta, but I also believe Erick’s story that he was talking to Rozeta about the fate of this world.

“And I believe we interrupted something important. Something that the Dark didn’t want to happen, therefore, we were in the wrong.

“But since Rozeta has a history of working with Wizards...

“She is for new worlds. All the gods are for new worlds. Some of them even trust the Dark not to destroy us all when he escapes.

“But since Yggdrasil won’t become real for another hundred years without gods or a very strong Wizard removing the seal on him, we have time.

“Now… Is Erick a Wizard? Could he circumvent all of the time I believe we have? Maybe. But he’d lose the Script for a while, and we would have a window in which to grab and kill him. And so, I say we have time.” Awir said, “Time to think. To observe. To let events unfold. Tasar will be right there with him on his Path till he either finishes or abandons it, so we will know if he finds a Wizard. We will know if he threatens an End. We have time.”

Awir always had a way with words, and in the following silence that filled the room, Riivo felt better about giving Erick the benefit of the doubt.

Riivo said, “He certainly understood the issues with giving out runework to the world. He also added ‘finding a Wizard to make [Renew]’ to his Path, so we likely have more time than we thought.”

The discussion flowed around the room for a good long while.

- - - -

Kromolok watched as everyone banded around ideas based on falsehoods, talking about the future or about possible new worlds, or about the warning signs to watch for if everything was nearing an End. If time was running out.

But they had no time at all.

Erick was a Wizard, and a strong one, too.

He had already made [Renew], solving one of the ways in which one watched for Wizards; by seeing if they ate monster Cores to fuel their own growth. He wouldn’t have a monstrous rage, either, though the last part was mostly because of Rozeta who had made him the immortal progenitor of a new race of morphers.

Erick had already formed a Wizard Core, too. His rage was under control!

Kromolok was worried for the first time in a long time...

And yet…

All the people around him were right about one thing. Rozeta had put some trust into Erick. The Goddess of the Script believed in this reincarnation of Xoat, this Savior of Light, this Scourer of Shadows, or any of the hundreds of other names they were calling him. Calling him ‘Xoat’ was the only one that might have been true; all the rest were fictions based on the delusions of mortals, and even a few immortals.

No one here knew Erick by that name, though.

The idea of Erick being Xoat was one of the only things stopping Kromolok from speaking out against the existential threat that was Erick Flatt. Xoat had turned the Darkness to the Light once before. Xoat could do it again; if anyone could actually fulfill that Ultimate Quest, Xoat could.

And Erick already was.

And besides. While they might speak of Tasar as a [Scry] eye that can’t be popped, Kromolok and the Mind Mages already had eyes on Erick. His People had known of Erick’s character for long before now, and so far, Erick had proven himself exactly as who he appeared to be.

He might be their hope for a new world. For many new worlds.

Or he might be the death of them all.

When the Dark created the Old Cosmology he had to try a few times to get it right, which didn’t bode well for the people living in the current post-Sundered Veird. And yet, the Dark might not even be the true threat, in this particular case. The Dark might not be the one to kill the wrought! How hilarious!

Erick was near ready to kill them all. He might even succeed.

Kromolok was not going to let anyone create a self-fulfilling prophecy though, if he could help… it...

… The conversation had turned in a bad direction.

“All I’m saying is that I want to go out there and test him a few more times,” Sitnakov said. “I don’t see anything wrong with this.”

Kromolok spoke up, “Do not create a problem where there is none. Any improper handling at all might cause a backlash for Erick is oversensitive to danger at the moment. Do not make him mark us as an enemy.”

Riivo said, “I agree. We must let him loose and with barely any oversight at all. Even Tasar might be too much. There is a danger, yes, but let Erick destroy other cultures and lands; not ours.”

King Alfonin turned to Sitnakov, saying, “I don’t think you should go with them.”

Sitnakov scoffed. “I might have made a bad first impression, but Erick didn’t even know who I was, and...”

Kromolok tuned them out while he considered his own thoughts.

The problem, he considered, was that he had no idea where he truly stood; with the wrought, or with his People. So he sipped his ‘aluminum’ tea —he wasn’t sure if he liked what Erick had done to ‘holyite’, either— spoke when he was spoken to, answered questions with suitable levels of evasion, and gave no indication of his true inner thoughts, or the inner thoughts of Erick.

It was honestly disrespectful to have this sort of crisis of faith and yet Kromolok had been cleaning up Rozeta’s various missteps since the very beginning. Many of her ideas had worked out, but some… Some of her ideas and plans had failed.

Time would tell all, soon enough.
