Otaliya spoke over her daughter’s barely-there call to desist, saying, “The Gemslicers are an insular family of steels who have done almost all the gem and metalwork and private healing for the Royal Family for the last thousand years. They’re highly placed due to the unique light magics they control, and never show others. Occasionally, they track down unique light magics sprouting up in the mortal world for a variety of reasons. They’ve been trying to solve the Black Curse upon adamantium and the rest of us for longer than most of us have been alive.” She glanced at her bright yellow fingers and hands, then looked to Erick, saying, “This is one of the ways they’ve temporarily and superficially gotten around the Curse, showing the Light inside all of us.” And then she stared at Erick, her gaze holding an uncomfortable weight. “I usually don’t put much stock in fringe prophecies, but I dare say you are the true Savior of Light.”

Erick stood still for a moment, then said, “I’ve heard the term before, but I don’t believe in prophecy.”

“One mustn’t believe everything one hears; this is true. But enough prognosticators over the very many years of Veird’s existence have tried to prophesize the end of the Dark, and the Return of the Light, and they’ve all agreed upon the title of ‘Savior of Light’ as the prophesied one that would come and fix everything. This title has, of course, been attributed to many people before now.” Otaliya said, “You’re the first one for whom I believe that title might be true.”

“I don’t believe in prophecy.” Erick said, “It’s too easy to break.”

Tasar looked at her mother, saying, “And all prognostication fails around Erick.”

“Even more reason that it might be true!” Otaliya said, openly and honestly, almost pleading with her daughter but erring on the side of propriety. She felt a lot more secure around Erick for some reason; possibly for a lot of smaller reasons, all adding up together. She obviously felt strongly about this prophecy, for sure. She seemed to stare into Erick’s very soul, and maybe she was, as she said, “Death happens to those who cannot or have not learned to get out of the way fast enough, and the young rarely get the opportunity to survive their first encounter with True Darkfire, but you, Archmage Flatt, have survived True Darkfire time and time again. My daughter told me how you scared off the Evil One inside the Core Tunnels.” She breathed out, smiling, her expression full of light. She bowed to Erick, saying, “May my daughter serve you true, Savior of Light.”

Erick didn’t know what to say—

Tasar did. “Erick. Can I meet you by the t-station near Yggdrasil in an hour? I will bring some books at that time, but first I need to speak to my mother.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Of course. See you soon.”

And then he left.

He moved faster than he needed to, but he kinda needed to get out of there, and quickly. He dodged a few more people on his way out of the building, making his way back to Yggdrasil as soon as he could. Sergeant Kapra managed to catch him before he stepped into the tunnel, though. She informed him that his materials would be arriving soon; her people were still out there purchasing them. Erick told her thanks, then went back to Yggdrasil.

- - - -

He decided he needed to do something absolutely different for a little while, so he set out to fully explore Yggdrasil’s cavern. First, though, he set up a [Cascade Imaging] searching for ‘people’.

Thirty eight targets; that’s how many he found, and most of them out there on their own. People hid out in the ceiling, or by the falls, or underwater. None of them were near or on Yggdrasil, though.

A quick sigh and brightly appearing before those [Invisible], or [Privacy Ward]ed, or [Greater Water Body] people was more than enough to scare them off. Every single one spouted apologies the whole time they ran away, too.

- - - -

Erick sat on a conjured chair next to the t-station, studying the gold disk and its obelisk a bit more as he waited for Tasar to show up. He didn’t have to wait long. The black-green wrought appeared on the t-station with a casual blip of green-black light. In one hand she carried her usual staff, while her other remained free. Erick expected her to be carrying books, but apparently she had people for that. Three other people, to be precise.

One was clearly young, but with an orcol shape to his brightly burnished copper body. He held a large box of books which he set on the ground nearby. Another was an old-human-shaped man of iron wearing a robe and looking delighted to see Erick. The third was a brilliantly silver incani man with his metallic flesh in the shape of princely clothes, and with a silver star upon his chest that matched Erick’s for form, but not for function. The silver star was likely a Silver Star, too, for it wasn’t made of the man’s flesh, but was very much a separate object held in place that glowed with the faintest whisper of divine fire.

Erick stood up, saying, “Hello. I expected you to come through the tunnel?”

“Other people rapidly got involved when you showed my mother that glowlight.” Tasar gestured toward the silver man, saying, “Archmage Flatt, meet Awir, and—” indicating the iron guy, “—Riivo. Riivo is from Archmage’s Rest, while Awir is from Gemslicers.”

No one made any indication to shake hands, but while Riivo was obviously happy to be there with bright smiles and a hop in his step, the ‘old man’ rapidly realized that he was the only one. Erick focused on Awir. Awir had a small frown. Erick had a frown, too, and he wasn’t sure when he had gotten that.

Awir asked, “How did you learn of light?”

Erick narrowed his eyes. “How did you manage to steal my [Luminous Beam]?”

Awir strongly said, “I’ve been trying to make that spell for 350 years, in at least 350 different ways, and then you go and make it at Basic Tier! And then you lock it behind Particle Mage.” Most of his apparent anger vanished. “I suppose I was mad at you, but I can’t really be mad at the Savior of Light, even if I don’t exactly believe that yet. I expected one of our people to take that title, eventually.” With heavy sarcasm, he added, “Have you figured out how to reverse the Black Curse, too? Is that on your to-do list of this Worldly Path?”

Old man Riivo had seen that there was some sort of discomfort between Awir and Erick and moved to stand to the side, next to Tasar. This proved to be a good idea, as the anger between Awir and Erick rapidly multiplied after introductions. The copper orcol who had come with them had seen something was going down above his pay grade, and rapidly whispered some questions to Tasar, who nodded at him and gestured for him to go away. One second later the copper orcol had blipped away on the t-station, headed back to wherever it was he had come from.

Erick responded to Awir’s rhetorical question with, “If you have any clues about that then put them forth, and let me add that Quest to my Worldly Path.”

“Hmm.” Awir said, “Tasar tells us that you will be looking for a Wizard eventually. So there you go. That’s how you reverse the Black Curse.”

Erick leveled a dissatisfied glare, saying, “That’s not helpful.”

“Why should I—!” Awir paused. He dropped most of his anger, and then he said, “I wasn’t expecting to have this conversation so soon, and I am still rather furious with you for inventing my spell out from under me. It was a mistake to come along with Tasar at this juncture. I am a Healer, and a Pacifist, and my anger has gotten the better of me. I would speak with you at another time about Wizards and the pursuit of a cure for the Black Curse, if you are willing.”

Erick decided to pack away his anger, too. He said, “Sure. We can talk another time. I am interested in cures to Curses that involve Wizardry, and it sounds like you’ve had some experience with that.”

“Both too much experience, and not enough. I can’t tell much openly, but I can say that dragons are your main competitors for finding and securing Wizards, for as soon as you have heard of some untouched Wizard, know that the Wizard has likely been spotted by dragons long before you came along.” Awir said, “The dragon is waiting for you to weaken the Wizard before they [Blink] in and take your prize from you.”

“I have gotten that impression; yes.” Erick said, “Nice to meet you, Awir.”

“And you as well, Erick.”

Awir bowed his head, then walked away. He touched the obelisk of the t-station and was gone in a blip of colorless light.

Erick turned to Tasar and Riivo, asking, “So the Gemslicers are healers? Not secret assassins?”

“Uh,” Tasar said, frowning a bit. “I did not expect that from Awir, either.”

“I expected something more joyous, too!” Riivo said, “Your Particle Magic allowed Tasar here to invent [Condense Oxygen], which has revolutionized the treatment of Wrought Rot! That single spell is saving hundreds of lives each month, and allowing thousands of long-term sufferers to return to society, to let them lead happy, fulfilling lives. I expected Awir to be overjoyed! But he’s just jealous!” Riivo spoke conspiratorially, “He was the first to switch Class to Particle Mage, and now I know why. You should know that it was him who was able to supply your [Luminous Beam] to the White Guardian Collective. The Gemslicers pulled a great boon for that supplied magic! He should have been happy to meet you. Bah.” He said, “I understand you met the guardians when you broke into the Core?”

Erick looked away from the t-station, to Riivo, saying, “I wondered who gave that spell to the guardians. That explains some of the questions that have been building up since I came down here.”

Happily, Riivo said, “Let me answer more! And then perhaps you can answer some of ours? That’s how we like to do it at Archmage’s Rest.”

“Most of the books we brought are from there,” Tasar said, “They are a lot of my own additions to the collective, though.”

“Oh yes!” Riivo said, “Tasar here is one of our good members. It was through us that she brokered the deals for [Condense Oxygen] to make it to the Gemslicers, to aid in the healing of Wrought Rot. We formed the backdrop upon which the creation of the t-station occurred, so many centuries ago, as well as many other inventions which you might be aware of. Runic webs? We started those. Anything you want to give us will be given back to you in kind. That’s how it works in Archmage’s Rest.” He spoke a bit more seriously, “But, of course, there are some waiting periods and trials of honor and such, but I have no doubt you will clear those trials, for sure.”

Erick looked at Riivo and Tasar in a new light. He said, “Okay. I can get behind that. But I’m not sharing any of my own stuff right now until I know who you actually are. I’ve never heard of you and it sounds like I should have.”

“The Arcanaeum Consortium is on the Surface, but down here, it’s Archmage’s Rest! We’re also mostly wrought, so that’s another thing, but—” Riivo said, “You’ve done more than enough to accrue quite a lot of goodwill already, except we don’t approve of entering the Core without permission. Our vote for your reentering the Core will remain a ‘no’, unless there is some highly surprising need for you to return.” He clapped his iron hands, saying, “But enough of dreary topics! Let’s talk about Spatial Magics!”

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about Riivo.

A large part of him felt… Threatened?

But the old iron man seemed rather kind. Honestly kind, too.

Erick moved on, for now, saying, “Let’s talk Spatial Magics. With a focus on runes?”

“All the best magic is rune-based!” Riivo said, laughing a little.

Tasar gave a tiny smile, saying, “Before we get right to it, I must say that Riivo was my sponsor and connection to Archmage’s Rest back when I first joined. He is most people’s first connection, and I hope that this meeting is but one of many more positive interactions to come in the following months and years.”

“Oh, yes yes. Connections connections. As important in magic as they are in life!” Riivo moved to the box of books, opening the lid and grabbing the first one on top, saying, “Let’s focus on the magic side of things, for now. That’s what we’re all truly here for, are we not?”

Erick felt himself beginning to smile, too, as he said, “Sounds good to me.”

“Splendid!” Riivo began conjuring book pedestals upon the sands and set the first book in one, while moving around, conjuring other temporary structures, saying, “Now the next spell to put up is a bit larger, and will prevent [Scry] eyes from appearing around us, so it you don’t mind—” He cast a large spell that washed outward, breaking against Erick’s sunform but reforming as it passed, to settle outward, to provide a Privacy. Erick protected Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye and his Ophiel protected themselves, but every other small spying [Scry] eye within a kilometer was gone. “Ah! There we go. These are some secrets which I doubt many outsiders would understand, but precautions must be taken. Magic is as dangerous as it is wonderful, after all.”

It took a lot of self control for Erick to softly say, “Fair enough.”

His paranoia had him feeling something awful, but he went along with it, for now.

Soon, the lesson on t-stations began in earnest.

In a similar way as when Erick met with Tasar and the other archmages at Oceanside, when he gave his speech about particles and then gave examples, Erick was now on the receiving end of such an education. Riivo happily opened up books and conjured blackboards full of information as he spoke in the cheerful manner of a middle school teacher who loved his job and his students. Almost nothing about the man set off Erick's warning bells, which was likely what set Erick off more than anything else; the absence of any threat at all was a threat by itself, for there was no way that this guy was this self-controlled without magical enhancements. And invisible enhancements, too; Erick’s various Sights told him nothing more than what his eyes already were.

Now, Tasar was a normal person. She gave indications of worry and hope and joy and even twinges of fear now and again, when Erick spoke of extrapolations of runework. She was scared of him, slightly. Which was probably fine, because Erick was scared of her, too.

But Riivo was something else entirely.

Either he was oblivious to everything, which was simply not possible.

Or… Erick wasn’t sure what, exactly, lay on the other side of that thought.

