Oh, sure, Riivo spoke of how the goals of Archmage’s Rest were to foster knowledge and proper magics, but Erick couldn’t help but wonder if these were the people actually behind the prevention of runework and gridwork flowing out to the rest of the world. How much was the Headmaster to blame for that failure of education? Was Riivo the actual problem? Or Archmage’s Rest as a whole?

Over a few hours, Erick did learn how the t-stations were made, though.

Erick stepped back and gazed across twenty four blackboards, a dozen books opened to important passages, and to several lightwards cast into the air. He summed it all up, “The network’s dual functions are to extend the range of [Teleport] through the bolstering of possibility, and to pull back the Dark in both locations.” He turned toward the t-station, adding, “About 70% of every runic inscription on the t-station is used for security and targeting. 20% is used to pull back the Dark. A t-station on the Surface would require…” He did some calculations. “Only some paired obelisks. Or maybe even just a gauntlet or necklace and some scattered targets. Such a system could easily become corrupted, though.”

Riivo brightened, saying, “We’ve tried that before! Necklaces and Dark-scouring targeting pads. Eventually you can get a single necklace that allows the wearer to [Teleport] literally anywhere they want; don’t even need a destination obelisk. This type of runework proliferated to the Surface and people murdered each other from other sides of the globe. Millions dead in the following decade. Repairing that damage wasn’t exactly a Forgotten Campaign, but it was rather close. Led to the current environment of magical items being powered by rad dust and wearing out after a while and needing to be repurchased. All in all, it was the worse outcome, but it needed to be done. Runework is dangerous when in the wrong hands.”

Erick stood stunned, eyes wide, jaw a little slack.

Yet another question about the state of the world, answered, just like that. ‘Why magic items with rad dust that break?’ ‘Why not runework on the Surface?’ ‘Because people died.’ It was the simplest answer and one Erick saw coming, and yet…

He remained stunned.

“Oh yes.” Riivo saw Erick’s reaction, and said, “Yes, yes. You understand. I’m glad to see we don’t have to have the discussion about spreading runes.” He clapped once and smiled. “I’d much prefer you making a [Gate] network with Yggdrasil, than passing around unchecked runework.”

Tasar looked on, gauging Erick with her eyes, looking steadily more relieved as Erick became steadily more horrified. Tasar said, “Most of what a t-station is, is obfuscation of the base runic structure, expanding the necessary structure by a thousandfold. But we’ve also prevented most people from ever understanding what we’ve done, and that is for the best. Runes can be used properly, but it's dangerous to let them out of your sight.”

“Oh yes.” Riivo said, “Mana will respond very well if you give it generalized instructions. There’s no trouble at all to make magic, which is why the Script imposes so many restrictions on it, from the tier-delay to try again when you fail spell creation, to the mana limits per tier, to many other assorted limitations. But it also lifts up the common denominator, allowing people to fight back against the ever increasing dangers of monsters, or to live on their own if they wish for such a thing. It allows runes to work too well, in my opinion. But we must take responsibility for our own lives; can’t expect any gods to make it easy for us, no. They’re here to ensure we have someplace to live, not to hold our hands all our lives.”

Erick stepped back, many of his plans unraveling in that moment. He had wanted to bring—

He realized something important. He said, “A properly defended [Gate] network is the only solution to this problem.”

Riivo nodded. “This is correct.”

“Is this why people live here in the Underworld?” Erick asked, “Because of the prevalence of [Teleport]? I’ve been trying to wrap my head around the fact that people live down here in the Dark and I just can’t. There’s just… so much room on the Surface... But the Surface is deadly in different ways?”

“No.” Tasar said, “It’s because of the Shades. The Dark is one thing, but the monsters he makes are another.”

“I suspect a mass exodus from the Underworld now that the Shades are mostly gone.” Riivo said, “But as for why we have a lot of people down here, it’s because the Geodes, while not open to outsiders, do have a lot of support structures for people living nearby. Some of the safest lands in the world, right here!”

Tasar said, “I suspect most people will stay down here. Maybe a few million might head to the Surface but not much more than that. Where would they even go, though?”

Erick said, “I had hoped to spread runework and gridwork and… A lot. I had hoped to do a lot, but at the very least to reclaim the Crystal Forest from the mimics. I wanted to do something like they have in Enduring Forge.”

Tasar’s face scrunched at the mention of Enduring Forge.

Riivo had a smaller, but still visible reaction of distaste. Then he rid himself of that and said, “I’m sure we can figure out something to stop bad actors and to support life up there, like we support life down here. Won’t be through runework, though; not until we can ensure that proper obfuscations occur. But on the plus side! We can very easily help you to make some anchors for your [Spatial Denial] spells, and others, to prevent widespread Shapings or Spatial Magics from upending your lands.”

Erick said, “I was hoping for all of my Unmoving spells to be strung into— Well.” Erick laid it out there, “With [Renew] in a runic web I could have a city support its own spellwork, and with just [Renew], this would be fine, right?” Tasar gave a small frown, while Riivo’s excitement dropped, and Erick continued, “Much more simple than stringing a thousand spells through a runic web. Much less open to bad actors? That should be fine, right?”

Tasar said, “We’d probably have to find a Wizard to make [Renew], too.”

Erick let out practically all his breath in a low, inaudible groan.

Riivo nodded, glancing from Erick to Tasar, then back to Erick, saying, “She’s right. But you’re already headed after a Wizard, so you might be able to do this.” He added, “We did discuss this at length in the Main Tower but I can distill much of that conversation down to this: a runic web filled with [Renew] would not be the same as releasing runework into the world. So it would likely be acceptable—”

Erick felt his hopes rise, but only a bit.

Riivo continued, “Such open and useful use of runes would likely lead to others wishing to learn runes, which is fine, since education can mostly be controlled— Mostly. You will see various geniuses like yourself pop up now and again and throw everything into chaos, but so what. Nothing wrong with a bit of improvement to various systems here and there.

“Such a genius would likely learn how runic webs work and begin corrupting whatever you put out there, so you simply must take them in hand before that happens, and decide if you need to crush, or nurture.” Riivo said, “Nurturing is almost always the best response, for sometimes such nurturing leads to archmages who pop up and change everything, like you have. Good things, all around!”

Erick’s hopes dropped, for multiple reasons.

This guy had just casually mentioned murder, like it was the best option of two possible options. His paranoia had already suspected that this old man was this way, but now, Riivo confirmed Erick’s dark thoughts. There was still more to learn from the old iron man, though, so Erick chose to pursue the dangerous path of playing along, since pulling out was never an option.

Erick asked, “Can you tell me why, exactly, you need a Wizard to make [Renew]?”

With enthusiasm, Riivo instantly said, “It’s because [Renew] is not a concept in the Script! Oh, sure, you could make such a [Renew] spell possibly at as low as third tier —some of my colleagues suspect such a working would have to be fourth or even fifth tier— but to make it at Basic Tier? For anyone to pick up? This would require a reworking of the Script— Ah! I remember.” He asked, “Here, this is a relevant story. Have you ever heard the tale of [Rebound]?”

Erick had heard of that before. “A Champion of Rozeta altered how Mana Alter worked at the Script-level, plucking [Rebound] out of the working and giving it to everyone. With the Mana Altering necessary for reflective spells now on its own, we get the proliferation of reflective magics due to that Champion’s working. They did this because of some threat, and this act led to the end of that threat.” Erick said, “I looked into [Rebound] for [Renew], but never got too far with that.”

“That story is a small lie; the truth is much deeper than that.” Riivo said, “[Rebound] was plucked out of Mana Altering by an act of Wizardry, undertaken by a Champion of Rozeta, who was, themselves a Wizard.”

Erick stood a bit straighter. “Ah. That happens?”

“More often than you would think.” Riivo said, “Not a single god is properly scared by Wizards or the other natural disasters of this world, since the gods are guides and not tyrants imposing their wills upon us. Rozeta embodies this truth most of all, as she lets people do whatever they want as long as the Script remains intact and nothing threatens the overall stability of the world. Wizards can disrupt the world, but she works with them sometimes to ensure stability. Most of the time her choice does work out, and this was one of those times.

“What happened with [Rebound] is that Rozeta found a Wizard and the Wizard mutated the Script, adding new words to the base Script, to fulfill the need of helping people combat a particularly nasty monster out of Shadehold —Ah. A defunct Shadow Land, now gone, just like Ar’Kendrithyst! Anyway. This particular threat was a monster that fired off thousands of [Force Bolt]s every second, absolutely murdering anyone without reflective spellwork. Small monsters the size of a hand, too. They got everywhere.

“That particular Wizard changed magic and solved a problem, but created millions more.” Riivo shrugged. “Reflective Magic was a good thing overall, though.”

Erick frowned. He eyed both Tasar and Riivo.

Both of the wrought were looking at him, waiting for him to ask what he wanted to ask.

Erick got on with it. “How did Particle Magic happen?”

Riivo smiled brightly, saying, “That is a very good question! We checked. [Call Lightning] went into some Greater Shifting Runes and came out with a rather standard ‘Control Lightning Storm Rain Turbulence’.”

And now Erick was mad again, though he realized he probably shouldn’t have been. He demanded, “How many people have gotten Particle Mage! I only taught one person, and in secret! That was supposed to be difficult.”

Riivo smiled, saying, “Oh! A lot of people have Particle Mage now. We think that the Gemslicers have figured out your [Cascade Imaging], too, but they haven’t been too open about that. Very secretive for a bunch of healers.”

For one long, weird moment, Erick stood there, not saying anything.

A few more moments passed.

And then Erick moved on. He said, “Okay. So. Wizardry for [Gate] and other assorted needs.”

“When you find a Wizard we can keep them safe from the dragons,” Riivo said, waving a hand. “Just need to get them here.”

Tasar said to Riivo, “And we have your assurances of assistance the moment we find one?”

“Of course!” Riivo said, “Just whatever you do don’t anger them. A furious Wizard can break a lot of things that don’t need to be broken.” He added, “There are three, maybe four ways a confrontation with a Wizard will go. You’ll take them unaware, and things proceed well from there. A dragon gets involved and usually wins unless you have overwhelming support, which you likely won’t receive fast enough. The Wizard breaks something and then the Church of Rozeta gets involved, in which case any hope for your own usage of the Wizard will vanish. Or, you die in the attempt. I don’t think the fourth would happen, but it is a possibility.”

Erick easily kept it together as he said, “Let’s move on to another topic, related to this subject of Mana Altering: How does one Remake Mana Altering? Or Strong, or Clarity, or Meditation? Or any of the ones that aren’t actually spells? And I want to make a special Class Ability for Particle Mage. How would I do that?”

Riivo smiled wide, saying, “Much nicer subjects, yes!”

“I can help you with those if we’re done taking up Riivo’s time,” Tasar said.

“Nonsense, Tasar!” Riivo said, “Let’s work on [Clarity]. Now you have an aura, yes?”

Erick imagined it would have been strange for him to keep up his defenses while proceeding to this part of the conversation, so while he let the Ophiel on his shoulder take over sunform duty, Erick dismissed his own sunform and focused inward. He opened his ‘third eye’. Light clung to his skin, barely wisping away in a thin fog.

“Yes, I do.” Erick added, “But it’s rather light-aspected. Not sure how that happened, but I got it while I was in the Core so there hasn’t been much time to experiment.”

Tasar stared at the light coming off of Erick, sighing a little bit in resignation. She was likely thinking something along the lines of ‘my mother is going to be thrilled by this’.

Riivo’s thoughts were similarly bare, but he had a habit of thinking and speaking the same thing, with little in the way of filter between mind and action. Proving himself to be exactly the kindly old man he presented, Riivo hummed, nodded, and said, “This thing you have going on here is due to the Light Essence you took in to acquire [Greater Lightwalk], combined with your Light Domain, and running both all the time. I would suggest you learn how to manually cast some Force spells, feel how such a working cleans your aura of light, and move on to a full clean. We won’t be able to get you the Remake Quests for Strong or Clarity tonight, but I can send a book your way about how to clean up your aura, and another to help you Remake Meditation. Remaking Meditation is easily done, but Remaking Clarity is among the toughest abilities to Remake.”

Erick shut off his aura and began recasting his sunform, saying, “That works.”

