He looked to the monster hunting letters and decided that he might help these people out with their monster problems after everything else, if only to get a good feeling for the layout of the Underworld. Apparently, the Underworld was broadly set up around the ‘Main Roads’, as they were called, which were well maintained outside of the wrought Geodes and various other large settlements here and there, but once you got away from those main places the Main Roads became more like ‘rarely traveled tunnels’. Monsters prowled everywhere down here, and there were many failed settlements out there in the deeper dark. Apparently, the Underworld shifted sometimes, too, causing roads to break and tunnel systems to alter. Erick still wasn’t quite sure how the Underworld managed to remain open enough for people to live down here without getting crushed, but ‘The Script Does It’ seemed like the most correct answer.

He still wasn’t sure why anyone lived underground, either, as opposed to on the Surface, where there was so much more space and life was quite easier. He’d ask around while he was down here, though, just to see what people said.

Erick thought back to his goals of leaving as soon as possible, and his new goals of helping some of the people in these letters. But… If he met with Tasar first… Meeting with Tasar would likely begin the whirlwind of moving on to Oceanside? So maybe he should meet with her last?

No. He’d just tell Tasar that he would solve some problems down here before moving on; she would understand. After all, his overarching goal was to leave allies in his wake, and he had a grand opportunity to leave behind a lot of allies near Stratagold. Possibly inside Stratagold, too.

Erick went for another swim and another round of [Renew] for his Other Self.

Afterward, he felt good enough to head to the embassy to find Tasar, which is exactly what he did.

- - - -

Sergeant Kapra called out to Erick as he walked past, “Sir!”

Erick stopped and turned to face the woman upon her battlements. “Yes?”

“There’s been a formal request for you not to interfere with the governance of this land. No more [Cascade Imaging], please.” Kapra instantly transitioned to a lighter query, asking, “Is there any other furniture you desire?”

Erick knew the first part was coming so he was glad to get it out of the way already. As for her question, Erick said, “Just some raw materials. No wood is necessary, but cottons and stuffings and spidersilk would be good so I can [Fabricate] some better clothes— Actually.” Erick asked, “Can you just direct me toward a seller? I’ll go buy it myself.”

Kapra pointed toward one of the roads in front of the embassy, and said, “Down Silver Road, you’ll hit the Main Road after about fifteen kilometers. Just before that you’ll find Sewer’s Row; a side road. It’s among the most populous street of them all, until you get into Stratagold itself.” She offered, “Or, we could send a runner down to Sewer’s Row and do this for you.”

Erick didn’t feel like walking that far...

“You’ve convinced me that one of your guys would be better at this than I.” Erick began conjuring items that would break if they were poked too hard, saying, “I want stuff like this, in these quantities.” When he finished there wasn’t much; just a few large rolls of cotton and some hard-packed stuffing and other assorted fabrics, all undyed, or bleached white. Erick looked over everything once more, then looked up to Kapra. “That’s all.”

Kapra said, “Sir, yes, sir. It’ll be done within the day.” She offered, “Do you wish for an escort to keep people away from you? Wherever you go?”

“Nah. Not going into town yet.”

Erick left them to it.

- - - -

Tasar’s office was located up three flights of stairs, down a main hallway, and past some twists and some guard stations that were mostly for show, to deter casual people from walking too far into the protected places of the embassy. The guards let Erick pass, though, without mention. Some people even saluted him with a fist slammed against their own chests, which was kinda odd, since Erick wasn’t in their military. Perhaps their actions were simply them recognizing a fellow soldier against the Dark? Perhaps.

With his mana sense cast wide, Erick got a good look at a lot of offices and otherwise as he walked down those halls, because every single space here was obviously put together to produce certain opinions in any casual mana sensing viewer. Primarily, this was a working area with paper works and the people to match, which reminded Erick of practically any high rise corporate office space back on Earth, but here, everyone knew that everything was visible. There were no hidden compartments in any rooms. There were no paperworks of incriminating nature easily seen in the open. People worked on normal stuff, talking normally with each other, knowing that they were spied on all the time.

Some people, with solid walls between them and Erick, even waved at Erick as he walked past. Erick just nodded at those people.

Because of this openness, some of the office spaces nearer the hallways were opulent things, made to impress, with gold-plated facades and paintings, and rich cushions on nice couches and chairs. Mostly though, there were people working on paperwork, everywhere. Erick was pretty sure that there were spaces for hidden meetings and hidden objects, and perhaps there was magic in every one of these offices that hid objects or people, and even hid itself from his mana sense. But he didn’t see any of that.

All he actually saw were people hard at work, and not just wrought, either. Only half of the people were wrought. The other half were of every other kind of people in the world. From what he saw, every single office here was connected to warehouses in Stratagold, or elsewhere on the Main Roads, or in other towns out there in the Underworld. The embassy was basically a very public, very large connecting place, without much magic to it at all. There was some magic, of course, in the form of a runic web that ran along the edges of every hallway’s ceilings.

The web here in the embassy was rather high magitech, to coin a phrase Jane had said one time. The web seemed to only hold ‘light’ ‘anti-shadow’ and ‘anti-stoneshape’ runes, but it was much more complicated than that, for it had the same swirling, curling pattern to its runes that Erick had seen on the t-station. It was obfuscation runework, for sure.

The web seemed extremely vulnerable, though, being right up there, in the open, inside every hallway. Erick hadn’t noticed a single connecting node like they had in enduring Forge, to break the web into discrete chunks, to make tampering with it much harder. There had to be some sort of defensive system on it, though, right? Right.

Erick reached Tasar’s office, deep inside one of the more opulent parts of the embassy. The door opened at his approach, revealing a human-shaped green wrought on the other side, looking similar to Tasar, but different.

The woman said, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt. We were told to expect you, and so we are glad to receive you.” She stepped back from the door, ever the professional, saying, “Please come in.”

Erick walked inside, while Ophiel and Yggdrasil [Scry] eye followed. “Hello.”

He glanced around the room and saw yet another professional space, but of a nicer make than some of the other rooms, though the differences were personal and therefore superficial. The furniture was of thick, standard white wood with nice cushions, while the walls held maps and paintings of various make, all which served to highlight who this room belonged to, and how the occupant of this room was connected to other people. It was a style Erick had seen repeated here and there inside the rest of the embassy. He thought it was kinda nice for guests to know who they were dealing with, and how they might be connected to other people in the embassy.

Everyone seemed to have accreditations and paintings unique to them in their offices, and Tasar was no different. There was the obvious ‘diploma’ from Archmage’s Rest, full of scrollwork and wax badges and other signifiers of Tasar’s talents. Another diploma of a simpler make came from Oceanside, alongside a painting of Tasar standing with the Headmaster, Kirginatharp. Of the rest of the paintings, Tasar was easy to pick out, for she was usually the only adamantium black wrought in attendance.

There was Tasar standing with various other people who might have been mages, according to the staffs in hands and [Familiar]s on shoulders. One painting had Tasar gathered with other professional mages of all types, ringing a t-station. Had she been on the team to invent that? She probably was, considering her original Class as a Spatial Mage.

One painting held other black wroughts, but also the green woman, who looked exactly like the green woman who had welcomed Erick into this space. The woman stood next to a black human man, while beside them stood black-green Tasar and what looked to be two brothers of the same coloring as Tasar; black-green.

Erick glanced over all of that in a flickering second, then turned to the green woman, asking, “You must be Tasar’s mother?”

The woman bowed with just her head, then said, “I am. Tasar is out at the moment, but I have informed her of your coming as soon as the front desk informed me. Would you care for tea while you wait?”

… The woman seemed rather damned nervous, for whatever reason.

Erick tried to put her at ease, saying, “I would love some tea while I wait. Thank you for the offer, Missus…?”

“Otaliya.” Otaliya stiffly, yet adroitly, gestured to a table near some nice chairs. A steaming tea pot rested there beside cups with sugars and honey. She moved to the table and sat down, saying, “Widow, not missus, but it happened centuries ago, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick joined her at her table, saying, “Just Otaliya, then. Nice to meet you—” Back in the hallway, Ophiel mentally poked at Erick. Erick glanced through Ophiel’s eyes to see Tasar walking this way. “It appears the tea will have to wait. Tasar is on her way.”

“Tasar has always been rather prompt when it comes to certain magics, and [Gate] has fascinated her like no other ever could.” Otaliya had been about to pour Erick tea, but she set the pot back down. “She’ll likely wish to move on directly to various matters of magic, too, unless you have other plans?”

Erick said, “I would prefer to move on quickly from this land. Everyone has been rather nice to me except for when we were outside of everyone else’s sights, or when I was disrupting their authority, and I would like to remove myself from here as soon as possible.”

Otaliya went still, her eyes going wide, and then her mouth broke into a grin. She gave a tiny, rapid-fire chuckle, putting her hand over her mouth as she did so in some sort of polite, instinctual reaction. “You’ve described the lives of many people with that statement, Archmage.”

Erick had to grin at that, saying, “I suppose I have.”

And he supposed that Otaliya would know the feeling, too. Erick’s mana sense went rather far, so he saw Tasar’s rooms beyond this front room. Back in the back of this set of offices there was a living space, but only one. The paintings in that room held images of Tasar and two other green-black children, as well as a nicer painting of Otaliya and her former husband. Those clues, along with the other items in that room, all but confirmed that space as an apartment for Otaliya; she probably lived here, in the same manner that some other people also lived in their embassy rooms. At least there was a good five meters of stone between each floor, so her neighbors weren’t too close; beyond the mana sensing range of most people, anyway.

In a controlled, but excited manner, Tasar burst into the room. She turned her eyes toward Erick, though she had spotted him long before now, for sure, and said, “Welcome, Erick.” She turned to her mother, saying, “Thank you, mother.” She turned back to Erick. “What would you like to do first? Or perhaps a place to see? Anything you want to do, or place you want to go, let’s do it.”

Erick stood and Otaliya stood with him, as Erick said to Tasar, “I would speak of the t-station by Yggdrasil and whatever other [Gate] related materials you might have gathered over the centuries. Afterward, I expect to need to visit the people at Archmage’s Rest since I got a letter from them requesting as much, followed by Bright Tea at the White Palace, and then some Church of Rozeta stuff. From there, I have a few more things I might wish to do, but those can wait.”

Otaliya breathed out a little, the weight of Erick’s itinerary easy to see in her reaction.

Tasar paused, before saying, “We’re moving fast, then.”

“Yes, and preferably before I can get too bogged down with anything too serious down here. I’ll need to see the Gemslicers at some point in time, too.” Erick said, “I know I angered quite a few of your people with my journey to the Core, and probably a lot more besides, but I suspect that the Gemslicers are the only ones I might have truly pissed off.” He shrugged. “But then again, I suspect they’re the ones who stole my [Luminous Beam], so if they’re the least bit mad at me, then we’re going to have problems.”

Both Otaliya and Tasar went still when Erick mentioned ‘Gemslicers’.

Otaliya who spoke first, her voice full of barely hidden interest, “Why are you involved with them?”

Tasar withheld judgment and her voice as she waited for Erick’s answer.

Erick said, “I’ll show you.”

Erick held up a hand and conjured a blacklight; a sphere of wardlight shifted to invisible ultraviolet. The sphere of nothing radiated into the room and struck both Tasar and Otaliya with its unseen power, causing both wrought to light up with a skin-deep brilliance. Tasar’s black-green skin lit up with neon purple and stripes of brilliant yellow, while Otaliya turned fully yellow, her copper green body becoming a facsimile of the sun.

“Ah.” Tasar held up her left arm, judging her new glow as she quickly turned her hand over a few times, saying, “That would do it.”

Otaliya put a hand to her mouth as she started giggling again, before agreeing with her daughter, “That would do it.” She dropped her hand, but watched her bright yellowness for a moment before asking, “Do you know of the Gemslicers, Archmage?”

“Healers of some sort, but not much beyond that. If you know of them then I’d be happy to hear what you have to say.”

