"And living without regrets allows you to look forward to the future. With regret on your back, you'll stare into the past instead. Wise of you to handle yourself in such a manner despite being so young. I only wish I had done the same."

I remembered the bloodbaths on Ostaltia, and the carnage Obolis wrought there in his younger years. To this day, he is worshipped as a deity there. Perhaps the Harbinger wished to avoid those same titles. I couldn't comprehend why, but he carried his own reasoning, no doubt.

The umbral knight spoke,

"Yeah, not piling up regrets is easier said than done...Is that all you wanted to talk about?"

Obolis shook his head, "Not quite. I wanted to offer you and your compatriots passage upon one of my private vessels. I intended to watch Giess's glassing, though I understand if you'd rather not see it."

The Harbinger's eyes narrowed, "Do you think that's safe? The shockwave could destroy the vessel, right? And if the glassing goes wrong, we'll be pretty close."

Obolis waved his hands, "Oh, by no means shall we be within the shock radius. We'll be planets away, deeper into the solar system. That will allow us to look onward with safety."

Daniel tapped his chin with the knuckle of a finger, "Hmmm...yeah, we could do that. I'd have Spear there in case we needed a quick warp out, though Helios could help with that too."

He gave me a glance, "Good to see you're not looking too bored."

I gave a solemn nod, "You as well."

The guild leader turned his attention back to the Emperor,

"It sounds interesting, I guess. It would at least give me closure for this...mess of a situation."

The Emperor pressed his palms together, "Then, until then, I pray for your victories and wish against your defeat."

Daniel scratched the back of his head, "Uh, yeah, you too."

If there was one thing that dimensional, metal monster could work on, it was his goodbyes. Obolis closed the call and turned his gaze towards me,

"That was an interesting series of events. He seemed almost sad despite his many military feats. Perhaps he is unsuited for war?"

I shook my head, "He prefers situations that are black and white, good and bad. It lets him act without reservation, and this situation is far from it."

Obolis picked up the cipher inscribed tablet in his hands, "Indeed. It does put one at a disadvantage when their resolve is muddied by uncertainty. In time, the results of his valor will show themselves. Of this, I have no doubt."

I frowned as every victory the Harbinger won was yet another strike against me. His success was my failure now, and it acted as a catalyst for my removal from my position. I seemed safe for now, however. Obolis sighed,

"We've compiled the documents of the cipher, correct?"

I nodded, "Yes, Valencia handled them."

The Emperor shook his head in disbelief, "She is a gem of our empire, isn't she?"

I suppressed a wince. I hated Valencia.

"Indeed, she is. We are lucky to have her."

"This document should act as another temptation for Daniel or anyone else interested in the cipher. I've begun scoping out other parties interested in my guard deal as he's been slow to respond. It will do us no harm in either regard."

I turned a palm to him, "Their shadow slicer was a menace on the battlefield, wasn't he?"

Obolis pepped up, "Or she, we honestly have no idea. Regardless of his origin, he struck fear in the hearts of many. It was quite the display, showcasing his ability to tear people apart through their shadows."

I raised my other hand, "Perhaps a field of light would stop him?"

Obolis leaned over, "He seemed able to suppress light for short spans of time. That alone would give him all the time he needed to enact his judgment."

I leaned back, "But surely the ability carries limitations?"

The Emperor weighed his hands back and forth, "Perhaps, but assuming it's so simple as...wait a moment, I just received an important call. It's an emergency."

Obolis opened his status, showing a control room on one of our worlds. An orange mask grabbed the sides of a camera, shaking it as he shouted,

"They're here. They've come. We can't stop them. They're eating us."

Obolis's eyes widened, "Who is eating whom? And where? You're an officer. Calm yourself and explain so that I may act."

The orange mask quivered, "The Hybrids. They're here."

I took a step back, my blood freezing in my veins. Ice expanded from my feet as even Obolis blinked in disbelief. Obolis murmured,

"We...have been attacked?"

The orange mask rasped,

"They've come for us. The Empire is under attack."
