Her response made it sound like she was trying to rationalize it to herself, but it still surprised Ali. Malika had been so morally opposed to anything to do with crime and thievery when she had first met her, and yet here she was showing clear evidence that she had spent her hard-earned gold on what looked like an expensive set of lockpicks. It seemed obvious to Ali that the skill should be ok, provided she didn’t do anything bad with it, but then again, she had no experience with being forced into taking an unwanted skill by criminals threatening violence and permanent harm.

A few moments later there was a muffled click, and Malika withdrew her tools. She stepped back allowing Mato to use his strength to open the heavy door. There was a grinding noise of stone-on-stone and a squeal as ancient hinges protested loudly, but Mato managed to lever the door open wide with some overdone manly grunting and showers of fine black powder.

A set of stone stairs descended into the darkness, covered with a thick carpet of dust, undisturbed for centuries. Ali summoned a small circular barrier for protection. Just in case. It didn’t look like anything living – or even dead – had passed this way since the fall of Dal’mohra, but she wasn’t taking any chances. Calen’s light floated down the stairs, bobbing and weaving gently and they all trooped down with Mato in the lead. Ali told her Kobold and Goblin minions to follow her, leaving the larger wyvern behind. It wouldn’t fit through the narrow passage anyway.

At the bottom of the stairs, Ali found an expansive room, its features slowly revealed as the bobbing light moved away toward the center. The thick layer of dust made it hard to tell, but the floor seemed to be made of a polished stone. Several marble stone pillars gleamed green in the light of Calen’s magic – even a few lying broken on the ground. Whatever had once been in here had long decayed away, undisturbed for thousands of years. Ancient cobwebs drooped, hanging heavily from the pillars and ceiling, but the ubiquitous bone from the surrounding dungeon was conspicuously absent. Clearly, this room had been sealed before the dungeon and its monsters had even existed.

“Over here,” Calen said, drawing her attention to a vault door set into the marble wall, and then coughing as his movement disturbed the dust. The giant circular door was inset into the stone and covered with hundreds of protective runes, most of them dark and devoid of mana, but a few of them still glowed in her Arcane Insight.

“This looks more complicated,” Malika said, moving up to examine the lock.

“Some of the protective runes are still active,” Ali warned. She wasn’t quite certain what they would do, damaged and aged as they were, but there might still be potency to some of the defenses.

“I’d still like to try.”

“Ok, if you’re careful,” Ali nodded, summoning a barrier between Malika’s head and chest and the door, just in case, leaving space for her to access the lock itself. Everyone took a few steps backward and Malika began her deft lockpicking, a look of complete focus in her eyes.

Click. The runes on the doorway flared, releasing their mana in an explosion, more deafening for being confined to a stone room. Ali’s barrier shattered into a thousand shards and the powerful blast knocked her to the ground even from halfway across the room. As she tumbled, Malika’s body, launched by the close proximity to the blast, flew clear over her head to crash up against the wall on the far side of the room.

Horrified, Ali turned, but she found Malika gracefully landing on her feet, brushing debris from her clothing.

“Thanks for the barrier, Ali, it should be open now,” she said, acting as if nothing remarkable had happened.

That would have finished me easily. Actually, she had taken some blast damage despite the distance. She brushed at some of the black scorch marks on the front of her clothing.

“Nice trick,” Mato said.

The vault chamber was surprisingly spacious, containing many stone tables, alcoves, and stands. However, the passage of time had not been kind to anything that wasn’t stone. There were piles of decayed and tattered remnants littered everywhere. Ali levitated to a display of something that looked like it may once have been a book, but it crumbled at the slightest touch. Several stone and ceramic figurines had survived, but Malika said they had value only as collectors’ items and probably weren’t even worth carrying back to town.

At an alcove set into the wall, Ali found a small chest, the metal bindings heavily corroded. As she reached over to open it, it too crumbled into dust, the wood having not survived aging in the vault. A pile of gold coins spilled out onto the stone surface making a cascade of clinking as the coins bounced and rolled on the stone, unnaturally loud in the confines of the vault.

“I found something,” Ali announced, but her announcement was not needed to get their attention – they were all already staring in her direction.

“That’s a lot of gold coins,” Calen observed.

“Exactly five hundred.” The lack of hesitation and the precision and confidence of Malika’s assessment took Ali by surprise, and she just stared at her friend for a moment.

“Appraise,” Malika explained, shrugging her answer to Ali’s unasked question. “They’re ancient coins too, so they will be difficult to use unless we find a money changer or a collector.”

“What should we do with them?” Calen asked.

“How about a hundred each, and one hundred for a group fund?” Ali suggested. The group fund idea had just come to her as a flash of inspiration, mainly as a way of easing her friends’ anxiety about who owed whom money. Some of their group had skills that made their adventuring inexpensive or even profitable, like herself. Others, like Calen, constantly had to spend money on consumables just to function. Yet they all relied on each other, and much of what they’d earned so far was a group effort. Also, with a group fund, Ali could contribute money she made using her Grimoire whenever it ran low without her friends needing to pay her back.

“That sounds fair,” Malika said. “We could also pay back the potions we used from the group fund.”

“I vote for Malika to manage the group funds,” Ali said.

“Why me?” Malika began.

“I agree,” Calen said.

“Obviously,” Mato snorted like it was a foregone conclusion.

“But…” Malika began to object but fell silent, clearly floored by the instant agreement from everyone.

“You have the best skills for negotiating and evaluating gear,” Ali explained. It went without saying that the most important reason was everyone implicitly trusted Malika to be fair.

“Ok.” Malika relented, quickly dividing up the coins and giving each person their share.

They explored the rest of the vault, searching for anything valuable or of use, but aside from a few small stone knickknacks, little had survived the passage of time.

This is beautiful, Ali thought, brushing the dust off a broken section of one of the marble pillars while the others finished up exploring. The section she had exposed gleamed a gorgeous green, laced through with a delicate tracery of white veins. Surreptitiously, she ran her mana through her fingertips.

Variant: Green Marble added to Imprint: Stone

Maybe I can make some sculptures, she thought, smiling as the pretty stone ignited her imagination.
