Luo-Luo declines our invitation to breakfast, and also our invitation to head out to the bamboo grove, stating she has too much work on her plate, but somehow that there’s also nothing I can do to help. Honestly, she works too hard and is not great at accepting help, because she likes to micromanage things too much. Even though MuYang and Xianhe have never given her reason to distrust them and possess Natal Palaces and perfect recall, Luo-Luo still insists on double checking all their work, and not in a cursory fashion either. This makes it difficult to spend more time with her, as she’s too compulsive to relax and let others do their work without constant oversight. She even turned down a two-and-a-half week trip to the Central and Southern Citadels with me so she could stay here and work, even though I all but insisted she come along to keep things from getting awkward with just me and Song.

I dunno. It’s weird. For someone who works so hard to win my affection, she sure makes up a lot of excuses to avoid spending time alone with me. Maybe she saw the steel monstrosity in Mila’s room and came to the wrong conclusion, or maybe she’s just not all that into me, but either way, there’s not much I can do to win her over if we never spend any time together outside of work.

Worst of all? She took over my office while I was gone. Moved a table in for Noodle, bought comfier office chairs, and even brought her zither in too, which she plays by the window overlooking the cattle ranch. I can’t say I loved this office, or even liked it much, but it was mine. Now, it’s hers, and I’m a little saddened by the loss.

“Oh, this came for you, Lord Husband,” Luo-Luo adds, just as I’m about to leave with Mila. Handing over my opened mail, Luo-Luo beams and says, “Good news, for once.”

Good news indeed, as my gambit has finally paid off. It’s been over a month since I set Rang Min to task hunting down the true culprits behind the widespread fraud plaguing Northern shipments to the Western Wall, and he finally made a move. Furrowing my brow as I read through the documents, I sigh and put them aside when I’m done. “So, Rang Min uncovered a nameless, shadowy mastermind who worked from behind the scenes to blackmail a number of highly placed patsies into compliance. Though unable to expose the mastermind’s identity or recover the stolen goods, Rang Min was able to unravel said mastermind’s web and put an end to his criminal enterprise by executing a bunch of mooks. How convenient.”

“You should look over his proof, Lord Husband.” Gesturing at a pile of documents on the other side of the table, Luo-Luo purses her lips and says, “It is... extensive and rather compelling.”

Torn between sating my hunger and trying to catch Rang Min in a lie, hunger wins out by a landslide. “You’ve gone through them? Your thoughts?”

“I saw nothing out of place, and all the evidence supports Rang Min’s claims.” Shrugging, she adds, “Unfortunately, he was unable to uncover where the stolen goods were sold, which could have led us to a suspect.”

My gut doesn’t like this, because I was sure it was the company owners, but my belly likes being empty even less. “MuYang, have your people verify Rang Min’s evidence, and see if you can turn up anything he might have omitted. It doesn’t make sense for an outside third party to have so much control over so many different companies. Whoever did this knew too much about too many ventures, information which could only have been collected by someone high up inside each company, or by having an intricate network of spies all across the Northern Province, like you or...” The blood drains from my face as I examine my most recent thoughts for signs of influence or manipulation, but I come up empty with proof of their existence or absence.

“What’s wrong?” Mila asks, concerned by the look on my face. “You look like you’ve seen a ghost.”

Clutching her hand to settle my nerves, I clear my throat and shake my head, unwilling to voice my suspicions just yet. “Verify the evidence, leave no stone unturned, and do what you can to find the stolen goods. Rang Min said he couldn’t find where they’d been sold, but see if he tracked how they were moved and where he lost the trail. Maybe there’s a pattern to be found in the direction they were all going.” Swallowing hard, I curse myself for being unable to Send, and wonder if my thoughts have already given the game away. “Do it now, and do it quickly, because if Rang Min is being honest, then this is a bigger problem than any of us thought.”

If I’m right, then our enemy isn’t greed and corruption, not this time. For decades, Yo Ling terrorized Sanshu and its surrounding areas with his bandit army, but the most fearsome aspect about him was neither his strength nor brutality, though he had both in spades. No, they called him ‘the Spectre’, because it seemed like he could be anywhere and everywhere at once, ferreting out hidden secrets which helped him bribe, blackmail, plunder, and kill his way to the top, where he stayed for decades without ever coming close to getting caught.

And I’m guessing whatever Yo Ling can do, Zhen Shi can probably do even better.

There’s a good chance these stolen goods weren’t sold, but were smuggled out of the province and into the West. Lumber, stone, food, cloth, these are all things the Western Province would need to survive and rebuild, which is something no one ever considered because the Defiled do not build, but I know better. Zhen Shi is aiming to create a brand new breed of Defiled, or at least that’s what it looks like with his so called ‘Chosen of Heaven’ and his rambling notes about improving humanity as a whole by turning everyone into Martial Warriors. Whatever his goal, he needs a living workforce to supply him with armour, weapons, transportation, and more, which means he needs to feed, clothe, and house his non-Defiled workers. I should have thought of this sooner, but the concept of a Defiled Empire is just so far out there, I didn’t even stop to consider the possibility despite all the proof sitting before my very eyes.

The dark revelation casts a sombre pall over my mood, but I set it aside and go wake Lin-Lin from her slumber. While Mila helps her get ready, I whip together a quick breakfast in the kitchen with Eun’s help, which is neither asked for nor appreciated as she interrogates me regarding the upcoming wedding and feeds the bears far too many sugary treats. Deflecting almost everything by telling her to check with Yan when she gets back, I take breakfast and bears to go before Grandpa Du can insinuate how difficult my upcoming wedding contests will be or my bears develop diabeetus and enjoy a quiet breakfast inside the carriage with my wife and wifey. After stopping briefly to pick up Song and Princess and offer them a suitable tribute of egg-wraps and honey cakes, we all set out for a relaxing day at the bamboo grove.

Or at least, that’s the idea until my carriage arrives at the district and I feel compelled to step out and see how construction is going.

Bringing only Mama Bun, Ping Ping, Kuang Biao, and a cadre of Death Corps with me, I send the carriage ahead to deliver everyone to the bamboo grove while I humour my inner workaholic and wander around the district. Taking in the burgeoning cement block walls and massive (empty) gate, I’m assailed by an immense surge of satisfaction at seeing what I have wrought, though the district could really use some colour. The walls are only three stories high or twelve metres, which isn’t as high as I’d like, but then again, the outer and inner Citadel Walls are only fifteen and twenty meters tall respectively, so it’s not bad. There are dozens of completed outposts already in place, and when I’m done, there will be one outpost every four kilometres, totalling a hundred and twenty five outposts along the western border, with one in ten of those outposts being a full-fledged fort.

Sadly, this is only for the western-most districts, because when it comes to farmers and tradesmen, you can’t actually fit too many of them along a thousand kilometre border. We’ve already started settling farmers further east, and I had to account for things like population density, overnight rest stations for caravans, guard posts to keep the peace, and a thousand other things I never considered. Worst of all, only the westernmost districts will have these drab, concrete walls, as it is neither economically viable nor logically reasonable to have an outpost at every single district. Some people will just have to fend for themselves, because I can’t afford to build defences for all of them.

No matter how much I’d like to. One in ten forts is already fewer than I’d like, as I initially wanted one in every district, rather than just throwing up four walls and calling it a day. Then again, even if I built an impregnable fortress every kilometre, there’s a good chance they’ll end up being useless, because if the Wall is overrun in any place besides the Citadel, Zhen Shi would be best served if he moved his forces east until they could blend in with the locals. This would give him a hidden insurgent force inside the Empire, who would be free to recruit, incite, spy, distract, and just generally be a thorn in the side of the Imperial Army, one we would have to devote significant resources to hunting down. Aside from the difficulty of identifying someone as Chosen, it’s also much harder to kill Defiled when fighting out on the open plains. I should know, because I still hold the record for most efficient kill ratio, which is just terrifying to consider. Me, the most effective killer of Defiled, with my mismatched retinue of cripples, slaves, reformed bandits, hobo woodsmen, and Sentinel archers. What the hell was everyone else doing that made them so ineffective? Fighting Defiled with their heads up their asses and both hands tied behind their backs?

Lamenting the sub-par tactical doctrine and dire fate of the Empire, I set to greeting labourers and inspecting the walls for signs of shoddy work or unexpected issues. I don’t expect to find anything, especially not with Cixi in charge, as she has years of experience in construction and is not a woman who suffers fools or shirkers lightly. As if summoned by the mere thought of her, the capable woman scurries over to greet me at an undignified sprint, only to stop short in front of my all-too alert guards. “Greetings... Minister Rain,” she pants, utterly horrified by her lack of manners. “If... you’d... sent word... I’d... have been... waiting to... receive you.”

Waving her protests aside before she tries to apologize for what she now realizes could have been construed as an accusation, I hand her a water-skin with a smile. “Nonsense, I don’t need you to receive me, you’ve an outpost to build and more important matters to deal with.”

After taking a long pull of water and getting her breath back under control, Cixi nods and gestures around her. “Work is coming along well,” she proclaims, proud as a peacock as she follows me around the district. “With the coin you fronted for construction of these outposts, I hired on some of the best in the business, and with the wages I pay, I have my pick of the most dedicated labourers.” There’s a lot more to construction than simply stacking bricks, so it’s well worth the cost to hire the best, though I’ll be damned if I understand the first thing about it. That’s why I asked Cixi to handle this, and with Cao Cuo’s mathematical brilliance handling logistics and transportation, and Luo-Luo and Mila to interpret his instructions for me, there have been no shortages or delays anywhere across the entire Western border. Honestly, Cao Cuo has enough smarts to be a Lieutenant Marshal, but has gone completely unnoticed because he ran a minor shipping company that only reached three major cities in Central. His skills are the real deal though, and the only things holding him back were a lack of startup funds and an unwillingness to wholly devote himself to growing his business, as he would much rather spend his time learning for the sake of knowledge itself.

The man is brilliant, but his intelligence is a result of hard work and dedication, rather than inborn talent. The world is filled with worthless geniuses, but it’s men like Cao Cuo who will bring the Empire into the next age.

With this in mind, I ask Cixi to send the pasty, wide-eyed youth back to the Citadel with orders to report to Junior, where I intend to put him to work helping MuYang go over Rang Min’s findings. With luck, his sharp mind will pick up on something everyone else would overlook and prove or disprove my worrisome theory about Zhen Shi. If the Uniter is able to exert so much influence in the North to hide his wide-spread embezzlement, I shudder to think what else he might be up to right under our noses.

