Once finished with my walk-through of the district, I head out to pay a visit to Orbei’s yurt and say a few words with the Khishig families. I heard about her little dust-up with Cixi, and I don’t want any hard feelings to linger. Orbei is argumentative and stubborn, but far from malicious, and she accepts my peace offering with grace and aplomb, though not before muttering a few jabs at Cixi. The People are a fierce and independent bunch who are not integrating well with the new farmers, though I expected as much. I left them two entire blocks to themselves, plus the area around Taduk’s bamboo grove, but still, the close proximity to strangers has them in a foul mood, and I have no idea what I can do to smooth things over. This land was a part of my earliest acquisitions, which I bought because it sat along a serviceable dirt road to the Citadel, but now that I’ve settled thousands of families in the surrounding areas, that dirt road has become the main avenue for traffic going to and from the Citadel. Every day, there are countless travellers passing by the People’s living area, and those numbers will only increase from here, which is... less than ideal.

With a solution in mind, I bring my concerns to Alsantset, after checking to see if she’s available for lunch soon and dinner back at the Citadel. “What a good little brother you are,” she growls, mercilessly pinching both my cheeks with a feral smile. “First you leave on a journey without coming to say goodbye, and now that you have returned, all you bring are problems to lay at my feet.”

“...I also brought candied salmon.” Thanks to Song, who wanted to go shopping for gifts and souvenirs, which I would have never have thought to do.

Pinching my cheeks once more before helping herself to a serving of the deliciously smoked fish, she takes a seat in the grass and gestures for me to join her. The twins are off fishing and hunting with Charok, so it’s just the two of us here at her yurt, and it strikes me as odd for my sister, a Major in her own right, to be living out of a glorified tent with nowhere for family or guests to sit. “Let me build you a manor,” I blurt out, which earns me a displeased frown. “Not as a gift, but because it is necessary. You’re my sister, so you should be living in luxury. It’s expected of us now.”

Pursing her lips, Alsantset motions for another piece of salmon and leaves me no choice but to risk the grass stains and sit beside her. “I moved out here to get away from politics,” she says, smiling to show she’s not blaming me for her decision. “You have adapted well to your new life, but I have no desire to do the same.” Gesturing at her yurt with a smile, she says, “This serves our needs well enough, and is already more than I want, for my heart aches to return home and reclaim the manor my children grew up in.”

“I miss that manor too,” I lie, and I can see she doesn’t buy it. I should’ve known better, but I’ve gotten into the habit of speaking polite lies. “But missing home is no reason not to live in comfort. We’ve been here in Central for a year already, and it might be several more before we return home.”

“And until such a time, I will live where I please,” Alsantset replies, perhaps a little more harshly than intended. Softening her tone, she strokes my hair and pats my cheek, and I’m reminded of how often she did just this when I first came to live with her. Such a small gesture, but it speaks volumes to her character, because back then, there was a good chance I would turn out to be Defiled, but still she took me in. “You are well-suited for this life, little brother,” she whispers, her expression mournful and melancholic, “But I fear I will never grow accustomed to it. For a time, living here on the farm was an escape from the reality of our situation, but now I can no longer lie to myself. You are right. It will be some time before we return home, so I will speak with Charok about building a house for our family to live in.” Narrowing her eyes, she adds, “You will not shame him by offering to pay for it again. My husband is a capable man who can provide for his family with his own two hands.”

Too true, considering he takes a forty percent cut of every Shen Mu heartwood carriage we sell. Even though I’ve been artificially limiting the supply to drive prices up, Charok has already earned more than enough to live the rest of his life in luxury. Leery of offending my sister again, I reluctantly request she abide by the rules my people set forth regarding construction on each plot and mention that I coincidentally held onto a residential lot inside the district which would be perfect suited for a family home.

Right beside the mayor’s house, so she can keep an eye on Bulat.

“Hmph.” Crossing her arms in a huff as she catches onto my ploy, she scowls and says, “That fool. You would have been better served appointing his mother as Mayor.”

“I considered it, but she can’t read.”

“Easier to teach Maira to read than Bulat to govern. He is too used to bullying bandit recruits and forgets he lives amongst warriors and commoners now.”

God dammit Bulat. “I’ll talk to him about his demeanour, but I still don’t know what to do about the rest of the People.” Scratching my neck in sheepish remorse for asking for so much from my wonderful sister, I ask, “So... got any ideas on how I can help them integrate?”

Narrowing her eyes, she sighs and says, “Yes, and it is the same idea as yours. Send Sentinels to oversee your militia training.” Shaking her head, she pinches my cheeks for a third time and says, “My sweet, honest brother is no more, and in his place is a duplicitous politician. If you have something to suggest, then come out and say it. You have no need to use these tricks to persuade me.”

“Sorry. Force of habit.” Hugging her in apology, I offer another piece of candied salmon which she accepts with a smile, meaning I’ve found a new way to bribe her. “As for the matter with regulations and whatnot, I know it chafes to be told what to do, but the regulations need to be adhered to throughout the districts. If I allowed something here that isn’t allowed elsewhere, others will point and ask why they cannot be exempted from the rules as well. Is there anything I can do to make up for it?”

“Yes.” Beaming in victorious delight, Alsantset straightens up and says, “Offer to aid others in securing materials for their homes. Your concrete blocks are cheap and sturdy, but they are lifeless and displeasing to the eye, and though the sod homes are quaint and filled with life, few of the People will care to live underground. We will require wood, and plenty of it if we are to build homes, and you are well-positioned to offer the best prices.”

“...Would just giving wood away for free be an insult? Not as a gift, but as a... I dunno, gesture of goodwill or something.” I gave away yurts, so I don’t see why I can’t give away lumber.

“A gifted manor is not a home, but merely a place to rest one’s head.” Smiling as she pats my cheek once more, she explains, “You mean well, but we have our pride. Do as I say, but no more. Gathered here are the families of Sentinels and Healers, so they can afford the costs.”

Sure, but I can still subsidize the shipping fees and offer material at cost. Taking Alsantset’s hand, I smile and say, “I know you think I don’t miss our home in the village, but I do. It’s just... I don’t understand the need for division. No matter which province, city, village, or faction we hail from, we are all a part of the Empire, and we must stand together if we are to have any chance against the united Defiled.”

“You are right, little brother, as you so often are, but it is not so simple.” Smiling ever so sadly, Alsantset sighs and shakes her head. “You do not understand, but suffice it to say, the People stand apart not because we choose to, but because we must.”

Well... that doesn’t sound ominous at all.

Rolling her eyes in exasperation, Alsantset snatches away the box of candied salmon and sends me on my way. “You always were one to assume the worst. I only mean that if we were to integrate with the Empire, then we would cease to be the People, and we pride ourselves on our skills and history. Run along and go fetch your wives now. I would rather not have you underfoot while I prepare lunch. I will make your favourite, stir-fried crispy chicken with mango and peppers, so hurry back.”

Despite being Minister of Finance and one of the most politically powerful men in the outer provinces, my sister will always see me as the poor little slave child she saved, and I don’t hate it. Mom and Dad are proud as can be, but Alsantset? She’s always been proud of me, and has been my biggest supporter ever since that first day we met, which means more to me than I could ever explain. Even without my amber eyes, I know she would have fought to protect me, because that’s just the sort of person she is. Proud, fierce, and loving to the extreme, she is my sister, my hero, my guardian, and my protector.

Everything I have, I owe to her, but she won't accept any gifts more valuable than candied salmon. Good thing I slipped Tate and Tali a thousand gold each at the wedding, and had twenty War Bonds put in their names. That’s one work-around for this gift-giving stigma; just give stuff to the kids. Super weird, and I have no idea why it matters, but it does.

Now, that’s enough work for today. This might be the last time I visit Taduk’s bamboo grove before my wedding with Yan, so I came here with an explicit goal in mind: To find me a groundhog and bring it home to cuddle. If my wedding guests aren’t going to gift me with floofs, then I’ll just have to catch one myself, and while I’ve yet to find success, it just so happens that Taduk has plenty of Spiritual Plants I can use as bait.

Dirk Diggerton, I know you’re out there, and you will become a part of the family whether you like it or not.

...

Duchess Digglesby? Doc Duggerday? Richard Digglett? There are just so many great names, but I should probably catch a groundhog before settling on a name.

Chapter Meme
