I'm going to need to make sure I don't get addicted to this, he thought. He was actively studying what Uva was doing for him, which part of his mind she was actively suppressing to stop the development of a lingering urge.

He didn't have her fine control over Psychomancy, nor her deep understanding of Psychology yet, but he was developing both of those skills. In time, he would be able to control his own mind completely. And that would allow him to get as plague-blitzed as he wanted while still remaining functional. Otherwise, he would be little more than a drunken brawler every time he wanted a major boost.

His Plaguefueled had amused the orcs to a considerable degree. Apparently, that was a skill some orcs had as well, but only the incredibly reckless orcs, as Whisper described. After all, getting Plaguefueled meant that the Pathbearer had to get extremely sick several times and had to suffer from a plethora of different viruses and diseases until their body finally fought it off.

Or until they died, Shiv thought to himself.

As Shiv had held the cave-biter up to Courtney, the leviathan simply regarded him for a moment before one of its tentacles descended, wrapping around the carcass. Shiv was glad he didn't need to manipulate any of its minds for it to respond, but as Courtney held on to the cave-biter, Shiv frowned. The leviathan continued clinging tight to the biter and did nothing else.

And that’s when Shiv realized that Courtney wasn't very smart.

Courtney was, in fact, so stupid that she required an entire army of vampires to help her use her body and to do her thinking for her. She could do some basic things, but eating or absorbing biomass might be too complicated without someone guiding her.

“That's all right, Courtney,” Shiv said, patting a tentacle encouragingly. “You're trying. We're trying. We’ll both get smarter.” He just let the Court Leviathan hold on to the carcass for now.

He would have to get the Weaveress Biomancer later. See if she could help Courtney digest some biomass. He didn't want the poor Leviathan to starve to death after all. And with an ample supply of her meat, he could provide regeneration to everyone. He still didn't know what a cave-biter could provide.

Probably nothing nearly as good as regeneration on its own, though.

“Always remember, Shiv. Shit ingredients, shit food, yeah?” Georges’s voice echoed through Shiv's mind.

“Georges, if you could see some of the produce I have here…” Shiv muttered to himself as he looked down at his massive haul. Most of his other harvested dangled off the sides of the basilisks. “Ah. I’ll show you when I get you out of Blackedge.”

There was enough stuff here to supply the Swan-Eating Toad for a good month or so, at least. And that was another reason why he looked forward to freeing Blackedge—he would get to show Georges just how much he improved. Hang in there, Chef. I’ll build an army and get you out. Even if it has to be an army of orcs.
