The convoy teleported north towards the land of the Mountain People for a brief drinking competition, then to the iron mines of Min Goles. Viv was pleased that the decrepit retreat she’d huddled in after her flight from Kazar had turned into a bustling industrial city, complete with gardens and fields for the Yries to feed themselves. As promised, they’d kept Varska’s precious flower alive. The Suncult Marea was now a large yellow bubble of sunshine on top of the dead mage’s tomb, standing as a symbol of hope and resilience.

“We’ve gone a reaaaaally long way since then,” Viv muttered.

“And you have kept your promise,” Irao said from behind her.

“That too.”

That was the last bit of teleporter fun, however. After that, they were trudging through wild, revenant-infested lands with Viv flying ahead to set up teleporters. Even with those, it soon grew too tedious to cross back to camp at the end of the day.

Viv was on the road again. Camping near the deadlands was comfortable enough with her nice tent, but she wished she had some of those space-defying pocket planes with spas, easily accessible by phone booth or whatever worked, really. After thinking that, Viv chuckled at her own entitlement. The planet was already allowing her to bend space around for convenient travel and she was whining about the luggage.

“How easily one grows accustomed to convenience.”

***

Days turned to weeks and the expedition continued, regularly resupplied with fresh goods thanks to quick trips back. Harrak really was huge. Even with breaks, the travelers soon grew weary of the same desolate mountain flank overlooking a dead world extending to the horizon. There were variations, of course. As they went farther north, the mana concentration became so high Viv had to lead them up higher into the mountains or risk poisoning. Even with Arthur keeping the skies clear, regular revenants still required constant surveillance and regular battles. It was after one such battle that Viv approached Marruk.

“Anybody wounded?” she asked the stout Kark woman.

Marruk merely shook her head. Her Imperial was excellent now, but that didn’t make her any more talkative.

“Good steel, and you kill the more dangerous foes. We are doing well.”

She sighed. Heavily.

“We have drifted apart,” Viv said, suddenly apologetic. “With everything I just… haven’t talked to you as much as I should have.”

“It is life,” Marruk replied with a kind tone. “You needed a bodyguard and I needed a guide. Now you do not, and my people need a guide.”

She shrugged.

“You have kept your word. I can… hardly believe we are finally doing it.”

“Going to war?”

“Going home. There is always war. Everywhere.”

She sighed again. Viv sat next to her on a rock while her soldiers made themselves scarce. Marrul pulled a stained handkerchief from a recess of her armor, then cleaned gore and dust from her gear with patience and great care.

“I have not been back to my tribe since they refused to listen. They said I did not understand their struggle. They saw me as… lost. Not weak. Lost. Having forgotten the old ways.”

Marruk lifted a hand. Wind pulsed between her armored glove like a whisper.

“I could have been a shaman like my mother. Not a very good one, but I could have been a shaman.”

She let her hand drop.

“And died like her on the eve of battle with steel between my ribs. Things have never changed as far as I can remember. Now that we are heading back with armored men, knowledge, you… I do not know how to feel. What if they do not listen? What if they are already all dead.”

“Your people are resilient. Give them a chance, and besides…”

Viv gestured at the milling mercenaries who were uncharacteristically quiet.

Honestly that last part was a relief.

“They’re already listening. I can already tell that you won’t convince the hardliners but you don’t have to. You must convince enough to follow you to turn the tide. That is all you can do.”

“It might not be enough.”

“Still the best you can do. You are but one fourth step, rich, armored lady with an elemental archmage friend.”

And a dragon friend.

Arthur landed nearby. She was munching on some hairy creature with brittle bones, according to the cracks.

“That better not be undead,” Viv said.

No.

Infestation of those things in a nearby valley.

Good fur trade potential.

Too far from supply lines for now.

“Huh.”

“Thank you for being here. The both of you,” Marruk repeated. “There is something I would say.”

“Hmm?”

“I have been banished by the council.”

There was a quiet ‘ah’ moment during which Viv reassessed their chances of success.

“The council is led by my father.”

“Ah. Errr. Are they going to try and kill you on sight?”

“I can object to the council’s decision.”

“That’s not a no.”

“Well,” Marruk replied.

Her heavy mace landed on the rock with an ominous thud.

“They can certainly try.”

***

Marruk was exceptionally grumpy over the following days, and even taking out her rage on innocent revenants did little to calm her down. Her young mercenaries walked around on tiptoes and they didn’t even scream when declaring their intent. It was a worrying development. Viv cooked fresh tubers in pastry for her, putting a precious smile on her face for the brief moment it took for Marruk to ask her never to do it again, as the pastries were tragically underbaked. As time went on, the convoy cruised north of the Harrakan capital line and the ambient black mana started to decrease again. The days grew warmer, and the decrepit remains of deep forests replaced the plains of the south.

A welcome distraction occurred when the caravan came across a tribe of Imperial survivors who had been living in isolation for decades. There were several thousands of them and, when they saw Viv, they recognized her crown.

“It’s a miracle!” their toothless leader claimed.

Viv spent a couple of days installing mana purifiers around while sending a messenger back to reestablish contact. Meanwhile, the chief was only too happy to have Viv visit. They’d been doing fairly well considering their circumstances.

“We have wool from our cattle for clothes.”

“Sounds good.”

“And cotton from the deep valley.”

“Great.”

“We have precious little metal, but bone tools are good as well.”

“We can help with that.”

Viv watched the faces of the happy villagers. They didn’t seem too bad, just maybe a little thin but that was normal here. Her inspection continued along yurts and gawping men and women who touched her with calloused fingers, unable to trust their very eyes.

More questions followed. No, they were not genocidal. Yes, it was a tribal structure. Women had rights.

“And you do not, by any chance, sacrifice people to dark gods?”

“Oh no, no, but if you insist…”

Tears fell down the old man’s face.

“If you want to see my commitment, we can cook my first born grandson tonight. He’s plump and vigorous…”

He stopped when he saw Viv’s expression of naked horror.

“Holy shit, you are Gomogog cultists.”

The nearby yurt of the priest exploded outward and a mass of unholy fresh ran out.

“Of fucking course.”

***

In the end, they were more villagers under the yoke of Gomogog cultists than enthusiastic flesh eaters themselves and the various elites of the expedition dispatched the changed ones summarily. Viv called for a contingent of temple guards to stay there while they integrated, leading to another spicy letter from Lady Azar that started with ‘Really? Cultists? What will you recruit next? Talking frogs?’.

Viv knew it would be talking platypuses but she refrained from mentioning it.

***

The expedition finally found the ancient tunnel to the steppes by virtue of looking at stone signs that literally said ‘steppes tunnel’. Viv could finally cross the mountain range in a relatively safe way and be sure to land in the steppes, not in the northern edge of the Deadshield woods. Flying the whole way had been tempting but high mountains were the refuge of some old dragons — according to Arthur — and some of them might just decide to kill her before inspecting her. An abandoned town waited by the entrance itself, and to her surprise, it was mostly empty. The people living at the periphery had survived the initial blast, then fled before the fallout could kill them. This was obviously such a place.

As for the tunnel, it was large enough to accommodate one large cart. A complex system of alternative travel days plastered on the walls explained when the traffic would be going in which direction. It was a fairly complex system that took festivals and seasons into consideration. Now, the presence of so many inns in the city made more sense. The convoy spread out to rest since the place was mostly secure. Unfortunately for the most enterprising coach hands, it was also completely looted.

That left the convoy facing the tunnel the next day at dawn. Rakan stood next to the entrance, peering in. He had let his hair grow a bit, and now it was held back by an onyx headband. It was only now, with the early light hitting the deadlands behind him, that Viv noticed the awkward teenager was now more of a confident young man. It made her want to help him fix his core even more now. He remained, after all, more talented at magic than she was.

“Here we go, leagues of darkness and the unknown,” he recited.

“Nah it’s thirty meters deep and ends with a cave-in,” Viv replied.

Rakan sighed.

“I suppose we start with manual labor.”

“Magical, but yes. We will cross ourselves then set up a teleporter at the other end. It will be easier to kill anything we might encounter if we don’t have anybody to protect. Now let’s get our brown mana specialist on the case.”

Rakan nodded.

Viv patted his shoulder.

Rakan look confused.

“It’s you. You’re our brown mana specialist.”

Rakan crossed his arms, a confident smile on his lips.

“Oh no you’re not pulling out of this one so easily. You, Arthur, are simply the best brown mage around. No human can match you.”

Arthur scratched the earth with her claws, her crimson eyes expressing shock.

Rakan had trapped her by calling to her arrogance. The poor girl was done for.

“And you, Viv, carry the knowledge of Earth’s boring technologies.”

As Viv was about to object, her perfect recall pushed forward diagrams of tunnel-digging drills in cylinders complete with a muck train, a screw-shaped conveyor and a really badly rendered computer simulation of processed dirt. She could totally recreate the cutting head by twisting Sidjin’s blender spell.

“Shit.”

“So the three of us are going to get our boots — and claws — dirty so we show the world how it’s done.”

“Fine.”

Some of these borglings have grown to be quite cunning.

“Sucks to be at the receiving end, huh?” Viv said with a dash of schadenfreude.

You dig, I move the stone.

“Fine.”

***

As expected, clearing the obstruction led to the liberation of an eldritch abomination beyond mortal ken. Fortunately, the abomination was slightly larger than a handspan and not all that powerful.

Arthur chewed pensively on it after roasting the entire tunnel. Sometimes, Viv felt like they were just playing the game on easy mode, or doing the beginning of the movie story with end-of-movie powers.

“Is it even edible?” she asked.

Arthur kept at it for a few seconds, then she spat the whole oily thing out.

No.

Worth a try.

“It kind of looked like a squid but again, maybe not?”

“How come I can’t remember its exact shape?” Rakan asked, a bit confused.

“It’s beyond mortal ken.”

“Then can you describe it?”

“It is. Beyond. Mortal ken.”

“You’re not mortal anymore.”

Viv froze.

“Errrr, you got me there.”

“Should we move on?” Marruk asked. “I can step in front with my shield.”

“What if there are more?” Viv asked, a little worried.

“The shield is heat-resistant. Just don’t spray me, please?”

I can aim!

Viv glared.

Those were accidents.

I have grown in power since then.

And Judgement said I was good.

“Oh fine.”

***

Besides the entrance, which Viv suspected had been sabotaged by refugees to keep revenants away, the tunnel was in surprisingly good condition. There were even mushroom gardens along the way and though they were wild and overgrown, they still provided a pleasant break between long stretches of naked stone.

Contrary to Viv’s expectations, the rest of the tunnel was safe. There were no breaches, no obvious damage, and the worst they had to face was a colony of carnivorous fungi that made a very sluggish attempt at capturing them in natural glue. Viv stopped the others from killing them. Naturally occurring glue might be valuable if harvested properly. Arthur was very proud of her mother’s mindset but still admonished her for failing to grow wings yet again. Eventually, they resurfaced into a completely new environment.

The first thing that came was light, warmer than on the deadland side. It bathed everything in a curious yellow dye.

The second thing that came was the scent of dry grass, a peculiar perfume that evoked summer even though it was slightly too early in the year for that. A wind carried it. It howled through the distant entrance. Once Viv spotted that dot of light after a corner, it was all she could do not to run after it though the closer she came and the louder the howl became. By the time she crossed the entrance, her hair was rising with every burst of wind.

