Beyond the opening was a plain. A plain that extended as far as the eye could see. Green grass as tall as Viv danced with every breath of air that caressed its surface. Here and there, gaps in the verdant carpet could be beast trails, or something else. It was cloudy yet the clouds were high and they moved fast. They barely seemed to block the light. It smelled like the sun on a wheat field.

If there used to be a kark village here, no trace of it was left.

Marruk stepped out. She closed her eyes and sniffed the air. A sense of peace she had failed to show for weeks smoothed the angles of her face. Viv had never seen her look so vulnerable.

“Ah. Home.”

She turned and the budding smile on her face turned bitter.

“Portal?”

“Yep.”

“I volunteer!” Rakan announced.

Rakan opened the portal this time which was good practice for him. Viv just made sure to keep his staff topped up with mana. After they were done, Froshawk’s people brought the carts through. Unloading took a surprisingly short amount of time with hundreds of kark warriors helping.

Assembling the thing took way longer. Eventually, Viv grew bored and retired to the heights of the mountains behind them to read in peace. The wind never seemed to let up, ever. It was mostly calm and tame but it never seemed to stop, and that got on Viv’s nerves. From her vantage point, she kept an eye on the landship as it took form.

First came a thick armature upon which wheels were fixed on rather massive metal dampeners. The steel was enchanted with care. Next came a squarish hull, giving the construct a boxy form that made sense considering they wouldn’t be moving through water. By the time this was under way, night had fallen, and Viv spent it sparring with Arthur and keeping an eye out for trouble.

None came. This place was out of the way. There were not even predators for now.

The next morning, the crew started on the hull. That, too, was designed to be stuck together quickly. Viv noted that the wood was not enchanted, though there was a secondary metal frame, which meant that it wouldn’t stop a sharp arrow. The solution came on the second night when the deck was getting assembled.

Frosthawk had designed his landship around plans pilfered by Sidjin during their foray on the ocean. Enchantments would activate shields in case of attacks, all of them plugged into a monster core of respectable size. The rest of the enchantments served to handle the wheels, reinforce the frame, or act on the sails though those had yet to be assembled.

That last part was done on the third day. The enchanted sails were raised along light metal masts, then left flapping in the wind. Froshawk landed lightly by her side. He looked very proud.

“It is an impressive achievement,” Viv said.

“You think so?”

“Well, if it does work… it still looks amazing, and the fact it was assembled in such a short time shows a high degree of preparation. Honestly, I am impressed.”

Froshawk beamed, though he still looked like a scowling old wizard. Viv could tell.

The final result might have been boxy and rustic, but it had a sort of je-ne-sais-quoi that made Viv want to climb it. She could tell the wind acted differently around the sails. The beast was eager to depart.

“Come, let me show you this marvel of Harrakan engineering from the inside. There should barely be enough room for all of the kark, but I believe we can make it work.”

The wind chose this moment to pick up.

“Then let’s ride.”
