"So, now that I have an empty pen, what do I fill it with?" I ask Master Del while I clean up our work station.

Master turns his head to the side, watching me clean up. He took up his usual position on his favorite bench after finishing my engraving pen. "Magic stuff." I'm amazed he can say that with a straight face.

"I guessed that much already. I mean, what is the ink I'm supposed to use made of?" I might have been angrier at his evasiveness towards my question if I still wasn't glowing with joy now that I can start practicing enchanting.

"Herbs, magic crystals, metals, I'm not sure exactly what enchanters use for their engraving pens. We aren't taught the secrets of enchanting unless we show a particularly special talent for it. The function of different runes, how to draw said runes properly, and especially the composition of their engraving ink are all secrets passed down from Master to student. The only thing I can tell you is that the ink used for engraving pens is supposed to be magically conductive. That's the extent of my knowledge on the subject." Master closes his eyes and pretends to fall asleep.

I told myself I wouldn't get my hopes up, but hearing that from here on out, I'll have to figure everything out by myself is a little daunting. "That's ok, Master. You've already helped me a lot. Though if it's not too much to ask, would you answer any questions I have in the future?"

"Of course, I will. I am your Master, after all." Master huffs after his response but smiles with his eyes closed.

Master continues to lay on his bench while I quickly straighten everything up.

"You going home already?" Master finally sits up once I finish with the cleaning.

"Yeah, I want to check up on mother and father. Make sure they're ok, you know?" I try to downplay it, but a part of me is still worried about my father. When I think back on yesterday morning and how I found dad, I can't help but imagine what could've happened if I was a little bit slower reaching him.

"He's doing better, isn't he?" Master frowns when I try giving him a reassuring smile.

I have to drop my fake smile while facing Master's gaze. "He says he's feeling better, but I'm not sure if he's really ok or just pretending to be fine, so mother and I don't worry about him. As long as mother and I are home, we can at least make sure he rests longer than he normally would."

"Would you like to take some time off?" I can see Master is being serious towards me about taking time off and not just trying to get another rest day.

"Thanks for the offer, but I can't afford to stop working right now. I have magic tools coming from Kervin next month, and I'll need more coin along with his help to get materials I can turn into engraving ink. We make a lot from the chameleon spiders, but who knows how long it will last? I'll be back tomorrow ready to forge more arrows and spears."

Master doesn't tease me and instead nods his head in understanding. "Does that mean you'll wait until that merchant returns to practice with your new pen?"

"I sort of have to. I can't study magic tools I don't have yet." I raise a questionable eyebrow at Del.

"Wait there." Master stands up and walks over to his house.

He only vanishes into his house for a few minutes before he walks back out with one of his 'light' hats in hand. "Use this." Master tosses the semi-magical hardhat at me.

I catch the magical tool with both my hands. I look down at the hardhat until Master coughs into his hand, grabbing my attention. "If you break it, you'll have to buy me a new one!" Master exclaims.

"Thank you, Master Del. I'll make sure to buy you a new one once I'm able." I smile at Master. I have no intention of returning it in one piece.

"Cheeky brat." Master narrows his eyes and tries to look like a disappointed teacher, but I can see him hiding his smile.

"See you tomorrow morning." I give Master a final wave goodbye and make my way down the forest trail and back to my house.

As I leave the forest and enter the village, I consider stopping by Kervin's cart one more time to ask him if he can get his hands on some engraving pen ink. If I can see the finished product, then maybe I can then figure out a way to synthesize my own formula.

Using my movement skills, I quickly arrive at Kervin's campsite only to find it empty. After he dropped off the food for the village and our transaction completed, I can understand why he would want to head back early. Hovering around the edges of our village isn't the wisest move for a merchant these days. I'll just have to ask him for help with my problem once he returns. We are 'friends' after all.

Without the need for sidetracking, I run home to my parents.

When I make it home and open the front door, I'm surprised not to find mother in her chair sewing.

While I'm still in our entryway, I clean myself with magic. "Ahyt ls weem appiss!"

I absorb the mana from Mana Skin and let the filth trapped against my barrier fall to the floor. I slip my house slippers on and set the 'light' helmet on our dinner table. I then make my way towards my parent's bedroom.

Sense Mana lets me see two distinct masses of mana close together on their bed. I don't see them moving, but I make sure to take extra loud steps to give them a warning that I'm home.

"You guys better be decent!" I shout through their door, giving the wood a few knocks to cover all my bases.

I open the door and walk inside my parent's room. Cuddled together, mother and father look like they both just woke up from a nap. Mother is still in her clothes from this morning, and dad only has bandages around one of his arms and his chest.

"You're home, Aaliyah?" Mother wipes at her eyes and suddenly jumps like she just realized something. "What time is it? I need to get dinner started!"

Mother flings her covers to the side before I can say anything. She's already rising to her feet by the time I get a word in.

"You don't have to worry, mom. I came home early today. You don't need to make dinner for a few more hours. You can rest a little longer with dad." I hold my hands up in a placating gesture and get her to sit back down on the edge of her bed.

"It's not dinner time?" She asks me one more time to make sure.

"Nope, just home early," I confirm.

"That's not like you." Dad sends me a look like he knows why I'm back so soon.

Instead of trying to hide it, I decide to acknowledge it. "Is it wrong that I wanted to check up on you? I was terrified when I saw you charging that chameleon spider. I wanted to see if you're doing better." I fold my arms in front of me.

"I'm feeling much better. Your mother only let me leave the bed to use the outhouse. I'll be fine by tomorrow morning."

"I'll be the judge of that." Mother doesn't seem like she'll let dad have a say in it. Mother tries scowling at father, but it melts away to a more concerned look. Mom shimmies back under her covers and gently moves up against dad.

It looks like they're going to take up my offer to return to their naps, so I move to leave their room. "I'll wake you closer to dinner time, sweet dreams." I blow the two of them each a kiss and close their door behind me.

I stash my sword in my room and then walk back to our dinner table to examine the magic tool master gave me… lent me, I mean.

I pull out my chair and place my new engraving pen off to the side. I pick up the helmet and examine it for the first time in years. Ever since Master helped me learn the simple light spell, we haven't had to use them in the mine.

I open the metal container on the top of the helmet and examine the intricate lines running throughout the compartment you're supposed to place magicite. The lines running everywhere make discerning any actual runes from squiggles impossible with the naked eye. Sense Mana allows me to see that each line has the same mana composition but nothing else.

Am I going to have to tear the helmet apart to examine it easier? Tracing the engraving lines is impossible as it is with the material used in the enchanting process. The dark silvery substance used in the runes blends in with the steel. If only it glowed like Master's pickaxe.

A lightbulb goes off above my head. What if I inject some of my mana into the runes? The Magicite is supposed to fill up the area to power the helmet, but directly injecting my mana should have the same effect.

I slowly use Inject Mana on the runes inside the helmet. The runes light up almost simultaneously, producing an orb of light on top of the helmet just like I remember. With my superb mana sense, I was able to track the path my mana took as the runes absorbed it. Even if all the runes appeared to activate together, I could see my mana being consumed by four runes on each side of the box.

Each of the runes absorbed the mana in the same way, but each has a different structure of engraving lines. Once absorbed by the first four runes, I noticed my mana is channeled to the rune at the bottom of the box. Tracing some of the lines, I see each of the four runes that absorbed my mana are all connected to a single rune but not each other.

I send another pulse of mana into the runes and follow the mana as it is directed to this bottom rune. Once the mana reaches the bottom rune, it's converted into a slightly different mana signature and then sent to the rune at the top of the box.

It's hard to see with the light the helmet is producing in the way, but I can see the third type of rune expelling the mana, making the light obstructing my view.

I stop injecting my mana and watch the mana in the runes run dry.

I didn't have the skills to observe the mana this carefully back when Master and I were using the 'light' helmets. Master said the primary rune for engraving is the one used to absorb mana. The semi-magical item isn't considered expensive by magical item standards, so the four rues engraved on the boxes sides must be the beginner magic absorbing runes.

Master taught me that most tier 1 magic has long since spread around the lands. The basic tier 1 mana absorbing rune should be the same no matter who is engraving it. Then why are all four of the runes different?

I try injecting my mana again, but this time I only focus on one rune at a time. It happens incredibly fast, but I notice the mana I insert into the first rune all starts at a single point. The mana follows the lines in a swirling pattern and branches off into certain connecting lines but avoids the others. "That's weird," I mumble to myself.

I move on to the next rune and again find a single point my mana enters the rune. I carefully follow my mana and am shocked when I realize the same pattern emerges when I pretend the deadlines don't exist.

The other two runes reveal the same thing after a few more tests!

I move over to a drawer next to mothers sewing equipment and grab the writing supplies she keeps there. I uncork the small bottle of ink and start sketching the design I found hidden in the engraving. I continue to inject my mana into the rune with the least dead ends and copy the rune onto the paper.

When finished transcribing the rune, it looks like a small circle with a whirlpool connected to it and two triangles around its outermost line. The two lines off of the triangles connect to the rune at the bottom of the cube.

I examine the lines that appear to do nothing and notice they only serve to gather a small amount of extra mana from the steel the runes are engraved on. The lines are so close to the rune it looks like they're connected, but in reality, they aren't.

I question why they're placed where they are when I remember what Master told me about people trying to prevent others from deciphering their magic. Without my higher leveled skills, I would've never been able to tell the added lines weren't a part of the rune in the first place.

After sketching the best that I can and removing the unneeded lines, I came up with this.

I'll have to test what happens to a wrongly drawn rune when I get my hands on some engraving ink. Until then, I'll have to clean up the other two runes I have access to.

The rune at the bottom of the cube is much harder to analyze. It has eight connections to the four mana-absorbing runes and has a much more detailed structure. Tracking the mana inside the bottom rune was more difficult due to the constant conversion of the mana flowing through it. The structure resembles multiple rectangles overlapping one another. The top of the rune sends mana up to the rune, producing light.

After struggling for thirty minutes, I managed to sketch its design correctly.

To think I can copy runes this easy. I know it's easy for my high-level mana skills to observe the working runes, but Master, Kervin, and even mother made it sound like it was a lot harder to learn enchanting.

Putting my doubts aside, I study the last rune. It has different shapes mixed into the design, but it's still not as complicated as the last rune.

Now that I have the three runes sketched out, I can examine the lines connecting them. The gathering runes run their two lines from their two triangles to the smaller triangles on the sides of the rectangle rune.

The large triangle on top of the rectangle rune has a single line that leads to the bottom of the light rune. Blinding myself a few times, I managed to watch the light rune activate. The arrow juxtaposed with the triangle body produces the light ball at the tip of the rune.

I can't help but see some similarities to computer hardware when I stare at the mass of lines and runes in the cube. Mana acts as the power supply and fed into a processor and finally expelled in a light show. I'll need to see more complex runes and enchantments to understand everything better.

