Now that I have the runes sketched out on paper, I need to practice using my engraving pen. I get up from my seat and walk over to where we store the firewood. I might not be able to make working runes without engraving ink, but I can still practice carving the runes I have onto some wood.

I grab the pieces of firewood that father had cut earlier, which have the evenest surfaces.

I sit back down with a small stack of firewood next to my chair. I place a piece of wood on the table in front of me and grab my enchanting pen. The large metal pen feels as light as a feather in my hands.

I first try to use Expel Mana to see how my pen reacts. I stop channeling my mana when I notice the pen isn't absorbing 40% of the mana I'm expelling. I can't imagine enchanters would waste that much of their mana. Maybe the engraving pen is supposed to have its own enchantment? That would explain their ridiculous prices and the need to have professionals make them.

Good thing, I have the skills to disregard the need for an enchantment on my pen. I inject mana directly into my new pen.

I marvel at its structure. Master can't use a single speck of magic, and yet he was able to make this pen without any microfractures or kinks in the metals mana structure. It's an even more impressive feat when you consider this was the first engraving pen master has ever made.

The mithril steel alloy hungrily devours the mana I inject into it and starts glowing with a soft blue light. A steady stream of my mana enters the magic gem, and I watch in fascination as the gem forms a barrier of mana around its edge.

With a little bit of pressure, I point the tip of my pen up against the wood. There is a little resistance from the wood, but the quartz digs easily into the surface. Master said the more mana I use, the stronger the magic gem will become.

I pump even more of my mana into the pen, making sure to keep an eye on the material. It would be tragic if the alloy disintegrated after the work master put into making it.

100 mana.

200 mana.

400 mana!

The greedy pen doesn't start reacting to my mana until I use nearly 550 of my mana to charge the pen. I try poking a hole in the wood again to see how sharp the engraving pen is while charged with this much mana.

The tip of the pen touches the surface of the wood, but I don't feel any resistance as I push the pen further in. The pen sinks two inches into the log before I pull it back. The magic gem is amazing. Imagine if I could make a chisel with a large enough magical stone or even a knife might be possible. How would a blade made from a magic gem stack up against a tier 5 weapon?

I stop daydreaming about crystal weapons and focus back on the log in front of me. Let's see if my Drawing skill helps me engraving the runes on the wooden surface.

My hands feel awkward with such a big pen. I start off trying to copy the swirling design of the mana absorbing rune. It should be the easiest one to start with, but quickly I find myself making the lines uneven in depth.

I copy the rune five times on the first piece of firewood and another seven times a little smaller on a second piece. I try injecting some of my mana into the runes I carved, but the wood just stores my mana like it usually does. The empty runes do not affect the wood's ability to absorb mana.

It seems like I'll need to find something to fill the runes in with to test them out properly.

"I thought you were going to wake us up?" Mother's voice startles me. I look up from my work and see mother and father walking down the hall.

"I would've woken you up closer to…." I stop when I see the color of the sky outside the window. I was too absorbed in my work to notice the diminishing light.

Mother walks up to my side and looks at the two logs I have sitting on the table. She runs her fingers over my trial runes. "Are these runes?" Mother asks, as her attention shifts to my three drawings.

"They sure are." I proudly say. "I managed to copy them from master's 'light' helmet. I was practicing drawing them on the firewood before I try it on something more important."

"I can't believe you made it this far already. You got your engraving pen today, didn't you?" Mother gives me a skeptical look.

"I didn't think I could copy the runes this quickly either."

"I shouldn't be surprised by you anymore. Can you please clear off the table and help me with dinner?" Mother starts cutting up the vegetables for tonight's stew. Now that we have a working grill, I don't hate having the stew as much as I used to.

I carefully move my sketches of the runes off to the side along with my engraving pen. I carry my wood carvings over to the fireplace and use the wood as kindling.

"Why are you burning them, sweety?" Dad asks as he watches me throw my work into the growing fire.

"They're just copies of the runes I carved for practice. They won't do anything, so why waste the firewood?" I explain to my father.

Once the fire is strong enough to leave unattended, I move next to mom to help her prepare dinner.

While cutting up some of the meat that Kervin brought for the village, dad questions why my runes won't work as they are.

"I was able to use some of my special skills to copy the runes' shapes, but I don't have the ink required for my engraving pen to make working runes. Until I figure something out, I'll have to make do with practicing carving skills. I'll ask Kervin about getting me some ink when he returns." Father nods his head in understanding.

While adding ingredients into our stew pot, mother joins our conversation. "I don't think that will work, honey."

I give mom a questioning look. "You don't think Kervin can find me some engraving ink? Or is it too expensive?"

"It's not that it's expensive, more like that it's not sold on the open market. You would need to contact a black-market merchant, and it would almost certainly be a trap set by the kingdom." Mother drops some incredible information without changing her neutral expression.

Dad and I look at mother like she grew another head. She doesn't take any notice of us and focuses on preparing dinner.

"How do you know so much about it?" I curiously ask mother.

"I told you before; my family was a prominent merchant household in Aurorast. One of my father's best clients was an enchanter whose workshop was close to our house. Father helped arrange everything he needed for his work. My siblings and I were schooled in which materials we needed to keep an eye open for. Everything to do with enchanting is silver and gold, so we were expected to know our stuff."

Mother finally looks my way and smiles when she sees my look of shock. She giggles into one of her hands and continues talking about her experience as a child.

"Dealing with such expensive goods, there's a lot of secrecy that comes with the territory. Enchanters… real enchanters… are an exclusive lot in Olebert and other kingdoms. You may have people producing the cheaper magical items, but enchanters like my father's acquaintance are all monitored by the kingdom. They're able to enchant weapons with horrifying power that can kill dozens of people in the right hands. The ink they use for their enchantments is considered just as important as the runes themselves. More than once, my father was approached by those in the underworld trying to get him to sell them either a list of the materials he was selling or the outright finished product if possible."

"Did he take the bribe?" I enthusiastically ask. This sounds like a crime show I would have watched in my past life.

"He did." Mother gives me a toothy grin and pauses for effect. "He took their money and arranged a drop-off. Of course, at the drop off point, the buyers wouldn't find what they were looking for, only a platoon of the lord's soldiers waiting for them." This is the most I've heard mother talk about her family.

"You see, trading engraving ink is banned thanks to the pressure the mage community put on the royal family long ago. The materials to make it are fine to trade, but exchanging engraving ink itself is outlawed. That way, other mages and other kingdoms are less likely to steal an enchanter's secrets." Mother reaches over to my side and dumps the ingredients I cut into the pot. I was so entranced in her explanation I barely helped her prep anything.

Mother moves over to our fireplace and places the stew close to the crackling flames. "Does that mean you know how they make enchanting ink?" I hopefully ask mother.

"Sorry I don't." Mother laughs again when my hopeful smile falls into a frown. "I do, however, know the four most common ingredients enchanters use. That should be enough to get you started."

"Yes!" I shout out loud. "I mean… yes, please." I correct my self and blush at my outburst.

"Don't thank me yet, sweety. The cheapest of the ingredients cost half a gold coin. The four ingredients we were taught to keep an eye out for and get at the lowest price possible were magicite, mithril, eathrosse, and devil's poke made up 70% of our business with the local enchanters."

"I know about the first two, but what are eathrosse and devil's poke?"

"I know those, they're rare plants found near higher mana zones," Father says from his seat at the table.

"Your father's right. Both eathrosse and devil's poke are plants with high magical components. I don't know how they're used in enchanting, but every enchanter in Aurorast was trying to buy more. Special high leveled farmers mostly grow them, but magic beast hunters call them green gold. I don't know the local prices, but eathrosse sold for 98 silver for a half-pound bag. Devil's poke sells for even more at 1.2 gold for half a bag."

And I thought mithril was expensive. "Are either of them found near our village?" I hopefully ask father.

"Every so often a magical plant is found by the hunters, but it isn't common. The only magical plant I've found was the arc tree. There might be some closer to the higher mana zone part of the forest, but I don't think you would want to go there right now." Father gives me a warning look.

"What's with that look? You think I would try to go there right as winter started?" I turn my head away from dad, not wanting him to see that he hit the nail on the head with his warning.

Mother steps in front of my gaze and gives me a look much fiercer than fathers. "Don't even think about it." She says with a cold voice that.

"I wasn't." I totally was; I need to change the subject. "If they're that rare, will Kervin be able to get me some samples?"

Mother's face says that she knows what I'm trying to do, but she answers me anyway. "He'll need to go through his company's superiors, but he should be able to get you what you need. But are you sure that's what you want?"

"What do you mean, mom?"

"Kervin may be able to get you the ingredients that you need, but in doing so, the Silver Herd Trading Company will learn about you and Del. Eathrosse and devil's poke are particular herbs. They're only used in higher forms of alchemy, for the most part, enchanting. Even someone who can make basic enchantments are highly sought after by merchants. And it won't be long before the local lord sends an envoy to investigate as well." Mother gives me a somber look.

It's a good thing mother knew so much about this. If I had talked to Kervin before he left, he probably would've invariably blown my cover looking for the ingredients I need.

"Don't worry about all at once." Mother moves over to me and hugs me. "You have a month before Kervin comes back to decide how you want to handle it. No matter what you choose, your father and I will support you."

"She's right. And don't you worry, your father here can knock around anyone who comes to cause trouble." Dad boldly claims and flexes his arms.

I decide not to point out that I saved him a few days ago.

"Yes, we know how strong you are, Darrius. We can talk about this more later. The stew is ready now. Aaliyah, can you get the utensils?" Mother moves the pot of stew over to the table while I grab our bowls and silverware.

Dinner with my family is always a great way to finish the day.

While we're all eating, I pull up my status page.

LV: 62 Experience: 177,680/ 481,032

Health: 2,060/2,060

Stamina: 897.41/1,386

Mana: 807.64/1,000

Vitality: 206.00

Endurance: 80.09

Strength: 130.00

Dexterity: 120.00

Senses: 60.44

Mind: 62.50

Magic: 100.63

Clarity: 75.38

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV72), Blacksmithing (LV59), Axe Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV50), Chanting (LV46), Mining (LV46), Drawing (LV39), Cooking (LV37), Trading (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Sewing (LV24), Sword Skills(LV24), Wood Carving (LV23), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV57), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV41), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase price (LV16), Lower Price (LV15), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV8), Marching (LV5), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV57), Mana Manipulation (LV51), Double Strike (LV31), Precise Strike (LV30), Weighted Strike (LV20), Flash Step (LV15)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV45), Mana Skin (LV45), Mental Resistance (LV40), Extract Mana (LV22), Magic Blacksmithing (LV16)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV30)

Increased Skill Levels

Drawing (LV38-39) 3,850exp

Cooking (LV37) 1,850exp

Trading (LV33-37) 8,750exp

Wood Carving (LV22-23) 2,250exp

Sword Skills (LV22-24) 3,450exp

Double Step (LV57) 5,700exp

Increase price (LV14-16) 4,500exp

Lower Price (LV13-15) 4,200exp

Sword Arts (LV8) 800exp

Expel Mana (LV57) 8,550exp

Mana Manipulation (LV51) 7,650exp

Weighted Strike (LV20) 3,000exp

Flash Step (LV14-15) 4,350exp

Inject mana (LV45) 11,250exp

Mana Skin (LV45) 11,250exp

Extract Mana (LV22) 5,500exp

Skill Experience: 86,900exp

Crafting Experience: 2,443exp

