The bright white flash of light in the sky above the Sea of Corruption may have knocked out dozens of wyverns and killed thousands of demonic beasts down below, but the Celestial Energy–imbued, High Noble Vibration–infused, Black Lightning–crackling Demonic Wyvern does not stop its mission to kill the small human and Blue Wyvern.

It explodes with dense bolts of electricity and chomps down where the green-haired healer was last.

Yet, Seraphel swoops forward, into the incoming lightning attacks rather than away.

As the Ancient Blue Wyvern and the Immortal Healer make contact, and Abby lands on the tip of its nose, their Soul Bond synchronization hits its peak.

Green and blue energies flow through each other, vibrating in sync, invigorating each other, and causing the two drastically different Celestial Forms to glow with hot white light and become something greater in order to complement each other.

The pulsing of the staff, divine cores, and hot soul energy does not only beat and flow together—it becomes one free-flowing energy.

Vast memories flow into Abby's mind, and ones that Seraphel has lost to time come back to him, allowing him to see the battles of the past in far greater detail from the perspective of his allies.

Thousands of new intricate techniques and styles of battle become clear to both of them. But also, this synchronicity gives them the understanding that not all of the knowledge left behind has been accessed.

Just like Abby's prior limits, when she only began to see certain things when consolidating her green core, it feels as though vast amounts of secrets from this inheritance are trapped behind reaching higher zones of this upper realm.

There are countless mana-based system notifications ringing in both of their ears as well, confirming the soul bond and outlining the rules, perks, and drawbacks associated with doing so.

Neither are very interested in analyzing this right now... the unexpected human and wyvern pair are more focused on survival and winning this battle.

–

The Demonic Wyvern's mouth bites down nearly all the way, but it is stopped with just 200 meters between its top and bottom teeth.

A dense green glowing staff holds it open.

The healer, holding it with both outstretched hands, stares forward, down the beast's throat, which swirls with dense Celestial-imbued demonic energy.

Sparkling blue Celestial energy rushes into her, making her immortal form tens of times hotter, and as a result, the High Noble Vibrations that were rippling through her body moments ago, creating sharp pain and suppressing her system, now become negligible.

Her Immortal Energy Body goes through a massive upgrade, and once again, nothing can hurt her.

New spinning defensive arrays form above and below the staff, creating impenetrable walls that, instead of cracking like before, start to fracture the Demonic Wyvern's teeth instead.

It manages to bite down further, but at the cost of its sharp purple demonic teeth cracking from trying to bite an impossibly hard array.

At the same time, the orb on top of Abby's staff glows bright again, and a thin line of white glyphs on its side flickers.

She channels her supreme-grade earth magic into this spell activation.

As the wyvern lets out a screech and starts to let up on its bite grip after breaking teeth, it's too late.

A bright beam of green energy bursts out from the top of her staff.

As it expands and gets further away, it forms into hundreds of dense spears of earth magic, vibrating with a combination of her green Celestial energy and covered in a blue tint from Seraphel's. The attacks have water magic mutating them from their original form.

–

The wyvern beneath her is facing its own dilemma in the same instance.

From swooping in to Soul Bond with the healer, he's put himself in the direct line of fire for six of the strongest black bolts of lightning so far.

The horrific roar it lets out from its teeth breaking only makes this demonic beast let out a more intense charge of energy.

It would surely be enough to break through the wyvern's already damaged defenses and most likely seep into his core. Seraphel would have lost to this unfathomable demonic creation. That is what this Dark Army was created for by Sisco after all, to kill the last Blue Wyvern.

Yet, when he is struck by the unfathomably strong attacks from all sides, something strange happens.

When the white burst of light fades, the outside of Seraphel's body all feels much hotter than usual. A warm, inviting green soul energy surges through him, to fill his entire Celestial Body, almost 300 kilometers long.

Along with the memories and techniques, it soothes his mind and gives him the feeling as though he is with his old master again—the oldest wyvern he ever knew, that decided to stay back on Kelfar well over a hundred and fifty thousand years ago.

The seed of their inheritance was stored in his bones and soul energy, after all, and this resonates with him as his soul bonds with the owner of that Amplifier.

Not only are Abby's restoration properties flowing into his physique, but at the same time, his innate talent, his potential, his very fate and the depth of the path he can awaken, have been permanently altered.

The Blue Wyvern does not fully comprehend the magnitude of this shift in the moment, but he does know instinctively that these black bolts of electricity won't kill him.

For the first time in tens of thousands of years, the beast feels true hope, that maybe it can climb higher than the sedentary state it's been in for so long, watching his race die out slowly one by one around him. He grins wide.

"It's not over yet..." echoes through a soul-bonded telepathy link as the lightning bolts collide with his blue body of water, now sparkling with a green and yellow light.

Instead of making dense black burning holes like the last few, the bolts surge right through.

There are waves on the surface of his physique, like droplets on a calm lake, but the restoration essence flowing through him heals him so fast, no visual injuries even show.

The electricity flows through him and surges out the other side with little to no power left at all.

Nothing but small black static is released into the atmosphere.

Abby's attack deep into its unguarded mouth makes a direct hit as well.

The sharp green spears of earth magic all stab into the back of its throat, tearing hundreds of holes through. Some come clean out the other side, while others explode and release waves of hot liquid earth magic imbued with water and celestial energy.

It has the consistency of mud but burns like molten metal and erupts with a violent nature.

The beast roars and its head is ricocheted backward, half torn off with a massive hole in its neck.

At the same time, Seraphel dives forward, opening his mouth, and releasing a screech and a dense blue jet of water from his throat.

It collides with the Demonic Wyvern's chest, breaking through scales and celestial energy barriers, forcing the injured beast to roar out in even more pain, especially when the blast of water makes contact with its infected demonic cores.

It's thrusted backward, and as the cores crack, a scent of desperation fills the air. Its screech is truly demonic, and the lightning that surrounds it feels like it's giving everything it's got. It is not conserving any more of the temporary infused power its been granted.

The beast doesn't even try to use demonic energy to heal itself.

It's looking to self-destruct and take out the target it's been created to kill. This is its only directive, so in its reconstructed demonic mind, it must succeed by any means necessary.
