I rested against the pillar, taking a breath of relief as attacks from behemoths bounced off our city's outer shell. Each time a colossal eldritch landed on the shield, they zapped into bone shards, their rainbow bones tumbling down the side of the sphere. The clinking chips created a pile on the city's outskirts, erecting a natural wall over time.

While connected with the colossal consciousness below, those shining bones pleased it. It counteracted the intrusion of our city, letting the giant rest on its laurels. I couldn't even imagine how much longer that would last, but I had no means of fighting such an overwhelming foe at the moment.

It rested here millennia, perhaps even millions of years. Its life cycle gave us time to work with here, but I had no idea how long that might last. It also made me wonder what happened to the primeval's blue cores here. They died in their fights, but no corpse lingered here. Learning what happened to those bodies might be an excellent opportunity for me.

And I didn't want that taken from me by the other rulers here. I wouldn't allow it.

Snapping me out of my contemplation, an assault golem flew in from outside, and it landed beside me. It fell into a lunged position, its head lowered. With a hand raised, it offered dozens of blue cores to me. I thanked him and let him join his brethren in the battle around us. Over my raised fingertip, a few cackling blue dungeon cores orbited my hand.

The glistening surfaces put a smile on my weary face. As other rulers established themselves on the safer side of the planet, we established dominance on Leviathan's darkest reaches. The others probably fought amongst themselves to establish control over each other. By comparison, I surrounded myself with a blue core factory and opal bone farm.

By the time I left here, handing over a hundred blue cores to Schema would be nothing, which ensured a high ranking in the lottery. Letting that sink in, I enjoyed the progress. Ah, it was excellent. Standing up, I shook off my contentment and went about establishing myself here. This hellscape would be mine before long.

Three primevals destroyed a patch of kelp in the distance, interrupting my thoughts. I winced at them, hoping they didn't plow into the city. If something like that smashed into the barrier while I wasn't here, the settlement might not survive. Standing back up, I got to work. We waged war for hours, establishing a larger control zone around the immediate city.

In this valley of cleaved bone, we touched the land with civilization. It was this dead zone's first taste of society, and I aimed to make it a long-lasting meal. Having learned from my expansion on Earth, I brainstormed some issues that might crop up here. The first and most obvious culprit was city-to-city travel.

Caravaneers wouldn't function here as travel risked everything, and working roads were a must. Peering at the vast expanse of bones, algae, and monsters, that seemed like a pipe dream. While I stared out, a core golem fought a behemoth just above the ossuary. My core golem dismantled the giant monster, turning it into a pulpy mass of blood and flesh.

Despite the onslaught, the behemoth struggled back with a classic, eldritchian tenacity. It shot out a few swinging slices and beaming blasts. As it did, my assault golem molded the opal bones to protect itself. My eyes widened as I snapped my fingers. That would work.

Instead of making roads on the surface, I'd connect them through tunnels in the bones below. The giant consciousness wouldn't allow a vast sphere, but it would accept a small tunnel without any problems. Moving forward with that idea, I charged all the blue cores to their maximums and installed a few generators. They were simple piles of dimensional fabric.

With a constructor golem's help, we spiffed up the place, so it didn't look horrific to look at. Once spiffed up, I spent the many hours necessary for this city's defense. I made twenty more assault golems, but I adjusted their aptitude. Instead of waging war, these golems preferred acting as guardsmen and maintenance workers.

I left eight of them behind to keep this city defended. They'd work with the constructors and the whirling shield to keep this place safe. With the assault golems, guardsmen, and the converted star beasts, I walked to our city's perimeter. Up against the wall surrounding the city, I bent the bones while walking forward.

While walking, I tore off my arms over and over. The falling stream of limbs melted on the ground before smoothing out into a circular tunnel with a flat floor. At the same time, I etched runes onto the tunnel's surface, these runes mirroring the pillars of the city. We continued this process, following the line of singularity craters I left above.

At one third the distance to our other town, I set down a blue core and guard golem. They linked telepathically to the city behind us, extending the network further. I added two more guardposts for the entire tunnel, ensuring they put the appropriate mental pressure on the surrounding rainbow bones to keep it in place.

If they put too little psionic tension, then the tunnels would collapse. If they applied too much, then the bones would gamma burst this place into oblivion. Finding that happy medium, we reached the other city I crafted. The constructor golems kept the up and running, as did the assault golems who fought outside. I called the eight assault golems to join me, leaving eight guardsmen to replace them.

As the golems funneled in, I took a moment to inspect the place. The constructor golems expanded the buildings up when we left. Content with the progress, I paced out with my group of golems before telepathically connecting the two cities. The constructors spoke with one another, which revolutionized the utility of these settlements.

Before connecting them, these colonies were tiny bubbles crisscrossing the surface of Leviathan-7. Once connected, the towns acted as a united front where core golems could rush over to help any city struggling nearby. In minutes, extra guardsmen from surrounding cities would pour in to stop an attack, making each city many times more potent.

This security disarmed the chaotic nature of Leviathan-7 in many ways. Even if a group of primevals attacked a city, these connection points ensured our survival. The more we expanded, the more remarkable that defense became. Before feeling too satisfied with myself, I shifted to a primordial aura. Always the cynic, the wave of cold calculation rushed over me, and with it came many issues regarding the road system.

How would the golems communicate? Hundreds of golems talking would create all kinds of chaos, and that wouldn't do. Would supply lines be safe? A group of primevals could crush a road system, killing people and destroying resources. I also wanted to get a grip on what the rulers did elsewhere in this world. They might give me a chance for further gain.

Those questions and a dozen others piled on in tandem, and as always, I rushed to fix them. As primordial mana oozed over me, droplets of the mana funneled upward. They rained into a surging, semitranslucent ooze of navy blue. It piled up at the end of navy blue fire that burned on my skin. I clapped my hands together, the mana coursing into my body until I almost burst.

Clarity infused into my mind, and I smiled at all that was to be done. It was time to get to work.
