I grimaced at far-off primevals, ready to rip them apart. Event Horizon spread over my allies, and I roared,

"We are legion, we are strong, and we are harbingers to this planet. Tell me, who here is ready for Leviathan's calamity?"

The golems roared. I shouted,

"Let's give this planet its first taste of omen, and let's make the message undeniable."

Chapter Begin

Before we surged into the distance, I gazed in front of me. I'd have to leave ten golems behind, two constructors and eight assault golems. They would protect this city when I left. Aside from them, ten evolved golems gazed forward with unwavering resolve, ready to jump into the fire with me. They formed an elite unit, the best of the best but also showed the limit of my current abilities.

If this plan failed, I'd have to rethink my strategy to settle Leviathan-7. That meant establishing in a less monstrous area. I'd be fighting these primevals the entire time for dungeon hearts while stowing away elsewhere. In the ossuary, it rained bone shards and blue cores, however, and I wanted those resources at my disposal. I also didn't want other rulers getting in my way.

While the ossuary guaranteed hostility, it also ensured secrecy. No ruler would stumble through here and dismantle these cities. They'd never get that far. For my guild to gain this ground, we needed this surge to succeed. That pressure mounted before I spread my arms and covered the golems in Event Horizon. It was now or never.

My armor grinned. Runes charged over my skin. Mana crystallized then disintegrated into plasma. It flowed through my wake as I compressed time over myself. My surroundings dulled and dimmed as if I felt the world through cotton. Arcs of lightning shot across my hands as I shouted,

"Let the legion rise, and the monsters fall."

We dashed through the dense barrier of our first city here. It swirled by us, the constructors running this place letting us by. My three converted star beasts flew in, bolstering our numbers to fourteen total. Composing a more massive number but less fighting strength, the coreless golems fell in line behind us all, and they became a tertiary force.

We shattered the skyline as we left, and I carved the ground with singularities. This path of devastation gave us a way back to the city as we lacked a map. It attracted nearby primevals, my force keeping them behind us. After crossing many miles, the primevals grew in number. For the most part, avoided them.

We couldn't clear out the entire planet of the beasts, so we aimed to create safe pockets instead. Collecting blue cores would come after establishing a few cities. To facilitate that harvest, we moved until the primeval's density reached its apex. With plenty around, we began our offensive.

I landed onto the glistening ground, peering around for primevals. Several fought nearby, so I lifted my hand and throttled their battles with singularities. Each concussive blast shell shocked their bouts before I shouted at them. Once aware of me, the dueling primevals raced towards me in fits of rage.

They dashed and darted around me, each one an elemental storm in their own right. They tore off my limbs and evaporated my skin, but I remained living. Continuing this cycle, I herded a dozen different primevals. I died several times a second, becoming a vaporous being without a body. As the number of primevals grew, they followed me like they were the end of the world.

Where they gathered devolved into a pure, apocalyptic wave of destruction. Elemental forces lashed out in rage and anger. Thunder boomed, and lightning crawled. Heated blasts set the world on fire, and the rays of light melted that fire into goopy plasma. They remade the entire battlefield into a flowing pit of raw energy, their might uncontainable, their wrath uncaged.

Except to me.

As their overwhelming powers left my body in ruin, I charged mana into my dimensional wake. The orbital bombardment wouldn't work since the primevals would simply follow me into the sky. I needed to pin them down first. Doing just that, liquid power solidified into crystals before hissing into plasma.

The primevals gazed at the pooling aura of ascendance, the crimson energy far less tasty than quintessence. Distracted by the luminous ether, I returned to the corporeal, my mind and body whole. Raising my palms, I shot forth a cacophony of dark dollops in all directions. A portion of the landscape converted to energy, becoming fuel for a gravitational fire.

Singularities rained, the dark orbs swallowing bodies and bones whole. Those voided spheres fed on the primevals and imploded after. Hiding in the distance, my core golems resided in the folds of algae, hidden from our enemies. They darted, ducked, and dove around the aftershocks of the gravitational implosions.

Firing upward, I propelled myself over the kelp clouds and into the vast void above as the primeval's recuperated below. My core golems lobbed several attacks before I fired myself down. I thinned into a needle, gravity wells pulling me towards the ground. Right before landing, I flattened myself into a solid cylinder.

The world whitened, the force of the explosion mind-numbing. Nothing of me remained, the opal shards tore into fractured crags, and the power cracked and cleaved into the shining opals below. No primeval died from the onslaught, but deep down, the glowing ossuary roared out with a psionic wave. With the energy melting my arms, I siphoned everything to the center of my impact's blast radius.

My cored golems escaped the radius of the gravity well, and they found behemoths to hide in. They ripped and gouged the monsters apart, concealing within their shells, hides, and scales. Those behemoths crawled to escape, the golems like monstrous parasites. Below the meatshields, I turned to mush as the primevals destroyed my body several times a second.

It wasn't enough. A few seconds passed before the bones below burst forth with splintered trees of opal. The branches impaled me before I flowed around the tiny needles. The primevals stood below as a gamma burst erupted once more. Devastating disintegration. Silencing sound. The colossal consciousness erased the material world over it, starting anew.

It made the destruction of my orbital bombardment look mute and powerless. All near the epicenter of the bright explosion evaporated to bits, then mist, then nothing. I caught as much of the wave as I could with my dimensional shield, and my golems kept their blue cores covered.

In the wake of this monstrous detonation, shiny, blue spheres fell in bunched piles. Ready and waiting, I snatched them up with another gravity well, and I lobbed more singularities at the two remaining star beasts. Like before, I scooped up several dozen blue cores before the star beasts recovered. They glared down at me, their forms radiating out flares and waves of radiation.

And from above, my legion swarmed.

Bursting from the charred remnants of behemoths, my assault golems ripped out of the cooked shells they hid in. They launched themselves into the fray, sonic booms erupting from their speed. Several collided with a primeval, the star beast rippling around a core golem. My creation shot out spiky tendrils in all directions, lapping up the monster's energy.

The remaining parts of the primeval darted in a spiral above the golem. It charged energy before I blew it up once more with a singularity. Six more assault golems fought over the remains, each of them hounding for the scraps left behind. It put a smile on my face as the primeval scrambled for survival.

Portions of the star monster's body shattered against my golems' enhanced plates. The other star beast tried charging a blast in my direction, but the remaining core golems joined the fray. Each soldier lobbed out a different attack, the skyline near them erupting with color.

A wave of splintering needles shot out of one golem. Another elite condensed the plasma monster with a gravity well. The last core golem spread its arms wide, a wave of frigid energy unleashing at the eldritch's center. Others caught the light from wafting onto the opals below. The combined casts condensed the eldritch's body into a ball, the primeval frozen in place.

I devastated the monster with a singularity before my elites fought over the remaining scraps, eating it alive with teeth of steel and a hunger unending. Despite their ravenous nature and my sharp eyes, a piece of glowing dust landed on the opals. In the distance, the star beast regenerated its shining body instantly.

I took a deep breath, somewhat disappointed. Even if my core golems turned this into a contest for killing, the primevals refused to go down nice and easy. Peering close, I noticed the star beast lost an inkling of size when it reformed, and my opinion changed. This waste of time turned into a notch of progress.

However small, it showed a shift in the otherwise stagnant battlefield. These weren't eternal battles with no victor. These were the slow, inevitable demises of these demigods. While I smiled, the golems fought. They coursed around the piled-up shards, wielding the bones of the behemoths above. My elites landed beside the rejuvenated star eldritch.

They took over a portion of the shining opals below, blocking charged beams with barriers of bone. Whirling light crossed my entire horizon, the single rays splitting against the opal shards. My elites waved their arms behind their blockades, sending steel needles up from below. They melted into molten iron that condensed over the fire monster.

Though a reasonable effort, the steel didn't hold the eldritch, and the primeval returned to a complete form. However, the golem's attacks slowed the star beast down. One of my ascendant primevals charged energy into its arms. Another core golem joined in, and they assaulted the starry mass from all angles. Coordinating with my star monster, my golems leaped away when my converted eldritch leaned in.

The ascendant primeval washed the enemy monster in crimson light, slicing it apart. As the light faded, my golems raced in to devour the remnants. Needing fewer fighters, two core golems flew towards the kelp above, destroying the eldritch-producing material. The two constructor golems below already molded the opal surface where the gamma burst exploded.

They created a twenty-foot-deep, circular indentation for the city, and I marveled at their efficiency. The constructor elites erected bone columns for reinforcement, filled in the hollow structures, and protected the material as fast as my eye could follow. The war golems improved by orders of magnitude as well, six or seven of those golems rivaling my physical might.

They lacked my skill or ingenuity, but they still acted as the raw muscle needed to dismantle this area's dangers. It put a smile on my face, the eight elites I left behind at our old city being more than enough to protect it. Appreciating the progress, I stared at a palm, taking a breath. This would work.

We were winning.

Supporting my soldiers, I lobbed out well-timed singularities at the primevals. The disruption mounted further as I moved close, firing out with psionic bullets at the enemies. These were psionically charged balls that flowed into the minds of the eldritch. From within, they poisoned the monsters, and that weakened the enemy.

We continued blitzing, whittling the two primevals down over the next few hours. I let the battle drag on because these golems learned more about fighting. By the end of the bout, I left the cored golems and helped the constructor golems build our second city. At the moment, the perimeter wasn't set, so this place required constant maintenance.

The aftermath of the fighting left scars scattered over the city's surface. However, the constructors repaired the damage as it was done. I spent the next hour building up the central monolith, charging runes over it with my grimoire, and setting up a barrier. As mountain cleaving strikes and river writhing shockwaves unleashed in the distance, I finished the city's pillar.

Slotting ten blue cores into the monolith, I siphoned mana into them. They indulged, filling the cipheric markings with ease. In minutes, the field flashed online, and an ethereal web spiraled above, the barrier a feast for the eyes. It guaranteed the city's perimeter. I installed the telepathic points across the city's boundary, and the constructors used it to wield the forcefield over us.

Protecting the haven of humanity, the constructors directed the writhing barrier against the primevals. Anytime one of the star monsters came close, my elites plumed the border out to them. Upon contact, defensive energy burst, and the enemies exploded into a fine mist. In fact, the two constructors did the job of all nineteen constructor cores I made for the city prior.

We didn't need many of the cored constructors to run this place. Keeping that in mind, I generated the storm runes for two blue cores. They fit into extra slots in the monolith, and the psionic network encompassed the city. The golems synced together, and I helped command them. The assault soldiers killed the two remaining primevals, and after getting a good-sized zone set up, I terraformed the place.

Sigils slotted onto the monolith, and from their powering, the toxic air changed into oxygen and nitrogen. The sweltering heat reduced to a pleasant, roomy temperature. The booming impacts muffled into slight echoes, and the radiation caught on the barrier above. Lastly, gravity lessened and stabilized, the body pulping fluxes in gravitation ceasing.

