Three minutes later, his words proved true. The increasingly worn lines of intrepid humans reached the base of the five meter tall city wall. Above them, the brood imps stepped back. Fallback. Off the walls. Your job is done, for now.

He had a feeling what was coming, and there was no reason to risk the expensive little creatures. Kairon's heart slowed several beats when the last brood imp stepped off the boundary and scampered into the tower proper.

Huh. The demon cocked his head, watching through Sovereign Eye curiously as the soldiers held shields above their heads for protection while others approached the wall with massive clay vats. A thick, tar like substance was spilled out in sludgey heaps atop his wall. Several of the vats were actually thrown and cracked, sending their contents spilling over his wall.

Kairon was taken aback at this. What a waste of clay.

Vorathrex rose, sniffing the air in agitation. "Fledgeling. I smell something. Very strong. Oily."

"Yes, that would be the pitch."

"Pitch? What does this do?"

"It burns."

Vorathrex's expression became incredulous. "And you're planning to allow these humans to burn us? I won't stand for it. I-"

A bellow from outside the walls cut him off. "Light the pitch and fall back! Keep formation!"

As Kairon watched the wall of flame climb his walls, his mind went back to that first week. The night when those rocks drank in the flame. How the walls he'd built had done more or less the same with the sun. And how the hellscape sand always reacted to heat and flame.

In truth, he wasn't certain what would happen. But one thing he did know. His walls weren't going to burn. And the only thing Kairon liked more than making gold? Forcing his enemies to lose it.

"I wonder how much it cost them to make all that pitch. Given what I've seen, I'd estimate the requisition bill to be quite substantial," muttered the city lord.

Vorathrex was no longer listening. He had stormed outside, and was bellowing something.

Where the flame was lit, a dark plume of smoke billowed into the sky. Soldiers watched on, weapons held ready for the cracking and eventual burning of the demonic keep that marred their forest.

Then the walls started drinking. At first, it was barely noticeable. A shifting of the light. Then, several flames winked out, leaving intact stone behind.

To the humans, it looked as if the fire simply was sputtering. "More pitch! More! Keep it coming!"

Soldiers ran forward in pairs, hauling and chucking more massive vats atop the burning wall. This time, a wave of fire spread atop and on both sides of the wall, and an audible gurgle sounded. Not from any of the soldiers. From the wall.

Kairon stood, throwing his head back and laughing. "An offering?! That's what we're calling it!"

The fires burned higher, and the wall drank more. All the heat in the surrounding hellscape began funneling, causing the air itself to press into the wall. Soldiers nearest to it began to feel lightheaded, all the oxygen being eaten as fuel and heat as tinder.

The city lord stood, staring in awe at the notifications. He knew something would happen, but this... Fangs glistening in a toothy grin, he rushed out of the citadel.

"My oh my… Shiny! Take all the brood imps and gather all the timber in the stockpile. Then, throw it over the wall. Go, go, go!" he shouted.

To his credit, the little imp only gave his master a single curious look before obeying. "Wood! All the wood!" he barked to his brood brethren.

Kairon watched in gleeful anticipation. Shiny's force of brood imps began hauling logs to the top of the wall, eyes determined and scrawny imp arms trembling with the effort. The smart little devil had made them start with the bigger logs first. Each was ceremoniously dumped into the fire, bringing fresh eruptions of spark and flame into the conflagration below.

His jaw nearly went slack. The exponential increase in corruption was so extreme, he could actually see the expansion of his domain.

As the fire continued to build and the corruption notifications continued to pile on, Kairon's fang filled grin only widened.
