They came to a stop in front of the house and Ren climbed down. He opened the front door and let Princess inside, and she went to her room and plopped down onto her mattress.

“I'm going back out to the county for a bit tomorrow.” Ren said. “I need to get the cafeteria up and running, and make sure everyone is getting proper meals when they want it.”

I will stay here until you need me again. Princess thought to him. Goodnight.

“Goodnight, Princess.” Ren said. “You too, Riley and Stacy.”

They barked lightly, and Teepo flew out of the room and up the stairs.

“Don't worry, you'll have a huge space to run around in and to protect soon.” Ren said and smiled. “I'll be moving permanently in a few days, and I'm going to need you to keep an eye on things when we get there.”

Both dogs nodded, and Ren went up the stairs to the big bedroom.

“They're all here.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought and opened the door to see all 5 of his maids. He could feel their surprise that he was there and they hadn't felt him. Lusinia and Navruth sat on the bed, Andrela stood in front of her clothing cabinet, Verwynn looked up from rooting in the icebox, and Frikara sat in a chair at her vanity table in front of the mirror.

“Hi, everyone.” Ren said and went into the room. “I have Adventurer's business to take care of, so I can't stay.”

Ren felt their disappointment and their understanding.

“Why aren't you using our Contact Aura?” Frikara asked. “We should have felt you when you were down the street.”

“I didn't think it would be fair to only give you a few moments and then have to leave for several hours.” Ren said and took off his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. “When I come back, I'll concentrate on it and tell you all about what happened since I went on the quest.”

“Are... are you punishing us for not being here when you came to see us?” Frikara asked, and Ren felt her worry and her sadness. He walked over to stand behind her chair, then bent over and wrapped his arms around her. He put his chin on her shoulder and sighed.

“No, Frikara.” Ren said, “I gave you orders a long time ago that you could go out, as long as you wore the items I gave you to protect you.” He kissed her cheek. “I was disappointed that I didn't get to see all of you, but I was also happy that you were all brave enough to go out without an escort.”

Frikara turned to look at him, and he gave her a kiss on the lips. Ren felt a thrill go through her, then he broke the kiss and let her out of the hug.

“I'll be back in an hour or so.” Ren said and walked over to the bed. He stored his clothing, except for his underwear, and climbed onto the bed. “See you soon.” He said and laid down on the far left side of the bed.

“Logout.”

********

Ren slipped off the VR headset and saw Denise's expression. “Okay, what's wrong?”

“You. Built. A. Strip. Club.”

“Technically.” Ren said. “What I actually did was-”

“I don't care how you did it!” Denise said. “I care about why!”

“That's easy.” Ren said and sat up. “I needed to get the dancers a steady income again.”

“You had to?”

Ren nodded. “They lost their other jobs mainly because of me, so I made a new place for them.”

“And used it.” Denise said.

“Yes.” Ren said. “I paid them a week's wages, and they wouldn't let me walk away without giving me something, so I agreed to have the first dance.”

“Ren.” Denise sighed. “How could you do that?”

“What do you mean?”

“What's your girlfriend Elise going to say?” Denise asked.

“I don't know.” Ren said and reached for the cell phone. “Let's find out.”

“Wh-what?”

Ren picked up the phone and looked for Elise's contact information, then started to type.
