Without another word, Tala and Rane followed her from the room, quickly being led to a different secret passage than last time and striding into the heart of the enormous stump.

It was much as Tala remembered it, even down to the ‘clear’ ceiling above, giving light and a view of the sky. The dasgannach were still in various tanks around the room. Even the odd mushrooms growing on various shelves around the space were familiar.

Tala saw Rane looking around, and he noticed something just as she did, moving toward it. “Oh, Noelle, someone seems to have lost their handkerchief. Let me grab that for—”

“No!” Mistress Noelle was suddenly in front of Rane, between him and the bit of cloth that was partially draped over one of the mushrooms. She cleared her throat, seeming a bit embarrassed, but then she smiled. “No, thank you. It’s fine where it is.”

Rane blinked, hand held extended for a brief moment. Then, he shrugged and let his hand fall back to his side. “Very well. I meant no offense. I apologize if I overstepped.”

She waved that off, though she didn’t move until he turned and continued further in. “You didn’t know, and you were simply trying to be polite.”

She pointed to the far side of the space where a table and three chairs waited.

Tala checked her memory, and yes, that furniture had been closer to the middle of the room only a moment ago. Alright, we should leave the mushrooms alone.

-If you needed her little outburst, there, to realize that, we might have a problem.-

…Fair. Rane is probably rubbing off on me.

-I wouldn’t say it that way. In fact—-

Nope! We are not going there.

-...fine.-

Mistress Noelle sat and gestured to the coffee at one place and mint tea at the other—going by the smell.

Tala shook her head as she sat. “So, what were you testing with the mushroom tea?”

Mistress Noelle gave a wry smile. “It was a mushroom that is great for tea, but it had been used as part of a Leshkin body. I was curious if it was affected in a way that was discernible either by one of the leading Leshkin experts of this cycle or by you.”

Tala felt herself almost retch at the realization, but her inscriptions held the bile back, and that let her suppress the urge entirely. Huh, I haven’t needed those magics in quite a while.

-Yeah… Still, we drank people juice…-

No, no, Leshkin aren’t people. Tala tried to console herself.

-That’s what arcanes say about humans.-

…This isn’t the same, and you know it.

-It’s still gross.-

Rane sighed. “And you didn’t want to ask, as it would potentially spoil the experiment.”

“Precisely. I can’t tell the difference, but my expertise is with mushrooms, not magically immortal pseudo-collectives. Though, I am expanding my knowledge in that direction.”

Tala frowned, looking at Mistress Noelle. That was almost exactly how she’d talked about synchronization when they were last here.

The woman glanced her way, catching the look and clearing her throat. “But regardless. It is good to see you two! I’m glad to see that your budding physical synchronization did, indeed, lead to soulbonding and magical unification.”

Rane grinned. “It is good to know that you were rooting for us from the beginning.”

“Rooting?” The woman shook her head. “I suppose so. Just like when I throw a log on the fire I am rooting for it to burn.”

He blinked a few times. “That’s… an interesting choice of analogy.”

Mistress Noelle smiled, seemingly pleased with herself. “Thank you. I do try.”

Tala decided to change the subject. “I see you still have your dasgannachs.”

Mistress Noelle gave her an exasperated look. “Yes, well, I am still fascinated by the creatures, and I just wish that I could bond one as you have.” She gave Tala a mock glare. “I am quite a bit irritated that you succeeded where I have been unable to.”

Tala chuckled. “Well, all you need to do is infect yourself with one of the creatures, along with embedding an Archon Star of their desired material within your body, then, once they are nice and starving for it, take a simple little teleport, forcing it to make a choice. It really is quite simple.”

Mistress Noelle gave her a flat look. “I’ve obviously tried that. Do you have any other suggestions?”

Tala gaped back at the other woman, unsure for a moment if she was serious.

-Oh, I think she is… that’s… huh.-

“Um… no. I don’t have any others at the moment. Maybe sourcing a dasgannach from the arcanes? The modifications that they performed might be critical.” Tala only briefly considered Lupe, and… yeah, no. She was not going to introduce Mistress Noelle to a sapient dasgannach… at least not while they were all within that woman’s domain.

Mistress Noelle gave her an almost predatory grin in return. “Yes, that was my thought as well. If only I had someone who might be able to facilitate such an acquisition.”

Tala suddenly had a sinking feeling. This was going to be an even more interesting visit than she’d expected.
