“Huh?” Markus blinked at him. “Fuck no. I’ve only got so long until my next fight—”

“A day,” the imp interrupted.

“A day? Really?”

“Yeah, probably. Start of a new week tomorrow, which probably means you should rest up, riiight?”

Markus shook his head. “No way. If I’ve only got today to train, I’m getting the most out of it. Besides, might be more chests down here.”

“Grr, LET ME THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!” The imp stamped on the floor as he spoke, hair going everywhere as he flailed in futility. “Yes, there’s more treasure, and it’ll still fucking be here tomorrow, or a year from now!”

“You can leave when I’m done or when I’m dead. In the meantime, can you levitate shit?”

“Wha—no! Do I look like a mage to you?”

“No. You look like a ballsack,” Markus said. “Anyways, if you can’t carry them with magic, you can at least carry this chest, and teleport them all back with me when we’re done. I’ll give you… what, three silver for each one we find?”

“That’s less than I make in a day you cheap fuck!”

Markus shrugged. “Find ten and I’ll let you keep one.”

“Hmm…” The imp rubbed his chin. “Who chooses which one I keep?”

“I do. Take it or leave it. Don’t help if you’re not interested.”

Markus stood his ground, staring the smaller creature in the eye. By all means, he could force the imp to do what he wanted if he really felt inclined, considering the fact he still had [Detonate] hanging over his shoulders.

But Markus wasn’t interested in doing that. He didn’t mind leveraging or even intimidating the imp when it came to coming down here, considering the little bastard tried to double-cross him twice, but there was a limit to how far he was willing to take it. Even if it felt somewhat liberating  to be in a position of power, even if this guy deserved to sweat after what he’d done to him, Markus wasn’t like Drathok. He wasn’t gonna put this creature on any more of a leash than he had already.

The imp thought it over for some time, grumbling and murmuring to himself as the torchlight flickered and swayed.

Eventually, he nodded, and the pair of them shook on it.

Invigorated with new purpose and activating his newly upgraded [Identify] once more, Markus went off in search of a fatter haul, and more monsters to devour.

By the time he got out of here, he was determined to be more than ready for whatever the fuck got thrown at him next.

Wasn’t long until he picked up on another treasure indicator, and this one was twice as potent. The pair of them headed straight for it, the goblin carrying Markus’ chest with surprising ease. He was strong for his size.

This next chest was sat on a high ledge perhaps twenty feet up, thorns and vines all around it, ivy snaking up the walls on either side and firmly wrapping around the container. For more than thirty feet across, excessive plant life shrouded the neighbouring walls and floor. A ruined, crumbling series of ledges, loosely connected by overgrown plants seemed to be the only viable way to climb to the treasure sitting at the top.

Markus stepped into the room, and all around him, the plants immediately sprung to life, growing rapidly, snaking around his ankle, shooting up to strangle him, thorns pressing against the back of his neck as he attempted to snake back his limbs, barely dodging the vines that attempted to wrap around both his arms.

He sliced through a portion of the aggressively germinating vines, panting as he freed his neck from their grasp, only for them to reattach themselves in front of him not moments later.

Oh. Well this was gonna be fucking spectacular.
