Elite Goblins are rare. Perhaps one in a thousand or fewer are born with a mana affinity or unlock an uncommon class. But they breed so fast…

- The Unexplored Lands, by Lyeneru Silverleaf, Elven Pathfinders Guild.

It had been one of Ali’s wolves that had brought news of Calen and Malika’s crisis and of the scent of Goblins. He had been sure he was close enough to get to Ali, and still make it back to them in time, but the crack of thunder and the heavy thump of an explosion up ahead told him he hadn’t been quick enough.

A cold prickle of anxiety and dread lent power and urgency to his stride. He redoubled his speed, charging through the dense underbrush, heedless of the noise he was making, until at last he crested a rise and saw the violent crash of furious battle spilling through the clearing below. Over a dozen Goblins rushed about, filling the air with their raucous hooting cries and flying rocks. At least two strode confidently among the trees unleashing staccato pulses and bursts of potent battle magic. On the far side of the clearing, an ancient oak blazed with hungry flame amid the splintered remains of its neighbors.

A Warband!

Calen and Malika were woefully outmatched. Three giant Goblin Bugbears had Malika on the ground, their muscles flexing rhythmically as they hammered mercilessly at her bloody body with heavy two-handed weapons. Calen was pinned down on the far ridge behind a burning tree, dodging a hail of stones, fire, and lightning – out of place and unable to come to her aid.

As quickly as he could, he set Ali down. “Usual plan. I’ll help Malika.” Without waiting for her response, he twisted himself into Bear Form and tore down the ridge and out across the clearing, roaring loudly to try and distract the Bugbears from the brutal pulverizing strikes they rained down on Malika’s unresponsive body.

I’m coming! He refused to believe she was dead, but the amount of blood soaked into the dirt and the way her broken and limp body bounced and jolted had his gut twisted into a knot. A glowing arrow whizzed by one of the Bugbears’ ears, but it paid the missile no more mind than the buzzing of a gnat. As soon as his Sanctuary aura touched Malika’s body, he felt her life force dimly flickering, grimly holding on under the onslaught of the steel spiked maces and greataxe.

Damn, her defensive skills are strong!

With the domain of his Sanctuary enveloping Malika’s body, he finally had the means to act. The two-handed greataxe gleamed from on high as the muscles along the Bugbear’s back and shoulders flexed. The blade bore down at Malika’s exposed back with all the grace and finesse of a charging Bristletusk Boar.

And he took it.

Nature magic rippled softly across his aura, and the giant axe blade passed clean through Malika’s shoulder. But with the twisting of his mana, the slash appeared on Mato’s shoulder instead, separating hide and muscle in a burst of stolen pain and a spray of his own blood. He stumbled from the impact, but his momentum still carried him crashing headlong into fray. All the weight of his stamina-enhanced Charge crashed into the first Bugbear, knocking him back into his axe-wielding friend. Like herding angry boulders. The axe-wielder snarled and backhanded his staggered compatriot, knocking him sprawling into the dirt.

The heady rush of power from the pain and damage failed to materialize, but he refused to mourn the loss of the addictive Primal Rage. Desperate to draw the monsters’ attention away from the unconscious Malika, he threw everything he had at them; a great horizontal Swipe attack with his right paw, empowered with Brutal Restoration.

Out of the corner of his eye he saw the nimble flashes of green-scaled kobolds zipping across the clearing and heard the soft swishing sizzle of Arcane Bolts overhead. Ali wasted no time.

It was the first time he had used his Bestial Combat in battle. Blood soaked his fur as his green spell-wreathed claws raked across all three Bugbears in a bloody arc – a single attack more powerful than any he had ever unleashed – at least that he remembered. His balance and precision were off the charts and all three Bugbears turned on him with furious snarls and angry roars, ignoring the downed Malika.

The gleam of heavy steel reflected from the swinging counterattacks and Mato hunkered down, bracing himself. He pulsed stamina into his new mastery skill, meeting the mace strikes with the heavy hide on his shoulders and catching the haft of the greataxe with a planted foreleg. He winced at the shock of heavy impact, but the precision of his blocks had protected his vitals from critical damage. His opening attack had already established a powerful pulse of his restoration magic which settled in and began repairing his body from all the damage he had chosen to take.

Perfect, right where I want you! He circled back, drawing the Bugbears a little further from Malika, but he remained close enough to keep her cradled within his aura, focusing on blocking as many attacks as possible. He could not heal her directly, but his new advanced regeneration should hopefully help get her back on her feet.

Come on, get up! Heal! His skill was passive and didn’t take any mana, but regeneration was naturally far slower than her direct healing. Against such ferocious and powerful opponents, he was only going to last so long before he would need Malika’s help.

The Goblin Bugbears counterattacked, ganging up on him. With short guttural shouts and grunts, they drew a focused barrage of rocks from their annoying friends hiding among the bushes and began to flank him, drawing him out into forced openings. Could use a little help here. Ali? Calen? He glanced down at Malika, but she still lay unmoving in the dust. It was obvious to him, having fought alongside Ali’s wolves, that the Goblins had a skill for cooperative combat similar to Pack Tactics, and he was outnumbered. Soon, their heavy weapons began to break down his guard, landing powerful strikes, crushing and slashing at his body.

A loud bang rocked the forest, and the acrid stench of sulfur and burnt wood briefly overwhelmed the reek emanating from the filthy Bugbears. Unwillingly, he found himself forced into a defensive retreat, taking strike after strike, and having to pay a steep cost in blood to land his Swipe and remain close enough to Malika. But Mato felt a sensation he had not felt since he had fallen down that dreadful hole with Ali: a sense of elation. His mind was clear, and he was fighting a clean battle without wrestling against the rage for control of his mind and will. Without the gnawing worry that he would come around afterward, having hurt his friends.

While his Bestial Combat lacked the raw potency of Primal Rage, he discovered it came with an unexpected benefit: his attacks carried a sense of poise, a precision or balance, that he had not possessed before. His skill included proficiency with his shapeshifted form and natural weapons, but he hadn’t imagined it would have such a dramatic effect on his fighting prowess.

An arrow shot out from among the trees eliciting a high-pitched Goblin screech somewhere in the distance. A second arrow followed the first, buzzing in the air. Wait. If the Bugbears are angry enough to make the Goblins throw their rocks at me… they’re not shooting Calen. Archers performed poorly under direct pressure, but with a clear line of sight, and nobody attacking them, there was nothing more deadly.

Can I piss these guys off more? He grinned as he searched for his chance.

The two Bugbears to his left attacked simultaneously, and he used Bestial Combat to block one of the giant maces, deflecting it off his shoulder. His bones creaked as he opposed the weight and momentum of the strike. It definitely helped reduce the damage, but the second attack slammed into his ribs crushing bone and mashing flesh.

There it is! He saw the opportunity he had created with his block and empowered another Swipe attack, slashing crosswise to tear at all three Bugbears right as they lunged forward. The pulse of his healing magic grew proportionally stronger at the new infusion as the monsters roared their fury.

While the two mace-wielding Bugbears held him at bay, the third drew back his greataxe and with a grunt of extreme effort, swung it in a powerful arc, setting himself spinning like a tornado of muscle and steel across the blood-soaked dirt. The axe flickered in the dawn light as it accelerated into a whirling blur, slicing at his flank with every turn. His natural armor was no match for the Goblin’s powerful skill. With blood suddenly pouring from his body, Mato stumbled backward to try and avoid the meatgrinder.

Out of the corner of his eye, he saw a small steel pole with ornate runic markings suddenly appear next to him.

A totem? It crackled ominously.

You have been cursed with Lightning Vulnerability.

Oh crap! The totem exploded with a spherical pulse of electric sparks, followed by another, and another, filling the air with crackling power that made his fur stand on end. The pulsing waves rippled out past twenty feet. His body spasmed in shock and his health dropped precipitously. Instinctively, he took Malika’s damage, briefly doubling his own, and charged at her prone form, biting down on her left ankle – none too gently – and heaved them both out of the Lightning Nova.

Ugh, that felt like charging into a brick wall.

As he rolled to recover his footing, the forest was split by a deafening thunderclap and the whole world went white. Every single muscle in his body spasmed painfully as the Lightning Bolt tore its way through him. In the forest beyond, several trees exploded in the wake of the potent blast. His vision began to clear, and he found himself dangerously low on health, his nostrils assaulted by the stench of ozone and his own seared flesh. Urgently, he scanned the area for his foes, finding only the axe-wielding Bugbear charging toward him.

Where are they?

“Above,” Malika croaked, her voice hoarse.

He snapped his head up to find the massive forms of the two missing Bugbears descending like meteors, their maces already beginning to unleash powerful bone-crushing blows. At that moment, Malika’s hand grasped his hind paw, and her magic tore its way through him in a burning rush, instantaneously mending serious injuries and closing wounds.

The power of her magic had barely run its course, when the two Bugbears slammed into the ground beside him, maces whipping down. He braced to block, but the sheer power of the unexpected axe sweeping in from the side staggered him, knocking him into the ground with enough force to make him bounce. The most vicious of the Bugbears cackled evilly, clearly pleased with his reaction as he drew back the massive axe for another devastating attack.

“I got your back,” Malika announced, as she got unsteadily to her feet. “Thanks for the stamina regeneration.”

Mato huffed, dipping his head to acknowledge her, and from the trees in the distance, he heard Calen’s voice shouting, “Shaman next!”

Mato shook his head to clear it, getting back to his feet. Sounds like they got the Fire Mage. His efforts to draw attention away from Calen must have worked. As Malika began to dance, her magic flickered and flashed in time with her punches, and Mato simply grinned as he launched his counterattack.

Oh, it’s on now!

Ali stumbled, catching herself against the trunk of a large oak as Mato, in his haste to rush to the rescue, dumped her rather roughly to the ground. Then, with a cryptic and vague declaration, he shifted and charged off. Shortest tactical discussion ever, she snorted to herself. Typical. Ali immediately summoned a barrier and hunkered down behind it, surveying the battlefield. Her heart skipped a beat at the sight of Malika sprawled helplessly on the ground, under the onslaught of enormous heavy weapons, but Mato was already tearing toward her.

Warrior – Bugbear – level 16-17 x3Mage – Goblin – level ?? (Fire)Shaman – Goblin – level 19 (Lightning)

That reeks of trouble.

Movement in the bushes behind the mage and the shaman drew Ali’s attention. Cunningly hidden in the undergrowth, wicked green snarling faces popped up briefly, throwing stones into the fray with uncanny accuracy, or even launching them from makeshift leather slings. Their habit of dancing in and out of cover made it impossible for Ali to get an accurate count.

Usual plan, huh? Oozing with style and finesse.

This was nothing like their usual situation down in the ruins, but Ali understood Mato’s thinking instantly. I always get the Fire Mage. Even though the green Goblin looked nothing like the red-scaled Kobolds, the magic Firebolts flying from his fingers, and the burning forest were more than enough for her. The urgency of locking down the Fire Mage as fast as possible had been a lesson she had learned through blood and burned flesh. And this one’s been left alone for far too long already.

She aimed her hand up over the rim of her barrier and began lofting her Arcane Bolts into the air, homing in on the Goblin mage. He glared at her with hate-filled eyes and immediately lit his entire body on fire. Ali’s eyes widened in surprise; the Kobolds had never done that. But then the mage began to cackle and hunched over his hands to conjure an intense ball of fire that Ali instantaneously recognized as a Fireball.

While her Arcane Bolts flew, she directed her minions, sending her wolf pack after the Scavengers and Skirmishers lobbing their stones from the undergrowth, relying on her Martial Insight senses to know precisely where the wolves were.

“Kill the Fire Mage,” she ordered, and her rogues slunk off without ever breaking stealth.

Ali turned to the two green-scaled Kobold warriors flanking her and pointed. “You guys attack that shaman.”

“Yes, Ancient Mistress.” Both warriors sprinted off, tails swishing across the dirt of the forest floor, keeping them upright and agile. Ali wasn’t quite sure what the lightning shaman was capable of but leaving it alone to work its mischief seemed like an awful idea.

The shaman mimed a throwing gesture, and a small metal pole appeared somewhere between the Goblins and her advancing Kobolds with a bright flash of mana. The strange pole had shapes and runes carved into it and it crackled with a brilliant magical energy as soon as it planted itself into the ground. Her two Kobold warriors were suddenly caught in a five-meter radius of pulsing waves of sheet lightning. They twitched spasmodically with each pulse as they struggled to retreat.

Ali checked in on her Martial Insight connection, sensing the three stealthed rogues skirting the edges of the devastating Lightning Nova.

