A thunderclap split the air as a huge bolt of lightning tore into her two struggling Kobold warriors. Oh no. That was much worse than I imagined.

Distracted as Ali was with the powerful lightning magic and the fate of her warriors, she missed the completion of the Fire Mage’s spell. She yelped as the Fireball struck the center of her barrier, detonating with deafening power that ripped through the nearby trees. The sheer force of the mage’s magic shook the ground with a destructive shockwave, blasting out an inferno of heat and angry red flame that filled Ali’s vision. Crouched behind her barrier, gasping for breath in the instantly superheated air, Ali was nonetheless shocked to find her barrier had blocked the explosion with only a few small cracks appearing along the edges. A wasteland of splintered trees, scorched earth, and burning branches spread out before her, leaving her huddled in the tiny shadow of protection cast by her barrier.

She restarted her Arcane Bolt volley, which had been interrupted by the unexpected Fireball. A loud screech from the Fire Mage echoed across the battle as his blood suddenly sprayed into the air. Ali’s three dark, leather-clad Kobold rogues all appeared simultaneously behind him, stabbing viciously. Her rogues ignored the fire that wreathed the mage, but Ali could tell they were being burned by it as the shroud of flames he wore like a cloak reacted with bursts and flares in response to each dagger strike.

The Goblin Fire Mage’s body shimmered with intense heat, and he vanished, suddenly appearing over ten meters away, leaving a burning trail across the ground. Her rogues chased him while her Arcane Bolts flipped around in the air, redirecting mid-flight. The mage spun and a blazing inferno of flame shot out from his hands in a short arc immediately in front of his body. The continuous roaring flame caught her rogues by surprise, and they dove sideways to escape it. One of the Kobolds was not quite nimble enough and its entire body caught on fire as the mage rapidly incinerated it with his magic. The mage turned, hopping up and down and cackling wildly as he directed his flame at the advancing Kobolds to hold them at bay. From the shadows of the forest, three brilliant arrows streaked out, flying across the clearing to bury themselves in the mage’s back. Ali breathed a sigh of relief as the Goblin stumbled and the inferno snuffed out. Her two remaining Kobold rogues leapt on the downed Goblin, daggers flickering as they aerated its lungs and neck repeatedly, blood flicking off their busy blades.

A few seconds later, the soft sound of a chime echoed in Ali’s mind. Yes! Got him!

“Shaman next!” Calen shouted.

He’s alive! Just in case his arrows hadn’t been a dead giveaway, his voice carried across the clearing suggesting a way to coordinate their attacks.

Ali turned her attention to the second elite Goblin. The shaman seemed incredibly robust in her mail shirt, hunkered behind a buckler, and lashing out with a short mace. Despite the efforts of Ali’s warriors, the Goblin seemed hardly the worse for wear. As she watched, her Kobold struck the shield causing a retaliation of intense white sparks that arced to the sword, making the Kobold jerk sideways into the blurring speed of a lightning-enchanted mace that caved in the side of his head.

Directing her rogues from afar, Ali launched her golden Arcane Bolts from her distant vantage point up on the ridge. They flew high and fast, arcing down to strike the shaman from above. Meantime, Calen’s arrows spit out in a steady stream, punishing any green face that had the temerity to poke up out of the bushes. As soon as the bolts struck, the shaman turned her dark eyes on Ali, and her lips mouthed some unheard incantation. A surge of mana flashed from within the shaman; her hands shot out toward Ali making the wooden bangles on her arm clack together ominously.

You have been cursed with Lightning Vulnerability. -133 to Resistance vs Lightning magic.Curse – Duration: 1 minute.

Oh shit!

Ali barely had time to throw up a fresh barrier when the thunderclap crashed through the clearing and her vision overloaded with the intense flash of lighting. The sudden stench of ozone filled her nostrils right as her barrier exploded and her body was tossed like a ragdoll into the forest. She slammed into a tree, feeling something crunch in her back, before she collapsed to the ground, groaning in pain. A little more than two-thirds of her health had vanished in an instant, and she was certain that if she hadn’t had her barrier to absorb most of the Lightning Bolt she would have been vaporized.

Ugh, that curse is deadly.

She rolled over, gasping at the jangling pain coursing through her nerves, and reflexively threw up a precautionary barrier. Blinking at the afterimages on her retinas, she gazed through her barrier to see her rogues and her warrior still engaged with the shaman. The canny Goblin had thrown down another Lightning Nova totem and was using it to protect her back while she engaged all three of Ali’s Kobolds with her lightning-enhanced mace and shield combo. Every time her Kobolds were blocked, Ali saw their bodies spasm from the retaliatory lightning strikes as the forest echoed to the rapid crack of lightning discharges. From the way the mana flowed, Ali could only guess that the mace attacks were magically accelerated too.

Ali huddled behind the tree and her magical barrier, trying to make herself as small a target as possible. I can’t get hit again. There was no way she could survive another Lightning Bolt while she was cursed with vulnerability. But the shaman was so dominant that she couldn’t afford to simply hide either. Cautiously she reached out a hand and began shooting more Arcane Bolts into the air over the top of her barrier, relying on her magic to direct their flight. Another giant thunderclap hammered against her ears, and the mana reserve for two of her Kobolds snapped.

“Get her!” She willed success for her last rogue while firing her Arcane Bolts blindly around the massive trunk of the oak tree, keeping the shaman fixed firmly in her mind as the target for her magic. She poured more and more mana into her attack spell, ears straining to hear the soft swishing of her magic over the din of the shaman’s lightning below. The occasional swoosh-thud of arrows from beyond her hiding spot told her Calen was still fighting.

Suddenly, her chime sounded, and the deafening crack of thunder ceased. Cautiously, she peered around, keeping her head down behind her barrier. To her profound relief, the shaman lay unmoving, face-down on the ground with several of Calen’s arrows sticking out of her back, and blood still flowing over her mail shirt. The strange totem had vanished, taking the pulsing lightning sphere with it, and Ali’s lone remaining rogue limped away from the corpse in her direction.

“Attack the Bugbears, but be careful,” Ali instructed, and the Kobold chirped his acceptance in the draconic language.

If he doesn’t get hit, Mato’s aura should help him regenerate.

Ali slowly limped over to where the Fire Mage lay, taking care to avoid the still burning swathes of ground where his Fireball or incineration magic had struck. The ground still glowed a dull red in places, slag that radiated a palpable heat from the sheer power of the magic the Goblin had unleashed.

No wonder my Kobolds died.

She summoned a barrier to protect herself from stray rocks and stones, still hearing the screeching of Goblins and the howls of wolves as they tangled out in the dense forest. As she worked her deconstruction magic on the corpse, she studied the rest of the battle. To her intense relief, Malika was up and fighting, and between her and Mato they had already killed one of the Bugbears. Her remaining Kobold rogue darted back and forth, stabbing both of the remaining Bugbears indiscriminately. She puzzled over it for a moment, before remembering that he had poisoned his daggers.

It’s probably more efficient to hit them both, she reasoned, a subtle trickle of insight flowing into her mind at the sight. She didn’t know what effect the poison might have on a Goblin constitution, especially one so big as a Bugbear, but she hoped her Kobold knew what he was doing.

Calen’s brilliant arrow flew from the trees and struck the Bugbear wielding the greataxe. At once, Ali shifted to the same target, following the strategy lessons Malika had given her at the start. The faster we kill it, the less it can hit us, she had said. She fired Arcane Bolts out across the clearing to slam into the broad back and bulging muscles of the Bugbear, burning through orange-brown fur and leaving small wisps of smoke rising from the impact marks.

Her body was beginning to tremble from the aftereffects of the lightning magic and her severe injuries, causing her arcane magic to fire out at strange angles. I hope nobody sees that, she thought, relieved to find her magic correcting the flight path automatically.

When the Bugbear dropped, the last remaining one turned and fled, sending a surge of panic rushing through Ali’s veins. She fired her Arcane Bolts continuously, wishing for the first time that she still had Grasping Roots to stop the Goblin before it escaped and found more Goblins to rally around. Calen’s arrows flew in rapid succession as he too decided it wasn’t safe to let the Bugbear escape. It made it all the way across the clearing before they dropped it.

Ali sunk to the ground, just breathing heavily, sighing in relief as the others cheered.

Ugh, my everything hurts.

Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Goblin – level 21 (Fire).Your group has defeated Storm Shaman – Goblin – level 19 (Lightning).Your group has defeated Axe Brute – Bugbear – level 17.Your group has defeated Mace Brute – Bugbear – level 16 x2.Your group has defeated Skirmisher – Goblin – level 2-5 x5.Your group has defeated Scavenger – Goblin – level 1-3 x3.

This was far harder than the Kobolds, she thought, remembering her and Mato’s final battle to leave the ruins.

There had been four of them this time and still, it had been insane and terrifying; even though she and Mato were far stronger after their underground ordeal.

She studied the notification for the shaman. Storm Shaman. It had been incredibly robust and its magic powerful. Fortunately, Ali hadn’t had to face the Bugbears directly herself, so she could only guess how hard they hit, but she had personally tanked the Storm Shaman’s Lightning Bolt and had absolutely no desire to face another. And that Fire Mage had been even higher level – it was a good thing she had managed to drop it quickly with the triple Ambush, otherwise, the battle might easily have gone terribly wrong.

Grove Warden has reached level 15 (+3).+30 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 5 (+2).Barrier has reached level 12.Martial Insight has reached level 7 (+2).Identify has reached level 8.

Look at that! Three whole levels! Ali considered her thirty new attribute points carefully. Down in the ruins she had almost always spent them on vitality because of the specter of Ambush rogues and the struggles with her Domain Withdrawal. Given the ridiculous Lightning Bolt and the vulnerability curse, she seriously considered taking the same approach.

She sucked in a deep, slow breath as she tried to look past her knee-jerk fear response. I have lots of vitality, and three of my skills use perception now, she thought, before finally settling on the choice of dividing her points evenly among perception, wisdom, and intelligence. The stronger she was the faster monsters could be eliminated – just like with the Fire Mage. It really was a balancing act, just as Malika had taught her.

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientClass: Grove Warden – level 15- Arcane Insight – level 5- Arcane Bolt – level 11- Barrier – level 12- Grimoire of Summoning – level 10- Runic Script – level 7- Sage of Learning – level 8- Martial Insight – level 7- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Reading – level 7- Identify – level 8- Sculpting – level 2Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal’mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic- Mana (Affinities): Arcane, Nature- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawalAttributes- Vitality: 50- Strength: 4- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 10- Perception: 31- Intelligence: 53- Wisdom: 57Equipment- Body: Tattered Robes – level 7Resistance: 67Magic Damage Reduction: 13.75%Health: 125/125 (-50% Domain Withdrawal)Stamina: 84/150Mana: 203/945 (132 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Verdant Moss2- Wood3- Crude Leather Armor4- Crude Dagger5- Starving Wolf6- Mushroom7- Stone8- Kobold9- Sword10-
